The Notre Dame Scholastic
521
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The juniors can now rest on their laurels because they have proved conclusively, that they can put on a dance and make a real success of it. We speak of the Prom committees especially and those few juniors who attended their class dance. The seniors win the cup for having the largest group attendance, more power and praise to the committeemen! Jack Collins and his aides are to be complimented for their aggressiveness and hard work.	-
Upon being asked what significance the Washington’s birthday exercises carried, a freshman was heard to say, “Oh, I dunno, somebody’s presenting a flag to the school.” Sounds rather dumb but that student isn’t the only one ignorant on that subject.
We thought that putting out. the weekly issue of the Scholastic for Chief Telfel was as tough an assignment as one could desire, but after trying to on that same Chief’s formal attire presents a more difficult problem. The next time we call for the editor at nine-thirty and find that he hasn’t thought about dressing for the dance, those who have remained in Sorin hall will be treated to a spectacle. It is bad enough dressing- one’s self in the good old “soup and fish” but when one is in a hurry and has to dress his friend, it’s just too much! We have placed an order for a complete outfit for “Ye Ed” . . . one with zippers, fool-proof, and guaranteed to work without fail even on the night of the Senior Ball.
Mention was made last week" of the successful boxing tournament conducted by the S.A.C. last year. Real enthusiasm was shown by the student body in the show and considerable money was raised. Right now when the students are being called upon to donate to charitable funds, it would be most appropriate to stage another tournament and thereby raise money in a less painful manner, the proceeds going to charity. Attendance at the bouts would, no doubt, be high because as was shown by the previous bouts there are a number of good men in the school who can put on a real show in the ring. Let’s do something about it!	.
—W. V. B.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EMIL
L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor	Managing Editor	Assistant Managing Editor	z
Neil C. Hurley	John E. Bergan Associate Editors	John A. Kiener	=
Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan	x
Austin Boyle	James Carmody	Paul J. Hallinan	x
John Pick	William W. Corr	Lloyd Teske	x
X	The Week Richard J. O’Donnell	Make-up Editor Walter V. Beesley	College Parade Daniel C. Williams	=
x	Music and Drama	Feature Editor	Campus Clubs	
	Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz	x
News Staff
William C. Karl, News Editor William F. Fitzgerald, Assistant News
John Conley Myron Crawford Richard Molique Joseph Degnan
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Anthony R. Schreiner F. Granger Weil Walter Johnson Lawrence Dunda
Editor
Lawrence Prybylski Edmund StephanWilliam Knox
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
George Belting James Kearns
T. Edward Carey Irving B. Halper
Business Staff
.	James H. Robke, Advertising Manager
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr. Andrew McGuan. Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer
Raymond J. Naber
John P. Hess
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV
FEBRUARY 20, 1931
No. 17
The Week—Daniel C. Williams- Notre Dame Debates Pittsburgh—Walter Johnson Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan— Book Reviews—John Pick----- Man About the Campus—William Knox---------- A Man You Know------------- Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward------------ Editor’s Page-------------------------------
College Parade—Daniel C. Williams_________ The Wink__________________________________—
Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddats------- Butler Easy Victim—Ed. L. Moriarty--- Cagers Meet Wabash—Henry B. Asman---- Marty Brill—Irving B. Halper--------- Splinters From the Press Box—H. B. A- Interhall Sports—Janies McFeely, Jr—-------- On Down the Line—Cleve Carey---------
524
528
529 .532
.-537 .-539 .-540 -541 .542 .543 .543 .545 548 .550 552
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailin? at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
□
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Maik Building
The Notre Dame Scholastic
523
♦ THE WEEK ♦
S INCE the weather gods have been so inconsistent as to fail to co-operate in the matter of providing for winter sports, the ice-skating on the lake has been greatly curtailed, the snowball fights between Freshman and Sophomore, and Morrissey and Lyons have been limited to a few small encounters, and the sliding on Badin pond has been poorer than it has been for many a year. Indoor games have been substituted as a necessity. Ping-pong is still the popular choice of the Howard hall boys. That innocuous card game known as Rummy hold sway in Sorin, where Bud Tuohy and Bob Pendergast play host to the campus Rummy sharps. Another popular pasting in the senior sanctum is that popular children’s amusement, “Go In And Out the Window.” Of late, however, the sport has been declared anathema, or something like that, and all sorts of dire threats have been made to those who participate in it. In a questionnaire which was circulated in Freshman hall, it was determined that the most favorite pastime there is waiting for mail. In Badin it is sleeping. Lyons hall would do well to revive a form of recreation which was once the principle source of enjoyment there. It was known as “Perching,” and it was well named. The sport consisted of kneeling-on the bed-post at the foot of the bunk, holding on to nothing, and attempting to maintain the position longer than any other valiant competitor. Double-deckers cannot be used. Dave Nash holds the official world’s record, which was something like twenty minutes, and thirty-two and a half seconds. His kneeling in church has been greatly hindered ever since the accomplishment of this amazing feat.
Senior hearts will do double duty over the week end, as the Class of 1931 joyously anticipates shrouding itself in cap and gown, and the imperial dignity that accompanies the academic garb. The anniversary of Washington’s birthday will mark the fulfillment of hopes and ambitions that have been nurtured for the past four years, and, in some instances, for five and six years. An enthusiastic audience will be present in Washington hall, consisting mostly of uneasy, whispering, shuffling freshmen, and bored faculty members. It is a matter of school history that no sophomore or junior has been present at the ceremonies since 1892, when the big wind blew the trolley off the tracks, and no one could get into town. In accordance with another tradition, the Monday morning rituals will be followed by such an orgy of picture taking, and camera clicking that the campus will look like a film lot in Hollywood. Thus, seniors who should accidentally leave school before June will have an impressive snapshot of a sweet boy graduate as a substitute for the less attractive, but more expensive sheepskin. It is strange that no campus racketeer has as yet grabbed up the local film concession. The usual number of seniors will also swagger about in their flowing garments for many hours after the curtain is dropped on the day’s drama. This naive custom is kept up by the same type of students as those third-year lawyers, who in the early part of the year, carried their canes with them to breakfast.
Z1 HESE are the times that try men’s souls, their willpower, and the balance sheets of the American Tobacco Company. Tuesday was the day for making resolutions, or for resurrecting those which have been forgotten since the day after New Year’s. Many of the cigarette addicts who had forsworn the weed over the Lenten period remodeled their resolutions by Wednesday night. Enough of them held over until Thursday to permit a person to muscle up to the cigar counter in the cafeteria on Wednesday evening without having an arm tom off. Some men of outward piety and inward wickedness have been seen in out-of-the-way comers, covertly puffing on a recently scorned cigarette, and hurriedly tossing it away at the approach of a fellow student. The road from the cafe to Sorin is paved with good intentions and discarded butts. Undoubtedly many Notre Dame men feel a loyalty to nicotine even during Lent, especially since one of the favorite brands has recently won its monogram. Now that the cigarette has gone collegiate, we suspect that certain cigar manufacturers will be putting out their brands in blue and gold cellophane. One campus cynic has suggested that the “Not a Cough in a Carload” company change the name of its brand to “Old Gold and Blue.” The worst case of a weakening will is reported in Morrissey hall where one ambitious junior posted a sign in his room, “No cigarettes till Easter.” Desire tri- . umphed over asceticism by Thursday night, however, when the ingenious lad revised the resolution to read, “No Egyptian cigarettes till Easter.” The junior was last seen vaguely through a pillar of smoke, giving a dissertation of the Scholastic (not in caps, printer) idea of the freedom of the will.
w E feel it our duty to our long suffering public to announce, by way of apology, that this column has been dictated from a sick bed. Its writer, or rather, its dictator, is in a condition which prevents any activity on his part. Yes, (as you were about to say) even mental activity is prohibited by the doctor’s orders. The ailment which may be proved to have nipped genius in the bud, is known in medical circles as a neurosis. It may be caused by any great shock to the nervous system, some tragic happening, some entirely unexpected catastrophe, some occurrence of a nature so violent as to upset a man’s whole psychic system. Since the writer’s memory has also been affected, it is difficult to recall exactly the cause of his breakdown. It seems, however, that it was in the form of a letter, a cruel letter, a vehement, denunciatory, damning, vituperative letter. Through a fog of pain and suffering, we recollect that no signature was affixed to it. At the end of the tirade was but one simple word, “Baiter.” Until we draw our last breath, this simple person—rather, this simple word will provoke a nightmare of horror and agony. The individual it represents has doomed us to cynicism, to a distrust of humanity.
524
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FLAG TO BE PRESENTED BY MEMBERS OF SENIOR CLASS MONDAY MORNING
Annual Washington Birthday Celebration Will Present Colorful Spectacle
Following a custom established thirty-five years ago by the class of 1896, the class of 1931 will present the University with a flag at the Washington Day celebration to be held -Monday, February 23. The ceremonies have been postponed to Monday due to the fact that Washington’s birthday falls on Sunday.
The members of the senior class • will assemble in rooms assigned in the Administration building and from there will proceed in a body, dressed in cap and gown, to Washington hall, where the ceremonies will take place. The various colleges will be grouped according to their organization at the University.. The College of Arts and Letters, distinguished by the white tassels on the caps, will come first, headed by the dean, the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
It will be followed by the College of Science led by the Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C. This college may be identified by the golden tassel on the mortar-board. Dean Konop will lead the procession of the lawyers, whose purple insignia will blend with the orange of the engineers, led by the Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean. The Commerce school, the last to be organized, will be headed by Dean McCarthy. This group will be identified by the drab color of the tassel.
The exercises in Washington hall will begin with the audience singing the Star-Spangled Banner to the accompaniment of the University orchestra. Selections from Washington’s farewell address will follow, but who will recite them has not yet been announced. Francis McGreal, who was scheduled to present this part of the program, is ill and will be unable to perform the task. Following the selection, John A. Scharback of the class of 1932 will deliver a Washington Day ode. John F. Saunders, president of the senior class, will himself present the flag which is to be received by the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. The program will close
with a song, 0, Notre Dame, by the audience.
The usual flag ceremonies will take place south of the old Law building as in former years, immediately after the exercises in Washington hall.
This custom of presenting the flag was begun by the class of 1896. About thirty-five seniors assembled, but the ceremony was, nevertheless, impressive and brought to that small group the realization of the fact that the day of graduation was not far off. The ceremonies Monday will be a re-enactment of these ceremonies, although on a much magnified scale.
BIDS FOR SPECTATORS
DUE FEBRUARY 25th
Application for the Spectators will be received until Wednesday, February 25th, according to an announcement by Alfred E. Stepan, president of the club. A number of applications have already been received. Application blanks may be procured at Badin hall, or at 101 Sorin hall. The list of applicants will be voted upon at next week’s meeting.
At this meeting, John Hickey, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, will speak on “The Wars of the Ungodly in the United States.” Austin Boyle, also a senior in the College of Arts and Letters will speak on “A Comparison between Mangan, the Irishman, and Edgar Allan Poe, the American.”
Coat-of-Arms Wins Favor
The recently adopted coat-of-arms of the University which was released to the student body through the medium of last week’s Scholastic 'has won much favor from students and friends of the University. A copy of the drawing was also sent to alumni of the University through the February issue of the Alumnus.
UNIVERSAL PEACE UNION ASSISTS STUDENTS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., received a letter from France during the past week announcing the foundation of a universal union for peace. The purpose of the Union is to encourage mutual understanding between the nations of the world by the exchange of students in their universities and through sending tourists from one country to another.
The Union agrees to send to its members all inforination regarding hotel accommodations, itineraries, maps, and everything else that is necessary for a trip abroad. Each month the Union publishes a review containing pictures from all over the world in order to acquaint its members with the wonders and natural beauties of every country. On steamship lines, and in stores and hotels, which are members of the Union, members may receive a five to ten percent discount.
In the Union are three types of members: active, honorary, and life. Dues for active members are ten dollars a year (five dollars for war veterans and students). Life memberships are one hundred dollars with no annual dues.
Upon the receipt of an application for membership to the presidency of the Universal Union for Peace, 2 Rue Saussure, Paris, Francis, the membership card will be sent as well as a booklet containing the names of all the companies, stores and hotels that are members of the Union.
PROF. HULL ADDRESSES INSTITUTE MEETING
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held on last Monday evening in Badin hall basement.
Professor Daniel Hull of the physics department, delivered an address on the subject, “Weather.” In his talk, he explained how storm clouds were formed and how the motion of the particles in the cloud thus formed caused the accumulation of an electric charge. He refuted the old theory of lightning being caused by an electric spark between clouds, saying that “the difference of potential is always between the cloud and the earth.
Student papers were presented by Edward Coomes, senior, Hugh Ball, junior, and Alphonse Alvino.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
52-5
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE DEBATED HERE WITH UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
Allan And Burke Are The Notre Dame Speakers Defending Negative Side of Question
Notre Dame’s negative debating team inaugurated the 1931 debating season last Thursday evening when they discussed unemployment insurance with two representatives from the University of Pittsburgh. In the absence of a judge or adjudicator, no decision on the debate proper was given; however, under a rather novel system, the audience expressed its opinion on the question debated. Entering the hall, ballots to be marked both before and after the debate, were given them. Before, to indicate the original state of mind of the listener, and after, to show any change in opinion resulting from the arguments presented. Thus prejudice, partial conviction and neutrality were provided for. A survey of these ballots, of which over two hundred were received, shows a general preference for unemployment insurance on the part of the three hundred students who made up the audience. AN*
Cyril Jacobs and Samuel Strauss, of Pittsburgh, defended the affirmative side of the question, “Resolved: that the several states should enact legislation providing for compulsory unemployment insurance,” while the system was attacked by Notre Dame’s pair, George Allan and James Burke. In the absence of a third speaker, twelve-minute constructive speeches and five-minute rebuttals were allowed. Dean Thomas F. Konop, of the Law school, acted as chairman.
The debate, although exceptionally interesting from the point of view of presentation, was featured by a notable lack of direct and cross-fire argument. Both sides hurled proofs and objections at long range, but when it came to close-in fighting there was a tendency to evade the point in question. Issues were few and indistinctly drawn, and many important arguments were left unchallenged.
The affirmative, led by Samuel Strauss, who from popular opinion seems to have been the speaker of the evening, established the immensity and severity of unemployment, and from this the need of immediate action toward its mitigation. Accept
ing the business cycle, over-production, seasonal occupation and technological advancement as the primary causes of this evil, they attempted to show, by example and reason, that unemployment as a result of these conditions not only could be, but had been in a number of instances, cut to a minimum. Thus a plan of unemployment insurance, the so-called “American plan,” providing for a fund maintained by the employer alone and dependent on the amount of unemployment in the individual plant, is a solution. Having shown that the employer could cut down the number of laborers laid off, they argue that compulsory insurance would act as an incentive for him to keep his laborers employed as long as possible, avoid over-production and eliminate waste, since each laborer laid off meant a liability of approximately one hundred and thirty dollars. The affirmative admitted that these were stringent measures, but necessary and practicable.
The negative admitted the evil of unemployment and the necessity of some action toward its alleviation, but objected to insurance on many grounds. Burke and Allan argued that compulsory unemployment insurance was contrary to American ideals, from its very compulsion, that it would seriously limit the liberty of the laborer, who would be forced to accept work at the will of government agencies without consideration of his private affairs, on penalty of losing the insurance benefit. European experience with the scheme was cited as proof of its impracticability, and the English system as evidence of its inevitably becoming a state dole. The impossibility of estimating the risk also received its share of attention. The negative concluded its talk by arguing that insurance is not the only nor the best means of mitigating unemployment; and they presented such schemes as long-range planning of public works and control of credit by the Federal Reserve as alleviatory and permanent plans of action.
Rebuttal on both sides was general
JOHN A. WEIBEL, ’25, STAR GRIDDER, DIES
John A. Weibel, ’25, a member of that great line behind which the Four Horsemen rode to football glory, died last Tuesday. He is the first to break the ranks of the great Fighting Irish eleven of 1923-’24-’25. An emergency operation for removal of his appendix was performed last week at Mercy hospital, Pittsburgh.
Weibel was 27 years old and was serving his interneship at Mercy hospital at the time. After his graduation from Notre Dame he obtained an M.D. degree at Vanderbilt university. During 1927 he served as assistant football coach at Duquesne. His brother, Ted Weibel, a graduate student, is now attending the University.
Kirby, Hanna, in Radio Debate
Last Sunday afternoon a Notre Dame team debated the Kent College of Law over station WLS, Chicago. William T. Kirby and Charles M. Hanna assumed the affirmative side of the question for Notre Dame, “Resolved, that the various states should adopt compulsory insurance of motor vehicles.” There was no official decision, but listeners were requested to act as judges, and from their replies an official announcement of the result will be made in about two weeks.
and often tangent to the argument in question. Two issues, however, were developed to some extent, first, the similarity of the American and English plans of insurance, which, incidentally, the Pittsburgh team safely defended in the final rebuttal speech; and secondly, the question of state interference in the private life of the laborer. The affirmative argued that their plan was basically different from the English, and that it provided for all undesirable aspects of the latter. Burke, in his rebuttal speech, however, clearly showed that both plans were essentially the same, and that not a plan, but the actual principle of unemployment insurance had proved faulty in Great Britain. The condition of the glass blower in Coon Rapids, Iowa, who would be forced to leave a wife and accept a job in Detroit received possibly as much consideration as any other aspect of the debate.
526
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BROADWAY “JUGGLER” TO APPEAR NEXT WEEK
George Cohan Writes Feature; Frontispiece by Lopker.
SENIORS NOTICE!
The last day for obtaining senior invitations has been extended until next Wednesday at noon. No orders will be taken after that time.
STUDENTS NOT ABLE TO HANDLE ATHLETICS
Experts Agree in Opinions on Student Control.
Next week the “Funny Fellow” makes his appearance with the “Broadway Number” of the Juggler. The cover for this latest production of Editor John E. Dempsey, was drawn by John Kuhn and shows Times Square at midnight.
George M. Cohan wrote the feature article for this number and in the story he tells what is wrong with the theatre. Several full-page halftones by Arthur Becvar are also included.	'
The frontispiece is a girl’s head by Joe Lopker and is probably the best one he has done. The head was selected after careful consideration. Lopker had turned in a half-dozen heads and it was difficult to choose the best.
Some very good work was done by a freshman, Bill Walsh, of the College of Engineering. Many more names appear on the list of contributors.
Several additions to the staff will be announced in the “Broadway Number.”
Laetare Medallists Praised
Commenting on the fact that this year’s issue of the World Almanac, the best known reference annua], devotes a special article to the Laetare medal, with a list of its recipients, the Catholic Transcript of Hartford says: “Their names form an impressive cross-section of the American Catholic laity during the last fifty years. . . . Authors, orators, doctors, surgeons, philosophers, newspaper men, philanthropists, architects,. business men, actors, and scientists find a place in the list. One might easily spend many an hour less profitable than in looking at the careers of the men and women who have received the Laetare medal ...”	•
New Play Rehearsed
Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice will be staged by the members of the University theatre shortly before the Easter recess. The play is now being rehearsed and the cast will be published next week.
ENGLISH TEACHERS HEAR INTERESTING TALK BY JOHN FREDERICK
Professor John T. Frederick, of the English department of the University, spoke at the annual meeting of the National Council of English Teachers held recently in Cleveland, on the subject, “The Relation of Creative Writing to College Courses and Publications.” “Creative writing occurs,” said Mr. Frederick, “when the student attsmpts an emotional perception of the value of his own experience, and when he imposes upon that perception the enrichment and clarification incidental to the attempt to communicate it to others. The creative element in writing then is a matter of substance, and of the writer’s attitude, rather than of form; and courses in creative writing should deal with form but little, but with substance and spirit much.”
Writing of the .meeting, the correspondent of the English Journal says: “The interest of the audience in the topic and the mastery of speaker was evident in the impressive attention given his address.”- Mr. Frederick, in addition to his duties as professor here, is editor of the Midland Magazine. He is also the author of two novels, Druida, and Green Bush, and of A Handbook of Short Story Writing.
Music Notes
Professor Joseph Casasanta of the music school has announced that the band is now practicing for the annual concert which is to be given in Washington hall on Monday evening, March 9. As is the custom the orchestra will also play for the Washington birthday program consisting of the “Star Spangled Banner” and the “Notre Dame Hymn.”
And to please the musical enthusiasts, the basketball game next Saturday will be enlivened by the presence of the band.
(Intercollegiate News Service)	■
Speaking before an alumni group in New York, Reneyn Berry, athletic director at Cornell, struck an optimistic note in saying that the problem of “inflation” would solve itself within the next’ two or three years, for athletic incomes would be reduced to a point where conditions would be normal again. Mr. Berry preferred the word “inflation” to overemphasis, and went on to say, “Ever since I can remember, some one has always been warning the colleges that they are drifting toward an undignified end—I have ceased worrying about the situation — We hear ‘Give the game back to the boys.’ It has been my experience that it is impossible to pin an undergraduate down. long enough to give him anything.”
Along the same line, Dr. Charles W. Kennedy, president of the National Collegiate Athletic association, asserted, “There is about as much sense in giving the game back to the boys as there would be in giving horse racing back to the horses.” Dr. Kennedy further said in regard to making the football coach a faculty member, that the fact of whether or not the coach was a faculty member, or a faculty member the coach, was not as important as what kind of men he was, what sort of character, and what theory of sportsmanship he possessed.
Walter Okeson, official of the Eastern Football association, believed that in the early days of college sport when the undergraduates had complete control, proselyting and professionalism were rampant. He further stated that for many years colleges were in the business of buying football players, and “There is no honor in the victory of a college team unless that college can win with a team it can rightfully call its own.” Mr. Okeson believed that the alumni could not be blamed, for without a co-operating agency on the campus, the alumni could do nothing.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
527
BALL CHAIRMAN CHOSEN
Walter E. Cahill of Chicago Selected by Saunders.
John F. Saunders, senior class president, has named Walter E. Cahill, of Chicago, a senior in the College of Commerce, chairman of the Senior Ball which is to be held in the
Walter E. Cahill
early part of May. Cahill is exceptionally well suited for the chairmanship of this important social event, having served on the Cotillion committee in his sophomore year and on the committee of last year’s Junior Prom.
His activities, however, extend beyond the social sphere, as he has been an active member of the Spanish club for some time. The Blue Circle also claims him as one of its outstanding members, as does the Commerce Forum, which he joined last year soon aftei' its organization.
The.committees who are to aid Cahill will be named in an early issue of the Scholastic.
Agricultural Experiment
The Dickelman Manufacturing Company of Forest, Ohio, has selected Notre Dame as one of the universities in which an experiment will be conducted to discover the efficiency of a metal brooder house as compared with that of a wooden brooder house in the process of incubation of chickens. The experimental process, to cover a period of twelve weeks, will be carried on by two seniors in the department of agriculture, Merrill Vanslyke and Robert Gore, for which they will be given credit in their senior project work.
NOTICE! ,
There will be an important meeting, of the news and sports staff this evening at 7:00 in Room 222 of the Main building. The regular 6:30 editorial staff meeting will be held in the Publications office. All members are required to attend.
Spanish Club Hears Talks
Mr. Henry Staunton of the English department acted as impromptu speaker at the regular meeting of the Spanish club held last Tuesday evening at 7:00 p. m. in the old Law building. His talk on education in the Philippine Islands was in Spanish. The Reverend Francis Maher, C.S.C., chaplain of the organization, gave a short talk on Spanish poetry, reading a favorite poem in Spanish, and giving the English translation. Mr. Jose Martinez, faculty advisor, spoke to the club on the difference between the American and Spanish conception of beauty. His speech was illustrated by pictures flashed by projector on a screen. As usual several members of the club were called on to speak.
Gifts For Architects
The department of architecture of the University has recently received a valuable and interesting group of donations from members of the University faculty. Professor John Staunton has presented to the architectural library a file of the Christian Art Magazine, edited by Ralph Adams Cram, who received the degree of doctor of laws from Notre Dame in 1924. Mr. Paul Byrne, University librarian, is the donor of a group of Swiss railway posters. A number of French railway posters were donated by Mr. Gilbert Coty, of the department of foreign languages. A great deal of the value of these posters is contained in the fact that they are done in colors.
Amusements in Walsh “Rec”
Facilities for billiards, pool, and bowling are now in use in the Walsh hall “rec” room from 3:30 to 7:30 p. m. daily. The recreation room is open all day Saturday and Sunday..
DEBATING CUP AWARDED
Howard Hall Victor in Annual Contest of Wranglers.
The interhall debating cup was presented last evening to Howard hall by the Wranglers at a banquet held at the Rose Marie tearoom. Members of the victorious team, as well as the vanquished speakers, were guests of the Wranglers at the banquet. The Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C., rector of Howard hall, was also a guest of the club.	.
The Howard hall team were victorious in all of their debates during the interhall season. The coaches of the team were Neil C. Hurley, Tim Benitz, and John Driscoll.
The Lemmer trophy, as the interhall cup is called, was presented to the coaches of the team, who in their turn thanked the club on behalf of the victorious debaters. Talks were then made by each of the members of the winning team.
President Edward Phelan presided at the banquet and acted as toastmaster. He recalled the success of past interhall debating seasons, but declared that the present year has brought more praise than those of the past.
Frank Noll, who acted as general chairman of the contest, predicted that the following years will bring even more interest and enthusiasm in interhall debating. He further pointed out that by means of these contests the varsity debating team has been fed with much excellent material.
900 Attend Junior Prom
If the consensus of opinion is reliable, the Prom of the class of 1932 held last Friday evening at the Palais Royale ballroom was a decided success. Between 450 and 475 couples attended the affair.
The decorations especially received a great deal of comment. The Valentine motif was well carried out with the fountain in the center of the floor and the eight-foot Valentine at the east end of the room. Clyde McCoy and his orchestra lived up to all expectations.
The dinner dance which was held at the Oliver hotel on Saturday evening was also very successful. Some 125 couples attended.
528
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A
Glances at the Magazines
MISSIONARIES TO SPEAK AT STUDENTS’ CRUSADE
The February issue of Scrip, the second to appear this year, was on the news stand early in the week. This is a very satisfying issue, and two of the features, Louis Brennan’s “A Realist Looks at Christmas,” and Father Thornton’s “Scientist” are as good as any campus writings we have seen in a long time. Mr. Brennan’s short story has a satiric point that is adroitly suggested, and not dwelt upon. Careful selection of images and words mark his writing—his descriptive paragraphs are richly original. Father Francis Thornton’s poem, “Scientist,” is excellent. But then, Father Thornton is no amateur poet. He is the author of two books of verse and many contributions to magazines. Other stories, by Joseph Clemens and George- Spalding, and poetry by Austin Boyle, Don Lee, and Joseph Carroll, are very good, and with the article on Walter de la Mare, the dramatic and book reviews, maintain a high literary tone.
The Catholic weekly, America, for February 14 contains a short story by Norbert Engels of our English department. The title of the story is “Good Cigars.” A few weeks ago one of Mr. Engels’ poems that had appeared in the Ave Maria, was reprinted in the Literary Digest.
The America for February 21 will feature an article on George Washington from the pen of Professor Charles Phillips. “Old Stuff About Washington” is the title.
Commonweal has published in its February 18 issue a letter from Father Thornton regarding Theodore Maynard. It is called “The Plight of the Poet.”
The March issue of The Ladies’ Home Journal begins serial publication of John Galsworthy’s newest novel, “Maid In Waiting,” a saga of the Charwell or “Cherrell” family. The editor appends this note: “When John Galsworthy arrived from England a few weeks ago, to spend the winter in Arizona, he announced that he was at work on the saga of another family, whose lives he would trace through a series of novels in much the same way that he told us so delightfully of the Forsytes. ‘I intend writing a trilogy,’ he wired the Journal, ‘of which Maid in Waiting
is Book One.’ ” This first novel will appear in the Journal in eight installments.
Another outstanding literary contribution to the Journal is “The Body of the Crime,” a short story by Wilbur Daniel Steele. There are also colorful and sparkling stories by Margaret Culkin Banning, I. A. R. Wylie, E. Barrington, Albert Payson Terhune, and G. B. Stern. “Music by Gershwin,” by Isaac Goldberg, furn-. ishes many intimate glimpses into the life and work of one of the best of modern American composers.
The Ladies’ Home Journal this month contains “Renegade,” a short story by Wilbur Daniel Steele, whose stories, which are at once interesting and technically perfect, deserve to be read. Some biographical notes concerning George Gershwin, by Isaac Goldberg, are also of interest. The Journal has also something novel in the way of illustration—color photography by a new and satisfactory process.
This month’s number of the Poetry magazine is devoted to the work of the “objectivists”—Zukofsky, McAl-mon, Rezinoff, Macleod, Rexroth, Carnevali, and others. The guest editor of this issue in place of Harriet Monroe is Louis Zukofsky.
In the Forum the sixteenth in the series of “What I Believe—Living Philosophies” is written by Hu Shih, “Father of the Chinese Renaissance.” It is claimed that Hu Shih has been the man most instrumental in making vernacular Chinese a literary degree. Studied in this country at Cornell and Columbia universities; his “philosophy,” or “Credo” is an amalgam of Oriental and Western theories.
Also in Forum is a short history of bathtubbing, “Endless Saturday Nights,” by George Nieberg. A newspaper woman, Alice Elinor writes an attack on the medical profession, based on documented facts and her own experience as a nurse in a large hospital. Carelessness and conflicting diagnoses are charged. Mr. L. A. Strong, author of the novel “Dewar Rides,” writes a short story, and Mr. Geoffrey Layman of the British civil service tells frankly “An Englishman’s Opinion of Us.”	•
The Christian apostolate, viewed from the angle of the peoples who receive it, the missionaries who preach it, and the obstacles confronting it, will form the general background for a brilliant array of missionary speakers on the program of the seventh annual convention of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crtisade, to be held at Niagara university (Niagara Falls), June 29-July 2.
The missionary section of the program, comprising the sessions of Tuesday afternoon and evening (June 30), when addresses on fixed topics will be heard, has been supplemented with an afternoon of “missionary forums” on the following day. For these forums, the missionaries and other delegates will form twelve groups for general and detailed discussion of work in the principal fields of the world, including several divisions of the home mission field.
To make possible this valuable addition to the convention program, sightseeing tours will be arranged for Monday and Thursday afternoons as well as for Wednesday afternoon, which was the only period allotted for this recreational activity in the original convention plan.
Moore to Address A. C. S.
The St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical society held a joint meeting with the Notre Dame group of the American Society for Steel Treating, on the evening of Wednesday, February 18, at 8:30 p. m., in Washington hall, following the Lenten services. Dr. H. F. Moore, research professor of engineering materials at the University of Illinois, addressed the combined sections on the subject, “The Fatigue of Metals under Repeated Stress.” He illustrated his lecture with motion pictures. The public and all students interested were invited to attend this meeting.	•
Law Club Banquets Judges
Circuit Judge Daniel Pyle and Superior Judges Bingham and Peake were guests of honor at the Law club banquet given for the recently elected judges of St. Joseph county last night in the faculty dining hall. Dean Konop presided at the dinner.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
529
“NAUTICAL BUT NICE” CRY HOWARD HALL MEN
The nautical strains of “Anchors Aweigh” came unconsciously to the lips of your ever vigilant correspondent as he walked into the Foreign Legion section of the first floor of Howard hall last week. Memories of rollicking tars swabbing down the deck of a rolling steamer came back to him as he beheld the inmates, if that’s the right word, of this exclusive section, armed with pails, brushes, and rags, vigorously attacking the walls of said corridor. All was industry, Labor was exacting her tribute. Frank Duffy, ex-seagoing janitor of the hall, was in command— supplying a little more suds here, some clean rags to another. Words of advice, caution, and praise flowed from his lips—Duffy was in charge!
In playing a new game, a sort of sophisticated hockey, which the Howard boys have perfected, it seems that the contact between the puck and the walls had resulted in a rather quaint marking of the walls, and an edict from the rector had moved the boys to action. “Yes,” beamed Captain Duffy, “they’re a great crew. Now when I-was on the Texas . '. .”
STUDENTS SUPERIOR TO TEACHERS IS CLAIM
(Intercollegiate News Service)
In an address before a science group at the University of British Columbia, Dr. Irlma Kennedy expressed this startling thought: “The professor must remember that the student’s mind is often ten times better than his own.” Dr. Kennedy further stated that “the professor is commonly criticized for being abstracted, absorbed, theoretical, impractical, careless, conceited, intolerant and unsympathetic.”
“Women and men think differently,” Dr. Kennedy said. “In the lecture room, a woman sometimes makes a remark which is quite original, but which is four or five realms ahead of the professor’s limit of thought.”
“Technical learning is often detrimental to a woman’s nature,” continues Dr. Kennedy, “because it adds a fourth side to her intellect, namely, inquisitive intellect. Intuition is the main side of a woman’s mind.”
In concluding her address, Dr. Kennedy remarked that British civilization is on the decline, and it would be necessary to look to the Orient for new culture.
Book Reviews
Two Thieves. By Manuel Komroff. Coward-McCann. §2.50.
Manuel Komroff, whose Coronet was an outstanding success of 1930, offers in Two Thieves a new novel equally rich in color and texture. It is a story of two of the most famous thieves of history, the story of the two thieves who attained immortality when they were crucified with Christ on Calvary. A much shorter novel than Coronet, Two Thieves gives evidence, however, of the same extensive and untiring research.
The setting for the book, of course, is the Judea ruled by the tyrannical hand of Pontius Pilate. In the first chapter we discover Sulla, a captain in the Boman army, wielding his whip • over a group of Jewish slaves. Barzor, disguised as an Arab trader, drives his cart and oxen into the midst of a harangue started when Rongus, a young and robust Jewish slave, turns upon Sulla in wrath as Sulla tries to whip him. Rongus is manacled in chains to await punishment. A well placed bribe, and Rongus becomes Barzor’s slave.
As master and slave then. Barzor and Rongus start out on their careers of roguery. Barzor, now a man of 55, deprived in youth of his paternity as the son of a wealthy desert trader by Herod and forced to witness the death of his wife and son at Herod’s brutal commands, seeks only the revenge which is his due and to restore Jerusalem to the rule of the Jews. In order to carry out his plans he needs the services of this stalwart young Jew, a slave as Barzon himself had once been.
Two Thieves is the narrative of their adventures together, of the trickery by which they attain, at first, success, and then, ironically enough, defeat, and finally of how they are captured, brought to trial, and to their death on Calvary.
No synopsis of incidents in Two Thieves can do the novel credit. By reading it only can the beauty, the charm, and the high humor of Mr. Komroff’s ingenious and finely fabricated tale be realized. The novel is definitely a work of art, richly imaginative and yet stamped by historical authenticity.
A Jew in Love. By Ben Hecht. Covici-Friede. $2.50.
A Jew in Love is Ben Hecht’s first attempt at a novel in four years. And that is just as well.
Memory goes back to Humpty Dumpty and Count Bruga, previous fictional efforts of Mr. Hecht. And as they are recalled, A Jew In Love differs from them essentially only in the names of the characters and in the immediate situations created for them. The characters themselves are the same in all three novels, the hero of each being an egocentric male of the Jewish race, a few years removed from the ghetto, whose amorous adventures are deemed worthy of exploitation by Mr. Hecht.
In Humpty Dumpty and Count Bruga the recounting of these adventures could prove only tiresome and thoroughly obnoxious to any intelligent reader. And so it is with Joe Boshere’s wholesale philanderings in A Jeiv in Love. One does not have to be a prude in order to denounce Boshere and Mr. Hecht’s chronicle of him as disgusting, noisome, and thoroughly boring. One need only be intelligent and aware that its Hechtic-ism is merely bad and unsound Freud.
The Catholic Church and the Destitute. By John O’Grady. Macmillan. $1.00.
At a time when widespread unemployment is a reality, when newspapers carry stories of communistic organizations and Red campaigns, when the rights of the individual are challenged on every hand, John O’Grady’s penetrating and scholarly analysis of the relation of the individual to society is especially pertinent.
Carefully evaluating the principles of modern social justice, Mr. O’Grady sets forth the obligations which exist between employer and employee, between the laborer and the state. Considering the worker, as a man, and not a mere robot, the author reiterates the essential doctrines of Christianity, contending it is the duty of the state to enact legislation for the protection of the employee.
The Catholic Church and the Destitute is thoroughly readable and lucid; it is a penetrating, documented, remorseless dissection of economic society in Europe and in this country.
530
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BLACKSTONE HERE TONITE
Clever Magician to Display His Wares in Washington Hall.
In Washington hall tonight Mr. Harry Blackstone, one of the country’s most talented magicians, will display his bag of tricks before the student body. He has come here from Chicago where he appeared during the Christmas season before recordbreaking audiences.
Since the death of the inimitable Houdini, Mr. Blackstone has generally been regarded as the outstanding conjurer of the day. As will be remembered, he appeared last year in a local theatre and performed his unique ‘"boiler” act, in which he escaped from a steel boiler made by a South Bend concern, after the tank had been riveted and welded. Though he will not have sufficient facilities on hand to perform this feat in Washington hall tonight, he will undoubtedly have other acts equally as interesting.
Mr. Blackstone is an avowed foe of spiritualists and their wares. In speaking of them he said, “A magician performing tricks on the stage is one thing; he is trying only to entertain you by deceiving you. Nothing serious can result. A medium or spiritualist, on the other hand, claiming he can deliver messages from the dead relatives of the living and taking money for it, is a criminal. He is a menace, and the,sooner that breed is stamped, out the better. The spiritualist and the fortune teller are both frauds. It’s almost impossible to make the public believe they are, but I’ll pay a good forfeit if I cannot prove it definitely.”
Blackstone is now making a final vaudeville tour prior to a three-year itinerary that will take him to England, France, Germany, Italy, Egypt, India, China, Japan, and Australia.
Architects Given Honors
The Beaux Arts Institute of Design of New York City has awarded John Hanson, a senior in the department of architecture, half-mention for his work in the first preliminary exercise for the 24th Paris Prize.
The following juniors in the department were given recognition by the institute for their models of “a loge of honor”; full mentions: Forrest D. Heath, Lawrence J. Stitt and Jules de la Vergne; half mentions: Donald E. Garrity and A. A. Wall.
O’MALLEY, SPALDING READ TO SCRIBBLERS
During the business part of the Scribblers’ meeting Wednesday night in the Howard hall “rec”, the closing date of the poetry and short story contests was set for March 21. The first paper read was “A Literary Revolution,” by Frank O’Malley, a critical appreciation and partial defense of several contemporary poets: Amy Lowell, Millay, Frost, Robinson, and Sandburg. The opinions of most of the members- of the club concerning these people and the movement they stand for differed greatly from those of Mr. O’Malley, and the author of the paper was hard put to answer the questions and challenges hurled at him. As usual, no general agreement was established, although vitriolic sarcasm was indulged in by several members.
Following these comments, George Spalding read his latest poems: “Clouds,” “Torture,” “Earth,” “Wise Man,” “The Atheist,” “How Will You Die?”, and “The Idealist.” These were all written in a technically free form, and they were well accepted in spite of the previous comments on writers of free verse. Mr. Telfel and Mr. Carroll will read at the next meeting.
ALUMNI PREPARE TO ELECT NEW OFFICERS
According to James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni association here, the nominating committees for the alumni offices this year face the hardest task in years. This year the offices to be filled are especially important and there are more of them than usual. The office of honorary president is optional with the committees; president, vice-president and treasurer must be nominated by members. One director for a four year term must be nominated to succeed George M. Maypole, ’03. In addition a director must be nominated to fill the office left vacant by the death of Peter P. McElligott, ’02. In addition to these, five names will appear on the ballot for election to the Board of Lay Trustees. One of these "will fill the vacancy left by the death of the late William P. Breen, ’77.
Said Mr. Armstrong: “This is the greatest election from the standpoint of responsibility that the membership of the Alumni association has faced. It cannot be taken too seriously.”
DEBATERS MEET MIAMI
New Oregon Procedure Plan Used in Discussion.
On Thursday afternoon, February 12, three of Father Boland’s varsity debaters met the University of Miami (Oxford, Ohio) team in a semi-private debate. This discussion, like the one with the University of Pittsburgh, concerned the adoption of compulsory unemployment insurance by the various states. Charles Hanna, William Kirby, and John Pick, Notre Dame’s affirmative team, represented the University.
In this debate the new revised Oregon plan of procedure was used. This plan provides for three speakers, each having one speech; the first speaker presents the constructive case for his team; the second cross examines the arguments and speakers of the opposition, while the third member summarizes the debate. Thus the second speaker has a more or less dominating position in the discussion. He can' question and cross-question the opponents, .make them answer’ his objections, cut off their answers, rule out irrelevant matter and develop arguments for his own side.
This plan is gaining increased popularity and will possibly supplement the constructive speech-rebuttal procedure now in use. No decision is provided for, a point which is presented as one of the plan’s most desirable features.
Professor H. H. Higgins, of the speech and writing department at Miami, and author of the tremendously popular text Influencing Behavior Through Speech, accompanied the Miami team.

Civil Service Post Open
The United States Civil Service Commission announces an open com- -petitive examination under the title of “Research Assistant,” the position to carry a salary of S3200 a year. The applications for the examination must be in the hands of the Commission at Washington, D. C. not later than March 10.
. Vacancies in the Research Division of the Commission, and vacancies occurring in positions requiring similar qualifications, will be filled from this examination after a probationary period of six months has passed.
Students desiring further information on this subject are requested to consult the registrar.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
531
SCRIBBLERS ANNOUNCE
POETRY CONTEST RULES
Contest Closes on March 31; All Eligible to Compete.
The Scribblers hereby announce the rules for their annual poetry contest:
1.	Any undergraduate student of the University is eligible for competition.
2.	Poems must be typewriten on regular 8% x 11 inch unruled paper, and on one side of paper only.
3.	Three copies of each poem must be submitted. These must be UNSIGNED. A sealed envelope containing the titles of the poems submitted and the name and address of the person submitting the same must accompany the manuscripts.
4.	Prizes will be awarded as follows: first prize, §15; second prize, $10; and third prize, $5. Poems will be judged according to strict literary standards by disinterested judges, whose decision shall be final.
5.	More than one prize will not be awarded to any one contestant.
6.	Every poem is to be judged individually on the basis of 100 points as the highest possible.
7.	The poem having the highest average of points will be awarded the first prize, the second highest, the second prize, and so on.
8.	When more than one poem is submitted by a single contestant only the one ranking highest in average of points shall be eligible for award.
9.	The contest closes at midnight, March 21, 1931.
The committee in charge of the poetry contest consists of Frank E. Seward, chairman, Francis X. Nulty, and Joseph W. Carroll. As yet the judges for the contest have not been decided upon, but they will be announced in an early issue of the Scholastic. Last year Morton Zabel, Vincent Starrett, and Benjamin Musser acted in this capacity. All poems should be brought or sent to Frank Seward, chairman Scribblers’ poetry contest, 347 Corby hall.
Distinguished Visitor
Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, of Pawtucket, Rhode Island, LL.D, of the class of 1917, visited the campus this week. She is the first woman to receive a degree from the University.
CHESTERTON DEFENDS N. D. IN INTERVIEW
In an interview after a lecture in Los Angeles, Gilbert Keith Chesterton praised Notre Dame for her variety of activities as opposed to the supposed overemphasis on football. Regarding Notre Dame’s football fame, Mr. Chesterton said: “I think it a slander to say that they concentrate upon that one sport. They excel in many things, but you cannot write headlines over the fact that the president of the college writes beautiful poems or that a certain young professor has made interesting discoveries in the study of medieval philosophy. The world is interested in football, and because a school excels in that sport the world gives no other credit.”
Concerning his teaching at Notre Dame, Mr. Chesterton said that he enjoyed being a professor. “No one,” said he, “has ever allowed me to teach before. Lecture and write, yes. But not teach. I enjoyed it immensely.”
Sing, You Freshmen!
Howard hall has not the traditions of dear old Sorin and its suites do not rival those of Walsh, but for male quartets it stands alone. Howard has thirty-seven of these combinations and scorned is he who is not a member of one of these ensembles.
For weeks these boys have been the nucleus of those community songfests at Washington hall—in fact a most karyoplastic and lininistic nucleus. The champions of Howard are “Fagan and his vipers,” who are yet to be bettered. “Barnacle Bill” will be rendered by them on Sunday morning.
Express Office Notice
The following students have packages at the express office this week:
T. Edward Carey, 121 Howard hall.
J. William Gosselin, Lyons hall. William Carroll, 254 Sophomore hall. Matthew Cullinan, 336 Walsh hall. Thomas E. Smith, 317 Walsh hall. Charles Kenney, 458 Morrissey hall. Gerald L. Finneran, 5 Morrissey hall. Thomas A. Conley, St. Edward’s hall.
In order to claim these packages all students must present their express receipts.’ No packages will be given out without receipts. A list corresponding to the above will be published in the Scholastic weekly. Express office hours are from 12:30 to 1:10 p. m.
SHORT STORY CONTEST
OPENED BY SCRIBBLERS
Richard O’Donnell Is Named Chairman of Committee.
The Scribblers have announced the opening of their annual short story contest in which all aspiring creative writers on the campus may take part. Three prizes will be awarded, of fifteen, ten, and five dollars respectively. Richard J. O’Donnell is chairman of the contest committee. Manuscripts may be submitted to him in 101 Sorin hall, or to the committee members, George Spalding, St. Edward’s hall, and Frank O’Malley, Morrissey hall.
The contest of the Scribblers is a traditional affair at Notre Dame. It has been a constant stimulus and incentive to students who have capabilities, recognized or unrecognized, in the writing of short fiction. An exceedingly large numbei- of stories have always been entered, and it is expected that more students will participate this year than ever before.
Tentative arrangements have been completed for the judging of the manuscripts. According to the plan which has been used in previous years, there will be three local judges, professors in the University English department, and three outside judges. The former will receive the stories first, and having criticized them, will pass on the best of the lot for the final judgement of the men outside the school. Their- evaluations will decide to whom the prizes will be awarded.
The point system of criticizing will be used. Each story will be graded with a number from one to five, indicative of its worth. The grades of the three judges will then be totalled.
The rules of the contest are as follows :
1.	No student may submit more than three stories.
2.	The number of words may not be less than two thousand, nor more than seven thousand.
3.	For the convenience of the judges, three copies of each story must be written.
4.	Manuscripts must be typed, and neatly arranged.
5.	The name of the author must not be specified on the manuscript. It must be written on a separate paper, along with the title of the story, and enclosed in a sealed envelope.
6.	The final date for the submitting of stories is March 21st.
532
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
SENIOR CAPS AND GOWNS TO BE DISTRIBUTED SUNDAY ONLY
The most pronounced prejudice that Bourke Motsett has concerns the Scholastic. And close upon the heels of that prejudice comes his detestation of interviewers. He is neither quiet nor quietly spoken. Anxious to prove his sincerity he almost blurts exclamations. And if blurts are any indications, I might add that his feelings for interviewers are unusually sincere. Certain stories that have been published gave, apparently, much material for his heckling companions.
Bourke comes from Peoria, Illinois. Loyally he points to that as his most enthralling accomplishment. Frank Bacon, the actor, once visited Peoria and is as a result Bourke’s favorite. He (Motsett, not Bacon) attended in that town Spalding Institute, nationally known for its basketball teams, on the roster of which Bourke’s name never appeared.
In his first year here Bourke performed with gusto the somewhat servile duties dealt out to freshman managers. Notice of him was soon taken. Due in part to his dependable work but no doubt mostly to good appearance and sensible personality, he became manager of the visiting teams. Most of us are fairly hazy about that part of the games. Surely Bourke could interest us with details. About this one or that he has, I imagine, some intensely personal stories. In spite of that he ignores such possibilities. To himself he ascribes no touch of glorious fascination. With all lais possibilities he is not a bewitching tale-teller.
When a sophomore he became a member of the S.A.C. His interest in that organization is, he implies, a timid one. Later on in the same year he was chairman of the Red Cross drive. Whatever he did in those affairs can be nothing more than conjecture. Intentionally vague on all tilings concerning himself he is a most difficult person to present on paper. When he is the subject of conversation elan flies from him. He then becomes fidgety and unwilling to carry on.
The Knights of Columbus, once the initiation was over, found in him a splendid member. He was, they dis
covered, able to do almost anything. In his third year they tried him out as recording secretary. From that he rose to chairman of their ball this year. His full title now is: “Chairman of the house committee.” This
Bourke Motsett
indeed, must be a very busy year for him. With the beginning of track he 'will, as senior manager, have his hands full, and he has to find time somewhere for his philosophy major. Every once in a while the Peoria club has a meeting and Bourke must act as president. In fact he is president. If he manages the dances to be given in the future by that club as he has those given in the past, that gives him that much more to worry about. Instead of a nice quiet spot where he might get things in some kind of order, Bourke chose Sorin for his abode. The swirling dust in Sorin never settles. Outbursts of action keep it ceiling-ward.
. The scope of his undertakings is a tom-tom for his versatility. He has time, despite it all, for a few tastes. He finds Willa Cathei* absorbing. Almost any kind of music entertains him. When the “Indian Love Call” is played he is especially intrigued. Remember that near Peoria, not very long ago, the various Indian tribes* worked, completely stretched out, and with their eyes closed under the
Senior caps and growns are to be distributed Sunday, February 22, in the basement of the dining hall from 9:00 a. m. until noon. They are to be returned at the same place on Monday afternoon between the hours of 1:00 and 3:00.
The charge, which must be paid when the gowns are distributed, is two dollars. Thomas A. McManmon, chairman of the cap and gown committee, states that no gown will be given out after Sunday noon. Seniors should secure their gowns as soon as possible, for anyone who is eligible to attend the Washington birthday exercises but fails to do so forfeits his right to graduate in June.
The cap and gown committee will meet in McManmon’s room, 246 Sorin hall, at 12:30 tomorrow when final arrangements for the distribution will be made.
LAW SCHOOL HONORED BY BAR ASSOCIATION
Miss Florence Allen, justice of the supreme court of Ohio, and Professor Clarence Manion, of the Notre Dame law faculty, were the principal speakers at the annual banquet of the St. Joseph County Bar Association, given in honor of the Notre Dame Law school and its faculty on Saturday evening, February 14, in the faculty dining hall.
Prominent attorneys from surrounding counties in Indiana, and from Niles, Michigan, attended the banquet.
Prior to the affair the guests were received and shown through the Law building by Dean Konop and Professors Manion and Richter.
trees of the Illinois forests. For the movies he had no word to say, good or bad. Considering that the legitimate stage of South Bend was limited to a burlesque that went broke I didn’t get around to the true drama.
If you should ever want information about Bourke Motsett avoid Bourke Motsett. He cannot be tapped. Finally there is this to say: Neither one interview nor one meeting can truly acquaint you with him.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man You Know
ARTICLES BY FACULTY MEMBERS APPEAR IN LATE MAGAZINES
For the last five years Professor Pedro A. de Landero, one of the small band of expatriates who are members of the faculty, has taught Spanish here. Virtually banished from Mexico in 1926, he abandoned engineering work and returned to Notre Dame, his old shcool, as a teacher.
Professor de Landero was born in Guadalajara, Mexico, in 1889. He attended San Ignacio college in Guadalajara and the Institute in the city of Pachuca. Finishing at the latter school in 1906, he came to Notre Dame in the following year. After four years here he was graduated in 1911 with the degree of civil engineer, engineer.
Returning to Mexico, he did engineering, industrial, and educational work from 1911 to 1918. In 1918 he was made the engineer in charge of the Research Bureau of Construction Materials, the Institute Geologico de Mexico, and held that position for three years. In 1921 he started to work in the Bureau of Hydraulic Works, a branch of the Mexican Department of Public Works. He was appointed chief engineer and general inspector in the federal highways and bridges department, another branch of the Mexican Department of Public Works, in 1922, and he held that position until the coming of Calles. When Calles came into power, Catholics were rather out of place in government service, so Professor de Landero wisely resigned his position before he could be discharged. For another year he remained in Mexico, doing engineering work, industrial work, contracting, and engineering consultation. In 1926, however, the persecution of Catholics increased in bitterness and violence, and Professor-de Landero returned to Notre Dame, where he has since remained.
He is an active member of many Mexican and American societies. Among them are the Sociedad Mexi-cana de Geografia y Estadistica, the Association de Ingenieros y Arqui-tectos de Mexico, the Sociedad Geo-logica Mexicana, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
One of his hobbies—a hobby which shows his somewhat Irish streak of
obstinacy and rebelliousness—is that of railing at Mexican governments. Irishmen are stubbornly opposed to the governments controlling them as a matter of principle, and in that respect, at least, Professor de Landero is truly Irish. For the last twenty years he has disliked every Mexican government, starting with Diaz and continuing through the whole series.
Another hobby of his, one which is
Professor Pedro de Landero
rather unusual for an engineer, is the study of literature and history. From 1911 until 1926 he gave many lectures on these subjects in various Mexican colleges and socities, and he expects to teach a course in Spanish-American history, a course offered in very few schools, here next year. Inasmuch as the study of history is his hobby, he will undoubtedly enjoy his work as a teacher of history.	'
Special Menu Arranged
A special holiday menu has been arranged by Mr. Borland of the University dining hall, in honor of the Washington birthday commemoration exercises next Monday. Patriotic novelties and an appropriate ice cream feature have been provided.
K. of C. Meeting Tuesday
Louis F. Buckley, grand knight of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus, announces that a meeting will be held next Tuesday evening in the council chambers in Walsh hall. About thirty-five applications for membership have been received and the meeting will be devoted chiefly to planning the initiation of the new group.
Contributions from several members of the faculty are to be found in recent issues of well known magazines. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, has a sonnet, “Retrospect,” in the current issue of the Ave Maria. In this same magazine Reverend P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., has contributed another series of Irish sketches, “Michaeleen.” Professor Charles J. Phillips has recently contributed a short poem, “Kinship” in America, and a longer poem, “Shepherds’ Peace,” in the Ave Maria. “King of the Greenbrer” is the title of a sketch by Professor John Cooney in the same magazine.
“Ruth Suckow and the Middle Western Literary Movement,” by Profes-soi- John T. Frederick, appeared in the English Journal (college edition). Concerning the author of this article, the editor of the English Journal says, “John T. Frederick is internationally-known as an original thinker, critic, novelist and university teacher, in the field of literature and the arts. He is the founder and editor of The Midland, and is a lecturer at Notre Dame.” The Reverend S. A. Rae-mers of the department of philosophy continues in The Placidian his series of articles on “Brownson, the Man.” “Good Cigars,” a Belgian sketch, in the current issue of America. is written by Professor Norbert Engels.
N. D. Alumni in “Who’s Who”
“College Contributions to Intellectual Leadership” is the title of an interesting report on the college graduates among the 29,000 men and women listed in “Who’s W’ho In America,” 1928-1929 edition. The article which is written by Professors D. B. Prentice and B. W. Kunkel, both of Lafayette college, is published in the Department of Educational Research and Statistics of School and Society. Among the 506 colleges represented by alumni in “Who’s Who,” which has been called “that cold barometer of relative importance in American life.” Notre Dame and St. Francis Xavier college lead all Catholic colleges in the number of their alumni listed.
534
The Notre Dame Scholastic
LAW GRADUATES REUNION
Alumni Heads Plan Meeting During Graduation Week.
In connection with Commencement and the program of class reunions, the Alumni office announces a general reunion of all graduates of the Notre Dame College of Law. Col. Hoynes, founder of the Notre Dame Law school, who has spent 48 years on the campus, and Dean Thomas F. Konop, will act as honorary chairmen of the reunion. Details of the event have not been entirely worked out. It is probable in view of the growing compactness of the Commencement weekend ceremonies that any formal program for the reunion will have to take place Friday evening, or perhaps moved ahead a day, if possible. Suggestion from out-of-the-city Law alumni are requested immediately, to guide this latter possibility.
Inasmuch as there are more than fifty Notre Dame law alumni practising in South Bend, the Alumni office anticipates having this group act as committeemen of the whole in any arrangement of the local program. The Law Directory, issued by the College of Law, caused some discussion among Notre Dame lawyers. Many Notre Dame alumni are practising law who were not graduated from the Notre Dame College of Law. On the other hand, many graduates of the Notre Dame College of Law are not practising at the present time. The only records Dean Konop and his staff had to go by were the records of the graduates of the College. Three different requests for data were sent to these names at the best available address. Only about fifty per cent replied. Thus only an imperfect record of Notre Dame men who attended other law schools is available. The Alumni Office is at present taking steps to compile a complete record which will include graduates of the Notre Dame College of Law, practising and retired, and also practising lawyers who have graduated from other departments of the Nniversity.
Wranglers to Meet
The Wranglers club will meet on Tuesday evening at 6:30, in Room 222 of the Main building.
vincent McIntire, ’30, GOING TO SO. AMERICA
News from T. Vincent McIntire, ’30, managing editor of the Scholastic last year, tells that he will go to South America shortly in the employ of the American Rolling Mill Co. McIntire spent the last eight months after graduation as a highway inspector but with the completion of the road job he was forced to look elsewhere for employment.
In his letter to a member of the faculty here, McIntire says that outside of a monthly perusal of the Alumnus he has not had the opportunity .of keeping in personal touch with the activities of the University. “I suppose that graduation brings many misgivings to the departing alumnus,” McIntire writes in part. “I for one have known several. Friendship especially is harder to make and enjoy. One misses the easy, informal cameraderie so common at school.”
Two Debates Listed .
The second public debate of the year, a discussion of unemployment insurance, with the City College of Detroit, will be held on Tuesday, February 24, in St. Joseph’s auditorium, South Bend. William Darrow, George Allan, and William Kirby will represent Notre Dame in opposition to the proposed system.
On Friday, Feb. 27, will be held in Washington hall what promises to be one of the most interesting debates of the year. Thomas O’Meara and James Burke will represent Notre Dame in a debate with the University of Porto Rico. The subject, “Our policy of armed intervention in the Caribbean,” is especially promising, since representatives of the countries concerned will be represented.
' Aggie Seniors Practice
Seniors in the department of agriculture are now doing practical work in the process of incubation and hatchery management at the William Reese Hatchery in Mishawaka. The work done relates to the setting and processing of eggs in the incubator, together with temperature control, ventilation and humidity. All the processes in this field, including those of egg-candling and the merchandising of eggs and chickens, are likewise studied.
ANNOUNCE PLAY CONTEST
N. D. Students Invited to Write Indiana History.
The Municipal Drama association of Indianapolis has announced the opening of its first annual playwriters’ contest, and has invited students of the University to participate. The rules of the contest, as enumerated on the invitation, are as follows:
1.	The contest shall be open to all amateur playwriters in Indiana. (Note—An amateur playwrite is one who has never received money for a play or feature article.)
2.	All manuscripts must be in the hands of the committee before June 6, 1931.	‘
3.	. Kind of Play: (a) Only one act plays will be accepted; (b) Play shall call for only one set of scenery; (c) The maximum time required to give the play shall be 40 minutes; (d) Purely Indiana plays, dealing with incidents of historical interest in the development of Indiana will be accepted.
4.	The committee reserves the right to publish all or part of any play submitted after arranging a suitable contract with the author as regards to royalties, etc. The committee further reserves the right to forever produce any play submitted in any of the Indianapolis recreation department community houses by any group affiliated with and sponsored by said department, free of any royalty.
5.	Judges will be chosen by the executive board of the Municipal Drama Association. These judges shall have final decision on all manuscripts submitted.
6.	A suitable trophy shall be presented to the author submitting the play adjudged as winning the contest.
All manuscripts should be mailed to Room 303, City hall, Indianapolis, Indiana. Enclose self addressed, stamped envelope if you want your manuscript returned.
Spectators* Meeting
The Spectators club will hold their regular meeting on Thursday evening at eight o’clock in the Journalism room.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
535
COMING EVENTS
€
FRIDAY, Feb. 20—Scholastic ediducted the well read Week page in office, 6:30 p. m.; general staff meeting, 7:00 p. m.; Blackstone, the magician, Washington hall, 8 p. m.
SATURDAY, Feb. 21—Track meet, Notre Dame vs. Illinois, Champaign, Ill.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
SUNDAY, Feb. 22—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.; Senior caps and gowns distributed, University dining hall, 9:C0 a. m. until 12:00 noon.
MONDAY, Feb. 23 — Washington’s birthday celebration, no classes; Senior class exercises, Washington hall, 10:00 a. m. Program: Song, Star Spangled Banner, by the audience; “An Appreciation of Washington’s Farewell Address,” by John Francis Sullivan, A.B. ’31; “Washington Day Ode,” by John Alexander Scharback, A.B. ’31; Presentation of the Flag to the University, by John Francis Saunders, A.B. ’31, president of the senior class; Acceptance of the Flag, by the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; Song, O Notre Dame; Flag raising ceremonies, south of old Law building.—Return of caps and gowns, University dining hall.
TUESDAY, Feb. 26—Spanish club meeting, old Law building, 7:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Room 222, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. City College of Detroit, “Resolved: that the several states should enact legislation providing for compulsory unemployment insurance,” St. Joseph auditorium, South Bend, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 27—Scribblers’ meeting 6:30 p. m., Howard “rec”. —Last day for obtaining of senior invitations.—Bids for Spectators’ club due.—Joint meeting, St. Joseph Valley Section of A. C. S. with Notre Dame group of American Society for Steel Treating, 8:30, Washington hall; address: “The Fatigue of Metals Under 'Repeated Stress,” by Dr. H. F. Moore.
THURSDAY, Feb. 28 — Spectators’ club meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room of library.
TENNIS SQUAD ELECTS MATT O’BRIEN TO LEAD THEM FOR THIS YEAR
SEASON OUTLOOK GOOD
Elimination Tourney to Be Held Shortly to Determine Personnel of Squad.
Matt O’Brien of Tampa, Florida, was picked to lead the Notre Dame racquet wielders for the coming-season at a meeting held last week. O’Brien is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and is beginning his second year of competition with the Blue and Gold net squad.
O’Brien is one of the four monogram men returning to form a nucleus upon which this year’s team will be built. The others are, Mike O’Brien, a twin brother of the captain-elect, Bill Reaume, and Bob Kendall. In addition to these men, there are a few other outstanding candidates who are expected to be on hand when the curtain rises for the opening of the. season. Nick Lukats, of football fame, is considered to be just as proficient with the racquet as with the pigskin, but with spring football practice on the way he may have to confine his activities solely to the gridiron.
Pat Mangan and Joe Borda are two other promising men. Mangan, a senior, was a member of last year’s squad, and Borda, a sophomore, was former Atlantic coast junior doubles champion.
An elimination tournament is planned and will be run off as soon as the weather permits. The survivors in this competition will probably be the representatives of Notre Dame on the courts this year and as many as possible are asked to turn out for this tournament.
Rowen Named Chairman
William Rowen, of Flint, Michigan, has been chosen chairman of the Washington’s birthday exercises which are to be held on Monday morning, February 23, in Washington hall. Assisting Mr. Rowen are John Ro-dosevich, Russel Beaupre, Norbert Starslak, James Bordeau, Daniel Len-ci’oni, Lawrence Zell, James Higgis-ton, and Francis Loney.
GLEANINGS
Archer Hurley, who last year conducted he well read Week page in the Scholastic, is at present working for the Bradford (Pa.) Herald.
Felix Isherwood, of the class of ’30, is looking forward to a position in a foreign country soon as an agent for the States Steamship company.
Johnny Colrick is turning out an excellent basketball team for Georgetown university, where he is coaching the squad. When they played at Pittsburgh recently, the Notre Dame alumni turned out in full array to greet the cage shooters from Washington.
Among- the members of the class of ’30 who are attending the Harvard Law school are Tom Keegan, Joe Cullen, and Dave Reilley. Tom Keegan taught speech at the University last year and was prominent in debating activities.
Walter Stanton, ’30, the youngest member of the Indiana State legislature, is advancing politically by the proverbial leaps and bounds, according to reports from Indianapolis. In a recent verbal battle on the floor, the former Wrangler- acquitted himself with honors, according to newspaper dispatches.
Karl Martersteck, ’29, is taking charge of a plant in Russia with 12,-000 men under his control. Acting as an engineer, he is one of the many Americans who are in the Soviet’s country to help utilize its vast resources. — I	— ■
Paul Mallon, who graduated from the journalism school not so many years back, is signing United Press dispatches from Washington. He is known about the Capitol as one of the best political writers in the business.
Harry Sylvester, of last year’s class, still finds time for a feature article now and then in the Eastern papers.
-536
The Notre Dame Scholastic
COLUMBIA PROFS FAIL
Campus Opinions
WABASH ORATOR WINS
“Scribner’s” Exam Proves Too Difficult for F acuity.
(Intercollegiate News Service)
A list of forty questions, prepared by an engineer and a lawyer, were recently published in Scribner’s along with an article by Thomas Beer. Twenty-five college students had flunked the exam dismally, and Mr. Beer took the occasion to comment on the ignorance of our modern young people.
The Spectator, student paper of Columbia, offered the same list to 53 faculty members. Of this number, only 10 would take the exam, 43 refusing outright to have anything to do with it. Only four of the ten handed in complete answers, and the highest grade, made by Proessor C. A. Manning, teacher of Russian literature, was 55.1 percent. Close behind him were two more English professors with grades of 54.3 and 54.2 percent.
At the same time, a number of students took the quiz, and although the highest grade in this group was 46, several students finished ahead of some of the faculty members.
The Spectator reporters said that the faculty members were nervous and fidgety while taking the test, and otherwise displayed signs of discomfiture, such as pulling at their collars.
That the professors tend to bluff, just as the students do, was indicated by the answer to, “Name three compositions of Brahms.” The answer was, “The first, second and third sonatas.”
Some of the questions proving the greatest stumbling blocks were “Who were the Piccolimini ?” and “Who was Tillman Rienienschneider?” along with “For what is Abu Simbel noted?”, which question was not answered by anyone. The easier ones were such as “Name five makes of English automobiles” and “Name three living American architects.” “What is chromium?” was answered in many different ways.
It is interesting to note, in this connection, that the Scribner’s examination was taken recently by three members of the editorial board of the Scholastic. The results were graded by a faculty member who had looked up the answers. It was announced by him that the average grade of the three was 45.1 percent.
“Do you think that extra-curricular activities are worth while?”
Harry C. Burger, Badin hall, junior—“Such activities, I believe, are useful mainly in keeping occupied those who find Tuesday and Thursday afternoon a bore. In the sterner courses, such as engineering, one finds little time for publications, organizations, bull-sessions, and other campus frivolity.”
Francis J. Oelerich, Lyons hall, junior—“Do I think extra-curricular activities are worth while? I should dread to imagine a university without them. At Notre Dame, extra activities take up about 65 percent of our time, and rightly so. From our games we get the basis for whatever character is derived from college. From our clubs and artistic organizations we get our culture. What do we get from our academic classes? I don’t know. Perhaps the next fellow can answer that.”
Maurice W. Lee, Sophomore hall, sophomore—“Extra-curricular activities are, I believe, worth while. Such activities as debating, interhall athletics, and dramatics are bound to be in some degree beneficial, mentally or physically, to the student. Besides tending to relieve the monotony of class work, they also form an outlet for excessive energy.”
George A. Higgins, Lyons hall, junior — “Extra-curricular activities play a most important part in the formation of the character. Emphasis upon cultural, intellectual, and forensic pursuits make the extra-curricular man more adaptable to a cultural environment and more flexible to professional situation. The campus organizations, however, should be unrestricted. The intellectually lesser of the students have no opportunity at present to make use of these organizations.”
Leonard W. Condon, Walsh hall, junior—“I firmly believe that extracurricular activities are worth while. They relieve the mind from the worry of studies, and enable the student to show his ability in some form of activity. The student, like the athlete, may over-train and become stale.
McGreal Represents University at Oratorical Contest.
(Special to the Scholastic)
John M. Plummer of Wabash college won the Indiana State Oratorical Contest last Friday evening at Crawfordsville, Ind., with his oration, “America’s Medieval Empire.” He received a gold medal and a cash award. Glenn Stahl of Evansville college placed second, winning a silver medal for his address, “Can Mind Conquei-System?” Ralph Lawson of Manchester college, with his address, “Our Gun Employed,” won third prize and a bronze medal.
Plummer’s speech dealt with the present gang system which dominates the politics of our country. More particularly, he attacked the organization of ‘Scarface’ Al Capone, king of gangland.
The contest was held Friday evening in the new memorial chapel and was preceded by a group of classical selections played by the Wabash college orchestra. Eight Indiana colleges, including Notre Dame, Purdue, Butler, Earlham, Manchester, Evansville, Indiana State, and Wabash, were represented.
Francis McGreal, Breen Medalist, represented Notre Dame in the contest and spoke on “The Root Protocol.”
Alumnus Married
Vincent Henry, an alumnus of the University, was married to Clara O’Donnell of Munroe, Wisconsin, in the Log chapel at 10:15 last Saturday morning, February 14. The couple was attended by Mr. and Mrs. Robert Gresser; the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C. performing the ceremony. The couple departed immediately for Chicago where they will spend their honeymoon.
Mr. Henry, who was graduated with the class of 1925, is engaged in the automobile business in Madison, Wisconsin, where the couple will make their home.
Scribblers’ Meeting
The Scribblers’ club will hold their regular weekly meeting in Howard hall “rec” room at 6:30 o’clock on Wednesday evening.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
-537
Music And Drama
INTERESTING FEATURES IN “ALUMNUS” NUMBER
Last Saturday I found the Freiburg Passion Play both enjoyable and impressive. It was very beautifully staged, especially the scenes of the Agony in the Garden, the Last Supper, and the Crucifixion. The settings for these were copied after famous paintings. The methods of handling certain parts and the implications resulting therefrom were interesting. Judas was portrayed as a simple man deluded by the soft tongues and promises of the priests. The entire blame was placed on the priests of the Sanhedrin; Pilate was more or less exonerated. At the Last Supper, perhaps in an attempt to make the play acceptable to the greater number of sects, I was amazed to hear, not “This is My Blood.” but “This is the bond of My Blood.”
The Crucifixion scene was intensely beautiful, painfully so. After the thunder, lightning, and earthquake which followed Christ’s death, there was a scene of awful calm—the dead Christ in bold relief against a star-studded sky across which clouds moved in majestic splendor. Any mechanical defects which may have been present were obscured by the blur of tears through which the audience viewed this climax of the tragedy. A few minutes later, however, I became so interested in the technicalities of lowering- Christ from the cross that I rather lost the spiritual sense of the action, and the illusion was shattered.
The large cast for the production was headed by the Fassnacht family, the father and mother playing Judas and the Blessed Virgin; their son played Christ, and their daughter-in-law, Mary Magdalene. It seemed that the younger Fassnacht did not feel sure of himself in English, and the seven last words on the cross were spoken in German. All in all, the performance was a reverent and worth while presentation, even though not exactly a truthful one.
“The Royal Family of Broadway,” now at the Colfax, is one grand show. It differs from the play in that it is more humorous than satirical, and the ending is slightly changed. Edan -Ferber and George Kaufman, the authors of the play, said that it was
not about the Barrymores, but you know and I know that if the Barrymores acted like, that it would be about them. Frederic March displayed his mimetic powers in the portrayal of Tony Cavendish (John Barrymore). Henrietta Crossman, the Fanny Cavendish of the movie, and matriarch of the clan, was last seen in South Bend as Dame Quickly in “The Merry Wives of Windsor” some three years ago, with Otis Skinner and Mrs. Fiske. The Gwen of the play is of course Ethel Barrymore Colt, who, by the way, ik ninth generation of the Lane-Drew-Barrymore families on the stage. Her ancestors were actors on the English stage over three hundred years ago. Her brother is now being attracted to the movies, but what a power this tribe could be if they would stick to the legitimate stage and real drama.
“Grand Hotel,” perhaps the show of the season in New York right now, was turned down by some movie company executives several months ago. It had been suggested to them for production with Marlene Dietriech as the dancer. They said that the play had no possibilities for either stage or screen and that Marlene was already a flop. Tsk, tsk, movie men, biting your finger nails that way!
ITALIAN CLUB TO SING
OVER STATION WSBT
Radio station WSBT has agreed to allow the Italian club to sing over the air some , afternoon in the near future, it was announced at the regular meeting last Monday night in Room 2 of the Main building. The chairman of the committee in charge interviewed Mr. Kennedy of the South Bend Tribune station, who seemed willing to present the club in a singing chorus whenever they are ready.
Mr. Joseph Casasanta will direct the club in its effort to become perfect in choral work. Future meetings will be divided into practices in singing and the regular business of the organization.
Several articles of a distinctly new type appear in the February issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus. Professor Camille McCole’s paper, read before the Lay Faculty club of the College of Arts and Letters snaps the cord of repeated abuse heaped upon the Swedish academy for its selection of Sinclair Lewis as Nobel Prize winner.
Professor McCole, after an ironically humorous introduction touching on Mr. Nobel’s invention of dynamite, discusses and weighs each of Mr. Lewis’ novels and considers his attitude toward the American scene. Numerous excerpts, cleverly chosen from the books of Lewis, are used as foci. After a complete and comprehensive presentation of proof the three major objections to the award are refuted.
George Jackoboice, ’31, has unearthed many choice bits of history in “Some Dates and Anecdotes of Notre Dame.”
Harold Langdon, ’32, traces the life and work of Dr. Edward Lee Greene, the famous botanist and donor of the Edward Lee Greene Library and Herbarium, nationally famous collection at Notre Dame.
The new university escutcheon is included in the February issue as an insert. An article on the coat-cf-arms by Mr. R. W. Rauch, chairman of the Board of Publications, is also included.
The magazine is well interspersed with Notre Dame poems of former years and has a number of contemporary articles of note.
N. D. Night on April 20
Notre Dame alumni will observe •the eighth annual Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 20.
Sixty or more local alumni clubs throughout the world will participate in the observance. Radio will be utilized wherever possible. Faculty members and alumni officers will speak before the various organizations. Some form of obesrvance will be held on the campus.
Details are being worked out through the Alumni office for what promises to be the most extensive as well as the most intensive celebration of this nationally recognized event among college alumni.
538
The Notre Dame Scholastic
University Announcements
Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, has announced that the following scholarships and fellowships are available from other universities:
UNIVERSITY OF OREGON The Graduate School
For the promotion of graduate study and research, the University of Oregon awards annually a number of assistantships and fellowships. These are open to graduates of any standard university or college. Except for occasional reappointments, approximately the following positions will be available for 1931-32:
Animal Biology, 2 graduate assistantships: Architecture and Allied Arts. 4 graduate assistantships ; Biological Science. 2 graduate assistantships: Business Administration. 4 graduate assistantships. 1 research assistantship ; Chemistry, 4 graduate assistantships, 6 part-time graduate assistantships; Economics. 2 graduate assistantships; Education. 1 teaching fellowship, 3 graduate assistantships. 1 part-time gi-aduate assistantship: English. 7 graduate assistantships. 4 part-time graduate assistantships; Geology, 2 graduate assistantships ; German. 1 graduate assistantship; History. 3 graduate assistantships. 1 part-time graduate assistantship ; Journalism, 1 graduate assistantship: Language and Literature. 5 part-time graduate assistantships: Mathematics, 3 graduate assistantships; Music. 2 graduate assistantships; Philosophy, 1 graduate assistantship; Physical Education, 4 graduate assistantships; Physical Science, 3 graduate assistantships; Physics, 3 graduate assistantships ; Plant Biology, 1 part-time assistantship : Psychology, 4 graduate assistantships; Romance Languages. 2 graduate assistantships ; Social Science, 2 graduate assistantships ; Sociology, 1 graduate assistantship; Graduate School, 6 research assistantships.
A teaching fellow renders part-time teaching service to the University. He is expected to be at a more advanced stage in his graduate studies than is the graduate assistant. The stipend varies from §750 to §1,150 for the nine months of the academic year.
A research assistant aids in the research of some faculty member to whose project he is assigned. A compensation of §500 is allowed for the academic year.
A graduate assistant gives part-time service to the department in various capacities, amounting to not more than twenty hours a week. §500 is paid for this service the first year, and §600 on reappointment.
A part-time assistant acts as reader or laboratory assistant to a department or division, receiving from §250 down, according to the time spent in service for the University.
All persons holding these positions are expected to register in the Graduate school, and to be candidates for a degree. They are not held for the non-resident fee, and have the benefit of a reduced registration fee of §11.00 a term.
Applications should be made through the Dean of the Graduate school. University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon, before April 1.
CLARK UNIVERSITY
Clark university offers facilities for graduate study and research to a small number of carefully selected students in the fields of economics and sociology.
Excellent university and city public libraries, together with convenient access to other large collections of books in neighboring cities, and a location in the midst of the highly developed industrial sections of New England, give exceptional opportunities for study and for first-hand contacts with vital problems. A competent instructional staff, working with a relatively small number of advanced students, assures a high 'degree of individual guidance in intensive work.
Scholarships and fellowships are available for well prepared students, ambitious of proceeding to higher degrees. These appointments exempt their holders from tuition fees and carry cash stipends of varying amounts.
Inquiries should be addressed to S. J. Brandenburg. Clark University. Worcester, Mass.
STATE COLLEGE OF WASHINGTON Tur Graduate School
Fellowships and other apopintments, 1931-1932:
College of Sciences and Arts—1 teaching fellowship in business -administration, §650; 1 i esearch fellowship in bacteriology, and 3 teaching fellowships in bacteriology, $500-§750; 3 teaching fellowships in botany. §750 ; 4 teaching fellowships in chemistry, §750; 1 teaching fellowship in foreign language, §720 ; 7 teaching fellowships in English. $720; 3 teaching fellowships in zoology, §750.
The School of Education—2 graduate fellowships, $300; 2 scholarships (research assistants), $200.
College of Agriculture—1 research fellowship in animal husbandry (11 months), $800 ; 1 research fellowship in chemistry (Il months). $600 ; 1 teaching fellowship in dairy husbandry, $800 ; 1 research fellowship in entomology (11 months). $800; 1 research fellowship in entomology (11 months), $1,000; 2 research fellowships in farm crops (11 months), $800 ; 1 teaching fellowship in plant pathology (11 months), §1,200; 2 research fellowships in plant pathology (11 months), §600 : 1 research fellowship in poultry husbandry (11 months), §600: 1 research fellowship in soil bacteriology (11 months), $1,000; 1 research fellowship in soils (11 months). §500.
College of Mechanic Arts and Engineering— 1 teaching fellowship in mechanical engineering. $1,100; 1 teaching fellowship in electrical engineering, §700; 1 teaching fellowship in civil engineering, §700 ; 1 teaching fellowship in mathematics, $700; 2 teaching fellowships in physics, $700; 2 research fellowships in en-, gineering experimental station, $600.
School of Mines and Geology—1 teaching fellowship in geology, $450; 1 scholarship . (teaching assistant in mining and metallurgy) , $300.
The R. C. McCroskey Research Felloicship— 1 research fellowship in agriculture or science, $300-$350.
The Ella M. Letterman-Lanning Fellowship —1 research fellowship in any field, §150.
The above fellowships are open to suitab’y prepared graduates who desire to carry on advanced studies leading to the M.S., M.A., or Ph.D. degree. In general, the teaching fellowships allow one-half time for student work. The research fellowships permit more time to be given to the graduate program. A few research fellowships allow full time work toward an advanced degree.
For application blanks write to the Graduate School, State College of Washington, Pullman, Washington.
KANSAS STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Graduate Appointments
Twenty-two graduate assistantships paying a stipend of $500 for nine months and twenty-two research assistantships paying §500 for nine months or $650 to $800 for twelve months are available in the following departments:	i
Agricultural economics, agronomy, animal husbandry, bacteriology, botany and plant pathology, chemistry, child welfare and euthenics, clothing and textiles, dairy husbandry, education (including psychology), entomology, food economics and nutrition, general home economics, horticulture, household economics, institutional economics, poultry husbandry, and zoology.	.	4
The following fellowship is available: Association of Operative Millers Industrial fellowship, stipend $540.
Applications and letters of recommendation should reach the office of the chairman of the Graduate Council by April 1.
Graduate Appointments in Engineering	•
Six graduate research assistantships, paying $750 for nine months, are available in the Engineering Experiment station. One or more appointments may be made in any of the departments as follows:
Agricultural engineering, applied mechanics, architecture, chemical engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering, machine de-	_
sign, mechanical engineering, and shop practice.
Each of these appointments will provide - opportunity for the person holding it to complete the requirements for his Master of Sci-. ence degree in a period of eleven months, if he does the necessary quality and quantity of work.
Applications and letters of recommendation	*
should reach the office of the chairman of the Graduate Council by April 1.
For detailed information, application blanks, and catalogues, address the chairman of the Graduate Council, Kansas State Agricultural college. Manhattan. Kansas.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
539
ECITCK’J PACE
WASHINGTON DA Y EXERCISES
On Monday the senior class pays its tribute to the founder of our nation in a campus exercise which is an annual custom at Notre Dame, one of the few real traditions, incidentally, which the S. A. C. has never extended itself to preserve. This ceremony witnesses the first appearance of the present graduating class in cap and gown for the parade from the Main building to Washington hall, for the presentation of the flag, and for the recitation of the class ode. The exercises are as brief as they are interesting, yet solemn and long enough to observe fittingly this day.
To those students who do not intend to weekend in the neighboring suburb of winds and machine-guns this occasion presents an opportunity for paying the respect due the memory of the First American. In these days of prohibition, anti-saloon league agitation, and the resulting tendency to regard all civil and moral laws in a frivolous light, it is only proper for real Catholics to pause for a few moments in deference to a man for whom the nation’s laws were sacred, and who was and will always be a model of Christian and American ideals. As Catholics forming one of the centers of Catholicism in a country neither expressly Christian nor pagan, we are almost religiously bound to honor George Washington, the most famous American patriot.
To those of us who are not very lavish in our display of enthusiasm for things national or historical, there should be, at least as a matter of school spirit, more than a casual interest in the exercises, for they are to be conducted by the senior class. It is seldom that a single class congregates before the view of all the students, and it is even less seldom that the students gather before the speakers’ platform. We should all be there to assist the upperclassmen in their special activity, remembering that they are of Notre Dame just as completely as any athletic team, and that they will be the first of the present student body to carry before the business and the professional world impressions of the Notre Dame training. We are proud in the knowledge that this class is representative of the University, that individuality and collectively they will add to her prestige, and we should show that pride by being present at the
first official appearance of the seniors Monday morning. The attendances at the exercises of the last several years have not been of a quantity nor (with due apologies to the freshmen) of a quality to cause the participants any thought that they were making the beautiful gesture that the formality really is; nor were they bouyed up with the conviction that their fellow students believed in them. The function has degenerated into a tradition just formally gone through, without spirit or spontaneous interest. We should be able to do something about that this year.
THE MICHIGAN EPISODE
Once again, through the nation’s press, comes a glaring story of an extensive raid by local police conducted on the University of Michigan campus, resulting in the seisure of liquor in several fraternity houses. In meting out swift punishment, the university authorities suspended the five fraternities in question until September next.
Last week several Harvard students committed vandalism in the town of Groton. They were actuated, said one Harvard faculty member, by an “over-indulgence of liquor.” Yet the district attorney refused to take any action against the offenders, saying that the matter would be handled properly by the Harvard officials. The whole episode received approximately one inch of space in the newspapers.
Now the point we are trying to make is this: the results at Harvard and Michigan were the same; but there was very little undesirable publicity.
The average college student will read of such an episode as the one at Michigan without believing that all fraternities are dens of iniquity or that the University of Michigan is a hotbed of vice. But there are many people in this country who seize upon such a story as evidence of the corruption of not only all fraternities, but the nation’s universities as well. If an intelligent and co-operative understanding be arrived at between the officials of the law and the university, to the end of taking over any legal action from the local officers, the ever-present threat of political investigation and public censure for something that happens once in a blue moon will be reduced to a minimum.
540
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CCLLECE IAIAIE
THE POETS9 NUMBER
As long as we have college columnists, the spirit of poetry will live (says we with our tongue in our cheek). We are now presenting the Annual Anthology of Columnist Poetry with profound apologies to the authors, and appropriate dedications to certain local parties. We hope the certain local parties won’t be offended. (We mean no violence; we’re just short of any better material.)
TO FRESHMAN HALL
All these days I’ve been so lonely Scarcely slept a wink at night, Now I ask one question only— Aintcha ever gonna write?
Every hour I’ve been wondering Why I’m so blue I can’t eat a bite. Then the mailman passes thundering, Aintcha ever gonna write?
Do you really mean to peeve me?
Or is someone else in sight?
Do you think that it won’t grieve me?
Honey, aintcha ever gonna write?
—Daily Illini.
The next selection is dedicated to John Collins, chairman of last Friday’s dance:
We’ll sweat and crowd at the Junior Prom, We’ll step on feet and swear sublime;
But when the affair is o’er, we’re bound
To say, “We had a darn nice time!”
—Ohio State Lantern.
The next number will be set to music by Walt Philipp as a theme song for the Senior Ball:
Tell me your troubles, darling;
Tell me your hopes and your fears.
Tell me what ails you, sweetheart;
Tell me what brought on your tears.
Tell me your heartaches, honey;
Tell me your woes while we dine.
Tell me your troubles, baby;
And when the bill comes, I’ll tell you mine!
—Syracuse Daily Orange.
The Pennsylvanian, recovering from the semesterexams, dedicates the next song for us:
TO OUR INSURANCE PROF.
What a fool I’ve been all the year	,
To believe you’d put me through;
Now you look at me with a sneer,
And tell me I am through!
How I’ve studied and read,
Lost time and time from my warm bed,
Only for zeros marked in red
Intended to make me blue.
Yes, what a fool I’ve been all year . To believe—that you would put me through.
Even the seniors took a beating on these last exams so we dedicate this one to Father Farley’s demesne:
TO SORIN HALL
Now, looka here, Prof, You’re crazy or drunk.
In this institution Seniors CAN’T flunk.
—Syracuse Daily Orange.
And this one to the Sorin lawyers:
Gentlemen freshmen gone on a spree, Flunked from here to eternity, The Dean have mercy on such as we, For every nightmare looks like a D.
—The Pennsylvanian.
The next number just goes to show what these modern girls are like when they get excited. The kind girls furnished their own dedication. (Tsk, tsk) :
TO THE HOCKEY TEAM
Shall I compare you to the football team We know as “fighting Irish” brave and strong? As down the field so swift you run; the throng . In joy and glee respond with shouts and screams. As in the wind the “Green and White”—it streams. And thus sweet voices fill the air with song, And now the umpire blows his whistle long— A goal—the victory is ours it seems.
Long live the Green and White in victory! . Blessed thrice be you by fame, success and peace, So that in years to come you’ll smile and say: “This hockey team stands out in history.” And I am sure its fame will now increase Because the victory was ours that day.
—Mercyhurst Merciad.
We are putting a bound volume of these poems on the reserve shelf in the library. Poetry like this must never die a natural death. Ah no!—the revolver is much quicker.
COLLEGIANA
Rudy the Valet, as we said last week, was served a delightful dish of uncut grapefruit when he appeared in an Eastern theatre recently. . . . the Harvard student who heaved the over-ripe missile at Rudy was dropped from school . . . which caused a Princeton columnist to moan that the students who missed Rudy were not dropped instead . . . and a newspeppeh man at Syracuse university is sore at the Harvard student because he didn’t hit the Vallee with a brick . . . which reminds us that Dartmouth seniors last year elected Mr. Rudy their favorite actress. . . . The new course at. Rollins college in “The Art of Lovemaking” . . . this is one class in which nobody is ever behind in assignments or term duties. . . . President Gates of Pennsylvania, whose football reforms have cut coaching salaries down to .three thousand dollars a year . . . and the cynic who remarked that Penn would now have more money to pay their players’ salaries. . . . Dr. Flexner who states in his new book, Universities, that there is not a real university in America, and then writes a book about them. . . . Page Mr. Chesterton and his paradoxes!
The Notre D^me Scholastic
541
♦ THE WINE ♦

Here is the pall Of Freshman Hall.
He thought the Prom Was a free-for-all.
QUICK WINKS
The Salty Skipper’s confusion when certain parties in South Bend objected most indignantly to having their phone numbers advertised in this column. . . . Shucks, it’s all in fun . . . besides they’re never home anyway. . . . The valentines from the Izaak Walton League . . . and from Sorin to the League. . . . The gay, gay whirl of social events last week. ... It required the combined efforts of half a dozen hot and swearing staff members to get Ye Editor garbed in time for the Prom . . . and everything had to be just so, too . . . because they don’t stand for any nonsense over in Mishawaka . . . Jim Kearney’s play for drammer class ... in which an unwary mother, seeking a picture book for her very small son, is sold a copy of Peter Arno’s Hullabaloo by a dumb dora salesgirl . . . tsk, tsk, John Francis. ... In a Chi-Detroit plane that passed over this vicinity a man went utsnay and tried to take the pilot’s seat ... he wanted to stop and eat lunch in South Bend. . . . When they got him to Detroit they decided he had air sickness. . . . That’s clear enough ... so if you’re ever in an airplane and want to get out and eat a lunch in South Bend . . . you’ve got air sickness. . . . Different from homesickness . . . which doesn’t come until you do get out and eat a lunch in South Bend.
RICH MAN—POOR MAN
The Rich Man speaks. * • I saw three holy things today: A pot of pearls filled to the brim, A perfume wild, And a rich young man.
The Poor Man speaks.
I saw three holy things today: A wayside shrine, ’twos built for Him, A laughing child,
And a poor old man.	—Bishop M.
CONGRATULATIONS, MEN
We’ve been scooting around lately with our pipe clutched between tight teeth and our whiskers tucked in' out of the rain finding out things. A sort of cultural survey we made, so we did, and the results of our little examinations are now published for the first time in the United States or Great Britain since the juniors bade their Prom guests goodbye and resumed relations with Patricia at Walgreen’s. We wish first to thank those who co-operated with us by answering our question. Generally they were pretty nasty about it and would snap, “Wot d’yer want to know for?” But they didn’t really mean that, as the results will show. Anyway, here are revealed:	■
SUPPRESSED OPINIONS
Question: “Which of the *campus magazines do you prefer?”
Suspect 1.—“I like the Scholastic. There’s lots and
lots of room on the covers for marking bridge scores, and me and my roommate have just loads of fun working the Chesterfield puzzles on the back. They’re pretty hard but we get them right almost every time.”
Suspect 2.—“That there joke book—what the heck do you call it? C’mon, you know, the one with the jokes in it.”
Suspect 3.—“Scrap! And I think it is much more interesting than the Lake Shore time tables, or the St. Mary’s Chimes.”
Suspect 4.—“The Catalyzer, of course. And, believe me, the first thing I read in it is the Sink. Boy, I like your column.”
Suspect 9002.—“Say, who was that swell lookin’ girl you were out with last night?”
Suspect 12.—“The Saturday Evening Post.*
Of the four who took the examination, none guessed the correct answer, two were from New York,one answered twice, three had been to the Prom, one wore glasses and took astronomy, and the others were pretty sleepy, having just come from an eight o’clock class. The average of the four was about 40 degrees Fahrenheit. All were agreed that anyone who would go around asKing such questions was a ninny, and that next Wednesday afternoon they were going to cut classes and go to town,' too. The winner wore a green tie, rubbers, and peg-top trousers to match. He hails from Altoona, and has a poor old uncle and a tenor voice to support. “I owe it all to the time I spent on the Sorin hall basketball team—yeh, in the lightweight division,” was his modest statement as we handed him the Bumper Trophy, which to this day remains on his desk in the Publications’ office where he spends all his time talking back to himself.
TO A. B. E.
I’d like to sit a spring night through, Perhaps to talk and laugh with you. To hold your hand, or stroke your hair With all the flowers that are there, To hear the songs that night-birds croon. And watch the magic of the moon.
Pd like to sit a spring night through, If just to talk and laugh with you.
.	—Canaras.
We got our brain to working recently—and what do you think? Hey, now, you shouldn’t be thinking that! Well, we decided to make contributing to the Wink attractive. Get the idea? Lure, that’s it. So from now on anyone who sends in something, even if it’s a worn textbook or an old pair of pants, will be formally initiated into our own I. Q. club, and his paper hat and tin sword will be sent to him immediately on receipt of a stamped envelope and a picture of himself at the age of three. Senior privileges (for Canaras, Bishop M., Trudeau, Rum-jahn, Attache, and sundry others) will permit members to visit our studios in the boathouse at any time to take a ten-lesson course in clog dancing or Business English. We think we’re making you a darn fine proposition, and expect some appreciation. Join now!
-	—The Weary Bumper.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
< AMI I f CLUB/
FRENCHMAN CROWLEY
Conversationalist at the last meeting of the FRENCH club was Patrick Crowley. He began his talk with a brief address of welcome to club secretary Fred Macbeth who had just returned from the Millrose Games.
After Mr. Crowley had finished quizzing club members on the matter that he had covered, the club’s vice-president, Michael O’Hara, spoke on the origin of the Marsellaise. The Reverend Conrad Hoffman concluded the meeting by giving a comparison between educational methods in this country and in Europe.
DA-DAAAAA
Good results of taking Italian are to be illustrated in the near future when the ITALIAN club sings over radio station WSBT. Members learned this at their regular meeting held last" Monday evening in the Main building. Mr. Kennedy, director of the station, is willing to let the club join his band of entertainers any time that is convenient.
In charge of the ITALIAN club’s choral activities is Professor Casasanta of the music department. In the future, club meetings will be divided between song and business.
CLUBMEN
The taking of the club pictures for the Dome revealed many of the prominent clubmen about the campus. Among those who turned out nearly every day as residents of New Jersey, California, Cleveland, Wabash Valley, and nearly every place else, were James Clark and James Bosco. The former was especially interesting. In each of the pictures he tried to assume an expression fitting the locality that he was representing. For California he is smiling sunnily; for New Jersey he is looking pensive (he is from New Jersey)for Wabash Valley he is looking melancholy; for Texas he is looking healthy.
The outstanding campus clubman is, of course, John (“Ringleader”) Pick. No roster is complete without his name.
SAD
Among the interesting cases on the campus is that of John Quinlan of Morrissey hall. John would make one of the best club officers on the campus. He has, however, no club. With the slightest encouragement John would conduct meetings, collect dues, have a dance, and sponsor all the other money-making schemes that club officers enjoy so much. John, nevertheless, is sad. The S.A.C. insists that a club must have at least twenty members. As soon as he can find nineteen other fellows, John will bring the WABENO (Wis.) club into all the glory that it rightly deserves.
PERSONAL
For the past two weeks this page has been mentioning the general practice of clubs this year of not having-meetings after the holidays. All of these clubs met frequently during the period from September to December when dues were to be collected and tickets for Christmas dances were to be sold. Since January the opposite has been true: during the time when club members should be enjoying the profits from their dances, very few of the clubs have met.
Among the clubs which have not met since the holidays are the CLEVELAND club, which was one of the most active on the campus at the beginning of the year; the CHICAGO club which must have made enough on its super-Christmas dance to support its officers for the rest of their lives; the BUFFALO club, which began the yeai' very enthusiastically with meetings every two weeks; the DETROIT club, which was active ehough during the beginning of the year to sponsor a dance at Christmas. These are the principal offenders. The METROPOLITAN club has had only one meeting at which the members were told to turn out for the club’s Dome picture.
Clubs are as much a tradition at Notre Dame as interhall football. There is no reason why they should not be active.
BUSINESS, ETC.
After its regular meeting last week the PHARMACY club took up final plans for the publication of the Catalyzer which is to appear in March. Also discussed were events scheduled for the remainder of the school year.
Feature of the first meeting of the club was a paper by Norbert Schaller on “The Search for the Active Principles in the Narcotic Solanums.” In it Mr. Schaller outlined the history and preparation of the various narcotics.
JOURNALISTS
At the last meeting of the PRESS club two members appeared. For all the meetings interesting speakers have been secured to discuss journalistic topics.’At the previous meeting there were fifteen. Meetings before Christmas attracted more than thirty. Why this post-vacation lethargy? It seems to be common to state and city clubs whose functions seems to be merely social, but there is no reason why clubs that are almost scholastic in their activities should feel this depression.
RESPIRATION
On last Tuesday evening the members of the EAST PENN club attempted to revive their club, almost dead since Christmas. This club will be remembered as the one with the enthusiastic secretary, and which had only fourteen couples at its Christmas dance (the original report was fifty).
The Notre Dame Scholastic
543
♦ SPORTS ♦
Butler Easy Victim For Trackmen
Notre Dame Sweeps Four Events In Giving Bulldogs Decisive 68-18 Defeat
GAGERS BEAT WABASH IN LISTLESS STRUGGLE
Wilson, Howery Crack Records in 880, Two-Mile; Nelson, Sivak Win Butler’s Firsts.
In the first dual meet of the indoorseason, Notre Danie registered an easy victory at the expense of her downstate rivals from Butler university by the overwhelming margin of 68 to 18. A fair-sized crowd was on hand to witness the initial appearance of Coach Nicholson’s men, but the marked superiority of the local tracksters made the meet a rather dull affair from the viewpoint of the spectator. Two new marks were set up in the course of the afternoon, however, when Alex Wilson cracked the existing gym record in the 880 yard run, and Gene Howery, not to be outdone, ran a great race in the two-mile to be clocked in 9:38.6, thus hanging up a new Notre Dame record for the event. ’ Wilson’s time was 1:56.4.
The Blue and Gold dominated every event, chalking up slams in the pole vault, the sixty-yard dash, the sixtyyard high hurdles and the 880-yard run, besides scoring heavily in all the others. The Bulldogs were forced to content themselves with two first places for their afternoon’s labors, Sivak and Nelson each winning their specialties—the mile and the high jump respectively.
“Dutch” Johnson started the onslaught by placing first in the pole vault, elevating himself to the excellent height of thirteen feet, one inch— his best performance so far in indoor competition. The sixty-yard dash turned out to be an all-Notre Dame race when Butler failed to qualify a man. McCormick bested his teammates Bonomolo and Dilling in the
final spurt, being timed at six and two-fifths seconds.
Sivak of Butler lived up to all predictions and had things just about his
Gene Howery
own way in the mile, although his time for the event in no way endangered the gym record set back in 1924 by Kennedy, of Notre Dame. Joe Quigley and Brant Little of Notre Dame finished second and third respectively, far ahead of the other Butler entrants.
The sixty-yard high hurdles also proved to be an all-Notre Dame event when Captain Johnnie O’Brien, Reiman and Poredon, finished first, second, and third respectively. The Notre Dame captain was not forced to (Continued on Page 546)
Howell, Crawfordsville Guard, Stars in 18-17 Decision.
In a slow and somewhat uninteresting game Notre Dame’s eagers added their ninth victory of the season to their list last Friday night when they eked out an 18-17 victory over the Little Giants of Wabash college. The men of Coach Vaughn came to South Bend determined to gain revenge for the defeat handed them a month ago on their home floor, and nearh" accomplished their aim by virtue of the almost superhuman efforts of Howell, star guard.
It was Howell who opened the scoring shortly after the opening whistle with a neat basket from close in, and it was Howell who closed the scoring with a miraculous one-handed shot that came within one point of forcing the game into an overtime period. During- the time that elapsed between these two baskets, the flashy guard found time to sink three more field goals and two free throws to bring his total to twelve for the evening. Bash, blond forward, was the only other Wabash man to find the drapes from the field, while Chase, Johnson, and Harting counted one free throw apiece.
Notre Dame’s regular team did not start the game. Schumaker took Ray DeCook’s place at the beginning and remained in the fray until shortly before half time. With the Blue and Gold on the short end of an 8-3 count, Coach Keogan sent in his dependable pivot man. Following Norb Crowe’s medium-long shot, DeCook took mat- • ters into his own hands and netted two goals from under the basket to give Notre Dame a 9-8 lead as the half ended.
(Continued on Page 544)
544
The Notre Dame Scholastic
STRONG BUTLER QUINT CLOSES HOME SEASON
Hinklemen Have Lost But One of Fourteen Contests.
Doctor George Keogan’s fast-stepping quintet makes its last appearance on the home court tomorrow night. It seems that Coach Keogan started the schedule with a comparatively easy game against Kalamazoo, but the contrary is true for the finale of the home season. The Notre Dame eagers will entertain the Butler university five, a team of no mean caliber and one which has gone through the season with a most successful record. They have won 13 while losing only one game, and all contests were staged against first class opponents.
Paul D. (Tony) Hinkle, Butler coach, is considered one of the best basketball mentors in the middle-west. Although a young man, he has established a reputation for the fine cage reams that he has produced. Coach Hinkle was a star athlete at the University of Chicago in 1918-1919. Following his graduation he returned to his Alma Mater to assist Coach Stagg in directing all of the major sports. He signed to coach at Butler in 1921, and in 1926 was made head coach. In his four years as chief mentor- of the Indianapolis aggregation he has won 67 games while losing but 15. Including this year’s record he has won 80 games and lost 16.
This year’s Notre Dame register shows nine victories and five defeats. This likewise is an enviable record made by Dr. Keogan. After losing such stars as Ed Smith, All-Western guard for three consecutive years, “Oonie” Donovan, now freshman coach, and McCarthy, forward and high point man, Coach Keogan has organized a team that ranks among the best in the middle-west. Tire five defeats which Notre Dame suffered came at the hands of Pittsburgh, Northwestern, and Purdue. Both of the Pitt games were overtime affairs, and the Evanston Wildcats, who also copped a pair, nearly cinched the Big-Ten title last Saturday night when they took the University of Chicago five into camp by a comfortable margin.
Following the Butler engagement the Blue and Gold will take to the road on what might be termed an eastern-mid-western invasion. On February 28, they will meet the Army at West Point. The next stop is
Syracuse, where they will engage the Orange Panthers on March 2. The Keoganites then retrace their steps to the middle-west and on March 6 they will stop off at Milwaukee to match wits with the Marquette university quintet. A return game with Butler is scheduled to be played at Indianapolis on March 10. Notre Dame then rings down the curtain at Iowa City on March 14.
CAGERS BEAT WABASH
(Continued from Page 543)
The second half was almost a duplicate of the first except that play was speeded up somewhat as the end drew near. The incessant cheering and whistling of the Notre Dame rooters seemed to instill some pep into the players and most of the thrills of the game were crowded into the final minutes.
Howell gave the Giants the lead again as the period opened but Gavin reversed the count with a goal from the seventeen-foot zone only to see the persistent Howell tie it up on Crowe’s personal. Goals by Burns and Crowe put Notre Dame into the lead again and from here on out they were able to maintain their advantage.
DeCook led the Keoganites in scoring with six points, the result of three field goals. Johnny Baldwin played . his usual brilliant floor game and added two points to the local’s total with a goal from well out on the court.
The box score:
Notre Dame (18)			p	Wabash (17)			
	c	p		G		p	P
Crowe, f	2	0	2	Chase, f	0	1	2
Newbold, f	0	1	1	Bash, f	1	0	0
Gavin, f	1	1	0	Smith, f	0	0	1
Schumaker,	c 0	0	2	Johnson, c	0	1	0
DeCook, c	3	0	1	Bowman, c	0	0	0
Baldwin, g	1	0	0	Howell, g	5	2	0
Burns, g	1	0	2	Harting, g	0	1	2
Totals	8	2	8	Totals	6	5	5
Referee: Kearns (DePaul) ; umpire: Schommer (Chicago).
TRACKMEN TO MEET ILUN01S TOMORROW
Notre Dame Eager to Repeat Victory of Last Year.
With few losses from graduation to handicap them and a smashing victory already under their belts, Coach John P. Nicholson’s trackmen will invade Champaign, Illinois, tomorrow for the second dual meet of the season. For years this feud of track-dom has been waged and only once has Illinois tasted defeat—last season when Notre Dame had the “lion’s share” of a 62-32 score. Illinois is coached by’ Harry Gill, one of the outstanding mentors in the country, who has returned to his old job after a year’s vacation. The chance of an easy repetition for Notre Dame is very doubtful, but a well balanced Blue and Gold team entrained for Champaign this afternoon and they are confident that they will return victorious.
Alex Wilson, recent winner of the “Millrose 600,” will lead the most powerful group of middle distance men in collegiate circles. Judging by the excellent performances and speedy times of Joe Quigley, Fred MacBeth, Charley Kelly, and Brant Little, Notre Dame should score easily and heavily in these events. Regis Kuhn and Jack Scanlon have also been showing up well in recent practice sessions.
The most awaited and doubtful event of the entire meet is the acid test of three of America’s foremost hurdlers: Captain Johnny O’Brien and Roy Bailie of Notre Dame, and the flashy Lee Sentman of Illinois. A new world’s record wouldn’t be the greatest surprise of the season.
Bill McCormick has an excellent chance of winning the 75-yard dash although he will meet a brilliant man in Useman. Another runner whom Coach Nicholson banks -on is Gene Howrey, the cross-country captain, whose remarkable race in the Butler meet promises a heady contest.
Whether McDermott, the crack Illini pole vaulter, will clear his record of thirteen-ten depends on the efforts of Johnson, Fishleigh, and Slattery of the Blue and Gold.
Hoffman, Brill, and Branfort are “putting” against a coming champion, Turma, who has been threatening the half-century mark consistently, and who will be more than a dangerous rival for the local weight men.
t
<

The Notre Dame Scholastic
545
“IT MUST BE TOUCH,’’ MARTY BRILL SAYS, “OR I DON’T LIKE THE GAME”
Received Greatest Thrill When He Started First Football Game for Penn Charter
Marty Brill prefers Valencia oranges from Florida to those without seeds from Southern California. We couldn’t understand this when he told us, for we thought Marty had a great love for everything coming from Southern California. But such is the preference of the great halfback and he explained his taste with the remark, “Boy, they can’t be beaten for juice.”
Norwood, Pennsylvania, situated on the outskirts of Philadelphia, couldn’t have had more than a hundred families on March 13, 1908, the day Martin Brill’s name was added to its list of residents. We imagine it could have been placed in the class of “a real estate venture.” At any rate, Martin Brill was reared in Norwood and when he was old enough to enter prep school, Penn Charter in Philadelphia, was lucky enough to be chosen.
Yes, we mean lucky, for Marty was a nine-letter man at Penn Charter. For four years he brought his school honors as a shot-putter, as a javelinthrower, and in the dashes. On the gridiron he performed for three years and in the spring he turned his attentions to baseball long enough to win his insignia as a pitcher, first baseman, and outfielder. When asked why he was changed from a pitcher to a outfielder, Tom Conley, his neighbor over in St. Ed’s, volunteered the information that the change was made to give Marty a little of his own medicine. Lest we give the impression that he was only an athlete, we’ll mention right here that he was a member of the Senior Literary society while at Penn Charter.
Strange as it may seem, Marty Brill’s biggest thrill came, not as a member of national championship teams at Notre Dame, but while he was in prep school. “It was back in the fall of 1923. I made the Penn Charter football squad and when I started in my first game of football, it was some thrill—for it was the first time for everything.” That’s the way he puts it.
In the fall of 1926 Brill enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania. He succeeded in making his freshman football numerals, and when spring rolled around, earned a place on the frosh track squad. As a sophomore
Marty Brill
the following year, he was a member of Lou Young’s varsity eleven and at the end of the season was awarded a • monogram in recognition of his work. Spring found him putting the shot again and by the time school closed he had earned his second letter of his sophomore year — quite an accomplishment in itself.
All this time Marty had ambitions to become a coach after his graduation. This fact prompted him to enter Notre Dame in 1928 in order to gain a knowledge of the Rockne system of football. In accordance with the eligibility rules, he was forced to spend a year with the-frosh squad before being allowed to try out for a .varsity position. This year served Marty well, for in it he learned
enough of the style employed by Rockne to merit the right halfback position on the first team when the future champions took the field for their opening game-with Indiana in 1929.
Marty Brill’s success on the gridiron at Notre Dame is too well known to Notre Dame men for us to say much about it here. He was an almost indispensable cog in the national championship squads of 1929 and 1930 and at the end of the past season was placed on the Rockne-Warner-Jones-Alexander All-American team, as well as many others of lesser note.
As a shot-putter he was a consistent point winner for Coach Nicholson last year. His best distance was in the Indiana meet at Bloomington, when he tossed the sixteen-pounder 44 feet to win the event. At present he is working out daily in an effort to better this mark before he is graduated in June.
And as graduation usually makes one think of the future, Marty is busy trying to decide just what he will make his life’s work. He doesn’t think he would make a good coach but hasn’t been able to decide what he would rather do. His hobbies ? He has a great liking for prize fights. He has tried his hand at boxing and knows it’s a tough game. And because it is tough, Marty Brill likes it.
A. A. Issues Order
The Athletic Association has posted bulletins in the gymnasium ordering handball players, and users of the handball courts, to refrain from chewing tobacco and spitting while on the courts. It was also announced that anyone using the courts must be attired in regular gym suits and must not retain the courts for more than three games. No handball or squash may be played after 5:15 p. m.
1930-31 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. S—Notre Dame 26. Kalamazoo 15
Dec. 12—Northwestern 12. N. D. 29
Dec. 15—Purdue 34. Notre Dame 22
Dec. 19—N. D. 31, Pennsylvania 19
Dec. 30—N. D. 24, Ill. Wesleyan 17
Jan. 3—N. D. 17, Northwestern 20
Jan. 6—N. D. 27. Ohio State 24 Jan. 9—Notre Dame 29. Wabash 19 Jan. 13—Marquette 23, Notre Dame 30 Jan. 17—N. D. 21. Pennsylvania 20 Jan. 24—Pittsburgh 2S. N. D. 20 Feb. 3—Notre Dame 25. Indiana 20 Feb. 7—Pittsburgh 35. N. D. 32 Feb. 13—Notre Dame IS. Wabash 17.
Feb. 21—Butler here
Feb. 28—Army there
Mar. 2—Syracuse there
Mar. 6—Marquette there
Mar. 10—Butler there
Mar. 14—Iowa there
546
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BUTLER IS EASY VICTIM
(Continued from Page 543)
exert himself and was content to win in the very good time of seven and four-fifths seconds. Roy Bailie, who was close upon O’Brien’s heels all the way down the stretch, was disqualified for knocking over two hurdles. A new star was brought to the fore in . the person of Cauncey Branfort, who tied for first in the shot put with Elser, of Butler. Both pushed out . the sixteen-pounder a distance of 43 feet, 5% inches. “Nordy” Hoffman gave his team a third in the event, but apparently was not up to his usual form.
Although Bert Nelson, the flaxenhaired Bulldog athlete, did not come close to breaking his old record of six feet, six and three-quarters inches established in last year’s meet, he had little trouble in winning the event with a leap of six feet. His apparent ease in clearing the bar provided a thrill to the spectators, however, and they responded by vigorously cheering his every leap. Darling and La-Borne of Notre Dame finished second and third respectively and both showed possibilities of reaching greater heights before the season is far gone. Scanlon and MacBeth, running a more or less “team” race, gave a good account of themselves in the 440-yard dash. Scanlon crossed the finish line just ahead of his Canadian teammate, essaying the distance in :52.9. Allen, of Butler, took a third in the event.
In the 880-yard run, Wilson as-- sumed the lead early in the race, increased his advantage at every turn, and finished strongly, far ahead of his teammate, Regis Kuhn. In smashing the old record, established by Devine of Notre Dame back in 1911, Wilson clipped a full second off the old mark, and hung up a new time of 1:56.4. Wilson’s performance was nothing short of brilliant and erased one of the oldest records in the annals of Notre Dame’s track history. Gene Howery, the other record-breaker of the afternoon, was content with the glory of hanging up a new Notre Dame record for his teammates to shoot at, but it is doubtful that any of them will turn in a better race than Gene did last Saturday. He assumed the lead at the start of the race and set a pace that was much too strong for his adversaries to follow. He succeeded in lapping the entire field with the exception of Jones, of Butler, who finished, second, Howery seemed as fresh at the finish as
when he started and ended the grind with a beautiful sprint to hack three seconds off the old mark.
The meet was brought to a fit conclusion by a Notre Dame victory in the mile relay, in which the Blue and Gold baton-passers covered the required distance in 3:30.4. Gough, running first for the locals, gave his team an advantage that was never headed. Tuohy, Scanlon and Kelly, running in the order named, all did their quarter in excellent time, and Kelly finished well in the lead of his Bulldog rival, Sivak, who found the distance too great to make up after taking the baton from his teammate.
Summaries:
Pole Vault — Won by Johnson (N.D.); Fishleigh (N.D.), second; Behrman (N.D.) and Rohrback (N.D.), tied for third. Height, 13 feet. 1 inch.
.Mile Run—Won by Sivak (B); Quigley (N.D.), second; Little (N.D.), third. Time 4:26.8.
60-Yard Dash — Won by McCormick (N.D.); Bonomolo (N.D.), second; Dilling (N.D.), third. Time :06.4.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Scanlon (N.D.); MacBeth (N.D.), second; Allen (B.), third. Time :52.9.
60-Yard High Hurdles — Won by O’Brien (N.D.); Reiman (N.D.), second; Poredon (N.D.), third. Time :07.8.
880-Yard Run—Won by Wilson (N.D.) ; Kuhn (N.D.), second; Rudd (N.D.), third. Time 1:56.4.
Shot Put — Branfort (N.D.) and Elser (B.), tied for first; Hoffman (N.D.), third. Distance, 43 feet, 5% inches. •
High Jump—Won by Nelson (B.); Darling (N.D.), second; LaBorne (N.D.), third. Height 6 feet.
Two-Mile Run—Won by Howery (N.D.); Jones (B.), second; Grimes (N.D.), third. Time 9:38.6.
Mile Relay—Won by Notre Dame (Gough, Tuohy, Scanlon, Kelly). Time 3:30.4.
Squash Tourney Soon
Daniel D. Halpin, senior manager of football, announces that a squash and handball tourney will be held soon. Men from each hall will play against each other to determine the hall champions. The hall champions will then eliminate each other to determine the University champion. Full details of the tourney will be announced in next week’s Scholastic.
ALEX WILSON TO RUN IN A. A. U. NATIONALS
Alex Wilson, recent winner of the famous “Millrose 600,” will make his second appearance of the season at Madison Square Gardens next Wednesday night in the National A. A. U. championships. He will again run in the 600-yard event and will be opposed by such stars as Phil Edwards, Eddie Roll, Clyde Blanchard, and many others. A large field is expected in the 600 requiring the running of several heats for elimination purposes. Wilson will be given a severe test in having to run two races in a comparatively short time. Most of his opponents are more experienced on the board track.
Football Relay to Run
Johnny O’Brien, Marty Brill, Clarence Kaplan, and Nick Lukats will appear in Chicago Monday night in a special football relay race. This event, a novelty attraction at many important meets within the past few years, features runners attired in football regalia rather than the customary track uniform. The men will carry a football instead of a baton and run one hundred yards each.
Notre Dame will be represented by an exceptionally fast quartet in these four gridmen and should be able to take the measure of their opponents.
Murchison Visits N. D.
Loren Murchison, former Olympic crack star, was a visitor at the University yesterday. Murchison, it will be remembered, was a teammate of Charlie Paddock, both representing the United States during three Olympic games.
One of the fastest indoor dash men the world has known, Murchison established the present record for the sixty-yard dash, doing the event in :06.1. This time has been tied several times since Murchison gave up track, mostly by Jack Elder, captain of Notre Dame’s ’29 track team. Bill McCormick of this year’s team has .also done :06.1.
Indoor Track Schedule
Feb. 14—Notre Dame 68, Butler 18.
Feb. 21—Illinois at Champaign.
Feb. 28—Iowa State at Notre Dame.
Mar. 6 and 7—Central Intercollegiate Conference at Notre Dame.
March 14—Illinois Indoor Relays at Champaign.
u
4J (A rt
o
u cn
v
£
a
Q
0) h
o Z
V X H
*
<-
»
548
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
TENNIS AND GOLF
It won’t be many weeks until w-e will be thinking of tennis and golf, not to mention baseball and swimming. Tennis and golf, however, are the only minor sports in which the University now participates since cross-country has been raised to the position of a quasi-major sport. Both of them should come in for considerable notice from the student body before the summer vacation begins.
Last year Notre Dame was represented by a golf team that ranked with the best in the country. They overwhelmed a Detroit university team that had been undefeated for three years. They won the State collegiate championship with ease. And the team that did this is practically intact this vear.
* •
Led by Larry Moller, finalist in the national collegiate tournament last June and president of the association, the men that made up the team included the Beaupre brothers, Fran and Russ; Bill Redmond, Art
Bradley, University champion last year, and Louis O’Shea, who was beaten by Bradley in the finals.
The tennis team, though not boasting such individual stars, hung up an impressive record last year. Like the golf team, most of the men will be back this spring. In addition, there are several sophomores eager for the chance, deprived them last year, of showing their wares in competition. It is to be hoped that the Frosh tournament will meet with greater- success than in 1930. It is practically the only opportunity the first year men have of demonstrating their ability.
QUITTERS
It is not often that a Notre Dame coach is forced to even mention that word to the members of his team. The word “quitter” is not in the vocabulary of the Notre Dame man. He doesn’t know what it means. Yet, one of the University’s coaches dwelt on this topic for quite a while during his daily “talk” previous to practice
session a few days ago. He even went so far as to accuse a member of the team of being a quitter — the result of this man’s performance in a recent athletic contest in which he represented the University.
It is to be hoped that the athlete in question has learned his lesson. His exhibitions since that time seem to indicate that he has. In athletics, as in the class room, Notre Dame has no place for the one who quits when the going gets tough. The man who turns in a brilliant performance when his competition is weak and is content to take a back seat when the opponent shows class is not an asset to any team. It’s the man who is in the thick of the fight, giving his best at all times, that makes the team a winner.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
The interhall basketball season is drawing near the half-way mark. By the time the Scholastic reaches its readers the sixth series of games will have been played, leaving seven more before the schedule is completed. At this stage of the race the two Off-Campus teams seem to be the sensations of their leagues. Both are undefeated at this writing and have
i The South Bend Clearing
I	House Banins ]
i Invite Your Patronage I
j	HELLO MEN!	|
I	SMITH’S CAFETERIA	|
1	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	i
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	=
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	1
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	I
BANK	|
FIRST NATIONAL BANK	I
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	j
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS	i
BANK	1
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST	I
COMPANY	1
i	=
UNION TRUST COMPANY	|
laaaaiaaaaaaiaaiBiaiiaaaiiaaaiiaBaaaaaaaaaaaiiaaaaiaieaiaaaiaaaiaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaiaiaaaaaiiaaaaiiiamaaaaaiaaaaaaaaQ
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
The Home of Quality
1 The Favorite Eating Place of |
|	Notre Dame	I
QiaaaataitaiaaaaaaiiiaaaaaaaiiiiaaaaaaaaiaaaaiataaaaaaaaiaaaaaiaaaaaaataaiaaiiiiiiitaiaHiiMiitnnaiataaaiiiiitiiaa^Q
The Notre Dame Scholastic
549
demonstrated their ability against some exceptionally strong hall teams. In the heavyweight division the fight for second place is wide open ■with any one of two or three teams ready to step in for a “crack” at the title should the Day-dogs slip.
The Off-Campus lights are receiving their stiffest competition from Freshman. Freshman flashed an impregnable defense but not much of an offense in defeating Lyons last Sunday while the other league-leaders had an easy time with Badin. Off-Campus will be the top favorite when these two teams meet.	•
GILBERT K. CHESTERTON
The great English lecturer recently-expressed his views on the fame of Notre Dame footabll. “I thing it a slander to say that they7 concentrate upon that one sport. They7 excel in many7 things, but you cannot write headlines over the fact that the president of the college writes beautiful poems or that a certain young professor has made interesting discoveries in the study of medieval philosophy. The world is interested in football, and because a school excels in that sport the world gives no other credit.”
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All—Bran, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee-the coffee that lets you sleep.
YOU’LL never do your best in “exams” or “quizzes” unless you feel top-notch. So make sure you get heaping dishes of Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes to
help keep you in trim.
These better bran flakes are brimful of nourishment—whole wheat goodness. Chock-full of flavor — the famous tempting goodness of PEP. And they contain just enough bran to be mildly laxative—to help you keep regular.
Get your fraternity house steward to order Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes.
BRAN FLAKES

Meyer’s Fountain Luncheonette
It is our earnest desire to serve the best at thoroughly cleaned fountains, in the speediest and most courteous
manner.
Novelty-Colored Corduroy Pants
All Sizes, 28 to 38 Tan, Grey or Blue Regular $4 to $5 values
MEN’S
NOTICE
Five-Day-Sale
AVFADh C Five-Day-Sale
Py?KP? NUNN-BUSH
Black or Tan, Endi-
cott-Johnson make, new toes, ^4 QF all sizes I 'vO 5 to 11	*
$10 to $12 values Black
Oxfords
I •	* STORE
Corner Michigan and Colfax
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET

550
Th e Notre Dame Scholastic
Interhall Sports
and pole vault—Kenny and Noll; judges for broad jump—Baker and Scholnick; judges for shot put—Martin and Fallon; timers—Grams, Col-
Heavyweight League
Standings on Feb. 16, 1931			
	w	L	PCT.
Off-Campus 			5	0	1.000
Lyons 			4	1	.800
Sophomore 		_3	1	.750
Walsh 			3	1	.750
Sorin			3	1	.750
Howard			2	2	.500
Brownson		9	3	.400
St. Edward’s	9	3	.400
Morrissey		9	3	.400
Corby 		9	3	.400
Carroll 			1	3	.250
Freshman			1	4	.200
Badin			0	5	.000
Results
Feb. 11—Off-Campus 15, Brownson 12; Lyons 20, Badin 15; Howard 11, St. Edward’s 8.
Feb. 12—Sorin 19, Freshman 13; Corby 19, Carroll 10; Walsh 19, Morrissey 18.
Feb. 15—Off-Campus 26, Badin 9; Lyons 16, Freshman 8; Morrissey 17, St. Edward’s 14; Sophomore 20, Howard 19; Carroll 18, Sorin 17; Brownson 24, Corby 13.
SHIFT IN TRACK PROGRAM
Due to a conflicting track engagement, the first interhall indoor track meet, which was set for Thursday, Feb. 19, has been postponed until Tuesday night, at which time the same teams that were to compete in Thursday’s meet will run through their trials in an attempt to become eligible for the final tourney early next month. This first group is composed of squads from Sorin, Corby, Badin,' Lyons, Freshman, Howard, and Off-Campus.
The preliminary meet for teams in division two has been changed from next Tuesday night until one week later, Tuesday, March 3. Morrissey, Brownson, Walsh, Sophomore, St. Edward’s, and Carroll hall squads are the ones that are entered in this group.
Officials for next Tuesday’s joust who have been chosen from the managerial staff are as follows: starter—Sheedy; head judge at finish—Weiss; judges— Shinners, Kenefick, and Murray; head field judge—Ross; judges, high jump
Lightweight League Standings on Feb. 16, 1931
	W	L	PCT.
Off-Campus 			5	0	1.000
Freshman			5	0	1.000
St. Edward’s			4	1	.800
Carroll			3	1	.750
Sophomore			3	1	.750
Lyons			3	2	.600
Brownson			3	2	.600
Corby			2	3	.400
Morrissey			1	4	.200
Badin			1	4	.200
Howard			0	4	.000
Sorin			0	4	.000
Walsh 			0	4	.000
Results
Feb. 11—Off-Campus 26, Brownson 13; Lyons 16, Badin 4; St. Edward’s 35, Howard 2.
Feb. 12—Freshman 19, Sorin 7; Carroll 13, Corby 9; Morrissey 18, Walsh 16.
Feb. 15—Off-Campus 27, Badin 4; Freshman 8, Lyons 3; St. Edward’s 15, Morrissey 11; Sophomore 9, Howard 4; Carroll 25, Sorin 15; Brownson 21, Corby 16.	.
STARTS SAT.
■ VUjAjK thru TUES.
I Xrf THEATRE Xwp- -
The strangest love pact two young lovers ever made!
NANCY CARROLL
PHILLIPS HOLMES
in a powerful Paramount drama
“Stolen Heaven”
What is the terrible price demanded of two appealing youngsters for one week of glorious, forbidden paradise ?
------ADDED--------
JOE ALEXANDER
At the console of the Colfax Wonder Organ
A PUBLIX THEATRE
—ADDED— VITAPHONE SOUND	.	VODVIL
PARAMOUNT
SOUND	NEWS
The Notre Dame Scholastic
551
ville, Spangenberg, and McKean; marshal — Sherman; announcer — Buhl; clerk of course—O’Keefe; scorer—Fox.
BASKETBALL
Repeating his achievements of the
Interhall Basketball Schedule
Sunday, Feb. 22 Off-Campus vs. Sophomore Lyons vs. Sorin St. Edward’s vs. Carroll Freshman vs. Walsh Howard vs. Corby Brownson vs. Morrissey No game—Badin
Wednesday, Feb. 25 -Off-Campus vs. Morrissey Lyons vs. Brownson St. Edward’s vs. Sophomore Thursday, Feb. 26 Freshman vs. Badin Howard vs. Sorin Carroll vs. Walsh No game—Corby
previous week, Dorsey playing for the Carroll lightweights, scored 16 of his team’s 25 points in their 25-15 victory over Sorin last week. The shifty lad counted with eight field goals, the act being enough in itself to down the opposition.
Speaking of one-man scoring machines, almost any player on the St. Edward’s lightweight squad could have equalled the performance of the entire Howard outfit in the game last week which saw the former team victorious by a score of 35-2. The Howard lads tallied two free throws, while Casey of St. Edward’s led his team in scoring with seven field goals and two free throws for a total of sixteen points.
Freshman and Badin battled through four periods of basketball to find that the result of their efforts read something like a baseball score. The first-year squad was declared the winner by a margin of five points, the final count standing at 8-3. The Off-Campus-Badin lightweight game
proved to be another one-sided contest, the former winning 27-4.
In spite of the fact that an observation of the interhall basketball results generally shows several games that are won by “runaway” scores, the campus teams are for. the most part evenly matched, and a number of close contests are usually noted.
Interhall Basketball Practice Schedule
FRIDAY. FEB. 20
I’arsiti/ Walsh Howard
Corby
Floor
Apparatus Room
7 p. m.
S p.m. '
9 p. m.
MONDAY. FEB. 23
Off-Campus Carroll Morrissey
i 1>. m.
S p. m.
9 p. m.
Lyons F reshman Badin
Sophomore
St. Edward’s Sorin
TUESDAY. FEB.
Lyons F reshman Badin
24
7 p. m.
S p. m.
9 p. m.
FRIDAY. FEB. 27
Sophomore Brownson Sorin
7 p. m.
9 p. m.
Wabh
Howai d
Corby
Off-Campus
Carroll
Morrissey
KE
They thought it would always be like this, but---When Love flew out the window some of the smart boys flew
began to arise thick and fast.-
Then Love brought her what money couldn’t buy.
Starting Saturday
HUSBA
DOROTHY MACKAILL Joel McCrae
RANAD,
Daily Mats. 10c-25c until 6:00 P. M.
Its
RKO Vodvil Always
one code was love—with LILLIAN TASHMAN ROBERT AMES
A Host of Broadway Stage Stars including WORTHY AND THOMPSON Those Two Aves of Syncopation
JOAN BLONDELL
JAMES HALL
and
Others
The Champion—and Others
PALACE-----

•552
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Giacomo Puccini wrote:
‘ ‘The Parker Pen is super lai ively good’ ’
COMPOSER OF LABOHEME, LA TOSCA and MADAMA BUTTERFLY
Wrote his greatest Operas with a Parker Pen GUARANTEED FOR LIFE You, too, can capture your precious ideas on the fly, if you have this Pressureless Writing Parker Duofold Pen evet handy on your person and desk.
Parker Pressureless Writing—as subconscious as breathing—avoids all interference with thought.
Go and see the new streamlined Parkers that rest low and unexposed in pocket or hand bag, without bulge; yet hold I7.4% more ink than average. The same pen is convertible for Pocket or Desk Base.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY Janesville, Wisconsin
Pencils to match, $2.50 to 55
Parker Duofold PEN GUARANTEED FOR LIFE $5 *7 *10
Other PoAar Peas, S2.75 oad <3J0
On Down the Line
42 out of 54
. . . The record for length of service in the ring is attributed to JACK BRITTON, who started boxing in 1904 at the age of 19 and continued for 27 years . . . Another perseverer is ED “STRANGLER” LEWIS who has been at the game of grunts for 19 years . . . only he was smart and accumulated a considerable fortune . . . Only three field goals have been made in three games against St. Ed’s lightweight team . . .
... In the five years the St. Louis Cardinals have been operating a chain system of “farm” clubs, the team has won 446 games . . . More than 428,000 fans paid $1,015,181.50 to attend 257 professional boxing shows in Chicago last year, and 277, 000 spectators paid $231,686.90 to see the amateurs . . . which fact, we suppose, makes you and me a “coupla” Rotarians . . .
... In European international chess tournaments 30 moves must be made by each player within the first two hours . . . LONG JIM DIXON, captain of the 1930 Boston College football team, who is 21 years of age, six feet four in height, and weighs 200 pounds plans a professional ring career when he finishes school in June
. . . CHESTER O’BRIEN of St. Louis, made 26 straight pars in two rounds, which, if you think it over, . is not bad at all . . . Thirteen football players were killed in the United States last year during the 1930 season .. . HOWARD EYTH, brilliant Carnegie Tech halfback, played football through his entire sophomore year with a broken shoulder, which he kept concealed ...	.
JOE SAVOLDI sent his first mat opponent to the hospital with a dislocated shoulder . . . his second bout was called off because of the small attendance . . . ROGERS HORNSBY greeted his Cub pitchers and catchers when they docked at Avalon, California, the other day . . . Contrary -to the plan followed by his predecessor McCARTHY, the RAJAH' gave his boys the first afternoon off . ... BOBBY JONES and BILL TILDEN made their first professional appearances on the same day . . . last Wednesday . . . BOBBY’S was for char- .
ity; TILDEN’S for himself. . . .
colleges choose this FAVORITE pipe tobacco
and Yale agrees
[OOK UP at the windows of
Harkness to find out what the Yale man smokes. In the springtime you’ll see hint sitting in his window, seat with a pipeful of Edgeworth between his teeth.
On Chapel Street____out at the Bowl... everywhere the Yale man goes, his pipe and Edgeworth go with him. And at 42 out of 54 of the leading colleges and universities Edgeworth is the favorite tobacco.
A tobacco must be good to win the vote of so many discriminating smokers. And Edgeworth is good. Toconvinceyourselftry Edgeworth. You can get it wherever tobacco is sold... i5ff atin. Or, for a generous free sample, write to Lanis & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Virginia.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, withits natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere i n two forms '—“ Ready-Rubbed " and “ Plug Slice.” All . nines, 154 pocket package to pound humidor tin.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
553
Will You Retire From Business Tomorrow
?
TF your business is so successful that you lock the doors at ten each morning—if you read first each day the sailings for South America—if you are not interested in permanency in business—then, you couldn’t possibly be interested in Notre Dame’s finest advertising medium, the DOME of 1931.
Not for one year or even two is your message placed before 15,000 people—rather it is read as part of a permanent book that is well-thumbed for ten years or more. Should you be interested in advertising your institution and its products in a dignified, sales-compelling manner (at a reader cost minimum that will amaze you), drop us a memo and we will gladly place the story before you.
Your copy of a beautiful brochure, “Telling Your Story to the Youth Market,” is ready for the mail.
Board of Publications
Administration Building At the University Notre Dame, Indiana
Pepsodent ____________ 29c
Wildroot fofvST...	39c
AquaVelva’X.________ 34c
Shaving	59c
Peau-Doux &&.•.	19c
Auto Strop Blades___ 34c
Hand Brush Xe_______	19c
Christy Razors
With One Blade
It will pay you to try this new-type razor at this unheard-of price. Draws and smooths the skin in advance of the blade.
Fletcher
Mouth Wash 16 oz. bottle___
Oil and egg
Cards
Peau-Doux
Bridge size--
Mineral Oil?Spint____
Hair Lustred___
Whisk
Brooms 50c value___
48c 33c
33c
55c
37c
27c
Pebeco	29c
Alcohol	29c
Mennen’s	29c
Right reserved to limit quantites
You’re Always Welcome at Walgreen’s
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
An Attractive View of Washington Hall