THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 77 DECEMBER 11, 1942	NO. 10	j
-----------------j
Dobbs Officers’ Caps
— the finest!
exclusively — the Modern Gilbert’s
Call Us —
By DOBBS
We'll Deliver
$lg5°
.including 3 covers
In South Bend —
Any Taxi Free
to Gilbert's
OPEN EVERY EVENING UNTIL 9:00
813-817 S. Michigan St.
{A I.
M PRODUCED by famous Dobbs craftsmen, these are the finest officers’ caps made. You can have complete confidence in your Dobbs. Officially correct in style—with an extra measure of smartness and distinction—

They come by their dashing good looks naturally — because of the wide experience of Dobbs experts in headwear craftsmanship.
THE MOD EXH
GILBERT'S
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
“Notre Dame green went to war,”
NOTICE! NOTICE!
Those signs have begun to appear on hall bulletin boards. We mean those signs like: “For sale, cheap! One floor model radio with record changer. Must sell. Apply 3Li Alumni. If not in send telegram.” Unsuspecting Oswald hurries over to the Gold Coast. After all, it’s a bargain that only comes once six months. He stops breathlessly before 314 and knocks. Inside, the seniors think someone is advertising Dad’s Old Fashioned Root Beer and break into a conga. Bewildered, Oswald steps inside: “I seen a ad on my bulletin board about a radio and—.” This is as far as he gets. Ignoring cries of “how much” and the hands in his ^pockets Oswald demands to see the article. The Senior reaches under the bed and pulls out a strange looking box. “See,” he says, pointing with pride: “A floor model! We didn’t have room on the table.” The innocent Freshman soon learns that there is a record changer as advertised. It changes good records into bad ones. He starts to back out the door but a restraining hand is laid on his shoulder. Oswald whimpers. The sales talk begins. Later as the sun sets over the Gold Coast (now you know why), Oswald’s wallet is as empty as Strictly Instrumental on a day of plenty. Oswald mutters to the trees. Oswald is angry.
SO LONG
There are a lot of tilings you Seniors will be missing a few months from now, like those walks around the twin lakes Sunday afternoons, and those nine holes after the 2:15 during spring and autumn, and maybe those occasional pleasant visits to St. Mary’s. You’ll miss the 9:00 coke in the Caf and the fudge ripples in the Golf Shop, and packed buses at 11:45. But no matter where you go you’ll remember the dome and the way it* looked the first day as you rode up Notre Dame Ave., and the way it will look next week as you see it for the last time as a student. Lots of luck. We’ll remember you.
LA DE DA
The girls from across the road are being let out early this year. The reason is because of the shortage of Santa
4
Clauses. . . . Frank King forgets one little item in his music reviews each week. We mean the quotation marks Frankeee. However, at this time of year there is nothing in our heart but a deep feeling of peace and good will toward our fellow man. Hallelujah and happy day Mr. King. We hope Santa brings you that new French horn. The hot air is still hot but the notes are getting a little week. (Pun, tee-hee) . . . Two burning questions are in the mind of every Notre Dame student on which hang the happiness of 3,000 little hearts. “Will Superman save Santa in time?”; and, “Will Frank King receive his copy of Downbeat in time to write his first column of the New Year?” . . . The Seniors were all present at the framing of “Old Faithful,” the first sock to make the trip to the laundry and back 38 times in a row.
BEFORE YOU LEAVE
There are a few simple vacation rules to follow:
1.	Don’t pay to get in the Christmas Dance. Sneak in through the kitchen but, don’t pick up a towel. They’ll draft you as a waiter. ,
2.	Don’t tell her about the pretty dates in South Bend. Your conscience will feel as guilty as the cash register in the Caf.
3.	If anyone asks you why you aren’t in uniform, flash that E. R. C. or V-7 card and tell him you’re a loyal member of Superman’s Secret Service, with dues paid for a year.-
4.	Be sure to spend some time with the folks.	*
MIDDLE OF THE WEEK
“Curses on the guy who’s always dreaming of a white Christmas!” We quote one Bill Talbot.
4 MORE WEEKS—AHH!
A week from today and we’H all be on our way. The Week wants to wish you all the best kind of a vacation. It’s been fun writing this column, if you choose to call it that, and if we’ve offended anyone we didn’t do it purposely and we’re sorry. If you’ve liked the column this season, swell. If not, well, every knock is a boost, we always ■°y-	«
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
January twenty-first.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918."	’
Robert D. LeMense, Editor
Daniel Downey......Managing Editor	j
Ted Weber............Campus Editor	i
Bill Reynolds....... Sports Editor	T
Jack Denniston.......Admin. Editor	i
Robert Lonergan..........Promotion	|
Walter Krawiec...........Art Editor	<
Al Schaefer.....—Staff Photographer ■ Gail Fitch, Jr.._________Advertising -< Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser .
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertis- , ing by National Advertising Service, Ine., 410 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHO-	-
LASTIC is published thirty-three times during	r
the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.	;
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE ,
CAMPUS
—M
Graduation______________________  5	,
"Dome" Distribution __________   6
Interhall Debate .............    9	_
ADMINISTRATION	<
Ed Murray Leaves_________________13	? ’
Metallurgy Meeting ...........   13
Father Heiser Dies ............   13	*
SPORTS	'
Track.....................    ..15
Football Resume ________________ 16	,
Interhall Basketball _________  18
FEATURES
The Week_______________________  4
College Parade ______________ ...12	i-s
Telescope ___________________   12
. The Ears Have It_____________...JU	“■*
Strictly Instrumental ___________30	T
Short Shots ...................   3	I

The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 77
DECEMBER 11, 1942
No. 10
Release Complete Commencement Program As December 19th Graduation Approaches
AL SOMMER
For eight semesters they have plugged away at the books, the Palace and Wal-
green’s (some of them at the Rock across
JOHN H. TALLET
the road). Now comes the culmination of all their effort s—the treasured cap and gown and the unbelievable sheepskin. These thrills will belong to the 378 Notre Dame seniors who will find themselves
on Dec. 21 as alumni, able to look back with pipe in hand on the “good old college days.”
This ninety-ninth graduating class has a pair of full days facing them, Dec. 19 and Dec. 20. On Saturday the 19th they will participate in the traditional Class Day exercises. At 9:30 in the morning, accompanied by their parents, they’ll make a private visit to Sacred Heart Church, their last as students at Notre Dame. At ten the Class Day exercises will get under way in Washington Hall. First the numerous merit awards will be bestowed on proud seniors while glowing
< Brooklyn, N. Y. will read the class ode which he has composed. Following this, John H. Tallett, A.B. student from North Chicago, Ill., and president of the gradu-ating class, will present the flag to the
,~1' University on behalf of the class. The —<	Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president
I1	of Notre Dame, will deliver a short
f.	speech of acceptance. Finally, Richard
Padesky, commerce student from La-
Crosse, Wis., will deliver the valedictory.
Two events are scheduled for Saturday afternoon and evening. One will be a performance of the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, “Patience,” under the direction of Mr. Cecil Birder. Recently the operetta had a five night stand on the campus. The other event will be the Notre Dame-Purdue basketball game. As yet it is undecided which will be the afternoon and which the evening attraction.
Sunday—another full day for seniors, parents, and guests. The faculty and class of 1943 will assemble, clothed in caps and gowns, at 8:30. From the main building they will proceed to the Sacred Heart Church where the Most Rev. John
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C S.C., D.D.
Mr. William M. Jeffers
. F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, will celebrate a Pontifical Mass. The Moreau Seminary choir will sing at this service. The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, military delegate, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon.
Then at 2:30 the class and faculty will again assemble. At 3 o’clock the heart of the two days will come—the conferring of degrees. Finally Mr. William M. Jeffers, rubber administrator of the War Production Board and president of the Union Pacific railroad will deliver the main address.
Following the exercises, the seniors will head from Notre Dame for all points in the United States to celebrate Christmas ■ and. prepare - for, possible, induction into the armed forces.
THE COVER
John A. Murray of Burlington, Vermont, posed for the cover of this week’s Scholastic, the final issue for 1942. A Sorin Hall Senior, John is majoring in philosophy and expects to be drafted soon after Christmas. He is an officer in the local Knights of Columbus council.
5

"Dome" Distribution Due December 14th;
Reason for Annual Award Omission Given
The centennial Dome has hurdled and dodged most of the war obstacles, and is now in its last stage—binding. The printing has been completed; the pages, in Chicago, are being clad in their red covers: a light cloth binding with maroon lettering and the University seal in blue and gold. Barring air raids, fires, and the immediate draft of all man power, the Dome should meet its Dec. 15 schedule.
The traditional Dome awards will be discontinued, according to Editor Kelly Cook. These awards were annually made to the four outstanding members of the graduating class. But the juniors, who form the selecting' committee, are too unfamiliar with the class to choose such men; and bias prevents the seniors themselves from doing it. “Nobody is really in a position to select the best men,” Cook explained. “In the past some of the most deserving students have failed to receive recognition, and extra curricular activities have alone often figured in the decisions.”
The war has stopped all future yearbooks for the duration; it has lessened the present publication’s volume by one-third. However, the remaining 200 pages will contain many new features: five drawings by the Sherer twins and Mr. Francis J. Hanley of the art department depict the meaning of life at Notre Dame; four pages of full color photographs are captioned by the free verse of J. H. Johnston; pen sketches and photographs and the impressions of various students describe each month’s peculiar mood in “The Year” section; and a special centennial drawing—Yesterday and Today, 1842-1942.
When the Dome has gone to war, a greatly-enlarged Scholastic will farewell the graduating classes. The reduc-
Notice
The 1943 Dome will probably arrive on campus late this week-end or Monday morning, according to printing and binding reports received on campus this week. If this schedule is followed, distribution will begin on or about Monday noon.
Dome certifications have been compiled and placed in the rooms of students entitled to a copy. Each class will have a definite time during which to receive their Domes. Distribution will again be at room 10 in Main Building, just to the left of the rear door.
6
tion in the present publication will be made possible by the omission of individual pictures of the Juniors and of the faculty, and by cutting out the majority of the club photographs.
Notre Dame’s value, with special emphasis on her role in the present war, will be the theme uniting the matter.
Department heads on the publication include: Ed Drinkard, photo editor; Edward Meagher, copy editor; James Gibbons, sports editor; John Morris, picture editor; Gerry Hogue, managing editor; William Boss, campus editor, and William Binet, art editor.—F. J. Pequigney
Band Concert Culminates Highly Successful Season
To crown a particularly successful season, the Notre Dame Band will give a concert on Tuesday Dec. 15 in Washington Hall. This year, under the direction of its new leader, Mr. H. Lee Hope, the band has given the best half time per
formances at the football games that the Stadium has seen in a long time. The intricate formations and precision marching have thrilled many. But to show the student body that it is not merely a marching and pep band, it intends to prove that it is a concert organization in its own right. Last summer among the many guest conductors for the summer concerts Mr. Hope was prominent, and in the middle of the summer he was announced as the new director.
For this final showing of the band, Mr. Hope has selected an excellent and varied program including a seasonal piece of music to show the band’s versatility. The program includes five compositions interspersed with several stirring march numbers. First on the program is a Choral Prelude by Johann Sebastian Bach, “Jesus, Joy of Man’s‘Desiring.” The second composition is taken from Meyerbeer’s opera “Les Huguenots”; “Dedication and Benediction.” The third number is part of the well known suite, “Pictures at an Exhibition” by the famous modern composer, M. Moussorgsky and was inspired by “The Great Gate at Kiev.”
Also included is the more famous and beautiful “Valse Triste” by Jean Sibelius. Last among the prepared numbers is “A
Christmas Fantasy” that is in keeping with the approaching holiday season. The composition was written by a former instructor to Mr. Hope at Michigan, Clifford P. Lillya, and is a fantasy of most of our more popular and beautiful Christmas hymns and songs.
The concert will begin at 8:00 p.m. and will be a fitting and enjoyable climax.—Bob Davies
Transportation, Rooms Bewilder Week-Enders
The Chicago week-end is legend now, but for the sake of posterity, the Scholastic will record it in its columns.
All Notre Dame students with a half a cut remaining and 15 cents in stamps started out either Friday or Saturday for Chicago. Due to gas rationing the usual form of transportation — a thumb, was forsaken and students
had to revert to the relic—the South Shore Lines, to get to the city.
The team and a large group of the college lads took the Saturday 9:30 South Shore to Chicago. Now the time-honored joke about the South Shore trains having the cow-catcher on the rear end, so if a cow overtakes the train it can’t amble in and bite a passenger, may have seemed far-fetched once, but when that 9:30 South Shore train met the 1928 Notre Dame student special, returning from a game in Soldiers’ field, it seemed plausible.
Finally everyone reached Chicago and went to register at the Notre Dame week-end halls—the Sherman, Morrison, and Palmer House, to say nothing about the LaSalle. In fact there were so many Notre Dame students at the Sherman that the management inaugurated morning check.
After the checking in everyone departed for Soldiers’ Field. It was as frigid as a St. Mary’s smile and the crowd only reached around 40,000. The sea was pretty rocky for the Irish during the first half and the Great Lakes team rolled up 13 points to an Irish goose-egg.
At the half some prophet spoke over the radio and said he would like to see Great Lakes meet the Bears. When the second half started they wished they were playing the Bears. The march was on and all the brain and brawn of the Great Lakes was held in check. It was one of those things you never expect to see, something like bacon for breakfast, a new movie at Washington hall, or the same laundry you turned in.
The Fighting Irish opened the valves and let on the steam. The two maestros
of zig and zag, Messrs. Clatt and Creighton Miller, reached pay dirt in quick succession and John Creevey kicked an extra point after the second touchdown. One student really hit it tough when he left at the half and didn’t return until r four minutes had elapsed. He missed the two touchdown runs.
From then on it was lucky the Sailors could pour oil on the waters and keep up with the Irish. The Great Lakes tried several blind-date, hit or miss field goals, all of which were missed.
J
But the game was only the first part ■ of the story. After the contest Notre Dame took over the town. One of the first thoughts was to get a good meal and then hear the orchestras and celebrate in style. Address books, saved for special occasions when the Irish trot to H Chicago, Evanston, or Champaign, were .	pulled out and the boys called the little
*	lady.
Sunday morning found Notre Dame at mass and Sunday evening on the South p Shore bound for South Bend. The South Shore had so many extra cars it looked like Eleanor Roosevelt’s private garage.
The trip back was slower, if possible, than the trip to Chi, and it reached a peak when the train took a siding so a hand car could go ahead. r
Monday morning found 2,000 Notre Dame students claiming, “Well, you see Father, the train was late!” ► ------------------------------
War Drive Discontinued
Until January Semester
General chairman Thomas Rolfs announced early this week that the Knights of Columbus sponsored weekly room-to-L room war bond and stamp drive, had been discontinued until the start of the h new semester.
L Rolfs, who said that the drive greatly increased war stamp sales on the cam-pus, pointed out that the Knights were not relaxing their war aid efforts, but t had decided to discontinue the drive until after examinations, graduation, and the Christmas vacation had been put aside and student life resumes a normal tempo.
Results of the drive, inaugurated early - this semester, were very gratifying and many students availed themselves of the j chance to purchase war stamps through this easy method.
Rolfs extended thanks to all hall chair-- men and their assistants who canvassed campus rooms each Thursday night and said that “they were responsible for the success of the drive.”
The Knights of Columbus have now taken charge of a Christmas seal sale on the campus, according to Rolfs, and en-• ergies formerly given to other activities will be devoted to this cause.
—Dave Condon
SAVOYARDS PRODUCE 4TH TRIUMPH;
REPORTER FEELS BACK-STAGE DRAMA
NOEL DIGBY
Each night, the audiences that filled Washington Hall for Mr. Cecil Birder’s fourth Gilbert and Sullivan success, “Patience,” ran the gamut of emotions. They experienced surprise, delight, fascination, some sadness, much laughter.
From the first act chorus of the “lonely lovesick maidens” to the second act grand finale, the operetta goers met Mi-lenko Zorovich as Reginald Bunthorne, the chubby, black - tighted poet, who danced and flitted, punched short Sullivan notes and Gilbert jokes, made faces, recited poems. They heard Miss Mary Frances Kabel, as.lead lady, Patience, sing four songs, two duets, saw her dance, act, conduct herself like a professional Gilbert and Sullivan artist. In his last campus show, Kevin O’Toole as Archibald sang and acted a fitting end to his college stage career of appearances with the Glee Club, his own octet, and in variety shows.
As the soldiers who turn poets to win the love of the maidens, Owen Donley, Herbert Clark, and William Brady sang very well in the first act and almost had the second act to themselves when they donned similar velvet tights, took lilies in hand and hopped from “esthetic” pose to “esthetic” pose. Only the laughter and applause that was Lady Jane’s equalled that for the soldier-poets. For as Lady Jane, Miss June Anderson monopolized the asides, gag lines and muscle work necessary to carry off one large bass fiddle and later, one stubby, heavy lead man, Reginald, who faints in her arms.
Much praise should and did go to supporting sopranos, Misses Elizabeth Morris, Agnes Haney, Barbara Nelson, who as three of the lovesick maidens carried a good portion of the acting and singing of that group.
Filling in the precise and full volu-umed background, the Savoyards scored again; as the rapturous maidens, Misses Patricia Chapman, Benita Guthrie, Martha Jean Holmes, Marilyn Nelson, Anne Witt, Marie Manuszak and Evelyn Hosier, provided an excellent female chorus, perfect harmony and good acting. In the pit, Edward Everett Cashman carried a major portion of the accompaniment on his piano; Professor H. Lee Hope played a mellow French horn; Symphony Conductor Frederick Ingersoll, sat in with his violin cello and Mr. Birder conducted the entire Notre Dame Symphony in the muted, difficult, oft times racing Sullivan music.
To the average person in the audience, the two acts were very well done, including singing, acting, joking, dancing, everything that makes for an excellent Gilbert and Sullivan show. But there was much that escaped the eye-activity backstage and before the lights, little quirks that always happen, even in the most professional performances.
The scenes backstage were scenes one might experience before any show goes on: costumes being put on, makeup being checked and perfected, each character seeking a little corner for himself in which to practice some notes or lines he wants to check, the director giving 15 minute warnings until curtain time, singers meeting each other and’without words going into a duet or some part of the show, and the general hub-bub of talking, costuming, singing, and the prevailing smell of makeup.
Then, the final time signal is called and everyone is ordered on stage. Having asseembled the whole cast, Mr. Birder had a few words for them each night. Then, a prayer—that all would go well.
The overture is begun, the maidens take their places for the opening scene and everyone gathers in the wings, still timing, regarding each other’s make-up, costume, and each a little nervous. Once the show has begun and the curtain swung open, everyone is at ease again but waiting for entrances and exits and cues.
Not many people saw these things or were aware of some other happenings.
Patience, Mary Frances Kabel, will tell you how much Reginald’s (Mike Zorovich) moustache and pin point beard tickled when she kissed him. The maidens always had trouble with the routine they danced while swinging a garland of roses above their heads; Kevin O’Toole had a. lightning costume change in the second act, in which he went from tights to an 1890 derby and a red striped suit; the much used tree stump, in the first act, at the right of the stage always had to he regarded before anyone took a step, danced, or did anything.
These things that happened in “Patience” happen in professional shows, too: the timing up, the costuming, the makeup, the quirks, the funny things, the troubles; back stage and before its audiences, “Patience” resembled a professional show* in that it had everything, plus.
7
Seek Storage Facilities
For Month-long Vacation
Father Burke, prefect of discipline, announced early this week that the semester vacation would begin on Friday, Dec. 18, after the last class. Graduation exercises are to be held on the 19th and 20th of December.
Registration will be on Jan. 20 and 21. Classes will resume the next morning at 8:00. This means that the students have a Christmas vacation lasting a little more than four weeks, which is probably the longest vacation any of the present students ever had.
Father Burke also announced that an investigation is being made of the storage problem. As yet nothing definite has been decided on the subject, but Father Burke said he hoped to provide some facilities for storage of furniture, books, etc., over the holidays. Last year there were a few problems which bobbed up, but they will probably not occur again this year. He said the students would not be able to leave their furniture and other things in their rooms because the rooms are to be thoroughly cleaned in preparation for next semester.
Club Elections
Another announcement from the prefect of discipline’s office concerns the club elections for next semester. If the various clubs on the campus plan to hold elections the names of their officer candidates must be turned into the prefect of discipline’s office before the end of the semester or they will not be recognized.
—Harry Osborne
"Lawyer" Contributors Have Articles Printed
The Notre Dame Law School can be very proud of the record it has attained. Within the past year, four of its members, three students and one professor, have been honored by having articles which they wrote republished in Current Legal Thought. Their articles first appeared in the Notre Dame Lawyer, the student edited and managed publication of law reviews and treatises. The Lawyer is typical of the 100 or so law magazines from which Current Legal Thought selects articles to be digested and republished. These selections are first subjected to severe scrutiny, and have to' excell in correctness and subject matter.
The most recent of the four articles that were republished was written by James H. Neu, who received his degree last May. His treatise dealt with the rights of a copyright owner. Articles by Professor William D. Rollison, a member of the N. D. law faculty since 1930, and John H. Verdonk, ’42, and another student appeared in earlier issues.
The Current Legal Thought is widely
read by members of the legal profession. They respect the quality of the articles which are printed in it, because its extensive scope and strict requirements permit the printing of only the best reviews and treatises that appear throughout the nation. It is obvious that these members of the Law School deserve a great deal of credit for their excellent work.
Joe Rud Becomes Prexy of Round Table for '43
Joseph Rud, Chicago junior and accounting major in the Commerce School, has been elected president of the Economic Round Table for the coming year, it was announced last week. Rud succeeds Bengal Bouter Chuck Kralovec as president of the Round Table.
When the members of Notre Dame’s Economic Round Table met at the Hoffmann Hotel Wednesday evening, Dec. 2, the usual trend of the organization’s meetings was changed. Included were 15 representatives of St. Mary’s International Relations Club; this was the first time this year such a joint meeting was held.
Dinner done, Questions of Tomorrow, was read by Joseph Rud, the paper’s author. Followed then, general open discussion with Notre Dame men and St. Mary’s women participating. In the same thought channel as the paper, peace and post war problems held the verbal limelight at the Round Table.
President-elect Rud holds St. Mary's et al., spell-bound.
This week’s Wednesday night meeting and dinner at the Hoffmann Hotel was the last for ten senior Round Tablers, the last of the semester. A count of members at this last session read, 24 plus the six new men: Charles Pickhardt, Leo Buchigmanii, Charles Montri e, Jerry Skofronik, G. V. Funk, Fred Funk.
Attending were Father J. J. Burke, C.S.C., Mr. and Mrs. Downey, and words were heard from the departing officers and men. The function marked the halt of Economic Round Table activities for the fall semester.
Student Special Train
To Go East Next Friday
Because rail facilities on regularly scheduled trains cannot be guaranteed for Notre Dame students going east at Christmas time, the New York Central railroad has received permission from the government to run an exclusively student train from the St. Mary’s siding.
The train will leave the siding at 5:00 p.m. on Friday, Dec. 20. Tickets may be purchased next Tuesday at times and place to be designated by a bulletinboard notice. All tickets must be purchased by the 15th so that officials of the road may plan as to how much equipment will be needed.
Students who do not plan on taking this special and who plan on using other trains are reminded that no seating guarantees can be made because of the rush of war demands on the roads.
o
Coach Coyne Issues Call
For Varsity Debaters
Tryouts for the Notre Dame varsity debate team will be held shortly after school re-opens in January, Mr. William Coyne, professor of economics and varsity debate coach, announced this week.
Any student wishing to give a speech in the trials must turn in his name to Mr. Coyne, or any member of the speech department at Mr. Coyne’s office by Dec. 13. Any undergraduates, including freshmen, are eligible.
Because of the press of time, the custom of allowing two speeches in the tryouts will be discarded and each contestant will present but one speech. In his application he should note which side of the question he wishes to speak on and these preferences will be followed as closely as possible.
The question to be debated is as follows: “RESOLVED: That the United Nations should establish a permanent federal union with power to tax and regulate international commerce, to maintain a police force, to settle international disputes and enforce such settlements and to provide for the admission of other nations which accept the principles of the union.”
Last year’s debate team was one of the most successful in the school’s history, winning many dual debates and winning several major tournaments. Lost this year by graduation will be William Meier, Robert LeMense, Joe Tracy, and Mark Lies. Bob Galvin of the last year’s “B” team has also left school to take army training in the communications division. John Utz, a junior, is leaving school at semester to enter medical school; he was a member of the “B” team last year. Consequently the only returning veterans are James O’Dea, Lowell, Mass., of last year’s “A” team and Bill Lawless of the 1942 “B” team. Both are juniors this semester.
An extensive bibliography on the question has been compiled by Miss Lawrence of the library staff and is available there. Schedules of times and views each speak-• - er will uphold will be posted before vacation begins.
As usual, eight men will be selected to make up the team, which will be subdivided into four squads of two men each. There will be affirmative and negative teams in both the “A” and “B” classifications.
Met Club Plans Dance;
Donate to Red Cross
Tentative plans have been made for Gray Gordon and his orchestra to music the Metropolitan Club’s annual formal Christmas dance, according to Budd Gans, chairman. A semi-military theme
Left to right: Bayham. Ward. Kopf, Carey. Joyce, Talbot. Shannon. Kennedy. Kennan, Kelly, and Snee.
will be acrried out, with each member given a “commission” as a favor. This will be worn by his date. The dance is to be given on Dec. 26 at the Essex House.
Patron letters have been sent to the parents of the members, as a means of financing the affair.
Under the auspices of Father J. J. Burke, prefect of discipline, the New Yorkers have donated the net proceeds from their “Player-of-the-Day” events to the American Red Cross. Don Degnan, president, was chairman, and was assisted by Budd Gans, Al Clark, Tom Foley, Tony Maloney, Jerry Marbach, Vin Murphy, Jack O’Donohue, Tom Mulvey, and Rusty Baumait An average of about 700 followed the band from the stadium to Washington Hall after every home game. There the audience, with Frank Leahy and Father Cavanaugh, selected the oustanding player of the game. Dave Curtin acted as master of ceremonies; Veet Capello and his orchestra as well as Philip Finn conducted the musical part of the program.
“We hope,” said President Degnan, “that in some measure we have shown to the visitors on the campus the true Notre Dame spirit, and the spirit of unity behind the team. Our sincerest thanks to Coach Leahy, Fathers Cavanaugh and Burke, and Lee Hope, bandmaster, for their parts in the program.
Brownson-Carroll Beats St. Edward's in Finals
The interhall debate program, which is sponsored annually by Wranglers, ended last Wednesday night when the Brownson-Carroll team defeated St. Edward’s in the final debate of the tournament.
Saint Edward’s and Brownson-Carroll coached by John Shannon and Jim Newman entered the final round without a loss and both entered that round as negative teams. St. Edwards, by lot, changed to the affirmative side for the final debate. However, the switch in cases was not at all noticeable throughout the debate. The decision, fittingly rendered by Mr. James O’Dea has allowed the Brownson-Carroll team to take possession of the attractive Norbert C. Hoff debate trophy. Bernie O’Hora acted as time-keeper for the debate.
The members of the victorious team are: Joe Kennedy, Larry Kennan, Tim Kelly, and Bob Snee. The debaters who represented St. Edward’s are Chris Bayham, Bob Ward, Bob Kopf, and Bill Carey.
Profs, Seniors Address
I.A.S. Farewell Banquet
The I. A. S., Institute of Aeronautical Science, held a farewell banquet for the departing seniors last Wednesday at the Town Club. Speeches were given by Mr. F. N. M. Brown, head of the department of aeronautical engineering, Mr. R. Eik-enberry, Mr. E. Kavanaugh, and Mr. L. Demer. The senior class of aeronautical engineers this year is twice as large as any previous class'; there are 14. Each senior gave a short talk on his future plans.
The officers for next year were announced; they are Arthur Ley, chairman; John Battaile, secretary-treasurer, and James Clauss, vice-chairman. The retiring officers are W. F. Ungashick, chairman; W. Waeldner, secretary-treasurer, and Arthur Ley, vice-chairman.
9
Fighting Irish Feted
At Football Banquet
The 1942 Notre Dame football season was brought to its official close on Tuesday with the election of next year’s captain and the annual Civic Testimonial Banquet at the Indiana Club in South Bend. This was the 23rd annual banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph’s Valley.
Patrick J. Filley was elected the new Irish leader. Pat, a junior left guard, was on the second team for most of the season, but his spirited play in the Michigan game won him the starting assignment for the rest of the year. Filley is the second South Bend boy in as many years to be chosen captain of the Fighting Irish. This is something of a record, as never before has South Bend given Notre Dame two consecutive captains.
The monogram winners for the 1942 season were also announced on Tuesday by Head coach Frank Leahy. Of the 32 • recipients, 12 are seniors, five juniors and 15 sophomores. The 15 sophomore monogram winners is the largest group of sophomores to win monograms in the history of the school and the number of juniors winners was unusually small.
Clarence W. Harding, president of the St. Joseph Valley club, opened the banquet program explaining the purpose of the banquet. He introduced Toastmaster Clarence E. (Pat) Manion, dean of the Notre Dame College of Law.
Hon. Jesse I. Pavey, speaking for the whole city of South Bend, praised the Irish as a team that overcame the odds no matter how great. Mayor Pavey voiced South Bend’s congratulations to Notre Dame on the occasion of the Uni--versity’s 100th birthday.
Retiring Capt. George Murphy called the Notre Dame coaches the best in the country and praised the team as a fine bunch of men with the will to win. ‘‘Murph” made the drawing for the autographed football that was given away and then tossed a perfect scoring pass to the winner, Wallace Francis.
Coach Leahy paid high tribute to the team and the assistant coaches, especially for the way they carried on during his absence. Speaking of Lynn Waldorf, the head coach of Northwestern University,. Coach Leahy said that despite the fact Northwestern lost quite a few games this season Waldorf never tried
--X---X-X---X-X-X-X-------X-X---X-X---X-X-------X-X-X-X-4*
!	CHRISTMAS GIFTS	|
| New books by well-known authors will be on display for sale in the main j । foyer of the library starting today. Books for parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, j f aunts, and the mailman, will be shown. The sale is sponsored by the C.A.S. ?
I Especially attractive will be volumes by campus authors.	s
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1.
to make any excuses or alibis. This, Coach Leahy said, made Lynn Waldorf a real credit to the coaching ranks. Mr. Leahy introduced the members of the squad saying the seniors were the backbone of the team.
Coach Leahy said “despite numerous injuries, illnesses and other setbacks, the team gave their all, all the time.” He said that the team was possessed with the quality of great players. “I am proud to have been their coach,” Leahy said. Calling George Murphy an All-American captain, Coach Leahy introduced Captain - elect Filley. Concluding, Mr. Leahy said to the seniors: “So long, and good luck. And may God speed you in your new and toughest assignment.”
Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, said he didn’t know why he was on the program because he was the fellow who yelled for 33 years for a Notre Dame-Michigan game. Later he said the season was very successful except foi' the open date on Nov. 14.
Lynn Waldorf saluted the Notre Dame team and expressed the hope that the Irish-Wildcat rivalry might continue for many more years. He said the Notre Dame comeback against Great Lakes was the greatest he had ever seen. Bob Hall radio and stage comedian who speaks in rhyme, versed tribute to the team, the coaches, the seniors, the school and President Father O’Donnell.
Arthur Valpey, assistant coach at the University of Michigan, spoke in behalf of Fritz Crisler and Michigan. He said that Fielding Yost former Michigan athletic director was especially impressed by the statue of liberty play in what was the greatest offensive game he had ever seen.
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell delivered the final talk of the evening declaring, “the 1942 football team was one of the grandest Notre Dame teams I have been privileged to see.” -
During the program Toastmaster Manion read a message from the Washington, D.C. Touchdown Club. The message stated that Bob Dove had been voted the outstanding lineman of the year and would receive the club’s annual trophy.
The senior monogram winners are: Bob Dove, Captain George Murphy, Lou Rymkus, Bob Neff, Larry Sullivan, Harry Wright, Tom Brock, Walt Ziemba, John Lanahan, Bill Earley, Dick Creevey, and Tom Miller. Juniors were Captainelect Pat Filley, Bob McBride, Angelo
Bertelli, Creighton Miller, and Russ Ashbaugh. Sophomores: Paul Limont, Frank Cusick, John Yonaker, Jim White, Luke Higgins, Ziggy Czarobski, George Tobin, * Bernie Meter, Bucky O’Connor, Herb Coleman, John Creevey, Bob Livingstone, Corwin Clatt, Gerry Cowhig and Jim Mello.
Wranglers Honor Four
At Farewell Banquet
Three seniors bowed out of Wranglers and two sophomores were formally accepted into the club last night as this | honorary forensic club held its annual banquet in the Hotel La Salle. John Ry- ’ an, this year’s president and a law student from Denver, Colo., Mark Lies, secretary, a commerce man of Riverside, Ill., and Robert LeMense of Iron Mountain, Mich., were the graduating seniors honored. Al Sommer, Golf, Ill., and Vince Oppenheim, Coldwater, Ohio, were initiated at the banquet.
The meeting featured a beef dinner, the farewell speeches of the seniors, and the induction of the new members. Bill ' McVay, law student, was toastmaster. j New officers for next semester are William Lawless, president, and James . O’Dea, secretary. Bill Talbot was chairman of the banquet.
John Utz, who is leaving at the close of the semester for medical school, was also honored.
Talbot, chairman of interhall debate, reported on this year’s tournament. Discussion on pins and plaques for members was postponed until next semester.	\
Thomists Meet Defeat
In Philosophy Debate
Philosophical debating returned to the campus Wednesday evening when Dr. „ Francis McMahon’s debate on the real distinction between essence and existence ‘ attracted a sizeable crowd of students to Washington Hall. A team defending the ' view of the philosopher Suarez that there > is no real distinction was awarded the decision of the audience.	,
Dr. McMahon opened the debate by । sketching the importance of such discus- ' sions at this time. James Downey, senior coach of the Thomists outlined the history of the problem. H. John Smith . opened the discussion with the Thomist ' defense of a real distinction and was v * i : answered by Leo Buchignani. Al Sommer, defending the view of Suarez at-	‘
tacked Smith’s arguments and Joseph	■
Tracy talked against Buchignani’s thesis. ' 1
The vote was taken by applause and J was followed by a short talk by Fr. Phil- ’ | lip Moore, C.S.C., head of the graduate . j and undergraduate departments of phil- | osophy.	*
10
Army ERC Enlistments
Top Notre Dame Reserves
All enlistments in the armed forces, including the Marines, Navy, Army, Coast Guard, and the Air Forces, have been closed since Sunday, December 6, '	1942, upon the order from the presi-
dent, Franklin D. Roosevelt. Father 1 James D. Trahey, C.S.C,. administrative assistant for the University, said this week there is an exception to this enlistment ban. All those students who made bona fide letters of application to I Father Trahey prior to December 6, 1942, will be eligible for immediate en-L listment in any branch of the service and that this enlistment must be completed by December 15, 1942.
The Army Air Corps examining board visited the campus yesterday and A. checked over and enlisted those qualified from a ’group of 108 students. Also this week the Army Enlisted Reserve . Corps examined 85 students for acceptance into that branch.
Father Trahey also disclosed the "• number of Notre Dame students en-k rolled in the reserve corps. A hundred eager students are ready to climb up k into the vast blue as members of the Army Air Force. The Army E.R.C. claimed the most enlistments with 450. The Marine Corps appealed to 75 students, and the Navy V-l is supported by 250. The V-7, reserve deck officers corps claimed 150, while Naval Avia-k	tion, V-5, has 50.	The Notre Dame R.
O.T.C. has about 300 enrolled in their -	course.
Including those	examined this week
there are about 1,568 Notre Dame students enlisted in reserve branches awaiting call.
Midshipmen Will Issue Year-Book Next Month
The Navy Capstan, first yearbook of the midshipmen at the University of Notre Dame, will be off the press and , ready for distribution January 28th. Robert Webb, editor-in-chief from Reed -> College, Portland, Ore., said the annual will contain 240 pages, with a blue cover embossed in white lettering. It measures eight by ten inches.
“A day in the life of a midshipman” , is the theme of the book. Between the ' covers the navy trainees will find car-L toons about navy life by such well known artists as Walt Disney, Ralph Lee, Wolf of the N. Y. Times, and Rube Goldberg. A special sketch of Captain ' Burnett, head of local navy men, will be included. There are individual pic-~ tures of the 1,168 men and about 80 officers together with group shots of former inductees at this school. There are several shots of the navy campus and pictures of their halls.
Assisting Midshipman Webb with the Capstan are Al C. Williams of Arkansas State, managing editor, and James Widman, Santa Barbara State, make-up editor. Lieut. H. F. Smith and Lieut, (j. g.) K. G. Pearce are faculty advisors. The book will be sold to all men of the graduating class of January 28th for $2.50, and the present staff hopes future graduating midshipmen will carry on with the project.
The navy men will have a short recess at Christmas time, extending from the 24th to the 27th of the month, in order to allow those who live close by to go home or visit.
I4-Man Advertising Class
Visits Chicago Ad Plant
Through the efforts of Dean James E. McCarthy and Mr. Lincoln J. Carter, instructor in advertising, the members of the foundation class of the Outdoor Advertising Association of America toured the plant of the General Outdoor Advertising Company in Chicago on Monday, Dec. 7. The trip served to show the class the practical application of the material they learn in the classroom.
The class meets three times a week in a special room provided for them on the second°floor of the Notre Dame library. There they have special books, research material, art work, and so forth.
At present the class is conducting an experiment in the planning of a complete campaign in advertising. Each member of the class has a certain duty to do, such as market analysis, copy, and art. This project is under the supervision of Mr. Cartel* and under the direction of the president of the class, Gail D. Fitch, Jr.
Members of the class are: Joseph F. Dillon, Robert F. Sweeney, William F. Dvorak, Louis E. Schmit, William Rempe, Gail Fitch, John D. Koch, Robert C. Mc-Kahan, Elmer D. Silha, Edward A. Si-manson, Edward C. Roney, Jr., Stanley W. Pyritz, Thomas C. Clemens, and Raymond Duggan.
Engineering Prof. Egry
Attends N. Y. Convention
Mr. Charles R. Egry, M.E., associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University, attended the annual American Society of Mechanical Engineers’ Convention in New York last week. Mr. Egry, who is a Purdue graduate and has been a member of the faculty since 1939, reported that the session had suggested several outlets for engineers to remain in school, but he added that nothing definite could be said now on the plans for the future. He added further that the meeting— held from November 23 to 28 — was most interesting and instructive.
Solemn and Serious Air
Marks Pearl Harbor Day
Pearl Harbor’s first anniversary last Monday was celebrated on the campus with a solemn and serious air, looking back on the sacrifices already made, and looking forward to victory and the peace.
Masses and Communions on Monday were offered for the souls of all who have died since Pearl Harbor and for a -just and lasting peace.
Early morning Masses in hall chapels and in the Sacred Heart Church opened the program. The Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. attended the Memorial High Mass in the Church in a body.
The afternoon Mass for service men was offered for the same intentions as those of the morning Mass. As usual, this Mass was celebrated in the Dillon Hall Chapel.
Rosary and Benediction were celebrated in Sacred Heart Church at 6:50 pan. for the war dead and for peace. The program for the day for students was announced in a special campus supplement of the Religious Bulletin.
A period of silence and the ringing of the Church bells at noon also marked the anniversary celebration.
Yves Simon to Talk
On French Situation
The French situation in the Global War will be discussed by Yves Rene Simon, Ph.D., associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame this coming Sunday afternoon, Dec. 13, in Milwaukee.
Doctor Simon received his doctor’s degree at Catholic University of Paris hi 1934 and taught philosophy at the Catholic University of Lille, also in France, for eight years; so Simon should be qualified to talk on France’s problems in the present war. Simon also studied under the famous French philosopher, Jacques Maritain, and is considered by many as Maritain’s greatest pupil. The subject of Simon’s talk is entitled: “The Faith of Our Heroes.”
Central New York Club
The Central New York dub plans - a raffle over the Christmas holidays, according to an announcement by John Terry, sophomore and.new president of the group. Other. new officers indude George H. Burns, vice-president, Robert C. Taylor, secretary; and Thomas. _P. Bergin, treasurer. Mr.. Robert H; McAuliffe was elected honorary president;
It
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
TELESCOPE
George Bariscillo
Walsh Hall, Sunday, late—Yesterday we saw our last football game as a student, and now we face our last deadline as a columnist. We say “last” because we’re also in the E.R.C., but, with an optimistic outlook, we won’t be out of here next September, which is a long way off when there’s a war to be won.
THING CALLED WOMAN
Cleveland, Ohio, is being rocked by the co-ed reaction to new fraternity rules set up at Western Reserve University. The dormitory girls of Mather College, Reserve, are the chief exponents of more libera] house rules, and they say:
“I still don’t see why dorm girls can’t be in the fraternity houses in the afternoon. Don’t they trust us?”
“Goo!”
“Anyway the individual fraternities have their own house rules, and they should trust us a little bit.”
And we always thought it was the boys who couldn’t be trusted!
THOUGHT OF THE WEAK
The difference between a bachelor and a married man is that when a bachelor walks the floor with a baby he’s dancing.
WARM SHOULDER
Beneath the stars he told his love,
The color left her cheeks,
But on the shoulder of his coat, It plainly showed for weeks.
—Utah State Strident Life
AWFUL LET DOWN DEPT.
We read the headline twice, but couldn’t believe it . - - and then we read the story:
“The Junior-Senior Prom will be held at the downtown Jonathan Club on the evening of December 18. (All right so far.) The dinner-dance is formal (nice stuff) and will feature the music of Spike Jones and his City Slickers.”
See what we mean? But Loyola of Los Angeles just doesn’t care any more.
SWEETBRIAR SUE
He: “You know that gal I was out with last night?”
He II: “Yeah.”
He: “I found out she had a glass eye.”
He II: “Howja find out?”
He: “When I put my arms around her and squeezed, it lit up and said ‘Tilt!’ ”
—The Spartan
DOGPATCH, NORTH SIDE
Kingston, Ontario, may be a long way from Dogpatch, but the boys up there at Queen’s University certainly have the spirit. The day aftei- their Dogpatch Drag of a few weeks ago, two of the boys found themselves in the City Police Court. One of the boys was guilty of bringing a gun to the dance the night before, and the other was guilty of picking it up and shooting somebody else’s date.
Yes, she will recover, but the boys will go on feudin’, as soon as they get out of jail.
EX CO-ED, NO DOUBT
She gracefully clasped,
This comely wench,
To her fair bosom
A monkey wrench. . .
She’s one of many of hex* breed,
A charming mechanic at Lockheed.
—St. John’s Epitome
SHARE THE RIDE
“I say,” called the bus driver to the passengers below, “is there a mackintosh down there big enough to keep three ladies warm?”
“No,” came an eager voice from the inside, “but there’s a MacDonald down here that’s willin’ to try.”
—The Oredigger
THINGS ARE TOUGH DEPT.
And the co-eds at the University of California are having trouble, too. A new 1 a.m. lockout rule has been put into effect, to replace the former 2 a.m. deadline, and here is what they say . . . and we quote:
“We don’t get enough sleep anyway.”
“By 1 o’clock we’re just getting started.”
“Any girl staying out until 2 o’clock would be a wreck.”
“Girls should stay in condition to study.”
To those who have read us, many thanks, and a special blow to those three fans who wrote us, even though they weren’t exactly complimentary. If we have hurt anyone Muth our college gleanings, accept this as a public apology. We have-already apologized privately to Deadly Dudley for that note of two weeks ago. He’s so sensitive!
Good bye now!
FRIDAY, Dec.. 11: Seven more days. Study.
SATURDAY, Dec. 12: Six more days: Study; Northwestern - Notre Dame basketball squads clash in Chicago Stadium; Campus movie: 6:40 and 8:30 p.m.
SUNDAY, Dec. 13: Five more days. Study. .
MONDAY, Dec. 14: Four more days: Study; Basketball game: N.D. Irish vs. Wisconsin Badgers in Field House, 8 p.m.
TUESDAY, Dec. 15: Three more days. Study.
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 16: Two more days. Study.
THURSDAY, Dec. 17: One more day. Exams.
FRIDAY, Dec. 18: More of those things; Pacemaker: 3:27 p.m. (from Union Terminal) ; Trail Blazer: 4:55 p.m. (from Plymouth); N.D. Special: (from St. Mary’s siding); South Shore: Every hour etc.; you know where.
SATURDAY, Dec. 19: Class Day exercises; Fencing: N.D. vs. Chicago University, 2:00 p.m.; Gilbert and Sullivan operetta,' Patience, 3:00 p.m., Washington Hall; Basketball game, N.D. Irish vs. Purdue Boilermakers in Field House, 8 p.m.
SUNDAY, Dec. 20: Baccalaureate’exercises in new Field House with Bishop Noll, D.D., officiating. Commencement speakers: William Jeffers and Bishop O’Hara.
•J”’™»—•—w—no^—m—, iff 5	T
| EXPRESS OFFICE I
-	T
I Is now located in the rear of the |
Main Building behind the Carroll- !
Brownson locker rooms. All Railway | | Express business is handled in this | ’ office between 12 o'clock and 2:15 । 1 p.m. every day. Students are advised | I not to bring express packages to the = | Western Union office in the Huddle ] । building as they are no longer being j j received there.	|
4“-o-m-nl-in-a-----in-m-in---n:-u<J>
12
V3P
z z AoHuntAfruzitofi NewA,	,
vac
Mr. Ed Murray Appointed lieutenant (jg) in Navy
Once again Notre Dame will say “so long for a while” to another one of her sons. Mr. Edward Murray of the Comptroller Office is reporting for indoctrination in the Navy on Dec. 15. He has received the commission of lieutenant (jg) in the Navy Reserve.
Mr. Murray has been connected with Notre Dame since December of 1925, two years before he enrolled here in the College of Arts and Letters. During this time he was secretary to the Provincial qf the Congregation" of Holy Cross, Father Burns, and to the Director of Studies, Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C. He received his A.B. in 1931 as a history major. In ’37,"four years after joining the comptroller’s office force, he became director of student employment. Murray has remained at this position until the present time.
His work in the comptroller’s office has not been dull. He particularly remembers an incident in connection with the campus filming of Warner Brothers’ “Knute Rockne—All American.” Ed was called upon to recruit 200 students as “extras” for the Rockne funeral Mass scene in Sacred Heart Church. Hampered by a very liimted amount of time, a student was sent around posting large signs in a desperate attempt to obtain the necessary students. .Not quite five minutes elapsed before a throng of students
Edward Murray
jammed the comptroller’s office in such numbers that the partitioning walls were completely uprooted. Students were also used in the graduation sequence and in the scene where the team was welcomed back from the Army defeat.
Mr. Murray will be missed by Notre Dame, along with the many other professors and employees who are now serving in the brotherhood of Notre Dame volunteers in the armed forces.
—Dick Keouffhan
Walter E. Jominy Speaks
At Metallurgist Meeting
Mr. Walter E. Jominy, Chrysler metallurgist, addressed the members of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Metals at its monthly meeting in the engineering building last Wednesday evening.
The featured speaker talked on what he termed the “harden-
PROF. EDWARD Hahin ability” of steels and of its measurements. Contrary to the common layman’s opinion steel does not harden in any simple set way. It has a unique method which in its entirety is quite complicated.
The society welcomed six new members to its ranks. The new members were H. L. Bimm of Bendix, John Crimmins, a Notre Dame student and a worker at the Studebaker- Corporation; and T. D. Shafer, also of Bendix.
Three junior members were inducted. They were Gerald Mahon, Cornelius Hannigan, and Gilbert Miller; all three are sophomores. It is of some honor to be invited to join this society which meets each month to discuss some of the pertinent problems of the industry and to plan further means of growth of this already rapidly expanding field.
The metallurgists, perhaps even more than most of the major defense workers, have felt-the effects of the war. Metal is vital to.all war work. The nation’s battle wagons may move on rubber tires, but tires are of no use unless there is a steel
chassis, guns and armor for them to support.
Mr. Jominy has done much to further the field of metallurgy. A graduate of the University of Michigan, he became a metallurgist for Studebaker in the preWorld War I days. During the war he w.as senior Metallurgical Inspector in the United States bureau of aircraft production. After the war he was allied with Packard and Studebaker and did research work at the University of Michigan.
His papers have helped the. technical advancement and the development of the industry. Of particular note is the. “Jominy end-quence test” which has become an important standard method.
The host of the evening was Professor Edward Mahin, head of the department of metallurgy of the University. Plans were announced for the forthcoming January meeting. The featured speaker will be Mr. E. R. Young, representative, of the Climax Molybdenum Company, Chicago. His subject, a very pertinent one, will be “Steel Castings.” The meeting is scheduled for Jan. 13, and will be held as usual on the University campus.
Looking into the uncertain future, the members contemplated plans for the National Metal Congress. It will be the 25th annual meeting and will be held in Chicago over the week of Oct. 18-22.
—Walter LaBerge
Former Discipline Head
Succumbs at Sixty-one
The Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C., 61, professor of chemistry for more than 30 years at the University and St. Edward’s College in Texas, died at Notre Dame last Monday evening, Dee. 7, in the Community Infirmary after several years of ill health.
Father Heiser received his degree at Notre Dame in 1902. He worked under the late Father Julius Nieuwland on many of his experiments in the scientific field. He later served as prefect-of dis- “ cipline.	*
Funeral services were held here yesterday morning, with his brother, Father Alan Heiser, C.S.C., Nazareth, Ky., celebrating the Requiem High Mass. Father Leo Heiser was a member of an old South Bend family , and associated with the University for many years. His last active assignment was as chaplain of . Reitz Memorial High School in Evansville, Ind.	.	-
13
>	>	>	at Nobie jbatne ,	> ,	,
-	-- -	' -	"■-■-'-■■■■	!	1 J1	..... ■	--- ■ ■'■' BMW
Midshipmen's School Song Contest Gets Under Way
Gangway, you guys in Tin Pan Alley, the Midshipmen’s School Song Contest has been officially launched.
Lieut, (jg) Robert M. Palmer this week announced the contest to select an official Midshipmen’s School song.
Prizes for the best, second best, and third best song will be , given,
Lieut. Palmer said. The prizes will be officer’s equipment donated by uniform distributors.
No deadline has as yet been set for submissal of songs, but Lieut. Palmer urged contestants to get their offerings completed as soon as possible. The present midshipmen’s class will be graduated in the near future.
Songs should be submitted to either the Recreation and Welfare Department, first deck, Howard Hall, or the Public Relations Office, first deck, Lyons annex.
“I feel confident,” Lieut. Palmer stated, “that an official song will come out of this contest. There is plenty of musical talent in the school.”
Lieut. Palmer was in the choir at the Naval Academy and has been largely responsible for the success of the Capt. Burnett Choir at this Midshipmen’s School.
The Brighter Side
Midshipman R. D. Pringle
To the students and faculty of Notre Dame the midshipmen must appear to be a stern and forbidding group. From one end of the campus to the other they march, alike as peas in a pod, eyes ahead, countenances stern. Amid the brilliant colors of civilian dress they inject a column of somber hue, as cheerless as pall-bearers at a gigantic. funeral.
Lest the students labor under a misconception, let it be known here and now that all is far from gloomy that wears Navy blue. There is a far brighter side than meets the eye. It shows itself for brief seconds-in the classrooms, between such weighty discussions as hull metacenter determinations and gun deflection ballistics. It peeks from darkened dormitories, after taps have been
sounded, and even pops up slyly in the middle of one of Bowdich’s momentous discussions. It is a very human sort of brighter side that helps carry the load of a heavy schedule that must be completed in double time.
. Of course you will not find it on the ■classroom schedule. The schedule calls for damage control, navigation, seamanship and ordnance. But it appears, invited or not. For instance when Midshipman F. B. Q. arose in seamanship to face a stern officer-instructor for a ten-minute questioning on the handling of life boats, it was a sober moment. Particularly sober it was for “Q,” who found himself very inadequately prepared. Question after question was shot at. him. Some he parried, a few he labored through, but most went through him. A morgue-like silence fell upon the room as Midshipman Q searched his mind for answers that weren’t there. Suddenly he broke. “I’ve never seen a ship, sir,” he stammered. “I’ve never even seen the sea. The closest I’ve been to being a seaman is using salt on celery.” With that he sought the shelter , of his seat. _	,
Equally as unprepared was another midshipman who was asked the intriguing question, “can you describe the more prominent curves on the body plan?” He sailed through the question with flying colors even though he never mentioned the destroyer to which the question had originally pertained. 4	“
A “position buoy” is thrown oyer the side when an anchor is lost and most midshipmen know that a side boy is a sailor assigned to meet guests coming aboard. One midshipman, however, baffled an instructor by asking under what circumstances a side boy was thrown over the side.	.
There is the case of Midshipman S. S. Rapport, who received a box of cookies. After the ,12th had disappeared through his teeth he happened to turn one over. A considerable number of small insects had made an attack on the cookies in force sometime before he got to them. It was a case of too much too late.
Yes, there is a brighter side. The Midshipmen who laughingly carried their ' dates across the snow-filled streets of South Bend after the first hop are the same men whose feet go tramp, tramp, . tramp* down the walks past the?students and faculty , who must think the Navy men lead dull lives.
Fourteenth Company
The week brought its usual number of men to thie base of “the tree,” and more than its usual number to the extra duty squad. In spite of this the week had a bright side for the fourteenth company. Three of its men, Midshipmen Otto C. Steinmayer, J. Smith and Dan Simpson, passed the physical examination for submarine duty and were accepted for recommendation for that service.
—Midshipman John H. Stauber
Fifteenth Company
Composed of its share of gentlemen from the South, the “fighting fifteenth” steered straight its course into the icy blasts of the first real winter day and arrived ruddy-faced in its respective classrooms.
Much interested in the first impressions of a southerner, an instructor put forth the initial question: “Well, what do you think of it?”
It was the inevitable B. D., heir to the Warrens of Arkansas, who rose in a manner military, and enunciated distinctly and finally, “It is most pretty, sir. That is all I am able to say, sir.”
Whereupon he seated himself and soaked up the heat to drive out the effects of the “prettiness.” ,
Sixteenth Company
If midshipmen - of the sixteenth company learn nothing else in seamanship, they are finding out the value of foresightedness and vigilance as they line their sights on dates for their Christmas party at the Town Club.
The idea for the affair came from the very successful shindig platoon 16A had Thanksgiving, with Midshipman Z. A. Wesolowski making arrangements and acting as master of ceremonies.
Plans, still tentative, call for dinner at 1900, after .which there will be dance music supplied by men of the sixteenth.
The general arrangements committee is composed of Midshipmen W. J. Wolverton, company student commander; W. E. Woodson, L. D. Wedekind, N. T. Williams, and Z. A. Wesolowski, who is chairman.	.
On the entertainment committee are Midshipmen A. W. Wrieden, chairman, E. B. Wehmeyer, G. B. Wirth and H. A. Zink.	*	’	-
14
>	> y >	, faite Jiame. , , ,
Coach Handy Has Balanced Track Squad;
Seeking Best Opponents In Collegiate Ranks
BILL CAREY
When the Notre Dame track team hits the boards in February, you’d better clear the track. This Irish wagon is loaded, a balanced powerhouse that will knock you off your feet. Even Mentor “Doc” Handy is optimistic over the boys that will currently wear the blue and gold spangles.
Most of the thinlies, daily pounding their way on the turf in the Field House, are two year veterans, with successful varsity campaigns behind them. All they ask is a string of top flight opponents, the stiffer the better, to prove their mettle. The Big Ten held its Indoor Track Conference earlier this week to decide upon schedules, and also the controversial subject of the eligibility of freshmen. If the Irish emerge from this meeting with a creditable list of foes, they will have a chance to win the national prominence they deserve.
Ex-captain Ray Roy and George Schiewe, standouts of the stellar mile relay team of last spring received their sheepskins in June. Keith O’Rourke, junior 6 foot 8 inch high jumper has withdrawn from school, awaiting his draft summons, and sprinter Jay Gibson, a 9.8 hundred man, will graduate in December. Despite these losses the team led by Captain Jim Delaney will be balanced and strong. .
In Jack Murphy, a sophomore sensation from St. Louis, Notre Dame boasts its finest sprinter in years. In the hundred a 9.6 performance by Murphy, will be no surprise. He should burn up the Mid West.
Toppi|fr the tall timbers will be two double monogram men and a very promising newcomer. Seniors Bill Dillon and Bill Nicholson will be aided no little by a formful soph, John Smith, who has the speed to be a champ.
Gene Fehlig, Austin Jones, and Jim Lundergan will make their presence felt in the quarter. Fehlig has two stripes and Jones one. Both have had relay ex-erience, with Gene a regular performer.
Up in the half mile bracket, Dick Tup-ta will backbone the middle distance men. Dick has lettered twice and ran a strong
leg on the relay. Other starters will be Frank Conforti stellar miler; Don Currie, cross country star; and Bill Kelly.
Big man in the mile is Tony Maloney with Conforti always a threat. Tony has been in the scoring columns regularly for two years and is expected to turn in a 4:15 effort. Conforti, also, will probably crack 4:16. This pair will be the greatest one-two mile duo in collegiate circles. Currie is a likely starter to round out a three man entry.
When the starter calls for Ollie Hunter, the best distance man in college today will answer. All-American two miler last year, Ollie ran off with the National cross country title last month, and a record in the bargain. The Notre Dame successor of the famed Greg Rice has been invited to run in the New Orleans Sugar Bowl on New Years day, against track-dom’s top plodders. , He should be good for a 9:10 effort. Ollie will also compete in the mile and to complete ,'the turnabout, Maloney will run with him in the longer distance.
Pole Vaulter Jack Wiethoff is a sure bet for 14 feet. A top man in the stratosphere event and in his aeronautical engineering studies, Jack is already a commissioned naval ensign. Don Evenson will be varsity material in January.
Chuck Murphy and Bill Nicholson have • turned in sparkling high jump performances. Chuck clears 6 feet 5. inches with ease, and may be the top high, flyer in the Midwest. Nicholson, son of the late Irish track coach, is capable of 6 feet, 4 inches.
.In.the broad.jump Bill Johnson will carry the Irish burden.
A 51 foot shotputter, Jim Delaney has all the characteristics of a fine leader. Already a champion he will continue to hold sway. Aiding and abetting him in the catapult department will be footballers Luke Higgins and Jim White.
Given a decent schedule, only a tom up track can, keep this Mercury-winged clan of Notre Darners from setting the finest record in years. Let’s hope they get it at the Big Ten Conference’s expense.
Varied Sports Program Looms for New Year
Against a background of molded snow Notre Dame’s winter sports activity will swing to a new level after the first of the year. Incoming students will have little out-of-town relaxation to look forward to with transportation facilities near a stalling mark. But within the bounds of the campus, basketball, interhall and varsity track, skating and hockey will offer bound
less opportunities for athletic participation.
Whether ice hockey, which saw a renaissance here last year, will bloom out successfully this term or not is doubtful. With such rink dignitaries as Larry Sullivan and Bill Stewart in the graduation line there seems to be little hope for the installation of a varsity program as was started last year during the cold months. The only scheduled hockey encounter during the last cold period was cancelled because of an unordered blizzard. But, despite the restrictions on a varsity program, the ice of St. Maryas (lake) will be a scene of clashing skates and clattering sticks for hockey tilts will be entwined with the regular skating program.
Interhall basketball; as always, will be well patronized. The various halls will be represented by light and heavyweight teams with several hundred fellows participating. There is equal opportunity for all students on the campus to find ample resources for exercise in the Rockne Memorial. Handball, squash, swimming and other indoor sports can be enjoyed on the spacious facilities.
A splendid conditioning program is offered for the student who has any track or field ability. The interhall track meet will be held during an early month of the coming year with medals and awards offered to the lads most proficient in their respective departments.
Boxing will doubtlessly call a great number of the University’s promising pugilists to the ring. The annual Bengal Bouts will be held before the termination of the coming semester. Under, the capable directorship of Dominick J. Napolitano daily periods of boxing instruction will be held in the Rockne with all aspirants invited to attend.
15
The last page of another chapter has been written into the glorified annals of Notre Dame gridiron history. Another thrill-packed season of skirmishes has been respondent to the final gun, but not without the usual typical. fighting spirit that makes Notre Dame an outstanding team in the country year after year. Once again it was Notre Dame on the lips of the major gridiron onlookers.
After spending ten trying weeks with the toughest competition in the country, the Fighting Irish encountered the unbeaten, unscored upon Great Lakes aggregation. Being a decided underdog in pre-game write-ups and then succumbing in the first half, the boys retaliated with that radiant glow of spirit that has sparked Notre Dame teams onto victory for years. And with the snow-crusted field as a closing feature the loyal Irish followers can review and bid ad'eu to another top-notch season.
Tie Badgers, 7-7
Bucking the much publicized combina-tiion of Elroy Hirsch, and Pat Harder in their first contest, the Irish settled for a 7-7 tie despite the statistical advantages that marked the true aggressive spirit that was to mark the greater portion of the season.
Jim Mello plunged over from the two in N.D.’s only score. Bertelli was very much amiss as the wet, snow-soaked ground proved a problem for heaving the slippery pigskin.
Lose to Georgia Tech, 13-6
Soon following the outset of the season, an underrated Georgia Tech team invaded the campus only to be the early thwart to an undefeated Irish season. Coach Bill Alexander’s Yellowjackets, possessing one of the most aggressive lines opposed all season and with a bag full of successful backfield maneuvers, brought a note of desolation to the team as Georgia went home with a 13-6 victory under their belt.
All American—Bob Dove
Notre Dame Football, 1$
The amazing exploit of Clint Castleberry, freshman sensation, the capable and disheartening punts of Pat McHugh, and the revived “Statue of Liberty” stunned the audience and lads themselves.
Defeat Stanford, 27-0
Never daunted, never down,.the spirit was destined to be foremost again and thus it was as the one-sided triumph over ’ Stanford, 27-0, proved that the stuff wasn’t lacking here. Marchie Schwartz’s boys displayed stalwart line efforts but the pitching arm of our Springfield rifle, Angelo Bertelli, was superior to the opposition’s secondary as Captain George Murphy, Bob Dove, Paul Limont, and Bob Livingstone all received heaves that carried their toters into paydirt territory. “Bert” also put three kicks between the uprights to find himself receiving the Player of the Day award.
Seahawks Smashed, 28-0
Now came the highly touted Iowa Seahawks, a team that not only embellished a squad of ex-All American and ex-pros but one that had a coach who had not tasted defeat in two past college seasons and was carrying that record forward as the Seahawks came to Notre Dame as administering death defying blows to Michigan, Minnesota, and Northwestern.
First quarter play was accentuated by the star-studded actions -of the PreFlight squad, but without crossing the diagonals. Then came the fireworks, but in reverse, as the Fighting Irish played the greatest game since their encounter with Ohio State in ’35. In less than two minutes the lads scored a pair of tallies as Clatt plunged over and a few plays after the kickoff he intercepted to run back for another 40-yard score, and finally a 28-0 victory. Thus made way for the popular Clatt entrance into the N.D. gridiron limelight.
It was during these two games that Coach Frank Leahy was at .Mayo’s recovering from a back ailment, but efficient supervision of the team under Ed McKeever and his assistants put the team in their best condition of the season.
Trounce lllini, 21-14
Next a trip to Champaign proved to . be a tough battle as the lllini held leads of 7-0 and 14-7. The second half proved to be climactic, however, as the push was
BILL WIG!
41
Smiling Cornie Cldi oys
■■ _ ■ _____________________
on and the Green-jerseyed Irish put on a dramatic rally that brought a pair ofc I t.d.,’s and a 21-14 victory. The line play, of the boys was emphatically displayed’ as they stopped an lllini drive in the opening minutes which had advanced to the N.D. one-foot line. Spectacular run^ * *
ba th, po on ski sec an
ning by Clatt, Livingstone, Ashbaugh;, and Cowhig, gained a lot of needed yard-7
* age and eventual victory.	*
Sink Navy, 9-0
Cleveland’s municipal stadium fur-j^fin
nished 65,000 fans to watch N.D. gain i a hard fought 9-0 win over Navy on the^ mud-covered gridiron. Fumbles were com-Ka monplace with the sort of weather thatQ prevailed. Bert completed two aerialsg all afternoon but one was good to DoveH on the one-foot line from where the for-g mer plunged over for the score. Later inB
coi
Nc nei the Co
H th<
the game, Coach Leahy, back fromP,cal
Mayo’s, sent in John Creevy as the Irish had command with fourth <^d 14 on the Middie’s 12. Tom Miller held on the 26 and the ball sailed between the uprights for a final 9-0. Navy aerial attempt at retaliation was only in vain as Lou Rym-
kus and his line colleagues ended fond hopes of the midshipmen.
I cai | CO] . inf
£ col
3 tie;
1 we: 19C
the-1
Decision Over Army, 13-0
r.
!>oo too sho
Mic
Pai hai tha
Solid turf was again evident as 65,000_ onlookers jammed the Yankee Stadium” to see the annual Notre Dame-Army^ .. classic. Both teams were scoreless as the half ended. Russell “Pete” Ash- ■
16
£2: Won 7; Tied 2; Lost 2
SIGTON
Laugh’s recovery of an Army fumble on the latter’s 35 led to an eventful six points as Clatt and Creevy toted the ball on successive plays to the 15. Dick then skirted off tackle through an astounded secondary for the score. Bertelli supplied
m-} * another point via the uprights.
- • The final six points of the encounter
f came as part of the Bertelli-Murphy
r combine just a few seconds prior to clos-L. ing time. Army’s secondary had bobbled 11 the ball while in mid-air but “Murph” finally retrieved the pigskin for the
lin i counter.
;heA.
m-lg most sensational feature of the iatP 8’ama was the star-studded efforts of the alsK Notre Dame line. While the aerial ma-lVeH neuvers were being kept from paying off, 3r_Bthe ground attack,-led by Creevy, Clatt, inE Cowhig, Ashbaugh, and Livingstone, )nvE'-came own an<i a 13-0 win. The shra diminished record of Army’s first‘down he la column was due to the aggressive quali-
ties of the N.D. line.
26 its
at n-he-
r
10. m~
is
li-
Downed By Wolverines, 32-20
. After a 33-year wait, the Wolverines were determined to avenge a defeat of 1909 and that they did as their perfectly ,-oordinated running attack proved to be too much for the Irish, the scoreboard ^showing a 32-20 evidence of the fact. Michigan’s great backs, Tom Kuzma, .Paul White, and quarter George Ceit-haml exemplified the type of team play ' ‘that had brought Michigan into national
recognition during their previous games.
For the third time in its history, the Notre Dame Stadium was filled to capacity, but all that the Irish were able to capitalize on was the first touchdown of the game via Bertelli to Dove. Truly, the 13-13 tie at half time was not discouraging but Michigan’s 19 point third quarter was a sour note which Notre Dame hopes were striving to survive. Early in the fourth period Creighton Miller raced across for the score. Thoughts of victory again reigned but ne’er to be fulfilled as the boys in maize and blue took advantage of a few Irish miscues and held the coveted oval for the remainder of the game.
Whipped the Wildcats, 27-20
Lynn Waldorf’s Wildcat eleven had been highly geared as they came to town to take on the N.D. squad. They grabbed the first score as Hirsch plunged over and made the extra point but a 60-yard drive by the Irish finally brought the score one point from equality as Bertelli failed to convert. The ’Cats then marched 80 yards after an interception to go back into the lead, 13-6. Clatt then scored for the Irish after a decided ground attack and aerial maneuver had put the team in scoring territory. Now it was 13-13. Another Irish jaunt of 79 yards, creditably given over to Creighty --Miller, Clatt and Livingstone, put the ball on the four. Bertelli lateralled to Livingstone for the tally.
The final N.D. score came as a result of Clatt’s interception and then Bertelli’s two completions to Limont and the t.d. man, Creighty Miller. Then five consecutive completions by Graham put the ’Cats on the N.D. four from where Hirsch went across. That ended the game as far as scoring.
Trojans Crumble, 13-0
The trip to Los Angeles proved to be the most exciting and most eventful for the columnists as the Irish battled their way to their fifth and last, seasonal shutout, 13-0, over the Trojans of Southern California. The slugfest, as reported by the papers and Cal squad put four of the boys on the sidelines. Evidently the Notre Dame play was overcoming the show that the officials were trying to put on, and thus a few of our more lively boys were ejected.
Bertelli’s toss to Creighton Miller from the Cal 48 was good to the 25 and the able dexterity of the latter carried him on into the end zone. Southern Cal tried to retaliate but they were crushed with the severity of the Irish linemen plus imposed penalties. An 80-yard march put the Irish on Cal’s 13, the initial 67 being part of Bertelli’s four heaves, two to Dove, Murphy and Clatt. A fifth and final toss to Livingstone was good for . a half dozen points plus one added by John Creevy.
Thus the pre-season requisites for the successful season as outlined by Coach Frank Leahy were accomplished, that being the mentioned “six or seven wins.”
Draw with Great Lakes, 13-13
After beginning the season with a tie, the Irish similarly ended with one, but after having gone down in pre-game write-ups as being the under-dog. Great Lakes had been unscored upon in their last six victories and were_just right to polish off the Irish. The 13-0 advantage held by the sailors at half tine offered some criteria for the early prediction, but in less than three and a half minutes in the second half, the green and gold clad Irish had put an accompanying 13.on the scoreboard.
Clatt’s 82-yard jaunt, due heavily to the blocking efforts of a proven All-American, Bob Dove, was the first rejuvenation of victory. A few plays later, Creighton Miller supplied the thrill of a goalward bound patriot as he marked off 68 well maneuvered yards, eluding tacklers from every angle. Second half domination by the Irish was as true a spirit of Notre Dame as was witnessed all season. In the closing three seconds, after being penalized five yards for back-field in motion, Creevy tried a placement that was being held on the mid-field stripe but it fell a few yards short of undisputed victory.
And thus the end of another book of thrill-packed episodes of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish.
Signal Caller—Harry Wright
17
Walsh Tops List in Both Leagues;
Goes Undefeated in Hall Basketball
game and the Golden Gloves. The All-Star baseball game was also an Arch Ward contribution to the sports world.
DON
It was a grand slam for Walsh in the Interhall cage league as the final standings were posted. The Walsh lights and heavies, each finished with 5-0 in league II while Sorin had the same percentage in the heavy league I and Dillon and Cavanaugh tied with 4-1 in lightweight league I.
During the past week the match games between the two leagues of each weight were staged, but as this went to press there were no results. In the final week of regular play the biggest rout was the 95-42 victory of Carroll over the Cavanaugh heavies as Sheehan broke the heavyweight scoring mark with 32 points. Thorton of the same team picked up 20 while Purcell of Cavanaugh garnered 17.
Walsh beat the Off-Campus brigade 71-40 when Doermer led the winners with 21 points but O’Connell’s 26 points for the losers was tops for the night. Other scores were.
Heavyweights
League I: Carroll 50, Breen Phillips 32; Dillon 42, St. Ed’s 24; Sorin 37, Breen-Phillips 35; Carroll 95, Cavanaugh 42.
League II: Brownson 39, Off Campus 30; Alumni 29, N.R.O.T.C. 20; Brownson 69, Zahm 38; Walsh 71, Off Campus 40.
Lightweights
League I: Sorin 26, Carroll 19; Cavanaugh 34, St. Ed’s 30; Dillon 31, Carroll 20; Sorin 23, Breen-Phillips 17.
League II: Zahm 22, Alumni 16; Walsh 44, N.R.O.T.C. 37; Brownson 2, Zahm 0 ; Alumni 27, Off Campus 19.
Standings for the season are:					
	Heavyweights				
LEAGUE I.	W. L.	Pct.	LEAGUE II.	W. L.	Pct.
Sorin		5 0	1.000	Walsh 		5 0	1.000
Carroll		3 2	.600	Alumni 		3 2	.600
Dillon 		3 2	.600	N.R.O.T.C.	3 2	.600
Cavanaugh	3 2	.600	Zahm 		2 3	.400
Breen-Phil.	1 4	.200	Brownson ..	2 3	.400
St. Ed’s 		0 5	.000	Off Campus	0 5	.000
	Lightweights				
LEAGUE I.	W. L.	Pct.	LEAGUE II.	W. L.	Pct.
Dillon 		4 1	.800	Walsh 		5 0	1.000
Cavanaugh	4 1	.800	N.R.O.T.C.	4 1	.800
Sorin 		3 2	.600	Alumni 		2 3	.400
St. Ed’s		3 2	.600	Brownson....	2 3	.400
Carroll 		1 4	.200	Zahm 		2 3	.400
Breen-Phil.	0 5	.000	Off Campus	0 5	.000
The ten leading scorers in each league are:
Heavyweights
Sheehan, Carroll __________________90
Ralph, Sorin 75
Thorton, Carroll 68
Nixson, Cavanaugh 53
Duffy, Brownson 43
Whalen, Dillon 43
MURPHY
Bersbaeh. N.R.O.T.C...............  40
Vignola, Walsh  35
Jones, Sorin  32
Mazza, Breen-Phillips ............  30
Lightweights
Platt, Walsh ______________________ 63
Hoffman, Walsh 56
Van Dyke, Walsh ___________________ 29
Weigal, St. Edward’s ______________ 28
O’Brien, Dillon ____________________27
Troy, Walsh  23
Droney, Dillon  20
Hurd, N.R.O.T.C. __________________ 21
McIntyre, St. Edward’s ____________ 20
Chaput, Brownson ________________   19
Arch Ward Praises
1942 Fighting Irish
This week the Scholastic presents another of the series of father and son sports features. Today’s guest-writers are Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, and son Tom, a Zahm Hall freshman.
Arch Ward is one of the most renowned Notre Dame alumni in the sports world. Before receiving his A.B. degree in 1921, he was Knute Rockne’s first publicity agent, serving in this capacity in 1919 and 1920. Arch Ward has been with the Chicago Tribune since 1925 and has been sports editor the past 12 years. He is the promoter of the All-Star Football
The Wards get together for a "Scholastic" feature.
Tom Ward came to Notre Dame this fall after graduating from Loyola Academy in Chicago. Tom is planning to major in Spanish.
Q. How does the 1942 team of my freshman year compare with the 1919 team of your first year at Notre Dame?
A. How do you expect an accurate answer to a question like that from the fellow’ who predicted Notre Dame would defeat Michigan, Minnesota would beat Wisconsin and the Yankees would take the Cardinals?
I probably should say that the Notre Dame team of 1919 was much stronger than the Notre Dame team of 1942. After all, the 1919 eleven was undefeated. It included on its roster some of the greatest football players of all time— George Gipp, Dutch Bergman, Hunk Anderson, Slip Madigan, Clipper Smith, Buck Shaw, Eddie Anderson, Roger Kiley, Frank Coughlin and Joe Brandy. I always have believed that the undefeated teams of 1919 and 1920 matched any Notre Dame ever has developed.
There is no way, however, of estimating the relative strength of two teams separated by almost a quarter of a century. Football itself has changed, and more important, the character of Notre Dame’s schedules has changed. Frank Leahy’s 1942 squad, which had only two (Continued on page 20)
18
"Keen
IS THE WORD
FOR THE NEW REGULATION UNIFORMS
U. S. NAVY
OF THE
We have been appointed by the Navy Department as one of the official retail distributors of the new regulation Uniforms for Commissioned Officers. ■
We're keen about the job. We like serving navy men. And we like these new uniforms. Their trim, smart lines are really keen. Navy men will like them, too.
They are quality to the fingertips—from the none-better fabrics to the know-howtailoring. And for the quality . . . the prices are exceptionally low. We ought to know about that because, in order to make those prices possible, we have
agreed to operate on a profit margin considerably below the level dictated by sound business practice.
That's all right with us. Glad to do it.
In fact, we pledge Commissioned Officers that we will give them the most skilled alterations, the fastest delivery service and all the help they need in selecting their service wardrobes.	•
Our stocks of uniforms, furnishings, caps, . braid, insignia and devices are complete at all times.
PRICES ESTABLISHED
BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
Commissioned Officers Service Blue $40
Cap Complete with 3 Covers $13.25
Commissioned Officers Overcoat $50
Commissioned and Warrant Officers Raincoat-Overcoat (with removable wool lining) $37.50
No Charge for Minor Alterations—	.
Other Alteration Charges as Approved by Navy Department
OPEN SATURDAY AND SUNDAY NIGHTS for Midshipmen
Ml ADI LR
"ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
19
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYMSHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES
. PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2674
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
. GENERAL DENTISTRY
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
defeats against it as. this interview was conducted, had no soft spots along the route. Notre Dame’s 1919 team listed among its victims:. Kalamazoo, Mt. Union, Western Normal and Morningside. Suppose this year’s squad played Kalamazoo the day it faced Georgia Tech and Morningside the afternoon it engaged Michigan? Maybe it, too, would be rated among Notre Dame’s greatest football units.
Q. Do you think Leahy made a good
N. D. Stages Real Fighting Irish Comeback;
Ties Favored Great Lakes Sailors, 13-13
PHIL KEEN
To those who are acquainted with Notre Dame football teams of past years, last week’s game was just another example of why they are called the “Fighting Irish.” Outweighed almost 20 pounds per man by a teaih of veteran professional and collegiate stars who were unscored on in six games, the underdog Irish team came from the shadows of humiliating defeat to “conquer” the Great Lakes Bluejackets, 13-13, and end a gruelling 11 game schedule with a record of seven wins, two defeats and two ties.
Seniors and probably many of the others played their last game for the Blue and Gold as 40,000 shivering fans watched the spectacle. When the two teams met in 1918 the result was a 7-7 tie. Two days after this game was played the Armistice ending World War I was signed.
The game started as another offensive demonstration of the Sailors when they took the opening kickoff and marched 72 yards for the first score of the game. The Navy defense proved just as strong as their offense as the Irish were held to a net gain of minus one yard in the first period.
The Sailors struck first, taking the kickoff on the 23 and marching 77 yards for the score. Bruce Smith and Bob Sweiger picked large chunks of yardage as they marched to the one yard marker. Smith smashed through for the touchdown. His try for point was smeared by rampaging Bob Dove. Great Lakes’ second score came early in the second period. After they had been stopped on the two yard line, Bertelli punted out to his own 30 and the Bluejackets again surged goalward. This time Steve Belichick and Ed Heffernan carried the burden, Belichick going over. Nelson added the one pointer. Bertelli, Creight Miller, Comie
move in adopting the “T” formation with a man in motion?
A. If you measure the value of a system by the record it produces, Notre Dame is doing all right with the T. I admire Leahy for having the courage to make a shift which he knew would disturb some of the old tune Notre Dame supporters. There is no one at Notre Dame more interested in developing a winning team than Leahy. If he decided the time had come to alter the old routine, his judgment is good enough for me.
Clatt and Bob Livingstone set up the lone Irish threat of the first half. The attack stalled on the Navy 25 as a fourth down pass went incomplete. It was apparent that the gas rationing was hampering the usually smooth running “Model T.”
At the half Coach Leahy refueled the Irish football machine and pointed out some methods of getting quick pick-up. The fun began a few seconds later. After Tom Miller took the kickoff on the 18, Harry Wright called for a weakside cross-buck by Mr. Corwin Clatt. Bertelli faked to C. Miller and handed it to Clatt, Murphy and Neff opened a hole in the right side for a split second and Comie shot through. Wright, White and Dove pulled out with him. Harry spilled the the first backer-up, White set another member of the secondary on the turf, Dove took care of the safety man Harrell with as beautiful a block as has ever been seen in Soldiers’ Field, and the “Moose” journeyed on across the double stripe. Bert’s try for the extra point was wide, but the Irish were just getting warmed up.
An inspired Irish forward wall stopped the sailors cold and Harrell punted to Tom Miller who was downed on the 32. Wright took a look at the defense and called a similar play with Creighton Miller taking the ball from Bertelli, instead of faking as in the last play, and broke into the secondary. Creight sent two backers-up sprawling to the ground as they tried to pull him down, Dove again blocked the last man out of the play and Mr. Miller tore across the goal line without breaking stride. John Creevey added the conversion to tie the score at 13-13.
. After this rejuvenation the green shirts held the upper hand for the remainder of the game. As the gun sounded John Creevey’s attempted field goal
20
• A hearty welcome awaits you at the OLIVER • HOTEL Coffee Shop and the Emerald Dining Room, where for years Notre Dame Men have found food and refreshment moderately priced, beautifully served in delightful environment.
Oliver Coffee Shop Oliver Emerald Room
OLIVER HOTEL, Inc.
Comer Washington and Main Streets
21
IIO-n«nU Mom
SOUTH OEHO, IHOIAHA
Bruggner's in the I. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos. Cigarettes, Pipes —Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
lYlaim amJ
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Comer has your home town papers — or will get them for you — also magazines — books, maps, and greeting cards.

BRING VOUR GIFT PROBLEMS
$
to
GLOVES
LUGGAGE
I
HANDBAGS
1 i
i I
TOILET SETS
ZIPPER BAGS
BILLFOLD SETS
MANICURE SETS
DRESSING CASES
1
I
!
I i
i
I
I
I 1 1 1
I HANS-RI NTZSCH
LUGGAGE SHOP
138 N. Michigan Street

(Continued from page 20) from the 40 yard line fell a scant five yards short of the uprights and bounced up to hit the cross bar.
Senior Bob Dove proved himself to be one of the greatest ends in Notre Dame history as he blocked and tackled all over the gridiron. Captain Murphy’s crossblock of Odson, Navy’s 250 pound tackle, sending Clatt on his way, was another of those plays that had to be seen to be believed. Yes, the Irish only tied this one, but the game is destined to go into the books as a brilliant moral victory.
Fencers Lose Close
Decision to Buckeyes
The Notre Dame fencing team opened its pre-Christmas season last Saturday shortly after the Leahy-men had trotted off the gridiron with an amazing tie with Great Lakes. Possibly inspired by the uphill fight of the football team, the fencers clung desperately to the Big Ten champions, Ohio State, only to be nosed out in the last two bouts, 14-13.
The Buckeyes jumped off to a fast start taking three foil bouts. Angel Gonzalez, Jim Madigan, and Bitsy Repilado came back to tie the score at three-all. Captain Jim Madigan sandwiched another win between two Irish losses to come out of the foil bouts with a 5-4 deficit.
Herb Melton, Dave Roney, and Gene Slevin kept the Irish within easy striking distance with wins over Hunt, Mas-sar, Crosby, and McCarthy. Entering the decisive epee bouts, the Ohio boys had a 10 to 8 lead.
Captain Madigan led off with a 3-0 win over three-weapon man, McCarthy. Gilbert boosted their lead back to two points with a tight 3-2 decision over Bitsy Repilado. John Watters and Bitsy took over here and won two of the next three points and pulled up even with the Buckeyes. With only three bouts remaining, the Madigan-Selinger duel presented all the marks of being the pressure point. The tension grew as each man scored one and then two touches. The final point was really something to witness. Both men attacked at the same instant. The fencers stepped back and watched the judges frantically search for sign of red ink as an indication of a touch. Many anxious seconds passed before the director straightened up and announced—Point— Ohio State.
The Buckeyes put the clincher on the meet in the next bout as iron-man McCarthy rang up the necessary three touches and brought victory to the Big Ten champs.
Coach Langford was well pleased with the spirit and “fence sense” exhibited by his boys and gave special words of praise
Let Wyman's be your Santa's GIFT BAG
Don't forget to buy:
MOTHER that new purse;
DAD that shirt and tie;
SISTER Virginia that sweater;
little sister Alice that doll;
BROTHER Bill that football;
and don't forget to buy HER that new perfume.
For the NAVY man, and busy student — call, write or see Joan Navarre, your personal shopper at ' Wyman's.
Phone 3-5101
WYMAN'S
DEPARTMENT STORE
On Michigan at Washington (Next to the Bank)
22
( *
AL KAVELIN and His Orchestra
9 to 1
85c per person (tax incl.)
•
PALAIS RO YALE
Michigan at Colfax
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork jusVremember this easy schedule: the first two morning ^ajns leave South Bend at 6:0(s*z c'M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 " ies past the hour. The last ’ ■'■"-'.it 11:00 P. M.
Hourly serv--^'nicago, too.
For information call
C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
to the newcomers on the squad. John Watters, in particular, with his three wins in epee, showed fine form. The three veterans, Jim Madigan, Herb Melton, and Angel Gonzalez, came up with some fine early season form and are expected to tack many points on the Irish side of the scoring ledger.
Irish Beat Broncos
In Fast Moving Battle
Western Michigan’s basketeers were defeated by the University of Notre Dame last Friday night in a heated basketball engagement, the final count being 53-35.
Last Friday’s victory left the Irish with two wins in their first attempts in the current hardwood season.
It was Frank Curran, reserve Notre Dame forward, who took the point-grabbing spotlight. He sank 13 points through the nets to edge out Gensichen, Michigan’s star, close on his heels with five baskets and two free throws.
Tom Brennan, Irish center, also turned in a whale of a game for the Fighting Irish.
In the first half the Broncos kept abreast the struggle fairly well, succeeding in tieing the score on several occasions, once surging ahead. In the final portion of the tilt however, the Notre Dame crew more than held their own and rolled up a decisive score.—J. D. Usina
Foxes Win Bowling Title;
Irish Meet Michigan
The winners and new champions of the Notre Dame bowling league are the Little Foxes, captained by G. B. Funk. The Foxes amassed a record of 19 wins and five losses for a .792 average. The Freshman Zombies were close behind with a slate of 17 wins and seven losses. John Prawdzik’s Breen-Phillips squad with a 15 and nine record entrenched themselves firmly in third place.
In the final compilation of the records in the league, Funk’s 168 average was tops. “Nib” Trimbom and Tom Halligan, with 165 and 164 respectively, finished out the Big Three. Funk also reigned champ in high series with 576. Frosh Bill Moore’s 238 was the highest single game score of the season.
On Nov. 29 Hill’s Snappy Service bowlers were knocked over by the pin artists as they failed to come within 100 points of the 2650 total piled up by the Fighting Irish bowlers. This Sunday, a truly busy afternoon is scheduled for the team. They will play a telegraphic match with the University of Michigan squad and, at the same time, match points with the Bendix All-Star women’s team. Action is to start at two o’clock in the afternoon at the Bowl-Mor alleys.
—Phil Keen
FOR ALL EVENTS
Make Your Barber Headquarters
CYR’S
South Bend’s Leading BARBER SHOP
100 South Main Street (Across from the Courthouse)
8 TO 6 WEEK DAYS; 8 TO 8 SATURDAYS
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
AL jb. flewebuf
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles Supplies
23
Philosophical Meeting
To Be Held Here Dec. 29
The Catholic Philosophical Association will hold its 18th annual meeting on the Notre Dame campus Dec. 29-30 as a celebration in conjunction with the Centenary of the University.
This is the fourth in a series of meetings of learned societies held on the Notre Dame campus in celebration of her 100th birthday. The Indiana' Academy of Science, the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, and the American Mathematical Society met here earlier this fall.
The chief address for the philosophical session will be delivered by Dr. Dietrich
Von Hildebrand, formerly of Munich University and now professor of philoso-• phy at Fordham University. Dr. Von
Hildebrand will address the group on “The Dethronement of Truth.”
This meeting at Notre Dame will be a return of the Association to the site of its first meeting after the founding of the society in 1926 at the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C.
The meeting will consist of general sessions and sectional meetings. Subjects to be discussed at the general sessions include “The Functions of Truth,” “Current Philosophies of Truth,’’ “Truth and Propaganda,” “Jftademic Freedom,” and
“The Psychology of Bias and Prejudice.” Sectional meetings will take the form of round table discussions of the problems • of truth in the fields of logic, ethics, psychology of law, and the history of philosophy.
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., prominent Notre Dame philosophy professor and author of several books including his most recent, Nova Scotia: Land of Cooperatives, is vice-president of the Association. Other officers include: Rev. Joseph A. Schabert, Dean of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., president; and Dr. Charles A. Hart, Catholic University of America, secretary-treasurer.
JUST OFF THE PRESS—
IT IS NOT TOO LATE; MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNNY ITALY
f°r
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under the new management of
Leonard and Bob
9deal GltSuAitnaA
The University of Notre Dame on the occasion of its Centenary Celebration announces the publication of

Sunny Italy Cafe
601 N. Niles Avenue
Phone 3-0678
_	__ ______________ . rvotoalf;
THE COLLECTED
OF
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Xmas Gifts on display. -
Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.
Former President of the University; distinguished educator and man of letters.
A LIMITED DELUXE EDITION
A Centenary Publication
Price $2.50
FOR VICTORY! BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS AND BONDS
24
AUTHORIZED NAVAL TAILORS
Representing M. BORN & CO.
Chicago's Largest Custom Naval Tailors
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115% “ 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs) North of Oliver Hotel, South Bend
CUSTOM TAILORED UNIFORMS AT READY-MADE PRICES!
Fit, tailoring and correction mean a great deal.
Compare Our Prices!
Blue, 16 oz. Serge Uniform_________________________$42.00
Blue, 16 oz. Lastique Uniform______________________ 47.00
Whipcord Raincoats, with detachable lining_________ 49.50 30 oz. Beaver Overcoats____________________________ 57.50
Cap and Device_____________________________$14.50 and up
2 White Twills for_________________________________$25.00
ALL ACCESSORIES, INCLUDING SHIRTS AND TIES, AT REASONABLE PRICES.
PARKER - WINTERROWD
Phone 3-6318
Open Saturday Afternoon and Evening, and Sunday Afternoon.
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
BOB KUIPERS	CAPT. GEORGE MURPHY	EDDIE DORE
114 Alumni	130 Alumni	238 Alumni
Blows and Toes Freeze at Soldiers' Field As Band Braves Ice in Final Exhibition
JACK WOELFLE
It was Saturday morning, Dec. 5, 1942. The Notre Dame band was enroute to Chicago to attend the last game of the season. Each man reclined comfortably in the plush seats of the South Shore Limited. The Limited means one drink of water to each customer. “Will we be on time mister conductor sir?” panted one timid fellow as he looked up from the brake rods on which he was riding, while trying desperately to hang on. “Ha ha” chuckled the conductor as he play
That
“Facts about
“I never saw a fighting man who didn’t cherish the very thought of
“In war, Uncle Sam restricts the supply. But there’s still enough for many refreshing pauses.”
Delicious and Refreshing
a pause with Coca-Cola, goes for workers in factories, too. Ice-cold Coke is something more than the drink that answers thirst. It adds the feel of refreshment.
1
wartime”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
fully stepped on the lad’s head. “We’re always on time, son. We never miss.” He was speaking of missing rails no doubt.
Because they had all missed morning classes the band members were busy reading. So eager were they for knowledge they literally tore the books from one another’s hands while screaming: "Come on, it’s my turn to read Superman!”
Drum major, Jim Kress, was in Detroit the day of the game looking for a White
Christmas and the baton he threw in p the air at the last home game, so the ' ■ band was without a drum major for the h game. Field Marshal von Thorsen, cham- f: pion Mishawaka blank pistol sharp shoot- £ er, (E. R. E. eye tests while you wait), had to direct the marching and formations from his position in the middle of the band. Said Thorsen: “I couldn’t see ! nothin’.” Said the band members: “We wuz cold.”	,
If you’ve ever wondered what would , happen if a real hot band ever sat on y real cold ice, we have the answer. The band gets cold and so stays the ice.
Arriving two hours before game time the band marched into the empty stadium, gazed around at the 100-odd thou- ! sand seats, pointed anxiously to the 40-yard line section, received the nod from : an attendant, and were led to their field seats on the goal line.
About six inches of very cold ice provided a novel band stand. While the boys ' warmed up on Massa’s In De Cold, Cold Ground, their feet froze on de cold, cold : ice. Half way through the game the ice 1 floe broke loose and went floating out of • the stadium. The band spent the rest of . the afternoon dodging ore boats in Lake Michigan.
The boys finally decided that enough was enough and borrowed a little hay from the side lines to warm the tootsies. Disguised members of the O.P.A. were in the audience, however, and suspecting that the hay was being used to feed hungry E.R.C. men they directed the police to retrieve it. (Any similarity | between the hay borrowed by the band members and the hay in the box-office £ was purely accidental). Hungry men w were directed to the hot dog stand. The M musicians proceeded to the stand as di- II rected and sure enough there were the !? hot dogs, all wearing N.D. T-shirts, too. p
Looking down at his feet, one lad was V surprised to see a face peering back up f at him from the depths of the crystal ‘ clear ice. Upon examining the figure • more closely he was able to see the words Good Humor on the man’s cap. In the ‘ man’s hand was a double rich super
(Continued on page 30)	‘
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN! Special Prices to Students and V-7!
American Shoe Service New, Modern Repair Shop AU work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
26
THE EARS HAVE IT
Vail W. Pischke
WSBT has dialed its way into a rather important shake-up this week-end . . . its station manager, Bob Barker, will leave the South Bend station offi-|jc|| cially today and accept another job in Dayton, Ohio, to work on a 5,000-watt station there. His successor is slated to be Mark Boyden, a swell guy. Mark’s potential cooperation with N.D.’s local campus radio department should mean an increase in programs next year. You can expect other shake-ups in the way of the announcing staff downtown, too. That’ll mean that i N.D. radio men will be asked to try out ’ for regular announcer spots soon—the ; last man to nasalite the station identifi-j cation was Floyd (“Slush”) Richards. «
; From Here and There: Sammy Kaye insists on soft music for his NBC “Sun, day Serenade”—he won’t allow any per-J cussion, except for a snare drum played i -with brushes. . . . Kaye has no bigger I fan anywhere than Bob Martina, campus | radio engineer. Soldiers writing to Dinah § Shore have promised her a picture of 5 Mussolini in jail, Hirohito’s glasses, Hitler’s mustache, a Jap sword, French per-j fume, and a German hat—lotta fighting s there, eh?
a .
§ Good for Giggles: When Duffy (from 3 the tavern of the same name) introduced I “Information Please” Clifton Fadiman tj with: “Hello, Mr. Fadiman. What do you || know—besides everything?”, or, when || Walt O’Keefe (“Battle of the Sexes”) || told about a group of soldiers that trailed
I a figure in a long black gown for about I three blocks before they found out it was | a Supreme Court Justice! Corn—marches ■ on!
Prize Boner of the Week: Stock announcer closing market report: “There . is no shortage of three-cornered pants and that’s all I have here!”, or, Phil ■ Baker saying: “This pen, built to sell for $9.75, sells for only $14.75.”
j VALLEE SHOW HITS LOWEST . VALLEY DEPTHS: But last night wit-
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
418 CHy KaUMal Bank BMr.
nessed the fourth guest appearance of Ransom Sherman to the Rudy Vallee show (NBC-9:00). We wonder why the heck Vallee’s sponsors don’t recognize a real comedian and sign Sherman on the permanent spot left by Barrymore? His humor, light and refreshing, is badly needed on the show. Speaking of gag shows, “Can You Top This” hits a differ
Switchto
MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
(GEHUIHE FILTERS FOr\ MEDICO PACKED ONLY IN I THIS RED & BLACK BOX/
iMMrvcTHwd


I—SEND YOUR BAGGAGE AHEAD —I
-AND TAKE YOUR TRAIN CAREFREE!
Don’t start for home duttered up with luggage. Just phone Railway Express and we’ll call for your trunks and bags, speed them to your home, and save you time and needless worry. Gives you more room and comfort on the train, too, to say nothing of pick-up and delivery at no extra charge within our regular vehide limits in all cities and prindpal towns.
You can send "collect”, too, when you use Railway Express. Just phone for information or service.
RAILWA^^EXPRESS
AGENCY	INC.	-
nation-wide RAIL-AIR SERVICE
ent and likeable stride in radio with its whole half-hour of nothing but gag? (heard on Sundays). A listener’s letter-suggests the topic for the next five minutes and the four gagsters on the program ad lib all the gags they can think of on that topic—if the listener’s gag gets more applause than theirs did, he gets prize money a la the easy way.
66 Baffle Filter ThrillsSmokers
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR, AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
New York—The scientific, absorbent filter has contributed mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions of men and women who have switched to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel through 66 “baffles” before reaching the mouth. Flakes and slugs are trapped; and the smoke is whirl-cooled as it winds its way through the filter.
Individually Hai to Individual Measur , .	. . I
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient ser-J vice that literally reaches from shore to shore . . .j| an advantage of great value to men on the move.j For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame maybe delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi . . . ort< New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville5.’ .	r
. . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Navall shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you? •
find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, cour-J;
• •	।	li
teous, efficient personnel to serve you.	?l
NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER'S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures navali officers the standard of quality, design and tailor
I ing that will give complete satisfaction. All Simpd son uniforms are skillfully designed for best ap-W pearance and durability and are sturdily construct|[ ed for more days of wear.	1!
NAVAL OFFICER’S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER’S WINTER WORKING
OVERCOAT
NAVAL OFFICER’S OVERCOAT S (Two-piece half belt in back)
IN SOUTH BEND - |
or Zero Deci
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., j BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANS/ WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, F
28
DRMS
of Character
t and Tailored J. B. Simpson, Inc
ir-:
e
quick and positive
all
>r»i
3 uJ
attached slide that easy to remove are
BODKIN BUTTONS with the can’t be' lost and which are so
R NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram ■ bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse, , r Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date
a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
Z inumber of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, '( Ification can always be made.
. KET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK , (j p.VAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in 3lx at minute’s time through the little pocket opening in fl ’acing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is
,-<ET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty y; It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) ; sily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
s
POCKETS; You may have regular
g
J
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 205 N. Main St.. South Bend. Ind.
Gentlemen:
NORTH MAIN STREET
side pockets or quarter preferences, as allowed
CE OF r half
ease with the old-fashioned method of leaving the open.
_ _____ top pockets in trousers. Individual .
i regulations, are followed on all personal details.


NY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
or,?

TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.)
PSON, Inc
r 1	J
TAILORS
I
I MAIL COUPON TODAY-
FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED | naval uniform unite ।
with price list and actual samples of uniform materials.
I Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of materials.
een on the Campus
Name
IS/
j AN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK.
Address
CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. ® CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
City
State
29
(Continued from page 26) creamy strawberry Good Humor. Said the band member as he beheld this gruesome spectacle: “Gee, I wish I had a double rich super creamy strawberry Good Humor.”
It was the end to a perfect season, though. As they rode back on the South Shore most of them slept the sleep of tiny babes, and all through the car a low undertone of murmurs was heard as the sleeping E.R.C. men muttered in their sleep: “Over the top men. Women and children first.”
DO YOU DIG IT?
Submitted by Mr. H. C. Cranford
* ENGLISH TRANSLATION	-
■	This lordly loon is giving talkie Tillie
PH the shush-up signal. Pepsi-Cola’s
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it, you get $10. If we don’t, you get a rejection slip. Mail slang to College Department, Pepsi-Cola Company, Long Island City, N. Y.
waiting and he’s getting thirstier by the minute. And there's a drink worth getting thirsty for.
Pepsi-Colo, is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Bottlers from coast to coast.
STRICTLY INSTRUMENTAL
Frank King
South Bend had to wait quite a spell for a really good band leader to come to town and yell, “Open Sesame” to the sealed entertainment door but when the crowd left the Palais Royals last Saturday night, there was little doubt in anyone’s mind that the man who did it was Stan Kenton. The only thing about Stan that is even remotely suggestive of “sweet” music is that he has the same
initials as Sammy Kaye. There the resemblance stops.
From the word, “Go,” Kenton and his boys stepped on the band stand and gave the swing enthusiasts the best night of entertainment that these parts have seen in a long, Jong time. Everyone has heard the expression about, “rocking the band stand” (Everyone but Woelfle); well, Kenton and his crew were really, literally doing it.
The arrangements, done mostly by Kenton himself, were solid right from the downbeat to the last bar. “The brass,” said Henry Forbes, trombone man, to me, “might not sound so good. You see, we have two brand new trombone men.” No, the brass wasn’t so good. Harry James can’t play a trumpet either. His brass attack and release were effected as one man; their volume left nothing to be desired, and the tone of the soloists, Chico Alvarez and John Carrol (trumpet) and Mr. Forbes on the trom was low-down 01* mellow with the temper of the song.
Although the brass was far above average it was the reeds which gave the polish to the outfit. Kenton’s arrangement of Manhattan Serenade, featuring a saxophone quintet of Red Doris (who also handles the male vocal spots . . . but good) Ted Romersa, Eddie Meyers, Freddie Guerrett, and Bob Gioga, was the highlight of the evening for the sax-a-fans.
The rhythm was as good as the rest of the outfit. The beat was consistent and well defined. In particular we liked the piano playing of the maestro, himself.
For once we can’t argue with Mr. Woelfle, except on the grounds that he just doesn’t get it. He mentioned last week that he still takes Mr. Dorsey (never mentioning which one), Harry James, and Alvino Rey. He takes them over Jerry Wald. Right now that may be true. All these gentlemen have very fine bands. So has Wald. He’s on the way. to fame and success, not that he is better than Harry James. Savvy?
Artie Shaw’s as yet unformed band has already registered in the Dozunbeat poll. It is in second place with 210 votes against the leading Military Band’s 220.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 128 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment*'
30
( SHORT SHOTS from I SPORT SPOTS
Bill Reynolds
, This is it—the last issue of The Scholastic that I have anything to do with—• so it is thank you and farewell. It has been a lot of fun working on the staff 1 and writing about the Men of Notre Dame. There has been some work attached to the job but it was the fellows on the staff that did most of the dirty work. They got the stories and wrote them up; all I had to do was edit their copy. Many thanks, Bill Boss, Phil Keen, Jack Denniston, Bill Waddington, Bill | Brown, J. D. Usina, Bill Carey and Don | Murphy. You have been faithful and I have done your job well. Carry on. . . .
। Thanks to you men of the interhall । .	teams who carried on throughout the
I	year, especially during the summer, giv-
*	ing us some real news about the Men of
p	Notre Dame. To the members of the
r	coaching staffs goes a vote of thanks for
l.	their wonderful cooperation. And to
Vince Commisa, who practically au-i: thored all the interhall stories. AS	-
! The man behind the scenes in all Notre Dame sports is Publicity Director Joe 1 Petritz, without whose cooperation the sports department of the Scholastic 4 would have been nil. Thanks for every-4 thing, Joe.
w Thanks to the varsity athletes for the 1 four years of wonderful entertainment, f You know, it’s a funny thing, but now that it’s all over I’m just beginning to ; realize that you men really are “Fight-j ing Irish.”
1 And to you readers, thanks a million ? for your comments and criticisms. . . .
It’s been a lot of fun.
Notre Dame men and their exploits I : won’t forget; Jim Delaney tossing the ; shot 52 fee’cj'-'Dllie Hunter, Tony Ma-'• loney and Fraok> Conforti, finishing a i 2-mile run in a dead heat; Johnny Metzger on the mound; Charlie Butler and ; Bob Rensberger cutting down the hard-| wood; Bill Fisher and Gene Fehlig on the greensward; John Peasenelli in the Seahawk game; roomies Tom Brock and j Bob Neff stopping Otto Graham and t Bruce Smith; The “Fighting Irish” that stopped Great Lakes; and on and on. . . . | Names: “Moose,” “Dippy,” “Big Lou,” i “Bert,” “Pigeon” and “Waj,” just to | mention a few.
| I have had many requests for my All-j American football. It was published long ago—in the September 25 issue of the g Scholastic. Look on page two—there it '? is, the roster of the Fighting Irish. . . . j:	So long, gang!
FIGHTING WORDS ' delivered by
Western Electric field telephones
"Get the message through!”—that’s the tradition of the Army Signal Corps. And on every battle front you’ll find field telephones, wire and switchboards right in there helping!	•
Radio telephone sets ride into battle in Army planes and tanks—in PT boats and Coast Guard craft. On larger naval vessels, battle announcing
instantly. Turning out vast quantities of such equipment is the war job of Western Electric—maker of
BellTelephones. .
Western Electric
ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS
PAUL
More than
..W
Copyright 1942, Liggett & Myths Tobacco Co.
... the milder, better-tasting, cooler-smoking cigarette
Asjain Chesterfields are out front ^vith their bright and unusually attractive Special Christmas Cartons. Send them to the ones you’re thinking of... their cheerful appearance says I wish you A Merry Christmas, and says it well...and inside, each friendly white pack says light up and enjoy more smoking pleasure. t