I
VOL. LIV.
OCTOBER 15, 1926.
No. 4.
i /
A Walk At Sunset
Gne'
Notre Dame -Scholastic hisce'Qyasi-<Semper' Victuruy -Vuz- Quasi- Cray- Moriiuruy A Literary — News Weekly

POPPIES IN HER HANDS Francis Collins Miller
The Popular Professor —In The College Parade
A Genuine Thrill “Bud” Boeringer

IS Cents The Copy
$3.00 The Year

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
ft’S
■ V	rou can bat out «
lots of good stuff with e a Remington Portable Typewriter
Portable
Sales and Popularity
IT is surprising how the Remington Portable helps with college work. Long reports, theses, and transcriptions of lectures simply roll out of this machine. You don’t have to be an experienced operator to speed up your writing to an unbelievable degree.
Your theses and reports look better, too, and quite naturally create a more favorable impression on the professors when they are written on the Remington Portable.
Weighs only 8^ pounds, net, and is the handiest, fastest, simplest to operate, and most dependable of all portables. Smallest, lightest and most compact standard keyboard portable.
$10 down and $5 monthly
Remington Typewriter Co.
209 West Jefferson St. South Bend, Indiana
ARTHUR C. HOHMANN
317 Corby Hall Notre Dame Representative
3
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	99
FOR THE DISCRIMINATING
PALAIS ROYALE BALLROOM
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
DANCING EVERY EVENING EXCEPT MONDAY -------o- MUSIC BY
Clara and Russ Ebfyer
AND THEIR
11 ENTERTAINERS

PARK PLAN DANCING
V -•	- -	-- -- ■
'r-	■	A
Grace Poise Health
POPULARITY
CORRECT DANCING
IS THE SECRET
We are recognized authorities on all forms of dancing—Ballet, Stage and Ballroom. You will make no mistake in relying upon Palais Royales instructors for the best methods in coaching you in the newest dance steps.
Palais Roy ale School of Dancing
Under Direction of Miss Mabel Barnes Studio Phone L. 2255 Home Phone L. 6037
I v ....- ■	—
IDEAL LAUNDRY
. . . This is Our J J Year Service To Notre Dame Students
100	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
TWO GOOD PLACES TO EAT—AT HOME AND AT
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
Ill East Jefferson Boulevard
The kind of Food that Suits N. D. Man’s Taste and Wallet
THE HOME OF QUALITY. WE DO OUR OWN BAKING.
SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE
BANKS
Citizens Trust and Savings Bank
SERVICE	STABILITY
LEARN TO SAVE
Jefferson Blvd.	Next to Post Office
v-	---
’ . ... —
Men of Notre Dame!
We dry-clean and press your Suit, Topcoat, or Overcoat for . . $ 1.00
HOUSE OF
Kuppenheimer Clothes
Newest Collegiate Models “See Dave and Save.1’
DAVE’S TOG SHOP
OPEN EVENINGS 115 SOUTH MAIN OPP. COURT HOUSE
OFFICE PHONE Main 0689
—
RESIDENCE PHONE Main 1162 and L 9553
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS
Dentistry
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
Extracting and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws
612 J. M. S. BLDG. South Bend, Ind.
V-	•
THE OLIVER HOTEL BARBER SHOP : : ::
Where Notre Dame men have always received special attention
IN THE OLIVER HOTEL
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	101
Miller-Mueller
Oliver Hotel Shop
/ 03 North Main Street -------o----
The Cornell
A three button straight hanging coat with notched lapels. The trousers are fairly wide. Tailored in a variety of the finest imported and domestic woolens
$48.00
---0---
New Fall Ties $1 to $3
New Knitted Ties $3 to $4.50
---o ■ ■
Imported and Domestic
Mens Wear
-
A HABIT
OF SAVING
U. of N. D. men, when you trade at Meyer’s you will find that you have cultivated a habit of saving on practically all your drug needs.
Our tremendous buying power for thirteen stores makes our low prices possible.
Save witk Safety
S. E. Cor. Michigan and Colfax
DRVG STORES
CARL D. LOVE, Mgr.
H. CLIZBE KING
The Little Dutch
“SAY IT WITH FLOWERS” OF QUALITY
Suits Cleaned.............$ .50
Suits Cleaned and Pressed . . 1.50
Topcoats Pressed............50
Topcoats Cleaned and Pressed 1.50
Courtesy and Satisfaction Guaranteed
Hotel LaSalle	Tel. 5687
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Flowers Telegraphed Everywhere
319 WEST WASHINGTON
TELEPHONE MAIN 769
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
102
The Universal Choice of University Men
COLLEGE men come to our store because they know we have what they want. And we have it in the way they want it—the right styles, the right fabrics, the right colors. See the *‘U** suit, the favored college man’s coat, made for you by
KUPPENHEIMER
O. A. CLARK LUNCH ROOMS
$550 COMMUTATION $5 Q0 — TICKETS	-
Tickets bought at the Cafeteria are good at any of the downtown locations
$50.00
LIVINGSTON’S
—THE HOUSE OF KUPPENHEIMER GOOD CLOTHES
Sophomores—are you ready for the Cotillion? Don’t fail to see the correct Kuppenheimer Tux.
WWW
O. A. CLARK LUNCH ROOMS
122 W. WASHINGTON AVENUE 104-106 N. MICHIGAN STREET 222 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 337 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 119-121 W. JEFFERSON BLVD
107 E. WASHINGTON AVENUE 321 WEST SOUTH STREET

BLACKSTONE CANDY KITCHEN
Bring the Girl Friend in FoIIow= ing the Penn State Game
Tempting Luncheons Delightful Sundaes and Sodas
BLACKSTONE THEATRE BUILDING v~	--	—
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	103
ft
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
J. A. Breig, D. M. Meinert,
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
F. J. Pendergast - News Editor Jack Mullen - - Literary Editor Franklyn E. Doan - Sports Editor
W. H. Layne Charles Reitz W. H. Layne
The Week - Music Dramatics.
John T. Cullinan
NEWS
J. P. McNamara William Craig Robert Ward John DeRoulet
Joseph Brannon
James
Roy
James Vaughan John V. Hinkel
ADVERTISING
H. McDevitt - - Local Adv. Mgr.
H. J. Noon - Local Circulation Mgr.
J. P. Hilger Foreign Advertising Mgr.
L.
R.
BUSINESS
Fatver	A. Wisda
Ziliak H. O’Bryan
H. Kelley
VOL. LIV.
OCTOBER 15, 1926.
No. 4.
INDEX
PAGE
The Week
W. H. Layne
104
Splinters From the Press Box.
Ghoul Post III.
108
The College Parade.
John T. Cullinan ...
Ill
Hobnails
Cyrano of Chicago ...
112
Poppies in Her Hands
Francis Collins Miller
113
A Walk at Sunset (Poem)
F. H. D.
116
Sport News
117
Speaking of a Genuine Thrill
“Bud” Boeringer
120
A Half a Century Back
Robert Ward
124
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section IIOS, October S, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men
104
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

THE WEEK
Founders Day proved conclusively that football players are not the only ones who can hike. Along the Niles road there were enough students to make any bus company go bankrupt. Those who sought better things were headed for the Wolverine state; others who had lost all hope penetrated into the explored portions of Indiana. It was an unusually fine day, however, and disproved the old theory about every holiday being a rainy day.
The football team with their off again gone again Finnegan tactics are appearing for the Pennsylvanians this week end. Last year this team held us to a scoreless tie therefore we have an old score to settle. Minnesota proved to be an excel1 ent practice game and verified Rock’s allusion to the smart Swedes. Nevertheless we paid dearly for the first victory and Boland and Collins will be missed in future games.
Grady’s Scribblers after announcing the annual poetry contest followed with plans for a second sciibbler book of Notre Dame copy. The plan is to have all students contribute poetry, short stories, plays, and any type of published manuscript. So ye authors who would see your name in the index of this book start out and help the Scribblers’ dream of their second publication come true.
Maurice Conley and his junior class will lure the students to the K. of C. hall Saturday evening for the football dance. And speaking of dances the plans for the sophomore cotillion are going forward in a spectacular fashion with Bill Krieg supervising activities. The pipers apparently are very popular here this fall and the dancers are eager to pay the price.
As for clubs a new birth is announced in the person of the Eastern Pennsylvania group. The Villagers met and heard Father O’Donnell and Father Farley. A joint meet
ing of the New Jersey and Metropolitan clubs is talked of for the future.
Ed. Ryan is planning the best student trip yet when the team goes up to the windy city to meet the men of the Mounted Northwestern. The Student’s Activities Council has proven itself a real asset this year and the trip plans are sure to be good. Cunningham found the grid graph in time to trace the play last Saturday and the members of the Blue Circle diligently handled the men who stayed behind.
The Band will grace the field Saturday and Bob Kirby will lift his giant limbs and swing his baton in his own inimitable manner. If the cap he wears were a bit larger we would accuse him of being Bearskin but then it only covers his head and apparently the local writer has uncovered his lately.
Backstage in the publications corner the big three are preparing for their performances. To-night the Juggler steps before the footlights and bows gracefully in the disguise of the Freshman. There are many new members to his company and the performance promises to please the most hardened critic. The Dome concentrating on the circulation and senior pictures has been at work on its one big effort. Saturday morning remains for those who have not appeared before Ruddy in person and for those who have not signed up with Frank Donovan.
The grass that grew on the path to St. Mary’s found itself pressed closely to the ground last Sunday when the first delegation of Notre Dame matinee men appeared at that popular institution. Next Saturday the grass will feel the touch of feminine feet for the football game. Then Sunday afternoon the normal conditions will again prevail.
Inter-hall football ushered itself into the crowded campus last week-end in many colored jerseys. The two halls on the West side of the campus went down to the first defeats in their history.	—w. h. l.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SCRIBBLERS TO ELECT NEW MEMBERS NEXT MONDAY
President Les Grady wielded his gavel efficiently at a well-attended meeting of the Scribblers in the Journalism Room of the Library, Monday night, October 11. President Grady, after distributing meeting-announcement cards among the members for the purpose of dissemination about the campus billboards every Monday morning, appointed a publicity committee. This committee consists of Jack Mullen, James Roy, and Leo R. McIntyre. These men are to quench the thirsty world with news of the Scribblers.
Plans were then discussed for the reception of Hugh O’Donnell, prominent Eastern alumnus, and present assistant business manager of the New York Times. Mr. O’Donnell will address the Scribblers in the very near future. President Grady assured the members that Mr. O’Donnell’s talk will be- worth while as he has been, during his still brief career, a Shakespearian actor of note, a lecturer of country-wide prominence, a former president of the Notre Dame Alumni, and present assistant business manager of the Neto York Times.
There are at present seven vacancies in the ranks of the Scribblers. These will be filled at the next meeting of the Scribblers, Monday, October 18, at 7:45 P. M. Members please note. Secretary Joe Breig requests men desirous of becoming affiliated with the Scribblers to submit an application to him, either in person or under the door of his domicile, 331 Morrissey Hall, before next Monday evening. All applications will be considered.
The Scribblers’ book of Notre Dame verse, short stories, essays, and the like, to be given to the waiting world this year for the first time, came up for consideration at the meeting. Opinion ran rampant over the name for the book and over who was to be eligible for its pages. It was tentatively decided that the work of any Notre Dame man, while an undergraduate at the University, would be eligible for promulgation in this still nameless book. Can you give it a name? A committee to select judges to
105
select the material that will go into this book will be appointed by President Grady in the next day or so.
Before the meeting adjourned for the evening, Les assigned the reading of papers at the next meeting to John Cullinan and James Roy respectively.	—l.r.m.
GEORGE N. SHUSTER WRITES BOOK
“English Literature” Publishers, Alyn and Bacon.
A long-felt want has been supplied by the publication last summer of “English Literature” by Mr. George N. Shuster, formerly head of the English Department of the University of Notre Dame. This text was intended for secondary schools, but can with profit be used also by colleges, at least as a background for a more complete treatment of the subject. The author has infused an unusual amount of interest into his stoiy of the growth of English literature from its beginnings to the World War.
Perhaps the most striking feature of the work is its value as a real history of English literature. So many other texts are merely an unrelated exposition of a given number of English authors, without sufficient background to make it genuine literary histoiy. As each author is an integral part of his own period, as well as the outgrowth of former centuries, his relation to these must be clearly traced. Of this duty of the literary historian Mr. Shuster never loses sight.
Another strong point is the author’s literary estimates. After reading an account of any given writer, the student believes he has a reliable criticism, sufficient to guide him in his own reading. And as the purpose of all literature is to interpret for its readers their own joys and sorrows, hopes and fears, and to cultivate their taste for what is refining and elevating, the study of our noble English literature must be among the most useful means of acquiring the genuine culture of an educated man. These truths the author of “English Literature” impresses upon his readers with convincing-fulness.	—BRO. ALPHONSOS, C.S.C.
106
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
LAW CLUB MEETING
The first gathering of the Lawyers was held October 8, 1926, in the court-room of the Law Building. Re-organization of the club and the adopting of the new constitution which was drawn up by the constitutional committee which includes Chairman C. J. Ruddy, Fred Ruiz, P. J. Clark, L. E. Crowley and W. L. Daily, were features.
The officers who were elected last June assumed their duties at this meeting. They are Marc Fiehrer, President; Lester Travis, Vice-President; Charles Martin, Secretary; Eugene Knoblock, Treasurer.
Plans were discussed for the first smoker of the year, which will be held in the K. of C. chambers October 15, 1926. The principal speaker will probably be Justice Hogan of Columbus, Ohio. A committee of the following was appointed by President Fiehrer to take charge of the smoker: Chairman, James P. Hanrohan; Stanley Rychowski, Samuel Privatera, Herbert Mohlman and Tom Happer.
The speaker of the evening was Professor Edwin Hadley. He gave some very interesting suggestions to the officers of the club and stressed the point to the Seniors to cooperate with the officers of the club so that this will be the biggest and best year of the Law Club.
It was also announced at this time that the Notre Dame Lawyer, a monthly publication will be issued November 1, 1926.
NOTRE DAME IN THE MAGAZINES
Notre Dame writers have been making their appearance in recent issues of the magazines in increasing numbers. Perhaps the most distinguished of late publications of this kind has been Rev. W. F. Cunningham’s paper contributed to the September issue of the new quarterly Thought, a timely and very thorough discussion of the educational question under the title “The American College and Athletic Education.” Father Cunningham’s paper could be profitably read by every man on Notre Dame campus; a reading of it would give to many something that they have not hitherto enjoyed—a clear idea of what the Catholic college is.
Recent issues of The Ave Maria have contained some of the best quatrains of the poet Father Charles L. O’Donnell, whose work, as already noted in the Scholastic, has been given appreciative recognition in the same quarterly in which Father Cunningham’s paper appears. Rev. P. J. Carroll, VicePresident of the University, has also published some attractive poems in The Ave Maria, and last week appeared in its columns with a delightful short story. Another of Father Carroll’s stories is scheduled for early publication in The Catholic World.
The last named magazine contains in its current issue an interesting literary essay from the pen of Prof. Charles Phillips, “The Epic of the Peasant,” a discussion of the writings of Reymont, the Polish Catholic novelist who won the Nobel rize for Literature last year. The same issue of this magazine contains a short story by Mr. Arthur Cunningham, formerly of the Notre Dame English department.
The current issue of The Magnificat publishes an interesting article on devotional reading by Prof. Burton M. Confrey. Mr. Confrey appears frequently in the book-review columns of The Magnificat.
ROCKNE TO BE FETED
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago has announced an informal Dinner Dance in honor of Knute K. Rockne and the Notre Dame Football Squad at the Palmer House Saturday, October twenty-third. The music will be furnished by two special, augmented orchestras. The guests of honor include Honorable Charles G. Dawes, Vice-President of the United States of America, Honorable William E. Dever, Mayor of Chicago, Walter Dill Scott, President of Northwestern University, Reverend Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C. President of the University of Notre Dame, Coach Knute K. Rockne of Notre Dame University and Coach -Glenn Thistlewaite of Northwestern University.
Looking for a needle in a bundle of straw is about as profitable as trying to find a ticket for the N. D.-Northwestern game.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
107
KNIGHTS HEAR SPEAKERS
The Knights of Columbus held their second meeting of the year in the Councils chambers in Walsh Hall, Tuesday evening, October 12. Grand Knight Bob Irminger presided.
In honor of the man for whom the order was named, the greater part of the evening was dedicated to the observance of Columbus Day. On October 12, 1492, Columbus first tread upon American soil, believing it to be that of India. * His first act was to dedicate the country to the honor and glory of Jesus Christ. Since that time, 434 years ago, October 12, and Columbus have become inseparably linked; October 12 is known throughout America as Columbus Day.
Lecturer Howard Phalin secured the services of Father Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., and Father Frank Goodall, C.S.C., for the evening. Both priests delivered stirring addresses that hit the bull’s-eye. Incidentally, both Father Mooney and Father Goodall Grand Knights of Notre Dame Council, 1477, in their collegiate days. Father Frank Goodall, Grand Knight in 1913, departed from the University late last night to devote the rest of his life to mission work among the Bengalese.
Grand Knight Irminger appointed a number of committees to act during the year. Among these was one called the Publicity committee. This committee consists of Gerald McGinley, chairman, W. W. Smith, editor of the Santa Maria, Fred Ruiz, Clarence Ruddy, and Leo R. McIntyre. The purpose of this committee is not only to diffuse news of a Knights of Columbus character, but also to appoint the staff of the Santa Maria, exclusive of the editor.
Refreshments were served at the close of the meeting. The next meeting will be held Tuesday, October 26, 1926.	—L.R.M.
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB MEETS
Plans for a holiday dance were formulated at a meeting of the Indianapolis Club at the Morningside Apartments last Thursday evening. A committee was appointed to be composed of W. H. Krieg, chairman, and Joseph P. McNamara.
WRANGLERS COMMITTEE MEETS
The Wranglers Inter-hall debate committee met last Tuesday evening and formulated plans for the league. The rectors of every hall have pledged their support to the project and from all appearances Inter-hall debating will be a huge success this year. By this time next week the various hall teams will have been picked and the Irish orators will be preparing to defend the laurels of their respective halls.
The Constitution committee has reported that a well outlined constitution is ready to be submitted to the Student Activities Council. Some of its salient features are that before a man is eligible or membership in the Wranglers he must have a scholastic average of at least eighty-five percent and must have shown his worth along forensic lines; in order to retain his membership every member must manifest a high degree of activity in carrying out the purpose of the club, the promotion of Notre Dame oratory debating.	—w.F.c.
METROPOLITAN CLUB MEETING
The Meropolitan Club, composed of eighty members, convened on Wednesday in the library in charge of President Jack Gruning for the first time this year. The purpose of the meeting was to organize the club for the ensuing year and to introduce the new members.
A discussion of the club activities for the year demonstrated the enthusiasm of the members, for self-expression of views was varied and frequent. A banquet to be tendered in co-oporation with the New Jersey Club to Hugh O’Donnell, former President of the Alumni Society, secured general approbation. This is to be given on the occasion of Mr. O’Donnell’s visit to Notre Dame later in the month. A Christmas dance advanced further into realities after it had been introduced, for discussion. After the formal introduction of the thirty freshmen metropolites to club members, the meeting was adjourned.
Submit names of Cotillion guests to Frank Doan or William Craig immediately.
108
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
|| Splinters From The Press Box |||
“When Notre Dame is able to run a Minnesota team ragged and win by a score of 20 to 7 without using more than three forward passes, none of them complete, I wonder what is going to happen to some of the enemy when the Irish get throwing the ball around?”
Warren W. Brown, who ably grinds a witmill for the Chicago Hehald-Examiner, asked that very pertinent question last Sunday. And the answer seems to be that it will be just too bad for the teams that must face a shower of passes and a basket full of thuds through the line.
-------o------
Penn State, which opposes Notre Dame at Cartier Field on next Saturday in the first intersectional combat on the Irish schedule, ran amuck against the Marietta (Ohio) College team, winning by the lopsided score 48 to 6.	.
When the Easterners stack up aganst the Gold and Blue to-morrow they’ll find the competition a little different, however. For the scoreless tie that existed last year after the teams had battled four quarters on a muddy field ought to be avenged. Most of the bugs are predicting a two touchdown win for the Irish.
-------o------
Nearly five thousand Notre Dame men and alumni were in the Minnesota stands last Saturday. And it’s said that all of them gave their vocal instruments a mighty twang when Dahman, Flanagan and Hearden cut loose with their gay parades. The Chicago Notre Dame club sponsored special trains to Minneapolis and not a few Irish students were included in the guest list.
-------o------
Little in the way of surprise was dished out to grid fans last Saturday. Holy Cross ran to a brilliant win over Harvard thereby sinking that worthy member of the Big Three into deeper sloughs. Western Conference foes, Wisconsin and Indiana found tough opponents in Kansas and Kentucky.
Being an ardent disciple of the wide famed and much derided Bearskin, Ghoul post III has a few suggestions to offer. By tieing the Notre Dame backfield’s hands or propping the line in wheel chairs at least one close game might result.
------o-------
And as Harvey Wbodiuff would say: Notre Dame 27; Penn State 3. ghoul post in.
MINNESOTA CLUB MEETS
The Minnesota Club held their first meeting of the year last Monday night in the Library. E. E. Riechert, ’27, acted as Chairman of the meeting in the absence of Joe Benda, former President, who was unable to attend the meeting.
Elections of officers were held at this meeting, and resulted as follows: President, Joe Dunn, ’27; Vice-President, John Hogan, ’28; Secretary-Treasurer, E. E. Reichert, ’27.
A committee was appointed to arrange for the first dinner of the year to be held at the College Inn, Hotel LaSalle. The committee was as follows: E. E. Reichert, L. Reagan and C. Goslin. The next meeting will be held the latter part of the month.
CONN. VALLEY CLUB MEETING
The Connecticut Valley Club held their first meeting of the year in the Law Building last Thursday night at 7:00 o’clock. At this meeting the election of officers was held with the following result: President, Donald Teehan, ’27; Vice-President, James O’Connor, ’27; Secretary, John Bresnahan, ’29 and Treasurer, Joseph Raddigan, ’29.
Plans were discussed for a dance to be given at Springfield, Mass., during the Christmas holidays. The next meeting will be held Thursday, October 28.
Vincent Carney, ’28, of Morrissey Hall has been confined to St. Joseph’s Hospital for the last two weeks suffering from typhoid fever. His condition has been very critical but has taken a favorable turn. Mrs. Carney of Rochelle, Ill., has been at her son’s bedside for the last week.
DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE
AT PALAIS ROYALE MONDAY
Elsie Janis, who will make her debut as a concert artist in South Bend at the Palais Royale next Monday, the eighteenth, will present a program that will include some of the best things she has ever done in her long career in the American theatre. This great international star, for she is just as great a favorite in London and Paris as she is in this country, has prepared a program consisting of her famous imitations of well known men and women, character songs and costume dances, three divisions of the theatre in which she especially excels and which formed the foundation for her present enviable reputation. Miss Janis will be assisted by four artists of the concert stage, thus blending the light lyric stage with the concert platform, an ideal concert for the general public.	—C.A.R.
AKRON CLUB MEETS
The Akron Club held its first meeting last Friday. Activities for the coming year were discussed, and a formal Christmas dance was decided upon. The membership has been augmented by the following new members : Howard O’Brey, Andrew Snyder, Thomas Clark, Eldred Vaughn, Gilbert Keeney, Frank Kaufman, Roy Bennett, Karl Weigand, Edmund Heinderscheid and Arthur Erra.
The officers of the club are: Glenn Smith, ’27, President; Charles McGuckin, ’28, VicePresident; Richard Brady, ’28, Secretary; and Claude Horning, ’29, Treasurer.
The next meeting will be held in the Law Building October 15, 1926.	—G.s.
TO FEATURE NOTRE DAME
Mr. James O’Donnell Bennett of the Chicago Tribune visited Notre Dame last Monday to gather material for a feature article for his paper on the University. Mr. Bennett has writen several very interestingarticles on the principal points of hstoric interest in the Mddle West. This is his second visit to the University, the first occurring on the occasion of the celebration of the Diamond Jubilee.
109
THE NEWS STAND
The old News Stand has seen things in her years. Yes, and made history too. Through her door have streamed the countless students that prepared at Notre Dame. She has seen them in their embryonic stage as a minim, she saw them in High School, in College. She has seen them come in with their sheep skin under their arm for a temporary parting. She has seen them come back for games and for visits, some of them prominent, some mediocre, some dismal failures. She catered to them all when in school and when they came back—soldiers, sailors, bankers, attorneys, priests, globe trotters, coaches, lovers—of such has been her shifting population.
With the graduation and the freshman registration year in and year out so came the change in periodicals. The war magazines and the western story have given way to Harpers, Atlantic Monthly, Cosmopolitan and Red Book. Of these the Cosmopolitan is the favorite. Then comes the demand for humor with Judge and Life the most popular. The less expensive, those that are smothered with smatterings of advertising from the first page to the last, such as the Post and Liberty, are the best sellers.
The News Stand is a little Emporium in itself. Although only a room about eight by fourteen they handle everything fit to read. They have the agency for any book or periodical one may want. They can get one his home town newspaper whether he lives in Southhampton or South Bend. They handle suit case stickers, seals, Domes, Jugglers, Scholastics and dance tickets. They solicit the aid of both Professor and Student in the completion of their periodical lists.
They have the agency for Dr. Cooney’s Hills of Rest and Charles Phillips The Doctor’s Wooing. And the last reports are that some of Fr. Carroll’s books will be on sale there in the near future. Fr. Carroll will be remembered as the sure fire humorist who conducted the “Safety Valve” last year.
Who has the topcoat that was missed at the Scholarship Club dance? Please return it.
110
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ENGINEERS INITIATE NOVICES
Last Thursday night the gymnasium was the impressive setting for the annual initiation of the Engineer’s Club. Before an audience of several hundred, including members of the faculty, the technical novices made their formal entry into the organization.
The spectacle opened with the majestic entry of “Frenchy” Dohogne, as King Entropy III. His Highness was borne on a litter past the cheering bleachers of upper classmen whom Mr. Kirwin led in the traditional salute of “Screws-nuts-bolts gears! Notre Dame... Engineers!”
The potentate then gracefully ascended his towering throne, grasping a T-square as the sceptre of power.
The freshmen were introduced in classes of ten before the royal presence for judgment which was in most cases unfavorable. The condemned were assigned to various ingeniously contrived tortures that indicated the extensive practice of the theories of physics and psychology gleaned in the classroom.
After freshmen were thus ungently greeted by their elder brethren, President Bob Hennes welcomed the new members and introduced Father Steiner, Assistant Dean of the College of Engineering and Architecture, who congratulated the club on the success of the initiation and suggested the practical value of the organization.
The enthusiasm of the assembly was increased by huge quantities of doughnuts and a barrel of cider, and even the initiated forgot the past ordeal in the pleasures of repletion.
The officers were aided in the work of initiation by a committee headed by Pat Size; the tickets had been disposed of through the efforts of Joe Della Maria and his assistants. The food was secured by John Brinkman with the aid of Tom Kenny and R. G. Lopez.
Entertainment for coming meetings is already being planned by Herbert Brawn, chairman of the Program Committee.—R H.
SOPH COTILLION NEARS
You had bettter take the moth balls out of the tux, send the stiff front to the laundry, and send home for a few iron men to guide you through the Sophomore Cotillion because it is not many weeks now until four hundred couples will be doing the “Lowdown” and the “Charleston” to the sway of either Ted Weem’s Victor Recording Band, Chalie Davis’ Collegiates or Coon Saunder’s Night Hawks. Just where the merry makers will hold their fray is undecided but it will be either at the Knights of Columbus ballroom or the Palais Royale. All committees are in activity and as sure as we have weeping skies in South Bend, the . dance will be a well arranged affair. Charles Campbell, of the Juggler art staff, has been added to the publicity committee, Chairman Kreig announced Tuesday. Tickets are now on sale and may be purchased from the following men:
Sophomore—Bums and Diebold.
Day Dogs—Butler at the Day Dog office, or Stanton.
Carroll and Brownson—Sebesta.
Lyons and Morrissey—Clements.
UNIQUE SERVICE HELD
An impressive service was held in Sacred Heart Church Tuesday evening, when official farewell was given to three members of the Congregation of Holy Cross who are soon to leave for foreign mission service in Bengal, India. The three men, Father Goodall, Father Switalski, and Brother Andrew, are graduates of Notre Dame. The service began with a farewell talk given by Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C. The three missionaries then took the vow, and Benediction was sung. Father Goodall gave a brief farewell address for the small band. Fellow missionaries then filed past the three departing members who stood at the foot of the altar and bid them their last farewell. A procession of seminarians brought to a close this rarely seen service.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
111
THE COLLEGE PARADE	By John T. Cullinan
0 yez! O yez! The secret of faculty popularity has been wormed from the Northwestern University “Scrawl,” taking as its form the “Song of the Popular Professor.” But the writer failed to include dancing ability. However this art was placed on exhibition last year by a member of the Notre Dame faculty who appeared at the Sophomore Cotillion in the guise of a patron. What pathos! Draw up your chairs:
"I’m the popular professor of the universitee, And I’m known among the students for my per-sonalitee.
When my lectures are concluded loud applause is always heard,
I infer such popularity surely must be deserved.
Of the classes on the campus, none’s a fifth as large as mine
Which proves that all the virtues of five teachers I combine.
If a popular professor you have any wish to be (The method is quite simple), take these formulae from me:
Dismiss five minutes early and arrive five minutes late;
Have your hair made sleek and curly, and wear clothes right up-to-date.
Tell the class about your tennis games and pastimes energetic,
Or any other apple sauce to make you seem athletic; Be ready to emit a joke at slightest provocation, . But never to the subject let it have the least relation.
All these precepts closely follow, and I’ll guarantee you’ll be
The most popular professor of the universitee.”
*
BULL-ETIN—A new system of not requiring class attendance, quizzes, or final examinations from superior upper-classmen, established this year at the University of Wisconsin, will be adopted by the University of Notre Dame tomorrow.
* * * * *
A school court to regulate student drivers has been established at the University of Ohio where the problem of campus traffic has become most acute. Restricted areas will house the parked cars and fifteen miles an hour has been designated as the speed limit. Those who would speed will find themselves caught in traps which have been set at all entrances to the campus. Fines
and penalties are alloted each week at the campus court session, and second offenses will result in administrative action. And now, my dear radio friends, w’e have told you where the Ohio collegians were given their first practical lesson in the bribing of court officials.
* £ * *
Unless a university professor writes a book, he is not a true master. To earn his one hundred dollar salary increase, Dr. J. Erp of Antioch College has compiled facts which have been published under the title “The Burning Shame.” Shades of Madame Elinor Glynn! These conclusions are drawn from the work of the eminent anti-nicotine advocate:—Do not inhale. It is injurious to scholarship. The statistics which he has crammed into the book overwhelmed us. “Last year enough forests were burned (because cf carelessly thrown cigarette or cigar butts) to make all the cigar boxes for the next generation.—A man’s home is his castle. If he wants to smoke there, strewing it with ashes and butts, making the lace curtains smell, to say nothing of his wife and kiddies, he ought to be allowed to do so. So they say—It is getting so that a right thinking man or woman cannot stroll down any street without having smoke puffed in his or her face by passers-by. Youth with tobacco stained fingers and vests gather on street corners and crack jokes at the expense of passers-by—Recently a man gave an endowment of $100,000 to Columbia University to endow a chair of chemistry. He had saved EVERY CENT OF THAT $100,-000 by not smoking.” Truly, this is a remarkable contribution to science. Where is Antioch College? I don’t know.
Jjs
The sons of Anton Lang and Joyce Kilmer have matriculated at Holy Cross College as first-year men. The fathers of both these students have been representative men in the Collegiate world—the one “Christus” of the “Passion Play,” the other a distinguished poet.
112
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VALUES
Everything and nothing, How tiny is the barrier That lies between!
Everything and nothing, The skies are so blue The fields so green!
I have everything, So my friends all tell. What can they mean?
I have nothing,
Since you went away, Who were my queen.
—FRANK CONNELLY, ’29.
Dere sur: i see where youse are lookin fer a bozo what kin pervoke the birds wot study here and the Seenyers, to heelarius laffter.
Well, as wun uv our uther grate men of this glawrius nashun wunce said, wen his meal-ticket asked him who worked out on the famly cherry tree, “I’m the guy.”
Wy, I hev been praktikully all ovur this spashus campus struttin my oats, spechully at a joint that they call sophemore hall and wich is inhabinated by freshmen wot passed there exams last June. In addishun I hev added tew my collection of art, fotos of Nute Rockne, the base, basket, foot, and eight ball teams, not to menshun a few missalai-neus artikels such as paying pew rent for my radiator (a nice bozo sold me one cheap for five bucks) and several uther valuible hairlumes.
I hope nun of dese wise krackers try to haize me. I mite get mad and bite there eers off. I’m tuff, I am. I remain,
'	—CANADA CAL.
REMORSE
Come back, come back, 0 you of gentle heart: And save me from the- agony of this—	•
This knowing that forever I shall miss
Your quiet smile, that of my soul was part.
Still, I remember (O, the terrible thought) The biting words that must have cut your heart, The foolish sneer that selfish I thought smart, Nor did I sorrow for the hurt Rd ivrought.
You stand there in the corner; nozv youfre gone.
I thought I caught the shadow of that smile: ’T was but a haunting phantom in a brain, Which begs, “Come back, if only for a while— “Return from happiness, that I may live “I die unless I knoiv that you forgive.”
—KOH.
SELF-PORTRAIT
The life of an idealist is almost certain to be essentially tragic. In his attempts to follow the dictates of something, an unknown something, within him, he runs counter to the whole world. If he compromises with the world, he is lost, for the world may accept him, but he can never again enjoy true peace of mind. If he sticks to his guns and tries to find in himself that which he will never find in others, he may succeed. In order to do this, however, he must be perfectly self-sufficient. Otherwise, he will be continually thinking that he has found another idealist, only to be rudely awakened by the other’s unguarded laugh. Blows will fall heavily upon him, and he will die at last, no longer an idealist, but a hardened cynic, who guffaws loudly at the things that the world pretends to hold sacred.	—THE boob.
THE MIRROR
When I visited the great city of Pekin, I went to the zoo.
At the monkey cage, Stood many people, staring. Ha! Ha! said a man, Pointing at the monkeys; Did you ever see anything, So funny?
—LI CHAN.
A word to the contribs: if they want their work published for any particular time, let them be sure to have it in at least a week in advance. We have had several contributions with special requests attached, but because “Hobnails” must be ready for publication early, we were unable to comply. Try to have the colyumists staff of life in by Friday.
QUATRAIN
Dancing eyes that flash a challenge back, Sharp as a knife that thirsts for blood and life;
A look of conquest—triumph—and good night: I’d rather dare the searching of the knife.
—CORNELIUS SHEA.
i
I
Heroism is one of those things of which one hears much and sees little. We think we saw a bit of it Saturday when Joe Boland, being carried off the field on a stretcher, with the terrible pain of a broken leg racking his great body, sat up long enough to shout a parting “Hold ’em” to the team!
—CYRANO OF CHICAGO.
r
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
113
LITERARY
Poppies In Her Hands
Old Lovers Meet and Part Again
FRANCIS COLLINS MILLER
EDUARD accepted the invitation to her dinner party because he was gracious and benevolent of heart. It twinged him excessively to pain anyone. He heartily abhorred the anguishes that survive certain social contacts. So he decided to go to her party.
Aside from his benignance Eduard Garber was a severe young man. He was particularly censorious of himself when he accepted Mrs. Enid Billings’ invitation. He had once been madly in love with Enid . . . for eight months he had literally worshipped her. Suddenly this love had gone cold. He ceased to care. Opportunely, then, he dashed off to India.
It was quite true that Enid was hurt: she was prostrate. But she got over it, it seems. That was fifteen years ago. By way of direct retribution she immediately married Herbert Billings, the pork-packer king . . . and had the audacity to send Eduard an invitation at Calcutta.
When he came back to the States he avoided her. Only occasionally had he glimpsed a word of her activities in the society columns of the daily press. If Enid attended the opera on Thursday with her husband, Eduard went on Tuesdays. He was careful about it . . . his utter indulgence again.
But one dark afternoon in October a note came to him at the club. It was an invitation to a little party from Enid. It startled and disconcerted him but he insanely accepted. His reply was always curt: it covered only the formality of acquiescence.
That evening as he was reading more or less disinterestedly from a volume of Wilde he came on a passage that impressed him
with its acid veracity. Lord Henry Wotton said it. No one else could have. It semed to fit his lordship’s mind precisely. It had exactly the tone-color of Eduard’s own cynical complex at the moment: “The people who have adored me have always insisted on living on, long after I had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me. They have become stout and tedious, and when I meet them they go in at once for reminiscence. That awful memory of woman I What a fearful thing it is! . . . Life has always poppies in her hands. I once wore nothing but violets all through one season, as a form of artistic mourning for a romance that would not die. Ultimately, however, it did die. I forgot what killed it. I think it was her proposng to sacrifice the whole world for me. . . . Well—would you believe it?—a week ago, at Lady Hampshire’s, I found myself seated at dinner next to the lady in question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and digging up the past, and raking up the future. I had buried my romance in a bed of asphodel. She dragged it out again, and assured me that I had spoiled her life. ...”
Stupendous. Edward was going to Enid’s dinner party. She would be flaccid, voluptuous? Would the years that had dealt ever so delicately with him have marred her with the rude searing of its hand ?
Would she accuse him of ruining her life by forcing her to pick up a greasy porkpacker who had two millions and a Park avenue residence but scarcely an iota of culture? Would she resurrect the old ghost of their love and parade it like a spectre the whole evening? She might kill him! She might
114
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tear .his hair out! Old Billings. . . what would he say? Eduard imagined Billings to be a man of heavy parts... vastly gruff and uncouth, bald as a cue ball, with fat, puffed hands and diamond studded shirt front. Terrible. She should have killed herself when he threw her over. Instead she had lived on and become, (he imagined) matronly and fat.
II.
In a certain well appointed house on Park avenue that same evening Herbert Billings was casually observing the typed list of fourteen names that Ms wife’s secretary had carelessly left on Enid’s dressing table. At the top was scripted: “For Dinner Thursday.”
There was Professor and Mrs. David Wolfe, the sociological authority. Mr. Billings smiled indulgently. There was Tom Carleton, Eddie Reneaux, Mary de Haven, Violet Evans (You know, the Hydrox Soap Evanses) and a number of others that were usual. One name, however, he failed to recognize. It was that of Eduard Garber. Billings attempted to recall ever having met any Garber. There was an engineer of that name that gained not a little fame in India by his irrigation schemes. Billings had never met hm; his wife, as far as he could remember, had never spoken of any such chap.
Enid and Herbert dined alone that evening. Herbert Billings did not resemble the popular conception of a pork-packer king. He was not pudgy... contrarily rather thin; he was not in the least bald. In fact, he had quite a youthful thatch of virile pubescence, carefully groomed into a slick, shiny mass.
Against the oaken background of the paneled dining room illuminated only by candle light—Enid had a passion for candles—he was astoundingly handsome.
“My dear,” he said, tasting his broth with cultured exactitude, “I fail to recognize the name of Eduard Garber, the chap you have included for dinner Thursday. No difference, you know... you’re always bringing in bright people. No doubt he is a great bug-ologist or something.”
Enid was not annoyed. Queerly enough, she did not choke or cough as one would be
ready to believe at the disentombing of an old flame. She said simply: “Why, Herbert, I thought you had heard of him. He’s done a lot in India—reclaimed thousands of acres there through irrigation projects. He’s at the Yale Club now—a Yale man, you know. I knew him ever so well when I first came out.”
“Oh, yes, you knew him in his Yale days, eh?”
“Precisely—we were in love once.”
“How interesting.”
“You see,” Enid explained. “I haven’t seen him for years. Fifteen to be scrupulous. I saw his name in the paper the other day. Once I fancied that he had broken my heart. I am faintly curious to find out about him— to see what he looks like. One is curious about those things. He isn’t married.”
“Probably soured and very much grape-fruity,” offered Mr. Billings as the butler took away the soup plates.
“Oh, no, Herbert,” said Enid. “I think Eduard will be nice and jolly—quite heavy and pursy, If I may say it—with a chubby r ed nose. His nose used to be so cute, turned up at the end—but a fat nose that turns up, ridiculous! He will probably talk of buildings and Byzantine arcMtecture all evening. I expect to fiind him quite hairless on top and very clean-shaven. He had almost no beard.”
“I wonder how he will imagine you, my dear. He will expect you to be gross—porkpackers’ wives are supposed to be that way, you know.”
“Eduard would be too artistic for that,” Enid defended. “He will imagine me much as I am. He always said I would grow old gracefully and beautifully.”
“At least, my dear, the dinner will be one of moment. At least we will be expectant. We will revel in conjecture. Perhaps we shall be bored afterward.”
“Herbert, don’t say that,” Enid said petulantly. “Eduard is a brilliant talker—at least, he was in his student days. And he went in for sailing and rowing and football and all of those things.”
“I doubt it,” Mr. Billings insisted intrepidly. “We shall most assuredly be bored. I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
115

o
know those chaps. They grow old like alligators—their skin toughens 1”
5 III.
Due largely to the fact that Eduard had what might have been styled a pragmatic mind he had formed a definite theory of the whole business: this going to a party was a form of necromancy to him... palely indicative of the magic of russet romance.
The Billings doorman was debonair, Eduard observed, as pork packer’s doormen were. The footman was condescending when he took Eduard’s hat and stick—an enigma of modern servility.
Eduard had abandoned the habituality of being punctually a half hour late, as was the vogue a few years back in swank sodality. He arrived precisely at seven.
If one has a sense of drama one will be able to appreciate the dramatic qualities of this meeting—after fifteen years. The ideas, firmly defined and so grotesquely false, intensified the poignancy of the situation. Enid expected to find Eduard obese, bald, and jolly; Eduard anticipated Enid to be very plump and frightfully boring, as he also looked forward to discovering Herbert Billings jowley and greasy. We have heard how Billings expected to find Eduard.
Here it is.
“Not Eduard!... my dear!” This from Enid as she saw Eduard approaching in a smart Booksie dinner suit, debonair as a modem Beau.
“Of course... and you are Enid... no change at all . . . really more delightful.” This from Eduard.
“I’m really fascinated to have you come to my dinner, Eduard. Quite post-romantic. And you’re just as I expected. The same dear Eduard—more polished, though.”
“Well—you see, I’m browner and darker, perhaps, and thinner, too. Indian characteristics. But you’re lovely, Enid. I had ideas you would be. Enid would. You’re very beautiful.”
“Now Eduard — you will reopen old wounds.”
She paused and half turned.
“Let me introduce you to the guests,” she fluttered, taking his arm.
Just then Billings came out of the billiard room.
“Herbert, my dear. This is Mr. Garber. An old friend, an intense friend. Eduard, my husband.”
For the second time Eduard saw his theories crushed into a tumult. ,
It was an excellent dinner. But Eduard did not grow eloquent over it. The food was vapid to his palate. He felt as if someone passed a vinaigrette bottle under his nostrils between every bite, leaving an acrid taste in his throat. He was a physician who could not determine his own sickness; a magician who could not fathom his own puzzles.
He was aware only of her proximity. The case had been quite reversed. She had reopened all of the old wounds in him. Like a titanic flash the realisation of reawakening love spilled over foaming. In the interim of a few moments he had tumbled into infatuation. The woman he had cast away had floated back like flotsam from the breast of the sea of life.
They talked a great deal: most commonplace absurdities. No need to quote, for it was of no matter. What they thought was emphatic and compelling.
“I wonder if pork-packing is a happy business,” he asked, mentally trembling, and sought her’ hand under the table.
“Yes—so very thrilling—the glamour of it, so very thrilling,” she answered and did not draw her hand away. ’
IV.
After cigars and coffee there was billiards and bridge. Eduard preferred bridge because he wished to be near Enid. Mr. Billings preferred bridge too: perhaps he suspected.
Eduard cut Enid a partner. As he played he observed her closely across the table.
“You have shiny hair,” he said to himself. “You are enticing, you are alluring. You are the Enid I loved fifteen years ago. I fancy you love me more more now than ever. And I think that I love you again. But since you are Enid you will be cool by being over-emo
116
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tional—you will bash me on the face with your surfeit of affection. In a few moments I shall begin to experience an alteration of feeling toward you. By the time the evening is over I shall violently detest you. You will be the same Enid I now love but still I will detest you again as I did when I first loved you. Because you are Enid I will detest you!”
These idiosyncrasies streamed banner-like across his sub-conscious mind as he made conversational pleasantries.
He began to lose interest in the game and Enid. His scientific turn of mind forced him to notice a beautiful Florentine cabinet, made of ebony, inlaid with ivory ... an exquisite thing.
When the rubber was over he begged to be excused.
“I should like to examine your cabinet, old man,” he said to Billings.
“Why, of course, Garber. I’d be glad to show you.”
Billings took him by the arm and led him to the object.
Enid couldn’t understand. Her eyes followed him.
Enid was surprised that she had even so ?nuch as dared to forget Eduard. All the fires of her being called for him. Billings’ handsome head revolted her when she compared him with Eduard. She resolved to have Eduard at all costs, however unethical they might be.
Eduard avoided her the rest of the evening. He played billiards with Jimmie Johnson.
Consumed with her enthusiasm Enid was
very attentive. She endeavored by every subterfuge to be near him ... to be near him alone.
After eleven some of the guests began to take leave. Eduard solemnly called for his stick.
“My dear fellow,’ he said to Billings. “I am quite delighted to have been to dinner with you and Enid. Quite extraordinarily delighted.”
He took Enid’s hand. She pressed his palm and looked up into his eyes.
It hurt Eduard tremendously to have to say what he was about to say.
Billings turned aside to talk to Harvey Frank.
Enid took advantage of it.
“Eduard... can you come to see me tomorrow at three? I’ll be lonely . . . and I want to talk to you so/”
He gazed at her coldly.
“I am afraid, it will be quite impossible, Enid .. . quite impossible. An engagement.”
“Then Monday afternoon,” she whispered.
“Sorry .. . I’m so busy these days.”
He said it frigidly, and so loudly that Billings heard. Enid drew her hand away, stung to the heart.
Eduard went out of the door, aware that Dismay yawned openly and dismally behind him.
As he rode home these words kept swirling madly in his mind: “That awful memory of woman! What a fearful thing it is! Life has always poppies in her hands ... in her hands ... in her hands!”
A WALK AT SUNSET
The trees are black against a brilliant purple sky. Two cloudy dragons creep malignant on the droivsy South, their glowing bellies lighting all the earth. The trees are black against a darkling purple sky.
The stars are fireflies in a glowing velvet night, Or holes in lieaven, with God’s glory shining through.
The bashful, golden, neiv-moon gleams, a weddingband
On the bridal hand of night,
And all the earth is peacefill as my heart.
—F. H. D.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
117
SPORT NEWS
Rockmen Hew Way to Win Over Gophers, 20-7
Any fears that Notre Dame’s football standards will not be ably supported this year were forcibly dispelled in the minds of 55,000 gridiron fans who watched a bronzed Irish crew plunge, batter and hew its way through a determined Minnesota eleven to win, 20-7 last Saturday.
Notre Dame’s victory was brilliant. Taking advantage of breaks in a smart manner the Irish eleven ran and plunged its way to three well merited touchdowns and tightened suffi-
joe boland ciently on the defense to hold the fighting Gophers to a lone tally.
A colorful crowd packed every nook and cranny of the spacious Minnesota Memorial Stadium to view the biggest game of the week and although that crowd was on edge for the first half, while the Gopher fought tooth and nail against its foe, it relaxed a bit in the latter part of the game for the outcome was not then in doubt.
Notre Dame’s victory was shadowed by a grim spectre of tragedy that stalked into the camp of the Gold and Blue. For Joe Boland, huge tackle whose play to date had been of the sensational variety, and Freddie Collins, fleet-footed fullback, were carried from the field early in the game with serious injuries. Boland suffered a double fracture of the leg and Collins had his jaw broken. It is probable that both men will be out for the remainder of the season.
INJURIES INSPIRE IRISH
But the misfortune which alighted so forcefully in the Irish ranks served to inspire the Notre Dame eleven to play a brand of football that caused observers to wonder if the Four Horsemen and Seven Mules might not be equalled after all.
Minnesota, suffering yet from the bitter sting of a 19 to 7 defeat plastered on it almost a year ago, had gone into the game with the blood flowing in its eyes and looking for a fierce air attack was surprised to find the Irish machine ploughing through on land. For a half the ploughing was a bit off-color but once it had stai-ted its results were devastating.
The fortunes of the game were decidedly against the Irish in the first quarter. After kicking off the Rockmen were thrown on the offense by a Minnesota punt and found themselves stalled on their own 31 yard line. It was the punt play that occasioned Boland’s injury, for the giant lineman rushed in to block the kick and in an odd manner had his leg severely twisted.
A moment later Collins attempted a slice off guard, and, running higher than usual, clanked his jaw on the head of Herb Joesting, Minneapolis fullback, who was backing up the line. Collins, too, was carried off the field and Wynne substituted for him.
But the panic that must have run the Irish ranks was turned into glory for plucky Ray Dahman grabbed the ball apparently to plunge a few yards off tackle, but finding the Minnesota defense well scattered he weaved for 65 yards through eleven tacklers and planted the ball for the first touchdown. It was a brilliant run and Niemic added to the beauty with a perfect goal.
BATTLE EVENLY FOR HALF
For a period and a half the two teams battled hard but the defenses were so impregnable that little headway was made. Centered around Barnhart and Joesting the Minnesota offense repeatedly hit the line but the Irish forwards were always alert when danger impended. Much of the fighting was done in the Notre Dame sector, Barnhart’s
118
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
fine punting keeping his danger zone cleared most of the time.
Late in the second quarter Minnesota began a concentrated drive that brought fear to the hearts of Irish followers. After an exchange of punts Minnesota had the ball on its own 45 yard line when Geer, Gopher utility quarterback, slipped a bullet pass to Wheeler, Minnesota captain, who took the oval on a dead run and sprinted 25 yards for a touchdown. Peplaw kicked goal, tie-ing the score.
Minnesota faced a different Irish team at the opening of the third quarter. Working with a pretty rhythm the Irish bore down on the northerners for two touchdowns and so clear did they keep their own territory that the Minnesota eleven rarely threatened.
Soon after the third quarter had begun Chris Flanagan, still believing that one might as well do a job up in a hurry and have it finished, guided his phantom shoes around the entire Gopher team and wound up 65 yards in the distance, beyond the Minnesota goal. He missed the goal.
Still seeing that a tie or victory was possible, the Spearmen opened their bag of tricks, trying everything from bucks and short end runs to passes but Notre Dame was there to plaster anything that might start.
HEARDEN SCORES THIRD TOUCHDOWN
“Red” Hearden, not to be outdone by his contemporaries, slipped on the lightning shoes in the fourth quarter and after a 20 yard run to Minnesota’s 15 yard line, grabbed the ball and made the remaining yardage necessary for a third touchdown. Nie-mic kicked the goal. The score was 20 to 7 which was highly sufficient for the repressive heat made further driving impossible.
Late in the game Minnesota wilted under a terriffic drive that Notre Dame unleashed but O’Boyle’s fumble in scoring territory took away the chance for a three touchdown victory.
Flanagan and Dahman were undoubtedly the big guns of the game. Not were their long runs alone sensational but their all-around play thrilled the assemblage. Boerin-ger’s work on the line was outstanding, es
pecially when one considers that he drove through the entire tilt without a letup.
Grid experts were unanimous in stating that Notre Dame’s victory was a remarkable one. Not only did it savor of strength that may wade through eight more contests without a reverse, but it also showed clearly the power in the Irish running attack.
The lineup and summary:
NOTRE DAME (20)	MINNESOTA (7)
Voedisch______________L.E..____________Tuttle
Boland ______________L.T____________L. Johnson
J. Smith______________L.G._____________Hanson
Boeringer_______________C___________Hulstrand
Mayer________________R.G.,______________Walsh
McManmon_____________R.T_________________Gary
Maxwell _____________R.E____________Wheeler (c)
Parisien_____________Q.B_______________Nydahl
Niemic_______________L.H_____________Barnhart
Dahman ________________R.H___________Arendsee
Collins _____________F.B_____________Joesting
Referee: Walter Eckersall; umpire: A. G. Reid; field judge: Col. H. B. Hackett; head linesman: H. G. Hedges. -
Touchdowns: Dahman, Wheeler, Flanagan, Hearden. Point after touchdowns: Niemic, 2; Peplaw. Substitutions: Notre Dame—Miller for Boland; Wynne for Collins; Edwards for Parisien, Hearden for Dahman; Flanagan for Niemic; Wallace for Maxwell; R. Smith for Mayor; Leppig for J. Smith; Poliski for McManmon; Walsh for Voedisch; McNally for Edwards; Riley for McNally; Hurlbert for Voedisch; O’Boyle for Wynne; Benda for Wallace; Fredericks for Boeringer; Chevigny for Hearden.
Minnesota—Almquist for Nydahl; Riddel for Arendsee; Strand for Walsh; Geer for Barnhart; Peplaw for Almquist; Mulvey for Hulstrand; Ka-miniski for Hansen; Bluster for Tuttle; Maeder for Geer; O’Brien for Riddell; Meili for Strand; Meili for Hansen; Haycroft for Wheeler.
—F. E. D.

NITTANY LIONS SET FOR
CRUCIAL IRISH STRUGGLE
As ferocious a den. of lions as ever growled for prey will be headed westward to-day bent upon spoiling a record that is cherished by Notre Dame men as a tradition—a record of twenty-one unbeaten years on Cartier Field.
The lions are those of Old Nittany, and decked in the loyal blue and serene white of Penn State, they are prepared to defend the laurels of the east in one of the first
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	119
big intersectional games of the current season.
At their helm is Hugo Bezdek, the grizzled master of punt and pass and buck, whose name is synonomous with the best in modern football.. Crafty and agile teacher that he is, Bezdek has drilled into his proteges a finesse which he hopes will carry them to a splendid victory over the Fightin’ Irish.
Nor will the Nittany Lions find a passive host when they take the field before 30,000 fans who are coming from east and west to witness the colorful struggle. Having smelled the savory odor of fresh blood the Rockmen are wild for conquest and upon the men of Penn State will rest the task of stopping them.
WOULD AVENGE 1925 DEADLOCK
Memories of a clouded November afternoon in 1925 and of a muddy, sloppy gridiron at State College, Pennsylvania have been running through the minds of the Fightin’ Irish all week. But more important yet the memory of a scoreless tie has been haunting them. Time after time the Notre Dame eleven of 1925 threatened to pounce down on the Penn State goal line but always just an ounce of punch was lacking. And to-morrow the Irish go out to show a supremacy that has lain idle for a year*
Astonishing as was their great power at Minneapolis, the Irish may throw an even greater surprise Saturday for it is possble that a superb running and bucking game will be augmented with an aerial attack of speed and snap, a Rockne aerial attack, edition of 1926.
Despite the injury of two stars, Joe Boland, a tackle, and Freddie Collins, a fullback, Notre Dame will have almost full strength in regalia for Rockne has his army from which to choose.
Three of the Nittany Lions who clawed at Notre Dame so ferociously last year will be back in place Saturday. They are Captain Weston at left end, Roepke, at halfback and Greene at fullback. Jack Filak, an outstand-, ing eastern tackle, is ineligible for a week yet and will not see action against the Irish. Slamp will be Weston’s running mate at end, Greenshield and Munz will hold down tackle
berths, Krall and Hastings will work at guard and Mahoney will do the centering while Lungren, quarterback. Greene fullback and Roepie and Dangerfield, halfbacks, will comprise the backfield.
CULVER CREW FALLS
BEFORE WALSH ATTACK
The Walsh Hall football squad began its season with a 7 to 0 triumph over the Culver Military Academy at Culver, Indiana, last Saturday afternoon. The game was hard-fought throughout, but the Irish lads emerged with a more impressive victory than the close score would indicate. Coach McLaughlin feels confident that his boys will furnish the other hall teams with plenty of competition.
The only score of the game was produced in the second quarter, when Riley nabbed a 30 yard heave from Hagen and ambled on to a touchdown. On two separate occasions in the final stanza Walsh often took the ball to its opponents 5-yard line, only to lose it in each instance because of fumbling. The Culverites threatened to score only in the third quarter, and the Walsh delegation displayed its ruggedness by successfully repulsing the attack. Walsh uncovered a powerful offense. The line for Walsh was: Left end, Doyle; left tackle, Montedonica; left guard, Kiser; center, Luhats; right guard, Steiner; right tackle, Flick; right end, Dick; quarter back, Russell; right half, Rieley; left half, Casey; full back, Hogan; substitutes, Hamilton, Cooney.
CHAMPIONS BEGIN TO REPEAT
Badin Hall, 1925 title holder, opened its drive for the interhall title with an unimpressive 6-0 win over Morrissey. The Green machine was successfully checked until the final quarter when it drove down the field to victory. Hogan’s off-tackle dashes and end runs, a pass from Hogan to Griffin and Butch’s plunging brought the oval to the two yard line where Morrissey held for downs. Leahy’s punt was short and bounced
120
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Speaking Of A Genuine Thrill
BY ABTHUE “BUD” BOEBINGEB
It may be coincidence or just plain luck but these past two years have been kind to me as far as getting football thrills is concerned.
Our two games with the University of Minnesota have been of the hair-raising variety and after
“BUD” BOEBINGEB
each of them I felt as if we had been right up in the front line and ventured rather close to the barbed wire with the electricity in it.
If I didn’t live in Minnesota and hadn’t gone to school there for awhile there might not have been so much kick in slipping the noose around the Gophers for two successive years. So that makes
things much more interesting.
In both the 1925 and 1926 games I was moved quite a bit by two long runs, Art Parisien’s in 1925 and Bucky Dahman’s just last Saturday. Each coming as unexpectedly as it did, when I awoke to the fact I was ready to jump around a bit.
Pary made the more colorful run because it was his initial play in college football. When a fellow comes on the field for the first time he’s liable to lose his head a little bit but Art had his wits all collected and it didn’t take long to get them working. It was the Notre Dame ball on her own two
yard line, Minnesota having kicked to get the ball deep in our territory, and we having lost it again on a fumble. In comes Pary, scoops up the ball as Joesting fumbles, and runs 85 yards to scoring territory. That’s a kick for you.
But Bucky Dahman’s feat last Saturday was not without plenty of nerve racking. You know* we started that game a bit poorly. It seems as if we couldn’t get warmed up well and then Joe Boland and Freddie Collins were injured and we appeared shaken.
Dahman took the ball on our 25 yard line about four minutes after play had started and boy the way he did twist his hips around those Minnesota tacklers. By the time I saw that he was started I knew that he was out for a gay parade and as one after another of prospective tacklers had his legs cut from under him it began to look like a mean party with plenty to eat. It was Bucky that brought the-boys back on their feet again and Chris Flanagan made the old scalp secure.
These Minnesota games will run through my mind a long time. So will a little incident that happened in a Minneapolis barber shop last Saturday night. I went in for a shave and the white coat got me lathered up for the slaughter. I looked out of the corner of my eye and here he came with a blade that looked like a meat axe. I asked him what was up.
“You can’t shave a porcupine with a razor,” he remarked dryly as he scraped this butcher knife effect on the strop.
off Butch’s knee across the goal line where Grunning recovered for the Badin score.
Morrissey threatened occasionally with Leahy carrying the ball for substantial gains. Both elevens showed a good defense but the offenses were noticeably weak and only ten first downs were registered, seven by the winners and the other three by the red and white. Hogan’s all around play was the feature of the game.
Scobe:
Badin 0—0—0—6	6
Morrissey 0—0—0—0	0
Officials:
Referee—McKinney; Umpire—Moore; Headlinesman—McCabe.
Touchdown—Gruning.	—B. b. .
SOPHOMORES WIN OPENER
Sophomore Hall won a hard fought game from Lyons on the Minins Field Sunday morning by a score of 13-0. Sophomore Hall kicked off to Lyons. The two teams battled evenly in the first quarter. The Wise Fools scored easily in the second quarter when Lyons fumbled on their own 20 yard line, and Captain Curry of Sophomore recovered and ran the remaining 20 yards for the first touch-down. The half ended 6-0 in favor of Sophomore.
The two teams played evenly the third quarter. Sophomore scored1 another touchdown in the last quarter when Norton’s punt fell short and Daignould returned it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
121
JOHN McMANMON TACKLE
Ask the Fellows
Who have purchased one of Greenblatt’s
FUR COATS
FOR
—The Game
—On the Campus
—In the Roadster
—At Home
We have a variety of Fine Furs on display and are selling them at a very close margin.
You’ll Like Our
Black Roadster Coats
at $50.00
52-Inch Length
230 South Michigan Street
“INDIANA’S MOST MODERN FURRIERS”
Full Skin Perfectly Matched Raccoon Coat
122	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
to the Lyons 10 yard line. A line buck by Eachus failed, but on the next play “Red” Loughren skirted Lyons right end for the final touch-down.
Soph kicked off to Lyons. Lyons began passing in attempt to score. One pass was completed for 20 yards, rown to Repelli. The game ended with Lyons in possession of the ball on their 25 yard line. Captain Curry and Loughren were the shining lights in the winning team, while Captain Denchfields defensive work stood out for the losers.
URGE FRESHMAN TRACK TURNOUT
Now is the time, Freshmen! Get out those battered old track shoes, put a piece of adhesive where it will do the most good on that ancient pair of trunks, don that high school shirt (you might turn the letter you won at old Halitosis inside) and go to work!
Joe Della Maria, track captain, has sent out the final call for candidates. Within three weeks a handicap meet will be held, the date to be announced later by Della Maria. You can do a lot in three weeks— the cross-country team will probably have run some 5,000 miles in that time.
You are not supposed to see how much mileage you can burn up, but you can go over to the gym every day and work out. Middle distance men and distance runners can do preliminary cross-country jogging.
It isn’t the hardest thing in the world to become a good track man. Trackmen can be made. Paul Harrington, pole vault champion, as a beginner was a rank performer. He was so terrible that even the ever hopeful coaches told him that he’d better confine his future vaulting to hopping on street cars. But Paul -worked and sweated. From initial jumps of around 11 feet he nearly hopped over the moon with a vault of 13 feet 3 inches. And if you’re willing to get out there and give all you’ve got all the time—to work harder than the well-known pork sausage salesman in New York—you’re the man that Coach Wendland and Della Maria want.	—E. j. M’c.
CARROLL TURNS BACK OLD ENEMY
Carroll Hall had a narrow escape from defeat at the hands of Brownson in the opening game of the interhall season managing to get a 6-3 verdict over the Purple. Carroll was outplayed throughout the game making but one first down against Brownsons’ twelve. Often the Brownson backs carried the ball to within the shadow of the enemy’s goal posts only to be stopped by the Carroll defense which grew stubborn as danger threatened.
Brownson’s score came early in the first quarter when Crooks kicked a field goal from the thirty-five yard stripe. Carroll had Brownson on the run late in the third quarter and scored when Norton blocked a punt which Purcell recovered behind the goal line for a touchdown. Marek’s defensive work was the outstanding feature of the game. Mooney, Reidy and Dew ripped off good gains for the losers but lacked the punch to put it over.
DAY-DOGS, FRESHMEN, FIGHT TO TIE
The Day-Dogs and Freshman Hall battled to a scoreless tie Sunday afternoon on the Minim’s field. Both lines were big and powerful with the freshman having a slight advantage in that department, due to the fine playing of Captain Mark McCabe and Anders at the tackle positions and Moronat guard.
In the backfield the scarlet-clad Day-Dogs held the advantage with McCarthy and Mack giving a fine exhibition. Ryan at center also played well for the Off-Campus crew. The breaks were about even but the play was mostly in Freshman territory due to the fact that the Day-Dog kicker was out-punting the Freshman Hall booters by 10 and 20 yards a kick. The game was devoid of anything sensational save once when Bill Bambrick of the Freshman got away for twenty-five yards in the second quarter and again when Tom Keunnieally circled right end for twenty as the game ended.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	123
DO YOU KNOW THAT
The South Bend Neu)s-Times . . .
Has increased its circulation 10,000 in five years?
* * * *
Notre Dame Men have Played a Leading Part in Its Growth
SOUTH BEND INN
132 NORTH MAIN STREET
Try Our Special Luncheons 50 Cents
----O-
Full Course Dinner, 65c
Eyesight Specialists
U. S. ARMY STORE
. CAMPUS OUTFITS
Pure Wool NAVY SWEATERS $2.95	SAWYER’S Olive - Yellow SLICKERS $7.50 Value $5.85	Knit Bottom LUMBERJACK COATS Pure Wool, $5.85
Double-Soled FIELD SHOES Rough Wear Specials, $3.85 Navy Blue V-NECK SWEATERS All Wool, $5.85		Genuine Horsehide Leather Boinch JACKETS $15 Value, $9.95
	Blue - Gray - Brown CORDUROY PANTS Wide Bettoms, $3.85	GYMNASIUM Shirts, 50c Trunks, 50c Shoes, $1.00
If you need any of them, ask any of our campus representatives. Any of these men are at your service: Frank Saele, J. H. Gilbert, Jack Ward, Frank Hoefning, Bill Krieg, M. Viesie.
330 SOUTH IT Q A DOV CTADC 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN u. O. AKM1 jiUKt MICHIGAN
124
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IRISH RINGSTERS BEGIN
STRUGGLE FOR JOBS
More than 45 would-be Tunneys, Leonards, and Grebs, have been undergoing strenuous workouts in the apparatus room of the gymnasium for the past several days.
Prominent among the collection of fistic aspirants are several familiar faces from last year’s team who will form the nucleus around which this year’s combination will be built. Numbered among these veterans are “Moon” Mullins, Guy Loringer, and Dan Harvey, bantams; “Battling” Mike O’Keefe, a scrappy featherweight; Jimmy Moran, a dependable lightweight; Jim Kennedy, Al Doyle, and Pat Canny—able middleweights; and Jack McGrath, and Joe Maxwell, fighting heavies who will report after the football season terminates.
Coach Tom Mills, assistant football coach and boxing, instructor, is the new boxing coach, but as he will not be available for duty until after the football season. Pat Canny has taken the squad in hand and is conducting the workouts.
In the main the squad has been getting-back into condition after a six months lay off, but with the advent of Coach Mills after the California game, real work will be in order in preparation for a series of matches during the winter with other collegiate ring teams.
While no definite schedule has been announced as yet, it is generally understood that the list will contain six or eight squads prominent in boxing. Among these will probably be a home and home agreement with St. Xavier College of Cincinnati and matches with the Kansas Aggies there, Ames here, and Syracuse, at Syracuse.
The night preceding the Homecoming game will be featured by an inter-squad tournament, and the results of these various encounters will give the dopesters an insight as to how the candidates shape up for permanent berths. With the material on hand no one is absolutely certain of his place, and some keenly fought engagements are certain to be participated in, in determining who will be the regular varsity aggregation to sport the Gold and Blue.
Judging from current performances, prospects for a winning season appear exceptionally bright.
(From Scholastic Files)
We are pleased to announce that lunch is again dealt out to the Juniors at 3:30 P. M. We hope, however, to hear of no complaints of waste. As far as we can understand the cause of it being stopped last year was that some were in the habit of taking more than was necessary to satisfy their appetites; what remained over and above was wilfully wasted.	February 10, 1877.
Since the snow has disappeared and the Seniors have becbme able to tramp over the campus, quite a number of them, not having the same love as Robert Burns for the little creatures, have contests in mice-killing. The ground there is swarming with mice.
February 10, 1877.
The bath-rooms in the steam house building are well patronized. By regulations of the house every one must bathe once every two weeks. It may be that when the remainder of the bath-rooms are finished everyone will be able to go in at least once a week.	November 18, 1876.
PRESIDENT VISITS NEW ORLEANS
President Matthew J. Walsh returned Wednesday from New Orleans where he addressed the Convention of the Federation of the Catholic Societies of Louisiana which was held in that city. The convention was presided over by Archbishop Shaw of New Orleans. While in New Orleans Father Walsh addressed the N. D. Club and the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus. During his stay there Father Walsh was the guest of the Reverend John DeGroote, pastor of Sacred Heart Church.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	125
LaSalle Hotel
Coffee Shop Florentine Room Daily $1.00 Table d’Hote Dinner
College Inn
Available for Private Parties, Dinners, etc.
Music by Denny’s Orchestra
7	-	..... -	-	-	-	>
OFFICE	RESIDENCE
MAIN 0887	MAIN 3561
Dr. John A. Stoecfcley
DENTAL SURGEON
511 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND, INDIANA * r -........................ 4
Welcome, Boys!
TO MY
NEW BARBER SHOP -----------o
H. F. READING
UNDER “HULL1E & MIKE’S"
Clothes for University Men
T TN1VERSITY men have a keen sense of judgment of clothes. To recognize a well-tailored garment is a part of their schooling. There is no mistaking the amount of detail embodied in our College Clothes. You’ll sense it the minute you put them on.
One and two trousers styles at
$30-$35-$40
UPWARD TO $60 ------□---
Headquarters for the Finest Assortment of Notre Dame Jewelry, Pennants, and Other Novelties.
---o--
ADLER BROTHERS
105-07-09 South Michigan :	108 West Washington
SOUTH BEND
126
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Prince of Wales wears the French Basque for golf. Borotra wears it for tennis. South Bend golfers wear it on the country club links. You can get it on Wyman’s second floor—in black and colored flannel—for $1.95.
-a
Come and See Us
GEORGE WYMAN & COMPANY
r. --- -	-	.-	<
RES. LINCOLN 6741	OFFICE W, 1130
Dr, Leo J, Quinlan
DENTIST
SOUTH BEND	INDIANA
•v-	............- —	- - ------•
Dr. Frank J. Powers
University Physician
DR. BOYD SNEE
Nose, Throat and Ear
716 J. M. S. BUILDING
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	127

RECOMMENDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME*
I
WEBSTER’S COLLEGIATE
III
The Best Abridged Dictionary—Based upon WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL
A Time Saver in Study Hours. Those questions about words, people, places, that arise so frequently in your reading, writ-
ing, study, and
speech, are answered instantly in this store of ready information. New words like dactylogram, electrobus, flechette; names such as Cabell, Hoover, Smuts; new Gazetteer entries such as Latvia, Vimy, Monte Ada-mello. Over 106,000 words; 1,700 illustrations; 1,25 6 pages; printed on Bible Paper.
See It at Your College Bookstore or ’Write for information to the Publishers.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
Springfield, Mass.

C-28b
I
III

People o£ Refinement—
Because Wrigley’s, besides being a delightful confection, affords beneficial exercise to the teeth and clears them of food particles.
Also it aids digestion. gi28
After Every Meal
TRAFFIC PROBLEM DISCUSSED
The Blue Circle met Tuesday evening in conjunction with the University Administrative Officials, Mr. Rockne, Student Managers and representatives of the Police Department of South Bend to discuss the handling of crowds during the remainder of the home games of the season. The Blue Circle is to be commended for its excellent work along this line.
JUNIOR CLASS FOOTBALL DANCE
The Junior Class, represented by a committee composed of Art Denchfield, Harold Rupel and George Byrne, is sponsoring the “Nittany Lion Hop” which will take place Saturday night at the Knights of Columbus ball-room from 8:30 till 12:00. The music will be furnished by Art Haeren’s Orchestra.
John Reagan, Class of ’30, of Brownson Hall, left this week for his home in Buffalo, N. Y?,~on account of illness.
The following books are now available at the University Library:
Arrianus Flavius—Arrian’s voyage round the Eu-xine sea.
Bancroft-Whitney Co.—Code pleading in the western states. Laic Lib. 5v.
Beauduin, Lambert—Liturgy the life of the church.
Blades, Wm.—Enemies of books, cop. 2.
Britton, N. L.—Cactacease. v.l.
Cobbett, Wm.—A history of the reformation in England and Ireland in a series of letters. 3 copies.
Cobbett, Wm.—A history of the Protestant Reformation in England and Ireland.
Cobbett, Wm.—A history of the Protestant Reformation in England and Ireland. 4 copies.
Cody, Sherwin, ed.—Selection from the best English essays. . . . cop. 2.
Davis, C. O.—Junior high school education, cop. 2.
Davidson, E. B. & Others—Does the “intimate” letter pay.
Day, Clive—History of Commerce, cop. 2.
Depew, C. M.—Marching on.
Dow, G. S.—Society and its problems. 2 copies.
Dreiser, Theo.—A Hoosier holiday.
Fouard, Abbe Constant—St. Paul and his missions, cop. 2.
128	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Exactly Correct Three-Button Suit for University Men
Capyncbt <9’6 Hart Schaffner & Marz
VVJE’VE got it—exact to the most minute detail. Three-button coats with three buttons spaced just right; soft fronts; six-button vests; correct trousers. Every detail cut the stylish university way. Bright rough tweeds and cheviots they like so much, also,
$35 to $65
One or Two Trouser Suits
Sam’l Spiro & Co.
The Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Stylish Clothes for College Men
THE .NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	129
Identify the aristocrat of pens by this white dot
Skrip is the best ink for du fountain pens
w.A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY
rOKT MADISON. KjVA
•Bett. U.S. Fat. OS.
It caps them all in sale to students
The unprecedented popularity of the Lifetime* pen among students is due not only to the fact that it is a handsome instrument, made of enduring green Radite, and always a source of pride to the owner, but it has become the standard pen of scholardom because it is a real
economy. It is the pen of no repair costs,
guaranteed for a lifetime against imperfections, breakage, and the results of severe usage. Spot it by the dot—at better dealers everywhere.
Price, in Areen or black, $8.75. Student’s special, $7.50. Penal, $4.25
Blue Label Leads—fifteen cents
SHEAFFER’S
V/ PENS* PEN CI LS ■ SKRlP
130
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
r
uo *. MicnioMm
LEADING CREDIT JEWELERS
for
Swirty Sranit
The Gifts for the
Girl at Home
We carry a complete stock of gifts for the “one” you miss most. A beautiful compact, ring or necklace with N. D. insignia, will drive away those blues.
•o
Headquarters for Regular “He-Man’s”
Strap Watches
New models for Fall a bit smarter than earlier versions. It’s the College Man’s own style, with exactly the right cut. Trust to Society Brand for that! The fabrics are the rugged, colorful kind you want for the campus. : : (h £ A See them. : : : :
Other exclusive styles at
$30-$35-$40
UPWARD TO $65
•o
-o
Credit to all Notre Dame
DO YOU KNOW THAT
The South Bend News-Times . . .
Has increased its circulation 10,000 in five years?
ADLER BROTHERS
105-07-09 South Michigan :	108 West Washington
SOUTH BEND
I
-----o——,—-
Headquarters for Notre Dame Jewelry, College Pennants, Pillow Tops and Quality Novelties—Main Floor
Notre Dame Men have Played a Leading Part in Its Growth
k
*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JOHN McMANMON TACKLE
MEN
Wear one of these choice
Fur Coats
AT THE OPENING GAME
Raccoon, Wolf, Buffalo Beaver, Lamb
All Very Moderately Priced From $50 Up.
SPECIAL ON GENUINE SIDE RACCOONS $100.00
230 South Michigan Street
INDIANA’S MOST MODERN FURRIERS
Full Skin Perfectly Matched Raccoon Coat
Camels add the charm of living
»
WHETHER through the tasks of every day, or in life’s moments of crisis and great reward, the comfort and understanding of Camel cheers us on our way. For no other cigarette was ever so friendly, so loyal as Camel. The unfathomed goodness, the deep underlying quality of Camel tobaccos is ever-dependable.
The world’s largest tobacco organization buys the best of everything for Camels. The choicest Turkish and Domestic tobaccos
grown. The kind of blending that only such a group of experts could give. Regardless of what you are willing to pay, there is no other cigarette like Camel; there can be no better cigarette made than Camels. Camels never tire the taste, no matter how indefatigably you smoke them, never leave a cigaretty after-taste.
If you don’t yet know Camel enjoyment, just sample the most exquisite fragrance that ever came from a cigarette. Have a Camel!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
@1926
.!