Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Established 30 Years
LEMDNTRE£9
OPTOMETRISTS 222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
▼
Notice to Students:
All statements for glasses will be mailed home on request.
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
Listed in the Haverford College schedule of courses: Janitoring 1-2, one year course, practical classroom experience in the art of the dustpan, broom, and mop. Credit, one semester hour. Get a Ph.D. in Janitoring received for a thesis on the art of wringing a wet mop.
—o—
Try your Logic on this one: A poor lesson is better than nothing. Nothing is better than a good lesson. Ergo, a poor lesson is better than a good lesson.
—o—
The depression is believed to have been the cause of several marked differences in the attitudes of college students which have become evident to Dr. Robert C. Angell, associate professor of sociology at the University of Michigan. “Dr. Angell believes that there is a trend toward greater maturity among undergraduates due to the depression” according to an article in the University of Kansas Daily.
The bases for Dr. Angell’s claim are found in the several following facts which have been observed in his sociology classes. All- evidence seems to point to a more serious interest in academic work. The fact that students are tending to enroll for more practical courses seems to lend weight to the notion that students appreciate the value of a broad background in these troublesome times. Students are changing their activities to fit their pocketbooks.
Less interest is being shown in extra-curricular activities such as musical clubs, publications, etc. There is no doubt that dating among students has declined, undoubtedly because of the unwillingness of men to take out women when they cannot spend money on them. Student engagements have declined. More valuable- intrinsic characteristics are sought in people who are dated. Lastly, fraternity and sorority connections have come to be less seriously regarded, and employed students enjoy a higher position than previous to the depression.
If Dr. Angell’s observations are accurate, they certainly indicate desirable trends resulting from the depression. It has undoubtedly had a sobering effect upon the levity with which a college education was previously regarded. The depression has had many effects upon older people which could have been produced in no other way, and if its repercussions have been felt in college, then its effects will be that much more far-reaching in generations to come.
Attention, Book Store! The University of Maryland has a trained nurse for its book store. Her job is to quote the price of the books and then administer restoratives to the inquiring students.
—o—
The height of futility is a blind man in a dark alley looking for a black cat that isn’t there.—Annapolis Dog.
RIDE the SOUTH SHORE LINE and SAVE MONEY
A student with plenty of money is about as rare as the proverbial snowball . . ! It’s no disgrace to have to make your school dollars go a long way . . . every student should practice thrift. And there's no better way to learn how to make a dollar do double’duty than, by riding the South Shore electric trains. It’s cheaper than driving a car . . . certainly more dependable . . . and for safety and speed there's nothing to equal it. Get the South Shore Line habit and save money.
5OUthsehore
Two
The Scholastic
WINTER SCENES ON THE CAMPUS
The Sc ho I a s t i c
The Notre Dame Scholastic
C Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
January 17, 1936
No. 13
PLANS FOR MUSICAL COMEDY ARE ANNOUNCED
CANDIDATES TO REPORT TOMORROW
To Reorganize The Met Club	IN BAND ROOM OF WASHINGTON HALL
Reorganization of the Metropolitan Club takes definite shape with the announcement of a meeting to be held Monday night, Jan. 20, in the basement of the Library. The meeting was called by Robert Cavanaugh, chairman of the S. A. C. committee on campus clubs.
Definite plans for reorganization of the New York group will be advanced at the session. Cavanaugh announced this week that he would outline a plan of liquidation for the club under which they could operate.
In his announcement Cavanaugh stressed the point that there will be absolutely no obligations attached to those who are present at the meeting. It is hoped that a large number will attend the session.
Several plans have already been offered by various members and it is expected that seniors will take the lead in the endeavors to iron out the organization. Edmund Hammer, who last year proposed the borough plan, and who has been a spear-head in the revival attempts, along with Howard Cusack, senior class president, will work with Cavanaugh on reorganization plans.
Large Cast Will Be Needed
By Lindsay Phoebus
“Tune In,” a musical comedy written by Edward Bradley, is to be presented at the university early in the spring, under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta, who has been appointed producer, it was announced this week. The show was written last June, and has been produced with musical score by Don Wilson.
Set in a broadcasting station, the tuneful farce has all the elements of a Broadway hit. Bradley’s dialogue is pleasantly different in its humor, while the music and arrangements of Wilson are typical lilting tunes played in regular radio style.
Rehearsals will start tomorrow, when Professor Casasanta will meet all those interested at 12:30 o’clock in the band room in Washington Hall. The talent sought for the production of this show includes musicians and dancers. Though players of the violin, viola, and cello are particularly necessary, all orchestral instrumentalists will be heartily welcomed. A dancing
chorus and a full orchestra are to be definite parts of the cast.
The orchestra will be one of the most important novelties in the show. When organized, it will constitute a combined symphony and dance orchestra. in the production the dance band is to be the nucleus of the organization, but the full symphony is essential to ultimate success in production, in this type of work. This is the first time such a musical organization has been attempted. With the cooperation of the east, it should prove to be a decided success.
BEG PARDON
In last week’s review of the University Theatre production, “The World Waits,” we neglected to mention Maurice Quinn and Joseph C. McDonald, Jr. in the list of players. Quinn took the part of George Hawkins in the production, while McDonald was Chips Donahue, carpenter with the expedition.
To win a §3 bet, a former University -of Minnesota swimming team captain swam 225 feet under water. Ohio’• State’s champ football team ; brought in $330,000 at home games this {year.
Finale of the Musical Production “Thanks For the Blow,” in 1934.
January 17, 1936
Five
JUNIOR PROM TO BE HELD FEB. 21, HARRY BALDWIN APPOINTED CHAIRMAN
Campus Radio Station Offers Varied Programs
No Committees Announced
By Paul Foley
Harry Baldwin, Junior in the College of Commerce, from Chicago, Hl., has been appointed General Chairman of this year’s Junior Prom, according to announcement this week from Martin Burns, class president.
The affair is to be held on Friday, February 21, in the traditional setting of the Palais Boyale. Price of the affair is still under consideration but President Burns announced this week that efforts are being made to keep it as low as possible.
Committees to serve at the affair are not definitely arranged since some of the names submitted have not as yet met the approval of the University Board.
Tentative plans have been made for a dinner dance at the Oliver Hotel on Saturday, February 22, but this, too, is subject to approval.
With the selection of a committee to handle music, it is expected that the orchestra for the Prom will be chosen within the next ten days. Efforts are being made now to contact several of the leading musical organizations in the country.
Hugo Melchione and Frank Barbush are writing this year’s Prom song, which will succeed “Hours of Happiness,” written for last year’s affair by Thomas Bott and G. Miller.
At last year’s Junior dance Don
Bestor’s orchestra entertained 300 couples, under the general chairman-» ship of Thomas Reardon.
NOTICE
Because of the appearance of Scrip, literary quarterly next Friday and the semester examinations the following week, the next issue of The Scholastic will be published Friday, Feb. 7.
The NYA has disclaimed liability for students injured while working on relief projects.
Six
WEEKLY BROADCAST
Broadcasting “The Scholastic of the Air,” regular Friday afternoon review of campus news from the Notre Dame station. Seated at the “mike” are left to right, staff members, Jim Waldron, Tony O’Boyle, Arch Gott, and Lindsay Phoebus.
COMMERCE SCHOOL OBSERVES
ANNUAL ADVERTISING DAY
Three speeches from nationally. known authorities in the field of advertising, marked the Commerce school’s observance of Advertising Day, last Monday, Jan. 13.
Maurice T. Reilly, of the Chicago Tribune, was the first to address the assemblage in the auditorium of the Law building. Mr. Reilly talked on the merits and advantages of daily newspaper advertising. He pointed out the fact that the advertiser can be more strategic in his choice of sections for seasonal advertising by making use of the daily papers in that area instead of “spreading his fire” through the medium of national magazines.
W. R. Lamport, of the Lamport-Fox Company, of South Bend, spoke on the subject of Agency Advertising. He outlined the methods employed by the advertisers in 'working through an. agency. He showed the advantages to the advertiser of working through an agency whose facilities are broader than are those of any individual business.
Homer Buckley, of the Buckley-Dement Company, represented the Direct Mail division of the advertising field. He outlined the methods he follows in publicizing a business and gave an interesting insight into the problems surrounding the advertising of small concerns.
The speeches were divided, Mr. Reilly speaking at eleven o’clock Monday morning, while Mr. Lamport and. Mr. Buckley addressed the students in the afternoon.
The Scholastic of the Air, Friday afternoon program of news sponsored by the Scholastic from the local radio studio has aroused much comment on the campus. Though some constructive criticism has been voiced, the feature is proving quite popular and has been well received by the radio audience.
Last Thursday evening the St. Vincent de Paul Society presented the second in a series of three programs sponsored by the local conference of the society and designed to acquaint the radio audience with the scope of the -work undertaken by this organization. Vincent McAloon, Jr., executive secretary of the society was the speaker. He will conclude the series next Thursday evening.
On Monday evening, the faculty lecture, broadcast by both WSBT and WIND, in Gary, was delivered by Prof. Albert Doyle, of the Speech department and was entitled “The Power of Speech.” Next Monday night Professor Henry Staunton, of the. department of English will be the speaker.
The Tuesday afternoon Bookmen program was presented by Col. Robert T. Burke and Col. Howard C. Cusack. Both are Kentucky Colonels. They discussed the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam both as a poem and from the standpoint of the philosophy which it expresses. Paul Locher, pianist, gave a quarter hour of light classical piano music on Wednesday afternoon.
Manager Joe Mansfield announced this week that he will cast two plays at a meeting to be held in the studio of the Engineering building on Sunday morning at 11:00 o’clock. One of these is to be a well known comedy; the other a tragedy. All who are interested in radio dramatics are asked to attend.
The Harvard Committee on Research in the Social Sciences has received a $300,000 Rockefeller Foundation grant.
A “clip,” or flying block from be-hing on the football field is sufficient grounds for assault and battery charges, a Pennsylvania judge has. ruled.
The Scholastic
List Faculty Speakers On WSBT, And WIND
PROFESSOR HOLLIS WRITES ARTICLE ON ST. THOMAS MORE FOR NEXT SCRIP
Following is the list of weekly Notre Dame Broadcasts over stations WSBT, South Bend and WIND, Gary. The time of the broadcasts is from 7:00 p.m. to 7:15 p.m. C.S.T.:
Monday, Jan. 20—Henry Capen F. Staunton, A.M., Professor of English.
Monday, Jan. 27—Rev. Francis Patrick Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Economics.
Monday, Feb. 3—F. N. M. Brown, M.S., Head of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering.
Monday, Feb. 10—James Arthur Reyniers, M.S., Assistant Professor of Biology. (N. B. Prof. Reyniers is the young biologist whose production of the first germ-free guinea pigs last Spring was noteworthy.)
Rev. Francis Cavanaugh Will broadcast Jan. 27.
Monday, Feb. 17—Rev. Francis Joseph Wenninger, C.S.C., Ph.D., Dean of the College of Science.
Monday, Feb. 24—Thomas Francis Konop, LL.B., Dean of the College of Law. (N.B. Dean Konop is a former member of Congress and an authority on the legislative branch of the gov’ eminent.)
Monday, March 2—Rev. Edward Anthony Keller, C.S.C., A.B., Instructor in Economics. (N.B. Father Keller has \been engaged in recent months in economic studies particularly affecting the present era.)
Monday, March 9—James Edward McCarthy, B.C.S., Dean of the College of Commerce. (N.B. Dean McCarthy is a specialist in the field of foreign commerce, which was the major interest of the late Edward N. Hurley, Chicago industrialist, donor of the building occupied by the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce at Notre Dame.)
January 17, 1936
R. I. P. . .
By John Hurley
Another link between past and nresnnt Notre Dame was severed late Sunday afternoon with the death of Sister Mary Lourdes, C.S.C., 84, at the Holy Cross convent on the campus. She was buried at 8:00 a.m. Tuesday from the Sisters’ chapel. The Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior general of the congregation, said the requiem Mass. Burial was in St. Mary’s cemetery.
One of the oldest members of the Community, Sister Mary Lourdes came to Notre Dame while Father Sorin was still an active priest. Born in Ireland as Katherine Mangan, she became a member of the Holy Cross community in September, 1878. From that time until the day of her death she had only two interests, God and Notre Dame.	.
For over fifty years Sister Lourdes nresided over the kitchen in the Brownson and Carroll dining halls. Generations of students have dropped in on Sister Lourdes in the middle of the afternoon for a cup of coffee and a piece of pie. Never was she so busy that she couldn’t find a minute to satisfy their wants. Countless students in the past found in this holy nun a mother to whom they could confide their troubles.
During football games Sister Lourdes could always be found in the chapel praying for the school she loved and the boys who represented it. With the advent of the radio she divided her time between the broadcast of a game and the chapel. Her simple Irish faith did much to help Notre Dame win many of the tough ones.
In 1927 with the erection of the new dining hall Sister Mary Lourdes retired to devote the rest of her life to prayer. Now with her death Notre Dame will miss her. As the Rev. George Marr, C.S.C., told The Scho-.lastic, “Her prayers helped build Notre Dame.”
COLLEGIANA
NYU has dropped its three-year v pre-med course.
The sophomore “Vigilance Committee” of Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa., was run out of existence by freshmen this year.
A stiff course in logic should be required of English teachers, says Prof. Charles Swain Thomas of Harvard.
Editor Seeking Manuscripts
By Gregory Byrnes
The second issue of Scrip, the campus literary quarterly, which will make its appearance on Friday, Jan. 24 is beginning to take definite form although manuscripts will be accepted up until tomorrow night.
The issue will feature an article on the life of St. Thomas More by Professor Christopher Hollis. An excellent short story entitled “Fisherman’s Island” written by Henry A. Heins-kill, C.S.C., will also occupy a prominent position. Two student essays, one called “The Coming of the Talkies,” and the other “Life in Little Old Park City,” an impressionistic piece dealing with life in a mining camp, will appear in this next number. The Freshman sketches, which were so
Hugo Melchione Illustrates latest “Scrip.”
well received last time, will again be included and are likely to become a permanent feature.
Illustrations will be the work of Hugo Melchione, Arts and Letters junior. The linoleum cuts which he prepared for the last issue of Scrip were commended both by the authors whose work he was illustrating and by the student body at large.
ENVELOPES
“Scholastic” envelopes, twelve by nine inches, are on sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore. Priced at a cent each, they eliminate the necessity of rolling up the publication when being rent through the mails.
Twenty-five prisoners at Alcatraz, which houses the: toughest Federal criminals, are taking correspondence courses at the University of California.
Liquor at parties and “cheek-to-cheek” and “streamline” dancing are banned- at Boston University.
Seven
Campus Opinion Reveals Seniors Favor Smoker
This is the eleventh in a series of snap-shot intervieivs with students about campus topics. The question this week is: Do you think the Senior class should hold a class smoker?
Samuel J. Minella, Howard: “Yes, I am heartily in favor of a Senior Class smoker. The last affair of this nature our class had was back in . 1932. I believe that it is a good idea to liave one last ‘get-together’ before June and Commencement roll around because after that it will be a long, long time before the class will be together again.”
C. J. Kalman, Sorin: “After the freshman year there naturally comes a separation. Students of the different colleges become parts of their own respective groups and remain thus until Commencement. The Senior Ball is the last social function of the graduating class—those more fortunate than others attend the affair. Why can’t old acquaintances be renewed in these few remaining months? Such a thing could easily be made possible and placed within the reach of the majority in the form of a farewell Senior Smoker.”
Robert Sullivan, Howard: “A Senior* Smoker would be a fitting and enjoyable pre-event to graduation if for no other reason then it’^ the last chance the graduating class has to be fully assembled together. There is nothing else on the scholastic calendar that offers this opportunity.”
George Lynch, Sorin: “A Senior Smoker would tend to serve as a final reunion of this year’s graduating class. Certainly there is no real rea-
Robert Sullivan
Smokes for the seniors.
.son why a smoker should not be held while there is a vast number of reasons favoring it. If for no other purpose alone let’s have one for ‘Auld Lang Syne’.”
Joe Druecker, Walsh Hall: “The idea of having a Senior Smoker again this year is a very good one. It met with great success last year and I feel sure that it will do the same this time. It affords the seniors the opportunity to discuss plans for the Senior Ball.”
William R. Bowes, Walsh Hall: “Certainly they should have a smoker.
(Continued on Page 22)
Eugene Francis Malloy of the South Side Chi Malloy’s. . . President of that noble tribe of Wranglers. . . Goes over to St. Mary’s frequently, but with Hall Debating teams. . . Has Colonel Burke gather his debating material. . .
Belonged to a Book of the Month Club and although he acquired quite a collection he never read a book. . . Is a two major man with Philosophy and Accounting. . . . Heading for a CPA. . .
Is crazy over sailboats. . . Last summer went to summer school in the
morning and sailed afternoon and night. . . Rebuilt the job he sails. . . Once invited Bill ‘Major’ Bowes out for a sail; both went to sleep and woke up next morning on a sand bar . . . Entered a race and captured first place, but was disqualified. . . His dues at the Yacht Club had lapsed. . . Although his shelves are covered with gobs of books on yachts he has had to stick to small craft. . .
Used to entertain a little blond from the Windy City . . . She answered to ‘Mac’ and used to arrive in one of those long cars. . . Gene was kept busy clipping her picture out of the papers: engagement announcements. . . That’s one thing about him; he knows only the popular people. . .
Although coming from the same high school as Chicago Club’s Luke Tiernan, he still had to pay for the Xmas dance. . . Spent the night going around shaking everybody’s hand asking for “a vote of confidence.”. . .
Texas Christian has an exhibit of Bibles which includes some printed as far back as 1380.
Dillon Defeats Walsh For Interhall Trophy
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
The Dillon Hall affirmative debating team by defeating the representatives of Sorin last Monday evening in the closing match of the annual Interhall Debating Contest insured for itself possession of the Lemmer Trophy for the present year. The victory of the first year men was quite decisive since, for the first time in a good number of years, both the audience and the judge’s decision was the same. A poll of the audience revealed that about 80% of the spectators favored the Dillon team while the decision of the judge went to the same hall on the grounds of better refutation and delivery as compared to a slight superiority of Sorin on a better case. In the matter of knowledge of the respective sides of the question under debate both teams were fairly even. The debate was held at St. Mary’s.
The annual Interhall Debating Contests have been sponsored and conducted by the Wranglers, the campus^ organization for students who are. interested in the development of forensic ability. Not only is the entire interhall debating schedule supervised by members of this club but also it is this group which supplies from its own members the coaches for the various debating squads of the different halls. The two individuals who have been in charge of this particular program this season are the club’s president, Eugene Malloy and Richard Meier, who was appointed by Malloy as chairman of the Interhall Debating Contest.
Debater William Walsh Walsh fights for Sorin.
The question debated was:
Resolved: “Congress should have the power by a two thirds majority vote to override the decision of the Supreme Court declaring an act of Congress unconstitutional.” The negative team from Sorin centered its attack upon the “irresponsibility of Congress” and the plea that “Liberty should mean more in this country than merely the name of a popular magazine.” The affirmative retaliated with a declaration that granted the Supreme Court legal ability but con-
(Continued on Paga 11)
Eight
The Scholastic
Football Team Honored
At Testimonial Banquet
REVEREND JOHN A. RYAN WILL LECTURE HERE ON JANUARY 28
Wranglers Induct New Members At Banquet
The sparkling introductions of Warren Brown, sports columnist of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, and toastmaster at the 16th annual civic testimonial football banquet to the University football team, helped make the affair, held in the University dining hall last Monday night, one of the most successful in years. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of Athletics, vigorously defended intercollegiate football and severely attacked some who have criticized the over-emphasis of this sport.
John B. Kenendy, ex-associate editor of Collier’s and now prominent radio commentator was prevented from assisting at the event by an attack of laryngitis.
Others of prominence in attendance were: Eddie Dowling, famed Broadway producer and actor; Elmer Layden, director of athletics at the University and head football coach; and Clark Shaughnessy, head football coach at the University of Chicago. The Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, head of Catholic charities in the diocese of Cleveland, gave a very interesting talk.
A series of touching tributes in which all present participated was ac-
Toastmaster Warren Brown “That reminds me. . .
corded the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., deceased president of the University; the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, also deceased; Knute Rockne, beloved coach of Notre Dame; Joe Sullivan, captain of the 1935 University football team; and Will Rogers, principal speaker at the banquet last year. During the evening, while the dining hall was completely darkened, except for spotlights trained on the portraits of these distinguished char-(Continued on Page 23)
January 17, 1936
The Right Rev. John A. Ryan of the economics department at Catholic University will speak here on Tuesday, Jan. 28. Dr. Ryan, recognized as an outstanding authority on the distribution of wealth, spoke here two years ago on “Economic Opinion and the Industrial Recovery Act.” Dr. Ryan’s visit is looked forward to with an avid interest on the campus, because of the recognized clarity and accuracy of his Catholic economic thought.
Rt. Rev. John A. Ryan Outstanding Catholic economist.
Other lectures planned for the near future announced by Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., with their respective dates follow: Rev. Robert Lord, noted historian, of Brighton Seminary, Boston, will give a series of lectures between Feb. 9 and 14; Oscar Jacobson will deliver a lecture on art, Feb. 28.
The following lecturers and programs, the dates of which have not yet been announced, wall be heard at the University within the next few months: Fr. Duff, chaplain-general of the United States navy; the Chicago Philharmonic orchestra; Salvi, famed harpist, with his ensemble; the Paul-ist Choir; the Mundy Jubilee Singers from the Century of Progress; Rev. Michael Moriarity will be heard in a lecture on the Eucharistic Congress; and several other lecturers on various, topics.
STUDENTS DON'T CHANGE
College students haven’t changed much in the half-century he has been observing them, says William C. McCracken, retiring superintendent of buildings at Ohio State.
If your grades average 90 or better, you will find a job easily, increase your salary $1000 a year, says M.I.T. analysts.
The Wranglers, forensic society of the University, selected seven new members at a meeting on Jan. 10. Thirteen applicants delivered extemporaneous talks at the gathering and the selection was an unusually cjiffi-cult task. Commenting on the meeting, Wrangler President Eugene F. Malloy said: “I never heard such fine extemporaneous speeches from a group of college students.”
The new members chosen were: William R. Bowes, Robert Heywood, John C. Marbach, Harold E. Miller, George Morris, James K. Nemey, and Charles Osborne. Last Tuesday, these new members, attended the Fall Banquet of the Wranglers at the Rose Marie Tea Room in South Bend. Rev. Norbert C. Hoff, Wrangler chaplain, was present at the affair, which had been arranged by Chairman Clifford Brown, who also officiated as toastmaster.	.
The Wranglers will sponsor the Indiana Catholic Oratorical Contest here in March. The competition will follow private eliminations to be held in high schools throughout the state, on or before March 14. Eliminations will be carried out here on March 21. The finals of the contest will be held in Washington Hall, the following day.
Charles F. Meyers, chairman of the committee for the contest, is hard at work on the tremendous task of or-
Toastmaster Clifford Brown ... of a little story."
ganizing the state’s different Catholic high schools to avoid final delays or mixups. The present intensive preparation is essential, despite the time which will elapse between now hnd the finals of the contest.
Last year there were eight entrants for the contest. A large silver trophy was awarded to the winner, and medals were given to the remainder of the participants in the finals. The contest was started five years ago by the University to increase ability and interest in public speaking.
Nine
PET PATTER PROVES PROFESSORS
PLAYFUL, PUNGENT, AND PONDEROUS
CALENDAR
By John A. Gillespie
Semester examinations rear their ugly heads. Professors are raised to a god-like status. Little Willie Plotz, A.B. I, insinuates into his letters home, the possibility, even the certainty that he will flunk one or more courses. Hook’s and the Palais lower their prices in vain. Men of all classes regret taking all their cuts at Christmas.
Yet, even at such a fearful period, they dare to discuss the idiosyncrasies of their teachers. Perhaps the cloak of anonymity reassures them. Every professor has his favorite
“And as I’ve often said Gentlemen. . . .”
phrases, his peculiarities of speech. They are offered in good faith, and we hope they are taken that way.
It has been decided to omit the names of the professors who are responsible for these gems. The reasons for that strategic move are evident. It just wouldn’t be right to bare the faculty’s soul to the public eye. Libel suits and public thrashings are also possible. But don’t let that spoil your fun; it should increase your interest. Gather your friends and test their sharpness by giving one point for each saying attributed to its correct owner.
“Theoretically yes, practically no.” A pragmatist cautions his- class against rash idealism. And why not? Few economists are aesthetes.
“Ha—rr—um—ph! And more questions?” It is said that the “Ha—rr— um—ph” of this sociology professor, is really a sentence, or at least a phrase, but nobody can be pinned down to a statement.
Ten
“Ach! American high schools!” This in a cutting, disgusted tone from an eminent philosophy teacher. How do they do it in Germany, Father?
“I do not know of any significant study in the field.” This sounds a bit too formal for a favorite phrase, but we bow to this education professor’s denunciation.
“Statistics prove that ...” What’s more, this sociologist gives the statistics unfailingly, unceasingly. Who dares dispute figures?
“See?” At the end of almost every sentence, this inquisitive Spanish in
structor looks for understanding. Even if you don’t “see,” the lecture moves on.
“Tut-tut!” We are ashamed to include such a brief, cryptic comment from a professor of English, but its implications are limitless. It may express reproach, surprise, sorrow, scom,— or what would you suggest?
“Dunderhead! Country-jake!” Nobody has a better background or is better fitted to detect country-jakes than this genial doctor of journalism. His name-calling loses its sting when it is applied to everybody in the class. The doctor’s life is less full now than it was in the fall when the bridal parties squeezed into the log-chapel.
“Questions for the odds.. Questions for the evens.” Not so funny in print, these phrases take on humor by jumbled enunciation. They are spoken without warning, and have been known to prostrate more than one unprepared man in politics class.
(Continued on Page 23)
Friday, January 17
“Scholastic of the Air” from campus radio station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff, 6:30, general staff, 7:00 p.m., editorial offices.
Saturday, January 18
Movie, “Scrooge,” with Sir Seymour Hicks, 6:45 and 8:30 p.m., Washington Hall; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania, at Philadelphia.
Sunday, January 19
Student Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m., Sacred Heart Church; Meeting of officers of Knights of Columbus, 10:30 a.m., Walsh hall club
rooms; Meeting of Campus radio dramatic group, Engineering building studio, 11:00 a.m.; Interhall basketball, University gymnasium, 9:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.
Monday, January 29
Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Syracuse at Syracuse; Meeting of Metropolitan Club, basement of Library; Broadcast from campus radio station over WSBT, 3:15 p.m.; Meeting of Economic Round Table, 6:00 p.m., South Bend. Broadcast from Campus Station over WSBT and WIND, 7:00, Prof. Henry Staunton. .
Tuesday, January 21
Campus broadcast over station WSBT, 7:30 p.m.; Meeitng of Italian Club, Carroll Hall recreation rooms.
Wednesday, January 22
Meeting of Campus radio group, Engineering building, 6:30 p.m. ; Meeting of Charles Philips Cracow Club, Law Bldg., 7:30 p.m.
BUFFALO CLUB BANQUET
From the Buffalo Courier Express of Dec. 20 comes the headline that “Buffalo gives warm reception to Notre Dame Grid stars. Shakespeare, mates tell of biggest thrill. A capacity crowd listen to men of Layden’s team relate season’s experiences.”
At a banquet held by the Buffalo Club, under the presidency of John Moloney—Wayne Millner, Fred Ca-rideo and Bill Shakespeare all gave short talks pertinent to the past football season.
The Scholastic
Patricians Hear Address By Professor Plunkett
Mr. De Vere Plunkett, professor of Latin and Greek, spoke on “Roman Marriage” at the Patrician’s meeting Wednesday night. After discussing Roman marriage as it existed in the days of the Romans with its “conu-bium” and peculiar system of families, which included not only the persons, but all articles of furniture and all slaves and cattle owned by the married people, he compared the marital relations with those existing today. The “patria potestas,” strongly evident in Roman marriage, still finds sturdy descendants in the power of the husband over the modern family.
Thomas Doody, sophomore, delivered the second of his addresses on Roman institutions and. times at the meeting a week ago Wednesday night.
Professor DeVere Plunkett Discusses Roman marriage.
The subject, “Roman Aqueducts,” was completely reviewed with accompanying sketches and graphic illustrations.
INTERHALL DEBATING
(Continued from Page 8) demned that august body because of its lack of foresight in dealing with cases that involved human lives as well as mere legal technicalities.
An attack upon the system of political “patronage” was also one of the paramount features of the negative case, while the Dillon men concerned themselves with the issue that the power to enact laws should be chiefly invested in the hands of those “duly elected by the people,” and not merely in the custody ofThe Supreme Court justices who are appointed. This latter stand of the affirmative was further strengthened by their contention that liberality in interpreting laws could not be relied upon if the Supreme Court was the deciding body.
The men comprising the victorious Dillon Hall team were, Charles Colgan, Frank O’Laughlin, and Robert Heywood. The representatives of Sorin were William Walsh, Joseph Barber, and William Prendergast. Pierre de la Vergne coached the freshmen outfit and Robert Schmelzle the Sorin-ites. Eugene Malloy acted in the capacity of presiding officer, and Dick Meier was the introductory speaker.
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
Most of those who read the newspaper account of Notre Dame’s recent victory over Pittsburgh in basketball got nothing but the bare facts of the incident. That there might have been one or more interesting situations arising from just the fact that these two teams were meeting in basketball could have been realized only by those who saw last year’s home game with Pittsburgh. As our spy in -the Panther lair tells the story, “Doc” Carlson, out to beat the Iri^h at all costs, was recently in the market for a trick stop watch similar to the one used by Notre Dame last year. Well, of course, we don’t believe that story. If it’s true, however, and the “Doc” did use some such stop watch, he must have learned at least one lesson: Only Notre Dame managers possess the secret of how to handle a stop watch or a score sheet in a manner that will assure the victory to Irish opponents every time.
The annual football banquet was its usual success, but it was a disappointment in one respect. True, the average number of national celebrities were present, the speeches were fine, the jokes were rare, and the food was good. But still there was something obviously missing; something the-absence of which failed to make this year’s banquet measure up to the standards established by the one in 1935. Father Moriarity, how come . you forgot to tell us what Mae West': was doing lately?
Don’t be perplexed if for the next week or so athletes who recently -were awarded monograms seem to prefer standing in the corners of the class rooms rather than occupying their seats! No! You’re wrong again. They haven’t been naughty. It’s just that only lately they’ve been initiated as members of the Monogram Club, and the initiation rites were so sadly impressive that the boys are now unhappy at the bottom.
•
We see by last week’s Scholastic that a C. C. N. Y. professor advises students to sleep in class because by doing so they learn more. All we can say is that the giving of such advice on this campus would be like trying to convice a horse that it ought to eat oats. At any rate, the secret of the remarkable brilliance of the average Notre Dame man has at last been disclosed.
•
It would seem, after all, that an outlet for the expression of literary
genius on this, campus just does not exist. What was our disillusioninent when after offering to make some contributions to Scrip, our efforts were rejected. All we had to say was that we were the authors of “The Week,” and that clinched the unanimous vote of the editors in favor of an all-time prohibition against our submitting anything to their “pulp.” All right for you, Tombragel et al. We won’t ever read your old magazine again.
®
No sooner do we say something about making Notre -Dame a snow college than the revival of a hockey team i s proposed, Lou Alaman enters the Chicago Silver Skates derby, and Bob,MacDonald organizes a sleighriding party made up of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students. Sometimes the
power of the press almost overpowers us. Congratulations for the grand idea, Bob.
•
So the favorite article of diet of Notre Dame men, according to the newspapers at least, is the common, ordinary spinach. Evidently the representatives of the various newspapers never had the misfortune to partake of the local variety of spinach. If they want to get the real low-down on what the average Notre Dame man’s favorite food is, though, their reporters should come around on Friday and see what our gang can do -to a dining hall fish dinner. The sight of crowds of freshmen bringing their own cans of salmon to the meals would be a revelation.
O
We never get any rest. If our friends, a few of whom have remained loyal to us in spite of our queer mental gyrations on this page every Friday, aren’t condemning columnists in general and us in particular, someone like Doc Pritchett is damning the whole tribe of cheerleaders. Remember this, Doctor! Cheerleaders are to a cheering section what a professor is to his class, a maestro to his symphony orchestra, a pastor to his flock, an animal trainer to his lions, or. . . well you’ve probably got the idea by now. If you haven’t, it probably doesn’t matter anyhow.
January 17, 1936
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAFSMOKE
This marks the thirteenth issue of Caf Smoke (in other words we are exactly half way through your troubles). . . From Badin comes the anonymous note to the effect that Francis Michael Higgins sends and receives a letter daily to Agnes Catherine of Chicago (two proud providers of Postmaster Farley). . . . Ed Buckley from Massachusetts sports a
“We didn’t have any of these new-fangled desserts and wise cracks at our football banquet, eh John.”
lurid, hockey-ski-jockey-convertible button cap (what no running water?)
Joe Corcoran, ’38, from Boston returned from the holidays which among other things provided him with one radio, three rugs, four photos (girls, of course), two new pair of shoes, etc., etc. . . Look alikes (with the usual to ‘O.O.’), Joe Casasanta, of music fame and Edward G. Robinson of movie fame. . . Frank Kelly of the Speech Department and Thomas Madden of the English Department (The Dome will prove the latter comparison.). . -Bill White of Walsh says he ‘lost’ his pin in a fish pond, but we know its another fish story because the pin is at Briarcliff—even if White won’t pay Ed Donoghue the bet he made that the pin would be back on campus after vacation time.
A 4-1 shot, Bill Bowes, Don Kelly, Tom Grady and Tom Fitzgerald (the latter three from Howard) all fell for the same South Shore Miss. . . . Joe Cronin of Carroll brags of only fifteen shirts to his back. . . Caf Smoke regretfully finds most Christmas stories unfit to print (clean ’em up and send ’em in). . . . Gus Crisci, soph from Philly, announces that he has
recently acquired a position of worth and value, and will be able to meet the demands of his creditors on (or about) July 15, 1936. . .Jack Murphy of Walsh has about given up hope but may get to see his ex-St. Mary’s flame next summer. . . Colonel Bob Burke is a religious follower of Caf Smoke news. . .
Billy Castleman, Lyonite, spent a bit too much time with a ray of California sunshine which visited Louisville. Now he’s “singin’, whistlin’ and hummin’,” at tune entitled “Golden Gate Here I Come.”. . . Howard “Around-the-world-in-80-days” Cusack got his tan from a Xmas trip to Southern waters. . . .
Scrip appears next Friday so until we Meat again here’s peekin’ at ya, and ya, and ya. . .
Aftermath
Mild Hymns of Hate
Heave a sigh for Freshman Lee— He tried to buy a Scholastic key. Another classic is Freshman Doran Who wanted a room in good ol’ Sorin. Shed a tear for Freshman Glubb, He tried to join the Alumni Club. None of us love Freshman Rall Who tried to crash the Senior Ball. Add to the list of campus mistakes The frosh who gripe about the breaks. Another freshie we consign to the fates
Is the one who raves about his dates. But breathe a prayer for Freshman Earl—
The guy that copped my South Bend girl.
The Collegiate Distress signal, $0$.
“This college has turned out some great men,” wrote the freshie to his. parents after he had received his midsemester grades.
The most disappointed small town is the one Mencken hasn’t mentioned yet.	!
A college graduate is one who is in a fog as to what took place during the past four years and what -will take place in the next four.
A bowl of spaghetti may be aptly termed, foreign entanglements.
An exam is a series of questions which you are unable to answer and the fellows on either side of you aren’t of much assistance either.
A co-ed is like a microphone—she stands before you stiff and straight and allows you to talk, and talk and talk.
To the parents, college is just like a washing machine. They get out of it just what they put in but ‘it’ never looks the same.
And then there is the student who had a hard time telling the difference between his blind date and his maiden aunt. He did not discover that he had brought the aunt by mistake until the dance was over.
The pre-med becomes a master fizzi-tion.
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame'"Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C&.C.................Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN..............1.............Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST....................Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Week
Irwin L. Goldman___________1______________In the Juggler Vein
William V. Ellis___________dx___________________Art Editor
Nellis Staff
Paul Foley-----------------6____________________News Editor
Robert L. Grogan Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown__________Zf_____________Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus---------------1______‘____Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan_______________________________Louis DaPra
John A. Gillespie----------_________________Bertram Smith
Harold A. Williams___________________________John Hurley
Robert 'F. Ervin
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker____________________________Co-Sports Editor
James A. Waldron____________________________Co-Sports Editor
John Cackley---------------r---------James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett----------------------------Michael Crowe
Allen Bride-------------------------------------Arch Gott
John Glanzner
maintain the Missions in Bengal and to become a University boxing champion. (For particulars of the affair refer to page 14.)—J. P. P.
THE CAMPUS RADIO STATION
I'AST week The Scholastic carried a detailed account of the new broadcasting schedule for the campus radio station. Ten additional quarter-hour programs will be broadcast each week under this new arrangement.
The growth of the campus station, both in the quality of programs presented and in length of time on the air, has been surprising. Especially in the last twelve months has this phase of campus activity come to the fore. Today, the ambitious schedule of programs, covering as it eventually will, all the various departments of the University, affords an excellent opportunity for those interested in the different branches or radio — script writing, production, announcing, and the technical aspects—to obtain practical experience.
Undergraduates with talent in these fields are needed by the management of the campus station. Especially is this true in the matter1 of procuring suitable script for broadcasting purposes. Dig up that half-finished play, or that essay, and see whether you can polish them off for use on the air. The thrill of hearing your work over the radio will be ample reward for your labors.
William R. Dooley, ’26.
.Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
he Scholastic regretfully acknowledges its failure to record last week the activities of Bill Shakespeare and his mummers on the eve of the Christmas recess.
January 17, 1936
THE BENGAL BOUTS
.^^.TTENTION this week of all pugilistically inclined individuals is called to the fact that some time in March, probably during the second week, The Scholastic will again stage another boxing show. As in the past, the bouts will be held for the benefit of the Bengal Mission Fund.
In the winter of 1931-32, The Scholastic assumed the sponsorship of the campus boxing tournament in order to save the event from oblivion, as the interest in it, on the campus, was rapidly declining. In the four years since that time, the bouts have been well attended, have been athletic and financial successes. Last year’s exhibition was more than a success. The fighting was thrilling and the Bengal Missions received over three hundred dollars.
You don’t have to be a Jimmy Braddock to enter these bouts. Last year there were at least twenty boys who took part in the preliminaries and never had previous experience. Boxing as a form of exercise along with its muscle developing capacities is of the greatest benefit. Your weight or build makes no difference for a class will be found for you..
Become interested in the bouts as an enjoyable form of exercise. Learn to defend yourself through the teachings of a capabl boxing instructor who will start his lessons after the examinations. Go out for the bouts to help
January 17, 1936
ANTIDOTE FOR WINTER LETHARGY
O N page five we are happy to announce the first full length musical comedy attempted on the campus in nearly two years. As far back as October, The Scholastic editorialized on the passing last year of the Linnets, undergraduate musical group, and the distinct loss to the University in this field of student activity. At that time, a survey of campus opinion by two staff members revealed that the majority of students who had witnessed previous Linnet productions were enthusiastic in declaring that this type of theatrical activity should be revived.
There is room on the campus for more and varied theatrical presentations. The University Theatre got off to an excellent start with its pre-vacation production of “The World Waits.” We hope to see this talented group complete its proposed schedule of four major presentations during the current school-year. Meanwhile, Professor Joseph Casasanta is just beginning work on the production of the year’s first musical comedy. We wish him success in the venture and assure him that in The Scholastic he has an enthusiastic supporter. To the student body we point to Mr. Casasanta’s ambitious venture and the large number of undergraduate vocalists, musicians, dancers, stagehands, and other theatrically inclined students whose services will be needed. An an antidote for the post-exam lethargy which annually envelopes the campus from February to April, we suggest taking an active part in this forthcoming production.—J. S. M.
T h i r t e en
ATHLETICS
SCHOLASTIC SPONSORS YEARLY BENGAL BOUTS
NOTED FISTIC SHOW TO TAKE PLACE IN MARCH AT UNIVERSITY GYMNASIUM
MANY FORMER CHAMPIONS ARE EXPECTED; NEW TALENT PLENTIFUL
By James A. Waldron
About this time every year The Scholastic announces its annual boxing show for the benefit of the Bengal Missions. No definite date has been selected yet, but it will be some time in March.
Picked as the outstanding event of the winter sports season, the Bengal Show made its inaugural appearance under the auspices of The Scholastic in 1932. Previous to this time, the S.A.C. unsuccessfully took charge. Each year this sport’s feature was received more enthusiastically until last year when 3,000 fans jammed their way into the fieldhouse. The Scholastic feels that it will top last year’s performance with even better attractions and more thrilling bouts.
Plans are being made to secure the sendees of some outstanding figure in the boxing world as referee of the championship bouts. Last year, Packey McFarlane, chairman of the Illinois Boxing Commission, was guest referee. Many prominent names connected with this favorite indoor sport are being considered, and it is
A bit of battling in Bengal Boxing preliminaries last year.
hoped that one of them will be present for the show.
The Scholastic will again award prizes, which represent the championship of the University of Notre Dame, to the winners of the different divisions. A varsity sweater, with a chenille boxing glove upon which is embossed an “N.D.” will go to each school champion. ' A lighter sweater with the same emblem as the championship type, will be awarded the runners-up.
Announcement of the Bengal Show is deliberately made at an early date so that all candidates will have plenty of time to get into condition. Facilities can be found in the boxing room, below the le'ft bleacher stands in the fieldhouse. Anyone even entertaining an idea of entering the bouts should start limbering up immediately.
With the graduation or leaving of so many of last year’s star ring-men, the field is wide open to aspiring champions. The man in the best condition has won in the past, so start limbering up and win one of the coveted championship sweaters.
This show is open to any student of the University whether he be freshman or upperclassman and experience is not a requisite to entrance. The only thing required is the desire to fight or learn something about boxing.
Marquette Proves Easy For Keoganites, 37-22
By Cy Stroker
In a game that clearly demonstrated the Irish superiority, the Notre Dame basketball team defeated a strong Marquette quintet in the
George Ireland An Irish iron man.
local gym last Tuesday night by the score 37 to 22. Although the Wisconsin team pressed closely on the heels of Notre Dame at times, the outcome of the contest was never for one minute in doubt. The game featured the playing of Notre Dame’s flashy crop of sophomores who dominated the scene from start to finish.
Notre Dame took an early lead when Nowak, rangy Irish center, started the scoring with a field goal. The speed and tricky playing of the Keoganmen caught the visitors off guard and while Notre Dame did not roll up a large margin in the first half, they were in posession of the ball most of the time. Handling the ball with a baffling speed Nowak, Wukovits, and Moir constantly threatened the Marquette basket, but many of the shots went wild. Co-Captain Johnny Ford put bn a good exhibition (Continued on Page 20)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Jan. 25 Is Inauguration
IRISH BASKETEERS MEET PENN
For 1936 Fencing Team
AND SYRACUSE ON EASTERN TRIP
Jan. 25---Purdue at Lafayette
Feb. 8 — Michigan State at East Lansing
Feb. 14—Ohio State at Notre Dame
Fe. 15—Chicago at Notre Dame Feb. 29—Purdue at Notre Dame March 6 — Northwestern at Notre Dame
March 14-------Cincinnati at Notre Dame
March 21-----Michigan State at Notre Dame
March 28—Washington at St. Louis
March 30 to April 4 — Freshman tournament in foils and sabers
April 18-----Illinois Fencers League Tournament for Novices
April 25—Illinois Fencers’ League Tournament for Juniors
May 2 — Illinois Fencers’ League for Seniors
One of the most extensive fencing schedules ever compiled at Notre Dame was approved and released by the Athletic Board late this week. The fencers will take part in nine dual meets commencing Jan. 25 and continuing to March 28, mainly with Big Ten teams. At the conclusion of the dual meet season there will follow four open meets ranging between March 30 and May 2.
The teams, the deLandero coached men will meet are of the highest caliber. Such Big Ten aggregations as Purdue, Ohio State, Chicago, and Northwestern will be met on successive dates throughout the season. Other teams to be encountered are Michigan State which boasts of a strong team this year, Cincinnati, and Washington University of St. Louis. As soon as the regular dual meet season is completed the fencers will participate in the several Illinois Fencers League Tournaments open to all comers.
Dick Snooks
At sword’s points with opponents.
On March 30, the Freshman Fencing Tournament will be held in the foils and sabres to determine the participants to take part in the Illinois Fencers League Tournament for Novices. This tournament will be • held on April 18 at Chicago. Following this the Junior Championship of the Illinois League will be held in (Continued1 on Page 22)
CO-CAPTAIN OF FENCING TEAM
Carlos de Landero
WRITE TO HUSING FOR
N. D. NET BROADCAST
“Scholastic” readers who are interested in hearing a broadcast of the Notre Dame - University basketball game from New York are urged to write to Ted Husing of the Columbia Broadcasting system advising him of that fact. Husing broadcasted the N.Y.U.-Kentucky game, and the reception that met this broadcast was highly favorable. He has announced that if enough interest is shown in the broadcasts they will be continued by him and his assistant, Les Qualey. Followers of the Irish net team will, no doubt be anxious to hear the forthcoming game with N.Y.U., as it is one of the biggest games of the season. Requests for the broadcast should be sent immediately to Ted Husing, in care of the Columbia Broadcasting System, New York City.
ALTERNATE FOOTBALL CAPTAIN AT TULANE UNIVERSITY
Down in New Orleans, Tulane University offers a policy in electing football captains which should be worthy of consideration by Notre Dame. Following the trational order, a football captain is chosen by his teammates at a banquet after the season is over. Realizing the possibility that an injury or even death may rob them of their leader, the Greenies elect an alternate captain along with the regular one. He merely acts in the same capacity as a vice-president in regard to team leadership.
Last year Notre Dame went through its football season with only an inspiration to lead them on the field. True, an acting captain was appointed each game, but this policy of (Continued on Page 22)
At Palestra Tomorrow Night
Tomorrow night’s game will be played before a capacity house as the Quakers are playing the greatest basketball the Friendly City has seen in many years, and they are favored to win the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball competition this year as well as to defeat the Irish tomorrow night. But the Keoganites expect to have something to say about that. Coach Keogan seems to have found his most consistently scoring combination in Peters, Moir, Nowak, Wukovits, and Jordan and will probably start them against the highly touted Penn team.
Penn Team Formidable
The reports from Pennsylvania indicate that the Red and Blue are supremely confident of victory over Notre Dame tomorrow and have a formidable lineup to add weight to their assertions. Five seniors compose their first string while formidable reserves have been backing them up in the tight spots during the current season. The Quakers have been rolling up victory after victory over Eastern opponents and have been pointing for Notre Dame, as is the custom of all Irish opponents. If they down the locals tomorrow night the next Pennsylvania step toward national recognition will be an attempt to defeat N.Y.U. at Madison Square Garden. The Penn - N.Y.U. encounter has been billed as a contest
PETERS

for the selection of the possible Olympic basketball team, that is, if Penn can defeat the Irish and the Irish don’t turn back the N.Y.U. machine when they clash next month at the sports garden in New York.
This will not be the first Penn-Notre Dame encounter. The two teams have met several times during the last few years with the Irish com-(Continued on Page 18)
January 17, 19-36
Fifteen-
INTRODUCING
Panthers' Scrappy Five Succumbs To Irish
By Cy Stroker
Indiana has long been noted as a basketball state. The interest shown in Hoosier teams, high school as well as college, is unparalleled in any other place in the country and the quality of those teams is traditional. The record made by Notre Dame teams on the court is caused largely by the
presence of one or more natives of Indiana. The long line of Crowe brothers, products of Indiana, has been one of the main features in Irish basketball. And in Frank Wade, left guard on the present Notre Dame team, the Irish boast another product of Indiana.
Frank was born in the little town of Howe, Indiana, some 21 years ago and it is popularly believed that his first toy was not a rattle but a basketball. He attended Lima High school in Howe where he played on the basketball team which he captained in his senior year. He played baseball too, but the big interest was basketball. Basketball. He played it the year years in the district tournament.
round. He thought of little else. He dreamed about it. And the result of all this concentration on the subject showed itself when the team of which he was the captain won 22 out of 23 games in that season. Frank also played on the team which, representing Lima high, competed for two
Coming to Notre Dame, Frank was decidedly up against it. For there, calmly holding down the left guard position on the Irish squad—Frank’s position—was Leo Crowe of the family whose name has been a by-word in Notre Dame court circles for a decade. It was Leo’s last year and, to put it mildly, he was in fine form. There seemed to be little for Frank to do, but he managed to play in several games that year, the first of which was the Ball State Teachers’ game which Notre Dame won 43 to 22.
With Crowe out of the way, Wade (Continued on Page 19)
It took Coach George Keogan’s cage artists four long years to accomplish the task, but they finally proved their superiority over Pitt’s speedy five in such a convincing 43-35 manner that not even the entire battery of timekeepers, scorers, and officials could have checked the Irish barrage last Friday night in the Smoky City.
Lanky Paul Nowak, ex-Central flash, proved to be the deciding factor in the Gold and Blue victory, as he looped in seven double-deckers and a duo of charity tosses to climax his spectacular shooting with a total of 16 points.
Ragged defensive play by Notre Dame in the initial two periods enabled the once mighty Panthers to grab a 20 -19 lead at intermission, after the Green had started fast in whirlwind fashion by sinking five field goals before Doc Carlson’s proteges suddenly became aware of the impending crisis. Pittsburgh plugged along, however, and pulled one marker ahead at the half as Hi Noon, Radvansky, and Roderick rang the hoop for tallies.
The Panthers cracked right through the Irish bulwark in the final 30 minutes by racing to a commanding 28-19 advantage before Notre Dame put a stop to such maneuvers with a timeout.
The strategy showed to be extremely effective, for Nowak and Johnny Moir commenced to connect from all angles of the court in allowing Notre Dame to recapture the count at 2 fl-28, which from then on was “in the bag.”
Although Pitt was unfortunate to lose Cribbs, All - America forward, and Skippy Hughes by graduation last June, they nevertheless demonstrated a very aggressive brand of ball against Keogan’s netsters. Roderick, veteran star, bore the brunt of his squad’s attack while also being runner-up to Nowak in the percentages with five pay-offs from the field.
Co - Captains Johnny Ford, Marty Peters, and their mates extended the Irish winning streak at the Panthers’ expense to five sports. Following the track team’s conquest in ’35, Notre
(Continued on Page 21)
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Trackmen Show Form In
Intrasquad Practice Meet
Work is the keynote every afternoon in the fieldhouse now as Coach John Nicholson gradually rounds his track performers into condition for the forthcoming indoor schedule. The holiday spirit has vanished, and the entire squad is awaiting their first competition which will not come until February.
Every day the first work is to jog around the track a few times. The weight men, pole vaulters, high jump-
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX |
i
Geokge Meagher Not large but mighty.
ers, broad jumpers and hurdlers all take trips around the field house with the runners in order to condition their legs. After the initial warming up, Coach Nicholson calls the various members of the squad together and they indulge in calisthenics for about ten minutes. After he dismisses his men from exercising their muscles, Coach Nicholson spends time with each individual in order to improve the ability of his men.
An intrasquad meet was held last Saturday so that the Irish track coach could tell how his men were progressing. The longer distances were shortened for fear one of Nick’s stars might not be able to stand the pace this early in the season. The squad was divided into two teams. The gold clad members triumphed over the blue team, 59-33. Many veterans were prominent in the meet. Among them were Elser, Jordan, McKenna, Du-cassa, McGrath, Levicki, Michuta, Gott, McFarlane, Rubly and Captain George Meagher. John Francis, who was out because of sickness last year, definitely proved that he will be one of Nick’s outstanding performers this year. Ace Clifford and Bill Mahoney looked to be the best sophomore prospects.
In the 60 yard dash final, Jordan led Boyle and Duncan to the tape. The time was 06.5. Clifford ran his heat of the 60 yard dash in 06.3 but was forced to retire because of a leg injury. The milers ran but five laps. Francis headed the field but was (Continued on Page 21)
By Joe Prendergast
ANOTHER FIGHTING IRISH
Back in the early years of the past decade things were breaking with a shining hue for the New York Garden Corporation in its many adventures. There was Tex Rickard who was promoting boxing show’s the likes of which were never dreamed of; there was Lester Patrick, who was jamming them in to see his recently formed hockey team — the New York Rangers; there was the fantastic six day bicycle races which were started by another of those “the music goes round and round” fellows of unknown moniker and which were being held semi-annually and filling the house for seven days at a stretch. In the off evenings when one of these main attractions weren’t on tap the Garden could be sure to put on a show by giving the use of the hall over to that well known character of this decade, C. C. (Cash and Carry) Pyle of bunion derby fame, marathon dances, rocking chair contests, flagpole sitting contests, hog calling championships, rolling pin throwing pastimes at human targets, and of goofs, freaks and flea circuses of notoriety. The people paid and paid hard to see Mr. Pyle’s shows for what reason only they know and they only know during working hours.
Everything looked on the up and up for the Garden when suddenly Tex Rickard, the man who was the Garden and then some, unexpectedly died. Things, shortly after, took a turn for the worse. Boxing couldn’t draw enough paying customers to keep the peanut boys in shucks; hockey still retained its crowd-pulling powers but other than this everything went black. Even C. C. Pyle left for sunnier climes with no forwarding address.
The depression set in. The Garden was a hot potato with most of the stockholders swiftly juggling the stock so as to relieve them of the financial burden. Presidents and matchmakers were as numerous as Peggy Joyce Hopkins’ husbands. The New York sports arena was in this plight until about 1934. Jimmy Johnston then assumed the matchmaker’s job and turned the boxing programs from a hit and miss proposition into one paying dividends. Hockey, tennis and track were all drawing once again. In 1935 boxing was the big noise mainly because of the impetus given the sport by Joe Louis, the Detroit scourge. The Garden was again beginning to show a profit.
Late in the fall of 1934, Ned Irish, a run of the mill sports scribe on a New York daily, was besieged with the idea of promoting collegiate doubleheader basketball games in the Garden. He tried to sell the idea to the boys at the Eighth Avenue sports show place but they frowned on it. He kept plugging away at his idea, writing to some of the schools he wanted to show in New York and getting their o.k. to play a New York school if his plans went through. Again he went to the Col John Reed Kilpatrick, Yale’s one-time all-American end but who is now president of Madison Square Garden, to .sell him his idea and did just that.
The first doubleheader was staged between New York U. and Fordham, and Long Island U. and C.C.N.Y. It was a hit. In the vicinity 14,000 people turned out to view the games. Ned Irish had struck a gold mine. He went ahead and scheduled many more twin-bills for 1935 all of which proved to be sellouts. Notre Dame played in one of these last year and was humbled by New York U. before a record-breaking throng of eighteen-odd thousand. This was the
(Continued on Page 22)
January 17, 1936
Seventeen
BUTLER, ST. BENEDICT’S AND ILLINOIS ARE
NEXT CAGE OPPONENTS FOR IRISH AT HOME
By Arch Gott
On Jan. 25 the Irish will renew the ancient Butler-Notre Dame basketball series which has become an important part of the yearly schedule of these two outfits. It always seems that when one of the teams lays a claim to having the best squad in Indiana, the other crowd has the same idea and
Moon Mullins
The Irishman is now a Raven.
some hair-raising tilts are the subsequent results. The 1935 edition of the annual drama was fully up to expectations.
The first act opened at Notre Dame early last January and after one of the wildest contests to be played on any hardwood, the Irish were dragged from the floor gasping, but happy in the possession of a 30-29 victory. Coach Keogan’s charges had piled up a substantial lead in the first half but soon the complexion of the game changed and Butler began to find the basket. Things reached the point df desperation for a time but Notre Dame always fights hardest when the going is toughest so the first act came to a happy conclusion. Joe O’Kane was the inspiration that night, swishing the net for 14 points.
Act two found a change of scene to the huge Butler fieldhouse in Indianapolis on February 23 where 10,000 fans of the game of hoops came to see the second episode in the terrific series. This time the Irish piled a heavy wallop and won by the “tremendous” margin of four points, 27-23. Johnny Ford had a big night before the home - town crowd and scored eight tallies for his team.
February 1 a former Notre Dame gridiron hero, Moon Mullins, will ' come out of the west with his tough little St. Benedict’s College ‘team from Atchison, Kansas. The Keogan-
men will do well not to take the game too lightly for the simple reason that the St. Benedict Ravens are very much up and coming in collegiate basketball circles this season. Manager Ed Lawlor of the Ravens advances the news that his team blasted through to a 24-23 victory over a strong outfit from Haskell a few nights ago and are rarin’ mad after their taste of Indian meat. The annual jinx will have to be quelled this year by the Irish. It is also understood that St. Benedict’s have been hoping for the coming of this game as they feel highly confident that they can pin a defeat onto the unsuspecting Blue and Gold hoopsters.
Coach Craig Ruby is slated to escort his “Fighting Ulini” to the Notre Dame court on February 5 when the Irish will try to gain revenge for a 26-27 defeat suffered at the hands of the lads from Champaign during the last season. That was the first time an Illini basketball team had scored a win over Notre Dame since 1924. Co-Captains Ford and Peters are determined to show that they respect tradition and to send the Illini back home at the short end of a very long score. Illinois has so far been a puzzling team this season. After a whirlwind start they lost a close tilt to the supposedly weak Iowa five. However they perked up the succeeding week
Frank Wade
He’s introduced this week.
and skimmed over Wisconsin. Combes has thus far been the shining light in the Illinois lineup both defensively and offensively and the Irish lineup will do well to watch him along with Vopicka and Riegel.
Coach Keogan’s team should be in top form for these contests having worn off any early season jitters they might have had and having George Ireland and Frank Wade back in form. In recent contests the squad has evinced a much improved passing attack and they are3going to be tougher than ever from now on.
SYRACUSE, PENN GAMES
(Continued from Page 15)
ing out on top in the majority of cases. Pennsylvania, always a power in the East, has usually fallen easy victims to the Irish. However tomorrow night the Quakers hope to turn the trick and register a decisive victory over the Keogan-coached outfit. Indications point toward that as Penn has a truly great team, and Eastern teams have been having remarkable success in competition with strong Mid-western outfits. However Notre Dame has not been east prior to this game, and the Irish hope to be the exception to the rule.
Syracuse On Monday
Monday Keogan’s fast rolling hoopsters will stop off at Syracuse to battle the towering Syracuse quintet. This encounter will mark the third time within a week that the Notre Dame basketball team has competed against the best of the suicide schedule.
In bumping up against the newcomers to the Irish schedule, Keogan’s charges will meet a fast, experienced five composed of seasoned veterans. Syracuse must be the region for giants, as that university boasts a group of eagers that will tower above all. Even lanky Nowak will have to change his policy of looking down on opposing centers when he meets the New Yorkers’ star center, Ed Son-derman. Sonderman has practically controlled the tip off all season as well as being a valuable asset in getting the ball off the backboard. The other starting members, Leavitt and Curran at forwards and Guley and Simonatis at guards are all players of unusual height.
Irish Hosts Undefeated
The Syracuse quintet is enjoying a successful season and in all probability will be undefeated when they run up against the Irish. To date the easterners have won seven straight contests and have no desire to quit the winning ways. Judging from the Cornell encounter the Syracuse boys like to allow the opposing team to pile up an early lead, and then Syracuse overcomes it with a second half assault. In this same game Simonatis ran up a total of 19 points and Sonderman collected 16. From this it can be gathered that Ford and company will have to work the famous Keogan defense to perfection to keep the point collecting twins from clicking.
Syracuse is a newcomer to the list of Notre Dame opponents and the Irish are eager to start off on the right foot. The Pitt jinx has been downed and there is no desire for a new one to pop up.
The Scholastic
Eighteen
SIX GAMES SCHEDULED FOR SUNDAY IN INTERHALL LEAGUE PRACTICES
Corby And Walsh Strong
First Practice Scrimmage Schedule
Sunday, Jan. 19 ♦
8:30 a.m.....Freshman vs. St. Ed’s
9:30 a.m...Morrissey vs. Brownson
10:30 a.m.........Sorin	vs. Carroll
1:30 p.m. .....Lyon vs. Howard 2:30 p.m.....Walsh vs. Off-Campus 3:30 p.m.....Badin	vs. Dillon
Monday, Jan. 20
8:00 p.m.........Corby	vs. Alumni
—0—
By Arch Gott
Under the leadership of Mr. John Scannell, head of the Physical Education department, the 1936 interhall basketball teams are assuming form. Yearly it has become the custom to
George “Wibby” Wentworth He'll coach Sorin's men of destiny.
restrict the opening of the season until after the semester exams so the actual schedule will not begin until the first part of February. However this has not hindered the lads from frequent practice sessions on regularly designated nights. Mr. Scannell has appointed men from his department to coach the various squads, two to a hall.
Turmoil is expected to reign in interhall ranks this season chiefly because of existing conditions. Last year’s champions were the Badin Hall lightweights and the St. Edward’s Hall heavies. It seems that most of the Badin champs have moved to Walsh this term where they will carry on in the league as a unit. Again, the St. Ed’s All-Stars have nearly all taken up residence in Corby and they too are going to be playing together this time. Thus there seems to be a perfect setting for a knock-me-down-drag-me-out session when all the other halls get under way in their determination to dethrone the two outfits, some of the fellows having played together for three years.
To repeat a few of the regulations which may have been unnoticed by interhall aspirants, the league will be divided into lightweight and heavyweight divisions the former embrac-(Continued on Page 20)
ON DOWN THE LINE
By James A. Waldron
ANTHONY “TONY” SALA, captain-elect of next year’s VILLANOVA eleven, Won the light heavyweight INTERCOLLEGIATE BOXING CROWN for 1934.— Football fans in NEW MEXICO are praising the great play of WILLIAM BAKER, UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO center, during the past season. To make his work even more praiseworthy, BILL has only one arm— EDWARD ELLIOTT, of the PURDUE basketball squad, is a son of the UNIVERSITY president — DIXIE WALKER, owned by the NEW YORK YANKEES, hit a home run in every park in the INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE last season—The four leading scorers of the BIG TEN last season are back in competition. BILL HAARL0W, of CHICAGO, topped them all with 156 points, a margin of six on PURDUE’S ace, BOB KESSLER. WARREN WHITLINGER, OHIO STATE, and JOHNNY BAR-KO of IOWA followed with 125 and 124 points, respectively—At the ski competitions at LAKE PLACID, the UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA was represented by a one-man team. The GEORGIAN is EMILIO PUCCI, once a member of the ITALIAN Army ski team and a representative of his native country in the OLYMPICS.—The girls at GEORGIAN COURT COLLEGE in LAKEWOOD, N. J., prefer BOXING as their favorite Winter Sports entertainment.	'
SOME OLYMPIC HISTORY:
There is a general idea that basketball never has been played at the OLYMPIC games. It is true that it never has actually been a part of the GRAND INTERNATIONAL GYMKHANA, but, nevertheless, it was played at the ST. LOUIS OLYMPICS of 1904 when the national championships were held in conjunction. The feature of that neo-Olympic basketball tournament was the strange predicament of a team from BUFFALO, which got mixed up on its starting time and had to play the first half in street clothes when the authorities re-
Colored Court Lines
To Be Used In Tennis
Tenis is taking on all the colors of the butterfly. First it was the stringing of the racquet that included all the colors of the rainbow, but now the court lines are to be colored differently as an aid to both the player and referee.
Those who have studied the prob- • lem say that there is no difficulty whatever in tinting the lines any color that may be desired. Yellow and red seem to be the most popular colors to be incorporated into the marking mixture.	’	•
INTRODUCING
(Continued on Page 19)
had a better chance last year to show his ability. Playing in almost every game of the season, he was an integral part of the Notre Dame defen.se. Handicapped though the team was by its lack of size and weight, last year’s quintet made a very creditable showing and Frank did his share in turning impending defeat into victory. This year has given Wade the opportunity that he has waited for for two years and he is making the most of it. Although the flashy forward section of the Notre Dame team is continually capturing the spotlight, the Irish defense consisting mainly of Wade and Ireland, has consistently turned back the thrusts of the opposing teams.
After three years of college and four years of high school basketball, most players would be about ready to retire, but not Frank. When he graduates next June he intends to continue his basketball activities from the coaching angle which accounts for his being in the Physical Ed school. When the net season is over he is going to try his luck at pole vaulting on Coach Nicholson’s track team.
fused to give the players time to dress. Of course, basketball is going to be a regular part of the Olympics this year. There are prospects of 20 entries, including TURKEY and INDIA. The UNITED STATES, birthplace of the sport, seems to be a cinch for the championship, but the status of the sport in EUROPE and ASIA is an unknown quality.
WHO OWNS THE GOLF CLUBS?
After seeing the first .exhibition of golf ever held in RUSSIA, SOVIET officials were understood to be contemplating building several courses near MOSCOW. LEONARD MACOMBER of CHICAGO drove the first golf ball in Russia on a natural fairway at SILVER FOREST PARK, just outside this city.
Nineteen
January 17, 1936
5
TRACK COACH NICHOLSON CAN LOOK BACK ON INTERESTING ATHLETIC CAREER ♦
By John Cackley
Crisply the starter’s voice barked, “Take your position, on the mark, ready.” Bang! A handful of high school athletes surged forward instantaneously with the gun, eager to take each and every hurdle with the least possible amount of time. A tousle-
Coach John Nicholson
Tied world’s hurdle record in 1912.
headed slender boy emerges victorious by a hair’s-breadth margin at the tape.
The decades have been retarded back for you to 1906 in the city of St. Louis, Missouri, where John P. Nicholson, nationally - known mentor of the Irish track squads, received his initial baptism of fire on the cinder path.
While competing in prep circles, Nick, as he is affectionately called by hundreds of past and present Notre Dame luminaries, was an ‘all-around’ man but his specialty was concentrated on the high jump. He holds the distinction of being the first to demonstrate the California form in the latter event.
Coach Nicholson firmly established himself in the sport world limelight during the western conference meet of 1912. In that period the jamboree compared favorably with the annual national get-together held each year, now, for ranking college stars. Nich
olson completely ran away with the percentages by capturing top honors in being awarded the high point medal.
When the U. S. Olympic team weighed anchors for the international competition in Stockholm, Sweden, that summer, Nick was included on the list. His principal duty was to perform in the high hurdle and broad" jump; and, in the former he tied for the world’s record in a flat 15 seconds. In 1913 Nicholson received his hard-earned sheepskin from the University of Missouri.
Nick’s versatility in the coaching line is as varied as a stock - market graph. His repertoire of trades enhances a leaning towards rowing, football, and track. For eight years he tutored the footballers at Sewanee, and won the southern championship thrice in a row. After this he drilled the frosh of Rice Institute in Texas.
While emphatically stating that he is not a “Canuck,” nevertheless Nick spent nine years in Canada with the Hamilton Olympic Club and the Montreal A. C. Part of his activities in connection with these two organizations was sweeping a lusty oar through the water for the crew; Coach Nicholson in ’28, had charge of the Canadian aggregation that participated in the British Empire games, held in Ontario. His affiliation with the Montreal A. C., gave them the track championship of Canada for
Don Elser
Decathlon—What next little man?
seven consecutive years. Nick has placed at least half-dozen candidates under the colors of the Canadian Olympic banner; the most notable probably was that of Johnson, a quarter-miler in 1924.
Much could be written and more could be said about the Gold and Blue tracksters since Coach Nicholson arrived on the campus, nine winters ago, but his achievements in this re-(Continued on Page 21)
MARQUETTE GAME
(Continued from Page 14)
of his favorite trick—taking the ball away from his opponents. The first half ended with Notre Dame in the lead 17-13.
The start of the second half found the Marquette team making a determined effort to take the lead. With a series of spectacular shots by Rubado, Rasmussen, and Eirich, the Jesuits managed to come within one point of Notre Dame’s score. But Meyer led the Irish to further scoring by sinking two baskets in quick succession and seemed about to make a night of it when he hurt his leg and had to leave the game. Marty Peters came in at center in the middle of the second half to bolster up the tiring Irish team. Although not as fast a player as Nowak, Peters was more sure of himself and time and again took the ball out from in under his own basket to advance it down the. floor. After much scoring and many fouls on each side the game ended with Notre Dame in the lead 37 to 22.
Nowak and Rasmussen tied for high scoring honors of the game with eight points apiece to their credit. Nowak made three field goals and two foul shots while Rasmussen made two goals and four three throws. For Marquette Rubado, veteran of previous Irish-Marquette battles, played the outstanding game while Johnny Ford took the laurels in that respect for Notre Dame. Strong though the Hilltoppers were, it was plain that the loss of last year’s star, Ray Morstadt, has seriously weakened the Marquette attack.
The lineup:
Notre Dame (37)
B F P
Ireland, g --- 10 0
Wade, g ------ 0 12
Peters, c ________ 111
Moir, f------- 2 10
Meyer, f ----- 2 11
Ford, f______ 2	12
Allen, g _____ 0	0	1
Nowak, c _____ 3	2	2
Wukovits, g	....	2	0	0
Jordan, g---- 0	0	0
Hopkins, f ..... 10 1
Crowe, f _____ 0	2	0
Sweeney, g "....	0	0	0
DeMots. c---- 0	0	0
14 9 11
Marquette B
Vytiska, f__0
McMahon, f 1
McMahon, f 1
Eirich, c __ 2
Rubado, g .... 2
Rasmussen, g 2
O’Keefe, g .... 0
Wherry, f .... 0
Sokcdy, f .... 0
Cofone, f .... 0
Wolf, f ____ 0
(22) F P 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 ’ 1 2 4 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 1 0
7 8 11
INTERHALL BASKETBALL (Continued from Page 19)
ing those weighing up to 150 pounds and the latter including all others. Each player will be judged by the amount he weighs at the beginning of the season. Only rubber-soled shoes are to be allowed—no leather-soled boxing shoes will be tolerated. Each man must have a medical exam before he is eligible to play on a team. This rule is highly important and team candidates are urged to comply with it at once.
Twenty
The Scholastic
TRACKMEN SHOW FORM
(Continued from Page 17)
given a close race by McKenna. The time was 2:43.5. Mahoney had no competition in the high hurdles. The tall sophomore cleared the high sticks in .08.2. Mike Layden, a two year veteran, will be out soon to earn points for Notre Dame in this event. The half milers ran only 600 yards. Cavanaugh won the event with McGrath earning second. Ducassa placed third. The two milers ran ten laps around the field house. Gott made a driving finish to beat out Leo McFarlane. Gott’s time was 6:01.5. These two veteran distance men will win their share of points for the Irish this season. Rubly triumphed in the 300 yard rim. Sheehan? another promising sophomore, placed second and Duncan finished third. Rubly completed the distance in 33.4. The low hurdle race found Mahoney again the victor. Don Elser took time from his weight events in order to place second. The winners’ time was 07.5.
Gibbs and McCarthy divided honors in the pole vault. Both men cleared 11 feet 6 inches. With a little more experience, these men are counted on to make their share of the points this year. Coach Nicholson will lose little sleep over his chances in the shot put. Such capable performers as Elser, Michuta and Levicki leave little to be
desired in this event. Elser, of course, was the winner Saturday. His best attempt was 47' 6%". Levicki and Michuta finished in that order. The high jump is furnishing Coach Nicholson his greatest trouble. Murphy’s graduation leaves a big position to be filled. Elser and English' made the best efforts last Saturday. Both men cleared five feet eight inches. Langton was third. The gold team made a clean sweep of the broad jump. The always dependable Captain Meagher won the event by jumping 21' 11% " Jordan and Gibbs were second and third to their leader.
As was previously stated, the meet was merely a feeler in order to give Coach Nicholson a better line on his candidates. No extraordinary times were established. It’s too early in the season for fast marks. However, Notre Dame track enthusiasts are looking forward to a successful season. With a little more preparation, the track squad will be ready to plunge into the indoor schedule that confronts Notre Dame this year.
NICHOLSON FEATURE (Continued from Page 20)
spect tell their own story. The Irish consistently have been rated on or near the pinnacle of success, since the advent of Nick. He has developed such men as Jack Elder, Vince Mur
phy, and Alex Wilson; the last-named having run the third fastest half mile that has ever been recorded. Incidentally Nicholson considers Wilson the greatest individual he has. handled. His Notre Dame team of 1931 was, no doubt, the best of his career, with the ’35 outfit a close second, having garnered eight of nine dual encounters.
Preparing Don Elser for the decathlon and a possible Olympic berth is the major task confronting the Irish mentor for the proceeding months. A swell fellow, is Nick, and “tops” in his profession, with the proudest boast being that he is “the biggest tramp coach in the country” —Centre, Rice, Hamilton, Montreal, Sewanee, and Notre Dame, et cetera, et cetera.
PANTHERS SUCCUMB TO IRISH (Continued from Page 16)
Dame has humbled Pitt in cross-country, golf, and the memorable 9-6 football upset.
Notre Dame	Pittsburgh
Heyer, f ______ 3 0 0
Moir, f  3 3 0
Nowak, c ______ 7 2 2
Wade, g _______ 10 1
Ireland, g ____ 0 10
Peters, f _____ 0 0 3
Ford, g ------- 111
Jordan, g _____ 0 0 1
Wukovits. g .... 3 0 0
I
--------I
IS 7 S
Loucks, f .... 0 0 1
Zeiesnick. f.... 1 4 I
Noon, c______2 12
Radvansky. g 3 2 2
Rowe, g _____ 0	0 0
Roderick, f.... 5 0 2
Johnson, g.... 12 1
Garcia, c _____ 10	0
Jesko. f ____ 0 0 0
Spotovich, g 0 0 1
13 9 10
BIT OF ACTION AS
STANFORD WAS DEFEATED IN 1935
January 17, 1936
Twenty-one
INAUGURATE FENCING (Continued from Page 15)
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX (Continued from Page 17)
which all Varsity men will participate and if any Notre Darner should win this tournament he will be entered in the senior championships of the same league to be held in Chicago May 2.
It is very probable that one Notre Dame fencer may distinguish himself in this as the team is of a very high caliber this year. Co-captain Carlos deLandero and his brother, Telmo, are both candidates for the Mexican Olympic team and expect to figure prominently in all dual meets.
The team is being built around Cocaptains Carlos de Landero and Kevin Kehoe, Telma de Landero, Jack McAuliffe, Dick Snooks, and Bob Seco, veterans of last year’s undefeated team. Among the sophomores the outstanding candidates are Charles Kolp, Vic Mercado, Francis Krueger and Tim Doody in the foils and Jack Zerbst in the sabers, besides Frank Triscito, a junior who is showing greater improvement in the sabers.
largest basketball crowd they ever had in New York City but since then that record has been broken many times.
Ned Irish has brought to the New York Garden the best dividend paying sport in over ten years. He has enriched himself and the Garden immeasurably. This year there has not been one of the doubleheaders, which has totaled close to ten, that has not drawn a full house. New York U. is his ace team, practically using the Garden for their home floor. They have yet to be defeated in the Garden. This season they have knocked off Fordham, California, Purdue, and Kentucky, to name a few offhand, at the Garden, and on February 14 will meet the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. N.Y.U. wins them all, but the Irish lad is the winner. He had the power of his convictions, tried and succeeded.
ALTERNATE FOOTBALL CAPTAIN (Continued from Page 15)
having a different player for a leader each game didn’t breed the confidence a team should possess behind its captain. The old system of appointing co-captains has wisely been done away with.
Bill Moss, who was a tackle on this past season’s team, was elected captain of the 1936 football squad. Noel Loften, fullback and center was named alternate captain.
WRITE TO TED HUSING
Ted Busing, the narrator of the recent New York U. vs. Kentucky basketball game direct from Madison Square Garden in New York, will continue his broadcasts of these games if the response through the mails is sufficient to warrant it.
Drop Ted a line in care of the Columbia Broadcasting System, New York \ City, letting him know you enjoy and appreciate the broadcasts of these basketball games.
Notre Dame plays in New York on Feb. 14 against New York U., and if the broadcasts keep up we shall be able to hear the contest. WRITE TO HUSING.
CAMPUS OPINION (Continued from Page 8)
This would be a means of bringing a greater unification of the senior class.”
Dom Varraveto, Sorin Hall: “By all means. It will provide the fellows with one last chance to get together informally. In that gathering they can leave for posterity any suggestions that they profited by through their experience.”
Norb Tinnes, Howard Hall: “They haven’t anything to bring them closer together. It would establish more of a friendship among the class and give the fellows a chance to know more about one another.”
Bob Stapp, Howard Hall: “I think it would be a good idea. Most schools I know have some sort of a convocation either as a whole or among individual classes. The only time our class got together was at the Freshman Smoker. The smoker would afford a good opportunity to bring the class together once more before commencement time.”
Twenty-two
SLIVERS FROM THE BLEACHERS
Laurie Vejar, diminutive quarterback for the Irish a couple of years back, is now working in Los Angeles and coaching a professional football team out there. It is reputed that he has written to many of the graduating stars of the Irish grid team feeling them out as to playing “pro” ball on the coast next fall.
. . . Billy Stillwagon, youngest brother of this year’s baseball manager, Woody Stillwagon, recently made the headlines in the Columbus papers by scoring all of St. Vincents’ (Mt. Vernon) points in a net game against Holy Family of Columbus. He totaled 14 and his team lost 20 to 14 . . . On the gold footballs presented to the monogram winners and the entire coaching staff at the banquet last Monday are a raised N.D., the year -1935, the name and position of the player and the score: Notre Dame 18, Ohio State 13 . . . Francis Schmidt, pigskin mechanic down O-State took a beating on Nov. 2 which was very tame compared to the one he took from the jokesters at the grid banquet . . . Eddie Dowling at the banquet delivered the greatest address your correspondent ever heard. At one part he said, “I played for ten to fifteen years on a football team called Broadway. The bumps you boys received out there last fall were nothing compared to the misfortunes, setbacks, back-biting and chiseling that occurs on the team I played on.” . . . Charlie Hyatt, past hoop star from the University of Pitt and now capain of the all-star five playing for the Universal Pictures of Los Angeles would like to get hold of Marty Peters next year to play for his quintet . . . Dartmouth, a snow college is a misnomer. Princeton whaled the Indians 26 to 7 last fall in the snow at Palmer Stadium . . . The Irish baseball team have the arrangements completed for a southern trip. All that is needed is the o.k. of the A.A. Board. The trip would be at Easter time and would last about ten days or so . . .Interhall basketball was left out in the cold last Sunday morning because of the monogram initiation in the gym. The interhall lads have a meager amount of time to work out now, let alone being deprived of that small amount. . . Contrary to popular opinion, Coach Keogan was very gracious and considerate to Manager Bill Gillespie after that Northwestern basketball tie . . . Joe O’Kane is expected to carry on basketball broadcasts on Thursday afternoons from the local radio station, replacing Jack Robinson who was the football headliner and who will be leaving us shortly.
' The Scholastic
FOOTBALL BANQUET (Continued from Page 9)
acters, the University band played Gounod’s “Ave Maria.”	‘
In the course of his attack on collegiate football critics, Father O’Donnell stated: “The University desires at all times to receive constructive suggestions from the various agencies allied to the school. The present administration welcomes this kind of assistance. Yet there is a limit to this friendly help and in the last analysis this University exercises complete independence in the final judgment given.”
Eddie Dowling, in a warm tribute to the players on last year’s squad, said: “But to you young warriors of Notre Dame I want to impart the knowledge that I gained the victory we all seek—a victory I charge you to seek—a moral victory. And if you keep the Faith and adhere to the teachings you can’t help learn on the football field, those of clean sportsmanship, you will gain that blessed victory.”
Some others who spoke briefly include: Lynn Waldorf, head football coach at Northwestern University; James Phelan, head football coach at the University of Washington; Gus Dorais, head football coach at the University of Detroit; Charles Bachman, head football coach at Michigan State; Bernard J. Voll, president of the Notre Dame Alumni association; Francis Schmidt, head football coach at Ohio State University; Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend News Times; Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, and Mayor George W. Freyermuth of South Bend.
Members of the football team were presented with gold, monogramed football watch charms, and the ceremonies closed with the drawing for an autographed football and the playing of “The Victory March” by the Band.
A permanent Federal youth assistance structure, on NYA and CCC lines, is being urged on the government.
ANNUALS * BOOKLETS
PRINTED OR ENGRAVED
INVITATIONS DANCE PROGRAMS STATIONERY AN NOUNCEMENTS
McCLAVE PRINTING CO.
GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTSMEN 4-7361	435 E. LASALLE. SOUTH BEND
"Mrs. Astor's Horse" Leads In Library Popularity Race
Mrs. Astor’s Horse, an “inside” book on the highlights of society in America leads the list of most popular current books in the University library. Librarians credit the success of the book not only to its unique type and title, but to an article in the Reader’s Digest which did much to popularize the book on the campus.
100,000 Guinea Pigs, although in the library over two years, is still one of the most called-for of all volumes, and probably leads the list of most popular long-run books. Of the newer books, Mrs. Astor’s Horse is closely seconded by Silas Crockett, Paths of Glory, Now in November, Forty Days of Musa Dagh, Asylum, and SkinDeep.
The widely-read and discussed volumes by Nordhoff and Hall, Mutiny on the Bounty, Men Against the Sea, and Pitcairn’s Island are finding typical popularity on the campus. Circulation of Mutiny on the Bounty doubled after the appearance of the show in South Bend. Du Pont Dynasty, a story of the phenomenal success of the leaders of high finance, has still a long waiting list. The Big Town, by 0. 0. McIntyre, and Seven Pillars of Wisdom are also much in demand.
POPULAR SAYINGS (Continued from Page 10)
“Do you want to rassle me out in the aisles?” This challenge is always prompted when someone irks this philosopher. Rash students beware! The man is built to carry out his threat. Another gem of his is: “Don’t be a Rotarian or a Kiwanian I”
“I had that in mind.” Or, to be more explicit, another famous economic theory has been stolen. Ask this finance professor who really started the N.R.A., or the Townsend plan.
“ . . . from Sing Fu, the great Chinese Thomistic philosopher.” One gullible chap in this philosopher’s class spent a fruitless week in the library, searching for Sing Fu’s biography. Many fantastic statements have been attributed to this brainchild.	■
We have run out of professors and phrases. It is a difficult task to get the boys to open up on their instructors for the very obvious reason that they fear disclosure. We think that they are being melodramatic about the whole affair. The surface has been only scratched, and if the professors do not show resentment, perhaps The Scholastic would consent to a series of revelations — make a contest of it, with free copies of the Juggler to the professors owning the funniest lines.	■
January 17, 1936
Twenty-three
MR. PAUL BYRNE,
© 1936. LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.