HOLIDAY FOR
SPRING...

See it . . . live it . . . revel in it! It’s here in every suit, topcoat and sportcoat for spring. Come in at your leisure and look them over. You’ll find a big selection ... by Eagle, GGG, Society Brand, Hickey Freeman, Alpagora, Burberry and many others. The suit, topcoat or spok-coat you want — at the price you want to pay.	/
On the Campus—Notre Dame
J 3
1
I
'l 1
1
•M J1* '
On Camps W Shulman (By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek”)

The Notre Dome <
Scholastic j
Vol. 99 March 14, 1958 No. 17 f
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus	4 ii-
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus	;
Che first thought that comes into our ninds upon entering college is, of course, narriage. But how many of us go about seeking mates, as I like to call them, in a ruly scientific manner? Not many, you nay be sure.
So let us today make a scientific survey >f the two principal causes of marriage— jersonality need and propinquity.
Personality need means that we choose nates because they possess certain quali-ies that complete and fulfill our own personalities. Take, for example, the case of Uanson Duck.
As a freshman Alanson made a fine cholastic record, played varsity scrabble, md was president of his class. One would hink that Alanson was a totally fulfilled nan. But he was not. There was some-hing lacking in his life, something vague nd indefinable that was needed to make iis personality complete.
Then one day Alanson discovered what t was. As he was walking out of his class n Flemish pottery, a fetching coed named Srace Ek offered him a handsome red nd white pack and said, “Marlboro?”
of marriage, simply means closeness. Put a boy and a girl close together for a sustained period of time and their proximity will certainly ripen into love and their love into marriage. A perfect example is the case of Fafnir Sigafoos.
While a freshman at Louisiana State University, Fafnir w7as required to crawl through the Big Inch pipeline as part of his fraternity initiation. He entered the pipe at Baton Rouge and, alone and joyless, he proceeded to crawl north.
As he passed Lafayette, Indiana, he was agreeably surprised to be joined by a comely girl named Mary Alice Isinglass, a Purdue freshman, who, oddly, enough, had to crawl through the Big Inch as part of her sorority initiation.
Chatting amiably as they crawled through Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York State, Fafnir and Mary Alice discovered they had much in common—like a mutual affection for licorice, bobsledding, and the nonsense verse of Arnold Toynbee. When they reached the Vermont border they were going steady, and when they emerged from the pipe at "
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, ' Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of * postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.	|
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS________________News Editor	:
HARRY McKEE _________________  Copy	Editor	r
BOB EARLY_________________Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK .......... Sports	Editor	J
BOB WILLIAMS ________________Photography V,
LORAN SHEFFER___________Business Manager J ■ MIKE KURAS______________Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN__________ Circulation Manager WALT RUDGE __________Assistant	News	>
RON BLUBAUGH..............Assistant Copy
BILL CONWAY.....................Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ____________Assistant Features	*
TOM LAMONT_____________Assistant Features
BOB SEDLACK ___________ Assistant	Features	f
ED ROHRBACH ............. Assistant	Sports |
TED THOMPSON _____________Assistant Sports I
“Yes 1” he cried, for all at nee he knew what he had een needing to round out is personality—the hearty iilfillment of Marlboro Ciga-ettes, the soul-repairing aildness of their fine tobac-o, the easy draw of their un-oralkled filter, the ease and onvenience of their crushroof flip-top box. “Yes, I fill take a Marlboro!” cried Janson. “And I will also
ake you to wife if you will have me!” “La!” she exclaimed, throwing her pron over her face. But after a while he removed it and they were married, 'oday they live happily in Baffin Land •here Alanson is with an otter-glazing rm and Grace is a bookie.
Propinquity, the second principal cause
Boothbay Harbor, Maine, they were engaged.
After a good hot bath they were married and today they live in Klamath Falls, Oregon, where Fafnir is in the weights and measures department and Mary Alice is in the roofing game. They have three children, all named Norman.
© 1958, MiX Shulman
Propinquity is sure to mean love when you put yourself close to a pack of Marlboros, made for your pleasure by the sponsors of this column.
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob ; Maruyama, Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn ’ i Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt t Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg ' Rogers.	'
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, * Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.	?
======^===^===
Member of Catholic School Press Association ami Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for no- 4 tional advertising by National Advertising Service, i Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and —■■"'■ft tion periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6, Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9, Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17; No. 12, Feb. 7; No. 13, Feb. 14; No. 14, Feb. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17, March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
The Scholastic

controversy
During the last two months the Scholastic has carried a number of articles and letters concerning the “Civil Rights” issue. The last of these articles appears in today’s magazine. (Numerous other contributions were also sent in, but due to space limitations we are not able to use them. The editors of the Scholastic would like to thank those who did contribute, whether their efforts were published or not.) Anyone who has followed the series has most certainly been enlightened on the “Civil Rights” problem — a problem of vital importance to our country. The same enlightenment also was available to those who attended the recent “Civil Rights” discussion.
The only publicity which that discussion received was a small notice in this magazine, yet over sixty people attended on a mid-week night. Two faculty members gave papers and then a lengthy question and answer period followed. It was quite evident that the discussion might well have lasted much longer had time permitted. Such interest shows that at least a part of the student body is vitally interested in the intellectual life and. in intelligent discussion on important problems. These students are involved in the educational process. They are anxious to be informed and are able to take a stand on such problems. They are not content to sit off to one side for four years, waiting to get a degree which will enable them to get a “good job.” They want to get educated, to develop their minds, and one of the best ways possible is through such discussions.
Intelligent discussion provides an area for demonstrating a real knowledge of what has been read or studied in books. It provides the student with the opportunity to show that he has not simply memorized a “bunch” of material. The discussion process virtually demands that the ideas become a part of the student and that he realizes their importance, their meaning, and, perhaps, their truth. Such discussion and general involvement in the intellectual life, as demonstrated in the “Civil Rights” controversy, is a healthy sign. The University should therefore take every step possible to encourage such discussion. Only when this is done will Notre Dame reach the stature it desires in intellectual matters.	—J. S.
March 14, 1958
here
IN our pluralistic society we seem to prefer the middle-secure path, and are contented to conform to the majority’s opinions and beliefs. Even in our small removed society the predominant and acceptable mode of behavior lies somewhere in the middle. However, this compromising attitude too often passes for the prudent approach, and is not condemned for what it is — an abortive attempt to “fit in” without any regard for personal integrity.
The person who does step outside this mode ordinarily becomes labeled as some type of unbalanced liberal who does not care about established “traditions.” The individual (in the fullest sense) contends that these previous “traditions” have doped us into unreality and have stiffed our sense of wonder and spirit of adventure. His motives behind this dissidence are a desire for real freedom and the refusal to submit to the dicta of the mob. And yet these people are censured and the appointed authorities predict inordinate futures for them. “Labeling” is a favorite pastime of these enlightened clairvoyants, and after they have finished a planned brainwashing procedure and notice that it hasn’t been successful, resort to the label. This process has been known to be very good in mob persuasion. However, no matter to what extent the authorities go, nothing will neutralize the power of the individual.
As Catholic intellectuals, or potentially so, we must strive to avoid this mediocrity that is dangerously present in our society and which is revealed in elements of our Church. Catholics have a tendency to lull themselves into lethargy and complacency. Most of them have been bom into the faith and take it for granted. Also this mediocrity has crept into cur approach to Catholicism: we are satisfied with an extreme moralistic treatment and avoid a conscientious intellectual concern. The real problem resides in a definite lack of knowledge about our religion; for the Catholic-educated person has a responsibility to his society as well as to himself.
Therefore, we have to ignore the demands of our culture which lead us to conformity, for there is much to be perfected. Individuals must not compromise their beliefs for the sake of security, but place themselves in the position, no matter how uncomfortable, to destroy the mediocrity that eats at us.	—D. L. K.
5
I----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------I
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Roy Vaughn (left) discusses a central office power installation with Switchman R. F. Heider.
“I like (and get) ‘start-to-finish’ engineering assignments"
“When it conies to making a job interesting, I think the assignments a man gets are more important than the size of the project he’s working on,” says Roy Vaughn of Illinois Bell Telephone Company. “I found that out soon after I graduated. My first job was with an organization where the projects were big, but the individual engineering assignments lacked variety and scope.
“After this experience I looked over power engineering opportunities in a number of companies. I joined Illinois Bell because it promised the most interesting and challenging work. That was three years ago. My work with IBT has everything that I was looking for.
“My job is to engineer the power requirements for telephone central offices.
The work never gets routine. One job may be for a new building, the next for expanding existing plant And power needs vary tremendously from little rural dial offices serving a few hundred telephones, to big metropolitan telephone plants serving hundreds of thousands.
“But what I like best is that I generally handle the job from start to finish. I determine the operational and emergency power requirements of the facilities to be served, and order the equipment needed. And I’m usually on hand during installation to see the job through.
“Not only does this kind of engineering assignment keep work interesting, but I find it is helping me become a better manager. And that improves my chances for advancement.”
Roy L. Vaughn, Jr., graduated from Illinois Institute of Technology in 1954 with a B.S. in E.E. degree. He is one of many young men who are finding interesting and rewarding careers in the Bell Telephone Companies. Find out about career opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus, and read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
■BLL.
TIL1FHONI . COMPANIB*
6
The Scholastic
in jest strikes again
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
Here we are again giving both campuses something they have been long awaiting ... a sheet of paper to wrap their garbage in. Yet it has been a wonderful week, filled with all the little incidents which go to make this place what it is . . . unbearable. We finally decided to do something about our lot, so we spent seven glorious days in “The Man-Hole” at Frankies, where we lived on “Hoagys” and half-gallons of Meister-Brau.
WHAT’S YOUR PROBLEM LITTLE AAAN?
The other night, one of the girls from across the road asked us what seemed to be our problem. She wondered why we felt obligated to wander around, slamming the St. Mary’s girls and all their wonderful traditions. Well, it’s like this . . .
We’ve come to the conclusion that things don’t often go as nice as the optimist would have us believe. For example, the old cliche that “the best things in life are free”: the person who wrote that little piece of poetic gemmery was either an incorrigible dreamer, nuts, or a mental incompetent. Sure, some of the things in life are free . . . cancer, TB, last week’s Scholastic, and all the abuse you can stand. However, our friend, the dreamer, failed to realize that some of the luxuries do cost money. For example: food, a roof over your balding head, and some threads to cover your undernourished body. Oh well, what are ya gonna do? (Pass the beans, eh Chico.)
THE SWEETHEART OF SIGMUND FREUD
Solve your psychological problems! Get this attractive three hundred and fifty page book by the authors of this column. These two men, have managed in the short period of three and one-half
years, to solve most all college problems (with the exception of their own). Do you get nervous and apprehensive when . . . you get called before the Board, have five mid-terms in two days, or can only get to see your girl for an hour and a half a week, and that on Wednesday afternoons? Then get this wonderful new book. Because there was only enough material for three typewritten pages, the rest of the book is filled with attractive, scintillating, vivacious photos. (We got a real deal!)
SPEAKING OF DEALS. . . .
Anyone interested in joining the “I like Friday meals, and Junior Gourmet’s Club,” send five dollars to Bob and Ger c/o Scholastic. The purpose of this club is to broaden the eating habits of the Notre Dame man, and to line our pockets with easy cash. It is dedicated to the principle that all men are entitled to something besides salmon salad on Friday.
LET’S GET AWAY FROM IT ALL
The time of the year is rolling around, when most of the troops will be making their way to the more socially inclined universities which surround our little island of learning. As a special service to those of you planning such a .trip, we have compiled a few notes learned from bitter experience. -
We have found it is a good idea to ring the doorbell before entering a sorority house. We’ll never forget the embarrassment of being hustled out by two burly cops amid the screams of the girls. There is now a sign under the Delta Gamma emblem which reads “Irish Go Home” ... and then they have the nerve to ask us what our problem is.
YOUNG HERO
As is our custom, we have once again set our theater critics to review one of the season’s outstanding motion pictures. Presented in narrow screen and glorious black and white, “Over the Hill’ is without a doubt one of the most stirring productions we have ever had the misfortune to see.
A story of a young draftee who flunked out of ROTC, who spends most of his time at luxurious Fort Riley cleaning the paint out from under his fingernails after the MPs dragged him off the porch of his tarpaper shack.
We see Lucas goldbrick his way through basic, and sympathize with him when he pulls his first KP. Happy be- ' cause it is the last week of bame, he leaps on the counter and breaks into a lively soft-shoe to the rhythm of the mess sergeant keeping time on a less talented recruit’s head. The scene ends in a splash of color and life, as he whirls lithely . . . and falls into a grease trap.
In the next scene, we see the troops ready to ship out to battle. Our hero now plays one of the most tender scenes of the movie as he makes his farewells ... to the Army, and tries to desert. We see his troubles aboard ship because he can’t find room for his stuffed animal collection . . . and finally, zero-hour.
As the men prepare to get aboard the landing craft, our hero has a determined look of hate on his face, the look of a well trained fighting man. With a great display of courage, he picks up his rifle, makes sure it’s loaded, and shoots himself in the foot.
This movie has been recommended for all ROTC units.
St4
EE ME

DON’T STICK
YOUR NECK OUT!


until you see the
AC-GENERAL MOTORS
REPRESENTATIVE
on your campus
M
Monday, March 17 and Tuesday, March 18
Your Future depends upon Permanent Security. GM’s continuous, long-range Design and Development Program in all fields of engineering and manufacturing . . . GM’s policy of decentralization . . . GM’s facilities . . . GM’s working conditions . . . GM’s wage advantages . . . create individual opportunity for advancement and permanent security.
It is why we repeat "Don’t Stick Your Neck Out” until you see the AC representative.
4)

CHALLENGING OPPORTUNITIES IN
•	Avionics	• Inertial Systems
•	Computers	• Missile Guidance
•	Jet Engine Fuel Controls
Please contact your Placement Director today to arrange for interviews with AC-General Motors recruiting representative
AC SPARK PLUG
THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION
GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
MILWAUKEE 2, WIS.
FLINT 2, MICH.
*
4
I
The Scholastic
Dear Editor:
In light of the administration’s reemphasized policy on active political participation on campus as noted in last week’s editorial, I would like to make some comments.
The situation created by an “administrative” ruling forbidding organizations such as the Young Republicans and the Young Democrats on this campus seems to me both unreasonable and discriminating. It leaves the student in a situation which contradicts the very meaning of the word “university” and which stunts the ordered growth of himself and his intellect.
The decision of the administration seems to disregard the principles of inquiry, discovery, experiment, and freedom of political organization. It prevents the student body from representing its political convictions in a political organization of any significance. It discounts private judgment and it leaves the student in a position where he can’t participate in the processes of the two-party system, a rich democratic heritage in the political scheme of our country.
A university such as Notre Dame should concern itself not only with the intellectual, moral and social world of its student body, but it must never neglect to promote the political development of each and every individual student. When it fails to do so, it ignores what a university should be, and it limits the idea of university knowledge. If a university fails to fulfill this latter obligation, then it presupposes that education is its final end. This attitude is wrong because it leaves no room for intellectual enlargement and expansion of mind. .
One must remember that education is only the preparation of knowledge. The true end of any university lies not in learning, but rather in exercising of (Continued on page 32)
ON THE COVER: Joe McDonnell, o true son of the “Old Sod," pays tribute to St. Patrick, whose feast day is March 17. The cover is an interpretation of a famous Irish poem, “The Breastplate of St. Patrick," also called “Deercry." It is attributed to the Saint himself and expresses a profoundly humble devotion to the Blessed Trinity. “I arive today" are the opening words of the poem.
The Residents of Sorin Sub would like to inform the world at large that they believe, both explicitly and implicitly, and without exception, in the existence of Hell.
MY CLOSEST SHAVE ZSZSZi
“My closest shave happened under water while baiting sharks to photograph,” says shark expert Elgin Ciampi. “My speared bait-fish hid in a hole, pouring clouds of blood around me. Smelling blood, a 7-foot man-eater, unable to find the bait,rushed me.I dodged and started taking pictures. I kept the camera between us while the shark circled hungrily for five full minutes. Then my air supply ran short, so I used psychology: I lunged at the shark with my camera. Startled, * shot away—and so did I!”
For YOUK Close Shoves, try new Colgate Instant Shave in the handy pushbutton can. There’s no easier way to shave, no matter what razor you use. A great shave buy for the tough-beard guy!
Colgate Instant Shave Lirlea to rito Mating Colgoto SporHroel wMb liH Store, Matooi network weekday atoraings. Check year paper for itee aed statins.
March 14, 1958
SUSPENSION STORY—Chuck Steger, MX ’52, probing dynamic properties of new Air Spring developed by Von Polhemus (1.). A nationally recognized authority on suspension systems, Mr. Polhemus directs Structure and
Suspension Development Group of GM’s Staff, helps guide Chuck in his professional
Engineering career.
Because engineering^ & professionat GM -we offeryou a career-not a job
•■A
One reason engineering standards at
General Motors are so high is that GM recognizes engineering as a profession. And the men who engineer the many different products made by General Motors are respected for the profession they practice. That is why, when you are invited to join General Motors as an engineer,. you don’t simply take a job—you start a career.
It is a career that is rewarding both professionally and financially—starting on your first day of association with General Motors at any one of its 35 divisions and 126 plants in 70 cities and 19 states.
During your early days at GM, for example, you work with a senior engineer who guides your career along professional lines.
You are also actively encouraged to pursue your education towards an advanced degree. For we at General Motors recognize that, in doing so, you will become more valuable to us and the engineering profession.
You are given the opportunity, to obtain professional recognition through participation in engineering society forums, presentation of technical papers, winning of patents and other recognition of your accomplishments.
Arid you are also encouraged to ta&e an active role in your community’s affairs—because a truly, professional man ia a good citizen «	General Motors Corporation
wdl as a good engineer.
All this is for a reason—and a good one.
Many of the men who will fill the key positions at GM in the future are the young engineers joining GM today. This is not theory, it is facL For 14 of our 33 Vice-Presidents are engineers, 23 of our 42 Division General Managers are engineers, too.
Today we are looking for young engineers— such as you—who may fill these positions tomorrow. The rewards—both professional and financial—are substantial. If you feel you have the ability, write us. It could be the most important letter of your life.
?
*1
*
June graduates!
A General Motors Representative will be on hand to answer questions about job opportunities with GM.
March 17 and 18
4
‘1*1
GM poritioas mow. available, in these fields:
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING'* METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING •CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
*
£
CERAMIC ENGINEERING• MATHEMATICS INDUSTRIAL DESIGN ' PHYSICS;• CHEMISTRY
3el’
10
TheScholastic
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
TUESDAY, MARCH IM
Unusual Opportunities in Ae
Dayton Research Laboratories of t
THE NATIONAL CASH RESISTER COMPANY
CHEMISTRY. . . Physical, organic, colloid, analytic, biological, and radiation chemistry, in such areas as thin films, polymers, capsular phenomena, photographic systems, membranes, non-mechanical printing techniques, dyes and color studies, elastomers, adhesives, plastics, lubrication, electro-deposition.
PHYSICS . . . Challenging assignments in ferromagnetics and ferroelectrics, electroluminescence, phosphors, photoconductors, high-speed printing techniques, vacuum deposition, X-ray diffraction, crystal structure, low-temperature studies, powdered metal compaction, domain studies.
UICnOMU — Memory devices, access circuitry, input and output , devices, computer components, advanced magnetic core devices and circuits, switching circuits, transistors, diodes, semi-conductors, logical design, experimental and prototype design.
MfTjUUMT ... Alloys, brazing, ductile castings, powdered metals, precision casting, gas analysis, foundry processes.
MATHEMATICS______________Numerical analysis, computation theory, Boolean algebra, computer logic, programing. CERAMICS — Ferrite electronic components, phosphors, dielectrics. . .	.
Make appointment to see Mr. Stephenson through your Placement Office, or write to Professional Personnel Section, The National Cash Register . Company, Dayton 9. Ohio.
March 14,1958
Sophomore R.O.T.C. Students:
MAJOR IN LEADERSHIP
with the Advanced ARMY R.O.T.C. course

If you are a sophomore Army R.O.T.C. student, there are three important reasons why you should accept the challenge of applying for the Advanced R.O.T.C. course. As an advanced R.O.T.C. student, you will:

1. Learn to Lead
With R.O.T.C. you can actually take a course in Leadership—a course that will prepare you to think on your feet for an executive position, whether in military or civilian life. In addition, you will get practical experience in command responsibilities.
i
2. Attain Officer’s Rank
As an R.O.T.C. graduate, you will fulfill your military obligation as an Army officer. You will not only enjoy the rank, pay and privileges of an Army officer, but will also have the satisfaction of serving your country in an important capacity.
>4
A
4
✓
3. Receive Extra Income
With the Advanced R.O.T.C. course, you will qualify for a subsistence allowance which comes to around $535 for the two-year course. You will also be paid $117 for your six-week summer camp training and receive a travel allowance of five cents per mile to and from the camp.
ARMY R.O.T.C. iSX

12
The Scholastic
‘OUTSTANDING’ SENIORS HONORED BY ‘DOME’
_____________
! Annual Awards Given To Campus Leaders
' Jerry Brady, John Hirschfeld, John ?*' Kennedy, and John McCarthy were ' named recipients of this year’s annual Dome awards. These four were selected by a board of twelve students under the direction of Joe Bumbleburg, Dome editor.
The Dome awards are given annually A by the University yearbook to one to four graduating seniors who have shown themselves to be outstanding members of theii’ class.
Personal qualities of leadership, in. tegrity, prudence, and initiative were carefully considered by the board in » addition to achievements academically and in extracurricular activities.
Bumbleburg, in announcing the winners, pointed out that the four seniors were, in the opinion of the Board, ; “graduates of whom their classmates and ' the University would be proud and of x whom they would still be proud in the years to come.”
Brady, a Communication Arts major, from Idaho Falls, Idaho, is the Student Body president. He was also Sophomore Class president and secretary of the Student Senate. Brady was a member of the debate team and WSND staff for two years, the winner of last year’s * Breen Oratorical Contest, and is a Dean’s List student. He will graduate cum laude and plans on entering Law School next year.
; Hirschfeld is a History major from Champaign, Ill. He is cadet commander-of the Army ROTC, Blue Circle chair-
*■ man, and a Dean’s List student. He was
also a member of the debate team for three years. Hirschfeld is Salutatorian of his class and will graduate maxima cum laude in June.
Kennedy, class Valedictorian, will graduate maxima cum laude in pre-med. He played football his freshman and sophomore years and is presently social and athletic chairman of the Aesculapian club, vice-president of the Pacific Northwest club, Science Senator, and head of the Concession committee of the Student Senate. He is from Tacoma, Wash., and will enter Georgetown Medical School on a scholarship.	.
McCarthy, from Chicago, Ill., is co-
CAPS AND GOWNS
Complete information about caps and gowns for graduation will be printed in next week’s SCHOLASTIC. The graduation week-end committee requests all seniors to watch for this.
captain and three-year letterman of the basketball team and vice-chaii-man of the Blue Circle. He is also a Dean’s List student and will graduate cum laude in philosophy. His plans for the future are indefinite.
The members of the bdard that selected the winners are: Bumblebui-g, chairman; Bill Graham, secretary of the Student Senate; Mark Shields, president of the Junior Class; Bob Janoski, social editor of the Dome', John Thurin, sports editor of the yearbook; and Ron Durand, Leon Keyser, and John Beliveau, representing the undergraduate colleges.-.
Each of the four will receive a plaque at the publications banquet in late May.
'Love in Marriage” Talk Set for Wednesday Night
For the second consecutive year, seniors attending the Marriage Institute lectures will hear Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Schafer speak on “Love in Marriage.” The lecture, fifth in the current series, will take place in Washington Hall at 7:30 Wednesday evening.
Though tickets were to have been purchased at the outset of the series, they can be obtained at the door for $1.
The purpose of the Schafers’ talk will be to show practical applications of the principles set forth in the preceding lectures for growing in spiritual love. It will be followed by a question and answer period, and the evening will conclude with refreshments in the Rathskeller.	.
Mr. and Mrs. Schafer, who are residents of Chicago, have been active participants in the Cana Conference of Chicago for nine years, and at one time served as chairmen. Mr. Schaefer is a graduate of De Paul and Chicago Universities, and is now serving as president of the Public Relations Clinic of Chicago, national chairman for the development of officers of the American Public Relations Association, and vicepresident for development at De Paul. Mrs. Schaefer, a St. Mary’s graduate, is a homemaker. The couple have six children.	'
. The final lecture in the series will take place on March 26, when Mr. and ■Mrs. Frank O’Dowd will speak on “Success in Marriage.”
1958‘DOME* AWARDS	/	/
Jerry Brady, John Hirschfeld, John Kennedy, and John McCarthy March 14, 1958	.	13
j Juniors Plan to Buy j Prom Tickets Sunday
I Tickets for the 1958 Junior Prom will 3 be sold this Sunday from 7 p.m. on in ; the Navy Drill Hall. Bids are priced ! at $8 per couple for the prom on May 9 1 and $10 for the dinner dance on May 10. 1 The Junior Prom dance committee an? nounced that 750 bids will be sold and ’ no numbers will be distributed nor any J list be honored by the committee in pur-| chasing a ticket.
I Sales will be facilitated through the i use of four complete lines, each of which ' will be equipped to handle all the dei tails. The committee announces that j those who would like to have their dates : stay together must come through the ; line at the same time.
i “Starlight in Modem” has been se-■ lected the theme for the dance, and the I dance hall decorations are expected to present some original features. The South Bend Country Club is the site of the dinner dance.
Sunday’s Communion Breakfast will be in the new dining hall. Tickets will cost $3. Sponsored by the University social commission, a barbecue for all students will be held in the afternoon on Car-tier Feld.
Les and Larry Elgart will entertain with their band music at the prom. The Elgart orchestra, organized in 1954, appeared at Notre Dame two years ago, playing for a senior prom. Les Elgart is known for his smooth “sophisticated swing” and is the featured soloist with the trumpet.
Information on tuxedo and car rentals will also be provided Sunday night.
YCS Board to Choose Annual Award Winners
The YCS has announced that the recipients of its annual St. Thomas More award will be selected shortly by the YCS board and the faculty board. The awards, sterling silver chains and medals of St. Thomas More, will be presented at the YCS banquet in early May.
The recipients are selected for their excellent work in the Student Apostolate. The criteria are their spirit of unselfishness, excellent leadership abilities, academic merit, and most importantly, unselfish devotion to the Student Apostolate.
The YCS board is composed of representatives from the different Catholic Action organizations on the campus. The faculty board is comprised of organization moderators who have shown interest in the Student Apostolate.
The awards\are .named after St Thomas Moi^ i-the Church’s model for lay apostolic work. Larry Martin is chairman of the awards committee.
14
FATHER JOYCE AND AUGUSTANA COLLEGE TEAM
1957 National Champions win Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament
Augustana College Wins Debate Tournament; Marizell Named Top Speaker in Competition
Augustana College, 1957 national debate champions, preserved their prestige by capturing the Notre Dame Invitational Tournament championship, defeating Marquette University in the finals last Saturday.
Notre Dame’s Jack Martzell, a senior, captured the best speaker’s award in the tournament, and Jay Whitney, a Notre Dame freshman, took ninth place honors among the individual speakers.
Norman Lefstein and Phil Hubbard represented Augustana on the negative side of the question in the finals: “Resolved: that the requirement of membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment should be made illegal.” Larry Bugge and Kenneth Kersten of Marquette took the affirmative side.
Much of the debate time was spent on the issue raised by Marquette that union shops caused excessive union strength and abuses. Augustana maintained on the contrary, that there was no causal relation between union shops on the one hand and strength and abuses by the unions on the other. .
Marquette University, in second place, was followed by Bradley in third, Miami
(Fla.), Vermont University, and Notre Dame, sixth.
Louis Clapham of Western Michigan took second in individual speakers and -Richard Burleson of Wake Forest was third.	>
This was the first time in the six years of the tourney’s history that no >* team had a 6-0 record in the prelimin- a? aries; all four finalists had a 5-1 record before the finals. In the finals Marquette defeated Bradley and Augustana r defeated Miami.	-
The negative side of the question v. proved the most defensible. Augustana $ won all of its negative contests includ- < ing the finals; it was defeated only when it represented the affirmative side. >
Augustana was awarded the Richard D. Schiller trophy, named in honor of a former debater. The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., rotating trophy was retired to Notre Dame, winners of the a. last two annual tournaments.
The winners of the first tournament in 1953 were Dartmouth, followed by Army, 1954, Wilkes College, 1955, and x Notre Dame in 1956 and 1957. The ND tourney has the distinction of being the r only tournament in the country at which all four service academies are represented: Army, Navy, Air Force, and Merchant Marine.
The Scholastic
Junior Parents Visit Canpus over Week Bid; 1 Open Houses, PresidenFs Dinner Scheduled
(Approximately 400 parents will be visiting the campus this Saturday and | Sunday for the sixth annual Junior Parent-Son week end.
The week end will officially begin with 1 a luncheon in the East Side of the Old
Dining Hall at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday.
From 1:30 to 3:30 in the afternoon the college deans and their- wives, plus '	members of the various faculties, will
t: hold receptions for the students and their parents. The places for these receptions are: Arts and Letters in the Art Gallery of the O’Shaughnessy Building; Commerce in the Rathskeller of the La Fortune Student Center; Engineering in the Engineering Build* ing; Science in the library of the Nieuw-land Science Building; Navy ROTC in the Drill Hall; and Army and Air Force ROTC in the ROTC building.
At 3:15 p.m. the movie produced last year on campus here at Notre Dame will be shown in the Amphitheater of . the Student Center.
The annual President’s Dinner will be held at 7:30 p.m. in the New Dining Hall. Class president Mark Shields, as toastmaster, will introduce the principal speaker, The Rev. Theodore M. Hes-
Five Political Science Majors Visit Michigan State Capital
Five members of the Academy of Political Science toured Lansing, Mich., on March 5 and 6 and interviewed several of Michigan’s leaders in politics.
The political science group were * formally introduced to the members of the Michigan House of Representatives. Among those intex-viewed by the students dux-ing theix- tour of the capitol building were the chief justice of the Supreme Court, the speaker- and the clerk of the House, the president of the Senate, and the attorney general. The students witnessed the legislative ses-’ sions of both the House and the Senate.
They also conferred with Gov. G.
Mennen Williams for a half hour, disr cussing various problems of government.
* Annually, the Political Science Academy makes a field trip to the center of * some state government. Their accomodations at Lansing were arranged by the Newman Club at Michigan State w University.
The five making the trip were Jack * Carpenter, president of the Academy of Political Science, Douglas Gonzales, Joseph Madden, Tom Maloney, and Jim Kennedy.
burgh, C.S.C., president of the University. After- dinner the Notre Dame Glee Club will provide entex-tainment.
The President’s Reception in the Student Centex- at 9 p.m. will climax the day’s activities. Fathex- Hesburgh and othex- University officials will be present to meet with the parents.
On Sunday at 9 a.m. there will be a High Mass in Sacred Heart Church, followed by breakfast in the Old Dining Hall.
The purpose of the week end is to give the parents an idea of an ordinary week end on campus, and to acquaint them with the three phases of life at Notre Dame—spiritual, academic, and social.
Assisting Shields are: Jack Beard, publicity; Terx-y Lamb, accomodations; Barrett Gleixner, President’s dinner; Jack Dolan, luncheon; Dick Quinn, President’s reception and breakfast; Rick Grimier, tickets; Kevin Solon, ROTC open house; John Belveau, A.B. reception; Wayne Faist, Commerce reception; Bill McNally, Science reception; and John Hayward, Blue Circle reception.
NEW WSND SPORTS DIRECTOR
Mike Ahern, a sophomore from Indianapolis, Ind., has been appointed WSND Sports Director, succeeding Bill Chesson. Ahern, who has been a member of the sports staff for the past year, assumes his new post immediately and will continue in it throughout the next school year.
Chesson, a senior from Steubenville, O., is giving up the post he has held for the last three years because of his academic responsibilities.
Student Draft Test Set For Campus on May 1
The Selective Sex-vice College Qualification test will be held May 1, it was announced recently. There will be a testing center- at Notre Dame.
Science Research Associates has been contracted to handle these tests this year. Complete information and forms will be distributed by the Selective Service System in Washington in the near future.
Application forms should be available sometime in late March at the Guidance and Testing office in the main building.
Dr. Westwater Plans to Give Three Lectures Next Week
Dr. James Westwater, associate professor- of chemical engineering at the University of Illinois, will deliver a series of three Reilly Lectures next Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.
An authority on boiling liquids, his subject will be “Types of Boiling,” “Growth of Bubbles,” and “Film Boiling.” The lectures will be illustrated by high-speed motion pictures and electron micrographs.
The Reilly lectures were established at Notre Dame in 1945 by a gift of more than one nxillion dollars from the late Peter C. Reilly of Indianapolis, Ind. The benefaction also provides five annual graduate non-teaching fellowships in chemistry and chemical engineering.
Prof. Westwater, a native of Danville, Ill., was educated at the University of Illinois and at the Uixiversity of Delaware which awarded him a doctorate in 1948.
The lectures will be given in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall at 3:30 pjn. on each day. They are under the auspices of the Chemical Engineering Department.
Fine Arts Circle Begins Drive for New Members
The Fine Arts Circle, a group devoted to the understanding of the fine arts of painting, music, sculpture, and architecture, has announced their drive for new members.
In the spring of 1957, a small group of students led by Martin Murphy of the Department of Architecture, a Wrangler officer and former Bookman, realized the need for such an activity to fill a gap in the student life at Notre Dame.
Last semestex- the group, The Fine Arts Circle, came into formal existence. Professox- Ernest Brandlof of the Department of Architecture became its faculty moderator.
The goal of the club, like that of the Wranglers and Bookmen, is to extend intellectualism to the student life of the University as a whole. The group also wants to bring about a closer relationship between the various colleges.
The Circle meets bi-weekly for the presentation of a paper by one of the members which is followed by a discussion. Among the subjects treated last semester were “Judgment in Arts,” “Artistic, Pradential, and the Worth Judgment,” “The Vision of Roualt,” “Baroque Architecture,” and “Liturgical Music.”
All interested students are invited to apply for membership to the Membership Committee, Fine Arts Circle, 312 Fisher Hall.
March 14, 1958
15
Two Student Government Bols Established As Senate Action Abolishes College Dances
The four college dances, a part of the Notre Dame social calendar for many years, were voted out of existence by the Student Senate last Tuesday night.
Amendments to the Student Government constitution and the approval of the budget for the present fiscal period took up much of the Senate’s remaining time in both the March 4 and 11 meetings.
Denny Shaul’s motion to abolish the college dances met with strong opposition from the college senators before it was finally passed. As it stands now, there will be four scheduled Friday night dances during the football season, two of them sponsored by the Student Senate and open to the entire campus.
The Sophomore Cotillion will still have first choice for a fall week end and the Military Ball will have third choice, the two Senate dances having the second and fourth choices for dates.
A limit of 550 couples was set if the Senate dances are held in the LaFortune Student Center and a maximum price of $4 for a bid was also established. The matter of late permissions for the students attending the Senate’s Friday night dances was not decided, the subject a matter for administration consideration.
The first of three constitutional amendments passed last Tuesday night dropped the representatives of the Joint Military Council and of the presidents of the chartered student organizations from the ranks of non-voting Senators.
Separation of the Senate Vice-President from his role as Chairman of the Hall Presidents’ Council was also made. The Council shall elect their own chairman and he will be a non-voting member of the Senate.
Off-campus and villager representation in the Senate was reduced from two to one in the third amendment passed.
Several budget changes were made at both of the meetings.. .The Distinguished Professors Award allotment was cut from $120 to $50. Money for summer travel to the NSA and NFCCS national conventions was set at $500 instead of the original $700. An appropriation of $200 for the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine was passed as was a motion to increase the amount for Catholic Action Study from $50 to $150.	'
In other legislative action, the Senate has requested that the administration forward the funds of the Student Foundation drive toward the construction of a hew library. It was decided that a letter would be sent to the Prefed; of
Religion concerning recent religious bulletins.
A motion to request the administration to permit the use of study halls in freshman halls until midnight was also passed as was a motion requiring a $10 personal deposit by a dance chairman which will be returned if the dance reports are turned into the Social Commissioner within four weeks after the dance.
It was announced that both Stanford and Keenan halls would probably be freshman halls next year. Social Commissioner Pat Rogers announced that $200 was lost on the Four Freshman performance. .
Student Body President Jerry Brady was informed by the administration that the Senate would not get representation on the University Council nor on the Committee on Discipline “unless possibly in a very important matter.”
PROF. THOMAS J. STRITCH To deliver Leo XIII Lecture
Prof. Stritch to Speak On 'Catholic Position'
Prof. Thomas J. Stritch will deliver an address on “The Position of Catholics in American Culture” at 8 o’clock Tuesday evening in the Law Auditorium as part of the Leo XIII Lecture Series.
In his speech Prof. Stritch will stress that the Catholic position should be applied to .more intellectual uses than it is at present. He will also advocate the return of reason in social as well as religious matters to combat the totalitarian tendency in certain forms of
MIXER TOMORROW
A campus-wide mixer will be held tomorrow .night in the LaFortune Student Center beginning at 8:30. Admission is 50 cents for Notre Dame students. Holy Cross Central School of Nursing St. Mary’s and St. Mary’s Academy girls will be there. Music will be provided by records. Skits are being planned by Bob" MacKay and Bob Schaefer.
State Theater Movie Benefits St. Mary's Scholarship Fund J
The State Theater will present “The Miracle of Marcelino” beginning this Sunday and running until March 22. The movie will be for the benefit of the scholarship fund of the South Bend i Alumnae of Saint Mary’s College.
Classified as “The Best Picture of the i: Year” by the Sign Magazine, the movie has received other awards. It was given the grand prize in the International Film Festivals at Cannes and Berlin.
The show is a serious movie contain- < ing elements of humor and deals with a religious subject. It will be given * matinee and evening performances.
New Officers Selected In Detroit Club Voting .
New officers for the Detroit club were chosen at a recent two-hour long election. 1 Art Shanon was named the new president. John Foley and Bill Fury are the ; vice-president and treasurer, respec- • tively, while Dec O’Donnell and Denny , Pheney were chosen the recording and I correspondin gsecretaries for the club. !
Ron Paul has taken over the post of publicity director and The Rec. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., will continue in his capacity as the club’s chaplain.
thought found in a pluralistic culture.
A native of Nashville, Tenn., Prof. j Stritch graduated from Notre Dame in 1934 and received his master’s degree X’ here in 1935. Prior to World War II he taught in the Department of English. < He was named head of the Department ! of Communication Arts last spring after heading one of its predecessors, the Department of Journalism, for the last ten years.	•	, V
Last year he was a participant in the symposium, “What America Stands	K
For,” which was sponsored by the Committee on International Relations.	‘
The concluding talk in the series will be given on March 27 by The Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., head of the Department of Education. His subject will be “The Catholic Position,on the Education Controversy.”
W	.	•	■	'	.	'	. The Scholastic.
A Senior’s Delight—The Architect’s Way
'i
I
i lj.
). Ever since the ancient cave men L scratched pictures of anemic Tricera-| tops elatus on their cave walls with grubby hands, man has tried to make living more enjoyable and pleasant without getting his fingernails dirty. So here we are at Notre Dame, the recipients of millions of years of progress and change. It seems that the only change to come about is that our dwellings are more squarish.
As freshmen our rooms were in a class somewhere between a cardboard Ju-jubee box and the closet of some reserved ; athlete. As we moved into the later years, things naturally improved; occasionally the cardboard was painted, cobwebs touched up, and possibly even the desks were moved around. Yet, not even this marvelous improvement could come close to the fantastic elaborations > of two seniors—Tom Pezzuti and John Bottiglione.
f Far across campus, near the post office and the Bookstore is a hallowed haven known as Walsh Hall. I was sent there the other day to view a room rei puted to be a little out of the ordinary. ' I was surprised to find that it was, in reality, very much so. I walked into * the room and couldn’t see a desk.
Rumors had been floating around about the study habits of seniors; but I had not taken too much stock in them. I immediately realized that, of course, the
Comer of room.
March 14, 1958
by TOM LAMONT
desk shouldn’t be there, because there was a tree growing out of the floor. Anyone with even the smallest particle of intelligence would know that a room with a tree growing out of the floor does not have any desks. But all this is not too important. I am supposed to tell you what the room is like.
Well, you walk in the door (surprisingly enough, this room has a door) and to your left is a tree stuck in a bucket. Along that same wall to your left is a modernistic bookcase (Tom Swift and His Magic Electronic Pea-shucker, The Bobbsey Twins in the Insane Asylum, etc.). Next to the bookcase, along the other wall is the bed. Just an ordinary Notre Dame bed with the consistency of weakly-made Jello. Starting from, the end of the bed to the opposite ’wall is a partition with some type of oriental design on it, and right at the end of the bed is an opening made for the entrance into the wash basin and closet. This partition almost reaches the other wall, but there is a two-foot break strung with paraflin-cubed string, designed to bring out the swishing melodrama of a decadent Charlie Chan movie. As you step through the swishing paraffin you find the desk. Along the wall opposite the bed is a couch with another potted tree, and against the partition is a chair.
That’s what the room would look like if you were standing up, but let’s say you happened to be playing poker, lying on your back on the floor. What, perhaps, might you see.	.
Well, in most rooms all you would see would be a rather interesting pattern of cracks, some well constructed cobwebs, and, if you were lucky, a half-diligent spider. Ah, but not in this room. In this room they have copied war tactics — camouflage. They suspended a blue material from the ceiling and strung angel hair through it. But that was not enough; what is.a sky without stars? They strung Christmas tree lights through the whole mess. And let us not forget the lights they have suspended inside of red-painted cans. There you have it, the room. It may sound rather simple for all you amateur do-it-yourselfers, but a few problems always arise.
Tree in pot.
One cannot call in the shoemaker’s elves to complete the job with a magic wand of twinkling stars. The men who built this room ran into difficulties.
How would you feel. You’re coming back from a three-thirty class, dogged, tired, bored. You open the door, expecting to sink into your bed and sleep. The first thing that hits you is something that smells like an unwashed roommate. There in the corner is a hot-plate with a big pot of melting paraffin on it. No, your roommate is not doing his home economics work outside of class, he’s melting paraffin to form in cubes around a piece of string.
Or perhaps you have been out dating it up with one of the fair maids from across the road, and after an exhilarating evening, you burst into the room to recount this wonderful experience to your roommate, only to find him standing on a chair casting angel hair whither he may; and stringing Christmas tree lights with the air of a sewer worker. .
Here you are walking up to your room. -You swing open the door and bump into . your roommate walking out with a door. . I mean, like you don’t see your roommate walking around with a door all the time.	.	.
If you wish to venture — good lock. ■ "
'	17
You got a letter from the Dean of Students, Mojzizek. It’s edged in Hack.
Oh, no, you can’t re-sell it. It won’t be used next year.
March14, 1958
I I
BOOKS
Constraint and Variety in American Education, by David Riesman. (Doubleday Anchor Books, 1958, 95<).
David Riesman is familiar to all those who have passed through the Junior Seminar as the co-author of The Lonely Crowd. Constraint and Variety in American Education is the book version of a series of lectures given at the University of Nebraska a few years ago by Mr. Riesman. Those who found his book on the inner-directed and other-directed people in America interesting and enjoyable, may also be interested in these lectures. Mr. Riesman has undertaken to deal with certain facets of education and the intellectual life in America on the college and high school levels.
The first of the three lectures, and the one I found most enjoyable, is entitled “The Academic Procession.” Here the author is dealing with the American colleges and universities. His first important point is that with a general acceptance of higher learning by most Americans, the colleges have become more conservative, less willing to jeopardize their status by any radical innovations. He then attempts to set up some kind of standard for ranking colleges. He uses the analogy of a “great snake” to represent all the colleges. At the head he places the highbrow, avant-garde men and institutions. These are the pace setters who lead the way and set the academic fashions. He suggests that their course is often determined by a desire to be different and to stay in front of the rest of the procession. The middle is made up of those who are trying to catch up with the fashions of five or ten years ago, while at the end are those benighted individuals and institutions who are unaware that things have changed in the last forty years.
I think you can get an idea of what Mr. Riesman describes from the antics of the clothes-conscious segment of a campus. The Ivy-Leaguers continually search for some radical new style to set themselves apart from the middle-brows of Hie Big Ten, while the latter sneer at the benighted brethren of the South and West, with their levis and cowboy shirts. Mr. Riesman suggests that the convolutions of those at the head often bring them to the point the tail has just left; perhaps levis will sweep the Ivy League (if they.haven’t already started to).
The second essay, “The Intellectual Veto Groups,” deals with some of the problems of relationships between some
20
Eulogg for
Ed Hunngate
A week ago last Thursday a senior here at the University had to leave school due to a minor blood disorder. I shall refer to him as Ed Hunngate, rather than risk the possibility of spreading his fate to the rest of the campus, and secondly to prevent a flood of feminine tears from coast to coast. Yes, he was that type of individual; he did go out frequently. He liked to dare to be different, and to dare to be different around here means to go out with girls.
Now please don’t get any wrong ideas about old Ed; he was not the religious bulletin type that visited the grotto three times during the course of each date, good weather or no, and did not try to steal a kiss until the second banns were published. Rather he was the type that did not visit the grotto at all. He didn’t have to, because the grotto was
of the newer and older disciplines, such as Sociology and Economics, or Anthropology and History. Most of this is of limited interest to the reader who is not a scholar or educator by profession.
The last essay, “Secondary Education and ‘Counter-Cyclical’ Policy,” suggests that some trends in high schools, such as progressive education, have gone too far, and there is need for some individuals and schools to go against the now-popular trends, in order to preserve some values in danger of being lost. This last essay is, like the first, of more general interest, and I recommend the book to anyone interested in some of the current trends in American education.
—Bryan Woods

by Bob Early t
with him all the time. Some people call it clean of heart.
He did have one weakness, though, which again sets him apart from the K religious bulletin cast of characters around here — the holy innocents. He liked to drink, and this was especially bad since he had not yet arrived at the blue book age. But he felt justified in hedging on this law a little, because of the tremendous acts of charity he was * capable of while in a state, rightly enough described by his friends, as medium high. Let me tell you about one of these charitable acts.
It was just after Christmas vacation this year. We were all at the “Strat” celebrating Ed’s recent inheritance of $6,000 when suddenly, in a passion of charitable “good will,” he ups and buys 20 pool tables and freely gives them to the local YMCA. When we ask him for an explanation (for we knew he would not do such a thing in any other than a medium high state) he responded with a parable.
“The University ‘is permitted to’ hedge on the gambling laws of the state for the purposes of charity. That is, to improve the Student Center, and important things like that.” And that was all he said, and we all got his meaning.
The reason I’m telling these things is, if it happens that the minor blood disorder becomes major, then you will know what kind of guy he really is. And if the religious bulletin says that he brought 43 souls back into the church, fasted three days a week, and died for his faith, you’ll know to take it with a grain of salt. But you’ll also know that he really could have done those things, given the opportunity.

■4:
•s
4 r
Y
T/ie Scholastic
| The focal point of most of the social activities on campus is the La Fortune Student Center. This year, as always, there will be a turnover in managing personnel.
The duties of the manager are, in general, responsibility for the daily operation and management of the Student Center. Specifically, the things you ; usually see the manager doing, such as . cleaning up the Main Lounge, adjusting • the TV or telling you to keep your feet off the table, are just some of the minor duties, but still time-consuming ones.
i The manager’s position is a demanding one in that it requires a great deal of 1 time, and knowledge of the building and the activities which take place in it.
The managei- has a total of 20 official office hours a week. However, to do an adequate job the manager finds that 20 hours a week is the minimum amount of * time he can spend in the Center. Many weeks find him working from 25 to 35 hours a week. Thus, it is quite evident that the manager’s position is demanding in regard to time.
A thorough knowledge of the building is essential to the manager. The various ‘ types of functions which can utilize the facilities of the Center demand that the manager know where to place them and how to organize the function in a successful manner.
' The manager handles the ordering of all refreshments for any function held in the Center. This ordering requires a thorough knowledge of the prices concerning these orders, and also the responsibility of advising as to what and how much should be ordered for the particular activities.
The Student Center is operated under 1 the basis of breaking even, it is not operated to make a profit. The rental charges are used to pay the managers’ salaries and to purchase various incidentals for the Student Center such as: records, ash trays, cards, games, and to pay for various interior costs such as repairs to the TV sets and the tuning t of the pianos.
The manager has the responsibility of , keeping the financial records of the Center. The Center has a separate fund — none of which comes from the Student Activity Fee. Thus, the Student * Center is solely dependent on the income 4 received from its rental fees. The manager must make sure that the building is a being used and attempt to promote activity in the building.
I The Student Center requires two full time housekeepers and two janitors to maintain the building. They are em. > ployed by the University. These people show a great deal of pride in maintaining the cleanliness of the Center and are of great value to the manager because
March 14, 1958
U Fortune Student Center
The Manager's Job
Applications are now being accepted for the La Fortune Student Center Manager’s position. The only qualifications are that you be a junior with an 80 average, and you must have, at least one year of experience working in the Student Center.
All applications should be addressed to Fred Holzl, Manager La Fortune Student Center, Notre Dame by March 18, 1958.
Applicants will be notified of the date of interview.
Interviews for Assistant Managers and Labor Crew Foreman will be held after Easter vacation.
of this pride and their thorough knowledge of the building.
The manager deals with the students, members of the administration, and downtown businessmen. Thus he has the opportunity to meet a great number of people and to do business with them.
The manager receives $1.25 per hour.
The manager is responsible for the work done by his two assistant managers and the work crew foreman . . . their duties will be explained later.
The qualifications for application for the manager’s position is that he be a junior, must have at least one year experience in the Student Center, and must have an 80 average.
The position of manager offers the student an excellent opportunity to gain a great deal of experience in the ability to assume responsibility and meet and work with a great variety of people.
Under the manager there are two assistant managers. Their duties vary a great deal depending on their assign
ments. They may do the bookkeeping, organize the key system, do research, or any other job that may be assigned. The assistant managers do the majority of the paper work in the office, thus giving them an adequate knowledge of the Center’s operations.
The qualifications for assistant manager is that he be a sophomore, and have an 80 average.
Although the assistant manager’s position does not require as much time as the manager’s it is still a very responsible position. It is also excellent training’ for the manager’s position.
The Student Center also has a work crew composed of 40 to 50 students who do various odd jobs around the building and work at all activities which take place in the Student Center. The work crew prepares the Center beforehand, works during the affair, performing such duties as checking coats, serving refreshments, watching the doors and various other jobs. They are also responsible for cleaning the Center afterwards. The responsibility of hiring the work crew and overseeing their work is the duty of the foreman. The foreman has a very important and vital position in the management of the Center. The foreman is directly responsible to the manager. The foreman’s qualifications are that he must be a junior and have at least one year’s experience on the work crew and have an 80 average.
The assistant managers, the work crew foreman, and the members of the work crew receive $1 per hour.
The two assistant managers and the foreman are on the same plane and are _ the three most logical choices for the manager’s position due to the experience they have gained through their previous experience and work in the Student. Center.	-	. ’
21
CIVIL RIGHTS
... and the Constitution
by Dean Joseph O’Meara
Have the members of a minority group within a state any rights under the Constitution of the United States which protects them against oppressive legislation expressing the will of the state’s majority? That is the central issue raised by the memorandum of Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer, published in The Scholastic for January 17, and by the article in the February 28 issue in which they undertake to explain what they meant by what they said in their memorandum.
The answer is No, according to Father Pai*ry and Professor Niemeyer. They protest that their answer “is far from being as simple as that;” that, in fact, “the answer is highly complex.” (Scholastic, 2/28/58, p. 12, 2nd col.). But complex or simple, their answer is still No. Their position is that a state’s minorities have no rights under the Constitution which protect them against oppressive action taken by a state pursuant to the will of its majority. The Federal Government (specifically the Federal courts) should not “take sides” (Scholastic, 1/17/58, p. 12, 2nd col.) and this is true, they say, even if the majority’s treatment of the minority is unjust. They agree that the system of segregated education which is widely practiced in the southern States is unjust; but they assert it is unjust for the Supreme Court to protect Negroes from this injustice. (Scholastic, 1/17/58, p. 13, 3rd col.) It would seem to follow that injustice consists of tolerating injustice.
The doctrine that minority groups within a state are not protected by the Constitution against oppressive state action, if accepted, would put every minority in jeopardy. Let it be remembered that Nergoes are not the only minority against which hostile action can be taken by a state. Catholics, too, are
22
a minority; so are Jews; so are members of religious orders. All are put in jeopardy by the doctrine that minorities have no rights guaranteed by the Constitution against oppressive state action. If it were constitutionally permissible to require Negroes to attend segregated schools, there would be no constitutional defense against state laws requiring all children to attend the public schools, forcing Jews into a ghetto, forbidding religious orders to operate educational institutions.
Are these just hypothetical dangers? Consider what happened in Oregon in 1922. The people of that state, by referendum vote, adopted the Oregon Compulsory Education Act which, in effect, outlawed all private and parochial schools. That was segregation in reverse: Negroes in the South are required to attend separate schools; children in Oregon were required not to attend separate schools.
Was the Oregon law constitutional? In Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510, the Supreme Court of the United States said No. That case was decided in 1924. William Howard Taft was chief justice and the Court included Holmes, Brandeis and Stone, as well as the following justices commonly regarded as conservatives: Van Devanter, McReynolds, Sutherland, Butler, and Sanford. The decision of the court in the Oregon case was unanimous, as was the decision 30 years later in the school-segregation cases (Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 475).
Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer contend that the Supreme Court’s decision in the school segregation cases was “faulty.” (Scholastic, 1/17/58, p. 12, 1st coL) If minorities within a state have no rights protected by the Constitution against hostile action by ~the state’s majority, was not the decision, in
the Oregon case likewise “faulty?” Conversely, if the Oregon case is sound, so too are the school-segregated cases. It is still true that you cannot have your cake and eat it.
Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer say that theirs “is not the orthodox position.” (Scholastic, 2/28/58, p. 12, 2nd col.) God grant it never will be. But though their position is not orthodox, it is by no means novel. Their conclusion that minority groups have no rights protected by the Constitution against oppressive state action is shared by the legal positivists, as Professor Northrop pointed out in his excellent article in 1957 Natural Law Forum 41. And, of course, minority groups had no rights in Fascist Italy, they had none in Nazi Germany and they have none in Communist Russia. Political theory makes strange bedfellows.
In their missionary zeal for the doctrine that minorities have no rights, Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer have now published a memorandum and an explanation of what they meant by their memorandum, running to a total of approximately 3500 words. Yet there is nothing in all that wordage which gives the slightest hint that there is a provision in the Constitution which has some relevance to the issue they have undertaken to discuss. There is such a provision and it reads as follows: “No state shall... deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” Please note that this provision does not undertake to guarantee some protection for some persons in some states. It is a guarantee of equal protection for all persons in all states. This would seem to be at least the starting point of an intelligent approach to the problems which arise when minority groups are made the target of oppressive state legislation. Father Parry and Pro-
The Scholastic
fessor Niemeyer proceed, nevertheless, with the exposition of their theory as if the equal-protection clause, quoted above, had never existed or had been superseded by their speculations.
With specific reference to the decision of the Supreme Court in the schoolsegregation cases, Father Parry and 1 Professor Niemeyer make two points which invite comment. The first is their | insistence that, at least in what they ’ regard as doubtful cases (such as segre-; gation) the Supreme Court should be ! guided by “the enduring consensus of I the community” (Scholastic, 2/28/58, s p. 21, 1st col.); for, they say, “in a nation of equals the enduring consensus of the people is held to represent the best of wisdom and virtue that is available to the community’s laws.” (Scho-. lastic, 1/17/58, p. 13, 2nd col.). Where are we to look to determine this consensus? To the nation as a whole, or to the southern states which practice segregation? If the former, Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer can have no complaint, for the American people as a whole long ago repudiated segregated education. If the latter, what is to be * said of the description of a segregated southern state as a nation of equals? The temptation is strong to call this by its right name.
The second point is the suggestion by Father Parry and Professor Niemeyer that, though the Federal Government should not have interfered with segregated education, “it could (among other things) have worked toward the full realization of Negro voting rights.” (Scholastic, 2/28/58, p.-21, 1st col.) Does this not involve them in a logical contradiction? My friends from the deep ' South assure me that “the enduring con-u sensus” of the white majority in the southern states is just as much opposed to Negro voting as to integrated education — perhaps more so. When those who oppose Federal intervention in aid of integrated education propose Federal intervention in aid of equal voting rights y for Negroes, are they not running the wrong way with the ball? .
» Have the members of a minority group within a state any rights under the Constitution of the United States which protect them from oppressive legislation expressing the will of the states’ major-« ity? That is the central issue and I affirm that the answer is Yes. By l proclamation President Eisenhower refers to the principle of guaranteed funda-t mental rights as being the heart and sinew of our nation. The Notre Dame y Law School will join in the observance t of this day of national dedication to a principle without which America would be a land alien to itself, false to its traditions and its aspirations.
March 14, 1958
At the Movies
COLFAX
Bonjour Tristesse: (March 14-21). “Bonjour Trisrtesse,” which has a rather loose translation as “sweet sadness” or “bitter-sweet memories” or the like, was filmed in CinemaScope and Technicolor along the French Riviera. Heading the cast are David Niven and Deborah Kerr.
GRANADA
Peyton Place: (March 14-19). Good if you haven’t seen it, but then who hasn’t?
Cowboy: (March 20). Not just another Western, though it does have its share of cattle stampedes, Indian attacks and poker games. With Glenn Ford and Jack Lemmon giving vigorous performances in their roles, the film acquires an extra dimension—solid characterizations—which Westerns as a general rule lack. Technicolor.
PALACE
The Girl in the Woods: (March 14-15). There’s this little girl, see. And this little girl has just all kinds of things, like little red riding hoods^ and little wicker baskets, and little grandmothers and things, see? No, you idiot, don’t see!
Co-Hit: Lafayette Escadrille. The picture, produced in 1956, concerns the young Americans who enlisted in the Lafayette Escadrille to fight for France before the United States entered World War I.
Cattle Empire: (March 16). Led by Lady Borden the proletariats of the cattle world rise to meet their destiny. ’
Co-hit: Gift of Love. Lauren Bacall’s first movie since the death of her husband. Not too bad, but a bit teary.
RIVER PARK
The Ten Commandments: (March 14). If I have to think up something cunning to say about this movie just one more time, I, personal-like, am going to throw a large, deadly bomb in the projection room of the River Park Theatre.
STATE
Johnny Guitar: (March 14-15).
Co-Hit: Maverick.
Miracle of Marcelino: (March 16-22). Classified as “The Best Picture of the Year” by the Sign Magazine, this movie has received other awards. It was given grand prize in the International Film Festivals at Cannes and Berlin. Although serious, it does contain elements of humor. Matinee and evening performances.
Co-Hit: Arivederci Roma.
WASHINGTON HAU
A Hatful of Rain: (March 16). Here, without doubt, is the best movie in the whole ding dong town. It tells a provocative story of lower middle classT family relationships in identifiable New York City surroundings. And, very importantly, it is acted superbly by a cast headed by Eva Marie Saint, Don Murray, Lloyd Nolan and Anthony Franciosa.
—Steve Sailer
© 1958, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
Viceroy
Gives You More Of What
You Change To a Filter For
More filters? Yes—more than 20,000 filter traps in every tip. Thousands and thousands more than any other leading cigarette. More taste? You’ll never know how much more ’til you light a Viceroy. The greatest tobacco. The greatest filter. That’s all!
NEW CRUSH-PROOF FLIP-OPEN BOX or FAMOUS FAMILIAR PACK 2!	The Scholastic'
thuili Scuu
IRISH MEET INDIANA ROADBLOCK TONIGHT
Jordanmen Smash Tennessee Tech, 94-61;
Advance to Lexington For NCAA Regionals
It’s Indiana tonight!
Coach Johnny Jordan’s eagers, fresh from a 94-61 thrashing of Tennessee Tech, champions of the Ohio Valley Conference, last Tuesday night at McGaw Memorial Hall in Evanston, Ill., meet Indiana, champions of the Big Ten, tonight at Lexington, Ky., in the regionals of the national tournament.
Kentucky faces Miami of Ohio in the other game. The winners of tonight’s games will meet tomorrow night to decide the Mideast representative in the NCAA finals next week end.
Notre Dame found Tennessee Tech, their first obstacle in the NCAA, a problem until a few minutes before the end of the first half. Then, with the score tied 28-28, the Irish began to hit from all angles and swept to a 40-28 intermission advantage.
The Golden Eagles from Tech started out fast, running to a 12-5 lead in the first five minutes. Notre Dame then tallied 14 consecutive points to take a lead over the Eagles that was never relinquished.
Tom Hawkins, who was held to twelve points in the first half, found the range for his jump shot in the second half and completed the night with an even 30 points before he was taken out for a substitute with four minutes left. John McCarthy, the only Irish starter who was hitting consistently in the first half, finished with 20 points.
INDIANA 10-4 IN BIG TEN
The Hoosiers won the Western Conference title last Saturday afternoon with a thrilling 75-72 win over runner-up Michigan State at East Lansing. Indiana led all the way against the Spartans, co-defending champions with the Hoosiers last year, and withstood a late surge by State to advance to Lexington tonight.
Going into this evening’s game, the Hoosiers have a not too impressive, twelve won, ten lost record. Included in the ten losses is an 89-74 setback suffered at the hands of the Irish last December in the Hoosier Classic at Indianapolis.
All-American center Archie Dees is the big gun for the Indiana quintet. The 6-8 senior has averaged 26 points a
game this season and is the Big Ten scoring champion, as he was in 1956-57. Dees is also the leading rebounder for the Hoosiers with a 15 per game average.
The forwards are 6-3 Pete Obremskey and 6-5 Jerry Thompson. Obremskey was a stalwart foi- Indiana in their deciding victory over Michigan State Saturday. He is a top defensive man and has been averaging twelve points pei-game for Indiana. Thompson, a South Bend high school product, has also been averaging twelve points per game and has come through with a top scoring performance several times for Coach Branch McCracken’s crew this season.
STRONG AT GUARD
The starting guards for the Hoosiers are the sparkplugs of their attack. Senior Sam Gee’s and sophomore Bob Wilkinson’s exceptionally deadly outside shooting are the main reasons the Irish will be facing Indiana instead of State tonight at Lexington. Gee’s long one-handers helped the Hoosiers build their early lead against the Spartans and Wilkinson’s clutch shooting from the free throw line in the game’s final moments iced the game for the downstaters. Against State, Wilkinson hit 18 points and Gee, who fouled out quite
ARCHIE DEES
Hoosier high point mon
early, accounted for 17 of the Indiana total. During the season, both these guards averaged slightly over nine points per game.
The Hoosiers also have some fine reserve strength available in forwardcenter Frank Radovich, 6-8, and Jim Hinds.
SOUTHEAST CHAMPS: KENTUCKY
Kentucky, the host school and a seemingly perennial entry from the Southeast Conference in the national tournament, has its usual good ball club this year. Coach Adolph Rupp boasts two All-American nominees on his starting five. They are junior forward Johnny Cox and senior guard Vern Hatton.
Cox, at 6-4, is the team’s leading scorer and top rebounder. Hatton, who sat out seven games after an appendectomy last year but was still second leading scorer, is an outstanding floor man and again second top scorer on this season’s team. Hatton is especially dangerous with a one-handed jump shot from outside the free throw circle.
Ed Beck, 6-7, is the pivot man and the Wildcats’ top rebounder. Beck has been averaging close to 15 points per game and is rugged under the boards.
The other two starting berths are held by 6-3 John Crigler, another tough rebounder, and guard Al Smith, Kentucky’s playmaker. Both can move the ball well and Smith has an accurate long set shot.
EMBRY OF OHIO BACK AGAIN
Miami of Ohio, Mid-American Conference champions, will play Notre Dame Saturday night provided both win tonight. The Ohioans face Kentucky this evening. Miami, which slipped by Pittsburgh last Tuesday night, 82-77, to reached the regionals, is paced by 6-7 Wayne Embry. Embry is Miami’s top scorer, with a 24 plus average to date, and also the team’s leading rebounder. Last year, when the Irish eliminated this same team in the sub-regionals, Embry and his teammates almost turned in an upset win over Notre Dame. He hit nine shots from the floor against Pitt Tuesday.
At the forwards for the Redskins are 6-3 Jim Thomas and 6-6 Ed Wingard. Thomas, a junior, possesses a fine set shot, while Wingard is a top rebounder.
The guards are Jim Hamilton and 6-0 John Powell. The 5-8 Hamilton is the play-maker for Miami.
March 14, 1958
25
Outfield Solid, Infield and Backstop Uncertain As Kfinemen Begin Work For Southern Tour
Notre Dame’s baseball team will launch its 1958 season with a southern sojourn during the Easter vacation. Since Feb. 24 Coach “Jake” Kline has directed workouts in the Fieldhouse. Now that the snow has melted, Coach Kline plans to move outside to Cartier Field.
Notre Dame will play in the Florida State Tournament at Tallahassee, Fla., from April 4-10. Three other schools — Wisconsin, West Virginia, and the host school Florida State — will be represented.
On the way to Florida the team will stop at Athens, Ga., to play the University of Georgia, and on the return trip they are scheduled to play the Army club at Fort Knox, Ky. The regular season opens when classes resume after Easter.
The big problem facing this year’s ball club is the infield. Every position in the infield has been left open by graduation.
Sophomore Ed Wojcik will probably take over the catching job vacated by All-American Elmer Kohorst. Other candidates for the catcher’s spot are juniors John Merlock and Martin Deig-nan and sophomore Bob Lotti.
Although last year’s other co-captain, Jim Cusack, will return at first base, Jim Morris, a combination right-fielder and third baseman last year, will most likely be converted into a first-sacker. Morris, a lanky senior from Quincy, Ill., led the team in batting last year with a .386 average.
At second base also Coach Kline is searching for a replacement to fill a spot vacated by a senior. Right now the posi-
JAKE KUNE
Eyes baseball hopefuls
26
tion is up for grabs. Come April 4 it could be Dick Selcer, a junior from Cincinnati or Frank Finnegan, a sophomore from Peoria.
Jim Carideo’s graduation makes shortstop a problem also. Joe Geneser, a second baseman last year, looks like the leading candidate as of now, but the position is still undecided.
At third base John Carreta, a sophomore from Arlington, Va., is a top prospect to fill the gap left open by Steve Johnson’s graduation. There is also a chance that Frank Finnegan may move over to play the “hot corner.”
Other infielders fighting for positions are Pete DeVito a third baseman last year, and sophomores John Dorrian and Dan Kletter.
In left field Bob Senecal, captain of this year’s club, will return with a .290 batting average. Senecal is a two-time letter winner from Newaygo, Mich. .
Gene Duffy, pint-sized playmaker for the Irish eagers and a regular on the baseball team last season, returns in center field. Surprisingly enough, Duffy led the team in home runs last year with four. Also he was third in hitting with a .333 average. Defensively his speed makes him valuable.
Right field will probably be patrolled by Bob Giarrantano, a returning letterman from Great Neck, N. Y. Giarrantano shared right field duties with Jim Morris last campaign and batted .304.
Other prospects for outfield positions are Bill Reisert a veteran from last season, Mike Graney and Chuck Lima from the basketball and football teams respectively, and sophomore Neal Darrow.
One of the two mainstays from the 1957 staff, Chuck Symeon of Stanford, Conn., is back again, but otherwise the pitching corps lacks experience.
Symeon, winner of two baseball letters already, had a record of five wins and one loss last season and the remarkable earned run average of 1.30 for sixty-two innings pitched. Coach Kline said that the six-foot, 170-pounder is definitely Notre Dame’s best pitcher.
Other hurlers returning from last year’s Midwest Championship squad are John Connors with a 2-4 record as a relief pitcher, and Henry Bretting and John Casagrande who saw limited service. Outstanding sophomores Jim Hannan and Charles Serivanik should provide valuable assistance. Sophomore hurlers Dick Belmont, Frank Carpin, and Ed Kirchmier complete the mound corps.
Irish hope at 123
Wrestlers Compete In Case Tech Tourney
Notre Dame’s wrestling team closed out its regular season Saturday with a 19-9 loss to Wheaton College (HL). The defeat was only the second of the year for Notre Dame against seven wins. The Irish won three matches and lost five, two by pins.
Today and tomorrow the grapplers will wrestle in the 41 Tournament at Case Tech in Cleveland. Over 40 colleges and universities from the United States and Canada will also compete. Coach Tom Fallon, though taking only five men and expecting tough competition, expects the Irish to make a good accunt of themselves. Making the trip are: Gerry Sachsel, undefeated but tied once at 117 pounds; Buddy Day, 123 pounds; Captain Bob Pivonka, 130 pounds; Jim Rankin, who has lost but one match this year at 137 pounds; and heavyweight Bronko Nagurski, with a 3-1 record.
“Prospects for next year are excellent,” says Coach Fallon, “since we lose only two men, Day and Pivonka.
ARMY WINS
The Army ROTC won the roundrobin basketball tournament held in the Fieldhouse last Tuesday night. In the preliminary games the Navy defeated the Air Force, 28-21, and the Army, too, defeated the Air Force, 49-29. The Army then smashed the Navy in the finals, 42-28. Don McNeil was high for the winners with twelve points.
The Scholastic
I
Irish guard promises good performances in the forthcoming NCAA encounters as he says
"We Can Take Both Games”
by GENE DUFFY as told to TED THOMPSON
| It feels good to get past that first | NCAA test. Tennessee Tech gave us a |f‘. good ball game, but the important thing I is that we won, and now we go on to I Lexington tonight to play Indiana in I the semi-finals of the regional.
I Indiana is riding on top of a terrific I late season surge, in which they have I won eleven of their last twelve ball I*, games, I think it is. We beat them I down at Indianapolis in the Hoosier I Classic, but they’re almost an entirely I different team now.
I The big difference between the team I we faced over Christmas, and the team I we’ll meet tonight is the starting guards. |> When we played the Hoosiers before, | their backcourt was weak, and they had | some trouble moving the ball. Now with | Bob Wilkinson and Sam Gee out there, | they have two very fine guards. The I fellows on the team, myself included, I watched the Michigan State-Indiana I* game on television last Saturday, and I we were very impressed by these two I rugged guards.
I Of course, you can’t overlook the add-I ed strength the Hoosiers have on the I front line now that they have decided | on a fairly fixed starting team. Pete L Obremsky and Jerry Thompson have | taken some of the offensive load off their |* big man, Archie Dees, and that’s part | of the reason Dees has been breaking | loose and scoring more in some of his | most recent games.
| The defense has had tv concentrate on L five men instead ef ju?t the one, and I Dees has taken advantage of this. Being I ► the great player that lie - their 6-8 f center has been able to pour in points tr since there has been only one man on | him. Earlier, teams could play two and sometimes three men on him on defense.
The Hoosier center has racked up
I over 30 points in at least two of his ■f latest games that I can remember, and now I think he’s around sixth or seventh
* in the country and is averaging around 25 or 26 points a game.
1 But the team feels that Mike Graney, who will probably but not definitely defend against him, will do a good job on
* holding him down. Johnny Green of Michigan State held Dees down pointwise last Saturday in Indiana’s 75-72 win for the Big Ten championship. Dees
March 14, 1958
only scored 14 points in that game, but he played an excellent game otherwise. He rebounded well and did little things like helping bring the ball up-court when Michigan State was using a fullcourt press against them.
But we think Graney can do just as good a job on him as Green did last week end, and that will go a long way toward insuring a victory for us. In the game over the Christmas holidays, Dees pumped in 32 points although we beat Indiana, 89-74.
We expect the Hoosiers to try to fast-break against us, but I know that in Tom Hawkins, John McCarthy, and Graney we have three rebounders that can hold their own against any front line in the country. And after all, a fast-break depends on getting those rebounds, and, if we don’t let them have the rebounds, they won’t be able to hurt us with a fast-break.
We’ll be giving away inches in height as we have in practically every game this year. Dees is 6-8, and Obremsky and Thompson are both around 6-4 or 6-5 if I remember right, and both Wilkinson and Gee are over six feet. And their sixth man, Frank Ranovich, is also 6-8. But we feel that we can cope with their height advantage since we have defeated quite a few teams that have had this same advantage over us.
Then, if we get by Indiana, we will probably face Kentucky in the final game tomorrow night. They have four regulars back from the team that almost won the regional last year. And, of course, they have the benefit of playing on their home floor before a friendly crowd. Coach Adolph Rupp’s teams are notoriously tough on their home court, but, if we beat Indiana, not even Rupp and his fieldhouse put together will be enough to stop us.
We’ve been playing fairly well but not championship ball these last few games. We just happened to catch Holy Cross on an off-night and beat them by a fairly large margin.
Against Detroit, we played a good game, and they played their best game of the year. They hit on 52 per cent of their shots, and their fine guard, Mike Walsh, was hitting from as far out as 40 feet.
THE AUTHOR
The reserves really helped a lot in that game. Jim Williams, Tom Reinhart, and Ed Gleason came through , after McCarthy, Graney, and Bob Devine fouled out. This game proved both that we can keep our poise after a team comes back against us and that our bench strength has improved a great deal since the beginning of the year. Our bench is now able to step in at any time and carry the team capably.
The DePaul game was our last reg--ular game of the season, and we were all looking ahead to the Tennessee Tech game, naturally enough. We took the game pretty lightly, and we didn't realize until close- to its end that we actually could lose it. Even so, DePaul played a good ball game, hitting 45 per cent from the floor compared to our 25 per cent. The only reason we beat them is -that we got off something like 35 more shots than they did.
Most of us feel that the DePaul game. was our poorest of the year. We know that we can’t afford to have another game like that one and still stay in the tourney.
We haven’t really been up high for a game since the North Carolina game in Chicago almost a month ago^ and we are really pointing toward these two games these next two nights. The most important game right now is this game tonight, but we want both badly.
That pep rally that the student body gave us the other night really helped us-too. Notre Dame is noted for its football rallies, but this is the first time I can remember a basketball rally. We know the students are definitely behind us, even more than they have been all ; year. The rally just makes us aSLUiie: more certain that we will whip both Indiana and whomever we will play morrow night.
RON SCHOENBERG
Captains Irish netters
Chicago Round-Robin Opens Tennis Season
Notre Dame’s tennis team will be in Chicago today and tomorrow to play in a round-robin indoor tennis match at the University of Chicago. Competing in this 1958 season’s warm-up, besides the Irish, will be Indiana, Michigan, Iowa, Northwestern and Chicago.
The Irish placed third in the roundrobin last year behind Michigan and Iowa, with Chicago in fourth place.
Max Brown, a junior, will be in the first singles slot for ND. He is currently ranked 17th in the country’s amateur standings. Team captain Ron Schoenberg will be playing in the second singles position and Sergio Garza will hold down the number three position. Hector Carbello will play in the fourth spot and Chuck Vanoncini is scheduled to fill the fifth singles position.
Brown and Schoenberg will form the first doubles team with Vanoncini and Charlie Stephens playing in the second spot. Garza and Carbello will compete in the final doubles position. Coach Fallon explains that these positions are not final because the team has not yet competed outdoors. But this week-end’s meet should go a long way in naming the Irish starters and their positions, Fallon said. The team has been practicing in the Fieldhouse for the past month.
Michigan is favored to win the meet even though they lost four of last year’s starters. The Wolverines had a fine freshman team and are again expected to have one of the best teams in the Midwest. Iowa, led by Art Andrews, who is rated right behind Brown in the 18th slot among the amateurs, is expected to be a top contender.
28
Trackmen Lose CCC; At Chicago Tonight
Notre Dame’s indoor track squad, which last Saturday lost its four year supremacy in the Central Collegiate Conference to Western Michigan by 1% points, will be in Chicago tonight to compete in the Chicago Relays at the International Amphitheatre. Coach Alex Wilson says he will be using Barclay Ewart, Pat Reilly, Joe Foreman, and Dale VandenBerg in the mile relay, VandenBerg in the 1000-yard run, and Steve Dornbach in the high hurdles. These are the only events the Irish will enter.
In the Central Collegiate Conference meet at Kalamazoo, Michigan, Saturday night, Western Michigan edged the ND squad, 53% to 52%, and ended the four year hold which the Irish have had on the title.
Although the Irish captured more first places than the Brones, six to three, and set two new conference records, the latter’s all round depth proved to be the margin of victory.
Jack Cote of Notre Dame set a new Notre Dame indoor mark in the broad jump with a leap of 24 feet. He beat the previous mark of 23% feet which he set in 1956. VandenBerg broke the conference record in the 880-yard run, winning the event in 1:52.5 as against the old record of 1:53.4 set by Don Makiel-ski of Michigan State in 1950. Frank Geremia of the Irish also came through with a fine effort in winning the shot put with a heave of 51 feet, 6% inches, his best effort of the season.
Other Irish firsts were in the 440-yard run where Joe Foreman duplicated his feat of last year, winning in 50.3 seconds; in the high jump which Tom Sanfacon won with a leap of 6-4% and in the mile relay which was taken by the Irish team of Ewart, Reilly, Foreman and VandenBerg in 3:22.9.
Coach Wilson said that it was a disappointment to lose the meet, but there was some compensation in the records set. He added that the injury to senior Don Faley in the qualifying broad jump hurt the team as he was unable to compete in the final round.
This was the first time that Western Michigan has won the CCC meet in the 31 years it has been held. Behind Western Michigan and Notre Dame, Marquette finished third with 45% points, Drake had 12 points, Loyola 8, Bradley 6% and Central Michigan 1. Detroit and Wayne State failed to score.
Though both Indiana and Northwestern defeated the Irish last year and will field formidable clubs this spring, Fallon believes Notre Dame should finish ahead of them tomorrow.
Swimmers Take Second In Naperville Tournament
The Notre Dame swim club closed out a successful season last Saturday by taking second place in the Midwest Invitational meet at Naperville, Ill. North Central won the meet with 107 points against Notre Dame’s 57 points. Loyola finished third with 40, Beloit had 17, and Cornell was last with 13.
Although they took only one first place, in the 400-yard freestyle relay, the Irish tankers built up their point total on second and third place finishes. The winning relay team of Bill Cronin, Chris Lund and Gene Witchger swam the 400-yard relay in 3:45.0 minutes.
In the 50-yard freestyle race, Jim Rank of North Central won with a time of 24.0 seconds. Mike Mahaney of Notre Dame and Witchger took second and third respectively in the event. Rank also won the 100-yard freestyle and the 100-yard butterfly.
The swim club team of Jim Garrity, Bob Kroha, George May and Dick Nagle took third in the medley relay. In the 200-yard backstroke, Garrity took third and Paul Zika of ND placed fifth. Garrity again took third in the 100-yard backstroke while Zika followed right behind him with a fourth place finish.
In the 100-yard butterfly, Kroha came in fourth and Tony Haske fifth, while in the 200-yard butterfly event Haske placed fourth. Tom Londrigan swam third in the 220-yard freestyle race and took second in the 440-yard freestyle, with Nagle taking fifth in the 440 event.
Paul Chestnut of Notre Dame lost the diving event to Byzannen of North Central by .9 of a point, losing 349.7 to 348.8. In the final race of the day, the individual medley, Londrigan took third, while Gene Jordan, also of the swim club, placed fourth.
Tyler’s Picks of the Week NCAA TOURNAMENT MARCH 14-15
AT CHARLOTTE
Temple over Maryland Manhattan over Dartmouth Temple over Manhattan
AT LEXINGTON
Notre Dame over Indiana Kentucky over Miami (O.J Notre Dame over Kentucky
AT LAWRENCE Cincinnati over Kansas St. Oklahoma State over Arkansas Cincinnati over Oklahoma St.
The Scholastic
TIME OUT
Whi’Ze Mike Fitzpatrick, SCHOLASTIC Sports Editor is en route to Lexington, Ky., John Glavin, Associate Editor, will act as guest columnist.
NOBODY ASKED ME, BUT . . .
. . . The NCAA tournament committee has done it again. One objection that invariably comes up during the tournament is that too often, teams play games on their home court. Take this year for example.
Kentucky, for the second year, is playing in the regionals in their own Fieldhouse. The Western Regional is being played in San Francisco on a court which the Dons have used frequently this year. This seems like an unfair advantage to some of the tournament teams.
The tournament committee should hold off selecting the sites for the playoffs until all the participating teams have been chosen. This would eliminate a great deal of the second guessing after a team has won on their home floor.
. . . Spectators at the ND-Tennessee Tech game at Northwestern Tuesday must have fallen asleep, if they stuck around that long. The game had about as much crowd appeal as a back yard dog fight and those who remained till the bitter end must be congratulated for yawning through it. The boys from the South gave the Irish a few anxious moments early in the game but no one really thought that it would be close for long.
Notre Dame looked just fair and must show a great deal of improvement before they walk on the court tonight if they still have championship hopes. It is rather hard to look good against a team like Tech and we all know that our Irish are capable of better ball. It hasn’t been necessary for them to get up for a game since North Carolina but tonight has to be the night.
. . . Indiana co.uld be the biggest barrier to Notre Dame’s title hopes. Right now the Hoosiers are one of the hottest clubs in the nation. Master Branch McCracken has brought his club along well and they have to rate as the dark horse. The boys from Bloomington are big, fast and phenomenal shooters. If they are hitting and running at the same time, it might mean disaster for Notre Dame.
The last time the locals and Indiana met in the NCAA was in 1954 in the first game of the regionals at Iowa City. Coach John Jordan had a great team that year (22-3) but Indiana was favored to win the crown. The team of Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, John Fannon, Bill Sullivan and Jack Stephens played the greatest game in Irish basketball history and beat Indiana, led by All-American Don Schlundt, by one point. The next night, Notre Dame showed the effects of the battle and lost to Penn State. But, it was the night before that McCracken will never forget.
. . . Why doesn’t some group on campus, like the Monogram Club, give some recognition to the players who have scored 1000 points in their career. This is a big thing at other schools but I bet that no one except Joe (Mr. Basketball) Bride could name the eight players who have scored 1000 points here. Three of these players are on the squad right now, Devine, McCarthy and Hawkins. The other five are Rosenthal, Stephens, Bertrand, Kevin O’Shea and John Smyth. The present players are deserving of some sort of recognition. How about it?
TYLER ILL
... We ought to give Tyler’s selections for the finals in Louisville next week. It was quite an effort to get anything because he was recently admitted to the Mayo Clinic. We figured that something was wrong after he booted the Big Ten game last week end. We did get to talk to his wife, though. So here, for what it is worth, are the four NCAA finalists: San Francisco, Temple, Cincinnati and NOTRE DAME.—J. G.
Quarter-Finals Held In Court Competition
The quarter-final rounds in the campus Moot Court Competition were held last Friday evening in the Law Auditorium with eight juniors emerging victors in a field of 13.
The winners were Robert Mone, Jerome Lynes, Altero Alteri, Milton Munk, James Durkin, Daniel Hammer, Richard Schiller, and Dana Devoe. ’
Involved in the case was a statute in a fictitious state requiring the property of certain aliens to escheat to the state. The issues argued concerned the regularity of the proceedings in the agency which decided against the alien. The constitutionality of the statute was also an issue debated.
Judges for this round were faculty members from the Law School and three members of the South Bend Bar.
On April 28 the winners will compete again before the Appellate Court of Indiana. Four of these will be chosen to compete in the final campus round next October. The winners of this round will represent Notre Dame in the National Moot Court competition to be held in the late fall.
Others in the contest were Robert Curley, Kosma Glavas, Francis Prebenda, Thomas Crehan, and Arthur Perry. This competition was the best, attended in recent years.
This year’s senior finalists Ray Tam, Don Very and Bill Ragan won the regional in Chicago and competed in the finals in New York City last December.
Seventy Seniors to Witness NCAA Playoffs in Lexington
Seventy seniors journeyed to Lexington, Ky., today to witness the NCAA playoffs there tonight and tomorrow night. Leaving this morning at 9:30 a.m. by bus, they hope to check into the Hotel Phoenix there at about 6 pan.
Tomorrow morning they will attend Mass at the Kentucky Newman Club chapel. On Saturday afternoon the group will go to a mixer sponsored by the same club.
Following the game, the student body of the University of Kentucky is giving a dance honoring the four teams participating in the tournament and their student bodies. The Notre Dame seniors . will also attend.
The students will return to campus on Sunday after Mass.
Members of the Trip Committee are Andrew Aman, chairman and his assist- . ■ ants Mike Shannon, Tom Maloney, and -Al Florin.	.
29
March 14, 1958
The JIuSa RESTAURANT
127 N. Main Street
Welcomes Notre Dame Students
TO TRY OUR FINE FRENCH AND AMERICAN FOODS
•
Prepared By Our French Chefs
•
Call For Reservations CE 3-5606
Capt. O'Rourke Visits Campus Last Saturday
Captain Michael K. O’Rourke, of the United States Army, current winner on the nationally televised “Tic Tac Dough” quiz program, visited the campus last Saturday.
Captain O’Rourke has currently won $125,000 on the program and if he won last night will have surpassed the standing record of $131,000 now held by Carl Van Doren. The program is carried on WNDU-TV on Thursday nights at 6:30.
A graduate of the University of Denver of Liberal Arts, O’Rourke recently received a regular commission.
At the present, he is the assistant PMS&T at Western Michigan University at Kalamazoo. Between programs, O’Rourke cohtinues in his teaching job and flies to and from New York.
Originally, he had intended to try for a small sum of money but having reached a plateau, he cannot lose his entire $125,000. He says he will continue until he is beaten.
THE COLLEGE SURVEY
ANNOUNCES
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 1958
THIS YEAR IN TWO COMPLETE GUIDES
Each including extensive listings of openings and addresses, information on their pay, responsibilities and necessary application forms.
MARITIME & GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT $ 1
Deck hands, wipers, stewards, messmen on ocean liners, dredgers, freighters, tankers, and sail or motor yachts. Fire control aids, guides, technical assistants, laborers, and others in national parks and game refuges.
CAMP AND RESORT EMPLOYMENT $ 1
Counselors, life guards, instructors, and directors in camps. Waiters, waitresses, bartenders, lifeguards, etc., in mountain and sea resorts and dude ranches.
EMPLOYMENT IS GUARANTEED only to those students in the several colleges where announcements of The College Survey appear who are able applicants and have their account number registered in our files by APRIL 3, 1958. Account numbers and our special application forms are given only to recipients of both guides. Those purchasing only one guide must exploit the sources therein without the guarantee of employment through our placement facilities.
SEND ONE DOLLAR FOR EACH GUIDE TO
THE COLLEGE SURVEY
BOX 625, Charlottesville, Va.
Glee Club Schedules Annual Easter Tour
Notre Dame’s Glee Club will begin its -twentieth Easter tour under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke on April 1. Thirty-six men were selected to make the tour from the Glee Club’s membership of over 80. Arranged by Thomas Cook, business manager, this year’s tour will take the club through 13 southern states.
Featured in the Glee Club’s programs will be selections from Gilbert and Sullivan’s Trial by Jury, along with a variety . of songs ranging from works of Handel to those of Cole Porter. John Thomas will be spotlighted as the tenor soloist.
After leaving the campus April 1, the Glee Club’s journey will take it through Atlanta, Ga., Miami, Fla., Melbourne, ‘ Fla., Vero Beach, Fla., and Miami, Fla., , by April 8. They will then move to Biloxi, Miss., Beaumont, Texas, New , Orleans, La., and Memphis, Tenn., April 15.
Other concert engagements this spring j will take the Glee Club to Lansing, Mich., this Sunday; Kankakee, Ill., on April 26, 4 and Toledo, Ohio, on May 3-4. On Sunday, March 30, the Glee Club will pre- -sent a concert for Notre Dame students j in Washington Hall. The campus con- ■ cert will be identical to that presented on the tour, and there will be no admission charge.	J
AB Sophomores to Hear 'Major' Talks Thursday	,
The annual Sophomore Arts and Letters “Choose Your Program” series will begin Thursday at 8 p.m. in the , Law Auditorium. All AB sophomores ‘ are required to attend this program.
The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., will speak on the subject of choosing a | major. All department heads, or their , representatives, will attend and talk informally to anyone interested in their J particular department. Brochures will be distributed to all sophomores in their , i English classes explaining in detail the program of each department.	J
Chairman Joe Harrison announced that at various times during the week following this meeting there will be other informal meetings with the department ' heads for interested sophomores.
SENIOR ANNOUNCEMENTS
The senior class officers announce that the bulletin boards in the Huddle, Bus Shelter, and Alumni Hall \ will be used for announcements concerning all senior activities —	'
especially graduation. Please watch for these notices.
30
The Scholastic
kWTURBOW
\pPTOMBTIH«T
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring m the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
'Globe' Editor Chosen By Commerce School ______________
The Commerce school has received permission to go ahead with the publication of a newspaper, The Globe. James Law, president of the Marketing club, reported that Henry Zang has been chosen as editor, and that the rest of the publication’s staff is being selected from the 30 men that applied. The first issue will come out at the end of this month.
The purpose of the paper is to better acquaint the commerce student with what is happening in the college in the way of activities, projects, program changes, and so forth. Applicants for any phase of its publication are welcome.
HaveaWRLDofFUlH
$
NOW!

A MAN’S SHAMPOO... in Shower-Safe Plastic!
Old Spice Shampoo conditions your scalp as it cleans your hair. Removes dandruff without removing natural oils. Gives you rich, man-sized lather that leaves your hair piore manageable, better-looking ... with a healthy sheen! So much better for your hair than drying soaps... so much easier to use than shampoos in glass bottles. Try it!
SHAMPOO by SHULTON
XT* Notre Dame Bookstore
March 14, 1958
31
Repercussions
(Continued from page 9) reason upon knowledge. The university “educates the intellect to reason well in all matters, to reach towards truth and to grasp it.”
The obvious conclusion' that can be drawn is either, that the administration considers political participation during college life not necessary for political and social order after college, or it can’t place enough confidence in the student body so as to enable it to fulfill its obligation of citizenship under properly supervised political activity.
Either way, it places a premium on the politically illiterate and apathetic college student and graduate.
John Carpenter
414 Walsh Hall
WHAT THEY ASK ABOUT
keeping company
MODESTY
Love and Dating
LIFE
Marriage:
Catholic and
Non-Catholic
MARITAL
MARRIAGE
C A S
CHASTITY Ml
MORALS
Marriage Outside the Church
COLUMNISTS	s *
Manuscripts are now being accepted for next year’s “Back Page” and “Escape" columns. Any undergraduate who is interested may apply by sending 'two or three > sample columns of about 1,000 words each to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. It is most important that this be done as soon ' as possible in order to facilitate selection before final exams.	।
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
BIRTH CONTROL
mixed
marriages
TOURIST KITCHENETTES
4 miles North of Notre Dame. 200 feet East of Gulf Station on U.S. 31 —J6 mile North of State Line.
Bargain Rates-Day or Night
The author. Monsignor J. D. Conway, has had experience as a Pastor, Newman Club chapbin, and as a member of a diocesan marriage court. MMuwmMuuMwaaumuM
Order the complete set and have all the answers in one package. Especially the answers to questions people ask or won’t ask in regard to these important sub- ' jects. This sgrig^^^gJjjg two-color booklets has real answers to real questions in language you will understand and with a style you will appreciate.
An excellent addition to the home library or as material for a discussion group. Full of answers to over 200 questions.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food 601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
AVE MAHA NESS. Notre Dome. Inc*
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds
Nationally Advertised Watches 4, Jewelry and Gift Items
Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 -N. Michigan.	Ph. CE 2-1202	I
t	The Scholastic	1
Maturity
(Continued from page 34) awareness of one’s ignorance. In this respect, many are more mature upon entering Notre Dame than upon leaving. The logic of the laws commands a certain respect, and the fact that he can easily perceive the direction and purpose of many regulations adds to their power of compulsion for the newcomer. But in addition to this compulsion, which depends primarily on his own reasoning, the newcomer also feels a certain awe for the system as such simply because he recognizes in it a wisdom higher than himself. He makes an act of faith in the system as knowing more, even about himself, than he does. This is the beginning of maturity.
Upon living for a time under the restraint of the system, one begins to analyze the purpose of its regulations, and to see the apparent logic behind most of them. At the same time, he develops in himself that faculty of selfcontrol which accomplishes, infinitely more than regulations can ever do, the conditions for his self-development. By comparing his own level of self-control to the regulations designed to produce just such self-control, he comes to regard as useless those regulations which he has surpassed and outgrown. This is the critical stage of maturity.
Eventually one comes to the realization that the inherent logic of the regulations, or their apparent applicability to a particular situation, is not essential to their function. In the first place, one realizes the necessities and limitations of legislation designed for all, the mature and immature alike. In the second place, he realizes that, even if the system could allow for the pure selfgovernment of the mature, these mature persons would rapidly lose this maturity, which comes from contact with the less reasonable, as well as the more reasonable. Finally, this condition of being bound to the irresponsible makes the mature person aware of his responsibility towards them. One must be aware of the good to be derived from such a situation and use it to exercise his faculties of self-discipline and leadership. This is maturity.
LECTURE TUESDAY
Stuart L. Hannon, deputy program director of Radio Free Europe, will deliver a lecture on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Lounge. His subject will be “Diplomacy and Propaganda." The Committee on International Relations will sponsor the lecture.
DR. N. HZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bead A Non-Profit Orgxnizatian
GOT THE TIME?
A few minutes of thought and writing may win'you a brand new 17 JEWEL BULOVA SENATOR wrist watch so you will always have the time.
Just tell us in twenty-five words or less why you buy and use SHEAFFER pens and products.
The quality of SHEAFFER products makes this an easy task. Do it NOW!
Contest closes March 31 .
Send your entries to
Notre Dame Bookstore
March 14, 1958
Hack P«ft
maturity!
by BILL BUSCEMI
and the system
We, as students at Notre Dame, live under a system. There is an assumption inherent in the fact that we chose to attend this University, and the assumption is simply this: we are seeking knowledge at the hands of those whom we believe to possess it. We make an act of faith in the system, to the effect that we believe its influence will hasten our development. We necessarily confess our ignorance and immaturity and thus open the door to learning. Unless we believed these conditions necessary for development, we would be wasting our time here.
The function of a system is to constrain, to shape, to mold. A system pinches, for it must. In fact, it is of the very essence of the system that it pinch. This is its purpose, to constrain appetites and hasten development along an orderly route. By enrolling ourselves in the University, we place our development in the hands of those who run it. Since this is our purpose, then, to learn from those who know, we are defeating this purpose when we rail against the system simply because it is autocratic. This is precisely what autocracy is, direction from the top down, and this was precisely our reason for coming to -Notre Dame. Granted that blind obedience can never be exacted by any system, we must realize that, in our role as students, we are partially blind, and it is here the object of obedience to enable us to see.
The detailed finality of the law at times seems ridiculous, especially in a particular case, where we can see that its observance or breach is hardly a question of morality. But to stop here is to miss the pointy for the purpose of law is not specifically to prevent sin, or even the occasion of sin, for these are plentiful enough even under the most rigid system. Rather, the benefit of law is in making one feel restraiiit and opposition, sometimes even to his own best 34	\	’
reasoning in a particular case. The system, through its regulations, builds a familiarity with restraint which is the beginning of self-control and moral development. It is not essential that the law be even remotely connected with a moral issue in order for it to be useful in moral development.
The system cannot legislate morality. It can only acquaint one with the bridle of restraint necessary for self-control. The awareness of this purely restrictive, rather than molding character of the law can only come after one has prog
ressed far along the road of self-control. It is only as one becomes mature and capable of freely ordering his actions for his own development that he becomes aware of the legal technicalities as rather useless, at times apparently harmful to their original purpose. But it is precisely at this point that the law takes on an added meaning for this maturing person, and precisely here that it increases its effectiveness for his development.	.
As one becomes aware of the law as purely restrictive, it is then he becomes aware of his responsibilities towards others less mature than himself. This last stage of maturity is the most effective and is perpetual since the mature constantly find themselves in this situation. The effectiveness of this last stage of maturity is twofold. First, it provides the opportunity for the mature to encounter the opposition necessary for maintaining self-control. The hopelessness and absurdity of a situation provide for the mature what the logical aspect of regulations do for the immature, the occasion of humility and the opportunity for self-discipline. Secondly, as one finds. himself tied to the immature/ he is forced to realize his responsibilities towards them and to begin exercising the role of leadership for which he has been prepared.
We hear much talk of providing op
portunities for self-discipline. This is precisely the way in which the mature are to exercise self-discipline, by binding themselves to the immature and embracing those rules which the immature need for development. This certainly requires a greater amount of self-discipline than doing only those things in which one can directly see the advantage to himself. Thus, upon reaching maturity, one is asked to test and harden this maturity by participating in the system, not exempting those who still have need of its constraint.
1
1

I
Laws must be made, for it is only in | that way that the molding function of ! the system can be accomplished. The. larger the group, the more these laws ■ must be formalized, and the more they must appear as technicalities. These , technicalities, it is agreed, have appar- j ently little relevance to moral develop- ] ment. At times, they even seem opposed. 1 They must not be disdained, however, ! for without them the system is crippled f. since it is only through the letter of the law that the spirit can be promulgated. Also, and quite significantly, the very annoyance of these technicalities is a factor in moral development.
Those who sneer at the technicalities and ridicule the applications of the law < in the particular case are excluding j themselves from the final lesson in ma- । turity. They may even admit the use- ' fulness of the system in purging them i . from their more gross attachments and ' credit it with the development of orderly habits of mind and body. They will admit, in short, the benefit of all those j laws in which they can directly see the a benefit to themselves. Still, they will be- | moan the fact that they, whom the sys- J ■ tern has effectually molded to a certain , I degree, should still be bound by those laws which have already accomplished « their purpose.
Part of the wisdom of maturity is the (Concluded on page 33)
The Scholastic
ESH*
Happy news!
The ARROW
University Glen
This brand-new shirt style combines your favorite features: button at rear of collar, box pleat in back and Mitoga®-tapered fit. (See illustration.) In stripes, checks, solids, $5.00 and up. Cluett, Peabody Co., Inc.
ARROW—
—first in fashion
Check our
ARROW University Glen group now
You can have this new Glen*s up-to-the-minute Unwerstty features— box pleat, button-down collar both front and center back—in a wide range of handsome stripes, checks and solids. See this “must” shirt, first chance you get.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
C,GAR
Now available
in crush-proof box, too!


wy	is the big brand on this
range, ma'am-for filter and for flavor!
Once folks discover Winston, they just can’t keep the news under their Stetsons! They go for the flavor because it’s so clean and fresh — from a bright, clear blend of superb tobaccos. They like Winston’s exclusive pure-white filter, with the smart cork-smooth tip. And, they like to share a good thing when they find it! You try ’em. Then you’ll know why Winston is now way out ahead of the other filter cigarettes.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Smoke	Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!