The Notre Dame
Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR 15 CTS. A COPY
MARCH 10 1933
In Which an Ancient
Predjudice Is Exposed J
Many, many years ago colleges began publishing papers. To cover the cost of these publications they decided to enlist the help of storekeepers thereabouts. In true charitable fashion these storekeepers consented to help by pay- * ing for space containing various announcements pertaining to their business. “Donations to a good cause” they called it, and so a stigma on college publication advertising got its start.
•
But the real status of the college publication has changed. A glance through this magazine will show that some of the most successful names in business believe this stigma no longer exists. They appreciate the actual advertising “pull” of a magazine contacting EVERY student in a university of over three thousand.
It is to those who still consider us a “worthy cause” that this message is directed. We ask that you throw away your old prejudices and investigate our claims with an open mind. Call us at 3-1121 and a courteous representative will call and give you details. And when you decide to take space in the SCHOLASTIC, debit “Advertising” and not “Charity.”
The advertising manager
SCHOLASTIC
The Board of Publications
Administration Building Notre Dame, -	-	- Indiana
March 10, 1933
One
SOUTH BEND’S
Center of
Social and Commercial Activity
THE OLIVER
“Indiana9 s Finest Hotel99
NOTED FOR IT’S:
•	350 comfortable, spacious guest and sample rooms.	-
•	Luxuriously Restful beds.
•	Free RCA Radio service in every room—choice of six stations.
•	Colored tile bathrooms with combination tubs and showers.
•	Distinguished Cuisine.
•	Three Famous restaurants consisting of a beautiful modernistic Main Dining Room, a smart Travertine Tea Room and a popular priced Coffee Shop and Speed Counter.
•	Grand Ballroom and numerous convention and private dining rooms.
•	Headquarters for the Rotary, Kiwanis, Exchange, Knife and Fork and many other clubs.
•	Courteous service and refined atmosphere.
Rates from $2.00
Oliver Hotel, South Beud
Garage Attached
March 10, 1933
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is pub- qpi k I	I I B
I he Notre Dame scholastic
scripts may be addressed to	■
the scholastic, Pubii- Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
cations Office, Main Building.	p n tt m t> k n irr-
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
Edmund A. Stephan.....................Editor-in-Chief
James S. Kearns........................Managing	Editor
Associate Editors F. GRANGER WEIL WALTER JOHNSON
LLOYD TESKE	LESLIE RADDATZ
WILLIAM DREUX
News Staff
MITCHELL TACKLEY..........News	Editor
JAMES BYRNE.......Assistant News Editor THOMAS PROCTOR....Assistant News Editor EDWARD MANSFIELD RICHARD TOBIN JOSEPH BUCCI......ROBERT	ERVIN
JAMES A. HART JOHN McELLIGOTT FRANK KELLY	MICHAEL	WIEDL
JOHN WALKER
Desk Editors
PATRICK CORCORAN JOHN CONLEY
ROY SCHOLZ	ROBERT DILLON
Department Editors
TIGHE WOODS...............The Week
ROGER BEIRNE ............Theatre Talk
ROGER MCGOVERN........College	Parade
RICHARD PREZEBEL..........Staff Artist
Sports Staff
FRED MacBETH	ALBERT L. McGUFF
JAMES F. McKEON NICHOLAS CONNOR JOHN CARBINE	HOWARD WALDRON
EDWARD VAN HUISSELING
Features Staff
LOUIS HRUBY EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
WILLIAM KENNEDY BRYAN DEGNAN
PAUL DOYLE	LOUIS GIRAGI
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD GEORGE LEYES
Business Staff
JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager J. ALBERT SMITH.....Advertising Manager RAYMOND J. NABER.. .Circulation Manager HARRY McGOWAN JOSEPH SIMON
Volume LXVI.
MARCH 10, 1933
No. 19
S UMMARY
NEWS
Clyde Lewis, Wheeler, Oregon, Is Selected As Senior
Football Manager for Next Season.................. 5
More Than 1300 Witness Bengal Boxing Bouts in Gym.. 5
Father O’Hara Completes “Religious Survey”.......... 6
“The Vagabonds” Promises To Be Highly Entertaining;
Twenty Singers Cast in First Musical Production.... 6
Monogram “Absurdities” Plans Laid................... 7
A Play With A Greek Atmosphere Will Be Staged by
University Players, March 17 and 18........-...... 7
Summer Session “Bulletin” Is Published.............  8
Father McAllister Addresses Sociologists............10
Reverend Philip Moore, C.S.C., to Join Philosophy De-
partment Next Fall..............................  13
Professor Payton Speaks to Commerce Men.............16
FEATURES
Systematic Don Martin Interviewed for “'Man About”.... f
Letters From Readers in “Voice”.................... 9
St. Thomas Aquinas: Facts of His Life.....—........15
Struggle of the Banks: Reviewing the Closings, Mora-toria, and Holidays................................16
7,000 Books Included in Botanical Library...........17
SPORTS
C. I. C. track meet starts tonight with eleven visiting teams seeking to displace Notre Dame as conference
champion ........................................20
Basketball team runs victory string to nine straight by beating Wabash, 43 to 29...........................21
Seven outstanding matches included on golf schedule released this week...................................21
Another defeat avenged as. eagers get home in front of •
Marquette, 36 to 34, for tenth straight triumph...22
Seven boxers win University titles in The Scholastic’s Bengal show ...................................  22
Six strong opponents carded for 1933 Notre Dame tennis team....................................  -..23
S. A. C. swimming meet scheduled for next Wednesday night at South Bend natatorium...................23
Introducing Eddie King.............................24
Splinters From the Press Box.....................  25
Off-Campus and Morrissey hold lead in heavyweight divisions of Interhall cage leagues...............—26
On Down The Line...................................32
COMINGEVENTS
FRIDAY, March 10.—Scholastic Staff meeting, editorial board, 6:30 p. m.; News, sports, and feature staffs, 7:00 p. m., Editorial- offices “Ave Maria” Building; Debate: Varsity vs. Michigan State, 8:00 p. m., Washington Hall; Track Meet: C. I. C. preliminaries, 7:30 p. m., Gym; Concert Orchestra practice, 6:30 p. m., Band room, Washington Hall.
SATURDAY, March 11.—Track Meet: C. I. C. Finals, 1:30 p. m., Gym; Basketball: Varsity vs. Minnesota, at Minneapolis.
SUNDAY March 12.—Masses: 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart Church.	■
MONDAY, March 13.—Wrangler meeting, 6:30 p. m., Law Building.
TUESDAY, March 14.—Pfe-Law Club meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building; Patricians meeting, 8:00 p. m., LawBuilding; Concert Orchestra practice, 6:30 p. m., band room, Washington Hall; Debate: Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, at Lansing, Michigan, (affirmative team)
WEDNESDAY, March 15.—Lenten Services, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00, 7:45 p. m.
THURSDAY, ’March 16.—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law Building.
Four
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Tighe Woods
1. HE name of charity is sometimes used as an apology to force some sorry spectacle called an athletic exhibition on an unsuspecting and philanthropic public. The promoters of these so-called “sports extravaganzas” should come and see the charity boxing bouts at Notre Dame some time. We did not come away from the Bengal bouts feeling that we had witnessed eight of the most scientific displays of the art of fisticuff, but we did come away satisfied.
„ OW look what we’ve started! THE WEEK, all in good faith published a challenge, more to stimulate student interest in interhall basketball than anything else, and look what has happened. Sorin and Walsh are just about ready to break off diplomatic relations! Boys, boys, after all, the situation isn’t so serious that it calls for a barrage of nasty names to be hurled indiscriminately about the campus! And such names! Good gracious, what will the underclassmen think? And after they were so impressed on Washington’s birthday, too! Now be good little boys and confine those literary outbursts to your theses, or we might be forced to retaliate, and remember, mighty is the power of the press!
ITH reminiscences of the Prom still making the rounds of the campus, plans for the Senior Ball are beginning to assume proportions. A petition was circulated around the senior halls during the week advocating a ball for five dollars. Some reduction of the price of admission for the senior ball is absolutely necessary, but to reduce it to five dollars! Such a plan might be possible if as many attended the ball as went to the prom, but the same thing happens in the senior class every year: the loudest knockers don’t intend to go anyway! The seniors were faced with an economic crisis once before and rather than sacrifice the ball, they cut out the year book.
OST of those who saw the Wabash game Saturday night realized that they were watching the last home appearance of a fine athlete. Captain Johnny Baldwin, who has been trailed by ill-luck ever since he donned the green jersey of a freshman, has almost completed a very successful season. Johnny was to the basketball team what the guards and tackles are to a football team—he was a feeder. He will have only a fair chance of being picked for all-American honors because feeders do not show up so well in the box scores the next morning. But we on the campus know that he was an ideal captain to lead a great team.
I HE events of the last few days have brought the financial crisis home to a great number of students. We lead a rather sheltered existence here with no coal or light bills to pay and the assurance of three meals a day. But when those checks from home became mere scraps of paper, a few began to think. Even the economic majors are ginning to look puzzled. The only ones who refuse to be worried are the English majors. They sigh soulfully and say, “Ah,” for they know that great literature emerges from every world crisis.
V
HE death of Anton Cermak is a real blow to the city of Chicago. He was a man with ideals, but without illusions. Brought up in an atmosphere of political cigar smoke all his life, he knew what Chicago needed. Cermak’s methods were resented along the Gold Coast. They waved the flags and howled about the civic rights and democracy, but he realized where democratic principles had led his city, and went his own course. Some may whisper, “dictator,” but his name will go down with those other great reconstruction mayors, William Ogden, Joseph Medill, and Carter Harrison.
March 10, 1933
Five
NAME LEWIS HEAD OF ’33’34 N.D. MANAGERS
Associate Grid Managerships Go to Fisher, Mulvihill.
Clyde A. Lewis, of Wheeler, Ore., a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was named senior manager of football for next year at the annual
Clyde A. Lewis
Head of Student Managers.
managers’ banquet held last Sunday evening. Lewis, who is completing his third year as a manager, will succeed A. W. Wirry at the head of the organization of student athletic managers.
The associate football managerships went to Edward J. Fisher, of Utica, N. Y., and Edward J. Mulvihill, of Rockville Center, N. Y., both juniors in the College of Commerce. Fisher will be in charge of stadium personnel, and Mulvihill will handle field detail.
Charles F. Quinn, of Mineola, N. Y., was appointed manager of basketball for next season. Quinn is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. He will succeed Burton Shinners, present basketball manager.
The managerships of track and baseball w’ere given to John J. Hanley and Robert F. Kelley, respectively. Hanley, who lives in Medford, Mass., is an A. B. junior. Kelley, a junior in Commerce, lives in South Bend.
Fred R. Sullivan, of Cincinnati, received the seventh senior managership, that of minor sports. Sullivan’s duties will include all cross-country, tennis, and golf activities.
(Continued on Page 13)
Notre Dame Debate Team Meets Michigan State in Washington Hall Tonight
As announced last week, the University of Notre Dame negative team, composed of Max Baer and Roger Brennan will see its first action tonight when it meets the affirmative squad of Michigan State. This debate is to be held in Washington Hall at 8 o’clock, and the question to be argued is, “Resolved: that state and local revenues of Indiana and Michigan be derived to the extent of 50 per cent from sources other than tangible property.”
Brennan And Baer For N. D.
This question should be of timely interest to the student body, says Debating Director W. J. Coyne. During this time of financial distress, taxation is very much in the limelight, and everyone should be interested in theoretical or practical solutions to the problems at hand. Students of today will be the taxpayers of tomorrow. Brennan and Baer will argue tonight in favor of the present tax system without the addition of special taxes such as the sales tax, state income tax and others.
Debate Wednesday
Hugh Fitzgerald and William Kirby, as the men who “brook delay,” will uphold the affirmative for Notre Dame at East Lansing next Wednesday night.
The affirmative and negative teams engaged in a practice debate last Wednesday evening.
The spirit of delay so manifested throughout the nation today seems to have crept even into the field of forensic activity. Again at the request of the Michigan State College coach, J. D. Menchhofer, the debate scheduled for last Monday, March 6th has been postponed until Wednesday, March 15.
Notice!
A watch chain bearing three medals and initialed K. F. B. awaits its student owner at Flems, dry cleaners on North Michigan street. Unless called for shortly it will be sold.
There is more potential power for social reconstruction in Gandhi’s principle of non-violent aggression than in all the cannon and amunition, all the armies and navies in the world.— Rabbi Leon I. Feuer.
BENGAL SHOW DRAWS CROWD OF OVER 1,300
Receipts Total Slightly Over $330; Prizes Ready Soon.
Approximately 1,350 people watched the Bengal Boxers fight eight fast and captivating bouts last Friday evening in the Notre Dame gymnasium. Total receipts of the Show were slightly over $330, as compared to the $450 gate of last year.
Report Next Week
Exact figures on expenses and net receipts are not as yet computed because of the lack at present of definite data on a few future expenditures in the nature of hospital care, prizes etc., but a tabulated report will appear in next week’s issue of The Scholastic.
As The Scholastic announced a few weeks ago the champions of the various weight divisions will receive as their awards blue sweaters with boxing glove insignia topped off by small monograms. Runners-up will also be given jerseys with some sort of characteristic design.
Prize Policy
The prizes this year, while costing considerably more than those of last, can truly be said to have attracted the best boxing talent on the campus for the Bengal show. While the primary purpose of the tournament is to realize a profit for Indian mission work, The Scholastic felt this year that for the sake of the future of the sport itself at Notre Dame and for bigger and better Bengal Bouts, an attractive array of prizes was indispensable.
(For the story of the fights proper see page 22.
Byrd Protege to Teach
Istanbul, Turkey — Paul Siple, the American Boy Scout who accompanied Admiral Richard E. Byrd to Antartica, will take up his duties here next fall as instructor in English at Robert College, celebrated American school in this Bosporus city.
While on a tour of Europe last fall, Siple visited Robert College and became so interested in it that he applied for the job.
Siple was only 19 and a freshman at Allegheny College in Pennsylvania when Byrd picked him as the American Boy Scout to go to the south pole with him.
Six
The Scholastic
Religious Survey of N.D.
Students Out This Week
BASED ON 31-32 YEAR
Father O’Hara’s Questionnaire Gets Worthwhile Response; Out Tomorrow.
By Louis Hruby
The annual Religious Survey of the University of Notre Dame will be presented on the campus tomorrow. In its current form, it covers the religious activities of the students throughout the school year 1931-32. It is the twelfth report of its kind.
Father John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion, as usual, has compiled the various statistics that serve to make up the survey. They were obtained from the answers received on a questionnaire that was composed expressly for this purpose, and circulated among the students last year, to be answered at their discretion, and returned unsigned.
Fr. O’Hara Writes Preface
In a preface that must be recognized as the utterance of the sound judgment of which he speaks, Father O’Hara discusses religion in educational institutions. Commenting on state-supported schools he writes: “Our constitutional guarantee of liberty of conscience has taken the teacher of religion out of the state-supported class-room, but no check has been devised as yet to prevent the propagandist of atheism from destroyng the faith of his pupils.
“Catholic education, on the other hand, protected by the infallibility of the Church in faith and morals, has pursued its serene course, but has found itself more and more isolated in its role of spiritual guide and moral adviser of the young.”
“Survey” Classified
Defending religious education against the accusation that “it robbed the student of zeal for scholarship,” Father O’Hara said: “It has kindled their ambition, for it taught them to offer their work for the honor and glory of God.”
The contents of the Religious Survey are classified into two groups (Continued on Page 11)
SURVEYOR
Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C. “Catholic education. . . . -protected. . . . has pursued its serene course.”
Canisius College Has Famous Bible on Display
Buffalo, N. Y. — Canisius College here placed on display last week one of the few existing copies of the Koburger Bible, printed in several successive editions by Anthony Koburger of Nuremberg, Germany, in the closing years of the fifteenth century.
The Canisius copy dates from 1483, so 1933 marks its 450th birthday. It was in honor of this event that the college put it on display last week, along with some other treasures of its library.
The Bible was given to the college by Reverend William Turner, Bishop of Buffalo. It is printed in Gothic type on paper which will outlast other centuries. It has an embossed sheepskin binding. It is elaborately illustrated with wood cuts, being the first Bible which included illustrations on this scale. The coloring is done by hand, and time has scarcely dimmed it, according to experts.
Japan has been and always will be the mainstay of the peace, order and progress in the Far East.—Yosuke Matsuoka, League of Nations Delegate.
“HIE VAGABONDS” IS A ROMANTIC COMIC OPERA
Light Musical Hits Feature Freshman Presentation.
From the opening number, “Make it Four,” to the grand finale, “March, March, March,” the romantic comic opera, “The Vagabonds,” is filled with wholesome, snappy airs that soon the campus should be whistling. There is a freshness and novelty about the musical play that is sure to make it a hit.
Cast in this first musical production to be given by the University in approximately twenty years, is a group of eighteen Notre Dame singers, forming the nucleus of campus talent. This group, anxious to establish itself as a permanent organization of operatic players, is introducing a new element in the University entertainment program. As yet no name has been selected to designate the body.
Two Scenes
“The Vagabonds” written by Arthur A. Penn, is a colorful operetta in two scenes. The theme of the play centers about the mythical kingdom of Nonsenia. There is an exterior scene in a wooded abode characteristic of the vagrant, there is a king, a crown prince, a prime minister, and a band of vagabond troubadors, all contributing to a delightfully light and amusing plot. /
The King of Nonsenia is played by John Egan; Adolph, the Crown Prince, -and leading character of the show, is portrayed by John Ryan; Noetall, prime minister, is played by George Menard; the part of Furio, chief of the vagabonds, is taken by Robert Nesbit; Archibadli, son to Furio, is portrayed by William Casazza; Bal-likook, a chef in the king’s court, will be played by S. Jerome Roach; the parts of Bravado, Gruffo, and Graball, are taken by John Henry, Justin Tompkins, and Lindsay Phoebus, respectively.
List Of Participants
The chorus of vagabonds contains such campus personalities as Dan Rolfs, as Vaggo; Mark Finocchiaro, as Ruffo; and Ned Quinn, as Roberto; George Wenz, Maurice Quinn, Robert Butler, George Wolf, and Richard Shiels.
(Continued on Page 11)
*
March 10, 1933
Seven
“ABSURDITIES” TO BE
STAGED APRIL 27, 28
Joe Kurth To Direct Annual Monogram Revue.
The “Absurdities,” annual stage frolic of the Monogram club, will be staged in Washington hall on the evenings of April 27 and 28. Joe Kurth has been appointed director of the show which will present skits by several famed stage personages who have written exclusively for this year’s stage production.
Brown And Wynn Contribute
Short, rapid, little acts have been given to the club by Joe E. Brown and Ed Wynn. Other contributors include Carl Krusada of Fox Film Corporation, J. Ray Hunt, N. D. ’27, Joe McCabe and Dave Powers.
The sequence of the skits has been arranged in detail by Kurth who has also written a sizeable portion of material to be used as connecting links between the various acts.
Rehearsals, begun this week, are being held Tuesday and Thursday evenings, and Sunday mornings in Washington Hall. A complete list of the personnel of the show will appear shortly in The Scholastic.
Embargo on Gold Holds Up
Shipment on ’34 Class Pins
President Roosevelt’s embargo on all gold shipments between countries and the United States and between different states indirectly affected the junior class of Notre Dame.
The 1934 class pins, scheduled to arrive this week were necessarily detained in observance of the president’s orders. Joseph E. Condon, president of the junior class stated that the pins were expected to arrive in the early part of next week.
The new pin will be on sale in the rooms of Frank O’Hara, chairman of the committee, John Brennan, Hugh Devore, Cappy Smith, George Melin-kovitch, and Ray Troy. The prices of the pin are $15.50 and $15 for the white gold and yellow gold respectively. This price includes a ten percent tax imposed by the federal government. •
Doctor Theodore Holm, a leading authority on Arctic and Alpine flora, who died recently in Washington, D. C., willed his extensive botanical collection and library to the University of Louvain.
Comic Greek Play Will Be Presented Here Next Week
DIRECTOR
Joseph E. Kurth
This time it’s across the footlights.
Stutterers Make Good Writers Says Professor
New Orleans, La.—However speechless and embarrassed a stutterer may be when he is forced to speak to some one face to face, he is an entirely different person when alone at his desk with a pen in his hand. When given a chance to write instead of talk many stutterers assume virtually a Shakespearean power.
This fact about stutterers was revealed by Dr. John M. Fletcher, professor of psychology at Tulane University, who has received scores of letters in the last few years from stutterers all over the world, a surprising number of which show marked literary talent.
Dr. Fletcher, considered by many the world’s foremost authority on speech defects, and who is author of a book on stuttering, said this ability of the stutterer to write well is a “compensatory reaction” to his speech difficulty. He said that although this trait is not universal, many of his correspondents had confided to him their desire to write as a means of escape from their stuttering embarrassment.
The Tulane’s professor’s theory of the cause of stuttering is that it is not due to any physical defect, but that it is caused by a “supersensitiveness to social scrutiny.”
TWO PERFORMANCES
Five University Players Cast In Drama Written by
O’Malley, ’32.
By Mitchell C. Tackley
“Where There’s Women There’s Trouble,” the next production of the University Theater, is a Greek play, with Greek characters talking in the language of today. The play is in three acts and was written by an ex-student of Professor Phillips’ drama class, Charles Patrick O’Mal- -ley. The drama will be presented in Washington Hall next Friday and Saturday, March 17 and 18.
The action of the play takes place in the interior of a tent. The occasion of the plot is concerned with a battle betwixt the Greeks and Trojans following the abduction of Helen of Troy by Paris.
Tighe Woods As Achilles
Achilles, in whose tent the scene of action is laid, is a brave warrior fighting for his king and his people. The character will be portrayed by the versatile Tighe Woods of “Char-1 ley’s Aunt” fame. Briseis, slave girl and captive of Achilles, is played by Miss Charlotte Maurer, of South Bend.
The parts of Patroculus, friend of Achilles, and Ajax, -another soldier of war, are taken by John Finneran and -z James Boyle respectively. Both are / known about the campus for their acting ability.
Ulysses, “a short powerful soldier,” who is friend and adviser to Achilles, is played by Joseph McCabe. The character of Priapos, wounded soldier and servant to Achilles, goes to Thomas Stritch.
The play, under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, is a departure from the customary type of work undertaken by the University Players. The costumes used are of an ancient Greek nature. Not only is this play a student product, but also its production and direction is to be audited by the members of Professor Phillip’s class in “Dramatic Technique. Following the presentation of the drama, criticisms of the play from all points of view are to be submitted and used to best advantage.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
BULLETIN FOR SUMNER SESSION IS PUBLISHED
By Edward J. O’Brien
Don Martin attended the largest high school in Pittsburgh and there aspired to the baseball managership of the school team. He was denied this, however, and just to get even came to Notre Dame got himself the managership of the varsity nine here. Most of us realize that to become a senior manager at Notre Dame, a fellow must be a worker—steady and efficient.
Systematic
Manager Martin is about as efficient a manager as ever managed at this school. He goes about his work in a very systematic way and when he has completed a job, you can rest assured that its fits the specifications laid down for it. As a personality, Don is pleasant and his friends readily agree that he is at all times ready and willing to help a fellow no matter what the inconvenience to himself may be. He has a keen memory which a casual observer of character traits might overlook because of a certain abruptness which is peculiar to him.
Room 125 of Sorin is known to many Sorinites as the “club” room, despite the fact that it is directly opposite the ever-opened door of the rector’s office. Don Martin owns one-half of the said “club” room while Senior Track Manager Jack (Cagney) Kenney has a claim to the other half. The room mates have friends in common and among those usually in the room are Tony Pugliese, Football Manager Wirry, and Jimmy Gil-foil who happens around every now and then to contribute to a session.
Writes To Famous People
Being a Journalism major, Don is naturally interested in newspaper and publicity work. After graduation, he intends to work in either of these two fields. He is justifiably proud of his collection of letters from famous journalists such as Arthur Brisbane, Arch Ward, and O. O. McIntyre in answer to queries he had sent them.
Besides his actvities as a manager, Martin is also president of the Pittsburgh Club. His knowledge of arranging. trips, acquired while a manager, was evidenced this year in the way he handled the arrangements for special trains to take the Pittsburghers home for the Notre Dame-Pitt football game and for Christmas.
As Recording Secretary of the President’s Council, it is his duty to assign the time and place for the meetings of all campus clubs.
Don Martin
Gets dreamy at times.
Don’s" other interests are varied. When in Pittsburgh, he never misses a Pirate baseball game. . . he says the Pirates will be next year’s pennant winners.
In the Spring and Fall he may be seen on the golf course, swinging a club at a ball . . . and sometimes connecting ... he calls it golf “of a sort.” “Roses and Drums” and other light-opera programs are his favorites on the radio ... he goes dreamy over Irish music and Mary . . . listens carefully to Richard Crooks the tenor. Room-mate “Cagney” Kenney says he is a kleptomaniac where apples are concerned. . . . . Martin eats at least one daily and that one is frequently Kenney’s . . . . maybe the apples produce his ruddy cheeks and account for the nickname “Pinky” which the lads have been known to call him.
An imperfect soul, seeing what is good and great- and true, but very often failing in the attempt to attain it, is apt to be very harsh in its judgment on the shortcomings of others. But a divine and sovereign ■ soul—a soul that has more nearly attained to the measure of the perfect man—takes a calmer and gentler, because a larger hearted, view of those little weaknesses and indirectnesses which it cannot but daily see—Farrar
15 th Annual Summer School To Open June 20th.
Detailed information of courses to be offered next summer to all students is contained in the University of Notre Dame 1933 Summer Session Bulletin published this week. This session, the 15th of its kind in number will open on Tuesday, Jun 20, and will continue for six weeks to Wednesday, August 2. Registration is to be Monday, June 19.
AU Departments Open
Courses, graduate and undergraduate, -will be offered by all departments in the College of Arts and Letters and by all departments in the College of Science except that of Pharmacy.-A few courses will be obtainable in the Colleges of Law, Engineering and Commerce.
Specifically, courses in art, biology, chemistry, economics, education, English, French, German, history, journalism, Latin, law, mathematics, mechanical drawing, music, philosophy, physics, physiology, politics, psychology, religion, sociology, Spanish, speech, zoology, and library science will be taught in this summer session, and a staff of nearly 100 professors and instructors, including 12 visiting teachers, will be on hand to direct class activities. A nine day course in Boy Guidance will be taught from July 6 to July 14.
Three Groups Taught
According to the Bulletin the summer session is designed to meet the needs of three groups: Undergraduates who desire to secure extra credits or make up deficiencies; teachers' in private or public schools who wish to prepare themselves better for their work or to secure a higher rating from state certification bodies; persons holding bachelor degrees who wish to secure an advanced degree in arts and letters or in science. Admission requirements, expenses, conduct of work, and general information of interest and importance is also included within the 128 pages of the Bulletin. In the front is a groundplan of the University, followed by Cardinal Newman’s statement of the purpose of education.
Last summer 763 students were enrolled in the University summer session.
March 10, 1933
Nine
POSTPONE BANQUET OF SENIORS INDEFINITELY
VOICE OF THE CAMPUS
Will Probably Be Held Some Time After Easter.
All letters to the Voice of the Campus must be addressed to the Editor of The Scholastic, 119 Sorin Hall. Names must be signed in full. Initials will be used upon request.
The banquet which officers of the Senior class had planned for the evening of March 16 has been indefinitely postponed, according to Francis Werner, ’33, president.
Cause of the action, of course, is the financial stress of the day and the insolvent condition of countless seniors.
Pending the expected upturn, the affair will probably be held in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall, some time after Easter.
Reserve Officers Club Hold Second Meeting Tuesday Eve.
The recently organized Reserve Officers’ club of Notre Dame University met for the second time Tuesday evening, March 7, in the Commerce Building. The conditions for membership in the organization as laid down in the constitution of the club include those men who hold commissions in the United States Reserve Corps, graduates of military schools who are interested in obtaining their commissions, men who have had at least three years training at Citizens Military Training Camps, and those men who are taking Army Extension Courses.
The constitution as read by H. H. May, chairman of the meeting, is under consideration and will be voted upon at the next meeting of the organization Thursday, March 16, in room 101 Commerce Building, at 7:45. Election of officers is scheduled to take place at this meeting.
Plans were made for rifle and fencing teams which are to represent the University in intercollegiate competition. Anyone proficient in either of these activities is eligible for the team. Participation in these activities is not limited to members of the club.
The Zionist organization in this country has adopted a resolution, calling for the establishment of a permanent commission on education to formulate an educational program of study and activity, conceived in the light of the Palestine development.
WRITE THE CONGRESSMAN
Dear Scholastic:
This problem has given rise to considerable discussion. No one in Sorin was able to give a solution. Some wanted the question submitted to the Notre Dame Latoyer, others favored the Juggler, others were for sending it on to Emily Post. Scrip, of course, was voted out. The majority, however favored the Scholastic as being both representative of serious thought around here and champion of desperate difficulties.
The point is: Miss Frances Perkins is Secretary of Labor in the cabinet of renewed hope. When the President addresses the cabinet should he say in the traditional manner, “Gentlemen of the Cabinet" which would leave out Miss Perkins, or should he say “Gentlemen and Miss Perkins” which would seem to imply that Miss Perkins is merely an outsider or, —well, that’s what we want to know.
Sorin Sub.
MISSIONARY
The Editor,
N. D. Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:
Though I address the Editor I do wish the contents of this note to be made known to all of the Staff and to all others,, friends, who cooperated in “putting over” the Boxing Bouts for Bengal.
I am sure that Father Mathis, the Director of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society, will express appreciation and gratitude in his own inimitable way and this little note of deep thankfulness must in no way anticipate that proper expression of heartfelt thanks.
It was a real pleasure for me to be present at the Boxing Show Friday evening. In moments of rest when my thoughts were not held by the action before me, my mind traveled quickly to Bengal. Discounting the entertainment of the bouts themselves it would have been genuinely encouraging to our missionaries had they
been present. The genuine fervor of the contestants as well as the spirited “backing” of the well-represented student body would have been for them, as it was for me, eloquent proofs for the active mission spirit of the men at Notre Dame. Not that there is doubt of the existence of such mission spirit, but who is there among us that does not welcome confirmation of his trust? And in the hearts of our missionaries in Bengal, in the priests and brothers of Holy Cross in Dacca Diocese, there is trust and love for Notre Dame and the men of Notre Dame, trust so firm and love so strong that tropic heats cannot wither nor worldwide distance dim.
I express my own and, as far as I am able to represent the missionaries, their own unstinted admiration and sincere gratitude to everyone who helped, little or much, to make the Boxing Show a success. And I pray God to bless you all for such thoughtfulness of His Missions and missionaries.
. Gratefully,
Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C.,
Assistant Director,
Holy Cro.ss Foreign Mission Society.
Preregistration for A. B.
Students to Begin Soon
Preregistration for all students in the College of Arts and Letters for the fall term will be held from April 19 to May 19 inclusively. The announcement was made this week by the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College.
In order that this work be done properly, the student is advised to give considerable time to the choice of the elective subjects. A list of these will be published in the near, future and placed at the office of the dean for distribution.
Sophomores should make it .a point to consult with the dean or the head of the department in which he expects to major. A more detailed statement of regulations concerning preregistration will be released shortly by the office of the Director of Studies. ...
Ten
The Scholastic
SOCIOLOGY STUDENTS HEAR ER. M’ALLISTER
Human Heredity is Subject of Interesting Lecture.
By Edward Mansfield
“Human Heredity as Seen by the Biologist” was the topic of a lecture by the Reverend Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., to a large group of junior and senior sociologists Wednesday night, March 8.
“By exceptionally good environment, the offspring of average parents can be raised considerably above its hereditary level, and, similarly, the offspring can, by exceptionally poor environment, be considerably lowered beneath its hereditary level,” Father McAllister stated in part in the second division of his lecture, dealing with environment and heredity.
Environmental Influence
“No heredity can exist, much less develop, outside of an environment, and every environment leaves its mark on every hereditary trait. . . . One cannot exist without the other.
“It is much easier to affect environment than heredity, so for you as sociologists, or teachers, environment will always be the more practical, hence the more important phase to consider,” the lecturer concluded.
The background for these statements was carefully formed by Father McAllister in the first section of his discussion when he explained the mechanism of the gene, including the definition of the gene, the genetic system and how it operates, likeness and unlikeness of parent and offspring, unit characters, and why they behave as units.
Genes And Characters
“A gene is a hereditary germinal factor which, either alone or in combination with other factors, produces a single character,” he explained in his introduction, later bringing out that a unit character was a parental feature, such as a mother’s fine eyes or a father’s large hands, transferred as a unit to the offspring. .
“The cell is composed of a mass of jelly-like material called cytoplasm, in which is imbedded the nucleus, in long bead-like strings called chromosomes, divided into pieces. The par-• tides into which the chromosomes are i divided, spoken of as chromomeres, probably show the paired consecutive
PAIRINGS ANNOUNCED FOR FIRST ROUND OF HANDBALL SINGLES.
By Al McGuff
The Singles matches in the University Handball Tournament started Wednesday, March 8, and the last day for competition in the first round is Monday, March 13.
Rules governing the singles are the same as those used in the doubles. All scores must be made to McGuff immediately after games have been been finished.
When the last three men have been placed in the finals a round robin will be held. Each man will play each of the others five games; not the best out of five, but five full games. The man having the greatest number of wins in the fifteen games will be the champion.
First Round Pairings
The pairings for the first round:
E. Massamine vs. Shields, L. Beau-laurier vs. B. Tourney, Jaskwhich vs. Giorgio, J. Jordan vs. R. Lyons, J. Oitzinger vs. Schaffner, Canale vs. T. Grady, B. Devine vs. A. Smith, J. Begley vs. N. Lukats, Kozak vs. Fredericks, Neubeaur vs B. Smullen, H. Jeffers vs. D. O’Keefe, Annas vs. 'Morrissey, Cushing vs. Messina, Bell vs. D. Hanley, Palmisani vs. D. Allen, Gru vs. Levins, V. Fehlig vs. Mahoney, Dwyer vs. S. Banas, Daignault vs. McGuff, Jacobs vs. Murphy, E. Young vs. LaBome, Bowes vs, Em-merlin.
arrangement of the genes,” Father McAllister continued regarding the genetic system.
“Each gene has a definite work to do in producing the new individual,” the lecturer said, “so destruction or change of a gene would show corresponding change in the individual produced.”
Parents And Offspring
After an explanation of likeness and unlikeness of parents and offspring, describing in detail the operation of the pairs of genes received from the parents when dominant, when recessive, when normal and when defective, Father McAllister brought out that it is possible for superior parents to produce inferior offspring, and vice versa.
“The essential point for us to bear in mind is - that an interaction of
•’ (Continued on Page 11)	'
FURTHER “DONE” PLANS ANNOUNCED BY EDITOR
Snapshot Contest in Full Sway; Sports Section Improved.
During the last two weeks division pages for the Dome have been selected and completed. They are of a unique design, and clearly portraay the subject each introduces.
Written work is being handled carefully and concisely, because it is understood that script as well as photography makes an interesting yearbook.
Clubs Have Week To Pay
All clubs who wish to have their picture in the club section must pay the required fee for admission not later than the first of next week. Failure to do so will result in that club’s withdrawal from the section.
Perhaps the most radical change in the annual is in the sports section. ’ The several editors have worked out a characteristic design. Action pictures and superimposed numerals complete a well made up page.
The snapshot editor announces that he has received a number of snapshots, but that it is not up to the amount expected. The contest is still open to all, and it is hoped that there will be many more submitted in the near future. Winners will be announced in The Scholastic as soon as the contest closes, and that date has not been set as yet.
Work Progressing -
According to the editor, Arthur A. Sandusky, work on the yearbook is rapidly progressing into its final stages and the Dome offices are fairly “humming with activity.” During the last week the staff was visited by representatives from two engraving companies engaged in working on the annual. Something new and distinctive in the layout for the senior panels or pictures will be featured in this year’s Dome.	.
The lists of senior graduates was obtained early this, week from Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, and the panels prepared from these lists are to be in the hands of the engravers on Monday, March 13th.
All written work must be in by Wednesday, March 15th. Indications are that this copy will be in completely and satisfactorily at that time, says the editor.
March 10, 1933
Eleven
FITZSIMON AND POREDON
ADDRESS CHEMISTS CLUB
Plans For Keys Completed; Several Talks Given.
Final arrangements for club keys were made at the monthly meeting of the Chemists Club last Monday evening, March 6, in Chemistry Hall. After the business meeting, several talks by club members were given.
The first speaker, Robert Fitz- V simon discussed, “The Manufacture of Soap.” Starting with the raw material stage, a complete description of the manufacture of boiled and cold soaps was given, including a discussion on plant layout.
Place Of Chemical Engineer
John Poredon was the second , speaker of the evening. In a very interesting manner, he described the the position and qualifications of a chemical engineer in the industrial ■ world of today. Poredon stated that ' “the Chemical Engineer fills the gap between the chemist and chemical engineer. r He must have a thorough knowledge of chemistry and a complete understanding of the construction and operation of plant apparatus.”
The meeting was brought to a close with a final discussion by John Kroe- 7 ger on Silica Gels. He clearly explained the peculiar structure of the gels which gives them their absorptive properties. The application of gels as drying agents, carriers for catalysis, absorberts in refrigeration, etc., was stressed by the speaker.
THE “VAGABONDS”
(Continued from Page 6)
Highlights of the operetta include the singing of the “Apple Pie Song” by Ballikook Roach, solos by Vagabond-Chief Nesbit and Prime Minister Menard, the wit of Archibald! Casazza, and Crown Prince Ryan’s inimitable rendition of “If Every Man Were A Prince.”
The entire show, sponsored by the freshman class, is under the co-direc-tion of Professor Casasanta and Father Charles McAllister. A special orchestra of twelve pieces will play the music for the show. The dates of production are March 29, 30, and' 31. A fee of twenty-five cents will be charged: profits going to Bengal.
NOTRE DAME THUNDER MAKES UNIVERSAL’S STORM SCENES.
“The Voice of the Film” by Jerry Lane in this week’s Saturday Evening Post tells an interesting story of how sounds are caught or manufactured for the talkies. Thunder, it seems, is a very difficult problem for the studio technicians, hence the credit given to an alert sound recorder who “scooped” a thunder storm here at Notre Dame. Says Jerry Lane:
Universal, however, has genuine peals that, so far, are among the best in any library stock. It was through a singular chance that they came by their thunder. A sound unit had been sent back to Indiana for The Spirit of Notre Dame, and while the recorder was in the stadium one afternoon, he saw heavy-black clouds bearing down on him. He started up his equipment quickly—here was the opportunity he’d been anticipating.
There is a friendly but none the less keenly competitive" spirit among the sound staffs of the studios, and if he could steal some good thunder it would mean points ahead for Universal. As the reverberations came closer, he put on his head phones to listen to what the mike was picking up. An instant later he had thrown them off and was staggering half unconscious toward a bench. Lightning had struck a tree a block away.
The roar that followed was so deafening it seemed as if his eardrums had been split. And he was certain his apparatus had been ruined. But when the negative was developed, there was all the clash and the beating of a thousand drums imprisoned in film. By making fresh prints of it. Universal will have sufficient thunder for years to come.
They ean double it up or get any combination of peals and claps and rumbles that they want by cutting the prints and splicing the pieces together. Part of this thunder was dubbed in for The Old Dark House and they put the patter of rain under it.
FR. MC ALLISTER TALKS
(Continued from Page 10)
thousands of genes takes place in producing even a single feature or characteristic,” he stated.
Following his discussion of unit characters and their transmission, Father McAllister proceeded with the second division of his talk, considering the relations of heredity and en-- vironment after the basic biological explanations were completed.
Questions were welcomed at the conclusion of the formal lecture, and considerable interest was shown in the resulting discussion.
FR. O’HARA PUBLISHES ’33 RELIGIOUS SURVEY
(Continued from Page 6)
based on the devotion to the Blessed Sacrament. The answers received from the students were divided into those classed either as frequent communicants or infrenquent communicants. The substantial difference in the answers in these two classes is, for the most part, noticeable.
The pride that Notre Dame rightfully exhibits in its enviable record of daily Communions is borne out by the facts that appear in the first chapter of the Survey. The results obtained from this devotional practice, in most instances, were reported by the students as beneficial and instrumental in exciting increased fervor in their Catholic faith.
Other Diversions
Spiritual Guidance, treated in its general aspect, relative to the activities in that regard on the campus, forms another major division in the Bulletin. It presents interesting opinions and thoughts on all religious activity, such as attendance at, and benefit derived from the missions, constructive value of sermons, thoughts of a religious vocation, and the topic of spiritual reading.
Home and School Influences, Charity, and Present Attitudes and Future Prospects are the titles of the remaining principal divisions in the survey. They are significant from, the standpoint of the candor with which the answers were submitted, and should prove intensely interesting to readers of the Survey.
The Twelfth Edition of the Relig-ious Survey will be ready for distribution tomorrow. Wrappers for mailing will be found in the Dillon pamphlet room.
We Can’t Keep Up With Primitive Man is Claim
Leonard Outhwaite, ethnologist and author, says that primitive men and races are disappearing faster than scientists can study them and that, unless organized plans are set in motion at once, many chapters in the history of mankind will forever remain unwritten.
Twelve
The Scholastic
SPECTATORS REQUEST BAN ON ALL PUBLICITY
ITALIANS HOLD MEETING TALK MUSSOLINI, LA PLANS FOR SKIT.
ARMSTRONG HONE FROM SWING THROUGH EAST
Ask ‘Scholastic’ to Discontinue Reviews of Meetings.
Inexplicable and occult was the demand made by a committee of Spectators who visited the offices of The Scholastic early this week. The demand, however, was sharp, unqualified: not another line of publicity does their organization want in The Scholastic for the remainder of this year.
Mystery Men
When asked if they were dissatisfied with the past reviews of their weekly meetings, the committee replied that, on the contrary, they were well pleased with them. Questioned as to the possible existence of any personal animosities between the Spectators and The Scholastic staff, the committee stated decisively that as far as they know only the most harmonious of relations are in evidence.
No further interrogations would the committee hear as they walked silently out of the office, heads high, point won.
“Scholastic” Helpless
For years one of the campus’ most active and able clubs, the Spectators have now pulled their heads into their hoods and care not what a troubled world thinks about them. The Scholastic will make every attempt to discover some reason for this unprecedented action, but it feels that its most capable reporters will be helpless in probing a thing so deep, so baffling.
Harvard to Honor Eliot
■ A movement for a permanent memorial to President Charles W. Eliot of Harvard in the form of a bridge over the Charles River at Cambridge, Mass., is revealed in a letter written to the Harvard Alumni Bulletin by officers of the Metropolitan Improvement Association.
The warm winters in the northern states and in Canada the past few years are not the result of a changing Gulf Stream. This was ascertained by a British expedition which made the first check on the position of the Gulf Stream since 1911. It has not moved from its 1911 course, the expedition found.
The Italian Club held an important meeting last Tuesday evening, March 7, in Room 2 of the Main Building. A financial report was made by Leon- p-ard Cacciatore, club treasurer, and showed 34 members to be in good standing. These men are eligible to vote in the annual club elections to be held in May.
Although 12 candidates answered the call for a basketball team, final plans had to be dropped because of the club’s inability to secure a practice court. Plans for a one-act play to be presented before the club members within a few weeks were discussed and members of the cast will be supplied with parts at the next regular meeting. Professor Pasquale." Pirchio, faculty adviser of the organization, will supervise the production of the skit.
More Mussolini
Following this, a paper entitled, “Mussolini and Technocracy” was read by Vincent Narisi, a sophomore in the College of Commerce. “Mussolini does not favor Technocracy,” stated Narisi, “nor, on the other hand, does he absolutely disapprove of the plan. Il Duce considers “Man” as master of machines, and that at ’ no time should man be placed subordinate to his creation. He admits that he is a firm supporter of technological progress, but warns that man must be supreme.”
The speaker concluded by summing up Mussolini’s viewpoint on the popular current subject, stating that Technocracy is a failure if it tries to displace the statesman. In the absence Lof President Jerome Ferrara, Andrew Maffei presided and called a special meeting for the club next Tuesday evening, March 14, at 6:30 p. m. in the same room.
Bring Wives to Class
Cleveland, Ohio.—Ten married men in a Fenn College public speaking class asked to be allowed to bring their wives to class—at “one fare and a half” the couple.
Said Dean Paul R. Anders: “Any married man who has the courage to train his wife to’ speak even more fluently than she does now should be congratulated. Your studies must have given you unusual self-confidence, and you deserve a reward. Bring your wives along.”
Tells Results of Visits to Clubs, High Schools.
James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary of the University, has just completed a tour of twenty high schools and fifteen Notre Dame Alumni Clubs in the cities of Cincinnati, Dayton, Columbus, Youngstown, Akron, and Cleveland, Ohio; Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Albany, and New York City, New York; Newark, New Jersey; Washington, D. C.; Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Want To Attend N. D.
Mr. Armstrong reports that in spite of the depression hundreds of boys have expressed a keen desire to attend the University, and will do so if circumstances permit. “In preparatory schools, it was found that the late Knute Rockne was a well-known and popular idol of both pupils and superiors,” stated the Alumni Secretary.
Father John F. O’Hara, through his Religious Bulletin and Survey, forms an active contact with these schools and the alumni. His Bulletins are found in most of the school ■ libraries and are enthusiastically read by the students.
Alumni Interested
The Alumni Clubs visited by Secretary Armstrong displayed a marked interest in the progress which has been made in the organization of the campus geographical clubs and expressed a desire and willingness to co- operate with the undergraduates in every possible manner.
The Mid-West district meeting of the American Alumni Council at the University of Cincinnati and the meeting of the Executive Committee of the same organization in Buffalo, at which plans were discussed for the national convention of the Council to be held June 26, 27, and 28, in Chicago, were attended by Mr. Armstrong on his eastern trip.
Notice Philosophy Majors!
All senior students majoring in Philosophy are requested to meet with the head of the Department on Sunday morning, March 12 at 11:00 o’clock in the Latin room of the Law Building. Important announcements will be made at this meeting.
March 10, 1933
Thirteen
LATE SENATOR WALSH VISITED N.D. IN 1914
Presented Sword of General Meagher to University.
Newspaper accounts of the recent death of Senator Thomas J. Walsh of 1 Montana recall a time he visited Notre Dame. His visit was on March 4, 1914.
Senator Walsh had come to Notre Dame to present the sword of General Thomas F. Meagher to the University. The presentation was made in Washington Hall and the sword was accepted by the Reverend John Cav- ' anaugh, C.S.C., then the president of the University. Senator Walsh with his characteristic oratory gave a short history of General Meagher who fought for Ireland and for the Union in the Civil War.
Introduced By Sullivan
The Honorable Roger C. Sullivan > introduced Senator Walsh and in the course of the introduction said this about him: “Because of these memories of Notre Dame and the Irish Brigade, fittingly does tonight’s ceremony command itself and fittingly does the presentation come through one of our Nation’s distinguished sons, a man of honor among his fellowmen; a man who serves his country’s cause in peace as faithfully as did Meagher in the war, the Honor- y able Thomas J Walsh, United States Senator from Montana:”
LEWIS NAMED MANAGER
(Continued from Page 5)
Seven members of the present sophomore managerial corps were retained to serve as junior managers. The group includes Frank I. Broeman, George T. Demetrio, Raymond B. Keating, Philip H. Kirley, William R. Oakes, Thomas W. Thompson, and Carl W. Weber.
In addition to those men, three sophomores were named alternate junior managers for next year. The three selected are John A. McElligott, Thomas J. Walsh, and James J. Coll.
The appointments were announced by J. Arthur Haley, Business Manager of Athletics. Senior manager Wirry acted as toastmaster at the banquet. The speakers included J. Arthur Haley, Coach Heartly Anderson, Reverend P. H. Dolan, C.S.C., and each of the retiring senior managers.
‘‘COMMONWEAL” GIVES WOD ADVICE TO ALL YOUNG CATHOLICS
A portion of a communication from John A. Curran, published in the current issue of the Commonweal, contains suggestions that, with little alteration, college students might well take to heart:
“I do not wish to preach a sermon, yet the truth, preached from our altars, contains a great deal of material as well as spiritual aid. For the number of young and middle-aged men idle, there are all too few at the daily Masses. They will approve Catholic Action and do nothing about it, except to talk aimlessly on sports politics and their hard luck. A visit to ' the Blessed Sacrament is more than just an act of devotion, for the pagan sees us enter a Catholic church and he realizes that it is a living force. The outcome is an article in Harpers, the Forum, Atlantic Monthly, that will have some influence on our leaders. The politician, with his ear to the ground and an eye for votes, becomes aware of the trend, and laws for social justice, instead of birth control, will more easily find favor. Each individual can do a great deal without waving the red flag. We talk politics, but how many of us write our Congress members to influence them? We worry about our idleness and its effects on our personality and character, when we can be busy from morning till night and be comparatively happy. If getting a regular job seems hopeless, at least we can help mother with the dishes, offer to barter chores for a violin we want, cultivate that talent for drawing, read those good books we have been meaning to read, volunteer our services for social relief, make that novena, and hundred of other things.”
Irish Elections Recall
Interesting Historical Fact
The recent elections in Ireland recall an interesting fact concerning the famous Clare election of 1828. Daniel O’Connell, the Irish Emancipator, stood for Clare and had as his staunch supporter Steele who was a Protestant. Steele had one of the rooms in his home fitted up as a chapel where O’Connell could attend Mass on the occasion of. his frequent visits. The altar stone was one of the “Mass Rocks” of persecution days which Steele had brought from a nearby wood.
Discovery has been made near Oaxaca City, Mexico, of the grave of a little girl who lived 1,000 years ago. In the grave with her are her toys. These included a red tiger with a ruffled collar, a real-looking figure of a baby, a red owl whistle which still toots, and an animal-shaped vessel with a human head. All were made of clay.
REV. PHILIP HOORE, C.S.C.
ADDED TO A.B. FACULTY
Holy Cross Priest Will Teach In Philosophy Dept.
The Reverend Philip Moore, C.S.C., a graduate of the class of 1924, has been added to the faculty of the Department of Philosophy, according to Father Miltner, head of the department and dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Father Moore will assume his duties in September.
Father Moore has recently passed with highest honors his examination for an advanced degree in Paleo-garphy at the Ecole Nationale Des Chartes, Paris. The title of his dissertation is “Les Oeuvres De Pierre Des Portiers.”
After his graduation from Notre Dame, Father Moore spent four years at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., in the study of Theology. He also spent a year in teaching at the Catholic University. Following this, he went to France where he has been studying since. '
Father Moore will direct Philosophy work in the graduate field at Notre Dame.
Move is Made to Disband N. Y. U. Daily Newspaper
New York City. — The faculty of New York University has recommended that the staff of the New York University Daily Netvs should be removed from their jobs and that the newspaper should be suspended.
This action was taken by the faculty as a result of the publication of an editorial in the News charging that sufficient medical care had not been given Eli Kleinfield, an injured member of the university boxing team.
Sidney Friedberg, editor, charged that the faculty had acted unfairly in that it had been without the services of its faculty advisor—who had resigned—at the faculty meeting considering the move.
The faculty’s recommendation was made to the student senate.
The last year and a half has been a tempestuous one for the staffs of college papers in New York City. Last year the Columbia Spectator drew the wrath of the administration for its attack on the university’s football tactics.
The Scholastic
Fourteen	' 
In 1868 N.D. Men Went Wild Over A Velocipede
By William Kennedy
They “weren’t no slouches” round this neck o’ the woods in the late sixties. Not by a long shot. What if it was 1S6S ? What if the University was only 26 years old? What if Indiana was comparatively vacant territory? The boys out on the lakes were modem in every sense of the word, and when that velocipede arrived from Paris, they just set to it and in no time at all had the thing under control.
It’s a simple story, this velocipede thing, but it shows that the collegians of the nineteenth century were not adverse to cutting up a bit upon occasion. They very seldom managed to get to town in those days, so they had to content themselves, whenever they felt so inclined, with painting the campus red.
All The Way From Paris
Father Sorin probably realized this, for when he reached Paris after one of his Atlantic crossings, he had something shipped back to Indiana that he figured might curb, temporarily at least, the activities of the more devil-may-dare students. It was the velocipede. And did they make the most of their latest speed contraption! One might almost say they went to town on it. The day following its rather frenzied reception here a student from Iowa landed in the neigh-
Dress Rules For Men Are Next In Line
New York City.—American women may be the best dressed in the world, but even they do not, in the majority know how to dress well in the opinion of Professor Lillian H. Locke, in- . structor in the department of household arts at Teachers College, Columbia University.
Five rules to follow in selecting clothes are listed by Professor Locke:
Avoid repetition of color lines; avoid clashing opposites of color or lines; try for transition of colors; subordinate the entire costume to the central color note; try for symmetry of lines.
borhood. He was asked if he could ride a horse, and of course, he replied emphatically in the affirmative. When they led him to the velocipede and urged him to “start riding,” he violently protested and pulled away, asserting that “they couldn’t fool him, with a wheelbarrer.” He conceded, however, that it would save him carfare when he went home, and spent the next several days trying to buy one like it. “Goofing” isn’t a new pastime, by any means.
“Scholastic” Report
The Scholastic reporter assigned to cover this phenomenon sent in the following story, typical of the school journalism of the day:
“The velocipede sent from Paris to the students of Notre Dame, by Very Rev. Father Sorin, is doing wonders of more than one kind, and it is hard to believe how many are the ways whereby a rider can alight from the capricious machine. A marked progress was made yesterday by some of the more persistent riders, and a distance of two hundred feet quickly gone over amid the cheers and hurras of the hundreds standing by. A gold prize of some value will be awarded to the best rider as soon as a good track is laid out for a race. Another velocipede of American manufacture should at once be procured.”
Rat and Mouse Market Falls Off Considerably
New York City. — The bottom has dropped out of the white mice market. Likewise the white rat market
This appalling situation is the result of curtailed funds for research work by universities and pharmaceutical companies.
A year or so ago a healthy.blonde mouse brought as high as 35 cents. Today he can be bought for from 8 to 15 cents. The price of white rats has dropped similarly.
Only the super-mice and super-rats bring the old prices. They sell for as high as 50 cents.
PREREGISTRATION DATA ISSUED BY FR. CARRICO
Letters Sent to Students Today By Director of Studies.
The following bulletin concerning preregistration was issued from the office of the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, Director of Studies, this morning:
Any undergraduate student now enrolled in the University who wishes to continue his course at Notre Dame in the first semester of next schoolyear must preregister for attendance, according to the instructions given below. The students now at the University receive first consideration in the enrollment and in the choice of rooms in the residence halls for next year, provided they express, in the manner and within the time here prescribed, their intention of returning to Notre Dame in September.
Preregistration Fee, Five Dollars
The student now in attendance who wants a place in the University in the first semester of 1933-34 must, as a guarantee of good faith, make at some time within the month of April a preregistration deposit of $5 with the Registrar. The receipt for this deposit, given by the Registrar, will admit the student to assignment of courses for the first semester of next year. The assignment of students to courses, by the deans of the colleges, will begin on the 19th of April and will end on the 19th of May.
The deposit for preregistration will be credited on the student’s account for the first semester of next year. In case the student who has preregistered does not come to school in September the deposit is retained by the University to cover the clerical expense involved in his preregistration.
Gives Place In Room Drawing
The deposit for preregistration and the preregistration for courses will admit the student to the drawing for rooms in the residence halls, at the close of the period for preregistration Sorin, Corby, and Walsh Halls are reserved for seniors; Howard, Badin, and Alumni for juniors; and St. Edward’s, Lyons and Morrissey for sophomores.
For the present student who fails to make the preregistration deposit
(Continued on Page 15)
March 10, 1933
PROM RECEIPTS TURNED OVER TO BENGAL FUND
$155.50 Realized On Junior Class Frolic.
_______________________________________Fifteen
Aquinas' Life A History Of True Medieval Thought
By William B. Dreux
The Notre Dame Bengal Mission fund was augmented by §155.50 this week as a result of the profits realized on the 1933 junior prom. The prom, held two weeks ago, was attended by more than 320 couples.
Financially, and according to attendance, the junior prom and dinner dance this year were attended by the largest number of students ever to turn out for a social function. The combined fees for the prom and dinner dance amounted to eight dollars per couple.
President Joseph E. Condon and Chairman John J. Hoban, who were in charge of the dance are to be complimented for their efficiency as well as charitable gesture evidenced from the results of the junior frolic.
PREREGISTRATION
(Continued from Page 14)
within the month of April or to preregister with his dean for courses be-for the 20th of May there will be a fee of §10 for registration, payable in advance of the registration. There will be (in addition) the usual fee of §5 for late registration in September and in February.
50 Years Ago
March 10,1883—That mustache cup '	daily becomes more and more useful.
; 'John W. says he will soon be ready to be presented with one.
Depression Hits Schools
The Federal Office of Education in Washington reports, after a study of the matter, that Education in the United States has suffered more from the depression than it has in many of the foreign countries. France seems to have curtailed its educational facilities very little as a result of the hard times, the report shows.
The harnessing of the energy locked up in the atom is still a long way off, - and probably .will not come from present methods of experimentation, according to Dr. Amo Brasch of the University of Berlin.
St. Thomas Aquinas, the most commanding figure in the history of medieval thought, died at Fossa Nu-ova, Italy, on March 7, 1274. His feast is celebrated on March 7, and, in his honor, all philosophy classes at Notre Dame are suspended for that day.
He was born in 1225, the son of the Count of Aquino, who was related to the royal house of Aragon and France. He was educated at the monastery of Monte Casino, and from there he went to the University of Naples. At that time the University was dominated by Frederick II who was hostile to the Church. Contemporary chroniclers tell us that the city was sadly contaminated by ir-religion and vice. But St. Thomas remained aloof from all this gaiety and licentiousness and devoted his time to intensive study.
Enters O. S. D.
In 1243 he entered the Order of St. Dominic despite the determined opposition of his parents. His mother, hoping that her son would have a brilliant career in the world, did all within her power to prevent his joining the Order and even went so far as to have him imprisoned. But St. Thomas made his escape, and having finally convinced his relatives that their opposition was futile he fulfilled his intention.
St. Thomas travelled to Cologne where he became a pupil of the Dominican philosopher, Albert the Great. Albert soon realized that in his new pupil he had an extraordinary student, and he took great pains to make the education of St. Thomas as thorough as possible.
Starts Philosophical Writing
After St. Thomas became master of sacred science his fame spread throughout Europe, so brilliant and lucid was his teaching. He taught successively at Rome, Bologna, Viterbo, Perugia, and Naples.
Meanwhile he was busy with his philosophical writing, notably his Summa contra Gentiles and the Summa Theologica. Both in his lectures and his writings St. Thomas strove, first, to defend the truth against attacks, and, secondly, to build up a system of theology and philosophy.
He had great skill as an apologist, and is perhaps unexcelled as a constructive thinker. The fact that the Scholastic system of philosophy as we have it today is largely based on his teaching is adequate proof of his intellectual ability.
After completing the first and second parts of the Summa Theologica, which is his most important contribution to Christian theology and philosophy, St. Thomas went to the Dominican convent at Naples to complete the third part. He feared that he would be unable to finish his task. But in obedience to the command of Gregory X, he laid aside his work in the early part of the year 1274 and set out to attend a council in Lyons.
He fell sick enroute and accepted the hospitality of the Cistercian monks at Fossa Nuova. He spent his last days there and died on March 7 while expounding the Canticle of Canticles.
Who’s Afraid of Snakes?
NewYork City.—Are you afraid of snakes? If so, you probably are the descendant of southern people who lived in areas where snakes abounded. If you are not, your ancestors probably came from northern countries where there are not many snakes.
This is the theory of Dr Raymond L. Ditmars, curator of the New York Zoological Park, and probably the world’s outstanding authority on snakes.
“I once took a snake into a cage of young monkeys that I know had never had contact with snakes before,” Dr. Ditmars said. “They screamed and recoiled from the snake and climbed to the top of the cage. A child would not be as jumpy as that. It has been generations since our ancestors ran wild, and the instinct of fear has died somewhat.”
Dr. Ditmars added to his reputation two years ago by taking a king cobra, one of the deadliest of reptiles, from New York to Washington in a Pullman. Dr. Ditmars slept with the snake to keep it warm. The Pullman company was much incensed. Since then, whenever he takes snakes on lecture tours, Dr. Ditmars drives in an auto.
7
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Johnson Reviews Items In Present Bank Riddle
COMMERCE FORUM HEARS TALK BY PROF. PAYTON
By Walter Johnson
Nevada started the thing last autumn . . . Louisiana followed a few weeks ago, when histories were thumbed feverishly to discover any excuse for a state holiday on February third . . . Michigan’s moratorium recently made headline news, and brought things to a climax . . . over thirty states made individual arrangements for closing . . . and now this week, under Roosevelt’s amazingly effective program, the whole country is on a banking holiday.
Holiday Procedure
Procedure is simple. Banks close, as legally as on July fourth, governor or President having announced as legal holidays certain days. All business is, of course, suspended for the time, which eliminates the possibilities of a run and allows weaker institutions opportunity to replenish their reserves, attempt liquidation and limit future withdrawals.
The effect of such measures, however, on the localities concerned, is almost paralyzing. Immediately purchasing power is diminished; pay rolls cannot be met: consumption decreases; cash is hoarded and used frugally; stock exchanges close; trade is reduced to a minimum. Grocers cannot make change, while newsboys sell their papers on credit. Worst hit are those living from week to week on already decreased paychecks; without either cash or credit, their position is really precarious.
American Steadfastness
Yet, through these last three weeks at least, the country has accepted its curtailment of spending money, not with angry shouts or radical speeches, but rather, with innumerable evidences of optimism and typical American wisecracks. “I Can’t Give You Anything But Love” and “Brother, Can You Spare A Dime’’ are considered quite convulsing.
Causes for this situation can be traced back over a decade, to the beginning of this famous era of prosperity. Throughout the ’20’s there had been an ever increasing wave of bank failures, a result of greatly decreased prices on farm lands after the war, lands on which rural banks had loaned money, only to foreclose and find
their security worthless. These smaller banks went first.
But our larger institutions were not immune. Prosperity brought increas-
Walter Johnson
“I can’t give you anything but love” ing deposits, higher prices, necessitating extensive loans and investments. The funds were placed in three types of temporarily profitable investments: urban real estate, loans to individual speculators, with over-valued stocks as security, and finally, the bank’s own choice of bonds, purchased as “secondary reserves.”
Assets Froze In 1930
All of these seemed quite secure when assumed, in view of conditions, thoroughly satisfactory investments. Yet, in 1930, with price levels dropping almost fifty per cent, with land and security values deflated to but a fraction of their boom cost, the American banker found himself in possession of valuable real estate for which there was no market stocks which paid no dividends, and bonds, the passed interest on which threatened to bring him more property. In a word, his assets were frozen. Depositors’ money was not lost, but simply invested in such a way as to make liquidation into cash impossible without an immense loss.
Bank failures increased somewhat during 1930 and 1931, but the majority were able to carry on, using their liquid reserve for daily business, restricting loans and hoping for a rise in land values. Meanwhile, however, deposits began to decrease while public sentiment began to drain
(Continued on Page 24)
Distressed Business Subject of Discussion.
“The Method of Handling Distressed Businesses” was the topic of a -speech given by Professor Payton of the College of Commerce at meeting of the Commerce Forum Tuesday evening. A large representation of the membership heard the talk.
Depression Weeds Out Inefficiency
Mr. Payton first discussed the problem of the inefficient business men. One of the results of the depression is the elimination of inefficient business men, particularly men who do not analyze their business and who do not know what the factors are that affect it individually, he said. It is absolutely necessary, he continued, to analyze and know your business, especially your cost of production, or cost of doing business.
Credit Shortcomings
He showed that the problem of each distressed business is quite different, but there are always certain general characteristics that are evident in all distressed business. The ill use of credit is a prevalent evil, and distressed business is faced with the problem of finding new avenues of credit, the speaker stated. One of the best ways of opening up new credit is to have the creditors establish a trust and to supply the debtor with material or goods on consignment. This protects the creditors and gives the debtor a chance to work his way out by building up his working capital, said Prof. Payton.
Business Selfish
In the handling of business we do not try to understand and appreciate the position and problems of both the debtor and creditor, he asserted. Business is selfish to day; the reason, said the speaker, is because it is in a struggle for existence, and as a result the creditor does not care anything about the problems of the debtor. In the future the debtor will limit his number of creditors because with fewer creditors and with the resulting increased burden on each one, the problems of the debtor became more important to the creditor. Cooperation, rather than individual selfishness, solves the problems of business, he concluded.
March 10, 1933
Seventeen
TWO PAPERS READ AT SCIENCE ACADEMY MEET
Nachtwey and Quinn Discuss Important Questions.
N. D.’s Botanical Library Complete With 7000 Books
By J. D. Porterfield
Robert A. Nachtwey, and Edward D. Quinn, juniors in the College of Science, presented papers at the meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science last Monday. Nachwey spoke on “The Role of the Thyroid in the ' Human Life.”
“The thyroid is one of the largest and most prominent of the endocrine glands,” the speaker stated. “It has an important bearing upon the whiteness of the teeth, the distribution of fat, the development of genital functions, the stability of the mind, the speed and efficiency of protein metabolism, and the ridding of protein poisons from the body.
Thyroid Disorders
The primordia of the thyroid as well as the morphology and physiology of the gland were described. The functional disorders caused by hypothyroidism, an undersecretion of the thyroid, and hyperthyroidism, an oversecretion of the thyroid, also the malformations resulting from these abnormalities and the treatments employed were efficiently discussed.
“A Discussion of Enzymes and Their Action in Plant and Animal Metabolism” was presented by Edward D. Quinn, also a junior in Science.
Enzymes And Cells
“The word ‘enzyme’,” Quinn stated, “is a collective name for a very numerous series of thermo-labile catalytic agents produced by living cells for the purpose of effecting such chemical changes in absorbed or surrounding substances as are necessary to make them suit the requirements of the cell. Enzymes may be briefly described as the chemical tools of all living cells.”
The chemical constituents of enzymes are not definitely known, and therefore cannot be employed as a means to determine their identity. A brief classification of all the enzymes based on their specific reactions was offered by the speaker. They were listed as: a) proteolytic enzymes, b) lipolytic enzymes, c) amylolytic enzymes, d) inverting enzymes, e) oxidizing enzymes, f) coagulating enzymes, and g) deamininzing enzymes.
It seems curious that we live so many years on this campus, intimately connected with the school, and even occasionally, going over to the library for a reference book, and yet never learn of the numerous things that make our campus famous. Who knows of the priceless array of ceremonial robes hung in the wardrobes of Sacred Heart Church? Who, unless he has happened to open the catalogue on the wrong page, knows that Henry Clay was instrumental in obtaining a government commission for a post office at Notre Dame? Or, for instance, take the Greene-Nieuwland Botanical Library and Collection.
If you chance to turn to the left instead of the right in walking through the University Art Gallery, you will find yourself in a room whose walls are shelves of old books, and whose furniture consists almost entirely of closed cases. Going onward, you will discover four rooms similarly modeled. Not interesting at a cursory glance, but it deserves more than that.
Greene Joins Faculty
Back in 1914 Edward Lee Greene, connected with the U. S. Department of Agriculture, a member of the California Academy of Science, and of the National Geographical Society, author of many a book and holder of the degrees of Ph.D. and LL.D., became a member of the Faculty of Notre Dame. Unfortunately, he was taken ill shortly thereafter and died in 1915. But in his year’s residence at the University, he conceived a fondness for the school, that was manifested later in his will. Therein, he deeded to the university his collection of botanical books and specimens which since 1904 had been deposited in the U. S. National Museum. It consisted of 4,000 volumes and over 100,000 specimens, and was so complete in its field as to make almost superfluous the desire that it should never be augmented.
Most interesting to a novice were numerous old volumes, bound in pigskin, written in Latin in a most peculiar type, and containing hand painted illustrations, set into the binding in strange fashion. More
noticeable to a collector were several sets of bound magazines and books, which, as far as is known, are the only ones in existence. These are the only surviving copies of an edition printed in San Francisco and destroyed by the city fire.
Father Nieuwland Contributes
In connection with this group, Reverend Father J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. has more recently presented his collection of botanical books and specimens. Among the books are several by Linnaeus, printed previous to 1760, and a copy of Leeuwenhoeck’s Anatomia Rerum, printed in 1687. There are 3,000 volumes in this collection at the present time, and it is constantly being added to. The exchanges of the Midland Naturalist are incorporated into these shelves, providing an up-to-date and universal adjunct to the other botanical literature.
Dr. T. Just, Ph.D., is curate of both collections, and at the present time is engaged in revising and filing the Nieuwland collection. He is enthusiastic in talking about it, and we may well believe him when he says it is one of the most valuable and fascinating divisions of the Notre Dame Libraries.
Russia, China And India Are Listed as Great Forces
Oberlin, Ohio.—Russia, China, and India, and not Japan, are the great forces of eastern civilization with which western civilization is going to contend with in the not far distant future and which give indications of assuming world leadership, according to Dr. Herbert A. Miller, who was ousted two years ago as head of the sociology department of Ohio State University.
This belief is expressed by Dr. Miller, now a resident of Oberlin, in a book, “The Beginnings of Tomorrow,” published last week by Frederick A. Stokes Co., and which is expected to stir up anew the controversy which surrounded- many of the ideas for which Dr. Miller charged he was dismissed from Ohio State.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
EMPTY LOTS!
Janitors at the University of Minnesota drew lots to see who would carry skeletons from one building to another when a recent change made such a job necessary.
CONCEIT!
This business of “dateless coeds” is no joke to the fair students at Syracuse University. Thirty of them took the matter up at a recent sorority meeting where the fact was revealed that 60 per cent have dates only once a month and the rest not at all. The depression with its slim pocketbook was blamed for this tragic state of affairs.
EDUCATIONAL PIONEERING.
A student of Utah State College recently parked a covered wagon on the campus where he maintains his living quarters, thus eliminating both carfare and the usual board bills.
IT’S FUN TO BE FOOLED!
The publications of the University of Utah are permitted to run cigarette advertisements just so long as they do not hint or suggest that women smoke.
WORTH—10%!
Ethylenenitrilocrysanthocarboxyliolcate, a chemical insecticide developed at Rockhurst College, has brought that college into the business field. A company to manufacture the insecticide is being incorporated, with Rockhurst holding 10 per cent of the stock.
REDRESS!
A male student at Missouri lost a bet and was forced to come to class garbed in a green chiffon dress.
METAL CAPACITY!
At Southern California the term “Silver Senior” is applied to anyone taking the fifth year of a four year course.
CATHOLIC PRESS.
No doubt many Catholics may be surprised to discover that this is Catholic Press month, a period set aside for a crusade to stimulate interest in this movement by impressing upon Catholics its value to the Church and the necessity for supporting it. The Church is keenly interested in the welfare of the Catholic Press as may be deduced from the statement of His Holiness Pius XI that he will regard any aid given to this movement as a personal favor. And it is for this reason that the Church has specially dedicated a month to the task of emphasizing its importance.
To make the members of the Church sensible of the advantages of the Catholic Press is a difficult task but an absolutely necessary one. Too many Catholics have an indifferent attitude towards their religion. They regard it as something whose practice may well be relegated to Sunday and safely ignored for the rest of the week. They fail to recognize the responsibilities enjoined upon them by their faith, and feel that their duties are discharged by weekly attendance at mass.
Movements like the Catholic Press and Catholic Action are attempts to change this point of view and stimulate a more earnest interest in religion. They aim to impress upon Catholics the necessity for keeping in touch with Catholic affairs; for vitalizing their religion, and making of it something which will be an enduring influence on their lives. A Catholic, whose faith has been stimulated in this way, is certain to be more ennobled and enriched by his religion; he will hold it more sacred and will cherish it more dearly as a holy trust to be guarded and protected with zealous care.
Besides its general influence the Catholic Press benefits the Church in other ways. It assures an accurate account of news events of Catholic interest, and by a vigorous policy it brings Catholic principles and ideals to the attention of its readers. It is so beneficial to the Church and so indispensable to its welfare, that we may safely say that it is an imperative duty of all Catholics to support it. — Manhattan Quadrangle.
March 10, 1933
Nineteen
EDITORIALS
DEBATE SITUATION
What has happened to debating at Notre Dame? Enthusiasm that was prevalent here last year, at least among the team members, is gone. No definite program, we are told, has been drawn up for the current season, debates are being scheduled and postponed, “B” teams of other schools are tackling our varsity.
Maybe the topic that Notre Dame is debating has something to do with the unquestionable apathy in forensic circles. If such is the case we have an idea that the apathy is well founded. Who can get excited about the tax situation in Michigan and Indiana? We know that we are-civic minded only when we are engrossed with such things, but right now it all seems a little too involved for college students to spend a lot of time on.
Why must debate teams always be throwing figures at us about unemployment insurance 4or tax anticipation warrants? We have made up our mind time and again to evoke an interest in campus forensics, only to have our verve dulled by a barrage of technical debate topics that should have been restricted to text-books—under penalty of death.	.
Debating must be kept alive at Notre Dame, but in our mind such a thing is possible only if subjects are selected which have an appeal in themselves and which attract audience and speaker alike.
GRATIAS
One of the most agreeable tasks connected with the Boxing Show is before us. The Scholastic takes particular pleasure in thanking sincerely anyone who was in any way responsible for this year’s successful affair.
Recalling the people we worked with during the last month or so, we wish to extend special gratitude to the following: to the fine athletes
themselves who gave us twenty-four rounds of rapid, rugged fighting; to Len Dunn for his masterful work with the boxers and for his unselfishness in giving five afternoons a week to a not too grateful labor; to the members of The Scholastic staff who had confronting them for seven long, lean days the stupendous job of finding quarters; to “Tuffy” Griffith, who travelled two hundred miles to referee the fights—because he likes Notre Dame and the people down here; to the men.who worked as judges and seconds in the preliminaries and at the bouts proper; to “Scrap-Iron” Young for his unexcelled ability with the tapes; to Mr. McAllister, Dr. Hyde, the Studebaker Corporation, who loaned us their ring; to Father Farley who effected a 90% turnout in effete Sorin; to “Kitty” Gorman, Joe McCabe, Howie Waldron, and Jack Ledden—to these and countless others we feel more than obligated.
The Show was not the success of last year from the standpoint of total attendance or profit, but we say unqualifiedly that the bouts were the liveliest Notre Dame has seen in many a winter.
Sunday collections are off 50%, the soda fountain is abandoned every evening, so we don’t feel the least bit abashed in handing over to Bengal the mite that was left after paying the bills that arrived in the seven-thirty mail Saturday morning.
DINING HALL PROBLEM
The Scholastic has received many letters appealing for some solution of the problem of too rapid eating in the Dining Halls. We have published several of these letters, and in doing so we have responded to an earnest and enlightened student opinion. Pressure for space, and the fact that subsequent letters are but repetitions of those already printed compel us to close the discussion. In the last analysis it is the students themselves who do the eating and therefore set the pace. If there are factors about which we have no knowledge we might suggest that it is the function of the S. A. C. to find a way out.
Twenty
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
C. I. C. Meet Starts Tonight
Strong Field Challenges Irish Reign As Conference Champions
KEOGANITES WILL CLOSE CAGE SEASON TOMORROW
Michigan Schools Favored To Win; Sheils* Injury Hurts
Notre Dame’s 880 Strength.
By James S. Kearns
An outstanding field of twelve teams will open competition on the Notre Dame gym track tonight for the seventh annual Central Intercollegiate conference indoor championship.
Representing the cream of the midwest collegiate track talent, excepting the Big Ten, the gathering of stars will have a common purpose: the dethroning of Notre Dame as meet champion. The Irish have held the title for six consecutive years but seem almost certain to be defeated in the meet today and tomorrow.
The complete list of squads entered includes Armour Tech, Loyola, City College of Detroit, Western State Teachers, Michigan State, Michigan Normal, Marquette, Grinnell, Butler, Hillsdale, Pittsburgh, and Notre Dame. A total of 139 athletes will compete.
Michigan Schools Favored
Of that group the pre meet favorites appear to be Michigan Normal of Ypsilanti and Michigan State college. The Hilltoppers of Marquette loom as the third outstanding challenger.
Notre Dame’s hopes for a surprise victory were practically blotted out last Saturday when Jim Sheils, out-iz standing 880 prospect, suffered a broken bone in his ankle during a workout.
Michigan’s Normal’s great strength lies in two good pole vaulters and a pair of exceptional hurdlers. Captain Jim McKinley and Ray Lowry in the vault, and Gene Beatty and Red Simmons in the hurdles look good enough for at least fifteen points between them.
In addition, Billy Zepp, a fine miler, and Hersey, a quarter miler, should add points to Normal’s total. Michigan State can probably match the


Coach John P. Nicholson
A task that is almost hopeless.
/ hurdling talent of the Ypsilanti school with Ted Bath and Ken Liberty.
Roger Keast of State looms as a -possible winner in the 440, which is anybody’s race at this point. Pongrace stands out as the class of the half-milers, and Tom Ottey, whose first apeparance of the winter was a 9:39.2 two-mile race, is an odds-on favorite in the long event.
Ralph Metcalfe of Marquette is (Continued on Page 32)
Seek Eleventh Straight Win In Game at Minnesota.
Hoping for a victory with which to end a comparatively ragged season, the Gophers of Minnesota are ready and waiting for their final contest in which they meet the Irish of Notre Dame on their home floor. In a previous contest this season, Notre Dame eked out a 30-22 victory over the Minnesotans, who scored fifteen points in a second half rally to give a real scare. ’
Minnesota, losing 14 games and winning only five contests, has had a poor season.-* In the Big Ten Conference, they finished last, but lost most of their games by very close margins. This outfit is a veteran one that was racked by dissension early in the season; but, of late, they have been playing very fine ball. A win over the successful Irish of Coach Keogan would more than compensate for some of these close defeats.
Robinson High-Point Man
Captain Brad Robinson, football star, is the high-point man of the Gopher outfit. He is big and aggressive, and scored fifteen of his team’s twenty-two points, from his forward berth, in the previous Notre Dame game. Robinson was one of the best ‘ forwards on the Irish floor this season, and is almost certain for an allConference forward berth when the selections are made.
At the guard berths are Virgil Licht and Bill Farrell. Licht, AllConference guard last year, wasn’t in good shape in the previous game with the Irish, but has since reformed and is proving a very valuable scoring threat for Minnesota. Farrell is a new find of Coach Dave McMillan and a good all-around player.
March 10, 1933
Twenty-one
CAGERS SCORE EASY VICTORY OVER WABASH
Win Final Home Game 43-29; Victory Is Ninth Straight.
Seven Matches Scheduled For Notre Dame Golfers
FIRST MEET APRIL 22
By John D. Carbine
Notre Dame’s basketball team closed its home season last Saturday night with a brilliant display of both offensive and defensive power while defeating Wabash 43-29. The victory the fourteenth of the season and the ninth straight for Notre Dame.
The game was marked by the last home appearance of Captain Johnny Baldwin and Leo Keating. Baldwin played his usual excellent game and was given a great ovation, when he was removed from the game late in the second half. Little Leo Keating delighted his followers with two field goals each of which brought a salvo of cheers from the crowd.
Little Giants Outclassed
Except for the first few moments of the game the Little Giants were completely outclassed. Wabash found the Irish defense impenetrable and by the end of the first half, the Keog-anites had run up a 21-7 lead. After the first half, the Giants gave up the idea of trying to puncture the Notre Dame defense and started to heave long shots from all corners of the floor. This method netted them a total of 29 points against the Irish total of 43.
Voegele started the scoring by converting a free throw. Crowe added a field goal and after that there was no stopping the Irish. Coach George ■ Keogan used his second team during most of the second half and it was only this factor which kept the Irish total below the half century mark.
Krause led the Irish attack with 1 sixteen points and Voegele followed with ten. Eddie Alberts, playing his : best game of the season, collected nine points with four field goals and a free throw.
Notre Dame (43)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voegele. f 		... 3	4	6	3	10
Jordan, f 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Alberts, f 		... 4	1	2	3	9
Keating, f 		... 2	0	1	1	4
O’Kane, f 		... 0	0	0	0	0
Krause, c 		... 6	4	6	3	16
Farris, c 		... 0	0	1	0	0
Crowe, g 		... 1	0	1	1	2
Fehlig, g 		... 0	0	0	1	2
Baldwin, g 		... 1	0	0	1	2
Newbold, g 		... 0	0	0 '	0	0
	17	9	17	13	43
GOLF CAPTAIN
John Montedonico
One of the strongest schedules.
C. I. C. Program
The preliminary heats of the Central Intercollegiate meet will start at 7:30 tonight. Trials will be held in the 60-yard dash, 60-yard high hurdles, 65-yard low hurdles, 440-yard dash, and 880-yard and mile runs.
No admission will be charged tonight. For the finals tomorrow afternoon a 25 cent charge will be made for students with A. A. books. The finals will start at 1:30.
Wabash (29)	FG	FT FTA PF Pts.			
Joyce, f				2	2	4	0	6
Rovenstive, f ....		1	2	2	7
Crisler, f 			1	0	2	1	2
Harmon, f 			 1	0	0	0	2
	9	4	4	2	8
Heath, c 			0	0	0	.0	0
Mason, g 			1	0	2	4	2
Oren, g 			 0	0	0	1	0
Kriesly, g 			0	0	1	2	0
		1	0	1	0	2
			—	—	—
	11	7	16	12	29
Illinois, Chicago, Michigan State Play Here; Three Dual Meets, State Meet Away.
One of the strongest schedules in the history of intercollegiate golf at Notre Dame was released this week by Athletic Director Jesse C. Harper for the 1933 links squad.
Seven meets, including three dual meets at home, three away, and the state intercollegiate meet at Terre Haute are included on the schedule. Three of the dual meet opponents, Illinois, Chicago, and Northwestern will be met for the first time by the Irish golfers.
Illinois Here May 20th
Illinois and Chicago will appear on the Notre Dame course on the 13th and 20th of May respectively. The other home meet is with Michigan State on May 6th.
A match with Loyola in Chicago on April 22 will open the season. The following week the Irish team will travel to Lafayette to meet Purdue. It was the Purdue squad last year that snapped the Notre Dame victory string at 21 straight. Northwestern will be met in Evanston on May 9th.
Purdue Holds State Title
The season will end with the annual Indiana collegiate tournament May 27 where Notre Dame will attempt to displace the Purdue squad as
title holders. In last year’s meet Purdue finished three strokes ahead of the Irish though Bill Redmond of Notre Dame captured the individual crown. A Notre Dame player has held the individual title for the last three years.
The complete schedule is as follows :
April 22—Loyola at Chicago.
April 29—Purdue at Lafayette.
May 6—Michigan State here.
May 9—Northwestern at Evanston.
May 13—Illinois here.
May 20—Chicago here.
May 27—State meet at Terre Haute. .
Tzventy-two
The Scholastic
Cagers Topple Marquette 36-34 For Tenth Straight
SEVEN N. D. CHAMPIONS PICKED IN BENGAL SHOW
HOLD LEAD AT HALF
Rapid Fighting Characterizes Charity Bouts
Hilltoppers Rally After Ed Krause is Ejected; John
Baldwin, Voegele Star.
Bank moratorium or no bank moratorium, the debt collection movement of George Keogan’s Notre Dame basketball team accomplished another huge forward stride Tuesday night when the Irish cagers beat Marquette’s great court five 36 to 34. The victory was the tenth straight for Notre Dame and avenged an earlier overtime defeat by Marquette.
Krause Scores First
The Irish went out in front at the start of the game when “Moose” Krause converted a free throw for the initial scoring of the battle. The Hilltoppers came back with a rush, however, and assumed a five to one lead after about six minutes of play.
Voegele and Krause brought Notre Dame up on even terms and another free throw put the Irish in front 6 to 5. From that point on to the closing minutes of the half, the lead alternated back and forth between the two quintets.
With Marquette leading 13 to 10 near the close of the half, Johnny Baldwin and Ed Krause opened a fast scoring drive that shot the Irish total up 11 points. Notre Dame held a 21 to 13 lead at the halfway mark.
Krause Leaves On Fouls
At the start of the second half Marquette threatened to close the gap but the Irish matched point for point until Krause was removed on personal fouls with about 14 minutes left to play.
Inspired by the break that gave them control of the center tips and of most of the under-the-basket scrambles, the Marquette five launched an offensive drive that brought a steady stream of points to their side of-the score book.
Joe Voegele and Johnny Baldwin kept adding to the Irish total with infrequent baskets that were enough to keep the Hilltopper five always on the short end of the score.
(Continued on Page 27)
TIP-OFFS
________By Al McGufl___
Marquette offered Northwestern $2000 for the return game they had last week, but that 36-34 game with the Irish will bring no offers like that this way.
Ten straight is the present winning streak. The Gophers from Minneapolis are the next opponents, and they will end the season for the Varsity.
From the way “Moose” was going in that Marquette game it was lucky for the Hilltoppers that he was put out on fouls early in the game. He scored 10 points in 25 minutes.
Since the Wabash game Eddie Alberts has had all sort of good luck. He collected four baskets in that game and was made captain for at least four minutes near the end of the game. Then he traveled up to Marquette and played the whole game. Nice work, Eddie.
The papers have been writing up ^Joe Reiff of N. U. as the greatest basketball player that is. Wonder if any of them heard of Baldwin, Voegele and Krause. “Moose” was only an All-American in his sophomore year, and without a doubt, good enough to duplicate that feat this year. Voegele has out-played Reiff in all three games they played against one another.
One more game and Captain Johnny Baldwin and Leo Keating will have played their full college career. Both men will go down in the books as great players. Johnny with his never waning smile and his ability to hit the hoop from far out on the court will always be material for a good > "conversation.
Leo has been out on the practice floor for three years and never missed a night. In practice he was always (Continued on Page 23) ■
By Howard Waldron
Sixteen free - swinging, heavy - hitting, hard - fighting, well - conditioned men performed last Friday night in the greatest boxing extravaganza ever held at Notre Dame. Seven of the eight winners in the bouts of the evening emerged with University championships and the much coveted sweaters emblematic of the award.
This great boxing show was staged for the Bengal Mission fund by The Scholastic. Tuffy Griffiths, prominent heavyweight contender, acted as referee, and Coach Hunk Anderson and Wally Barden, of Chicago, were the judges.
Gooden Scores K. O.
The bouts were fast, hard-fought and very pleasing to the some 1,400 fans who attended. The men were all in fine shape, and all but one of the bouts went the limit of three rounds. In this bout, Hal Gooden won by a L-" technical K, O. over Dominick Var-raveto in a bout for the featherweight championship.
Johnny Michuta, from Detroit, won L-'" a close decision over Reno Zarantonel-lo, from Thornton, Ill. in the heavyweight final bout. Reno’s method of attack was to jab with his fast left hand, then retreat, and jab again. Every once in a while he would smash at Michuta with his right, but this wasn’t a very effective blow.
Michuta Tires Foe
This attack worked well enough while Reno was fresh, but he began to tire in the second round. Then John cautiously stalked his shorter and lighter opponent, and finally caught him after 49 seconds of the second round. He connected with a short left hook that lifted Reno off his feet and dropped him to his haunches. He floored him again with a left, and the weakened Reno staged a rapid retreat. Michuta won the third round easily.
In a three round slugfest for the light-heavyweight championship, Phil Purcell, of Salt Lake City, Utah, defeated Frank Gaul, of Waterville,''^ Maine. Purcell, a very slow starter, looked bad in the first round, but in-
(Continued on Page 30)
March 10, 1933
Twenty-three
SIX HATCHES LISTED ON ’33 TENNIS CARD
Play Valpo, Michigan State Michigan Normal Here.
Six dual meets against five of the best opponents in mid-west collegiate ranks were scheduled for the 1933 Notre Dame tennis team this week. The schedule was released by Jesse C. Harper, Director of Athletics.
.	Three of the meets will be played
on the Notre Dame courts with the other half of the card being played
*■ on foreign courts. Valparaiso, Michigan State, and Michigan Normal are the teams that will appear here.
Play Two Big Ten Teams
Two of the strongest Big Ten tennis squads are included on the travelling portion of the card. Northwestern will be met at Evanston, May 12, and Chicago, outstanding conference ,	team, will be played on the Midway,
May 25.
The other match away from home will be played against Michigan State at East Lansing, May 27. The Spartans thus are the only team to face Irish racquet swingers twice during the season.
Last season the Notre Dame tennis team won four out of nine matches. Three of the first four ranking players of that team are back in school, and will be eligible for competition this spring.
>	Captain Chreist Leads Squad
Captain Louis Chreist, No. 1 on '/ last year’s team, will undoubtedly be able to hold his first place ranking, though not without serious challenge from the other veterans.
Dick Kelly, who played No. 2 posi- -*	tion last spring, should be Chreist’s
principal threat for first ranking. Kelly and the Irish captain were teamed in the leading doubles combination of the squad last year.
John O’Hanlon, last year’s No. 4, and Ed Power, who played an alter- -nate position a year ago, are the other outstanding prospects for the squad.
'	The complete schedule is as follows:
April 22—Valparaiso here.
April 27—Michigan State at East
(	Lansing.
*	May 6—Michigan State here.
'	May 12—Northwestern at Evanston.	’
May 19—Michigan Normal here.
May 25—Chicago at Chicago.
Speaking • of All-so-and-so’s the column is going to run its All-Opponent team in the next issue of The Scholastic, March 17. Coach Keo-gan will aid in the selection of men and this policy will continue each year that the column takes to ink.
S.A.C. Swimming Meet to Be Held Next Wednesday
CAPTAIN
OFFICIALS SELECTED
Fr. Sigmar, S. A. C. Members To Be Judges of Events At South Bend Natatorium.
Louis Chreist
Leads ’33 tennis team.
TIP-OFFS (Continued from Page 22)
full of pep, and you saw how he fought in a game, when he played against Wabash. Leo has his time — for a Monogram and several fellows around the campus are just dying for spring to arrive.
The Marquette team had enough shots in the last two minutes of the .'ball game to win by several baskets. . -'The score was 35-28 in favor of the Irish. Shots went around the hoop just as if they were on a merry-go-round, but would not drop—thanks to something or .other.
With entries coming in rapidly, plans for the S. A. C. swimming meet to be held at the South Bend natatorium next Wednesday night neared completion this week.
George Shields, junior representative on the Council, who is in charge of the meet, announced yesterday that - all entries must be in to him at 125
Alumni hall by Monday night.
May Give Freshman Numerals
Efforts are being made to award numerals to any freshmen who make the required time marks in the various events. Definite' information regarding the numeral requirements will be announced before the meet.
At the request of several entrants, Shields has tentatively added the plunge to the list of events. If enough entries for the event are secured, it will be included in the program.
Father Sigmar To Officiate
A committee of officials including Reverend Julian Sigmar, Ruben - -Grunderman, Ray Brancheau, and Tom Roach has been oragnized to -handle the meet.
Father Sigmar will be head judge of both diving events, while the other three officials will divide the work of starter and finish judges. '
The complete list of events for the meet is as follows:
40-yard free style.	-
100-yard free style.
60-yard breast stroke.
40-yard back stroke.
Low board fancy diving.
High board fancy diving.
Plunge (tentative).
120-yard medley relay. (Three men: back stroke, breast stroke, free style).
160-yard free style relay. (Four men).
As previously announced, four compulsory dives and three optional ones will constitute the diving program. The compulsory dives include front, back, and running jack-knife and swan dive.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING Eddie King
By John D. Carbine
“King of Notre Dame will now run an exhibition mile.” Thus boomed the announcer’s voice midway in the Notre Dame-Marquette dual meet last year. And run an exhibition mile Eddie did. “But what a mile,” says Eddie, “what a mile.” The time of that race was 4:42—the poorest mile that Eddie has run while wearing the Blue and Gold uniform of Notre Dame.
But the story of an exhibition gone wrong is not the essence of this tale. There’s the story of a runner with a fighting heart; the story of a runner who cannot run his best until he is gamely trying to wrest the lead from some opponent or until competition is pushing him every inch of the way. In short, there is the story of Eddie King who, when he should have been in a sick-bed, lost four pounds while vainly but courageously trying to overtake Charley Popejoy in the Purdue meet.
Won In Every Dual Meet
Weird exhibitions and four pound reductions in weight are, however, far from being Eddie’s chief claim to fame. Last year he won the mile event of every dual meet in which Notre Dame participated. He failed to break the tape only in the indoor and outdoor Central Intercollegiate Conference meets. His string includes victories in the Army, Hlinois, Butler, Ohio State, and Pittsburgh meets. While running up this string of victories, King has defeated such men as Dean Woolsey of Illinois, who is one of the best intercollegiate milers of the day.	•
Eddie, unlike most track men, never went out for track while in high school. While a student of Cathedral High School of Hamilton, Ontario, he played football, baseball, and was captain of the hockey team. But he had no time for track.
Ran For Fun
In the summer following his graduation, King entered a mile race “just for fun.” He finished third. That was in 1929; during the remaining part of that summer and during the next year, he practiced running that mile, and developed his natural ability to such an extent that in 1930 he was chosen as a member of the team
which was to represent Canada in the British Empire Games.
Competing with the cream of the milers in His Majesty’s Empire, Ed-
die placed sixth in a field of twentyseven. It was at these games that King met Coach Nicholson and Alex Wilson who induced him to come to Notre Dame.
Won Frosh Numerals
So come to Notre Dame, Eddie did. He easily won his freshman numerals, and in his sophomore year, last year, he won the mile in every dual meet as well as being one of the mainstays of the cross-country’ team. This year, King has been far off form and has not rounded into condition rapidly. His rather unexpected victory in the Ohio State meet, however, indicates that he is well on the way to recovering his lost form.
Last summer, King went to Los Angeles as a member of the Canadian Olympic team. He finished third in one of the trial heats of the 1500 meter event thus qualifying for the final to be held on the following day. Eddie, however, has extended himself to such a degree in qualifying that he collapsed a few moments after the heat.
He had apparently recovered enough of his strength on the follow-
BANKING PROBLEMS
(Continued from Page 16)
their gold reserves. Gradually even, the strongest banks became pressed for ready money — a few notable Detroit’s Guardian Trust and Washington’s Commerical, became shaky, and the first “holidays” resulted. With the Michigan situation as a terrible example, people in all parts of the country began to feel panicky — runs were imminent, the Federal Reserve was rushed for cash. So, to save general forced foreclosure and immediate liquidation at a loss came the present national banking holiday, with its supplementary reform, probably in the shape of definitely limited withdrawals.
Must Resume Full Banking
Full banking must be resumed shortly, subject to certain limitations-Legally, distribution of deposits can be reduced to five per cent of total per month; demands to this extent must be met, to facilitate retail trade. Secondly, all new deposits will be treated separately from present funds, and subject to full payment. Thus, temporarily at least, ordinary commercial life may be carried on.
From this point extensive reorganization will proceed. Capital must be analyzed, frozen assets separated from liquid. When depositors will be allowed proportionately their share of the bank’s available assets. Moreover in many cases, scrip will be issued by clearing houses or other agencies, to a certain percentage of the individual bank’s frozen assets, which scrip will be guaranteed and pass as legal tender. Representing that portion of capital unavailable, stock, with a claim prior to all other outstanding bank stock is to be issued by many institutions, given to claimants to replace their frozen deposits.
The third step in reorganization will take more time, be much more involved, revolutionary. The exact nature is problematical, but it may involve federal guarantee of future de-
(Continued on Page 30)
ing day to run in the final for the Olympic title, but his coach refused to let him attempt the run, and risk permanent injury. It is typical of Eddie that he furiously but vainly protested the decision of his coach.
King’s best time in the mile is 4:19 in which he was clocked in the Central Intercollegiate Conference eut-door meet in Milwaukee last spring.
March 10, 1933
Twenty-five
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
TEN STRAIGHT
As we hung over our neighbor’s radio Tuesday night to hear George Keogan’s five run up its tenth straight victory, we became more and more convinced that the lad whom the announcer called “Vaygel,” but ■whom we know as Joe Voegele, is one great basketball player.
Don’t get us wrong. We’re not trying to dim the glory of ■“Moose” and Johnny Baldwin, Leo Crowe, Johnny Jordan, Eddie Alberts, or any one else. They’re a mighty fine squad, one that is brilliant and that combines hard work with sensational playing to produce great results.
But they were, for the most part, just as great during January when the Irish were finding the going pretty rough. It is Voegele who has staged the big improvement, and in that improvement we believe the secret of ten straight ’ victories lies.
He is no longer the sloppy, erratic floor man he once was.
Rather, he is back closer to the style of, and much better as to mechanics and court sense than, the Voegele we watched play for Spaulding of Peoria a few years ago. That he has been brought back to that excellence is an unusual tribute to George Keogan as a coach whose ability is not wholly mechanical.
If this were to be an analysis of the strength of the cage team as a whole, we would open a eulogy on Ed Krause as the country’s greatest center, and Johnny Baldwin as the classiest eager we have ever seen. Both positions would be sound and not too hard to support.
However, those things are pretty well accepted. We have an idea though, that not enough fans have noticed the new zest and fire that has marked Voegele’s play since the second Pitt game.
TOMORROW’S MILE
Few greater fields have ever lined up for a single race on the Notre Dame track than the group that will go to the post for the mile run in tomorrow’s C. I. C. meet.
On the basis of past performances, Ray Swartz of Western State Normal, is the favorite. He won the C. I. C. indoor and outdoor mile titles last year, measuring Eddie King by a stride in the outdoor race.
Some new faces will be in line tomorrow, though, and they are good enough to be well toward the front of the pack when the eighth lap is winding up. Ray Sears, of Butler, who ran third behind Cunningham and Venzke in the A. A. U. 1500-meter race, will be making his bow here. Billy Zepp of Michigan Normal is a good fourth man.
Unless some unexpected happening crops up to cut the field, we look for the winner to get home in 4:22 or better. The C. I. C. indoor mark is 4:24.4, set by Pfleiger of Marquette in 1928.
. Swartz’ time indoors last year
(Continued on Page 32)
CANDIES
. . . and Salted Nuts
Fresh Every Day from our South Bend Kitchen.
V
THRIFT SPECIAL ... 50c lb.
FAMILY ASSORTMENT . 60c lb.
FRUITS AND NUTS . . 70c lb.
V
Special A ttention to Mailing
Open Evenings and Sundays
V
Mrs. Thompson’s Candy Shop, Inc.
Phone 4-5491	In the Oliver Hotel
SOUTH SHORE LINE Bargain Excursion Sunday! $ — ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
One day rate good going on trains leaving South Bend at 6, 6:50, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 a. m. and 12 noon. Tickets good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. the same day.
Week-end Rate
$ ~ jn ROUND TRIP South Bend to CHICAGO
Rate good going Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Good returning any time up to 11:45 p. m. Monday night.
See James McGrath, No. 1 Morrissey Hall for Complete Information.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
I
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
FOUR TEAMS MAINTAIN INTER11ALL CAGE LEAD
Morrissey, Off-Campus Out In Front of Heavyweights.
By Nick Connor
There were three close and exciting games played last week as the fifth round of interhall tournament came to a close. Two of the thrilling games were played in the senior division, and one in the lightweight section. After Alumni had tagged behind the strong Off-Campus quintet for the entire game a last minute basket by the junior hall quintet sent the game into an overtime session. In the extra period Vitt of Off-Campus made good one of two free throws, and as the three minute period was about over, Sickmeyer who was holding the ball far out on the floor let fly a long shot that passed through the hoop for the winning points.
Dillon Beats St. Ed’s
The other exciting game was between Dillon and St. Edward’s. Dillon trailed 6 to 2 at the' half, came back strong the second half and dropped St. Ed’s 20 to 14. The tussle between Morrissey and Sorin in the lightweight division nearly ended in disaster for the second year team, but they finally hit their stride in the last few minutes of the game and won 18 to 11.
The Freshman and Carroll teams in the heavy category found little trouble in their opponents, Walsh and Howard. The Corby and Badin, and the Morrissey and Sorin games postponed from Sunday afternoon to Tuesday evening, proved to be easy victories for Corby and Morrissey, both teams won by decisive scores.
Walsh, Off-Campus Forfeit
In the lightweight division Walsh and Off-Campus failed to put in their appearance, and forfeited to Freshman and Alumni. The Carroll lights won their fifth straight victory of the season by dropping Howard, and Badin bumped off the senior hall, Corby. Freeman and Collins led the St. Edward’s quintet to a 19 to 13 victory over Dillon Hall.
The standings as a result of the fifth round of play find Morrissey out in front in Group 1 with the St. Edward’s lights still leading in the same group with 1.000 per cent. In Group
INTERHALL BASKETBALL			
	STANDING		
	Heavyweights		
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
Morrissey 				4	1	.800
Lyons 			3	1	.750
Corby 			3	1	.750
Dillon 			 3	1	.750
Badin			 1	3	.250
St. Edward’s		1	3	.250
Sorin 			0	5	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pet.
Oft’ Campus		4	0	1.000
Freshman ..		3	1	.750
Carroll 			3	2	.600
Brownson 				2	2	.500
Alumni 			 1	2	.333
Howard 			 1	3	.250
Walsh 			0	4	.000
	Lightweights		
GROUP I.	W	L	Pct.
St. Edward’s		4	0	1.000
Morrissey 			4	1	.800
Badin 			3	2	.600
Corby 			2	2	.500
Lyons 			2	2	.500
Sorin 			 1	4	.250
Dillon 			 0	4	.000
GROUP II.	W	L	Pct.
Carroll 			 5	0	1.000
Howard 				3	1	.750
Freshman 				3	1	.750
Alumni 			1	1	.500
Brownson			1	2	.333
Off Campus		 0	3	.000
Walsh 			0	4	.000
2 the Off-Campus heavies have yet to see defeat as does Carroll’s lightweight quintet from the Main Building.	-
HEAVYWEIGHT
Freshman 26, Walsh 14
After playing a listless first half Bill Golden’s Freshman hall teamj / easily pulled away from their upperclass opponents in the last half and won 26 to 14. At the end of the intermission the score was tied 8 to 8.
Freshman’s last half rally was confined to three men. Krause at center/'' Pilney at forward, and Murphy at a guard position were responsible for their team’s points. Krause opened the scoring for the freshmen in the second half with a long shot from the center ©f the floor. On the play following the tip-off Tom Murphy dribbled under the basket for his team’s
second basket in as many minutes. From this stage of the game on, the freshmen were never headed.
The passing of Pilney resembled that of Johnny Baldwin of the varsity, many of his tosses resulted in points for the freshmen. Krause with nine points, and Pilney with seven, were the high scorers for Freshman, while Smith, Eckert, and/
Draper were the high point men for Walsh, as they scored twelve points between them.
Carroll 19, Howard 12
After losing last week to Brownson, Carroll came back Sunday and handed the junior hall, Howard, a 19 to 12 licking. Although Yerley of Carroll did not get the tip from Sandura, the big Howard center, his superior playing around the foul circle provided the freshmen with a margin of victory. The Carroll five led at the half, 6 to 5.
Both teams played a fine defensive game during the first half. The score was 4 to 3 in the favor of the junior hall, at the close of the first quarter. Howard was leading 5 to 4 as the end of the first half approached, but . an under basket shot by Sedej gave the freshmen a one-point lead as the half ended.
The play during the last half was an exciting battle waged between the two centers, Yerley and Sandura. L- -Both players are devotees of the pivot spot as all of their points were made from the foul circle. Yerley was the high point man of the game as he collected eight points; Sedej and Cur-ren of Carroll were tied with four points apiece. Sandura with six points and “Red” Tobin with four points were the leading scorers for Howard.
Morrissey 25, Sorin 5
Ray Morrissey’s classy Morrissey net squad found little trouble in Sorin, in the second game played Tuesday night, as they breezed through the senior hall’s defense for twenty-five points. The end of the game found Sorin on the short end of a 25 to 5 score. Morrissey led at the intermission, 13 to 3.	x
Connelly of the senior hall started the scoring of the game with a long shot from past the foul circle, and a v free throw by Gleason closed Sorin’s scoring for the half, as they trailed Morrissey, 13 to 3.
Paul Lesko, floor guard on the Mor- v-' rissey team, has a habit of making field goals as the final gun is being fired. In every game played so far
this season he has managed to slip through the other team’s defense for two points.
Sullivan led the scoring for Mor- /-rissey with 7 points; he was followed by Lesko with 5 points, and Cushing and Dwyer each tied with 4 points.
. Connelly and Blackwell with two points apiece were the high point men Ufor Sorin.	•
March 10, 1933
Twenty-seven
Corby 37, Badin 6
The first of\ the two games played Tuesday evening resulted in an easy victory for Corby over their junior opponent, Badin, the final score being 37 to 6. Mahoney led Corby’s attack !X
in the first half, as he and his teammates amassed twelve points before Badin was able to hit the hoop. The first and only point made by Badin in the first half was a free throw by Venables. Corby led 18 to 1 at half time.
Mahoney was the chief scorer for Corby with ten points; he was fol-
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Carroll 23, Howard 18
The Carroll lights won their fifth straight victory by dropping the determined Howard quintet, 23 to 18. Gene Tobin, Carroll’s flashy forward / was the outstanding man on the floor, as he scored points almost at will. He was the high point man of the day with fourteen points. Baskets by Tobin, Kinmann, and Sherry gave > -the freshman team an 11 to 6 advantage at the half-way mark.
Forastiere, Howard center, made z'”
defeated Dillon in an excited game, 19 to 13. Both teams had a hard time finding the basket in the first half which ended with the teams deadlocked at six-all.
Freeman and Collins of St. Ed’s scored four baskets apiece in the last half, and Montgomery and Leonard scored one field goal toward their team’s victory. As a result of this game St. Edward’s remains at the top of Group 1 with 1.000 per cent.
,	. , „	, _	_	, two quick under basket shots at the
lowed by Hayes and Conn who	o{ second haIf md
had five points apiece. Hoban with V--four points, and Begley and Venables-' each with a free throw to their credit, were the only scorers for Badin.
Off-Campus 15, Alumni 12
Off-Campus remains at the top of Group 2 as a result of their timely 15 to 12 victory over the Alumni quintet, in an overtime game played last Sunday morning. The score at the end of the regulation period was tied _ at 12-all. A foul by Vitt, and a field z' goal by Sickmeyer, gave the junior L hall victory and the maintenance of the league lead.
At the end of the first half Off-Campus led 9 to 2, and it seemed that another easy victory was in the offing for them, but a last half rally nearly upset all dope, as Alumni showed un-• usual speed and aggressiveness in handling the ball around the Off-Campus foul circle.
In the over-time period Vitt made good one of two attempts at the foul line. And as the three minute period was nearly over Sickmeyer fired a v--long shot from far out on the flooi-that passed through the hoop for the winning points.
IRISH BEAT MARQUETTE
(Continued from Page 22)
Dillon 20, St. Edward’s 14.
After trailing at the half, 6 to 2, Dillon came back with a fighting spirit that netted them a 20 to 14 vic-
brought his team to within one point of Carroll. But that combination of Tobin to Kinmann to Sherry soon worked its way through the air tight defense of Howard’s, thus keeping their team at the head of the junior league. Forastiere and Agamy, with 14 points between them were the chief offenders of the freshman hall’s basket.
Badin 21, Corby 13
The Badin lights upheld the honor of the junior hall by turning the tables on the Corbyites, and defeating them in a hard fought game, 21 to 13. The score during the first half seesawed back and forth, but two baskets by Piontek in the last few min- -utes of the first half insured Badin of a 12 to 9 lead.
Baskerville and Cronin each made ix a field goal at the outset of the second half giving Corby a one point lead, but Pointek’s uncanny eye soon found Corby’s basket, and he bombarded it with shots from all parts of the floor. The defensive play of Badin’s two guards was very interesting as they broke many of the senior hall’s under basket shots.
With five minutes left to play, Morstadt and Mullen of Marquette had boosted their team within five points of the leaders. The score at that point was 33 to 28.
A minute or two later Leo Crowe, who had been holding the Hilltopper scoring threats under effective control, committed his fourth foul and joined Kraause on the bench. New-bold replaced him.
Stage Another Rally
Again the Marquette team came to life and rained shot at the basket from all parts of the floor. Johnny
Jordan who had forward when Krause at center, throw and Eddie
gone to Voegele’s Voegele replaced dropped in a free
Alberts scored
a
basket to make the score 36 to 32.
__ Mullen of Marquette pushed in basket to close in on the Irish with
a a
minute left to play. In the final 60 seconds the home team poured a stream of shots at the basket in a desperate attempt’ to tie the score. The gun ended the game as the teams battled for possession of the ball.
Voegele with 11 points, and Krause
and Baldwin, with ten each, led
the
Morrissey 18, Sorin 11
The Sorin lights showed unusual strength, and were defeated only by their larger opponents in the dying
Irish scoring.
The box score:
Notre Dame (36) Voegele, f-c ......
tory. Belden and O’Neill of the u- ^zminutes of that hectic game, 18 to 11.
freshman hall were responsible for their team’s last half rally, as they garnered 16 points in the last half.
Caldwell of St. Edward’s opened the scoring in the second half with a field goal, but baskets by Belden,
The sophomore hall led by two points at the end of the half, 9 to 7.
A last half rally led by Robinson, f Sorin forward, was cut short by the
Alberts, Jordan, Krause,
f f
c
Baldwin, g Crowe, g . Newbold, g
FG
4 1
0 4
4 0
0
FT
0
1
0
FTA PF
5
0
3
Pts. 11
3
3 0
1
4
3
4
0
1
10
10
0
O’Neill, and Gohman tied the score. Dillon then went under the basket for two points, putting the freshman hall out in front for the first time during the game. Dillon increased their lead seven points before St. Ed’s was again able to penetrate the freshman defense for a field goal.
final blast of the referee’s whistle. All of Sorin’s points were scored from out on the floor, due to the stubborn defense employed by the Morrissey quintet.
St. Edward’s 19, Dillon 13
The St. Edward’s lightweight team failed to follow the example set them by their heavyweight colleagues, and
Totals .......
Marquette (34) Morstadt,- f .. Gorychka, f .. Kukla, c ___ Mullen, c __.... Zummach, g . Ronani, g ...
Totals
13
FG
4
1
3
0
12
io
FT
5
1 0
3
0
1
10
16
FTA 14
17
PF
3
0
3
1
1
12
Referee: Schommer (Chicago).
Umpire:' Warren (Illinois).
36
Pts.
13 3
4
9
4 1
34

ILLUSION:
The Oriental girl reclines on a sheet of plate glass supported by two slaves. The magician waves a white sheet in front of the pretty J _	■ f
maiden... pronounces a few magic words... 7^rr7r^	» _ —. —	_ _	____ , '
Presto! She has disappeared in thin air. 7 7 a\ 7777717 77) 7777 7^7)7)77777
_	*___O .	A.	*
- ■■■■■———*•-*•*- . -‘-..J'	”	. -	.	--- . _	_ •	.	9	o
EXPLANATION:	»
“Disappearing” acts are among the most popular in the repertory of the magician. Dogs, horses, girls, whole rooms disappear—whisked into wings, dropped through trapdoors, hidden by mirrors. But this “disappearance” is a bit different.One of the“slaves”is a hoUonvdummy. When the magician holds up the sheet the lithe little lady disappears completely—into the convenient figure of the dummy.
...H'S MOFF FUN TO JCVOW
There is also a trick of cigarette advertising, whereby a few magic words are used to create the illusion of “Coolness.”
EXPLANATION: Coolness is determined
Improperly wrapped cigarettes begin to dry out as soon as packed.
Camels are cooler because they come in the famous Humidor Pack of welded,
three-ply, MOISTURE-PROOF cello-phane... and because they contain better tobaccos.
A cigarette that is fresh, full of natural moisture, and blended from choice, ripe tobaccos tastes cooler than one that is harsh and acrid. For coolness, choose a fresh cigarette, made from costlier tobaccos.
It is a fact, well known by leaf tobacco experts, that Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE tobaccos than any other popular brand.
Try Camels... give your taste a chance to sense the difference. You’ll appreciate it!
KO TRICKS
.. JEST COSTLIER
TOBACCOS
IN A MATCHLESS BLEND
Thirty
The Scholastic
Seven University Boxing Champions Win Titles In Annual Bengal Fistic Tourney
Irish Squash Racquets Squad Beats Purdue, 4-1
(Continued from Page 22)
creased the pace in the second and third cantos to win the judges’ verdict.
Phil used a stabbing left jab, his best blow, and a short right- cross to the head and body that was very effective. Gaul hurt his right hand early in the second round and pluckily weathered the rest of the fight handicapped by this injured member. Phil had too much boxing ability and too long a reach for Frank to overcome in the closing rounds.
McKernan Beats Schiavone
The best bout of a very fine card was the middleweight final between Frank Schiavone, of Buffalo, and Bart v McKernan, of Chicago. These two husky punchers put on a fight that was action from start to finish, with McKernan earning the victory.
In the first round, Schiavone dumped McKernan to the canvas after 32 seconds, but Bart came back to earn an even break on the round. The second round found Bart boxing cleverly to offset the hard swings of
Schiavone. In the third, Bart scored two successive knockdowns over the very game Schiavone, who also packed a mean wallop, but couldn’t keep him down and feared Frank’s right hand too much to rush him blindly. As a result, although badly tired, Frank lasted the fight out.
Nick Cartan, of Chicago, and Jim-^ my Byrne, from Cleveland, put on a good scrap in the welterweight final in which Nick received the verdict. For two rounds they went at it hammer and tongs, battering and slugging one another all over the ring.
Tire In Third Round
In the third, however, both were tired out and slowed the fight by frequent clinching. Byrne fought his usual aggressive, rough battle, but couldn’t keep his face away from Cartan’s straight left, and suffered badly bruised lips as a result. Cartan fought a smart battle by boxing rather than slugging with his plunging,- weaving foeman. His only fault was that he shot too long a punch at times permitting Byrne to bore in under his guard and smash at his body. .
Billy Malloy, of Flushing, L. I., I
outslapped Joe Ciaverello, of Chica-^ go, in a wild-swinging, free-punching, lightweight final. Both men were former Scholastic champions, but neither was much of a puncher. Both slapped with the open gloves' rather than the clenched fists. It was a fast bout throughout, with Malloy’s superior reach giving him a big advantage and earning him the judges’ verdict.
Two good little men met in the featherweight class, and Hal Gooden, from Tulsa, Oklahoma, the Oklahoma state featherweight champion, emerged the victor over Dominick . Varraveto, Jr., of Chicago, by a technical knockout. The bout opened with Gooden cautiously stalking Dominick, who usually fights a cagy battle. v
1/ Varraveto threw caution to the winds and began to slug and throw punches at Gooden, who has dynamite in either hand. Hal immediately started his boxing and hard punching attack that sent Dominick down in first round and several times in the second before Referee Tuffy Griffiths raised his arm as victor after one minute and thirty-five seconds of the second round.
Torrell Beats Nerad
Russ Torrell, of Perth Amboy, N. J., scored an easy victory over his much younger opponent, Ed Nerad, L
of Berwyn, Ill., in the flyweight bout. Torrell was Ed’s superior in boxing skill and attack, and won in rather
easy fashion except for the moments when Nerad would swing his very capable left hand into action. Nerad showed plenty of promise and a very good left hand for a rather inexperienced chap.	-
. Bob Knappman, of Los Angeles, Cal., dropped a very close decision to Sigmund Sluzska, from Hempstead, L. I., in a grudge battle for the championship of St. Edward’s first floor. The bout was a free swinging, fiercely contested go with Sluzka’s haymaker right hand wallops giving him a close edge over his shorter and heavier opponent.
The mid-Winter homecoming of Williams College was made auspicious by the presence of no less than three governors — Herbert H. Lehman, ’99, of New York; Joseph B. Ely, ’02, of Massachusetts, and Theodore F. Green of Rhode Island.
A five-man Notre Dame squash racquets squad scored a decisive victory over Purdue in the Notre Dame courts last Saturday afternoon. The score was 4 to 1.
Don Dugan, Art O’Neill, Tom'-' Moran, and Luce Daigenault scored^"' the four wins for the Irish. In each instance the Notre Dame player won in straight games. Don Brice was the lone Notre Dame man to lose, going down in a four game match to Lawrence of Purdue.
The matches were played on-a basis of three out of five games. No doubles were played. Plans are tentatively arranged for a return match to be played at Purdue. _
The Notre Dame team ranking was as follows: Dugan, No. 1; O’Neill, No. 2; Moran, No. 3; Brice, No. 4; Daigenault, No. 5.
The summary: Dugan (ND) beat Shedds (P) 15-3, 15-7, 15-2. O’Neill (ND) beat Selfridge (P) 15-6, 15-9, 15-7. Moran (ND) beat Howard (P) 15-4, 15-8, 15-6. Lawrence (P) beat Brice (ND) 15-10, 15-8, 16-18, 13-9. Daigenault (ND) beat Vrail (P) 15-7, 15-8, 15-5.
BANKING PROBLEM
(Continued from Page 24)
posits in all banks, extensive govern
mental supervision, control, and, it now seems likely, unification of our individual banks into a few large
chains. The system is now working successfully in England and Canada.
In general, however, the present enforced holiday, although disturbing retail trade, creating stock flurries and causing some physical hardship, is in itself relatively unimportant. It is but a temporary measure necessitated by conditions which are really important, an artificial breathing spell for many banks, pending legislative measures to preevnt serious damage to our economic structure.
Interhall Practice Schedules
Monday, March 13
Sorin	7:00 p. m.	Freshman
Corby	8:00 p. m.	. Brownson;
Walsh	9:00 p. m.	Carroll Wednesday, March 15	
Alumni	7:00 p. m.	Dillon
Badin	8:00 p. m.	St. Edwards
Lyons	-9:00 p. m.	Off-Campus
March 10, 1933
Thirty-one
With Plenty of Throat and Good Guffaw ...
"THE VAGABONDS"
. . . Are Coming to Rock Old Washington Hall
(Watch "The Scholastic )
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 25)
was 4:25.3 while outdoors he ran 4:18.6.
Other records that are in danger of being .broken tomorrow include the pole vault, shot put, and the low hurdles, and the 60-yard dash. McKinley of Michigan Normal and Schram of Marquette both are capable of bettering 13 feet 4% inches, the present vault mark.
LeRoy Dues, giant colored star of Detroit City College, won the A. A. U. shot put with a toss just short of 50 feet. His winning heave last year, of 47 feet 9% inches, stands as the C. I. C. record. Gene Beatty and Red Simmons are after the low hurdle record and Ralph Metcalfe, in view of his mark of :06.2 in the 60-meter dash, looks good enough to beat the same time in the 60-yard event.
Cornell Man Honored
Ithaca, N. Y.—The William H. Nichols Medal of the New York Section of the American Chemical Society for 1933 has been awarded Dr. Wilder D. Bancroft, professor of physical chemistry at Cornell University for his advancement of scientific proof that dementia and narcotic addiction are curable chemically.
MANY CROWIN NEW HAIR
YOU. too. may have luxuriant hair of lustrous Equality by using HAIRMORE and GLO-MORE. perfected by professor of chemistry at
Gonzaga U. Spokane
HAIRMORE grows hair even on bald heads; stops dandruff and falling hair: relieves scalp ailments. It is unusually penetrating and con* tains natural hair food. Trial size. 25 treat* ments, 75 cents. More than 100 treatments in a $2 bottle, in plain wrapper.
GLO-MORE. an antiseptic and stimulant shampoo, is healing and non>astringent. Use it with HAIRMORE for complete treatment and results. $1 bottle.
Send to Gilmore-Burke. Inc., Seattle, Wash., who handle royalties for the University.
FONTAINEBLEAU SCHOOL of MUSIC
Palace of Fontainebleau, France
Famous French masters: Widor, Philipp, Dupre, Nadia Boulanger, Salignac, Litvinne, Hilda Roosevelt, Decreus, Hewitt, Bazelaire, Grandjany.
June 25 tn September 25
For 1933 .catalogue, address:
WALTER DAMROSCH, President of the American Committee, 119 East 19th St., New York City.
On Down The Line
Fred MonRoti.
HARRY GILL, who has coached TRACK at ILLINOIS FOR 28 YEARS, has won more championships with ILLINI teams than any other track coach . . . milers and 4-mile relay teams are his delight ... he was all-around TRACK CHAMPION OF AMERICA FOR TWO YEARS (’03 & ’04) ... he was a consistent performer in the high jump (6 feet 2 inches), broad jump (over 22 feet), shot put (46 feet) and discus (135 feet) . . . the Gill “Official” discus, javelin, and vaulting pole are considered standard field equipment.
G
The WHIPPET, fastest dog in the world, is a cross between the greyhound and terrier . . . the moving picture camera is advancing to the front in ice hockey coaching . . . HEAD COACH VIC DUPLIN, a scientist, has introduced the novel method in coaching hockey at the MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ... the AMERICAN OLYMPIC EMBLEM has been patented in order to guard against its use for commercial purposes . . . OUTFIELDER DUCKY HOLMES threw out four men at the plate in one game . . . while with the WHITE SOX in 1903.
It is rumored that the NEW YORK RANGERS and the MONTREAL CA-NADIENS will give EUROPEAN SPORT FANS a glimpse of PROFESSIONAL HOCKEY THIS SPRING . . . there are eight pitchers in the major leagues who are 40 years of age or older . . . they are JACK QUINN, 48; RED FABER, 45; ADOLFO LUQUE, 43; EPPA RIXEY, 42; SAM JONES, 41; and DAZZY VANCE, JESS HAINES and BURLEIGH GRIMES, all 40 ... on TROON (Scotland) municipal courses last month a young golfer, GEORGE McFIE, performed the uncommon feat of making two holes in one on the same day ... he conquered the 198-yard third hole on the LOCHGREEN course and the 121-yard seventh on the DARLEY course. . . .
DURING HIS BRILLIANT CAREER AS A JOCKEY, EARL SANDE RODE MOUNTS THAT WON CLOSE TO $3,000,000 . . .
since 1918, he was on 3,662 mounts, winning 967, was second 716, third 551, and unplaced 1,418 . . . burly ERNIE LOMBARDI, CINCINNATI CATCHER, has the largest nose and the largest feet in the major leagues . . . inability to raise sufficient funds to bring about a world’s championship match, with ROBERT STEWART of KELTY, SCOTLAND, defending his title, was a disturbing influence in CHECKERS during 1932 . . . STEWART HAS NOT DEFENDED HIS TITLE SINCE HE DEFEATED NEWELL W. BANKS OF DETROIT TEN YEARS AGO.
C. I. C. MEET TONIGHT
(Continued from Page 20)
conceded the 60-yard dash title. There is no entry who can be considered in the dusky flyer’s class. Captain Jack Tierney of the same time will be dangerous in the quarter, and Schram, a top-noch vaulter, should not do worse than second in his event.
A scattering of the outstanding entries from the smaller schools includes Ray Sears, Butler’s fine miler, Ray Swartz, Western State Normal’s defending mile champion, Pilbrow of Grinnell, surprise winner of last year’s two-mile race, and LeRoy Dues, colored shot putter of Detroit City College.	.
Mile Will Be Stiff
An analysis of Notre Dame’s chances reveals considerable weakness. Vince Murphy is in the class of the high jumpers. Eddie King should score in the mile, but will have to work hard against the classiest mile field in the meet’s history.
Jim Fagan is a possible point winner in the hurdles where his hardworking tactics may bring a pay-off in the form of a third or fourth. Joe Young is always dangerous, and may score in the two mile. Clyde Roberts — will make a strong bid for the 880 title. Eddie Gough, if in form, will i—— go a long way in the broad jump, but beyond a slim chance in the shot put, that about completes the scoring possibilities for Nicholson’s men.
The preliminaries in the 60-yard dash, both hurdle events, the 440, 880 and mile runs, and the pole vault will be held tonight. Finals in all events will be held tomorrow after- i noon starting at 2:00 o’clock.
Points will be scored on a basis of five for first, three for second, two | for third, and one for fourth.	I
I 1
After College WHAT?
Engineering?
Harry D. Watts, V. P. of James Stewart SL Co., Inc., builders of famous buildings throughout the world, says: "World progress depends upon engineering. No wonder eager college men look toward this profession. But to succeed you'must have a technical background, ability to take the knocks, and alertness to take advantage of the breaks.”
"ABILITY to take the knocks.” And yet brains count above all.
That’s why in engineering, as in college, a pipe is the favorite smoke. A pipeful of good old Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco clears the brain for those intensive problems that confront the engineer ... or the college man.
Of course most college men know Edgeworth.* They like its distinctive flavor that comes only from this blend of fine old hurleys. Perhaps you’d like to try before you buy. Then just write to Larus H Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va., and you’ll get a free sample packet of Edgeworth.
♦A recent investigation showed Edgeworth the favorite smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges
LEMONTREES
Optometrists
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
222% S. Michigan Street
102 W. Washington Street
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth Ready - Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes—15^ pocket package to pound humidortin. Some sizes in vacuum sealed tins.
GLASSES . . .
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
□
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately.
Come to think of it...
**	it’s very much the
same with cigarettes. No cigarette should ever be "strong.” That means that they should never be too rich or over-seasoned—not harsh or "bitey.” The taste of a Chesterfield is just as near right as we know how to make it.
Not tasteless or flat, not too highly flavored for