THE COVER
The cover of this week's SCHOLASTIC shows the “studio" of station WND, a product of two undergraduate Engineers. Roommates Bob Martina and Dan Tomcik, Alumni Hall seniors, spend their spare time entertaining the rest of the hall. The announcer is George Bariscillo.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
FLOWERS for Your Valentine
Delivered or wired — to greet your Valentine—the perfect gift.
Feb. 14th is on SUNDAY
ORDER EARLY
WILLIAMS, The Florist
West of Oliver Hotel
MUSIC
For HER Valentine
J. C. R.
Last Saturday, we heard for the first tune Lucky Strike’s new slogan, war chant, or death rattle, whichever it may be. We thought once Lucky Strike Green went to war, the world would be spared such things for the duration: but now, it’s “The best tunes of all come to Carnegie Hall; yes, the best tunes of all come to Carnegie Hall.” We have one of two assumptions: that the Lucky Strike program is presented in Carnegie Hall, or that Lucky Strike never plays the best tunes and you have to go to Carnegie Hall to hear them. At any rate, to hear “The best tunes of all come to Carnegie Hall” an average of three times between each number became quite monotonous, grating, moronic and left us with the feeling that we didn’t much care where they went, or where the announc- ' ers went.
Among the tops in the popular music line is another Harry James’ number, “I’ve Heard That Song Before,” coming to rank along with “I Had the Craziest Dream” and other James’ hits. It would seem, now that Glenn Miller is out of active competition, that Harry James’ with his trumpet, leads the most popular’ band, a spot which he has well earned with the help of these recordings.
The use of music in the grammar school, with mental patients, and even in hospitals during certain operations is now about a year in its experimental staged But now, music in precise proportions is played to defense workers after careful selection and at specified times. In Cleveland, it was found to raise production as much as nine per cent to 15 per cent. Great steps forward have been taken within the past few years to place music on a utilitarian basis and while we shall not go into the reasons, we somehow think it is a practice or a growing tendency to be frowned upon in this extremely practical, empirical day and age.
Dan Cupid suggests
GIFTS OF FINE JEWELRY
Lapel Watches Sparkling Clips Musical Powder Boxes
(Wrapped for mailing)
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN mo WASHINGTON
POME
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
There was a young maiden named Anna, Who zu as caught in a flood in Montana. As she floated azuay, Her old mother, they say, . Accompanied her on the piano.
—Gonzaga Aqziilan
JOHN LYNCH
THINGS ARE TOUGH DEPT.
That New England girls’ country club, Radcliffe College, reports through the Radcliffe Nezus, to wit:
“Student Council wishes the college to be reminded that there is to be no smoking at all in Longfellow (the club house, we presume) , except on the outside steps, the third floor terrace, the basement smoking rooms, and
in classes where smoking is permitted by the professor. This excludes smoking in the halls.”
Is freedom dead?
SANS BOOK LARNIN'
Kindly clergyman, pinching little boy’s knees: “And who'has nice chubby pink legs?”
Little boy: “Betty Grable.”
—L.A.C.C. Pace
BURLINGTON ENTRY?
We hardly believe it, but the good Fathers of St. Edward’s University, a Holy Cross institution in Texas, have let it pass through the pages of the Echo.
It is attested to be the biggest scoop of the year at St. Ed’s.
Briefly, one Luke Cash, while emulating a carnival sword swallower, caught a blade of dry ice in his throat. Applications of hot and cold water were tried, but to no avail. Result: Luke belched smoke for 80 minutes.
to you, you and you
■a ’
The War Department almost stopped this nonsense, but we feel they still are not sure of themselves. Our opinion, plagiarized of course, is:
To a Jerk in the ERC
I think my brain is upside down;
At least, that’s what I fear.
For when I think, I think I think My thoughts are not so clear.
I’m going back to school.... I think And finish up my course.
Unless, of course, my course is curst Through force from some curst source.
I’ll graduate in March or May, Or maybe Tokyo.
I’ll get my A.B., Ph.B....
Or G.I.— I don’t knozv.
But zvait! Don’t call the wagon, bud.
It’s not insanity._
Or is it? I don’t know!
I’m in theE. R. C.
—Xavier University Nezus
ENLIGHTENING MANKIND
Our revealing personality for the week is Dr. Lawrence M. Gould, director of the Arctic information bureau on the University of Minnesota campus. Said the famous geologist in a recent discussion of weather conditions, and we quote:
“In the polar regions we dress for the weather. Here in Minnesota I wear the same underwear in winter as in summer.” .
Revealing to say the least! We suppose he showers in the spring and fall.
ALSO FOR THE BIRDS
“Mary,” said the lady of the house, “did I hear you kiss someone in the kitchen?”	_
“Well, Ma’am, the junk man said he came over for a little oven.”
—Queen’s U. Journal
TO SWEETBRIAR, INC.
The following item is jovially dedicated to all our “sisters across the road.”
Some of the more stalwart University of Texas co-eds took a “war-conditioning” physical training program recently that should fit them for commando work.
Said stalwarts have stabilized their weight perceptibly (Welch’s is good too); improved their lung capacity 4.32 per cent; their arm strength 36.87 per cent; chest strength 6.65 per cent; shoulder strength 4.47 per cent; abdominal strength 29 per cent; and agility 11 per cent.	-	.	.	.
Sweetbriar • would also: find- this plan useful in the development of lady rass-lers. And then there are the Bengal Bouts: coming in April. What about it, girls?
GONE ARE THE DAYS
During the early snows of last fall we reported that Northwestern University-had set up hitch-hiking stations to alleviate the travel situation for the N.U. boys and girls who must otherwise walk a lusty mile or more to that seat of education.	'
But all this is past now. The police have cracked down. “§5 to §100 fine” says the Dailzj Northzvestem. .
Isn’t it bad enough to be in the E.R.C.? But then, they won’t be walking long. Marching is much healthier.
INFIRMARY SPECIAL
A tough patient in the hospital awoke after a serious operation and found the blinds of his room drawn.
“Why are the blinds down, Doctor?”
“Well,” said the Doctor, “there’s a fire across the alley and I didn’t want you to wake up and think the operation was a failure.” * -
—The Webster Web
Boy! This rationin's gettin' me down!
3
THE WEEK
JACK WOBLFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Theme song of the new midshipmen: “Praise the Lord and Pass Me My Commission.”
LOOK TO THE FUTURE
Having witnessed the recent graduation of the new ensigns “The Week” peeks into the future and brings you the graduation of the first E.R.C. group as it takes place in the Padcokie High gym.
The guest of honor is Sgt. Stanislaus Mayenka, head cook in the first corps of the W. A. A. C. The graduates are helped to their feet and march proudly up to the platform behind their seeing eye dogs. A physician is present to examine the men before and after they climb the four steps. For the highest average in “Home Economics” Joe Thurp is awarded an alarm clock. The men can’t see anything smaller than a Big Ben. For efficiency in reading, Blindasa Bat is awarded a carton of spectacles. For the funniest lyrics to the Victory March Poora Nemic is awarded a life time pass to the First National Blood Bank. The men receive their awards proudly and render a snappy salute to their commanding officer. The audience gasps as Oswald Abernacker lifts his arm for the salute in the record time of three minutes and 12 seconds. The men return to their iron lungs and are ready for action.
PEEL ANOTHER ONE
Disintegration has set in at last. After 100 years this Pottawotomie paradise is cracking under the strain. We are referring, of course, to the centennial cement on the steps of the dining hall. They must have mixed it with bananas instead of mortar. It took nearly five weeks to do the job and it lasted just about as long. Here goes some of the reserve for bad steps.
LA DE DA
The first invasion of the Rock has taken place. The casualties weren’t very heavy this year because of the small freshman class. Said Oswald Poponoper, commander of the expedition: “Sighted
sub. Sank same.” It was more likely a freighter. Said his junior officer Frank Frenesi: “We have met the enemy and you can keep ’em.”.... A big blow to two N. D. lads who signed up in the Golden Gloves tournament. Charlie Koegler of Walsh, and Ed Steiner of Alumni. Good luck men! ... You can tell an E.R.C. man a vitamin pill’s throw away. The other night all the boys in Alumni were busy writing. Suddenly the lights went out. The E.R.C. men kept right on writing. They couldn’t tell the difference...’. We have it on good information that the St. Mary’s girls don’t mind being made fun of as long as their names aren’t spelled correctly, and that they all read this column.
THE CUE FOR THE BLUE
Another group of V-7’s has arrived on the campus. “The Week” is taking the liberty of printing the first reactions. Said one as he saw the dome for the first time: “Gee! Look at the gold football. ” Said another as he beheld stately Badin: “I didn’t know that Old Ironsides was in dry dock.” One of the lads was a former N.D. student. He said: “Nuts! We’ve heard that song before.” All kidding aside though, we do wish the new sailors lots of luck. We know what they are in for. The duration plus six months.
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“The text cost §4.00. I’ll let it go for §3.75.”
CALLING SPIKE JONES
Already there are rumors afoot that the different classes will have dances this semester. There really isn’t any reason why we can’t have them either. The University has made it very clear that though there is a war on the students will be permitted to carry on with the normal activities of campus life. Therefore class officers, get moving?
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Theme song of the campus: “Praise the Lord and Pass Me.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3. 19iT. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Daniel Downey, Editor
Ted Weber..........Managing Editor
Bill Boss..............Sports	Editor
Dave Condon.............Campus Editor
Jack Denniston..........Admin. Editor
Phil Keen..........Asst. Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan............Promotion
Al Schaefer........Staff Photographer
Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the school year at' the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to Editor, 267 Alumni Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms. Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Station WND ..................   5
Student Council Poll ..........  6
Woelfle Will Fight...........    7
Review of "Scrip".........:______ 8
ADMINISTRATION
Prof. Downey Elected .........    9
Chicago Book "Party" ..........  10
NAVY PAGE ........._________________12
SPORTS
' Basketball _______.'._____________13
Track__________________________1.14
Fencing ............._i__________|4
FEATURES
Music .„...__________________     2
College Parade	  3
The Week_______________________   4
Warming the Bench _______________  15
Strictly Instrumental .........11...^... 18
■The Ears Have It.............;.. 22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 78
FEBRUARY 5. 1943
No. 2
WND Broadcasts Daily from Alumni Hall;
No Commercials Policy of Campus Station
and good night.” The national anthem is played at every sign off period.
Both Tomcik and Martina are members of the radio club and Tomcik holds
DAVE
No Harry Nicodemus! No Shopper’s Guide! No morning bugle and no Parch-er! It reads like a definition of heaven but in reality is only a summing up of the policy of WND, your campus radio station.
WND, with studios on the second floor of Alumni hall, is the child of two electrical engineers, Dan Tomcik, Cleveland, Ohio, and Bob Martina, the boy from mile-high Denver, Colo.
The station was first started in Walsh hall when the engineers put on more or less of a program as, if, and when they felt like it. Since moving to Alumni, however, the boys have established a regular schedule, and WND, featuring all recorded music and the quips of star announcer --- George Bariscillo, takes-to s the .waves every week-day afternoon from 4:30 to 6 o’clock, and again from 10 to 11 o’clock at night.
A wired wireless station, WND covers all of Alumni hall and has even been picked up in nearby Dillon. The frequency can be regulated to keep from interfering with other stations on the dial.
The transmitter, control room, and other apparatus are all assembled in Main Studio X. The station has facilities for making electrical transcriptions, but to date has not employed the use of this to any great extent.,
Dan Tomcik claims the record of being able to change the platters in four seconds flat but is given more than enough time as George Bariscillo unwinds with a preview of the next selection. To date, no request numbers have been played and all recordings have been the selection of the studio engineers. Big name bands top the list of WND’s performers and anyone from T. Dorsey to Spike Jones is . liable to give out over the waves. No -recordings of the Sweetbriar choir have been played, however, for fear of blowing out the tubes in receiving sets.
WND frowns on commercials, canning
CONDON
the corn and not asking whether you , need a sanitary engineer, want tips on shopping, or care for insurance. It takes to the air with the playing of the theme, “Well, Get It,” personal selection of copresident Tomcik, and signs off with Bob Martina bidding you “pleasant dreams
Bariscillo Takes Cue From Martina and Tomcik
membership in the Cleveland club.
The effect of WND oii campus life is yet to be tested. In air probability the schedule of broadcasts will have to be revamped with the new evening meal schedule conflicting with broadcast hours. WND has not announced that it would fight the edict of school officials in proclaiming a new hour for the evening meal, nor is it planning to issue news
broadcasts in competition with campus publications.
Poll Reveals Most Students in Dark
The propaganda effect of WND might be great in future days should hostilities between the Gold Coasters, Dillon and Alumni, be resumed on the large scale battle plan of last semester. Then, the leaders of Alumni’s forces could make radio addresses urging Alumnites to hold fast and fight a scorched earth policy, something like Saturday’s steaks. Imagine reading a war bulletin issued by Generalissimo J. Paul (War-Whoop) Limont, of Dillon, saying: “Our bombers were active over Alumni hall this evening, and at seven minutes after five the Alumni hall radio station, WND, went off the air.” Well, anything can happen here!!!
Wranglers to Employ New Discussion Plan
A break from Wrangler tradition was discussed by members of that club at their organization meeting last week.
This year, according to plans made at the meeting, all papers will deal with parts of one broad subject, “The Post W ar World.” The plan as prepared by President Bill Lawless and Sec-
BILL LAWLESS retary	O’Dea
was approved by the members. Other plans proposed at the meeting included publication of papers presented before the club, and some sort of conference or open forum to integrate and unite the conclusions arrived at during a semester.
All but three members are scheduled for papers this winter and spring, each for a different meeting; one meeting dur-•ing, the spring will constitute a membership meeting and the final banquet will be held on April 22. The club meets each Thursday evening in the seminar room of the Law Building.
Notre Dame Grad First
Yank to Bomb Germany
Herren Schickelgruber, Goering, and Goebbels, a. Berlin sausage corporation, received a special gift last week from the Fighting Irish as Lt. Edward Hennessy, Notre Dame class of 1940, became the first member of the United States Army Air Forces to bomb Germany.
In leading the American air arm into Germany, Hennessy piloted the “Banshee.” Three American planes failed to return.	_	'
Hennessy, from Chicago, Hl., graduated. from Notre Dame on June 2, 1940, with a B.A. degree in economics.
6	'
Concerning Student Council Activities
BILL BROWN
In the warm days of summer, when the student body.was concerned with dipping in the lake, the Student Council sponsored a campus swimming meet, promising awards to the winners. Later, the Council became interested in cheering at football games and sponsored a cheerwriting contest. More prizes were offered as an inducement to those who thought they could combine their literary talent with lung music. As yet, the top placers in the swimming meet have not seen their awards; ditto for the winners in the cheerwriting contest. The winners of both contests are now scattered throughout the globe. Several have dropped from school, graduated, joined the navy, etc. One is a member of the anti-tank forces in Texas. With the above mentioned information as bait for thought, Scholastic interviewed students in the hope of gaining some definite opinion of the Student Council.
The question, “What do you think of the Student’ Council and its activities?” was set before a group of students. What they think is registered here.
Paul Limont, Dillon Hall sophomore: “I never hear anything about them. What is it? I do recall, though, that last year we elected a man from our hall to represent us in the Council.”
John McGowan, Dillon sophomore: “I have heard that there is a Student Council, but then you know how rumors get around at Notre Dame.”
Jerry Ford, Breen-Phillips: “Wasn’t that the outfit that put on those freshman dances across the way?” He declined further comment.	.
Bob Sullivan, Dillon sophomore: “We are not debating the fact that they worked but we have as yet to see the results.”
Jim Platt, Alumni senior: “I haven’t heard enough about it in four years to say anything for or against it.”
Dick Ames, Dillon sophomore: “A Student Council is a good thing. A school like Notre Dame ought to have an excellent Student Council. The deficiency of this council must come from the fact that they do not exercise the power they have or they do not have the power to exercise.”
. Ziggy Czarobski, Dillon sophomore: “The Student Council has a highly ben. evolent designation but it seems to have no practical value. On the campus we see many times its name looming at us but rarely do we see any of its activities.
Perhaps it should avail itself of the experience of the European underground patriots whose activities are very widely renowned. Perhaps if the physical engineers had more to do with the administration of the council, its ventures would be more publicized and successful.”
Ed O’Connor, Walsh junior: “ A public notice of the Student Council accomplishments should be published to let those it represents know what the council is doing for them.”	.
Ray O’Connell, Walsh junior: “Our Student Council and its many fine activities and benefits are too readily criticized. The Council is organized for the benefit of the students but gets little cooperation from all sides.”
Joe O’Keefe, Walsh junior: “I am all for the Student Council. It gains many benefits for the students’ but most of them go unrecognized by the students as coming from the Council. We ought to get behind it and push it along to greater heights instead of getting on the sides of it and tearing it apart.” •
Next issue Scholastic will attempt to gain the views of Council members.
Armed Services Seek To Draw Student Blood
Bleed them some more—this time the Army and Navy, Marines and WAVES, and other units of the armed forces have joined the tax bureau of the internal revenue department in seeking to draw more from citizens, turnips, and the E. R. C.
Colleges particularly have been requested to aid the Red Cross, recently requested by the armed forces to procure 4,000,000 pints of blood during 1943. This blood is urgently needed due to the present crisis. Every person in the United States has been urged to “appoint himself a one-man committee to get his family and friends to donate.” College students, generally regarded as healthy, . have been asked to contact Red Cross -authorities and donate as much as they can.
The goal of 4,000,000, like the national debt, dwarfs the 1942 total. Last year 1,300,000 pints were taken for blood banks. This year, explains Chairman Norman Davis, additional centers and mobile units will be set up to attain the four million goal. He, however, offered no suggestion, for the collecting of the taxes.
Good Humor Man Shapes Up For Bouts;
Promises Furious Battle in Chicago
DAVE CONDON	-
Jack (the Wolf) Woelfle has been entered in the Chicago Golden Gloves bouts if reliable news sources here can be
JACK WOELFLE
believed. The Wolf, who has been pernicious and pugnacious since he was threatened by the St. Mary’s welders union, was notified by the Chicago boys to begin training on Monday, February 1.
Strange is the story that lies behind the Wolf’s desire to obtain physical prowess. A Charles Atlas fan and possessor of the entire course, the Wolf has been relegated to a defensive position here on the campus. Hemmed in by St. Mary’s on one side and Frank King, popular plagiarize!’ of Exactly Accidental, on the other, Woelfle has long gnashed his teeth and longed for the day when he could put a chip on his shouler.
Returning to the campus following the Christmas parole, Woelfle expressed the idea of building up his resistance to bacteria—without mentioning anything specific. His friends, rallying behind the Wolf’s standard, rushed to enter him in the Chicago Golden Gloves meet.
Woelfle’s first bit of training consisted of a haircut and two trips to the Caf. He was considerably vexed because the cafeteria management was chipping the sidewalk ice in front of Woelfle’s former residence, Walsh hall, and serving it in the ginger ale. He invited one of the floorwalkers to be his sparring partner and to date has been able to climb through the ropes without becoming winded.
Training headquarters of the Woelfle-for-Champion club have been established on the third floor of the Huddle. A training diet of green bananas is keeping the contender on edge, and he is anxious to climb in the ring. If he wins at the Golden Gloves Woelfle is' planning to enter the Bengals.
First Chicago opponent for the Lynn-brook Lion and the McAlpin Mauler is Blacksmith Joe Blajoeski, 248 lb. contender. Says Woelfle about Blajoeski (pronounced Smith): “I’ll moider da bum. When I finish, he’ll look worse than King’s column. He’ll be in such a bad shape they’ll confuse him with the Student Council. Why, Blajoeski (pronounced Smith) will be in such a shape they’ll
send him a scholarship for Sweetbriar.”
In an effort not to be partial, Scholastic interviewed Blacksmith Joe Blajoeski, the former miner and ice man who floored Joe Louis twice. Blajoeski had this to say: “Really, Mr. Woelfle’s pugnacious attitude is rather annoying, rather. I would much prefer that this - encounter of fisticuffs between Mr. Woelfle and I might be carried out .in a more gentlemanly manner than something resembling a disgraceful brawl in a tavern.”
So Woelfle, the Wildcat of the “Week,” prepares to enter the Golden Gloves in Chicago. Whether he goes flatter than a Caf coke or rises to the popularity of the Cavanaugh rec, will soon be decided. Scholastic, proud of the Wolf, believes him to be another Harry, and thinks he will get out of the hole with no damage and end up, licensed and bonded with a two year written guarantee.
Glee Club Prepares
For Spring Concerts
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the department of music, began another semester last week.. While other campus organizations were faced with depleted ranks from graduation and service calls, the Glee Club began rehearsals immediately with over 40 members returning from last semester. Last week tryouts were held and seven new men were added to the experienced ranks.
With this group, the Club is planning a successful round of spring concerts, both local and away. Already, the organization is slated to appear in southern Indiana some time in March. Distinct transportation- problems make, it difficult to safely schedule out-of-town appearances. Since a number of requests from South Bend have been received, an octet is being formed to take care of smaller concerts.
Heading the club this year is President Dan Downey, a. Sorin Hall senior from West Palm Beach, Fla., who-succeeds Reggie Flynn, mentor of last semester. Mike Zorovich of Alumni Hall and Flushing, N. Y., is vice president, while. Herb Clark, also of Alumni, from Park Ridge, Ill., is secretary-treasurer.
. George A. Bariscillo, Bradley Beach, N. J., is publicity director. The club’s other officer, tenor soloist Bill Brady, Chicago, recently left to join the armed forces.
Jim Cunningham
Rangy, athletic. — 6'1".... curly hair .... regular features.... Arthur Charles Ley.... magnetic smile conceals the
wise crack that’s coming up.... million friends._____ but one special girl_a South Bend brunette whom Art sees five nights a week.________this aero engineer hails from Chicago’s thickly populated north, side... in
spite of “operations” maintains 87.5 average. ... terrific for a slide-rule man.
During spare time, earns part of tuition working on atom smasher... actually understands how the thing works.... came to N. D. in 1940 as honor student from Windy City’s St. Philip High._____________ took only two midnights in first year.__________ likes Flash Gordon, vanilla shakes, tall girls.... holds 2A classification.______________after Sept, graduation plans to accept PanAmerican Airways offer if they will send him to South America.... politically a liberal, favors world federation after the war. — to broaden education Art reads _________________________________________________Days of Our Years_Drink To Yes- ‘ terday... .Berlin Diary.___________________________________________Shakespeare ... many others.
Owns .32 automatic.... but -likes to hunt with his dad’s shotgun.... shoots ducks, mudhens, rabbits in northern Illinois. ... breaks 90 often on the golf course.... played on Walsh’s 11 which placed second last fall.__types with two fingers.... in spite of mild manner is a jitterbug.... reads “world’s greatest newspaper” for laughs.
-Dislikes high pressure bartenders who want to “fill her up” when she’s half full ____sleeps, studies, in small double_______ second floor Alumni... roomie Jim Ma. honey, also an engineer Art’s desk exceptionally neat.... files everything from light plugs to cuff links.... wears smooth brown gaberdines. — and ties, in Church and on dates.— holds chairmanship of Aero Club.... subscribes to Aero Digest, Naval Aviation and South Bend Tribune .... works on vacations.... right now
. lives in room next to station “WND”... - trying to adjust his radio so it will pick up - the new campus station. ■
'	7
Latest "Scrip" Keeps Centennial Spirit As Editors Review Books by N. D. Authors
FRANK KENT
The latest issue of Scrip, the University literary quarterly, distributed in the final days of December, kept with the Notre Dame Centennial spirit as the editors devoted the book section to the reviewing of several recently published works of Notre Dame men.
Books reviewed in the Centennial edition included Richard Sullivan’s Summer After Summer, a first novel by the Notre Dame English instructor and popular short story writer; The Rodd to Vichy, by Yves Simon, prominent member of the faculty; and Assignment to Berlin, by Harry Flannery, distinguished alumnus.
Art features included smooth paper inserts of the work of John Sherer, whose free hand pencil sketch of the Palace of Fontainebleau has received wide acclaim. Another Sherer insert, “Drydock,” was a steel plate engraving, and the illustration for Robert Cullen’s “The Entertainment Industry” was a collaboration of the efforts of John Sherer and his brother, William. Much of the fiction was illustrated by the pen and ink sketches of George Barrett, Louisville, Ky.
Credit must be given to Robert Cullen an English major from Great Neck, Long Island, for his satire on “The Entertainment Industry.” Pointed and well written, Cullen’s article hits home at the American’s frantic quest for leisurely entertainment and his insensate worship of the idols of filmdom, radio, and the sporting world. The essay becomes revoltingly morbid near the end when the author’s fancy runs away in portraying the man of the future: “his skull has shriveled to the size of a tennis ball, his eyes are microscopic behind spectacles of the thickness of plate glass, and his ears, large as an elephant’s, fill most of the room.”
The last student work of editor John J. Gilligan, “Shadows Under the Stars,” remained true to the Gilligan standard of good writing which has characterized his past efforts. Although “Shadows Under The Stars” did not contain the excellence and beauty of Gilligan’s “Who Has Tasted Bread,” published in May of 1942, it nevertheless stands as one of the best bits of fiction in the December edition.
Ranking with Gilligan’s story is “The Irish Come Home From The Sea,” another of the works of senior Kelly Cook, who again writes of his native blue grass country. The success in Cook’s story comes from his dealing with subjects with which he is familiar. The Kentuckian writes of horse racing and darkies, of
roast duck and dressing, of falling snow on Christmas eve. He has created a story that has something of a soul, something greater than the mere development of a plot.
Scrip greatly increased the literary quality of its works by including A Poet of War, an excerpt from the thesis of Charles Kralovec, La Grange, Ill., and a portion of Gerald Smith’s thesis, “Soothsayers From The Age of Yellow Limousines,” both creations representing the expenditure of much time in thought and research.
Other commendable features in the issue included a series of six poems written by J. H. Johnston, frequent contributor of both verse and prose, Al Sommer’s formal essay, “Catholic Action in the University,” and Walter Carlson’s column, “We Give You Our Word.”
Scholastic staff writers to contribute to the issue were John Lynch with “Rollin’ Out,” and Dave Condon, who contributed “None Too Sharp.” Both stories were in the light, humorous vein.
University Library Has 160 New Victory Books
By F. J. Pequigney
A recent survey of the University library shows that the shelves contain 160 of the 200 Victory books as listed by the National Catholic Community service, all ten of the America’s Book- Log, a schedule of popular Catholic choices, and a number of new volumes of current interest and popularity.
The Victory Book list, made as a book index for the nation’s armed forces, was
More New Books to Read
compiled by the Committee on Defense Activities of the Catholic Library Association. It contains lists of books for wholesome recreational reading plus a few of the basic reference tools needed by librarians, or soldiers, sailors, or other members of the armed forces, including special data for chaplains.
The Book Log is a monthly feature of the Catholic magazine America. It tabulates the best sellers among a Catholic reading audience, and has listed recently such popular works as Franz Werfel’s Song of Bernadette; The Mass of Brother Michel, by Michael Kent, and Father Raymond’s widely reviewed The Man Who Got Even With God. These three as well as the other seven listed by Book Log are now available in the library. The Book Log list is compiled by a survey of many bookstores throughout the nation.
Other books recently acquired include: Behind the Face of Japan, by J. W. Hall ; Wings of Victory, by I. Halstead, and G. Leske’s confession of I Was a Nazi Flier. These books, dealing with World War II, are expected to be much in demand because of their timely significance.
Several new, popular books on Latin America have also been acquired, library officials stated, including Fiesta in November, by A. Flores and Epic of Latin American Literature, by A. Rioseco Torres.
Additions of popular American books include the humorous Our Hearts Were Young and Gay, by Cornelia Otis Skinner and Emily Kimbrough, and The Harvey Girls, by S. H. Adams. Cornelia Otis Skinner co-author of Our Hearts Were Young and Gay, will be remembered by the Notre Dame Washington Hall crowd because of her appearance here last spring. The Harvey Girls tells the story of the days when the Santa Fe railroad first pushed across the plains and mountains of Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona. It deals with the famous Harvey houses, hostelries along the Santa Fe trail, and the Harvey girls, whose service in the famous eating establishments has been recorded as part of a western legend.
Lt. Carroll, '37, Missing
Word has been ‘received here that Lt. Richard J. Carroll, a member of the class of 1937, has been reported missing in action in the northwest Africa war theatre. The war department has notified his parents, Mr. and Mrs. William P. Carroll.
Carroll graduated from the Notre Dame College of Commerce with a Ph.B. degree. While here he was a member of the Commerce Forum. He lived in Chicago.
8
I

Catholic Economists Elect Prof. Downey;
Will Publish Number of Papers on War
FRANK LUKAS
Rome in 1926 and in the year following his S.T.D. He taught at the Medical Mission Institute and Holy Cross College, Washington and from 1932 to 1937 he was a member of the Mission Band. For the last four summer sessions he has taught at Notre Dame.
William J. Downey, professor in the department of economics, has been elected secretary of the newly created Catholic Economic Association.
The other officers are: Honorary President, Rt. Rev. Msgr. John A. Ryan, D.D., National Catholic Welfare Council, Washington, D.C.; president, Rev. Thomas F. Divine, S.J., dean of the school of business administration, Marquette University; first vice-president, Edward H. Chamberlain, chairman of the department of economics, Harvard University; second vice-president, Rev. Bernard J. Dempsey, S.J., department of economics, St. Louis University; treasurer, Lloyd E. Fitzgerald, dean of the College of Commerce and Finance, University of Detroit; executive council, Constantine McGuire, economic consultant, Washington, D.C., and Raymond J. Saulnier, chairman, department of economics, Barnard College, Columbia University.
Prof. William J. Downey
The Catholic Economic Association, a national organization composed of outstanding men in this field, aims at the studying of economic problems in general and post-war problems in particular. Its first meeting was scheduled for Cleveland in late December and leading authorities were to speak on the program. However the ODT requested that because of the transportation situation the meeting be postponed. This was done and it was decided that the papers for the program would be published and sent to the membership. The manuscripts will be ready about March 1.
Rev. Bernard W. Dempsey wrote on “Economic Theory Implicit in Quadra-gesimo Anno”; Constantine McGuire on “Future Economic Relationships in This Hemisphere”; Mr. Joseph L. Apodaca,
formerly of Notre Dame and now in charge of rubber production in Central America at the American Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on a Central American theme. Mr. McGuire has just returned from Venezuela where he implemented a new income tax system.
“International Problems in the Post War World” was handled, by Raymond T. Saulnier of the National Bureau of Economic Research and Columbia University. Mr. Walter Froelich, Marquette University, discussed “Domestic Problems in the Post War World.”
Papers on the teaching of economics were also contributed by Rev. J. C. Bartley, O.S.A., Villanova College; Sister Edward Joseph, C.S.C., St. Mary’s College, Notre Dame; Sister M. Ignatius, S.N.D., Notre Dame College, South Euclid, Ohio; and E. B. O’Leary, University of Daytori.
“Activities of Early Catholic Economists,” written by James E. Haggerty of Ohio State University and “Two Objectives for Catholic Economists”. by Father John A. Ryan, complete the representative program.
The Association’s future seems very bright when viewed in the light of the men obtained for the first program and by the fact that the number of membership applications were more than twice the number expected.
Charter memberships will be available until Oct. 1. There is a junior membership for college students.’
Fr. Havey Appointed
To Educational Post
Announcement has been made that the Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C., vice-president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, has been appointed to an educational post in South America. According to the St. Edward’s student paper, The Echo, Father Havey will organize a new college for the Holy Cross fathers in Santiago, Chile.
Father Havey came to St. Edward’s in 1937. Besides the vice-presidency, he held positions as head of the department of philosophy and dean of the College of Commerce. Father Havey graduated from Notre Dame in 1920 and received his Ph.D. from Gregorian University,
Army Air Corps Called;
E. R. C. Safe Until May
The Army Air Corps announced this week that effective April 1, 1943 all reserves will be called to active service. Father Trahey, administrative co-ordinator, pointed out that since Notre Dame ended its semester prior to Dec. 31,1942, the 150 Army Air Corps men here probably will not be called any sooner than the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps (E. R. C.)
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.
The E.R.G. is scheduled to be called two weeks after the end of the current semester which ends early this May. There are about 450 men in the E.R.C. at Notre Dame.	,
The status of the Navy V-l and V-7 reserves is still indefinite. Father Trahey advises them to “sit tight” and continue studying hard, especially mathematics. -
The Marine Corps reservists have been given notice that they are subject to ac- ’ tive duty any time after March 10, 1943. However, Father Trahey stated that they would be allowed to finish this semester. It appears then that all reservists at Notre Dame should prepare to spend at least this-semester in school.
Lieutenant H. G. Horton Killed in New Guinea
Lieutenant Hershel George Horton, of Aurora, Ill. was killed in action in New-Guinea early last January while taking part in the fighting in that sector. Lt. Horton attended Notre Dame from 1939 to 1941, and was called to active duty early in April of 1941. He had the distinction of being cited by General Douglas MacArthur for outstanding service in leading ration parties to American troops in the jungles.
Notre Dame Club of Chicago Stages Autographing Party for Fr. A. J. Hope
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago is
staging an autographing party for the
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., in conjunc
REV. A. J. HOPE’ C.S.C.
tion with the publication of his new book, Notre Dame —100 Years. The party will be held in the Library of Holy Name Cathedral on Wednesday, Feb. 10, from 7:30 to 10 p.m.
Fr. Hope, who has been a member of the Notre Dame
faculty for the last 25 years as a professor in philosophy, has spent since September, 1941, doing research work and writing the centennial history of the
Notre Dame Lawyers
Hear Harvard Law Dean
The Notre Dame law school was honored for the second successive year' with the presence and enlightening lectures of Roscoe Pound, Dean Emeritus of the Harvard law school. The lectures, consisting of a series of four separate talks, were concluded last Friday night, Jan. 29.
Under the title “Fifty Years Growth of American Daw” Dean Pound traced the history as well as the possible future of “Contracts, Torts, Personal Property, and Equity.” He showed how the American laws of today had received their basis, also noting specific cases which have brought about the need to rejuvenate codes which have become outmoded by our present modern society. “Just as the advent of the automobile,”- illustrated Dean Pound, “lias compelled more than one city to tear out buildings and reconstruct its street plans to the needs of traffic in the present, so, we may predict, the . demand for a more understandable, more easily administered, and simpler laws of real property, more predictable in its results in its respect to future interests and testamentary dispositions will bring us to a drastic modernizing even though it may ■ involve some risk and much expense in the incidental clearing away.” ’	’	.
Dean Pound, who is considered one of the highest ranking authorities in the legal profession today, began his career in the latter half of the nineteenth century. He passed the bar examination in 1891 and has steadily increased his knowledge of law through relentless
University which came off the presses Jan. 15.
Invitations have been sent out to leading dignitaries of the Chicago area: Archbishop Samuel A. Stritch of Chicago; the Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University; the Honorable Harry F. Kelly, governor of Michigan; Mayor.Edward J. Kelly of Chicago; all 800 members of the Cathedral Book Club; 2,500 Chicago - Notre Dame Club alumni; ten members of the Lay Trustees of the University—Frank E. Hering, John J. O’Brien, George L. O’Brien, E. M. Morris, Byron V. Kan-aley, John C. Tully, William J. Corbett, Edward J. Doyle, Walter Duncan, and C. Roy McCanna, as well as the leading book critics of the metropolitan area.
Dean Roscoe Pound
study and observation of new trends in the field. Mr. Pound is obviously qualified to discuss the growth of law in America for the last fifty years, since he has been in close contact with all points concerning his profession.
The Pond lectures, given in the Law Building auditorium, were attended by many of the South Bend lawyers as well as members of the Notre Dame Law school and other guests. All responded whole heartedly with applause at the extension of an invitation by Dean Clarence Manion that Mr. Pound make his lectures an annual occasion at the Notre Dame law school.
A luncheon was given in honor of Dean Pound on Friday, Jan. 29, by the South Bend Bar Association and was presided over by Woodson Carlisle, a South’ Bend lawyer.—J. Ross Lo Cascio
Government Announces
Need for Economists
Because of the urgent need for economists, economic analysts, and statisticians for civilian war service in the Federal Government, recruiting is being intensified for these positions on a nationwide basis, the Civil Service Commission announced today.
The positions pay from $2,600 to $6,500 a year plus overtime, which increases salaries by about 21% on the first $2,900 for eight hours overtime a week, when the aggregate does not exceed $5,000 a year.
Positions are both interesting and important to the war program. They include dealing with economic and statistical problems arising from the reoccupation of areas once held by the enemy, the sale of U. S. securities, exports and imports in connection with the war economic program, requirements for procurement of war materials, etc. Positions will be located throughout the United States and a few will be filled abroad.
Requirements for the positions have been lowered. In general, only five years of college or university education or experience in economics or statistics, or a combination of the two, are necessary for the $2,600 grade. The minimum requirements for the higher grades are proportionately greater.
There are no age limits and no written examination will be given. Applications will be accepted, until further notice, but qualified persons are asked to apply immediately. Applications are not desired from persons already using their highest skills in war work. War Manpower restrictions on Federal . appointments are given in Form 3989, posted in first- and second-class post offices.
Impending Ban on Gold
To Hit Class Ring Sales
With the government cracking down on many articles as far as priorities are concerned, it was only natural that sooner or later notice might come that a priority list would be published on jewelry and the. use of gold in jewelry. We , have learned from reliable sources that this is to happen at a very near date. As such it will seriously effect the manufacture and sale of Notre Dame class rings. There is a strong possibility that this type of gold ring may be “out” for the duration.	_
Learning of this we hied ourselves over to 251 Alumni to have a talk with John Thornton, who is one of the head men for the sale of class rings. During the course; of conversation John told us that, “Although there has been no defin
10
ite ruling to this effect as yet, I feel that it will not be long in coming. I have talked with several of the more prominent South Bend jewelers and they have told me of the difficulty in obtaining pure gold. They seem to feel that soon there will be no more gold obtainable for business. If this is true, then it will seriously effect the purchase of Notre Dame class rings as well as other small trinkets.”
Thornton is the chief authorized campus salesman for the Balfour people of Attleboro, Mass.,' manufacturers of all official Notre Dame jewelry. ’
Sterling rings have many advantages: lots of us turn green under the cuddling of 20 dollars worth of gold; some of us are patriots enough to feel a little guilty in flashing the gold and shiny surfaces with pride; and there’s the point that a lot of us just plain can’t afford to have the gold encircling our fingers.
Still, the gold dome suggests to many of us the congruity and harmony of our gold class rings. So far the government hasn’t declared and decreed that no more rings can be bought. It’s merely thinking about it in rather serious terms.
Class ring prices at Notre Dame range from the lowest priced sterling at $9.75 to the highest priced gold of $30. Higher priced rings are out “until victory.”
Gold is where you find it—but after the government acts, you won’t be able to find it.—John Noonan
Kralovec Rescued After
17 Days Afloat on Raft
Ensign Donald F. Kralovec, a member of the Notre Dame 1941 graduating class, has been rescued from the South Atlantic following 17 days spent on a life raft, according to word received here.
Kralovec and 13 other men were on a ship torpedoed on Christmas day. The 14 took refuge on four rafts and floated about or the seas.
At one time, survivors reported, the rafts began to drift apart. Kralovec plunged into the shark infested waters and pulled the four together. At that time he noticed two sharks, which followed the group until they were rescued. Four ships passed up the group, it was reported, before they were finally taken aboard the rescue boat.
Kralovec comes from LaGrange, Ill. His brother, Charles, was a popular member of the December graduating class. Both Don and Chuck were interested in campus activities, both were presidents of the Economic Round Table, and both were active in campus boxing matches.
Office Optimists Release
Three Semester Schedule
After scanning the schedule for the current semester, a reporter finds that you may look ahead to one and a half days of extra freedom—over Easter! That’s the order as embodied in the Director of Studies’ schedule. For Easter, classes will recess at noon on Good Friday and resume at eight sharp Monday morning. But that’s getting ahead of the tale.
Another date to look forward to is March 1 and 2; Monday and Tuesday, for your information. Midsemester exams for all students. Another date most of us will shrink from: March 8, a blue Monday, when the midsemester report on deficient students is published. Incidentally, tales that the government has rationed pink slips are without confirmation from Washington.
Then comes the time for preregistration for courses in. the summer semester, March 15-20. E.R.C. students please note. By the way, you might like to know the school has published the schedules for the summer and fall semesters, too. Interest is reported nil in those schedules, especially-from E.R.C., V-l, and Marine reserve students. Then Easter vacation; but we told you about that.
Now for that big date: April 27, Tuesday, semester exams begin and are held over for another day by popular demand to April 28. Please note: semester exams start one day after the Easter vacation (?) ends. Tough on all the Chicago boys. On May 2, the faculty will convene and the' degrees will be conferred at 4:00 p.m. It is announced that at that time no freshmen will receive degrees.
All that is very interesting; it is real; it will happen. Now let us discuss the abstract, the dreams, the ideal. On May 26 and 27 you can ^settle up with the registrar and the director of studies for the coming semester; on the 27th, Thursday, you register for your courses for the summer semester. On the 28th, a Friday, classes will begin at 8:00 in the morning. See you then, it says here. .
Law Club Discusses
Coming Activities
Beginning what promises to be a very active chapter in its history, the Law Club held its first meeting of the new semester last Friday morning. Warren Diahl, the club’s vice president, presided over the meeting in the absence of the president, Paul Kashmer, who is now in the Navy. The purpose of the meeting was to acquaint the freshman law students with the benefits and aims of the club.
Diahl suggested plans for organizing a
“Lawyers” basketball team for interhall competition, and informal smokers, along with a few suggestions concerning the Law Ball. At this point Bernard Grainey, the editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, was called upon to speak in behalf of the ^aw school’s quarterly publication. Grainey encouraged the law students to take advantage of the opportunity to .write articles for possible publication in the Lawyer.
The latter half of the meeting was devoted to an informal talk by Dean Clarence Manion, faculty adviser for the club, who likewise advocated legal writing by the students as preparation for their careers in the profession. The Dean also advised the club to work out a plan, possibly a contest, by which the students could receive more practice in public speaking. “Since you will be called upon to do these things sometime or other,” Mr. .Manion emphasized in conclusion, “it is best to get as much experience as you can.”
Prof. Sheehan Recovering
From Serious Operation
John H. Sheehan, professor of economics and head of that department of the University, underwent a serious spinal operation at the University of Michigan hospital at Ann Arbor, on Jan. 19.
Prof. Sheehan is due home today and will be confined to his bed for about two months. His condition is reported as satisfactory.
Prof. John H. Sheehan
Mr. Sheehan has been a member of the faculty since September of 1938 and was recently appointed head of the department of economics.
Fr. Cunningham Speaks
At Notre Dame College
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of the faculty at the University of Notre Dame, spoke at commencement exercises last Sunday, Jan. 31, at Notre Dame college for women in South Euclid, O. Talking on “Planning the Peace,” Father Cunningham addressed the first mid-year graduating class in the college’s history.	'
11
—। —R!—■	Ui 1   _|	_ — I
> x , , ^ke Nauq ai Notte jbame > > ✓ ,
Captain Burnett's Words To Naval Graduates
“Each of you is a link in a chain that stretches into the far parts of the earth, a life line to which the hopes of civilized people cling—the United States Navy.
“It has seen some black days. The worst hour of peril was at Pearl Harbor, when the enemy struck with ruthless disregard of honor.
“Out of that hell of flame it emerged, weakened, but with battle flags still flying.
“As the war rolls on it has become stronger instead of weaker, through the courage and never-say-die character of Navy officers and enlisted men.
“At Midway and in the Coral Sea, the enemy threw his mightiest sledge hammer blows in an all-out effort to break that life line. The chain held.
“Continuously, like rats seeking to get into the grain bin, our enemies are trying to find weak links. They will fail; and you newly commissioned officers who are going out tomorrow, and others like you in the Navy, are the reason they will fail.
“You have received some tempering here, to fit you to take your place in the chain. Tomorrow, in the forge of battle you will be tempered further. You will come through "with colors still flying because you are Americans; because what you stand for and are fighting for is fine and decent, and must not and will not perish from the earth.
“Good-bye and God go with you.”
What to Expect....
You are soon going to begin the difficult journey through an earth given over to destruction; at the end of that journey you will find victory and peace.
For four months you will be toughening your bodies, sweeping your minds of illusions, and
forcing yourselves to the most intensive work you have ever done.
Then you will be prepared for battle, and after that what you will experience will not be comfort but hardship, not security but danger, not a tourist cruise but a trip as miserable as the enemy can make it.
Every nation must decide between a destructive and creative pursuit of its ambitions. Our fascist enemies depend on perverted force and hate; they depend on the attempted annihilation of their opponents.
The strength of American society is its boundless faith in the builder, the creator. You will be fighting to preserve what you have already built, and what tomorrow will see you build.
For you, a generation schooled to despise imperialistic and racial wars, there is no alternative but to battle to hold the hilltops of decency and fair play others before you have won.
If anyone were to ask you what you expect, your answer should be:
“We expect to destroy, then to build. We would not be fighting with our whole heart if we did not believe our fight were necessary to establish better government among men.
“But from our immediate task, before we begin to build, this only is what we expect—to receive hell and to give it.”
—Midshipman Simons Roof
Chico Marx Performs at Graduation Hop
It was smooth sailing at the graduation hop in the Palais Royale as the navy men danced away the midshipmen blues to the frolicking rhythms of Chico Marx and his Ravellies.
Chico, a showman from the World War I days, started his career by knocking the ivories
and hitting the old eighty-eight in movie houses. Then he attained screen fame as a member of the world famous Marx Brothers and played in innumerable pictures, including “Duck Soup,” “A Day at the Races,” “A Day at the Circus,” “A Night at the Opera,” and “Horsefeathers.”
Press agents boast that Chico can do more on the keyboard with one finger than other ivory ticklers can do with ten. His hilarious piano techniques have brought him great success at Chicago . theatres and the Blackhawk, as well as at other places throughout the Midwest.
Chico organized his orchestra after
the Marx Brothers retired from the flickers. He recently completed a 14,000 mile tour in an army bomber, wowing army camps at San Juan, Puerto Rico, Antigua, San Lucia, Trinidad, Port of-Spain, Georgetown, British Guiana, and San Croix.
Navy Sees "Room Service" In Washington Hall
Historic Washington hall and hysterical seamen made a night of it, or two nights of it, on Monday and Tuesday evenings, Jan. 25 and 26, as the Navy men and guests attended the play “Room Service,” presented by a cast selected from the midshipmen school.
The play hinged on the efforts of Gordon Miller, played by Don Waters, who stalled off his creditors and cajoled a demanding manager of a hotel where rehearsals were being held, while he searched for an “angel” to provide ma-zuma for the show’s backing.
New Navy Group Replaces 1,100 Graduated Ensigns
Last Thursday 1,100 midshipmen, completed four months of training under the Golden Dome, and were graduated and commissioned as ensigns in the U. S. navy. For a brief period of two days the frigates Lyons, Howard, Morrissey and Badin looked like haunted ships, but then, starting Sunday a new group of hopefuls began to pour in to the campus. They arrived from every conceivable walk of life and from every imaginable place in the nation.
Things began to pop when the new trainees arrived. They had to become acquainted with Notre Dame’s oft-shifted meal system, and there was that old problem of not putting out the left foot when the big boss says “Right.”
This week most of the salts have been occupied with physical and dental examinations and making those preparations required for the normal function of the station. Several renowned athletes, including a Fordham track star and Gay-nell Tinsley, twice All-American end from Louisiana State University, were members of the incoming group.
One thousand of the men will be here for four months training prior to being commissioned as deck officers in the navy. 240 others will be here for only two months specialist training.
12
Michigan State’s Harassed Court Five
Invades Irish Lair Saturday Evening
BILL BROWN
Michigan State’s basketball Spartans invade the Fieldhouse this Saturday looking slightly like a Nazi division that was able to escape from Stalingrad. This year in ten starts the Spartans have managed to pull down only one victory. That was against the Dearborn, Mich., Naval Training Station five.
The opposition they have run into so far this year includes a pair of the top teams of the country, De Paul and Camp Grant. In the Camp Grant game, which is the most recent, the Spartans had to bfe clubbed over the head to be beaten; they hung on till the final gun. Possibly this might mean that the State boys have at last found themselves.
Coach Ben Van Alstyne put three sophomores in the starting line-up for the Camp Grant game. One of them is Mike Hashu from Hammond, Ind., whose Indiana style of play must have been the spark that moved the Spartans to within eight points of a victory.
There is a possibility that the Spartans might have another victory to add to their lonely one before the Fighting Irish play them. Between the time this is written and is read State has a game with Romulus Air Base and might win.
Violets Vowed to Avenge Defeat
Granting that the Irish can take the Michigan State boys in stride,’they will look to the eastern seaboard for their next victim, a very unwilling victim. New York University, undefeated in 12 tilts, is red hot this year and anxious to avenge the shellacking the Keoganites administered them last year. Feb. 13 in Madison Square Garden is the date and place and the Violets are anxiously waiting in their lair for the high riding Irish. On the return trip, the team will stop off at Buffalo to meet a powerful Canisius , quintet who have lost but one game this season.
Last year it was strictly “Faught night” in the garden as Bobby sent the record keepers into the books in an effort to find a date when more than 27 points were marked up there—they failed. The towering center flipped in an amazing
Faught “outreaches" them all!
10 out of 20 field goals attempted. However, the 17,790 fans saw four other hardwood boys from Notre Dame that made teamwork look as easy as getting lost in Rockefeller Center. Turning on the fire-engine style of play to its limit, the Irish netmen passed, faked, and tickled the basket cords with uncanny accuracy. The Easterners, who had won 11 of their 12 starts, never advanced closer than 14 points as the Keoganmen kept a safe margin throughout the game.
This year the Violets, still riding high on their 12 game win streak at this writing, will not be picked quite so easily. They are the powerhouse of the metropolitan area. Led by Captain Mele, Jerry Fleishman, and Al Grenert, they have swept aside a list of teams that include Washington State, Penn State, West Virginia, Syracuse, Manhattan, and Temple. Mele and Grenert both dropped
10 points in their losing battle last year. A list of N. Y. U. feats of this year could go on far into the night. The game can best be summed up in the words of Coach Keogan: “You can’t say too much about this N. Y. U. club. They’re great! Their record speaks for itself. It’s going to be a fast, tough ball game.”
Notre Dame—Beat N. Y. U.
(Editor’s note—This poem was contributed to the Scholastic in 1936 by Bill O’Toole of Syracuse, N. Y. Due to the rising tide of interest in the Notre Dame-N. Y. U meeting this year, the Scholastic reprints Mr. O’Toole’s classic.)	’
Champions Battle
Out beyond the last outpost Where the icy torrents flow ■ And the North Wind’s screaming ghost Bends the treetops far below—
One lone trapper, plodding on. While the gales fresh troubles brew. Humbles in a voice, far gone.
“Notre Dame—take N. Y. IT.!”
Mother, putting son to bed, (Now a man of summers four) Asks him if his prayers are said— Reassured, she shuts the door. Then across the darkened room, “One more prayer, dear God. to you—” As his wraiths of heroes loom.
“Notre Dame—beat N. Y. U.!”
California backs Purdue. And Kentucky joins the cause.
Victims of the Purple crew And Manhattan’s dizzy laws;
Harvard, Syracuse and Penn.
Pittsburgh. Yale and L. I. IT.. All together dip their pen.
“Notre Dame—beat”N. Y. IT.!”
From the southern, sunswept links And the bluebirds’ roundelay To the star that never sinks On the Road to Mandalay—
Echoes of the years that passed Now must seek another pew For the universal blast— “Notre Dame—beat N. Y. IT.!” —Bill O’Toole
Looking into the future, the big event seems to be the Bengal Bouts, March 15.
13
Hunter, Relay Team in New York Meet;
Navy Pier Tests Irish Squad Today
'	BILL CAREY
Pounding the boards of the Madison Square Garden saucer tomorrow night, will be five knights of the spiked shoe from Notre Dame. Foremost of this group will be Oliver H. Hunter, III., a featured performer in the Millrose Invitational two mile event.
An enthusiastic press agent will no doubt headline it as a master-pupil or a hero-disciple contest, between two Irishmen from South Bend. It will, indeed, match the strides of Greg Rice, the late John P. Nicholson’s greatest product, and Ollie Hunter, the young man who in his senior season has shattered Greg’s collegiate marks. Perennial National champ and the nation’s greatest distance plodder, Rice will line up beside a man wearing the same Blue and Gold silks, who is the nation’s undefeated cross country titlist and recent winner of the Sugar Bowl two mile event. Can Ollie beat the man whose footsteps he has followed—the most colorful attraction on the indoor circuit? Tomorrow night 18,000 rabid track pecans will flock to the huge New York arena to learn the answer.
‘ The other four in the Irish caravan will be Austin Jones, Dick Tupta, Don Lundergan and Gene Fehlig, a crack mile relay team. This quartet will match baton passing with the best the East has to offer. For Jones, ex Brooklyn high school satellite, it will be his first collegiate appearance before the home folks. Let’s hope it’s a victorious one.'
While this fortunate five is making merry ’neath Manhattan’s skyscrapers, the rest of the winged foot boys will open the indoor season, with a dual meet against Navy Pier. Originally scheduled for Saturday afternoon, the races will be held today, Friday afternoon at four, in the Notre Dame Field House.
The Navy boys from Chicago will bring down a well balanced squad that boasts no individual stars. In their initial test last week, the Sailors bowed to the Loyola tracksters 51 to 43.
Notre Danie, hit by the exodus to the big city, will shake up its squad, and send many newcomers to the post. Coach Doc Handy plans to use his men as the need arises, especially in the middle distances. Don Currie, Walt Brehmer, Frank Conforti, Bill Kelly and Bob Purcell are all probable starters in either the 440 or the 880, while Tony Maloney and .Bob . Crawley will answer the gun in the two mile. Sprinters Jack Murphy, Tom Clifford and Bill Dillon will.-take care of
14
their specialty. The Navy’s best bet over the tall timbers, Lewis, will line up against John Smith, Bill Nicholson and Dillon. Maloney and Conforti will be out to prove that all the superlatives cast their way as milers are true, when they tackle the sailor duo of Huston and McClanahan. The highest flying of all the Irish, pole vaulter Jack Wiethoff, and Sophomore Don Evenson, will jump against Canfield and Ashwall from the Pier. In the broad jump Johnson and Hoag will leap for N. D.; while Chuck Murphy, Ed Keelan and Nicholson will perform in their specialty, the high jump. To finish up the day’s activities, Captain Jim Delaney will lead his hefty weightsquad, Jim White and John Yonakor to a probable clean sweep.	•
Fencing Woes Growing
As Opening Meet Nears
The fencing team continued their preparations for the coming season this week and heard news of further losses in personnel. First, there was war transportation difficulties, then loss of their three ex- ’ perienced men, and now three more promising fencers have been lost for the season. Don Mac-Daniel failed to re-
■ turn this semester, Alfredo Ortiz is ineligible, and Froning had an operation and will not see any action this semester. Perhaps fencing coach, Walter Langford, should get together with football mentor, Frank Leahy, and discuss their troubles.
The foil men will be lead by Ventura Gonzalez and Frank Repilado with good support expected from Stewart Stratter, Bob Witucki, Ray Zando, and Charles Raley. In saber weapon, Dave Roney and Gene Slevin will head the parade. Several other fellows, featured in the other weapons, ■will probably aid the sabermen. Johnny Watters, who showed up brilliantly in the pre-Christmas season, and “Bitsy” Repilado with a possible repeat by Bob Witucki, will form the nucleus of , the epee squad.
Coach Langford has announced three definite meet dates. One week from today, the team meets Michigan State at East Lansing, Mich. Feb. 20 brings Wisconsin to the Fieldhouse followed by Purdue on the 27th. Transportation difficulties cancelled the meet with Cincinatti,
but efforts are being made to arrange matches with Northwestern and Marquette.
Call was issued this week for all interhaliers interested in fencing. As soon as entries are received, halls with a sufficient number interested will be entered in the league and play will begin.
Keoganmen Whip De Paul;
Rensberger Records 17
Coach George Keogan unleashed his fighting Notre Dame cage aggregation in Chicago last Saturday night and DePaul University, the college with basketball “emphasis,” fell before the rush of the Irish in an exciting 50-47 hardwood battle. In a rough and scramble tilt the Notre Dame team, spurred on by sparkling play on the part of Bob Rensberger, waged a savage struggle to smash .the efforts of a vicious De Paul five.
Some 40 fouls bear witness to the spirit of the affair which saw Notre Dame and DePaul deadlocked eight times. Once DePaul surged ahead 27-21 but the burning speed characteristic of the Irish melted away this advantage and shortly the Chicagoans were back on the short end of the count.	।
During the first half DePaul and I Notre Dame matched basket for basket and 9,000 fans tasted the threat to the Irish pre-game edge. At the conclusion of the half the score was 19-19, deadlocked for the sixth time with'the tilt still wide open.
Keogan’s super-basketeers pushed fight on after the intermission" and down the home stretch the Fighting Irish combined excellent -defensive play with accurate shots to smash their way on to their eighth victory in nine starts.
Notre Dame’s quintet dished out some . superb antics in parading off with the scalps of the DePaul eagers and Tom Brennan, subbing for Faught, also contributed handily to the defeat of the Irish rivals. Captain Charley Butler, Ray Kuka, Johnny Niemiera, as well as Bob Faught and Bob Rensberger all clicked to the right tune and the resultant win.
No doubt,.the uncanny .ability of the Notre Dame crew at the foiil stripe, ac. counting for 18 tallies, figured in a big way towards the triumph. The De Paul-ers cashed in but 13 times. Then, too, the height of the. Irish didn’t seem •- wasted	|
either. Despite the number of fouls Notre Dame lost but 'one man: through these channels.—J. D. Usina -	:
Hockey, Once Popular Sport at N. D.;
Irish Tangled With Country's Top Teams
PHIL KEEN
This is a story about hockey. Many old timers remember hockey as one of the most popular winter sports at Notre
Dame. Even Notre Dame men of recent years can recall sporadic attempts to return the sport to its former prominence. In 1941 a gang of fellows, including Angelo Bertelli, Bill Stewart, and Larry Sullivan, formed a team
and booked a match with Illinois Tech. However, a blinding blizzard called off activities and hockey again fell into the black shades of obscurity.
It was 1920 that the skaters first organized under Paul Castner and “Canuck” Gorman. Through the efforts of Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.C., who coached the boys, and Castner and Gorman, a team was formed with such men as “Hunk” Anderson, OJay Larson, “Spike” Flynn, Percy Wilcox, Norm Fel-tes, “Slim” Gentles, along with Castner and Gorman. The weather that year was especially mild and the ice remained soft for the greater part of the season. The team only played two games, both with Culver, winning easily in both engagements. ‘
In 1921 hockey was pursued on a much larger scale. A rink was constructed bettween Walsh and Badin halls in what is now romantically regarded as “Badin Bog,” but the most important factor, the weather, again declined to aid the hockey enthusiasts and the rink was only used once. About one or two o’clock every morning, the gang could be seen flooding the rink, but by noon any ice that had formed would again revert to water. Desite these disappointments the team made two trips, one to the North and one to the East. They defeated Carnegie Tech, 2-0, Michigan School of Mines, 2-1, and Michigan University, 1-0. The entire season netted them eight wins and three losses,. the reversals - being suffered at the hands of non-collegiate foes, the . pucksters claimed the Western Intercollegiate title.
Hockey hopes again dwindled in 192223 as the temperature rose for the third straight year. Only three games were played and, due to lack of practice, the Irish skaters lost two to Minnesota and tied St. Thomas.	'
The year of 1924 was another discouraging hockey season. The team lost to Michigan twice and a pair to the Olympic star-studded Pittsburgh Athletic Club. Tom Lieb, former football coach of Loyola in Los Angeles and then assistant under Knute Rockne, took over the coaching reins in 1925. Once more the team tied St. Thomas and split four games with Minnesota. Two meets with Wisconsin and Michigan Aggies were thawed out.	.
Hockey was abandoned for a year in 1926, but the following year the greatest schedule ever played by a Notre Dame hockey team was arranged. Yale, Harvard, Michigan, Minnesota, and the St. Nicholas club were included on the Irish card. However, out of 11 games played only three were won by Notre Dame and the reputation of the hockey team began to drop.
The next year did not produce any team, but hope was expressed for a renewal of the sport. In 1936 Athletic Director Elmer Layden and Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. arranged for another* rink to be built and a schedule was made up. A few games were played, but this time zero weather and snow storms made it definite that Indiana weather was not going to permit the pucksters to enjoy their favorite pastime.
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss
tenders have
BILL BOSS
Throughout the last decade the prominent national collegiate swimming con-been pocketed along the k eastern seaboard in ■ the cloaked Ivy league M schools. Yale’s tank M record reads like the M classical victory M string of Willie Pep. H Harvard has always M been paddling to num-“ erous pool victories along with Fordham
and other prominent Atlantic universities	.
Similar to the shambling rise of football, swimming has become one' of the outstanding winter sports, along with hockey and basketball, in most of the larger Midwestern institutions. Michigan and Ohio State currently hold the ladle of tank power in this sector.
Ohio State, preoccupied in the production of the nation’s outstanding football squads, has taken time out to assist Mike Peppe, Buckeye tank mentor, to procure competent aquatic talent. Billy Smith, Hawaiian-born Irishman, matriculated at the Ohio university last fall. Every speed record in the book seems to be followed by the lad’s name. Not yet eligible for varsity competition, the Buckeye freshman slashed three-tenths of a second from Johnny Weismuller’s 15 year old 220-yard free style marke last week. Keo Nakama, another Hawaiian flying fish is gradually reaching the championship' stage with the Bucks. In the quarter mile against Michigan, he has been .timed in 4:53.2, only 1.1 seconds off the record set in 1938.	.
Michigan’s natators swamped Ohio State early in the season which may mean that the Wolverines will again annex- the national crown.
Conference records bettered by the Wolverines as they outpointed Ohio a few weeks ago included those for the 300-yard medley relay, 400-yard free style, and 150-yard back stroke.
Bob Amundsen and his Northwestern associates will give these two fine teams a battle in the Big Ten swimming meet, March 5 and 6 at Evanston. This event holds promise of being the greatest record assaulting splash in years. The national championship team may be found in Chicago waters at this time.
Brennan and Curran Pace
Irish to 50-45 Victory
The Irish hardwood artists, again paced by reserves Tom _ Brennan and Frankie Curran with 12 points each, conquered Marquette last Tuesday in the Fieldhouse, 50-45.
Marquette stuck with the Keoganmen right up to the closing minutes before Mr. Brennan and Mr. Curran turned on the pressure for , a 29-21 half time lead. Up to that time Bob Faught’s 11 points played a major role in the Irish offensive. Before this the visitors had. held a 15-10 lead.	,
Notre Dame dominated the first five minutes and the Hilltoppers the second five minutes of the final half, making it 38-31. Johnny Neimera and Brennan then dumped in four points each while Marquette was held to only three. The visitors staged a belated rally against the Irish reserves in the closing minutes but failed to seriously threaten Coach Keogan’s lads.
Center Ray. Kuffel and Guard Bill Chandler paced Marquette with 13 and 10 points, respectively. Faught got 11 of Notre Dame’s first T5 points and then retired for the evening.
15
Reversal of Form
The biggest problem of most athletic
mentors is that of conditioning their men. The most prominent ailment being over
“RED” LONERGAN
weight. However, this year Coach Keogan has been continually troubled by lack of heavy players on his team. This problem can be claimed as one of the main reasons for the team’s defeat by Kentucky’s Wild
cats. The southern lads kept up this continual hard driving which our lighter quintet couldn’t combat. Another interesting note was that our defensive was so effective that Kentucky was forced to take shots from around the center of the
floor. This was just the style shot that beat us. De Paul’s surprising defeat at the hands of Duquesne was something on the phenomenal order also. The DePaul players were constantly handicapped by a slippery floor, which was
NAVY AND CIVILIAN CLOTHES
THAT ARE RIGHT
PARKER-WINTERROWD*. old established TAILORS —THE EXPERIENCE OF MANY YEARS. IN WHICH WE HAVE PLEASED MEN WHO WANT
. PROPER FABRIC. FIT AND STYLING IN THEIR CLOTHES IS AT YOUR SERVICE FOR NAVAL
- OFFICERS- UNIFORMS. — COME IN TO OUR - SHOP. OR SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
JACK WALSH. SORIN HALL REGGIE FLYNN. OFF-CAMPUS
P ARK E R - W I N T E R ROW D
' . 1,15%-117% NORTH MAIN STREET (UPSTAIRS)
“RED" LONERGAN
the result of the rain plus a badly leaking roof. We never knew that scotch tape was that scare. We set two records in that game down at Louisville: it was the greatest number of points made against an Irish team, and the biggest score ever turned in by a losing Notre Dame quintet. We wish to congratulate Bill Davis who is the only player of last year’s greenhorn squad to make the first team. William hails from Hyde Park high in Chicago.
They're At It Again	’
Yes, the hall spirit is all worked up again as the interhall basketball season opens up this week. Both leagues seem to have a large number of participants and the hall rivalry has already reached a fever pitch. Many of the hall teams -wish to avenge the embarrassing defeats they had to take this fall during the football season. From the Rockne Memorial comes the news that Senior life saving instructions will be offered to all those interested. Here’s a chance for all of us to pick up
a worth-while practice. The department also claims that there will be some interhall swimming meets. There will be an open meet as well as several interhall meets. Therefore all you aquatic acrobats take notice. They ought to have Jerry Cowhig put on one of his Bill Costello stunts as a side show; that would certainly bring its share of laughs. Many of us, with all our friends in service were at our wits end trying to think of something exciting to do on New Year’s eve. This was hardly Ollie Hunter’s problem. Ollie and mother .were down at New Orleans for Ollie’s race and to witness the Sugar Bowl game and were invited to . three big banquets that night, one of them being held at Antoines, the world famous dining place. Some people get all the breaks, or do they make their own breaks? Lou Rymkus is keeping in shape for the service by getting a workout in the Studebaker plant between classes.
Valuable Additions
. Track Coach Al Handy tells us that the sophomores will play an important role in the success or failure of this year’s track team. For in such men as Delaney, Hunter, and Maloney the team has the makings of a fine squad. However the spots left open by graduation and the war will have to be filled by sophomores. Coach Handy feels that these sophomores will at least make a sincere attempt at replacing those who have left. Among the more promising sophomores are such men as these: “Babe” Murphy, a St. Louis boy who has shown spurts of unusual ability in the sprints. Then, we have two outstanding quarter milers in Bob Purcell and Don Lundergan. Don Currie will add to the list of fine milers already present on the squad. John Tharp gives us another Hercules to put the shot. Then with Mr. Wright of Ohio State ineligible, John Smith should prove, to be the Mid West’s outstanding hurdler. He runs both the high and low sticks. He hails from Park Ridge, Ill., and is a product of your author’s alma mater, New Trier. So if these boys develop as expected we should have one of the finest cinder outfits in the Midwest. Coach Handy is taking a mile relay team to the Milrose games in Madison Square Garden along with his crack two miler, our old friend Ollie Hunter. The relay team will be Dick Tupta and Gene Fehlig and then two of these; Lundergan, Purcell, or Jones. The return of Jack Wiethoff from his naval training course at Cal Tech will bolster us in the pole vaulting department.
Timothy Alden, founder and first president of Allegheny college, was the founder of six other schools.	'
16

We_carry complete stocks, at all times, of the new regulation uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices.
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
Commissioned Officers Service Blue $40
Commissioned Officers Overcoat $50	• Cap Complete with 3 Covers $13.25
Commissioned Officers and Warrant Officers Raincoat-Overcoat
(with removable wool lining) $37.50
No Charge-tor Minor Alterations— Other Alteration Charges as Approved by Navy Department .
ALSO, OFFICIAL MIDSHIPMEN’S OUTFITTERS
M‘X ADLER
“ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy outfitters Just across the street from downtown bus terminal
♦ ' " -------------------------------------- -
17
ft aval
UNIFORMS
Regulation Accessories
Check this list:
SCARFS
GLOVES
TIES
SHIRTS COLLARS
CUFF LINKS
SWEETHEART PINS
COLLAR DEVICES DOG TAGS
Uniforms tailored to your measurements by the largest tailors in the world of made-to-order clothes.
E. V. Price & Co.
117 West LaSalle A cross from Hoffman Hotel
Strictly Instrumental
Frank A. King
FRANK A. KING that made the
The South Bend musical front has been rather active for the past few weeks. That is the one redeeming feature about the little metropolis on the St. Joe River.
Les Brown and his renowned band appeared at the Palace Theatre on Jan. 25. Bro w n presented a very g o od sideshow along with the band, but it was the latter show, quite naturally.
Brown played several numbers which, for those who like that type of thing, were good: “There Are Such Things,” etc. Hal Derwin handled the vocals well but seemed to be trying to sound like Sinatra. Roberta Lee took the female vocals and was good. The Town Criers, a group of two brothers and two sisters from Sunny California, sang much after the fashion of T. D.’s Pied Pipers with good effect. Brown, like every other’ band leader with an arrangement of the “One O’Clock Jump,” used those cascading trumpets which Goodman started but failed to copyright. The band was excellent, the brass far outdoing splendid saxes and a good rhythm section, but lacked any mark that would immediately tell a listener that “This is Les Brown.” His arrangements are pleasant and very, well executed. Standouts with the band were Les himself who played a very nice clary on One O’Clock, and Joe Zito who took some very tasty trumpet solos.
Stan Kenton (we told you so) by popular demand, returned to the Palais Royal, but was ignored by the public to the extent that there were not more than 85 couples. Everything that has been said about Kenton is hereby re-stated. He’s terrific. But if Red Dorris would stick to the Blues when he is warbling and have Kenton shell out for a ballad singer, the band would be improved. Dorris’ handling of the Saint Louis Blues is wonderful, as is Dolly Mitchell’s. As a ballad singer, however, Dorris could be improved upon.
Artie Shaw and his Navy band are wowing them down at Pearl Harbor. He played “Nightmare” and “Begin the Be-guine,” via short wave on the President’s Birthday program. His band, as usual, is as smooth as the ice on the way to the Dining Hall.
If -you are a swing enthusiast and you ever get to Chicago, go directly to the Garrick Stage bar at 58 W. Randolph and kill yourself with the best music in Chicago. There you will find Louie Jordan (tenorman a la Hawkins clarinet a la
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE, DJD.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.
South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton. M.D.
Notre Dame HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES CANDY
TOBACCO PIPES

18
Mince and Alto a la Mondello) Dallas Bartley, on the bass, Eddie Byrd at the drums, Eddie Roane on the horn, Arnold Thomas at the ivories, and if you are lucky, very lucky, some old sidemen who have been drafted and happen to be in Chicago will drop in and sit in while the band is out. Saturday night Tommy Griffin, ex-Bamet pianist was in and teamed up with Terry Shand’s old shin beater, Bill Shartzer, for a half hour jam session. Jordan’s outfit doesn’t play many songs. They take one and knock it down, drag it around, jump on it, and then tie it up and leave it in a comer. The work out rides on “Little Brown Jug”
'FLOWERS AND A COCA-COLA ... JUST LIKE HOME
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA
COMPANY BY
“You always enjoy it when you connect with a Coke no matter where. There's something about it that’s special. All the difference between something really refreshing and just something to drink. Yes, indeed. The only thing like Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola, itself. Bet you’ve found that out already.1
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND


for 20 solid (and we do mean “solid”) minutes.
Dining Hall Again Cooks
Up New Eating System
Despite rumors clockwise and counterclockwise, the University dining halls this week adopted a policy of punching student dining hall cards at each meal— breakfast, lunch, and dinner. The cards, formerly to be shown to the floor walkers upon admittance to the hall, must now be presented for punching before the student grabs his tray.
Among other recent innovations at the dining hall was the idea that students henceforth and hereafter, from Feb. 1, 1943, would partake of the evening meal at 5:30 p.m., eating before the navy instead of following them, as has been the previous policy.
The dining hall cards must be exchanged monthly. The last two days of each month have been designated as official “exchange” days. No reason has been advanced for the punching of dining cards, although some students have stated that the first one who gets his card completely punched wins a free meal from the University. Others are of the opinion that Mr. Connolly is using the punch system to record the popularity of the meals. It is feared that now a recording system has been installed, students will be able to give bona fide evidence of the meals turned down.
Everything was Lovely the first night the 5:30 injunction was enforced as several students, late for the deadline but admitted by the doorman, were denied their vittles. No repercussions followed, and all was orderly.
The dining hall has also announced that the policy of floor shows and the employing of big name bands would be discontinued in the future.
IIO- IWfc main SOUTH BEHO, INOIAHA
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
Hlaim amJ Question
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Comer for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
19
See the throat microphone?
INTRODUCING
Bill Waddington
Hoosier Robert LaMar Rensberger is the official appelation... . being a proudly hailed product of Nappanee.... a local state burg of about 3,500.... Bob is one of those March deliveries, the 7th in ’21 to be exact.... but marauding on the court of late has distinguished him as
FIGHTING WORDS delivered by Western Electric Radio
Wherever American soldiers ride into battle in roaring "bell buggies,*’ they get their orders over radio telephone sets. So do pilots of Army bombers and fighting planes — and the commanders of the Navy’s deadly PT boats.
The Signal Corps needs great quantities of field, telephones, wire and switchboards to get the message through. Aboard large naval vessels are battle announcing systems and sea-going telephones.
Sixty years of experience in making- Bell Telephones gave Western Electric the "know how” to speed equipment that helps "keep ’em in contact.”
Western Electric
ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS
Bob Rensberger
that part of March that comes in like a lion.... at least, he plays a furious game at the guard position for the Keogan net-men. To date, of this edition anyway.... Bob has distinguished himself as the top scorer for the eagers.... inclusive of the DePaul contest he has managed to acquire a total of 102 points.... lately netting 17 against Kentucky despite a losing battle, 11 in opposition with Butler, and 17 once again against the DePaul Demons in a closely contested struggle last Saturday in Chicago Stadium.
“Rens” probably had the greatest forecast of a great future when he graduated as the “outstanding athlete” of Nappanee high.... having Avon three basketball letters.... having been captain in his senior year.... track, tennis, and baseball entered his fancy on the road to athletic prowess.... qualifying for the state • finals in the high hurdles was Bob’s greatest single . achievement in prep ; school.... unfortunately the eagers of his time were destined to only Nappanee and nearby appearances.
High school experience pitted “Rens” against notables such as Bob Genischen, now’ of Western Mich... Clason of North- J western.... and in a picked county team he met Ralph Vaughn, star of Oshkosh’s defending national pro aggregation. ... Kotz seems to rate high on his present




20
list as Bob agrees he does everything well.... Making his second monogram this season.... looks with pride upon the defeat Notre Dame handed Great Lakes in the second of a two game series last year.... heart-in-the-mouth thrill of a college career came only recently... that long shot from the sidelines as he annexed the 61st point to N. D.’s cause against Wisconsin.
A student in phy ed by choice... wants to coach basketball and football upon graduation.... but wait! ... E.R.C. man, you know.... rather he hopes to do that after Uncle Sam finishes with him.... Sam will take over after he is degreebound in early May.... “Rens” follows a childhood ambition of wanting to fulfill his higher- educational opportunities at N. D.... although natural ability made open many other institutions of learning for his quest accompanied by a good shooting eye, of course.... “Gang of good buddies on the team,” he contends, “strictly a bunch of fellows who play for the team and swell otherwise”.... If DePaul fell.... which they did... he came out on the proverbial limb to predict an undefeated schedule thereafter ... Kentucky and Wisconsin are tops on his list
'Ualettiitie
WORTH-WHILE
GIFT..
Choose that gift for "her" at South Bend's smartest shop . . . where she would select it for herself. Lovely lingerie . . . smart new blouses . . . 100% wool sweaters . . . and many other smart gifts ... all moderately priced. Gift wrapped free.
127 NO. MICHIGAN ST.
as strong competition.... De Paul probably convinced him of same.______A final note adds something of an emotional sequence. ... she’s Caroline Gentzhom of South Bend.... sure... they’re engaged all right.... he told me himself.
Golden Dome Blacked Out
The administration has announced that the Golden Dome will be blacked out for the remainder of the duration. The school officials, in taking this step, are cooperating with the government in curbing the use of lights that can be seen from a great distance.
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
Skootina
TO THE HEART OF YOUR VALENTINE
Gifts — Large and Small — Valentine Cards — while they last.
Navy — Welcome!
"Notre Dame — One Hundred Years"
By Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.
$4.00
20% discount to Students and Midshipmen.
N. D. BOOKSTORE
. Badin Hall
21
CURB SERVICE AND DELIVERY
WELCOME MIDSHIPMEN!
Special Prices to Students and V-71
American Shoe Service
New, Modern Repair Shop All work guaranteed
Phone 2-4830	613 N. Michigan
(Two blocks South of Bridge)
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at I 1:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too.
For information call
' C. W. VEACH
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates .
THE EARS HAVE IT
By VAIL W. PISCHKE
According to the latest figures, Kay Kyser discs were among the most popular in 1942.... Kay’s “Praise the Lord,
VAIL W. PISCHKE year. Doivnbeat’s
etc.” number alone sold more than a million records. At the same time the Bartender’s Union of Philadelphia, Local 115 voted Spike (Der Fuehrer’s Face) Jones as the best juke box laugh - getter of the annual poll places T.
Dorsey first in Sweet Band division, Glen Miller (soldier, to you) in second, and Spike Jones as King of Corn.
Sometimes CBS pressmen press a little too hard when they build up a future radio program.... Here’s a typical publicity gagman’s idea of “different” publicity for his show: “That bespectacled purveyor of ethereal concoctions, of beautification of la belle femme, reappears in a plethora of humorous profundities for the thespians on hand.” Which minus the double talk means that Ransom Sherman was to guest-star on the Rudy Vallee last week.- Boy, it must be plenty tough to get newspaper space these days when an agent has to put out that kind of slingo.... but it verges on the unusual side, anyway.
“Tough Break” Dept.: Actor Guy Repp was slated to play Hitler during a recent “This is Our Enemy” broadcast on Mutual.... he rehearsed like mad for hours and by “dress” he had the hysterical-voiced Fuehrer down pat. By air time his voice was completely gone.... and someone else played the part! ■
NBC announcers recently have announced an unusual scheme for their fellow mikemen: a pact to aid their families if they’re drafted. Under the terms of the pact, if an NBC staff announcer enters the service, and his commercial broadcasting assignments are assumed by other NBC staff men, then 40 per cent of the announcing fees received by the successor, or successors, will be paid to the dependents of the war-bound announcer’s family, or the fund will be distributed in any way the erstwhile staff man designates.. . Announcer Fort Pearson, the mikeman who did the narrating for the Notre Dame Anniversary show, gets credit for the idea.... it will set a precedent for other networks.
Boner of the Week: Ann: “For your selection of smart furs visit the new Budget Saloon at....” (CBS), or: Ann, on “Waker-Upper” program: “I think I
have something in common with the burglars in the Army camps.” (NBC)
Local Color: Bob Martina, our campus Sammy Kaye bug, ought to be in-
____________________________......____________________________...____________________
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS S1.OO.
- Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
22
terested in the news that Kaye just donated to Navy Relief a $1,000 royalty check for “Remember Pearl Harbor,” one of his favorites.... All proceeds of. the song thus far have totaled to a tune of $4,000. Last Wednesday night noted the first radio meeting on campus for this semester.... everybody wanted to know why WND of Alumni Hall had been substituted for “WSBT.”
Rock Sports Calendar Outlined for Semester
Interhall basketball has begun once again on the Rockne hard woods, as both light and heavyweight leagues moved into action on Feb. 1. The leagues are composed of two divisions each; the lights having six teams to a league and the heavier section being made up of eight teams apiece.
Now that the first games are under the belts of the various coaches they will settle down for the hard grind that faces them during the coming season and ■will get their players into top form for the competition seems to be the best that has ever been taken onto the interhall courts. Each hall team has its eye on the championship and if all the residents of the halls give their talents to the cause there is no reason why this season should not be the best in the history of interhall athletics.
In the very near future there will be a handball tournament under the guidance of Tommy Mills. All those who are interested in participating in this affair should place their entries in at the Rockne. Mr. Mills also stated that if enough
SHE will love Flowers on Valentine's Day Sunday, Feb. 14th
Wired Anywhere — or Delivered.
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
I 14 S. Michigan Street. .
interest is shown he ■will promote a squash tournament.
Another swimming, meet will take place soon but don’t forget fellows that in order to promote these tournaments and leagues it takes the cooperation of all of you. So lets get in and pitch, get in shape for the future.—Dick Grant
Fr. Hubbard Discusses
Alaska's Role in War
Father Bernard Hubbard, S.J., glacier priest, author, lecturer, and explorer lectured to, the student body on “Alaska in the War” in the Engineering Auditorium last Wednesday evening.
Father Hubbard discussed the War situation in the Alaska territory. From his eye-witness account of the Dutch Harbor attack, he described the Jap
STORE HOURS 9:30 TO 6:00
ELLSWORTH'S
Qm. eJleA, fUaleMiine.
ARDEN'S BLUE GRASS COLOGNE___________ 1.50
ARDEN'S BLUE GRASS BATH TALCUM_______ 1.50
ARDEN'S MILLE FLEURS BATH TALCUM_____ 2.00 ..
ARDEN'S BLUE GRASS PERFUME._.„LJ.25 to 12.00
CATALINE BEADS_________________1___1.00 / .
CATALINE BRACELETS___________________ 1.00- • ■
CATALINE EARRINGS ___________________.. .59
E 1 1 s w or th s -First Floor
bombings of the Harbor. He told what the victims went through and gave other information about the treachery of the Japanese.
Father answered the important question: “What are the chances of the Japanese invading America—via the back door. He said the back door was merely ajar, and that the possibilities of further Jap penetration were not remote.
For some 16 years now Father Hubbard has explored the Northwest Terri-, tory. At present he is acting as civilian advisor to the Western Defense Command, and he spent this past summer in Alaska gathering latest information for the government.
At the conclusion of his talk Father Hubbard showed his new motion picture “Alaska in the War.”
23
U.S. BONDS
♦
j
STAMPS
F--
smoke Chesterfield .
WATCH
OUR
F >T| SMOKE...
/rsUff£Sr£/W£UT
FOR MILDNESS AND TASTE
Here’s a combination you can’t
beat... the right combination of the world’s best
cigarette tobaccos. That’s why Chesterfields give
you real MILDNESS and BETTER TASTE and that’s
what the real pleasure of smoking adds up to.
For everything you want in a cigarette
IB P
Cbjnnght 19|J, Licctn \ Abuts Tobacco Co