

YOU'VE SAID IT ALL~ 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
october 29, 1971 notre dame, indiana volume 113, no.4
scholastic 

4  letters  
columns  
john  moore  5  the 'do it' davs  are  over  
dan o'donne/1  6  witches' brew  
markings  
joe runde lione/ whately  8 9  beating the rip-offs the south bend you  never  knew  
features  
michae/ me cau/ey  12  confucian "sokchon" ritual  
mary elf en stoltz  14 15  foreign stud1es,: I introduction  
mary elf en stoltz  16  II  la ·universidaid de anahuac  
martin linskey  18  Ill rome's american ghetto  
d.  m. haven  18  IV far eastern policy  
al depman, jr.  20  V Paris ­ two  and  a  half hours  
greg stidham  22  VI from alp to alp  
mike mooney  24  back on the bus with hesburgh  
life and the arts  
jim pa/enchar  28  education of a world society or  
john  moran  laboring in the academic wastelands  
joe runde  30  green grass and richard brautigan  
casey pocius  31  nice ­ but so  what  
cheri weismantel  32  coming distractions  
sports  
don kennedy  36  giving up, sports fans??  
joe hotz  38  the last word  

editors-in-chief: joe hotz, mary ellen stoltz / managing editor: greg chinchar I art director: rick fitzgerald / associate editors: mike mooney, greg stidham / assistant editors: jim fanto, joan jeanette deegan, mike mccabe, tom macken / copy editor: jim palenchar sports editor: don kennedy I assistant managing editor: joe runde / business. howie sutton / circulation: cliff zmick / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: george block, ed bower, john banks-brooks, kevin cassidy, john flannigan, marie glotzbach, phi! glotzbach, mike givler, robert hamilton, marty head, bruce hooper, jim jendryk, dave jones, jerry koshinski, john linsky, mat mccarthy, ired monsour, john moore, john moran, mark o'connel, dan o'donnel, jim pearce, pete peterson, peggy perkinson, bob rizzuti, jim sitzman, pat smith, mimi wheeler, cheri weismantel, jeff wyszkowski / business and circulation: joe leahy, ron hein, jack reschauer, marty zone I art and photography: jim hunt, michael lonier, bob mcmahon, joe raymond, pam seifert. 
this week's cover is from a photograph by larry burns. 
The opinions e..xpressed in the ScHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScHOLAsTic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished fortnightly during the school year e..xcept during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at AVE MARIA PREss, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScuoLASTic. 
THE EDITOR: 
Thanks to Jim Palenchar and Jim Fanto for their report on Notre Dame's minority recruitment ("Ghost of a Chance," Oct. 15). On the whole it looks as if Notre Dame is trying to do a good job of rectifying the · racism of the past, though everybody agrees that it can do a better job. But let's not fool ourselves with the notion that all we need to do better is to find more money. Are we doing the best we can now, with the money we have? Specifically, are we making the best choices now, not only about recruiting minority stu­dents but about teaching them after they get here? 
At first glance it looks quite encouraging that our minority students meet those 'high academic standards that your article describes, with black students on the whole showing better records than those of the entire freshman class. But this might be a weakness, not a strength, in Notre Dame's recruitment policy of select­ing only the most promising black students, those who can deliver high grades or marketable athletic skills. In our boasting of the potential of our minority stu­dents, we may also be saying that to get into Notre Dame white students must meet one set of standards and minority students a higher set. 
Now the reason for this state of affairs, of course, though it's not exactly stated in the article, is money. Minority students are proportionately getting more aid than the rest of their class, so Notre Dame wants good risks for its investment. But doesn't this kind ·of think­ing ultimately hurt our well-intentioned effort to recti­fy the racism of the past, and doesn't it offer education to the minority elite at the expense of students who show no more promise than the rest of us? Minority students "have a lot going against them in·high school," according to one admissions officer, "so they must have strong attitudes and characters." The .emphasis here, sadly, is only on what the student himself must do to make up for the past; but rio one mentions what the school must do. 

How should we teach the student once he gets here and finds himself behind? Our most visible program, Black Studies, suits the needs and interests of many minority students, but Black Studies . doesn't reach Chicanos or Indians or, for that matter, black engi­neers or business majors. Neither is Black Studies in the business of offering catch-up education. What we need is more than a few remedial courses in this or that department, but a well-coordinated effort to help students gradually adjust at their own pace to the Notre Dame curriculum. Right now the math depart­ment offers a non-credit remedial course, and English offers a three-credit Freshman seminar. We don't know yet if one program is better than. another: the math course has a small enrollment because, naturally, under the present system of credits and grades, nobody likes to do the work and get nothing for it; the English pro­gram offers credit, but some students need more than a semester to catch up; and neither course reaches as m~ny students as need help in these two subjects. We 
, need a system whereby a student can take three semes­ters -or more if he needs it -to complete freshman requirements. We need to allow students to take noth­ing but English and math until they have enough of a foundation to move into other subjects. We need to let them flunk a course repeatedly without grade-point penalty until they finally pass it (all students deserve this, not just minority students). We need coordinated efforts with tutoring, neither adding more busy work to the student's load nor doing his homework for him, but rather dealing closely with his individual intelli­gence. We need to stop speaking disparagingly of remedial courses and give them the time, personnel and budget that they deserve, without undue pressure from the people who create course-load requirements, credits, grade-point averages and athletic eligibility. 
John Huber 
English Department 
EDITOR: 

Two iso1ated occurrences this past weekend deserve 
attention: 1) the fight that broke out between the 
teams involved in the Notre.Dame-Southern <;alifornia 
football game, and 2) the death of Chuck Hughes, a 
substitute offensive end, due to a heart attack perhaps 
resulting from injuries sustained during the Detroit 
Lion-Chicago Bear pro football. game. (I include "per­
haps · sustained" because it is uncertain at this time 
whether or not the heart attack resulted only from in­
j.uries in the game.) . 

I am not questioning the rationale behind the fight 
during the ND-USC game, for I think that there is no 
rational answer to it. I am neither indicting the NFL 
for the death of Hughes. I am, though, asking where 
do we place human priorities -what is important in 
sports and life? 

At stake •in the ND-USC game was a great deal of 
football pride,· a national ranking, and the convictions 
of Irish fans everywhere that Notre Dame would 
reign victorious over the Trojans in this traditional 
game. At stake in the Detroit Lion-Chicago Bear game 
was also a great deal of pride,. first place in the Cen­
tial Division of the National Football Conference, and 
the convictions of supporters of both the Lions and 
Bears that their respective team -was truly superior to 
the other. A fight broke out in the second quarter of 
the ND-USC game on the field between two players; 
immediately both benches emptied out onto the field. 
A miniature riot began, with uniformed, helmeted 
players swinging wildly at each other. It was eventu­
ally broken up· by various peacemakers: coaches, 
police and players. 

With one minute and six seconds left in the Detroit 
Lion-Chicago Bear pro football game, Chuck Hughes 
was . lying unconscious upon the football field. The 
trainers, thinking it was a ."routine" injury, ran out 
onto the· field to see what was wrong with him. After 
bending over him for a few seconds, they motioned to 
the sidelines for help. They then began to pouna upon 
Ms chest;. artificial respiratio~-was administered to 
him. ·A stretcher was rushed out onto the field; Hughes 
was carried off to.the locker room. As the game ended, 
one could hear the shrill screams of ambulance sirens 
over the noise of the crowd. 

A fight in a college football game -a death in the . 
pros. Certainly not causally related to each other in 
any way, yet both having. a great deal to say about 
hurrian priorities. Could Chuck Hughes just as well 
have been a member of the Notre Dame football team? 
Perhaps not. But if so, where do our priorities lie ­
in victory or defeat in a football game, or in human life? In the aftermath of the Notre Dame-USC game, . fortunately, .no one was seriously injured. As the sirens blared away from Detroit Stadium, Chuck Hughes 
would never live to know who the victors were. 
Indeed, there were none. 
_ Sincerely, 
Peter Szegedy-Maszak 

·233 Zahm 

THE SCHOLASTIC 


john moore 

the 'do it' days are over 
The people flocked to Stepan Center on that Thurs­day night with varying motives of adoration, curiosity and boredom. The attraction: Jerry Rubin. Here was The Revolutionary, author of Do It and survivor of the Chicago courtroom he helped ridicule, standing there with his slight body and not-so-slight hair cut and rambling about everything from Chilean copper to Acapulco gold. 
Anyone who went to the Center for a lecture on revolution was probably disappointed. Rubin gave no magic formula for the destruction of the United States Government or the establishment of Utopia: in fact, he seems to have no idea what to do when the Government is in shambles, if, indeed, h~ wants it in shambles. · 
Rather, Rubin talked of things he had seen and thought were wrong. Things like Attica and poverty and U.S. copper imperialism in Chile and friends and American soldiers on heroin and war were lamented by Rubin while he blamed the passive reactions of American campuses for allowing such things to con­tinue. His general tone was one of incredulity. 
Also, anyone who went to the Center to "debate the leftist" was likewise probably disappointed .. Rubin's inconsistencies and unfounded statements made any argument too easy even as Rubin discouraged debate, not wanting to present an infallible case but only to relate his experiences and opinions. 
Still, it became difficult to take Rubin seriously when he expanded mental hospitals' shortcomings and in­justices to an opinion that everyone committed to such an institution be released and government officials put in, or when he expanded the involvement of high Vietnamese officials in the manufacture and trans­port of narcotics to regarding Richard Nixon as the "biggest dope pusher in the world." Also, Rubin 
·does not seem to be able to get out of the habit of calling public servants "pigs" or regarding any government action as "murderously oppressive," which results in a near-perfect example of the prejudice he seeks to dispel. 
On the other hand, Rubin's caricature of the failings of the American educational system was hardly less than sterling. The sight of all those Golden Doiners clutching their bosoms in disbelief as Rubin told them about the du Lac "baby-sitting service" was, to say the least, touching. Rubin went on to charge that the whole school system's purpose was to brainwash and corrupt the youth and isolate them from possible involvement in "the revolution." Then lapsing into a more ~erious vein in his opinion on drugs, Rubin condemned the use of narcotic drugs and warned 
against the use of alcohol and marijuana for purely 
escapist reasons. He went on, however, to advocate 
nonexcessive use of marijuana ( especially when 
exposed to the school system) but never clarified his 
position on that point. (This, one might contend, 
may be overlooked due to the fact that Rubin was admittedly stonE;!d.) 
But the topic which seemed to comprise the main point of Rubin's talk-actually the structure of his speaking defied definition of a main point -was his plea for political action as an individual's role in the "revolution." He emphasized a call to the streets of San Diego for the Republican National Convention in July '72 in an all-out effort to "dump Nixon." His summons also included utilizing that _tool of democracy, the vote, to get Nixon out. 
That final suggestion of using the System for desired change seems to summarize what had seemed faintly obvious all night; that is, the changing, soften­ing approach projected by Rubin and his contem­poraries, drifting away from the radicalism of the Chicago Seven and "Do It" days. This idea may have been missed by many of the audience in the Stepan Center, resulting in a misunderstood Jerry Rubin. For many, a Jerry Rubin is one of the Chicago Seven, nothing else. For others a Jerry Rubin is a prophet, nothing else. Or, for some, a Jerry Rubin is only a flagrant f~ol, nothing much. But I would imagine that for many, even Rubin himself, a Jerry Rubin is just an angry, impetuous young man who has the inclination and guts to say what many of us feel. 

OCTOBER 29, 1971 
dan o'donnell 




-witches' bre-w 
I 
Tuesday, July 19., 11W,rks the opening day of the 

Allentown State Fair. Naw in its fiftieth year of exis­
tence, the Fair has attracted over ten million people and 
gained international recognition as one of the most com­
prehensive expositions of its kind. Despite the fact that 
the Fair attr4Cts exhibits and concessions from as far 
away as Cali., Colombia., it is esti11W,ted that at least 40% 
of the people working on the Fair reside .within a 25­
mile radius of the Fairgrounds. The Fairgrounds cover 
over two square miles., the greater part of which is re­
constructed every year. This year's guest entertainers 
include Tom Jones., Richie Havens, the Carpenters., and 
the Grateful Dead. "Our aim.," says Fair Chairman 
Joseph B. Whittlecott, "is to please as 11W,ny people as 
possible of varying ages, tastes, etc. The Fair., you 
know., has always been a contagious thing.,., 
In addition to guest entertainers., the Fair will once 

again present a virtually unlimited assortment of rides., 
grange displays., refreshments, games and shows from 
all over the world. Many improvements have been made 
during the 7.ast year including the erection of 19 addi­
tional restrooms (10 men and 9 women) bringing to 50 
the number of such facilities available. at the Fair­
grounds. 
from the Allentown Globe, July 5., 1911 
II 
You cannot-walk down the main street in Allentown 

without being struck by the toned-down character which 
the townspeople assume. In a word, the aura is that of 
disinterest, but a somehow vital and appropriate dis­
interest; as if it were decreed by the land itself. A dis­
interest, the very subtlety of which transforms what is 
usually considered a defect into an advantage, an ir­
resistible beauty mark. And this fact cannot be over­
looked when one begins to consider "Th.e Fair," which is 
anything but smooth, anything but subtle, nothing if npt 
explosive. 
The Fair is a ceremony of color, a ~elebration of -excess where colors have no shades and excesses breed no consequence. One is tempted to call it pure cause. The atmosphere inside the Fair is so persistently and naturally that of caricature that one cannot respond to it in such a way as to escape the continual parody. There is no such thing as dignified, or for that matter, out­landish behavior. Like an organism, the Fair subsumes them and both appear equally foolish. Fifteen-year-old teeny-bops who sneak into any of the 24 ladies' rest­rooms only to emerge sans trainer bras, and forty-year­old society matrons who sputter and spout outside the burlesque shows become, as the saying goes, birds of a feather. 
ill 

LADEEEES AND GENTLLLLEMEN SEE EN­DURO the prehistoric mystery man, the only truly authentic primordial being ever displayed in this coun­try. Shudder as this pri11W, donna of the primates stalks his cage devouring raw meat and moaning what might very well be the language of our most distant relatives. Is he man or is he animal? Is he the missing link? Be­lieve men, ladies and gentlemen, this is an exhibition you will never forget, a sight to stand your hair on end and nourish your nightmares for years to come. 
Plucked from the African wilds by a team of trained French sociologists, this magnificent specimen has con­tinued to baffle even the most learned scientists in our own country. And now a special agreement between our. government and the French Academy of Scientists has made it possible for you, yes, you, folks, to get a glimpse at one of the best~kept secrets in medical history. 
One fl.Ital word, my friends. As you will notice we have taken every precaution possible in exhibiting Enduro. We cannot, however, be responsible for any­thing which may happen once you enter the exhibit. So proceed with caution! ! For, once inside, you will be in the very lap of creation! ! Step right up, step right up, LADEEEES AND GENTI,T.LJ.'RMEN, SEE EN­DURO.. 
IV It sometimes occurs that there is a communion be-

THE SCHOLASTIC 

tween a person and a room, a slow transfer of energies. There may be an apprehension that all is not well, a feeling for the precariousness of the silence which cushions you. This hotel room has become a whore; using the pretense of service as an opportunity for drainage, finding cause for celebration in my uneasiness. Stolen sheets and ash-covered floors are, one must admit, only an appropriate, petty revenge. 
My father, who is sleeping next to me in this bed, wheezes quite heavily as the result of a chest ailment. I do not know the exact name for this disease. Whether out of courtesy or disinterest, I am not sure which, I have never asked. These sounds, then, multiply my discomfort. My relatives tell me that I look exactly like my father did at twenty. In between heaves he is oozing apologies for keeping me awake. I say apologies though the sounds are shapeless because I know my father, and my father is a kind man. An hour passes and he is asleep. 
When I am riding in a speeding automobile I calm myself and occupy my mind and time by pressing my knees gently, rhythmically, at every road sign that I pass. Now I prop myself against the bedboard, so that I can reach my kness, and rhapsodize the unsteady move­ments of my father's chest. Gently. Rhythmically. 
It is three o'clock now and still I have not slept. I find myself in the bathroom devouring cigarettes and posing ridiculously in front of the mirror. I discover that if I position myself correctly, wear the right ex­pression, tilt my eyebrows· just so, I can actually lose myself in the mirror. There. My body has become an empty bottle which is being slowly filled with warm, dirty water. I soon tire of this game though. Like most hotel mirrors this one is flawed and the resulting distor­tions, like the whore's moans, both gratify and unsettle. Now I stand here motionless for a time, and admire my imperfect smoke rings as they dissolve into the glass. 
V :.MEET GEORGE EPPINGER, :MEET GEORGE EP­PINGER, Democratic candidate for judge in Lehigh 
Valley. Come in, shake his hand, talk with him. Hard problems need hard minds and George Eppinger, Demo­cratic candidate for judge in Lehigh Valley, is both a noted jurist and a legal scholar. He has the answers, so come in and MEET GEORGE EPPINGER here at the Allentown Fair. Meet George Eppinger and the entire Lehigh Valley Democratic ticket. Help yourself to one of these durable multicolored, helium-filled balloons. Advertise your support for George Eppinger. Prove that you care about our valley's future. Good govern­ment needs good people and we are certain that if you :MEET GEORGE EPPINGER, you will agree that he, and only he, can provide the responsible leadership necessary for this county's progress. But don't take my word for it, folks. See for yourselves. Visit with Mr. Eppinger. Take part in the electoral process. The only free stand on the Midway. Get to know George Ep­pinger and then sign up for a free chance on the 1971 color TV that goes to one of our lucky 'Visitors every day, all week, on the Midway, at the Allentown Fair. :MEET GEORGE EPPINGER, :MEET GEORGE EP­PINGER AND THE ENTIRE .... 
VI 

Perhaps it is the very grossness of the spectacle, the sense of universal disproportion, that accounts for the Fair's vitality and organic strength. Once inside, there is simply no way to escape becoming a part of it. Oh, there are stratagems, but they all fail. This becomes even more clear upon considering the girlie show filled with fathers who are supposed to be checking on their possibly liberated daughters, or the Ferris wheel dom­inated by society matrons with aching feet and tired mouths. 
One is more convinced, I am afraid, of the Fair's elusive nobility than of its validity. Like it or not, with its alarming mixture of ignorance and festivity, shod­diness and humanity, the Fair is the flip side of our twentieth-century sonata. 

OCTOBER 29, 1971 
markings 

beating the rip-offs 
When senior physics major John Mateja came to campus this fall he was ready to resume operation of the Crypt. (The Crypt was the record store which last year operated out of Lyons Hall and later the Student Union.) Seeking a permit, Mateja was met with an emphatic "No" from the Office of Student Affairs. Since then he has been trying to bring his case before the Student Life Council. As of this writing, it has not reached the SLC. 
Mateja views the possibility of getting before the SLC with optimism: "The major concern is whether the operation of a student-owned record store comes under the jurisdiction of the SLC. The jurisdiction of the SLC, however, covers everything that Father Blantz, Vice-President for Student Affairs, has to approve. According to the Student Manual you need the approval of Fr. Blantz and Student Body President John Barkett to open any sort of student sales operation." 
The proposal for opening the Crypt will, according to Mateja, deal with the Crypt as a Student Union­run and not privately owned operation. In this case, the Student Union would operate the Crypt as a non­profit student service. The only cost over the dis­tributor's cost would be to pay the help. 
Before setting up the Crypt last year, Mateja talked to Brother Conan of the bookstore. Conan informed him that the bookstore bought its records from a record "jobber" who supplies the shelves and does the stocking himself. The bookstore operates at a 20 percent mark-up from the "jobber's" prices in order to help pay the salaries and make up for the cost of slow-moving items. Mateja, however, believed that the bookstore could still cut their album prices by 50 cents. He thought they could lower their prices even more by purchasing their records from a regular distributor. According to Mateja, the bookstore thought little of this idea. So, last fall he opened the Crypt in his room in Lyons. His prices undercut the bookstore by 60 cents to a dollar. 
Once established in the Student Union, Mateja's 

_store sold an average of 300 records a week. In his estimation, the bookstore could switch over to a distributor and sell records at his prices, still make a good profit and save the students approximately $4000 a year on record purchases. 
When the Crypt comes before the SLC, it will be as a proposal to save the students money. Because 

of this, Mateja said, "I expect the SLC to say yes." 
In the absence of the Crypt, there seemed to be little hope for the student to have a handy, low-priced record outlet. Student Record Sales, however, opened a few weeks ago with prices that, like the Crypt last year, undercut the bookstore by 60 cents to a dollar per album. Mark C. Johnson and Tom Haugh, two sophomore roommates in Morrissey Hall, started the venture when they heard "the Crypt" had not opened. According to Johnson, they plan to continue, though they "anticipate trouble from Father Shilts." 
The enterprise was started on loans that amounted to $400 dollars and "good faith." It has developed from a two-person project to a section concern. Tom Haugh said: "The community spirit of our section has been unbelievable. Everyone is a salesman. Every­one is a money-holder. The possibility of anything being stolen is nonexistent." 
Business as well as spirit is doing well in the Student Record Sales organization. The weekly sales are run­ning 80 to 100 albums. 
To Mark Johnson the endeavor is not just a money-making propositions. He views it as a service to the student body: "It seems the University is invoking still another double standard by purporting that the bookstore exists to save us money when, in fact, everyone knows that store has and will continue to rip off every student in this University. The possibility of making money was certainly appealing to us, but the ability to offer students a savings on a high-volume purchasing item was defi­nitely a positive factor in our opening." Tom Haugh added that the bookstore makes at least $1.33 on each r~ord it sells at regular price. 
If response to student record sales can be considered any sort of meter for measuring student disapproval of the bookstore, the disapproval is great. "Response has been good. We've only advertised in seven halls." (Advertising has since increased to an ad in the Observer.) 
It seems that the students are going to have inexpensive records. Whether those records come from the bookstore or some student, they will have them. 
-joe runde 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

the south bend you never knew 
haven for the despairing multitudes 
In this hectic, fast-paced world there is little time and few places to enjoy those simple pleasures of life: like a cool draught at Corby's on Friday after­noon, a game of billiards at the Huddle, or a great bowl of hot chili. If you are really into the local night life, then you must have been to Frankie's, Louie's, Rocco's and assorted other "hip" joints. They are nice places for socializing but when it comes to food, there is always Billy's Original Coney Island Hog Dog on Michigan Street. If you are a freshman or a female, chances are you don't know Billy or his chili. 
No doubt, Craig Claiborne would label Billy's a greasy spoon, if given the chance. At most places you worry about the ABC: not here, more likely_ the health department or building inspector. The falling ceiling and crusty linoleum can all be overlooked if you dig chili and coney dogs-probably the best in at least all of Hoosier land. So myself and two other chili freaks visited Billy last week for a bowl and a brew. 
Billy is the type of guy who came over on the boat years ago to find freedom and happiness in America and for the last 27 years has been operating his lunch stand. It is a one-room joint with a bar and booths and a black-and-white TV flickering over the tap; kind of cosy in a low way. God knows what it was originally built for, but now it's not much good for anything but people eating chili. Wow! What chili! 
If you remember the chili momma used to make ­well Billy's isn't quite the same; it's better. There are more beans per bowl than raisins in a box of raisin bran. 
What if chili isn't so groovy with you? You need not worry my man, there are always plenty of coney dogs on hand with chili sauce, of course. To top it all off or cool it all down, you can always order a glass of Stroh's. 
There is always more to a place like Billy's than food, in this case the attraction is Billy. He is a little man with a white shirt, black tie, and floor­length apron, wearing an expression halfway between 
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
pleasant and grumpy. When you walk in the door, say hello; Billy loves to hear from his "boys." The conversation covers everything from chili to the intricacies of big business ("ya got to have the oeer to make a buck"). The whole discussion is flavored with Billy's accent from somewhere, which kind of makes listening a challenge. Finally, when you are ready to leave, Billy tabulates the bill in his head as if to show you what he has learned in America. With a few words of advice and an invitation back, Billy says good-bye. 
We all have a lot of worries and hassles to deal with every day, even making good use of leisure time is a chore. So sit back, enjoy those simple pleasures like friends, brew, and chili; you may never have the chance again. Hot chili is grooviest at Billy's. 
-lionel whately 



If you have a liking for figures, finance and money, /Etna Life & Casualty might be a way to both job satisfaction and success. 
Ifyou haven't thought about insurance, maybe that's because you haven't heard the whole truth about it. 
For example, because our business has become so sophisticated, we have one of the largest computer installations in the country.And,if you think of insurance in terms ofpremiums and settlements, you'll be surprised at how deeply/Etnais involved with stocks and bonds, equities, and real estate. 
Ifyou're analytically-minded, there are 
We are anEqual Opportunity Employer 

many careers open to you. As an actuary, accountant, computer programmer or securities analyst, for example. In these positions and others you'll be helping 27 million people who depend on /Etna for security in a shaky world. We have a reputation for not letting them down. 
Abrochure called "The Whole Truth" spells out how /Etna works, and the many specific opportunities we have for people of all talents. It's an honest picture of an honest business. 
Why not stop in at your placement office soon and read it. You could do yourself-and many otherpeople-alot of good. 

OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 

LIFE &CASUALTY 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

THE UNCOLAMMUSIC MONEYOFFER 
fl 
Get any of these top Record albums for only $3.80 and ?UPB) proof of 
fl 

'~ purchase (save up to $2.18). 8-Track and Cassette Tape albums, only "' ~ $3.98 (save up to $4.00). ~ 

THE 
MOODY BLUES 
113611 


04375 
~efamily


113322 
-Jeii 
¦Heh.all 
·a1ue 
IREPRISE I 
11876 
JEFFERSON AIRPLANE 
BARK
• 
jcRu.r/ 
13296 
04370 
04341 


11758 


Original Cast 
Godspell 

'.'~·'.··.···· (\A
.. 
... :. J 
~·~ 
.,. 
Rod Stewart Every Picture Tells A Story 
104379 

CARPENTERS 

113474 
11997 
-. 
A ,• 
.. -= ..~t--· 
'lfat Stevens 

Tea For The Ti/Jerman 
12848 
THEWHO WHO'S 
NEXT 
to£CCA1 
~ 
113612 
ARETHA FRADHllD 
live at 
Fillmore West 
{ATLAN_!!=j 
10073 
13365 
The GuessWho 
SolongJ Bannatyne 
~(.\VIC~ 
113629 
ELTOR 
JOHD 
11-17-70 
(§TI 
I I 

To indicate the category you want for 
I 

each selection, circle the letters: R for 
I 

Records, S for 8-Track Tapes, C for Cas­
I 

sette Tapes. Then enter the code num­
I 

bers of the selection(s) you want and the
I 

prices in the appropriate columns. Please 
I 

enclose full payment along with three 
I 

7UP bottle cap liners or other 7UP proof
I 

of purchase" for each selection. (00 NOT 
I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I ­I I I I I I I I I I 

MAIL METAL CAPS.) Make check or money 
order payable to: Uncola Music Offer. MAIL ORDER FORM TO: Uncola Music Offer, P.O. Box 7778, Indianapolis, Indiana 46206. IMPORTANT: Cirde either"R," "S," or"C." 
Rec.  8-Track Tapes  Cassette Tapes  Selection II umbers  ~loneyoffer Sale Price  
R  s  C  
R  s  C  
R  s  C  
R  s  C  
R  s  C  
R  s  C  
R  s  C  
TOTAL:  

All prices include applicable state and local tax and mailing costs. 
. (PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY) 
NAME_ _ __ _ 
ADDRESS_ _ 

CITY. _ _ _STATE__ _ _ZIP-_ 
Along with your albums, you will receive the 24 page Music Moneyoffer Catalog listing over 300 music and stereo equip­ment bargains. If you would like the Cata­log and do not wan.t to purchase an album at this time, check the box below and send your name and address along with 25c to: Uncola Music Offer, Dept. C, 
P.O. Box 778, 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46206. 

. 
'The following constitute 7UP proof or purcha:;e: Three 7UP bottle cap liners, (DO NOT MAIL METAL CAPS); One 7U? purchase seal from the bottom of non-returnable bottles or can cartons; One 7UP imprint from the plastic collar can holders; Or any identifiable portion of the label from large size 7UP bottles. 
-For information on the famous Uncola posters­write Uncola Posters, Box 11477, St. Louis. Mis­souri 63105. 
0 

SEVEN~UP/' •"7UP,0 ••THE UNCOLA:• A~40 uu•,0 ARE. TRADEMARKS IDENTIFYlrlG THE PRODUCT OF THE SE'IE"·
113603 113505 13358 04383 
UP COMPANY. 
11

OCTOBER 29, 1971 
confucian "sokchon" ritual ---mike me cauley 
Michael McCauley is a 1969 graduate of Notre Dame with a B.A. in political science. He is presently in the Peace Corps .and is working as an instructor of English at Sung Kyun Kwan University in Seoul, Korea. 
Black-robed high priests wearing ancient Chinese turbans offer sacrifices to departed ancestors in a large Oriental building complete with upturned roof and eaves. 
Sixty-four Confucian apprentices dressed in the bright-red military garb of tenth-century Korean no­bility form a huge "choir" and bow low in unison while performing ritual dances. 
Two Confucian orchestras, composed of large drums, eery-sounding flutes, and various chimes made of jade and stone, play solemn ceremonial music. 
The scene is a vision from out of the misty past of the ancient Orient. But it's also an appropriate sketch of the "Sokchon" Ritual held this fall in Seoul, Korea, at Sung Kyun Kwan Confucian. University to commemorate the 2,522nd birthday of Confucius. 
The ceremony is an extremely rare one. Sokchon takes place only twice each year -in. the second and eighth months of the lunar calendar -and it occurs authentically today only in two countries -Korea and Taiwan. Observers who've seen the c_e_remony in both nations say that Korea's ritual is the more authentic of the two. 
The most recent ceremony took place 'in mid-Sep­tember. On this daY: the three large doors forming the entrance to the Taesong-jon Shrine on the campus of the university were thrown open, and visitors from Korea and many foreign countries poured into the inner shrine area. Old Korean grandfathers from the rural villages silently mixed with camera-laden tourists. Promptly at 10:00 a.m. a procession of officiating: scholars dressed in full Confucian regalia walked sol­
emnly down the special stone walkway and up to the 
main platform of the -"Hall of the Great." Thus began 
the unique Sokchon ritual to honor the memories of 
Confucius, Mencius (his greatest disciple) and other 
dep!ll'ted ancestral luminaries. 
Confucianism originated around the fifth century 

B.C. in the Chinese state of Lu (present-day Shantung)° by a man known variously as Confucius, Kung-ju (in Chinese), Kong-ja (in Korean), "The Master," and "The Great Sage." Many scholars claim that Confucianism is not really a religion at all, but rather a complex system of ethics. Whatever it is, the creed today is all but invisible in the Asian countries where it exists. How­ever, it still has a profound influence on the cultures and societies of the modern Orient. 
The chief teachfogs of Confucius center around the 

importance of the patriarchal family, reverence for 
nature and ancestors, and proper behavior among men. 
Confucian morality stresses that all men are basically 
good by nature and that "jen'_' or love among neighbors 
is of paramount importance in life. 
The religion came to Korea from China at least as 

early as the period of The Three Kingdoms which 
would place the date around the second century A.D. 
During the ensuing centuries Confucianism played a 
vital role in Korean society, with the majo_r writings of 
"The Master"-the Analects and the Classics -form­
ing the educational basis of the civil examinations for 
the higher classes and government officials. The Korean 
Yi Dynasty officially ensconced Confucianism as the 
state: religion in the thirteenth century. Sung Kyun 
Kwan University was founded in 1288, and today it re­
mains a leading center for Confucian studies, not only 
in Korea but also for most of the world. 
With the religion being officially de-emphasized by 

the communist rulers of mainland China today, Korea 
has become one of the few countries where Confucian­. ism is flourishing and can be observed. Even so, its visibility and influence remain very subtle, due mostly to the very nature of the religion itself. Its vital role remains shaping family and social behavior. 
Elaborate ceremonies which characterize most other important world religions were always rare in Con­fucianism, and are becoming even more so today. Thus, the Sokchon ritual as presented by Sung Kyun Kwan University in Seoul is truly a unique and rare oppor­tunity for foreigners to view ceremonial Confucianism in all its grandeur, pomp and circumstance. 
The autumn Sokchon ceremony, which lasts only ninety minutes, is divided into six parts. First, the chief officiator recites a series of prescribed readings to the accompaniment of two Confucian orchestras. Meanwhile the spirits of the ancestors are invisibly en­tering the Hall of the Great via the stone walkway. 
The two orchestras are named "Hun-ka," located under the eaves of the temple and composed of only wind and percussion instruments, and "Dung-ka," sit­uated on the terrace near the main entrance to the shrine and made up primarily of stringed instruments and drums. The two groups produce a very dignified and ghostly music. The drums and chimes create an extremely slow and methodical beat, while the flutes, zithers and strings combine to repeat one overwhelming note which floats throughout the shrine area. 
The next three sections of the ceremony involve sep­arate sacrificial offerings to Confucius and his four main disciples. Inside the Hall of the Great (which is "off limits" to spectators) the priests offer sacrifices of wine, uncooked meat and rice, fruit and flowers before a series of wooden tablets which bear the names of "The Master" and his followers in Chinese letters. The chief priest recites the following prayer: 
From antiquity through all the ages · 
Primitive men have done this. 
They wore skin hats; 
They offered of fruit of the ground. 
How orderly was the music! 
Only Heaven guides the people; 
Only the Sage conforms his instructions 
to the day and the hour. 

The moral duties are arranged 
in their proper order. 

Till now the wooden claP'f)er sounds. 
The "wooden clapper" referred to in the prayer is the instrument held by the conductor of the choir. He claps his wooden castanet, called a "pak," to signal the be­ginning and the end of each dance. 
The dancers, all clad in bright red robes, perform two ritual dances: the "Moon Moo" or Civil Dance and the "Moo Moo" or Military Dance. Each member of the group holds a large peacock feather in his hand and bows slowly in unison with the entire troupe. The ceremony is completed by the final two sections in which the containers which bore the sacrifices are re­moved from the Hall of the Great and the spirits are once again escorted back from whence they came. 
After the ceremony the Confucian scholars, appren­tices and many elderly people from the villages adjourn to a larg~ lecture hall in the rear of the shrine area. There they just relax and talk or listen to a short sermon by one of the old scholars. Usually such talks center around excerpts from the Ana"lects. The exam­ple given below n_iay give us a clue to the longevity of this ancient religion which is at once both simple and complex. 
The Master said, 
If there be righteousness in the heart, there will be 1:-eauty in the character. If there be beauty in the character, there will be harnwny in the home. If there be harmon:-.:1 in the hmne, there will be order in the nation. If there be order in the nation, there will be peace in the w<Yrld. 
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
foreign studies 
THE SCHOLASTIC_ 
•

mex1co rome tokyo angers innsbruck 
\l 


I. introduction 
Located on three continents, the Foreign Studies Programs are headed by Father Lawrence Broestl from Notre Dame; all programs, with the exception of the Saint Mary's-sponsored year in Rome, come under his supervision. On a more immediate level, most of the programs work in conjunction with the Language Department and a Notre Dame director who resides in the foreign country. Cooperation is close and lines of communication are fairly well open. Father Broestl is generally amiable to student suggestions and willing to lend assistance whenever it is requested. The programs are geared to the sophomore year, as opposed to the current trend in American colleges and universities toward a junior year orientation. The sophomore year program enables the experience of the year in another country to be open to a wider range of students than language majors; participants' majors range from premed to English to business. 
The following series of articles on the various programs is being presented with a number of objec­tives in mind. It is of importance to familiarize the University community with the varying programs, the combination of which affects approximately one hundred and fifty Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students annually. The programs have been structured to enable students to fulfill the requirements of the sophomore year of the college, and yet each program maintains a strictly different character. 
The Notre Dame programs are taught in conjunc­tion with a local university and the flavor of the individual universities allows for a great deal of diversity. The varying strengths and weak­nesses have been discussed individually in the articles; some are endemic to the program, others depend to a great extent upon the individual groups and directors, as well as the social and political cliniate of the countries involved. Some problems occur annually and deserve closer examination: room selection (on a stay-hall campus) is one which is a recurring headache. The Saint Mary's students in the four Notre Dame programs generally suffer from a lack of communica­tion and a poorly defined idea of where to turn for guidance. The Tokyo Program is isolated in terms of personal contact with South Bend. Other problems have been virtually eliminated: preregistration and selection of majors were greatly facilitated by Dean Waddick's visits last year. 
The readjustment, first to the country and culture, and_then to-the peculiarities of the campuses there, is difficult and often disillusioning, yet very rarely ­would a student, in retrospect, have chosen differently. For reasons of illumination, stimulation and guidance, the SCHOLASTIC presents the following series. 
-mary ellen stoltz 

IL la universidad de anahuac 
Notre Dame's most recent foray into foreign studies 
programs is being conducted at the University of Ana­
huac, which is situated on a small plateau outside 
populous Mexico City. Presently in its second year, the 
program has elicited many and varied responses from 
returning students. Anahuac is a small (1500), private 
university guided by Spanish and Irish priests; Notre 
Dame is the only American university which sponsors 
a program there. The Mexican student body is drawn 
from the upper-class sections of the population, a fact 
which is lamented by some interested in social and 
political reform. 
As a result of the economic situation in the country itself, Mexicans who graduate from high school are in a rather elite minority whose prerequisites are financial comfort and some degree of leisure. It is this factor, in conjunction with the $100 per semester tuition, which greatly inhibits attendance at Anahuac by a wider social stratum of Mexicans. 
Another criticism leveled at the program is that the students have become "Americanized." The Mexicans, belonging as they do to the very conservative ruling class, are often imitative of American ideals, especially technologically. The tendency is to see Mexicans as copying the North American life style, though it is also contended that there is a strong consciousness of a na:­tional image, sometimes obscured by the desire for recognition in a competitive world in which the United States commands an imperative view. 
The program is new, and comparatively small: the group last year numbered nineteen. Students seem re­luctant to choose Mexico and the opportunities it pre­sents in the light of programs based on other conti­nents; it is often felt that the situation is disadvan­tageous as far as traveling and cultural exposures are concerned. Mexico, however, offers several cultures and geographies, as different in composition as are separate countries. A number of students who studied at Ana­huac last year are considering returning over Christ­mas: avenues of. cultural exploration are wide and have not been exhaustively traveled within the con­fines of a year. 
The living situation is somewhat analogous to that of Angers: students live with upper-middle-class Mex­ican families.· The program last year was directed by Professor Langford, with Notre Dame alumni (Mexi­can) lending considerable assistance. There is the in­evitably ·recurring problem of · personality clashes and students feeling more like boarders than members of the family, but this is a risk to be weighed in the light of possible advantages. The two main meals are 
taken with the families; money is provided monthly 
for the remaining meal. 
The intensity of reactions to the year in Mexico, 

both favorable and disenchanted, gives credence to the 
notion that the program at Anahuac is one in which 
the individual's direction and expectations are largely 
responsible for the impressions carried hack across the 
border. The program is still young enough to be flex­
ible, and this is both a strength and a weakness. The 
Mexican reactions and the attitudes on this campus 
are in flux. In spite of admitted limitations of the pro­
gram, it remains Notre Dame's attempt to become 
more aware of Latins and their culture. All such at­
tempts are, finally, education. 
-mary ellen stoltz 

Ill. rome's american ghetto 
The Italian Foreign Study Program of the ND­

SMC community is based in a typical hotel in the center 
of the "Eternal City" of Rome. The program conceived 
by Sister Alma Peter and controlled by Saint Mary's 
College is in its second year of existence. The pro­
gram has faults which Sister Alma hopes to solve this 
year; she has called last year's program a "qualified 
success." Others have labeled it as an unqualified 
failure. The program is young and it is essential that 
all criticisms be weighed. 
Despite the difficulties . of the administration, the students who have returned from Rome this year have praised the program. Hardships tend to draw groups together into a common sphere of understanding: the students of the Rome program formed such a bond. Equally important, the stl!dents achieved an under­standing of culture, art, music,_ and history that can­not be gained in the academic community -of Notre Dame-~aint Mary's. If nothing else, the program has taught the students a humanity. that is an extremely important facet of the gem which is life. · 
The . basic fault of last year's program lay in its administration. Of the two nuns chosen to lead the program neither understood Italian. Sister Monique Wagner was approaching her eighties and the other, 
·Sister Catherine Tobin was noted for her failure to relate with the students. The attempts by the nuns to enforce parietals, to punish offenders, thus clinging to the ·"in·Joco parentis" policy of Saint Mary's, forced the students away from the administration. The bitter­ness became so intense that in ·the beginning of the second ·semester, Sister Alma visited Raine and spoke 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

with the Notre Dame men. There was much wailing and gnashing of teeth and soon after her chat with the men, the hotel owner informed the men to look else­where for lodging. And the students began to look elsewhere for understanding (the two sisters are no longer administrators of the program). 
The students who went to Rome last year were generally weak in Italian. Because of this weak­ness the students could not attend an Italian uni­versity. The courses were taught in English by quali­fied Notre Dame-Saint Mary's faculty members. The result is a Little Saint Mary's abroad. The curriculum is narrow since it was not affiliated with a larger uni­versity. The classes were interesting yet devoid of the ideas which the Italian student could have contributed. The failure of the program to share with the Italian intellectual community is a serious one which must be resolved. It has been recommended that the program affiliate itself with the nearby Gregorian University or the Italian University of Rome. Some have expressed uncertainty at the possibility of this occurring. Ap­parently some do not believe that the ND-SMC student is capable of academic excellence in Italian. The pro­gram as it exists this year is abusing the student by its failure to encourage a challenging study of Italian 
and by not encouraging the student to share an educa­
tion with the Italian academic community. 
The social life of the Rome program was self-con­
tained for the most part. Most of the students were not 
fluent in the language, hence socializing was difficult. 
The result of this separation between Italian and Ameri­
can students was a minimal amount of cultural ex­
change. The cultural exchange should have been a pri­
mary purpose of the program, yet it seems that its 
creators have sacrificed it to their standard of education. 
The depositing of students in a foreign country is not 
enough to create an atmosphere of cultural interplay. A 
program in which the students are condensed into one 
building, isolated by language, customs and academics, 
is patently absurd. A ghetto is formed. A ghetto does 
not stimulate education. 
The most outspoken critic of the program is Dr. Raymond Fleming, a professor in the Italian depart­ment of Notre Dame. He states that the purpose of the program, as it now stands, is to allow Sister Alma "a three-week vacation each year in France and Italy." He also added that the program is "a continuation of Saint Mary's customary mediocrity" in intellectual pursuits. 
Dr. Fleming cites the Rutgers Italian Foreign Studies Program as one of the ideal programs in the United States. Within that program the students are not centralized as the students of the Saint Mary's program are. Instead the students are spread among the Italians, living in their homes. The program's em­phasis on intensive Italian study in the freshman year coupled with its summer orientation program abroad is sufficient to supply the student with a working knowledge of Italian. The students would attend one of the best Italian universities and be taught by the most acute minds of the Italian intelligentsia. The student is sharing in the academic and social aspects of Italy, both of which are sorely lacking in the Saint Mary's program. 
Dr. Fleming envisions a program which will serve the student. The Italian Foreign Studies Program of Saint Mary's College appears to be functioning for the benefit of a minority. 
The program is young. It has faults and must be revised. If it remains in its present state, it will func­tion only adequately. However, if the program remains in its present adequate condition, it will continue to fail educationally. Should the program remain static, unaffiliated, the possible benefits to the serious Italian student will remain nil. A foreign-studies program depends on trust and freedom between the adminis­trators and the students. It is time that the admin­istrators of the Rome program began trusting the stu­dents and granting them the freedom to understand this act of living. 
-Martin Linskey 

OCTOBER 29, 1971 
IV. far eastern policy 
Within the University's Sophomore Year-Abroad Program, a student may choose to spend a portion of his college career in Austria, France, Mexico, or Japan. 
The reasons for participating in the program are as varied as the students themselves. But one could say that a major portion _of those within the program participate in order to satisfy a desire to explore other places and· meet other peoples. Those going to South America and Europe explore an environment that has emerged from the same cultural matrix as the United States. Those going to Japan have the oppor­tunity to discover a radically different culture. In this sense, the sophomore year in Tokyo is unique. 
A student choosing Japan spends a good portion of his freshman year studying the language. Here he gets a small taste of how different Japanese culture and thought really are. He comes into contact with words that simply have no functional equivalent in English. After such an exposure, one begins to see that the Japanese' interpretation of life is really dif­ferent from the view that springs out of Western culture. 
The first week in Japan is little more than a blur. There is an attempt at an orientation program which consists of several lectures and four bus trips around Tokyo, but this is far from adequate. 
First, one must immediately adjust to the 14­hour time change. The heat, humidity, noise and smog of Tokyo converge on the student. The food, even the Japanese-styled American dinners, is generally alien to a stude~t•s stomach. Finally, although one has a year of the language, he is barely able to ask direc­tions, much less understand the reply. 
Many problems are eventually solved, but an ori-·­entation program that is sensitive to these problems would ~nable the individual to bridge the _two cultures more quickly and much less painfully. It is one of the most urgent needs of the program. 
The student then begins classes. He spends three 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


hours a day, five days a week, studying Japanese out of a textbook. This language study is in de.finite need of reform. It'concentrates on reading and writing, rather than on speaking Japanese. A student is asked to spend a major portion of his day studying the lan­guage in a way that does little or nothing to help him communicate with the members of the culture in which he now lives. The student should be given the chance to concentrate on conversation, at least for the initial month or so. 
There are three other basic problems that demand immediate attention and reform. The first of these concerns student housing. 
For the student who desires to live with a Japanese family, frustration is a common mood. First, one is expected to live in_ a student dormitory rather than in a private residence. The people who run the pro­gram don't forbid moving out of the dorm -they just make it as difficult as possible. One either goes with the system or goes alone. The difficulty is confounded by the fact that a student has less of a grasp of the language and customs than a ten-year-old Japanese. 
The second problem is that the program is under the guidance of a man who is not familiar with the problems, desires, and psychological makeup of the 
I American student. It seems that one of the occur­
I 
I rences of sophomore year is the sophomore identity
I' crisis. O~e begins to try to figure himself out, to come to grips with who he is, why he is the way he is, and what to do about it. Questions of tremendous impor­tance are posed by the individual. The anxieties of this crucial period in a person's development are ac­centuated in a foreign culture. And if there is no one available who is sympathetic and experienced in han­dling these problems, one's personal growth can be seriously affected. The Tokyo Program desperately 
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
needs such a person, a person who can handle the per­sonal problems of the student as well as direct his scholastic and intellectual development. 
The third basic problem of the Tokyo Program is its lack of an adequate follow-up program for those students wishing to continue their study of the Jap­anese language and culture. Progress is being made in this area. There is now a language progr?-m offered to juniors and seniors. But this program is nowhere near the depth of the similar programs in Spanish, French and German. For. this reason, some students who spend sophomore year in Tokyo either remain there or transfer to schools offering Asian Studies. Students ret_urning to Notre Dame often have little opportunity to follow up those things that became of tremendous importance to them in Japan: Japanese literature, art, drama and music. 
With all this in mind, one begins to wonder why a person could choose Japan. Most of us who have re­turned to the States have done so reluctantly. Some didn't return. Many have gone back. Several are re­turning this year, perhaps for good. All vow they will eventually return. But why? 
Perhaps it is simplest to say that in spite of the drawbacks and inadequacies of the program, you leave with experiences of the country and people that com­pel you to return. Autumn in Kyoto is the first autumn you've ever really seen and felt, no matter who you are or where you're from. Japanese watercolors and pottery, koto music, Noh and kabuki, Zen monks and monasteries, Shujuku bars, the lake country around Fuji-san, temple dances, Japanese brothers and sisters and lovers, and above all, the community that mys­teriously grows; all these and more soak into your soul and you have to go back. 
-d. m. haven 

V. paris--two & a l1alf hours 
The Angers program took form five years ago under the direction of Professor Charles Parnell of the French department. Handpicking the site of Angers from a selection of six locales on the basis of·1ocation away from a major city yet close enough to visit (Angers is two and a half hours away from Paris by train), mod­erate population (160,000), moderate . incomesI with a university that teaches on_ the sophomore level, js pri­vate and Catholic (Angers sports the Catholic Univer­sity of the West), and is steeped in culture (Angers predates Caesar), Professor. Parnell believed he had 1.he perfect town for his program. This town-selection 
procedure was necessary since the American students 
would be_ living with an Angers family for the 
year. The choice of these families was less per­
sonal, being done by a Mme. Angla, an interna­
tional social -worker at the University. She ap­
proached a potential family asking if they had a room 
open, was the house centrally heated, did it have run­
ning water, and most importantly would they extend 
themselves to h~lp this young American. Naturally, if 
all four criteria were met the family was signed. 
The professor didn't bank on the state of educa­tion in France, especially Catholic education. The Catholic University of the West offered a rigorous set of courses, . -being essentially a course-oriented school. Students had little voice _in what they could take,. except for the ·extracurricular Art and Music courses. According to returning· students, the teach­ing was primarily at fault~ There was a lack of a "quality" faculty. -The Art and Music courses were 1.he only "good" curricula available. The students were initially, disappoint~d. with _the. size of the University, which amounted to a "few city_. blocks." The student body of the University_was 50% non-French; and most of these were '.Americans ·from colleges with programs similar to Notre Dame's.· Was this the best of all pos­sible foreign university atmospheres? _ 
It seems that there·. are only a few privately funded colleges left in· France. . Angers_ has one of them. These universities_are the most flexible in accept­ing American students ; · the :public system is quite stringent, and .is. funded by the French .government for her_ own support. There . is also an understand­able reluctance ·to support foreigners. 
Abbe Carton is the French watchdog of the Ameri­cans while they are in Angers. He's a tough man, keeping tabs on the students wherever possible. De-. scribed as "a Ted Hesburgh constantly going around checking all the classes in the University," Abbe· was a formidable opponent to excessive :amounts of Ameri­can exuberance. The Notre Dame director in Angers is Dr. Doering, who proved to be very cautious about his flock (this is his second year) and stru~k a few of 1.he students as "ineffective." Both these men forced the students to keep on their toes, but· also provided adequate backboards for various shots· at the program during the course of their stay. 
· A major shot is finances. The student must pay full Notre Danie tuition and fees for ·the year he ·is over.:. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

seas in France. In the analysis, total cost of enroll­ment, tuition, and transportation fees to and from An­gers is substantially less than the amount they each paid to Notre Dame. Where does the extra money go? Is it re­directed into other programs? Explanations are neb­ulous. When asked of Dr. Doering, his reply was, "Since I am only an employee of Notre Dame, I don't want to ask my employer how his money is being spent." The students insisted it was their money, not Notre Dame's. Assuming the University doesn't profit excessively by the program, where the cash goes re­mains unanswered. 
A group's personality contributes enormously to the success of the program. One year's group will differ from the next year's, arid the essential unity and factors of this unity will affect the entire environ­ment the group exists in. This group personality is also a major problem, as evidenced in the 1970-71 results of the program. Notre Dame has set -up for the first month and a half dorm living conditions at the Catholic University of the West, before the stu­dents move out into their families. These first weeks, the most critical in student adjustment, are spent with fellow Americans fostering friendships in that sphere rather than relating with the French. This bullish American unity was consistent throughout the year in France, with students from both sides of the Atlantic fence complaining about the lack of "meeting" situa­tions. The Americans seemed unable to cope with the French sense of privacy (we are much more open) and confrontations on such basic levels are often embar­rassing and confusing. 
Once in the families, such problems often con­tinue. One girl did "feel like a daughter," while a guy "sure didn't feel like a son ... more like a boarder." Polar discrepancies such as these create opposing viewpoints of the Angers program. Professor Parnell insists that orientation, no matter how much is given to any one student, is useless. "You can tell them all year in advance and they'll still forget." It's a matter of in­dividual adaption, but the group (Americans in the san1e classes, same trips, same cafes) seems to exert an undesirable cohesive force. 
All of the students interviewed, if given the choice, would join the program again. 
But are these cultural benefits worth it if a student's intellectual development stagnates or is confounded for a year when he must return to Notre Dame or St. Mary's and an all-English Junior year? Some of the students feel that the Catholic University of the West has an inadequate teaching facility and would much prefer being enrolled in a more intellectually pres­tigious university. Could the mysterious redirected funds that are saved at Angers be used to these ends? Why should a student with a good command of the French language and desire to learn be frustrated after nine months? 
The Angers program is an invaluable experience for any student, and some deans believe that a year overseas should be a part of every collegiate four-year plan. It's more structured than just taking advantage of the air-price-war and hopping over to Europe for the year and enrolling cheaply in a big university, but no less free if you've a sense of academics and ad­venture. 
-al depman, jr. 

OCTOBER 29, 1971 
{ 

VI. from alp to alp 
Students not particularly adept at foreign lan­guages might well wonder what could possibly ~arrant ten hours of German instruction in the freshman :year. The answer, in some vague way, becomes suggested in talking to these same students -two . years later, the . students who participated in the spearhead of the For­eign Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria. 
It all begins with that notorious five-hour German course freshman year. .And ·if the freshman main­tains a B-average in that course and at le~st a 2.5 average overall, it all culminates with· a year's "study" of the European life and the European person. Or perhaps it doesn't "culminate" at· all; perhaps it con­tinues to grow as an experience long after the stu­dents return to America and American life. 
The program,· though on the surface quite rigid with its academic criteria for admission, is actually far more flexible. An obvious and pressing desire ·to participate usually outweighs less serious academic deficiencies. This sort of attitude, its freedom and its flexibility, seem characteristic of. the entire Innsbruck program. . 
The students leave in the middle of August for six weeks in Salzburg. .Why Salzburg. for the Innsbruck program? The choice·. was not an arbitrary one. At the end of September, Salzburg erupts to life in per­haps the most famous of all European festivals. The festival is dedicated primarily to Mozart, Salzburg's most famous resident. Appropriately, music ·plays a large part in the festival;with an emphasis on Mozart's works. This emphasis does not detract, though, from the many _plays, parades, operas, and other festivities that draw Europeans from· hundreds of miles away. 
The summer school is staffed by professors from the University of Vienna, and primarily serves _as an in­tense introduction to European life and culture, and to the German language. During these six weeks, the students are living on the summer estates of Hermann Goering, hea<i of the German Luftwaffe. More specifi­cally, they live in the renovated stables of the estate, comparable in many ways, according to one of the students, to the facilities of the towers. The city has many · historical landmarks; in fact, the Notre Dame students had a party in Hitler's personal underground bunker toward the erid of last summer. 
After the six weeks of summer school, the students are given a short vacation before beginning studies in 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Innsbruck, where classes begin in mid-October. The 
first-semester courses consist of European Art, Philoso­
phy, two levels of German, and, in English, Theology 
and American Literature. For students who wish, . a 
course in German Literature is also offered. Two addi­
tional courses are offered in the second semester, Inter­
national Law and Economics of European Integration. 
The academic program is extremely flexible. Pres­
sure is minimal, as is characteristic of the European 
educational system. Emphasis on academics is far 
more in proportion to the emphasis · placed on the so­
cial and cultural aspects of education than is common 
in America. The flexibility of the academic program 
allows the student to tailor the program to his own 
priorities. 
· As a result of this philosophy of education the . cultural and social aspects of Eur_opean life become 
integral parts of the education for the Americans. 
Travel is encouraged, as well as participation in the 
focal customs. 
The European festivals seemed to leave an unfor­
gettable impression on all the students. One can easily 
see why in their description of the St. Nicholas Day 
parade, with St. Nicholas driving black-painted and 
fire-breathing devils from the town. Fasching, the 
German "mardi gras," seemed equally memorable, 
with many costume balls and trips to the Gasthauser, 
similar to English pubs. 
There are certainly problems within the program, 
as there are in any program. Most of the students 
agree that the second-semester courses are weak. This 
is . due to a number of difficulties. The semester is 
shortened from 15 weeks to eight to get the students 
back into phase with the American academic calendar. 
_The spring is also the time that most of the students 
travel. 
·Other complaints reflect difficulties in readjusting 
to American life upon return. Difficulties in the aca-
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
demic readjustments were most common, but some mention family-life problems and problems with the American way of life in general. More particular to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's situation is the fact that St. Mary's insists that the girls who participated in the program make up all requirements. A ''re-entry" orientation program has been suggested to help with the readjustment difficulties, and last year Dean Waddick went to Innsbruck to help with scheduling. 
Each year, many students seem to drop out of the program before actually going to Innsbruck. Their reasons are varied: increasing involvement in Univer­sity life here,· girl-or boyfriends who are not in the program, etc. But according to those who do actually go to Innsbruck, no excuse is adequate. 
-greg stiifham 
. " ·· { ~ 
> ,-r ; r
-
-. -~ '
" 
.... \._ . ~' 
. \.·~ ·: 7-...., ~-J 
' ,.. .;,-c • -­
.. ... .. ,­_, 
t 
I 
perspectives 

back on·the bus vvith hesburgh 
---an interview 

All the emotional furor and physical violence over interest in them on the part of the majority white 
busing has been the cause of much concern over the community that controls the political power and the 
state of racial stability our country has achieved. In money, and as a result they're just not generally very 
its October 15, 1911 issue of the SCHOLASTIC published good schools . . Fr. Hesburgh's initial statement on busing that had The moment white youngsters come into them, 
previously appeared in the New York Times. Unfor­you have the majority part of the population, namely 
tunately, the problem of busing remains to be solved. the whites, taking an interest in the schools because 
their kids are there. Immediately the school starts 
Scholastic: Given the negative position of President getting upgrad~d: they get more allocations of money, 
Nixon and his administration, how· successful has they get better lunches, they get better science facili­
busing been this year? ties, because the white parents, being in the majority 
Hesburgh: Actually it's_ been much more successful and having the power, are not willing to stand for their 
than people could have imagined. The fact is there is kids being in an inferior school, and they have the 
an enormous amount of busing going on because that's clout to make it happen. 
the only way to solve the problem ultimately. There That's one of the effects of integration throughout 
are many areas where the only way you're going to the South, where they had before a dual school sys­
get the youngsters to a good school is to get them in tem, one part of which was pretty good and the other 
a good school already established. To get there you was pretty bad. Now with students being mixed in all 
have to be transported some way. schools, there's quite a difference in that all schools 
People generally think, "What's the value of inte­are being upgraded simultaneously which is the way 
gration?" There've been studies made on this, in­it should be. 
cluding the study our commission made for Presi­
dent Johnson, called "Racial Imbalance in the Public Scholastic: President Nixon's statements, then, have 
Schools." We found really two things happen with not greatly affected the implementation of busing? 
integration: the first, a black kid who moves from Hesburgh: I was very much afraid that it would hurt 
an all-black school into· a formerly all-white school it greatly. I think it brought out a lot of inner bad 
finds immediately that his education is upgraded, there feeling that people were not expressing because they 
are more expectations for him to achieve, he has to had decided they would go along with the law. It 
work harder, he is generally able to get into a better brought out people like Mr. Wallace who saw political .: 
high school, and ultimately a better college or univer­advantage in latching onto what the President had ! 
sity ·or profession. said. 
The second thing we found out was in a school that However, I have to say in retrospect that it did not 
was formerly black into which white students were do as much damage as I thought it was going to do, 
introduced, the parents of the white students imme­simply because people had worked so hard to achieve 
diately perceived that this _was not a very good school. this law after 17 years since the Brown decision in 
Our studies show that almost all black schools are not 1954, that many of the plans were simply too far 
good schools; not that this has anything to do with along to be simply scuttled. There has been a lot of 
the blacks, either the students or the teachers, but be­foot-dragging going on. But I was talking recently 
cause the areas have a low tax base, there is not much with the office of the Secretary of Health, Education 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

and Welfare and they assured me that in all the plans they have approved throughout the South in the past month or so, there is only one school district that had an all-black school, every other school was at least partially integrated. 
If you just take the code word and say "busing is bad and I'm against it," which is essentially what the President said, he's against busing without any quali­fication, then you don't really solve the problem, you just prolong it. We said through our commission that if the President had a better substitute for busing, we'd be delighted to hear about it because we've been looking for one for a long time. 
Scholastic: The press has placed much emphasis on many minority groups' opposition to busing. What has been your experience regarding opposition to busing by minority groups? Hesburgh: It's a mixed bag and I couldn't unequiv­ocally say yes or no that there is or there isn't. Minori­ties are like everyone else. I have found blacks who were upper class who didn't want the lower class of their minority coming into their neighborhood. I think minorities act like other human beings, once they get up the ladder they're afraid of being dragged down a little bit. 
We tend to focus on race, but the economic class distinctions in this country are in a sense more funda­mental than race. A black manager and a white man­ager will be better disposed to be neighbors to each other because they respect each other's earning power and position in life, than are two blacks or two whites who are widely disparate in socioeconomic background. 
There is only one approach to the answer, I think, that of better education for everyone. If we were committed to the goal of better education for everyone, irrespective of race or nationality, then we could move on to the ultimate solution of the problem. But as long as we start playing games with race or particular little groups here and there, and play to people's fear instead of this idea of better education, we're going to be in trouble. 
Seholastic: There have been some complaints that busing destroys the concept of the neighborhood school. Do you expect this result? liesburgh: My own feeling is we should be concerned about neighborhood schools for elementary kids, but not all that concerned when it comes to junior high schools and senior high schools. The fact is you cannot economically build enough schools in each neighbor­hood to take care of the whole schooling operation. But you can have schools for the smaller kids that are reasonably nearby; I think that would take much of the steam out of the anti-busing argument. 
The fact is that, educationally, you have a better junior and senior high if you consolidate a lot of small schools with poor libraries, poor science equipment, poor athletic fields, and put them ihto a larger setting. Say, if you accommodate the students from ten small schools into one large one with good labs, a good li­brary and a good playing field. We've accepted this approach throughout rural America, the consolidated high school. We've accepted it in most large cities. I think the neighborhood school is a thing that in fact is more aimed at the elementary student than at the junior high or senior high kids. 
Scholastic: Studies conducted in Berkeley and Hart­ford affirm that busing is usually beneficial education­ally to the students involved. However, both reports were skeptical that busing would improve race rela­tions in the long run. Is busing more than a stopgap measure? Hesburgh: Busing, per se, isn't going to bring racial harmony. To the extent that it gets youngsters from various backgrounds together in the learning experi­ence, busing is helpful toward an integrated society. But busing alone won't do it, it's purely a means, a mechanical means rather than a human means. 
Busing is only a good educational technique if it's the only possible way of getting youngsters to a better school, which it is, I weuld say, in the great majority of the cases in which it's used. In some cases you can't avoid it; if they happen to live in the country, the students have to be bused to wherever the school is. Also in the case of kids in the ghetto being bused out to get to a decent school. The Supreme Court put it pretty well when they said that busing is a legiti­mate means of desegregation provided it doesn't harm the health of the child or work against the educa­tional process. 
I'm not saying that we should all be enthusiastic about busing, I'm saying we shouldn't eliminate it where it's the only way of achieving desegregation or of giving youngsters a better education. Our argu­ment is what do you do about kids that don't have a decent school near their home; do you put them in an inferior school, or would it be better for them and their lives if they could get on a bus and go? 
While we're on the subject of busing, I would say that when there's a reasonably long bus ride involved, then I think we ought to use our imagination to make that trip educative. I don't see why they can't pipe "Sesame Street" into the buses; they can put it on tape, buses can receive television and it might be a way of educating the kids on the way to school. 
I think busing is going to be with us for quite a while and the only thing to do is make it as minimal as necessary to get the job done, and in the case of longer bus rides, to make the ride educational. 
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
Scholastic: It would seem that busing, for all its ad­vamages, treats a symptom of a symptom; that is, busing often tries to rectify a situation brought on. by racist housing patterns which in turn are a reflection of racist attitudes. Hesburgh: In almost every large city in America, the whites are fleeing to the suburbs and what few blacks there are in the suburbs are, through highway pro­grams going through their areas or other such mech­anisms, being pushed back into the central city. Jobs are also fleeing to the suburbs, in the sense that they're putting light manufacturing and white-collar opera­tions of various kinds in the suburbs. You have the blacks being crammed into worse conditions in the city whereas their means of getting out of that mess and into a better house are crimped because the jobs as well as the whites are fleeing to the suburbs. 
The same thing happens in schooling. As the school­ing becomes more a~d more black, .they have less and less political clout, they have less and less tax base behind them, as a result they tend to drift downward as well. 
The conclu~ion we have come to out of all this is that we can no longer look at the solution of our social problem in a simply city-suburb situation. We must look at it as a metropolitan situation. We cannot say the suburbs will do their own business and leave the problems all to the central city. 
We should draw a ring at a radius of fifty miles around a city and say within this ring we're going to put all kinds of housing. We'll set up much better public transportation to take people where the jobs are. And for example, if a business wants to come in, and wants help from the Federal government to help set up the business, the first question we're going to ask is if that business will help to surround itself with housing at a reasonable distance for the people who desperately need the jobs it's going to create. If they say that's not our problem, we're just in business, then we'll say we're not interested in giving you all these goodies from the Federal government on the one program if you're not willing to cooperate on another program. 
-This is the point we've been trying to make in Washington with the heads of HEW, HUD and Trans­portation. I think we're gradually getting them to see the problem better. At our hearing in Washington, we brought in Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Romney, Mr. Volpe and 
· we explained to them what we had found in our other hearings and asked them if they were going to do something about it. They all seemed to be convinced that they had a responsibility to do something about this problem. 
Now I begin to see many more articles and exposi­tions on this urban-suburban problem appearing in the public press; people are beginning to see that con­sciously or subconsciously we have painted ourselves into a corner from which we cannot emerge except by metropolitan planning. 
Scholastic: Stewart Alsop, in a recent column in Newsweek, suggested that the poor whites were bearing more than their share of the burden of busing. Do you feel this is fair? 
Hesburgh: No, I don't think it's fair. The poor always carry their extra share of the burden. They don't get equal justice in most cases; this has been true through the history of mankind. But this prob­lem, in its inner depths, about the acceptance of people falls on all of us. I think we're all going to have to answer as human beings, as Christians, as to how we react to this problem individually. 
-Mike Mooney 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


atdoes ''Thou shaltnotkill'' 
mean? 
"The real issue is: How can we serve both love and war?" 
"Yes, we violated the law. But the law is no absolute to us. I must say our intention was to destroy the files. But our motive was to illustrate genocide in Vietnam and corruption at hon1e~' 
With these words, Father Berrigan gives a hint of the explosive nature of "The Trial of the Catonsville Nine~' 

A Classic of Documentary Drama 
Powerful, shocking, the very defini­tion of relevance by the man who lived the event-Daniel Berrigan, S.J. 
Made into great drama 

A brilliant and honest piece ofmodem theater specially staged for live record­ing jn stereo. A forceful perforn1ance directed byGordonDavidson,superbly captured in a two-record album. 
Plus-The History Recording Society offers the new album "Berrigan Raps:' free with the purchase of 


"The Trial of the Ca-FREE: 
"Berrigan Raps." Containing: atonsville Nine" for sermon from the unde;ground; 
a talk aboutAmerica and Catons­$13 00 ville; the poetry and the events 
• • which shaped it. Daniel -Berri-Act riow: This is a gan talks about himself, his 
beliefs, and his actions. An ex­. ·t d t• f'!" citing album that presents an
11ffi 1 e -Ime O 1 er SO intimate portrait of Berrigan as ·1 h a man and as a radical. Retail
m a I t e C O up O n price: $6.50. Yours free. 
promptly. Offer restricted to members of the academic community. 
~--------------~·CNP I
I The History Recording Society 505 Eighth AvenueI New York, New York 10018 I 
I Please send me "Berrigan Raps" free with my purchase I I of "The Trial of the Catonsville Nine." I enclose a I check or money order for $13.00. 
I Name.___________ I 
I College____________ I 
I Address,____________ I 
Clive Barnes ofthe New York Times 
I City___________ I 
said of "The Trial of the Catonsville 
IState._____-L.aip,_____ I
Nine.'~ .'.'Positively riveting... a new ________________.
Add appropriate sales tax to albums shipped toNewYork State. I
kind of play... wonderfully moving." L 
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
education of a world society, or labor in the academic wasteland 
-The supreme task of the universities is to work) with 
all the conscious, cornrnitted decision the thought i?n­
plies) for a genuine world society. (Stephen D. Kertesz) 
The Task of Universities in a Changing World) 
edited by Notre Dame Professor of Government and 
International Studies, Stephen D. Kertesz, contains a 
series of essays concerned with the universal nature 
of the university. 
Traditionally, the university was conceived as uni­versal only in the sense that it was founded upon and endeavored in the humanitarian-philosophical interests of mankind. This thesis is basically a theoretical con­sideration. Through this comprehensive view, the uni­versity sought to make the world (mankind) better by the production of "better" men. The implied thesis of Mr. Kertesz's book is that this philosophical notion har. been outmoded or, at least proved itself inadequate, in a world that turns upon technological advancement and political turmoil. The university must now be a place of action, not only of theory. The university can no longer be "secular" or aloof-it must participate in the religion of technocracy. The altruism of the liberally educated "good man" must be fructified with a definite sense of commitment to the solution of in­ternational problems. For the student this means the "psychosocial moratorium" of the university is a -thing ­of the Newmanesque past. 
The majority of contributors to the book are quick 
to caution that this involvement must remain apolitical. 
The university must come out_ of its self-perpetuated 
academic womb, but not with the intent of forcing 
issues, whether these issues reinforce the status quo 
or dissent from it. This position presents a dilemma: 
if the university, is-to be the reasoning force in times 
of world crisis, how can this -force remain untainted 
by at least an institutional prejudice? 
The result is a contradiction in terms. The-ess-ayists maintain a clear distinction between what is.of human interest and what is of political interest. Surely, there is some distinction, but how far can this be carried? If the goal of the university is to align itself with the interests of humanity, then the university must speak out against the things of the world that violate these interests. -Any distinctions that attempt to subdivide these interests are political distinctions. How can a uni­versity preach the good of all, and tacitly support the interests of the ruling and sometimes oppressive ma­jority? Vying for a democratic alternative is, in the end, a political alignment. There is no way for the univer­sity to avoid politicization and still achieve the goals that The Task of the Universities defines. 
Perhaps the notion of the-university as a place of rational discourse provides some solution to this dilem­ma. Agreed, the university should not become the in­tellectual -wing of political movements. Rather, it should seek to depoliticize issues and define the solu­tion of problems in human and not partisan terms. Political issues are, at root, human issues, and these issues should not be ignored. Tlie university's goal of making the world more livable is, in itself, a moral goal. Without this inoral goal, one that demands tak­ing sides, Mr. Kertesz's idea of the university is only rhetoric. ­
The Task of Universities is centered on the concept of the university as institution. This concept of insti-
THE SCHOLASTIC 


tutionalism is grounded in values of organization, effi­ciency, and progress. Indeed, a large majority of the contributors are known for their expertise in manage­ment of university affairs. With this expertise of man­agement comes an implied sense of impersonalism. The job of the administrator becomes identified with the expeditious control of large numbers -numbers of dollars and numbers of students. The student is lost in this maze. Will the world be made better with an entire class of people entering the world with only a minimal amount of existential recognition? The envi­ronment of the individual is very important, but so is the individual. 
It is perhaps revealing to note that none of the contributors to this book are students. The opinions of a peer would be most valuable in this context. Also, none of the contributors are women. This reinforces the notion that the world is for men to run -others are only to comply. A woman's view of education would be radically different, especially when one considers the· male domination in education with which women have been made to live. Somewhere in the interests of "humanity" individuals have been disenfranchised. 
The Task of the Universities represents an aware­ness of the complex madness of the world. The con­tributors believe that this madness may be cured through the proliferation of higher education. How the universities will implement this cure is much less of a certainty. -jim pi:Llenchar 
The American educational system is a failure. This, at least, is the opinion given by Professor Simon O'Toole in his book Confessions of an American Scholar (University of Minnesota Press, 1970). In the current re-evaluation of higher learning in the United States, this. book takes the breast-beating approach that, at times, is the victim of the very things it criticizes. 
For instance, Simon O'Toole is not the author's real name. This shows a lack of honesty, a virtue that the author stresses as integral to the educational system. Secondly, the publisher describes him as "a well-known literary scholar," and the author freely admits that his comments are directed only at literary scholars, thus ignoring others in the academic community, i.e., historians, sociologists and scientists. The limited scope of the criticism makes one question the validity of general comments. 
Although O'Toole describes the book as a "caution­ary tale" it lacks any sense of caution and is not nar­rative at all. It is, rather, a collection of essays, united in their criticism of the educational and scholastic sys­tem in this country. The topics of these essays range from, "Getting My Dissertation Done before My Hair Fell Out" to "Academic Bravery and How I Avoided the Vietnam War." There are sections that are certain to infuriate militant blacks and women's lib adherents. (Especially the latter when he writes, "I would try to discourage women from going to college at all....") And finally he provides a solution, that by self-admis­sion, isn't one. (This is in the last chapter entitled, "Of Course I Have a Solution and It Won't Work.") 
One purpose the author has in writing the book is 
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
to describe and criticize conditions in the educational system. Another purpose is the result of the first, be­cause O'Toole sees his need for repentance called for by his evil-doing in the system. Here, he has much to confess. He confesses he obtained unmerited grants for research simply by knowing the right people. He con­~esses that as a teacher he stayed only a week ahead of some of his classes. He confesses that he passed other's work off as his own. But the crux of his confiteor is contained in one stunning sentence: "Yet I myself did a lot of scholarship in the name of truth, and it was all lies." 
After having finished the "sackcloth and ashes" parts, we find some specific criticisms of higher educa­tion. The most prominent of these concerns the "pub­lish or perish" bane that is prevalent in universities today. This critique is the most solid statement in the book. .O'Toole writes that this system creates a pro­liferation of textbooks and obscure literary reviews, that are, for the most part, worthless. Further, he says dishonesty lies at the core of the system, because the depar,tment heads and deans who uphold the establish­ment are not themselves noted aµthors. 
Although this criticism is justified, O'Toole, as he does throughout the book, overstates his case. There are many worthwhile textbooks, of course, and many more administrators that are not complete failures in scholarship. His major point concerning "publish or perish," however, must be considered. As he states, there should be less footnoting and more learning. 
O'Toole's solutions -that aren't -comprise the entire last chapter. Mention must be made specifically of his ideas concerning the improvement of graduate. learning. This solution should be taken as an exam­ple, because the "improvement" will hurt the system as a whole. 
He believe3, for instance, that candidates for Ph.D.'s need only two years of study. Further, O'Toole writes that the dissertation should not exceed one hundred and twenty-five pages. As for exams, he writes that only two should ever be given, one in English litera­ture .in general, and the other in the literature of a century of-the student's choosing. Finally, O'Toole writes that a master's degree be given to anyone after a full year of study and satisfactory completion of a fifty-page paper. 
As one can easily see, these limited requirements will create more Ph. D.' This is not undesirable in it­self. The effect of such an increase in the numbers of new scholars, on an already crowded scene, will have a detrimental effect on scholarship in particular, and educatic;m in general. More people competing for the same amqunt of jobs would compel those untenured to publish more, to tell lies in the name of Truth. 
Professor O'Toole does accomplish one thing, how­ever. For more than a casual reader, it will become difficult to pick up a textbook, read a scholarly dis­sertation or a literary review, without thinking of the duplicity, the scholastic veneer, and the greed, that may have gone into the writing. The unsavory pos­sibilities latent in the American educational system rise to haunt us. -john moran 
,I 

green grass and richard brautigan 
Everything is reflected in the statue of mirrors if for his wife. It is in 33 parts, and ends: you stand there long enough and empty your mind of everything el,se but the mirrors, and you must be "33. Your father died this afternoon." careful not to want anything from the mirrors. They just have to ha:ppen. Reading this line, the reader wants to grieve. Not the 
-Richard Brautigan man's death, but the end of the book. It has been all In WatermeJon Sugar too brief a journey to a world of a desirable reality. Like the mirrors in his earlier novel, Brautigan's 
This collection of short stories, Richard Brautigan's stories reflect. The reader has to wipe everything from Revenge of the Lawn, is, like his novels, melancholy in his mind and let them "happen." The experience is its tone and profound in its simplicity. It is full, but both profitable and enjoyable. not overburdened, with powerful passages that blend --Joe Runde quietly into his simple images. His comparisons are simple yet thought-provoking; his descriptions, terse and effective; his style, frank while inoffensive. The reader wishes the book would just go on. 
Brautigan's short stories are brief reflections which may or may not be true. It really doesn't matter; the images are clear and impressive though sometimes 
-the reader has to "stand there long enough." To go on with the analogy, the reader can't want anything from the stories. "They just have to happen." 
. And things do happen. The first selection entitled 'Revenge of the Lawn'. deals with -my grandmother 
; ~ -, -' . --.,-­
' ,.-,

who in her own way shines like a beacon-down the :-:.--, : -,· -.--~ -­stormy American past." Brautigan goes on: ~ ~-;-,:c :~~~:-~~-y ­
-:: 

She was a bootlegger in a little county up in the state of Washington. She was a handsome woman close to six feet tall who carried 190 pounds in the l 
' 
grand operatic fashion of the early 1900s. /4-nd her 
J
specialty was bourbon, a little raw but a welcome 
1
refreshment in those Volstead Act days. i 
I 1 
With this characterization, he-sets the reader up for an enjoyable voyage into the past. 
"The Scarlatti Tilt" earns the title "short story" for ! 1its length if nothing else. The story is two sentences (three printed lines) long. With this sentence my anal­ysis is longer than the story. 
Brautigan closes his book with a story called "The 
:~~• ui-~ .~ .

World War I Los Angeles Airplane." It is the biogra­
-~-~ _. :

phy of a father-in-law -maybe his own. It is written 
30 THE SCHOLASTIC 
but so what 
"Song Of Love And Hate" represents another chapter in the continuing tale of Leonard Cohen, poet turned novelist turned mystic turned singer. As a poet, Cohen's talent is redoubtable; his tender, erotic verse is almost a style unto itself. His musical status, however, remains somewhat of an enigma. His first album was mediocre and a bit overdone; his second -"Songs From A Room" -has become a minor classic. "Songs Of Love And Hate" embodies the best and worst of these previous efforts. Un­fortunately, not enough of the trappings have been trimmed away and too little of the tight, intricate melodies have been retained, resulting in a nice-but-so­what kind of an album. 
Not that this album will make you drowsy or leave you searching for a radio; far from it. It's the thought of what could have been that's frustrating. For one thing all of the selections are too long. Cohen's lovely but often frail melodies were never meant to last five and six minutes. Then there is the arrangement. It seems that Paul Buckmaster's feel for composition is sometimes negatively balanced by his tendency to overarrange, surrounding the artist with all sorts of horns and strings and things that are supposed to enhance his talents but end up just get­ting in the way. Witness Elton John's first album. The same applies here. Also, it is precisely Cohen's skill as a poet that hinders his ability as a composer. It is difficult to set poetry to music. It is just as arti­ficial to write lyrics that fit a melody. Cohen has been both routes and must resolve the problem if he is to continue to grow as a lyricist/composer. 
To get back to the matter, there are a couple of fine songs on this album. "Dress Rehearsal Rag" features a clean Cohen vocal and guitar plus some interesting, if morbid, lyrics: 
Now Santa 07,aus comes forward/ 
_That's a razar in his mitt/ 
And he puts on hli,s dark g7,asses/ 
-And he shows you where to hit/ 

The chorus on this tune is reminiscent of the French 
interlude on "The Partisans" from his second album and help make the song. The other highlight is "Joan of Arc." The melody here is a good one, per­haps the best on the album, and the lyrics work well when sung. Again, Cohen has set the music to fit the verse and gotten away with it. It seems to be a hit-or-miss proposition from so:r:ig to song. 
· -casey pocius 

OCTOBER 29, 1971 
r 


coming distractions 

The American Scene, a cultural lecture series at SMC, will present Merwyn S. Garbarino from the Uni­versity of Illinois and Chicago Circle Campus, Depart­ment of Anthropology, Nov. 3, 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial. His topic will be American Indians, Traditional and Contemporary. 
The SMC Art Dept. presents Sense and Insense: Genuine Fakes and panel including_ ~argo Hoff, Wil­liam A. Pettit, Roman Rydecki, Harold Zisla, Nov. 10, 
7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial. 
' 

The ND-SMC Academic Commission will sponsor a Chardin Exposition, Nov. 10, 8:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The topic will be "The Phenomenon of 
Man." 
The Dept. of Architecture presents George Fred Keck, Nov. 10, 2 :30 p.m. in the Architecture Building Auditorium. His topic, The Design Climate of the '30's, is concurrent with an exhibition of watercolor paint­ings and architectural photographs. 
Free University, special focus series on the concept of the .city with Dr. Robert Caponigri speaking on "Doxiadis and the Theory of Human Habitation" on Nov. 3, in the Library Lounge. · 
Dr. Charles Poinsatte will speak on "Interpretations of Urban History" Nov. 8 in Flanner Lounge. 
Drs. Robert Farrow and John Santos of the Psy­chology Department will speak on "Overpopulation and Its Effects" Nov. 11 in Grace Lounge. 
All lectures take place at 8 p.m. with informal dis­cussions and refreshments following each presentation. 
ND-SMC Theatre will stage My Sweet Charlie, di­rected by Roger Kenvin, Nov. 5, 6, 7, in the SMC Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, 8:30 p.m. Noel Coward's Blithe Spirit, directed by Charles Ballinger, will be showing Nov. 12, Washington Hall, 8:30 p.m. 
The Depts. of Modern and Classical Languages pre­sent Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme (The Would-be Gen­tleman) by Moliere, Oct. 31, 2 p.m., in the O'Laughlin Auditorium, a production in French by Le Treteau 
, . 
De Paris. 
.The Travelogue Series sponsored by the Scottish Rite· of South Bend ·will show Three Worlds of Peru by Eric Pavel; Nov. 8, 8 p.m. _in O'Laughlin Audi­torium. 
The Travelogue Series sponsored by the Lions Club of South Bend will show Welcome New Zealand by Bob O'Reilly, Oct. 29, 8 p.m., in O'Laughlin Audi­torium. 
The Last Gasp Cinema sponsored by the SMC Eng­lish and Religious Studies Depts. will present a Mex­ican :film, Yanco, a beautiful myth of the human spirit, Oct. 29. Kafka's horrific labyrinth, The Trial, filmed by Orson Welles, will be showing Nov. 5. Both :films will be showing at 3 :30, 7 & 9 p.m. Fridays in Carroll Hall of Madeleva Memorial at SMC. If you want to learn how to avoid :finals, see If, Nov. 12, 3 :30, 7 & 9 
p.m. in the SMC Little Theatre. ·The CAC Performing Arts Series will be showing Genesis IV, Oct. 30-31, 7 & 9 :30 p.m. in the Engineer­
. ing Auditorium. No Place To Be Somebody by Charles Gordone will be showing Nov. 6, 8:30 p.m. in SMC O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Cinema '72 presents Le Depart, Nov. 1-2, 7 & 9 

p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 2001 will be shown Nov. 3-4, 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
A GEN-U-INE "50's" Sock Hop will be sponsored by the Social Commission Oct. 29, 8-11:30 p.m. in Regina Hall. A greasy Disk Jockey strikes again! 
A breath of fresh air with Cat Stevens, Nov. 5, and The Fifth Dimension Nov. 13, 8:30 p.m. in the Athletic & Convocation Center. 
Bobby Goldsboro :lnd the Festival of Music (fea­

turing Chet Atkins, Boots Randolph and Floyd Cra­mer) will perform Oct. 30, in the Athletic & Convoca­tion Center. The concert is a benefit for the Multiple Sclerosis Fund. 
SMC Music Dept. will present The Music of Brahms, Nov. 7, 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Indiana University Film Series presents "Story of a Three-day Pass" Oct. 29, "The Dirty Dozen," Nov. 5, "Me, Natalie," Nov. 12, all showing in Rm. 126, North­side Hall, 9 p.m. Admission FREE! IUSB Music Dept. will presen·t The University Chorale Ensembles per­forming in the IUSB Auditorium, Oct. 30, 8 :15 p.m . Admission free. 
The University Orchestra will perform Nov. 6-7, 

8:15 p.m. in the IUSB Auditorium, admissi_on free. The University Wind Ensemble will perform Nov. 10, 8:15 p.m. in the IUSB Auditorium, admission free. A fac­ulty recital will present Madeline Schatz, violin, and Robert Hamilton, piano, Nov. 12, 8:15 p.m. in the IUSB Auditorium, admission free. The South Bend Youth Symphony will present their fall concert Nov. 14, 4 p.m. in the IUSB Auditorium. 
Bethel College presents the United States Marine Band, directed by Lt. Col. Albert Schoepper, at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Nov. 5. Known as "The President's Own," the band has played for every in­auguration since that of Thomas Jefferson, and at one time was directed by John Philip Sousa. 
The South Bend Art Center, 121 Lafayette, will present a lecture on Rembrandt by Harold Zisla, Nov. 10, 3 p.m. in the Main Gallery of the Art Center. The Women's Art League will give an auction of art Nov. 6, in the Main Gallery. The Local Artist Gallery will exhibit New Works by Thomas Fern, Oct. 17-Nov. 14. 
The SMC Moreau-Hammes Galleries will exhibit drawings and paintings by Sister Blanche Marie from Mundelein College through November. 
The ND Art Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall will be showing "An Impressionist View on Paper"-19th­Century graphics from the Lessing Rosenwald Collec­tion of the National Gallery, Washington, D.C., until Dec. 12. 
The ND Architecture Gallery, open daily 8-5 p.m., will display a Total Environment House, a cantilevered, four-level structure designed to float among the red­wood trees which surround it, Oct. 14-Nov. 5. 
The junior class of General Program will open five "Environments" that they have created for their art class to the public. All friends and interested people are invited to attend this experience in art on Wed­nesday, Nov. 3, 3:00-6:00 p.m. in the downstairs rooms inside the Fieldhouse (southeast corner). 
Vespers in the Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart, every Sunday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
The Fighting Irish meet Navy Oct. 30 on home terri­tory. Nov. 16 the team travels to Pittsburgh, and Nov. 13 returns home to battle Tulane. 
-Cheri W eismantel 

YOU GO SH qP­PltuS ltJ CA~ADA­
\ 
EV6R¼'THIIJ6'S HAD€ lrJ AHcRICA. 
YOU 60 SHOP­
PltJ6 HJ fJ)6i,..AtJD­
5V6RYTHl~~ 
HA06 {fJ 
AH5RICA. 
YOU eO SHCP­
Pl~6 (tJAHcRlCA­

cV6Rl/1l-illJG'S
HAOc lt-J 
vAPA~. 
\ 
:,:
.., 
t 
IF MOR6 Cf OS b.XJUl-(}
BUY COR ow~ VVfJI< 
I COULD HAV6 HAl7 MY 
RAIS6 THIS ll£AR. 

OCTOBER 29, 1971 
l 
I 

The Scholastic needs · 
·_ BUSINESS MANAGER . 
. . 
sophomore or junior business .student _ position is salaried, plus· commission 
. ·-contact 
Howie Sutton-··· 233-4981 Mary -Ellen Stoltz -28?-9855 . Joe Hotz -232~1913. 
R. K. MUELLER, INC. 
. Genuine Registered KEEPSAKE . 
. 
. ·diamond rings 
Downtown 233-4200. 218 9. Michigan S(. 
the wars continue 
over 54,000 Americans are dead 
over 124,000 South Vietnamese are dead 

over 
704,000 

· NJ.F~-and North Vietnamese 
are dead 

. the Jastest: -the . friendliest sem~~--. 
:· 

· the~;-_pes~, ~the·n;iost delicious pizza·.:··. 
· 
· • ·· ·· · We would :not kid you ·. •·.•. ·. 

• J-felp with yoLlr actions 
·__: 71'4-N. Notre Dame· Ave: -~·:·.:.. ,, . _: _.: :.:·.; ·--~-.:~_.::c1:nd·-prayers ·. · .·, >:-· .. 233-0380 
·, · · · · 
. -/_,. -,_ ~ ::.,; "; -~ : ~ 


Juggler 
I~---------------------,Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 I 
First Issue Soon! I mailed off campus and out of town II delivered on campus. I 
i have thought I Make check payable to: I how ivith our ivords 
I Juggler I like spiders .· . I· Box 583 I .·we-·spin out from ourselves the I Notre Dame, Ind. I 
I I
· airy ;s_tructures . 

I .· I 
, ·. . . ·_· j~hn. hessler fName -------------. ·--------------. ____ ._____.--------1 
I , . I
I Address ________________________·-----. _.------------1 I
I I
•----------------~~
. OCTOBER 29, 1971 35 
sports 

This article was planned last week as a preview of . possible match-ups for Notre Dame in' postseason bowl games. However, something happened in between the article's beginnings and the publication date. Notre Dame lost to USC. 
Notre Dame didn't simply "lose" to the Trojans. They were beaten by them. And the sad part about it isn't so much the fact that the Irish have been_ unable to handle John McKay's boys since 1966, but that the. Trojans made it look all too easy in .extending their jinx over the Irish. The Trojan QB duo of Jimmy Jones and Mike Rae made a mockery of the "invincible" Notre Dame defense. And the Irish offense (I use that word loosely) just couldn't get the job done. 
It all happened so fast. Too fast. Notre Dame simply did not have enough time to adjust and, even when they did make a minor change in the defensive secondary, the result was another touchdown for · Edesel Garrison. The crowd, it seemed, never gave up hope. But with SC ahead, 28-7, at the half, the. echoes of the Fight Song and the pleas of the student body all seemed very hollow. Defeat was imminent, and even the most loyal and staunch defender of the Irish cause couldn't escape that fact; 
There are a lot of things that can be said about last Saturday's game and most of it was being mulled over in the halls and the bars a few moments after the final gun had sounded the death-knell for Notre Dame. A lot of what was being said was pure gibberish;· the typical comments that follow an Irish loss. What really happened was all very basic. 
Notre Dame's defense played right into the hands of the Trojan game plan. Perhaps the coaching staff had so much confidence in the defense that they felt tha_t man-to-man coverage would be sufficient to stop the Trojan passing game. The coaches can't be blamed for their estimation of the Irish defense. Hadn't they been practically invulnerable in the past five outings? And surely they never expected USC to pick. 
giving up, 

up the Irish rush as well as they did. Basically, the Irish defense appeared to be geared around the central idea that, even though SC's ends may have gotten open deep, the Trojan quarterbacks would never have the time to get the ball to them. 
Well, a capacity crowd that had paid upwards of $75 a ticket to be a part of the ·supposed festivities all saw what happened. Jones and Rae had enough time to mix a martini back: there (dry, of course) and their ends ruined the man-to-man defense. Trojan Coach John McKay couldn't have said more simply: "We were really glad to see Notre Dame come out in the man-to-man. We were hoping that Garrison would draw single coverage. All week long we practiced going deep to him, and we were confident that he could beat Ellis or Crotty deep. He's got tremendous speed. I think he runs the 440 in something like 44.5 seconds. Our protection was phenomenal. All Jones and Rae 
. had to do was to wait for him·to get open and then get the ball to him. And that's exactly what they did." 
Garrison gave his own view about what was going on in-the secondary: "On the first touchdown play I simply beat Ellis to the corner. The second time I ran deep against him, he beat me to the corner, only I moved underneath him and caught the ball. I think he was·playing to stop a touchdown instead of stopping the pass. The other touchdown (against Crotty) was the same type of play as the first, only I gave him an outside move and turned him around. When he turned, I went by him. After a while we had their secondary guessing deep patterns, and it was easy to pull up for_ a short pass underneath them." 
Notre Dame did try to adjust after Garrison beat Ellis for the first Trojan touchdown. Crotty was 
· moved up to play Garrison man-to-man and Ellis · dropped back into a free safety position. But by the time Rae had unloaded the bomb to Garrison, Ellis . was too far removed from the play to be effective. He got there just c'c: !"!arrison was gathering in the pass 
don kennedy 
sport fans? 
and eyeing the end zone. Nice try, but no cigar. 
Every long pass that USC completed was run off a play-action pass. The Trojan quarterback would fake to one of his backs and then drop back to pick up his receivers. Unexplainably, the Irish defense was duped by this move on every key play. In defense of them, however, it must be noted that in the second half the play-action pass didn't work that effectively. However, it worked when it had to. Strange, isn't it, how the Trojans needed only four big plays to burst the Irish bubble. The defense made three lapses and each of them resulted in a Trojan touchdown. And then there was that interception return by Bruce Dyer. 
McKay, again, explains what happened on the interception: "We were playing a rotating defense in our secondary. It just so happened that Brown threw into our rotation at that time. We were loaded to that side and Dyer came up with the ball. He sure made one hecRuva run to the end zone." 
Here, and on other plays throughout the afternoon, is where Brown's inexperience ·at quarterback hurt the Irish cause. He can't be blamed for his inexperience. I1 takes time to mold a good quarterback who is · capable of reading the opposition's defense and picking up his secondary receivers. Face it, a quarterback is going to make mistakes until he learns how to do things right. It just so happens that Brown's mistakes came at a very critical time, and they cost Notre . Dame dearly. A team that is built around its defense can't expect to win when its key unit makes a few costly errors. If the offense doesn't pick up the slack where the defense fails, this type of team is going to be in big trouble. And that's exactly what happened last Saturday, to the tune of a 28-14 defeat. 
It would be ridiculously unfair for the student body to desert their team at a time when that team needs a rejuvenation in its confidence the most. Alright, they didn't beat SC, they made the big mis­takes, they were everything you said they were in Frankie's or Corby's last Saturday night. But just remember this: they knew they made the mistakes and they know they lost the game. They didn't particularly like losing to the Trojans. For some of them it was their last chance to beat SC, and don't think that they don't know they'll never get that chance again. It's about time the student body stopped being fair-weather fans and started to show some of that true Notre Dame spirit they're supposed to be famous for. This may sound like a lot of horseshit propaganda, but it just ain't, sports fans. Admit it to yourselves. You're all guilty of turning your backs on the team. You're all a bunch of Saturday-night quarterbacks. Sure you're disappointed. But you're cnly upset because your team isn't going to win a National Championship. But remember, it's still your team, win or lose, and if you're not out there tomorrow pulling for those guys then you've missed a 
-lot in your years at Notre Dame. 
Just remember one last item, and I think USC's John McKay said it best: "Notre Dame is every team's biggest game. We're always up for that game if for none other. It's strange, but my boys· always play their best against them.'' Remember that the next time you decide to dump on your football team. Every time Notre Dame takes the field they know that their opposition is going all out to beat them. No other team in the country can make that claim. There's nothing that any team in the country would like more than beating Notre Dame.· Just ask John McKay. His mediocre·season is complete, simply because his team beat Notre Dame. But McKay also left South Bend with one statement that can't be denied. "When you beat Notre Dame," he said, "you know that you've beaten the best in the country." 
OCTOBER 29, 1971 
the last word 


Now that the dust has. settled, I think it is time we look at the recent Student Senate financial deliberations before everyone forgets exactly what the Senate purports to be. Certainly they were faced with the unenviable task of allocating money to the various student concerns and projects. The SCHOLASTIC had requested $2000 in funding to make possible the publication of ·the Course Evaluation Book, but our request was denied. Certainly the staff could find less arduous ways -to spend their Thanksgiving holiday than putting together a Course Evaluation, but that is not the point. Our objective was simply to provide a service to the community -a service which in the past seemed to be well received. After a week of con­sideration, I think there are several important ques­tions which arise from the Senate's action. 
_ My first question concerns the responsibility of the Senate to its constituency. A body which was con­ceived in order to represent student viewpoints seems to be totally insensitive to those viewpoints. The Course Evaluation is a service vehicle. It has not been perfect in format and certainly not in coverage.· We had planned to have student advisors from each college to help us find qualified evaluators and to in­clude the elective courses of all four colleges. But the Senate did not even seem to be concerned with the merits of.the Book. Not only did they refuse our re-. quest, but they even refused to give the effort a vote of confidence. Rather their discussions centered on some flimsy notion of our direction as a magazine. Never did their debate touch on the value of the Book to students. To ignore such a consideration was to ignore their responsibllity to the students they represent. ­
Such a failure to :respond to student priorities brings the Senate's purpose into question. The poor turnout for Senate elections certainly was less than a mandate for representation. Now that budgetary. considerations have been concluded, bodies 
. like the Student Life Council and ·its subcommittees have the only real authority which affects student lives. Hence, with the exception of budget alloca-. tions, there is little justification for the Senate's continued existence. 
The Senate must not have considered the wide use of the Book over the past three years: Was it not important to them that the Book has greatly aided 
. students in facing the plethora of courses at regis­tration time?· 
I recently heard the comment, "it doesn't really matter what the Senate does b_ecause it really doesn't affect me." I question that type of logic. As the SCHOLASTIC attempts to raise money for the Course Evaluation Book from other sources, I wonder if it is really wanted by the students. I think it·is, but the representatives in the Student Senate certainly were not expressing that desire. 
-joe hotz 
· THE SCHOLASTIC 

.··  :  ·:··  
. •:_ .. : •·.:..·-:·: ;.: .· .. :·•..  : ·•: ·. .··. ·: ·· .. ·· . ::. .··... :  .·.... ·.•: ·:• .. : . · ....: ..· :.·...  -:  .  ..·.···· ·=.·: : ·:···..·:.::·.: ..· .:.· ··-.. ·· .. ·.·.. : ·: :-· ·.·... .·.:.  
··.-·.••:· . . :­ :-·  
.:·==:·:=.r•t;·=·=.:=:= -.·•·-· ·=···.·:·.  
·=.:.: ··· ..• . . · ·.. -· :-. : . ·. ·.·•  :·-.=··:···  ..·. .  -.: . ·.:.:·,}:\.:,..,:·.· ..· ·:'.: ::·..;.·:.'.'-::;•\=:·\\::;{\::::::::;-; ::=,. . •.. · ····=  . : .· .. : ·-. ·.. .. . ...• .--:.:..­.. ·.. · •..:· .. ·.··..-.:··.: . ·-·: . :.-:••  
-: . :-·-··.·:..·....  :­.  . .. · .·:_.:.--~•:::~: :.:=Y·= ·:__=='" ... ·. ·: ·. . .·. ··:•·:·.  . .. : -=--= ·.. : ..  .  .  ..  

·..•

)'.:\{\~tfuli'si~.~~,~~'~lti~I~r-tO··ahothef.
:.•:.·. ·:-~· .•.•.-:,. ,:·.: =:· •· ·•. ··.. ,··.,::· •. ·:.niB~fio'H\laEWER);·coiiPXi-.~~:om1ibfr,~li~i1GAN-18i2t, ·:·· .· ·. :.... · ··:,.:.--: 
::::'.,. ··. ::·.,,::\:.::-·,=~:, ..:.=:.-.;-:.··:'· :'.:\S=i:--;\::\=),=i:\{/;,}i\'.});;!=i·,~t\ti!:}{\:;:}£·:,:;:i.:;'};;~;f{ti:\";'; ·, ·.:. :..:::·:.... -:·._. :.., ; ··-·.·· ·.......:.:. ,· ..=-.::::: t;·::-.=.~·'.;."'.\:;,j 



lOOo/o malt malt liquor••• good enough to be called BUDWEISER® 




