The Ivy League
White Tropical-Weight
FORMAL JACKET
Enjoy your next formal in sport coat comfort ... in an Ivy League styled feather-light tropical white formal jacket, tailored by “After Six.” The correct wear for all summer formal occasions. Get yours tomorrow. Black tropical-weight formal trousers, $12.95.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame -

The Notre Dame
Scholastic
* Vol. 99
May 2, 1958
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quan Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
No. 21
> Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, , Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of * postage, Section 1101,'October 3, 1917. Authorised June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS HARRY McKEE ____ BOB EARLY_______ MIKE FITZPATRICK
BOB WILLIAMS ... LORAN SHEFFER MIKE KURAS___ JOE DEZELAN .... WALT RUDGE __ RON BLUBAUGH BILL CONWAY .... TOM EDWARDS . TOM LAMONT ... BOB SEDLACK .... ED ROHRBACH .. TED THOMPSON
__News Editor .... Copy Editor Features Editor .. Sports Editor .... Photography
.... Business Manager ___Assistant Business Circulation Manager ___Assistant News ___Assistant Copy ___Assistant Copy .... Assistant Features .... Assistant Features .... Assistant Features ___Assistant Sports ___Assistant Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob Maruyama, Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt * Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogen.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, X Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
Member of Catholic School Prem Awociatioa and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for notional advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420. Madison Avenue, New York City.
’ THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the t school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the. Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27: No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, , Oct.	11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6,
Nov.	8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9,
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Renew); No. 11, Jan.	17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13, Feb. 14; No. 14,
Feb.	21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17,
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
Why not buy your car RIGHT HERE in the Middle West and save the extra freight you would ordinarily pay if you bought elsewhere?
BEN MEDOW
Satisfying customers since 1919, offers you the ONLY COMPLETE line of automobiles in this area. Choose from a fresh stock of PLYMOUTHS - DODGES DESOTOS - CHRYSLERS or IMPERIALS
• 222 N. LAFAYETTE	• 233 N. WILLIAM
See the Ben Medow advertisement every evening on Lamplight Theater—WNDU-TV, Channel 16
May 2, 1958
K
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
a good night
LI

*

-
*
The story you are about to read is true—except for the things I made up in order to solicit youi* morbid little grins—only the names have been changed to protect the guilty.
It was late in the evening, my roommate was cheating at solitare, I was staring at the cracks in the wall, and the mice were devouring the’ food I’d brought from home. Oh yes, one of the guys from down the hall, or somewhere, was rummaging around for the latest issue of Mad. We didn’t know his name; we’re a rather apathetic pair of seniors. It was a typical night here on campus; it was a lousy night. It was just about the time that I’d decided the two cracks over my roommate’s head resemble a figure of a girl in a chemise, when Willie Cordo came hopping in yelling that he was a tardy Easter Bunny. (Willie’s a little retarded, but it’s nothing to worry about because he’s graduating in June and has his Army commission all sewed-up.) After about fifteen minutes of this hopping business he was breathing like mad, so he decided to drop the part. With his last hop he ended up on the bunk, the upper one — that’s one thing I have to say for Willie, he can really hop when he puts his mind to it —and started to give out with a long tirade against the evils of Frisbee.
This lasted another fifteen or twenty


minutes. That’s another thing I have to say for Willie, he’s as long winded as hell. Actually I found this whole cot-tin’ pickin’ business quite disconcerting « because I still hadn’t decided which f way the girl in the chemise was facing and besides his screaming had the mice running around like an out-of-town । girls’ convention. I don’t imagine his I sense of humor, or whatever it is, was
especially appealing to them. Actually . ► my roommate and I have spoiled those mice, but that’s another story which would be too long to go into right now.
I Anyway, my roommate was about the l - only one who appreciated - Willie’s antics; . it caused enough distraction to keep his
' May2,195i	:	■ / '
mind off the fact that he was cheating.
The thing that cut Willie’s speech, or whatever that yelling of his could he called, was the feeling that someone was . pulling the rug out from beneath him. Of course it wasn’t any such thing because he was still standing on the upper bunk, but it was something pretty close to it. Our unknown guest was pulling off the sheets in his mad search for Mad. Now Willie is a rather sensitive guy at times. I mean, little things like the sheet business can really upset him. From where I was sitting it looked as if he was just about to blow his sawdust filled cranium, when sort of suddenly he recognized our rummager. He started shaking the guy’s hands, both of them, for what exact reason I could not just say right now, except that maybe ever since he was third assistant prop manager for a student production, he’s had an affinity towards histrionics. (Whatever that means, but it must be true because my roommate made it up during oiie of his profound moments.) He said that he didn’t realize that we were friends; this character from some
'	envelope on my desk, picked up my Ger-
lie that we didn’t even know his name man, and told me, as he more-dr-leas
where, my roommate and I. I told Wil- _.
and with this he started saying, “Joe trotted out of the room, that itwastob^^ .Schmidt, I’d like you to meet . .. .’’ but bad he wouldn’t be seeing me at the baELS ^ this Joe guy stated that he was very. That’s another thing about WflB^ h^s Rg much' opposed to meeting anyone who got a red-ldgiod mind. ■
kept their Mads so impossibly concealed " : and with that he left.	" ' "
Willie started to ask me where we did ; have it hidden when he suddenly remembered something. He had honored us with a visit mainly because he wanted to - ; borrow my German homework. (Willie ' always starts his borrowing-visits with some entertainment, he figures that it’s. • his way of repaying the Ioan in ad- -vance.) Now this sort of stuff is a very touchy moral problem with me.' I still ; haven’t figured whether a guy who can hardly speak English should be allowed to pass up the opportunity to learna different language or is even this expect- j ing too much? But since I hadn’t come to any decision at the time, I told him it- -was on my desk.	. .
Now Willie just isn’t the type to go S? directly after the thing he’s looking for,. so instead of picking up my German, he - ; j started to read a half-written letter to my girl. It was lying beside my assign- -ment.	\
He finished his reading with a sublime ... comment about the sterling qualities this . . girl must have in order to be rewarded with such a mushy letter. (That’s his way of saying things.)	. .
I extemporaneously .'spouted off a few dozen words about her absolute fidelity: ~ to me, when he interrupted to mention the fact that, the girl he was taking in the senior ball had the same, first name —he is always careful about notingthe . names in letters—then fell all over himself explaining how it’s too bad thatl didn’t know his date because sheKonly lived a few. miles from my hometown. : At this point I casually hazarded a guess that his date’s namemightbe Carrie Murphy.'At first he was-reallyVy? overjoyed with the coincidence knew her, then he read the addremed r ?
OnCampifiMS™
(By the Author of ‘‘Ratty Round the Flag, Boys! “and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.**)
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
SWEENEY IN THE TREES
Spring is here—the season of tree-sitting contests. This I applaud. Tree-sitting is healthful and jolly and as American as apple pie. Also it keeps you off the streets.
Tree-sitting is not, however, without its hazards. Take, for example, the dread and chilling case of Manuel Sigafoos and Ed Sweeney, both sophomores at the Nashville College of Folk Music and Woodworking, and both madly in love with a beautiful alto named Ursula Thing, who won their hearts singing that fine old folk song, I Strangled My True Love with Her Own Yellow Braids, and I’ll Never Eat Her Sorghum Any More.
Both Manuel and Ed pressed Ursula to go steady, but she could not choose between them, and finally it was decided that the boys would have a tree-sitting contest, and Ursula would belong to the victor. So Manuel and Ed clambered up adjoining aspens, taking with them the following necessaries: food, clothing, bedding, reading matter, and—most essential of all—plenty of Marlboro Cigarettes.
We who live on the ground know how much you get to like with a Marlboro. Think how much more important they must be to the lonely tree-dweller—how much more welcome their fine, mild tobacco; how much more gratifying their free-drawing filters; how much more comforting their sturdy, crushproof flip-top box. Climb a tree and see for yourselves.
Well supplied with Marl-boros, our heroes began their tree-sitting contest—Manuel with good heart, Ed with evil cunning. The shocking fact is that crafty Ed, all unbeknownst to Manuel, was one of three identical triplets. Each night while Man
This column is brought to you by the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes who suggest that if you are ever up a tree when trying to find a gift, give Marlboros. You can’t miss!
uel dozed on his bough, one of Ed’s brothers—Fred or Jed—would sneak up the tree and replace him. “How can I lose?” said Ed with a fiendish giggle to his brother Fred or Jed.
But Ed had a big surprise coming. For Manuel, though he did not know it himself, was a druid! He had been abandoned as an infant at the hut of a poor and humble woodcutter named Cornelius Whitney Sigafoos III, who had raised the child as his own. So when Manuel got into the tree, he found much to his surprise that he had never in all his life felt so at home and happy. He had absolutely no intention of ever leaving.
After seven or eight years Ed and his brothers wearied of the contest and conceded. Ursula Thing came to Manuel’s tree and cried, “I am yours! Come down and pin me.”
But Manuel declined. Instead he asked Ursula to join him in the tree. This she could not do, being subject to mopery (a morbid allergy to woodpeckers), so she ended up with Ed after all.
Only she made a mistake—a very natural mistake. It was Jed, not Ed, with whom she ended up.
Ed, heartbroken at being tricked by his own brother, took up metallurgy to forget.
Crime does not pay.
© 1058 Mu Shabnaa
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Ninth Year
•	1,500 suits in stock
•All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including all accessories $59.95
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
The Scholastic

1	past
*
The past decade has seen Notre Dame undergo a tremendous change. And for six of those years the ■ presidency of the University has been in the capable hands ■ of Father Hesburgh. Under his leadership marked improve-■ ments have been made in all phases of the University’s life. ■ k Her physical plant has been vastly improved with the addi-■ tion of numerous new buildings. (Pangbom, Keenan, Stan-■	ford and the New Dining Hall are only a few examples.)
■	The faculty’s quality has been raised, both through the
■	“Distinguished Professors Program” and general improve-HL ment. Her curricula has been modified by sweeping changes ■ , in most of the colleges. And her entrance requirements ■	have been stiffened. The results are already beginning to
■	show in a general improvement in student ability and an
■	increased academic reputation. (The number of fellowships ■ received by this year’s senior class is only one indication of ■ this growing academic excellence.)
■	\ Father Hesburgh has been, and is, well-equipped to ■ provide the necessary leadership in improving Notre Dame. ■ His intelligence and foresight in planning, his courage and ■ willingness to make changes, and his warm personality have I served the University well. Father Hesburgh’s many ■ talents have carried him to national and international recfl ognition. His recent appointment to President Eisenhower’s fl\ “Civil Rights Commission,” his representation on numerous I ' other important boards and committees, and his service as ■ Papal delegate to the International Atomic Energy Agency fl demonstrate this recognition and Father Hesburgh’s ■ own inexhaustible energy.
I At times Father Hesburgh’s many duties have carried him far from the University. But in all his functions, he ■	has earned tremendous respect and admiration. This repu-
■	tation has not been Father’s alone. As a representative
■	of Notre Dame and the Catholic Church the credit which I he has so deservedly won has accrued to them. Notre ■ Dame, in particular, has been better off thanks to his efforts.
Father Hesburgh’s warmth and personal charm has al-■ ways been appreciated by the student body. His real interest I in them and in their problems has made class after class feel I a part of the Notre Dame family. The improvements which I he has directed have been of primary benefit to the students. I We all owe him a debt of gratitude which can be repayed ■ „ at least in part if we really strive to be Notre Dame men. ■ If we could all embody just a few of Father Hesburgh’s ■ many talents we would truly be paying him a compliment. I	—J- 5.
I May 2, 1958
future
Anyone interested in the Notre Dame of the future must . have received with utmost satisfaction die news that The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh would continue as its president for an indefinite period. The Provincial of die Holy Cross Order should be commended for making the unprecedented move. Notre Dame can do nothing but benefit from it.
No one is here more capable or more influential than Father Hesburgh. His past record has proven that. The University has made great progress in the past six years and will continue to do so under his guidance and leadership. He is regarded as one of the outstanding men of our times, not only among the top educators but also among the top political leaders of die country and die world. Anyone with his personality and eminence could never hurt Notre Dame. His foresight and determination can some day put Notre Dame at die zenith of die academic world. It is only fitting that Father Hesburgh should be allowed to carry out the recently announced 066,600,000 “program of die future.”
In his six years as president, he has become aware of needs of this institution. All of diem are incorporated in the future plans and Father Hesburgh is in the best position to carry out that plan. He has put them in their proper perspective, realizing that right now the academic needs come before improvement of die physical plant.
The greatest demand right now is the improvements in the faculty area. In order to reach academic excellence, die framework must be built here. Notre Dame hopes to increase its faculty salary scale seventy-five per cent by 1968 and thus be in a better position to employ great minds in the classroom and research. If Notre Dame is to improve academically, the emphasis will have to be put on faculty development. Father Hesburgh realizes this. Also included in die future plans are funds for research, student aid and administrative purposes.
We, as a university, have made great strides in the past decade. Our history has been one of constant progress. But, the gains we can make in the near future under the guidance of Father Hesburgh and the Notre Dame family will far surpass anything that has ever been realized in die past. Through the generosity of friends, alumni, corporations and foundations, what Father Hesburgh calls a “Cadillac” education will soon be an actuality. Again and again in the future, we should remember die words of Father Sorin—
Look, when this school, Our Lady’s school, shcdl grow-a bit more, I shall raise her aloft so that, without asking, all men shall know why we have succeeded here. To that lovely Lady, raised high on a dome, a golden dome, men may look and find the answer!”	,
—J.G.
7
Naim Marlowe, of shoes for dress, play and every lovely star ' day! See for yourself—today!
SUMMER STORAGE
Salesmen for summer storage began to contact students yesterday and will continue to do so until May 26.
May 24 to the 27, has, been designated the period for deposit of articles at the Fieldhouse for summer storage. The Fieldhouse will be open at noon May 25 until 6 p.m. for the students' convenience. For further information, contact your hall salesman.
RWTURBOW \pPTOMKTIUVr
of radio and
As Advertised in Esquire
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
CANOE TRIPS into Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.75 per diem. For complete information, write; Bill Rom, Box 717C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minnesota.
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
<
The two fastest deodorants in the world!
Old Spice Stick Deodorant is built for speed. Plastic case is applicator. Nothing to take out, no push-up, push-back. Just remove cap and apply. Prefer a spray? Old Spice Spray Deodorant dries twice as fast as other sprays! Choose stick or spray...if it’s Old Spice,
it’s the fastest, cleanest, easiest deodorant you can use.	Each
by SHULTON
The Scholastic
. FATHER HESBURGH RENAMED AS PRESIDENT OF UNIVERSITY
Provincial Head Also Announces University Executive Will Relinquish Post as Campus Religious Superior
k
The reappointment of The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., as president of the University was announced Saturday by The Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C., provincial superior of the Holy Cross Fathers.
' Father Hesburgh has been serving as Notre Dame president and religious superior of the Holy Cross Priests and * Brothers associated with the University * since 1952. He will relinquish the latter post in June, Father Mehling explained, > since religious superiors are limited to a maximum term of six years by canon law. A new religious superior for Notre Dame will be announced later. .
h In addition to his many responsibilities as head of the University, Father Hesburgh also holds several important posts in the world of public affairs. He is a member of the Civil Rights Commission and the National Science Board. He is also permanent Vatican City representative to the Atomic Energy Agency.
► PRESIDENT AT 35
Father Hesburgh became sixteenth president of Notre Dame at the age of 35 in June, 1952. During the first six years of his administration the University has experienced one of its greatest . periods of physical growth and internal academic development. Twelve campus buildings have been dedicated during the six-year period and new curricula have been established in the Notre Dame Law School and the undergraduate liberal . arts and commerce schools. A compre-, hensive self-study has also been completed in the College of Engineering.
Faculty salaries have increased substantially in recent years and a number of internationally recognized scholars and artists have been added to the faculty under Notre Dame’s Distinguished , Professors 'Program. There has also been a steady increase in the number of fellowships awarded to graduating seniors. Eighteen Notre Dame students received Woodrow Wilson National Fel
lowships this year, the fifth largest group in the nation.
Last March Father Hesburgh announced a $66,600,000 development program geared “to consolidate and further Notre Dame’s academic excellence during the next ten years.” The long-range plan includes $27,000,000 in endowment for increased faculty salaries, $18,600,000 for buildings, $11,000,000 for research, $5,000,000 for student aid, and
NOTRE DAME PRESIDENT
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
$5,000,000 for administrative purposes. The University recently completed a development program launched in 1947, exceeding its ten-year goal of $25,000,000 by more than $2,000,000.
Prior to becoming Notre Dame’s president in 1952, Father Hesburgh was chaplain to the married veterans in 1945 and then served for three years as executive vice-president of the University. During 1948-49 he was head of the religion department. He is the author of God and the World of Man, a widely used college text, and his Patterns for Educational Growth has just been published by the University- of Notre
Dame Press. He is also the author of
Theology of Catholic Action.
Father Hesburgh, who willbe 41 on May 25, is a native of Syracuse, N. Y^ where his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Bernard Hesburgh, still reside. He was educated at Notre Dame and at the Gregorian University in Rome which awarded him a bachelor of philosophy degree in 1939. He was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1943, in Sacred Heart Church.	' =	.
HAS THEOLOGY DOCTORATE
In 1945 Father Hesburgh received the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. He holds honorary degrees from Bradley University,. LeMoyne College, and the Catholic University of Santiago, Chile.	* .
In addition to his membership on the Civil Rights Commission and the National Science Board, Father Hesburgh -holds a number of other influential posts in the world of education, science^ and public affairs. He is a member of the Secretary of the Navy’s newly-formed Advisory Board on Scientific Education and is a former member and. president of the Board of Visitors at the U. S. Naval Academy.	. >
Father Hesburgh is a director and member of the over-all panel of the -Special Studies Project of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. He is a member ; of the Policy Advisory Board of the.: Argonne National Laboratory and a director of the Midwest Universities Research Association, a non-profit corpor- : ation formed by fifteen Midwest educational institutions to conduct nuclear re* search.	.	:
ACTIVE OUTSIDE CAMPUS
Notre Dame’s president is a director;, 5 and former vice-president of the Insti- > tute of International Education. He is also a director of the National Woodrow ; Wilson Fellowship Corporation, the</v Freedoms Foundation, the Nutrition Foundation, and the Foundation for Re-v y ligious Action in the Social and Chrie v^l Order.	- -
Father Hesburgh has just completed terms of service on the Ford Mbtor -F^ Company and General Motors Corporation scholarship boards. His other meas-berships and affiliations have included ^ the Commission on Instruction and Evalnation of the American Council <mEd- ^ ucation; the Commission on Christian^ Higher Education of the AssociatkMiWi^ American Colleges; and the Coa»dtla»j^g on Professional Accrediting the North Central Association. •
May 2, 1958

MISS ELLEN NORRIS
Freshman formal queen
Freshmen to Dance in 'Moonglow' Tonight; Buddy Laine to Provide Music for Formal
Dancing to the theme of “Moonglow,” more than 400 freshmen and their dates will attend the springtime Freshman Formal tonight in the LaFortune Student Center. Buddy Laine and his band, featuring vocalist Mickey Carroll, will provide dance music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Miss Ellen Norris of Chicago, III., will be crowned queen by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Miss Norris, a freshman at St. Mary’s College, will be the date of Jim Kaval, dance chairman.
The Student Center has been decorated to set the scene of a moonlit park. A park bridge scene highlights the Rathskeller where refreshments will be served in an atmosphere of sidewalk cafes. On the main floor a wishing well, together with a large suspended moon, will complete the decorations. Favors will be given at the door.
Car and 2 a.m. residence permissions have been extended to the freshman attending the dance. The dance committee has obtained room reservations for the students’ dates in the Morris Inn and at several South Bend hotels.
Saturday evening a dance has been
Danforth Grant Awarded To Professor for Study
Assistant Professor Jerome Taylor, of the English Department, has been selected for a Danforth Teacher Study Grant.
He is one of 61 selected out of 360 nominees. The Foundation was established to aid the educational needs of young teachers.
Professor Taylor will spend a year at the University of Chicago finishing up a translation and historical study of a twelfth-century philosophical work on the organization of the arts and sciences.
scheduled for the Student Center from 8 until 11:30 p.m. Gene Bertoncini and his orchestra will provide the music.
Father Hesburgh will speak at the Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the New Dining Hall. The breakfast will follow the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Chairmen for the dance and week-end activities are: Kaval, general chairman; Armando Loizaga, business manager; Don Schmiel, decorations; Bruno Trim-poli, publicity; John Cooney, tickets; Dick Nielson, Communion Breakfast; and Roger Driscoll, public relations.
Five Seniors Receive Engineering Awards
Bill Lynch, Tom Fogarty, Dan Sullivan, John Kirchner, and Matt Grogan received the annual “Engineers of the Year” awards last Saturday in conjunction with the Engineering Open House show. Assistant Dean Schubmehl presented the awards.
Lynch, an electrical engineering major, and a member of the Navy ROTC, is a four-year honor student. After graduation he will receive a regular commission in the Navy and plans on continuing his studies in the field of solid state physical electronics.
Fogarty, the president of the YCS and local chairman of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, intends to work in the communications field.
Sullivan, who graduated from the College of Arts and Letters last year magna cum laude, will receive his engineering degree cum laude in June. He is also recipient of the Hughes Fellowship for graduate study in engineering.
Kirchner, chapter president of the American Society for Metals and winner
of an ASM scholarship, plans to attend graduate business school.
Grogan, an aeronautical engineering major, is the chairman of the Joint Engineering Council and of the student branch of the IAS.
The recipients of the awards were chosen on the basis of scholarship, leadership, character, and service to the University as a whole and to the Engineering College and its departments. The “Engineers of the Year” are selected annually by the staff of the Tech Review, the magazine published monthly for the engineers.
COMMUNION BREAKFAST
All students on the campus are invited to attend a YCS Communion Breakfast Sunday after the 9 a.m. Mass. Ticket arrangements can be made in the YCS office in the La Fortune Student Center.

10
The Scholastic
J Law Students Schedule Banquet Saturday Night
Ai
The Student Law Association will hold - its annual banquet next Saturday night at 7 in the Morris Inn. Featured speak* er will be Charles Rhyne, president of l i the American Bai' Association, the I youngest man ever to hold that position.
The banquet is held in honor of the law I students who have excelled in academic B and extracurricular law school affairs. I Awards formerly given at Class Day ■ * exercises will be given at the banquet ■ * this year for the first time. The new ■ officers for the Notre Dame Lawyer, ft. Notre Dame Moot Court, Gray’s Inn ■	and the Student Law Association will
ft	also be announced.
ft Chairman of the banquet is William ft* Loy of South Bend, a third year student ft * and treasurer of Gray’s Inn. The mas-ft ter of ceremonies for the evening will be ft Tom McNeill, a third year student from I Winnetka, Ill.
ft This week end, from Friday to Sun-ft day, the Association will hold its annual ft* golf tourney on the campus course, ft * Prizes will be given for the low gross ■ and low net totals. Chairman of the ft tournament is Milton Munk, a second ft year law student from Connellsville, Pa. I Mangold Named Head I' Of Presidents1 Council
I The Hall Presidents’ council recently ft announced the election of Karl Mangold ft as next year’s president. Mangold, who ft is presently a junior majoring in pre-ft med, makes his home in White Plains, ft^ N. Y. In past years he has been the ft , president of Pangborn hall and a mem-ft her of the Lyons hall council.
ft This year the election of the council’s ft president has been revised. In past ft years the student body vice-president ft was the president of the council. A new ft^ procedure has been approved by the Stu-ft w dent Senate whereby the Hall Presift dents’ council elects its own chairman, ft In order to have experienced representa-ft tion, four stay members are placed on ft the council.
ft The Hall Presidents’ council coordin-ft^ ates student activities on the campus, ft Representatives of organizations that ■ want to begin activities on campus ap-ft pear before the council and state their ft purposes. The council then votes to ap-ft prove or disapprove the proposal.
ft Some of the council’s major accom-ft plishments this year were: the Mardi ftr Gras collections and ticket distribution, ft Foundation Week collections, the signing ft of baby sitters for Vetville and the han-ft dling of the Christmas caroling party ft tickets.
I May 2, 1958
Shaul Gives Views on Student Government; President Has 'High Hopes' for Next Year
By DENNY SHAUL
In a way it is a lot easier to campaign for an office than to win it. Promises are a lot easier to make than to keep, and pre-election words often come back to haunt the office-holder. During the campaign I was impressed by the varying reactions the words “Student Government” received. These run all the way from deep disgust to open praise. Probably the middle road is the fairest.
That Student Government is not all
DENNY SHAUL
New student body president th^f it should be cannot be denied, that it has accomplished much is often overlooked. We go into next year full of hope, but if we are to accomplish anything we need a definite program and a wider range of support and understanding.
Student Government’s main field has been the social one. Even here, though, there is a need for better coordination with St. Mary’s for different attractions and for big name entertainment. An intercampus committee of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students must be formed and kept in operation to facilitate social activities on both campuses. Our social life needs originality.
Big name entertainment must be scheduled early and work will begin on this within a few days. Partially this should be based on football week ends; in great part it should be used to relieve the dull periods of the year. Poor scheduling, publicity, and programing together with a lack of coordination with St. Mary’s have cost us heavily in the past in this regard.
But Student Government has been remiss in concentrating so heavily on the social field without a corresponding growth in the other areas. There is a real need for a greater entry into the academic field especially. Better facultystudent relations, especially for upperclassmen, can be promoted through faculty-student smokers and luncheons. Student government should serve as a coordinator for the existing academic facilities on campus. A heavier emphasis should be placed on the academic, beginning with orientation and carried right on through.	.
The halls themselves should be more of an academic center. Certain halls now have carried on successful guestlectures, and discussions; this program needs expansion. A Student Government lecture series, based on distinguished speakers and timely topics, is being initiated.
The Mardi Gras for next year'must be given purpose. Further we must draw up a definite policy in this regard. Personally, I favor putting about one-half of the money into scholarships.. This is as close as we will come to the original intent of the Mardi Gras. The charities the Mardi Gras now supports are excellent, but additionally perhaps there is a need to look toward our own campus for needy causes. More money will have . to be put into the Student Center for repairs and improvements. Additionally, some of the money may be set aside to underwrite big name entertainment and the lecture series.
There are a number of problems which are almost chronic issues in regard to Student Government. The honor system, permanent hall residence, all night lights —these we have always with us.
It is my hope that the honor system will be initiated on a small scale in the Commerce School next semester and spread from there. The system will be used on a voluntary basis. Permanent Continued on page 25
WRITERS NEEDED
Contributions ore now being ' accepted for next year’s SCHOLASTIC "Back Page” and "Escape.” Sample manuscripts of about 1,000 words may be submitted to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind. Interested undergraduates are re- . quested to send their manuscripts in : as soon as possible to facilitate selection before final exams. ~ /
'Oklahoma* Slated for Washington Hall Stage; Curtain to Rise on Musical at 8:30 Wednesday
The University Theater will present the famous Broadway musical, Oklahoma, on the Washington Hall stage starting Wednesday evening and running until Sunday.
Curtain time is to be 8:30 each evening and a special matinee performance will be given on Sunday at 2 p.m. in addition to the regular evening showing. The box office will be open daily from 3:30 to 8:30 beginning next Monday.
This is the show that first brought together the team of Rodgers and Hammerstein, the duo that presented the world with such other hits as Carousel, South Pacific, and The King and I. Based on a play by Lynn Riggs, entitled Green Groio the Lilacs, Oklahoma ran five years and two months during its first New York engagement—an all-time
Chancellor Raab Slated To Receive Law Degree
Austrian Chancellor Julius Raab will receive an honorary Doctor of Laws degree and deliver a major address at a special University convocation May 22, it was announced here today by The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. The entire Notre Dame faculty will participate in the exercises in Washington Hall.
Chancellor Raab, whose post is equivalent to that of prime minister, is scheduled to arrive on the Notre Dame campus at noon. He will be honored at a reception and luncheon at the Morris Inn beginning at 12:30 p.m. Following the luncheon and prior to the academic convocation he and Father Hesburgh will toui- the campus by car.
During the Austrian leader’s official visit to the United States he will confer with President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles. He will be the president’s guest at a White House luncheon on May 19.
Father Hesburgh became acquainted with Chancellor Raab’s work during the conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna last fall. Father Hesburgh is the permanent Vatican representative to the atoms-for-peace organization.
Raab has headed the Austrian government as Federal Chancellor since April, 1953. The 66-year-old statesman is one of the founders of the Austrian People’s Party and a veteran member of parliament. He held several government posts before and after the Nazi occupation of Austria, 1938-45.
12
record. In addition, the show has toured successfully for many years.
A romantic tale of the prairies of around 60 years ago, when cattlemen were first beginning to be supplanted by farmers, Oklahoma tells the tale of the courtship of two pretty farm girls by their cowboy swains, despite the rivalry of two othei- men, a traveling peddler and a sour-tempered hired hand.
All the celebrated songs of the show, some now musical classics, will be heard in the University Theater’s production; among them are People Will Say We're In Love, Oh, What a Beautiful Mowin' The Surrey With the Fringe on Top, Many a New Day, and I Can't Say No.
Dan Ferrone and Anne Rody play Curly and Laurey, the romantic leads. Ferrone will be remembered for his performance in Tim Limit and The Importance of Being Earnest. Miss Rody makes her University Theatei‘ debut.
Barbara Benford plays the part of Ado Anne in the production. Opposite her will be Jim Cooney who plays the part of the traveling salesman and Dave Shanahan who plays her other lover.
Miss Benford appeared in Carousel and Good News. Cooney and Shanahan
Gil Rathbun is technical
ad-
musical
estra and visor.
DAN FERRONE, ANNE RODY Rehearsal scene from University Theater's spring
McCutcheon drawings
The drawings of John T. McCutch- I eon, the famous cartoonist of the x.),
Chicago Tribune during the 20’s and 30’s, are now on display in the University Art Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hail.
Paul Byrne, curator of the Gallery, urges everyone to view the work of this famous cartoonist who died in 1946. The Gallery is open from 2-5 p.m. Monday through Friday. The cartoons will be on display until May 24.
were seen in Time Limit.
George O’Donnell will play Jud Fry, the man involved in a one-sided love affair with Laurey. Eleanor Murphy will play Aunt Eller.
Others in the east are Bruce Junius as Ike Skidmore, Rudy Hornish as Slim, Pat Wilson as Gertie Cummings, and Bill De Seta as Cord Elam. Dave McDonald is also a member of the cast.
The director is The Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., and the performance coach is Fred W. Syburg. The singing chorus is under the direction of The Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., and the dancing chorus is under Allan Powers. Dr. Charles Biondo conducts the orch-
The Scholastic i
; New Student Body President j*
Denny is campus coordinator of the National Student Association’s project to implement the Second Annual Report to President Eisenhower on Education
Denny Shaul
k
One of the most remarkable political careers in Notre Dame student government history reached its climax Thursday night, April 24. The newly elected Student Body President Denny Shaul has served in student government for the past two years. In his freshman year he was a hall president, and this year, Denny served as sophomore class president, becoming one of the most respected members of student government.
Mr. Shaul’s leadership ability came to the fore during his four years at St. Vincent High School in Akron, Ohio, where, during his senioi* year, he served as president of the National Honor Society, co-editor of the school newspaper, and president of his parish’s Junior Holy Name Society. During this year, Denny won a one hundred dollar award from the Freedom Foundation for an address on the topic, “Democracy.” This award also included a medal from the foundation and a trip to Valley Forge. Upon graduation, Denny received the manhood award, which is awarded yearly to the outstanding man in the graduating class.
Denny Shaul received a Burns Scholarship to Notre Dame and came here in the fall of 1956. He was elected president of Farley Hall and in that capacity served on the freshman class council. During his freshman year Denny was also a member of the debate team and was considered one of the better freshman debaters. In the spring of his freshman year he was elected sophomore class president.
In 1957 he received his second Freedom Foundation Award for a series of articles entitled “Education and Tomorrow.” This award also consisted of one hundred dollars, a bronze medal, and a trip to Valley Forge for the presentation. In the spring of last year Denny was accepted into the Blue Circle Honor Society and has been an active member.
This year as sophomore class president, Denny has been very active in the class and in the senate. He was chiefly responsible for the initiation of the Sophomore Spring Dance which will, no doubt, set a precedent for future sopho-
by ED BUTLER
more classes. Also, during his term in office a sophomore class newspaper began publication. The class held group rosaries at the Grotto during the month of October. During the year Denny developed the class council which had its origin during the freshman year of the class of ’60.
In the senate he is chairman of the Student Welfare Committee which is compiling a constructive report on student life and activities which will be presented to the administration. The student welfare report covers such things as physical facilities, social life, the Library, Washington Hall, religious life and academic life. Its purpose is to inform the administration on these phases of student life and to suggest any improvements that are possible.
As chairman of this committee, Denny sponsored legislation in the senate to replace the college balls with two university-wide dances this fall. He was also instrumental in the senate’s request of the administration to permit partisan political groups to be formed on the campus.
Denny Shaul, campus political leader
above the High School Level. This project was set up this year on a pilot school basis, with fifteen schools being named as pilot schools. Notre Dame was one of these fifteen schools and Mr.
Shaul was appointed coordinator for Notre Dame. The program at Notre Dame is aimed at developing student interest in the teaching profession. This is to be accomplished through a program of lectures and seminars geared to this program. Denny has proposed such things as student-teacher luncheons, and having students act as teacher-aides in the South Bend area.
Here at school Denny is enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, where he has been working under the committee for advanced Academic progress.
His future plans include a year of study in England and an eventual law degree.
His next three summers will be spent in Europe with his family, where his father will be on business. While there this summer, Denny plans to take in the World’s Fair, the British Open, and the Lourdes Centennial.
If we use Denny’s past record as a criterion, his year as student body president should be very beneficial to both student government and the student body. His acquaintance with Notre Dame student government and his understanding of his high position—if complemented by the cooperation of the student body—should make for a most successful year.
May 2, 1958
13
Engineering
Open House
Photos by John McDonough
Please keep hands off
I 41
The Nuns’ Story
by Bob Sedlack
On or about May 4 an era, more often hectic than not, will end quietly. There will, perhaps, be a small farewell, too small even to claim the term celebration, before fourteen elderly nuns, the last contingent of Holy Cross Sisters directly connected with Notre Dame, will gather theii- few personal belongings— or leave them—and be driven “across the road” to St. Mary’s. Notre Dame, the poor woman that got rich, will take little notice of this event amidst the turmoil of registration week and the closing of another semester.
The era of service began in July, 1843, with the arrival of four women from France. When they arrived they were not really religious at all, only “pious women.” Father- Moreau, founder of the Congregatio a Sancta Cruce, conceived of his order as having three branches, the priests, Brothers, and Sisters. The Bishop of LeMans had other ideas; the priests and Brothers were acceptable, but not the Sisters. It was Bishop Bouvier that called them “pious women,” and refused to recognize their status as anything other than lay persons.
Relying somewhat on the resourcefulness of Father Sorin, Father Moreau sent the women to America with the idea that Sorin should try to get some episcopal recognition for them from the Bishop of Vincennes. If Monseigneur de la Hailandiere would recognize them, Bishop Bouvier’s refusal could be circumvented. Figuring that one more religious community in the frontier would be to his credit (and probably a little hesitant to oppose Father Sorin), he was happy to oblige the latter. Father Sorin, since he was insti-umental in establishing the community, took the nuns under his wing, and his thumb.
When the nuns arrived at Notre Dame there was no place for them to stay except in the loft of the log chapel. Then-labors here were varied, but all menial. Among other things, they prepared meals, did the sewing, mending, repairing, took care of the younger children.
The Holy Cross Sisters were the first endowments in Notre Dame history. The services of these nuns, along with the Brothers and priests, were the sine qua non, which made Notre Dame economi
16
cally possible. Now, 115 years later, Notre Dame has enough monetary endowment to preclude the necessity of young girls with vocations being put to these tasks. Rather, they will be trained to teach.
Each succeeding year after 1843 saw an increase in the number of Sisters. At this time, for some inexplicable reason, the Bishop of Vincennes ordered the Sisters to withdraw from Notre Dame. Father Sorin, however, with a bit of ecclesiastical gerrymandering, consulted the Bishop of Detroit and obtained permission for the nuns to live in his diocese.
The Sisters moved into the new diocese and founded a settlement called Bertrand. As it happened, Bertrand was only four miles from Notre Dame and the Sisters were able to wander back occasionally, every day, to give Fr. Sorin a hand with his university, the biggest name he could find for his enterprise. At Bertrand, the Sisters also opened a school of their own and, since there
Preparing some of the hosts
were enough nuns at the time, encountered no opposition from Sorin.
Later, as both units grew, Father Sorin became increasingly aware that this autonomy would eventually deprive Notre Dame of their services. This autonomy was the expressed wish of Father Moreau, acting on orders from Pius IX, x who ordered the temporalities of the Sisters separated from the rest of the community. The Valley of Progress, however, is a long way from the Eternal City and Father Sorin was sometimes rather forgetful.
By the time he got around to loosing v the Sisters, they had quit Bertrand and had built a flourishing school where St. Mary’s is today. Mother Augusta Anderson, a courageous woman by any standards, led the revolt and, with the assistance of Bishop Dwenger of Fort 4 Wayne, won emancipation from Father A Sorin’s rule.
Father Sorin, of course, was a little put out but took the defeat gracefully and made immediate plans to start another community, on this side of the road. Mother Augusta paled at this 4 propect and pleaded with Father Sorin k to forget his plan of establishing a novitiate for nuns on Notre Dame grounds. The result was the yellow-grey brick building directly behind Sacred Heart Church, the Convent, which today houses the last of the nuns and stands as a token of the strong-willed dreamer. 1
When he had completed this building, Father Sorin sent out priests to proselytize novices in a manner not entirely
The Scholastic
One of their many labors
unknown to the present Notre Dame. The success which they encountered in France, Luxemberg, the Rhenish provinces, Bavaria, and Ireland filled his new convent and began the new order of Sisters of the Holy Cross.
Aftei* five years someone remembered that the new novitiate had not been recognized in Rome. This oversight caused a mass exodus to St. Mary’s where the “invalid vows” were validated. Despite his autocratic attitude, Father Sorin has engendered a fierce loyalty among his new nuns which prevented assimilation. After “serving their time” at St. Mary’s, they marched back to Notre Dame.
Meanwhile, Notre Dame, itself in adolescence, was giowing beyond even Sorin’s expectations. The original handful of priests, Brothers, and Sisters grew to four or five hundred. The Ave Maria had been founded, a school for Minims (young boys) was begun in 1870 and lasted almost sixty years. Into the twentieth century the irreplaceable service of the Holy Cross nuns continued. Their most important job by this time, one which might begin at two in the morning and last till late at night, was feeding the students. The food, as can be determined from reliable sources, was not only edible but actually delicious, with steak for breakfast twice a week. In fact the food was good enough to lure the Chicago police force down to Notre Dame for an annual retreat.
Another duty, the only one that will be retained, is that of caring for patients
in the Community and Student Infirmaries. For years, the nuns have cared for students and priests in time of epidemic and illness, often watching souls slip into eternity as Father Sorin did in 1893.
When Fathei- Walsh was president he asked if there was anything he could do
A lifetime of sewing
to show the Sisters that their services were highly appreciated. The only thing they could think of was a trip to Lake Michigan since few had even seen it. His only reaction was, “What a very little thing they ask for all their months and years of service!”
This, then is the nuns’ story. It is more than the story of another organization, a Standard Oil or a German Imperial Army, it is the story of individuals who have given their lives to God, individuals like Sister Mary Christiana (they all have Mary for a first name) who, for so many years, strained her eyes making birettas and who will shortly be followed by the final fourteen to St. Mary’s. It is the story of Sister Mansueta from Ireland who is presently in charge of the last group; of Sisters Carla and Faina who have spent so many hours in the clothes room, Sister Zigmunda whose trip from Germany fifty-four years ago is a book in itself— when she arrived Walsh Hall had not been completed?—Sisters Lurdharda and Prisca who have had charge of church linen and Sisters Stanislva and Rose Patrice. The others, Sisters Anne Wen-ceslaus, Joannes, Britto, and Innocenza, John Marie, and Sister Godfrey, have all worked in various capacities, even as their predecessors, to make the University what it is today.
The tumult and the shouting dies—
The captains and the kings depart— Still stands Thine ancient sacrifice.
An humble and a contrite heart.
May 2, 1958
17
Shaul Wins Election With Record Majority
In the election for student body president, Denny Shaul defeated Dick Donk ovan by a 3 to 1 majority.
> Shaul is this year’s sophomore class president and is in the accelerated A.B. program.
In the campus wide election for college senators, Bruce Babbitt won the A.B. senatorship. Babbitt, geology majoi-» from Arizona, is on the dean’s list and was last year’s senator from Zahm. He is a stay senator in the present senate.
Dennis Murphy is the new commerce senator. He is an accounting major who hails from Minnesota. A dean’s list > student, he is also an assistant in the * dean’s office. Paul Anderson, the engineering senator, is an electrical engineering major from New York. Bill McNally was elected science senator. He is a pre-med major and a dean’s list student.
The class of ’59 is headed by John 4 Hayward. He is chairman of the Catholic Action Study Bureau and co-chairman of YCS. On the dean’s list, he is also a member of the Blue Circle.
The senior vice-president is Mark Shields, a philosophy major in the Liberal Arts College. He is from Boston, ► Mass. Dennis Nead was elected class treasurer. He is now president of the Cincinnati Club and a political science major. He is a member of the golf team. The office of treasurer went to Tom Reinhart. Reinhart is in the College of Science and is a two-year varsity member of the basketball team.
Ed Butler is the junior class presi-► dent. With marketing as his major, he is also executive secretary of the senate and on the Dome staff. He was also a member of the Sophomore Cotillion committee. The vice-president is Bill Stehle. Stehle is an accounting major, in the ■ Circle, and on the dean’s list.
I The junior class secretary is Paul Rafferty. He is an A.B. economics major and a member of the Student Managers council. The treasurer is Eugene McFadden, a history major from New York. McFadden is on the public relations staff of WSND and a member of r the wrestling team.
The class of ’61 elected John Keegan as sophomore president. Keegan is president of Farley and in the College of Liberal Arts. Sophomore vice-president is Tom Ryan who is president of Breen-Phillips and in engineering.
.. Pat Hart, elected secretary, is an A.B. student and president of Zahm. As treasurer of the sophomore class, Mike Smith takes over the job he now holds in Farley.
May 2, 1958
MOMENTS TO REMEMBER
For souvenirs of that BIG week end at Notre Dame
VISIT THE CAMPUS BOOKSTORE.
Here vou will find a wide selection of gifts and remembrances. All articles are of highest quality and reasonable price.
9
Notre Dame Bookstore
^uticNEW YORK
Ideally located—within minutes of ail shopping, entertainment and the business district. Steps from Riverside Drive and Central ParL
»••••••••••••••••••• Newest and largest on Upper Broad-
way — 650 attractive, comfortable rooms each with radio and telephone.
Coffee Shop —fine food moderately priced.
Smart Cocktail Lounge—excellent food and beverages. TV.
Personalized, friendly service.
Banquet and Meeting facilities — 25 to 750 persons.
25 stories of Hospitality || from $3-50 per person, double
HOTEL MANHATTAN
TOWERS
BROADWAY AND 76TH STREET PHONE: SUSQUEHANNA 7-1900
CABLE: MANHOTOWERS.NEW YORK
19


CENTRAL MICHIGAN INVADES TOMORROW
Tomorrow afternoon Coach Jake Kline’s baseball squad takes on Central Michigan at Cartier Field. The Irish have faced Central Michigan only once previous to tomorrow’s game. It was last year and Notre Dame Avon that contest.
Tuesday Northwestern University will face the Irish at Cartier Field in the final game of the three-game home stand.
Wednesday Notre Dame travels to East Lansing, Mich., to face the Michigan State Spartans.
Notre Dame’s baseball squad ran its record to six wins and two losses by sweeping a doubleheader from Wabash last Saturday at Crawfordsville, Ind. The Irish put together two route going pitching performances from sophomores Jim Hannan and Frank Carpin to win, 6-3 and 8-0.
The Irish fell behind after three innings of the first game against Wabash, 3-0, but broke loose for five runs in the top half of the fourth. Bob Sen-ecal was safe on an error- to open the inning, Frank Finnegan doubled, and Joe Geneser singled in the first run.
Ed Wojcik singled home the second run, Carpin was safe on an error, and Gene Duffy singled to load the bases. The third and fourth errors of the inning let in three more runs and the Irish had a 5-3 lead.
Notre Dame increased their lead in the sixth when Dick Selcer opened the frame with a triple and Bud Trapp followed with a double to plate the final run of the game.
In the second game Jim Hannan scattered four hits to pitch the first shutout of the season for an Irish hurler. He walked three and struck out seven.
The Irish got their first run in the opening frame after a walk to Duffy and Selcer’s triple. In the second, John Carretta doubled and Wojcik hit a long triple to make Notre Dame’s lead 2-0.
This was increased to 5-0 with a three i-un fifth. Duffy singled and Trapp doubled. Jim Morris and Senecal were safe on errors and Caretta’s hit into a fielder’s choice to account for the three runs.
The Irish capped the scoring in the sixth with another three run outburst.
CHUCK SYMEON Top Irish righthander
Gerity Golfers Qualify; Tom Walsh Is Medalist
Last week end the qualifying round of the annual Gerity Golf tournament was held on the Burke Memoi*ial Golf Course. Approximately 100 golfers played 18 holes and turned in scores ranging from 73 to 125. The tournament field consists of six flights of 16 golfers each. The winner of each flight will be determined by match play.
Tom Walsh was the medalist in the qualifying with a two-over-par 73.
The scores required to qualify for the respective flights were as follows:
Championship Flight ....... 73-	78
1st Flight..................79-	83
2nd Flight_________________ 84-	87
3rd Flight................. 88-	92
4th Flight................. 93-101
5th Flight.................101-125
Jack Armstrong and Pat Kiley, co-chairmen of the tournament, have announced that the matches should be played as soon as possible. Each contestant must play at least two matches each week until he loses. Matches should be regular 18-hole rounds, but nine-hole contests or 18-hole putting matches will be accepted if the regular match cannot be played.
The pairings will be posted in the golf shop. The hall and room number of each contestant will be listed and it will be the responsibility of the players to arrange for the times of their matches.
The Scholastic
Irish Netters Meet Three Opponents at Home After Pushing Winning Streak to Ten in Row
The Notre Dame tennis team ran its victory string to ten straight last week end with wins over Denison, Toledo and Northwestern. By these wins the Irish remain undefeated in competition this year.
Against Denison on Friday the Irish netmen won all the singles matches and all but one of the doubles as they swept over the opposition 8-1. Max Brown defeated Shaw Emmons 6-1, 6-4 in the number one singles match, and Ron Schoenberg outlasted John Chandler- 6-1,
First and Second Teams Score Well in Workout
The varsity football squad engaged in their second intrasquad game in as many weeks last Saturday. The first and second teams scored heavily against the third and fourth teams just as they had the previous Saturday.
These Saturday afternoon intrasquad contests, as well as the rest of the spring practice sessions, prepare the team for the annual Old-Timers game, which this year will be held a week from tomorrow afternoon, May 10, in the Stadium.
In last Saturday’s full scale scrimmage, in which all four teams battled for roughly an hour and fifteen minutes each, the first team displayed an offensive attack that had power but was also sporadic.
The first team scored five times against the third string team, which included sophomores at many of the key positions including both halfback posts, but six other drives fizzled. Junior halfback Jim Crotty was impressive throughout the afternoon with his running and was the only man on the first team to score twice. The third team did not score against the first-stringers.
Junior quarterback Don White’s brilliant passing paced the second team to a 32-30 win over a fourth team that was made up largely of next year’s sophomores. White passed for all five of the second team’s scores and connected on a number of very long aerials.
The fourth team was able to'stay close by converting for the new two-point extra point after three of their four touchdowns. The second team was able to pick up the two points on only one of their five attempts.
Under the new rule, a team can score two points on an extra point attempt Jf it runs or passes the ball across on a play from scrimmage from three yards out.	•
May 2, 1958
7-5 in the second match. Hector Cabello put down his opponent Dave Brown 6-4, 6-1 while in the number four singles Sergio Garza won by an identical score from his man, Bob Barney. In the number five and six singles Charles Stephens and Chuck Vanoncini remained undefeated in competition this year as they swept to easy victories, Stephens winning 6-3, 6-3 from John Haugen and Vanoncini easily putting away his man, Alan Angell, 6-1, 6-1.
DOUBLES
In the number one doubles match, Emmons and Haugen outlasted Brown and Garza, winning Denison’s only match of the day by a hard fought 10-8, 2-6, 6-4 effort. Schoenberg and Cabello put Barney and Angell away in the number two doubles, 6-3, 6-2 while in the third doubles match Stephens and Vanoncini won over Brown and Chandler 6-2, 6-4.
Saturday the Irish netters ran their victory string to nine straight by sweeping a match from Toledo University, 9-0, on the Irish courts. This was the first tennis meeting ever held between the two schools.
Max Brown had to come from behind in both sets during his number one singles match to win. He was down 4-2 in the first set against Dan Braden before winning 7-5 and came up from a 3-0 deficit to win the second set 6-4. Schoenberg easily defeated Larry Resnick in the number two match 6-2, 6-2 while Hectoi* Cabello had an even easier time with Joe Makowski, winning his match 6-0, 6-0. Garza defeated Klaus Reuelser 6-1, 7-5 and Stephens and Vanoncini remained undefeated as they won their matches with ease, Stephens putting away Joe Damrauer 6-2, 6-0 and Vanoncini overpowering Homi Saghafi 6-1, 6-1.
THREE SETS
Brown and Garza were hard pressed in their doubles match, and had to go three sets before defeating Braden and Resnick 6-9, 4-6, 8-6. Schoenberg and Cabello won over Makowski and Reuelser by a 6-2, 6-2 score and-Stephens and Vanoncini finished the Irish sweep for- -the day when they overcame Damrauer and Saghafi 6-3, 6-0.
Monday the Irish ran into some of the toughest opposition of the year and had a hard fought meeting before they came away with a well-earned 5-4 victory over Northwestern. The singles matches were split, with Brown, Schoen-
Continued on page it
Track Team Travels To MSU Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon the Irish trackmen will take on Michigan State at East Lansing in one of the toughest meets of the year. Coach Alex Wilson said Michigan State will furnish some tough competition and it should be a dose meet.
Last Saturday at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa, the Notre Dame trackmen managed to place in three events.
Jack Cote, a senior from South Bend, placed fourth in the broad jump with a leap of 23 feet, 1% inches and also took a third in the hop, step and jump event with a 45 foot, 5% inch effort.
Mike Morando, a junior- from Santa Barbara, Calif., finished fifth in the javelin throw with a toss of 199 feet 8% inches. Those were the only three events in which the Irish managed to place.
The Irish entered teams in the sprint medley, the four mile and the distance medley relays. In the sprint medley, Joe Foreman, Barclay Ewart, Steve Dornbach and Dale VandenBerg ran for the Irish. This even was highlighted by VandenBerg’s half mile time of 1:52. In the four mile relay the Irish entered a team composed of Andy Crawford, Galen Cawley, Dave Cotton and Dick DiCamillo. In the distance medley the Irish runners were Joe Foreman running the quarter mile, VandenBerg the half mile, Crawford the three-quarter mile and DiCamillo the mile. VandenBerg turned in another fine performance in this event, covering his distance in 1:51.2.
JACK COVE 24-foot Irish broad jumper

Tennis
Continued from page 21
berg and Vanoncini winning their matches, and the first two doubles matches were also split, leaving the outcome of the meeting resting on the num- 4 > ;i ber three doubles match which the Irish Xi •. netmen won.	!
'Hockey brand T-shirts made me irresistible!”
“I was a Saturday night bookworm, and not because I liked books more than dates. To put it bluntly, I was resistible. Then my best friend told me I needed to make a better appearance— I needed Jockey T-shirts. I started wearing these good looking T-shirts, and girls started to call me for dates!
“Now, thanks to Jockey T-shirts, I’m dated weeks in advance. The twin stitch collar that fits so smoothly, the trim-fitting body of the shirt, these are the main reasons why I’m so popular and comfortable these days.”
Brown beat Vandy Christie handily in y the first match by a 6-1, 6-1 score and Schoenberg put down Jack Egan 6-4,	<;
6-1. Cabello lost to Guy Mesick by a 8-6, 6-3 edge while Andy Shillinglaw de- * feated Garza 6-2, 6-4. Stephens lost his * . first match of the year to Jay Dramer in a hard fought battle that went to 4 eighteen games in the final set, with Dramer winning 7-5, 10-8. Vanoncini it remained undefeated in competition by winning his tenth straight match, topping Steve Hibben 6-4, 6-3.	"ji
In the doubles competition, Brown ;• and Garza were extended in the second set by Egan and Shillinglaw but won :■ by a 6-2, 8-6 score. Christie and Mesick ” defeated Schoenberg and Cabello in the second doubles match 6-3, 6-4. Then Stephens and Vanoncini easily won the -j last doubles match 6-2, 6-1 to give the ji Irish the win.
Commenting on this close winning jj margin, Coach Tom Fallon said the win j: pointed out good strength in the Irish f-doubles combinations and came in very 4. handy.	1
Jockey T-shirts are tailored extra long to stay tucked in. Free, comfortable arm movement guaranteed.
Jockeir T-shirt
BRAND W
Tomorrow the Irish will meet Kalamazoo and this meeting will give Brown a chance to avenge his only defeat of the season which came at the hands of Kalamazoo’s number one man in the match earlier in the season between the two schools, which the Irish won 5-4.
This afternoon the undefeated Irish tennis team will take on a strong Michigan State team on the Irish courts and Monday the Irish will play what may be the biggest match of the season against Michigan. This meeting against Michigan will be for the championship of the Cherry Blossom Tournament. The Irish participated in the tournament during the Easter Vacation and advanced to the finals against Michigan, but the finals were rained out on the last day of the tournament. The two schools agreed to play their already scheduled match as the championship match and the trophy will go to the winner of the meeting between the two schools.
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR
Rasmussen Men’s Shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS.
22
The Scholastic
Golfers Extend Skein To Six with Twin-Win
I Notre Dame’s golf squad ran its season record to six wins in a row last Saturday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course with wins over Western Illinois and Northern Illinois.
Tomorrow the Irish will be defending their unbeaten record at East Lansing, Mich., in a triangular meet against : Michigan State and Detroit University, j The Irish easily defeated Northern Illinois, 28-8, but Western Illinois proved Ito be a more formidable opponent and the Irish had to come from behind to take a 21-15 decision.
Lloyd Syron led all shooters with a three under par round of 68 against Western Illinois in the comeback afternoon round. Tom Garside and Christie Flanagan, both of the Irish, shot even par 71’s in the afternoon round.
In the morning round Western stalled | off hot and had a 10’/2-7/2 lead at the y end of the round. The only winners for the Irish were Frank Hund (72), who j beat Currier (75) 3-0, and Terry Lally (73), who beat Geotz (77) 3-0.
Marty Carroll (78), Gary Webster (80), Don Williams (77) and Tom Rose (80) all went down to defeat for the Irish.
Against Northeim in the morning the ► Irish won four of the six matches. Carroll (76) bested Kittleson (81) 3-0 and Hund (72) beat Spinello (78) 3-0 to give the Irish a 6-0 lead before Northeim could score a point. Then Webster (80) increased the margin with a 2J/?-/a victory over Wegrzyn (81).
Northern won the next two matches by 2-1 counts. Williams (77) lost to Johnson (76) and Rose (80) was beaten by Seyring (78). In the final match of the morning Lally (73) whipped Knutel (78) 2’/2-’/2 for a 13-5 lead at the halfway point of the meet.
Against Western in the afternoon the Irish swept the last five matches to take I the victory. King (74) of Western took the first match from Irish Co-captain Charlie Thum (76), 3-0, for a 13’/2-7/2 lead for Western.
Co-captain Joe Grace (73) took a 2J6-/2 win from Currier (75), Syron (68) won from Meyer (74) 2J6-J6, and Gar-' side (71) again won by an identical 2J6-/> over Barkow (77) to tie up the match.
Flanagan (71) and Bud Zesinger (75) took the remaining matches by 3-0 scores and the Irish remained unbeaten.
Northern’s Kittleson (75) beat Thum (76) 2-1 to start the final half of their • match. Syron (68), Garside (71) and Zesinger (75) all beat their Northern opponents 3-0. Grace (73) and Flanagan (71) won their matches 2J4-J4 to complete the Irish sweep.
TIME OUT
We’d like to correct a typographical error made in the Basketball Review. Ex Carde should have read Ex Corde. The error has been brought to our attention several times and we hope that it hasn’t embarrassed anyone concerned.
HICKEY AT MARQUETTE
The appointment of Ed Hickey as head basketball coach at Marquette came as quite a surprise. From all indications he was happy at St. Louis University.
Apparently his reasons for leaving were that the combined position of basketball coach and athletic director were too much to handle.
At any rate, his move should stimulate Marquette-Notre Dame basketball relations to an even higher pitch. John Jordan and Hickey are old court rivals, having met several years ago when Hickey was directing the Billikens.' Hickey is a good coach who will lead Marquette back into the basketball limelight. But don’t be surprised if Jordan wins quite a few from him. He’ll want them badly.
Incidentally, watch for Ed McCauley to grab the head spot at St. Louis. Although many big name coaches have been hinted at, and McCauley has asked that he not be considered, my St. Louis informant explains that his acceptance would come as no surprise. After all, McCauley has been playing pro ball for a number of years and his active athletic days are limited.
SHORT FENCE
It seems that every sports writer in the country has thoroughly gone over the short left field fence in the Los Angeles Coliseum. But it also seems that they have labored the point to the degree that it just isn’t good copy any more. If they would write of the poor press accommodations as well as the parking problem it might be more beneficial to themselves as well as baseball.
NATIONWIDE FOOTBALL LEAGUE
Recently The Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., was quoted as saying that Notre Dame wouldn’t be opposed to joining a nationwide football league composed of football powers across the country. It is difficult for me at this time to see that this type of thing will become a reality.
Southern California and UCLA would probably be included from the West Coast and Army, Navy and Pitt might join the first two but besides Notre Dame it is hard to find a major power in the Midwest that is not in a conference.
The Big Ten is traditionally the toughest football conference in the country and the chances of its breaking up are quite slim. Although Oklahoma dominates the Big Eight without mercy, it would be foolish for them to leave the conference simply because of OU’s other sports. Scheduling difficulties would make it almost impossible.
Besides, what does Notre Dame actually have to gain by joining such a conference? Certainly not prestige, and quite probably the University would do worse financially by such a move. Notre Dame might have to drop traditional rivals such as Purdue or Iowa if the University were restricted by conference scheduling problems. It would seem that the only way that the University will .join such a conference is if in the future the Big Ten and other conferences make round-robin scheduling so restrictive that the Irish have a tough time arranging a representative schedule.	—MS’.
May 2, 1958
23
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
WILBUR JUST WOKE UPTO THE FACT THAT HESlN CLASS*
m Aim mA lETTER fOm AVEAAGE!
Don't let dot “drowsy feeling” cramp your style in das ... or when you're "hitting the books'*. Take a NoDoc Awakened In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake... alert! Yout doctor will trflyou—NoDoc £eep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
NO^OZ
A W A K E N E RS ,
Three Students Given Fulbright Fellowships
Three Notre Dame students have been awarded Fulbright grants for graduate study abroad during the 1958-59 school year, according to an announcement by the State Department’s International Exchange Service.
They are Theodore Collins of Waitsburg, Wash.; Victor Kopidlansky of Cato, Wis.; and Ralph Nelson of Park Ridge, Ill.
Collins, who will receive a bachelor’s degree in economics from Notre Dame in June, will continue his studies in that field at Rhenish Friedrich Wilhelms University in Bonn, Germany.
Kopidlansky, a graduate of St. Norbert’s College of West DePere, Wis., will receive a master’s degree in mediaeval studies from Notre Dame at the June commencement. He will study mediaeval history at the Danish Graduate School for Foreign Students in Copenhagen. He has held a Grace Foundation Fellowship in Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute.
Nelson plans to take graduate studies in philosophy at the Catholic Institute of Paris. He holds undergraduate and master’s degrees from DePaul University in Chicago and will receive a doctorate from Notre Dame next year.
Approximately 900 Fulbright grants have been awarded for graduate study in 25 countries. The International Educational Exchange Program is designed to promote a better understanding of the United States and the people of other countries.
The program also provides opportunities for foreign nationals to study in American colleges and universities, and for an exchange of teachers, lecturers, research scholars, and specialists between the U. S. and more than 70 nations.
Be a Magician
Write
Dr. Meyer Bloch
President
Eastern Magical Society 240 Rivington Street New York 2, N. Y.
AQIIUS
UBUDud INK SIOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
PROM TIME ....
Louie’s
Tuxedo
Rental
9 Blocks West of
Bus Stop on Washington
222 LAUREL
AT 7-0575
Lowest Prices in Town
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY FAIR
Rides, Games, Amusements ... presented at Loyola North Campus 6525 N. Sheridan Road by the STUDENT UNION
Ample Parking on Ground	———■ -—-——	Cash Prizes Every Night!
DANCING BEGINS FRIDAY and SATURDAY at 8:30 P.M.
JAZZ CONCERT
SUNDAY—4 to 6 P.M.
Friday A Saturday, May 2 & 3
(gates open 7 p.m.)
Dance to the Music of
RICHARD MALTBY
SUNDAY, MAY 4 (gates open 2 p.m.) JAZZ CONCERT featuring THE SALTY DOGS MARX & FRIGO OSBORN SMITH and many others
24
The Scholastic
;	Shaul
;	Continued from page 11
hall i-esidence requires an entire year to I inform the student before he can be expected to form a thorough, logical opin-r ion on it. In conjunction with the Blue h Circle, we hope to bring that to the stu-• dent next year. Perhaps late next year, ‘ or more likely the year after, students will be able to vote on the system.
। All night lights are a touchy and ever-I present question. They are worthy of a J lot of work and consideration next year. t I believe that Student Government ] should work toward them only for up> perclassmen.
In regard to some of the inner workings of Student Government, we definitely need some commission reorganization, and much better, communication. Our newsletters should be bettei- written, • more regularly published. Senate meetings and votes must be better publicized; , some of our meetings should be held in । freshman halls. Less emphasis should । be placed on parliamentary procedure J and more on principles next year. Meet-k ing time can be cut considerably by more use of written rather than spoken words.
Naturally this has been just a rundown on some programs for next year. There are many other things that could be mentioned. They are things that , should affect you; we hope we will have „ your interest.
is made as long as one lives, is the fulfillment of oneself. Happiness is known only when one becomes what he ought. To develop his potentiality is to make the most of each instant as it occurs. We can only realize our capabilities in the present. But even this truth cannot wholly succeed in dispelling the glamour of the race for pleasure. Perhaps tomorrow this chase could succeed.
HISTORY LECTURE
The Rev. Thomas J. Engleton will read a paper discussing “Jacksonian Democracy in Indiana” next Tuesday evening at 8 in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. Dr. Vincent DeSantis will comment on the paper. A floor discussion will follow.
Storage for Winter Garments
ONLY $2.95
Plus cleaning charges
FOR ALL YOU CAN STORE
CALL CE 4-3188
or
Stop in for more information and further details at
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON Comer Lincoln Way East On the Bus Line
FOR BOYS & GIRLS, MEN & WOMEN WITH "PROBLEM” SKINS! ELIMINATE PIMPLES
The Search
Continued from page 26
ever someplace else. The good times of the past were good, but we did not realize how good—just as we do not truly realize our happiness now. We look L through the present toward the future or the past—we refuse to look around | us. In the past we see what we are not aware of in the present, and so we run to the future to regain what we have ■ lost. If only we could stop and live * where we are right now!
r ( The restlessness which drives us forward is a result of the fall of man. When Adam sinned, man came apart. His integrity was seriously hurt; centrifugal force overcame man’s cohesive strength. We no longer are completely the masters of ourselves. But we are not I • prevented from leading a valid existence.
To accept the responsibility for one’s own development means the abandon. ment of any wild chase for happiness. ■ The choice of a valid life, if this choice
WITHIN 30 DAYS
Or Your Money Back!
The all-NEW, amazing “CAMPUS” Facial-Treatment Kit offers IMMEDIATE relief from the embarrassment and discomfort of unsightly acne, pimples, blemishes and other skin disorders! What’s more, we’ll PROVE that the “CAMPUS” Kit will clear up that “problem” skin___ or show DEFINITE IMPROVEMENT within 30 days ... or YOUR MONEY BACK! Fair enough?
The “CAMPUS” Kit consists of 6 different effectively-medicated component parts: Face Soap, Blemish Cream, Facial-Pack, “Coverall” Blemish-Stick, Face Lotion and Vitamin A, 25,000 USP Units. The most complete and thoroughly effective complexion-care preparation ever created!
Simple to use—-just a few minutes a day—will give you amazing results
you probably thought impossible! ... A clearer healthier, smoother, glowing complexion . . . and with such a wonderful, new feeling of perfect grooming!
Over a month’s supply, postage-paid direct-to-you for only ......................................................
$4-95
No ■ Fed. Tu
FILL OUT THE ORDER FORM BELOW AND MAIL TO-DAY!
«»**»«««««**««« •••• «««*««***	••••••«*«««««« wummwmwmmmusmm**
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD LABORATORIES, INC., 700 Prudential Building, Houston 25, Texas.	1
Enclosed is $4.95 (Check, Money-Order, Cash) for CAMPUS KIT.
Diamonds Jowolry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JMS. BWg.
NAME (Print)__________________________________________________
ADDRESS:______________________________________________________ -
CITY............................... ZONE.___STATE.---------
May 2, 1958
Rack Pay
by JOHN KEARNS
the search
Man is characterized by a certain restlessness which prevents him from finding any contentment. He is ever driven in search for new delights, unable to enjoy what he possesses. Pascal writes, “I have discovered that all the unhappiness of men arises from one single fact, that they cannot stay quietly in their own chamber.” Elsewhere he says, “The only thing which consoles us for our miseries is diversion, and yet this is the greatest of our miseries.” That which causes this restlessness is “the natural poverty of our feeble and mortal condition, so miserable that nothing can comfort us when we think of it closely.” Throughout our lives we attempt to reach a state of happiness where we will know only enjoyment, but we never succeed. “Men seek rest in a struggle against difficulties; and when they have conquered these, rest becomes insufferable.”
We find ourselves unable to be content —we must always strive for the greener grass which inevitably proves to be less green than it appeared. Yet this neverending search is not to be contrasted with some kind of lethargy. These are not alternative choices. Life imposes the demand that each man struggle to realize his potential, and this is an endless struggle. There can be no happiness if this obligation is not fulfilled. Genuine satisfaction results only from a continuous effort. This world is not where man will attain his destined end. That goal where we can rest is not to be found in our lives on earth. But the striving which necessarily belongs to life is not the same as the search for diversion—this latter is the refusal to truly realize one’s possibilities.
The search to which our restless nature drives us is the search for happiness, which we commonly identify with pleasure. In this pursuit, enjoyment is the goal, but it resides only at the end of our search. The pursuit itself is not enjoyable. Often enough, however, even success in attaining some particular end is accompanied by disappointment, for it is not so good as it seemed. And our desire is insatiable—we are always after more, and cannot be content with what we have.	'
Our restlessness is connected with the deification of pleasure. This appears better than it actually is—the happiness
26
which such pursuit promises is singularly elusive. The objects of this pursuit are “not by nature pleasant.” Men lose sight of genuine values, and so fail to know any real enjoyment. When we search for pleasure, it always appears just a little ahead of us. We can never enjoy what we have—we must always be looking for more. Man today is no longer able to enjoy the truly enjoyable —with which he is surrounded, but which he fails to see. Part of man is missing, and he tries to compensate for it by a wild chase aftei- pleasure.
Some responsibility for this belongs to the industrial age in which we live. Ours may be termed an era of technological sophistication. This world in which we find ourselves is a fast-moving, complex world, and we are hard put to keep up with it. The pleasures which we seek are geared to this world, and are accompanied by much fanfare and shouting. But all this amounts to a gross perversion of human life. Man today seeks happiness where none exists, for he acts contrary to his nature.
This evil is not unique in the modern age, nor is it solely traceable to our mechanical culture. The restlessness which man exhibits is his as a result of a flaw in his nature. He is always liable to be overcome by it. Pascal tells us, “We do not rest satisfied with the present. We anticipate the future as too slow in coming, as if in order to hasten its course; or we recall the past, to stop its too rapid flight.”
We are always inclined to find the present rather tedious. It is humdrum, boring. The present can become insufferable—how much more pleasant things coiM be! It becomes impossible to concentrate on anything for more than short periods of time. Our lives are running away, drop by drop; we feel an overwhelming desire to “tear our pleasures with rough strife, thorough the iron gates of life.” We are trapped, and must use all of our force to escape that fate which denies us our happiness.
One way to fulfill this desperate desire is to take our pleasure vicariously. But in the long run this makes our condition worse. Finally one will stifle himself, or else throw himself into the active pursuit of pleasure. The glamour of pleasure is irresistible to one who feels himself caught in the snare of tedium.
He must join the despairing race after enjoyment—but this race is never done; one never tastes the fruits of the victor. The craving for pleasure is infinite— , like Crackerjack, “The more you eat, the more you want.”
In our search for pleasure, we are after something intangible. What we want is our fulfillment, but we do not know where it may be found. We only know that our present existence is inadequate. । We must try something new. Our daily existence binds us hand and foot—we have to free ourselves and run with outstretched arms toward our happiness. But this running is painful, we stumble and are bruised—nowhere can we find her to whom we flee. In this pursuit of j happiness, we run at breakneck speed, every instant going faster. But we only draw farther away from our goal.
Often we see that which we seek in our own past. A certain color, or smell, or sound brings to us some remembrance which is accompanied by a feeling of , loss. We once possessed what we seek, but somewhere we lost it. This partic-uhar shade of blue recals the blue of a toy I had when a child, and I feel a terrible longing for that childhood. What I had then is gone, but I would give anything to have it back. The air carries a smell of lilacs to me, and I am away again. Not one spring, but several are • brought to mind. What have I lost? I cannot say, but it could make me happy now. These impressions “Taking me back down the vista of years, till I see a child . . . , ” reveal something that was once part of my life, but which I have no longer.
But these visions are not always of childhood. Sunlight and water recall other water and sun, experienced only a short while ago. That laugh or that gesture carries me back to times that are not far off. But the distance is far now—it is infinite. Last year happened | so long ago that I can never touch it again.
Such visions tell me of good times past, but when I lived them they were not nearly so good as they seem now. How is this? I have added nothing to I them, they show things as they were, but they are somehow better. Only now do I see them as they truly were. For our happiness is never here—it is for-
Continued on page 25
The Scholastic
Double-header!
wear the
ARROW
Bi-Way Sport open or closed
You get extra innings of wear from this convertible collar, because it’s ready wherever you go. Close it with a tie or wear it open ... with equal ease. There’s an extra measure of comfort in its Arafold collar design. Every inch of the airy openweave fabric looks crisply neat, even, on the hottest days. From $4.00. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
ARROW^
Casual Wear
Let us make it
an ARROW Bi-Way
summer
That means your coolest, most comfortable summer yet. And whether you wear the Bi-Way^s collar open or closed, its famous Arafold design keeps it Arrow-trim all day. Choose this breezy lightweight with long or short sleeves* from $4.00.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER— ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
SAYS
* FLAVOr
Fo»h„e
LIKE A
WINSTON
TASTES GOOD!
CIGARETTE
SHOULD!
Bright, clean flavor... pure snow-white filter...that's WINSTON
KINg $ Si2
3 “When it comes to
my Winstons, I go right along with the majority,” says the famous ‘photographer’ star of The Bob Cummings Show on NBC. “It’s America’s favorite filter cigarette — and mine!” To a rich, bright blend of prized tobaccos, Winston adds its own specially designed, pure white filter. The result is an unusually clean, fresh taste—the Winston taste! You’ll like it, too!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
Smoke WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!