
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
THE ENGINEER’S PLACE IN
Another phase of Du Pont production activities offers challenging work for the technical man
E. H. Ten Eyck, Jr., B.S. in Ch.E., Syracuse *43, Ph.D. in Ch.E., Brooklyn Polytech ’50, and W. H. Stevens, Jr., B.S. in Ch.E., Yale '50, take recordings on a new nylon unit.
In most Du Pont manufacturing plants you’ll find two groups of engineers working side by side to make operations more efficient—to reduce costs and improve quality. The specialized work of one group, the production supervisors, has been rather fully discussed in the Digest.
Equally vital is the work of development men—the men responsible for advising management when operational changes should be made for economic or technical reasons.
Engineers from several fields of training are employed in development activities at Du Pont. It seems
D. S. Warner, B.S. in M.E., Purdue *47, and G. R. Prescott, B.S. in Met. E., Columbia '49, discuss improvements for stainless steel liners in tubes carrying corrosive materials.
to have a special appeal for the man who can take on a big problem, analyze its parts, and come up with a thoughtful, reasoned solution.
Individual development studies may begin in a number of different ways. Often they are sparked by the imagination of the engineer himself, who, of course, must be familiar with production costs, activities of competition, and recent or impending technical improvements.
Studies also may be inspired by suggestions of production supervisors or sales personnel, obsolescence of equipment, advances in competi-
John Purdom, B.S. in Ch.E., Ohio State '49, and Kenneth Kehr, North Carolina State ’50, discuss diagram of a process for improved recovery of an intermediate for high polymers.
tive products, or the presence of unsatisfactory profit margins.
In a single study, the engineer may draw data from laboratories, semiworks and plant-scale experiments, prepare an estimate of profits and investments and consult with numerous specialists on various phases of the problem, both within the Company and outside.
Having collected data from these many sources and perhaps from an independent study of his own, the plant development engineer must then assemble and evaluate the material and prepare a recommendation that is based on sound engineering judgment.
Whether a product or process improves from the standpoint of competition, profit and efficiency depends, in great degree, on the quality of its plant development work. The development engineer’s job is a responsible one at Du Pont, and the work of a good man is soon noticed.
■ts.u.s.MXOfr
BETTSt THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
listen to “Cavalcade of America," Tuesday Nights on NBC—See It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV
FRANKIE LANE made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
Spaghetti	Ravioli
Chicken	Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
• BETTER SERVICE
• BETTER WORK • LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
“A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and a high starting salary await you at Fairchild, if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C-119 for the U. S. Air Forces.
“Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week.
“If you feel you are one of the men we are looking for, write me. Your inquiry will be held in strictest confidence, of course.’’
* Walter Tydon, widely known aviation engineer and aircraft designer and veteran of 25 years in aviation, is Chief Engineer of Fairchild’s Aircraft Division.
M ENGINE INO 1HP11NE CORPOMTION
lAIRCHILDrfiwtaADiwtum
HAGERSTOWN. MARYLAND


Want to travel and study abroad?
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries ot your choice . . . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TW A. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TW A’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 80 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
r*MV utum
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
PIZZA SPAGHETTI FRIED CHICKEN Every day but Sunday
You’re always welcome at...
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JALS. Bldg.
Through the “Help Wanted" columns with Hun
and Camera...or
Me Started at the Bettam
Once there was a Senior who was Engaged. Very happily. One day,
however, he realized that while Being Engaged, before graduation, was one thing. Being Engaged (A.D.) (after diploma) involved such complications as Getting Married and Supporting Dependents. In a word, Work.
So he began sending job letters to Personnel Directors of Large Corporations, outlining his qualifications. Some answered, sending him Application Forms to fill out. Some didn’t. Eventually he wound up with a grim Common Denominator: they would let him know If Anything Came up.
Disenchanted but Willing, he outlined the problem to his Betrothed, a girl of Superior Intelligence. She regarded him sternly. “No wonder,” she said, “letters, yet! Listen,” and she unfurled a Stratagem.
First thing next morning, he jetted down to the Western Union office, in one hand a list of the 10 companies he’d most like to work for. and in the other a compelling message making clear that here was The Man, awaiting only the opportunity to Prove It.. Sent it as a Telegram to all 10 companies.
Results? Within a week he had 6 Interviews, 4 Job Offers. Today, when he brags about being a Self-Made Man, his wife just Smiles Indulgently.
When you’re jockeying for a job, use Telegrams to Get the Jump on the Competition. Telegrams get In, get Read, get the Reaction you want. Wonder-workers in other ventures, too . . . whether you're Dickering for a Date, a Hotel Reservation, or Pesos from Pop. Just call Western Union.
105 N. Main St. Telephone	3-6101
March 20, 1953
3
Editor:
Your article, “Notre Dame War Years,” was a fine piece of work. To my knowledge there are only two of us studying here at Notre Dame at present who were undergraduates during that period of transition in 19421943. I spent the Fall of that year as a sophomore and the Spring as a first semester junior since we were under an accelerated war program.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
It was very thrilling to see pictures and refresh the memory with such names of classmates as Limont, Czar-obski, Zilly, Statute, et al. The Scholastic covers were familiar ones since they were the same ones that were slipped under my door at 238 Dillon every Friday.
Of course, I couldn’t help but re-live such events as the Stanford game and “Springfield Rifle” Bertelli’s 4 touchdown passes — Monsignor Sheen’s sermon at Sacred Heart Church, — the Savoyard’s presentation of Patience,— the Sophomore Cotillion with Gracie Barrie’s band who had taken over her husband’s (Dick Stabile) band, — the
Track Meets and Ollie Hunter, one of the most modest athletes ever to represent Notre Dame — of course, Dave Curtin’s great performance in Tailor Made Man and in Let’s Get Going, the all-student musical production in which George Bariscillo (now a successful attorney in New Jersey) who incidentally is featured on the cover of the Feb. 5, 1943 Scholastic as the “announcer” of WND, did a magnificent job in the role of the benevolent Prefect of Discipline.
The Scholastic Staff that year had the controversial figure Jack “The Week” Woelfle, Bob Le Mense, who incidentally has just come back from fighting his second war as a member of the U. S. Infantry and is a freshman in the College of Law, and Dave Condon who took care of Sports and is now with the Chicago Tribune Sports department.
I suppose we could ramble on indefinitely but it is better to stop this reminiscing here and say congratulations for your excellent presentation of the Cavalcade of Events which highlighted the year of 1942-43. This was a year of transition and readjustment which will long be remembered by those of us who were going through the speed-up (Continued on p. 33)
NO EXTRA CHARGE! for all Airline Reservations and Tickets
MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
LaSalle Hotel - 2-2253; 3-1181
*^^^**&
/
Seriously, there's a firm, comfortable feel to City Club Shoes that, together with absolutely correct styling, gives you confidence and assurance. They're right all the way through—even to price.
$8’5 to $14’5
True • Esquire • Argosy • American e Legion Sport o
AS ADVERTISED
IN
SHRIMP IN THE BASKET $1 with all the trimmings
B-M HAMBURGERS 25< with or without
Complete Home-cooked Meals at all times
BOWL-MOR GRILL
Across from South Shore
Qty Chib
DRRWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
—OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces”
— EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
4
The Scholastic
By Mort Luby
ATTENTION SAILING FANS
The Notre Dame Sailing Team invites new members to join at 6:45 Wed., March 25 in room 309 of the Engineering Building. Movies of the 1951 Lighting Championship will be shown and refreshments will be served.
Top of the Week
Dan Collins made the Scholastic again last week ...	.
Green, Green, everywhere
In New York, last week, they used up seventy gallons of paint to put a line down the middle of a street and prove that New Yorkers are good Irishmen. In other cities around the nation, people hauled out green ties, hats, socks, and handkerchiefs that they wouldn’t be caught dead in, any other day of the year, and became pleased as punch that they had been caught up in the Irish festivities of the day. In South Bend, everybody went to Sweeney’s.
Everyone without a fat X on his I.D. card, that is.
Proprietors of other local refreshment stands have long frowned on Sweeney’s monopoly over mid-lenten doings. Eddie Thilman, Mr. Stratigon, and both Ronny Joers were seen wearing bright green ties and singing Too-Ra-Loo-Ra-Loo-Ra at the top of their voices. But disgruntled audiences turned a deaf ear to this unauthentic bit of Hibernia and headed for Sweeney’s, where the real stuff was to be found.
By this morning, most of the seniors had cleared the grey-green mist from their heads, and had wiped the cloudy red cobwebs from their eyes. However, one local celebrity was discovered still in his thick green haze. We decided to interrogate him.
“Recovered yet?” we asked in our gentleman-of-the-press manner.
“Uh, uh,” he remarked, making a visible effort to wedge open his eyes.
“Thought you gave it up for Lent?” we countered. “How come you’re so hung over?”
“St. Pat’s day is just like Sundays in Lent,” he said, brightening a little. “They don’t count.”
“Oh,” we answered, closing our gentleman-of-the-press notebook.
• .
Music Hath Charms
On the bulletin board of the Notre Dame Music Hall is a notice which states quite simply and dogmatically, “ONLY CLASSICAL MUSIC IS TO BE PLAYED IN THIS BUILDING.” Now classical music is kind of a hard
thing to define these days, because you have a certain group of eccentrics who will refer to “How High the Moon,” or “Sing, Sing, Sing” as jazz classics. Likewise you have a group of romanticists who claim that when you get Percy Faith and a half million violins together (via an echo chamber) playing “Night and Day” or “Stardust”—that that’s as classical as a Classic can get. Most of the people connected with the music school say that classical music is what most of us uncultured souls call “high brow.”
Several months ago, a couple of music majors were walking down the corridor, soulfully meditating on the great concertoes they would write some day. In the practice rooms on both sides of them, the pianos tinkled and thundered as the efforts of embryo artists banged dissonantly against each other. Somehow, the selections from the practice rooms seemed to get horribly entangled with each other, but the music majors were listening subconsciously anyhow.
Suddenly, one of them stopped in his tracks.
“Listen, Igor,” he breathed breathlessly.
“Yes. Illyich, I hear it too,” whispered the other.
“Is it Chopin?”
“No, it ain’t Chopin.”
“Is it Mozart, Rachmaninoff, Debussy, Rubenstein, Grieg, or Tchaikovsky?”
“No, it ain’t any of them fellers either, Igor.”
The other one leaned closer to the door, and cranked the hearing aid pinned to his bosom to full volume. A look of terror and distaste twisted the features of his face. He stood back, bracing himself against the wall.
“It’s . . . It’s . . . ohhhhhh, I can’t say it!”
“You’re right, Igor. It’s POPULAR MUSIC. .
The two of them toppled to the floor with a dissonant thud. Unconscious. After all, no one had dared play pop music in the music hall for decades.
Inside the little practice room, Geary Becker sat plinking out a tune on the piano. Robert Rossiter had settled the rolling masses of his stomach on his lap, and was softly crooning the lyrics of another new song for the student
musical. Both were wondering if the music majors’ unconscious prediction— that their songs would become popular —would really come true.
Actually it was only the beginning of a story that began to hit high tempo last Monday night, when the rehearsals for the musical began. All year the boys have been whittling out their tunes, with a little eavesdropping from the press. And from what we’ve heard, the songs may not be classical, but they should help make for a fine musical, come May. Our best to the “Brute Farce” crew in their long string of rehearsals. You have a standard to meet for student musicals.
Bottom of the Week
. .. Dan Collins makes the Scholastic this week . . . who is Dan Collins . . . who cares who Dan Collins is . . . let him die in peace.
College Parade
Betty (on telephone) : “How was your party last night?”
Henrietta: “We’re havipt^a fine time.” ■ '
Clyde: “I’m going to visit' Yellowstone Park.”
Bill: “Don’t forget Old Faithful.”
Clyde: “Oh, no, I’m taking her with me.”
■
A tramp knocked at the door of an English Inn named “George and the Dragon.” The landlady opened the door and the tramp asked, “Can you spare a pool- man a bite to eat?”
“No!” and she slammed the door.
After a few minutes, the tramp knocked again. The door opened and the lady appeared.
“Now,” said the tramp, “may I have a few words with George?”
■
Hear about the man who had a waterproof, shockproof, unbreakable, antimagnetic watch? He lost it. -
March 20, 1953
5
Srad ZNotes
MARCH 20
GRANADA (four more days)—Tonight they give out the Academy Awards. Some say High Noon will get the Oscar for the best movie, others say it’ll go to The Quiet Man. The Granada lets you decide for yourself. (We enjoyed both, would pick High Noon as the better by a hair, but would bet the prize goes to The Quiet Man).
AVON (through March 25)—Confidentially Conny (A-l) takes all Janet Leigh and Van Johnson can give to bolster a rather purposeless plot.
COLFAX (through March 25)—Bogey’s back, this time as a superheroic medic in Battle Circus (B). Bogart, between battles and operations, alternately chases and gets chased by June Allyson.
PALACE (through April 2)—Three-D comes to town with Arch Obeler’s Bwana Devil (A-2) in “Natural Vision.” Outside of the novelty of lions in the audience’s lap, the picture offers little. But then maybe that’s enough.
RIVER PARK (two days)—It’s Spring, all right. If Pride of St. Louis isn’t enough to stir the blood in you, there’s always Tarzan’s Savage Fury.
MARCH 21
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:20, 6:40, 8:30)—A typical cloak-and-dagger time-killer, Assignment in Paris, with Dana Andrews and Marta Toren.
FIELDHOUSE (evening)—The Irish fencers will try to break all records with their 20th straight win, but tough Illinois, Big Ten champs, will furnish some mighty sharp arguments to the contrary.
MARCH 22
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (2:30 and 7:30)—Mexico’s controversial comic Cantinflas cavorts in Puerta Joven, a Spanish-language film sponsored by the Inter-American Club. Admission: two bits.
RIVER PARK (three days)—The Clown (B) is an old story of a comic’s comeback, with new trimmings added. Co-pic The Hour of* 18 (A-2) is a fair tale about a London jewel thief.
MARCH 23
DRILL HALL (8:15)—The famous Xavier University Concert Choir will perform in the latest Concert & Lecture Series program. Student tickets are 50 and 75 cents.
MARCH 24
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30)—Father Smyth will headline Marriage Institute session seven with his topic: “Your Children — Home Training and Sex Instruction.”
GRANADA (three days)—The Granada certainly seems to have reformed. Another fine double bill: With a Song in My Heart (B), the Jane Froman story, and J. Arthur Rank’s excellent comedy, The Promoter (A-l), with Alec Guinness.
STATE (two days)—Diamond Jim and Tropic Fury. No comment.
MARCH 26
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30)—The eighth and final session of the Marriage Institute will feature Father Putz on “Christianizing Family Life” and Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley on “How to Make Families Happy.”
Emerald in the Rough
Ireland’s gift to the fifth floor of Morrissey, Chris Cunningham, was irked no end by Life’s recent article portraying a rather dismal picture of Erin’s love life. Nor did it ease the matter and to know that it was Notre Dame’s own soggarth aroon, Father O’Brien, who was instrumental in getting Sean O’Faolain to do the dirty deed. The South Bend Tribune, aftei* a diligent search, discovered Chris to be the only valid piece of blarney in the surrounding area and his St. Patrick’s Day value promptly went sky high.
Besieged by requests for lectures, Chris is prepared to sally forth and describe the picturesque beauty of the Irish land and the warmth of her people; a warmth which comes from the heart and not from the spirits. Perhaps Chris’ crusade will revitalize the Irish Land League issue but at any event his highly flavored portrayal of the colleens of the Emerald Isle has been opened for reexamination.
So if you see a wild eyed Irishman around, pay him no heed, as contact with the Western world can do strange things to one who has been bogged down all his life.
Theology Takes a Back Seat
Finally we get around to reporting-on the fabulous party given two weeks ago by the St. Mary’s theologists. It was a gala affair attended by many ND grad students, particularly Chemists (which was to be expected) and Philosophers (somewhat surprising-after what St. Thomas said about women). Noteworthy was the absence of the writers of this column.
As a matter of fact, we still feel hurt that we were not extended an invitation. For* a while we considered imitating Evelyn Waugh’s Simon Bal-cairn but fortunately the trigger jammed. We still would like to know who picks the chaperons for such occasions. This time it was Mary Jane Belfie escorted by Bruce MacGowan. They chaperoned till 3 a.m., we heard. What a party it must have been! (For the suggestion box: How about some chaperons for the chaperons?)
Don’t forget the Grad student retreat which begins tonight in Farley Hall chapel!
Ivan de Huszovszky Bob Wray
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 March 20, 1953 No. 19
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors
DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ..............News
FRED C. ECKART ________Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE _______  Features
JOHN F. SAND ____________   ...Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass'L Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ..........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ........Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse, Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywiniski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher. Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick. Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine. FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Maliason, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This week the Scholastic salutes the basketball team with the annual basketball issue of the magazine. The cover shows the season’s record ringed by the five main reasons for that record. The special cage section begins on page 15.
—Photo by Bruce Harlan
Basketball at Its Best
Each year at this time the Scholastic takes time out to salute the basketball team, this salute taking the form of the basketball issue. This year it is especially fitting, for the 1952-53 basketball Irish deserve the snappiest of salutes. For, besides compiling the best record since the 1946-47 season and being the first Notre Dame team to enter the NCAA cage tournament, these eagers were “Fighting Irish” in every sense of the title.
First of all, they definitely were a team. Never could an opponent say, “Stop so-and-so and we’ve got them.” If so-and-so was bottled up, a teammate supplied the scoring punch. Four different men grabbed scoring honors for single games this season, and these four, Rosenthal, Lewinski, Stephens, and Bertrand, all topped the 300-point mark in total scoring. The “team” didn’t stop there either, for every other player had at least one game in which he earned a mention in the first paragraphs of the next day’s sports columns.
Secondly, the Irish fought against odds all the way. No human stepladder was present to calmly hold the ball out of reach and drop it in the basket. The Notre Dame eagers had to work for their points, and they did just that with consistent, brilliant floor play. They played most of their games on foreign courts, which is never conducive to basketball victories, and they faced, and usually beat, some of the nation’s best.
Finally, they played hard and well in every’ game, win or lose. Almost all their defeats can be traced to low shooting percentages, rather than any great lapses in play, and low shooting percentages are the way the ball bounces at times for any team. And they bounced back from these few defeats in champion fashion.
Therefore, the Scholastic basketball issue is a symbolic unrolling of the cheer rugs and a bow to the East, facing the Fieldhouse. It’s the end of an almost perfect season. ND wasn’t quite the best in the nation, but close enough to suit us.
And, with most of the players sophomores and juniors, and with Johnny Jordan already the possessor of an enviable record as a sophomore coach, look out for the basketball Irish next year.
Ditto Debating
Chances are that you have never seen an intercollegiate debate, for debate doesn’t quite have the popularity of basketball as a spectator sport. Also chances are that you have used the debate team as an example of excellence when defending Notre Dame, if you defend it, but have you ever seen the “arguing Irish” in action?
Today and tomorrow many of the nation’s finest debaters are in action right here on the campus in the first annual Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament. Representatives of 23 schools are competing for the Bolger Memorial Trophy. Much credit is due debate Coach Leonard Sommer and Captain AI DeCrane for making such an impressive entrance, into the large-scale tourneyhosting business. We hope the event is “annual” for many years to come.
We think you’ll agree with the above if you drop around and listen to the debates. In addition to learning a great deal about a fair employment practices law, you’ll be highly entertained as the debaters try to prove that the barbed tongue is mightier than the sword.
March 20, 1953
7
TO GRADUATES IN
ENGINEERING PHYSICAL SCIENCES ARTS, SOCIAL SCIENCES BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
All units of the Bell Telephone System play parts in the satisfying and rewarding job of making this country a nation of neighbors.
The telephone operating companies and Long Lines provide local and Long Distance telephone service that makes it possible to reach most everyone in this country and many people in foreign countries. Bell Telephone Laboratories invents and
designs and Western Electric manufactures and distributes the equipment that makes service better year after year.
The Sandia Corporation, a subsidiary of Western Electric, is concerned with the military application of atomic energy.
The chart below may help you in considering how your education has prepared you for a starting job with one of the Bell Companies.
COLLEGE MAJOR	TELEPHONE COMPANIES & LONG LINES	WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPANY	BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES	SANDIA CORPORATION
Engineering				
Aeronautical					X
Chemical			X		
Civil		X	X		
Electrical		X	X	X	X
Industrial		X	X		
Mechanical		X	X	X	X
Metallurgical 			X		
Other degrees		X	X		
Physical Sciences				
Chemistry			X	X	
Mathematics 		X		X	X
Metallurgy			X	X	
Physics		X	X	X	X
Arts and Social Sciences				
Economics 			X	X	X	
Humanities		X	X		
Other degrees		X	X		
Business Administration				
Accounting		X	X		X
Industrial Management .	X	X		
Marketing		X			
Statistics		X	X		
If you would like to know more about Bell System employment, your Placement Officer will be glad to help you.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
8
The Scholastic
ND Hosts Top Debate Teams Today
Hank, Doherty Carry Irish Victory Hopes
The First Annual University of Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament got underway this morning with William Hank and Charles Doherty leading the Irish contingent in preliminary rounds at the Nieuwland Science Building and several other campus buildings.
Several other matches are on tap for this afternoon.
Twenty schools from all over the country have sent their prize debaters to compete for 15 awards — including trophies, plaques, and certificates of merit.
Each team will debate both sides of the topic, “Resolved: that the Congress of the United States Should Enact a Compulsory Fair Employment Practices Law.”
Several of the better-known teams on hand for the morning-afternoon conclaves are the U. S. Military and Naval Academies, Dartmouth, Alabama Polytechnic, and Boston University.
Today’s preliminary rounds will be carried over to tomorrow morning with the final preparatory rounds at 9 and 10:30.
The semi-final and final rounds of the tournament will be held tomorrow afternoon. The two semi-final debates will start at 1:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium and the Chemistry Lecture Room of the Nieuwland Science Building. The winning teams of these matches will go into the final round in the' Law Auditorium at 3:30.
One of the highlights of the tourney for the debaters and their coaches will be a luncheon in the Morris Inn tomorrow noon. Guest speakers will include several officials of the University. Results of the first six rounds will be announced after the meal, and winners will be assigned to the semi-final rounds.
The first-place trophy in the' tournament is a gold memorial cup dedicated
to the Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C., former Notre Dame debate coach. Also plaques will be awarded the tourney's top four teams and a personal trophy to the outstanding individual debater.
Managing the tournament is Al DeCrane, Notre Dame debate captain, who is being assisted by all the members of she squad. Several of the room arrangements have been made by Dr. Andrew Boyle, Administrative Head of the Department of Chemistry.
Other schools entered in the tournament are: Augustana College, Purdue University, Michigan State College, University of Pennsylvania, Marquette University, Western Michigan College, United States Merchant Marine Academy, and Georgetown University.
Others include Wisconsin State College, Case Institute of Technology, Mundelein College, Georgetown School □f Foreign Service, University of Illinois, Chicago Division, Loyola University, and Bradley University.
Students are especially invited to attend the matches, both preliminary and final.
THE FATHER BOLGER TROPHY To the Champs
Transfusion Trains
On Campus May 4-8
Student-managed and student-initiated, a 1953 blood drive will be held at Notre Dame May 4-8. The drive was sanctioned this week by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
Two large Red Cross blood units, one from Fort Wayne and another from Indianapolis, will be placed at the Children’s hospital on Notre Dame Avenue to take student blood donations during the days of the drive.
In addition to use in Korea, the accumulation of a fraction, Gamma globulin, derived from whole blood, will he retained for use in the polio-stricken areas of our own country. Some blood will also be reserved for use in civilian defense.
The results of a campus blood drive in 1952 showed Notre Dame contributing the largest percentage of student donors of any college or university.
Harvard University, having contributed 3507 pints of blood, student contributions only, now claims blood donations honors. An “official” and “sarcastic” letter of challenge to -Notre Dame has been received this week from Harvard, student managers of the ND drive said.
Pledge cards for donations are being distributed this week by hall and floor representatives. All students will be solicited by next week. Pledge cards will be received at room 17 Sorin or by hall distributors. A plaque will be awarded to the hall with the highest percentage of donors.
Senior class donors will be taken first by the units because of the Senior Ball weekend, May 8-10. All donors, when a conflict occurs between their assigned time for donation and their class schedule, will be given cancelled cuts. .
March 20, 1953
Philanthropist I. A. O'Shaughnessy Awarded Notre Dame's Famed Laetare Medal for '53
I. A. O’Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minn., and Golden Beach, Fla., oil industry executive and philanthropist, was named the 1953 recipient of the Laetare Medal - last Sunday. The Medal has been awarded annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame to an outstanding American Catholic layman.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, in announcing O’Shaughnessy’s selection said: “In an age in which material prosperity has often been misused, Mr. O’Shaughnessy has particularly distinguished himself as one who understands and practices the Christian stewardship of wealth. His benefactions appear to be the largest matte by any single person in the history of Catholic higher education in the United States.”
Generous Benefactor
“In addition to his many public distinctions,” Father Hesburgh continued, “Mr. O’Shaughnessy adds the personal example of an outstanding family life. The University of Notre Dame is proud to honor with its Laetare Medal a man who so well exemplifies the ideals of his country and his Church.”
Organizer and president of the Globe Oil and Refining Company, St. Paul, Minn., O’Shaughnessy has provided generous financial support for the Church, Catholic education, and medical research in the United States. He has contributed substantially to the development of St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn.; St. Louis University, St. Louis, Mo.; the University of Notre Dame; and the University of Minnesota.
He is also a benefactor of such nonCatholic institutions as Carleton College, Northfield, Minn.; Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn.; and Shattuck School, an Episcopal military school at Faribault, Minn.
Gets 71st Medal
O’Shaughnessy is the seventy-first American to receive the Laetare Medal since it was established by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of Notre Dame. The name of the recipient is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent.
Thomas E. Murray, a membei- of the Atomic Energy Commission, was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1952. Among those similarly honored in recent years are actress Irene Dunne;
Gen. J. Lawton Collins, Army Chief of Staff; Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States; and John Henry Phelan, Beaumont, Texas, philanthropist.
A 1907 alumnus of St. Thomas College where he worked his way through school as secretary to the president, O’Shaughnessy built the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall, a center for health, recreation and physical education, on the campus of his alma mater in 1939.' Four years later he underwrote the refinishing and redecorating of the St. Thomas College Chapel. In 1946 he erected O’Shaughnessy Stadium on the same campus.
O’Shaughnessy has supported medical research at St. Louis University and the University of Minnesota. In 1947,
MR. I. A. O’SHAUGHNESSY
. . . For Public and Personal Distinction
he established the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Medical Library at St. Louis. He played a leading role in the fund raising effort for the new medical research center now nearing completion at the University of Minnesota. O’Shaughnessy is a member of the Board of Governors of the Mayo Foundation, a director of the Minnesota Medical Foundation and a board member of Miller Hospital in St. Paul.
In 1942, O’Shaughnessy established the O’Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation at the University of Notre Dame. A member of the University’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees, he received an honorary doctor’s degree from Notre Dame in 1947. The magnificent
I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Alls on the Notre Dame campus will be dedicated May 16.
Through the years O’Shaughnessy has supported many other Catholic institutions. In 1948 he furnished a dental clinic at the convent of the Visitation nuns, a cloistered order, in St. Paul. He established a library at the Catholic orphanage in Minneapolis, and is a benefactor of the Little Sisters of the Poor in St. Paul and assisted in building their new home in 1948. The following year O’Shaughnessy was largely responsible for the construction of St. Christopher Catholic Church at Nisswa, Minnesota. .
Honored by Pope
Honored several times by the Church, O’Shaughnessy is a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre, a Knight of Malta, and a Papal Chamberlain of Cape and Sword. During the Eucharistic Congress held at St. Paul in 1930, he served as chamberlain to the late Dennis Cardinal Dougherty. He is a member of the Lay Commission on Catholic Service of the Boy Scouts of America.
O’Shaughnessy is recognized as a civic leader in the twin cities. He is a director of the First National Bank of St. Paul; the First Bank Stock Company, Minneapolis; and the Minneapolis Orchestral Association. He also serves as director of the Nickel Plate Railroad and the American Petroleum Institute.
Born in Stillwater, Minnesota, on July 31, 1885, O’Shaughnessy married the former Lilian G. Smith on October 7, 1908. They have five children: John Francis O’Shaughnessy; Mrs. John J. O’Shaughnessy (Eileen Anne); Mrs. Charles E. Lyman (Marian Gertrude); Laurence Milan O’Shaughnessy; and Donald Eugene O’Shaughnessy.
Met Clubbers Name Statler
For Easter Dance on April 5
The Penn Top Roof of the Hotel Statler will be the scene of the annual Metropolitan Club Easter dance on Easter Sunday, April 5. Francis Walther and his orchestra will serenade the New York Irish from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. at this informal affair.
Co-chairmen for the dance are John Bundschuh, 451 Cavanaugh, and Kevin Begley in 15 Sorin.
Tickets, which are priced at $4-50 and include §3 favors, are available from Ticket Chairmen Tom Ryder in 351 Alumni or from hall representatives.
The Scholastic
10
Irish Boosters Rock Chicago Stadium With Pipes, Planes and Pennies in Two-Night Stand
BY PAUL FULLMER
STEPHEN D. KERTESZ, J.D. On the Spread of Stalinism
Kertesz Concludes Aquinas Talks Sunday “How Stalin Conquered His Satellite
i Empire” will be discussed by Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, J.D., in the sea-| son’s final Aquinas Lecture at the Progress Club on Sunday at 8:15 p.m.
In his talk, Dr. Kertesz will make use of his personal experience gained in the Hungarian diplomatic service. He was caught in the swirl of inter-k national relations when, during World War II, he helped to prepare the Hungarian case for the peace conference
। in anticipation of a German defeat.
When the Nazis occupied his homeland he was tried for treason along with the others from the Hungarian Foreign Ministry who were involved with the armistice negotiations. Two weeks later he escaped.
After the war he resumed his work
1 .with the peace preparations, this time as Secretary General of the Hungarian Peace Delegation. Then in 1947 Dr. Kertesz was appointed Hungarian Minister to Italy. When the Communists gained control of his government in the summer of 1947 after a long struggle, he resigned from the diplomatic service.
He was then invited by the Yale Law School to come to this country to teach. He had been here previously ■ during 1935-36 as a Rockefeller Fellow. Since 1950, Dr. Kertesz has been attached to the Notre Dame Department of Political Science.
।	In his work on the peace delegation
in the postwar years he had contact
■ with such key Russian officials as Molotov and Vishinsky. Commenting on
March 20, 1953
The Cheering Irish, some six hundred strong, stormed the citadel of Mid-Western basketball hysteria, the Chicago Stadium, this past weekend by train, bus, car, and plane to lend impetus to the challenge of the Fighting Irish as they vied for the NCAA championship.
Although the Irish eagers were bumped from the tourney by their state neighbors, Indiana, the asbestos-lined throats of the ND backers were unlimbered both Friday and Saturday nights in true Field House fashion. All the standard cheers were featured, even including an intricate two-balcony effect on the famed Erton Emad hanky pattern.
Loud Clothes, Loud Cheers
Friday night the vociferous refugees from Washington Hall had plenty to cheer about as their gold-shirted men took a hard-fought decision over the Ivy League champions, Pennsylvania.
Although the cheering section was only hitting on about three cylinders in the first two cantos, this may be attributed to the style-consciousness of the Chicago Clubbers and their feminine companions. Once the crowd became accustomed to this unusual element, the Brooks Brothers suits, and the Capone type apparel of a past era, basketball antics became the chief interest.
About the time of the fourth-period ND rally, the upper-balcony Irish discovered the marvels of the paper airplane. They contented themselves with.
the current world situation Mr. Kertesz said that Stalin’s death may mean “the beginning of new developments.”
“The situation will be more fluid in the Soviet Union,” Kertesz added. “A generation, young and inexperienced in world affairs, will take over. Most of them have never had contact with the western world like the old Bolsheviks. Their inexperience means certain danger, but eventually may precipitate events that will bring the liberation of the enslaved people of eastern Europe end Russia.”
Others who appeared in this year’s lecture series were Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., Otto Bird, Ph.D., Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., and Rev. Philip L. Hanley, O.P.
winging them towards their cheering cohorts in the DePaul section.
At the finale, the crowd gave Marty O’Connor, ND assistant coach who is recuperating from an attack of polio, a resounding ovation as he was carried to the team’s dressing room.
Short Trip, Short 35 Contest
Saturday afternoon before the big game proved to be an expensive one for those who were visiting the Windy City for the first time and who didn’t know their way around. Three ND students, for instance, poured out of a hotel lobby, grabbed a taxi because they were late for a stage show. After the driver dropped them off about 75 yards from the starting point and asked politely for 3-5 cents, they realized the theater they were looking for was just across the street.
The men of the Blue and Gold then returned to help decide the intra-state tourney final. When the third stanza of the preliminary contest closed, the boisterous chant of “Go Irish, Beat ‘ Hoosiers” accompanied the eagers to the dressing room as they prepared for the big one.
Immediately upon the entrance of the squads, a brace of pert cheerleaders from DePaul University, substituting for the absent ND leaders, matriculated to the Irish section. But they apparently were mystified by the two-part cheering of the Irish and departed at the commencing of the hoop festivities—much to the chagrin of the sheik six hundred.
Long Don, Long Lead	"*
The boosters were perched on the edges of theii- seats as giant Don Schlundt won the opening tip, but broke into pandemonium when “Junior” Stephens drove in and dumped in the initial basket.
As the Hoosier juggernaut gathered steam, a cloud of gloom rolled over Sections C and D of the Stadium.
The insertion of Dick Wise brought a burst of applause as Coach John Jordan attempted- to- cope with the height of the Crimson and White. When Norb “Gootch” Lewinski, the Irish crowd pleaser, hooked three shots over the outstretched skyscraper, the feelings of the Notre Dame section rose in accelerated crescendo of (Continued on page 31)
11
THE XAVIER CONCERT CHOIR
Another Outstanding Ensemble Comes to Notre Dame
Nationally Famous 29-Voice Negro Choir Will Appear in Drill Hall Concert Monday
The Concert Choir of Xavier University in New Orleans will present a concert in the Navy Drill Hall at 8:15 Monday night. The choir will be under the direction of Mr. Norman Bell, its conductor and arranger.
The group, which has won much fame on its tours of the country, is composed of 29 Negro voices, all of whom are musicians enrolled at the university.
The variety of music that the choir has mastered is evidenced in the program that it will present in its Drill Hall appearance.
The concert will open with “The Heavens Are Telling,” from The Creation, by Franz Haydn; and will be followed by Arcadelt’s “Ave Maria,” Bach’s “With Graceful Hearts” and “The Hallelujah Chorus” from George Handel’s The Messiah.
The second part of the program will consist of foul’ of the Liebeslieder Waltzes of Johannes Brahms. “Tell Me Maiden,” “O’er the Rocks,” “Oh, How Soft Yon Murmuring Stream,” and “Spitful Neighbors” are the waltzes to be nresented.
The third part of the concert will consist of two medleys. The first, entitled “Three Indian Songs,” includes “The Cry of the Raven,” “A Song of
Farting,” and “Hunting Song.” The second, “A Recollection of School Days,”, is composed of “Poor Teacher,” “Reading, Writing, and Arithmetic,” and “The Dunce.” Both of these medleys are arranged by Mr. Bell.
Following intermission, selections from the Broadway stage hit of Rogers and Hammerstein, Oklahoma, will be presented, with such numbers as “Oh, What a Beautiful Morning,” “Surrey With the Fringe on Top,” “People Will Say We’re in Love” and the title song.
The fifth part of the program will feature two solos. Audry Richards will sing “Deep River” and Leo Frazier will sing “Swing Low.” Two other Negro spirituals, “Poor Man Lazrus” and “Ride the Chariot,” will also be included in this section of the concert.
The evening’s agenda will conclude with a solo by Richard Brown, entitled “The Brooklyn Baseball Cantata.”
Malcolm Breda is pianist for the group.
The concert is being presented under the auspices of the Concert and Lecture Series Board and St. Augustine’s Church.
The board, which has as its aim the selection of high class campus entertainment, has been achieving it with concerts such as this one and the pre
vious presentation of the Julliard String Quartet.
Proceeds of the concerts are given to the Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament for use in their work among the American Negroes and Indians.
The Xavier Choir is one of the outstanding collegiate ensembles in the country. They have been well-received in all major cities.
A reviewer of the Scrantonian has said this of the group, “Never has this reviewer heard or seen any choral group come so near perfection. Not in merely one phase or another, but as a complete aesthetic presentation.” Reviewers in other cities echo this statement. The choir has received special complement on the fact that every phase of the music they present is perfected.
Final Marriage Talks On Tuesday, Thursday
The 1953 Marriage Institute will come to a close next week with Rev. James P. Smyth highlighting the Tuesday evening session and Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., heading the final session Thursday night along with Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30.
Father Smyth, instructor in the Department of Religion, will discuss the topic “Your Children—Home Training and Sex Instruction.” Father Smyth will carry with him many years of experience in the field of child psychology. He is presently one of the leaders of a school for mentally retarded children in South Bend.
Included in Father Smyth’s discussion will be such timely topics as when and how children should be disciplined, and the Catholic position on the matter of sex instruction of the children.
Father Putz, also an instructor in the Department of Religion, will discuss the topic “Christianizing Family Life.” Included in his discussion will be several points on present Catholic family movements in the United States.
Also on the Thursday evening agenda will be Mr. and Mrs. Crowley who tell “How to Make Families Happy.” Mr. Crowley graduated from Notre Dame and the Loyola University Law School. He is now a practicing lawyer in Chicago..
Mrs. Crowley is a graduate of Trinity College. Both she and her husband are active leaders in the Christian Family Movement in Chicago.
Tickets for the final sessions of the Institute may be obtained before each session in the Engineering Auditorium.
The Scholastic
12
9,

Moot Court Sets Semi Hearings for April 21
Semi-final competition in the Fourth Annual Moot Court Contest will take place in the Law Building on Tuesday, April 21.
Wilbur Pollard and Don Bebenek will oppose Jack Bradshaw and Carmi Belmont, while Jim Bleyer and T. J. Ber-gan will face Joseph Helling and Carl Eiberger. The four semi-finalists remain from a field of thirty-two men who began the eliminations last October.
The Moot Court was established in February, 1950, largely through the efforts of Clarence Manion, former Dean of Notre Dame’s College of Law. Participation is open to all students in the College of Law on a voluntaiy basis.
The scheme of the entire competition is the argumentation of appelate cases in an imaginary “Supreme Court of Hoynes.” The contestants are judged on their written briefs and oral argumentation of the case. Even though they are paired off with two men arguing for the appelant and two for the respondent, the winners are selected purely on a personal basis.
The four winners of the semi finals w.ill compete for the Dean Manion Award and cash prizes awarded by the Notre Dame Law Association during the final arguments at the Alumni reunion following June Graduation. The two contestants winning on the final day will represent Notre Dame’s College of Law in the National Moot Court Competition next fall.
Architects Hold Beaux-Arts Masquerade Ball on April 17
Erskine Country Club will be the scene of one of this Spring’s more colorful social affairs when the Student Chapter of the American Institute of Architects will hold their annual Beaux-Arts Masquerade Ball on April 17.
Music will be provided by a Notre Dame lad, Bob Brown, and his Spotlighters.
Dean Frank Montana and the rest of the Department of Architecture’s faculty will be present at the festival.
Ticket sales are scheduled for the week before the Easter vacation when approximately 100 bids will go on sale at $1.50 apiece. The architects may purchase the tickets at the Architecture Building or from their class representative. Tom Stahl is chairman of the ball. Other members of the committee include Dick Savage, Lou Colavecchio, Jerry Oddo and John Dasek.
Famed Dublin Players Win Stage April 8 Performance on Irish Peasantry on Campus
Ireland’s Dublin Players will stage two one-act plays in Washington Hall on April 8, with the curtain rising at 8:15 p.m.
Tickets for the performance will be sold in Washington Hall lobby March 30 and 31 from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., and from 5 to 7 p.m. They will also be available there on April 8 from 9 a.m. until 8:15 p.m. Prices to the public are $1.50, $1, and 50 cents, while student admissions will cost 75, 50 and 25 cents.
The first of the duo will be John M. Synge’s “Riders to the Sea,” the tale of a family which loses all its sons to the sea off their home on the Aran Islands of Ireland.
Using the dialogue of the Irish peasant, Synge portrays the loneliness and moods which fill the peasants in relationship to the relentless destroying sea which they cannot abandon, since it is the source of their livelihood.
“The Shadow of the Glen” -will be the other production; it also issued from Synge’s pen. This story primarily concerns an aging husband who, suspecting his wife of unfaithfulness, turns her from his dwelling. Underneath the plot, however, Synge skillfully weaves in the nature of the simple Irish peasantry.
Synge’s “Riders to the Sea” has been translated into all the major European languages, and is reputed to be the crowning point of the renaissance in Irish literature.
The principals in the two plays will be Nora O’Mahoney, Alex Dignan, Paula Byrne, Helene Carroll, Eric Ferguson, and Ronald Ibbs.
The stage group has been making a tour of American cities from coast to coast. During the circuit the Players have presented plays by Shaw, O’Casey, Shakespeare, Ibsen, Synge, Chekhov, and Christopher Fry.
America’s late Fulton Oursler, on seeing the Dublin Players perform, said: “Like a refreshing breeze comes this wonderful company of actors into a sad, sick world to inspire us with the best in theatre, tradition and restore our faith in the nobility of man.”
Like Notre Dame’s own Glee Club, the Players have appeared on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” TV show a number of times.
Among the members of the company are Ronald Ibbs, who once played “Hamlet” in tweeds; Nora O’Mahoney, who has played with the Abbey and Gate Theatres; Maureen Halligan, di
rector of the group and wife of Mr. Ibbs; Gladys Richards, versatile actress in anything from Shakespeare to Tennessee Williams; Helene Carroll, daughter of playwright Paul Vincent Carroll; and Bryan Doyle.
Others are Godfrey Quigley, playwright-actor of both stage and screen; Alex Dignan; Mary Brady; Dermot McNamara, who appeared with Barry Fitzgerald in the TV showing of “The White-Haired Boy”; Josie MacAvin, the company manager; Paul Byrne, and Eric Ferguson.
THE DUBLIN PLAYERS “ . . . Like a refreshing breeze”
Detroit Club Names Officers, Easter Dance Co-Chairmen
This year’s Detroit Club Easter Dance will be held April 6 at the Hawthorne Valley Country Club in the Motor City. Co-chairmen of the dance, annually one of the biggest sponsored by a geographical club, are Tom Moore and Jim Stevens.
Appointment of the dance chairmen was the first act of the newly-elected officers. John Schlegel, junior pre-law student, was chosen president of the 150-member club at its recent meeting. Assisting Schlegel as vice-president will be Jim Maclnnis, another pre-law junior.
The club also named three other new officers: A.B. Sophomore Larry Kelly as treasurer, Engineering Junior Bill Nesbitt as recording secretary, and corresponding secretary, Sophomore pre-med Harve Mueller.
March 20, 1953
MISS ADRIENNE KOCH
Concerning Our Founding Fathers
CIR Sponsors Koch Lectures Next Week
Miss Adrienne Koch, associate professor of philosophy at New York University, will deliver a series of three lectures on “Power and Morals in the Thought of the Founding Fathers” at Notre Dame on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Professor Koch, the author of Jefferson and Madison, will speak under the auspices of the University’s Committee on International Relations. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, will preside.
Prior to joining the New York University faculty in 1948, Miss Koch taught at Tulane University, New Orleans, and at the New School for Social Research and Washington Square College in New York. She has also served as a writer .in the Office of War Ip-formation, a consultant to the Librarian of Congress, and a political analyst for the Foreign Economic Administration and the National Planning Association.
In 1943, Professor Koch was awarded the Woodbridge Prize .in Philosophy for her book, The Philosophy of Thomas Jefferson. She is also the author of The Life and Selected Writings of Thomas Jefferson and The Selected Writings of John and John Quincy Adams.
A frequent contributor to the New York Times Book Review, the Saturday Review of Literature and scholarly journals, Professor Koch has recently written “The Earth Belongs to the Living” in the Jefferson Reader and “Towards an American Philosophy” in the Virginia Quarterly for Spring, 1953.
Notre Dame Anglers: Oil That Reel and Polish That Fly, the Fishing Derby Is Open to All!
Now that the hardy ice-fishermen of the area have abandoned our campus lakes, the way is open for the wily anglers of Notre Dame to display their skill in the annual fishing contest.
Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C., associate professor of Physics, has announced that entries will' be accepted from now until June 1 for this year’s fourth annual derby.
The Student Senate will appropriate a sum to be divided five ways to the top five entrants.
Father Baldwin points out that “many students believe the lakes are artificial or merely decorative. But these lakes have been stocked regularly for years, and they have been fished for many decades.”
The State of Indiana has already stocked both St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s Lakes with bass, bullheads, bluegills, and sunfish. These supplement the static population that survive naturally in the lakes.
“More money is spent on fishing equipment in these United States each year than on any other’ major sport and nearly more than all the other major
Cites Dual Necessity Of Religion. Patriotism
There is no reason whatever why loyalty to the Catholic Church should in any way diminish a man’s loyalty to his’ country, according to James F. Anderson in an article entitled “Human Liberties and Ecclesiastical Authority” appearing in tomorrow’s issue of Ave Maria, national Catholic weekly published at Notre Dame. Anderson is an associate professor of philosophy at the University.
“In religious matters, a Catholic assuredly is bound to obey his Church; in temporal affairs, he is bound to obey the legitimate and just laws of his country,” Anderson writes. “In being thus doubly loyal and obedient, the Catholic is not serving two masters.” Rather, Anderson suggests, the secularist—“the man who separates worldly affairs from the service of God”— is serving two masters.
Only when the morals or spiritual life of her members is endangered, is the Church justified in intervening in temporal affairs, Anderson points out. As an example, he cites the papal in
sports grouped together,” Father Baldwin revealed. The total transactions in the wheat market in one year does not approach the cash the anglers expend to lure that elusive panfish to their hooks.
Father Baldwin started this contest three years ago mainly because of his personal interest in the competitive and demanding sport. A local taxi driver suggested that the students would benefit from such a presentation, so Father Baldwin initiated the tourney in 1950.
All entries must be registered with Father Baldwin at Corby Hall, or with his appointed recorder, in order to be eligible for the cash to be awarded about June 1.
Most students are highly skeptical about the fishing prospects here, Father Baldwin said. They often query rather illogically, “You don’t catch any fish here, do you? There aren’t any fish in these lakes, are there?” Father Baldwin is amused by their hesitant inquiries and. again reassures everyone that there is plenty of good fishing to be enjoyed here.
Here is a chance to explain about “the big one that got away.”
tervention in the Italian elections when Communism threatened to win control of the country.
Anderson cites the fact that English Catholics are rightly loyal to their Protestant Queen, who is head of the Anglican Church, as evidence that spiritual allegiance to the Pope in no way interferes objectively with discharging the rights and duties of citizenship.”
AB SOPHOMORES MEET MONDAY
There will be a meeting of all sophomores in the College of Arts & Letters in the Law Auditorium on Monday at 7:30 P.M.
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College, and Dr. John J. Kane, assistant dean, will discuss major fields open to Juniors in the college.
Since sophomores must elect their major fields during the week beginning April 10, they are required to attend this meeting.
14
' The Scholastic
1952

JOHNNY JORDAN in his second year as Irish mentor coached the Notre Dame eagers to their most successful season in six years and put the Irish in the NCAA for the first time, Jordan entered Notre Dame in 1931 after graduating from Chicago’s Quigley Prep. He earned three varsity monograms in basketball in 1932-33, 33-34, and 34-35. He captained the 1934-35 team that won 14 and lost 6. Upon graduation Jordan became head coach at Mount Carmel high school in Chicago. While there he won three Catholic League and two City Championships. A three-year stretch in the Navy preceded his job as head coach at Loyola of Chicago for the 1950-51 season. His record that year was 15-14. Just as he succeeded Edward “Moose” Krause as Irish captain in 1934 he took over as coach here in 1952. His first Notre Dame team won 16 and lost 10 despite several mid-year ineligibilities. This year’s record of 19 and 5 made Jordan’s overall record here 35 wins and 15 losses.
MARTY O’CONNOR, former Irish captain became Johnny Jordan’s new assistant coach this year while still attending law school here. Marty’s first coaching job was short-lived however, since he was stricken with polio in November only a few weeks after practice started. On March 2 this year’s seniors teamed with several members of the football team against next year’s quint in a benefit game for Marty.
______________-Coaches
JOHN CASTELLANI, assistant basketball coach, was used chiefly by Johnny jordan as a scout, and tutor of the up and coming freshmen. Castellani, a 26-year-old junior in the Notre Dame Law School, had previously coached the frosh for two years before taking over Marty O’Connor’s job as a full-time aid. John is a native of New Britain, Conn.
16
The Scholastic

Players
NORB LEWINSKI, captain and center of the 1952-53 Irish befuddled opponents with his picture-like hook shot, a major weapon in the 19 Notre Dame victories. “Gootch,” who is 6'5", was third in team scoring. His top games were the first
Indiana game in which he notched 28 Louisville tussle. Rates Ernie Beck the a Political Science major.
fU
points; the first St. Louis game and the toughest player he’s faced. Lewinski is

JACK STEPHENS, sophomore guard was fourth in scoring and the team’s consistent rebounder. “Junior” constantly harassed opponents with his
most one-
handed set-shot and deadly drive-ins. He regards Indiana's Bob Leonard as his most skillful opponent and beating DePaul as his top thrill of the season. Stephens'
high point efforts were the Marquette, DePaul and Pennsylvania games his 23 counters leading the Irish against the Blue Demons, and his 19 doing wise against the Quakers.
with like-
JOE BERTRAND, Rosenthal’s running mate at the forward post, is a 6-3 performer whose clever ball-handling and deceptive tactics aided the Irish in many of their victories. Hampered by an injured hand early in the season, Joe rapidly regained the form which he had exhibited in the past to lead the Irish regulars in field goal percentage. A junior, he received All-American mention from many of the pickers.
N. J., is a third
year
JOHN REYNOLDS, a six-foot guard from Maplewood, Commerce student majoring in Business Administration, scoring threat from his backcourt position and against
John was a dangerous Indiana in the regular
season hit two points late in the fray that were worth a million in the 71 -70 victory over the Hoosiers. A first-line reserve all year, Reynolds figures as an important cog in coach Jordan’s plans for next season.
March 20, 1953
17
JIM GIBBONS, 6'2" senior from Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago was the regular first string guard for the Irish. Gibb was noted primarily for his defensive ability, and his adeptness at dribbling the ball. Over his three year basketball tenure in which he won as many monograms, Jim connected for 210 points, developing into one of the team’s most consistent foul-shooters.
BILL SULLIVAN, a junior from Chicago, is
in
the College
in Business Administration. Bill could play either guard
of or
capable pointgetter throughout the year, especially in the
Commerce, majoring forward and was a one point win over
N.Y.U. which he pulled out of the fire with a 16 point performance. Filling in at guard for the ailing Jim Gibbons during the last five games, Sullivan played brilliantly and connected for 14 points against Louisville.
DICK ROSENTHAL, 6'5" forward, is a graduate of McBride High School in St. Louis, and is a junior in the College of Commerce. This past season he was the team's leading scorer with 392 points including tourney play, breaking Notre Dame’s single season scoring mark of 367 set by Leroy Leslie last year. In the NCAA Tournament Dick led the Irish to the regional finals by tallying 56 points in three games. He was named to the All-Regional team.
in the season. He tallied 11 against Jerry lists Togo Palazzi of Holy Cross the ’52 N.Y.U. game the hardest he’s monogram won by the barrel-chested
jerry McCloskey, a senior set-shot artist proved a valuable sub especially late
DePaul and 10 against Eastern Kentucky, as his toughest individual opponent, and ever played in. This was the third N.D. guard. He’s a Physical Education major.
18
The Scholastic
s
ED CONDON, substitute forward from St. Ignatius High School in Chicago, saw
quite a bit of action in the record-breaking 93-67 rout of DePaul. Ed has a 90 average in the College of Engineering at Notre Dame. McCloskey and Gibbons, are the only graduating eagers.
A 64" senior, He, Lewinski,
ED McGINN is a lanky guard-forward, whose greatest bit of achievement this season was sinking a crucial set-shot in the waning minutes of play against Holy Cross. A junior, Ed considers playing with Ernie Beck, Penn’s great All-American, in high school, a great honor. He is a veteran of the United States Navy, playing
with the Great Lakes team while in
service.
TOM SULLIVAN, though not among the first five, saw considerable action among the Jordanmen. A six-foot sophomore, Tommy showed his best form against-Northwestern when he started and scored 12 points, chiefly on. long one-handers.. He is a cousin of football star, John Lattner.
DICK
WISE, the tallest man on this year’s Irish squad stretches the tape to 6 feet
9 inches. The sophomore threat proved to be valuable as a capable replacement when Coach Jordan needed added height and board strength. Dick’s left handed hook shot is his most dangerous weapon as was evidenced in the closing seconds of the first Indiana game when he scored to help pave the way for the Irish victory.


March 20, 1953
19^
Seaton in Review
The Road To The NCAA
Beck gets one away in the Stadium.
By Bill Noonan
To the average sport fan, Notre Dame means top-notch football. This past basketball season did a convincing job of showing the fan that Notre Dame also means top-notch basketball. By establishing the best ND hoop record in six seasons and becoming the first team to represent the University in a postseason tournament, the 1952-53 Fighting Irish lifted the cage sport to its greatest heights in Notre Dame history.
In the regular season, coach Johnny Jordan’s boys ran up 17 victories while losing four against some of the nation’s best quintets. They added two more victories in the NCAA tourney before being ousted in the regional final, 79-66 by Indiana, rated the top team in the country by the pollsters.
It all started at the fieldhouse last December 3 when the Irish put on a second half splurge to blast Creighton University, 80-59. The Irish started slowly, hampered by a bad case of first game jitters, but paced by captain Norb
McCloskey rebounding against DePaul.
20
The Scholastic

“Gootch” Lewinski who scored 17, and sub guard John Reynolds who hit for 10, they righted themselves and went on to an easy triumph.
Game number two on Dec. 6 was one of the most important of the season for the Irish and proved to be the most exciting. Playing at the friendly fieldhouse once again, the Jordanmen nipped Indiana’s Hoosiers, 71-70 on Jack Stephens’ driving layup in the last few seconds. Lewinski had his hook shot working to perfection as he spearheaded ND to a 13 point halftime bulge. Ill started to whittle down the advantage in the second half and gained the lead in the last period when Lewinski fouled out. Ahead 70-69 with 10 seconds left, Indiana missed two foul shots. Stephens grabbed the rebound, drove down court, wiggled through three Indiana defenders and layed up the winning basket as the crowd went wild.
Lewinski again paced his team’s offense, this time with 28 points, the highest total of his collegiate career. Don Schlundt led the Hoosiers with 23.
Marquette was the third Irish victim, suffering an 84-64 lacing at Milwaukee on Dec. 16. The Hilltoppers led 23-20 at the first quarter mark, but Notre Dame pumped 25 points through the hoop in the second period to Marquette’s seven and coasted from there on in. Stephens, the hero of the previous game, led all Irish scorers with 20 points and played a great floor game as well. Joe Bertrand had 18; Dick Rosenthal, 16. Russ Wittberger of Marquette was high man for the night with 22.
Back at the fieldhouse on Dec. 17. The Men of Jordan toppled Loyola of Chicago, 53-45 for its fourth straight. The Ramblers played a slow deliberate brand of ball which befuddled the Irish
men for a good part of the contest. Bertrand’s 14 points paced ND.
Two days later on the first leg of their holiday road excursion, the undefeated Irish balloon exploded as Kansas State’s powerful Wildcats romped off with a 80-64 win. This was the first night of the Spartan classic played at East Lansing, Mich. All-American Dick Knostman of K-State was a constant thorn in the Irish sides, but it was poor shooting that caused the downfall. ND hit on 21% of their shots; their rivals, 46%. Stephens was again high point man with 17.
The following night, the Irish bounced back nicely to whip favored UCLA, 6860. The Uclans had beaten Michigan State the previous evening, and the Spartans turned night around and trounced Kansas State in the nightcap to the ND-UCLA clash, making it a 1-1 record for all four participants. Dick Rosenthal finally hit his scoring stride against the California five by hitting 20 points.
December 27, Joe Bertrand flicked 22 markers through the nets to lead the Irish to a 63-49 win over Butler at Indianapolis. The score is rather deceiving because it was not till the closing minutes that Notre Dame pulled out of reach.
Northwestern was next for the Jordanmen on Dec. 31 at Evanston. The Irish piled up a huge early lead only to see it fade before a late Northwestern onslaught. Jordan’s men held on however' to w,in out, 63-49. Dick Rosenthal led Irish scorers with 18 points while big Frank Petrancek racked up 26 for the Wildcats. This win gave the Irish a 7-1 record at the 1/3 mark in the season.
After Christmas vacation, the Irish eagers traveled to the east, and on Jan. 5, nipped a good Holy Cross team, 73-
Indiana’s Schlundt is too late to stop a Lewinski hook in tournament action.
71 in a real thriller at Boston. Norb Lewinski dropped in two “clutch” foul shots in the last seven seconds to provide the margin of victory. Dick Rosenthal scored 21 points to spearhead the Notre Dame offense; Lewinski racked 19. The Irish found it a hard job to stop 6’4” Togo Palazzi who wound up with 26 for- the Crusaders.
The following night, Notre Dame made what might be their final visit to Madison Square Garden and came away with a 78-77 overtime triumph over N.Y.U. The Violets played their best game of the season and almost upset the Irish when a New York player popped in a one hander a split second after the buzzer ended the regulation time. ND’s accuracy from the foul line in the extra period sewed up the win. Though the game was close all the way, the Irish never trailed. Rosenthal was again the chief
LEFT: Bertrand streaks in for a lay-up in the DePaul rout. RIGHT: Lewinski, Schlundt watch Rosenthal fight for ball.
March 20, 1953
21
Demon Ballhawks Tackle Rosenthal
point-maker with 19; Bill Sullivan came off the bench to score 16, making eight of nine shots. Boris Nachamkin, NYU’s center gave the Irish fits in tallying 28 points.
Purdue, Big Ten celler-dwellers, provided the Irish with something of a breather at Lafayette on Jan. 14. Dick Rosenthal pumped in 30 markers in the '71-55 victory. The Boilermakers kept pace with ND for a half but were no match for the Irish in the second 30 minutes.
The six game Notre Dame win skein was snapped at St. Louis on Jan. 17 when the St. Louis Billikins sizzled to
an 86-81 win. The Bills, a tremendous home club, hit on 46% of their shots to ND’s 43%. A hot spurt in the last quarter and a half brought victory to Ed Hickey’s team, but the major reason for the Irish defeat was Rosenthal’s failure to play good ball against his home-town team. The scoring leader in the past four contests, Dick was held to four points, the only time he tallied below double figures all season. Captain Lewinski and Bertrand did their share with 28 and 25 points respectively. Deadeye Dick Boushka was the St. Louis big gun.
In a raggedly-played tilt, the Irish returned to the fieldhouse on Jan. 19 to topple Bradley, 74-64. Notre Dame had to come from behind to win, a last quarter drive permitting the Irish to pull away. Rosenthal returned to his scoring habits with 20 points to pace his team. The most sensational incident of the game was Jim Gibbons’ heave from three quarters court which swished the nets just as the first half buzzer sounded.
Exams intervened, and it wasn’t till Jan. 31 that the Irish returned to action. They almost wished they hadn’t as archrival DePaul slaughtered the Jordan
22
men, 83-56 at Chicago Stadium. Whether it was the lack of practice which was bypassed during the exam period or what, it just wasn’t the Irishmen’s night. Led by Ron Feiereisel and Jim Lamkin, their two high-scoring guards, the Blue Demons spurted ahead of the Irish in the opening minutes and steadily increased the margip as the game progressed. It took on semblance of a rout when Rosenthal was ejected from the game on personals midway in the third quarter. “Rosie” still paced the Irish with 15 points as the team overall had a miserable shooting percentage of 21%, the same as in the Kansas State debacle.
Butler provided an adequate rebound victim in a Feb. 4 encounter at the fieldhouse. The Irish were far from sharp, but Butler offered little resistance as ND romped, 80-58. It was a complete form reversal for the Bulldogs who had given the Irish a tough battle in December. Lewinski and his hook were true for 22 points. Billy Sullivan played fine ball in a reserve role.
In the best two team exhibition of basketball seen in the fieldhouse all season, Notre Dame made classy Louisville its 13th victim, 73-62. The Cardinals entered the Irish home court with 17 wins in 20 starts and with a beautifully minipulated fast break as their major weapon, battled the “hot” Jordanmen to a standstill for three periods. The Irish moved the ball well and hit on a good percentage of their shots from the field. Their foul shooting was something else again as they missed 27 of 40 tries. Jack Stephens set a record
Junior Stephens Leaps and Scores Against Penn
in reverse by missing 15 out of 18 free throws. Lewinski scored 21 points and Bertrand, 20 to lead the Irish. Chuck Noble of Louisville and his “peg shot” kept his team within reaching distance of ND right to the closing minutes of play.
Loss number four was administered by the Irish jinx team, St. Louis on Feb. 14 in Chicago. Notre Dame blew a nine-point fourth-period lead to fall before the Billikens for the second time this season. The score was 78-77. Once again it was captain Lewinski with 20 points who paced the attack. Dick Boushka again led the Billikens with 24 markers. Rosenthal broke a two year jinx held over him by St. Louis as he tallied 15 points. This game put the Irish at 13 and four for the season.
Feb. 16, Michigan State set up their deliberate-styled offense and managed to hold the score to 24-21 Notre Dame at the half. The Irish steadily increased their lead, however, and forced the Spartans into a faster type of ball. The Men of Jordan went on to take the somewhat dull contest, 72-64. Jack Stephens was the big point-maker with 22 to his credit. Jim Gibbons missed his second straight game due to a flu attack.
In a return engagement on Feb. 18, Notre Dame defeated improved Marquette for the second time, 74-68. The Hilltoppers, using mostly sophomores, gave the Irish plenty of trouble before succumbing, the issue being in doubt till the last few minutes. Lewinski continued his hot streak with 22 points.
In one of the easiest wins of the year, (Continued on page 32)
Tomorrow’s Varsity
If the 1952-53 freshman basketball team is any indication of the type of material Notre Dame will continue to have on hand, the rise of the Irish as a top-notch club will undoubtedly gain more ground.
This year’s team centered around four scholarship students. They practiced daily with the varsity to acquaint themselves with Coach Johnny Jordan’s style of ball. All four are promising prospects and are expected to provide keen competition for starting berths next year.
700 Points More This Year
The first of the big four is 6’5” Lloyd Aubrey who hails from St. Louis, Mo. Aubrey who attended DeAndries High and played center for four years scored 700 points in his senior year, besides winning All-City, All-State and Most Valuable honors. He also set a record by scoring 47 points in one game, but that mark recently fell in this season’s play. In his senior year, DeAndries High also finished second in both the league and state tournaments.
Bob Jastrab, from Binghamton, N. Y. and Binghamton High, played four years of basketball, alternating between forward and center. He won All-County and All-City honors in his senior year. His high game was 23 points, and he also led the southern tier league in rebounding.
Another All-State forward in his
senior year was Bill Wyman of Davenport, Iowa. Wyman, an excellent ballhandler and flashy passer, attended St. Ambrose Academy where he played basketball for three years. In the state tournament, the Academy lost to the later crowned champs by three points.
All-Everything in High School
John Fannon of Philadelphia, Pa., rounds out the “ride” students. While at St. Thomas More High he set a three-year scoring record, potting 980 points. He was named to the All-Catholic, AllCity, and All-State teams two years straight and gained a berth on the third team of the All-American selection in his senior year. In his final year, St. Thomas More won 26 straight games before dropping the championship by one point. The 6’5” forward also holds the honor of captaining the North squad in the annual North-South tilt which the North won 84-70. Aubrey, now a teammate of Fannon’s, played’ on the southern team.
Steve Rebora, a sophomore, was used to form a starting five to scrimmage against the varsity.
March 20, 1953
The remaining 21 members of the freshman team were under the tutelage of Jack Neumayr and Bob Wray. The squad practiced in the evenings, usually three times a week. Most of the time was spent drilling on the fundamentals and working on a lot of patterns.
Wray spent most of his time on the pivot men. He did much to develop Bill Matthews, 6’6”, from Oklahoma City who had previously played only one year of basketbail.
Paul King of Louisville, Ky., developed into one of the most promising prospects. Standing an even 6 feet, King is regarded as a very shifty guard and if he lives up to expectations is expected to be pushing for a starting berth.
Other hoopsters who have shown well during the season include: Forwards, Jim Yazvac of Farrell, Pa.; Bill Petry of Ashland, Ky., and Pat Craddock, 6’2” from St. George’s of Chicago; Pat Ogren of Houston, Texas. Guards, Bill Kerney, Chicago; Alex Marcel, 6’1”, of New Rochelle, N. Y.; and Noel Taylor of Montclair, New Jersey.
24 Point-Man Ineligible .
Ineligibility forced another promising player from the line-up. Fran Tar-taran of Ishpeming, Michigan, a 6’4” giant from St. Norbert, averaged 24 (Continued on page 30)
. . . Jack Neumayr
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL TEAM, 1952-53
First row—L to R: Tom Sullivan, Steve Rebora, Joe Bertrand, Jack Stephens, John Reynolds, and Bob Joseph.
Second row—L to R: Bill Sullivan, Dick Honingford, Dick Wise, Capt. Norb Lewinski, Dick Rosenthal, Ed McGinn, Ed Condon.
Third row—L to R: Coach John Jordan, Trainer Gene Paszkiet, Jim Gibbons, Jerry McCloskey, Walt Cabral, Assistant Coach John Castellani, Manager Don Ross.
University of Notre Dame 1952-53 Basketball Statistics													
	(Including three games of NCAA					tournament)							SCORES
												Won 19, Lost 5	
	Games FGA		FG	Pct.	FTA	FT	Pct.	PF	Pct.	Avg.	ND	80	Creighton 59
											ND	71	Indiana 70
Dick Rosenthal, f ..	..... 24	476	148	.310	141	96	.680	77	392	16.3	ND	84	Marquette 64
Norb Lewinski, c ...		 24	424	143	.329	135	73	.540	95	359	14.9	ND *ND	53 64	Loyola 45 Kansas State 80
Joe Bertrand, f 			 24	298	130	.436	144	87	.605	74	347	14.4	ND	68	UCLA 60
Jack Stephens, g ...		 24	306	109	.356	192	111	.577	49	329	13.7	ND ND	63 62	Butler 49 Northwestern 57
Bill Sullivan, f-g 			 23	108	42	.388	46	27	.586	45	111		ND	73	Holy Cross 71
Jim Gibbons, g 			 21	71	19	.267	47	31	.659	65	69		ND ND	78 71	NYU 77 (overtime) Purdue 55
Jerry McCloskey, g	.... 15	64	19	.298	9	7	.778	15	45		*ND	81	St. Louis 86
John Reynolds, g ...	..... 14	29	12	.413	16	7	.437	16	31		ND -ND	74 56	Bradley 64 DePaul 83
Tom Sullivan, g 				8	20	9	.450	2	1	.500	8	19		ND	80	Butler 58
Dick Wise, c 			 14	17	6	.353	14	3	.214	17	15		ND *ND	73 77	Louisville 62 St. Louis 78
Ed Condon, f 				7	10	5	.500	6	3	.500	3	13		ND	72	Michigan State 64
Ed McGinn, g 		..... 10	13	2	.154	8	1	.125	2	5		ND ND	74 83	Marquette 68 Northwestern 67
Steve Rebora, f-g ...			2	1	1	1.000	0	0	.000	2	2		ND	93	DePaul 67
Dick Honingford, c	.... 1	0	0	.000	0	0	.000	1	0		**ND **ND	72 69	Eastern Kentucky 57 Pennsylvania 57
Notre Dame Totals Opponents’ Totals .		 24 ..... 24	1837 1607	’645 558	.351 .346	760 708	447 461	.588 .651	469 493	1737 1577	72.3 65.6	**ND 66 * Games		Indiana 79 Lost
											** NCAA		Tournament Games
24
The Scholastic
Ulinois* Fencers Peril Unbeaten Irish
Scout John Castellani Midwestern Title at Stake Here Tomorrow
Picks Top Performers As ND Gay Blades Attempt to Break Record
Much of the credit for this season’s outstanding- 19-5 basketball record is due to the efforts of John Castellani, Coach Johnny Jordan’s valuable aid. Castellani, whose first-hand scouting’ reports of the opposition no doubt turned the tide in a number of Irish victories, is one of the younger assistant coaches in the game today. Former Frosh cage coach and one-time athlete at New Britain high school in Connecticut, the
DICK ROSENTHAL
Best Rebounder
26-year-old Castellani has probably seen more college basketball games than anyone in this area. Presently, Castellani is a junior in the Notre Dame Law School.
The final tabulation on Castellani’s scouting reports brings out a number of interesting facts on the best performers seen by ND’s assistant cage mentor.
Over the course of the season Castellani has chosen the following: Bob Leonard, Indiana, best two-hand set; Bob Carney, Bradley, best right-hand push shot; Ernie Beck, Penn, best
BY JACK HEALY
Two of the longest winning streaks in recent mid-west fencing history, plus the mythical midwest championship, will go on the line Saturday night at the Notre Dame fieldhouse when the Irish take on the University of Illinois.
Notre Dame now has tied the all-time Irish fencing record of seventeen straight with their victory over Cincinnati last week and the University of Illinois comes to town with their fourth consecutive Big Ten championship tucked under their collective arms and are well into a fourth season without a defeat.
The two squads have had only three opponents in common, Wisconsin, Iowa and Michigan State. Both the Irish and Illinois had a tight squeeze with Wisconsin—Notre Dame just making it with a 14-13 win.
Mooney, Finney Lead Swordsman
Jack Mooney, captain of the Irish team, will lead off against the Ulini in the foil competition, scheduled for 7:30. In the Sabre class Jerry Finney with what is probably the best individual record ever put together in Notre Dame fencing annals, 28-3, along with Hurley, Mandolini and Mulrooney carry the Irish hopes. The eppee battlers, McGinn, Duff, and McBride are expected to carry the brunt of the action in this division.
John McGinn, Jerry Finney and Jack
right-hand jump shot; Notre Dame’s “Gootch” Lewinski, best hook shot; Dick Rosenthal, ND, and Dick Knostman, Kansas State, best rebounders; Joe Bertrand, ND, most aggressive; Beck again, best all-around player; Tom Gola, LaSalle, most natural; Chuck Noble, Louisville, best sportsman, and Bob Schultz, Marquette, most improved player.
Mooney, a week later, will represent Notre Dame in the NCAA tournament held in Philadelphia, Pa. The defending titlist is Columbia University.
Last Saturday the Irish moved past the University of Cincinnati, 16-11, keeping the streak alive and pulling alongside what has been the best Irish record to date, 17 in a row. It was the 13th Notre Dame victory for this season, season.
The sabre and eppe classes were both close calls for the Irish, winning by one point each time, -5-4 and -5-4. JeiTy Finney carried the sabre division, tak-taking all three of his matches. The epee victories were fairly well divided, McBride and John McGinn copping two wins apiece. Captain John Mooney, Brainerd, and Hull captured two mat-, ches apiece and carried the foil division, 6-3.
ND FENCERS IN BIG FINALE
Duelling for Championship
March 20, 1953
25
Irish Nine Prepares For Season's Opener Minus Leading Hurler and Two Flychasers
BY BOB O’MALLEY
Within a week and a half, Coach ■ Jake Kline will be taking his varsity basebailers down to Memphis, Tennessee, where they open the season against • the Naval Air Station on March 30. Kline is somewhat optimistic regarding Notre Dame’s chances to improve on last year’s 12-8 record, despite the loss of two first-line outfielders and his top pitcher.
Gone from last season’s Irish are outfielders Jerry Ledwidge and Jim Mutscheller, catcher Bob King, and the ace workhorse of the pitching four, Tom Bujnowski. While these four, no doubt will be missed, the outlook is not dark by any means. The infield is back intact together with a good portion of the pitching and catching corps.
Infield in Good Shape
Chief operators in the infield include third-sacker Hal Reilly, second baseman Dick Colloton, and the rangy basketball star, Dick Rosenthal, at first base. Last year’s shortstop, Harry Durkin, is a doubtful performer due to an injury but may yet see some action. Colloton was last season’s top hitter with an average well over .300 and was a steady sparkplug from his keystone position.
Displaying his talents in the outer
FROM BASKETBALL TO BASEBALL IN TWO WEEKS
Cager Dick Rosenthal Sharpens Batting Eye
garden is Captain Joe Ridge, the lone outfield returnee from the last campaign. The senior centerfielder batted .323 and covered his position like a master. The other outfield positions are still wide open but Mark Tremblay seems to have an inside track on one of the posts.
Behind the bat, Dick Farrell and Dick Gaberick hold forth. Both of these, together with the graduated King, saw a good deal of action last year and are being counted upon to lighten the backstop worries. Also .in the running is Jack Alessandrini, whose football activities have so far kept him out of action.
Bujnowski Loss Hurts Irish
The pitching staff, although weakened by Bujnowski’s loss, is nevertheless in good shape. Among the star hurlers are Stan Konopka, and basketbailers Jim Gibbons, and John Reynolds. Newcomer Jim Dalton seems to show a good deal of stuff while a host of others are still very much in the picture.
Thus, despite the absence of four key operatives, Coach Kline expects the Irish nine to make a good showing from the start of their long road trip until the season finale with Great Lakes here on June 6.
STAN KONOPKA
Key to Pitching Corps
Villagers Fe+e Varsity Cage Team Thursday
The Villagers’ Club is reviving a once-annual event by sponsoring a banquet for the varsity basketball team at the LaSalle Hotel on Thursday.
Toastmaster will be Joe Boland, of station WSBT-TV. Featured speakers include Ray Meyer, basketball coach of DePaul, and George Ireland, Loyola’s basketball coach.
Honored guests invited by the Villagers are: Joe Doyle, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune; Vince Doyle, of WJVA; Edward Krause, ND Athletic Director; Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.; Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident; Coach John Jordan; Assistant Coach John Castellani; and the basketball squad.
Villagers chairman is John Redden. Bill Allen is in charge of tickets, assisted by Bob Zenzinger, Hugh Schaefer, Dick Scheibelhut, and Herb O’Meara. Handling arrangements are Bill Dosmann, Bill Brown and Paul Farmer, Jr. Tom Baker is handling publicity.
Tickets are available by contacting any club member, or at Bruggner’s, Reco’s and Sonneborns’. Ladies are invited to attend.
26
The Scholastic

Toledo, Pitt Still Leading Keglers; Battel's 171 Tops
Notre Dame’s Kampus Keglers swing into the final third of their bowling season with Toledo running away with the Blue League and Pittsburgh leading in the Gold. Last week Toledo increased its pace-setting total to 34 wins and 46 points by rolling over Buffalo in all three matches. Second place Cleveland with 28 wins, 38 points, and 8 losses, six behind Toledo, took three out of four from the third-place Italian Club.
Over in the Gold circuit Pitt, with 30 victories, six defeats and 39 points, maintained its top spot by sweeping the Chern Engineers. The Smokey City lads were never hotter as they rolled three successive 900 series.
The second place Aesculipians, only two points behind Pitt took four from the Erie Club as Phil Zurlo rolled 499. Third-place St. Louis, just one point below the doctors, won three out of four from the California Club. Art Henken’s high 227 and 539 series paced the Saints. Henken also displaces Paul Pfohl’s 226 as third high in the individual singles department.
The league’s leading average is still being maintained by the Met Club’s Jack Battel with 171. His closest rival is Henken with 166.
NAPPY NAPOLITANO Congratulations
By Jack Sand
A Rarity Among Boxers
The gentleman from Michigan State, southpaw welterweight Chuck Davey, returned to the ring last Tuesday night, and refereed his way into the hearts of more than 5000 Irish boxing fans. Davey claimed he was a little out of shape since his fight with Kid Gavilan, but the way he danced around that ring dodging between Roblez and McAngus, you’d think he was fighting tomorrow. '	.
Harrington Gains Third Spot In Pole Vault at Milwaukee
Coach Alex Wilson’s abbreviated track team made a favorable showing in last Saturday’s Milwaukee Journal track meet. Jim Harrington and Joe Springer, the ace pole vaulting duo, along with freshman high-jump specialist Bernard Allard and the mile relay team of Justin McDonough, Dick O’Keefe, Norm Feltes and Jack Alex-der represented the Irish against the nation’s best.
. Harrington soared over the 14-foot mark again as he placed third behind the country’s number one and two vaulters, Rev. Bob Richards and Don Laz. Richards’ effort of 15 feet, 3 inches was his 40th trip over the bar at 15 feet or better. In the high jump Bernie Allard ended in a five-way tie for third at 6 feet 5 inches, as Lt. Ken Wiesner of Great Lakes set a new indoor world’s record at 6 feet 9/s inches. Because of his freshman status Allard competed as “unattached.” Notre Dame climaxed their performance by taking third in their heat of the mile relay.
For the man who has done the most for boxing during the past year, Davey shows no signs of being otherwise. First impressions would tab Chuck as a real swell guy, but deeper insight will bring out a lot more than that. He’s a sport in every sense of the word. Between autographs he’d tell you little of his personal career unless asked, and instead harp on the fact that Notre Dame should form a varsity boxing team because they have the boxers. The Bengals proved that. Collegiate boxing according to Chuck is a must in the building of a would-be fighter. Chuck recalled his greatest boxing thrill, which happened at Michigan State College when he won the National Collegiate title in 1943 and qualified for the Olympics.
It’s a different feeling talking to Davey
than to most other fighters. He comes up with the answer even before you can finish the question . . . and it’s straight and to the point. Asked what his toughest fight was, Davey quipped, “I guess you’d have to say Gavilan, because I took my first beating, but I got hurt a lot worse in other fights, especially my second one with Carmen Basilio. In fact I wasn’t hurt half as bad as most people thought I was. Up until the ninth round I thought I had a chance to beat Gavilan, despite his quick flurries every once in awhile.”
“I’m not sure when I’ll get another shot at Gavilan,” he said. “A lot depends on what I do in my next few fights, and whether or not Gavilan is still around when I get there.” According to Chuck the exploiting of the fight game on television brought about his rocket-like rise into the boxing limelight. “Without it,” he said, “it might have taken me 80 or 90 fights to get a title shot.
Yes, the public liked Davey, they liked his boxing, and they should continue to like his boxing because he’s one of the few masters left in the game. Chuck doesn’t really have to fight to earn a buck since his brains are more than a match for his brawn, but at present that brawn is building a quicker nest egg for him and his curvaceous wife Pat than his teaching could.
Good luck, Chuck, from Notre Dame and all the Bengal Bouters.
Basketball’s Final Tribute
Johnny Jordan’s Fighting Irish'eagers did more than raise Notre Dame basketball into the national limelight . . . they raised a team that exemplified the finest example of sportsmanship seen anywhere. At least that was the opinion of Joe Conway and Joe McDonald, two of the Big Ten’s best known referees who covered the Irish throughout the NCAA tournament and part of the regular season. “We always liked working with Notre Dame,” they said. Win or lose, they took it in stride, the way all fine basketball teams should.
March 20, 1953
Bob Bickert (left), Jim Logrou mix it up in 167-lb. battle.
1953 Bengals Bouts
The 1953 Bengal Bouts came to a close Wednesday with guest Chuck Davey refereeing the much-awaited Vic Roblez-Alex McAngus match. Davey, top contender for the welterweight crown, received the anual Bengal Bout Award as the “Man who has done the most for boxing during the past year.1’ Gus Cifelli, former Irish tackle, now playing for the Detroit Lions, presented the trophy to Davey.
Bob Bickert, four-year Bengal veteran, of Lincoln, Nebraska, was given the Sportsmanship award, while Pete Cannon of Chicago received the Father Ryan trophy.
Roblez, double Bengal titleholder, showed McAngus experience pays off, pounding out a unanimous decision over the defending 147 lb. champion. Ro-
Tom Murray (left) in for the kill.
blez’s swiftness and air-tight defense were the deciding factors.
The only TKO’s of the evening came in the 142 lb. and 172 lb. divisions. In the 142 class Jim Reno of Michigan dropped Larry O’Mara after 28 seconds of the second round. Both boys had previously won two matches. The other TKO came after Tom Murray of Toledo, Ohio stopped Jose Alexander in 1:15 of the second. The referee halted the bout when Alexander complained of a shoulder injury.
The 177 lb. class was the slugfest of the night, Ed Sarna, South River, N. J. winning a unanimous nod over tough Jerry Boyd. Foi- six minutes both boxers stood toe-to-toe slugging .it out, but Sarna’s well-timed and heavier blows were too much for Boyd.
Oops . . . Missed.
In three other unanimous decisions, Tom Magill defeated Dick (Spider) McVeigh in the 127 lb. class, Bobby Joseph won over Don Bergman in the 167 lb. division, and Ed Cook copped the heavyweight title match over Bill Ahern. McVeigh started Magill’s nose bleeding early in the fight, but the winner finished strong to gain the crown.
Pat Drew of New York City won a split decision over Floyd Boerbon for the 137 lb. title. Drew’s harder blows to the face were the deciding factors.
In the only other match of the evening, Jim Pudlowski took a very close split decision over veteran Joe Belfiore.
Only one TKO marred an otherwise perfect program in the Bengal Bout semi-finals Saturday night, as the other seven boxers had to go the route to earn their decisions. The best bouts came in the heavier classes.
In the first match of the evening, Dick (Spider) McVeigh of Fairbanks, Alaska, used his boxing skill to ground out a unanimous decision over Eddie Olea of Bogota, Colombia.
Larry O’Mara of Chicago opened the 142 lb. class by pounding out a unanimous decision over Sal Profaci of Brooklyn. Profaci, winner of two previous bouts, was stopped for an automatic eight count in the third. Jim Reno of Detroit became the second fighter to win a final berth in the 142 lb. class gaining a unanimous decision over Dick Haefele of Cleveland. It was Reno’s second win of the series.
Captain of the Irish fencing team, Jack Mooney found the going a bit rougher in the ring and dropped a unanimous decision to Jim Pudlowski of St. Louis.
Don Bergman of Kenilworth, Ill., scored the only TKO of the evening, stopping Jim Curtin of Chicago in 56 seconds of the first round. Bergman’s series of devastating blows that ended in a sweeping right were too much for Curtin to weather.
Previous Bengal experience failed to pay off for Bob Bickert of Lincoln, Neb., as he dropped a split decision to Bobby Joseph from Martins Ferry, Ohio. Joseph’s bull-like rushes and short blows combined to give him the edge in the late rounds.
Two of the best bouts of the night came in the 177 lb. division, as Ed Sarna of South River, N. J. won a split decision ovex* Tom Murray of Toledo, Ohio and Jerry Boyd of Saginaw, Michigan topped Jose Alexander of St. Louis. Sarna’s switch to southpaw was a deciding factor.
In the heavyweight and final bout of the semi-finals, Bill Ahern of Kings Park, Long Island, copped a split decision over Gideon Jarvis of Norfolk, Va. Ahern’s left jab piled up the necessary points.
28
The Scholastic
Gideon Jarvis won a unanimous decision over Jackie Lee in the featured heavyweight bout of Thursday night’s quarterfinals. Jarvis, the boxer of the two, piled up points in every round while evading Lee’s aggressive tactics. Although knocked down in the second round, Jarvis returned in the third to stun Lee and capture the victory.
Tom Murray TKO’d J. Deffley in 35 seconds of the second round in the only 177-pound bout of the evening. Both men were in trouble in the first round but Murray, iar the stronger, moved in fast in the second for the win.
In the 167-pound class Jim Curtin outpointed Jerry Mernin in a sloppy bout which saw both men wrestling often but with good punching power and inside fighting.
The Belfiore-McGraw bout in the 157 class was the hardest fought of the evening with both men showing strength and fine punching ability. Although in trouble in the second round Belfiore won a unanimous decision and moved into the semi-finals a strong favorite. In the other 157 bout Ted Pud-lowski TKO’d John Mulvaney in 46 seconds of the second round aftei- having him in trouble and on the ropes most of the first.
Sal Profaci won a unanimous decision over Jon Tyson in the 147-pound bout Thursday in a close battle, with both men landing solid blows in all three rounds.
Tom Magill and Spider McVeigh topped Fernando Nunez and Dan Bu-cynski, respectively, in the 127 class, which showed a lot of bobbing and weaving but little punching from all four.
Seven unanimous decisions, one split decision, and two TKO’s—one an upset, highlighted the second night of preliminaries in the 1953 Bengal Bouts.
Jont Tyson of Mineola, Texas, opened the show by pounding out a split decision over August R. Freda of New Kensington, Pa., in a 142-lb. affair.
In another 142-lb. bout Larry O’Mara of Chicago was the victor over Andy Corrao of Milwaukee by a unanimous decision. O’Mara seemed to be studying his opponent in the opening round, but opened up with a fierce attack in the closing rounds to decisively defeat Corrao.
Sal Profaci of Brooklyn found the left hand his major weapon as he gained a unanimous decision over Tom McCabe of Chicago in the final 142-lb. bout of the evening.
Dick Haefele of Colorado Springs, Colorado, erased an early flourish - by Orlando Gonzales of Barranquilla, Colombia, by a TKO in 1:55 of the second round of their 157-lb. go.
Down For the Count.	Longest Left Thrown in Bengals
John Mooney of Cleveland, in a slightly different role from that of captain of the fencing team, used his longer reach to gain a unanimous decision over his smaller opponent, Mike Demoreville of Caldwell, N. J.
Bob Bickert of Lincoln, Neb., who advanced to the semi-finals of the 1671b. class last year, started things off right with a unanimous decision over James Lagrou from Detroit, Michigan. Lagrou scored effectively with blows to Bickert’s head, but Bickert countered with rights and lefts to both head and body.
Bob Joseph of Martin’s Ferry, Ohio, defeated Kent Rowe of South Bend, in another 167-lb. event. Rowe was aggressive in the first round, but seemed to weaken under Joseph’s attack.
It seems that they saved the best for last, as all the 177-lb. affairs were action-packed. In the first of the three light heavy bouts, Jose Alexander, a
Finalist Spider McVeigh (127-Lb.) Displays Form That Pleases
freshman from St. Louis, scored a 19-second TKO victory over Lee Getschow, a former Bengals champ. Getschow, who won the light heavyweight crown in 1951, was floored by a hard right to the head by Alexander, and the bout was scored officially as a TKO when he staggered to his feet after a count of eight.
Probably the most active fight of the evening was the 177-lb. go between Jerry Boyd of Saginaw, Michigan, and Jack Cannon of Cleveland. Boyd scored effectively with an- incessant attack of punches, but his opponent gamely fought back time after time to draw the applause of the crowd. Boyd was given a unanimous decision, but Cannon deserved a lot of credit for his gameness.
In the final bout of the evening, another 177-lb. affair, Ed Sarna of South River, N. J., won a unanimous decision over Bill Glass of Harbor Beach, Michigan.
Air Force Weather Service Offering Direct Commissions; 21 Concerns Seek June Grads
During the coming week, job-hunting June graduates will be interviewed by the representatives of 21 firms. Additional information and application blanks for these interviews are now available at the Placement Office in the Main Building.
Special: Interviewers for the Air Weather Service of the Air Force will be here one day, still not specified, next week. For time and details, watch your bulletin board. Direct commissions are available for those having one year of college physics and one year of college math through integral calculus. For further information, contact either the Air Force, located in the Social Science Building, or the Placement Bureau.
Monday—B.S. mechanical and aeronautical engineers will be sought by the Aeronca Manufacturing Corp., of Middletown, Ohio.
From the Philco Corp., of Philadelphia will come representatives looking for B-S. and M.S. mechanical and electrical engineers who are interested in applied electronic research, radio and communication engineering and design, and development and production of electronic equipment.
Mechanical and aeronautical engineers will be interviewed by the Piasecki Helicopter Corp., Morton, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia.
Monday and Tuesday—The Travelers Insurance Company is interested in AB and Commerce graduates for various administrative phases of insurance work. The company also offers a graduate training program in group insurance.
Engineers, who have either a B.S. or M.S. in electrical, aeronautical, and mechanical engineering, will be in demand by Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio.
Tuesday—American Airlines of New York City will want both accounting majors and economics majors with an interest in statistics, for the Treasury Department training program.
From Chicago will come interviewers representing both Commonwealth Edison Co., and the Public Service Co., of Northern Illinois. These electric and gas utilities will seek electrical, mechanical, and civil engineers. Also wanted: Juniors in these departments for summer work.
AB and Commerce graduates interested in training programs in accounting, credit, and sales will be interviewed by the Firestone Tire and Rubber Co., located in Akron, Ohio.
Wednesday—The Erie Resistor Corp., will send its representatives. This firm will want B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. electrical, mechanical, and chemical engineers as well as physicists and chemists.
Engineers, specializing in the mechanical, electrical, and chemical fields, are needed by the Worthington Corp., of Harrison, N. J. This manufacturing concern (pumps, turbines, compressors, etc.) also will want physicists and chemists.
Interviews by United States Steel Corp., will be aimed at finding mechanical, metallurgical, electrical, civil, and chemical engineers.
The Ceco Steel Products Corp., of Chicago will keep an eye out for civil, mechanical, and architectural engineers plus any other graduates who have had three or more semesters of engineering training.
Accounting majors, who are seeking work in the vicinity of South Bend, might be interested in the Clark Equipment Co. of Buchanan, Mich.
Thursday — Interviewers from the Magnavox Co., out of Fort Wayne, Ind., will arrive March 19. Electrical and mechanical engineers for work in the lines of magnetic amplifiers, computers, synchro, radar, mechanical devices, UHF, and micro wave engineering, besides accounting majors will be in demand.
B.S. civil, electrical, and mechanical engineers will be contacted by the Consumers Power Co., from Jackson, Mich., which is an electric and gas service company.
The Certified Public Accounting firm of Ernst and Ernst, Chicago, will be here for interviews with accounting majors.
Friday — Mechanical engineers only will be sought by the Grand Rapids
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, March 23—Monday of Passion Week.
Tuesday, March 24—Feast of St. Gabriel, Archangel.
Wednesday, March 25—Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Thursday, March 26—Thursday of Passion Week.
Friday, March 27 — Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Saturday, March 28—Feast of St. John Capistrano, Confessor.
Brass Co., makers of automotive, refrigerator and plumbing hardware in the state of Michigan.
The research laboratories of North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif., will be on the lookout for B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. electrical, mechanical, civil, chemical, and aeronautical engineers as well as physicists.
Mechanical, electrical, metallurgical, and chemical engineers for all phases of production, assembly, sales, repair, and production control are wanted by the Pierce Governor Company, Inc., located in Anderson, Ind. This firm specializes in precision governors and automatic chokes.
Frankford Arsenal, Ordnance Corps of Philadelphia, will send its representatives in search of mechanical, electrical, chemical, and metallurgical engineers. These interviews will wind up the week’s schedule.
Air Cadet Club Fetes Seniors With Mass, Breakfast Sunday
The Air Cadet Club will hold its second Communion Breakfast of the year Sunday morning after 8 o’clock Mass and Communion in the Dillon Hall Chapel.
The breakfast, which will be held in the Faculty Dining Lounge, will be in honor of the graduating seniors of the AFROTC who will receive their commissions this June.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the guest speaker at the early morning feast.
The Air Cadet Club has officially extended an invitation to those in the ROTC Blue to attend the affair. Prices for the breakfast will be 37 cents for campus residents and 75 cents for off-campus residents.
Tomorrow's Varsity (Continued from page 23) points a game in his senior year.
The remaining 11 members of the team include: Joe Bill, 6’4”, of Garden City, N. J.; John Barsell, 6’3”, Chicago; Vince Eilers of Deadwood, South Dakota; John Engler, 5’11” of Mason City, Iowa; Jerry Timbe, 6-foot, Columbus, Ohio; Frank Gladysz, a 5’7” set-shot artist from Perth Amboy, N. J.; Dan Liddy, 6’2” of Brooklyn; Bob Rigby of Richmond, Virginia; Jim Eusterman, 6’1”, of Lewiston, Minn.; Frank Kwak, 5’11%” from St. Bonaventure, Wisconsin, and Pete Fieweger of Davenport, Iowa.
The team is noted for having a scrappy defense, and according to Neumayr worked very well together and showed a lot of spirit.
30
The Scholastic
IMI Mike Chatter
Last Sunday night we tried a new show, without any previous ballyhoo or publicity of any kind. The response was far better than we dared to expect. On a weekend when most of the troops were in Chicago for the basketball tournament, we received 35 phone calls in half an hour on the show. Ergo, it stays in the schedule.
The program I’m referring to is called “Battle of the Century” and is on at 8 every Sunday night from now on. The idea is that we feature two bands on each show. The listeners phone in their votes for the better of the two and the winning band stays on the program for another week to • compete with a new band. Last Sunday, by the way, Ray Anthony beat out Harry James by the close count of 18 to 17. Next Sunday Anthony defends his title against the new challenger, Buddy Morrow.
Immediately following that is the Night Watchman, Leo Zatta, with a new gimmick designed especially for the sentimental ones in our audience. We’ve been getting a lot of letters for our “Requestfully Yours” show from the girls that you left at home, asking us to play a certain song for their love lights here at ND.
Last Sunday, Leo went on the air a half hour early and read some of these and played the songs requested. It sounded like a good gimmick so we are going to keep it up. If you want your name on the air, have your gal send us a letter and we’ll play your song on “Letter from Home” the following Sunday at 8:30. This is so sentimental that my hands are sticky from it, but if you like the sentimental touch, this should be right down your alley.
Speaking of listenei- response, you might be interested in hearing that the
FRESHMAN TEST RESULTS
Freshmen who took the admission tests on Friday, February 13th and Saturday, February 14th, may obtain a profile of their test scores by applying to the Department of Testing and Guidance, Room 4, Main Building.
Ask for Mr. Robert J. Waddick, Counselor, who will assign you an apointment time.
basketball team got 25 telegrams from the guys on campus after Joe Daly’s plea for them on the broadcast of Saturday night’s game in Chicago. Not exactly the 27 footer that the football team got in East Lansing a couple of years ago, but then three-quarters of the campus wasn’t at the Michigan State game like they were in Chicago. Good going.
Orchids for the week go to the Zulu for his self-control, to the basketball team for the season, to Bill Markley for his job on the new Sunday show, to Daly and Gannon for the job on the Tournament broadcast last weekend, and to Saint Patrick for his “Day.”
And won’t somebody tell me, just who IS this guy Dilenschneider???
—Bryan Coughlin
Irish Boosters .
(Continued from page 11) “Gootch, Gootch—Go, Go.”
Between halves intermission entertainment was provided by the St. Rita High School Marching Band and a group of peppery baton twirlers under the precision direction of Miss Bernadine Waldron.
The legalized whistle-tooters quickly squelched any victory notions of the Fighting Irish as they blew them into submission. The prejudiced group from South Bend retorted loudly when they urged the isolation of the men in the striped shirts to the island in the local zoo.
The pressure valve on the Irish boilermaker began to percolate as the team moved to within 8 points of the Big Ten champs, 71 to 63. About this time the Long Shot Appreciation Club of Jerry McCloskey urged his insertion to help loosen the defense.
With the issuance of a terrific blast from the Indiana section, the Irish realized that their opponents’ two-armed basketball arsenal, South Bend’s own Schlundt, had bettered immortal George Mikan’s all-time Stadium scoring record. This only seemed to infuriate both the playing and cheering men to a new pitch as pennies from the exhockey fans in the higher stratospheric heights began to rattle on the boards as the game grew hotter.
As the final, Indiana 79; Notre Dame 66 was flashed, one ND student echoed the sentiments of all those who made the trip, “We lost this one to a better team. But the ND team that’s out there right now can’t be improved upon. I’m proud of their play.”
As the trippers filed out of the arena, strains of the Kansas City Blues could be heard intermingled with those of the familiar Victory March.
Capsule Coruer
Liturgy Club to Sponsor Talk
The Liturgy Club will sponsor a lecture on Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge by Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C. Fr. Boarman will speak on “Holy Week and Easter.”
AB School Holds Meeting
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, presided at a meeting of the college faculty last Monday at 4:15 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
The meeting was the scene of a discussion centering around the present and future curriculum of the AB school.
The group also heard Dr. Vincent E. Smith of the Philosophy Department present the report of the recently established Committee on Self Study.
Syrian-Lebanese Dinner
The Syrian-Lebanese Club, Eastern counterpart of the Irish, sponsored a club supper at the Sunny Italy Cafe on St. Patrick’s day.
Members of the club were commended for their Mardi Gras booth by President Carl Farah at the aifair. Also present were two St. Mary’s College Freshmen, Phyllis Joseph of Texas and Barbara Etoch of Arkansas, as club guests.
GRADUATE RETREAT
The Graduate Student Association announces the annual graduate retreat to be held on March 20, 21, 22 in the Farley Hall Chapel. Retreat Master will be Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C.
SCHEDULE
Friday, March 20 7:30 p.m. — Conference and Benediction
Saturday, March 21 8-.00 a.m.—Recited Mass, Conference.
Saturday, March 21 11:00 a.m.—Conference 3:00 p.m.—Rosary and Stations
4:45 p.m.—Conference
7:30 p.m.—Conference and Benediction
Sunday, March 22
9:00 a.m.—Recited Mass and Conference
(Breen-Phillips)
March 20, 1953
31
Season's Review
(Continued from page 22) the Irish methodically pounded out a 83-67 victory over a hapless Northwestern five at the fieldhouse on Feb. 21. Tommy Sullivan was a surprise starter in place of the bed-ridden Jim Gibbons. The sophomore guard came through with 12 points, most of them on long one-handers. Dick Rosenthal increased his team scoring lead with a 22 point production.
Irish Get Revenge
The big game for the Irish team and supporters was the finale with DePaul, on Feb. 2-5. Notre Dame was out for revenge, and revenge they got, as the Irish used the accommodating fieldhouse baskets to their greatest advantage in smashing the Demons, 93-67. This returned the 83-56 compliment Ray Meyer’s five bestowed on the Notre Darner’s at Chicago in January. Few teams, if any, could have beaten Johnny Jordan’s team Feb. 25. They played superb basketball in every department of the game. Their field goal and foul shooting were at their highest peak; their floor play equally as good. The score could have risen well above the 100 mark had Coach Jordan wanted to lay it on, but his kind heart made him start inserting subs midway in the third period with the Irish riding on a 35 point spread. Falling hopelessly behind almost from the opening tap the Demons with a 17 and six record were helpless to stop the Irish surge. Points kept pouring through the hoop as the Irish student body roared its thunderous approval.
“Junior” Stephens tallied 23 points, many by virtue of a “never miss” one-hander from way out. Bertrand was second with 22, dunking in some sensational under-the-basket shots. Jerry McCloskey plunked in five long shots in a reserve role to help spark his already fired-up teammates. Ron Feie-reisel, DePaul’s great guard led all scorers with 25 points. .
That gave Notre Dame a 17-4 record at the regular season’s end. A few days before the DePaul game, Notre Dame had received and accepted a bid to play in the annual NCAA tournament. For about a week, there was much confusion over whom the Irish would meet and where the game would be played. Finally Fort Wayne’s new colosseum was named as the site, March 10 as the date and Eastern Kentucky (16-7) as the opponent.
In a convincing but unsensational contest, the Irish downed the Maroons, 72-57. ND fell behind 11-4 right at the start as the majority of their shots
rimmed the basket and fell out. By the end of the first quarter however, accuracy from the foul line and two long shots by Jerry McCloskey shoved the Irish within one point, 16-15.
Minus their star scorer, Elmer Tolson, due to tourney ineligibility, the Kentuckians appeared sluggish as the Irish slowly pulled ahead. Though not showing anything resembling the brand of ball they displayed against DePaul, the Irish possessed a 34-29 halftime lead.
With the start of the second half, the complexion of the whole game changed as Notre Dame came to life. In three minutes, the ND advantage had increased to 19, and the victory was assured. Joe Bertrand threw in nine of his team-leading 23 points during this surge. The Maroons once cut the margin to eight, but could not come any closer. Dick Rosenthal followed Bertrand with 17 points; Lewinski had 12; McCloskey, 10 and Stephens, who could not get his one-hander working, had eight.
Regionals in Chicago
This put the ND five into the regional semi-finals at Chicago against Pennsylvania, the Ivy League champion. DePaul, by edging Miami of Ohio in Fort Wayne drew the assignment of playing Big Ten Champ, Indiana.
For three quarters, Penn and Notre Dame engaged in a low-scoring see-saw battle with all-American Ernie Beck leading the Quaker attack. At the end of the third quarter, ND led 41-40, but Bertrand and Rosenthal put on a two man show in the final period to bring the Irish home, 69-57. The main factor in the Irish triumph was sensational foul shooting, an attribute lacked by the Jordanmen during the season. In the Penn game, Notre Dame connected on 29 of 33 foul tries with Dick Rosenthal’s 12 in 14 leading the way. Stephens was high man for the Irish with 19, 12 coming ,in the first half. Rosenthal had 18; Bertrand, 17. Joe scored 13 of these in the final quarter. Beck, a superb basketball player with an uncanny jump shot, scored 25.
Indiana edged DePaul, 82-80, and the two Hoosier rivals met for the second time in the regional finals. The Irish grabbed a brief 8-4 lead on three Stephens’ baskets, but Don Schlundt then started to break away under the backboards and Indiana kept safely ahead the rest of the way to win, 79-66.
Schlundt used his 6'9" frame to score 30 points in the first half, all but 12 of his team’s total. The Irish tried desperately to overcome the 42-32 halftime defecit, but could never get closer than seven points. Schlundt wound up with
41 points for a new Chicago Stadium record; he also was named the tourney’s most valuable player.
For the Irish, Dick Rosenthal gave one of the most sparkling performances of his cage career. Dick played with a 101 temperature and still scored 19 points while rebounding tremendously and holding Schlundt to 11 in the second half. Lewinski also had 19 for the Irish while Stephens ended up with 16 points.
Indiana to Finals
So Indiana avenged one of the three blots on their fine record and went on to Kansas City for the NCAA finals. For the Irish, it was a trip back to the Notre Dame campus, but there was no reason for lowered heads. The Irish eagers had proudly represented Notre Dame in the tournament just as they had during the entire season. This was a good basketball team, these Fighting Irish of 1952-53. Coach Jordan, captain Lewinski, Rosenthal, Stephens, Bertrand, Gibbons, Sullivan, McCloskey— they all helped prove to the sporting public that Notre Dame plays a pretty fair brand of basketball as well as football.
Set April 21 Deadline For Office Nominations
Nominations for the May 1 class officers and college senators elections will be accepted at 208 Walsh no later than April 21, Blue Circle Elections chairman Ray Korzen announced recently.
Sophomore, Junior, and Senior offices include a president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer. Five college senators are to be nominated also, one each from Arts and Letters, Commerce. Science, Engineering, and Off-Campus. A law senator will also be nominated and elected by his fellow law students.
Nominees for a class office must have a scholastic average of 80 or above, whereas candidates for college senator will be required to have an 85 average or above. All nominees must have a clear disciplinary record.
Nominations for class offices may be filed individually or by party, but party tickets are encouraged in order to limit advertising and facilitate voting. College senators, however, are required to run as independents and be nominated as such. Any man, regardless of class, is eligible to run as senator of his respective college.
Further information concerning eligibility, nominations, and the election may be obtained upon request at 208 Walsh Hall.	.
32
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from page 4) program and expecting “greetings” from Uncle Sam at any moment.
Sincerely yours,
Abdallah Samuel Adelo Junior, College of Law
■
Marygrove Woos Mahoney
Editor:
In your Scholastic of Nov. 14, 1952, in the article “The Other Side,” you give the definition of a gentleman as “one who never inflicts pain. He is always courteous . . . patient, considerate, tactful.” The Mechanical Engineers who came to Detroit March 4-8 filled the definition completely.
Twenty-five of the engineers came here to Marygrove College Friday night, March 6 for a party with 25 of the sophomore resident students. They arrived at 8:30 and by the time they left at 12:30, every girl at the party held the same opinion. As one girl put it, “They were really men and gentlemen.”
It is especially difficult to single out any one of these men for special recognition, but here’s a bouquet to Mike Mahoney, president of the ASME’s for the arrangements and preparation of everything from a party Friday night to a souvenir for each girl there.
Again may I compliment Notre Dame on training real “gentlemen.”
Very truly yours,
Barbara Balling
■
Marine Garvin Goes Gung-Ho
Men of Notre Dame:
Just a word of advice to those of you who have yet to align with a military organization for your inevitable, post-grad tour of duty—THE MARINE CORPS HAS IT. Ask anyone of my 100 or so colleagues from the Class of ’52 who are now Marine Shavetails and you’ll get the same answer.
One thing’s for certain—“you won’t be bored.” My Camp Lejeune-based outfit, for example, just returned from Labrador before Christmas, and is now participating in the war games in the Carribbean. This month we’ll hit such gala liberty ports as Colon, Panama City, San Juan, and Miami. Then in April, we embark for a seven month “watchdog tour” of the Mediterranean. After that it’s time for discharge, or Korea, or . . . ? ? ?
Think it over. Scores of Notre Dame men can’t be wrong. Besides, what other outfit gives you a green uniform to wear on St. Paddy’s Day?
Check with Maj. Zimmer at the NROTC unit for commission details.
Ding Hao, Jim Garvin, Class of ’52 Lieutenant, USMC.
P. S.—Don’t fail to join the Notre Dame Club of Washington, D. C., while you’re at Quantico. It’s a fine Alumni club.
Father Cavanaugh At Air Board Conference
Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation and former president of the University, is among a group of distinguished educators and businessmen who are reviewing the policies and performance of the Air Force educational system at the ninth meeting of the Board of Visitors of the Air University at Montgomery, Ala. The conference opened Tuesday and will close Sunday.
The 12 civilian members of the Board of Visitors serve at the personal invitation of the Air Force Chief of Staff and report to him their recommendations pertaining to the Air University. The Board inquires regularly into the policies and management of the Air University and advises the Air Force on matters of educational policy. The Air University conducts research and instructs more than 200,000 servicemen-students in all parts of the world.
Following a briefing at Maxwell Air Force Base by Lt. General Laurence S. Kuter, Commanding General of the Air University, the Board of Visitors will Insnect a number of schools and branches during their six-day meeting.
Installations to be included on the tour will be the School of Aviation Medicine, Randolph Air Force Base, Texas; the Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson Field, Ohio; and the Research Studies Institute, the Air University Library, the Human Resources Research Institute, the Extension Course Institute and branches of the School of Aviation Medicine, all at Maxwell and Gunther Air Force Bases, Montgomery, Alabama.
ND Bridge Men Place Third
Two teams of Notre Dame students gained a third-place tie in the 1953 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament held at the University of Pennsylvania.
Oswald Jacoby of Dallas, Texas, son of the famous card authority, and John J. Fish of Dearborn, Mich., were tied with fellow students Charles Stimming
of Indianapolis and James Klink of Detroit.
Purdue and Princeton University teams took the national crown. More than 3,000 students from 110 colleges and universities entered the contest.
French Seminar Tour Offered fo Architects
The Harvard Summer School will offer a traveling Fine Arts seminar on Romanesque Monasteries and Cathedrals of France during June and July.
Dr. Kenneth J. Conant, professor of Architecture at Harvard University and an authority on mediaeval church architecture, will direct the seminar. The group will travel by motorcoach around France, beginning at Le Havre and ending in Paris.
Among the 50 monuments included in the itinerary are Chartres, Vezelay, and Cluny.
The seminar, which may be taken for credit toward undergraduate or graduate degrees, is designed for students already possessing some knowledge of mediaeval architecture.
Professor Conant, who has been awarded the French Legion of Honor Medal for his research at Cluny and has held appointments as Exchange Professor at the University of Paris, will conduct orientation lectures abroad ship and present the rest of the course material in informal discussions enroute.
Travel arrangements are being made by the Bureau of University Travel, Newton, Mass.
"The House of Jazz" EUR KF ( < >K II'R\
KvmQ) SECORD bar
JAZZ ■ DIXIELAND • POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES
1 ,
'•(all *n • ' ■ -•	■	•
I ■ iv . '
4 12 'io. 'Io h. oith B- o 1 r !
$15 Per Hour Spare-Time Man Wanted
BE Your OWN BOSS
Spare time—First time offered. An Entirely New Item. Refilling and collecting money from our machines in this area. No Selling! To qualify for work you must have a car, reference. $640 cash to secure territory and inventory. Devoting 8 hours a week to business your end on percentage of collections could net up to $400 monthly with very good possibility-. of taking over full time. Income increasing accordingly. For interview include phone in application. Write Scholastic Adv., Box T, Farley Hall.
March 20, 1953
33
By Paul Zalecki
A number of years ago, before television was bringing wrestling, Arthur Godfrey, and Betty Furness into the homes of millions, I remember listening to a radio program which had an interesting beginning. It went something like this: this is an unusual program. Though it is being carried by more than 100 stations to over ten million listeners, it is intended for only one person, you.
Perhaps this introduction was only good script writing, but it also contained a valid consideration. An .individual has to judge for himself what he likes, what he should do, what is best for him. It is silly to do otherwise.
It would seem that everyone acts in this way. Yet there is a vast difference between the person who takes things as they are and goes no further and the one who begins with things as they are and then progresses.
Well-Ordered Life
To live a well-ordered life admittedly is difficult. It means more than a mere conformity to the requirements of society. It entails living according to the demands one makes upon one’s self. And that is not easy.
First of all, a man must be educated. He needs an education which is more than a formal four year attendance at some university. He requires one which means a consistent, conscientious, personal intellectual development.
Intelligent living also takes ambition and determination, and not mere wishful thinking or wanting to do better. It must be a healthy ambition based upon the fact that the individual himself is important and worth something.
To return to the first point of education, the success of four years of college, for the individual, is not to be found in the number of new buildings which have gone up during that time or in the increase in enrollment. It is to be found by answering the question, “What am I getting from college?”
Consequently, the individual should be concerned about no one but himself in choosing what he is going to study. In this light, then, there is little real profit in a student’s becoming seriously concerned over the relative merits of the various colleges in a university. It
seldom affects what one will study. One chooses a major not because of its theoretical, ideal value, but because of its practical, meaningful use to him.
Student discussions of the worth of their own colleges are notoriously ineffective in persuading anyone to change his major. The reason for this may be that the purpose of such arguments is to convince not the listener, but the one advancing them.
It is true of course that a person has to be willing to accept advice. Still it is hardly praise-worthy to be swayed by popular opinion and not to make one’s own decisions. If a person depends too much upon what others say, he tends to stop thinking for himself.
Knowledge, study, achievements have meaning only when they are a personal experience. A man may be able to quote St. Thomas inside and out and offei- a coldly logical answer for everything. Yet if this thinking is not a part of one, it is about as good as memorizing the Sears and Roebuck catalogue.
Temptation of Mediocrity
The most noteworthy men have been those who have put themselves above the hue and cry and not been lulled by the temptations of mediocrity. Such is the man who attains respect.
Call him a snob, a bigot, a hyperegoist, or what have you, there still is something admirable about the man who is firm in his convictions—not because he is stubborn—because he is an educated, confident, thinking man. When a person is able to pick up a book, read it, and intelligently say, even though it is the rage of millions, that it is worthless, then he is on the way to wisdom.
If this be an age when the many are wrong, then the one who is right will find himself of necessity in a minority out of tune with the general way of life. Yet it is better for- him to be so. It is more important to adhere to beliefs and values which are true than to sacrifice them for the sake of conforming to the general pattern.
Probably the one person, more than any other, who bucked the crowd and acted contrary to what the people wanted of him was Christ. His Church had a humble beginning, and it remained in a minority position for cen
turies. The 51 per cent theory for determining what is right or best does not always hold.
Worthwhile Achievements
Still it takes more than conviction to attain worthwhile achievements. It also requires a courageous ambition which leads to action. Alexander the Great did not conquer the world by wondering if it could be done. One of the reasons that his exploits are remembered today, in addition to their significance in the development of Western civilization, is the man himself.
Again, the very foundation of the American Republic is grounded .in the right of revolution. Yet revolutions do not start as a mass majority movement. They begin within an individual, with his personal determination to oppose injustice.
What hope would the revolutionary in the communist-dominated countries of today have of resisting the government, unless he himself were convinced that the government which ruled him were evil and that he as an individual had the right to revolt against it?
Defensive War
The Spanish Dominican Francisco de Vitoria, one of the recognized fathers of international law, in one of his works touched upon the authority to declare and make war. He stated that anyone, even a private person, could accept and wage a defensive war.
Such a statement of the right to resist—which might be a horrible misinterpretation of what he actually meant— may seem to border on anarchy. To judge from the number of revolutions which occur in the countries of South America, perhaps this view does not make for stable government, but it does bring out the importance of defending one’s convictions. It moreover implies that the individual is more important than the state, a view hardly .in argee-ment with totalitarian doctrines.
All this talk of revolutions and world conquest—both military and spiritual— is certainly far afield from the lives of the students at Notre Dame. Hardly anyone here displays such ambitions. Still it takes similar qualities to live according to Catholic principles in an age which lauds mediocrity, minimizes the family, and overlooks the individual.
In an age when weird philosophies run rampant, it is important for the student not only to recognize what is wrong but to resist .it. It is important to him as an individual. One cannot live a full life and meet one’s obligations—to himself, his family, his religion, his country—on' sloppy thinking filled with error. .
34
The Scholastic
Prepare for an Executive Career in RETAILING—in just One Year!
From New York to New Zealand, college graduates converge on “The Retailing Center” to train for an exciting, rewarding career—in just one year! Retailers need you—and look to our graduate school—for future advertising managers, buyers, merchandise managers, fashion executives, store managers, personnel administrators, researchers. Prominent retailers send their sons and daughters to the N. Y. U. School of Retailing to help carry on the family business successfully. Our one-year Master’s Degree program includes courses in all branches of retail-store management, under well-known specialists, plus 10 full weeks of supervised executive training, with pay, in leading New York stores, plus valuable store and market contacts.
For details, write for BULLETIN CJ
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
100 Washington Square East,
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
New York 3, New York
Want to be more popular?
co*®
ARTHUR MURRAY
What a shame it is that so many people miss out on all the fun just because they can’t dance. It’s so unnecessary when learning to dance is so quick and easy the Arthur Murray Way. Imagine... in just one lesson you can learn the Magic Step —Arthur Murray’s amazing discovery that gives you the key to all dances. Once you know this step you can dance with anyone to any music. Yes, even if you’ve never danced before. So, don’t be a sideline sitter, come in or phone the studio now.
CANOE TRIPS into Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $4.85 to $5.40 per person per day. For free information write.
CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, BILL ROM, Box C, Ely, Minnesota
The Juggler is Coming
TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE a Aquinas Library and
Book Shop
YOUR Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend ■
110 E. LASALLE ST.
HEALTH I SPOT I
SHOES
120 E. WAYNE Call 2-3339 for Appointment
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
NOW... 10 Months Scientific Evidence For Chesterfield
A MEDICAL specialist is making regular bimonthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After ten months, the medical specialist reports that he observed ...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
MUCH MILDER CHESTERFIELD 1SHK8M Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
First and Only Premium Quality Cigarette in Both Regular and
King-Size f”""'	;
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE