HOME OF HICKEY-FREEMAN AND
SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES
Look to Gilbert’s for SWEATERS
Featuring the Famous
SKI STAR
$ JQOO
Other Ski Star Sweaters $3.95 to $15
OWEATER of distinction and outstanding style
—your finely made all-wool genuine SKI STAR sweater. Ideal for campus or stadium—and all kinds of outdoor wear. We have them in Red, Brown, Maroon, White, Black and Green. Small, medium and large sizes.
All Wool SLEEyELESS SWEATERS ^3.50up
Taxi Free to the Modern Gilbert's
^GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. MICHIGAN STREET
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
2
Unsigned letters will not be printed, although names will be withheld on request. Contributors are asked to be as brief as possible.
HAVE YOU READ?
To the Editor:
All Texans, whether Aggie-lovers or not, have been vexed concerning the numerous mentions in the press, national and local (Scholastic—Oct 11, 1946), that “Notre Dame is the largest boarding school in the U. S.”
We believe that the time has come to correct this misstatement, once and for all. The largest boarding school, and also the largest military academy, in the U. S. is the Texas Agricultural and Mechanical College (Texas A. & M.— the Aggies) at Bryan, Texas. Their present boarding enrollment on campus is in excess of 7,000 students. Prewar students numbered between 4000 and 6000. . .
Sincerely	—Joseph M. Mengden
The Scholastic stands corrected. Whether Texas A & M is the largest boarding school we do not know; certainly Notre Dame no longer is. There are probably as many as 25 Universities in the U. S. with larger boarding enrollments.—Editor
Dear Editor:
In the Oct. 11 issue of the Scholastic, Messrs. Kilroy and Gismo, in their journalistic snag called “Man About Town,” went into great length describing how much young gentlemen should spend on dates. From the tone of their mutterings, their real names, which is to their advantage to conceal, must be Rockefeller and Morganthau. First of all, where in a town like this could anyone spend $35 on a date? In fact, with a three-orchid bouquet and a hired Cadillac, you would still have to toss out mighty high tips to push away a sum like that on one Saturday night. And where do you find girls around this town who wouldn’t be seen outside if not draped in a Hattie Carnegie creation?
It is my opinion that Messrs. Kilroy and Gismo are talking way above their heads in regard to such expensive dates. If the truth were known, both gentlemen probably try every trick in the book to dodge taking their own dates home in a cab. . . —Name Withheld
•	ALL THE KING’S MEN
Called “the first novel of Pulitzer prize quality this year." S3.00
•	GREEN GRASS OF WYOMING
A new novel by the author of “My Friend Flicka."	S2.75
•	I NAME THEE MARA
Edmund Gilligan's new novel of two ships and four brothers.
S3.00
•	KING JESUS
A new novelized life of Jesus by the creator of “I, Claudius." S3.00
•	SALEM FRIGATE
A novel of the heroic years ended with the war of 1812.	S3.00
•	HOLLOW TRIUMPH
A penetrating psychological study of the mind of a thorough scoundrel. (Fiction).	S2.75
•	STENDHAL
Called “the best biography in English of this Hussar of Romanticism."
•	PEACE OF MIND
America's newest non-fiction best seller by a nationally Rabbi.
•	THE LOWELLS AND THEIR SEVEN WORLDS
Seven eras of American history unfold in this famous (Non-fiction).
•	PIKE’S PEEK OR BUST
By the screwball author of “I Am Gazing Into My 8-Ball."
(BOOK STORE—Washington Street Side)
known S2.50
family.
S4.00
S2.00
411 Zahm
Sir:
Seems like J. B. Frankel has gone all out for good ol’ N.D. I wonder just who he thinks he’s kidding. By this I don’t mean to imply that I disagree entirely with his enthusiasm, but I do think he (Continued on page 7)
NEWS CENTER
127 W. Washington Street “In the J. M. S. Building"
3
mmsors
ROY ELDRIDGE
Kou are invited
PERSONAL APPEARANCE of JAZZ ARTISTS
Saturday, Oct. 26
4:30 p. m.
Meet the kings of jazz . . . Coleman Hawkins, Roy Eldridge, Helen Humes, Rex Stuart and many others. They'll all be at Robertson's to autograph their records.
Robertson's Tea Room
SIXTH FLOOR
“BUCK SKEIN JOE”
water repellent poplin jacket gives warmth without weight
"Buck Skein Joe" jackets, in water repellent poplin, are scaled to tip-top smartness . . . geared to casual college days and nights . . . stepped up-to-the-minute in campus correctness. Zipper front, slash pockets, adjustable at waistline and cuffs. Tan or natural. Sizes 36 to 46....................    7.50
MEN'S SHOP —FIRST FLOOR
ROBERTSON’S
4
((II 1(1 IAIAII
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
ON THE HOME FRONT .. .
Jim Vanderbosch opened last week’s Scholastic to page 11, saw the drawing of “Lena the Hyena” and remarked, “Holy smokes, another St. Mary’s freshman makes the Scholastic!”
Speaking of SMC, the story is going around that one of the girls stopped a priest on the campus last Sunday and said to him, “Father, my conscience is troubling me. Just this morning I admired myself in the mirror more than usual, thinking how pretty I was.”
Father looked at her for a minute or so and said, “Go in peace, my child, a mistake is not a sin.”
There is much jesting over the fact that such typical Hibernian names as Lu jack, Mello, Sitko, Czarobski, and Strohmeyer (to mention only a few) adorn the Fighting Irish football roster. We suggest that Coach Leahy follow Rockne’s example—“Rock,” by way of defensive explanation, took the Latin quotation: Non omnis moriar and changed it to Non omnes Moriaritys.
❖
Ray Belden and Jack Shine were stepping off the bus one night after a pleasant evening at George’s.
Ray: “Let’s drop over to the Grotto before turning in.”
Jack: “Are you out of candles again?”
Saw the movie “Hail Notre Dame” at the Colfax, showing Johnny Lujack living in Alumni Hall. Wonder why they didn’t picture him living in his own room in Sorin . . . could it be that the authorities are reluctant to have our ancient and venerable Sorin make the limelight?
ON FOREIGN FIELDS ...
At Iowa State a certain English prof went over to a local apartment house and asked to see the list of people living there. He looked through the names,
South Bend BOOK HEADQUARTERS
BOOKS	FOUNTAIN PENS
STATIONERY	RELIGIOUS ARTICLES
The BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street
finally found the one he was looking for, and said, “Put my name down for this man’s apartment, please. I just flunked him and he’ll be dropping out of school any day now.”
The Centric (Toledo, 0.)' publishes this slip of the press: “Elder Valese, pastor of the Soul Stirring Church, Brooklyn, will speak here at eight o’clock. She will bring a quart with her and they will sing appropriate selections.”
The Daily Trojan reports that there is a new plastic book cover being sold on the Southern Cal campus. Once your books are covered with this new plastic material, you can:
1.	Read Shakespeare while taking a morning shower. The covers are waterproof.
2.	Give in to that suppressed desire and turn a blow-torch on your Ethics or Cosmology. The covers are fire-proof.
3.	Lay a book directly on top of your latest “Dear John” communique. The covers are acid-proof.
4.	Remove the mothballs from your book case. The covers are mothproof.
In one of the lower east side schools, children complained of not wanting to sit next to a certain boy because he smelled very badly. To correct the situation, the teacher wrote the boy’s mother the following letter:
“My dear Mrs. Cohen:
I wish you would please give Abie a bath as he smells very badly.”
The next day, teacher asked Abie if he had taken a bath. He said, “No, but my mother wrote you an answer on the back of the note,” and this is what she read:
“My deai’ teacher of Abie,
Learn him, dont smell him. So what if he stinks? Abie is no scented rose.”
—Modem Eloquence (Continued on Page 6)
HANS-RINTZSCH
Headquarters for all Luggage
NOT TOO EARLY TO SHOP
FOR CHRISTMAS
Women
Handbags, $3.00 up
Manicure Sets, $5.00 up
Compacts, $2.00 up
Billfolds, $2.50 up
Umbrellas, $5.00 up
Jewett Boxes, $3.50 up
Men
Pipes, $3.50 up
Tobacco Pouches, $1.50 up
Cigarette Cases, $1.00
Billfolds, $2.50 up
Toilet Cases, $5.00 up
Key Cases, $1.00 up
HansXrintzsch
138 N. Michigan
Mcor/^e
• Replaceable filter in new Frank Medico Cigarette Holders, filtm the smoke.
• Cuts down nicotine.
• Cuts down irritating tars.
• In zephyrweight aluminum.
• Special styles for men and women, o $2 with 10 filters, handy pouch and gift box.
5 M O K I N
5.	M. FRANK & CO.. INC.. NEW YORK 11
5
THE WEE
Proving that it can happen here, South Bend had two good movies running simultaneously last week. At one theatre Bette Davis, pacing back and forth like a catamount, did double duty in Stolen Life, and with the aid of expert makeup artists and a classy leisurestyle wardrobe draped well over her for-tyish figure made sure few of Hollywood’s young starlets can touch her for acting. It was good to see Charlie Ruggles back on the screen, but he did very little, except when fondling a cocktail glass, at which time the show was his. Meanwhile around the cornel’ Jennifer Jones pleased in Cluny Brown, aided by toupee-topped Charles Boyer, minus his “cazbah.”
But the picture of the week was the premiere showing of “Hail Notre Dame,” a quickie narrated by Red Barber, which gave the impression that ND was mostly a football mill, with a little Grotto service thrown in. Somebody with drag around here should launch a film project that would depict for the American public a true picture of Notre Dame. Something in gorgeous technicolor, capturing the beauties of the lakes, the woods, the campus in the fall, with the academic angle given a fair break. This would be an excellent job for the publicity department.
Paris
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE s CLEANING	DYEING
Pressing While You Wait
One of Our Specialties: Sweaters Cleaned by our experts keep that “new" look.
Conveniently located at
532 NORTH NILES AVENUE
Across the Street from the Sunny Italy Cafe
John A. O'Connor
In spite of its briefness “Hail Notre Dame” should be well received by the nation’s theatregoers, especially the hero-worshipping kids. For outstanding acting ability Jack Zilly, John Mastrangelo, and Jim Flanagan should take the prizes, although nearly everybody else on the team has his profile flashed on the screen.
We’ve seen a lot of brides walk proudly down the aisle at Sacred Heart Church but none prettier than Mary Minges, who forsook the world to make one man happy last Saturday. The lucky guy’s name was Jim Egan.
Striving young preachers could take a few notes from Father Hesburgh, who delivered the sermon at last Sunday’s 10:10 Mass. Father Hesburgh’s topic (the threefold blessing of marriage: children, • fidelity, and the Sacrament) had the audience captivated, with throatclearing noises and coughing held to a minimum, proving that one good speaker can remedy that nervous catarrhstrumming.
Seldom read by ND men, Dorothy Dix, who advises the lovelorn and attempts to patch up household quarrels, dished out some pretty poignant advice last
week. In a friendly chat to all brides | who might be listening, Miss Dix recom-mended that the newlywed bride baby | her husband, and continue to do so for | the rest of his days. Most ND men will a agree with her that all men love to be babied, and the more they are treated | like a toddling infant, the better they 1 like it. She goes on to say that women | should love our weaknesses, and the kiss- jg and-make-up-policy is favored. Excellent advice Miss Dix! Excellent.	J
Award for the best dressed man of the week to Louie Polk of Badin Hall. His new fall sportcoat is the best looking ;j jacket on the campus. Runner-up: Fred Earley, powder-blue gebs and a blood- i; red bowtie.
A	x*
♦	5
Californians on the campus received ; heartening news last week when it was	1
reported that a deal was under- way to	|
transfer the St. Louis Cardnials to Los	|
Angeles. Vincent X. Flaherty of the LA	|
Examiner is middleman on the transac- I tion, and a lot of movie moguls and race- < horse tycoons are interested. If it fails ] to go through, some other team is sure * to move out to the sunny West.
An ominous note was observed in the changing fall styles of headwear on campus last week. With the coming of the cold winds and the chilly nights । Notre Darners were sporting various kinds of head-covering. A reflection of the zoot-suit or Central Ave. motif was i seen in the appearance of several flat- i topped caps, like the kind the farmers used to wear to town on Saturday night, but recently exploited by dusky hoofers in Harlem musical comedies. For those who prefer the cap over the hat, Ted Budynkiewicz sets the styles.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from Page 5)
At a number of oui- prominent universities, movies of the football team’s “away” games are shown to the student body during the week following the game, with a commentary by one of the coaches. It would be nice to have such a program here at Notre Dame . . . how about it, Student Council?
❖
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS ...
Diamond—a chunk of coal that stuck to its job.
Naturalist—a guy who always throws sevens.
Gold Digger—a girl with the gift of grab.
❖
WE QUOTE . . .
“Better a dinner of herbs where love is than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.”—Old Testament.
LETTERS—(Continued from Page 3) has let the issue go to his head. There always has been, and perhaps there always will be, a rather heated dispute as to whether Notre Dame has any more to offei- than a big name in football. Let’s face it squarely . . . you can’t say yes and you can’t say no.
Personally if I wasn’t convinced that there was something more around here than a pigskin spotlight, with possibilities of even more yet—you wouldn’t find me around long enough for the P.D. to throw me out. Having spent three years in a high school famous throughout the middle west (and I don’t mean Chicago) for its school spirit, I think I can speak with at least a slight degree of authority when I say that N.D. has one of the best student bodies I have ever had the pleasure to be one of. In addition, with the exception of a few lemons you’ll find in any school, the teaching staff of the university represents one of the finest accumulations of professors in the country. The research facilities around here were considered good enough to work on one of the most important and expensive projects of the war.
On the other hand, who—or rather what—is it that carries the highest priority in the institution? For what is Notre Dame best known? What’s the first question always asked when it comes out that you’re an N.D. man?
Certainly it’s a fine school to be from —would it be without a winning Fighting Irish team? Don’t try to answer that, fellas,—you’ll only start a hot and heavy bull session that ye rector will have to bust up come night check.
William F. Baska.
Just which side is Mr. Baska on?—Editor.
331 Cavanaugh Dear Mr. Editor:
With regards to the letter published in the Scholastic on the inefficiency of
Headquarters — for BOOKS and RELIGIOUS GOODS
A very comprehensive selection of the best in Catholic Literature — a complete stock of Missals, Pamphlets, Breviaries, Rosaries, Bibles and Religious Articles.
Huddle employees: As one of the students behind the counter for several semesters, I feel I am in a position to offer those on your side just one rule, instead of five. If they abided by it, it would probably find those on our side much more willing to serve you cheerfully:
Before being served, while being served, and after you have been served —BE GENTLEMEN!
Charles Carroll Carter.
Oct. 21, 1946
To the Editor of the Scholastic:
I have before me an article written for the October 18 issue of the Scholastic by one Roy Lang, who presumably airs the views of our marching band . '. .
The head reads, “ND’S STUNTS MATCH PURDUE’S MARCHING.” I have seen only one better marching band in my life than the Purdue band—that one is Illinois’ brilliant 175-piece band. And the editor, acting, of course, in the light of the article, has the audacity to compare Notre Dame’s excuse for a marching band with a real marching organization, whose precision and timing was something to see.
In the first paragraph, friend Lang makes the only true statement in the whole article. Says he, “The Notre Dame band could learn a few lessons in collective marching from the khaki clad horn footers of Lafayette.” The only error here lies in the obvious underestimation in the number of lessons our band could learn.
Rambunctious Roy opens the following stanza with the piece de resistance; the epitome in ignorance. Quote, “What Notre Dame’s band lacked in military precision they made up for in musical quality and originality.” Musical quality? Is there such a thing in that group of ninety-six nonpareils which cavorts around midfield while the team takes a breather? . . . (Continued on Page 35)
* IATECT TUNES
Five Minutes More
South America Take It Away Central Avenue Boogie
Rumors Are Flying Ole Buttermilk Sky
Copp's Music Shop
122-24 E. Wayne St.
Mill ion enters Sold
. . .THIS IS WHY: ★ Reduces nicotine and tars * Filters flakes and juices * Improves tobacco aroma * Cools and cleanses smoke
When filter is stained from tars and nicotine, reflace with fresh one.
7
UK nOTM DIB snsiic
Disce Quasi Semper Victor us Vive Quasi Cras Morilurus
Founded 1867
■iHBiiiiiiiiitctiiitiiuculiatiiiiiHimitiuitiitniiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiil'nii
John Defant, Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Ted Weber______________________H. Smith Keel
James Clemens____________________News Editor
Frank Keenan_________Associate News Editor Joe Cheney___________’_Sports Editor
Joe Wilcox_____________________Feature Editor
Jim Ferstel  __________Photographic Editor
Frank Cacciapaglia.„.Assoc. Photo Editor
REWRITE
Bob Stock________________________Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
Cover depicts the Fountain of Force and the quaint houses of Fribourg, Switzer-Hand, where the international "Pax Romana" conference was held last summer.
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_____--------------------------Faculty Advisor Tom Gargan, John Denniston-----Circulation M. E. Varga____________________Advertising
PHOTO CREDITS !
Pictures of the NFCCS conference, page 12, the Knights of Columbus communion breakfast, page 20, and the SPATNC, page 11, were taken by Assistant Photo Editor Frank Cacciopaglia.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.', 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the- school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
8	.

Student Council Report
The report submitted by the investigating' committee of the S'C will doubtless be subject to much criticism by the students, but they did much more than has ever before been attempted. True, the inquirers did not enter into the field of items presented in the caf food department. This operation would require wholesale price lists, portion statistics, and market indices which are rarely readily available to the consumer. As a result, the committee confined their activities to those items sold generally in the Huddle, the caf fountain and the golf shop fountain. They determined beyond question that almost every purchase made in one of these concessions is more expensive than it is downtown. With the facts in hand the investigators tried to determine why. Let’s have an objective look at the answers they found.
First, it is contended that in order to profit on the overall operations of concessions plus the dining-hall, the concessions must be run well in the black because the dining-hall is consistently in the red. With this we do not agree for two reasons. There was an increased charge per student of roughly 16 or 17% over last semester to defray the added costs due to the present inflation. There is much less overhead connected with the dining-hall now proportionally than there was before the war when several dozen student waiters were employed at each meal.
Second, the expense of the concessions plus the dining-hall are so high that even though excluded from profit tax, the basic policy is still break-even. This too is fallacious. Sure, there is quite some depreciation on the expensive buildings, but what are the other high overheads? The pay scale is no higher than would be expected, or found, in an ordinary drug store and is probably lower than in downtown districts. There is selfservice in the dining-hall and the cafeteria so there is no question of the expense of waitresses. The buildings are all University-owned, therefore the high rent that is prevalent on Michigan Avenue is not a problem here. There is no outlay for advertising such as required by an independent company because there is absolutely no competition. The customer takes his convenience items where he can get them, except in the case of a boycott, and he doesn’t ordinarily travel ten minutes on a bus for a milkshake or a morning paper.
Obviously the contentions of the report justifying the higher prices do not hold too much water, but what is the answer?
The report’s mention of a boycott definitely is not the answer for the simple reason that there is nowhere else to go and students are notorious consumers of these convenience items. For a boycott to be effective it must be 100 per cent.
Further discussion by the committee brought forth the idea that other concerns do not operate on a loss or breakeven policy in all cases even though their expenses are higher and their costs equal to those of the concessions. Reference to OPA, although not mandatory on the campus, furnished a guide in the comparison of regular stores as against local outlets.
The conclusions of the committee are .sound and they were condensed into recommendations to the University Council. The students are justified in the gripe over high prices in spite of the increase in the cost of supplies. Although a small increase in some articles is to be expected, several specific costs could be lowered. This probe was undertaken in a spirit of fair-mindedness and in some cases the investigators bent over backwards rather than draw false conclusions. We feel that discussions with the Administration will bear fruit.—H. Smith Keel
Library Hours
With some four hundred married vets living off campus, plus hundreds of other single students also rooming in South Bend, the current library hours are proving totally inadequate.
Many of these students carrying fulltime class schedules and working after school hours, find it virtually impossible to utilize the library to the fullest extent because it is never open for their convenience.
One way to accommodate these students is to keep the library open later at night and all day Sunday, for it is the only free time they have.
Certainly an inadequate library staff is no rebuttal to this problem for enough students could be hired by the University through the student employment office to more than take care of the extra hours the library would remain open.
—James A. Clemens, Jr.
"SCHOLASTIC" DINNER
"Scholastic" staff members will be feted at a dinner at the Ramble Inn on Tuesday evening at 6:00 p. m. The inn is located on the Dixie Highway about one mile north of St. Mary's.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 6
OCTOBER 25, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
SC Committee Assails High Prices
Labor Controversy Perils Vet Housing
By AL KUNTZ
The Veteran housing project just east of the campus broke into the news this week, not because of the building of houses but because of non-building. The cause of this was the recent strike of A. F. of L. Hod Carriers & Common Laborers both here and in Mishawaka. The controversy between Local 645 of the Hod Carriers and Laborers and the Carpenters of Local 413 threatened to disrupt construction here at N.D. Married Veterans housing project.
The following account was given to a Scholastic reporter by Mr. Tex. W. Borders, executive vice-president of Local 645: “The trouble started last Wednesday when a common laborer, backed by a carpenter, refused to take an order from a foreman. The laborer was fired. Later the carpenter was fired for interference. Then the carpenter and the foreman started to wrangle and the foreman was discharged by the company. The Hod Carriers and Common Laborers union is insisting that the foreman be reinstated on the basis that he acted entirely within his rights, and the union has no objection to the carpenter being reinstated on his job. As far .as the common laborer who refused to take an order, he is out. The fellow was entirely out of line.” Mr. A. E. Kinas, business agent of Local 645, said that the work stoppage was the fault of the construction company, and that when the foreman was put back to work after being dismissed the carpenters refused to work. The company ceased all operations, after this event.
The A. F. of L. Hod Carriers placed picket lines at the site of the Notre Dame Veteran’s Housing project to protest unfairness on the part of the union. There were reported to have been several near skirmishes between some of the (Continued on Page 32)
NO SCHOLASTIC NEXT WEEK
There will be no Scholastic published Nov. 1, All Saints Day, as the magazine staff takes a holiday with the remainder of the student body. The next issue, published Nov. 8, will be distributed in the residence halls by noon, so that students leaving for the game in New York will have the magazine before train time.
VETERANS NEWS
DO YOU WANT TO GET PAID?
The Veteran’s Administration Guidance Center announces that there is another form that must be filled out by all veterans enrolled in the University under Public Law 346. The form is entitled “Estimate of Compensation from Productive Labor.” This form must be completed and in the files of the Indianapolis office prior to Nov. 6th. Otherwise the subsistence allowance checks will be suspended.
Those veterans who registered through the Navy Administration Building have already completed this form. However, if the employment status of these veterans has changed, they must fill the form out again. Those veterans who did not go through the Navy Administration Building and did not receive this form with their last subsistence check are advised to come to the Guidance Center and obtain one of these forms to execute and return to the receptionist as soon as possible.
This form is a result of Public Law 679 which is an amendment to Public Law 346, passed by Congress for the purpose of putting a “ceiling” on the total monthly earnings of all veterans affected by Public Law 346. Veterans who are not employed and are receiving no pay or salary other than the monthly Government checks must also make sure that a form is on record for them.
—John V. Hupf.
Advise Reductions In Fountain Items
{The full text of the Student Council’s report on concession prices appears on page 13.)
The Student Council committee, investigating high prices on the campus, this week in a five-page report declared that students are justified in their demands for price reduction, and that even though the costs of many items have increased since June of this year, there are price increases in many commodities which do not seem reasonable.
The investigation, initiated at the request of Bob Lanz, student representative from Breen-Phillips Hall, had its roots in wide spread student disatisfaction with fountain-service and concession prices on the campus. As a comparison of prices in last week’s Scholastic revealed, prices at Notre Dame are from 5% to 50% above those charged in town.
Submitting their report to the University Council this week, the investigators recommended that milk shake prices be reduced from 25 to 20 cents, and that all other fountain items, cigarettes, and Chicago newspapers be reduced in price to conform with South Bend items of the same nature. The Student Council further recommended that all prices be “kept under constant surveillance and that they be lowered at the earliest opportunity,” and that a full explanation of present prices be given the student body.
Only the dining hall’s present attitude in concession operation warrants the high prices, the Council committee asserted. That policy, as advanced by D. E. Ford, dining hall manager, states that while the concessions, operated on a nonprofit basis, are exempt from OPA restrictions and profit tax, high manufacturers’ prices and .the failure of the University to approve a 25% increase (Continued on Page 32)
9
Rhodes Scholarship Openings for ’47 Term
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School and Institutional Representative for recommendation of students to compete for Rhodes Scholarships, has announced that the first postwar election for the Scholarships will be held in December, 1946, and that successful applicants will enter the University of Oxford in October, 1947.
According to the will of Cecil John Rhodes, an Englishman who amassed a vast fortune in the diamond fields but who was also vitally interested in educacation, 32 Scholarships are assigned annually to the United States. Because of the war, the Trustees have authorized 16 additional Scholarships annually for 1946 and 1947, which will be divided between candidates for regular or War Service Scholarships, judged on the merits of the applicant.
Applications must reach the Secretary of the Indiana State Committee of Selection on or before Nov. 2. In making application the student should write to Prof. F. P. Hall, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind. Upon recommendation by his college or university, a prospective candidate may apply either in the state in which he resides or in the state in which he has received at least two years of his college education by the time of application.
Unmarried men born on or after Oct. 1, 1922, and before Oct. 1, 1928, are eligible for regular Rhodes Scholarships. In addition, a limited number of War Service Scholarships are available to men, both married and single, who were born on or after Oct. 1, 1915, and before Oct. 1, 1928-
Prospective candidates should contact Father Moore at the Graduate School office in the Administration Building. Copies of the Memorandum of Regulations, application blanks and other information relative to the Scholarships may be obtained from Father Moore, whoes endorsement and recommendation must first be procured, before any further action can be taken.
—George McCarthy
Readers Discover New Additions In Library
Students interested in outside reading will be pleased to hear that several new acquisitions have been made by the Main Library, among them the Book of the Month, T. H. White’s Mistress Masham’s Repose, illustrated by Fritz Eichenberg. Besides White’s book is Airport Planning by Charles Froesch, The Lozvells, and Their Seven Worlds by Ferre Greenslet,
The Brontes, Charlotte and Emily by Laura Hinkley, and a work of current interest, Robert Ingram’s Afte?' Hitler, Stalin?
Also included in the list recently acquired is The Miracles of the Bells by Russell Janney, and F. Majdalany’s The Monastery, the dedication of which reads, “For my friends of all ranks in the second battalion XX, the Lancashire Fusiliers.” For Business Administration students are two books which might prove informing, William J. Smith’s Spotlight on Labor Unions, and Arsenal of Democracy, the Story of American War Productiofi by Donald Nelson.
Engineer Describes Metal Salt Treatment
Mr. H. J. Babcock, research engineer of the Ajax Electric Company, Philadelphia, speaking to a representative group on Wednesday, October 9, at 8:15 p. m., in the Engineering auditorium opened the 1946-1947 Metallurgy Technical Program, sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals.
Mr. Babcock’s subject for the evening was “Salt Bath Heat Treatment.”
More than 45 faculty members, students and representatives of 13 industries of South Bend and vicinity heard Mr. Babcock’s lecture on salt baths and related treatments of metals.
The program got underway as Mr. Herbert Habart of the Torrington Co., South Bend, and chairman of the Notre Dame Chapter, introduced two new members, Don P. Graffiin of the Toy Company and Frank J. Pyratel of the Oliver Corporation—transfers from the Terre Haute and Cleveland chapters.
Mr. .Habart then presented Mr. Babcock who delivered his lecture by taking the group on a tour through the entire process of salt baths with the aid of slides of illustrations and charts.
The next lecture of the 1946-1947 Technical Program, according to the Department of Metallurgy, will be presented on November 13, by Dr. J. C. McDonald, Assistant Technical Director of the Magnesium Division, The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Mich. Dr. McDonald’s subject will be “Designing With Magnesium.”
Vocations Discussed In C.S.C. Quarterly Folder
An explanation of what parents should do about the possible priestly or religious vocation of their sons and daughters is contained in the Parents’ Edition of the “Vocational Digest,” an eight-page foldei-published quarterly by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
KC to Hold Halloween Mixer In South Bend
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus will celebrate Halloween with an informal mixer for all its members in the clubrooms of the South Bend council. Deputy Grand Knight James Webb, in charge of arrangements for the affair, has planned an evening of entertainment and all-around fun, through the cooperation and courtesy of the South Bend council. It will be strictly a Notre Dame affair, with members of the local council only being admitted to the South Bend clubrooms that night.
Grand Knight James D. Sullivan has called a meeting foi’ Tuesday night, October 29th, in the council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall at 7:30 o’clock. He has also extended an invitation to all Knights to drop in at the council clubrooms Saturday afternoon to listen to the broadcast of the game with Iowa, being played at Iowa City. This is in keeping with the council’s policy to open the chambers for the benefit of members on days of games played away from home.
The finals of the annual K. of C. Vaudeville show have been set back two weeks to the 4th and 5th of December. Chairman Jack Galloway expects a record-breaking list of contestants to compete for the cash prizes—$30 for first place, $20 for runnerup honors, and $10 for the show position.
The council basketball team is in the process of organization, with Tom Bro-den, chairman of the. Council Activities committee, at the helm. He is at present trying to schedule games with teams from South Bend, and hopes to enter the team in league competition in town.
Food, Show, lllini Movies Feature Cavanaugh Party
Dinner in the reading room, an entertainment in Washington Hall, and a nightcap of cider and cookies featured the Cavanaugh Hall party held last Thursday.
Jack Murphy and Bob Uhl arranged the event which opened with dinner in the reading room. Then the sons of Cavanaugh adjourned to Washington Hall where a program of music and a takeoff quiz blended with movies of the Illinois game provided the entertainment. Following this program, the Cavanaugh lads returned to the reading room for a nightcap of cider and cookies.
Just off the press, the illustrated folder is concerned with the religious vocation in general and is not directly concerned with the Congregation of Holy Cross.
10
SPATNC TERRORIZES ARMY COACH WITH DAILY REMINDERS OF GLOOM
Coach Earl Blaik of Army, teetering on the brink of hysteria, has already picked up a case of the galloping D.T.’s. And who wouldn’t. In" each day’s mail the Cadet Coach gets a card, ominously signed SPATNC, the tone of which is something like this:
“Dear Coach: This is to remind you that the day of retribution is fast approaching. Might we advise you to make the most of the time that remains. As the poem has it—‘Gather ye rosebuds while ye may.’ We trust that you have not severed all affiliations with Dartmouth—any port in a storm, you know. There are only 180 days until Nov. 9. . . . (Signed) SPATNC.”
Day in day out, cards of this nature find their way into Col. Blaik’s mail box, and no doubt send the shivers tingling up and down his spine.
But who is SPATNC? What evil lurks behind that mysterious name? What is coming off Nov. 9, that will bring such drastic consequences to the Army coach?
SPATNC is the Society for the Prevention of Army’s Third National Championship. Like most underground organizations it was founded in the hour of dire need, .in this case during the years 1944-45 W.L. (Without Leahy). Two
Notre Dame men are responsible for the sinister cult—Jim Burns and Warren Fronrath.
Burns and Fronrath last May decided that Notre Dame would no longer be a wall-flower and let Army waltz off with 59-0 and 48-0 wins as it did in ’44 and ’45. Fortified in the fundamentals of psychology, where they learned that repetition aimed at a sensitive spot would wear upon the opposition’s nerves, they penned the first of several poison pen cards (the one quoted above) to Army Coach Blaik. This began the monotonous parade of cards which daily since has reminded Blaik of his approaching date with destiny—the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame on Nov. 9,' in Yankee Stadium.
The mystery of SPATNC slowly crept across the nation. While Blaik bathed in cold sweat, some of the nation’s leading sportswriters began to sleuth around for clues. Tom Siler of the Chicago Stm and Joe Williams of the New York World-Telegram were let in on the secret by Burns and Fronrath. Thanks to the two sports scribes, SPATNC became a household word in the homes of Notre Dame’s subway alumni.
Siler has mentioned the group on different occasions in his stories, while
Williams brought SPATNC out in the open in his article about Army in the recent issue of Sport magazine.
As SPATNC’s day of retaliation nears, Burns and Fronrath report that New York’s subway alumni, plus Irish mythical and actual alumni all over the land, will rally to the cause in person or in spirit when on Nov. 9, a jittery, shaken, worried, SPATNCed Earl Blaik sends his. mighty Army warriors into the decisive battle of the 1946 grid campaign. ,
SPATNC is certain that with all of its psyschological mumbo-jumbo plus the invincible spirit of a fighting Notre Dame, the Irish are certain to win.
Force Only Argument With Lawless Nations—President
Jim Bums (at typewriter) and Warren Fronrath prepare SPATNC's daily postcard to Army's Coach Blaik.
" The only language understood by nations who repudiate the moral- law is force; the only argument that can convince them is power and more power. So declared Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, at the Naotional Aviation Clinic in Oklahoma City, last week. .
If the United States must deal with nations of this type, “then we had better pile up our armaments sky-high and make better bombs,” Father Cavanaugh said. “That was the language of Germany, and we spoke it with cannon and .bombs from the air. It was the language Japan knew best and we answered them at Hiroshima.”
Father Cavanaugh continued by stating, “God forbid that in this atomic era we shall ever have to fight another nation with force, for it. may mean the total destraction of all that matters in a material way, all that technological advances have brought as benefits to mankind. Let us hope that before such a cataclysm takes place men of all nations: will have the sense, the humility, and courage to get back again to those principles which alone enable men to live together in order and in peace on earth.”—Snyder
II
SC Seeks Name Band for Trojan Dance
At the last meeting of the Student Council, plans for a name band to appear at the Victory Dance after the Southern California game on Homecoming weekend were discussed. It has been determined that both Jimmy Lunceford and Ina Ray Hutton have open dates on that Saturday and would be available. No definite selection has been made as yet but the Council is seeking a price quotation from both sources and announcement as to the choice will be made in the near future.
Following numerous requests of students for additional telephones to be installed on campus, the Student Council has taken the problem up and are confident that at a near date more telephones 'will be available for the use of all. Installation in the cafeteria is planned.
At last Monday’s meeting the Student Council granted the Indianapolis Club permission to hold a dinner at Rosie’s on the twenty-third of this month. In addition, a request by Walsh Hall to hold a banquet in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel on November 7 was also approved.
Two new constitutions for Campus regional clubs were passed on by the Council. They are the Buffalo and Cincinnati Clubs.
The Student Council also voted on a motion made by F. Gerard Feeney, stay council member, to amend Article 4, Section C of their own Constitution. This amendment, which was carried, will give the Villagers Club an additional representative in the Student Council, bringing their total to two members. Before
the war the Villagers Club had two members on the Student Council but during the war their membership was reduced to one because of the decreased size of the Club. Now that the Villagers are back to more than normal strength, it was necessary that their representation in the Student Council be increased. One representative shall be elected by the Villagers Club and the other member will ex officio be the President of the Villagers Club. Under the Student Council Constitution this amendment becomes effective as soon as it is approved by the Administration.	’
Fort Wayne Regional Council Meets Here
A regional council meeting of the Fort Wayne Region NFCCS was held in the Rockne Memorial Lounge on Saturday, October 19. Five colleges were represented: Nazareth of Kalamazoo, Mich., St. Joseph’s of Collegeville, Ind., Aquinas of Grand Rapids, St. Mary’s and Notre Dame.
Patrick O’Meara, national president, reported on the workings of the federation on a national scale, told plans for the future, and regional aims. Father Putz gave a report on the meetings held in Europe during the summer and gave a statement of purpose for participation in these organizations, both national and international. The various commissions within the region gave their reports and the meeting closed with the following plans for the future: council meeting at Notre Dame on December 7; Regional Congress at St. Joseph’s on February 8-9, and a second council meeting to be held in May.
Married Veterans Plan Dinner for Thanksgiving
The Married Vets Club has sent notices to all its members informing them of their first social function of the semester. It is a Thanksgiving dinner to be held in the University Dining Hall on the evening of November 28 at 7 o’clock. The price is to be $1.50 per person. Included in this will be the entire dinner.
For entertainment Tim Bradley, the chairman has arranged to present an old-fashioned vaudeville show. It will be made up of a group of students who have appeared previously in shows held on the campus. Also a possibility on the program will be moving pictures of the coming Army-Notre Dame game. The coaching staff has not yet consented to the release of the pictures however, since the season will still be in progress.
—Lou Horning
Philosopher Will Speak Monday In Law Building
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, has announced that Prof. Alexander Koyre, faculty member of the Ecole des Hautes Etudes at Paris, and at present visiting lecturer at the University of Chicago, will present a lecture in the Law Auditorium on Monday, Oct. 28, at 8 p. m. Subject for Prof. Koyre’s lecture will be Galileo, Italian scientist, inventor of the telescope and founder of experimental physics and chemistry. Prof. Koyre is an internationally known author in -the field of modern philosophical and political thought and has made extensive studies into the life and works of Galileo. The lecture is open to all students.
At left the total delegation of the NFCCS Council meeting. Regional officers at right are: Dorothy McFarland. Mary Bishop, Pat O'Meara, Fr. Wm. Cunningham, Jerry Byrne, Tom McCaffery, and Chas. Burkhardt.
3?
Price Investigation Committee Report
Subject: Campus Dining- Hall, Fountain Service and Concession Prices.
To: University Council, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.
Through: The Student Council.
Authority: The Student Council.
Matter Investigated: Whether the prices charged by concessions on the campus are reasonable and if not what possibility is there of a reduction.	.
Facts:
a. Student body. This mattex- of investigation of prices was instituted at the request of t he Student Representative from Breen-Phillips Hall, Robert Lanz.
There has been wide discussion amongst the student body about the justification of the prices of milk shakes, cookies and cigarettes charged at the fountain in the cafeteria and the other concessions on the campus.
Some students have admitted individually boycotting the fountain service and concessions because they cannot afford the inflationary prices and others in the hope that this will naturally cause a reduction.
Others are quite irritated by the “high prices’’ and refex- to the downtown establishments which furnish better quality at lower retail prices.
b. Price comparison. Mr. Johxx R. O’Connor and Mr. Louis Street compiled the following
comparison of campus town South Bend prices	concessions	and down-
	Downtown	University
	Price	Price
Cheese-it crackers, 6 oz.	14c	20c
Nobility cookies		44c	45c
Ritz crackers, S oz. ..	17c	25c
Hi-Ho crackers, 1 lb. .	26c	35c
Sunshine Fig Sticks ..	24c	25c
Carton, cigaxettes 			$1.30	$1.50
Sodas 		15c	20c
Cigarettes 		15c, 2 for 29c	17c
Milk shakes 		15 and 20c	25c
c.	OPA. '
(1)	Under OPA regulations the university dining halls cafeteria and concessions are exempt from control because they are considered a non-profit operation. A statement to this effect is posted in the university cafeteria.
d.	Mr. Ford. An interview with Mr. David Ford, university dining hall, fountain service and concession manager, disclosed the following:
All are operated on a non-profit basis, are excluded from profit tax, but subject to a high overhead expense.
Increases in prices have been sustained as follows and other- prices are as indicated: ’
(1)
Fountain Service—
(2)
(3)
(a)	Chocolate up 27 per cent.
(b)	Two increases in milk prices.
(c)	Ice cream up 25 per cent.
(d)	Milk shake cost price, chocolate, milk, and ice cream.
Concessions—
(a)	Cookies and crackers increased.
(b)	Cigarettes recently increased 1c per pack from 16c to 17c as a result of manufacturers 25c increase per 1000.
(c)	Ward’s doughnuts, cost price 2 l-2c each, retail price 3 for 10c, overhead margin of profit 2 l/2c.
(d)	Chocolate cake sandwich sold at l/2c above cost price.
Dining Hall—	.
eggs served to students.
(a)	Eggs, wholesale are 72c per dozen, 6c apiece for every * egg served to students.
(b)	Lard, used fox- frying doughnuts and baking of pastries
increased to 55c per lb.
(c)	Dressed chicken meat 55c per lb. per serving.
(d)	Butter 95c per lb., until Sc decrease was effective Oct. IS.
(e)	Flour increased from $3.00 to $5.00 because of the government’s lifting of the subsidy.
Because the university council did not approve a 25 per cent increase in the tuition board price the dining halls have been operating in the red since the beginning of the semester due especially to the decontrol of prices on food commodities and their subsequent unpredictable and increasing rise.
Since the tuition price had been set and indicated the dining halls would be unable to meet market prices with the university allotment it was decided to increase certain items of the fountain service in order to break even as a result of price increases in the major ingredients. Before deciding to do this Mr. Ford surveyed downtown establishments especially those, selling items below ceiling prices. He found that in many cases the business was using the item as a leader, was sustaining a loss at the indicated price which was made up by sales in other departments or was just breaking even on the item. In one instance a store manager, whose fountain service items remained at pre-war levels—he admitted that he never determined the plus or minus margin of his items in that department but rather considered all store sales as a whole and losses in the fountain service department were compensated for in another department. The university dining hall, fountain service and concessions have no outside income on which to depend for any losses in sales.
He stated that dealing on the market today is extremely difficult because business concerns are no longer interested in giving service and have become very independent in their dealings, making the procuring of many staple items and all additional required items an almost prohibitive task.
He believes that a recession in the price of commodities on the market is noticeable, that is. however, only for a few items, and though there are indications this recession will continue it is difficult to predict when the break in the inflationary prices will come and prices will return to normal.
He further stated that the reduction in prices of any fountain service items must be approved by the university council to whom he is responsible, if there is to be a divergency from the present established policy of operating the dining hall, fountain service and concessions on as’ “economical a basis as possible.”
He concluded by emphasizing that he would be happy to answer any questions regarding anything under his responsibility, that the books are open to those desiring to peruse them and that the Student Council was welcome to call upon him for any of the information they desired on the subject.
e. Administration. The secretary of the University Council stated that the Student Council report would have to be submitted to the Council before any action could be taken.
Discussion:
a.	Student body. The student body in its many gripes and actions regarding tlie present prices of items at the cafeteria fountain and other campus concessions, which are non-profit and operating for the benefit of the students, deserves to see a reduction in prices of such items or to receive a thorough explanation of the reason for such prices. An individually applied boycott, if continued, will prove beneficial in the long run for the less amount of the items sold in the concessions, the less the university must purchase on the market, and the less purchased on the market will cause an abundance of that item and force dealers to lower prices.
b.	Price comparison. The comparison of prices of downtown and campus concessions certainly indicates that items are sold cheaper
at various establishments in town, and it is reasonable to assume that these are not constantly sold at a loss or a breakeven policy, dependent upon another department of the store to balance the loss, nor is it believed that there would be such a difference in the overhead expense that the university concession would be reasonably justified to sell a popular drink at a 25 per cent increase. Then too, this comparison of prices is between profit and non-profit concerns, yet prices in the latter’s case are more expensive.
3. OPA. Though the university, because it is non-profit, is not affected by the OPA. the recent OPA regulations again affecting items which were decontrolled since June 30, 1946, can be used as a guide, which in the case of milk shakes would authorize an increase to the nearest nickel level—items with ceilings of 20 cents or more as of June 12. 1946. The new price, according to OPA would be based upon the raw food cost plus a percentage markup.
d.	Mr. Ford. .It appears that Mr. Ford is definitely concerned about operating the dining hall in the red and as a result decided to operate the fountain service and concessions at a break-even policy. This considers the high overhead too. It can be assumed that his overhead would remain constant, e.g., for one hour, whether 1 or 50 milk shakes were sold, however in view of the obvious boycott, individually applied by a large number of students, it seems possible that a greater volume of shakes would be sold and a greater margin of profit realized for the concessions if the price of milk shakes was reduced from 25 to 20 cents. Increase in price of other items compared appear reasonable.
e.	Administration. The administration is unable to make any statement in reference to the prices, but will consider the report submitted by the Student Council.
Conclusions:
That the students are justified in their demands for reasons in price rises, or action in price reduction.
That the increase of milk shakes from 20 to 25c does not seem entirely justified, in spite of certain commodity increases.
That costs of many items have increased measurably since the decontrol of all items June 30. 1946.
That present prices of other items mentioned under paragraph b of Facts appear justified in view of the policy of operation of concessions and fountain service.
That a slight reduction in the price of the milk shakes would produce a morale boost in the student body and produce additional confidence in the Administration officials and operating personnel.
Recommendations:
1.	That the University Council consider the reduction in price of milk shakes from 25 to 20 cents with the increased volume of sales proving the compensation for any difference in cost and retail price.
2.	That prices on ice cream cones be reduced 1 cent.
3.	That prices on cigarettes be reduced to conform to prices prevailing downtown.
4.	That prices on all fountain items be made to come in line with downtown prices for the same items.
.	5. That prices of Chicago papers be reduced 1 cent.
That if this is not possible that prices be kept .under constant surveillance and that the price be reduced at the earliest opportunity.
That the student body be infonned of this investigation and the results.
. „ Signed:
Robert R. Uhl, Chairman. John R. Connor.
Louis G. Streer.
13 J
Operation University
Father John Courtney Murray’s article in the April issue of “AMERICA,” entitled “Operation University,” brought home to certain people in this country the realization of America’s responsibilities to the International Student Congresses held this summer in England, France, Czechoslovakia and Switzerland. Time being short, a group of eight students was hastily organized to form the delegation representing Catholic student organizations in the United States.
From Notre Dame Martin McLaughlin and Vince Hogan were chosen to represent the University. Other delegates came from Catholic University, Georgetown, Fordham, Mount St. Vincent’s and Barat College.
On July 16th the delegation sailed aboard the S. S. Brazil. Aboard ship the presence of such personalities as Rabbi Wise, travelling to the Palestine Conference in London, and several members of the Paris Peace Conference, made the trip outstanding. Rabbi Wise presented his views on the Jewish problem in Palestine, and shook the ship with antiBritish invective. There were talks and discussions on various international questions, in particular on the position of the Catholic Church concerning Franco Spain, Communism, the United States and the Orient.
Aside from the work done in England, France and Czechoslovakia, one of the principal tasks of the delegation was to
represent American students at the Pax Romana silver jubilee Congress at Fribourg, Switzerland. Founded in 1921 by student unions of three neutral countries, Pax Romana was the result of efforts to promote the rapproachment of students from former enemy countries, especially France and Germany. This spirit of international fraterization was to be the mainspring which would annually bring students from all over the world together in conventions to be held in cities of various countries. The last Congress was held in New York on the very day of the outbreak of hostilities. As Nazis rolled into Poland, German and Polish representatives asked to lead the prayers on this day in expiation and petition for the two countries and for the entire world.
Fountain of the Samaritan Woman and gothic house.
During the war, Pax Romana carried on extensive relief work among prisoners of wai- and exiled Polish and French students with funds obtained from the NCWC and Swiss Relief. They were also associated with Protestant and non-sec-tarian relief agencies in the World Student Relief, distributing money and materials to the amount of two million dollars.
This year’s Congress at Fribourg was presided over by His Excellency, Bishop Muench of Fargo, North Dakota, who. was one of the first charter members of Pax Romana during his student days at Fribourg. The new University building there was the setting for the sessions of the Congress, which was a well-planned mixture of work, pleasure and intellectual stimulation. Outstanding lecturers addressed the plenary sessions each morning, discussing the various aspects of the intellectual life in a University. Theatrical performances, a song-and-dance fest, and semi-private parties composed the social side of the Congress. The basic work of the Congress however, took place at the sessions of the Inter-federal Assembly, where the admission of new federations, the draft constitution, relations with YCS, student relief and student exchange, were discussed.
Pax Romana made its greatest contribution to the international student community at this Congress by serving as an important medium of contact between students of the forty-one nations represented at Fribourg. Innumerable opportunities were available for an exchange of opinions among the delegates on both a commission and a personal basis. The Spanish question is a hot one. Spain sent a full delegation to the Con-
14
gress, accompanied by the Auxiliary Bishop of Valencia who spent considerable time explaining the Spanish situation to students of other lands. Because of the earlier attempts of outsiders at the Pax Romana meeting in Salamanca to involve that convention in the politics of Spain, the atmosphere was electric from the beginning. However, as the Congress progressed the tension was noticeably relaxed.
A trend has been observed in Pax Romana, especially in view of the foundation of the non-sectarian International Union of Students at Prague, to evolve into a Catholic World Student Union. In the past it has acted merely as a world .secretariat. It is felt that such a Union is inevitable, but that it should not prevent the Catholic student from participating equally in non-sectarian student * movements in which he has a definite
responsibility. All during the summer the delegation saw in stark relief the disadvantageous effects of Catholic non-participation in national and international life. Americans too, to whom the Congress turned for much of its leadership, cannot abdicate their share of the responsibilities in building a Christian world. American students, it is felt, must prepare now for their position as future leaders in the world society.
One of the most significant groups was the delegation from Latin America. Represented by sizeable groups, their appearance made a marked impression, and though they did not form a bloc in the political sense, they nevertheless voted negatively as a unit whenever the question of collaboration with Protestant groups came to the fore. The Far Eastern issue was dramatically and effectively introduced by a delegate from India, a former Marxist, now in charge of Catholic Action in South India. He urged Pax Romana to send organizers to his country offering to pay all expenses involved, and the result of his activities was the formation of a special commission charged with Missions and Separated Brethren.
In the course of the Congress, German, Austrian, Polish and Ukranian delegations were given full freedom to present their problems and to speak on the condition of students in their respective countries and among exiled groups. These delegations played an active part in the discussions, and urged the necessity of material aid, clothing, food, and books for their compatriots. Most emphasized by the German delegation was the necessity of international contact for their fellows. The-German student, they maintained, has been isolated from the rest of the world for the past 12 years and the greatest service that can be rendered him would be his re-attachment to the rest of the world community. The realization that other people are thinking of him and willing to overlook former national differences must be brought to his attention.
Plans were elaborated at Fribourg for the foundation of a union of Catholic intellectuals and professionals similar to Pax Romana. While Pax Romana is by tradition a student movement, graduates ' have always been among its officers, delegates and assemblymen. A graduate movement within Pax Romana, such as “le Centre Catholique des Intellectuals Francais” in France, would unite those who have received a university education into common action and would assist them in the pursuit of their diverse professions to develop and spread Catholic thought and its practical application to their milieux.
View of the Neuveville quarter and of the Planche Other pictures on pages 16 and 17
15
"SEEING DOUBLE"
“Hi there, Jim!”
“What say? I’m not Jim, I’m Jack Boyer.”
“Fd bet a million you told me you were Jim yesterday.”
“You’re probably thinking about my brother. His name is Jim.”
“I guess so. But you know you sure look like him. You two guys might even pass for twins, ya know that?”
“Now that you mentioned it, I guess we could.”
“Well, I have to hustle to class. I’ll see ya Jim, I mean, Jack.”
South porch of the Cathedral of St. Nicholas in Fribourg.
“See ya, pal.”
This is what John Joseph and James Phillip Boyer go through almost every day here at school and back home in Terre Haute, Indiana. Jack and Jim Boyer- are identical twins. They came to Notre Dame in November of 1945 after graduating from Wiley High • School in Terre Haute, and after three semesters not even their rector can tell them apart. Jim is Zahm Hall’s mailman and Jack, who is one of those dining hall jockeys, is always getting the gripes from the guys when they don’t get that particular little pink epistle.
Not even the wide eyed student prefect can tell them apart when making morning check. This makes it easy for sackloving Jim to appear in the person of energetic Jack when he’s unable to drag himself out of bed.
Before coming to Notre Dame, both of them took the same courses in school, had the same teachers, were in the same classes, and usually dressed alike. Here at college they took separate paths, Jack majoring.in sociology and Jim trying foi' a B.S. in Business Administration. They both like basketball but differ in smoking habits, Jim going for nicotine sticks and Jack for Kirsten incinerators. If the draft resumes its malefactions next January, Jim and Jack won’t be around, as they will be 19 in February, the 13th, exactly.
If you ever happen to poke your head inside 381 Dillon and see two fellows with blue eyes and brown hair, and alike in all other features, sitting at their desks reading the same books amidst the same surroundings, dressed the same, and saying in chorus “come on in. . .” don’t clap a hand over your eyes, fall down three flights of stairs, tear across campus and scream at Doc Caton: “I’ve got spots before my hypomopia. ... I can’t see what I’m believing I’m seeing!” No, you are not seeing double, friend, you’re just looking at Dick Waldron and his carbon-copy brother, Bob. They, too, are identical twins.
The Waldrons, as twins, may be unusual around here, but before Dick and Bob three of their brothers graduated from Notre Dame in the classes of ’34, ’36, and ’37.
From Blessed Sacrament grammar school in home town Trenton, N. J., Dick and Bob—Dick’s 300 seconds older. . . . went to Seton Hall prep. After graduating in 1941, they both joined the Army six months before Pearl Harbor, in the hope of getting in the year of service. But before Dick could say “Bob” and Bob, “Dick,” they were in the 56th Fighter Group in England. Always together in the service, they were not discharged until last October, and it was November when they realized their ambition to go to Notre Dame.
Out of their high school graduating class of fifty-two, forty-six lost their lives in the war, and the surviving six are now at Notre Dame. That is probably the highest moi-tality rate of any class in the country.
Being twins has got Bob army pay three times in one month, and four days in the brig for Dick when it was Bob who was supposedly guilty of insubordination. In school work, they have taken the same tests, got exactly the same
16
Two pairs of reasons why Notre Darners are checkin? their bifocals: left to right, twins John and Jim Bonessi, and Bob and Dick Waldron.
Class In Conversational Spanish Offered Here
There is now being offered one night a week an extra-curricular class for those interested in developing ability to understand spoken Spanish and in taking part in Spanish conversation.
Mr. Fernando Serpa, a graduate student in Education and a native of Peru, conducts the class. Mr. Serpa is especially well suited for his task as he not only teaches well but also has perfect Spanish diction, so those with as little as one semester of Spanish have little difficulty in understanding him.
The class is offered every Tuesday evening at 7:15 in room 108 Law Building for all students and professors interested.
marks, even though they took the tests at different times. And believe it or not, they often use the same phrasing, make the same misspelings, and their writing is practically the same. Their favorite kind of entertainment—double features!
North Quincy, Mass., and Howard Hall boast of Larry and Jack Terrie, the only identical twins on campus with blonde hair and blue eyes. They came to Notre Dame last February after four years in the Naval Air Corps, where they saw action principally in the Pacific theater with the Third Fleet.
Back in high school days, they were both on the track squad all four years, Larry as captain of the cross country harriers. Just like most twins, they had all their classes together, dressed alike, and usually went out together on dates. Often they would switch dates and make the whole thing far more interesting. After coming here, they separated for the first time, Larry entering electrical engineering and making last semester’s dean’s list and Jack mapping himself out as a mechanical engineer, after he gets his master’s.
Notre Dame’s only remaining pair of identical identities abide in Farley’s sistei’ hall, Breen-Phillips. From Chester, West Virginia, and now registered in the College of Science is that one-two pre-medical punch John Joseph, the not-too-far-off surgeon, and James Vincent, “I hope to be M.D.” Bonessi. Basketball, changing dates, music, confusing dates, writing and dating each other’s dates are their chief interests. Of course, they are primarily interested in medicine. If you get groggy from all these confusing identities, see them after they’ve got their degrees.
Wrought iron railing (1655) Fribourg
17
Argentine Relations Discussed By Pattee
The cautious attitude adopted toward Argentina has “set inter-American relations back a long, long time,” Mr. Richard Fattee, consultant in international affairs for the National Catholic Welfare Conference and former official of the U. S. State Department, declared here in an address before the student body.
Mr. Richard Pattee
“The attitude of the United States,” emphasized Mr. Pattee, “has been one of uninterrupted and unconcealed hostility to the Argentine government with a constant application of the worst kind of needling and irritants. What has this country expected to get out of the antagonism to Argentine? These are fundamental questions which any American citizen sincerely interested in preserving the tremendous good of the Good Neighbor Policy achieved over the last ten years must seek to answer.”
Mr. Pattee stressed that there have been only four conceivable reasons why the United States has put the heat on Argentina since the outbreak of World War. II: (1) to force Argentina to declare war on the axis; (2) to force the Argentine people to change their government by revolution and put one in office favored by the United States; (3) to oust the military and replace them with - civilians; and (4) to admit unrestricted United States domination in the economic life of Argentina, which, by implication means the ousting of British and other European interests.
Mr. Pattee is without doubt the fore
most United States expert on InterAmerican affairs. For years he has travelled widely in the 20 republics of Middle and South America as well as in the United States, British, French and Dutch dependencies of these areas.
Besides appearing before the student body in Washington Hall, Mr. Pattee was the guest speaker at the La Raza Club’s annual dia de la Raza banquet the same evening in the Oliver Hotel, where he spoke in Spanish on “The 12th of October in the Americas Today.”
—Tom Murray ---o ■
Vets Club Announces Oct. 30 Smoker Plans
Well aware that subsistence checks are not due until shortly after the first of the month, the Vets Club sagely announced this week that its second free smoker will be held next Wednesday evening, October 30. Co-chairman Dan Riordan and Alphonse A. Sommer announce that the features of the evening wi 11 be free beer, potato chips and smokes.
Assuring ease in going to and from the smoker, the Vets have chartered five busses to provide direct service from the Circle to St. Stephen’s Parish Hall in South Bend where the party will get underway shortly after evening prayer.
Admission will be by membership card only, and for those vets who have not as yet paid this year’s dues and received their cards, memberships will be on sale at the door of the hall.
Knights of Columbus meet in the dining hall for their Oct. 20 Communion Breakfast. Left to right at the speaker's table are Leonard Aull, chairman; Brother Meinrad. C.S.C.. treasurer; Jim Sullivan. Grand Knight; Guest Speaker Father Archibald McDowell, and. Chaplain Father O'Connell, C.S.C.
Judge Presents Ivory Gavel to Law Club
Law Club of Notre Dame was presented with an ivory gavel by the Honorable J. Elmer Peak, Judge of St. Joseph County Superior Court No. 2, a Notre Dame graduate and at present an in-' structor in practice court in the Law Department, at the second Law Club smoker of the semester, held Thursday evening, Oct. 17, at the Indiana Club.
In accepting the gavel, O’Neill announced that commencing in 1947, prizes of $50.00 and $25.00 will be awarded by the Law Club to students demonstrating the most proficiency in practice court work.
Principal speaker of the evening was the Honorable Luther M. Swygert, Hammond, Ind., Federal District Judge for Northern Indiana. Judge Swygert, also a Notre Dame graduate, was introduced by Judge Peak, who revealed Judge Swy-gert’s prominent role in contributing to the birth of The Notre Dame Lawyer, the Law Department’s own publication, in 1925. In delivering his speech, Judge Swygert extolled the legal virtues of the late Benjamin Cardoza, who was a United States Supreme Court Justice from 1932 until his death in 1938.
125 members attended the affair, which was presided over by O’Neill. Committee Chairman for the smoker was Robert MacDonell, junior from Detroit, Mich.
—George McCarthy.
18
IRISH INVADE IOWA CORN-FIELDS;
HAWKEYE JINX MENACES FOURTH WIN
Hawkeyes have 30 pounds of wild steer, while Shoaf, Noedziela, Hammond and Katz round out the roster of bruising tackles.
Leahy’s lads will stand amid alien corn tomorrow at Iowa City going after the strong Hawkeyes of the University of Iowa, a rejuvenated team, beaten only by Michigan, and starting on the road back to Big Nine heights under the tutelage of Doctor Eddie Anderson. The Iowa boys will be the toughest opponents ND has faced thus far, and as history shows, have often been the bane of Irish teams.
Since the arrival of Anderson to the Iowa campus just before the war the corn-fed Hawkeyes have come into their football own. Now, more than ever before, native sons of the nation’s leading agricultural state are flocking to Iowa U., where before they were tempted away to out-of-state schools. Jay Ber-wanger, immortal Chicago U. star, was an Iowa boy. So was Bob Saggau, who, as a sophomore, was hailed by many as ND’s finest running back. But in Iowa’s history there has always cropped up a great one, as the names of Dick Crayne, Joe Laws, Mike Enich, and the late Nile Kinnick will demonstrate. And this year will be no exception.
Launched from the fulback spot is a rocket-speeded explosive-charged junior from Dubuque named Dick Hoerner. Unlike his first-reader namesake, Jack, he doesn’t sit in the corner eating plum-filled pie. Dick prefers to get around, so sometimes he tries end, but most of the time he just plows through the enemy lines like one of those John Deere discers, slicing up the tacklers, and making tracks for the goal. Hoerner is the big star of the Hawkeyes, and promises to give the Irish forwards plenty of trouble.
The other half of the Iowa one-two punch, comes from a Negro sprint and pass luminary, Emm Tunnell. Tunnell showed his heels to every Iowa opponent so far except last Saturday’s Indiana, when he was riding the bench because of injuries. He lofts a good pass besides turning a neat job of openfield running. He’ll keep Irish tacklers readjusting their sights.
Coach Eddie Anderson will field a big rough line, composed of husky two-hundred pounders. Starting with the ends we have the Schoener brothers, Herb and Hal, two cat-quick flankmen who mauled Indiana’s defending Big Nine champions
last week. Guzowski, a basketball wizard, is another wingman, and is always a threat under Tunnell’s passes. Add Phillips, Keane, Broadstone, Kelso, and Gustafson, and you have a healthy corps of tenninal men.
At tackle the probable starters are Cozad and Kay. Kay is a hefty 222 and is rumored to be the only man to survive the blast at Bikini. What he was doing there no one knows. In Roger. Wilke the
150 Candidates Turn Out for Basketball Practice; Irish to Face 24 Opponents
Notre Dame got the jump on most colleges by inaugurating practice for the 1946-47 basketball season on Oct. 16 for which 150 candidates turned out. Until the Fieldhouse gym is thoroughly reconditioned drills will continue on the
Moose Krause, shown above during his All-American playing days at Notre Dame, has again taken over the basketball coaching reins after a hitch in the service.
Guards Benda, Kane, Day and Banks have been alternating at the starting position so far this year. Benda and Day went up against Michigan, so it is reasonable to assume that Coach Anderson will start these two who outfought the Wolverine forwards all day. Other yeomen who’ll probably see seiwice on the home field are George, Liddy, Caniglia, Fagerlind, and DiBase, who packs (Continued on Page 23)
Navy Drill Hall courts. It is believed that head coach Ed “Moose” Krause who, aftei- a hitch in the service, has resumed the helm will hold several night practice sessions to familiarize himself with the material before the season’s opener on December 4 against Franklin College. Krause, presently, is well loaded down, with the weight of football responsibilities.
Outstanding candidates among the 150 were six monogram men: Franny Curran, Sterling, Ill; Carl Loyd, South Bend, Ind.; John “Buster” Hiller, E. Bernstadt, Ky.; Cy Singer, Jasper, Ind.; Paul Gordon, Baltimore, Md.'; and John Kelly, Utica, N. Y. As a member of the Camp Lejeune (N. C.) five last year Kelly was one of the leading service scorers in the nation. Two other lettermen, George Ratterman and Johnny Lu jack, will report to Krause at the combpletion of the football season. Other promising prospects who have already reported for practice are: John Goonen, Dick Kluck, Joe Sobek, John “Mogus” Mullen, Wayne Curran, Jim O’Halloran, Pat Smid, Louis Newbold, Frank Kaufman, and Kevin O’Shea. All have had previous experience on Notre Dame court squads with the exception of O’Shea who comes to Hoosierdom highly recommended from the San Francisco area where as a serviceman he was good enough to play on the great Alameda Coast Guard five.
Oddly enough, the five boys who took the floor in the opener against Camp Atterbury last season will not be wearing the blue and gold this year. Former Capt. Bill Hassett and Frank Gilhooley (Continued on Page 22)
19
1S11<II<IN<
Two weeks ago some 55,600 football fans dropped their shekels into the coffers and passed through the turnstiles of Notre Dame Stadium. For two and a half hours they were awed by the power and finesse, speed and spirit of Frank Leahy’s Thundering Herd.
Purdue employed every method within its call to push across the touchdown stripe, but only once were the Boilermakers successful. Meanwhile, the Irish had surged down the field again and again, capitalizing on every break whether- in the form of a fumble, pass interception, or momentary lapse in the Purdue defense. If the Boilermakers’ secondary had unwittingly pulled in, anticipating a smash through the line, an Irish aerial caught them in their error. If the opposition’s line-backers failed to cover the man-in-motion, a shovel pass proved to them the price of such neglect. When flankers split the Purdue secondary down the seams, an Irish back tucked the pigskin away and blazed a yard-gaining trail down the middle. And when the Irish were, for the moment, back on their heels and the enemy fully expected orthodox football they were treated to a pass from the end-zone or a fourth down offtackle plunge.
Everyone present and millions, glued to their radios knew this was Frank Leahy’s brand of football—hard, tough, explosive and generously mixed with surprises. It was an elixir brewed five days a week on Cartier Field and peddled to the competition on Saturday afternoon under the shrewd hand of 180 lb. strategist from Connellsville, Pa., Johnny Lujack.

In judicious doses the client is accorded the full keg, smashing sorties through the line, evasive excursions around end, devastating aerial thrusts, and long spiraling punts. On the second or third time around, sales resistance has been found negligible.
Yet, surprisingly, the man on the field responsible for the success of the campaign is not a noisy, ebullient figure, but rather a quiet, decisive, resourceful athlete possessed of amazing abilities. On the gridiron he is a magnificent strategist who commands the respect of his entire team. He can pass brilliantly, punt consistently, and there is no better defensive player on the squad. Against Illinois it was Lujack who several times thwarted Buddy Young on touchdown sprints, setting himself as the only man between Young and the goal line. Coach Cecil Isbell of Purdue reflected aftei- his team’s defeat that Lujack was “actually a coach on the field, not only a great field general and forward passer but the best defensive player in the game.” In return Johnny will very quickly concede Isbell’s Dick Barwegan the best lineman Notre Dame has opposed this Fall.
Commander Bill Ingram of Navy votes Lujack the best quarterback in collegiate ranks, high praise from a man who is recognized as one of the foremost scouts in the country.
However, Johnny has never been satisfied with competing in only one sport. Before entering the Navy and earning his commission, he won acclaim as one of the finest all-around athletes in Notre Dame history. For in addition to a monogram in football, 1943 saw Lujack ■win monograms in baseball, basketball and track. Moreover, his ping-pong and pool are worthy of only ranking competitors. Financially well-heeled Johnny intends to participate in basketball and track again this year, but an ineptitude for round-house curves has dimmed his view of the ’47 baseball season.
Eleven months on a sub-chaser apparently had no ill effects on the Lujack physique, for John seems to be in better shape now than he was three years ago. And remember what he did then? Taking over the post left vacant by the departure of Angelo Bertelli, Johnny Lujack completed eight out of 15 passes, two of the tosses going for touchdowns,
while Notre Dame took the Cadets’ measure, 26-0. You’ve had things your way for two years, Army, so now be like the Boy Scouts—Be Prepared!
—Bob Leander
Hold Your Hats, Boys: Ziggy Turns Writer
Zygmont P. Czarobski, connoisseur of fine blocks and tackles, student of economics, and esteemed rally lecturer this week plunges into the field of journalistic endeavor with a column for the Scholastic called It Behooves Me Greatly, it appears on Page 33.
Mr. Czarobski has long been one of the most illustrious figures on campus. Unfortunately, he is best known for his success in gridiron endeavors, being varsity tackle in 1942, a member of the 1943 Irish championship team, and again this year plays at the same post. Recently he has come into his own as feature speaker at football rallies, and often spends long hours polishing up his orations and transferring his notes to long rolls of fine tissue. Mr. C. has also had numerous associations with campus politics, for which he has been labeled the “Aiderman.”
A product of Mt. Carmel High School, located in the Kelly machine prairie called Chicago, he left the Marine V-12 unit on the campus for general service with the Navy and saw overseas duty. He returned to the campus last semester to complete his education.
BEAT ARMY!
Villagers Organize Basketball Team
All members of the Notre Dame Villagers Club interested in playing basketball with the club’s team this semester are asked to report with playing equipment to Leo Couch, Villagers athletic director, at 6:45 p. m., Monday at the Rockne Memorial Courts. At that time, team practice will be arranged and plans announced by Mr. Couch.
FENCING CANDIDATES
HERB MELTON, fencing coach, announced this week that all those interested in becoming candidates for the freshman ..and varsity fencing teams should report to the fencing room, beneath the North basketball stands in the old gym between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m. on Monday, October 28.
BEAT ARMY!
20
Michigan State Beats ND "B" Team, 21-13
A much bigger and faster Michigan State eleven downed the Notre Dame B team, 21-13, last Saturday afternoon at East Lansing, Michigan, .before 7,000 spectators.
Michigan State scored first after six minutes of the first quarter when halfback Cornie Corrigan swept .17 yards around right end for a touchdown. The Irish, in a drive featured by a 42 yard kickoff return by fullback Joe Yonto, knotted the score after four minutes of the third quarter. Yonto plunged over center for the touchdown from the one yard line.
Late in the third period, halfback Bob Krestel streaked around right end from the State 27 to the Irish 28 -before he was brought down from the rear by Yonto. Three plays later, halfback Bob Nel-lar tossed a touchdown pass to end Ed Maier on a sleeper play. It was at this time that the papers and bottles came sailing towards the Irish bench. Coach Jack Barry tried in vain to warn his young players that a sleeper was wide awake on the side lines. The Michigan State rooters were against Barry’s actions. Krestel added the extra point. Four plays later, State added a safety when Tom Saggau was tackled behind his own goal line.
In the fourth quarter, each team scored a touchdown with Krestel going over tackle from the Irish 5 yard line for State, and Yonto scored his second touchdown of the afternoon on a forward lateral play from quarterback Dick Sou-sissin to halfback Paul Owens to Yonto. Lou Streer place-kicked the extra point.
Starting lineups:
Notre Dame	Michigan State
Kroneberger .....LE..........Parcell
Hudak ............LT...... Maldegan
Gillespie .......LG—.......... Bessy
Carter ........... C.......... Smith
Harrington ......KG......... Pearson
Glaab.............RT......-... Vogler
McCarthy ........RE........... Ploch
Leous ............QB......-.. Otting
Kenefick.........—LH........ Krestel
Owens ............RH......... Westby
Yonto.............FB.......... Jones
Substitutions
Notre Dame: Ends—Paszkiet, Traney, D. Begley. Tackles—Gaul, Hickey. Guards—Huntoon, Romano, Haller. Centers—Ritter, Laponto. Backs— Dacey, Connor, Spaniel, Cordasco, Saggau, Sullivan, Streer, McMahon, S'ouisson, McGill, Sinkovitz.
Notre Dame B Team Schedule
Oct. 26 Purdue at Lafayette
Nov. 16 Pending
Nov. 23 Michigan State (Here)
Ute PteAA
------ — By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
As Jim Brutz once said, “I-OHwa is going to be tough tomorrow but I think we’re gonna win.” Head coach Frank Leahy dropped in on Dr. Eddie Anderson last Saturday afternoon but the Doctor was busy with another patient— Indiana. Knowing “the Champ’s” bossman was watching his boys, Coach Anderson put the cover on Iowa’s trick maneuvers and played a fast charging ground game. The cover was so tight that Coach Leahy saw only three passes tossed by the hard hitting Hawkeyes.
This year’s Iowa team is once again waiting with big plans of upsetting the nation’s number one midwestern football team. (After Nov. 9 we hope it will be the nation’s top team.) Iowa and Notre Dame have met four times with Iowa coming out on top three times. And don’t think that Iowa isn’t just as sore about last year’s 56-0 defeat at the hands of Hugh Devore’s youngsters as Notre Dame students and alumni are about Army’s ’44 and ’45 scores.
Dick Hoerner, Iowa’s charging fullback, will be the man that will have to be stopped tomorrow. His 65 yard touchdown run against Indiana last week was his third such run this season. If Doc Blanchard weren’t around, Hoerner probably would pull down most of the votes for* the fullback spot on the All-American first team.
❖
SHAVINGS FROM THE SPLINTERS
Bob Livingstone will probably be out of the line-up again this week due to his injured knee. The starting backfield will see Sitko back in action with Terry Brennan on the left flank. Jerry Cow-hig and John Panelli will be ready for action if another mishap occurs. As we go to press, no word has come to this desk as to Zalejski’s name being on the traveling squad. Fred Earley will be trying for his 11th straight conversion as soon as the Irish cross the Hawkeyes’ goal line. Fred has a great professional career ahead of him if he decides to boot them after he graduates.
Cestary, right end for this year’s Co-hlmbia Lions, is an ex-Notre Dame man. The older students will remember him as “Cesspool.” There are only 34 undefeated teams left in the country. This week we will go out on the limb and pick a strong Rice team to upset highly-touted Texas. When these two teams have met in the past, their past records have been tossed out the window. Remember, RICE OVER TEXAS.
REPORTS FROM EAST LANSING
The Notre Dame B Team was overpowered by a strong rushing Michigan State B team last Saturday. Since the Michigan State varsity traveled to meet Penn State, the fourth and fifth teams of the varisty were at home to help out the Michigan B team. Freshman Tom Harrington took a terrific beating at right guard being knocked out twice during the afternoon. John Glaab played a hangup game at right tackle. Tom Saggau, a cousin of Bob Saggau who played for Notre Dame in ’39, ’40, and ’41, kept our boys out of hot water most of the afternoon with his long punting. He averaged 45 yards per kick which is better than our varisty has been doing. Joe Yonto carried the ball 14 times for a net gain of 118 yards. His defensive play was outstanding as he pulled Michigan players down from behind on two occasions. The whole Notre Dame team deserves a lot of credit for their splendid showing against a more experienced foe.
❖
ON AND OFF THE CAMPUS •
How many more Yankees are going to get the Axe from the front office of the Yankees? Joe Gordon’s transfer to Cleveland in exchange for Allie Reynolds is number one. Any idea who might be managing the Yanks next year? How about Gabby Hartnett? MacPhail likes color and Gabby has plenty of that. . . . Tomorrow may be another day of upsets. We’ll take Minnesota over Ohio State, Michigan over Illinois, Penn over Navy, Purdue over Pitt, Cornell over Princeton, Texas AM over Baylor, North Carolina over Florida, Stanford over Southern Cal, Miss. State over Tulane, Missouri over Southern Methodist, Rice over Texas, and Army over Duke. . . . The Notre Dame varsity will leave next Thursday fpr Washington, D. C., where the boys will park their suitcases at the Wardman-Park Hotel. They will stay in Washington until Saturday morning when they will take off for Baltimore for their game with Navy. The following week the team will leave Thursday and stay at Bear Mountain Inn, where they will work out Friday, stay over night and take off for the Yankee Stadium Saturday in time for the big game with Army. Since there will be no Scholastic next week, here’s our guess for tomorrow’s game and next week’s: Notre Dame 28, Iowa 14. . . . Notre Dame 35, Navy 7.
21
N. U. PUSHES MICHIGAN AROUND, LOOMS DARKHORSE ON IRISH SLATE
The University of Northwestern Wildcats toyed, clawed and played with a stout Michigan eleven last Saturday afternoon at Ann Arbor and did everything but whip a determined Wolverine pack. The Wildcats, in tying Michigan 14 to 14, served notice to remaining conference foes and Notre Dame that its former role of Big Nine darkhorse is outmoded. The Northwestern team that outplayed and out-fought powerful Michigan before 74.500 astounded fans is of conference championship calibre.
In the fundamentals of football— blocking and tackling—the boys from Evanston were exacting. Time and again they gang-tackled puzzled Michigan backs, and on their seven pass completions there were Purple blockers ahead of the pass receiver. Head mentor Lynn Waldorf claims his trouble lies in the line, but the charging and aggressive forward wall offensively out-matched the Maize and Blue by 122 yards, defensively sacrificing a scant 80 yards, so we’re inclined‘to hold that Waldorf is pulling the famous Frank Leahy crying act.
Michigan pushed over the first touchdown late in the initial canto when Bob Chappius hurled a 37 yard pass to wing-back Bump Elliott who out-smarted the Northwestern defender Frank Aschen-brenner in the end zone to tally. The
ND Harriers Meet Spartans Tomorrow
Victorious in its first two starts of the season, the Notre Dame cross-country team will seek to extend its consecutive streak to three victories tomorrow by traveling to East Lansing, Michigan, to meet the Michigan State harriers. Already conquerors of Wisconsin and Purdue, the Irish hill-and-dalers will seek to maintain their supremacy over their midwestern foes.
Gerald Johnson by his performance in the Purdue meet last Saturday" moved from seventh place on the squad to sixth, displacing John Lyons who dropped back to eighth. Merle Fleming moved up to the seventh position, thereby assuring himself of a place on the traveling squad. In addition to Johnson and Fleming, the personnel of the team to meet Michigan State will also include Bill Tully, Jim Murphy, Corny Styers, Louis Tracy, and Bob Mitchell.
In the first home appearance of the season last Saturday the- Irish harriers defeated Purdue, 20 to 35. Jim Murphy finished first in the race run over the three and one-half mile course, and was
22
'Cats’ running game did not get rolling until the middle of the second period but when it started to move it scored 14 points in five minutes. Vic Schwall, Art Murakowski and Aschenbrenner sparked the Northwestern drives, pushing 77 yards in seven plays. Schwall smashed through right tackle for the first score. A little later the Wildcats recovered a Michigan bobble on the opponents 48 yard marker. Jerry Carle tossed to Aschenbrenner for a first down on Michigan’s 32. Murakowski raced around right end to the 2, and on his second try bolted across to put his mates ahead. Schwall added his second extra point.
Michigan got the equalizer at the outset of the final quarter when Bob Wiese and Elliott collaborated on a pass interception that covered 88 yards. Jim Brieske converted for the tying point.
Northwestern turned loose another drive in the closing momemts of the game, taking the ball from their own 38 to the Michigan 20, where Schwall’s attempted field goal was blocked.
The game that was to settle temporary possession of the Western Conference crown fell short of its issue, but it did serve as an important warning to Fighting Irish followers that Northwestern, our guest on Saturday, November 16, will be no pushover.—John Denniston
clocked in the time of 17:59. Summary:
Won by Murphy (ND); Styers (ND), 2nd; Don Davis (P), 3rd; Tully (ND), 4th; Don Kemp (P), 5th; Tracy (ND), and Mitchell (ND), 6th; Bob Weeks (P), 9th; Don Hurlbert (P), 10th; and Bob Gray (P), 11th. (Johnson (ND) finished Sth, but only first five finishers for each school receive points.)—Jim Regan.
Dillon Metiers Cop Interhall Net Crown
The Dillon Hall squad downed the team from Zahm, 5 to 2, to win the Interhall Tennis Championship last Saturday afternoon, Oct. 19.
The tournament began Monday, Sept. 30, with Lyons, Zahm, Breen-Phillips, Badin, Cavanaugh, Alumni, Walsh, Morrissey, Dillon, and Howard halls entered in the eliminations. Lyons, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Walsh, Morrissey, Dillon, and Howard advanced into the second round. Lyons, Zahm, Walsh, and Dillon won their way to the semi-finals where Zahm defeated Lyons, and Dillon beat Walsh to set up the final round.
Dillon, which ruled as favorite throughout the meet, was represented
by Jim Rodgers, Dick Unverzagt, Jim Quinn, Bernie McMahon, Paul Unverzagt, Jerry O’Reilly, and Ed Sherman. Tim Kelly, Guy Perenich, Bob Murphy, Jim Sheridan, and Joe Ninneman made up the Zahm team.
In the final round, the results were: Kelly (Z) beat Rodgers (D). D. Unverzagt (D) beat Perenich. Quinn (D.) beat Sheridan. McMahon (D) beat Ninneman. P. Unverzagt (D) beat Murphy. Rodgers and D. Unverzagt (D) beat Kelly and Ninneman. Perenich and Sheridan (Z) beat O’Reilly and Sherman.
Championship Interhall Medals will be presented to each member of the winning Dillon team, and the Zahm players will each be given Runner-up medals. These will be presented by Mr. Walter Langford, varsity tennis coach, under whose supervision the tournament was held.
150 CANDIDATES
(Continued from Page 19) have exhausted their eligibility. Both graduate at the end of this semester. Leo Klier will continue to thrill crowds but as a member of the professional Indianapolis Kautskys. Klier holds the Notre Dame individual scoring record with 355 points. John “Scooter” Dee has shifted his talent to Loyola University, Chicago, and Vince Boryla will be operating from some G. I. pivot post.
As an adequate target, “Moose”’ Krause’s eagers will have last season’s 17 and 4 record at which to shoot, 13 of those wins coming consecutively. Under the tutelage of Elmer- Ripley Notre Dame was No. 1 in the nation for five successive weeks, and despite three late season setbacks the Irish still finished way up there with the fast company. Rip is now back again with his first love, Georgetown.
The Schedule:
Dec. 4—Franklin College at Notre Dame.
Dec. 7—Ball State College at Notre Dame.
Dec. 9—Indiana University at Indiana.
Dec. 14—Wisconsin University at Wisconsin.
Dec. 21—Drake University at Notre Dame.
Dec. 27—Dartmouth University at Cleveland.
Jan. 3—St. Louis University at St. Louis.
Jan. 7—Butler University at Notre Dame.
Jan. 11:—Purdue University at Purdue.
Jan. 14—Michigan State College at Mich. State.
Jan. IS—Detroit University at Detroit.
Jan. 25—Purdue University at Notre Dame.
Jan. 2S—Marquette University at Notre Dame.
Feb. 1—Kentucky University at Louisville.
Feb. 3—Butler University at Butler.
Feb. S—Michigan State College at Notre Dame. Feb. 11—Northwestern U. at Chicago Stadium. Feb. 17—DePaul University at Notre Dame. Feb. 22—Canisius College at Buffalo.
Feb. 24—New York U. at Mad. Sq. Garden.
Feb. 28—DePaul University at Chicago Stadium. Mar. 1—Northwestern U. at "Chicago Stadium. Mar. 5—St. Louis University at Notre Dame. Mar. 8—Marquette University at Mraquette.

INTKCDUCINC
After the curtain-raiser at Illinois and the home debut against Pitt’s toothless Panthers, it seemed to be the consensus of opinion on sport pages throughout the country that the Fighting Irish had not yet begun to fight. It was written further that the team appeared sluggish, slow-starting and afflicted with a bad case of the hoof and mouth disease. Then came Purdue. And all of a sudden it occurred to some of the experts that perhaps they had been hasty. True, some of the squad had difficulty shifting into high those first two games, but there were reasons—not alibis, reasons. All it took to reveal them was a brisk, crisp autumn afternoon. Remember it had been hot those first two Saturdays; so hot the fans were uncomfortable just sitting, while the team played ankle deep in perspiration fully convinced that somebody had overstoked a furnace in Gary. But October 12th proved dark and blustery; the team was moving fast, at the same speed—the experts belatedly recalled— that at least one member of the varsity had been traveling all along.
Admittedly, this is Strohmeyer weather. George was born in Missouri but reared in McAllen, Texas, where every Fall begins like an encore of July. The fiery swath he has cut on the gridiron in all three clashes is the shadow which even now is reaching out toward Yankee
(jetyuje gbialuneifeA,
Stadium. The driving charge and granite blocking he has displayed on every play are something Notre Dame partisans haven’t seen since the reign of Tommy Yarr. That’s the fight and spirit of old out there, and the jersey’s number 60. Offense or defense, it doesn’t matter, George is crashing through with the same “heart” that has typified every chapter in the Strohmeyer Saga.
As we said, it all began in the little town of McAllen. At the local high school George not only won 4 letters for athletic endeavors but he captained both the baseball and football teams in his senior year. In addition, he socked his way to the Southwest Golden Gioves Heavyweight Championship. Otherwise he had nothing to do but homework. Yet, this is only the preface. „
Chapter I centers around Iowa PreFlight where they had in 1943, you will recall, a baseball squad that made a habit of knocking off American and National League competition with ease and regularity. Until such time as the score threatened the possibility of a return engagement, the Seahawks outfield was patrolled by Dick Wakefield, Ned Harris, and George Strohmeyer.
The horsehide and hickory season over,
somebody mentioned to George that PreFlight also had a football entry. No more wordage need have been wasted. The next afternoon Stroh was playing first-string center.
Following a successful brace of seasons, George continued his Naval training at Norman (Okla.) Navy, which base, incidentally, had two games remaining'on its pigskin schedule. His superb play that year and the next—at Corpus Christi—won for him All-Service Center accolades over such a worthy competitor as Bulldog Turner.
While in Texas, George completed his flight training and was commissioned. His wings of gold are still tops among his most prized possessions. But don’t for a moment think that the Navy highballed Stroh through cadet training on the strength of his football prowess. There came a day when George was called upon to set his SNJ down on an emergency strip, half a wing having long since disappeared. The skill with which he executed the maneuver is attested to every Saturday of the football season.
Still, the adventures, exploits and accomplishments of the brawny, bull-like Texan roll on, becoming legion and legend. Moreover, just around the corner are richly deserved All-American laurels for not only a great center, but an even greater’ Notre Dame man.
—Bob Leander
IRISH INVADE IOWA (Continued from Page 19) around a solid 230. It won’t be so easy pushing him out of the way.
Chances are Laster will be the starting Iowa center, although Lawrence and Heidt have been seeing plenty of action.
Up from Tulsa comes L. R. King to quarterback the Hawkeyes. He is spelled by McKinstry and Art O’Neill, a Creighton transfer.
Bob Smith is a man to watch at the halfback spot, as is Bob Sullivan. Both these gents are geared for speed and have looked impressive even against such stalwart secondaries as Michigan and Indiana. Del Bartels, formerly of Norman (Okla.) Air Base, was the big star last spring, and may get a chance to strut his stuff. But don’t forget Tunnell; he’s most likely to get the touchdown-bug.
Backing up Hoerner. at the fullback spot is Fector, Headington, and Gallagher. But Hoerner will no doubt play 60-minute ball as he is the big gun in the Black and Gold attack.
Notre Dame plastered the visiting Hawkeyes here in South Bend last fall, but we’ve never beaten the corn-chomp-ers on their home field.
Iowa is first in the nation in the production of hogs and poultry and in the value of farm property. Let’s hope they’re not the first in the nation to stop Notre Dame.
23
Alumni and Lyons Meet For West Championship
With the season moving rapidly along, the flag in the interhall football league can be clinched this Sunday in the west campus league, but in the east campus battle no team is any closer to capturing the bunting than they were when the season started. The east 'siders seem to be taking turns knocking each other off, leaving each team with split decisions and probably necessitating another round-robin.
Across the campus Alumni will be squaring off against Lyons in the deciding game this Sunday on the Cartier Field grass. With each team possessing decisive victories over Morrissey, they will be fighting for the chance to meet the east side representative in the stadium. The Alumni boys probably qualify as slight favorites in this battle due to their heavier squad and the fact that they were able to push over one more TD on a rain-soaked field than Lyons could against a hard fighting Morrissey eleven. Lyons will be further handicapped by the loss of San Trufano, hard running fullback, who withdrew from school.
Coach Ray Chamberlain has been bemoaning this all week and it is said that the Lyons ground attack doesn’t look so good without Trufano in the plunging spot. The game will also bring together the old and the new as Alumni attacks with the modern T while Lyons employs the single-wing. With prospects good for a fine afternoon of football this game may provide the “Rock” with some strong competition come Sunday.
ND Engineers Attend National Meeting At KC
The quarterly meeting of the American Association of Civil Engineering was held in the Continental Hotel, Kansas City, Mo., on October 16-19. Student chapters of various colleges attended and Notre Dame was represented by Ernest Clausing, president of the local chapter, Richard Deeb, Robert Reid, William Berk, and Dan Scherrer.
Many things were discussed at this national meeting, including general organization of student chapters, contacts of local engineers with students, and publicity and recreation for student chapters. On the opening day, a furthering of student chapters was discussed and on Thursday a tour of the city was enjoyed by all. Top extra-attraction for the engineers was the dance on Thurs--day evening. The meeting closed with another tour of the city on Friday with everyone interested in the many points of interest.
BUTTS, BOTTLES AND BULL SESSIONS
Definitely unhappy about the way that all previous smokers have been conducted, the Vets’ Club has made a complete change in their organization as far as the next smoker is concerned. Retreating under much criticism concerning how only the officers run the club, Prexy Joe Dillon had a meeting the other night which was attended by a group of vets who represented the complete campus. This next smoker will be held Wednesday, Oct. 30. It will include plenty of smokes, an ample supply of that ever famous amber inebriant, Dreeeeewry’s, and sandwiches. The affair will be highlighted by fine entertainment. Tables will be set up and you can have your own “bridge” game if you -wish. In fact arrangements are being completed so that you can wear the knees out of your pants if you desire. . . . Come on fiver!”
CLUBOLOGY
The Washington, D. C., club has chosen the name; The Washington, Maryland and Virginia Club. They had their first meeting under the new title last week and the following leaders were chosen: Myles Quail, president; Joseph Piedmont, vice-president; Frank Caccia-paglia, secretary-treasurer. After the business was completed the Capital City boys joined the Met Club at a showing of the ’46 Illinois-ND game. . . . The Toledo Club has elected a full staff. Tom Francis heads the officers. He is followed by John Cullon, vice-president; Jim Sat-tles, secretary; Jim Hoffman, treasurer, and Jim Murtaugh, chairman. . . . The Economic Round-Table-International Relations Club held interviews last week for membership to this active discussion group. . . . Uticans got together Thursday, Oct. 17, and held the first meeting of the reorganized Utica -NY Club. This club has been inactive for almost five years. Almost half a hundred attended, and-officers were elected. John Kelley is the prexy with Mike McGuirl, Paul Frank, Roger Brennan, and George De-Kine acting as assistants. These officers will formulate plans for an attractive Christmas dance to be held at the Yah-nundasus Golf Club, in conjunction with the Utica alumni. A membership drive is being conducted and any student living in the vicinity of Utica is requested to attend their next meeting on Thursday, Oct. 31. . . . On Oct. 16, the Fort Wayne Club ratified a constitution and
completed plans for a gigantic Christmas dance. Anyone interested in joining the Fort Wayne group should drop a card to R. Hartman at 100 Howard Hall. . . . The California Club recently celebrated the end of all price control on meat with a fine steak party at Rosie’s. . . . The Chemical Engineers extended a welcome to all Chern Engineering students and faculty members at their last meeting which was highlighted by a moving picture entitled, “Yellow Magic.” It was all about sulphur. With what the Chern Engineers have planned, chances are that you won’t want to miss their next meeting.... On Oct. 16 the Youngstown, Ohio, Club convened and plans for their annual Christmas dance were started. All students who live within a radius of 50 miles of Youngstown and as yet have been unable to attend one of the meetings, drop a line to Charley Woods, 284 Dillon.
MORE CLUBOLOGY
Mr. James Armstrong, who is pleasing many of the clubs with his fine speaking, returned for a second time to the Illini Club. And the boys from Central Illinois extended him a warm welcome. Mr. Armstrong spoke to them about the different activities a club can have besides social activities. After the business of the Illini was completed Bill “Moose” Fischer narrated a silent film, the Navy-ND game of ’42. The Central Illinois group deserves a fine pat on the back for their kindness in sending Spiritual Bouquets to the parents of all their deceased fellow-members. Many parents have sent letters commending the club on its fine thoughtfulness. . . . The newly formed Pittsburgh Club met on Oct. 15. Officers were chosen to draw up a constitution. They are John Ducato, temporary prexy; John Collins, vice-president; Bernard J. Powers, secretary; Leo Vogel, treasurer; and Bob Slocum, publicity director. . . . The Cincinnati Club has elected officers who are to prepare the Netherland Plaza for the club dance. Officers Charles Heringer, Ray Gudmens, | Tom Jackson and Eddie Mersman hope | the Cincy alumni help them out at Christmas time. . . . “Well hya’ all,” the ] Texas Club is back again. Though they I didn’t ride to their last meeting, they had j a sign out for all members to check their | sixes outside the door. Lee Shipp, Jim j McConn, Jerry Fisch, Joe Mengen and I Pat Kelly will lead the Texans through I this semester. All citizens, that is both s
24
of Texas and the US, are to attend their next meeting. . . . The Aero Club opened up last week and outlined its plans. The Club will include all members of the Aeronautical Engineering School, and any other students interested. A bowling team is being formed within the Aero Club. George Conway is the president with Bill McCormick and Leo Vetter as his assistants. Incidentally, Bill McCormick was quite a pilot during the war. He is still flying on weekends with the Naval Reserve. Bill knocked quite a few Nips out of the sky. . . . The St. Louis Club met once again last Monday. Paul Kane came through with a revolutionary idea that may lead to something unheard of as yet. Father Joseph H. Huels, a Louisianan, was chosen as the moderator. Plans were laid for the purchase of a block of tickets for the ND-St. Louis University basketball game to be held in St. Louis. . . . Prexy Ernie Clausing led four other Civil Engineers to Kansas City on Oct. 16 to attend the National Meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Members of the party included Bob Reid, Bill Berk, Dick Deeb and Dan Schener. . . . Challenges by the La Rosa Club for a basketball and volleyball game 'will be met by the Civil Engineers. . . . Different prizes are being offered to the civil engineer who presents the best talk or paper during the semester. ... A general meeting of the Dynamic Detroit Club, alias the Meter City Moguls, will be held Oct. 29, a Tuesday. Jack Evans of Badin took some fine photos of the Detroit Club banquet at Rosie’s and anyone desiring a copy should see Jack or Prexy Bill Stockman.
Air New Sports Show
Sportcasters Bill Boss and Tom Earley will be heard for the first time at 2:45 p.m., Tuseday, October- 27, in a new Radio Club presentation to be aired weekly over station WSBT.
Starting at a time when football has moved almost every other sport off the athletic stage, Boss and Earley will present a lively program studded with sport news, views and predictions. And, for the benefit of local armchair quarterbacks, Bill Boss will wring out his weekly“cry-ing towel.” Meanwhile, Tom Earley will tip over the dope bucket and come up with the latest predictions. During the course of the season, some of the outstanding Notre Dame players and coaches will be interviewed.
Just a suggestion: while brushing your teeth or doing your mathematics next Tuesday afternoon, tune into station WSBT at 2:45 p.m. and hear the first of a series of radio programs, written, produced and directed by Notre Dame talent.—R. J. Vierhile.
EVERYTHING FREE!
Broke about this time of the month? ? Then come to your
VETS1 CLUB End-oMhe-Month Smoker
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30,7:15 p.m.
* Plenty of Your “Favorite Refreshment”
* And Food, Too	.
* FREE Smokes
* Entertainment Guaranteed to Entertain
* No Speeches
* FREE Transportation To and From
ST. STEPHEN'S HALL, South Bend
Admission by Vets’ Cluh Card only. ... If you haven’t one see your Vets’ Club hall representative or get one at die door!
DON'T MISS IT!
2S
Frontiersman Wool Shirt Jackets
Just what the fellows have been asking for— Rugged Frontiersman Plaid Shirt Jacket, with two pockets. An inner or outer for brisk fall days. Black and white or black and red.	.
$11-95
ON THE CORNEK... MCHIMN ( MSNMMON
Howard, St. Mary's Romp at CA Picnic
Instead of the customary banquet, Howard Hall journeyed to Potowatomi Park last Saturday afternoon with a group of St. Mary’s girls for a picnic organized by the hall’s Catholic Action group in co-operation with Catholic Action of St. Mary’s College. It is believed that this was the first such outing held by one of the residence halls of the Uni-• versity.
Arriving at the park about 2 p. m., the 125 Howard men and 120 SMC girls played, ate and sang till after 7 p. m., when the group reluctantly started the return trip to the two campuses after a few hours of what seemed like life at a co-ed college.
The day’s activities at the park started with numerous football and softball games. Unfortunately the football games went unobserved by this reporter who was too engrossed in a mixed-sides, high scoring softball game which wound up with the outcome a complete mystery due to the novel mathematics of Jerry Feeney in computing the score.
Food time came early and lasted late as everyone gathered around the bonfires for the wiener roasts, with some displaying their culinary skill while others contented themselves just by eating. Singing of all the old time favorites then took over the party until its ending at LeMans Hall, with the highlight being the girls’ rendition of The' Bells of St. Mary’s, with the novelty of the evening being an arrangement of Hail, Hail, the Gang’s All Here in Latin.
The committee, which did a very commendable job of organizing, was composed of Harvey Kramer of St. -Louis, Mo., Jack Guion of Dallas, Penna., Lawrence and Jack Terrio of North Quincy, Mass., and Chuck Wolf of Detroit, Mich., generously assisted by Father Keller, rector of the hall, and Father Grant, one of the prefects. Among the guests were Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, and Rev. John Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-president of the University.
With this success for their first venture this semester, the Catholic Action of Howard Hall hope to continue their work and hold similar parties during the year.—Shaun McDermott
E.R.T.-I.R.C. Meets;
Accepts Four New Men
A spirited discussion of OPA and its effect on the meat situation highlighted last week’s meeting of the Economic Round Table—International Relations Club.
Following the weekly dinner, at which President Pat Nolan of Detroit welcomed
26
four successful aspirants to the organization, Tom O’Brien of Weehawken, N. J. presented his paper, a review of “The General Picture of the Meat Situation.”
Under the chairmanship of Tom Fitzpatrick, questions were thrown at the speaker, culminating in a brisk debate between two of the members centering around the farmer’s liability for the current meat shortage.
Former Marines, V-12 Students Hold Reunion
The Oliver Blue Room last Saturday night was the scene of a reunion dinner held by the former Notre Dame V-12 Marines. Glen-plaids, pin stripes, and tweeds may have replaced the drab “greens,” but the same spirit that prevailed for four semesters through Zahm and Cavanaugh Hall was present among the returned “Irish” gyrenes.
Former V-12 Chaplains, Father Simo-nitsch, C.S.C., and Father Sheedy, C.S.C., were in the center of two roundtable discussions on practically all current topics following the ample dinner, all
A LIGHTER
YOU'LL LIKE
$2.50 — initials or name engraved 75c additional
At the BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
of which was quite in keeping with the Leathernecks’ favorite pastimes, “Bull . Sessions” and “Chow.” Although not a formal group, the Marines plan several future activities that will be well worth noting and they hope to have even greater attendance for the coming events. Those who did attend can testify that they left satisfied and filled with the old N.D.-Montezuma spirit.
Expansion of Huddle Looms In Future
Sometime within the next two months, the body of an institution at Notre Dame will undergo a major operation. The patient: Mrs. Helen Connor’s “Huddle.” The operation: enlargement of present space and facilities.
For many years the “Huddle” had digested the student’s nickels, dimes, and quarters and dispensed food, liquids, and tobacco in ever increasing quantities. Existing installations and footage had never been quite large enough to handle quickly and efficiently the flood of students desiring service. In the past it had been made to do. This year, however, with enrollment at a new high and the store swollen with people from opening to closing, a crisis occurred. Something had to done. A proposal for enlarging the present facilities by taking over the space now occupied by the Western Telegraph office, the old watch repair, shop, and the old shoe repair shop was considered and finally accepted.
The shoeshop and the watch repairman had already moved out. Western Union would have to vacate in favor of a room on the ground floor of the Main Building. Plans were drawn up—walls to be knocked out here; counters to be put in there—and ideas for new services e. g., newspapers, magazines, etc., considered. The operation would be performed by carpenters, structural workers, and electricians under the direction of head surgeon, Mr. David Ford of the university dining halls.
It was at this stage that complications set in. What these complications were, no one could say for sure, but they involved the transfer of the Western Union facilities. It was hoped, though, before students’ temperatures got too high (in the crowded conditions of the Huddle) and the weather too low, the operation would be undertaken and completed. If this could be accomplished it would be just what the doctor ordered.
Mrs. Connor, commenting on the attitude of the student body this year said, “In spite of the large enrollment and the limited facilities of the Huddle, the student body has cooperated wonderfully.” Praising the students in general, she added that she has never dealt with a finer group.—P. M. Belmont
BLOCK BROTHERS The Diamond House of South Bend
•
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS for over 25 years
3 Ring
ZIPPER BINDERS
From SC.28 up, tax indud.
FOUNTAIN PEN and PENCIL SETS
•	SHEAFFER
•	PARKER
•	EVERSHARP
•	WATERMAN
Busmess Systems
126 S. MAIN
Across from the Court House
27
Threatened Strike Delays Vet Housing
Threats of cold weather and an impending strike combined during the past week to cause further delay in the efforts of some two dozen married vets to establish a beachhead on the site north and east of Cartier Field, which comprises Notre Dame’s veterans’ housing units.
The move, originally intended for October 15th, has been postponed until November 1st, by which time the installation of a transformer and space heaters will have been effected. Placing of this equipment was delayed by a threatened strike involving the employees of the Indiana & Michigan Electric Company, and, in new of uncertain weather conditions, it was decided to postpone the occupancy date. However, the work of installing this equipment is now in progress and should be completed in sufficient time to prepare the way for the long-awaited hegira to this project. Once the first group is established the remaining vacancies will be filled periodically until such time that all 117 units are occupied.
It was announced by Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., business manager of the project, that applications for this first group will be placed in the mails during the last week in October.
—K. G. Schweinfest
the Buzz-Saw!
They are super-comfortable and have Gripper fasteners.
To avoid the cruel sawing, chafing and binding of ordinary shorts with a center seam ...
. . . get a pair of Arrow shorts with plenty of room where it counts.
‘TMa/Grffel fa
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
-----ARROW SHORTS ---
It's Adler's for ARROWS
MT* ONCK... MKMMN I MINIIWI
Another
Headquarters
for
Arrow
Is your Anatomy at Peace?
THE WRIGGLE
. If your shorts give you rear echelon battle-fatigue, switch to a pair of Arrow non-grab, non-chafe shorts.
Arrow shorts are Sanforized-labeled (guaranteed less than 1% shrinkage) and have Gripper fasteners. Very inexpensive.
ARROW SH/RTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Here you are a guest before you are a cusfomer
Headquarters for:
POP CORN KARMEL CORN SALTED NUTS
Karmel-Korn Shop
Main and Colfax
Recently a visiting fireman (literal) was invited to take an unexpurgated tour of the Main Building. It took him forty-five seconds to give his verdict: “It’ll bur-r-rn like a faggot!” And we . read the other day that insurance statistics show that students are safer in school than they are at home.
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Mich. St. Ph. 2-4405
We could hardly wait for the Purdue game to see just what kind of formation Mr. Hope had conjured up for the band. Early in the week we had heard them practising some of the numbers to be played at the game. It wasn’t hard to picture what was to come from “The Anvil Chorus” and “The Man on the Flying Trapeze,” but we were darned if we could figure what hope there was for working “Vienna Blood” into a formation.
Open Saturday S A. M. to 6 P. M.
I overheard a couple of fellows talking the other day, it went something like this: “lissen, ya put a spert coat on a chimpanze sit him in the back ov that class an he’d pass wit an etty five!” Humm. Is that the same class people took portable radios to, last semester?
CAMERAS AND PHOTOGRAPHIC
SUPPLIES
Students, we are devoted entirely to your photographic needs. Everything for the amateur and professional photographer.
•
Ault’s photo service in the Cafeteria
AULT
Camera Shop
Opposite the Courthouse
122 South Main St.
Phone 3-S041
A St. Mary’s sophomore was expressing complete bewilderment to me last Sunday. The Scholastic columnists, a gay, laughing, urbane set they all envy, spent last spring working on tactful ways of saying nasty things about SMC. This year the Scholastic has been simply dripping with benevolence and charity. The law of supply and demand, girls.
The Quaker Oats Company, which has been keeping us posted on the latest in cereals shot from guns, advertised in the Sunday papers that the trainer at West Point advocates oatmeal for building strong bodies and healthy minds. We can’t get rid of a nagging suspicion that Coach Leahy believes in fighting fire with fire.
We are flabbergasted. To Brother (Hamilcar a la tete des chenets, sur un coussin de plume, etait couche en rond, le nez entre' ses pattes) Meinrad we can say but one thing—“a merry Noel to you too, sir!”
Trend-of-things-to-come, and God help us when they do: Wednesday is now Bingsday.
That Notre Dame article in Time two j weeks ago had a fascinating note at the \ * end. It said that there will be a musical produced on Broadway this fall called “Toplitzky of Notre Dame.” It is con- -i cerned with an angel sent from Heaven disguised as a quarterback and charged J with the sacred mission of helping Notre .. Dame beat Army. He does. The thing' that interests us, however, is the posi- : ; tively overwhelming possibilities of such - . : a play. We can see a program printed by Benzigei’ Brothers (at their usual.;’ J modest stipend) with the title page reading—imprimatur. Imagine two New York theatre goers talking: “Didja see : . j that new play, whachamacallit of Noder ' Dame?” Second NYTG: “Yah, wasn’t so hot, PM didn’t like it at all.” First• NYTG: “Mebbe PM didn’t like it but - ; Brooks Atkinson and John Mason Brown . J both gave it a nihil obstat, an’ that’s . enough for me!” When it is printed we J ' understand it will be required reading in C Religion 21 for Physical Education CI ; Majors.	•
Our confidence in hall rectors as ecclesiastical authorities received an unnerving blow the other night. Remembering something that we read once about All Saints’ Day in the catechism, we dropped in on Father and asked him if there’d be classes on November first.
“November* first!” growled our rector, “just what’s coming on November
first?”
Well, perhaps Father was off cathedra that night.
his

Slovak, Schnurle Named Pro Tem Club Officers
At a meeting of the Propeller
Club
held on Monday evening in the Com-I^' merce Building, Mr. Herbert Bott, hon-|t orary chairman and faculty advisor, out-g; lined plans and topics to be discussed|| during the 1946-47 semester, and de-^i scribed briefly the purpose of the club’s^
organization.

Highlighting the program for the^S; forthcoming season is a field trip to Chi-J3 cago, where the club members will meet^^ ■with the businessmen’s chapter of the^J Propeller Club in that city, and at which^j ? time a study will be made of the fa^^^ cilities at the disposal of the Port o^^;£ Chicago authorities. Other plans includSJg: periodical reports on topics pertaining td^f

current problems in international trade; occasional talks by experts in the field of foreign commerce; and, along social lines, a club smoker and picnic. Projection equipment has been procured for the purpose of showing slides and motion pictures on international trade.
The Propeller Club, whose official designation is The Propeller Club of the United States, Port of Notre Dame, is an international trade organization formed by businessmen in various countries, which college students majoring in foreign trade are invited to join.
Because the Propeller Club is presently being reorganized it was decided that election of club officers should be postponed until a future meeting. Appointed as club officers pro tern are Emil Slovak and George Schnurle.—K. G. Schweinfest
Cavaliers Make Debut, Play At Parish Dance
The Cavaliers, long a traditional band at Notre Dame, have come to life for the first time since 1943 in the form of a sextet. On Thursday evening October 17 the combo, as it is called, played before a packed house at the Holy Cross Church dance, well attended by Notre Dame men and girls of the parish.
A big hit at their first public appearance of the year, the Cavaliers will play again at the Holy Cross recreation hall next Thursday night and every two weeks thereafter. Another band will play on the alternating Thursday nights. The sextet will also play at other parish dances in South Bend throughout the year.
All of the members of the band have long experience as musicians. Four are members of Notre Dame’s marching band. John Clark, at the piano, and Roy Lange, playing the trombone, both being members of the 1943 Cavaliers, organized this year’s edition. The other 1946 members are: Bob Schaeffer, on the saxophone and the clarinet, Howie Hor-
Give Tree-Ripenf.d RedBlush Grapefruit
A wonderful gift for family and friends. Bushel gift box (50 lbs.) prepaid to most of midwest $9.50 ; regular bushel $8.00. Oranges or pink grapefruit $5.95. Add 50c to Mich.. Minn., Ohio, Wise, and as far as N. Y. State.
Other gifts $2.50 to $57.25. Write for illustrated booklet.
(Paint (Pony Onchandl
San Benito, Texas
nung on the bass, Tom Voss at the drums, and Jack Guion, who is also the vocalist, on the trumpet.
—Joe Campbell
A.I.E.E. Guides Student Tour of ND Electric Labs
On Wednesday, October 16, at 7:30, the annual open house tour of the Electrical Laboratories of the University of Notre Dame was held. This meeting, presided over by Tom Bristol, chairman of the student branch of the South Bend Chapter of the A.I.E.E., provided approximately sixty under-classmen with the opportunity to get acquainted with the electrical equipment featured and offered them a review of things to come. Faculty members present were: Mr. John A. Northcott, head of the Electrical Engineering Department; Dr. Harold E. Ellithorn; Mr. Lawrence F. Stauder; Mr. Arthur J. Quigley, and Mr. Robert A. Brown.
At the conclusion of the tour discussion groups were formed and refreshments were served. Plans were made to publish the electrical magazine of the Notre Dame Chapter of the A.I.E.E.,___ the Electric Line; and finally the fall calendar of the Notre Dame chapter was presented which included a tour of the Bendix Aviation Corporation on Nov. 13, under the direction of Mr. Walter Manuszak, Bendix Engineer.
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus— E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
For that "particular" card on that "particular* occasion —
I. W. Lower Co. DECORATORS
130 N. Michigan St.
126 N. Michigan
The
unable to
tions
lured m
prayers.
of the CROSS
Enables practice
oi devotions any-
time in Church and when where, a *	Each oi 14 Sta-
remarkably sculp-on a numbered
of the Cross
“ belds indicate proper
’	riaht convenient to carry-
H conditions.	Catholics are
hailing	___
aid. See these now
$6.95 each
31
Student Council Sponsors Halloween Dance Thursday
The student council will sponsor a Halloween dance at the Drill Hall from 8 to 11:30 Thursday night, Oct. 31, it was announced this week by council president William Pelling.
The dance will not be costume affair. Admission will be 50 cents per couple and this will also cover the refreshments which will be served. Students of St. Mary’s College have been granted permission to attend the dance.
LABOR CONTROVERSY
(Continued from Page 9) 117 vets whose families are to occupy these homes and the pickets. The picket lines were removed by the union Local 645 sometime on Thursday.
The reconciliation meeting between Locals 645 and 413 was held Thursday night at the Labor Temple in South Bend. A representative group from both locals told a Scholastic reporter that
SATURDAY NIGHT Oct. 26
The Golden Voice of
of
BOB RUEHLE
JIMMY pORStY ANO HI* O*CH£5T*
COMING SATURDAY NIGHT Nov. 9
JIMM DORSEY Celebrate the N.D.-ARMY Game at the
PALAIS ROYALE
32
an agreement had been reached satisfactory to both sides and that all workers would return to their jobs on Friday morning. This should allay the fears of any veteran involved that there will be any further work-stoppage arising from this recent controversy.
HIGH PRICES ON CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 9)
in board rates have made it necessary to take up the slack in revenue by charging higher prices for,, items outside of meals, such as milk shakes, ice cream, crackers, and cookies.
The Student Council, on the other hand, points out that the dining hall’s overhead is lower than that of most downtown stores and that prices at a non-profit institution, established for student benefit, should not be higher than those charged in a store run for profit. The Council suggests that the stepped-up volume of sales resulting from price decreases, especially in regard to milk shakes, would more than meet the dining hall’s revenue needs. A substantial student boycott of the items in question already exists, the committee asserts, and if continued and extended might do much to bring about lower prices.—Bob Stock
Specializing in the eximination of the eyes
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Street Phone 4-8251
NAME YOUR SPORT SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue	Phone 3-3702
Program of Classics In "Cav" Reading Room
Here is the schedule of recorded selections which will be played during the music hour (12:30 to 1:30 p.m.) in Cavanaugh Hall reading room during the coming week. All students and professors are invited to attend.
Tuesday, October 29 — Donizetti — Lucia (Burning Tapers and Mad Scene by Lily Pons); Brahms—Concerto for Violin and Orchestra, D Major.
Wednesday, October 30 — Paganini — Moto Perpetuo; Schumann — Symphony No. 2, C Major.
Thursday, October 31 — Mozart — Il Seraglio Overture; Verdi—Celeste Aida (Gigli) — O Patria Mia (Rose Bampton) ; Brahms — Symphony No. 3, F Major.
Tuesday, November 5 — Beethoven — Consecration Overture; Tschaikowsky — Concerto, D Major.
Wednesday, November 6 — Wagner — Meistersinger Overture; Beethoven — Concerto No. 4, G Major.
Thursday, November 7 — Weinberger — Polka and Fugue from Schwanda; Mozart — Quartet No. 1, G Minor.
53 Years of Priesthood	|
Ends as Father DeGroote Dies
Early last week Notre Dame lost one of its oldest priests when the Reverend John Francis DeGroote, C.S.C., aged 80, " died of a heart attack in the Community Infirmary on the campus. Father* DeGroote, born in Mishawaka just two j H years after the end of the Civil War, . | was ordained to the priesthood at Notre	: |
Dame in 1893. His duties in the years ,0 that followed carried him to New Orleans ? J several times but he is best remembered 51 for his work among the various local parishes in South Bend. He was asso-ciated with the parishes of St. Patrick’s, | < Holy Cross, and St. Matthew’s in town, 3 "• helping to build them spiritually, physi-cally and financially. In 1943 he was retired after 50 years in the active priesthood.
/ — —	— \
It Behooves Me Greatly . ..
V	---------
Reverend Fathers, dear Brothers of the bookstore, fellow Legionnaires, members of Catholic Action, and chow line hasherettes:
ZIGGY MUSCLES IN . ..
This is my first venture at writing a column. There are usually two kinds of people who write a column; the first kind write because they know how to write, the second, because they are famous, such as Ted Williams, Jack Dempsey, and Joe Louis. When the Scholastic editors approached me, proffering me the opportunity to translate my mutterings into coherent print, they assured me it was because of my beauty of expression. Therefore, move over Williams, Dempsey, and Louis . . . here comes Cza-robski!
SMC—GO! GO! GO! . . .*
As any fool can see without looking, educational institutions today have become greatly overcrowded. Even such heretofore feminine colleges as Vassar and Skidmore have thrown open their doors to Teturning G.I.’s, who have been unable to find a male institution in
—- - By Zigmont Czarobski
which to roost. This column wonders when the staid and polished academy of highei- culture across the Dixie will throw open its portals to matriculating males.
Skidmore has fielded a football team and has challenged Vassar to a gridiron classic. Think of the commotion that would be caused if St. Mary’s would send out a contingent of the hale and hearty to do battle with its neighboring hallowed hall. Imagine the Nylon Kids, clad in taffeta jerseys and lace beanies, doing or dying for dear old SMC! Rah! Rah! Rah!, or “He’s a woman! Who’s a woman? He’s a St. Mary’s woman!”
JUST A CLOSING THOUGHT ...
As we see the Iowa game, it will be our toughest thus far . . . not merely because Iowa beat Indiana and gave Michigan a hard battle, but because they’re coached by three ex-Notre Dame greats who are aching for revenge from last year’s drubbing. The team feels that if we win by one point, we’ll be more than satisfied. If we can beat Iowa, we know for sure that we’ll give Army’s cadets the battle of their young lives!
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
THY OUR
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
Back ot the Quality
That's back again . . .
PARKER-WINTERROWD
Tailors and Clothiers
All the refinements of peacetime quality are back again in our custom tailored, made to measure clothes.
Superb tailoring and distinctive styling are again enhanced with the beauty and quality of imported and American finer woolens.
Indeed an encouraging indication of a brightened future.
Home of Adler-Rochester ready-to-wear -Suits and Coats
PARKER-WINTERROWD, Inc.
115^4 - 117^4 North Main Street — upstairs North of the Oliver Hotel
33
TYPING DONE
TERM PAPERS, MANUSCRIPTS, PRECIS Typing done ten cents per page (double space). Carbon copies one cent each. Paper furnished.
W. J. WISSEL, 326 Badin
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays-and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building	South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building L. E. Fisher, M.D. M. J. Thornton, M.D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1904
Feb. 20: The Scholastic called attention to the athletic pirateering of Brown University which had adopted the policy of giving members of its athletic teams “compensation” for their services. These professional tactics, the Scholastic went on to say, were in direct opposition to the national movement for absolute purity in athletics. . . . Mar. 5: The Scii-lastic continued its crusade against professionalism in athletics caling it “unfair” and “unjust”. . . . Mar. 19: St. Patrick’s Day at Notre Dame was as usual a hilarious holiday. The school’s four non-Irish students were not long in learning the words to Danny Boy. . . . June 11: Tiny Beloit College, long the thorn in the side of the Irish, took a thrilling 1 to 0 decision from the varsity baseball team. The winners pushed over the winning run when they completed a successful double steal. . . . Aug. 13: the record for about the most successful baseball season in Notre Dame history showed 13 wins and 5 defeats. Four of the five games lost were by one run. The only decisive score over the Irish was the 4 to 1 victory which gave Beloit a perfect season against them. . . . Nov. 19: Among the other things which the Irish gave thanks for, when Thanksgiving Day rolled around this week, was that Beloit did not have a football team.
Refinement
.4 truthful woman never tells a fib
Except perhaps about her age and weight;
And noiv and then, of course, she may ad lib
When talking of the salary of her mate; But true to training she ivill always rise Above the sordid things that folks call lies.—T. E. B.
That Man Again
Add Tucker to Davis and Blanchard and even my most ignorant critics will have to admit that the Irish will be a pushover for the mighty Cadets.
As to Badin’s offer, I decline, but would be available foi’ any lake party preceding the game since I’ll be too busy collecting bbts afterwards.
—Don Lee, Address Unknown.
(Why doesn't this “Don Lee” give his Address—Editor.)
We Can Do It!
• X
Those Army Cadets
Excel in their cheering;
Their team -never frets ’Cause it’s within hearing.
So let us arrange To endanger the foe By not acting strange Toivards cheers We should know.
—Attentive Abie, Lyons.
Local Pet Peeve
The spiritless students who think themselves too big and too busy to show up at pep rallies.
—Bill Cullen, Zahm. ♦
Capp-Shun
Yesterday hamburger;
Today it was a wiener.
The menu tomorrow: Lena the Hyena!
—Thompson, poet laureate of Lyons.
❖
Prelude to Packing
Come on, there’s a little bar out on the edge of town that nobody else knows about.—Crazy Jack, Lyons.
❖
Down and Out
The battei* stepped up to the plate; his countenance beamed with pride.
While out on the mound the pitcher waited, then stretched and took his stride.
34
The pitch was low and way outside; Strike One! the umpire said.
The batter turned about and glared, his face was growing red.
The second throw then hit the dirt three feet in front of the plate.
Strike-Two! the arbitrator called and the batter writched in hate.
The third pitch sailed, then hooked inside and struck him on the head.
Our batter fell with dented skull; Yer out! the umpire said.—Dick Dietz.
Mail or deliver all contributions to . THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.	■
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 7)
If any band has musical quality it is Purdue’s. . . .
There was a day when Notre Dame had a ranking playing and marching band ...
In those days, the Notre Dame employed its famous quick-step, and, replete with blue uniforms and blue knee-length overcoats, white-topped caps ■with green shamrocks in view, and sharp-looking spats, it marched to greater and greater fame, which was heightened by the frequent eastern tours. Its recognized playing ability, snappy marching and formations, and the colorful uniforms placed it high on the list of college musical units.
Granted that the present band has originality and Jim Kress, who is sensational, may I pose this question: When are we going to have a band that will be a definite credit to our great University?
Name Withheld
The Scholastic, respecting- the right of the individual student to his own opinion on campus subjects, reprints the above letter while disagreeing violently with the sentiments expressed.
In view of the time allotted to the Notre Dame band for practice, and the incentives offered the individual members for the effort they expend week after week, it would not seem that comparison with ROTC-trained bands or with those of schools which offer rides for band members is justified.
Further, the two half-time shows already presented this season by the present band, and the enthusiastic comments of the average student and alumnus over those shows would indicate that we now have a band that is a “definite credit to our great University.”
sure keeps me hopping!"
1JJELIEVE me, fitting all the new dial and manual switch-n board equipment and long distance facilities into Bell System central offices all around the country is keeping me mighty busy!
“In a single big dial exchange there max’ be 4,000 miles of wire. I may have to solder 2,500,000 connections before everything’s ready for you to dial a number.
“Besides installing this complex apparatus, I build it. That’s part of my job as manufacturer for the Bell System.
“I also purchase all manner of things for the Bell Telephone Companies . . . and distribute these supplies to them along with the equipment I make.
“Ever since 1882, I’ve been helping to make our nation’s telephone service the best in the world. Today. . . with the Bell System’s construction program of more than $2,000,000,000 in full swing. . . I’m busier than ever.
“Remember my name . . . it’s Western Electric.”
Western Electric
A UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM SINCE 1882
-35
Copyright 1946. LiGCtrr & Mrm Tmacco Co.