NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
2
UEUT. BEIRNE LAY, Jr.
by
WATCH OUT FOR THOSE
FOOTBALL SPIES S
Next Saturday’s gridiron “upsets” will probably be caused by—spies. Do you know how. the football Sherlocks work? What they look for? Why they favor the end-zone seats that you complain about? A sports writer tells you in this week’s Post, reveals the names of some oflfootball’s master sleuths and discusses the pros and cons of scouting by camera. Read his article and be a grandstand sensation when you go to the game Saturday.
by TOM MEANY
What does flying 10 hours ...alone
DO io apilot?
• You’ve read about Doug Corrigan, Howard Hughes, Amelia Earhart, Wiley Post and all the rest. But there’s one story you seldom read. What happens to fliers on those longdistance flights? To their minds? Their bodies? Their nerves? What’s it like to be up there alone, hour after hour? An Army pilot gives you a dramatic word-picture of exactly what goes on during a long-distance flight.
-.
WGAOATAHMf SAWSOff A 06
Getting a $2,200 debt out of fish-eyed Ole rw~- a toothniet ” »*••» ■’ - -
No More Glamour
. _____________„ wcwi out o: fish-eyed Ole Olesen was “like openin' a drum o’ fuel oil with toothpick,” but that didn’t stop Tugboat Annie Brennan from trying. Norman Reilly Raine tells you about her latest adventure in high-class bamboozling. Read how it worked out 1 And.
. LOOK BEFORE YOU LOVE— by David Lawrence, in The New Politics... especially if a man’s heart is in steeplechasing. HOLLYWOOD’S PRACTICAL JOKERS. Alva Read Steeplechase for Two, by Rnth Burr Johnston tells you about them in What Sanborn.. .WHY 9 CITIES MAY SWING THE Larks!... Also: stories, serials, Post Scripts, NEXT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. Revealed and cartoons. All in this week’s Post.
THE SHTUNDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Vol. 72
October 21, 1938
No. 5
GOTHAM-BOUND LADS DEPART FRIDAY
Free trolleys will leave the campus at 12:30 noon, on Friday, Oct. 28, carrying approximately 500 students to the South Bend station, where the Grand Trunk - Lehigh Valley train leaves at 1:00 p.m. for the Army-Notre Dame game. The train will arrive in New York City at 8:00 o’clock, Saturday morning.
“All students leaving the campus on this particular week-end must have explicit permission from their parents in a letter in which will be stated exactly how long the student is to be away from the University,” according to a notice from the office of the Prefect of Discipline. Students on the Army trip may take a train out of New York on Sunday afternoon, and arrive in South Bend at 7:00 o’clock Monday morning; or they may leave New York on Tuesday morning at 8:15 o’clock and arrive in South Bend on Wednesday morning at 5:00 o’clock.
Dining car meals will be served both on the going and return trips for 50 cents for dinners, 30 cents for breakfasts; and sandwiches and coffee will be served throughout the train at ten cents each during the journey.
In New York the Army Trippers may stay in the Hotel McAlpin on Saturday night for $1.50. There are a limited number of such accommodations.
Churches near the Pennsylvania Station in New York are: St. John’s Church, at 7th Avenue and 30th Street; and St. Francis’ Church, at 31st Street, between 6th and 7th Avenue.
Foi- those fortunate boys who will stay in their comfortable rooms at the University and not be subjected to the gruelling ride to New York, there will be no classes on Friday afternoon or Saturday. And while classes will be held as usual on Monday, there will be none on Tuesday, All Saints’ Day.
Applicants for the SCHOLASTIC staff and those desiring to submit writings for publication are invited to visit the SCHOLASTIC Editorial rooms evenings, Sunday through Friday, between 7 and 8, or room 328 Main Building mornings between 9 and 11, or evenings between 8 and 9.
UNNETS MAKE FIRST BOW WEDNESDAY
Lights will fade — the customary hush will settle over an audience and a curtain will rise. At this moment next Wednesday evening Washington Hall will resound to the musical ef-
Linnets to Revive Old Glories Scene from last production.
fordts of over 100 spirited freshmen as the Linnets present their first concert of the year.
With versatility as the keynote of the show, an elaborate interpretation of some of the most beautiful militaristic and romantic numbers ever written wall be presented.
The Linnet Glee Club will be featured in two selections from “The Desert Song, “One Alone” and the title song of the production. To follow this they have chosen the colorful “Ranger’s Song” from “Rio Rita.”
Arthur Donadio, a golden - voiced tenor “find” of the organization, will offer the melodic “Serenade,” from “The Student Prince” and will share the solo spotlight with Martin Wied-eman. Wiedeman, another bright star of the show, will render the ever-popular “Dancing in the Dark.”
Five solo drummers, backed by the Linnet orchestra, plan to go native (grass skirts et al) in a tantalizing rendition of Ravel’s “Bolero.” They will use a French orchestration of this piece which is seldom heard in this country.
The two most promising spots in the show will, be a unique version of (Continued on Page 21)
MAR9UETTE HOST TO CATHOLIC CONGRESS
Striking at the false ideology that faith and reason are natural enemies, Rev. James M. Gillis, C.S.P., editor of the Catholic World, made an urgent plea for an active Catholic press which fould make truth its goal and faith and reason its weapons, before 4 0 0 representatives from leading American Catholic universities and high schools assembled at the Marquette University High school in Milwaukee, Wis., for the second annual Catholic Educational Press Congress held last Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 15-16.
Dean J. L. O’Sullivan of Marquette University, under whose auspices the two-way Congress was held, keynoted the first general session Saturday morning with the purposes and objectives of the Congress this year. “We hope to impress upon you, and eventually the press of the country, the necessity of presenting truth to the newspaper reader,” declared Dean O’Sullivan. “This truth can only be grasped through the joint use of faith and reason.”
Father Gillis further developed this theme as he discussed the modem denial of faith and reason and advocated the promotion of an active Catholic press to combat the false theories of modem philosophers who progressively renounce faith and reason as natural enemies.
Following Father Gillis’ address the Congress was divided into general discussion groups whereby faculty and students collaborated in joint discussions attacking specific problems in newspaper and magazine writing and editing.
Commenting on the composition of feature writing, William C. Fay, news editor of the Scholastic, spoke before a discussion group of students. Simultaneously, other group discussions in Editorial Writing, News Writing, Essays, Fiction, Magazine Articles, and Editing were being conducted throughout the Congress.
In the presence of The Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, Archbishop of Milwaukee, the Catholic Educational Press Congress Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. Thomas F. Berry, rector, Pio Nono High school, to open the final day of the Congress. The Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, president (Continued on Page 22)
4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ROCAP SEEKS MORE K. OF C. MEMBERS
THE WEEK
By Bill Donnelly
The Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus met last Tuesday evening under the leadership of the Elkhart council. At the invitation of the Notre Dame Council the officers of the Elkhart Council took complete charge of the procedure of the meeting. The officers of the Elkhart Council are Grand Knight Fred Holtz; Deputy Grand Knight Frank Laidlaw; Chancellor, Joseph Shriver; Advocate, Louis Arnold; Recording Secretary, Leonard Gross; Financial Secretary, James Collins; Guards, Joseph Primavera and Charles Fish-
James Rocap
Wants more Knights
er; and Warden, Charles Crackwell.
Membership Chairman James Rocap issued a plea for the full cooperation of the council in the drive for an increase of new members. It is important that those students desirous of admission to the order be contacted in the near future. Thomas Hogan, editor of the Santa Maria, placed the size of the next issue at the discretion of the council. It is hoped that a 24-page issue published quarterly will meet the high standards of the previous issues.
George McMorrow, chairman of the Catholic Action committee, announced the formation of discussion clubs which will form an integral part of the activities of this committee. All discussion meetings will be held in the K. of C. Lounge with members of the faculty presiding.
Grand Knight John J. Murphy announced that the Knights would sponsor the Victory Dance following the Minnesota game. Peter Fluge has been appointed general chairman of the affair. Grand Knight Murphy also informed the brothers of the exemplification of the first degree of the order next Wednesday evening, Oct. 26.
The Scholastic extends sincere sympathy to Steve Smith, member of the news staff, on the death of his mother.
The Philosophers
A week or so ago a senior philosophy class in the science building became aware that their professor was apparently absent. What to do? They put their heads together and argued the problem something like this: major: If there is no professor there can be no class, minor: There is no professor, conclusion : Therefore, there can be no class. In regard to the major, we declare: The proper • object of the class is to absorb the knowledge imparted to it by the professor. If there is no professor there can be no knowledge imparted and therefore there can be no class. In regard to the minor, we argue: If there were a professor he certainly would have made his presence known to us by now in the manner all professors have of making their presence known. He has not made his presence known. Therefore, there is no professor. And. therefore, there can be no class.
After about nine minutes of this profound philosophical reasoning, they reached the conclusion stated above" and left immediately. Then, on the way downstairs they looked through the window and spied the professor coming toward the building at a rapid pace. But do you think they faced this new problem on intellectual grounds and in accordance with its proper philosophical values? On the contrary, they all hid under the stairs like any Commerce freshmen would have done, while the professor dashed up over them. And then they rushed out of the building while he raged in the empty classroom above.
•
Top of the Week
The line in the Founder’s Eve movie: — Every time we eat a good meal, it will be an adventure.
Inspiration for Ingenuity
There must be something about the residents of Alumni Hall that makes it difficult for any one attempting to contact • them to do it in a normal manner. One of them, for instance, was rushed down to the telephone last week by the news that there was an emergency long distance call awaiting him. “Emergency-long distance” is a rather ominous-sounding phrase, and of course he was rather worried by the time he picked up the receiver and whispered an anxious “Hello.” Instead of hearing a troubled voice from home he was answered very cheerily by his girl from St. Mary’s who had just wanted to
talk to him (you know how it is) and had used this clever ruse because she had found the line so hopelessly busy.
Another Alumnite received a kid-die-gram last-week from some girl with a flare for the humorous. And Frank O’Laughlin received two letters. ‘ One of them, in return to a letter he had sent to Sheed and Ward, addressed him as Rev. Francis J. O’Laughlin and offered him a twenty percent discount because of that fact. The other, containing a novel from the Book-of-the-Month Club, was addressed to Miss Frances O’Laughlin. Of course he corrected the latter letter immediately (telling them how “discouragingly” non - co - educational this school is), but we hear he’s going to let that first letter slide because he rather likes the general idea of it and the implication of dignity it contains.
•
Mantoux Madness
There was once a time when it was all the rage over in the Infirmary at the slightest hint of abnormality about a student’s abdominal area to rush him down to St. Joseph’s Hospital for observation. He never even had to suggest the awful word “appendicitis”; it always seemed to be on the tip of the doctor’s tongue. But alas, the old order, etc. We know of a freshman who went over the other day with a very suspicious pain in his right side. Came his turn, and as soon as he got inside, the doctor began rolling up his sleeve for him. “B-but,” he ventured, and the doctor immediately slapped the inevitable hunk of tape on his arm. “B-but,” he dittoed, and the doctor interrupted with that stuff about it wouldn’t hurt him a bit and he should come back in forty-eight hours. “B-but I’m afraid I might have appendicitis,” he finally blurted. “Oh,” the doctor said. “Well, if the pain doesn’t go away, come back later and we’ll have a look at it.”
•
Odds and Ends
At first we didn’t believe this fantastic story, but we have conferred with one who actually has seen the feat performed and she assures us that it is not done with mirrors:— there is a girl at St. Mary’s who eats a paper napkin after every meal. . . . We have deep admiration for the clever wit of that fellow who held up a rough slab of that meat of indeterminate species we were served at a noon meal last week (as every week), and shouted with all the eagerness of meeting an old friend, “Heigh Ho, Silver'”
•
Benny Sheridan has a peg leg.
5
OCTOBER 21, 1938
College Parade |
X________________________________J
By Red E. Sisk
Boycott
If you don’t know it by now, we’re being ignored. A column in the Rosarian declares that “the well-known South Bend school” will be forgotten in their columns as much as possible this year.
We congratulate the girls for such an idea. Besides a good five-cent cigar, what our U. S. A. has needed more than anything else is another real boycott like the Boston Tea Party to break the monotony of things.
In genuine sincerity we are happy to note this Rosarian initiative; it indicates that either our Notre Darners have been boycotting the Rosarian editor, or that the name, “Notre Dame,” has been too repetitious in their college journal during the past.
—o—
Cotillion Results
What Notre Dame should do this winter is to close up the heating plant and have more dances, if we can trust a University of Wisconsin’s professor’s calculations. After going into a trance with some mathematical formulae, he produced the following figures: the heat produced by a college dance would warm a two-story building for two winter days. Professor, that might apply to Florida, but this Indiana brand of winter is another story.
From New York to London
The Scranton Aquinas advises our culinary department that thirty-million frankfurters and hamburgers will be eaten next year at the New York World’s Fair. That number of “franks” and hamburgers, if strung on a rope, would reach across the Atlantic from New York to London, and the meat in them would fill 187 refrigerated freight cars.
—o—
The “Fluke” in the Parade Tragedy in One Act
Please.
No!
Aw, just this once.
No!
Aw, gee, ma, all the other kids are going barefoot
—The Chronicle.
"Floats” in the Parade
Ideas for the Army trip to New York: an L. S. U. student has broken all records for speed in “thumbing.” . . . The lucky one traveled 83 miles in 20 minutes! ... Answer: He picked a ride with four airplane salesmen. . . . According to our accusers at Rosary, the serenade to a slovenly
CHEMISTS CONCOCT CARNEGIE CAPERS
By William C. McGowan
Dr. Bob Henegan will stuff all the chemists of the University into Columbia Club test tube, apply the heat of his eight Modernaire torches and see what happens. Saturday night, Oct. 22, will be the time of the experiment, and all chemists who volunteer will be charged $1.00 for their sacrifice and may bring a girl.
Alchemist Henegan promises to apply heat slowly, leading with a blueflame “Blue Danube?’ Then, as he lifts the tube to the light and sees the warm smiles of his white mice, he
Chemist Armel Into the test tubes.
will move his wand swiftly and forth will come the red-glare of “Why Doesn’t Somebody Tell Me These Things!” Not only a glance from Dr. Henegan will tell him that the chemists’ brows are beaded and their faces “frozen” in starry-eyed smiles. Our alchemists will grin, turn to his eight torches and beat out four-four, white-flamed “Nagasaki.” As the test tube bursts and chemists and their partners emerge from the cloud of smoke, the clock will point to 11:30 and Dr. Henegan will shout, “Perfect!”
Among those who have volunteered already are the Chemists’ Club officers: President Tom Armel, Vice-president Charlie Oslinski, Secretarytreasurer Jack Doyle, and Member-at-large Frank Pfaff.
Chairman Bill Barton, Chairman of Publicity Don Duffey, and Ticket Distributor Tom Gillispie arranged to have Dr. Henegan and his Modernaire torches keep things warm. But back of everything was the Chemists’ Club, which just wanted to see what would happen!
silk-worm would be: “Stop Beating Around the Mulberry Bush.” . . . An editorial in the Auburn Plainsman says the college man is a living paradox. ... . “He is liberal in his conversation, but conservative in his actions. . . . He demands freedom of thinking, but defends with all his strength the traditions of his institution. ... He cuts classes the day before a vacation, but may come back three days early.”
Calendar I
Friday, October 21
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 to 5:00; October devotions and Benediction; Pep Meeting field house, 6:30 p.m.
Saturday, October 22
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 to 10:30; Football game, Stadium, Carnegie Tech, 2:00 p.m.; Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 Freshmen only, 8:20 Upper-classmen.
Sunday, October 23
Student Masses, SacredHeart Church, 6. 7, 8:30 and 10:00 a.m.; Evening services, Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament, 7 arid 7:30.
Monday, October 24
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 to 5:00; October devotions and Benediction; Wranglers Meeting, Law Building, 8 p.m.
Tuesday, October 25
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 to 5:00; October devotions and Benediction; Interhall debate, Lavr Building, 8:00 pjn.
Wednesday, October 26
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 to 5:00; October devotions and Benediction; Interhall debate, Law Building 8:00 p.m.; Sorin vs. St. Edward’s in Law Bldg.; Lyons vs. Morrissey in Library Basement; Linnets, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Thursday, October 27
Adoration, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 to 5:00; October devotions and Benediction; Interhall debate, Law Building 8:00 p.m.; Howard vs. Walsh in Law Building; Badin vs. Brownson-Carroll in Library Basement; Lecture, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Morgan Remembers
Mr. Thomas Morgan, 16 years a reporter for the United Press at Vatican City, spoke in Washington Hall on Tuesday night. His announced lecture was: “Assigned to the Papal Court.” For one hour and a quarter Mr. Morgan assured his audience that The Following are Wonderful:
St. Peter’s
Michaelangelo
Vatican Palace Mountain-Climbing Matterhorn Peak Pope Pius XI and that
The Following are Terrible:
Nero
Diocletian
Sergeant of the Swiss Guards Sacrifice of the Christians Attila and the Huns
Speeches.
The audience left quietly.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
( Our Daily Bread \___________________
Generals Can Die at Dawn—Jack Chung Prefers A Boilermaking Minor in the Engineering School
Liturgy
By Bill Scanlan
The Calendar of the Liturgical Year is something more than a guide to the daily mass. It has social significance in that it keeps fresh in the memory the solidarity which results from participation in the Liturgy. It provides a varied choice of concrete examples by which one can test the saying that one’s company is an index of one’s character. The Calendar each day keeps us in the company of those who have built their character to perfection by the grace of the sacraments. It is the part.of wisdom to choose one’s friends among the friends of God. They all have this in common that they became Christ-like because they kept on trying. It was this that turned Ignatius’ of Loyola from the sword of death to the sword of life. This Sunday’s Epistle is pertinent: “Brethren: See how you walk circumspectly, not as unwise, but as wise; redeeming the time, because the days are evil.” The Gospel tells the story of the healing of the ruler’s son. The faith of the father was the final test, as indeed it is in every endeavor to belong to the company of the Saints.
Mass Calendar: October 23 to 29
First Class, Double, Semi-double etc., indicates the quality of the feast. V. R. means that a votive or a requiem mass may be celebrated.
Sunday 23 — Twentieth Sunday after Pentecost. Semi-double. 2d Collect Intercession of the Saints, 3d choice, 4th Propagation of the Faith. Mission Sunday.
Monday 2k — St. Raphael, Archangel. Greater Double. Credo.
Tuesday 25 — Sts. Chrysanthus and Darias, Martyrs. Simple. V.R. Husband and wife buried alive by order of Numerian, A.D. 284.
Wednesday 26—St. Evaristus, Pope and Martyr. Simple. V.R. Martyred under Trajan, A-D. 109.
Thursday 27—Vigil of Sts. Simon and Jude, Apostles. Simple. 2d Collect of the Blessed Virgin (Concede), 3d Against the Persecutors of the Church or for the Pope.
Friday 28 — Sts. Simon and Jude, Apostles. Double 2d Class. Credo. They suffered martyrdom on the same day — hence the combined feast and mention of their names in the Canon of the Mass.
Saturday 29 — Mass of the Blessed Virgin for Saturday, (Pentecost to Advent). Simple. 2d Collect of the Holy Ghost, 3d Against the Persecutors of the Church or for the Pope. V.R.
“Take a card,” said Mr. Jackson Chung, and we obliged by selecting the ace of spades from the proffered deck. F-l-i-c-k, Mr. Chung, snapped his fingers and the card disappeared. S-n-a-p—Mr. Chung brought the card back.
“Now if you’ll just let me have your watch,” suggested Mr. Chung, but we demurred and suggested going
Jackson Chung
“Students are life of the nation.”
on with the interview. Mr. Chung is a Chinese student who left the Chinese-Japanese war to study mechanical engineering at Notre Dame — and major in legerdemain.
“Did you pass through any Japanese territory en route to the United States?” we led off.
“Oh, yes,” he replied. “We stopped at Kobi and Yokahoma. We had just a little trouble there when they asked us the most silly questions—‘Where . are you going? Are you a student? Why are you going to America?’ We had to be careful or they might have kept us from going on.”
“Which country has the greater
mechanical advantages?”
“Japan, by far!”
“Is it true that women battalions are really fighting?”
“Yes, but there are not many. The Japanese put out a lot of women spies—and they look so much like the Chinese.”
“Does China have any munition plants?”
“A few. One wns destroyed at Nanking but another is being built somewhere. I don’t know where. The Chinese keep their plans very secret because there are so many spies around.”
“Did you get into the trenches ?”
“No,” he answered, “the government doesn’t want to sacrifice Chinese students. They are the life of the nation. That is why I am here.”
Chung pointed out that 70 Chinese students came to the United States last week to enroll at such institutions as Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Notre Dame, Georgetown, Harvard, De Paul, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio State, and Illinois Wesleyan to prepare themselves to help reconstruct China.”
“How long will the war last,” we asked.
He shrugged. “It all depends. China will not end the war. Japan must leave Chinese soil. The Japanese said they would capture Shanghai within 24 hours. Though the city is now badly damaged we have held it for three months—much longer than the original 24 hours,” he smiled.
Jackson recalled that he missed being bombed when he was riding from Tsingtao to Shanghai by train. The bomb missed the train by a few feet. “We don’t take bombing seriously,” he added. “You get used to it after a while.”
Chung praised the work of Catholic missionaries in China. “They have lost their lives in helping Chinese refugees,” he testified. “We really appreciate the work of the Catholic missions in China.”
Chung saw the recent football game with Illinois and was puzzled by the ceaseless activity of the Irish backs. “It is a lot like soccer,” he commented, “but ice hockey is our favorite sport—although baseball and swimming are very popular.”
Chung finished with two surprising statements: the Great Wall of China (on which he stood many times) is now occupied by the Japanese. The Wall is very wide and approximately the same height as Sorin Hall; and last—that he is seriously considering specializing in boilermaking.
OCTOBER 21, 1938
7
INTERHALL DEBATERS AWAIT FIRST TILTS
•
Oct. 25 is the date for the opening gong. The Law Building is the arena. The battlers are those renowned Gold-coasters, Cavanaugh and Zahm in the lower bracket and Alumni and Dillon in the upper division. Cavanaugh and Alumni will fight from the affirmative corner, and Zahm and Alumni will stalk from the negative corner. The Wranglers will referee. The point at issue: That the United States Should Cease Using Public Funds to Aid Private Enterprise.
The following night will find the bourgeois halls in action — Lyons (aff.) versus Morrissey (neg.) and Howard (aff.) versus Walsh (neg.). The men of the proletariat will get a chance to unite on Oct. 27 when Badin will hold the affirmative against the combined forces of Brownson-Carroll, and Sorin will debate affirmatively against St. Edward ’s-Old Infirmary.
Notices will be placed in all the halls. Coaches have selected their teams, and the various orators are exercising their lungs much to the disgust of neighbors. Reading lists have been placed in the library, and it is hoped that the future William Jennings Bryans will find it convenient to make some preparation before they speak.
Bookmen Get Books
Probably the most important meeting of the year for the Bookmen, campus literary organization, is the one at which selection of the books to make up the club library for the year is made. This meeting was held recently and a representative literary group, including novels, drama, poetry, biography, was picked up by the members.
Charles Nelson, member of the club, and last year’s editor of Scrip, campus literary magazine, delivered a paper on the work and importance of Thomas Wolfe, author of Look Homeward, Angel and other works of interest.
Frank O’Loughlin, club librarian, has ordered the books and expects their arrival shortly. Under the rules of the Bookmen these books are the property of the club until the final meeting when lots are drawn for selection by the members. The books are lent out to the members for a two week period, and other regulations are much the same as those of the modern city library.
Two new members have been admitted to the club. They are Robert Blake, Canton, Ohio, and Dave With-ey, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Man About the Campus
By Graham Starr
John Battista Celia, East Elmhurst, L.I., New York, has the distinction of being the most chronic worrier on the campus. Whether this resulted from association with former roommates, Scott Sheedy and John Collins, is a matter of conjecture. Any way, he worries about everything from whether he left his room light on to whether he will lose his voice on the eve of the game.
John is head cheerleader, and such a calamity would make it difficult for
him to control the rejuvenated student cheering section. Right now his big problem is to help the S.A.C. develop a group which can out-yell anybody in the country. Students say that cheering can’t be noticed. But the team certainly notices the lack of it, he says.
His pet embarrassment occurred at the rainy Army game in New York last year. Trying to ride the Army mule, the would-be cowboy was thrown in a mud puddle to become the laughing stock of 81,000 persons.
John has long since lost his Notre Dame ring to “Puggy,” a St. Mary’s belle.
After graduation John intends to visit Italy to study language and wine. Then he may take the wine course offered by the University of Southern California and join the home office of his father’s winery, largest independent one in the world.
The 20-year-old senior is majoring in business administration. In high school he was senior class president and vice prexy of the student council.
After Warren Brown ribbed students for cheering cotillion girls more than players at last Friday’s pep
LEADER TELLS ABOUT IRISH REBELLION
An extraordinary opportunity for Notre Dame students to hear firsthand information on the memorable story of the famous Irish Easter Rebellion and its consequences will be offered by one who had so important a part in these events — Desmond Fitzgerald, former Irish rebel who assisted in forming the present Irish Free State. Mr. Fitzgerald is at present lecturing on the philosophy of politics to upperclassmen and graduate students for six weeks. He will give three public lectures in Washington Hall on “Personal Reminiscences of Contemporary Irish History.”
His first appearance in Washington Hall was made last night with an impressive discussion of events leading up to and including Easter week in 1916 Ireland. Next Wednesday evening, Oct. 26, Mr. Fitzgerald will lecture on the Black and Tan War. To terminate the series of talks on his personal reminiscences of contemporary Irish history, he will speak on the “Constitution and Development of the New Irish State” on Thursday, Nov. 3.
Miss Aileen O’Brien appears in Washington Hall on Monday evening, Oct. 31, to give a historical significance of European issues in the Spanish civil war. Last winter Miss O’Brien left Spain to make public appearances in the United States under the Thomas More Society of Louisville. Her charm, sincerity and enthusiasm won her a following of thousands which caused her to extend her tour through the winter of 1938.
Fraulein Anny Rutz, of the Oberammergau Passion Play, will give her illustrated lecture on “A Pilgrimage to Oberammergau” in Washington Hall on Friday evening, Dec. 2. She not only tells the story of Oberammergau, but discusses such subjects as its staging, lighting, policies, and ideals. Her 100 gorgeous colored slides show the surrounding Bavarian Alps as one takes the train to Oberammergau, as well as of the village and the Play itself.
rally, John had a time getting yells for Brown.
“Well, then, yell for the team and keep Brown in mind,” he said.
As juniors Frank Farrell and he were highest ranking cheerleaders. Frank was made director last year, and John this year.
Problem of the moment is to make tonight’s pep meeting and tomorrow’s game cheering climax last week’s commendable record.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Radio
By Norbert Aleksis
Discussions on the future of the radio industry are seldom concluded without speculations as to whether television will soon materialize on a commercial scale of broadcasting as carried on now with sound transmission alone. The possibility of having network television service in this country within the next few years seems rather doubtful in consideration of ■ technical difficulties alone. First, the average sound transmitter may cover an area of approximately one hundred to three hundred miles with adequate clarity, whereas the average range of modern television transmitters is about one hundred miles under the very best of conditions. This limitation is due to the straight beam of the ’vision wave. In consequence it diminishes the importance of powerful metropolitan stations serving large areas and necessitates the installment of numerous stations each with a hundred mile radius. Furthermore, sound transmission over a network of stations is easily affected by a circuit of telephone wires, but the transmission of images over chain facilities can be accomplished only by a special “coaxial” cable which is unavailable because of the prohibitive cost.
Television engineers and producers are equally apprehensive of the re-c e p t i o n difficulties encountered in present technical devices. The screen on the latest receivers is small and the images are indistinct, fading in vision. The peculiar focus of the camera, unorthodox make-up require-(Continued on Page 17)
“Heigh yo, Silver!”
INTIMATE MEMORIAL TOUCHES SHOWN
By Joe Perkins
The Rockne Memorial, now under construction, is, to the casual observer, merely a huge odd-shaped structure composed o,f so many million bricks and several tons of hard, cold, unimpressive steel and impenetrable cement. But in the shaping of that cold steel and hardened sand and gravel lies a warm, s«ft, loving ideal —a memorial, an ideal time-enduring memorial to an ideal man, Knute Kenneth Rockne.
The corner-stone was laid last May with impressive dedication ceremonies. It contains for posterity a copy of the biography of Knute Rockne written by Warren Brown. Rockne’s autobiography, completed after his death by Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and a copy of Four Winners, a football novel by Knute Rockne was also placed in the cornerstone.
Copies of the Notre Dame official football review, for 1930 and 1931 and memorial copies of the Notre Dame Alumnus and Scholastic were also sealed in the stone.
A commemorative resolution from the journal of the House of Representatives of the state of Michigan, ses- . sion of 1931 was included, along with a full page clipping from the Lor-dags-Avisen (Saturday Newspaper) published in Tonsberg, Norway.
The newspaper clipping contains an article on Rockne and the St. Olaf Shrine in Dillon Hall Chapel. St. Olaf is the patron of Rockne’s native Norway.
Also placed in the cornerstone were tickets to the 1930 Notre Dame-Navy game at which the Stadium was dedicated, as well as tickets to other games; a copy of Rockne’s instructions to players, stressing sportsmanship and team play, and the radio speech given by the late Will Rogers at the time of Rockne’s death.
On the facade, high over the main entrance, are two stone plaques honoring Sieur de la Salle and Chief Pokagon. It was these two men who were responsible for bringing Christianity to these regions.
Over the north entrance will be placed a shield of Notre Dame, and over the south entrance a shield of the United States.
Notre Dame’s two most outstanding football rivals, West Point Military Academy and Annapolis Naval Academy, will be represented on the north side of the loggia by their respective coats-of-arms.
The coat-of-arms of France will be placed over one of the west doors, while that of Norway will be placed over the other. France is represented because it was at Le Mans, France
(Continued on Page 23)
(---'-----------------
Vincentians
By Richard Fallon
“The St. Vincent de Paul Society.” Why did Frederic Ozanam adopt this as the name of his group? The best answer is a brief summary of the life of St. Vincent de Paul.
Vincent was particularly anxious to help the peasants of France because in 1605, as a priest ordained but five years, he was captured by pirates who made a slave of him. He escaped with his master.
Vincent was very close to M. de Gondi as spiritual adviser to his daughter, and it was through this man who was in charge of the convicts sentenced to the galleys that Vincent was able to minister to them. For such poor unfortunates he established a hospital. The appointment as “royal almoner of the galleys” by Louis XIII allowed Vincent to carry his work to Marseilles. Here in ten years he had another hospital for convicts.
Vincent now moved on to a great undertaking, the founding of the Congregation of Priests of the Mission. The priests were to assist him in ministering to the country people. Priests were badly needed in France, and it was through the retreats given by Vincent that the first seminaries were established.
Four thousand foundlings had been cared for and given home two years after the creation of the Ladies of Charity, by this untiring worker. An inspiration of some Ladies of Charity was responsible for the founding of the General Hospital which has been looked upon as perhaps the greatest work of charity in the 17th century.
The Daughters of Charity stand as another monument to Vincent. When the Ladies sent their servants to investigate the poor homes that they themselves were unable or unwilling to visit, he organized the messengers.
During the disturbance at Paris in 1649 Vincent gave relief to thousands, fifteen or sixteen thousand receiving soup every day.
To facilitate the work of the missionaries he sent among the slaves of Barbary, Vincent had one of the missionaries made a consul. Twelve hundred slaves were ransomed!
By the appointment of Leo XIII Vincent is patron of the Sisters of Charity.
To those perplexed spectators at the stadium last Saturday, who diagnosed the blackened eyes of Stevenson, " Sheridan, Zontini, Tonelli, and cohorts as “shiners” — the black smudges were generous applications of burnt cork to keep the glare of the hot sun out of Irish eyes.
OCTOBER 21, 1938
9
f Theatre	'!
By Gerald Hogan
“Room Service” has finally been chosen for the first student production. Sam Levene and his lunatics earned it the name of “funniest play” on Broadway last winter, and after looking at the script, we can understand their success. Any reader would have to drop the book a dozen times in every act until his frame stopped shaking and he could dry the tears from his eyes. Those cinema people judged it worthy of their Marx Brothers and bought it for $255,000. Just think of it, readers, $255,000 comedy, here in Washington Hall!
Last Thursday the Jitney Players gave us “Dear Old Alma Mater.” It was amusing. The whole performance was delightfully informal, and the actors seemed to enjoy themselves as much as the audience. But it does seem a shame that, with a repertoire which includes “The End of Summer” and “On Both Your Houses,” we had to get stuck with a melodrama. This fad was stale five years ago. It is a treat for us to have a professional group on the campus, and we like to feel that they are giving us the very best they have. But the Jitney Players certainly did not tap their select artistical resources in dashing through “Dear Old Alma Mater.” Much of the action and dialogue was crude, and only a few of the actors succeeded in being subtly obvious. Mr. Rowland, who mimicked W. C. Fields so accurately in last year’s “The Rivals,” was the outstanding exception. Most of the solos, sung with an assisting clown, were not even funny and, lacking that, they had nothing to sustain them but the general good humor of the house.. No one had more fun than Miss Colt who, at several spots in the play, laughed so helplessly that she could not go on with her lines. Mame, the “hog-caller’s” sister, introduced herself very cleverly but failed to persist in the role she had assumed. The coach of the crew, played by Bob Adams, was as good in his own way as the villain. The hero did not seem to have enough mock-virtue to earn praise, but he sang fairly well.
The most experienced actor in the group is Douglas Rowland. Yet he is the most nervous. It was he who directed all the scene changes, the curtains, and most of the other backstage details. When not on, he paces the wings, his hands jammed into his back pockets and his ear cocked toward the stage. Watching him, one is convinced that he is determined to give the very best performance his talents allow. His fellow troupers give him splendid cooperation, and are in a fever of anxiety, jumping to
obey him and doing their assigned jobs quickly and smoothly. The “burning boathouse” scene was done with a red torch which one of th8 actors waved back and forth to give the impression of dancing flames. The Harvard-Yale boat race was hot so simple. The lower boat had to be manipulated by a man lying on a collapsed chair which was towed from one side of the set to the other with much grunting and sweating on the part of the tower. Everyone but the ladies helped to change the scenery or, as they say, “strike the sets.” They offer nasty criticisms of each other’s mistakes, such as “H’m, that’s the line he boshed up this afternoon,” and “Well, why the devil couldn’t you see it? It was right at your feet.”
It would be unfair to judge the Jitney Players on what we have seen of them, because, as talented as they are, they could not make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear. They did the best they could; they gave us a very good sow’s ear. But if they come to us again we hope they will bring a valuable play and leave less difficult farce to our “Monogram Absurdities.”
By Dick Metzger
For the next two weeks a representative group of the work of Robert Boutet-Scallan, artist - photographer, will be on exhibition in the upstairs gallery of the Library.
Robert Boutet-Scallan, at 26, is a nationally recognized figure in the field of photography. Preliminary to his actual commercial work he studied with Rabinovich in New York. His brief but colorful career has been marked by numerous successes outstanding of which have been his one-man shows in New York and Illinois — favorably greeted by critic and public alike.
The present group on exhibition represents all phases of photography from commercial advertising to surrealism, including a number of portrait studies and appealing candid shots. The most valued and interesting pictures in the collection are the exclusive portrait, studies of the famous jewels of history belonging to Mauboussin of Paris. The carved head of Caesar resting in the shell is the famous emerald brooch of Napoleon Bonaparte, and is one of the most extraordinary bits of craftsmanship of all time. Another jeweled clip has a unique setting in the figure of a primitive god which pre-dates the discovery of America. Mrs. Boutet-Scallan found this figure in Guatemala.
Concerning photography Robert Boutet-Scallan has some very definite
ideas. He does not submit to salons. He is convinced that above all photography is an art form, and that therein lies its future. He believes that knowledge and technique are the keynotes to good photography, although he admits that technique is being smothered by the various camera gadgets that have come into popular use. Finally, he is of the opinion that most poor pictures are not the fault of the camera but rather the result of a lack of knowledge and technique on the part of the photographer. In his own words—“It is not the camera or lens that is at fault; it is the lack of knowledge of their capabilities or the improper application of these capabilities.
I Music Notes
By William Mooney
The culture of our present day is demanding an interest in music. But with this growing enthusiasm we find a parallel growth in musical nonsense. Books and magazines are being published in great numbers telling the prospective music lovers how to enjoy music. These books and magazines have a large circulation, which indicates not a genuine desire for a deeper musical insight, but rather a superficial desire to impress.
One such book of wide esteem begins by explaining the simplest of program music, and through easy stages advances the reader from the simple to the complex, with the intention of turning out an accomplished music lover. And after reading the book, he should have exact knowledge of what to look for in music, how to feel when listening, and how to separate good from bad with an unerring hand.
This whole idea is based on three misconceptions. They are: A. Anyone can learn to appreciate music. B. A person can learn about the heart of musical experience from a book. C. There are principles of good and bad which you must keep firmly in mind when listening to music.
Music critics and teachers insist that many people are incapable of responding to’ any but the lowest forms of music. For these people even intense study would have little effect. Education and practice will improve a man’s ability, if he has some ability to begin with.
To learn in a book how to judge and separate good music from bad is “to confuse art with the intellect.” Art must be experienced, because it is the expression of feeling. It is emotional rather than intellectual.
What can we do, then, to further our appreciation of music. The only way is to experience music directly, (Continued on Page 18)
10
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Meriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C.........Faculty Advisor
MARK J. MITCHELL..............Editor-in-Chief
VINCENT DeCOURSEY...............Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
William P. Mahoney_____________________________Literary Editor
William A. Donnelly_________________________________The Week
Frederick Sisk_________________________________College Parade
Graham Starr_____________________________Man About the Campus
William Mooney______________________________________Music Notes
Andrew Wilson------------------------Splinters from the Press Box
Edward Huff_________________________________________Introducing
News Staff William C. Fay_________________________________News Editor
F. G. Barreda___________________________Assistant News Editor
John Kohn----------------------------------Harry Penrose
George Haithcock---------------------------Joseph Perkins
Thomas Ferneding___________________________Joseph Miller
George Neumann-----------------------------Stephen Smith
John Ferneding-----------------------------Thomas Marker
Edward Huston------------------------------Richard Anton
Sports Staff
Donald Foskett______________________________________Sports Editor
Robert B. Voelker------------------------Assistant Sports Editor
Clarence Sheehan____________________________________John Quinn
James Newland----------------------------------------------John	White
Francis Kennedy-------------------------------------------Frank	Aubrey
Art Staff
Tom Powers------------------------------------------Art Editor
Don Driscoli--------------------------------Assistant Art Editor
John Webster--------------------------------Assistant Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to P. O. Box 155, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 72	October 21. 1938	No. 5
The Eucharistic Congress
Early this week, thousands of Catholic from every part of the United States gathered in New Orleans to take part in the Eighth National Eucharistic Congress. The Eucharistic Congress is Just what its name implies, a gathering for the sole purpose of giving honor to God in the Eucharist.
We know that God especially blesses congregate worship. The Holy Father has particularly encouraged both national and international Congresses. He says, “We rejoice when Eucharistic congresses are assembled anywhere throughout the Catholic world .... for according to the Fathers of the Church, since the Eucharist is a certain continuation of the Incarnation, it is the source of new life for mankind.”
A radio broadcast brought a special message from his Holiness in which he pointed to the particular reasons for a loyalty and Faith at this time. “Many things give
cause for fear and anxiety,” he said. “In particular we see many men who hold as valueless and reject and spurn those divine precepts of the gospel which alone can bring salvation to the human race.”
And it is indeed most appropriate that at this time, when the world is torn by strife and violence, we American Catholics take advantage of our heritage of freedom, to worship God publicly in the streets of one of our large cities.
In many countries this would not be possible. For an atheistic world has all but crucified Catholics on the cross of intolerance and prejudice. In many places private worship would be all but impossible.
However, since we do not face that problem here, let us join in spirit with those at the Congress, to give thanks and praise to Almighty God, and following the Pope’s exhortation, “be a shining example of Catholic faith and virtue.”—Mark J. Mitchell.
Apostolic Press
During the past two weeks newspapers have been black with rush dispatches from abroad shrieking of fresh outbreaks of religious and racial persecution in the Dictator-countries—outbreaks planned, controlled, distorted in subverted newspaper systems, no longer free, no longer able to base their editorial content on sound philosophy.
The possibility that the false ideologies and isms which brought about these conditions in other countries may eventually touch the American press is one which should interest the editors of college magazines.
Last week the Catholic Educational Press Congress met in Milwaukee to present the Catholic answer to the question. The Rev. James M. Gillis, C.S.P., editor of The Catholic World, touched the heart of the problem when he advised delegates from midwestern Catholic colleges to begin the fight in their school papers by concentrating on the presentation of truth—truth that their readers can grasp through the combined use of faith and reason.. Father Gillis scored modem philosophies which make faith and reason natural enemies, and pointed out that loss of faith leads logically to distrust of reason and eventual philosophical and political chaos—a process that can be checked by an active Catholic press.
A college magazine has its place in this drive for intellectual sanity because in a college magazine Catholic education is accomplishing its aim of making men and women articulate. In his general discussion of college newspapers the Rev. Damian Cummins, O.S.B., of Conception College made the interesting observation that a representative magazine should contain contributed student work in addition to campus news.
The trend of the Scholastic in recent years has been to accent the representative work of students. The columns devoted to Art, Music, Theatre, and active campus organizations such as the Radio Club and the St. Vincent de Paul Society have been accurate reflections of student work. Naturally the scope of the Scholastic is limited by the nature and quality of submitted material. The remedy is more and more cooperation.—W. C. Fay.
OCTOBER 21, 1938
II
Hell Writers
By John J. Deane
I threw a book down the other night. It was a good looking book. One with a deep blue cover and fine gold lettering. Its author was well known, with a reputation for saying very clever things. And yet I threw his work aside. Why? Because it was dedicated to a philosophy of lies wrapped in a pretty little package. His book carried its value on its face —in the blue cover and gold letters— and stopped there. It would have been just as well if the pages had been left blank for all the truth they carried. This particular author belongs to a school the members of which mistakenly call themselves realists. Realists, that is, in the field of literature. But lest the public confuse them with realists of another day these take full pride in a very philosophical title of modernistic realism. They profess to a highly scientific interpretation of life as they see it, nothing is to deter them in their search for truth. It is paradoxical that, with these premises, they should arrive at a viciously false conclusion; a conclusion that presents man, not as the especially gifted, dignified creature he is, but as they would have us believe he is, a creature fitted solely to a behavioristic pattern and distinguished from animals only by the faculty of speech and a kind of cranial activity that differs not in kind but in degree from that possessed by his animal kin. In brief, they ignore the simple fact that man has a soul.
An Old Trick
It is an axiom of long standing that every lie has some particle of truth in it. The intellect is constituted to a love of truth, and, conversely, an abhorrence of falsity. But the sad fact is that many men seize upon the grain of truth in a philosophy and rashly conclude that the whole of it must, therefore, be true also. It is only when more cautious men have subjected such a philosophy to a close scrutiny and exposed its fallacies that the others will relinquish it. Now realism has been bobbing up in some form or another for many a century. Always has it been examined and discarded. What good there was in it has long since been extracted and incorporated into the Scholastic philosophy. It is, perhaps, the most phoenix-like of all philosophies because it lends itself so readily to many ramifications. But realism, per se, is outmoded. For anyone now to attempt to palm it off ungarnished would be
laughable. So it has been disguised and covered with that coat-of-many-colors, Modernism. And the anachronistic result is, strangely enough, paganism, a philosophy that has never been noted for any true respect of man. And so our modernistic, realistic litterateur has splashed his thought, like his automobile, with chromium and put it into high gear— qualities quite necessary if it is to be accepted by an era that is characterized by its glitter and speed. But beneath the cover the same principles are still at work. Paganism is still paganism no matter what the pagan-ist would rather be called.
Realists Gone Wild
But why this trend? Why must we, who love books, be fed this bitter, nauseating mash? It seems to me that the glorification of the so-called “scientific method” has won many an author to a make of his book a wordy laboratory in which guinea-pig characters act in the same uninhibited and instinct-driven manner of their animal prototypes. But the most important cause, by far, is, of course, the rapid growth of a God-less element throughout the literary world, and it is precisely this element that has soured our intellectual cream. Men who have no thought of a Personal Deity are certainly not going to be bothered with so small a thing as a soul. They are the ones responsible for the “refined animals” we find in our modern literary works; they, too, have mixed the cement which has concretized modern sensibilities. It has always been my opinion that literature, taken by and large, was intended to portray life (and this is especially true of realism), to present to the reader a reproduction of peoples and their mode of living. The realist has appointed himself to give us this reproduction totally undecorated by the furbelows of the idealist and the sentimentalist. That, in itself, is an honorable intention, provided it is held in check. Unfortunately, it isn’t. His reproduction of life, and especially of man, is not a complete one; it is, rather, a woefully inadequate and certainly libellous reproduction. Perhaps the zeal to be quite scientific has developed the trend to subject everything to a microscopic inspection. At any rate, the realist has fallen into the pit which threatens every microscopist. He has forgotten the whole in his exposition of the part.
It’s The Thing Today
Read anyone of a dozen books on a book store shelf today. It is safe to say that the chief activity of the characters in the majority of them will be a violent participation in murder, thievery, adultery and other assorted parlor tricks. Under the guise of presenting life as it is, the authors of today, too many of them at least, glue the press with trash that so selfrespecting reader can stomach, let alone enjoy.
Modus Operand!
The modern realist has defended himself on the ground that art is never squeamish, that he must set down that which he sees in the manner in which he sees it. In short, his work is to present life in the raw, and the rawer the better. (Apart from showing the kind of things he looks at, he also discloses the kind of mind he has). The answer to such a defense is not difficult. One who has his eyes continually on the ground thereby establishes himself as an authority for things on the ground; he is hardly qualified to portray that which is happening around him or that which is happening .above him because he has never investigated those spheres. He is limited by his own choice. Thus it is with the realist of today. He has limited himself to a rather exclusive field, a field characterized by its base animalism, its sordid meanderings into the tragedies of men and women. He shouts that he is a seeker after truth. He is indeed a seeker, but his search is through the sewers and catch basins of life. He is like a small boy who overturns a stone and shouts for all to look at the wriggling creatures he has found. It is not a particularly noble task.
It is supposed that the performance of such work is inevitable and must arise from the nature of things and the strange inclinations of man. If it were carried on in the dark corners where it belongs and left there perhaps we might countenance it, but that is not the case. Pagans have never been reluctant to flaunt their paganism; the modern realists are chips from the same block. Not only do they force their filth upon a lackadaisical public, but they proclaim in a particularly irritating tone of voice that, “This slippery thing I have here is man, the whole, the complete man.” At that point it is high time to put our collective Catholic foot down.
12
The Answer
Man is a twofold creature basically. He is both rational and animal. There is no doubt on that score; there is no doubt, either as to the ascendency of his rationality over his animality. That is a carefully guarded doctrine of Scholastic Catholic philosophy. It is precisely because of this duality of nature, that men are capable of acts that are noble and good, and also of acts that are base and evil. But no matter what the act, the man is nevertheless a dual creature, and not the instinct-driven creature the realist would have us believe. It is not only illogical but ridiculous as well that anyone should
attempt to construct a synthesis of man based solely on his lower nature. And whether the modern writer actually intends such a construction or not, he does, in effect, so build when the subject matter of his literary effort deals with vice and perversion and totally ignores the fine qualities in man. It is an old story the realist tells, and it cannot be disguised by sophisticated repartee and studied wisecracking. At some point his tale must wear thin and beneath the warp and woof of a glamorous modernity we can see, in its rottenness, the character of what he calls the true picture.
Thus we come squarely to the crux of the matter. On the one hand
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Scholastic philosophy builds and defends a metaphysic of man; on the other, the realist constructs a shell of man, a man without a soul. Of the ultimate solution we need have no fear, Catholicism has vanquished many a more vaunted opponent. It has done so, not by waiting, but by acting. As university men, who are supposed to have high ideals, we can take the first steps toward purifying the modern library and, concomitantly, the modern writer. When he learns that his books are occupying a prominent place in the waste- basket, then will he clean his pen. If he refuses we can force him to the back alleys, those dank places so appropriate for the reception of garbage.
Plumb Crazy
By Clyde Archer
That balmy Monday afternoon as he sat on the doorsteps of his small western store, whittling, Jeff Johnston thought of his past. Somewhere, away back in the days of his youth, when he had been more or less a roving, listless fellow, something had happened. She had been so lovely! He had settled down, given up his venturesome life to make her happy. And suddenly in a blaze of jealousy he had killed a man, shot him. Two shots he had fired. One hit the man, the other—his wife. Some way, somehow he left, ran away to this western town where he now was the owner of a store. Of course, what he had done could not be undone, and he had made the best of what he had left, slowly building up his new identity. Several times he had been on the verge of giving up but each time he had resolved to do his best. Nobody in Cap Ridge knew him other than Jeff Johnston. And slowly as the years rolled on he became less and less remembering of what he had done, his mind taking to other things as the sore healed.
As he sat there in silence a car drove around the corner and stopped in front of the drugstore. Two men, one dressed in a finely tailored suit, stepped from the car and entered. They emerged shortly and came toward Jeff.
“Jeff Johnston?” the well-dressed man asked, coming on to the porch of the store.
“Yes sir,” answered Jeff, getting up.
“I’m Robert Kennedy, of Grando Film Corporation.” He extended his hand and they shook.
“This is my assistant, Herbert Rodney.”
“Just a minute and I’ll bring out some chairs, gentlemen,” Jeff spoke as he entered the store. He came back with two chairs, and the men seated themselves.
“I’ll come to the point, Mr. Johnston. We neew good land for a western we’re thinking about shooting. We understand you have a small tract of land which you don’t grow. We are asking you your price for a year’s lease.”
“Well, er, gentlemen, it’s so sudden and I haven’t thought of anyone wanting to rent. If you’ll let me have a few minutes, why—”
“Certainly,” spoke Kennedy. “We’re in no great hurry.”
Jeff rose, placing his knife on the doorway. He went into his one back room and took from a ledger a clump of papers. He took one from the group, studied it,- and returned to the
men. As his footsteps sounded approaching, Rodney picked up Jeff’s knife and covered with a handkerchief.
“Gentlemen, I can give you a year’s lease for five thousand.”
Mr. Kennedy rubbed his chin, looked at Rodney who nodded his head. Kennedy raised himself and spoke.
“It’s a deal.” They shook hands. “In two weeks, say, we’ll come around with the contract and settle.”
“Fine! Fine!” said Jeff, and the men went to the car. As the big roadster shot past the men exchanged hand-waves.
Two days later the big roadster rounded the corner and stopped in front of Jeff’s store. Mr. Kennedy and his assistant, with two other men carrying rifles, got out of the car and stepped to the porch.
Mr. Kennedy shouted: “Mr. Johnston! Are you there?”
Nobody answered. From the drugstore a white - aproned proprietor emerged and came toward the men.
“Mr. Johnston,” he spoke, “left some time Monday. I think he went east. Personally, gentlemen, I think his mind is going bad. When he left he said he’d lost his knife somewhere and he wouldn’t be able to live without it. Plumb crazy, if you ask me.”
OCTOBER 21, 1938
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
”B" TEAM TROUNCES ILLINOIS RESERVES
e
Notre Dame scored a double victory last Saturday when the Irish “B” team trounced the Illini at Champaign, 33 to 0, by using Illinois own plays. Led by the speed and agility of Walt Kristoff and Farris Saffa, Notre Dame opened a running and passing attack in the second quarter that resulted in one touchdown in the second period and two in each of the last two quarters. Members of both the Irish A and B squads saw action.
The two teams played on equal terms throughout the opening quarter. Starting the second period, Illinois punted to the Irish who ran the ball from mid-field to the Illinois 6-yard line. On the next play Saffa scored but the ball was given to Saffa again and he scored. Clyde Archer’s place kick was wide. The Illini, starting from their own 45 yard line, then made their only threat of the afternoon. After an end sweep that netted 30 yards, they failed to gain in four attempts and the ball went to the Irish on their own 25 yard line as the half ended.
The Notre Dame A squad started the second half. After less than two minutes of play, George Kovalcik intercepted an Illini pass and raced for the second touchdown behind excellent blocking. His attempt to convert was short. After an exchange of punts, Ted Williams went off tackle from the Illinois 45 yard line and raced to the 2-yard marker. On the next play Ted pushed the ball over and the period ended. The score: Notre Dame 19, Illinois 0.
The Irish B team returned to start the third quarter. Kristoff, taking the ball on his own 20 yard line, carried it over with three successive running plays. Archer converted and the score was 26 to 0.
Then Notre Dame kicked to Illinois who returned the ball to the 50 yard line. After three unsuccessful attempts to break through the Notre Dame forward wall, the Illini punted to the Notre Dame 20 yard line and the Irish started the drive for the final touchdown. In a series of running plays by Kristoff and Saffa and line plunges by fullback Lou Cacchio-li, the Irish went to the enemy 25 yard line. On the fourth down a pass from Saffa to Archer made.it first down. Saffa then went off tackle for the last touchdown and Archer kicked the extra point. Notre Dame kicked .off just as the game ended.
POWERHOUSE CARNEGIE TECH TEAM BRINGS TO NOTRE DAME FASTEST BACKS OF SEASON
By Rank Aubrey
Braced by their close win over the heavy Crusaders from Holy Cross, unbeaten Carnegie Tech’s fast, hard-charging Tartans will battle Notre Dame’s undefeated team here tomorrow afternoon. Tech will undoubtedly supply the
toughest opposition the homeguard has
Carnegie’s Muha
Frosh Finis Nears
A starting field of approximately 50 freshmen tennists had dwindled to four today as preparations were made for the staging of the final sets of the annual Fall Freshman Tennis Tournament, tb be held this afternoon or tomorrow. The tournament, which started Oct. 5, was scheduled to be finished late today or tomorrow.
Brownson Hall raquet-wielders took the spotlight in the quarter-finals and indications point to a Brownson winner.
Francis Platt of Brownson defeated Jack Barry, another Brownsonite, in the lower bracket semi-final sets, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-3, thus reaching the finals.
Upper bracket sets aappeared to be a bit tougher than the lower sets, with Jimmy Murphy of Cavanaugh Hall defeating Bob Sibilsky of Freshman, 6-0 and 8-6 in the quarter-finals. The other quarter-final set in the higher brackets was won by Dan Petersen of Brownson, who' downed a fellow Brownsonite, Bill Fallon, 6-4, 0-6, 7-5.
faced so far this year. Each team has won three games, but Carnegie has been really tested only once. That beating they handed Holy Cross upset all the dope eastern experts had compiled. For example, the Holy Cross line was hailed the heaviest now playing college football. That the Skibos outcharged and out-fought this outfit testifies to the ability of the “plaid blanket” stacked up against McGoldrick and Co. tomorrow.
Of course the Irish will be rarin’ to avenge last year’s 9 to 7 Tech victory, yet Lou Zontini also has a motive. He’ll be in there against a former high school rival, Merlyn Condit, now the crack ball lugger for the • Tartans. Naturally “Chink” lost face in the Tech 1937 win, and he wants to drop Tech, in the person of Mr. Condit, in the dust as often and as hard as possible tomorrow.
Directing things at quarter for Carnegie will be Ray Camelly, of un-happy memory, who sank the Irish last fall and also scored seven of the seven Tech points against Holy Cross last week. Ray can do anything a good back is expected to do. His backfield mates are reputedly (see Bill Cemey or Chet Grant), the fastest and hardest driving backs to stack up against Notre Dame this year. Jack Lee, a veteran, is at fullback with George Muha, a sophomore speedster at right half. The boy Earl Brown wants to look out for is at left half. His name is Condit and he runs very fast, Earl.
All in all Carnegie pre-game prospects look mighty awe - inspiring. Coach Layden is going to make his fight with his usual three sets of backs and about 20 assorted linemen.
At fullback Coach Layden will have to get along with only five men,-but the Thesing proboscis has set well, and Joe is available again for the first time since the Kansas game. The same line that has played through three Saturdays of 70 degree heat, and has remained unscored upon will start again tomorrow.
Tech’s relatively light line averaging around 185 pounds will feature two unusually light guards Henry Pysynski and Bill Reith who are both fast and effective blockers when pulling out.
14
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NICHOLSON, IN ANNUAL HUNT FOR MATERIAL, TECH TOUGH ON N. D.
AGAIN SPONSORS FALL TRACK HANDICAPS WINNING STREAKS
Hoping to discover capable replacements for the 1938-39 track team, Coach John Nicholson had the annual University fall handicaps on the program Wednesday and Friday of this week. “Prospects for an outstanding team are
not bright,” Coach Nicholson stated, formers as Francis, the greatest middle distance runner Notre Dame ever had; Gibbs, the pole-vaulter; Clifford, one of the fastest sprinters; and Sheehan.”
The Irish coach incidentally announced that frosh cross country will get under way soon.
In the opinion of Coach Nicholson, leading prospects for varsity material are: Sprints—Coughlin aand Tucker; quarter mile—McMehan and Halpin; 880—Hester and Rogers; mile—Greg Rice, Donnelly, and Szumachowski; weights — Lynn in the discus and Beinor in the shot put; Bob Lawrence, Dave Reidy and Morgan in the . hurdles; Ted Leonas in the high jump; and John Dean in the pole vault.
Coach Nicholson was disappointed when he was informed that Obrys, a sophomore half miler, has been sent to the sidelines by an injury sustained in a physical education class. He will probably be lost to the team for the season.
Leading frosh prospects include: Schiews in the sprints and hurdles; Roy in the 440; Kenny in the 880; Reif in the pole vault, and Keith O’Rourke in the high jump.
Hall Leagues Close
Play in the Interhall Pass-Football League advanced to the semi-finals Sunday, as the favorites emerged victorious.
In the first of a pair of stubbornly fought encounters the Zahm Blue team had difficulty in subduing the Brownson Blues 13-12. Zahm’s Golds were awarded the victory over the Brownson Golds, when the latter forfeited. Freshman easily overrode the Blue team from Cavanaugh 12-0.
This Sunday will find the best from each of the freshman halls coming together in the semi - final round. Brownson will engage Freshman Hall men, and Zahm will meet up -with the team from Cavanaugh.
In the soccer league Brownson won the first game it played this season, conquering Zahm 2-1, took another forfeit from Cavanaugh, and stepped into first place in the standings. The Zahm Hallers broke even by overcoming a sturdy Freshman team 2-1. Following is the standing of the teams to date:
TEAM	G W L	PCT.
Brownson -----------2 2 0	1.000
Juniors.............110	1.000
'because we lost such outstanding per-
Steve Szumachowski Runs for Nick again.
On the Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
CARNEGIE TECH has defeated Davis and Elkins, 49-0, Wittenberg, 32-13, and Holy Cross, 7-6.
ARMY has defeated Wichita, 32-0, Virignia Polytech, 39-0, has lost to Columbia, 20-17, and has defeated Harvard, 20-17.
NAVY has defeated William and Mary, 28-0, Virginia Military, 26-0, Virginia, 33-0, and has lost to Yale, 9-7.
MINNESOTA has defeated Washington, 15-0, Nebraska, 16-7, Purdue, 7-0, and Michigan, 7-6.
NORTHWESTERN has defeated Kansas State, 21-0, Drake, 33-0, and has tied Ohio State, 0-0.
SOUTHERN CAL. has lost to Alabama, 19-7, and has defeated Oregon State, 7-0, Ohio State, 14-7, and Washington State, 19-6.
THIS WEEK:
CARNEGIE TECH plays Notre Dame.
ARMY plays Boston University.
NAVY plays Princeton.
MINNESOTA does not play.
NORTHWESTERN plays Illinois.
SOUTHERN CAL. plays Stanford.
Zahm 			2	1	1	.500
Sophomores			1	0	1	.000
Cavanaugh 			1	0	1	.000
Freshman 			1	0	1	.000
By Francis Kennedy
Since 1922, with the exception of 1927, the Carnegie Tech game has been one of the highlights of the Notre Dame football season. Often both teams have approached this game undefeated and pointing for a national championship. The series has been marked by upsets, despite the fact that Notre Dame has won 11 of the 15 games.
The first two games of the series were won. rather handily by Notre Dame, Carnegie Tech being held scoreless while the Irish rolled up a total of 45 points. In 1924, the last year of the Four Horsemen, it looked as though the worm was about to turn. At half-time the game was deadlocked, 13-13. The champions from Notre Dame broke loose in the last half, however, running and passing their -way to a 40-19 triumph.
In 1925 the victory march continued. That year the Fighting Irish, minus the far-famed Four Horsemen, humbled Carnegie to the tune of 26-0.
When the Carnegie Tech game rolled around toward the end of the 1926 season Notre Dame was again the outstanding candidate for national honors. Eight games had already been won by the boys in green, and they were looking beyond the Carnegie game to the battle with Southern California, their chief opponents for the mythical national title. They reckoned without the Tartans from Pittsburgh, however, and when the game was over they found themselves on the very small end of a 19-0 score.
In 1927 no game was played, but in 1928 the Carnegie team, still intent on spoiling records, overwhelmed Notre Dame 27-7. To add insult to injury they had the pleasure of being the first team ever to beat Notre Dame on Cartier Field.
In the next four years Notre Dame gained some degree of vengeance by winning all four games, scoring 12 touchdowns to Tech’s one. Carnegie came along to defeat Notre Dame in 1933, but dropped the next two.
Last year’s 9-7 win for Tech provided one of the top upsets of the 1937 season, when a scrapping Ttar-tan eleven refused to be beaten..
Notre Dame’s unofficial cross-country team has as one of its prime objects the training and conditioning of five varsity distance stars, including Greg Rice, who burned up European tracks during the past summer, Steve Szumachowski, Nick’s No. 2 varsity two-miler, John Martin and Bill Donnelly, milers, and Curt Hester, 880 man.
OCTOBER 21, 1938
15
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
IRISH SCORE TWICE AGAINST ILLINI
By Andy Wilson
With the football season one-third over, we feel inclined to extend a few opinions very cautiously advanced before the Kansas game. We were seeking to dispel the alarming “say-a-prayer-for-Notre-Dame” attitude then prevalent, and we assured you all that the Irish would have a good team, though not an exceptional one. But from the looks of things now this 1938 bunch is an exceptional team.
The first string line is firm all the way down on offense and defense; the second string line, though a little weak at guard on defense, is almost equally firm. And the backs—there hasn’t been such an assortment of fine men at Notre Dame in years. Already they have combined with the brisk-blocking linemen to score more points in three games than last year’s team scored all season. Ben Sheridan is a marvel, of course; if his running ability belonged to Harry Stevenson, we should have an All-American left halfback this year. We may, anyway. Bob Saggau is perfect, physically, but he still looks a little green, and has not yet learned to cut back on his sweeps. The fullbacks and quarterbacks are fully up to all expectations, and Zontini, Morrison, Burnell and Corgan, both in running and blocking, look like the real “old-style” Notre Dame right halfbacks.
Ball-handling behind the line is the big, obvious defect right now. Some of those touchdown-stifling fumbles last Saturday were due to hard tackling—the Illini were hard hitters and good, clever ball-stealers—and one or two were due to bad passes from center, but many of them came from sloppy handling of the ball on our fast reverses. When the reverseplays and fakes are smoothly and deceptively worked, the blockers have an easier time with the doubtful, hesitating defense. But so far the Irish have had to travel on sheer power, with the fumbles or half-bobbles uncovering the deception. This means practice-practice-practice on speed and timing; for power should be enough to take Carnegie Tech, Army, and Navy, but it must-be mixed with guile for Minnesota.
It’s the jinx-team this weekend— the Skibos of Carnegie Tech. They are good, but not nearly so powerful or skillful as the Irish. On the other hand, they never have been rated as high as the Irish in all the games that
they have won from Notre Dame. However we think the jinx is off for tomorrow, and we look for a three-touchdown blue-and-gold victory.
After the Game—
Locker Room Observations:
. . . Green and gold uniforms coming off . . . The usual amount of noise —nothing particularly boisterous . . . No signs of unusually high elation after the victory . . . Rather the atmosphere of the gym locker room after a mid-week practice scrimmage . . . Elmer Layden, Joe Boland and the other coaches chatting with a few visitors . . . Several varsity alumni— “Chuck” O’Reilly, Pat McCarty, Tony Mazziotti, Bob Wilke—congratulating the team . . . Ed Simonich and Harry Stevenson, two of the most conscientious men on the squad, looking rather glum about the fumble and the blocked kick that went against them . . . Tad Harvey doing a rough and tough big-brother act, showing a much younger Harvey around . . . Kids outside the door screaming for autographs, and looking especially for “Elmer.” . . .
. . . Orange helmets on the floor . . . One or two visitors . . . Little noise of any sort; few smiles . . . The trainer and his assistants cutting tape of legs and wrists, packing helmets, pants, jerseys, blankets, squeezing down trunk-tops . . . One or two disgusted faces among the players . . . Most of the team looking merely quiet and disappointed . . . Bob Castelo, one of the smartest ends the Irish will meet all year, dressing slowly, shaking his head .. . One lone truckman vigorously scraping trunks out the door. . . .
The Saturday Review:
. . . Hugh Burns, who acts as trainer for the “B” team, tells us this about the victory of the reserves over the Illini “B” at Urbana-Champaign Saturday. During a time-out in the scoreless first quarter, he ran out with his water and towels, and told the team that the varsity had just scored a touchdown. The whole eleven let out a whooping cheer, and coming up to the line of scrimmage on the next play, passed the word on to the Illini with appropriate taunts and gestures. Then they went on to give their hottest exhibition of the year, scoring five touchdowns and kicking three points. . . .
A crowd of 42,000 football enthusiasts, taking advantage of the hot weather, were on hand last Saturday afternoon to greet the Illini on their first visit to Notre Dame. The visit-
Harry Stevenson Tossed one to Brown
ors, who were also after their first victory over the Irish, had to be content with their first touchdown against a Notre Dame team and returned to Champaign on the losing end of a 14-6 score.
Although the score reveals that the visitors lost by one touchdown, the difference in the teams was very great. The Irish were in the neighborhood of touchdown land on seven or eight occasions only to lose possession of the ball by fumbling. Statistics show that they made 15 first downs as compared with nine by the Zuppkemen.
The initial touchdown of the Illi-nois-Notre Dame series was recorded when the game was but five minutes old. Harry Stevenson, on third down, faded back to midfield and heaved the pigskin straight down the middle to Earl Brown, left wingman, who cut over behind the Illini defense and leaped high in the air, snared the pass and fell over the goal line. Stevenson very calmly kicked the extra point with Sitko holding the ball.
Neither team scored again until the early part of the third period when Benny Sheridan, who plays the safety position because of his speed and elusiveness in returning kicks, grabbed an Illini punt on his own 32 and cut to his right, avoided five or six would - be tacklers, scampered down the sidelines where his downfield blockers were waiting, and continued, untouched, to the goal line.
The Orange and Blue scored short-( Continued on Page 16)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Introducing
By Eddie Huff
You can bet that Ed Simonich will start at the fullback post for Notre Dame when the Fighting Irish ride
the Army Mule in the Yankee Stadium on October 29. Ed has been a monogram man for two seasons, and he will be awarded a third N.D. for his work this season, but he has started only two games in his varsity career and both have been against the Cadets.
Besides having faced the Gold-Black-Gray on two previous opening whistles, Ed scored the only touchdown of the ’37 contest on an eightyard buck, after he had “set up” the scoring position.
The late Miles O’Brien, prominent South Bend resident and lay trustee of the University, induced the Ironwood, Michigan, lad to enroll at Notre Dame.
Simonich was the first freshman to win a monogram at Wright High School, in the Upper Peninsula, but his accomplishments did not end with that feat. He went on to collect nine other varsity letters, and topped that performance with a state record, 49 feet, 11 inches, in the 12-pound shot event. That figure stood until last spring when Ed’s younger brother, Budolph, pushed the measuring tape a full foot farther. It is not unlikely that brother Rudolph will follow Ed to Notre Dame when the latter is graduated next June, A.B., cum laude, with a major in history.
Ed came from northern Michigan in the wake of George Gipp, Heart-ley Anderson, Dom Vairo, Ojay Larson, and Larry Danbom — renowned names in Notre Dame football. He has modeled his play after that of Danbom and Don Elser, ’36, whose number “80” he carries on the gridiron.
Another “northern” backfield per
former, Max Burnell, from Duluth, has roomed with Ed for four years. Max likes to relate some of Ed’s hunting and fishing exploits and how “. . . we broke the jinx in 149 Howard Hall last year. For nine consecutive semesters, the inhabitants of that particular room had nothing but tough luck. . . .” Get the story from Max; it’s rare.	-
ILLINOIS GAME
(Continued from Page 15)
ly after, when Stevenson’s kick was blocked on the one yard line and Quarterback Ehni hit center for a touchdown on the first play. The attempted conversion was blocked by Tad Harvey.
The work of Longhi in the forward wall was sensational. Benny Sheridan, half-pint half-back, stole the show as far as individual backfield brilliance was concerned. He averaged 31 yards on punt returns and proved as great a problem to the opponents as Andy Puplis did in this department last year.
*5«5o
Waterman’s
YOUR PENPOINT . . . Handcrafted, 14 kt., solid-gold, iridium-tipped points suit your writing.
MODERN STYLING .. .“Superstreamed”. Mod* ern colors. Grip fits your fingers.
CONSTANT INK CONTROL... One stroke fills . pen. Fast-starting. Steady ink-flow. INK-WINDOW.
jtfr
REMEMBER— THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR WATERMAN'S INK

44/L 1. 0^14 WU, till'
Met Club Tournaments
Campus Clubs take notice! The Met Club under “This year’s going to be different” George O’Neil has set an example of what provincial clubs may do besides hold the usual Christmas Dance. President O’Neil named Johnny Celia chairman, and under his able direction the proposed golf and tennis tourneys are under way. For tthe past two weeks the boys from Flatbush and Westchester have been fighting for the title of Metropolitan Golf or Tennis Champion.
The two tournaments boast a combined entrance of 80 and with no varsity golf or tennis members in the contest the field is wide open for a dark horse and there are tourney favorites by the score.
Another important motive for the enthusiastic play is the awards to be made the winners of both competitions. Gold cups will be given to the champs at a meeting to be held immediately after the finish of the tournaments.
OCTOBER 21, 1938
17
Military Club Plans Many New Activities
By George G. Haggerty
The Notre Dame Military Club, a composite body of students representing the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps, opens its 1938-39 year with announcements concerning the club’s functions that are now being put under way.
General plans being that of aiding the individual members in their military work to the end that they may secure commissions in the several reserve corps; or, having commissions, that they may improve their professional knowledge in the tactics and technique of their respective arms or services. And with the placing of special emphasis upon a spirited program of reviving and carrying-on the but little forgotten military traditions of Notre Dame.
Leading this campaign of intramural military cooperation between prospective officers and those already commissioned will be Major Robert B. Riordan, O.R.C., present Registrar of the University and modest authority on Notre Dame military lore. Acting in the capacity of Club Faculty Advisor, Major Riordan will be ever ready to assist the organization in its
collective problems; thus giving of his practical knowledge gained in the field of National Defense.
It will be of interest to club members of last year to hear of our former Commandant Joseph A. Callahan being commissioned a Second Lieutenant and assigned to active Army duty in upper New York State. However, to compensate for Mr. Callahan’s absence and that of others lost through graduation, we are fortunate in having a number of commissioned faculty members and men of military record with us on the campus. All of whom will be in a position to render assistance of an advisory nature.
Although the club is primarily made up of those students who are now candidates for reserve commissions, especial interest will be shown in the newly enrolled students of the University along with upperclassmen, who are, as yet, unaffiliated with any branch of the Military Services. These men being eligible condidates for a commission in the Marine Corps Reserve, under quota allotment of the University. Any one desiring further information in regards to his eligibility for commission or activities of the club is asked to call upon: Club Commandant George G. Haggerty, 117 Walsh or Second Lieuten
ant Fenton J. Mee, U.S.M.C.R., 314
Walsh. •
RADIO
(Continued from Page- 8)
ments and lack of freedom in the movement of various parts of the body hampers actors performing for television. With all the difficulties above cleared, there still remains the extreme cost of producing a televised program. Hollywood may spend thousands of dollars on one stage setup with the realization that the scene will be shown several hundred times in numerous theatres, but the television set is good for one broadcast of not more than one hour’s duration with the cost equal to that of the stage or movie set. In view of all these impracticalities, it may be safe to set the date of commercilaized television at least ten years distant.
Radio Idioms: “Cushion” . . . when a program runs shorter on the air than it did during rehearsal, the identifying theme melody is used as a “cushion” to fill in the extra time. “In the mud” ... a lifeless delivery resulting from a speaker’s improper pitch and lack of nuance. “Schmalz it” ... a command by the production director to the orchestra conductor to have the music played in the sentimental style.	.
This Week's Scorecast is on
Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Tech Princeton vs. Navy Saturday, October 22, 1938
Win 1000 PHILIP MORRIS Cigarettes
PHILIP MORRIS FOOTBALL SCORECAST
DO THIS!
Write Your Forecast of both games on a PHILIP MORRIS wrapper and drop in ballot box at the “HUDDLE.” THE CAFETERIA. BROWNSON or CARROLL RECREATION ROOMS or the K. C. LOUNGE.
You may enter as many as you wish, but each ballot must be on a separate PHILIP MORRIS wrapper.
Boxes will be cleared Friday evening before game time, and names of winners will be posted at the above locations on the following Thursday.
Be sure to list your Name and Address plainly on each Ballot entered. This is important.
WIN THESE!
1000 PHILIP MORRIS
Cigarettes Absolutely Free to each person correctly forecasting* the exact scores of both games scheduled.
100 PHILIP MORRIS
Cigarettes Absolutely Free to every person correctly forecasting the score of either game, and the winners of both games.
50 PHILIP MORRIS
Cigarettes.... Absolutely Free to every person correctly forecasting the score of either game.
Individual Grand Prize
An individual Grand Prize will be given to the contestant entering the most ballots during the entire contest._ This prize will be on display at the “Huddle” and the Cafeteria.
NOTICE
. Contestants entering more than one co.rrect ballot will be awarded the prize highest in size. No addition of awards will be made. In the event no exact forecasts are made, the nearest entrant will receive 1,000 Philip Morris Cigarettes.
18
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
EDUCATOR, EDITOR VIEW NOTRE DAME
•
From Lloyd Lewis’ column “The Voice from the Grandstand,” in the Chicago Daily News, Sept. 28, 1938:
“Dear Mr. Lewis: With the Cubs-Pittsburgh series coming up, this is no time to write you about football, but there was one sentence of yours in today’s paper which concerned football and that I venture to comment on. Notre Dame has moved up toward the front in recent years, not exerting so drastic an attitude (in academic standards) as the University of Chicago’s, but certainly more than Pittsburgh’s.
“Most Chicago freshmen come from the upper third of the high school classes. Notre Dame accepts any bona-fide high school graduate. In that respect Chicago is certainly more “drastic.” But from examination of the quality of undergraduate work in elementary college classes, I have come to believe that you have to do just as good work to pass, at Notre Dame, as at Chicago. You know the old “I wish I’d learned to read and write” story, always passed off on some Notre Dame athlete? Well, I suspect the quality of the English composition at Notre Dame is just as high as at Chicago. It is certainly higher at Notre Dame than at the state universities (except Michigan and Wisconsin) or at Northwestern. So are the standards in Latin and philosophy.
“So, Mr. Lewis, I think you are not only right, but righter even than you know.
James Weber Linn, 1357 East 56th Street.
“P.S. Last -week, before the Minnesota-Washington game, there was considerable talk of the comparative lack of football material at Minnesota now. I saw that lack ascribed to various causes, but never to the right one. Minnesota is rapidly becoming a great state university, with increasingly high standards of work. The dumb boys can still enter there, but they can’t stay there, not any more.”
“Dear Professor Linn: Since this is the first time you have ever found occasion to agree with anything I ever said, I am declaring a one-man holiday for myself. I have lit all the lights in my home, thrown open all the
doors, turned on all the faucets, set all the fires going and made a great many unnecessary long distance telephone calls.
“I want to celebrate adequately an event that probably will never happen again.”
MUSIC NOTES
(Continued from Page 9) and this can be done either by actual study and practice, by participation in a band or orchestra, or by hearing good music. This latter method is the I
Compliments of
THE BOOK SHOP
result popularity poll
Question: Why Do You Like Penit?
WHERE ASKED: Almont Aug Cmmopmt
ANSWERS:
OLIVER PUNOIL Phi Baht
PENITS TREE ROWING FLUIDITY ENABLES ME \ TO EXPRESS MY MOST | FUGITIVE REFLECTIONS WITH UTTER ABANDON}
JOE PLUNGER.^OR.STERUNGUNMKf,Chern.Prof:
PIPIT. IT'S TROUBLEPROOF. PASS ME PEN/TFORANEASY NHUTINO TOUCHDOWN
JURE JITTERBUG. SmingMd: PENIT/S R/GHT/N^ THE GROOVE WHEN\ IT COMES TO SENDING (XTTHIPCNNTOFAPEN
important one for most people. But good concerts are not always available. This vacancy can be filled by the use of a comparatively new device— recording. Every great symphony orchestra and every great artist has contributed to a musical fund which may be drawn upon at any time.
Most of the larger colleges include in their libraries a full collection of records, and by making these records available to students these colleges are bringing good music closer, to the lives of their students.
130 N. Michigan Street South Bend, Indana
FLORA VANOAUL/f^^r.*
PIPIT HAS SUCH A BEI-YCW-THUl BLUISH 6RIEN COLOR AND/ADORE THIBomiDIS/OPlj
fMY ANALYSES PfOYEf \PENITIREE FR0M%~ \PIN-aOO&/N& k/ \/NttEDIE/ffXITIS\& CALLIGRAPHICALLY^^ < PERFECT J


■	■■ km
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG., SOUTH BEND '
—i	-•	.	—	■
That makes it just about unanimous! Try Penit. You’ll like it! 2 oz. bottle, 15c; 4 oz. bottle with chamois penwiper, 25c. At your college supply store.
Tht> Pon-Tout rd Ink for All f ountain Pens
19
OCTOBER 21, 1938________________
Communion Breakfast For Sf. Louis Club
The Greater St. Louis Club, under the able direction of President Jack Griffin, held its first formal meeting Thursday morning, Oct. 13. The 25 members assembled at eight o’clock for the Votive Mass of the Blessed Sacrament in Zahm Chapel, celebrated by Rev. John A. Molter, C.S.C.
After the Mass the club met at the La Salle Hotel in South Bend for breakfast. A short business meeting followed the breakfast. President Griffin gave a short introductory speech and outlined the program for the coming school year.
A Christmas dance is to be held in the Salm Hotel in St. Louis, the date to be announced later.
After the business meeting the members gathered in the main dining room of the hotel for a period of entertainment during Don Gilliand gave his unique version of “A-Tisket-A-Tasket” and Mize Morris sang a few songs.
The officers of the Greater St. Louis club are: Jack Griffin, president; James Raaf, vice-president; Dick Karr, vice-president; Hubert Schlafly, secretary; Jack Scherer, treasurer; and Herb Westhoff, sergeant-at-arms.
A club smoker is planned for the near future and will be announced at a later date.
FOUND
“The Scholastic” this week received the following communication:
“Will the owner who left a camera in my car while hitch hiking through Pennsylvania please communicate with me.
“Mrs Jessie Carrier, P. O. Box 503, Warren, Penna.
“Owner may have this camera by writing full description to the above address.”
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
❖
ASK US ABOUT OUR NEW PLAN TO PROTECT YOU AGAINST THE COSTLY BREAKAGE OF GLASSES.
LEMONTBEES
Optometrists and Opticians
Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Quick Lesson in Raincoat styi®
PLENTY OF SWANK IN THIS DRAPE!
At Leading Campus Shops
Here’s the coat style-forecasters say will sweep the country. It’s ready for you ... now ... at leading Campus shops in a great preview! It’s comfortable. It’s casual. And . . . WATERPROOF, WIND-PROOF, DUSTPROOF... just what you need for damp, wet, chilly fall days and nights!
THE ALLIGATOR COMPANY, ST. LOUIS—NEW YORK
Other Alligator Raincoats $5.75 to $25
Sv
BY ALLIGATOR
FULL 85-INCH SWEEP FOR SMARTNESS!
CASUAL TYPE CONVERTIBLE COLLAR!
ROOMY POCKETS— AS YOU LIKE THEM!
YOU’RE RIGHT! IT’S THE
University Coacher

20
' NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Engineers Initiate
The Engineers have been taking time off from their slide rule calculations to devise ways and means of letting their freshman brothers know what it’s like to be full fledged Engineers. The plans are just as secret as the time and place of the horrible event, but Chairman Bob Schirf has promised to reveal some of the secrets in announcements posted on the hall bulletin boards early next week. Watch for them.
Kansas City Club
The first meeting of the year for the members of the Kansas City club was opened with traditional ceremony by President Thomas M. Reardon last week in Carroll Hall Rec. The presiding officer, the secretary and another member discussed plans for the next meeting and then adjourned to the candy store for a quick coke.
Spray From The Shower Ream
Firemen, ice-men, dishwashers, hodcarriers, plumbers—members of practically every branch of manual labor took part in the national artisan golfers championship of England held at Walton Heath. A cousin of a former British Open champion, H. A. Pagham won the match.
Supercolosaal
In an effort to preserve the golfing prestige of St. Andrews, Scotland, the city officials have passed on a plan to alter the Jubilee course thus making it a “super-championship” course.
Diplomas For Pros
In an effort to keep “quack golf pros” out of the teaching field, the P. G. A. has instituted a plan where-. by professionals will be provided with a diploma insuring amateurs of their abilities.
Those Fighting Irish Again
Says Ed Sullivan, in the Chicago Tribune, “The girl who would care for Mickey Rooney would care for a caveman technique, because he mows them down with all the sublety of a Notre Dame guard charging at an Army tackle.”
He May Need Some By Then
And Notre Dame acquires two more supporters in Hollywood' Billy and Bobby Mauch, twin brother movie stars, recently professed their desire to play the halfback positions for Elmer Layden “when they grow up.”
DENTIST
ASSOCIATES BLOG., SOUTH BEND
THIS PIPE NEVER BITES MY TONGUE’
THE PAT’D FILTER WON'T LET IT
screen smoke flakes.
exterior and 66 baffle absorbent interior. Baffles break up and cool stream; trap nicotine, juices and automatically breaking in pipe.
NEW SHAPES & FINISHES _
MEDICO has only pat'd. filter combining cellophane
Arrow Majors in Style
Again, Arrow scoops the style market for fall, presenting new colors, new designs, and new fabrics, including many importations from abroad.
This is NATIONAL ARROW WEEK—the best time of the year to get the pick of everything that’s new in shirts, ties, handkerchiefs, and shorts.
Drop in today for a semester’s supply of Arrows.
Arrow Shirts......$2 up	Arrow Cravats. .$1 and $1.50
Arrow Shorts... .454 up	Arrow Handkerchiefs. .254 up
I [MIK
OCTOBER 21, 1938
2!
Artists' League Holds Inaugural Dinner
The Emil Jacques Chapter of the American Artists League gave a dinner in the Faculty Dining Hall at the University of Notre Dame on Tuesday night, Oct. 18.
The dinner was a prelude to the opening of the chapter’s activities for this season and marked the opening of the travelling exhibition section of the Wightman Memorial art galleries of the University of Notre Dame. In progress at the present time is an exhibition of paintings by three of America’s foremost landscape artists Carl Hoermann, Rudolf Ingerle and Tunis Ponsen.
During the dinner there was a musical program and following it the guests were taken on a tour of the galleries and viewed the exhibition.
About 50 people were present at the dinner, including members of the league, patrons and guests. Professor Sessler, together with Mr. James Cloetingh, 1601 LaSalle Ave., president of the association, was in charge of arrangements.
LINNET SHOW
(Continued from Page 3)
“In a Monastery Garden,” using an octet, orchestra and choral group, and the final number of the concert, an attempt at a stage interpretation of the “Spirit of Notre Dame.” This last offering is promised as the most surprising piece of stage production ever presented in Washington Hall.
The Linnet Publicity Committee has sent invitations to all the members of the faculty and faculty member’s wives, who will be the honored guests of the evennig. This committee has also a motto selected for their group that serves as a good bit of advice: “Be a First Nighter.”'
The Quiche-Mayan Indians of Guatemala do it different. The men pray while the women look on.
FLY . . .
Notre Dame Students
Many future jobs will require a college education and a pilot’s license.
You may now include flying in your education if you have the written consent of your parents. The best way to travel is by air. LEARN TO FLY.
LOW RATES $3 per half hour lesson Guaranteed solo, $45.00
INDIANA AIR SERVICE Bendix Field Phone 3-2454
N. D. representative: Ed. Minczewski, phone 4-1913.
Notre Dame alumni facing each other as collegiate coaches this week are Maurice “Clipper” Smith and Gus Dorais (Villanova vs. Detroit); Harry Stuhldreher and Mal Elward (Wisconsin vs. Purdue).
MACK’S
MUSIC BOX
228 North Michigan South Bend, Ind.
Used Records...15c
New Decca’s....35c
Popular, Standard Sheet Music. Orches-traticns, Band and String Instruments, Drums and Accessories.
ME ToR AWoTHER SPREE
This is National Arrow Wwl!
High time you hopped off the wagon and treated yourself to Arrow’s best in shirts, collars, ties, handkerchiefs and underwear. If you want to be first on the campus to wear what everyone else will be wearing six months hence, see an Arrow dealer today—between classes, and scoop up some Arrows.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN OPTOMETRIST Successor To Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our awn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
22
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PRESS CONVENTION (Continued from Page 3)
of the Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto, Canada, delivered the sermon on the subject, “The Sanctification of the Intellect.” Father Phelan reminded the delegates of the traditions of Catholic literature and warned that worthwhile writing was the natural result of the sanctification of the intellect.
Closing the Congress was the general afternoon session at which Sister Mary Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind., revealed the excellent opportunities of a Catholic journalist, only after a profound love of Christ and an ardent dedication to the Holy Spirit had been cultivated. Expression, then, would flow naturally, she said.
“A Catholic scholar may well reveal in Protestant literature greater riches than it is aware of. We have inherited a legacy of literature. We are ambitious for a Catholic literature—we can look at our legacy through Catholic eyes,” declared Sister Madeleva. “The Romantic revival should be illuminated by Catholic teaching. A Catholic critic is needed to interpret and give the ethical views of our modem literature.”
“Most Catholics do not know that Pilgrims Progress is based on a 13th-century French Catholic poem translated into English by a Benedictine monk in 1426. The pattern of life, the arguments for the existence of God, for divine providence, proposed by Defoe for Robinson Crusoe, are cut from whole cloth of Catholic philosophy,” she added.
STETSON HATS
are featured at Spiro's in all the new shapes and shades. They're
$5 and up to $7.50
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
That Yankee infield will have another college degree within its ranks when next spring rolls around, for Joe “Flash” Gordon, star Ruppert second baseman, intends to return to his alma mater, the University of Oregon, in January to complete requirements for his degree from the school of physical education.
This Stetson
Has Gone to Their Heads
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
And deservedly so. The dashing all-around style of this Stetson has made it a favorite with fashionwise students from the east coast to the west.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
Step Out With a
STETSON
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
OCTOBER 21, 1938
23
ROCKNE MEMORIAL
(Continued from Page 8) that the Congregation of Holy Cross was founded. The plaque of Norway commemorates the birth - place of Rockne, at Voss, Norway, April 4, 1888.
The massive lines of the building seem to suggest the rugged personal traits, while the gothic features of the facade are illustrative of the keen mind and warm personality of America’s and Notre Dame’s ideal man. The Rockne Memorial will be a tribute of which the present and future Notre Dame may be justly proud.
• It’s always good travel weather on the South Shore Line — you make safe speed whether the day is warin' or cold, wet or dry. Just make your plans and forget about the weather—you’ll arrive safe and rested and on time. There’s always a convenient South Shore Line train . . . from early morning until late at night, every day.
Right OR Wrong?
A 2-minute test for telephone users
1. The current used to transmit the voice by telephone is the most delicate current in common use.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
3.	Old telephone directories are collected in order to sell them for waste paper.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
2. Wire in use in the Bell System would go around the world more than 3000 times.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
4.	Any Bell telephone can be connected with more than 90% of the world’s telephones.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
5.	The average time for making long distance telephone connections is 3 minutes.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
6.	Low rates for out-of-town calls to most points are available after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday.
RIGHT □ WRONG □
