You probably know a number of men in your class who were pilots in the wartime Air Force. They are the best advertisements for the Aviation Cadet program. Talk with them about it.
Chapces' Are, Jthey?U t^ll you their service as pilots .was one.of the most' interesting and exciting phases »f theiT? lives; ‘East action, comradeship, and..the chance to serve’ their country paid them dividend they don’^'for^dt . added something to* their stature afid poise that they couldn’t have gotten anywhere else.
Cadet life today is no different. As a potential pilot in the new U. S. Air Force, you serve at a time of equal importance to the nation. Freedom, responsibility, the chance to use your own initiative are all yours.
The training you get is the finest your government can provide — $35,000 worth for every Cadet.
You’re taught by skilled instructors, fly the best airplanes. Your living facilities are excellent.
Learning to fly today opens profitable fields to you in aviation — which is expanding more rapidly than at any other time in history.
Pilot training is open, now, to single men, 20 to 231^ years, old, who have completed at least one- \ half the credits for a degree from an accredited college or university — or pass an equivalent examination. Cadets completing the course will be commissioned Second Lieutenants, ORC, and assigned to active duty as pilots with the Air Force.
During their tours of duty they will be given a chance to qualify for Regular Air Force Commissions. This is your opportunity! Look into it today at your nearest U. S. Army and Air Force Recruiting Station.
U. S. ARMY AND AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
Everywhere it goes the assurance of Beech-Nut for fine flavor goes with it
LAY THE BLAME ON MAME
Many of you may have missed the local advertisements in this semester’s Scholastic. Gone are the want ads and the clothing ads. All that remain are the nicotine nuisances. Remember those tfld Max Adler and Gilbert ads? Max ouilt the Browser’s Pass, and Notre Dame men used it as a tunnel to poverty. And Gilbert claimed that at Notre Dame “one man tells another” to “shop at Sears and save.” Why was this type of merchant militarism dropped from this 80-year-old journal? We donno. Our guess, though, is that it was the triumph of Art over Commercialism. If you don’t believe us, just take a look at some of the changes that took place this year: Harry Nicodemus’ sewer cleaning ad was replaced by Joe Wilcox’s Scorner’s Seat; the Palais Royale billboard was replaced by Meet the Editor; and the Walgreen ad was replaced but not forgotten.
^WE GROW CORN WHERE I COME FROM
Tomorrow Nebraska comes to the bread-and-butter bowl to get its helping of borsch and bruises. Almost 55,000 souls will be on hand to see whether the band’s new uniforms look any different from the ushers.’ It’ll be nice having people back on the campus staring at us again. The average visitor is stunned, almost paralyzed, upon learning that the Fundamentals of Football is not a required course here. Most aliens can’t understand, either, why the University doesn’t hand out pigskins instead of sheepskins at graduation. Nearly everyone thinks that I’m Halfback McGee. As soon as someone catches a glimpse of my hulking 105 pounds of skin and bone (no muscle) draped in my letterless sweater, he looks down at me and mumbles, “COY, isn’t he?”
pAH. RAH, RAH
Where are all of the gripers? The letters-to-the-editor column in this mag
has been as vacant as a student’s head during finals. Have Notre Dame men, like Carnation’s holstein cows, suddenly become contented? Is everyone satisfied with his seat in the stadium, his outside reading, his laundry service? Four weeks have passed and not one loyal Irishman has come forth with a moan abcut the lack of That Traditional Irish Spirit. Come, come, boys it isn’t quite that placid around here, is it?
Beech-Nut Gum
CRIME WAVE
The door opened gently. A big lug, wearing a seersucker sport coat and a smile to match, came in on the first bounce. “Just for you,” he snapped as he noticed a figure at his desk in the corner of the room, “I have a golden opportunity which only a fool himself will pass up.” The figure got up from his chair. “I have,” the huckster continued, “a parlay card on tomorrow’s football games which is going to make you a richer man by five fins.” The figure spoke: “Have I ever seen you at night prayer?”
Name Withheld, the originator of the parlay card, was trapped. Over in the OSS grill room, Name .Withheld broke down, decided to confess how he figured Nebraska for 28 points tomorrow afternoon. Mused he: “I added up the program weights of the Nebraska players, divided by the square root of the stadium’s seating capacity, multiplied by the coach’s age, and added------------ (pause).” “Added what?” snapped an ex-engineer as he munched on his slide rule as if it were a fig bar. “Added a sucker every time I handed out a card,” thumped Name Withheld, “except once!!!”
CHANGE OF ADDRESS
Please forward all changes of address as far in advance as possible with former address included, to:
Circulation Manager
Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC Publications Office Notre Dame. Ind.
71m* vie Mt er-five part it spurt, u
LETTERS
STOP—THIEF!
Dear Editor:
On Wednesday morning (Oct. 8) at 9:00 a. m. I repaired to Eoom 112 of the Main Building for my Latin class. (It is a very enjoyable Latin class taught by Mr. Turley.) At the time I was wearing a red lumberjack coat. As the class opened I removed the coat and placed it on back of a chair. When the session had ended, I left the room and also the coat. Later, I missed the coat and returned to look for it. It was not there.
Since then, I have made numerous inquiries of all parties who might have any knowledge of the whereabouts of my coat. They could not help me. It was not turned in at the lost and found office. Nobody knows what happened to it.
I do.
Somebody stole it.
You stole it.
Give it back.
Bring it to 202 Zahm Hall and no questions will be asked.
It is a good coat, you thief. It kept me warm and comfortable. It was like a good friend to me, a dear friend who buoyed me up in the depths of my misery. It is very sad to lose an old friend.
Perhaps you have read “The Cloak,” by Nikolai Gugol. It tells of a poor man who saves his money for many years to buy a new overcoat. A few days after he buys it, a gang of ruffians assault him and strip the coat from his back. He is so unhappy that he dies.
I don’t feel so hot myself.
Robert T. Stock
Remember—crime does not pay.—Editor
PLEA FROM ABROAD
Dear Editor:
We have just started a new High School in the heart of Moroland (land of the Mohammedans) and have named our school after your great College. Of course our colors are GREEN! (and white) and our school song is your march. Most students so far are Christians, but Mohammedans are beginning to attend. We have but the first High now and will increase one grade every year until we have the complete course. Together with this letter I am sending you the first copy of their school paper. The mistakes in English are terrific but we must give the children a chance. They were only in sixth grade last year, their standard is lower than ours and besides
they are always speaking the dialect— so the English smells of the dialect.
I am sure you will find it amusing.
Now to create prestige and draw more Moros we wish to subscribe to your paper, The Scholastic. Line us up for one year, advise us of the subscription price and we shall send you a check on an American bank or a Postal Money Order. If you can send us a Bulletin or other such pamphlet with pictures to impress them it would help us in our missionary work.
George Dion, O.M.I.
Catholic Rectory Jolo, Sulu, P. I.
To create prestige and draw more Moros—one subscription free.—Editor
What ties go best with an ARROW
button-down oxford?
ARROW ties, of course!
But in particular, Arrow’s university selection of wool plaids, English type foulards, solid color knits and striped oxfords in college colors.
See your favorite Arrow dealer for Arrow ties—top choice of college men from coast to coast. $1 and up.
DO CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN? Send for your free copy of “The What, When and Wear of Men’s Clothing”—a handy guide for men who want to dress wisely and well. Write to: College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., 10 East 40th Street, New York 16, N. Y.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES »---------------------------------------► UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
ONE MAN'S OPINION .
Dear Editor:
Wake up, Mister Editor, it is morning. Granted the V. A. is somewhat tardy with the subsistence checks, but let us not put the whole blame on the V. A. Where were you and I last year when Congress cut the V. A.’s appropriation? Did we try to block that cut or weren’t We interested enough until now?
Secondly, a little job through the summer or right now might help feed the kids.
Edward J. Le Couteur
Apt. 34-C Box 433 Notre Dame, Indiana Obviously Reader Le Couteur had a summer job. He is certain to get veterans’ support if he ever runs for office.—Editor
(
4
Dear Editor:
Just in case there is any reaction to Jerry Heberlein’s ideas for Nov. 8—I think they are OK—and I’m for them.
Bill Cotter, 354 Dillon
Dear Editor:
Herewith is the Veteran’s Club statement of accounts as released by the University General Accounting Office last week. It might be added here that no funds were expended out of the University-kept club account without the authorization of the Vet’s Club president, the Moderator (Father Hesburgh), the Prefect of Discipline and/or the Director of Student Activities. Charges that the club
was ever richly-laden, as some hilarious suppositions have mistakenly maintained, are without basis in fact.
John A. O’Connor Vet’s Club Treasurer
Spring, ’47
The attention of interested parties is called to the itemized Vet’s Club Financial Statement appearing on Page 11 of this week’s Scholastic.—Editor
Address cdl Communications to The Editor
Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC Publications Office Notre Dame, Indiana
SENIOR "DOME" PICTURES
If you are scheduled to receive a degree in any college of the University in January, June or August of 1948, please come to the DOME Office in Walsh Hall basement between the hours of 1:00 and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, October 20 to October 24 inclusive, to receive appointment for graduation pictures for the DOME.
No extension of time will be granted. Your cooperation in this matter will be appreciated.—DOME Staff.
APPLICATION ENGINEER
The Story of Frank Lewis
Struggling to become airborne in the teeth of an Aleutian gale, the B-25 in which Frank Lewis was serving as co-pilot spun down into a fiery crash. Frank took the long way home. Badly burned about the face and shoulders, he spent two years in Army hospitals.
When he came back to work at General Electric this spring he had been away exactly six years. He had forgotten a lot, changed a lot since the days when, fresh out of the State College of Washington, he had worked on “Test” with G.E.
He took naturally, therefore, to the G-E Rotating Engineering Plan—especially set up to give the veteran a period of familiarization and general orientation.
“The idea worked fine,” Frank says. “Any department I was interested in was ready to open its doors for me so I could come in and look it over. When I found a groove that suited me, that’s where I would stick.”
Frank decided to stick with application engineering. His work proved he was capable of it. On August 1, he took over a desk and drew the first important assignment of his new career.
For your copy of “Careers in the Electrical Industry,” write to Dept. 237-6, General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
After six yean of Army service, Frank is today tackling his first assignments as a General Electric application engineer.
Critically injured in a plane crad^ Frank spent two yean in Army hospitals before resuming his engineering career.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
5
REBEL RUCKUS
In spite of this cooler northern weather, the boys from the South didn’t have any trouble getting up steam at the last meeting of the REBEL CLUB. There was a knockdown, rough’em-up fight over the admittance of the Texas Club to the rebel unit. It was knuckles down and no “holts” barred all the way. The faction opposing the Texas infiltration finally busted down, but only after a good old southern filibuster. Fletcher Daniels held the floor for thirty minutes. The only catch is that Fletch is from Tennessee, not Georgia. It was believed by many that the Texas noise was not the real issue. Everybody was interested in the‘coming election and whether Texas was to be admitted before or after. The election will tell the story.
The men from Memphis and THE MEMPHIS CLUB elected new officers last week. Title of Chief Cotton Picker went to Jack Salmon. Raffi Mulroy, elected vice-president, will hold the basket for him. Ed Duke will be his secretary, and Eugene Podesta will count all the cotton in the treasury. Bill Sla-vick heads the Memphis publicity department.
JERSEY JOLT
Twenty-three present out of more than one hundred and fifty possible members was the showing at the last NEW JERSEY CLUB meeting. Joe O’Toole was elected president, George Keenan vicepresident, Al Zmijewski secretary, and Sim Fitzimmons treasurer. The club plans a Christmas dance and an Alumni gathering the Army weekend. At the next official meeting, Oct. 29, movies will
WRANGLERS APPLICATIONS
Undergraduates interested in applying for membership in the Wranglers are asked to address letters of application to Chairman. Wranglers Membership Committee, 217 Walsh Hall.
be shown. It is hoped that more New Jersey lads will be present.
A club that believes in close contact with the Alumni from their home town, is the WASHINGTON, MARYLAND, and VIRGINIA CLUB. Secretary Carrol Carter exchanges monthly letters with the Alumni Club at home. Each informs the other of any and all club news. The Alumni are sending out a directory of all Notre Dame men, past and present, who live within the club boundaries. This close to home contact pays off. The Alumni have already arranged a dance for the boys when they come home for Christmas vacation. It would be well for other clubs to follow this lead.
The AESCULAPIANS, the Pre-Medical Club of Notre Dame held its first meeting last week. Club moderator, Dean Baldinger, gave a short talk concerning the future of a pre-med. A movie “Amino Acids” was shown. David Mosier, club president, indoctrinated the new members as to the purpose of the club.
BLESSED EVENT
The infant club on the campus is the CALUMET CLUB, born at the first organizational meeting last week. President-elect Ray Zaleski was the doctor in charge; he was assisted ably by vicepresident George Kiernan; secretary Bill Hartnett recorded that event, and Steve Krapac was elected treasurer. The club takes in East Chicagoans and anybody living within a ten mile radius of that part of Chicago. The Calumet boys are separatists from the once big and, as far as we know, dead Chicago Club.
It is all part of a gigantic plot. An extensive co-ordinated plan is being formulated in order to stabilize membership by dividing the campus into sections. Each section will have an agent appointed by the high command. The high command is Jim Cassidy, president of the CENTRAL CLUB. The gigantic plot is only a membership drive for the club and not a new red party front. Banquets,
smokers, and holiday dances are also on j the clubs docket. The other officers are^yj John Jacobs, vice-president, Dennis Mac- i? kessey, secretary, and Bill Turner, treas- { urer.
BUFFALO BILL
The BUFFALO CLUB opened the semester with a meeting last week. President John Lavigne, vice-president Bob Weber, Paul Wendal, treasurer, and Jim Fitzgerald, secretary, were introduced to the new members. The club’s future plans were outlined after a round-robin
introduction of all members.
Some definite progress has toward the new BOWLING We will have more definite issue.
been made LEAGUE, news next
The Uticans of the UTICA CLUB put their heads together at a meeting last) week and came up with plans for a big steak dinner. The place—Ramble Inn— Thursday, Oct. 23—the day. Mr. Sheehan, head of the Economics Department at Notre Dame and a native Utican, will be guest speaker. Herb Daikar and Bob Brennan head the steak-dinner committee. Final arrangements for the dinner will be discussed at a meeting next week, Oct. 20, in room 104 of the Law Building. All Notre Dame men living within a 45-mils radius fo Utica are urged to attend this meeting.
ft

The PHILADELPHIA CLUB had an election of officers at its first meeting. Joe White became President, Jack Demp-' sey and Bill Meehan were chosen first and second vice-presidents, Bart Johnson is the new corresponding secretary; Bill Whiteside the new recording secretary,
and John Vellutato was elected treas-
urer.
Sk
jnn veiiuiaw was eiecreu ureas-
The Philadelphians hope to have^^j
another of their banner years and many activities are planned.
^5'

The KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS intend to send CARE packages to Europe as part of their plan for increased Catholic Action. Among other items handled at the last meeting were the proposed exchange meeting with the La Porte council K. of C., the appointment of a Communion, breakfast committee composed of Len Aull and Bob Schmid, and the announcement by membership committee chairman Bill Soos that the list for the forthcoming First Degree initiation is nearly completed. Grand Knight Larry Turner also announced that exemplification of candidates for major degrees of knighthood will take place on 1 December 14.

News for this column must be turned in eight days in advance. Keep sending all news to 251 Cavanaugh or to the Scholastic office.
6
I Whe Notre Dame Scholastie
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
iiiiiiiiiHiitiiiiiiitiitiiHiitiiiniiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiintiiittiiHiiiiiiiaiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
THE STAFF
FRANCIS I. KEENAN. Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR Associate Editor EDWARD J. SNYDER ------------------------ Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX  Feature	Editor
PETER BROWN -------------------------------- Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News	Editor
! ROBERT STOCK --------------------- Associate News Editor
i	JAMES FERSTEL ---------------------- Photographic	Editor
1	DONALD BIRREN  Art	Editor
’	E. A. CORDESMAN  Art	Editor
‘i ^WILLIAM GORMAN _____________________________ Librarian
^ROBERT KOPF ______________ Circulation
JOHN CLARK  Circulation M. E. VARGA_________________________ Advertising Manager JOHN S. BRENNAN  Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
«aaaaia8aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa88aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaai
Meet the Editor
h This man is reputed to be mad. Mad as a hyper-neurotic THarch hare, they say. Could be. But his unconfined energy, flash-flood enthusiasm, and artistic creativeness as attested by his work and writing as
Feature Editor of the Scholastic, have given him the unqualified recognition of his fellow-workers: this man is a potential genius.
His name is Joe Wilcox, and he comes from Hastings, Michigan. He’s 23, and a vet, with all the rabid fire of the liberty - loving, anti - militaristic, ex-soldier temperament.
Joe’s in Law School, and works on Concord, the YCS monthly, too. He has a mastery of the Italian language, and dabbles, and babbles in Spanish. He chews and grinds
away on stubby, foul-smelling cigars, and wags his hornrimmed spectacles at his adversaries in fits of irascible
argumentation.
He is probably the most prolific writer on the campus, dependably sensational in anything from perspiring sports to hilarious features.	’ '	' ”
CALEMDAE
Oct. 17 HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL. John Adams vs. Mishawaka at School Field. Saturday night, same place, Washington vs. Evansville Eeitz Memorial.
RIVER PARK, Adventures of Tom Sawyer. Mark Twain’s Mississippi classic is back in town in technicolor. Tommy Kelley plays the lucky Sawyer kid. Wotta life I Aunt Polly’s cookin’, playin’ hookey, fishin’ and whittlin’ with Huck Finn. No outside reading. No signing in. No identification card.
Oct. 18 NOTRE DAME vs. NEBRASKA. The Cornhuskers open the home-field season at least 20 points underdogs. The campus will probably be over-run by herds of high-heeled distractions.
VETVILLE VICTORY DANCE, at the new Rec Hall (opposite Navy Drill Hall). Dance to the Cavaliers, from 8 to 12 p. m., all ye married vets and married guests.
Oct. 19 JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Alec Templeton. The blind pianist presents a concert featuring works of Tschaikowsky and Grieg.
GRANADA, Woman on the Beach and Dick Tracy's Dilemma. Scholars and just plain ordinary oafs are trying to figure what this first one is all about. Joan Bennett is another Hollywood biddie who’s about ready for corpse roles. As for the other feature, Dick Tracy manages to get out of his dilemma, but how does the fleeced movie-goer get out of his?
Oct. 20 YCW ROLLER SKATING PARTY at Bock’s Rink in Mishawaka (take a No. Side-Mish., So. Side-Mish., or Madison-Mish. bus to Main and Mishawaka Ave.; walk half a block). Tickets (60c) at Room 3, Law Bldg., and 325 Badin. The Co-Hop Girls will be there!!
Oct. 23 COLFAX, Welcome Stranger. Crosby and Barry Fitzgerald are together again. Let’s hope this handling of Fitzgerald, a wonderful actor, doesn’t get out of hand. He should be given a meaty role; he has the teeth to do it well.
PALACE, Count Basie and his orchestra on the stage for one day only. On the screen, Philo Vance Returns, for what good reason, we don’t know.
GRANADA, Private Affairs of Bel Ami. This guy Ami shoves the dames around and they go for it. This should appeal to all milquetoasty males who’ve been brought up on a diet of opening doors for frail ones and picking up St. Mary’s girls’ checks in Walgreen’s.
Oct. 24 JOHN ADAMS HIGH AUDITORIUM, Ballet, Alicia Markova and Anton Dolin bring their ballet company to the stronghold of the polka. Our halfbacks may find inspiration in watching the ballerina’s open-field pirouetting.
PALACE, Crossfire. The ticklish tolerance question is aired in this thriller, honeycombed with sinister hate-ramifications.
RIVER PARK, Pinocchio. A dummy comes to life. That happens more often than you think.
STATE, Stallion Road, with Ronald Reagan, Alexis Smith and Zachary Scott. Not bad. Don’t knock anybody down trying to get to the box office.
7
fylMl ike
Besides the humor, there’s a lot of truth and capacity fox-sober-minded thought in the bulletin-board ad, posted by a student with books to unload. The ad read: “Fox- Sale Cheap —God and Creation.”
Cheap they are, fox- sure.
We, as Catholics, know that we can have God weekly oxdaily in the Holy Eucharist. And at “bargain prices.” The only requisite is a clean soul, sprinkled with a little humility and repentance.
He caxx be received freely, without the modern hindrances of inflated price ox- shortage of supply. There’s none of this “Come back Thursday” business.
And Creation? You can take the whole caboodle away for a nickel. A plugged one will do.
Signs of the times are anything but rosy:
At the euphemistic and ironic Lake Success, delegates from the world’s leadex- nations blissfully toss charges of “warmonger” across conference tables, hoping they don’t boomerang—with an atomic bomb in tow.
Ah yes, these atomic bombs. Out Chicago way, a leading newspaper digs a million-dollax- hole in the ground, taking no chances against this latest ingenuity of man.
West of here, a jury acquits a girl and hex- lover of charges of murdering hex- wealthy parents and blasting the family yacht to conceal the alleged crime. East of here a boy admits killing a playmate to prove he wasn’t a “sissy.”
Grown-up men say they saw flying saucers hurtling about the globe. And all around us like gnats at a beach party— kids gyrate as the joint jumps with “How Much Longer Must I Wait, Kate?”
All this as the land is locked in a battle of the hemline.
Across the broad Atlantic lies the “old” world, buried deep in problems. In Britain, it’s dollars they lack. On the continent, food. “We eat now?,” sunken faces ask. Nothing to eat? In the yeax- 1947? Preposterous! Destitution? Want? A myth!
Want . . . want? We’ve heard that somewhere before. Last year? Two years ago? Ah, now it comes back—the Atlantic Charter . . . the four freedoms. Slightly dusty. And want, here it is right at the top of the heap: freedom from want. And fear, too! Wonderful! It starts now, maybe!
For many more millions, it’s “curtains”—iron ones.
Yes, the hopeful student really has something big to offer. But will it sell? It’s a good wager that when next semester rolls around, there’ll be a brand new sign on that bulletin board. And it still will read:
For Sale Cheap—God and Creation.”
—John Langlois
Bravo, Mr. Leahy!
An atomic broadside exploded in the midst of a gathering of Chicago sportswriters Monday noon at the Hotel Morrison. For most of them it was the biggest shock since some
body discovered the White Sox were throwing the 1919 World Series. Radiations from it spumed forth across the land, yet the strongest concentration seemed to be around South Bend and a crew of gridiron gladiators called tl.e Fighting Irish.
The detonator was none other than Mr. Pessimism himself. After waving the towel and spilling tears for more than two months in the press and on the radio, Coach Frank Leahy had reversed his field. Bettex- interference, more touchdowns, and healthiex- victories looked to be the outcome.
It all began when one scribe jokingly inquired, “By what score would Michigan defeat Notre Dame?” Coach Leahy snapped back: “Notre Dame would welcome the opportunity to play Michigan any time, on any Saturday, during any fall.” In a yeax- when Michigan was loaded with three veteran, beefy lines supplemented by a galaxy of fleet, slippery-hipped backs such a statement was indeed optimistic. From Fran’/ Leahy it was ultra-phenomenal.

But Coach Leahy didn’t stop at that. He promised that his Irish would get better- from here on in. After- two games which could be considered on the broadest terms as little more than a lukewarm showing, this statement bore an evil connotation for future opponents.
Next day members of the team emerged from their noon meeting wearing broad grins. Rumor had it that the coach had given more than his usual cautious sermon.
Tonight he will address the Nebraska rally and it promises to be a noteworthy speech.
Once again Coach Leahy has proved that he is master of gridiron mentors. He has engineered a complete turn-
about chaos
of psychology. Its effects may well create downright fox- Nebraska and those foes that follow.
At
week’s end Michigan had assumed the position of
leading team in the nation. However, activities around Cartier Field seemed to indicate that the Wolverines’ new role would be short-lived.
Christ-less Christmas
Last week the Post Office Department disclosed through one of its officials that yuletime stamps this yeax- would beax- no picture of Santa Claus, or for that mattex- any other personage that would connect the Christmas holiday with the birth of Christ.
The gist of his statement was that the U. S. Post Office Department thought it best not to offend those many people in this country who do not believe in Christ.
This is tolerance and pussy-footing to a ridiculous extreme. Of course we shouldn’t offend those who don’t believe in Christ. We shouldn’t practice Christian doctrine, either. Nor should we abide by our Constitution which is based on Christian interpretation of natural rights and duties. Maybe it would be a good idea if we spare these people’s feelings by forgetting entirely about the birthday of Christ, and His teachings.
.4

;Ke I
Maybe we are already pleasing them by acting as if we have already forgotten.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 4
Junior Election Declared Null; 230 Vote
Lack of Minimum Vote Leaves Prom Question
A Notre Dame’s Junior Class, 1200 strong, proved itself to be one of the weakest, most disinterested classes in University history this week when a paltry handful of 230 men turned out to vote in the class elections. The extremely small number of 300 had previously been determined as the minimum requirement for a legal election. Thus, the Class of 1949 must go through the year without formal leaders.
The determined lack of interest displayed by the third-year men leaves the question of the Junior Prom, the year’s No. 2 social function, distinctly up in the air.
With only two parties in the field seeking election honors, some observers have commented that this fact accounted for the disappointing turnout and the resultant invalid election.
“The Ticket,” with Chuck Connor, ^harlie Roult, Jim Presley and Jess Fitzpatrick as its line-up, versus the “Action Ticket,” made up of Pete Brown, Chuck Russ, Jim Butz and Leo Barnhorst, were the contestants. And ironically enough the expressed purpose of both these groups was to instill some old-fashioned spirit into their class cohorts.
The pre-election platform put forward by “The Ticket” sought the welfare of the class rather than of itself and claimed that it had no axes to grind. In this regard the party guaranteed an “excellent band and a stupendous Prom such as has never been seen before.”
On the other hand the men of the “Action Ticket” operated on the theory that the war had been a catalyst in the return to normalcy in campus activities. Their platform read: “A for Action, C for Competence, T for Teamwork, I for Initiative, O for Over-All Ability, and N for Nifty Prom.” The ^embers of the party had taken an active part in last year’s Sophomore Cotillion.
OCTOBER 17, 1947
LEAHY LADS TO MAKE HOME DEBUT WITH EYE TO REGAINING LOST PRESTIGE
Nebraska’s scarlet-and-cream Com- . huskers meet Leahy’s overdue-Irish tomorrow afternoon in the first home game on the Notre Dame schedule. A spilled-over capacity crowd is expected to witness this resumption of the Irish-Husker series, which was interrupted twenty-two years ago. At that last meeting the rugged Nebraskans rocked Rockne’s 1925 eleven back on their hip-pads with a 17-0 thudding. Tomorrow’s contest will see the Notre Darners favored by about that same margin.
With student enthusiasm and anxiety swelling to a feverish crescendo, the Irish team, with all the well-wishes and confidence of its backers, will trot out on the home field to grab some of that pre-season prestige lost on previous Saturdays. If mid-week practice hustle and team determination are any indication, then it will fall to the invading Cornhuskers to be the first bled-and-crushed victim of impressive Notre Dame strength.
Coach Bernie Masterson’s squad is almost wholly Nebraska-born and bred. On the first three teams listed with the travelling group, only two men, one from neighboring Sioux City, Iowa, and another from far-away Piedmont, California, are out-of-state boys.
The lads from Lincoln will field a big, aggresive line, and a light backfield. At tackle the visitors look especially formidable. Toogood at left tackle weighs 234; Samuelson, All-Bix Six at the' other tackle, stacks his 232 pounds over a six-four frame. Both guards are husky: Wilkins weighs 195, while his running mate at the right-guard notch is a chunky 198, and only stands five-feet-eight. He may talk up to Stroh-meyer in more ways than one.
Captaining the visiting eleven will be Thomas Nowak, 205-pound center, from Omaha.
In the Husker backfield Del Weigand at quarter handles the passing chores,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
while Dick Hutton and Cletus Fischer at the halves are the team’s potential breakaway runners. Eighteen-year-old Dale Adams at full is probably the outstanding performer of this quartet, and may give the Irish forwards some bruises to remember. Incidentally, Fischer, the half, is another diminutive pigskin package; but his five-foot-nine, 164-pound stature doesn’t bespeak his bullish charging or break-away possibilities. The respect tended Notre Dame’s own McGee and Coutre suffices to demonstrate popular recognition of a little guy’s explosive and deceptive abilities.
The home crowd’s first look at the ’47 Irish tomorrow will answer several questions. First of all, do the lads in Blue and Gold deserve the hypar-imag-inative build-up given them by summertime, smoke-dreaming sports-seers? Secondly, can the Ramblers snap out of their slothful slump now, before walking into an executioner’s axe in the hands of forthcoming Iowa, Navy or Army? And finally, what have the new men on the Notre Dame roster got to offer to offset the now-realized heavy losses from last fall’s opponent-chewing machine?
Passing up the neon luminaries in the Notre Dame lineup it might be well to preview the appearances of several potential performers on the squad. At end, newcomers to the lineup include Bill Wightkin and Doug Waybright, both scrappy individuals who threaten to move out the big boys, Martin and Hart.' At tackle George Sullivan is back in the battle again, and the home crowd will be anxious to see how this man, who saw so little service last fall because of injuries, will do against the beefy Huskers.
Tomorrow tells the tale. Are the Irish a fightin’ bunch, or just another paper-strong ball club? The answer lies in their determination and aggressiveness. The Cornhuskers shouldn’t have much to say about it.
9
MAN
About the Campus
Bob Uhl, law student from Decatur, Illinois, has long been connected with campus service organizations, but this week the Iren Major announced his intentions of gracefully withdrawing from all but what he deems essential extra
curricular activities. Bob has finally come to the conclusion that you can get
Robert Uhl
just so much done through student organizations, and that persistent action beyond this saturation point can only bring the house tumbling down on you r head, something like Samson tugging at the pillars.
Bob looks at things very coldly
and efficiently, and is a stickler for or
ganization. One of his pet stump-speeches these days concerns the apparent apathy of the American people towards the rising Russian menace. A major in the U. S. Army reserve, Bob spent a good deal of time this summer seeing the Army point of view, and he has a lot of inside Army statistics and conditions
which will be brought before Scholastic readers in a future issue of this
magazine.
For one thing, to promote the old college spirit and further the gains of the individual college student, Bob advocates giving the game of football back to the boys.
“There is no doubt,” charges Uhl, “but what college football has gone too far in playing up to the public. It should be given back to the students, as their game.”
He said he’d like to see Notre Dame return to its pre-war enrollment of about 3200 men, culling out the playboys, and getting down to better working conditions.
With his study of law taking more time each day, Uhl has decided to jettison some of that excess service baggage he’s been toting around. The Student Council, the NFCCS, the NSO, Vet’s Club, have all demanded their wages in time. He says he’s through trying to do it all.
Blue Circle Plans Cadets1 Reception;
Only 28 of 280 Will Gamble on SMC Dates
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
When the grey-clad Cadets of West Point come to town on November 8, they will be royally treated by the Notre Dame student body, in the person of the energetic Blue Circle men, even to the extent of lining up dateless Cadets with available St. Mary’s queens for the postgame Victoiy Dance. Just where and how they will find the queens is the Blue Circle’s problem. Right now liaison work between Notre Dame representatives and yonder girls’ institution is under way.
With an eye towards making the Cadets’ stay here pleasant, the Blue Circle is beavering away at the following plans: meet the Army contingent at the railroad siding with a blaring band, thumping out everything from “On Brave Old Army Team” to “Ain’t Ya Ever Cornin’ Back?”; feeding the steak-satiated corpsmen with the best Mr. Ford can serve on such a tingling occasion; and seeing that every man from the Hudson bastion has a St. Mary’s girl to take to the dance that evening. All that want them, that is.
For correspondence from West Point has indicated that of the 280-odd Cadets making the trip, only about 28 will want blind dates. The rest either are well-acquainted around the Chicago area, and will meet friends here, or have no desire to hoof it in the Drill Hall after the ball game is over.
Present indications are that the West Pointers will arrive in the morning by train, getting here in time for lunch, only to board the trains again that same night, about midnight. During this short stay here it will fall to the Blue Circle men to see that the Cadets are well treated and carry away with them a good and lasting impression of Notre Dame. Orientation prior to the coming of the Cadets will probably ask the cooperation of the student body in this regard, in that a good impression on the Army chiefs by the hospitable and gentlemanly conduct of N.D. students may mean the resumption of the ruptured
But as our reporter left his room he was still planning the promotion of the first home victory dance.
It seems once a guy’s enmeshed in getting things done, it’s an even bigger job to pull away. He might want to retire to a leafy glade and thumb through the great books, but chances are you’ll find Bob plugging away at getting something done around here from now until sheepskin time.

*
Irish-Army series at some early date. This would be in line with the University’s hand-extended policy.
But the problem of acquiring 28 St. Mary’s girls for the dateless Cadets already has the observers befuddled. Are there any girls over at the Rock who will date West Pointers? Data seems to indicate that there are many who wouldn’t pass up the chance. But what about N.D. defensive tactics? Already, having wind of the hospitable attitude assumed by the University, N.D. men are swamping the St. Mary’s telephones trying to arrange dates with their choices before the visitors sweep them away.
i
s'
E s s
I

1
What to serve the Cadets is the quans* | dary the chefs find themselves in. Better” £
they should find themselves elsewhere, but nevertheless that is their problem. Mystery balls will probably be noticeably absent from the menu. Ditto for corn soup. Indications are that it will be an appetizing plate.
As for the student body, they will be asked to treat the Cadets like the gentlemen they are. The Army-N.D. series may possibly be resumed depending on good fellowship among other factors.
Meanwhile Leahy’s lads will do their part. They’ll see that the Black Knights are well impressed.
Fallon Announces Openings for New Wranglers
Anouncement of openings for membership in Wranglers has been made by

e

l
Jack Fallon, the president of that student organization. The oldest studen**^
organization on the campus, Wranglers is a group of undergraduates that meets weekly to listen to one of the members deliver a paper on a philosophic, social, or political topic. At the conclusion of the paper each member has the opportunity to take the floor and present his views on the subject.
Last Wednesday evening Pat Coughlin, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, presented his paper titled The Plight of Atomic Man. Pat analyzed the implications of the Atomic Age and pointed out the crisis through which mankind is passing as a result of its failure to understand completely these implications. Pointing out that the problem of world security dwarfs all the other problems of the day, he suggested that the United States assume the re
£
sponsibility of preserving world security J until that day when the United Nations fl is given the necessary powers which wiS^S enable it to accept the responsibility.
10
I eVA Publishes Recent Regulations forVets
i For the benefit of World War II vet-’	erans enrolled in colleges and universi-
ties, Veterans Administration has re-
> viewed recent legislation and VA regulations affecting training under the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act (G-I Bill) f and the Vocational Rehabilitation Act (Public Law 16) for disabled veterans.
END OF WAR—Public Law 239 sets July 25, 1947, as the official end of World War II for the purpose of com-‘ puting eligibility for veterans’ benefits ' under the G-I Bill and Public Law 16.
As a result, education and training un-( der both laws must be completed by i most veterans by July 24, 1956.
, INCREASED MINIMUMS FOR DIS-^ABLED—Public Law 338 provides for automatic increases in the minimum allowances paid veterans in training under Public Law 16 whose disabilities are rated at 30 per cent or higher. The new minima are $115 a month without dependents and $135 a month with one dependent. Additional allowances are made for more than one dependent. The law requires no . action by disabled trainees entitled to the higher rates because the increases, effective September 1, 1947, will be paid automatically with the following check.
LEAVE POLICIES—New leave poli- • cies will permit unbroken subsistence payments to veterans going to college | under the G-I Bill and continuing their studies under an accelerated program. Veterans will be credited with 15 days |	leave to be applied at the end of the
L	last consecutive term of attendance.
^^Thev will remain on the subsistence I ” rolls for the entire period of enrollment p certified to VA by the institution, providing there are no more than 15 days between terms. Subsistence will be paid from date of enrollment to 15 days past the close of the last term they attend. All intervals of extended training between semesters and at the close of the school year will be considered as leave and will be charged against entitlement.
EARNING REPORTS—G-I Bill students studying full time need file only an estimate of earnings on registration. The amount of subsistence allowance will be computed from these estimates. The periodic reports of actual earnings filed by veteran-students in the past no longer will be required unless there is evidence that earnings exceed the estimates.
I STREAMLINED PROCEDURES — SThe new regulations have streamlined ^^registration and subsistence payment procedures by eliminating numerous g forms and reports required previously.
Registrar, Vet Advisors to Swap Locations;
Publicity, Alumni Offices moved to Carroll
Old Carroll Study Hall on the first floor, west wing of the Main Building has been completely renovated and the Notre Dame Alumni Foundation has already partially moved in. Sharing this wing with the alumni will be the Public Information Office.
There will also be a number of other changes in the location of offices on the ground floor of the Main Building. The Veterans Administration office and the Office of Testing and Guidance will be moved into the old Carroll Hall shower room and dining hall. Rev. Louis J. Thornton, c.s.c., and the Office of the Registrar will move into the space vacated by the Veterans Administration. The Veterans Advisory Office will move into
Institutions no longer are required to submit to VA affirmative reports of conduct, progress and grades. Future reports will chart only unsatisfactory progress or discontinuances of training. The new procedure on earning reports eliminates the filing of at least two forms each academic year by each student-veteran.
Veterans may secure full information of the new laws and regulations at the VA office in the Main Building.
VETS CLUB FINANCIAL STATEMENT		
	SPRING	1947
	Balance December 31, 1946	$113.31
2-28-47	Vets Club 		$ 23.25
	N.F.C.C.S. 		30.00
	Mimeo Paper 		.65
3-30-47	Postmaster, Notre Dame 		.75
	Supplementary Ream of Paper ..	34.00
	Bengal Bouts 		15.00
	Office Supply, file cabinet		7.00
	Mimeo Paper 		1.30
	Dues 		23.50
4-30-47	Vets Club 		5.00
	F. J. Keenan, telegram		2.11
	Office supplies and telegram		12.20
	Mimeo charges 		7.50
5-31-47	Hibberd Printing Company		36.25
	U. S. Post Office, Notre Dame ....	.75
	H. Keel, clerk’s fees, etc		13.77
	Bookstore Pennant for Hosp		2.03
6-30-47	Father Hesburgh 		14.00
	Balance June 30, 1947	5.75
the space formerly occupied by the Registrar’s Office.
During the next few months there will be an expansion of the Office of Student Accounts, while Father Kehoe’s Office of Discipline is slated to move into old Brownson Hall.
Some “face-lifting” work has- been taking place on Morrissey Hall during the past fortnight. The Morrissey Construction Company is tuck-pointing the rotten mortar, removing it, and placing new mortar in its place.
Over in the northeast comer of the campus, just north of the heat and power plant, a new germ-free laboratory for the Department of Bacteriology is being erected. Although the building is already completely roofed and finished externally, and work is progressing on the interior, it will be late winter before the building is suitable for occupancy. A machine shop and storeroom to go with the laboratory is rapidly nearing completion, and should be ready by winter.
Incidentally, the new pavement extending from the main gate to the stadium will be opened in time for the football season, and should be of considerable help in alleviating traffic congestion on game days.—Pete Donahue
11
Topli+sky, Romberg Blend with Radio Club To Produce Hooper-Wise 'Campus Carnival'
By SAM SMITH
Veteran Notre Dame students looked at each other in amazement last Tuesday evening when the Radio Club - premiered its musical show, “Campus Carnival,” on station WHOT. From the opening theme to the original closing, skeptical listeners were treated to a pleasant half hour of true entertainment, something that has long been missing on past University productions. It seems that-the cycle of successful, entertaining student shows started by last year’s stage musical, “Meet the Missus,” is getting into high gear with the opening of the radio series.
Last Tuesday’s program featured the Glee Club singing “Let Us Gather at the Goal-line,” the humorous stein song that survived the not-too-successful musical, “Toplitsky of Notre Dame.” While this selection will never rival Yale’s “Whiff-enpoof Song,” it proved a good introduction to a beautiful melody from Sigmund Romberg’s “Student Prince,” with Nolan Sheehan doing the solo.
One of the prettiest rabbits that the Radio Club pulled out of its 55 assorted hats was “Bee” Klempey, wife of Notre Dame’s John Klempey, singing “Embraceable You.” Her participation in the “Campus Carnival” made it a well-rounded program that should become very popular with listeners in the South Bend-Mishawaka district. Word from Don Kiene, hard working president of
CAST OF 'CAMPUS CARNIVAL' IN ACTION One of the prettiest rabbits out of a talent-filled hat.
the Radio Club, says that, if Bee can talk John into staying at home with their baby girl, she’ll be back on this coming week’s broadcast.
It is understood that the “Campus Carnival” it to be a truly campus-wide show in that each week an original short drama, comedy or fantasy written by a student will be presented. Would-be authors in the College of Arts and Letters are requested to seek information from Mr. Leonard F. Sommers, speech instructor, while others should contact Father A. M. McDowell, C.S.C., club moderator, Chuck Perrin, or Don Kiene.
At the Wednesday night meeting of the Club in its Washington Hall studios the desire to keep two groups producing the “Carnival” in rotation was expressed, thus affording more opportunity for student participation. For example, next week’s entertainment will feature the widely-known “What Four Quartet” while the Cavaliers will widen the variety of music by showing how a small group of good musicians can really get exciting rhythm out of a song.
It has been a long time since Beethoven and an equally long time since the Notre Dame music world has been blessed with anything as good as what the “Carnival” will be giving out in the coming weeks. Led by Music major Bill Cullen, a really enjoyable, listenable, 16-piece orchestra made its debut as the
regular supporting music for the weekl show. A clever arrangement of strings enables this new group to bring that “David Rose touch” to its orchestrations. Their treatment of “I Surrender Dear” had the whole WHOT staff crowding the engineer’s booth. One of the reasons for the success of the “Campus Carnival” is the opening and closing arrangements done by Mr. Welch of the Music Department. This well-handled assist by Mr. Welch is responsible for giving a distinctive theme to the program, and is only one example of the widely-growing support that the re-born Radio Club is gaining in its bid for a network spot.
Naturally enough though, there still remains a lot of work to be done to present an entertaining weekly show that will move in competition with the popular established evening shows. But, iij. enthusiasm and activity are any signs, the day when Notre Dame has a nationally recognized Radio Workshop Group is not far off.
76 Foreign Students Turn N. D. into U.N.
Foreign students are seen galore on the campus this year, presenting the most varied conglomeration of nationalities to be seen on the campus for
many a year. Twenty-one foreign coun- | tries and Hawaii are represented in No- | tre Dame’s own United Nations by 76 | students and eight instructors. Seventeen | of the students and at least one of the 1 instructors are working for a higher ’ J degree, while the remaining 58 are either 1 working for a bachelor’s degree or mere- J ly taking special courses.	'
Canada heads the list of foreign H countries with one instructor and nine-teen students, most of whom are study- 9] ing under the Canadian Government a Veterans’ Provision. Six provinces of the a Dominion are represented by these a twenty: Ontario with six; Quebec with ® five; Alberta with three; and Manitoba, 0 British Columbia, and Prince Edward jl Isle with two each.	il
China is next on the list with eleven 3 students and one instructor, while Ecua- 11 dor (which means “equator” in Spanish) is third with ten students. Mexico, Peru, | and India share fourth honors with six | students each. The remaining countries | are represented as follows: Cuba, three E students; France and Hungary, one stu-dent and two instructors each; Nicara- ||i gua, Chile, the Philippines, and Hawaii, U| two students each; Panama, San Sal- gl vador. Honduras, Newfoundland, New. fa * 7
Zealand, Brazil and Java, one studeiA. Im each; and Eire and Colombia with one ga instructor each.
12
e THIS WEEK WITH THE STUDENT COUNCIL
At its regular meeting this week the Student Council disposed of the following business:
I	1. Discussed formation of a National Students Association committee from the
student body to represent Notre Dame at the various conferences of the national organization.
2.	Approved Bob Uhl’s action in engaging Bobby Wear of Elkhart to furnish the words and music at the Nebraska game Victory Dance, and moved that Jimmy Day be hired again to play at the shindig following the Anny game.
3.	Permitted the Met Club to present an award after each home game to a “Player of the Week,” duly elected by the students, at Washington Hall. Festivities will include martial airs by the Notre Dame Band, and speeches by the assistant coaches. Poster-toting Met Club men will add to the gala atmosphere.
,	4. Appointed a permanent Victory Dance Committee of six men.
>	5. Chose 6:30 p. m., October 27, as the date and Washington Hall as the place
for the open-to-the-masses Council meeting of the semester.
6. Decided to send the Band to Chicago for the Northwestern game IF enough . money is made on the Victory Dances.
Commission, and Nazareth College will have the regional chairmanship.
Plans for the regional congress could not be formulated for lack of time, so the council will meet again on December 14 to take up the matter.—Tom Murray.
Card. MoHa Praises Educational Facilities
The extensive educational facilities of the University of Notre Dame were studied by Carlos Carmelo Cardinal de Vasconcelos Motta, Archbishop of Sao Paulo, Brazil, during a five-day visit to Notre Dame which was concluded last Sunday when he departed for Kansas City, Missouri.
$ NFCCS Region Votes For Merger with "Chi"
After a heated debate the Fort Wayne Regional Council of the NFCCS voted last Sunday to seek a merger with the Chicago region of that organization. This action was taken at the Regional Council meeting held at St. Francis College in Fort Wayne.
In order for the merger to be carried out, however, the Chicago Region will have to consent to the plan, as will the NFCCS national offiice. In accordance with this, the Chicago Region will be asked to sit in on the next congress of the Fort Wayne Region, and discuss the matter.
No place being reserved for the discussion on the agenda, Tom McCaffrey of Notre Dame sought a suspension of the rules for this topic. After the sus
LAUGHING ON THE OUTSIDE . . . CRYING ON THE INSIDE Dateless but curious these gentlemen at left viewed the first Victory Dance from outside of a Drill Hall window. What they saw is pictured at the right
pension was granted, the controversial discussion began, in which Notre Dame led St. Mary’s of Notre Dame and St. Mary-of-the-Woods College in the fight for the merger of the two regions, which would, by the increased number of colleges, broaden the scope for activities. With the other four colleges of the region opposing the proposal, the discussion continued until lunch time, two and a half hours after the start of the debate. Following informal discussions on the matter during the lunch hour, the opposition was brought into agreement with the proposal.
With the exception of the Commission on the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, combining all the religious commissions was the next most important business discussed by the council. This was done because of the lack of activity on the part of those commissions. The combination will be called the Apostolic
CARDINAL MOTTA Happy Wonderment.
Cardinal Motta arrived at Notre Dame on October 7, from Washington, D. C. During part of his stay here Notre Dame’s academic setup was explained to him by another distinguished visitor, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Bishop of Buffalo and former president of Notre Dame. The Cardinal came to the United States at Bishop O’Hara’s invitation to participate in the Buffalo Eucharistic Congress last month.
The Brazilian prelate, who is making his first visit to the United States, expressed “happy wonderment at the great number of American clergy and their excellent training for both the priestly and social aspects of their ministry.” While in this country, he said he has visited several large seminaries and was impressed by their physical plants and courses of study, which he believes well-adapted foi* preparation for a useful ministry. The Cardinal -said he plans to send more Brazilian seminarians to the United States to study.
13
Cornhuskers Hope To Revive Past Glories As They Play Irish after 22 Year Lapse
By BOB LEANDER
Scholas
The State of Nebraska, until last Saturday almost as embarrassed about its football team (0 wins, 2 defeats) as its short corn crop, sends 36 Huskers of assorted talent into South Bend tomorrow in another effort to harvest a Hoosier crop. Previously this season the Nebraskans fell 17-0 downstate before a mediocre Indiana eleven in addition to absorbing a 28-13 licking from a powerful Minnesota squad. Not until last week did the ’ Cornhusker rise to conquer an opponent, and then it was hapless Iowa State which also had failed to achieve a victory this season. The score of this epic struggle was a neat 14-7.
If nothing else the Nebraskans bring a
lacking in subtlety, were no less effective. In 1925 athletic relations between the two schools were terminated. So tomorrow, 22 years later, the Nebraskans will attempt to resume whistling where they left off—on a 19-0 victory note.
History, both current and past, does not entirely run and hide when it comes to the local representatives either. Currently, the ’47 Irish team has thus far been accused of everything but the hoof and mouth disease. In making their initial appearance before a home crowd there is reason to believe that for no particular reason except to send their friends and well-wishers home happy, the boys might put on their championship mien and thus in the same stroke silence the yowling wolves who sit in the stands wtih fangs bared.
PROBABLE S
NOTRE DAME
No.	Name	W I.
38	Jim Marlin ............  (205)
81	Capt. George	Connor ......(220)
72	Bill Fischer ............(230)
60	George Strohmeyer _______(195)
58 Marty Wendell _____________(198)
76 Ziggy Czarobski ...........(213)
82 Leon Hart .................(216)
32 John Lujack ...............(189L
37 Terry Brennan _____________(17>f-
14 Emil Sitko ................(175)
67 John Panelli ______________(190)
fine historical record with them, but how well musty glories of yesteryear can block and score for them tomorrow is at best a doubtful issue. The fact remains, however, that the boys from the Corn Belt have proven a cantankerous and even contemptuous foe in the past. Not only have they maintained an even break in the series—winning five, losing five, and tieing one—but they have scored four of these triumphs over otherwise unbeaten Irish squads. In 1915, ’17, ’22, and ’23 they were the only blots on the Notre Dame schedule.
Ordinarily employing straight football to win, lose or draw, in 1923 the Nebraskans slowed the galloping Four* Horsemen to a walk. Their methods if
A look at the faded pages of past performances offers encouragement, too. Notre Dame hasn’t dropped a home opener since Georgia Tech administered a 13-6 drubbing to the ’42 team which included on its roster such grand old men of football as Russ Ashbaugh, Corny Clatt, Ziggy Czarobski, Bob Livingstone, Bucky O’Connor, Wally Zeimba and Bill Earley. With this previous lesson in mind, there should be little chance for error tomorrow. Moreover, it was as long ago as 1942 that Notre Dame last lost to a pure-bred college eleven, Michigan swinging with everything but the bench to wallop the lads 32-20. This, also, was Notre Dame’s last defeat at home. So bring on those Cornhuskers, 211 pound line and all.
ROSTER
NOTRE DAME
No. Name Pos. No. Name f
1 Earley ---------B 44 Leonard .........
3 Brown ----------B 45 Michaels ........
8 Tripucka -------B 46 Walsh ...........
12 Ashbaugh ------B 52 Grothaus ________
15 O'Connor ------G 54 Sullivan ........
19 McGee _________H	55 Swistowicz .....
20 Smith _________H 57 Lally ...........
21 Statuto _______C 61 Russell .........
22 Gay ------------B	62	Simmons .....!
24 Coutre --------B	63	Budynkiewicz	...
26 McGehee _______T	64	Urban _______
27 Espenan -------E	69	Clatt .......
30 Gompers _______H	73	Gaul ...... !
33 Kosikowski ....E	74	Signaino
39 Oracko ________G	80	Cifellf .....
40 Livingstone ---H	83	Wightkin ... 2/
42 Waybright E
EUREKA. SUCCESS!
Jim Martin gathers in a Lujack heave as Purdue's Angelo Camaghi prepares to gather him in.
SHUCKS, I MISSED IT! Coy McGee chaperoned by Carnaghi and Ray Stoelting of Purdue, makes a futile lunge for a pass.
14
ING LINEUPS
NEBRASKA
No. Name ■ 50 Jack Posek ....
77
Charles Toogood
1 24 John Sedlacek ! 68 Tom Novak ..
37
Gene Wilkins
| 39 Gordon Hall ______ 55 Carl Samuelson
;'r Delbert Wiegand I	tz^Richard Hutton
I 15 Cletus Fischer .. 25 Dale Adams _________
IKt. -(218) -(234) -(210) -(205) -(195) ..(209) ..(232) .(168) -(168) -(164) -(187)
’LAYERS
NEBRASKA

• o. Name
) Ackerman 1 Becker ___ ?. Bergquist . L Bostwick . P. Cochrane .
Caliopy ...
Costello ... Damkroger DiBiase ... p Doyle ____
Duda _______ ’> Fischer ... J ’ Gade ___ » ' Hoy ____ acupke ... .'enz ...
Pos.
...B ...G .....B
...B
...E
...B .....C
...E
No. Name Pos.
73
58
42
23
70
16
Mandula Means .. Moomey Mueller Myers .. Nyden ..
.E G .B .C. G G G
20 Partington
51 Reidy ....
65 Sailors ....
18 Salestrom
.G .B ,.B ..B .E ..B .B .E .B
29 Sim ___________T
38 Thompson, E. ..T
13
57
46
Thompson, R. ..B
Thomson
Young ..
B
the four camera
to decide which
of
11*
BLAAH TO YOU Terry Brennan sticks his tongue out at Bill Sprang as he goes whizzing by.
Install First Midwest Television To Relay Three Notre Dame Encounters To Chicago
By JOHN KRUGER
History is being made atop Notre angles to use at the different stages of
Dame’s stadium. There, engineers are completing the installation of the first television radio relay link in the Midwest. For the first time in this section of the country a stadium has a special television booth. Approximately 100,000 people will watch the Iowa, Army, and Tulane games via television this year through station WBKB Chicago.
Negotiations for televising Notre Dame home games began about a year and a half ago. In March of this year the first actual steps were taken with the construction of two 144-foot relay
towers, one near New Carlisle and at Michigan City.
Last month work began at the dium. A new wing was added to
one
sta-the
radio booths above the press box. Four television cameras will be located in one new booth along with a radio relay transmitter. These cameras are equipped with turret lenses that can focus at four different angles: close-up, intermediate, wide angle, and optional. Each camera is aimed with a different lens.
There are two different sets of cables running from these cameras, the camera cables and the coaxial cables. The camera cables lead to a WBKB control track parked just outside the stadium. The coaxial cables are connected to the parabola reflector on top of the booth.
An engineer and the program director are stationed inside the truck. They work with the picture generating equipment. It is up to the program director
the game.. He pushes a button and that particular picture is instantaneously generated, from the camera through the coaxial cable to the parabola.
An antenna on the parabola reflects the radio waves into this reflector (the parabola) which is six feet in diameter. The parabola is focused on the New Carlisle tower 12 miles away, which consists of ultra-high frequency receiving and transmitting equipment. The New Carlisle tower picks up the six degree beam from the stadium parabola, am-plifys it, and sends it on to the Michigan City tower. From there it is beamed 40 miles to the Lincoln Tower in Chicago from whence another parabola beams it to WBKB at 190 North State Street. There it is put on the air for general reception by about 8,000 private and publicly-owned television receivers
in Chicago and vicinity.
j
These sets are priced from §375 to §2000 with screens ranging from 10 by 8 inches to 24 by 18 inches. Mr. Listener (he’s not average yet) dials WBKB, turns up his television set and he’s at the game. Just as you can control the volume of your radio, so the brightness, width, and focus of the picture can be regulated.
With the innovation of television the announcer’s job has been greatly simplified. The days of rapid-fire delivery are over. He sits in the booth next to the cameras with his student spotters and a television receiving set in front of him.
(Continued on Page 19)



OH NO YOU DON'T Emil Sitko shifts into high gear to avoid Bill Caufield, Purdue halfback.
15
Cheney'& Chattel
By JOE CHENEY
According to Tom Siler, Chicago Sun sports writer, Coach Frank Leahy said, “I just wish we had an opportunity to beat Michigan.” Coach Leahy was speaking at the Quarterback’s Luncheon in Chicago last Monday noon.
Well, let’s check the schedule. ATter Nebraska tomorrow, the Irish meet Iowa, Navy, Army, Northwestern, Tulane, Open Date, and Southern Cal. Don’t know what kind of a team Open Date has but the rest of the teams will be on hand for their contests with the Irish.
As far as Michigan-Notre Dame is concerned, both Leahy and Crisler are safe in making such statements this year. Michigan wouldn’t play Notre Dame this year, next year, or any year.
Rumor has it though that Michigan is riled up over Leahy’s statement and may show up some Wednesday afternoon to scrimmage the varsity on Cartier Field. Nobody will be allowed in to see this game except the players. Freshman managers will line up outside in a human chain to prevent even Jim Costin from getting inside the green-painted fence.
w-—
The chemistry profs are contemplating selling standing space to students who wish to watch the contest from the roof of the chemistry building. Joe Boland will be perched on top of the nearest tree to give us a play-by-play description of the game. If the game becomes too entangled, the changing leaves will aid Joe in giving us plenty of “color.”
Joe Dillon has volunteered to help Boland with the commercials by jingling his loose change and rippling the pages of his bank book for Boland’s sponsor.
Fritz and Frank will referee the game (from the bench) while Charlie Callahan, football publicity man, blows the whistle on the field. Outside football writers and columnists are busy trying to find step-ladders high enough to witness the game along the 50-yard line on the concrete pavement outside the fence. Life photographers are working on a local autogyro owner in an effort to take some action shots. Business manager Herb Jones is going mad trying to
change Crisler’s and Leahy’s minds to open the game up for paying spectators.
We can dream, can’t we?
Attention Mr. Stern
In broadcasting the Army-Illinois football game last week in New York, nimble-tongued Bill Stern announced that this game brought together Rose Bowl Champion Illinois and National Champion of 1946 Army. But, Mr. Stern, Notre Dame received that honor last year in the Associated Press’ final balloting. Army finished second, remember?
Rambling Thought
Don’t knock the Irish for those low winning margins. Have we forgotten already about Army pouring it on during those two lean war years, ’44 and ’45? As far as the boys reading their press clippings is concerned, that’s stale stuff. Lu jack, who received more publicity than any athlete ever, never looked better than he does this year and he’s really “Johnny on the spot.” Maybe we’re the ones who are guilty of reading “our” press clippings, huh?
Relax, Mr. Leahy
Unless Head Coach Leahy finds some relaxation outside of Cartier Field during football season, he’s going to find himself physically unfit some Saturday afternoon. Perfection in football is to be admired but not if something far more important is lost in attaining that goal. The material is there, the coaching staff is competent, the team’s got the old know-how, and the whole student body has the spirit. So relax, Mr. Leahy, we want to see you around here every Saturday for many years to come.
Manager on the Job
Football publicity boss Charlie Callahan walked through the gate to practice Tuesday afternoon but was tackled inside the gate by one of the new freshman managers. “Have you got a pass?” Charlie was asked.
“Hi ya,” returned Charlie walking nonchalantly by.
“Wait a minute, fella. You’ve got to have a pass to get in.” The manager had a good grip on Charlie’s yellow tie.
“But I’m Callahan,” warned Charlie.
“My name’s Kelly,” replied the manager, “but this is one job where nationality doesn’t mean a darn thing.”
Callahan had to call one of the assistant coaches before he could get by the well-coached manager.
Prediction
Notre Dame tomorrow by 25 points.
Kentucky Sophomore^ Takes Tennis Title
Frank Nagel, a sophomore from Paducah, Kentucky, defeated Bob Hensler, a freshman from Philadelphia, for the University intramural tennis title last Sunday on the university courts.
It took Nagel four sets to drop Hensler in their championship match, 6-8, 6-2, 6-4, 9-7. To earn his way into the finals, Nagel played in the longest match in the tournament when he defeated Dick Unverzagt 7-5, 5-7, 6-8, 9-7, 15-13. Hensler downed Jack Franz 11-9, 6-4, 6-4 to reach the finals.
FRANK NAGEL
Four sets—then a title
Most of the seeded players were ups^ early in the play. Hensler was the lone survivor of the favored class to reach the finals. He was placed sixth among the favorites at the start of the tournament.
Tennis coach Walter Langford said j that the tournament was the most sue- I cessful and the swiftest played in his- 1 tory. All but the semi-finals and the g final matches were played on the open- | ing day.	I
RALLY TONIGHT!
The Pep Rally tonight will start at 7:15 p. m. in Badin Bog. Alter a short demonstration there, the band will march ahead of the student body to the Fieldhouse. Coach Leahy and Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C.. will be the principal speakers. Let's have a real demonstration of the spirit of Notre Dame!
/ 1
16
SPLINTERS
from the Pressbox
By JIM BUTZ
What’s all the commotion about over
Notre Dame’s 22-7 victory over Purdue? From the talk heard around the campus,
you’d think that the team was in the
throes of a losing streak.
Against Purdue and Pittsburgh the Notre Dame running attack was stifled very effectively, but L u j a c k’s passes clicked with surprising precision. In order to halt the Irish ground game, both Pitt and the Boilei’-makers sacrificed
something in their aerial defenses.
Johnny Lu jack, who has long been recognized for his excellent passing, has also assumed the role of chief runner
and punter for Notre Dame, the combined two-game statistics show. The Connellsville Comet has picked up 60 yards in five trips with the ball for an even 12-yard average. Both the total yardage and the average gain are tops among Irish ball carriers.
In the passing department Lu jack has fired 41, completed 25 for 354 yards and four touchdowns. His average in this department is .610. While his punting is not nearly as spectacular as his other feats, John has a respectable 38.5 yard average, compiled on four boots against Pitt. He also leads in this field.
Jim Martin and Terry Brennan lead the pass receivers with five catches apiece. Martin’s receptions have been - good for 96 yards and one touchdown while Brennan has added 46 yards and one score to the Notre Dame totals. Coutre, Hart and Wightkin have each caught three passes to rank high in that category.
Lancaster Smith’s 34 yards in three tries places him behind Lu jack in ground gaining. Coy McGee has carried nine times for 46 yards and returned two punts for 77 yards, both against Purdue.
Student Picks Reflect Return to Optimism
The Cornhuskers should return to the fields a wiser’ but sadder team — at least the local football forecasters one meets around and about the campus think so.
The early season wave of optimism that swept over the campus prior to the Pitt game is still apparent despite the close Purdue score.
Jim Fisher, Woodridge, N. J., Zahm Hall—ND 54, Neb 6.
“The lads have stopped reading the papers.”
N. Ethirajalu, Bangalore, India, Morrissey Hall—ND 25, Neb 7.
“I am told this will be a very strong team. Everybody says Notre Dame is good at football.”
Tom Francis, Toledo, Ohio, Alumni Hall—ND 49, Neb 6.
“They’re powerful.”
Joe Murray, Staten Island, N. Y., Howard Hall—ND 27, Neb 0.
“Sheer power, not deceptive plays should run up the score.”
Bernie Ell, Wilkes Barre, Pa., Alumni Hall—ND 60, Neb 0.
“Since Frank is a good friend of Bernie Masterson he won’t run up the score. He wouldn’t run up the score against anyone — anyone but Michigan, that is.”
Bernard Baute Captures Freshman Swimming Meet
Bernard Baute won individual scoring honors in the Freshman swimming meet held October 8 at the Rockne Memorial Building. The second place award went to John Worthington, while Jim Hartman and Bud Madden placed third and fourth respectively.
Baute placed first in the 75-yard medley event and second in both the 50-yard backstroke and 50-yard free style events.
The meet was under the direction of Mr. Gil Burdick of the Phy. Ed. Department.
Summaries:
50-yd. free style: Joe St. Louis, first; Bernard Baute, second; Jack Barnett, third. Time, :31.9.
50-yd. breast stroke: Jim Hartman, first; Tom Reilly, second; Jim Mahoney, third. Time, :41.6. ’
200-yd. free style: Bud Madden, first; Jack Barnett, second; Ed Burke, third. Time, 2:51.9.
50-yd. backstroke: John Worthington, first; Bernard Baute, second; Jim Magner, third. Time, :34.4.
100-yd. free style: Jack Duffing, first; Bud Madden, second; Jack Barnett, third. Time, 1:05.
75-yd. medley: Bernard Baute, first; Jim Hartman, second; Tom Digan, third. Time, 1:03.2.
Low board diving: John Worthington, first; Robillio, second; Jim Hartman, third.—Tom Adams.
Soccer Squad Battles Purdue To 0-0 Tie
In a game marked by brilliant defensive play, the Purdue and the Notre Dame soccer teams battled to a scoreless tie last Sunday afternoon at West Lafayette.
The game started at 2:30 p. m. and Notre Dame immediately took the kickoff and threatened the Purdue goal failing by inches on a beautiful effort by Rey de Castro, right inside of the team. Purdue immediately threatened on their own count but were unable to get past the fullbacks, F. Pinto and R. Ibanez, who played brilliantly all afternoon. The goal keeper, L. Pallais, played a perfect game by not missing a play during the entire game. The game remained the same see-saw battle through the first and second halves with some spectacular plays by both teams. In the final minutes Notre Dame threatened and came close to scoring a goal on a beautiful kick by Villavicencio but the game ended in a tie.
Three Notre Dame players, Rey de Castro, Duarte, and Ibanez, were injured during the game and Rey de Castro and Ibanez were forced to leave the field. The entire team was not able to make the trip because of the many injuries during the week’s practice.
TELEVISION ANTENNA Something New Has Been Added
17
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
With Pete Rumajm,
no incentive for massacring either o£ the two. In fact the whole schedul*' -
looks to a future of almost nothing. If they beat Nebraska, Iowa, Navy, Northwestern, Tulane — so what! Other-teams have done the same thing. But with Army and Southern California, there is an incentive.
iiiiitietiiiimi'MiaaBiMBBdaaitnMtuaaMiiiaaaMitiiattMiaaaHauiaiatmtuaiikmmaiiiMimiiiaimiumtna'aitiiiaMtitntaaaaiiiiiiimiiiaiiiitiuittiiHiutia
There seems to be a growing attitude on the campus to the effect that our football team just isn’t trying. The experts of the over-the-coffee-cup-move-ment say that the team is overconfident and that there .is dissension in the ranks. The OCCM plans to remedy this situation by spreading the word that no one should attend the pep rally tonight. In this way they plan to show the team that an eye for an eye still works — the team let the students down, so why. should the students back the team any longer?
To the small, selfish mind the above
action is an ideal solution. But, we are
not supposed to be small and selfish. Notre Dame has always been known for the strength of her unity. That unity is the undefinable spirit. If the plan proposed for tonight is successful in any part, the spirit that has been growing for a century will be dead.
Actually, there is no sound basis for this prevalent opinion. There are numerous student bodies in the country who would like a team that has scored nine touchdowns and one field goal against their opponents’ two touchdowns in two games. It would have been pleasing to have nine touchdowns per game, but let us be practical and look beyond the ends of our noses. Pittsburgh and Purdue had good football teams. Both squads were hitting on all cylinders when they met the Irish.,
The Panthers had already played one game before they met Notre Dame. They had polished some of the rough edges that always show up at the beginning of the season. They hustled as long as they had the physical stamina to do so. The Pitt team was made up of men who had played last season and knew their way around. It is true that Michigan scored 69 points against Pittsburgh last week, while we only scored 40. But
18
a closer look at the Michigan-Pitt game reveals some interesting points. The Panthers had to play Illinois, Notre Dame and Michigan on successive Saturdays. A team would have to field eleven “Ozark Ikes” in order to stay in stride during three such weeks as that. Also, Michigan was still passing in the fourth quarter when they had a very comfortable margin. On the previous Saturday with 10 minutes to play and the score Notre Dame 34 Pitt 6, the Irish third team was sent in and did not pass once, even though the opportunity presented itself.
Last Saturday, Purdue fielded a team which had individuals who stood out and displayed a driving spirit which was hard to suppress. In their back-field they had Bob DeMoss, one of the better passers in the Western Conference, and Harry Szulborski, who leads the Big Nine in ground gaining. Their ends, Maloney, Grimenstein, and Heck, played as good a game as they will ever play. These three men again proved that good flankers can cause trouble for the T formation. Last season our own ends proved that point by holding Army’s running attack to a minimum.
The Boilermakers did not wear out according to the form sheet. They kept fighting to the last minute of the game. The rushing statistics gave Purdue a decided edge ovei- Notre Dame; and there was nothing unnatural about this. The week before against Ohio State, they had averaged six yards per try on running plays. Statistics like that speak highly for the blocking of the Boilermaker line.
So far we have shown here why Pittsburgh and Purdue had strong teams; now a word about the Irish weakness.
The hustle which makes a football team great has been lacking. Yet without it, they have still been able to score nine times. Spasmodically, they have shown some of the greatness that was theirs last year. But, the over-all play has been sluggish. A little thought on the subject can bring an answer. Pittsburgh and Purdue had everything to gain and nothing to lose in their games with Notre Dame. The opposite was true for the Irish. Whether they beat Pitt or Purdue by one point or 100 points, they gained nothing. There was
Every week from now on the situation will be the same. The opponents will be on their toes looking for a chance to upset Notre Dame, while Notre Dame can upset no one. It, is going to be a tough, rocky course in which only two of the steps mean anything.
Cross-Country Squad Aims for Second Win^
Notre Dame’s cross-country team will make the first true test of its strength tomorrow morning at 10:30 when it encounters a powerful Wisconsin team on the home course.
The Badgers have crushed Purdue in their runs to date, and have one of the strongest harrier squads in the mid-west. They were defeated by the Irish last year on the Madison run. Don Gehrman, their outstanding distance runner, holds several course records, and has not been defeated by an Irish runner to date.
N. D. triumphed over Purdue last Saturday 17 to 37 for the first victory of the season. Jim Murphy, Cornie Styers, and Jim Kittell finished in a tie to capture the points for the first three places. Gillman took fourth for the Boilermakers, and Bill Leonard and Jimsiw Kelly came in fifth and sixth respectively for the other Irish tallies. The Notre Dame runners were up against the famed combination of Blanchard and Davis, but managed to hold Blanchard to seventh, and forced Davis out completely. The winners time at Lafayette was 13: 32.5 for the two and two-thirds mile course.
Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy will run between five to seven men in addition to his regular team tomorrow and any of the second starters who displace a regular will be shifted into a starting berth against Iowa and Michigan State the following Saturday.
ID CARDS!!
The student must show ID card AND game ticket for admission to stadium.
Notre Dame Athletic Association
"INTRODUCING...
Games Ahead Lack Consistent Outlook
By TOM McNALLY
When Pep Panelli received a Hering medal for his “aggressive running” last spring, a new low was reached in understatement. Turn the proverbial bull loose in the proverbial china shop and his actions would hardly be classed as merely “aggressive.” Ditto when John Rocco is turned loose and wheels his 200 pounds towards an enemy line, knees driving and head down.
If any doubt is left about the matter, it can easily be cleared up by casual reference to the Purdue game of last year. In the first quarter he smashed 28 yards in two straight plays to set up -^touchdown number one; in the third quarter he took a handoff from Lu jack and bulled 18 yards for a score; and, a little later, Pep cracked the line for 42 to Purdue’s one-yard line, assuring touchdown number five.
Nor did he merely put in an appearance at the rest of the games but rather carried the ball more than any other player except Terry Brennan and scored more touchdowns than everyone except Brennan and Jim Mello. In addition he posted a 4.6 average per carry which is high-stepping in any league.
But even that 4.6 was a drop from the 6.3 per try racked up in 1945 when he was freshman understudy to rugged Frank Ruggerio at fullback. That year all went well with the team and with Pep until the Navy game. At that point the squad fought that much disputed 6-6 I standoff and Panelli suffered a shoulder \ separation while blocking out the Navy’s ^L':fine end, Dick Duden. That put him on the inactive list for the Army game where he was so sorely needed, but he bounced back up in time for an excellent game against Tulane the following week, although he was supposed to be out for the season. That’s typical of Pep’s fight and spirit.
Football first discovered John in his prep days at Morristown High School in New Jersey. While there he accomplished the following feats: won three letters in football, captained the team twice, set a scoring record, and also earned letters in basketball and baseball. But the climax came in his senior year when he became the first man in Morristown’s history to make first string All-State! After that followed a year at Cheshire academy in Connecticut where he captained the football team and '( was co-captain of the baseball team. ' (His batting average: a cool .550).
Then> 'n July 1^45, Pep arrived on -Campus complete with golf clubs (he shoots in the high 70’s) and clothes
jokn Panelli
enough to fill three lockers to near-capacity. To top it off there was a 51-volume set of the Harvard Classics but these he hasn’t had much time to read. He’s a little too busy these days making easier going for fleet halfbacks or giving some pretty rugged linemen a blurred recollection of crashing body and ever-driving legs.
JOHN PANELLI
Harvard Classics and Driving Legs
TELEVISION INSTALLED
(Continued from Page 15)
It is his duty to keep the invisible audience informed as to what’s happening on the screen. When numbei- “13” is involved in some action the sportscastei-performs the duty of a human program by identifying the player. The spectators at home see the action as soon as the announcer- does. They’re right on top of the play all the time.
For instance, on a wide angle shot you see a back breaking into the secondary; then, as the safety man moves in for the tackle, you’ll see a close-up of the impact.
Saturday afternoon will be a field day for the arm-chair strategists. Loyal Notre Dame fans will be able to see their favorite team in action even if they didn’t send in for their tickets on time. And they can be sure of perfect reception.
Testing has been going on in the transmission of successful pictures from the stadium for the last two weeks. The results have surpassed all expectations. Engineers W. P. Kusack and J. F. Wilcox are making sure there will be no breakdowns at crucial spots in the game.
A Notre Dame team faced with a seven-game schedule, listing but two undefeated elevens ordinarily would be a happy tean.
Nebraska, which plays here tomorrow lost to Indiana and Minnesota, but bounced back last Saturday to whip Iowa State 14-7. The Cornhuskers will field one of the heaviest teams Notre Dame must face this fall.
Iowa’s aerial attack, DeMarco to Em-len Tunnell, squashed a favored Indiana squad 27-14, to snap a two-game losing streak and create a positive threat to Irish hopes for an undefeated season. The Hawkeyes managed to score twice against Illinois, something a tough Cadet team could not do last Saturday.
The Middies have had a dismal season to date but it is sheer folly to sell short a Tom Hamilton-coached team. Navy’s best effort to date has been the tie game with Duke last Saturday, after losing two straight to California and Columbia.
Army’s record speaks for itself. Two wins and a tie. The Cadets’ goal line has yet to be crossed, while they have busied themselves racking up 60 points in two games. Sport writers have accused them of playing a conservative, close-to-the-vest kind of football. Must have something they are saving for someone.
Northwestern’s Wildcats, riding high after their victory over favored UCLA, fumbled their way to defeat at the hands of Minnesota. The cats clawed and passed a total of 329 yards and 19 first downs, but committed a series of costly fumbles to practically give the victory to Minnesota.
Tulane, off to a fast start with a surprise victory over Alabama, has faded before two of the South’s best teams. Both Georgia Tech and Rice have held the Green Wave scoreless while punching over 20 and 33 points respectively.
The Trojans from Southern Cal, though tied by Rice, have come up with two impressive victories over Washington State and Ohio State. Playing in their own back yard on December 6, should help the Trojans considerably in what is always a bitterly fought game.
A quick look at the whole picture shows that Notre Dame’s opponents have played 20 games, won eight, lost ten and tied two. Taking a longer look we see that the seven teams the Irish must face have scored 288 points to the opposition’s 310, only 22 points less. Though it is not a particularly tough schedule, teams possessing that much scoring punch could knock off a Notre Dame team that appears to .he played out by the time Saturday’s games roll around.
—Jack Slattery
19
Lt. Colonel Palmer Seeks Men for USAF
Wings of the United States Air Forces are spreading themselves rapidly over the Notre Dame campus, as the new U.S.A.F. Reserve Officer’s Training Corps program gets under way. Even the old Air Forces chatter of days gone by is again being voiced, it was disclosed by Lt. Colonel L. W. Palmer, unit commander here.
In outlining the program briefly, Col. Palmer stated it is designed to procure high caliber men for the U.S.A.F. Reserve. The organization and training itself is divided into two groups according to class standing, junior and senior students, as well as veterans with more than a year’s active service, being eligible for the advanced course. Freshmen and sophomores without such service experience are enrolled in the basic course.
Concerning the obligations and compensation arising from enlistment in this program, it is briefly this: Advanced students sign a contract, similar to the old ROTC contracts, whereby they agree to accept a reserve commission upon graduation, attend a six-week summer camp period between their junior and senior years, and accept a pay allowance of seventy-nine cents per day while in training. There is no contract or obligation entailed in the basic course.
Many interesting and valuable courses are afforded students in both the advanced and basic programs. These include military law, leadership, geographical foundation, occupied territories, air intelligence, aeronautics, maps and aerial photo interpretation, and marksmanship. Texts are provided by the U.S.A.F.
Students to Hear Masses Before Leaving for Game
Tickets for the student trip to the Navy game were issued on Thursday and Friday of this week at Gate 14 in the stadium. The students indicated their choice of trips, either the one or two-day affair.
The Blue Circle conducted the procedure, using yellow and white cards to indicate the trip preference. The presentation of the card along with the student’s I.D. card and money were all that was necessary for the garnering of a ticket.
Father Barry announced that Masses will be held at midnight before the trains leave for Cleveland. If necessary an additional Mass can be said at 12:30 to take care of the remaining students. Before the trains depart, food will be served in the dining hall. The trains are expected to depart at approximately 1:00 a. m.
20
LT. COL. PALMER. LEFT. AND AIDE Wings spread rapidly over the campus.
Notre Dame Host to St. Francis Groups
On Sunday, October 19, there will be special visitors on the Notre Dame campus. The St. Mary’s College and the Alvernian Fraternities of the Third Order of St. Francis will join the Notre Dame Fraternity for the celebration of the Third Order Day next Sunday. The Alvernian Fraternity is composed of young college students, factory and office workers in the Chicago area and is under the direction of Mr. Joseph Pripu-sick. This group will send approximately 80 representatives who will meet with ten young ladies from St. Mary’s and 30 men from Notre Dame.
Clergymen attending the affair will be Rev. Philip Marquard, O.F.M., the national secretary of the Third Order of St. Francis and the director of the Alvernian group; Rev. Albert Nemeth, O.F.M., director of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s units; and Rev. Mark Hegen-er, O.F.M., who was the former director of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s groups and who will be the celebrant of the eleven o’clock Mass in Dillon Hall chapel to begin the day’s activities.
After the Mass, dinner will be served, and at 1:30 a tour of the campus will be conducted by the Third Order members of Morrissey Hall with Richard Hahn supervising the proceedings. An informal meeting will be held in the

Auditorium of the Law Building at 3:30 which will be followed by the regular meeting at 4 o’clock in Dillon Hall. Benediction will then be offered to mark the end of the scheduled activities.
Plans for the affair have been arranged by Rita Hanley and Sister Made-leva of St. Mary’s in conjunction with Marion Cranny, Gerald Corrigan, Ivo Fatigati, and William Bradley, the officers of the Notre Dame Fraternity.
—Joe Lauber
History Discussions Take Up 'Notion of the Educated Man'
The first of four discussions to be sponsored by the History Department will be held Tuesday, October 21, in the auditorium of the Law Building at 8p. m.
The theme of all four discussions will be “The Notion of the Educated Man in
the Various Periods of History.” The first paper dealing with this general topic will be given by Dr. Anton H. Chroust, authority on ancient civilization, and is entitled “The Meaning of Philosophy in the Helenistic and Roman World.”
A general discussion on that particular phase of the general topic will be conducted by the Rev. Bernard L. McAvoy, C.S.C., professor of Greek Philosophy. The entire meeting will be presided over by the Rev. Philip Moore, c.s.C.^ Dean of the Graduate School.
—Dennis J. O’Neill
MUSIC ’ Books ’ Radio
a Victor album with reissues on eight of the finest blues numbers the Duke has waxed. All are Ellington arrangements and this alone adds an excellence of style to each side. Far and away the most worthy number is “Transblucency,” subtitled, “A blue light you can almost see through.” Larry Brown stands out with some effortless trombone work against
HYPER-THYROID HALF-WORLD
Following suspicously but, we trust, innocently, on the heels of The Hucksters, comes another novel of the hyperthyroid half-world of advertising, Her-Iman Wouk’s first novel, Aurora Dawn. Observing an old tradition of critical demarcation, we will evaluate this book in the light of what Mr. Wouk says and
I how he says it.
y Aurora Dawn is a fable of our time v^,dealing with the tortuous tribulations ''of one Andrew Reale, a Childe Harolde of radio advertising, who is torn between sleeping on a mattress stuffed with ill-gotten five dollar bills, and the love of a good woman. Fortunately for Mr. Wouk, these two goals are usually not compatible and therein lies his story. Andrew is employed by the Republic Broadcasting system whose biggest client is the Aurora Dawn Soap Co., manufacturers of a pinkish hunk of lye and animal fat which may be found 'moistly decomposing in the soap dishes of 90 pei- cent of the American homes.
Marquis Talmadge, megalomaniac president of the corporation which is controlled by a patrician dilletante banker, Stephen English, is possessed by an unholy desire to foist ye pink bar (“Nothing is as pure as the dawn, and ■ the dawn is PINK!”) into the other ten - per cent of the nation’s bathrooms. With ^• 'ithis in mind, he enlists the aid of Repub-। lie Broadcasting to obtain for his sponsorship one Father Stanfield, a homespun West Virginia revivalist who goes in for red hot public confessions.
Doubtful success and a love triangle greet his efforts, and by the grace of God and the labored manipulations of the author, everybody gets his desserts and most of the characters contrive to live happily ever after. Andy renounces the sordid high-pressuring of advertising and settles down in New Mexico where he raises cattle among other things.
Now, as to style. Wouk admits, in one of his frequent meanderings from the thread of plot and lucidity, that he reads the classics—but copiously. This is evident after wading through the archaic quaintness of Wouk’s ponderous dis. cursiveness. The book is written from \ the olympian attitude of a philosopher ,• observing a Punch and Judy show. His Au characters move with all the predictabil-y^Aty and stiffness of so many puppets. He did, however, a competent job of characterization on Father Stanfield. But the
overall impression of artificiality is abetted by Wouk’s frequent digressions and rather witty side comments which take up pages. Wouk flees from realism as he would from reality; his Thackeray-like style is best described as ponderous.
The book purports to expose the superficiality of advertising. In this it is similar to The Hucksters but differs from it in the manner of treatment. Where Wakeman was vicious and sexy, Wouk is wryly humorous.
We really enjoyed the book after ploughing through the digressions and almost suffocating in the airless, humid jungle of “precious” style and rank verbiage. Aurora Daum is funny and good.
—George Murphy and Tom Gorman
FROM ELLINGTON TO...
“Duke Ellington Plays the Blues” in
ADJUTANT GENERAL INSPECTS THE HONOR GUARD
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe. C.S.C„ Prefect of Discipline, eyes the uniform of Drum Major Jim Kress at last Saturday's band inspection as Director H. Lee Hope, center, gleefully looks on.
a background of instrumental vocalizing by Kay Davis. The .blues is raised to a high plane of musical accomplishment, but its basic pattern is simple and you may be bored.
. . . DEBUSSY
For a true taste of Debussy, Columbia has just released his last work, “Sonata No. 3 for Piano and Violin.” Robert Casadesus and Zino Francescotti give the work a graceful, delicate interpretation. The music itself is lively, subtle and melodious, and both artists have produced these qualities in their excellent performance. Casadesus also does well with Debussy’s piano music in the “Preludes, Book II,” bringing forth the most fragile of impressions and fleeting sensations. The final side of the “Sonata” album is Ravel’s “Berceuse.”—Tom Hannifin
21
Seal
bq, [joe
The way this column gets broken up every week you’d think it was a happy home on a radio serial. I don’t know why it is, but the fiends who put this magazine together manage to squeeze me in betwen notices of the meeting of The Effect of Heat on Cold Water Society and an ad for a lost baby’s bottle.
World's Greatest Newspaper Dep't.
It seems that the oracle of Chicago-land has been peeking around in children’s textbooks again. Among other things it has discovered the astounding fact that some school textbooks are saying that the British people are “intelligent and resourceful..” Forsooth! This statement, solemnly notes The Trib, is “unAmerican.” Next, the Trib will discover that the schools of this country are teaching the works of one William Shakespeare, who is well-known as a notorious anglophile and spreader of British propaganda.
I Hate to Harp on Radio. But. . .
So much is being written in protest against the trash that wafts from one’s radio, when one suffers a mental lapse and turns it on, that I hesitate to say anything more. Be that as it may, I have decided who’s responsible for the airwave atrocities. It’s us. The radio industry goes blithely on, filling its listeners full of stale drivel, because nobody has the nerve to complain loud enough and long enough to stop it. The advei-tisers feel that they can get by with dishing out Skabutnik’s Sixty-fifth Wife as easily as if it gave the public some first-rate theatre. The trouble is that the average listeners—you and I—believe we shouldn’t look a gift horse in the mouth. Gift horse, my foot! We pay for it, time and time again. We get high-pressured into buying all kinds of nostrums, goo, and gadgets because some sticky-voiced announcer, who can sell Camels out of one side of his mouth and Luckies out of the other, makes us feel we’d wound him unto death if we didn’t put space between us and the corner drug store with the speed of light. We purchase expensive radios in order to half-listen to moronic disc-jockeys who hire feebleminded wards of the court to write their patter. We stand by and let good programs (there are some) be pushed to inconvenient times so that some grabby sponsor can sell something nobody needs. Then we all scream “Communist” at somebody who reminds us that the air belongs to us, the public, and that we ought to see that it’s not cluttered up
22
Barris+er Journalists Buckle Down to Torts, ? Taxes as 'N. D. Lawyer' Begins its 22nd Year
Perched high atop the Law Building in a little gothic bird’s nest reached by a terrifying flight of lighthouse stairs there resides the journalistic arm of the Notre Dame College of Law. For twenty-one consecutive years those that labor with Torts and Taxes and all the complexities of American justice have turned out a learned little quarterly called the Notre Dame Lawyer.
The idea of a Law School quarterly is not new — rather it ranks with mountainous text-books and weekly stag parties as a deep-rooted tradition wherever the future barristers gather to study the trade. Harvard has printed one that dates back to the laying of the bricks in the “yahd.” Yale, ’tis rumoured, was putting out a Law Quarterly before they had a newspaper in New Haven. So naturally, Notre Dame, with the oldest Catholic law school in the land, rushed into print as soon as facilities permitted. They are still rushing.
The enthusiastic group of young men who are bringing the 22nd volume of the Lawyer to life are doing it with the same calm hysteria traditional with the expectant father. And like same to-be-parent they are serenely confident their offspring will be unequaled in his species. We know. They told us.
The Lawyer's editor, Bill Ball, is a neatly dressed, charming, harrassed young man. He puts on a 100-yard dash performance on the hour, every hour, daily between his law classes, the Dean’s office, South Bend, his lofty sanctum and whatever other haunts law school professors and editors are haunting these days. We were sandwiched in between a conference and a class in Corporate Book Juggling or Double Emnities or something.
“Just what does the Lawyer consist of?” Mr. Ball thought that a fair question. After all, he speculated, the unwashed citizenry of the undergrad school wouldn’t know, would they?
So William told all. The Lawyer is divided into two sections. The first consists of a number of lead articles written by leading jurists from all over the country who send material on important law issues of the day or on those from the past whose controversial nature
with twenty-three hours of bosh out of every twenty-four. Our sets have switches; we all have some kind of buying resistance. We ought to use both.
'Twas Always Thus
It’s an old saying that doctors are always ill, dentists always dentured, and (Continued on Page 25)
hasn’t permitted them the quiet grave of obscurity. The second section is devoted to opinions and decisions on current law cases by Notre Dame law students and reviews of books by students and professors from the law school.
To operate on this basis, the staff of the Lawyer is made up of the Editor William Ball, his two assistants, Note Editor Bob Cosgrove and Business Editor Bob Fitzpatrick, and their staffs. The note editor and associates are those who take care of the student literary effort involved in the publication, namely the above-mentioned opinions and decisions. The business staff? Well, they eat in । the Town Club nightly, buy Parliament^--, and dime candy bars and try to explain ' the appropriation of funds.
Unlike the Scholastic, where any old rational animal with a typewriter and a neurosis can pester the life out of an assistant, assistant editor until he gets a job, the newsmen of the Lawyer are truly select gentlemen of the Fourth Estate. All those who would wax sage on the current perplexities of the courts are first admitted, upon approval, to what is known as the “In-Training” group. They stay in this category leai-n-ing copy-editing, writing and doing an occasional bit of literary conjecturing for a year, after which time the elite of the select are retained as regular members of next year’s staff. Hooked on to this basic training program is a little stumble block that makes it an impossibility to soil the pages of the Lawyer .1 unless you are hitting those law tomes -• I hard enough to produce an 85 average^ /
The Lawyer was wounded by the war but it never- received a fatal blow. It kept going as best it could and although cut in size and ofttimes hastily put together it was there every quarter on time for its many read- i ers. Now the Laivyer is regaining its full strength and going ahead to bigger and better things. Greater and more lead articles by even more outstanding men than have written in the past will grace its pages; expansion on advertising to reach more legal minds is already in effect and a full staff has been reestablished.
Yes, better days have returned to the unpadded cell above the Dean’s office. Law libraries, professors, judges and 1 lawyers all over the country are reported 1 to be awaiting this first issue with much 4 anticipation. The men who hope to change that anticipation to admiration 1 are working many days and nights ti* ..1 make their baby’s first squeal a loud and strong one.	>
■COLLEGE OAKAOE
By LOU ALMASI and TOM HIGGINS
rehearsed would necessarily have to be other than that hectic hour when the clock is ticking off those, twelve strokes.
NOTES TO YOU . . .
Cavallaro is now playing at a Purdue dance; two weeks ago they had Johnny Long making with the music, and tickets were $1.20 a couple (Victory Dances at N. D., $1.50?????). . . Del Courtney down at Indiana . . . Northwestern U. reports that student fees paid only 34.57 per cent of the University budget. ... De Paul once more stands out as the largest Catholic university in the country with an enrollment exceeding 12,000. . . . Butler U. is promoting a “Save the Shades” campaign . . . the “New Look” has had its influence all over the country.
men to pledge . . . confidentially, if we had any twenty-five dollar bills, we’d probably paper the wall with them too . . . though that would mean that we’d have to scrape off the confederate money first.
On Oct. 15, the cameras will start clicking at Boston U. when production starts on the first original movie in the school’s history. Any movie here at N. D., to be original and entirely unconfined to shots taken at chow time, or
This space was reserved for jokes we stole from the Colorado Oredigger and tried to sneak in here; they were CENSORED.
LOST!! — REWARD!!
Lost; Brown Wallet Contains Original Discharge Papers from Navy.
R. J. McINTYRE
438 E. Howard St., South Bend
ON FOREIGN FIELDS . . .
The Daily Northwestern last week ran a headline, “Man and Woman Contest Called Off” . . . could be because of the lack of contestants?
The DePauw reports that a fraternity there papers its walls with twenty-five and fifty dollar bills to induce the fresh-
Going to St. Mary’s Cotillion
next Friday?
If so your
CAMPUS FLORIST will furnish you with the best Corsage
See your hall bulletin board for . •	representative in your hall.
/■ I Free Delivery Finest Flowers
You’re the man
most likely to succeed!
“ Van Hensen shirts
Masterpieces of sewmanship—they make you the picture of masculine smartness. You’ll like the low-set collar models, the action-tailoring, figure-fit. Sanforized fabrics, laboratory-tested 1500 times a month. Get your money's worth—always say Fan Heusen Shirts. $3.25, $3.95, $4.50. Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
23
NOTRE DAME NAMES MAKE NEWS'
REV. FRANCIS P. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C.
Better Knights
Old Campaigners
The REV. FRANCIS P. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame, was the principal speaker at an exemplification banquet of the Knights of Columbus this past Sunday night in Saginaw, Michigan. Besides Father Cavanaugh, other notables at the banquet included the Most Rev. William Murphy, Bishop of Saginaw, and Rev. Robei-t E. Fitzpatrick, state chaplain of the K. of C. in Michigan. . . .
The nadir of political mumbo-jumbo was reached this week when ex-Scholastic Editor JOHN DEFANT, who in the past stopped many body blows about his ability to record facts, announced his intention to run for secretary of the senior class. . . . Meanwhile JOHN A. O’CONNOR, recent target for sharpshooting questions about Vet’s Club funds (he was treasurer last spring), was asked to seek the treasurer’s post of the class on the opposing ticket.
MR. SAMUEL TAIT, manager of the South Bend office of Dun and Bradstreet, addressed Mr. Wesley C. Bender’s class in “Credit and Collections” Tuesday. Mr. Tait brought with him sample
mercantile reports and a Dun and Bradstreet rating book with which he illustrated the type of service the company is providing the business men of the nation. The book, Mr. Tait pointed out, contains listings of over 2,600,000 businesses. A rapidly increasing service of Dun and Bradstreet also decribed by Mr. Tait was the Market Research. The talk was followed by student discussion..
From Afar
From their native lands across the seas come three young seminarians to study at the Holy Cross Seminary on the Notre Dame campus. They are JORGE CANEPA, of Santiago, Chile; BENEDICT O’BRIEN, of Calgary, Alberta, Canada; and WILLIAM MELODY of County Mayo, Ireland. Canepa enrolled at the Holy Cross Seminary following his graduation from St. George College in Santiago. O’Brien came to the seminary through the influence of Rev. John Bigger, C.S.C., when Father
PROF. F. W. KERVICK Better Buildings
Bigger was a chaplain in the Canadian Army during the war, and O’Brien was an aviation cadet. Melody entered the seminary here by virtue of his association with his two priest cousins, Rev. Thomas Peyton, and Rev. Patrick Peyton, both of the Congregation of Holy Cross. . . .
A former pilot in the Royal Air Force, JOHN HOOKER, arrived last week at Notre Dame from England to become instructor in Western European history. Mr. Hooker names Ashford, Kent, England, as his home town. He studied at Peterhouse, Cambridge, from 1937 to 1940 and was one of the cricket coaches there. . . . LUDWIG BIELER, a citizen of Ireland arrived recently on the campus to begin his new work as an assistant professor of classical languages. Mr. Bieler was born in Vienna, Austria, and most of his studying was completed in that city. ...
A Notre Dame football player, GERALD RAMSBURGER, was married this summer to the former Miss Dorothy Shelhorn of Dunellen, New Jersey. . . . The present prexy of the Memphis Club, JACK SALMON, was the captain of the Milligan College (Tennessee) football team while he was serving in the Navy.
F. W. KERVICK of Notre Dame is among the more than five hundred participants from all parts of the nation who will compete in the $125,000 archi- « tectural contest to secure a design for• $30,000,000 Federal memorial on the S-Louis riverfront. The contest is sponsored by the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Association, and the memorial will commemorate Thomas Jefferson and the pioneers of the western expansion of the United States. . . .
Were Here
From the Headquarters of the 15th Air Force in Colorado Springs, Colo., it was announced recently by Maj. Gen. Charles F. Born, commanding general, that Major LEONARD C. HABETZ had been named deputy staff chaplain of the 15th Air Force. Major Habetz was a graduate of the Notre Dame Major Seminary and was formerly the assistant pastor of St. Joseph’s church in Bayne, Louisiana. . . .
24
Samaniego Speaks on Uprising in Ecuador
The Commerce Forum, a discussion group within the College of Commerce, after accepting the applications of 11 new. members to fill existing vacancies, held its first general meeting last Wednesday. Guest speaker Ramiro Samaniego spoke on the recent revolution in Ecuador, attributing it — and similar Latin American uprisings—to the existence in small South American countries of two vast and largely unmanageable groups, the Army and the poorly educated Indians.
ticular class the “ne plus ultra” of all others, past, present and future; and (3) stir campus activity to its greatest heat since the great fire of ’79.
And thus the enterprises of great pith and moment. But do their currents turn awry? Aye, there’s the rub. The outcome of all this furore is usually to (1) secure Droopy Baton for the prom; (2) get the pictures (large) of the class officers in the Dome; and (3) harass the Student Council with proposals too foolish even for that body to consider.
It is hereby humbly suggested that
the class officers, from this day forward, in sickness, health, and hangovers, cease, desist, and stop existing.
Ain't I A Old Stinker. Huh?
Why can’t I.say anything good about anybody? Why can’t I, huh? Mostly, I suppose, because thei’e’s.no fun in that. Rocks are easier to throw than roses. They go farther.
Excuse me. I am going out to bear false witness against some neighbors of mine who corrupt my rare symphony programs with flourescent lights.
| The Indian segmen tconstitutes 60 per i cent of Ecuador’s population and aly though predominantly Catholic, its votes ’ \_and assistance are easy prey for the । Communists and radical elements which I falsely promise a panacea for the unequal distribution of wealth. However at ; times these elements are not content with merely soliciting the votes of the people and choose armed revolution, offering the gullible Indians military leadership and fantasti crewards, which of course they never receive.
The August Revolution led by former Secretary of War, Colonel Mancheno, was
I generally, bloodless and resulted mainly in the discrediting of Ecuador’s delegation at the Rio de Janiero Conference. Seeing the ramifications of this tyrannical overthrow, a successful counter-revolution was begun which has resulted in Ecuador’s Congress electing a President pro tern and scheduling democratic elections for next summer.—Bob Leander
PAUSE FOR COKE RELAXES GOLFERS
SCORNER'S SEAT
(Continued from Page 22) barbers always bald. In line with the same state of affairs is the fact that Notre Dame’s ugliest building—with some room for difference of opinion—is the Architecture Buildling. What with the library bulging out behind it like a bustle, the Architecture Building is that department’s worst advertisement.
; Same Son?. Same Verse Dep*t.
\ The zenith of jumping on one’s horse , and riding off in all directions is attain-■ ed at this institution of learning twice a year. It’s then that the various classes i with great fanfare and drum beating, go about the momentous task of electing representatives of their ranks to act as | class officers.
Usually these eager young men pre* Isent platforms, all of which come under Aj^ona-fide, candidate-back guarantee to f to get Fred Waring or Charlie Spi-Z vak for the prom; (2) Make that par-
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND.
© 1947 The C-C Co.
25
Psychic Newsboy Analyzes Personalities As Students Buy "Sauce, Sugar and Rags"
Are you a typical Joe College — impulsive, energetic, happy-go-lucky? Or are you the deliberate, cautious type that makes carefully weighed decisions. Then again you may be the more mature type with a markedly political outlook. If you’re not entirely sure what category you fall into the quickest way to find out is to step down to the cafe basement some Sunday morning and buy a paper from Bernie Ell, the man in charge of the stand. Bernie, who’s a Junior in Mr. Smith’s “school of big business,” as he calls it, hails from Wilkes Barre, Pa., and Alumni Hall, where he’s a “henchman” of Father Glueckert. When quizzed about his age he slyly replies that he’s “getting older.”
Sometime during his career Bernie picked up the amazing knack of analyzing the personality of a man within a few moments of seeing him for the first time. As a result of this talent he is able to hand each customer the paper which he thinks will match his personality, even before he asks for it (and he’s usually right!) For instance, by appearance alone he decides that one man will want a Chicago Tribune because he seems to be the happy-go-lucky type who likes a little “sauce” with his pudding. This fellow is usually full of youthful vigor and “push” and while blessed with a good sense of humor, he’s seldom inclined to be overly critical.
The next fellow may be an individual who looks at things from a different political point of view. This gentleman often proves to be a New Dealer and on this assumption Bernie always hands him a Chicago Sun—the real New Dealers are highly insulted if any other paper is offered.
Now comes Bernie’s favorite — the Herald American reader — Bernie fairly purrs while handing this gentleman his weekly, for here, he says, is a true thinking man, a man who is neither an out-and-out radical nor a hidebound conservative; a man who thoughtfully deliberates his choice and then picks the Herald American. Needless to say, the Herald American is Mr. Ell’s idea of a real newspaper. “Besides,” says Bernie, “the Herald American carries ‘The Katzenjammer Kids.’ ”
Next to the New York Times, which, according to Mr. Ell, is the world’s greatest newspaper, the Herald American is the best. “A man could acquire a liberal education by faithfully reading the Sunday and daily editions of the
Times from front to back for a year,” claims Bernie. He bemoans the crying need of the midwest for more good news sheets which competently treat national and international politics. The Times is often requested and Bernie suggests that it should be sold here.
In predicting the newspaper choices of his customers Bernie can’t always size up the individual without error due to a certain unpredictable factor — the human element. Foi- instance,' some character will buy the “Trib” just to read Dick Tracy, or the Sun just to check on Steve Canyon. Again there’s the half-awake cafe-hound who’ll take any paper, just so it’s big enough to cover a cafe table while he lingers over his cup of luxurious seven-cent coffee. The South Bend Tribune occasionally enters the picture too, but usually just because some football fan wants to see what Jim Costin has to say about his roommate, an up-and-coming halfback.
Seldom do these black sheep appear to disturb Bernie’s batting average, however, and he rarely misses on more than two customers per Sunday.
So if you’re not afraid of the truth, step downstairs when you reach the cafe next Sunday morning and find out just what kind of a fellow you really are. If you don’t like what you find out, take Bernie Ell’s old Indian remedy—switch to the world’s second greatest newspaper, the Chicago Herald American! (Besides it has “The Katzenjammer Kids”!)—Jim O’Rieley
ID Cards Will Replace Traditional Meal Books
No longer will students’ billfolds bulge because of bulky meal books. According to a bulletin from the Prefect of Discipline’s office, the student will now merely show his identification card upon entering the dining hall.
Sometimes during October and then at the beginning of each semester, the men who live on campus will have a stamp attached to their ID cards by the management of the dining hall. This will take the place of the former tickets.
In doing away with the meal book system, inaugurated with the beginning of the cafeteria style of service, matters will be simplified for all concerned. Long, monthly lines will be eliminated, along with the burdensome job of collecting the ducats.—R. Edmondson.
Ec. Round Table Starts
Drive for New Members
The Economic Round Table, with Frank Sierawski as president and Mr. William H. Downey as moderator, has just reorganized with a drive for new membership this fall. The purpose of the organization is to discuss current problems in economic and political affairs.
At their meeting each Thursday evening one of the members presents a paper dealing with some phase of these problems. After the talk a round table discussion is held and the speaker of the evening is responsible for questions pertaining to his speech.
The Round Table has no specific outline for this year as yet but will have some noted guest speakers before . many meetings elapse, and they will hol^ their usual semester joint meeting with" the similar organization at St. Mary’s.
—Dennis O’Neill
"0 boy! AH / told her was that her husband didn't have to break in a
—... n.
$po • $2°° * $350 * $5®°
Faihioned by Linkman
In Guiov Pipe Co. Inc, Chicago h, III
26
LETTERS
COMES THE DAWN
Dear Editor:
We would like to register an agitated protest against the book criticism (we know no better term to use, although we realize that one is inadequate) you printed in this week’s magazine. Mr. George Murphy and Mr. Tom Gorman discussed Herman Wouk’s Aurora Daum. If this sort of thing is going to continue we will be forced to do the closest thing to canceling our subscription that a Notre Dame man can do—kick the maga-\ zine back out into the hall each Friday I ’'' .--afternoon.
This article treated us to a display of Mr. Murphy and Mr. Gorman’s ability to be wordy, trite, patronizing, cute, illogical and seemingly quite unable to make up their collective mind whether they like the book or not. They tossed Wouk back and forth, claiming at one moment that they were “ploughing through the digressions and almost suffocating in the airless, humid jungle of ‘precious’ style and rank verbiage,” and immediately afterwards declaring that “Aurora Daum is funny and good.” What strange fruit blossoms from “rank verbiage” ... I
We sincerely hope that in future editions Mr. Gorman and Mr. Murphy will criticize books and leave the purple prose to someone who can handle it.
|	Bill Pfaff,
Jack Fraier,
, I	335 Cavanaugh.
1 &
/ SEE HERE, MR. CAHILL
Dear Editor:
We students who are married are very i grateful to the University for the privilege of buying for our wives season tickets to the home games at the reason! able cost of $7.80. It is important that I	you understand this. At the risk of
,	appearing ungrateful, I will in this
letter mildly criticize the method of distribution of the aforementioned tickets. । May I remark in passing that the Scholastic missed this newsworthy item. If they, the editors, will leave their chairs long enough to read the Vet Gazette, they will find that the item was" well covered. (Gentle chiding).
To make a long story short, about 800 \ men spent on the average of three hours h waiting in line at the stadium for rickets.
I make no special plea for married * students. The treatment that Notre
Dame has accorded us is an example for other schools to strive toward. What I do indict is the method of distribution adopted by the ticket office . . .
Mental aberrations occur in the best of men. Mr. Cahill’s friends assure me that he is one of the best. I believe them. I know that the sale to those outside the University was handled magnificently through the mails. Perhaps it slipped Mr. Cahill’s mind that we could be served in the same way. There are other methods available. The use of more than two men might work . . .
Edward Dixon,
Box 444, N. D.
WHAT'S YOUR CHOICE
FOR FALL?
1. CORDUROY — Soft as a rabbit’s ear. So nice you’ll wear it to bed. An Arrow exclusive. §7.50
Prom these three ARROW sports shirts for college men
2. GABANAIRE —This washable rugged spun rayon wonder shirt comes in 5 fast colors. $5.95
FLANNEL — Arrow’s "Redpath Flannels” 100% pure wool. Solid colors, solid shirt. §7.95
All Arrow sports shirts for fall have the smooth fitting Arrow collar and expert Arrow tailoring throughout.
PS—You’ll always get a good deal at your Arrow dealer’s.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES w-------------------------------►
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
THE FOOD SITUATION
Dear Editor:
Today there are criticisms and just plain gripes circulating among the students about the meals we are receiving in the Dining Hall. Now, I know that insinuations and sarcasms have been . hurled before so I will explain that this letter is not in either of those categories. What I will try to do is to point out an argument, from the students’ angle, that is in the nature of constructive criticism.
POINT I. The meals in the Dining hall show a definite lack of planning. We know from week to week what the meals
(Continued to Page 26)
3
Psychic Newsboy Analyzes Personalities As Students Buy "Sauce, Sugar and Rags"
Are you a typical Joe College — impulsive, energetic, happy-go-lucky? Or are you the deliberate, cautious type that makes carefully weighed decisions. Then again you may be the more mature type with a markedly political outlook. If you’re not entirely sure what category you fall into the quickest way to find out is to step down to the cafe basement some Sunday morning and buy a paper from Bernie Ell, the man in charge of the stand. Bernie, who’s a Junior in Mr. Smith’s “school of big business,” as he calls it, hails from Wilkes Barre, Pa., and Alumni Hall, where he’s a “henchman” of Father Glueckert. When quizzed about his age he slyly replies that he’s “getting older.”
Sometime during his career Bernie picked up the amazing knack of analyzing the personality of a man within a few moments of seeing him for the first time. As a result of this talent he is able to hand each customer the paper which he thinks will match his personality, even before he asks for it (and he’s usually right!) For instance, by appearance alone he decides that one man will want a Chicago Tribune because he seems to be the happy-go-lucky type who likes a little “sauce” with his pudding. This fellow is usually full of youthful vigor and “push” and while blessed with a good sense of humor, he’s seldom inclined to be overly critical.
The next fellow may be an individual who looks at things from a different political point of view. This gentleman often proves to be a New Dealer and on this assumption Bernie always hands him a Chicago Sun—the real New Dealers are highly insulted if any other paper is offered.
Now comes Bernie’s favorite — the Herald American reader — Bernie fairly purrs while handing this gentleman his weekly, for here, he says, is a true thinking man, a man who is neither an out-and-out radical nor a hidebound conservative; a man who thoughtfully deliberates his choice and then picks the Herald American. Needless to say, the Herald American is Mr. Ell’s idea of a real newspaper. “Besides,” says Bernie, “the Herald American carries ‘The Katzenjammer Kids.’ ”
Next to the New York Times, which, according to Mr. Ell, is the world’s greatest newspaper, the Herald American is the best. “A man could acquire a liberal education by faithfully reading the Sunday and daily editions of the
Times from front to back for a year,” claims Bernie. He bemoans the crying need of the midwest for more good news sheets which competently treat national and international politics. The Times is often requested and Bernie suggests that it should be sold here.
In predicting the newspaper choices of his customers Bernie can’t always size up the individual without erroi‘ due to a certain unpredictable factor — the human element. For instance,- some character will buy the “Trib” just to read Dick Tracy, or the Sun just to check on Steve Canyon. Again there’s the half-awake cafe-hound who’ll take any paper, just so it’s big enough to cover a cafe table while he lingers over his cup of luxurious seven-cent coffee. The South Bend Tribune occasionally enters the picture too, but usually just because some football fan wants to see what Jim Costin has to say about his roommate, an up-and-coming halfback.
Seldom do these black sheep appear to disturb Bernie’s batting average, however, and he rarely misses on more than two customers per Sunday.
So if you’re not afraid of the truth, step downstairs when you reach the cafe next Sunday morning and find out just what kind of a fellow you really are. If you don’t like what you find out, take Bernie Ell’s old Indian remedy—switch to the world’s second greatest newspaper, the Chicago Herald American! (Besides it has “The Katzenjammer Kids”!)—Jim O’Rieley
ID Cards Will Replace Traditional Meal Books
No longer will students’ billfolds bulge because of bulky meal books. According to a bulletin from the Prefect of Discipline’s office, the student will now merely show his identification card upon entering the dining hall.
Sometimes during October and then at the beginning of each semester, the men who live on campus will have a stamp attached to their ID cards by the management of the dining hall. This will take the place of the former tickets.
In doing away with the meal book system, inaugurated with the beginning of the cafeteria style of service, matters will be simplified for all concerned. Long, monthly lines will be eliminated, along with the burdensome job of collecting the ducats.—R. Edmondson.
Ec. Round Table Starts
Drive for New Members
The Economic Round Table, with Frank Sierawski as president and Mr. William H. Downey as moderator, has just reorganized with a drive for new membership this fall. The purpose of the organization is to discuss current problems in economic and political affairs.
At their meeting each Thursday evening one of the members presents a paper dealing with some phase of these problems. After the talk a round table discussion is held and the speaker of the evening is responsible for questions pertaining to his speech.
The Round Table has no specific outline for this year as yet but will have some noted guest speakers before many meetings elapse, and they will hol^L their usual semester joint meeting with the similar organization at St. Mary’s.
—Dennis O’Neill
"0 boy! AU / told her was that her husband didn't have to break in a
$po. $2°° • $350 • $5°°
foAioned by Linkman Bn Bmiow Pipe Co. Inc, Chicago u, III
26
it’s the pen preferred above all others!
world’s most wanted pen
S Recently, the seniors in leading universities voted Parker more wanted than the next 3 makes of pens combined. Here’s added evidence of the tremendous Parker popularity which has already been proved in 77 surveys in 29 countries. •The reason for such popularity is simple. In your hand, the “51” balances with eager, handsome poise. It starts instantly—and writes with light and pressureless touch. So smooth. Precision-made, only the “51” is designed for satisfactory use with new Parker Superchrome—the
super-brilliant, super-permanent ink that writes dry! • See the “51” today. Choice of custom points and smart colors. $12.50; $15.00. Pencils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. Parker V-S Pens, $8.75. Pencils, $4.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin. U. S. A., and Toronto, Canada.
$25 CASH GIVEN AWAY—for interesting, true stories about Parker “51” Pens. Base it on your own G. I. experience—or relate what happened to some friend. S25.00 for each story used. Just report the facts. Stories are judged on facts alone. All letters become our property—cannot be returned. Address: The Parker Pen Company, Dept. CN-47, Janesville. Wis.
Copr. 1947 by Th* Parker Pen Company

THE UNIVERSITY LI3RARY
-LE1W0.VIER LIBRARY-
<947, iMom a Mnu Tomoco Cd.