APPOINTED BY
THE
U. S.
NAVY
Get More Quality fo?' Less in These
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS created by the U. S. Navy
RAINCOATS
with removable All Wool Linings
Indiana's LARGEST
Naval Officers' Uniform House is NOT DOWN TOWN in South Bend.
y)RODUCED under the supervision of the Navy Department, these uniforms fit flawlessly, are
fashioned to perfection. And the low prices established by the Navy provide you with the best of all possible value.
It is EIGHT BLOCKS South on Michigan Street!
REMEMBER! — It is not only the uniform but the Fit that Counts. You can depend on Gilbert's tailors for this expert service.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
Home of HICKEY-FREEMAN Navy Officers’ Uniforms
2
3-
^he SNbtre ^ame Scholastic
EDITORIAL
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867

THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ. Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
HAROLD BERLINER -	Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE	-	Promotion
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY	*	Observations
LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS	- Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY -	-	-	The Green Banner
JIM REGAN -	-	_	_ Introducing
JIM HASSETT -	The College Parade
ROBERT RIORDAN	-	Man About the Campus
LEO OUILLETTE • ' -	-	- Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LE BIEN -	The Periscope
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE NESBIT	ED MARSHALL ’ JACK KELLEHER '
BILL DUNN	DAN MEANEY	TED MARLEY
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
THIS IS YOUR MAGAZINE
The SCHOLASTIC is the only campus news weekly at Notre Dame, published by and for the students. On its staff are men from every branch of the service, plus an adequate number of civilians, thus insuring complete coverage of all University and ! service activities.	| i
i
Life at Notre Dame, in these days, is so complex, so diverse.	; I
so sprawling—and you are so busy—that no individual can possibly keep himself properly informed on the activities about c him.
Yet you want to know, and need to know, what is going on about you. And this is the task that the SCHOLASTIC assumes, and promises to do thoroughly, that you may be kept informed on many fronts—the administrative personnel and regulations, class matters, navy curriculum and' discipline, 1 social activities, local news, sports, scuttlebutt, and gossip. All these elements combine to assure you a full share in the new I - life about you.
To all service men, the SCHOLASTIC offers a semester's subscription for the nominal fee of one.dollar. Within the next day or two, a SCHOLASTIC representative will call on you. . Fill in the blank below, in this complimentary issue. The magazine will be delivered to your room every Friday evening, beginning with the issue of July 21.
You need the SCHOLASTIC; it is your magazine.	I
—THE EDITORS |
eep up on Notre Dame News — subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC for yourself or for your friends in service
$ 1.00 for July - October semester
I
6 $
I
Name.
Address.
A SCHOLASTIC representative will call on you soon—or you may Clip Blank and Mail to Publications Office—Notre Dame, Indiana

4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 82
JULY 7, 1944
NO. 1
Administration Welcomes V-12 Trainees
By Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
You have come to Notre Dame at a time when the heartening news of D-day, the most momentous event in the war thus far, is still ringing in our ears, encouraging the United States and her allies to press on to final victory. In a sense, you too are establishing a beachhead—a secure base in education. If you make the fullest and best use of it, you will advance to the larger operations in which your success will reflect your worth, not only as an officer of the United States Navy, but as a man living in society.
The purpose of the V-12 program is to train good citizens as well as good officers. To help you prepare for your future are two institutions—the Navy and Notre Dame—which have long cooperated in harmony and understanding of mutual problems. We respect Captain J. Richard Barry and his efficient staff as fine types of naval officers and men. Your academic work will be under our faculty, which by background and temperament is worthy to carry on the tra-
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
ditions that have made Notre Dame great, and the title “Notre Dame man” a hallmark.
The founders of this University had a true understanding of education. They taught, as we do today, that man has an immortal soul and God-given faculties that need proper development through education. Notre Dame, then, teaches, men not only how to make a living, but also how to live. Complementing this heritage is a tradition of patriotism of which we are equally jealous. In war and peace Notre Dame has always contributed without reserve to causes that protect American democracy.
These are also your traditions. You as a man and Notre Dame as a University have two tasks in common as our country fights the forces that deny God, and hence the dignity of man. One is to defeat the false doctrines of Nazism. Fascism, and Communism that would make man the creature of the state. The other is to work for- a lasting peace based upon true moral concepts of rights and duties as they apply to individuals and nations.
And now as you become members of the family of Notre Dame, I welcome you to this campus which has always been a stronghold of American ideals. May you find here the same inspiration that served as a guide to thousands o± young men who were here before you.
The Navy at Notre Dame
By Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N.
The Navy program at Notre Dame is divided into three parts which, at first sight to new arrivals on the campus, may be a bit confusing. These units were not all established at once, and so, perhaps, the best way to understand them is to look at each in chronological order of their origins.
In the summer of 1941, before the United States was at war, a peacetime unit of the Naval Reserve Officers’
Training Corps was established. It was thus that the Navy came to Notre Dame. The first class of the N.R.O.T.C. was composed of 165 students, making up a small group of less than one-tenth of the student body. The survivors of this group were commissioned as Ensigns on February 27, of this year, and are now scattered over the world where the Navy is operating. At present, this N.R.O.T.C. Unit lives in Walsh Hall.
Approximately six months after Pearl Harbor, the Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School was established at Notre Dame as the fourth such school to be set up by the Navy. Five regular classes of general duty officers have been graduated and commissioned by this school, plus twice that many specialist classes, who have taken shorter courses. The officers commissioned here number 6250, which is more than the whole officer personnel in the Navy before its wartime expansion. These officers, many of whom now rank as Lieutenants (junior grade) have been in action on all fronts. At the last commissioning exercises, Captain
(Continued on page 29)
Capt. J. Richard Barry. U.S.N.
5
V-12 Program Under Skilled Leaders
Lt. Bradford Lamson, USNR
Born in Beverly, Massachusetts—attended Mercer University—graduated in 1932 with B.S. degree—received M.A. degree from Boston University in 1936 —Dean of Boys at Cushing Academy in Ashburnham, Massachusetts. While there he was coach of ice hockey, backfield coach, and assistant baseball coach—enlisted in the Navy in August, 1942— stationed at Norfolk as CSP (A) — transferred to Navy Pier in November, 1942—duties include: Assistant Education Officer, War Bond and Life Insurance Officer, Barracks Officer of Alumni Hall.
Commander Walter S. Gabel. USNR
On May 30, 1944, Commander Walter S. Gabel assumed command of the year-old Notre Dame V-12 Unit—served aboard U.S.S. Siboney in World War I —between 1918 and present war was engaged in banking business in New Kensington, Pa.—called to active duty in March, 1941, and became first executive officer aboard the Naval supply ship U.S.S. Pegasus—later made the ship’s commanding officer—at the outbreak of present hostilities was serving on the U.S.S. New York—after two and a half years of service in the North Atlantic,
V-12 Executive Officers. Top Row: Lieut. S. L. Beatty, USNR.* Comm. Walter S. Gabel, USN; Lieut, (jg) J. J. Collins, USNR: Ensign Carey Brewbaker, USNR. Bottom Row: Lieut (jg) Bradford Lamson, USN: Captain John W. Finney, USMCR; Warrant
Officer Stephen Banashek, USMCR.
Commander Gabel was placed in command of the V-12 Unit at Pennsylvania State College.
Ensign Carey Brewbaker, USNR
Enlisted in Navy March, 1942—stationed at Norfolk, Va., Seattle, Washington and Pasco Naval Air Station before coming to Notre Dame as a newly commissioned ensign in June, 1943— tackle and captain on Roanoke’s 1936 State Championship eleven—played baseball, chosen school’s heavyweight boxing representative, Senior Class President, member of Blue Key national honor fraternity—degree in Politics from Roanoke —attended North Carolina University— coached championship Durham High School football and baseball teams— duties include Physical Education Officer, Welfare Officer and Barracks Officer of Zahm Hall.
Captain John W. Finney, USMCR
World War I naval veteran and later Army reserve officer—enlisted in regular Navy in April of 1917 as apprentice seaman when sixteen years old—served one year in war zone aboard the U.S.S. Bridge—honorably discharged January 3, 1919, and returned to civilian life— captained his Columbia High School
—Photo by Tex Renaud
baseball team and received honors in basketball and other sports—attended University of Tennessee at Knoxville— became editor of Columbia Daily Herald —commissioned Captain in Marine Corps in November, 1942—spent six months at Jacksonville, Florida—arrived at Notre Dame, June 8, 1943—was Acting Executive Officer from February 15 to May 30—at present is Aide to Executive Officer, and Officer in Command of Marine Detachment.
Stephen Banashek, War. Off., USMCR
Warrant Officer Banashek joined service August 30, 1928—came up from ranks with sixteen years continuous service—thoroughly familial* with naval guns, Marine Corps Administration, various types of drill—served aboard U.S.S Arizona, U.S.S. Nevada, U.S.S. Texas, and other ships with both Atlantic and Pacific fleets—at outbreak of present war was on convoy service with North Atlantic Patrol—joined this unit from Marine Barracks, Norfolk Navy Yard, Portsmouth, Va., where he was a company officer—his duties here include Assistant Commanding Officer of Marine Detachment, Drill Officer, Barracks Officer of Cavanaugh Hall.
Lieut. S. L. Beatty, USNR
Lieutenant Beatty entered service May 27, 1943—indoctrinated at New York Columbia University Indoctrination School—reported to Notre Dame, June 17, 1943—graduate of the University of Tennessee with B.A.—received M.A. from Cornell University—graduate study at University of California. In civilian life was Dean of Personal Administration, Grinnell College, Grinnell, Iowa—was lecturer in English at Grinnell College—Lieut. Beatty’s duties include Education Officer and Academic Counselor.
Lieut. James J. Collins, USNR
Lieutenant Collins entered service April 10, 1943—indoctrinated at Columbia University—reported to Notre Dame V-12 Unit, June 17, 1943—Lieutenant Collins attended White Plains High School 1920-1924—at Plattsburgh State j Normal School was honor student, cap- ( tain of football team and president of student council—received B.S. from £ New York University and M.A. from £ Columbia University—Dean of Boys at Alexander Hamilton High School, Elmsford New York—was Superintendent of Schools for six years, football coach, President Elmsford School Faculty As-.gb: sociation—duties here include First Lieutenant in charge of military adminis-^ tration of Bluejackets, Recreation Offi-«gs cer, Barracks Officer of Dillon Hall.
Navy Begins New Chapter at Notre Dame
By Seaman Al Broten
With the tune of “One, hut, three, four” again echoing about the campus, the military history of Notre Dame is reopened and navy men prepare to add a new chapter to the school’s already ambitious record. The passage of a few days will find veterans and new comers alike quickly conforming to Notre Dame’s own “navy way,” the ultimate objective of which is to turn out more and better officer material for Uncle Sam’s fast growing navy.
In April of 1942, naval authorities in Washington decreed that the University of Notre Dame should become a navy indoctrination center’ of the V-7 program. At the time, the school already had had experience in the training of officers for the fleet, having maintained on the campus the Reserve Officers Training Corps, now housed in Walsh Hall.
After six months, the V-7 indoctrination school became a Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School, to give prospective officers the necessary training prior to the receipt of their commissions at the completion of the course. To aid in their program, the navy erected two temporary structures: a classroom office building west of Lyons Hall and a drill hall to the east of the Old Gymnasiufn.
When Notre Dame successfully met this challenge, the eyes of the naval authorities were again turned toward the University when the decision was reached for the establishment of numerous V-12 units throughout the nation, for the purpose of preparing premising men for Midshipmen’s School. Thus in the spring of 1943, military and University representatives agreed on the establishment of a Vr12 unit on the campus, to augment the already large navy set-up. Marines and sailors, therefore, many of whom were from active duty with the service, invaded the traditions of the school in the early days of July, 1943, to pioneer one of the largest V-12 units in the nation.
“We have found the V-12 program an intelligent and sympathetic approach to college problems in time of war,” commented Father O’Donnell after the unit had reached its maturity. “A few changes in academic administration have been necessary, but Notre Dame’s century-old method of instruction, based on the Notre Dame teacher’s interest in his students, continues. It is a paternal
interest without softness or coddling, which insists strictly upon intellectual results.”
A major task was the organization of the V-12 unit into a compact and efficient regiment with each man doing his part to improve the school and with each man assuming his duty in obeying military and educational regulations. It was a major task from the point of view that many men entered the program with various degrees of previous college training and in most cases with none at all.
CALENDAR FOR REGISTRATION
As soon as possible after arrival all new V-12 students, including transfers from V-12 programs at other colleges, will present themselves to Father John J. Lane, assistant director of studies, on the main floor of the Administration Building, for consultation and assignment to the proper dean. Students should come prepared to answer accurately questions concerning the number of previous terms during which they were registered in college, the exact length of the term in weeks, their major fields of study, their Navy Service number and other pertinent information. They are requested to fill out all record cards or other forms completely and to print legibly.
The actual registration with the Deans of the Colleges will be made in Brownson Hall on the Days indicated in the following calendar. For sake of order the hours at which particular groups of students will be accommodated will be posted on the bulletin boards in the residence halls.
Application blanks and census cards must be checked by the clerks of the Registrar's Office before a student will be admitted to registration.
Sunday, July 2_____________1:00-3:00 p.m. Engineering Building Placement test in
Mathematics. All new V-12 students who have not completed successfully one semester of Mathematics in college are required to take this test.
Monday, July 3 1:30 p.m. Registration of new V-12 students for classes.
Tuesday, July 4____________Registration of old V-12 students for classes;
Wednesday, July 5 Classes begin at 8:00 a-m. (Students will attend classes
assigned. Requests for changes must be made at free hours. Changes will be made only to correct errors in scheduling.)
Saturday, July 8 Latest date for changes in courses. (After noon of
this day no changes whatsoever will be made in schedules. Students will be required to pass successfully all courses for which they are registered or to account for failures. Withdrawals from class are granted only for prolonged absence because of sickness, and must have the written approval of the Assistant Director of Studies in charge of the V-12 Program and of the Course Officer of the Navy.
NOTE: In order to receive academic credit for courses taken in the University, students must provide the Registrar with complete transcripts of high school and previous college work. No transcript will be accepted after August 15th. It will be to the student's advantage to provide the transcript before registration.
Meetings at Washington Hall shortly after the arrival of the new classes served to introduce the school and the station to the new students. Men found here answers to their questions, which ran the gauntlet of variety: “Why haven’t I got my sea bag yet?”; “When do we get paid?”; “How much leave do we get at the end of this semester?”; “What shall I do if my clothes don’t fit?”; “Do we have to go to classes?”, etc.
Since the beginning of the program at Notre Dame four “classes” have en
7
tered the unit, including the present July entrees. Many men have success-
. fully completed their V-12 training and received their commissions following graduation from midshipmen’s schools. Others have been unable or unwilling to stand the Notre Dame test and have passed on to other navy stations
Although the stress is placed upon the educational aims of the program, students have come to realize that the unit is not alone a ‘‘home for scholars,’- but a military organization as well. Accepting the challenge issued by the officers
What the V-12 is Like at Notre Dame
BY LIEUTENANT (JG) J. J. COLLINS
You men who are coming into the V-12 Unit here at Notre Dame will be divided into two main classes—those who have been at Notre Dame University before, and those who have only heard about it. Both of these classes will have missed much. There is a lot more to Notre Dame University than football, Coach Rockne, and the ‘‘Four Horsemen," although they have played no small part in making this beautiful University what it is today. There must have been a wonderful spirit of faith in the right for a campus filled with the large and beautiful buildings that are here to have arisen from a small log chapel built by the hands of a few men whose only wealth was their faith in the idea that men who are enlightened will improve the lives of their fellows.
These two classes of men are still further divided. There will be those of you who will come from the “fleet” either shore-based or from vessels at sea. There will be those of you who have transferred from other V-12 Units. And finally, there will be those of you who have come directly from civilian life.
Whatever regulations you may have lived under as a member of any of the three classes above—just so long as they are a part of Navy Regulations or Articles for the Government of the Navy— you will still abide by them. However, you will find that inasmuch as this is a Unit where men are being selected as Naval Officer Candidates, the decorum will not be that of an ordinary Naval Station. Dances will be conducted as military balls; the uniform will be smartly worn and clean; the barracks will be orderly and clean; salutes will be required at all times. In short, the men in training here are not to consider themselves “gobs"—they are definitely bluejackets.
and chiefs, the majority of seamen and marines have, with a necessary amount of griping, created a pride in their ability to march and the possibilities they boast as ‘‘marching men." Their military reviews presented on the drill field during successive Saturdays drew a valued compliment from the commanding officer.
As in any military organization, scuttlebutt plays an important part in V-12 life at Notre Dame. The only difference between the Notre Dame version and that of other stations is that its scuttlebutt usually proves to be true.
Lieut, (jg) J. 1. Collins
You will enter into the college activities, athletics, glee clubs, forums, band, and any and all other contests just the same as the other students here at the University. However, whenever you enter these activities, you have a dual role —you are representing the University officially, but unofficially; and much more in the public eye, you are representing the Navy and in this role you will have to be more proper, more sincere, more earnest than if you were entering under normal conditions.
In the motter of salutes—there are those among you who will feel that saluting an officer will be an act which degrades you or is a means of impressing upon you that you are servile. Get it very straight in your mind that when a salute is rendered it is rendered to a rank and not to a person. Get it very straight in your mind that every salute
rendered obligates the rank saluted to return the salute. Men who do not salute, or avoid rendering salutes through subterfuges are really servile in their minds. Render your salutes because you want to maintain the good discipline that makes the United States Navy what it is today.
Keep your uniform neat and clean. Wear it proudly. It stands for a great tradition. Know your Navy. Know its history. The glory that is the present Navy has not been the result of the efforts of any one officer or any one enlisted man—it is the result of the selfsacrifice of every man with honor who has ever been a member of the service. Y'ou contribute your part. It has been found that some men coming in from the “fleet"’ have been away from the books a long time, and therefore find it difficult to study and concentrate. Make up your mind that you are going to beat this difficulty. Don’t ever feel that because of this difficulty the men who are advanced in college are any better than you are. You have something to trade with them—you have a knowledge of the sea which they don’t have. If Joe Smith who just came from the Atlantic Fleet	,
finds that his roommate is Joe Brown	■
who is a Sophomore in college, right	I
from the start they should begin to ex-	'
change knowledge. The man with the । college experience should help out the fellow from the fleet in his book work; the fleet man should help out the civilian with his Navy lore. Keep your room neat and clean at all times. It will be easier to live in it in the long run. Keep your gear stowed neatly—it will be easier to ' keep clean and easier to find in a hurry.
Be sure to read every bulletin board at I least twice daily. Read the Regulations i for the V-12 Unit. Know them thoroughly. If in doubt, ask your Company Instructor and if he doesn’t know, ask one of the Commissioned Officers.
There will be those among you who will have come from other branches of the service where the regulations regarding liberty, leave, uniforms, salutes, etc. may not have been as “tight” as they are here or they may have been tighter. Get used to the regulations here!
There will be those among you who will “gripe.” Complaints aren’t so bad. It is the constant moaning that wears down morale. And too, it is a queer thing that those who moan loudest are always absent when there is a committee gotten together to work on some form of entertainment for the men. If you have a “gripe” get it out of your system by working to better conditions for the men —and do it directly. Don’t beat around the bush. All of us are in this together— let’s all do the most we can to make it best for the largest number.
Notre Dame—Municipality Unique
Cosmopolitan College I own Has 1700-Acre Campus
BY AL LESMEZ
Out South Bend’s Notre Dame avenue, just past the north city limits, sprawling out over the plain, dipping down to the shores of two clear, blue, spring-fed lakes — St. Mary's and St. Joseph’s — is a unique city. In America’s most representative county, it is a city unlike any other in the United States; it is a city apait, yet is as cosmopolitan as any from East to West. It is Notre Dame, Indiana, known scholastically as the University of Notre Dame.
Municipal area of the college-town is a 1700-acre campus, with forty-eight buildings, large and small. Spread orderly over the flat, green land they form
a T-shaped main quadrangle and numerous side courts. Citizens, this summer, number approximately 4 000 V-12 marines and navy men, V-7 midshipmen, civilians, instructors, professors and administrative officials and officers.
Most utilities at Notre Dame are publicly owned. On campus is a great modern power plant which heats campus buildings and pumps water from St. Joseph's lake for plumbing. Winding for two miles under the campus are lighted tunnels containing heating and water pipes and electrical conduits. Drinking water comes directly from deep spring wells.
Laundry and Dry-Cleaning
The laundry and dry cleaning plants are just two of the utilities which have geared up to the new demands of needed mass production. Clothes bags are numbered, and each item in turn is numbered by laundry workers: it is this number that separates the items later for packaging and delivery. Servicemen’s laundry is handed in every week; civilians’ every other week, and is ready to be picked up a week later. Badin hall, directly in front of the Dining hall, houses the calling headquarters for laundry seekers, and for leaving and picking up dry-cleaning.
Looking East—A Birdseye View of the Plaza and Stadium
9
Dining Halls
Trainees and Chilians alike eat in the Notre Dame dining halls, in shifts, and with the cafeteria system which, feeding 4,000 within one hour, makes necessary. Two huge modem-gothic halls, seating 1,200 each, and designed bj- the eminent architect, Ralph Adams Cram, serve the needs three times a day. The cafeteria is used by visitors, professors, graduate students, and by those who desire to supplement their dining hall nourishment. A modern soda fountain is also housed in the cafeteria, which has become the site of many a bull-session. Civilian students require a dining hall book to prove their right to the use of the hall. Mr. D. C. Ford is the present manager of the dining hall.
Rockne Memorial
The Rockne Memorial is the modern, well-designed athletic building at the University. One of the main features of the building is the standard swimming pool, in the central part of the structure. Above the pool is a large gymnasium for interhall basketball, indoor tennis, and gym classes. In the wings flanking the central part of the building are a general apparatus room and a room for corrective work. These rooms are used also by the military and by the Department of Physical Education for instruction and drill. Twelve courts for handball and squash, a room for boxing, a room for wrestling, and
one which serves as headquarters for the University golf course, are all located in this impressive monument to a great American. The foyer of the build--ing, which is the memorial proper to the late Coach Rockne, is one of the most attractive places on the campus, impressive with trophies, cups, prizes and awards of Notre Dame athletes.
And Others
There are many other buildings of the University which serve the campus body. The post office handles stacks and stacks of mail each day, and the packages which pour in around certain holidays read like a “believe it or not” item. The local barber shop, too, has had to expand to take care of the new military-style cuts. ... It has done this excellently, as it also takes the ribbing which local wit usually casts upon its politically-minded personnel.
The libraries, accessible to the student at the University, provide in all about 325,000 volumes. There is the general library, the law library, engineering library, the chemistry library and the biology library. Aside from these, other departments boast of having private libraries which are the envy of many outside the University. It is a well known fact that the metallurgy library, located in the engineering building, is one of the most complete, most expensive metallurgical libraries in the world.-
Dr. Edward G. Mahin has obtained the nation’s best metallurgical volumes in order to maintain its reputation and its prominence.
Other utilities are the Western Union office, the Shoe Shop, the Watch Repair shop, and the Huddle, all located across from Science hall. The Huddle is almost a Notre Dame tradition. It is the stopping place between classes for a soda, ice cream, sandwich, or anything you may need. Sport goods may be bought here, as they may be bought in the zero deck of the dining hall. The zero deck of the dining hall houses the telephone booths, with operators on duty to handle long distance calls during the afternoon and meal hours.
The book store is the busiest spot on campus at the beginning of each semester, and enjoys a good portion of this great popularity throughout the year. Every detail of school work, from the lowly two-cent pencils to expensive texts are sold here, no less than toilet articles, souvenir gifts for the little girl back home, greeting cards for all occasions, Notre Dame rings, jewelry, and religious articles may also be secured in this miniature replica of R. H. Macy and Co. of New Yerk. And even if there is nothing to buy, Brothers Meinrad and Conan are always pleased to talk to anyone.
There is also the stadium, the Ave Maria press where the Scholastic and many other publications are published, the freight house, the repair shops, the Huddle, and the small stores in the basement of Walsh hall. In Washington hall, a recreation room contains pool tables, ping-pong tables, and more telephones.
The 18-hole golf course is open to all men. Small fees are exacted of civilians and V-12 trainees.
And so it stands ... a city apart and unique. Its self sufficiency is complete even in the fact that the new navy drill hall supplies numerous entertainments, and also in that Washington hall is the site for movies each Saturday night at 7:15, along with supplying much entertainment from time to time. Lectures, concerts, talks, and shows are planned regularly. It is because of all this that Notre Dame can be happy and sufficient in living within itself. It is a city complete.
“I can assure you that it is a source of great satisfaction that the Navy not only is carrying this war to the enemy on all the seven seas, but also has assumed the leadership of the entire na- W tion in the highly important bond S. effort.”—Assistant Secretary Bard. ®
10
Service Center Welcomes V-12 Trainees
Hospitable Townspeople Offer Social Facilities to Servicemen
Not only does the University of Notre Dame, its students and faculty, extend a warm welcome to the new V-12 trainees, but the citizens of South Bend, through their organization, the Service Men’s Center, provide the utmost in excellent recreational facilities for the new men as well as for all service men at home or visiting the city. The Center, on Colfax Avenue, near Michigan Street, is unique in that it is entirely supported through the efforts of the local citizenry, and unlike most service organizations, receives no assistance from the U.S.O. or similar national associations.
The South’ Bend Service Men’s Center offers the individual practically an unlimited number of ways to enjoy his time while on liberty in town. Formerly known as the Palais Royale Ballroom, the Center is well equipped to handle the hundreds of men who flock there for dancing Saturdays and Sundays on the spacious ballroom floor. Moreover, there is always the opportunity to dance on the mezzanine balcony, in between sips of soft drinks which are available at the refreshment bar in the balcony.
What is probably the most important requirement to make a place like the Service Men’s Center a success is an abundance of young women to serve as hostesses and dancing partners and provide a little feminine companionship. In this respect the center is a complete success. Not only is a corps of cadettes always on duty, but also there are hundreds of South Bend girls regularly enrolled as hostesses on Saturdays and Sundays, the busiest days of the week.
For those who, at the moment, do not care to dance, the Center offers a variety of other recreational activities. The pingpong tables on the mezzanine balcony seldom remain idle, as table tennis enthusiasts allow competitive spirits free reign. On the ground floor to the left of the spacious lounge is an extensive library containing many of today’s best sellers, as well as books to interest every conceivable literary taste. The atmosphere here, too, is peaceful and very conducive to reading. Next to the library is the Center’s music room. At specified hours during the day the serviceman may drop in, sink into a comfortable easy chair,
and ilsten to the world’s most beautiful classical music. A large and well-rounded collection of records, embracing Tschai-kowsky, Beethoven, Mozart, Wagner and many more of the old masters, are always on hand.
As the sailor, marine, or soldier pushes his way through the swinging glass doors of the South Bend Service Men’s Center he is met by a cluster of desks in one corner of an extensive lounge. From here the multitudinous activities of the Center are directed. And it is here, too, that the service man learns of the
Seaman Pearse Clarke at his piano
organization’s numerous services. If he is one of the fortunate early birds, he will have his choice of a number of free tickets to any of the city’s movies. Or perhaps he will be in the vicinity when one of the frequent calls from South Bend townspeople come to the desk inviting a number of boys to dinner. Here also the Center conducts its housing service, finding quarters in town for guests of Notre Dame’s service men. Over and above these and similar services, the little group of desks acts as an efficient information center, giving help on practically every problem, or at least knowing where to go to find the required aid.
In the outer lobby of the Center stands a huge bulletin board. On his way in or out it would be worth the individual’s while to stop a moment and examine its contents. For here are posted numerous pictures and clippings of general inter
est, as well as dozens of notices which may well prove to be of considerable value. Notices of future events, schedules of church services, offers of transportation to other cities, and other group or individual offers are published here.
The comfortable, roomy lounge is one of the Center’s most popular spots. Spread around the room on the ground floor, at the foot of the wide, stone staircase leading to the ballroom, are deep, comfortable easy chairs and sofas. Hundreds of magazines of every type, including all the more popular publications, are scattered throughout the room and constantly perused by servicemen with a few extra minutes to while away.
When one gazes on the array of edibles constantly served at the balcony snack bar, one comes to the conclusion that the Service Men’s Center operates on the theory that “the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.” For over the bar and into the hungry hands of thousands of soldiers, sailors and marines passes food ranging all the way from well-balanced, full-course meals to sandwiches, cookies, cakes, and soft drinks. Here is a place that is never empty; here are the generous hostesses who are never idle.
Yes, the South Bend Servicemen’s Center does all this and much more. There are facilities for writing letters, typing, making phone calls, checking parcels and packages, relaxing at a card game or playing checkers. And there are a number of kindly ladies who are ready and willing to take over a task long dreaded by the ordinary man—sewing up holes, etc., making the uniform look new again.
The Service Men’s Center is one of the most pleasant and longest-lingering memories the trainees have of South Bend.
“I urge every person in the service of the Coast Guard to be ‘always ready* for any future financial emergency by investing a portion of earnings regularly in War Savings Bonds.”
—Vice Admiral Waesche, USCG.
“The heaviest burden which a man can carry is an empty purse. The Navy allotment plan makes it possible to buy bonds today so that we need not suffer economic bondage tomorrow.”
—Vice Admiral W. L. Calhoun
11-
NROTC Lives Secluded Life in USS "Walsh”
BY J. D. USINA
The United States Navy first established itself on the campus of the University of Notre Dame in the pie-Pearl Harbor days of 1941 when the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps began to function in September. On July 1, 1943, the Naval R.O.T.C. went on active duty status in the Navy College Training Program and at Notre Dame all the members of the unit were assigned to their alma mater with Walsh Hall being designated as their quarters.
Notre Dame’s Naval R.O.T.C. is under the guidance of Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, professor of Naval Science and Tactics with Commander H. B. Butcher, USNR, as the unit’s executive officer. Five officer-instructors are attached to the NROTC for teaching naval subjects of a wide variety including navigation, seamanship, ordnance, naval history, marine, steam and electrical engineering, damage control, communications, administration, fire control, gunnery and numerous other courses. Upon completion of the Naval ROTC schedule graduates are commissioned ensigns in the Naval Reserve with the option of becoming an officer in the regular Navy after one year of service with the fleet.
A class of 80 men which formed the nucleus of the first group to enter the unit was graduated and commissioned on Feb. 27, 1944, one semester ahead of schedule. These men are now on various assignments overseas and in training
Chief Rinehart (facing camera) Roy J. Grumbine (spotting in dark coat and blue rimmed hat). John L. Zilly (tossing shell in gun) Peter M. Belmont (holding end of gun) Richard R. Young (holding shell to the right). William P. Webb (looking through telescope on the left). L. J. Winter (sight-setter with back to
camera.
schools in this country. They constitute the first contribution of Notre Dame men en masse from the campus to the fighting fronts over the world.
A second group of 155 men which entered in September, 1942 has been whittled down to 106 and supplemented with 45 men added at the start of the spring semester. They comprise the present total strength of the unit. Fifty new men will fill out the ranks at the start of the summer semester coming from the Notre Dame V-12 and from other colleges with V-12 programs in the vicinity.
The Naval ROTC is connected with the Navy college training program but differs from V-12 training in that it fits men to receive commissions immediately upon the completion of the course prescribed in Naval Science and Tactics. At Notre Dame the NROTC functions under a cadet-officer system with members of the Corps being accountable for the naval routine of drill, calisthenics and all the various internal regulations subject to the discretion of the executive officer.
An entire system of unit athletics is maintained and promoted within the unit; social activities of various sorts are handled by committees; color competition is arranged and colors presented to the company which displays the best form at drill and in a schedule of athletic events; a magazine, The Irish Pennant is pub-
Commander H. B. Butcher, USNR, executive officer Naval ROTC, since August, 1943.
lished every six weeks by a staff of NROTC men and pistol and rifle teams are sponsored which compete with other of the 26 other Naval ROTC groups throughout the country.
As a whole the Naval ROTC at Notre Dame is independent of the other groups in training on the campus. Many of the older men in the unit take pride in the fact that theirs is the oldest of the naval groups at Notre Dame and a keen rivalry exists along various lines of competition. Since the majority of the unit came to Notre Dame as civilians, entering the NROTC on a part time basis, they have become ardent supporters of the traditions of Notre Dame and have divided loyalties, so to speak, between the Navy and Notre Dame.
With certain exceptions the unit personnel has completed a training cruise on Lake Michigan aboard the USS Wilmette, during the leave period. This is the third cruise made by the organization and during the time spent aboard ship they have been taught the advanced principles of standing JOOD watches, the fundamentals of navigation, engineering and gunnery as necessary aboard ship and have put to practical use the textbook knowledge gained since the two-weeks trip last summer. The lake aircraft carriers, USS Sable and the USS Wolverine were also boarded for training purposes. Firing of the guns aboard the Wilmette was carried out on a competitive basis and the gun crews received valuable experience in firing anti-aircraft and 4-inch weapons.
To provide experience as well as security a watch system is maintained in Walsh Hall. A cadet ODD and five Mates of the Watch provide for internal supervision in the hall.
12
Religion Plays Big Part In Navy Life
Afternoon Mass Offered Daily; Lourdes Grotto Favorite Place of Prayer
Since Notre Dame is by tradition and heritage a Catholic school, the religious atmosphere of the Campus is predominantly Catholic. However, no attempt is made to interfere with the consciences of non-Catholic students. Notre Dame has always had a good percentage of non-Catholic students, and has always welcomed those of other religious beliefs. None of them has ever found his religion an obstacle to his success as a student in the Notre Dame way of life. One non-Catholic student said that before he came to Notre Dame he was worried about the attitude Notre Dame might take towards his icligion. but when he came, he found that Nofre Dame expected him to live accoiding to ’ his conscience.
Afternoon Mass Daily
The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass and the Sacrament of Holy Communion have always been the centers of Notre Dame spiiitual life, and the deepest source of what is known the world over as the “Notre Dame Spirit.” Holy Mass is offered daily (except Sunday) in the hall-chapels of every student dormitory on the campus. On account of a tight morning schedule. Mass for service-students is in the afternoon, at 5:00 (1700) in Walsh (NROTC). Dillon, and Alumni; at 5:15 (1715), in Zahm: at 5:20 (1720), in Cavanaugh. In addition to these Masses, there is another, primarily for midshipmen, at 6:15 (1815). in Dillon Hall Chapel.
Sunday Mass
Sunday Mass is offered in beautiful Sacred Heart
Church, near the Main Building. Student Masses on Sunday are at 6:00, 7:30. 9:00. and 10:10. Students should not attend the 11:00 Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sundays: that is a Parish Mass, for non-student members of the Notie Dame Parish.
Confessions
Confessions are heard on Sunday morning during al! the Masses in the Church, in the hall chapels during afternoon Mass, in the evenings till 10:00 in Sorin Hall and Breen-Phillips Hall (piess the buzzer near the chapel door) : from (Continued on page 26)
South Bend Churches
(With Schedule of Services)
Baptist. First
233 S. Main Street Sunday School ....................... 9:30 a.m.
Church Service ....................10:30 a.m.
Christian. First
316 S. Main Street Church School .......................- 9:30 a.m.
Woiship Service.................... 10:30	a.m.
Church of Christ. Scientist. First
Main and Madison Streets Sunday ...............................11:00	a.m.
Wednesday .......................... S	:00 p.m.
Episcopal. St. James
117 N. Lafayette Blvd.
Holy Communion ................... 8:00 a.m.
Worship Service ................... 10:45 a.m.
Evangelical. First
Lafayette Blvd, and Monroe Street
Unified Worship, 9:30 a.m.
Greek Orthodox. St. Andrew’s
Jefferson Blvd, and William St.
Worship Service. 10:30 a.m.
Jewish Orthodox. Hebrew Congregation
112 S. Taylor Street
Daily ...................6:30 a.m. and sunset
Saturday. Prayers .......—........8:30 a.m.
Saturday. Prayers ................4:30 p.m.
Sunday ---------------------------8:00 a.m.
Lutheran, Holy Trinity
Sherman Avenue and Lindsey Street
Church School ........_.........  9:30	ajn.
Worship ........................ 10:45	a.m.
Methodist. First
325 N. Main Street
Sunday School .....................9:25 a.m.
Worship Sei-vice  ............—10:45 a.m.
Presbyterian. First
Lafayette Blvd, and Washington Ave.
Men’s class. Central YWCA ________ 9:30	a.m.
Morning Worship ................ 10:45	a.m.
Evening Worship  S:00	p.m.
United Brethien in Christ. First
608 S. St. Joseph Street
Sunday School ..................  9:30	a.m.
Divine Worship 10:45 a-m.
Evening Worship ____ 7:15
MEMORIAL DAY FIELD MASS
With the vivid background of the Navy training program of World War H and the beautiful Memorial Door of World War L Notre Dame observed Memorial Day with a field Mass at the Door on Sunday, May 28.
The Band, Moreau Choir, the N.B.O.T.C. color guard and firing squad, a platoon of 52 flags. Navy and Marine detachments and civilian students and visitors gathered for the Mass, celebrated by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh. C.S.C. The address of the day was given by Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N. The Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, introduced Captain Barry, and read the already impressive roll of honor of Notre Dame dead in World War n, numbering then just 100.
13
Notre Dame Clothed In Traditions
_ More Than One Hundred Years Have Created and Strengthened Privilege and Custom
“Traditions are the real tapestries of all noble halls. Traditions claim and receive the plenary loyalty of all high and fine spirits....
“Traditions are never started. They exist and grow strong long before anyone discovers them. They exhale from any distinctive group life as naturally and inevitably as perfume exhales from a violet. They are the fragrance of life and can no more be created than a new star. The old songs sung by generations of happy students without any thought of 'starting a tradition’; the old jokes, the old stories, the old atmosphere, the old dreams and enthusiasms, the old ‘razzes’ and ‘rough-horses’ (in due place and season), the old thrilling stunts handed down by word of mouth, the old unaffected pieties and reverences when there were no statistics, the sturdy old contempt for ‘snitching’ or for smelling at another man’s heels, the old scorn of unclean speech or cheating or stealing or unfair self-seeking — these things are such stuff as dreams and traditions are made of. Like epic poems these things are never ‘started’ or ‘made’; they grow. They are the cream skimmed off the rich milk of the college mind.”
For more than 100 years now, Notre Dame has been an apostle for the rugged and manly way of life and learning. It is here on these grounds that the Notre Dame of Sorin, of Corby, of Rockne, of the little log chapel by the lake, has sprung outward and around the lakes. From two or three humble buildings, a few teachers, a dozen students, Notre Dame has, today, burst into a University of quadrangles, of many halls, of libraries, of a faculty numbering hundreds, and a student body of military and civilian groups numbering thousands.
And so, to the many hundreds of young men who, for the first time today, moved down the long maple-bordered avenue to the campus, Notre Dame extends the invitation to become a part of her life, her learning, her customs and traditions, her legendry, and that in the fullest measure possible. .
The Fighting Irish .
New men coming to Notre Dame may, for the first few hours, walk wide-eyed and wary. There are no fraternities, no cliques, no class distinctions. Though
14
wealth is not unknown here, the vast majority who come to Notre Dame are here by navy order, and the remaining civilians are of the great American middle class; sons of physicians, contractors, farmers, lawyers, accountants, and merchants. Under these conditions, finding acquaintances is the easiest thing to do; here the South meets the North, New Yorkers befriend Californians . . . under the Dome, all learn to live in the equality and friendship of the Notre Dame family.
The Spirit of Notre Dame
Though Notre Dame has grown much in these past hundred years, though curricula have been widened and diversified enormously, though changes in educational methods have come about, the University still adheres strictly to the ideal of Catholic tradition and culture; men coming to Notre Dame who so desire it, are schooled undeviatingly in the elements of Catholic education, just as preceding generations have been schooled.
There are thousands of Notre Dame alumni who are living proof that Our Lady’s University is not just one university among thousands; there is something in them, an intangible something that was acquired at Notre Dame, and
CHICAGO TRUSTEES GIVE DINNER
Seated at the head table, left to right: Rear Admiral Arthur S. Carpender, USN, Byron V. Kanaley, Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., Rear Admiral E. G. Morsell, USN, and Hon. Edward J. Kelly, Mayor of Chicago. Standing, left to right: John C. Tully, William J. Corbett, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Edward J. Doyle.
that can be found only at Notre Dame. It is not a manner of dressing, nor of a fanatic devotion to the “alma mater.” It has been popularized as the Spirit of Notre Dame.
Campus Life
Notre Dame life is a campus life, which strengthens the spirit of democracy, levels social distinctions and garners countless friendships which become life-time relations. It does not take long for everyone to adjust himself to the new environment. Everyone eats together, marches together, plays together, and works together. Wealth and social position have nothing to do with a boy’s standing with his companions, civilian or military. Once he is here, he is on his own, accepted for what he is as an individual.
After the first mad rush to find out where the buildings are, and what they are for, the Notre Dame man settles down to a rigorous and somewhat Spartan existence of a man’s world. Amazement and excitement slowly give way to experience. The Indiana weather, the food, the schedule of classes, the commanding officers—all share the torrents of words which they inspire and which
(Continued on page 27)
The Purpose of the V-12 Program
The first purpose of the V-12 College Program is to prepare young men to serve as competent officer candidates in the Navy and Marine Corps for active duty in this war. The preparation is spiritual, intellectual and physical, and the catalogue account of the plan is contained in Navy V-12 Bulletin 101 which every trainee receives for his guidance.
For all V-12 men entering college for the first time the required curricula of the first two semesters are chiefly preengineering in nature with English literature and composition and a history course, added, thus fitting the trainee for transfer or screening, according to quotas and to his qualifications, to any of the several upper-level specialties in the Navy7 or the Marine Corps College Program.
Most men entering with advanced standing of a semester (sixteen weeks) or more of college will become deck candidates, and they will take the courses they are prepared for in the prescribed Curricula 311 and 411 for deck candidates in their third or fourth semesters. Such candidates are usually members of Colleges of Science, Arts and Letters, Commerce and have come into the Navy as basic (deck) or Aviation (V-5) candidates. They will first enroll for all of the following courses which they have not already completed with credit in college: one year each of English composition, physics (with laboratory), and mathematics (including three semester hours of plane trigonometry), and a semester of engineering drawing. They should also make sure of taking Mathematics 8n, Navigation, whether they are men with deck or with supply preference as to duty, since all deck, nearly all supply, and some engineering students who entered with advanced standing will be ordered to training at deck midshipmen’s schools.
Men with supply corps as their duty preference, who entered the program with advanced standing in a college of commerce or a business administration major will, after meeting the fundamental Navy requirements fox- all basic students (physics, mathematics, English, engineering drawing) properly include the first year of accounting and a course in English composition as their schedule may permit. When a basic student in advanced standing finishes the Navy-recommended courses already named in this article, he may properly add such courses as Far-Eastern history,
Hispanic-American history, American history or government, meteorology, geology, and especially any advanced mathematics course for which he is prepared. The Navy can make good use of men with a minor or a major- in mathematics. In general, for the Marine Corps reservist, entering with advanced standing, as well as for the seamen in the same status, the courses to be preferred are those specifically valuable to him as a Marine or Naval Officer. PreMedical and pre-dental students meet the specific course requirements outlined by the Navy in a five-semester plan. The details of all programs of study and the description of the courses are to be found in Bulletin 101.
At present and for some time to come the greatest single need of the Navy as to numbers of officer-candidates is for deck officers with engineering background. During each of the past two semesters the Bureau of Naval Personnel has announced a few openings for irregular students in advanced standing to become General or Engineering N.R.O.T.C. students but no openings for N.R.O.T.C. Supply students. Engineering students entering with advanced standing continue with their original major- departmental study, and meet the engineering requirements of .the Navy, as outlined in Bulletin 101, and those of the Engineering College.
In the academic program it is a first necessity for a man to learn how to study well. He must be a self-starter seeking to learn, to analyze, and to remember. Reading skill is one of his needs. Dr. C. Gilbert Wrenn’s “How to Read Rapidly and Well,” a 15c paper pamphlet available at the University
The Obstacle Course Makes the Flying Trapeze Look Mild
Marksmanship is Essential
Bookstore, is a useful guide to improvement in this skill, if the content is read and then re-read and practised. Dr. Wrenn (now Lieut. Wrenn, USNR) is co-author of another useful 15c paper pamphlet, available at the bookstore, Wrenn and Larson’s “Practical Study Aids.” Most men in college need to study to improve their method of mental work, and nearly all have their desperate hours when in order to have time enough for all their assignments they should be attempting to follow a well-planned, if' constantly revised, distribution of their study hours—a weekly plan of living achieving balance in their use of their 1 hours of study, drill, exercise, recreation, practice of religion, and personal reading, etc. Some men in the courses in history may find useful the outline guides to the study of a given period in history, also in a paper edition at the University bookstore. The comparative method of study increases the satisfaction and the effectiveness of learning history.
Intelligently overcoming “academic hysteria,” an unhappy disease which many of us suffer early in our college experience, requires the same self-reliance and cheerful determination to push ahead and find out how best to solve
(Continued on page 27)
15
A senior officer of the shore patrol for the day issues night sticks and brassards at the regimental headquarters.
An Editorial
By LT. PAUL T. SPRINZ
Enforcing Navy regulations and customs is the job of the shore patrol when liberty is declared.
Each week 12 officers and men selected from the personnel of the station, patrol the streets, hotels, and bars of South Bend to keep a rigid check on the activities of the men attached to the naval training station and also all meh in uniform in the city.
Navy and Marine corps personnel who have not reached their twenty - first birthday are forbidden to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages, including beer, at any time oi’ at any place. Rules regarding saluting and proper dress are carefully scrutinized. Men out of uniform in any manner will be corrected and if the offense is serious enough he will be sent back to the station, under guard, to await the discretion of the commanding officer.
Any trainee, regardless of age, showing signs, of intoxication, will be sent to the University under arrest and he will be the subject of a special report to the commanding officer.
Overcoats, peacoats and raincoats shall be worn buttoned up and properly belted or shall be carried folded over the left arm. Cuff of blouses or shirts will be kept buttoned. Hats and caps will be worn squarely.
Punishments for infractions of the
rules set down by the commanding officer will range from extra duties, confinement to the station for extended periods to dismissal from the school. This means that a man will lose his opportunity to become a naval officer.
Cooperate with the shore patrol. It is their job to see that you do not bring dishonor to your uniform. Their requests are not unreasonable; remember you are an officer candidate.
Your free time is scarce; so don’t have it taken from you.
The shore patrol and South Bend police department work together in answering calls and making rounds of outlying public places. South Bend Tribune photo.
SHORE
"Leave" papers are inspected before boarding a train to spend a week-end in Chicago. "I. D." cards must be with a man at all times.
SCHEDULE OF (Semester Begi Saturday 1 July, 0800 to 2200 Appr from repor room 1300 Issuii Sunday, 2 July			0830 Physi 0830 Swim Build 1300 Math who emati 1900 Talk Beatt follow Monday, 3 July	0800	Issuii •	1200	Regis Tuesday, 4, July	1200	or ec 1200 Spec -	ized. 1300-1630 Regis 2000 Spec '	McK< ton £ 1700 Gen< by E Wednesday, 5 July	0800 Clast Saturday, 8 July	1100 Gens byC Univ	■l 1 t J s 4 t
1
ic
31
[t
I
Li
31
O
rt
n
t <
16

1
I
’ATROL
When in South Bend
Members of all military units on the campus are urged to cooperate with the patrol in the enforcement of military and civil law. The patrol handles all military personnel in South Bend.
South Bend Tribune photo.
Officers and men receiving instructions from the senior officer. Rules and regulations governing the behavior expected of the men on leave are read at the squad room of the South Bend police station.
>r a ii si
ig 1 July, 1944)
ti
tt
d h
:ontinues Monday.
ics placement test. Drill Hall not had one year of college
rtely 750 men new to this outfit, : units, the fleet, and civilian life. Navy V-12 office, assigned to a to a Chief Petty Officer.
Clothing Begins.
Examinations begin, Howard Hall.
: and Strength Tests begin, Rockne

m V-12 UNIT
for all math-
registration and studies, by
>urse officer, at Washington
ii
n a ™ * * - " S' ‘ Q- ° ~
Lieut. Hall,
>y movies.
clothing completed.
m, all new men.
all old men return.
[uster, all Hands, companies organ-
y
□n, all men here previous semester, btre Dame Movies, talks by Coach and Father Brennan at Washing-
T
Assembly, Drill Hall, all hands, talk ive Officer, egin.
Assembly, Navy Drill Hall, Welcome anding Officer and President of the of Notre Dame.
At the same time, one other factor in the question of law enforcement has recently been called to attention. That fact is that South Bend police are responsible for law enforcement in South Bend. This problem has been complicated because of the fact that officers are reluctant to censure a uniformed man, and has been made doubly difficult on occasions when a police officer has had to resort to this. Public opinion, and the opinion of some men in uniform, is that uniformed men should be allowed a little leeway — this in view of the fact that they are risking, or ultimately will, risk their lives, for their country, during this emergency period.
The point not to lose sight of is that members of the police force are also in the service of their country. Every police officer in South Bend, by virtue of the fact that he is entrusted with the task of law enforcement, stands as a possible martyr for the country. Persons familiar with police history in South Bend can readily recall instances when police officers, without warning, have been slain in cold blcod. Others can remember instances when officers perished in the task of protecting life and property of some member of the community.
While it cannot be denied that men in the armed services deserve our greatest appreciation and sacrifice, it will also be admitted that a debt of grati
An apprentice seaman is ordered to ‘square" his hat. Seeing that men are cor-rectly dressed at all times is part of the job of the shore patrol. South Bend Tribune photo.
' -	17
tude must be given to local police officers. To sum the matter up, it may be said that police officers have taken, as a lifetime vocation, the job of protecting the same liberties that our servicemen are now defending. The police officers, as many of the men in uniform, volunteered for this duty. They live a life' that is not unknown to danger. They are the unsung heroes of our everyday history.
—o—
Fortunately, the abuses of law by men at the Notre Dame naval station have been few and far between. Further, their behavior, for the most part, has been in cooperation with local authorities. The gist of the trouble lies around such minor infractions of law as jaywalking, walking against a red light, and similar occurrences.
Since South Bend is striving for complete compliance with traffic laws, and since officers have a difficult task when it comes to correcting some uniformed man who is breaking one of these regulations, the task should be settled by service men themselves. A respect for the traffic regulations in South Bend will undoubtedly earn additional respect for those responsible for the enforcement of such regulations.
“Navy men who buy war bonds help break the Japs today without being broke tomorrow.”
—Admiral IF. F. Halsey, Jr.

641


As you get to know the campus and its buildings, you’ll find quite a few of them are u-ed for eveiy possible type of entertainment. You'll discover Washington Hall, the Navy Drill Hall, the Fieldhouse. Cartier Field, the Stadium, and sometimes Sacred Heart church to be the meccas for all Notre Dame social activities.
Washington Hall has a gloiious history. Its intimate interior has held thousands cheering for Bernhardt and Chesterton down the line to Digby and Snyder. It is equipped for little theattc productions and has a capacity of one thousand. Last semester saw the production there of several “Nites and Daze" shows. These were produced by the trainees who combined their varying talents anti played to standing room only at every performance.
The Glee Club has recitals in “Wash" Hall several times each semester: the Midshipmen hold their class play there; the University band gives at least one concert there a semester: and a trainee band has shaken its portals many times.
The University has a special program of entertainment designed to meet the cultural needs of all its students. Within the last six months, as part of this program, the American Ballad singers, the Seigmeister Symphonette, the duo-pianists, Bauer and Honeywell, Colonel
Jack Major, lecturer and storyteller, and Bishop Yu Pin, authority on the Far East, appeared on its stage,
Gilbert and Sullivan have also had their share of the footlights in Washington Hall. Within the last two years, five of their operettas have been given there.
The Drill Hall is used for all the big affairs. The V-12 Balls are held there each semester: the last one drawing some 900 couples. This last semester the Ball was held in connection with •‘Maneuvers Week.’’ This weekend consisted of the Ball on Friday night, a regimental review on Saturday morning, a picnic at Potawatamie Park on Saturday afternoon, a “Nites and Daze’’ show, also at the park, on Saturday night, a military Mass on the campus on Sunday morning, and a tea dance at one of the South Bend clubs on Sunday afternoon.
But to get back to the Drill Hall. Each Midshipmen class in the course of its stay here puts on a “Happy Hour’’ in the drill hall which the whole station attends. Each Saturday night, the Navy sponsors free movies just released from Hollywood. Every once in a while the USO shows stop at the Drill Hall, bringing famous personalities of stage and screen. The University also sponsors the (Continued on page 30)
Row 1: (A) THE BALL — Grandii March. In the front line—Chairmen:!, Haller, Nesbit, Young, and Ferrich.:-(B) THE REVIEW—A well deserved 1 rest after the review. Bill Coakley1, and his Chicago friend Jean Yocum. -(C) PICNIC AFTERNOON—Ohooool; what good looking uniforms those;! Marines have. Privates Nelligan and ; Opela with the Johanson sisters. (D) : Choice seats for the Musical Revue. ■
Row 2: (A) PICNIC RACES—The crowd gathered for those exciting— crazy races. (B) Enthusiastic spectators—Aren't those pigtails of Betty
Jo Christian something? For Gareth Bibbins thinks so. (C) NIC REFRESHMENTS —Watch Lynch — "Gunny." He's after weiners.
sure PIC-John more
“Poppy" Maggioli's Cavanaugh Band
Row 3: (A) Looks like just about
everybody is around that except the Captain. (B) that Marine at this table?
fireplace Who let Seamen:
Collette, Coleman, Jeske, Connors and Coakley with Misses Burke. Lane, Washburn, Sundstrom and Yocum. (C) PICNIC SHOW—Part ol the hundreds that saw the stupendous, colossal Musical Revue...............
Row 4: (A) The Producer and Pro-ducerette of the show, K. C. Snyder and his girl Shirley Sims. (B) Part | of that solid Finn Band. McMaster, f Carr, Ballinger, Lang; on trombones. Wallace, Kapituk and Finn on trumpets. (C) Marine Private Thomas Young. Emcee of show and fair, superb announcer of races! (D) SUN-DAY MILITARY MASS— and Tec Dance. The close of a Perfect Week-End.
18
t	an.
(decent fyJeek-Qi'uH JWautewueM,
Notre Dame Sports
Navy Bolsters Irish Athletic Program
other strong clubs from all over the nation. Notre Dame should have a representative team, one that will, with ordinary luck, give a good account of itself. Although twenty-four of the twenty-nine men who won monograms on last year’s national championship team have departed from the campus, there are a number of promising freshmen out for the team.
BY BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
A war was all the more reason for the
Fighting Irish institution to keep its
tradition of producing varsity teams.
Bill Waddington
While some colleges and universities were yielding to the pleas of radicals concerning the abandonment of sports, the Golden Dome campus saw the survival of its historic athletic era as the Navy was all out in its support of intercollegiate sports.
In the fall, the Irish put a team on the gridiron that was predicted to lose four or five games in pre-season comments, however, all America knows the story of how they were undefeated for 599 minutes and 32 seconds in a 10-
McKeever Issues Invitation
“It is a great pleasure to extend the greetings of the Athletic Association to those who are entering Notre Dame for the first time, both to Navy V-12, V-5 trainees, and to civilian students.
During your stay here, you will find what is meant by Notre Dame spirit, that intangible something that has personified Notre Dame activities down through the years. The athletic teams, of course, have always been famous for that spirit, and many times it has enabled them to turn apparent defeat into victory.
This season, the football team will need your support and that spirit more than ever, because the schedule includes three of the great service teams (Navy, Army, and Great Lakes), as well as
I would like to invite all of the new Navy V-12 and V-5 trainees to come out for the various athletic teams while they are here. Of course, I realize that the trainees carry a full schedule, and that their free time is limited. However, they will find that the varsity teams have short practice sessions. This has been done to afford trainees the opportunity to participate in intercollegiate sports as long as they successfully carry out their academic work.”
Plenty to Shoot At
When Old Man Winter began to howl, the boys on the hardcourt took up where the gridders left off. A better than average season with ten wins chalked up against nine losses was the final setting for Coach Ed Krause’s basketeers. Coach Krause left before the last game with Camp Grant for Quantico to gain his present 2nd lieutenant’s rating in the Marines. Clem Crowe, an Irish grid-der and eager takes over Krause’s du-
game card, having lost to Great Lakes in the final 28 seconds but being unanimously acclaimed National Champions despite the surprising setback. On that team, there were five All-Americans, and truly All-American they were for they represented all forms of student life that now abides on the campus. There was Angelo Bertelli, private in the Marine Corps Reserve, as well as Capt. Pat Filley and John Yonakor from the same outfit. Tackle Jim White was a Navy V-12 boy who made good while Creighton Miller was the civilian who copped off the honors and was named All-American captain. John Perko was a Marine transfer from Minnesota who snared a starting berth at guard as was Julie Rykovich from Illinois and in the Marine Corps. Herb Coleman was playing center while awaiting his call to the Navy Air Corps as was Frank Szymanski. Jack Zilly was an ROTC trainee while Paul Li-mont, Bob Kelly, John Lujack, Bob Palladino and others were Navy V-12 boys who merited awards with this past season’s champions. Coach Frank Leahy had issued a call early in July and the resultant turned out to be a grand conglomeration from the four comers of the campus and a national championship squad.
20
1944 WESTERN TENNIS CHAMPIONS
These players won the 1944 western tennis championship for Notre Dame. Left to right, hack row. Coach Walter Langford, Leonard Buchstaber, Billy Tully, Jim Griffin, Darrell Black and Bart O'Brien. Left to right, bottom row, Charles Samson, Jerry Evert, Sanford Warshawsky, and Joe Wood. ■
Soon the Fighting Irish will begin practice for the time when scenes like this will again be commonplace. Fall, observes acting coach Edward C. McKeever, is only around the corner, and this year's team is going to need conditioning. The scene above shows Irish glory of last year, with Jimmy Mello ripping through a hole in the line.
ties this semester, having come from Xavier University in Cincinnati.
Among the standouts on the basketball team last season, were All-American Leo Klier, a V-12 Navy man, Bernie Rutledge, V-12 Navy, Mike Todoro-vich, a transfer from Washington University in St. Louis and a Marine Corps trainee, Carl Loyd, a civilian who later left to join the Navy, John Kelly, a Marine, and others of both service and civilian ratings.
Doc Handy, the track coach, began his indoor season without much, if anything, to build on. Yet in all his boys enjoyed a successful billing within the enclosures of the fieldhouse. Frank Mar-
and Paul Lammers of the civilian brigade. Catcher Tom Sheehan and shortstop Bob Klein were V-12 products while Len Scarpelli, a transfer from Santa Clara, Jack Mayo, and Phil Reither took down the leatherneck honors.
Coach Kline is planning another summer season similar .to the informal session held last year after the opening of the July term. Most of the spring varsity material have bid au revoir to the Notre Dame campus and new prospects are being heavily counted on to make the grade. Just a bunch of fellows who like to play ball and get a kick out of it is primarily what Jake is looking for.
We also had more than commendable
seasons on the golf links and tennis courts, the golf club having lost but a single match, the opener of the season, 9%-8%, and then going on to win the remaining six matches plus an informal encounter with the Midshipmen’s school. Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C., golf coach, employed the services of civilians Mel Wilke, Jack Fitzpatrick, Bob Terry, Tom Kennedy, Dick Seidel, and also V-12er Jim Bessenfelder.
Coach Walter Langford produced an undefeated tennis championship for Notre Dame with nine wins and chalked up no losses. Chuck Samson, a V-12 transfer from Ohio State, and Jerry Evert, another Navy man, led the Irish to their goal and ranked as two of the most outstanding players in the collegiate ranks today. NROTC student Jim Grifiin, civilian Bill Tully, V-12er Joe Wood, a veteran of South Pacific action, and Darrell Black, a Marine, brought a most representative contingent to this small but select group.
There was also an intra-service and intra - civilian basketball and softball league in operation, with the winners playing each other. The spring boxing show, the “Bengal Bouts,” from which emerged seven victors, three Marines, two V-12 men, and a pair of civilians, had Barney Ross, as honorary referee. Late last summer there was the outdoor functional swim meet which will be held again this term, as well as contests within the various units themselves.
4»£	4$»	4^ 4^ 4^
BULLETIN!	❖
❖ --------------------- *
Since the above story was set for ■£• printing, we have received word that ❖ & the Notre Dame Golf team has won ❖ ❖ the National Intercollegiate Tourney ❖ ❖ with a total score of 311, which was ❖ one point lower than Minnesota. ❖
Bob Terry and Jim Besenfelder ❖ each scored 76; Jack Fitzpatrick 77, ❖ ❖ and Mel Wilke 82.	❖
% ❖
tin, a Navy V-12 boy became one of the standout two-milers in the country. Phil Anderson, a Marine transfer from Marquette, was undefeated in the pole vault. Mike Kiely was a civie who did well in the distances, while Brad Bennett took most of the dash honors as a Navy trainee. The outdoor season lined up much the same way with a few of the faces missing and a few more gained.
Coach Jake Kline lined up a 22-game schedule for the diamond aggregate, playing two with the heralded Great Lakes Bluejackets. A .500 was the resultant with pitching talent coming from Bill Martin of the Navy, Joe Zie-minski of the Marines, Jack Barrett,
Last Semester's Track Squad Pictured with Coach "Doc" Handy at extreme right.
21
WHILE YOU HANG YOUR HAT in South Bend
“So you are going to Notre Dame! . . . (chuckle) . . . you poor guy.”
Greetings, Poor Guy.
Welcome to the school of the Golden doom and Fighting Irish; Knute Rockne and the National Football Champions. One of the most famous universities in
the world offers you the use of its many and varied facilities; a part in its opportunities and a share in its traditions. A whole lot of people think you’re one of the luckiest guys in the world. Then there are guys like the one above. Before you make any decisions, let’s take a perspective on things: The vast majority of you have at least four months here ahead of you. Just what is going to happen?
First off, you are not going to like the food. Why? One reason is that nobody can cook like Mother. Another is that food in the Navy isn’t complimented. It just is not done. You’re going to cuss at Phy Ed, and come out to calisthenics looking like you had the biggest hangover since last New Year’s. The teachers will positively be out to flunk you and Math and Physics will account for one quart of perspiration per week alone. Maybe that fellow’s right about “poor guy-”
Truth in proportion, however. What is the other side?
You will get one of the best educations offered anywhere. You will become a member of a great fraternity, the unwritten bond of Notre Dame men. You will get to meet and really know intelligent men and great teachers. You will ' become intimate with the little customs that breathe the real life into the school spirit: trips to Rosie’s; football rallies and games; swims in the lake; the Sacred Heart Church; basketball at the Rock; those fateful trips to St. Mary’s; baseball on Badin bog; ice cream in the cafe.
Make your decision on Notre Dame a year after you have left her. At present try to appreciate the real school.
I think you are pretty rich, poor guy.
❖ *♦* ❖ ❖ ••• *♦* ❖
❖	WRITERS WANTED	❖
❖ The SCHOLASTIC invites all those ❖ interested in writing for the magazine
•»* to report at the Editorial Offices, located in the basement of Walsh Hall. Staff meetings are held on Sunday through Tuesday, at 7:30 p.m.
$ <{♦ <j» 4*
MAKE WYMAN’S your SERVICE SUPPLY Headquarters
A FEW OF MANY SUPPLIES
Field Kit $3.00
Money Belt S1.65
Sewing Kit  $1.00
WYMAN’S
Servicemen’s Canteen
22
UNIFORMS FROM <40 cutinf/ivtduat 'meabu/ie
FIFTH AVENUE • NEW YORK 215 W. WASHINGTON STREET
SOUTH REND, INDIANA
WE’RE ONE OF THE FEW
tcm can hh ycu t
Having discovered long ago that, in uniforms too, there’s no substitute for fine custom tailoring, we skillfully adapt regulation correctness to your personal proportions. We fashion every detail of your figure, in our own workrooms, to a uniform that’s your clothing double! That’s just one reason why you’ll find Browning King apparel definitely superior although it may not always be the lowest-priced. Our long experience with fabrics and our faithful cutting-to-measure in our own workrooms are the ultimate assurance of your complete satisfaction.
We also carry a complete line of regulation accessories and furnishings
23
The band, the symphony orchestra and the glee club are open to all students with talent for music, while those who have an inclination for the literary field can find opportunities to express themselves through publications, debates, oratorical contests, and dramatics. More than one writer who is now nationally known began his career by contributing to one or another of Notre Dame’s sev- , eral student publications, the oldest of which the Scholastic, was founded in 1867.

“I am happy to know that you have offered the personnel of the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard this convenient method of purchasing War Bonds through the pay reservation plan.”—President Roosevelt.
“It requires no great imagination to perceive that financial resources will serve us in a multitude of ways after we return home. I urge all Navy personnel to ‘save today for tomorrow.’ ”
—Admiral C. W. Nimitz.
lyillllllllllllllllimmilllllltmilltllltlllllllllllUHIIIl.niiinm£ I	BUY WITH	CONFIDENCE	I
E	at	|
E	South Bend’s	Leading Jeweler	E
E	A wide selection of	E
I	Desirable Gifts	I
E	on display.	E
=	Use our lay-away plan.	=
f«^iiiitniiiiniiiitiniiiiininmnntiiiiminiiniinimmiitiiiimiiifZ}
• TIES
• SOCKS
• HANDKERCHIEFS
GREETING CARDS
ARTISTS' SUPPLIES
PICTURE FRAMING
NAVY STORE ZERO DECK DINING HALL
I. W. LOWER COMPANY DECORATORS
128 N. Michigan Street (Across from the Frances Shop)
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
PLAIN "T" SHIRTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
CANDY
TOBACCO
PIPES
STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
THE HUDDLE
LOCAL OBSERVATION
The ending of the semester marks also the end of the first term of the reorganized Student Council. Under, the very capable leadership of President Murnane, the Council has shown much activity and ■ its efforts have benefitted students of all classes. It has set a high standard for all future councils to follow.
DON'T SHOOT....
A Frenchman struggling with the English language turned to an American friend for counsel.
“What,” he asked, “is a Polar Bear?”
“Polar Bear? Why he lives way up North.”
“But what does he do?”
“Oh he sits on a cake of ice and eats fish.”
“That settles it. I will not accept.”
“What in the world do you mean, you won’t accept?”
“Ah,” exclaimed the other, “I was invited to be a polar bear at a funeral, and I will not accept.”
—The South Dakota Wet Hen
REAL SALESWOMEN
The students at Mundelein have been awarded a citation by the Treasury Dept, in recognition of the sale and purchase of $51,036.65 worth of Wai* Bonds and Stamps. Three $15,000 training planes will be purchased and will bear the name of the College near their instrument boards. . . .
POST WAR PLANNING
This little article appeared in the Prospector:
“Recently, Congress passed a bill which allows returning service men tuition to any school of their choosing up to the amount of $500 for one year and an additional bonus of from $50 to $75 a month for subsistence. This bill is a part of post war planning and enables servicemen to look forward to a more secure future. Our nation has feared a lack of technically trained men, because of the current war. Tremendous problems shall face the entire post war world and the need of large numbers of trained men after the war is imperative. By taking advantage of this educational bill, we can expedite the reconstruction of an improved world.”
GOOD NIGHT
Old Father Time is rapidly calling another schoolyear to a close. The Col
lege Parade would like to say a few words about the class of June, 1944. . . .
You will be missed by the school . . . by your associates . . . and by Our Lady. Yours have been a fruitful four years . . . marked by much of historical significance. They will be four years of your life that you will never forget.
With the last week’s fluny of activity to get “Calk’s” report done, or all the
term papers in for O’Malley . . . with the last “cokes” in the Huddle or “bullsessions” in the Cafe . . . the class of June, ’44, will leave Sorin’s swings and with the traditional fighting spirit of Notre Dame . . . will emerge from Washington Hall Friday Night ... as Alumni of whom Notre Dame will forever be proud.
Good luck and best wishes to all of you.
25
THE PURPOSE OF V-12 PROGRAM
(Continued from page 15)
one’s problems that every navy officer on active duty must demonstrate. The course officers at this unit are glad to give counsel to men in academic or personal difficulties. The deans, the prefects of religion and of the dormitories, and the instructors and administrative officers of the University are available for friendly conference and academic guidance. Course officers have available lists of faculty and other tutors for men in urgent need of temporary aid in mathematics and physics.
The Chief of Naval Personnel, Vice-Admiral Randall Jacobs, USN, said of the success of the V-12 Program in his address at a New York conference last May: “Since the first of November, when the first candidates from the Program were received at advanced training schools, the reports of the quality of the men have been uniformly favorable.” He stated that the number of bilgees at advanced training schools had been sharply reduced as a result of the training the officer candidates received in V-12.
NOTRE DAME TRADITIONS
(Continued from page 14) cascade freely upon their heads. That, in itself, is an old Notre Dame custom. Griping has become a healthy sign of settling down and beginning to feel at home. The man who doesn’t gripe about one thing or the other is too easily pleased, or is not interested at all in his surroundings. But, after a few months, everyone becomes reconciled, realizing that “things are apt to get worse before they get better.” Then, all admit, though grudgingly, that the rigorous program has done them good; furthermore, all, while home on the short vacations, will brag about the strenuous life of study and extra - curricular activities which they lead.
Privileges
The University, looking to the welfare of the student in his extra-curricular hours, invites him to participate in any or several of the manifold activities on campus which are provided for him. All athletic contests, numerous concerts, movies, talks, and other entertainments receive due publicity, and the various groups on campus are encouraged to attend.
College life is not all study. Military life is not all marching. The University is so varied in its activities that it offers opportunities for a large number of pursuits, in one or another of which students of widely different tastes may find pleasure.
Room 148
Morrissey Hall
Shop
Custom Tailored Officers' Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through the decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance
of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored to your individual proportions
Ye Jolly Little Tailor
by expert craftsmen in our own
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
work rooms.
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
27
RELIGION PLAYS BIG PART
(Continued from page 13)
6:30 to 7:15 every evening in the Basement Chapel of the Church (extreme rear door) ; after Sunday evening Benediction at 7:00 (Sacred Heart Church), and at special times and places specially announced.
"At the Grotto"
Notre Dame means “Our Lady,*’ and a great devotion to the Blessed Mother of God has always characterized the Notre Dame way of life. The gleaming figure atop the Golden Dome is a 16-foot statue of Our Blessed Mother, and there is another beautiful Madonna above the Adoration Altar behind the Main Altai* in Sacred Heart Church. But
Diocese is Archbishop Spellman of New York; but he has assigned his military functions to a special delegate, Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., formerly president of Notre Dame.
The Chaplains maintain a pamphlet rack near the chapel in every hall for the use of students. Students may take pamphlets freely, with or without contributions, and return or keep them as they please.
No matter how tight the rule on visiting rooms at night is, it docs not apply to the Chaplains* Offices. The Navy permits you to visit your spiritual guides whenever you wish; and close contact with the Chaplain is indispensable to complete intellectual and spiritual success at Notre Dame.
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Conditions for Afternoon Holy Communion
Service-men only arc permitted to receive Holy Communion at Afternoon Mass. They may do so under the following conditions:
1.	State of Grace.
2.	Fasting, from solids for four hours, and from liquids for one hour, previous to reception.
The privilege of receiving Holy Communion in the afternoon, and the dispensation from the normal midnight fast, have been specially granted by Pope Pius XII to members of the armed forces. Since the Navy has been at Notre Dame, hundreds of seamen and marines have used the privilege of week day Communion, and thus have gained the tremendous benefits of the Blessed Sacrament for the living of the complete Christian life.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
the most popular center of devotion to Mary on the campus has always been the Grotto, hidden in a little recess back of the Church and towards the Lake. The Grotto is a replica of the famous cavern at Lourdes in France, where Our Blessed Mother appeared to Saint Bernadette in 1858, and where stupendous miracles of healing have been performed through Mary’s intercession even until our • own day.
Special Occasions, Novenas, etc.
From time to time during the school-year at Notre Dame. Novenas are held for various purposes, for Parents, for Purity, for a Happy Marriage, for Exams, etc. Also there are special religious occasions of various kinds, for example, a great Memorial Service and Military Field Mass on Memorial Day.
"See the Chaplain!"
Every priest at Notre Dame is a Chaplain, interested in the spritual welfare of students. But three priests have been specially designated as student-chaplains. They are Father Craddick, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion (141 Sorin), and his two assistants, Father Simonitsch (121 Breen-Phillips) and Father Sheedy (115 Main Building). These men are eager to meet all students and ease them over the rough spots of Notre Dame life.
Fathers Craddick, Simonitsch, and Sheedy have been appointed “Auxiliary Chaplains” by the Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese, Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, of New York, and with regard to service students have the duties and responsibilities of any Naval Chaplain. It may interest service students.to know that when they were received into the Navy, they “lost” membership in their home diocese and became members of the Army and Navy Diocese, which extends all over the world, -wherever there are American Fighting Men. The Bishop of the Army and Navy
26	z
SXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSI
N H
M H
M M
M M
M
M M M H M
JOSIE and JIM'S
N M H M M
TUNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
CALL
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Malte This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
M
M
M
KXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXtt
Dilemma
She’s a pert little thing And I think that she’s swell
So I’ll give her the ring And forget about Belle
But what about Nancy
And Mary, and Sue,
None of them fancy
But I can’t make them blue.
Alice is pretty
And Jeannie can dance
Carol is flitty
But she’s still worth a chance!
There’s Frances and Flora
June, Ruth and Jerry,
Jane, Katie and Dora, And finally, Terry.
My heart’s on the wing, My head’s in a whirl
I have a ring
But I can’t find a girl!
—John A. Flanagan
Conduct Tips tor ND Men
New men coming to Notre Dame are expected to fall into a pattern of conduct long established here, and to respect certain customs that have become a part of the Notre Dame daily routine. For example:
It is customary to greet those encountered on the campus, even though you do not know their names, and for civilians to tip their hats to religious members of the faculty;
All stand reverently during the playing of the Victory March, official University anthem. Likewise, the entire campus stands at respectful attention during the raising and lowering of the flag each day. Civilians should doff their hat in both instances, weather permitting;
The front steps of the Administration building are used by no student until the day of his graduation. Nor does anyone smoke cigarettes in front of the Administration building;
. Private student devotions at the Grotto are spontaneous and have hallowed the spot past all description;
Uniformed men, in marching formation, are always given the right of way, even in congested areas;
The Notre Dame monogram is the sole emblem of athletic achievement honored and worn on campus;
The various creeds and nationalities which make up the student body create neither barriers nor cliques. The matter
M. Born & Company Chicago's Largest Custom Naval Tailors
E believe the warranted reputation of Parker-Winterrowd — the handsome fabrics, excellent tailoring, and convenience of terms will urge you to come in and visit our shop.
PARKER - WINTERROWD
115% — 117% N. Main Street (upstairs)
28
of family finances is likewise astonishingly unimportant. Precedence or distinction at Notre Dame comes only through the criterion that personal merit and achievement should be the sole gauge for bestowing individual awards.
Notre Dame, though geared to wartime efficiency, cannot sever her ties with the past, and is still Notre Dame. Nor are the young men, late of many other universities, expected to cast aside the rich memories that have bound them to other halls of learning. On the contrary it is hoped that they will augment and strengthen that regard for scholarship and patriotism through their days under the shadow of the Dome.
NAVY AT NOTRE DAME
(Continued from page 5)
James L. Holloway, head of the Navy training program, who came from Washington to address the graduating class, made the statement that officers commissioned from Notre Dame have earned practically all of the medals given to naval officers during this war, including the Medal of Honor. The Midshipmen’s School is entirely administered by, and all instruction is given by Naval Officers.
The Navy V-12 Unit, comprises the largest unit here, having approximately
1600 students. They are Navy and Marine students, who are taking special courses to form a foundation for further training as officers. It was established July 1, 1943, and its sole mission is to produce officer material for the Navy. Students in the V-12 program are under the academic jurisdiction of the University, and are taught by the civilian faculty of the college.
Starting with a small group of N.R.-O.T.C. students who wore their Navy uniforms once a week, and who were most of the time unobserved among the large student body on the Notre Dame campus, the Navy has expanded to put a number of trainees here on this beautiful campus, to compose nine-tenths of the student body.
It is a cherished hope that Notre Dame, in the days of peace to come, will never cease to benefit from the wholehearted cooperation she has given the Navy on her campus.
“I urge all Marine Corps personnel to1 avail themselves of the opportunity of buying war bonds, and I am confident that, should post war economic readjustments bring financial difficulties, the Marines will, as usual, ‘have the situation well in hand.’ ”	'
—Lt. General T. Holcomb, USMC.
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise
Navy regulation:
White shirts by Arrow
Shorts and uppers Ties and collars
Socks and Gloves
Money Belts
Headquarters for Freeman and Florsheim Shoes Kuppenheimer Botany Clipper Craft	’
Suits and Coats
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN MAIN AT COLFAX
29
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
"O. 1" NIX 7ml	VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-B.-B (G)-C-Bg
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary- Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Ninc-Vitamin Tablet Contains— AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice AS MUCH “Bj” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage AS MUCH “B=” as 40 ozs. Raw Green Be _
AS MUCH *‘Bg” as 30 Grs. Brewer’s Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as *4 lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH **E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ cil
90 TABLETS=$3.50
a-........................................    a
I Campus Centenary 1 | Publications 1
= Notre Dame—100 Years________________$4.00 :
= Collected Poems of	=
= Charles 1. O'Donnell________________$2.50 =
= ... at the Bookstore ।
^iiimiiiiiiiiiimtiiiiiiiHmiiiiiiii»iiiiiiinitmiiiiiiiu»iiiiiiiiiif«l
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP.. . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE Or RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS §1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
ENTERTAINMENT ON CAMPUS (Continued from page 18) appearance there of two or three concert stars each year. Last May Claudio Arrau was the soloist with the South Bend Symphony orchestra. Vivian Della Chiesa sang to five thousand the following night. The year before saw Lawrence Tibbett and Nathan Nilstein on the Drill Hall stage.
Cartier field is the scene of the Varsity baseball games and many exciting track meets. The Rockne Memorial houses all the swimming meets, and the badminton, handball, and squash tournaments. The Fieldhouse serves as the mid-winter gathering spot, offering league basketball games throughout the season and the world-famous, annual Bengal Bouts. Last spring, ex-marine, presidentially-decorated for heroic action, Barney Ross was the honorary referee of these bouts.
And last but not least is the stadium. Each fall some of the greatest football contests in history are enacted there. Such powerful teams as Northwestern, Michigan, Southern California, Georgia Tech, and the Iowa Seahawks come regularly into our stadium to test the strength of the “Fighting Irish.”
Oh, yes, the “Rock” is still across the highway from Notre Dame and the belles there still throw tea-dances for the Notre Dame boys. You’ll find the atmosphere, the dancing, and the girls very pleasant.
In all you are going to find that Notre Dame is well equipped to take care of you socially. If you show an active interest in any or all of these activities, V-12 life will seem ever so much more enjoyable and even physics will take on a new glow.
❖ The official Lost and Found De- ❖ ❖ partment is located in the Office of 4* 4* the Prefect of Discipline in the Main 4* 4» Building. All articles which are found 4* 4* should be turned in immediately in 4* V order that the right owner may claim 4’ ❖ his property as soon as possible. 4*
^p **• •*« ^p	^p ^p A	A ^p
“The "Navy is proud of the record of its people—in the War Bond Program— a record that is a stimulus and a challenge.”—Secretary Forrestal.
A Navy V-12 was running the obstacle course, puffing and groaning, when finally he fell down.
“Well, what’s the matter?” demanded the chief.
“I think I’ve broken my leg, sir,” he moaned.
“Well, don’t just lie there wasting time,” shouted the chief. “Start doing push-ups.”
“I unhesitatingly recommend to both 'officers and men the regular and systematic investment of a portion of current income in War Savings Bonds.”
—Admiral E. J. King.
ELLSWORTH'S
^or
tke.
(Nicest
Qifts
in
cJownl
PERFUMES
JEWELRY
HANDBAGS
GLOVES
-	HOSIERY
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J. THORNTON, M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. ■ CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
30
At Mcm Adle/i 3a.
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers’ Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $38.50
NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50	.
SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers »1850

ON THE (MNEK... MKHI6AN $ WHSHINOTON
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from doiontown bus terminal.
31
Copyright 1944. Liggett & Myejls Tobacco Co.
RIGHT COMBINATION
WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
Help them "Get there first
with the most." Buy more
Bonds for Victory -k * -k

It’s always first with Chesterfields-first for
Milder Better Taste-with the most in smoking pleasure
for you and all your friends.
Yes, these are the winning qualities you
want and expect in a cigarette. Chesterfield
does it and says it in 5 Key-words...
