Che
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSCeQVASI-SCniPCR-VICTVRVS- • VIVG OVASI-CRAS MORITVRV.5-
Vol. XLIV.
NOTRE DAM®, INDIANA, January 21, 1911.
No. 15.
Professor Edwards Laid to Rest.
r AST Sunday evening at seven o’clock Prof. James Farnham Edwards, Uni-jg \ versity librarian and founder of the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, passed quietly away at St. Joseph hospital, South Bend. Death did not come suddenly. For some years
Prof. Edwards had been ailing owing to a stroke of paralysis. But with characteristic energy he was up and around overlooking his manifold duties in connection with the library. Last year, however, he was forced to give up all active wo-k, and spent some months visiting friends in Cincinnati. During the summer vacation he suffered a second stroke and shortly after was taken to St. Joseph hospital. He fought his battle against suffering with that energy and perseverance that more than all else explain the vast work he undertook,—a work which stands today as his most fitting
monument. Saturday evening the President of the University and Dr. Walsh of the department of history were at the bedside of Prof. Edwards, and it was seen that the end was nearing fast. On Sunday afternoon several life-long associates, priests and laymen of the Faculty, called and were informed that the
patient was visibly sinking. Just .at seven o ’clock the President received word of the quiet passing away. On Tuesday afternoon the body was laid in state in the large parlor of the Main Building. All during the afternoon and following morning friends of the dead professor
from near and far circled around the casket to take a last look at the remains. The Knights of Columbus, Notre Dame council, formed the guard of honor.
At ten o ’clock Wednesday morning solemn high mass was sung by Very Rev. Provincial Morrissey, assisted by Rev. John Guendling, Peru, Ind., and Rev. J. B. Scheier, C. S. C., as deacon and subdeacon. Rev.- Wm. Connor acted as Master of Ceremonies. The Seminarian’s double choir chanted the Gregorian requiem. After the Mass the Rev. James J. French, superior of Holy Cross seminary; delivered the
funeral sermon. Speaking of Prof. Edwards’ work Father French said:	=
From his earliest years Professor Edwards had consecrated himself as a servant at the shrine of Christian education and labored with unswerving fidelity within her sanctuary for nearly half a century. Few members of the honorable Faculty of the University of Notre Dame were as well known to the outside world.
234	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
His name has become inseparably interwoven with the annals of his Alma Mater by reason of his having founded the Lemonnier Library and spent much of his time in directing its growth. His principal and chief work he has well established in that unique department called the '/Bishops’ Memorial Hall.” Other institutions have in recent years taken up the professor’s plan of- trying to gather such things as will serve to perpetuate the memory of the Catholic hierarchy of America. They are followers: he was a pioneer in the work. Such men as the great Benedictine scholar of Rome, Dom Gasquet, commended his endeavors most' highly. The late Gilmary Shea stated that the professor’s labors would be of incalculable benefit to the future students of the History of the Catholic Church in America. Mr. Shea even acknowledges that the future Catholic historian of America would be obliged to consult the archives which the professor has established at this University.
To most of you, no doubt, it will come as news to be told that he was the prime mover in establishing the bestowal each year on some worthy Catholic who had achieved a name in the uplifting of society, that much coveted prize of Notre Dame,—the Lretare Medal.
Much of his enthusiasm for the progress of Notre Dame in days gone by and the consuming desire to see her ranked among the great seats of learning in America, was due in no small measure to the mighty Sorin whose confidant and friend he had been for years.
Is it not meet and proper, then, that we assemble in this temple of God, to pay our last respects to the mortal remains that once tabernacled such a soul as his,—devoted to Holy Church, true to his Alma Mater, most loyal to his friends? Departed Professor, whatever may have been thy shortcomings in-the sight of God or man, in thee Notre Dame has lost an indefatigable laborer and devoted son.
At the conclusion of the sermon the funeral procession formed in front of the Sacred Heart Church. The cross bearer and acolytes led, followed by the students of Carroll, Brownson, Walsh, Corby, St. Joseph, Old College, Sorin, and Holy Cross residence halls. The cadet band, under the direction of Prof. Petersen, the military batallion, under the command of Captain Stogsdall, U. S. A., followed.' .The senior class in cap and gown, members of the Community, Faculty and Clergy walked in the rear of the procession. . The honorary pall-bearers were: Professors William Hoynes, Martin McCue, Francis Ackerman, Bdward Maurus, Timothy Howard and William Benitz. The active pall-bearers: Messrs. Joseph Collins, William Ryan, Charles Crowley, Francis O’Rourke, Joseph Diebold and John Devine, all students of the University. As the long funeral line moved slowly over the road to the cemetery to the accompaniment of solemn funeral music one realized it was a
fitting tribute to Professor Edwards. It seems proper too to state that the most imposing figures in the long line of march were the young men who composed the military batallion of which the University is so proud. The}* proved a fitting tribute to the work of Captain Stogsdall.
As the remains were laid away in the quiet little graveyard overlooking St. Alary’s Take, by the side of Professors Lyons, Stace and others of the dear departed one felt it was all a fitting close to a useful life.
The Faculty through its committee drafted the following set of resolutions:	.
Whereas, It has pleased Almighty God in the fulfilment of His inscrutable decrees to call from among us our beloved friend and associate, Professor James F. Edwards, long a member of the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame; and,
Whereas, He had as boy and man endeared himself for more than half a century to the students, patrons, friends, officers and successive faculties of this University, which he entered as-a student in his early years, and to which he turned fondly as a home during the remainder of his life, acquiring here his education and serving afterwards as professor and librarian; and,
Whereas, His indefatigable zeal in behalf of Christian education, his searching and discriminating activities in collecting historical data to that end, his inestimable services in establishing here a great Memorial Hall in honor of the episcopate and to perpetuate in cherished remembrance the arduous and self-sacrificing services rendered to our holy Church; his uncompromising advocacy of truth and sincerity and unconcealed disdain of deceit and falsity, his unfailing courtesy and high standard of gentlemanly bearing, his upright character and irreproachable conduct in word and deed, and his sincere devotion to the interests, welfare and honorable repute of his Alma Mater, are deserving of appreciative acknowledgment and eminently entitle him to our respect, esteem and abiding remembrance; and, therefore, be it
Resolved, That while bowing submissively to the will of God, we deplore nevertheless in a human sense the fatal malady that came insidiously upon him and cut short a career of exceptional usefulness and promise; that we sympathize with the University in the loss of one so cordially attached to it in affection, good will and life-long service; that we condole with the surviving members of his family and his many friends among the former and present students and patrons of the University; that we attend in a body the holy mass to be offered up for him on the day of burial and proceed thence with his mortal remains to the place of interment, in order to pay prayerfully our final tribute of respect at his grave; also, that copies of these parting words of condolence and farewell be sent to our local publications and to his surviving relatives, with whom we reverently unite in recommending his soul to the mercy and grace of God.
• William Hoynes.
. Martin J. McCue.
.	Alexander M. Kirsch, C. S. C.
NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC	235
James Farnham Edwards was born in Toledo, April 15, 1850. His father,. Col. Paul Edwards, was English and held to the tenets of the Episcopal church. His mother was of Irish birth and a devout Catholic. In i860 the future collector of historical documents came to the University, where he was entered among the younger students. Men who studied with him speak of young Edwards as a talented, polite and singularly handsome lad. He received the degree of Bachelor of Laws in 1875. Seven years later, after passing a successful examination, he was awarded the degree of Master of Arts. He was appointed professor of history the next year and held this position up to five years ago when the library made so many demands on his time, he found it necessary to resign.
With his acceptance of the responsible position of University librarian we may truly say his real life work began. In its concrete form that life work is the Bishops ’ Memorial Hall,— numerous, and some now invaluable, relics, letters and documents that will yet make and unmake history. Prof. Edwards’ life aim was a passion. Whatever he saw that had the marks of age in the historical sense that he wanted, and that he somehow secured. Fortunately far-seeing men directed the University. Father Sorin, too, saw into the far future. As a result they heard the appeal and authorized the man with the vision to buy a dusty old manuscript, or a crumpled vestment, or a letter on which somebody who couldn’t write well had scrawled his signature. Doubtless in those days of . want, many thought that there were more immediate needs than broken-backed tomes and mitres and old pictures. But somehow this man struggled and coaxed and argued, and travelled North, South, East and West and returned home laden with strange spoils. He won his victory; he realized his dream. His chapter will be a long and a fitting one when the history of this University shall have been written in full.
One. might talk of Professor Edwards’ personality. But time and the world are not concerned with that. A man’s friendships, modes of thought, pleasures, views of men and life are for those of his immediate circle. What he does,—the vast completed work,—in that the world generally has a large concern. In treating of Prof. Edwards we have kept this concern entirely in view.
In the Service of the Press.
- CHARLES C. MILTNER, ’ll.
Things were turbulent in the office of the Alton News. Nor was the cause hard to determine. “Doc” Reid, the city editor, was, to use a local phrase, “raving again.” And when such was the case, there was, or seemed to be, a slump in local news, and it fared ill with the city reporters on whom his wrath fell.
Collins was a new man on the reportorial staff. Young, energetic and persevering, he had been awarded the position solely on account of merit, and he was happy in his success. So when he arrived at the office that morning; to secure his day’s assignments, he unconsciously walked into a new and very unpleasant experience.
“Collins,” burst out the irate editor, “it seems to me you are producing a rather slim portion of news of late. You haven’t had a bit of local sensation in three days now and I’ve copied associated until I’m tired of it.”
“What if”—broke in Collins—
“No if’s about it. Understand! It simply won’t do. There’s plenty of news, and it’s up to you to get it or, well—” but just here the telephone rang and the editor took down the receiver.	'
“Hello!”
“News office?”
“Yes.”	.
“Got any reporters there?”	' i
“Got a dubb who’s trying to be.”
“Well, there’s rumor of a high-class divorce up on Fifth Avenue. Thought you might be interested. Good-by.” -
Further inquiry was of no avail, so putting up the receiver he turned to Collins.
“Young man,” he continued, “here’s another chance for you. We’re late in this case, I know, but it’s not my fault. Now you go out there and look this matter up; but, mind you, I want no second-hand reports. Get facts,,produce, a good article by tomorrow morning or. take the consequences. That’s all. You may go.”
Collins did go and, stung with resentment ,at-the reproval and the threat he murmured to-himself as he strode toward the car:
“Don’t see why the old cuss should vent all his spleen on me. I’ve worked night, and-day, Sundays and holidays, in season and out of;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
236
season, and if this is his appreciation—well, there are other jobs in the world.”
He was passing by the Times office ,and, glancing up at the bulletins, his attention was caught by the words:
“Wealthy Banker Seeks Divorce— J. Atridge Wilson Declares W'ife Unfaithful.
Mrs. Wilson Reported Indifferent.”
“What! Ethel Andrews, his one-time playmate and school friend unfaithful to her husband! Impossible! There must be some mistake.” And, hastily regretting his resolution to jump his job, he muttered to himself: “Yes, old ingrate, I’ll look this matter up, but neither to please you nor to hold my job, but I’ll look it up because that woman is wronged. There’s error somewhere, and I’ll set it aright for old ■ friendship ’ s sake. ’ ’
Seated in the car and intent on his purpose, his mind thronged with pleasant reminiscences. Again he was playing with her on the beach, bringing her pretty shells and digging with them in the sand. Again he trudged along to school at her side and remembered how frightened she was when they crossed the crowded street and how she clung to him. Again he admired her youthful grace and accomplishments, rejoiced at her advance of fortune and, though it meant a separation, he was glad when she made her debut into high society and later was happily married. His reverie was broken by the stopping of the car, and springing up he realized that she was again, in trouble and that he was there to help her.
Finding the house he walked boldly up and rang. A servant answered and he sent in his card. A moment later he met her, who was to him once more—simply Ethel Andrews. And when he spoke to her with a heart full of sympathy he touched a responsive chord and she, raising her pale face with a smile of welcome, greeted him in the old familiar way.
“Why, hello Joe! I’m so glad to see you; I was thinking of you this morning. I remembered how you used to defend me when we were children «and I wished you were here to help me now.”
“ I heard of your trouble,” he said, “ and that’s why I came, I couldn’t believe you were wrong, and I thought I might be able to help you. Won’t you tell me all about it?”
“Oh Joe,” she cried, “I’m innocent. I can’t understand. It’s all a dreadful mistake. We’ve been so happy together, so peaceful. Jim
was always so kind, so devoted, and only last Wednesday when he went to New York, to spend a couple of days he said: ‘I’m sorry I have to go, but don’t worry, I’ll be back soon,’ and he kissed me and the children and was gone. This morning he came in suddenly and when I went to meet him he drew back and waved me off. Trembling -with rage and anger he hissed out, ‘false! unfaithful! treacherous! Don’t speak. I know all. Curse the day we ever met,’ and flinging me this newspaper clipping he went out.”	.
Collins took the paper and read:
“ Society Ball at the Tenth Regiment Armory. Mrs.. J. A. Wilson of 5th Ave, and Colonel Brisken of Co. F. lead in the Grand March.”
“That’s why he thinks I’m unfaithful,” she said. “He was always so impulsive and it angered him beyond bounds. But I wasn’t at that ball. I didn’t even leave the house. And now he’s filed a bill of divorce and the papers say I’m indifferent. Oh, if I could only speak to him. If he had only listened.”
To Collins it was evident that there had been intentional calumny or some gross mistake. So, after consoling her as best he could, he at once sought out the publisher of the article that had caused all the trouble. At the Times office he was disappointed. All old copy had been thrown aside. Then, they were sure no mistake had been made.
“Mrs. J. A. Wilson was the name,” they said, “and the only bearer of it on 5th Ave. was the wife of J. Atridge Wilson.”
But he was unconvinced. He had heard the woman’s story and she was his friend. She simply was not guilty. He was baffled but not discouraged. Then, too, he knew he must have that story for old Reid tomorrow or lose his job. He went to dinner, but he couldn’t eat. He lit a cigar, but only found himself chewing the end of it.
“Confound it,” he muttered, “if I were only a detective, I’d hunt down any scoundrel who would write a thing like that.' But no one would do that to her. She had no such enemies. No, there must be some mistake.”
An idea struck him and acting on it he was soon poring over a city directory. Here again he was disappointed. There were no other Wilsons living on Fifth Avenue. But on 15th Ave. he found the name “James Aldrich Wilson, Broker.” This seemed to offer a clue and again he sought the Times office. For
NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC

two hours he culled old copy from a huge basket until at length his search was rewarded with the note giving account of the society ball, and it read: “Miss Janette Alice Wilson of E. 15th Ave. and Colonel Brisken of Co. F.”
“Two blunders,” he muttered, “and they’ll cost the Times dearly.”
Slipping quietly into a telephone booth he called up Wilson the broker.
Yes, he had a daughter. Yes, her name was Janette Alice and she had attended that ball.
After Colonel Brisken had told his side of the story and certain other arrangments had been made, reporter Collins rushed to the News office, and ignoring Reid’s queries and frowns sat down and wrote hurriedly.
That evening’s edition contained a startling article relative to the Wilson divorce case, and J Atridge, upon reading it, was dumfounded.
An hour later there was a touching scene in the Wilson parlor on 5th Ave. witnessed by reporter Collins, Miss Wilson of 15th and Colonel Brisken of Co. F. When it ended Collins was the first to speak.
“ Well, this has been a trying but happy day for me. I’ve served a home and won a promotion, and now, Miss Wilson, I really think .you ought to change your name.” And the Colonel blushed.
Some Famous Actors.
JOHN F. MCCAGUE, ’l2.
The art of representing a living person upon a mimic stage is of comparatively recent development. “The Greek and Roman theatres were vast amphitheatres, open to the sky, seating multitudes of people. So the actors of antiquity must have devoted themselves largely to pantomime, for they could not be heard.” In the Middle Ages the miracle plays, so far as acting goes, were but a step above the buffoonery of the shows given in county fairs.
Until within the last hundred years the social status of the actor was low. In Rome the actors were usually slaves, but some of them, like J. Roscius Gallus rose to great wealth and prominence, and then were enabled to purchase their freedom’. In the Middle Ages the actor was a strolling vagabond wandering from fair to-fair, a business so degrading that even in
237
Shakespeare’s time women were not allowed to act in public. The old English law classes actors with vagabonds and suspicious persons. In France and Germany actors usually were the servants of the nobility. Besides actors, all public performers, singers and musicians, were under a social stigma. As late as i860, a silk cord stretched across the drawing-room in great English houses, was used to divide the paid performers from the invited guests. At such events the paid performers were supposed ■to enter by the rear entrance of the house. Liszt, the famous pianist, once created a great sensation by refusing to enter an English house except with the other guests.
The change for the better in the social status of actors comes from the recognition of acting as an art, the enormous increase in theatres and the importance of theatres as a business enterprise. In 1S20, New York had but three theatres; now there are fifty-two play houses. In 1 Soo there were but a few hundred actors in this country; now there are twenty thousand players. The salary of a “star” is twenty times what it was a century ago. The engagement of so many people in the theatrical business and the betterment of the actor’s position socially, have naturally raised the standards of acting. When twenty thousand people are engaged in any occupation, especially such an occupation as acting, the few who stand forth as the greatest surely possess wonderful ability.
Great actors make good acting an affair either of the head or of the heart. Coquelin, the French comedian, contends that the actor who forgets himself is lost. He claims that the actor should watch and calculate every detail of his acting, “ pulling the wires and nothing more.” Salvini and Mme. Bernhardt take opposite views and like to lose themselves in their parts, “to shed real tears,” and become for the moment the people they imitate. Salvini does not play a short scene without first reviewing the whole play. Sir Henry Irving believed that the head, and not the heart should control.
Sir Henry Irving, whose real name was John Henry Brodribb, was born in England, 1838. He made his debut in 1856 as Gaston in the play “Richelieu.” Then he played for two years at Edinburg in a Stock Company. Ten years later he became stage manager of the St. James Theatre, London. In .the presentation of the play, “Hunted Bown,” playing Rawdon Scudamore, he first arrested ’ the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
238
attention of critics. But his real fame commenced with his engagement at the Lyceum in 1871. His performance as Mathias established him securely in the estimation of the London play-going public. With his appearance as Hamlet he was stamped as a Shakespearean actor of rare distinction.
Associated with him at the Lyceum was Miss Ellen Terry who helped much to make his engagements successful. Nevertheless, he 00	3
would have become famous by his Shakespearean productions. In them the representation was given upon a scale of magnificence, with attention to art in every detail, which was previous!}7 unknown on the British stage.
Irving visited this country for the first time in 1S83 with Miss Ellen Terry and his Lyceum Company. He returned again in 1SS4-18S5, 18S7—188S, 1893, and several times thereafter. Although his mannerisms did not escape criticism, his skill and forcefulness as an actor, and the artistic value of his stage management were highly appreciated in this country. Because of his wonderful ability Queen Victoria knighted him in 1895, and he was given the title of “Sir.” After his death the English nation honored him by placing his remains 'with the remains of England’s greatest men in Westminster Abbey.
Another famous actor of this time was Edwin Thomas Booth. He was the son of Junius Brutus Booth, and was born in 1833. His brother John Wilkes Booth assassinated President Lincoln, and this act was a great blow to the success of Edwin. - The father of Booth was an actor, and considered by most people to have been among the greatest. Edwin received a desultory education, most of - his time being spent in accompanying his father. But by this means he became .acquainted with the actor’s art.	*	.
Booth made his debut as Tressel in “ Richard III.” At the age of seventeen he played the part of Richard in New York City. His protrayal of Richard was never considered remarkable, but in taking the parts of Sir Giles Overreach, Hamlet, Macbeth and Romeo he showed his brilliancy. In 1864 he had a hundred-night run of “Hamlet” in New York City. This was an unprecedented- feat at this time. Later he built his own theatre in New York and opened it with “Romeo and Juliet.” Miss Mary McVicker, whom Booth afterwards married, played the part of Juliet. .
Because of failure in business in 18-74 was compelled to leave New York, but by means of Southern tours he was soon able to pay all his debts. One of the lasting works, the result of Booth’s stav in New York, is “The Plavers,” a club founded by Booth, for the special benefit of actors. In his later life Booth visited Europe and received great homage from the European actors, especially from the German actors.
During the year 1877 Booth began to act with Lawrence Barret, and they kept playing together until the death of Barret in 1891. Barret, an American actor, was bom 1838 at Paterson, N. J. The son of an Irish mechanic, Barret first gained a reputation as an amateur player while working in a dry-goods store at Paterson. So he can be styled as a self-taught actor. His first professional engagement was in the part of Murad in the play “The French Spy.”
From 1858 to i860 he was the leading actor in the Boston Museum Company, but when the Civil War started he left the stage and became a member of the 28th Massachusetts regiment. After the war he again returned to the stage, and through his wonderful talent soon became one of the stars. He, like Booth, visited Europe and was- well received there. Before uniting with Booth he played in a notable double-star presentation with John McCullough at the latter’s theatre in San Francisco. But his greatest performances were with Booth in “Julius Caesar.”
Most of the great American actors come from a family of actors, but Barret was one of the few exceptions. Joseph Jefferson, one of the most famous actors, surely comes from a family of players in that his father, grandfather and great-grandfather were all players.
Jefferson was born in 1829 at Philadelphia, and at an early age made his first appearance on the stage. When but three years old he made his first appearance as the child of Cora in “Pizarro.” A year later he appeared as a miniature Jim Crow with Thomas D. Rice. As he grew older he followed his father around the country, and thus like Booth soon became acquainted with the actor’s art. In 1849 he appeared in New York for the first time, and in 1856 visited London where his grandfather acted in the time of Garrick.
Jefferson in later years restricted himself to four or five characters and his name is always associated with these characters. These
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
characters were Dr. Pangloss in “Heir at Law,” Asa Trenchard in “Our American Cousin,” Bob Acres in “The Rivals,” and Rip Van Winkle. His adaption of “Rip Van Winkle” was prepared by Boucicault and himself. He first appeared in it at the Adelphi, London, and was so successful that he confined himself solely to this piece for fifteen years.
The American actors have naturally not been the only great actors during the last century. Some of the foreign actors have been just as remarkable, and as many of the great ones have visited this country they also deserve mention. Among the greatest is Mme. Rosine Bernhardt, now called Sarah. She is a Jewess of French and Dutch parentage and was born in Paris, 1844. According to her father’s desire she was baptized a Christian and educated in a convent. She entered the Paris Conservatory in 1858 and gained the second prize for both tragedy and comedy, and in 1862 made her debut in Racine’s “Iphigenie” at the Theatre Frangais. But having attracted little notice 'she soon left the theatre only to meet with less success in burlesque at the Gymnase and Porte Saint-Martin.	.
In 1867 she began to play minor parts at the Odeon, and her performance of Queen of Spain in “Ruy Blas” and of Zanettain Coppee’s “Passant” revealed the force of her genuis. In 1874, as Berthe de Savigny in “Le Sphinx,” she achieved a new triumph. Because of some quarrel with the other players she severed her connection with the Theatre Frangais, but was compelled to pay twenty thousand dollars for this breach of contract.
Since 1879 Madame Bernhardt made successful tours in North and South America, Italy, Russia and elsewhere. At this time the chief play used was “ La Dame aux Camelias ” by Dumas the younger. In the United States she played “Adrienne Secouvreur” and “La Dame aux Camelias.” Her great parts, such as Fedora, La Tosca, etc., were designed to exhibit one personality and her style became exaggerated and coarse. In Dona Sal of “Hemani” she has been notably successful. During her tour of America in 1905 she played “L’Aiglon” of Rostand and her impersonation showed a. marvel of dramatic power. At Porte St-Martin she appeared in some of Shakespeare’s plays, but they were not so successful as her other . ventures. Besides ranking as one of the greatest actresses in tragedy she has no superior in comedy.
239
Another famous actress who made tours of this country and who afterwards settled here was Madame Modjeska. She was of Polish parentage and was bom in Cracow, Poland. At the age of sixteen she married G. W. Modszejowski (known as Modjeska) a theatrical manager many years her senior. The next year she appeared on the stage and soon became the leading actress of Cracow and shortly after-, wards she had established a national reputation.
Not long after her marriage her husband died, and three years after his death she married Count Bozenta Chlapowski, a Polish nobleman. In 1876 she left the stage, and, accompanied by her husband, came to the United States and settled at Los Angeles, California, where she hoped to establish a Polish colony.
This plan proved unsuccessful, so she again, returned to the stage. After studying English for a few months she made her first appearance in San Francisco as Adrienne Secouvreur, ■ where she met with the greatest success. Then she went to New York and was there very highly, appreciated. After this she made frequent tours through the United States and Europe. She won great distinction as a tragic actress and excelled most of her contemporaries in playing the heroines in Shakespeare. .
Another famous actress bora in Europe who settled in the United States was Julia Marlowe. Her real name was Sarah Frances Frost. She was bom in Caldbech, Cumberland, England. Her parents came to this country in 1875 and settled in Cincinnati where she was educated in the public schools. At the age of twelve she joined a juvenile opera company which gave “Pinafore,” “Patience,” “The Chimes of Normandy, ” etc. After three years of such work, part of the time with a dramatic company presenting “ Rip Van Winkle,” she began serious study in New York. She made her debut as Parthenia in “Ignomas” during the year 1887 and used for the first time the name Julia Marlowe. During that season she played such great roles as Juliet and Pauline in the “ Lady of Lyons,” and Julia in the “Hunchback.” But she met with small, success until the following year when Boston received her Parthenia" with • applause. During the next ten years she added to her repertory Viola in the “ Twelfth Night,” Rosalind, Galatia, Beatrice, Imogene, Constance in “The Love Chase,” Kate Hardcastle in “ She Stoops to Conquer,” and Lydia Languish in Joe Jefferson’s Company. -Like most
240
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the great players she excelled in Shakespeare. Her^marked personal beauty, good voice and diction and her long training in the best of stage traditions places her in the front rank.
Sir Henry Irving, Booth, Barret, Joseph Jefferson, Madame Bernhardt, Madame Modjeska and Julia Marlowe are among the greatest players of the last century. Of course there have been many other great players, but it is true to say that those mentioned may be classified as “famous actors.”
The Lament.
PETER P. FORRESTAL, ’ll.
' CEdipus Tyrannus. Lines (16S—190.)
RE AT are the sorrows I, wretched, am bearing: My people in numbers are passing away:
No weapon of thought can assist the despairing, 1 While the fruits of the earth make a sorry display.
Nor with sad childbirth’s grief Women can find relief;
Singly, like well-winged birds from the nest, Faster then lightning’s flame, See each unsightly frame
Pass towards the shores of the god of the West
’Tis from such sorrows my city lies weeping, Unpitied her children lie dead on the plain;
Unwept and unburied they’re silently sleeping, For of death-bringing plague they have marched in the train	'
Far ’long the altar’s slope
Mothers in sorrow grope;
Laments, o’er the toils, by the matrons here made Blend with the pseans wail.
Child of Zeus, do not fail!
Fair-faced Athena, pray, come to their aid.
It may be that hereafter we shall recognize wider claims, and that humanity shall take the place of the race. At present cosmopolitanism is a thing talked of but not felt. It is not strong enough to stir the blood to sacrifice, and we still need something of that narrow deep ‘sense of belonging, which, under the guise of love of kindred, or family feeling, of patriotism, has so often in the past been the fruitful fount of human heroism, human duty and human love.—John George Cox.
Love and a Profession.
ALBERT A. HILKERT, ’ll.
“Well, Lillian Day’’, have you come at last? Why in the world are you so late? It’s half. past eight and I have been waiting for the last quarter of an hour for you. Oh, what a pretty hat you have on! Did Miss Schuman trim it for you? I’ll have mine trimmed just like it. Say, Lillian, where have you been keeping yourself? It’s been nearly three days since I saw you last. By the way, Lillian, did you ever meet Mr. Manning? Let me introduce him. He’s a fine fellow and a very promising young lawyer too.”
In this manner Helen Sambourne talked on unceasingly until she and Lillian Day had made their way to where Mr. Maiming stood, watching a game of cards.
Pulling him by the coat-sleeve Miss Sambourne exclaimed: “Mr. Manning, I want you to meet my friend and chum, Miss Lillian Day. I intend to put her in your care for the evening as I have several, things to look after. If you don’t treat her right, I’ll—well, I’ll never speak to you again.”
“A punishment quite in proportion to the offense,” interrupted Mr. Manning throwing back his shoulders, his evening dress setting off to good advantage his athletic form. “ However, I consider myself most fortunate to meet you, Miss Day.” To Miss Sambourne: “I accept the charge you impose upon me. You can rest assured that I shall give you no cause to inflict the threatened punishment upon me for neglect of duty.”
“Ah, I thought so,” exclaimed Miss Sambourne. “I thought that I would not be deceived in my choice. And now I must leave you for awhile to your own entertainment.”
“Miss Lillian Day, I believe; is it not? I am not altogether unacquainted with that name. That is,” he explained as he noticed the changed expression of her face, “ I mean the name Day is not altogether new to me. You, no doubt, know the celebrated attorney of that name, Mr. William Day?”
“Yes, indeed, I do. I know him quite intimately, for he happens to be my father. Do you know him?” .
“Professionally, yes. But then, who does not?.. His fame as a lawyer is so widespread that
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
24-1
every newsboy on the street is familiar with it. A personal acquaintance I have not been favored with. So, you .are his daughter. I might have guessed as much. The same expression, the same noble character are plainly to be seen on your face. How stupid of me not to have thought of this at the mere mention of your name.”
Lillian blushed slightly at this implied compliment as she said:
“Your powers of observation would have done you better service as an artist than they ever will in the profession of law.”
“Pardon me, but may I presume,” he asked flatly, “that a personal interest induced you to acquire your information concerning me?”
Angered at his boldness and still more with herself for making such a blunder she exclaimed:
“Not at all. I have never seen or heard of you until today. This information about your profession came to me quite by accident.” Then with a view to changing the subject she said: “If you care to know papa, I’ll be glad to help you. Tomorrow evening is my evening at home.”
“I am very-sorry, Miss Day, that I must decline your invitation, but I hope you will pardon me when I say that I can not accept it now. Certain circumstances make this undesirable at present.”
’ “And are these circumstances such that it would be better for me not to hear? Or am I to accept this excuse without further explanation? ”
“ Not at all! There is no reason why I should conceal them. You are undoubtedly aware that the day after tomorrow that long-pending ‘Alien Contract Labor’ case is to be decided in court.- Your father will support the government while I am to oppose him, siding with the defendant.” .
“Which means that you would rather oppose papa under present conditions, as a stranger, than oppose him whom you count amongst your friends or acquaintances. Well then, I shall look for you on the evening after the trial.”	'
“This is Mr. Manning, papa. We have just returned from the theatre where Mr. Manning insisted on going. He says that the theatre helps to quiet his nerves after a strain such as the one you two went through today.”
“It’s, indeed, a pleasure sir to meet you,” exclaimed Mr. Day as he arose from his easy
chair to grasp the young man’s hand. “We have met under more formidable circumstances before, but I assure you that doesn’t diminish the pleasure of the present meeting.
You put up a stiff fight today and deserved to win. I congratulate you.” - •	-
“ Praise from such men as you reanimates me and urges me on to ever greater things. I fear, • however, that I do not deserve so much credit for the small services rendered.”	.
“ ’Twas not a mean victory. Great lawyers, familiar with the law, have undertaken less' difficult cases and failed. How did you ever manage to handle the case as you did?”
“I chanced upon it quite accidentally. I studied the case thoroughly and saw no other possible way of establishing my point than by the interpretation -that the law was to receive. I made it my business to have the court interpret the law as applying only to manual laborers , and not to laborers of the higher order, such as- • artists, which calling the defendant follows.”
“That was a happy thought. Today you have opened wide the portals to success. Once more I congratulate you. Have a cigar. Fine evening this—warm and moonlight, so pleasant, to be out; just the kind of evening that used to tempt me out for a stroll down the paths and garden walks.”	,
Lillian taking the hint from her father invited Manning to see their beautiful garden, and as they passed through the door armjin arm Manning called back to Mr. Day:	. .
- “You have congratulated me on one victory, but I have won a still greater one that is more in keeping with my age and nature.”
To a Wild Rabbit.
Simon E. Twining, ’13.
Wild, timid creature,
Bounding away with thy heart atremble
At my approach,
I would not have thy life, I swear,	,
Nor do I wish thee injury;	*
I merit not	■
Thy sharp reproach.	. .	.
Whilst in thy thicket,	•	.
Panting with fear as the hound pursued thee, With blood-lust mad;	•	-
But late I called the dog away, ..	’ .
Grieving at thy misery.	-
Thy terror now	.
Makes my heart sad. ’ ‘	-	- -
242
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School. Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIV. January 21, 1911.	No. 15.
	Board	of Editors.
	THOMAS	A. LAHEY, ’ll.
ARTHUR	HUGHES, ’ll	CHARLES C. MILTNER, ’ I I
JOHN F.	O’HARA, ’ll	FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ll
JOHN C.	TULLY, ’ 11	RALPH C. DIMMICK, ’ 11
JOHN P.	MURPHY, ’12	PETER P. FORRESTAL, ’ 11
	PAUL	RUSH, ’12 ■
Calendar.
Sunday, Jan. 22—Band Practice after Mass.
“	St. Joseph Literary Society.
“	Brownson Literary Society.
“	Corby Literary Society.
Monday, Jan. 23—Band Practice at 12:30.
“	Orchestra Practice.
Tuesday, Jan. 24—Glee Club Practice at 7:00.
Wednesday, Jan. 25—Philopatrian Society.
“ Civil Engineering Society.
“ Meeting of the K. of C. Installation of officers.
“ Lecture by Prof. Newman on his travels.
Thursday, Jan. 26—Band Practice after Mass.
Friday,. Jan. 27—Band Practice at 12:30.
Track Practice Daily at 3 P. M.
Basket-ball practice Daily at 3.45 P. M.
Drill: Mon. 5:15 p. m., Wed. 4:30 p. m., Fri. 1:3o p. m.
—There is no question as to the high position Prof. Janies Farnham Edwards will hold among those who have labored long and faithfully in the interest of
James Farnham Edwards, the University. In a comparatively short time he brought together a rare collection of curios, manuscripts and paintings which will become more valuable year by year. Time, travel, patience and tact were needed to accomplish the difficult task. It is in part accomplished now. Indeed the best part, because the most difficult; is accomplished.
Prof. Edwards’ name will be held in grateful remembrance, not only for the work he did
but for the suggestions he offered. It was he for instance, who first proposed the awarding of the Laetare Medal;, and no doubt he himself would have been selected long ago as a most acceptable recipient, only for his connection with the University. His life was a useful one. It presents a notable lesson of using wisely the talents that God gives, a lesson which mav always be studied with profit.
—The State Peace Oratorical Contest will be held at Notre Dame sometime in April. It will be the first big contest to be held here since the Inter-state The Peace Oratorical Oratorical Contest of
Contest.	1904; and the first time
in the history of the Peace Oratorical Association that the affair is to take place in the local auditorium. In view of this, we ought to give a good account of ourselves. Now the only way to accomplish this is to have a good local contest out of which to select a strong representative. In this department of our work there seems to be lamentable apathy on the part of students. Last year so few entered their names for competition that no contest was held. This should never recur. Many students of the University are gifted with splendid talent for oratory; hence surely this is an opportunity7 which should not be allowed to pass unimproved. ---------------------------------
—We are not of those who believe that the welfare of a nation depends either solely or principally upon the mere numerical increase s	of population. Neither
Educational Test for do we endorse the
Immigrants. equally "fallacious Malthusian doctrine of overpopulation. Nevertheless, the recent recommendation by the Immigration Commission of an educational test seems to us both un-American and unnecessary. It is un-American because it directly contravenes the liberal and generous spirit which our government has always manifested toward those seeking refuge within its borders. It is un-American because it is un-democratic, contrary to. the spirit of the constitution, and demands from a foreigner qualifications which are not universally dedemanded for the exercise of the suffrage. All such tests thus far suggested have required an acquaintance with and interpretation of passages in the Constitution to be selected by
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
243
the examiners. The manifest purpose of such a test would be to keep out “undesirable citizens.” But in its practical workings it would bar many who are certainly not undesirable. Because an immigrant might be ignorant it would not follow that he was a criminal, nor if highly enlightened that he would be quite virtuous and patriotic. Thus under the proposed measure not a few would be excluded who would make the best of citizens, and that unjustly. It is unnecessary also. We already have laws prohibiting the landing on our shores of contract laborers, paupers, lunatics, idiots, convicts, anarchists and of persons physically diseased. In view of these there is little necessity of further restrictive measures.
--------------------
—There is a strange fact that strikes home to us here and to the Catholic public all over the United States: the fact that, as a general rule the price of Catholic
The high Prices charged books is from fifty For Catholic Books. to more than a hundred per cent higher than that of books published by the secular press. There may be a good reason for this, but it does not strike the outsider very forcibly. It is true that both the author and the publisher who make the venture of putting a new book on the market are entitled to a fair compensation, and it may be true that the demand for Catholic books is not so great that first editions are immediately’ exhausted. But with allowance for such cases, it is also found to be true that second and third editions still have a price entirely out of proportion with the ordinary range of publishers’ prices. No reason for this seems to present itself to excuse the publisher in this instance. There is in economics the well-known law of monopoly price, which is free to operate when competition is removed. Its operation is possible under the privileges of copyright. It provides for a price that will give the greatest net return to the producer. This return is not always secured by the high
est price, for such a price will cut off the number of possible buyers. . To find the price at which this greatest return is possible requires some experiment, and it might be well for
Catholic publishers to try, by variations of price, to find this mean. At any rate, although a good book may be priceless, there is a certain market value on good books, and this market value is entirely too high for comfort.
Debating and Oratory.
Drawings for places in the preliminary trials for both the Varsity and Law Debating teams will take place Saturday afternoon, January 21st, at 3:00 p. m. The names of contestants should be handed to Father Moloney no later than Friday, January 20th. The subject as announced before the holidays is: Resolved: ‘That our Federal Legislation should be shaped towards the Abandonment of a Protective Tariff.” A printed form of the question and references may be had on application to Father Moloney.	*
The Intercollegiate Peace Contest in oratory in Indiana will be held this year at Notre Dame on April 7th. The contest is open to every college in the state. The preliminary contest to decide the representative from Notre Dame will be held on March 10th. This preliminary contest is open to any student in the University.
The freshman, sophomore, and junior contests in oratory will be held on May 1st. There are prizes of ten dollars for the best orator in each class.	•
The contest for the Lyons and Barry Medals in elocution will be held on June 1st. The contest for the Lyons Medal is open only to collegiate students, that for the Barry Nedal is open only to preparatory students.	’
On May 19th a debate will be held between the freshmen of the College of Arts and Letters and the freshmen of the College of Law. The question is: Resolved, “That Labor Unions as they now exist are beneficial to society in the United States.” ’	• ,
Second Lecture by Mr. Newman.
During the week Mr. Newman delivered the second lecture of a series of stereopticon lectures in Washington Hall, Jan. 18. “The Balkan States and Rumania” was the theme of the lecture, and in view of recent trouble in those countries, the topic proved to be quite as interesting and instructive as the lecture on the Tyrol. The views shown pictured scenes of soldiers ;entlemen and
street arabs, statesmen and kings, just as they exist today. Mr. Newman is an entertaining talker and explains his pictures thoroughly without being tiresome. We will hear him again with pleasure.	'
and peasants, towns and farms
244
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A Quintette of Artists.
Zwickey in Landscape Sketches.
The five artists composing the Kellogg-Haines Company who entertained us during the week left an impression behind them that will assure them a warm welcome when they come again. We need not tell them their program was enjoyed. They could not but feel the waves of sympathy that went to them from an audience thac missed nothing all through the performance. From the opening quartette, “The Blue Danube Waltz” till the curtain went down on the last sweet strains of the second act from “Martha” it was a feast of good music, good taste, and was a rare exhibition of stage presence. Everybody enjoyed Mr. Golberg’s rendition of the Prologue “Pagliac'ci.” He is a baritone’ of exceptional ability. The mixed quartette renditions of “Se Sarron Rose,” “Creole Love Song,” “Where are You Going, My Pretty Maid,” and the “Lucia” sextette, were enthusiastically received. We must not forget “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star” which was genuinely clever. Miss Alice. Magee sang with range and feeling the selection “ My Heart at-Thy Dear Voice.” We do not forget Mr. Breach for his rendition of the “Soul of the Old Piano” and the “Lawyer’s Soliloquy.” We think he’s the best ever, and hope to hear him again. Of the five reserved, charming artists we have the pleasantest memories. They are gifted performers. They educate in the sweetest and highest and tend erest in song. Tliey deserve the largest measure of recognition, for they are working in the interest of legitimate art as against the cheap and the vulgar. May their number become legion!
Reading by Professor O’Meara.
On Friday of last week we had the pleasure of hearing Prof. O’Meara in a series of select readings. The professor is an elocutionist of , more than passing merit, and his selections were chosen with a view to showing the versatility of his talent. There was grace of gesture and naturalness of inflection in the readings. The best selections were “ Her First and Last Appearance” and the “Telephone Marriage. ” The entertainment possessed high artistic merit, and should be an inspiration to aspirants in the art of elocution:
On Saturday evening Mr. Zwickey entertained us for an hour and a half in Washington hall with very creditable sketching in landscapes. He produced a number of street scenes which were also very well done. In the cartoon Air. Zwickey is not so skilful, as his attempts in this branch plainly showed.
Society Notes.
Knights of Columbus.
A special meeting of the Notre Dame Council Knights of Columbus, was held in the club rooms last Tuesday, January 17. The purpose of the meeting was to consider arrangements for the funeral and mass for the deceased brother, Professor Edwards. It was stated that the presence of the batallion, faculty and senior class in the line of march drew away so many members that it was impossible for the Knights of Columbus to march in the procession. -It was then decided to have a mass said for the repose of the soul of Professor Edwards on Thursday, January 26.	’
Several applications for membership were read, and it was decided to hold an initiation at the earliest possible date. A debate was arranged to take place at the next meeting of the council, Wednesday, January 25, after the installation of the newly elected officers.
Holy Cross Literary and Debating.
The Holy Cross Literary and Debating Society held its first meeting of the new year on Sunday evening, January 15. Mr. Fanelli read a paper entitled “The First Christmas at Notre Dame. ’ ’ It showed care in construction and pictured clearly the hardships borne by Father Sorin and his little band of co-workers. The principal number on the program was a debate between Messrs. Kelley, Burke and Heiser on the affirmative, and Messrs. Kehoe, Brown and Stack on the negative. The subject, “Resolved: That immigration to America should be positively prohibited by law.” The decision of the judges, members of the executive committee, was unanimous in favor of the affirmative. For the negative, Mr. Stack did the best work, especially in rebuttal. Superior team work won for the affirmative. Mr. Wenninger read a story entitled “Little Jimmy.”
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
245
“The Impressions of a Freshman” furnished material for a paper by Mr. Brooks. Besides taking part in the debate Mr. Heiser favored the society with a baseball storv. The regular routine business followed. The next meeting will be called for the election of officers.
St. Joseph Literary.
Resolved: “That Senators should be elected by the direct vote of the people,” was the subject of the debate held by St. Joseph Literary Society last Sunday evening. Messrs. Twining and Honan spoke for the affirmative, Messrs. Zink and Savord for the negative. The judges rendered a decision in favor of the affirmative.
Brownson Literary and Debating.
The Brownson Literary and Debating Society held its first regular meeting since the holidays last Sunday evening. The question of the impromptu debate was: Resolved: “That high license and not prohibition is the cure for the evils of the liquor traffic.” The affirmative was upheld by Messrs. R. Scott, R. Schindler and R. Halligan; the negative by Messrs. 0. Daly C. Derrick and T. Mahoney. The decision was given to the affirmative. Other numbers on the program were: Doctor Austin 0 ’Malley’s “Advice to Debaters” by T. Mahoney, “The Apostolate of Religious Reading ” by G. Marshall. The preliminaries for the St. Joseph-Brownson Debate will be held on Jan. 29th, Feb. 5th and 12 th. There will be eight members in each debate and the eight receiving the highest rating will hold a final debate. The four highest in the final debate will compose the team that will meet St. Joseph early in spring.
Corby Literary and Debating.
The Corby Literary and Debating Society held its third regular meeting last Sunday evening. Several matters of importance were discussed. The report of a committee on the framing of the constitution was read. After a brief discussion, the constitution was adopted. The first program was opened by Mr. Charles Fahey who showed excellent talent in reciting an original composition entitled “The First Shot from Sumpter.” Mr. Peter ’ Meersman gave a brief and very interesting talk on the benefits to be derived from such a society. Mr. Meersman was himself a good illustration of his point. Other numbers on the program were held over till the next meeting. At the close of the program Father O’Donnell
addressed the members on the subject of debating, its object and the benefits to be derived from taking part in it. He earnestly urged all who are eligible to enter for the college debates. The meeting closed with the enthusiastic conviction on .all sides that the Corby society was going to “make good.”
Obituary.
On Monday evening word was received of the death of Mr. Charles A. Schumacher, father of Rev. M. A. Schumacher, our Director of Studies, and Leo A. Schumacher, ’13. Although the deceased had reached the venerable age of 70 years, still his death was somewhat of a surprise, since he had not been seriously ill for any length of time before the end came. The funeral services were held Thursday morning in St. Mary’s Church, South Bend, at which Rev. Father Schumacher sang solemn high mass, assisted by Rev. Fathers Nieuwland and Maguire as deacon and subdeacon. The clergy from Notre Dame and South Bend, members of the Faculty, members of the Knights of Cglumbus and a number of students, assisted at the funeral. The Scholastic, in behalf of everybody in the University, extends to Father Schumacher, Leo and the other.members of their family sincere sympathy in their bereavement and gives an assurance of many fervent prayers for the departed. R. I. P.
We regret to chronicle the death of Mrs. Mary B- Casey, mother of Gerard B. Casey of Carroll Hall. The deceased resided at Streator, Illinois. She suffered long and patiently and leaves the memory of a good life behind her. R. I. P.
Mr. Hugh McCaffery of Walsh hall has the sincere sympathy of all at the University on the death, during the week, of his young brother. We give an assurance of many fervent prayers for the departed. R. I. P.	_
Personals.
—A very pretty wedding took place in St. Patrick’s Church Tuesday morning when Mr. Charles Haney of Chicago, former student of Notre Dame, was united in marriage to Miss Anna Paul, youngest daughter of Prof, and Mrs.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Damis Paul. The ceremony was performed by Rev. Rather De Groote, pastor of the church.
—Leo Hammerski (C. B- ’09) is now until the C. C. C. & St. L. Railway in the Maintenance of Way Department. He is located at Mt. Carmel, Illinois. He says he will pay us a visit in the Spring. You’re always welcome, “Ham.”
—Among those from outside the University who attended the funeral of Professor Bdwards we noticed Louis Nash, J. V. O ’Donnell, George Myers, Warren Cartier, Zeke ‘ Cartier,. John (“Sag”) Nestor, Henry’’ Wurzer, William and Mrs. O’Brien, J. B. Weber.
—In Dayton, Ohio, on January' 14th, Mr. Alexander W. McFarland (Ph. B. ’06) and. Miss Hulda Grim were united in the bonds of marriage. They' will be at home at James River, Lynchburg, Virginia. Mr. McFarland was a popular student while at Notre Dame and is distinguished by a fine spirit of. loyalty' to Alma Mater.
—Mr. Gustavo Trevino (M. B. B. B. ’05) is chief engineer for one of the most perfect electrical equipments ever designed. This equipment has been planned for the new grand hotel, Monterey, Mexico, and the extent and perfection of it has attracted much attention. Mr. Charles de Lunden leaves this week to assist Mr. Trevino in setting up this mammoth plant. We congratulate Mr. Trevino on the compliment implied in selecting him for a work of. so much importance and magnitude.
Local Items.
—The prefects of the different halls are at work perfecting .the organization of the Bucha-ristic League among the students.
—On Thursday morning, at 8 o’clock, the . President of the University said mass for Dr. Schumacher’s father. The Faculty and students attended.
—Corby hall basket-ball warriors had their first practice in the gym Tuesday evening. The knowing ones point to another championship team this season.
—The local Pittsburgers downed the St. Louis club in the gym recently. O’Connor and Heyl starred for the former, while Dolan and Bru.ce were the bright lights of the latter team.
—The. skating on.St. Mary’s, lake is - still
good' and attracts many lovers of this sport. It is rare exercise, and for those who take advantage of it the infirmary will hold no attractions.
—Last week Cope, the “humorist,”' “humored” the younger boy's in the auditorium for forty minutes. The performance in whole or in part was not uproariously funny. In fact it was not funny at all.
—The names of Miller and Sinnott are again on the University roll. Both “Red” and Myles are of the class of ’10 and were well known on the campus during their college career. They' have entered the Law Department.
—St. Joseph basket-ball team suffered defeat in a closely contested game with Mishawaka High School Wednesday evening. St. Joseph’s line up was: Howard, centre; Costello, Barry, and Savord, forwards; Maloney and Corcoran, backs.
—The Kellogg-Haines concert, which we listened to this week, was highly enjoyed by the student body. The appreciation shown by' the audience for the work of these artists speaks for their art and for the good taste of the students.
—The military post has caused a bulletin to be placed at the lower front entrance of the Main Building. Its purpose is to show all interested the doings of the companies. We can find there the absentees from drill, the new promotions, etc.
—Announcement was made during the week that James D. Nolan of Marietta, Ohio, had been appointed assistant Manager of Athletics by the Faculty Board of Control to succeed Walter Duncan who resigned. “Jim” is a good, hard worker and we wish him all kinds of success in his new position.
—A most lamentable fact in our University life is the segregation of junior and senior literary and science classes from the junior and senior law classes. For the strength and glory of our Alma Mater every man should sacrifice himself to make every graduating class a unit.
—The following inquiry hasbeen received at the University: “Can you suggest to me an available man to take up-work about the first of February? An unmarried Catholic man who can teach Latin, Blementary Greek, Bnglish and possibly German.” Persons interested may apply to the President.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—The possibilities of the Battalion were clearly evident from the exercises of Wednesday morning. In the short space of time in which it has been organized the development has been remarkable. Great credit, is due Capt. Stogsdall for his indefatigable and enthusiastic efforts. We see nothing but success ahead.
—That the acquiring of a knowledge of the Spanish language is a valuable asset to the future business man is evidenced by the added attendance in the Spanish classes of students who -intend entering the business world. In looking over the records of the commerce and trade we find that the U. S. is daily becoming more and more dependent on Southern neighbors for the necessities of life.	.
Athletic Notes.
Olivet Game Proves Easy.
In a contest which lacked the snap and go usualty found in the local games the Varsity basket-ball team defeated Olivet by the score of 43 to 8. The Olivet men were no match for Captain Fish’s quintet in any branch of the game and the locals found piling up scores a very easy matter. Aside from Martin, the visitors ’ captain, there was very little class shown by the Michigan men. The plucky little captain succeeded in coralling all the points made by the visiting aggregation, throwing one field goal and six free tosses. For the locals it must be said that we have seen them perform more to our liking, but had they started in their usual form it would have been impossible to get the final score all down on one piece of paper. They were at no time forced to extend themselves and this they did not do uselessly. Maloney was high man in the scoring line, a position which has become quite familiar to him in his days at Notre Dame. Captain Fish furnished the thriller of the afternoon by throwing a field goal which will go down in history as being the longest ever made on the local field. Ulatowski and Walsh, as the number of the visitors ’ field goals will indicate, watched their men very closely and in addition mixed up in the scoring end of the game, as the former threw two field goals and the latter annexed one. Burke, who essayed to fill O’Neill’s shoes at centre, on account of an injury which the latter suffered to his ankle, played a most consistent game, making three field goals and
247
aiding materially to the general team world In the last half the “subs” were allowed to gambol with the visitors and during the ten. minutes which they played gave an exhibition which proved quite as mirthful as it was effective, for they scored in almost as easy a manner as did their liege lords.
Notre Dame—L. Fish, Matthews, right forward; J. Maloney, McNichols, left forward; Burke, J. Stevenson, center; Ulatowski, Feeney, right guard; R. Walsh, Morgan, left guard.
Olivet—Capt. Martin, right forward; Coombs, left forward; Champion, center; Rider, Hoyt, right guard; Smith, left guard.
Summary: Goals, Notre Dame: Fish, 4; Maloney, 6; Mathews, 3; Burke, 3; Ulatowski, 2; Walsh, 1; Stevenson, 1; McNichols, 1; Olivet: Martin, 1. Free throws: Notre Dame, McNichols, 1; Olivet,'Martin, 6; Referee, Williams, of Wabash.
First Regiment Meet This Evening.
This evening in Chicago the Notre Dame track team will compete in the annual First Regiment meet. Coach Maris feels that he is sending the best balanced aggregation of athletes that ever represented the gold and blue, and -although sufficient length of time after the opening of school did not allow of extensive training it is thought that Notre Dame’s men will finish well up in the lists. In the long distance events especially will the local team be well represented. In the two mile Dana and Hogan will battle for honors. Steers and Plant will run in the mile and Devine, and Mahoney are chosen to look after the half.
. The balance of the men and the events in which they are entered are as follows:
Philbrook, high-jump, shot-put and hurdles: Williams, shot-put, high-jump and hurdles; Hogan, two mile and mile; Steers, two mile, mile and half mile; Dana, two mile and mile; Fischer, quarter mile and half mile; Devine, two mile, mile and half-mile; Fletcher, hurdles, dashes, high jump and quarter mile; Rochne, shot-put, hurdles, quarter mile and pole vault; O’Neill, pole vault and shot-put; Clinnin, dash and quarter mile; Bergman, dash and quarter mile.
Wabash Tonight.
For the first time this season Captain Fish and his band of basketball players will face an aggregation who from reports of victories and prowess preceding them threaten seriously to break in on the line of victories amassed by the local team. Wabash is always strong when it comes to this branch of athletic sport, and
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
248
their representatives usually furnish the best game of the season on the local field. This year they have already defeated the Michigan Aggies as well as Rose Poly, and a number of less important games have given them a string of victories unbroken by the sting of defeat. The local men will be somewhat handicapped by the absence of 0 ’Neill who is with the track team in Chicago. Burke who showed to very good advantage in the Olivet contest ■will in all probability be seen at centre with Granfield back in his old position at guard. With Ulatowski playing the remaining guard position and Maloney and Fish as forwards, the Notre Dame fans can feel well assured of seeing one of the most hotly contested games of the season when the down-staters take the field.
‘'Baseball Men to be Out in February.
Contrary to the usual custom of issuing a call for candidates for the baseball team immediately after the opening of school in January, Coach Kelley has decided that he will work none of the men until the early part of February. This action is founded on the belief that conditions are such at Notre Dame that a team can be'fbunded; into shape a great deal more quickly than -where an. outside diamond must be depended upon to give the men practice, and also that when the men go out too early in the year they mature before the actual work of scheduled games begins and are liable to grow' stale when the season is only half over. The floor of the Gym has been covered with a heavy layer of river bottom clay soil which will pack harder than the ordinary soil and will make a much faster diamond. Prospects for the team which will represent • Notre Dame this season are of such natute at present that it would be hardly possible to forecast the strength of the baseball representation..	.
Safety Valve.
One More for Mr. Breach.
. If a fellow wrote an ode '
Which, he took and showed her, And if he wrote a hundred such?
Then would you call him oder.
Why of course- not!
Very well then. '	.
. • - • *** ■
Has anybody here seen Kelley? Why sure, everybody .has tried'not to. . -	-	-- -- - -•	^4:4: ■	~
‘- Full .many men in many ways r ; Do. funny stunts to get attention,
Like leaping down Niagara Falls Or diving from the Bridge Suspension.
But there’s a bunch of yaps out here, At this old game will surely skin them.
They chop their hair and bare their heads To show you there’s no brains within them.
Dear Street-Car Company: For the second time we lift up our voices and beg you to give us some decent street-cars.
- History Professor—Who is this B. Arnold that is mentioned among the Revolutionary officers?
Goddeyne—That’s our Bill Arnold the revolutionist who blows his horn all day. ***
James Sherlock—I have, ’hem, here, a little proposition, or suggestion, or, I may say, indeed, a motion I would like to bring up before otir worthy brothers.
***
We keep a Pup Traynor we can let you have if you see your way clear to make a dicker—Stjoehallers.
Bet you a dime you can’t rime to these:
Hazinski	.
Zgodzniski
Rozewicz
❖❖❖ ■ .
For Impediment in Speech.
Quite a queer quip to question Quish.
' The Baldheaded Row.
Mule Madden, Dutch Lange, Arkansas Handlin, Frawley, McHugh, Wren.
And now comes the story from Sorin that it was not • 'a case of appendicitis at all but an acute attack of a new disease called buckleyitis. -
Our New Column.
—John Tully who has been ill is now well.
:—Tom Havican who has been well is about the same.
—Henry Kuhle and-Paul Rush lost a bunch of keys which was found and the bottle opener too.
—John O’Hara is writing an Ode for Washington’s birthday. He will read it maybe if it’s good. If it isn’t he won’t. Most everyone thinks he won’t.
—’Twas the hardest job I ever did see to lay hands on a “brother knight” Tuesday afternoon.
—The man with the book—Doc Halter.
—Lynch of Old College attended class Monday last.
. *** -I Know that Guy. A Walsher there is named Boos, Neat looking, wears nice clothes, And, strange, wherever he goes
■ He’s followed by those seeking beaus. A Side Step.
If “Divvy” should step on Herr’s toes and then repine Wouldn’t it be human for Herr to Forgive Devine?
■ *** ■
Get that weatherman!	’ ‘	.