Are There Any Cobwebs On Your Door?
Mark Twain once told the story of the spider who decided to take up abode in a strange town. The wise insect scanned the pages of the papers serving that community, picked out a merchant whose name was not represented there, spun a web across his door, and forever lived in peace.
❖ ❖ ❖
We specialize in discouraging the homeseeking spider. As soon as he sees your advertisement in the SCHOLASTIC he looks elsewhere for a place of rest. He realizes that over three thousand students who know you and your product will make your door an undesirable foundation for a cobweb.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
You’ll be surprised how cheaply we can furnish “spider insurance.” Just call 3-1121 for details.
The Scholastic
University of Notre Dame
May 20, 1932
One
T LLUSTRATED is only one of the many evils that lurk A behind every turn of the highways today — a horseless carriage filled with smirking daredevils who care not for life or limb, heedlessly speeding past the men in the rig without first stopping and properly signalling their approach. Unless you have only a few miles to go on your journey home next week you were well advised to leave your horse and rig in the hands of some trustworthy livery stable proprietor while you seek out a more certain method of travel. Our Mr. Charles Wood, 222 Lyons Hall, and our ticket agent, phone 3-3111, are both in a position to arrange your trip to your destination by rail, a mode of travel which should surely commend itself to you in these parlous times.
Chicago South Shore «MI and South Bend Railroad
Two The Scholastic
MAY TIME > » >
NOTRE DAME’S SPRING
AS SEEN THROUGH
THE CAMERA LENS ON
ST. MARY’S LAKE.	!
I
I
I
May 20, 1932
Three
i
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
B	I I	B Entered as second-class
I he Notre Dame Scholastic
ing at special rate of postage.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus section, nos, October s, 1917,
authorized June SS, 1918.
FOUNDED 1865
Neil C. Hurley__________________________Editor-in-Chief
Henry B. ASMAN_______________________Managing Editor
William W. Corr___________________Departmental Editor
Associate Editors GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff -
EDMUND STEPHAN.,.......  News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITCHELL TACKLEY,. Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT DILLON
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT RAY WATERS PAUL FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors JAMES CARMODY................The	Week
JOHN PICK................College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY................'.............Campus Clubs JOHN RYAN.................Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.........:......Staff Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS...........Sports	Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK EDW. VAN HUISSELING JOSEPH KURTH
Features Staff WALTER JOHNSON	Features Editor HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHEWOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ	LOUIS HRUBY
Business Staff ANDREW McGUAN...........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, Jr.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
MAY 20, 1932
Number 26.
SUMMAR Y
NEWS	.
Byron V. Kanaley makes presentation at Hurley
. Commerce building dedication; Father O’Donnell accepts for Notre Dame____________________________ 5
“Abraham Lincoln” cast of fifty-four chosen by Director Kelley_________________________________________ 5
Italian club sponsors trip to Italy to extend from June 24 to August 23________________________________  14
Mr. Kanaley’s presentation	speech___________________15
University professors take part in Reserve Officers’ meeting here tomorrow 15
Father O’Donnell’s speech of acceptance_______________16
r
।
FEATURES
Engineer Pfeiffer is president of the Engineers’ club; Fred Jachin Bauer claims Memphis, Tenn., as his starting point; in Men About the Campus.--12
SPORTS
Iowa baseball nine here for two-game series against
Keoganites today and tomorrow_____________________20
Sixteen golfers to open play for University championship and Livingston cup 20
Johnny Baldwin; ace guard of last two seasons, elected captain of basketball team_________________________21
The Scholastic’s handicap golf tournament reaches semi-final round with 60 entrants eliminated_______22
Irish track team runs away with Pittsburgh meet, 73 to 53, as Wilson does 440 in :48.6______________24
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, May 20—Baseball, Notre Dame vs..Iowa, Cartier field, 3:30 p. m.—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. University of Detroit, at Detroit.—Band concert, Main building veranda, 6:30 p. m. — Scholastic meeting: editorial staff, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Senior Ball, Saint Mary’s College, 9:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, May 21—Senior Tea Dance, Saint Mary’s College, 2:00 p. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Iowa, Cartier field, 3:00 p. m.—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, at East Lansing.—Golf, state meet at Greencastle.—Movie, “Rainbow Trail,” Washington hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, May 22—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00.—Interhall Golf Matches; Interhall Playground Ball, 9:00 a. m.—Presidents’ Council meeting, North room of Library, 10:30 a. m.—Knights of Columbus picnic, Indian Lake.
MONDAY, May 23—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Meeting of the Bookmen, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Academy of Science meeting, 208 Science hall, 8:00 p. m.—Dome banquet, Rose Marie Tea Room, 6:30 p.m.
TUESDAY, May 24—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. University of Wisconsin, at Madison.
THURSDAY, May 26—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
DuRING the dedication of the Commerce Building the other day, and while all those present lingered on the scene, the huge globe in the lobby was seen to issue from its pit and start toward the roof. A few of those near it gazed at it nonchalantly, wondered how it got there without making any effort to find out, and then turned away to look up Omaha on the wall. One person at least was frightened, an English major who had come to the ceremony as a lark. With the advent of the great sphere he gave a quizzical look before dashing outside to assure himself that he hadn’t got into the Engineering quarters by mistake. It is to be supposed that he should be somewhat disturbed, since in the A.B. hang-out nothing ever rises higher than the floor, except the dust that the lads kick up.
THE end of the Ball week-end brings to a close the yearly activities of the crooners-in-ears. Of course there was the Monogram Ball, but that was anti-climax, more or less. The real work was all done when the crowd left the Country club Saturday, even though the crown had not been awarded to the guy who knew the most words to any one song. One of the really surprising things about the humming of the crooners was that the songs were not all blue, and this in spite of the fact that there was a little talk about the steepness of the outlay for the privilege of becoming quietly vocal. We have an idea that some of the guests were sorry that Len Donaghue wasn’t successful, and would even gladly have saved the lads’ outlay and their ears at the same time.
-----------
T HIS is the time of the year when the boy graduates sigh gratefully and are glad that they never went to Yale or Princeton or whatever school it is where they have a fence and some sloppy songs that can be sung on it with great effect and in farewell to the old school. There’s nothing like that here, of course; even if there-were a fence no one would sit on it, for if one did he would be immediately struck down to prevent his pulling out a kazoo and a ukulele, which is all very well indeed. Did you ever feel anything else but a desire for mayhem on seeing a pair of fellows with their arms clasped in sugary friendship around each other’s shoulders? That’s^ why we have no fence.
May 20, 1932
Five
FINE CAST ASSEMBLED FOR‘ABRAHAM LINCOLN’
Heavy Acting Is Undertaken In Commencement Play.
By Mitchell Tackley
Cast as historical characters in the University commencement production of “Abraham Lincoln” are many veteran actors of the campus. Co-inci-dentally, several of the roles are taken by students who live in sections of the country coresponding to the district in which the character lived in Lincoln’s time.
Under the direction of Professor Frank Kelley, the reheasals have been progressing rapidly and the play promises to be high entertainment to campus play-goers.
Heading a cast of fifty-four is Professor Albert L. Doyle, who will portray the title role. Mrs. Lincoln will be played by Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, the “Little Nell” of “Gold in the Hills.”
Frank Denny, who will be remembered for his splendid work in “The Merchant of Venice,” ■will portray the part of General Grant. Frank Canale (Continued on Page 13)
Leslie Raddatz 9s Dome Wins Plaudits of Scholastic Editor In Traditional Review
By Neil C. Hurley
The editor of The Scholastic, in keeping with a tradition in the Publications office, sits before his typewriter this afternoon to review the Dome of 1932, which will be issued to the student body early next week.
Les Raddatz has just shown me the first completed copy, still a bit moist from Ray Moran’s presses. After going through its four hundred or so yellow-bordered pages, this reviewer is in quite a superlative-throwing mood.
Novel and Comprehensive
Les has completed probably the most novel, the most appealing and the most comprehensive Dome in the history of the publication.
It will probably be remarked that a Scholastic editor must necessarily make such a statement as a beau geste to a fellow undergraduate journalist. The remark, however, can in no way affect the merits of the 1932
COMMERCE BUILDING DEDICATED TUESDAY WITH SIMPLE, IMPRESSIVE CEREMONIES
DONOR
Edward N. Hurley, whose Commerce building was dedicated last Tuesday afternoon tvith an impressive ceremony in the new lobby.
Dome. Take a look at it and be your own judge.
There is a touch of the professional in each of its pages. Art Becvar’s work reaches the acme of student artistic endeavor. The division pages present a novel method of introduction, and the new and modern type faces are pleasing to any progressive editor. Raddatz himself puts it thus: “The most noteworthy thing about the Dome is its art work.”
Les has managed to get away from the staid, conservative type of yearbook. The tone of the whole publication points to hours of ingenious planning.
It’s Leslie’s Book
On the editorial page Raddatz gives credit to half a hundred or so fellows for their efforts. The rap doesn’t go. The entire book fairly breathes of Leslie’s planning and individual work.
The Dome’s written material, like
(Continued on Page 8)
BYRON KANALEY SPEAKS
Father O’Donnell Makes Formal Acceptance Speech; Entire Faculty Present.
By Edmund Stephan
The complete text of Father O’Donnell’s speech of acceptance will be found on page 16 of this issue. Byron V. Kanaley’s presentation address is reprinted on page 15.
In a ceremony, dignified because of its simplicity, the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce was dedicated at Notre Dame last Tuesday afternoon. In the lobby of the new building, Byron V. Kana-ley, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees, delivered the speech of presentation.
Building Accepted
Following Mr. Kanaley’s address the building was formally accepted by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Surrounding the lobby were the members of the faculty of the College of Commerce garbed in their professorial caps and gowns. Special chairs were given over to invited guests and the immediate family of Mr. Hurley. Floral roses and fems were the sole decorations for the occasion.
Erskine Speaks
Mr. Albert R. Erskine, chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees, presided over the ceremony, which was watched and listened to by undergraduates from the balcony of the building.
Mr. Kanaley, in his talk, stressed the singularity of the occasion, spoke of his friendship and regard for Mr. Hurley, and urged the students to keep the donor in mind as an inspiration and ideal.
Father O’Donnell, after a short dissertation on the commercial trend of the day and the fact of Notre Dame’s faith in American enterprise, turned the edifice over to the students, who, he said, are the real owners of the college.
Six
The Scholastic
“Juggler” Issues Reunion Number as Year’s Finale
JERSEY CLUB HONORS GRADUATING SENIORS
ART WORK SCORES
Speeches At Annual Banquet Emphasize Need of Unity.
Cover Fails To Register, But Some Original Humor
• Comes In Handy.
The Reunion Number of the Juggler which was issued last night could have had better cover make-up. The
Arthur Becvar
Just draws and draws, and draws.
drawing by Lopker has its merits, but there is a certain gaudiness and professionalism about the rest of the page which reminds one more of a “True Confessions” than a Juggler.
Funny Jokes This Time
As has often been remarked before, the Juggler staff has the happy faculty of always making up for something little off-color by making some other section of the magazine more striking. This time the humor division does that very thing.
The jokes can be truthfully said this time to be funny. Written material reaches a new zenith and Bob Gorman’s staff can feel that their year has been well-rounded.
A feature of the issue is a double spread in the center of the book, depicting supposedly famous drawings of past years, which are about equal to the art standard now in effect.
Charles Phillips writes probably the best of the prose of the week with a short half page essay on “This Business of Being Funny.” Austin Boyle, who ran The Wink in The Scholastic last year, scored ahead, of the other alumni contributors.
Orchestra Wins Favor of Student
Body Last Night
The University symphony orchestra, featuring John Sharpe, solo pianist, was heard in concert at Washington hall last night. It was the second concert of the year, with 500 in attendance.
Mr. Sharpe gave a brilliant interpretation of the Mendelssohn Concerto No. 1 for piano and orchestra, a reading which drew a warm ovation from the audience.
Mozart Symphony Applauded
Three movements of the Mozart symphony in G minor also received the favor of the listeners. The weird allegro molto, contrasting andante, and the light menuetto movements were the three chosen by Professor Richard H. Seidel, conductor. .
Another composition which won the fancy of the audience was the overture, “The Merry Wives of Windsor,” by Nicolai, a sparkling descriptive composition which depicts the lively chatter of a group of loquacious housewives. This selection and the Mendelssohn concerto were probably the most melodious numbers on the program.
Two Dances From Henry
Two dances by German from Henry VIII, the “Shepherds Dance” and the “Morris Dance” were well interpreted by Prof. Seidel. The orchestra concluded its program with a favorite of its earlier concert, the “Calif of Bagdad” overture by Boieldieu.
The orchestra will repeat some of these selections and others from its repertoire in conjunction with the University theater’s forthcoming production, “Abraham Lincoln.”
In 1929 (the latest year in which a report was made) there were in the United States 651 private commercial and business schools. They had a total of 120,505 day students and 59,251 night students.
The New Jersey Club bade farewell to its graduating seniors at a banquet held in the halls of the Indiana and
John Cooper
“Reverend Fathers and felloiv New Jerseyans . . .”
University Clubs in South Bend Wednesday evening. Over fifty members, including the seniors, attended.
John Cooper, toastmaster, read a letter from Professor Clarence “Pat” Manion announcing his inability to attend. Cooper then stated that speeches would be confined to the graduating men. Sal Bontempo, Vincent Whelan, Al Waters, John Papera, Wee Harrington, Ray Geiger, Don Sullivan, Tony Guiffre, Herb Wherlen, Joe Ewing, Charles Kronche, and Bill Murphy addressed the club members, wishing the club continued success and expressing their appreciation of its past activities.
To Meet With Alumni
It was announced that a meeting with the alumni would be held to discuss the division into two clubs. President Sabby Addonizio expressed his desire to include the former members of the now defunct Shore club in the activities of the New Jersey club.
Al Waters was appointed general chairman of the Summer dance to be held at the shore in August.
May 20, 1932
Seven
COMMERCEFORUMMEETS, EATS, AND ELECTS HEADS
Fogarty, Kempf, Egan, And Kane Take Offices.
Wranglers And Spectators Hold Their Final Banquets
ADMIT NEW MEN
By William Flynn
Announcement of officers for 1932-33, speakers, and food culminated the activities of the Commerce Forum at 'its first annual banquet held at the LaSalle hotel Wednesday evening.
Officers for the coming year are: president, Frank Fogarty, St. Joseph, Mo.; vice-president, Lucien Kempf, Stapleton, S. I., New York; secretary, John Egan, Springfield, Mass.; and treasurer, Paul Kane,Cresson, Penn.
New Directors Named
New directors of the Forum were also named. They are: Fred Laugh-na, Charles Preston, Ed Roxas, Joe Cronin, Frank Cawley, Matt Daris-court, and John Sullivan.
Among the speakers at.the banquet was M. E. McCarthy, dean of the Edward N. Hurley School of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. Dean McCarthy traced the growth of the Forum from its conception ten years ago to the present time and pointed out instances of valuable work accomplished by the undergraduate organization.
MacReady Houston, editor of the South Bend News-Times, the principal speaker, reviewed the money panics of the twentieth century. He cited examples of economic crises during 1907, 1913, 1921, and 1932, and said that it was only during the present depression that newspapers have been seriously inconvenienced by economic conditions.
15 Prospects Not Bright
Mr. Houston added that prospects for June college graduates are not too bright and too much should not be expected. He stated that one advantage the graduate would have when he did find employment would be the fact that he would not be accustomed to high salaries and would be able to work from the bottom.
Frank Fogarty, newly elected head of the Forum, has been active in undergraduate campus activities for several years. He is at present completing his Junior year in the College of Commerce and upon completion of his work will receive the B. C. S. degree.
Anniversary of Science Group To Be Monday
The Notre Dame Academy of Science will hold its seventy-fifth regular meeting since its inception seven years ago, on Monday evening, May 23, at 8 p. m., in room 208 Science hall.
The ^anniversary meeting will be . marked by the presentation of the Key of the Academy to fourteen members by the Very Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., Provincial of the United States Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, a former president of the University, and professor of chemistry.
President John Werner of the Academy and Myron Crawford, vice-president and chairman of the Executive committee, will read short papers.
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET TO BE HELD MAY 2S; PICK NEW EDITORS
The annual Publications banquet will be held Wednesday at 6:30 p. m. in the Faculty dining hall, it has been announced by Reverend Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C.,
Staff members of The Scholastic, Dome, Juggler, and Scrip will be invited to attend.
Editors of all publications for next year will be announced.
Young Nominated In Ohio
By Intercollegiate Press.
Oberlin, Ohio, May 19. — In one of the most uproarious two-day mock national conventions ever held here, the Oberlin College students last week nominated Owen D. Young as their choice for the Democratic nomination for presidency, and adopted a platform which included, after two days of wrangling and changing of votes, a plank calling for a referendum on prohibition, if and when it seems a great majority are in favor of repeal.
Fr. Cavanaugh and Fr. Miltner, Faculty Advisers, Address Respective Clubs.
Garbed in traditional formal wear, The Wranglers and The Spectators, Notre Dame honorary clubs, banquet-
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
“Hitch your wagon to a star.”
ed in individual rooms of the Oliver hotel last night.
The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S.C., former president of the University, and faculty adviser for the Wranglers, was the guest speaker at the forensic society’s dinner. The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the A. B. College, was the principal speaker at the Spectators banquet.
Speaks On Youth
Father Cavanaugh, talking extemporaneously on the subject of “The Ideals of Youth,” spoke for twenty-five minutes to the sixteen Wranglers present.
“Dream dreams,” he declared, “but let your wish bone be supplemented by a back-bone. Become a practical dreamer, for it is the spirit of youth to dream and to plan. Let those of old age see the visions.”
“ ‘Hitch your wagon to a star!’ is an old proverb, but a true one. I shall hate to see the day when the storm (Continued on Page 11)
Eight
The Scholastic
HEY,HERE’S NEWS! PRESS CLUB MEETS AND VOTES
Journalists Name Jaeger President; Becklenberg Is Editor.
At a special meeting of the Press Club held last Wednesday evening, John G. Jaeger, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected to the presidency of the organization.
Other officers elected at that time include George Beaudin, vice-president; Martin Linsky, secretary, and Fred Becklenberg, editor. The exact nature of the latter office is rather debatable at the present time in view of the fact that the Press Club sponsors no news organ. Becklenberg, however, promises somes ort of activity along this line next year.
No Beer Parade; Amherst
Saved From Tabloid Writers
By Intercollegiate Press.
Amherst, Mass., May 19.—Because, they said, they did not want to be classed as disciples of Jimmy Walker, 60 per cent of the students at Amherst college last week voted down a proposition to hold a Beer Parade on the campus.
The 40 per cent who favored the proposition said, however, that the parade would be held as planned on May 14.
The opposition was led by Chalmers Roberts, dry editor of the Amherst Student, and George Cadigan, captain of next year’s football team. They appealed to the students to “save the fair name of Amherst from the hands of sensational tabloid headline writers.”
Huge Tower With Windmill To Generate Electric Current
By Intercollegiate Press.
BERLIN, May 18. — The highest structure in the world, a tower more than 1,300 feet high, is proposed here. It would have on the top of it a huge windmill capable of producing an electric current of some 700,000,000 kilowatt hours each year, to be used in heating green-houses at the base of the tower.
The proposed tower is the invention of Hermann Honnef, an engineer.
DELEGATE
James Kenneth Collins, retiring Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, who will be state representative to a national K. C. convention at Washington in June, because his name was pulled out of a hat.
Leslie Raddatz’s “Dome” Praised By “Scholastic”
(Continued from Page 5)
the written material of nearly all yearbooks, is not particularly impressive. The mass production precludes much finesse.
Noteworthy in the way of sections is a splendid snapshot division, arranged in a strikingly different manner from the much overdone camera sections of annuals. A set of pages devoted to the pictures of dance guests is well handled and timely.
All in all, the book is a monument to a capable editor. It lives up to the blurb it receives in the advertising section of The Scholastic this week. The plaudits of The Scholastic’s editor go, as usual, to the Dome’s, perhaps out of appreciation of the travail that accompanies the editing of any publication, but probably most of all because the book itself is a magnificent product.
Dr. Vannevar Bush, dean of engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has devised a “mechanical brain” capable of solving problems and calculations impossible for the human brain to compass.
McGill University in Montreal has received from the Rockefeller Foundation a grant of $1,232,652 for the establishment of aneorologica! institute at the university.
KNIGHTS SET MAY 22 AS DAY FOR PICNIC
Buses Will Leave For Indian Lake At 10 O’clock.
With a full day of frolic, the Knights of Columbus will bring to a close an active year in council history. The occasion will be the annual picnic which has been set for Sunday, May 22.	•
Busses to carry the large crowd of knights who are expected to attend will leave from the postoffice at ten o’clock Sunday morning. The destination is Indian Lake, Michigan, scene of last year’s picnic, with the return trip to be made sometime in the evening. .
Two meals,—a lunch at noon and a full-course chicken dinner,—will be served, and the transportation charges will be included in the fee of fifty cents. The decision of the council to share more than half of the expense has made it possible to keep the price at that figure.
Joseph Nugent, chairman of the picnic, has made all the necessary arrangements for the day. The other members of the picnic committee are: Al Consolati, arrangements; Frank Morley, transportation; Ralph Caletni and William Dea, tickets; Stanley Czapalski, entertainment, and Phillip. Ryan, sports.
A program of races and sports events, with prizes offered by the council, will be supplemented by swimming, boating, golfing and other diversions.
Tickets may be purchased this week from Joseph Nugent or may be bought directly Sunday morning before the busses leave.
Mount Holyoke Takss Up Cooking and Housework
By Intercollegiate Press.
South Hadley, Mass., May 19.—Beginning next fall, two of the smaller dormitories at Mount Holyoke college will be operated on a co-operative basis, with the students living in them doing all the housework with the exception of cooking.
In return the girls will receive a reduction of $200 in their annual tuition and board fees.
Both Smith and Wellesley colleges have conducted some dormitories on this basis for some time.
May 20, 1932
Nine
MONAHAN IS ELECTED HEAD OF BOSTON CLUB
Plans For Summer Dance Complete; Glennon Is Chairman.
A recent election in the Boston Club saw the presidency of that organization pass into the hands of Robert Monahan, junior in the College of Arts and Letters. Other new officers are Harry Rockett, vice-president; John Hanley, treasurer, and Harold Noonan, secretary.
A few days after the election Monahan announced the completion of plans for a summer dance to be held June 24 at the Black and White Inn in Marbough, Mass., midway between Worcester, the new prexy’s home, and Boston.
Joseph Glennon has been appointed chairman of the affair. The tickets will sell for the depression price of two dollars.
Electric Eye Device Is Invented By Vienna Man
By Intercollegiate Press.
VIENNA, May 18.—An electrical apparatus which takes the place of the eye in transmitting sight to the brain through the channels of the regular sight nerves is the invention of a Vienna architect, Joseph Gart-loruber.
The theory of the inventor is that the eye is merely a machine which transmits light into electrical waves which are sent to the brain, which is the real base of the sight.
He has tried the instrument out on several blind people, and they have been able to distinguish objects with it. The inventor says he has been able to read a newspaper with the device.
Contributes To University
By Intercollegiate Press.
Atlanta, Ga., May 19.—Major John S. Cohen, publisher of the Atlanta Journal, recently appointed to the senate to fill temporarily the place of the late Senator William J. Harris, contributed much to the building of a “greater Emory University,” and to the refounding of Oglethorpe university in Atlanta.
During the Spanish-American war he served as a war correspondent.
PREXY
Jack Werner, zuho zvill preside over the Academy of Science next Monday evening at which the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, will speak.
Baker Thanks Students For Mock Nomination
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cleveland, Ohio, May 19.—Although Newton D. Baker, secretary of war under President Wilson, has consistently refused to allow his name to be entered as a candidate for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency, he sent a letter of thanks the other day for his “nomination.”
The thank-you letter was addressed to the students of Western Reserve university, of which Baker is a trustee, for nominating him at their Democratic mock convention. He wrote:
“I would be glad to have the delegates of the mock convention know that I appreciate their action in nominating me as their candidate for the Presidency.”
Recently discovered documents in Munich show that New York City was about to be turned over to Bavaria by the Dutch when the British occupied the territory, insuring that the second largest city in the world was to be, like its’ older sister London, essentially an English speaking-municipality.
Education, whether within or without the home, must impart knowledge specificially useful to the individual according to his peculiar nature, if it is to accomplish results ethically valuable.—Hoivard Madison Parshley.
BOOKMEN SATISFIED, SO THEY BANQUET
Meehan Declares Year Has Been One of Glory.
A banquet at the La Salle hotel last Monday formally concluded the year’s activities of the Bookmen. The dinner was served in the Mezzanine room at 7:00 p. m. It was followed by short talks by the graduating members, and the guests, Professor Camille McCole, adviser of the club, and Professor Thomas Campbell, guest of honor. Samuel Hyde, president-elect, acted as toastmaster.
James T. Meehan as retiring president and one of the organizers of the Bookmen, told how- well pleased he has been with the progress the club has made in its first year.
He said: “It has fulfilled every expectation of the little group that met last spring to start an organization whose purpose it would be to read and discuss contemporary literature.”
Mr. Meehan expressed the opinion of all the speakers when he went on to say that he felt sure that the club would next year occupy even a more prominent place among organizations of its kind on the campus.
Professor Campbell, when called upon to say a few words, said that he thought the Bookmen would be interested in hearing some of the experiences he has had in connection with writing and publishing his books.
This work work together with his travelling has brought him into contact with many of the prominent literary figures of the day. He related interesting side-lights on such persons as George Bernard Shaw, John Galsworthy, Thornton Wilder, John Drinkwater, the Countess Landi, and Glenway Westcott.
Stewart Browne, president of the United Real Estate Owners’ Association in New York said in an article in the Campus, student newspaper at City College, that he -was in favoi* of abolishing all free colleges and universities because too many are being sent to college today whom it is impossible to educate.
One good deed dying tongueless slaughters a thousand writing upon that.—Shakespeare.
s
Ten
The Scholastic
MAHAFFEY ELECTED HEAD OF INDIANAPOLIS CLUB
Fox, Slattery, And Spalding Also Receive Offices.
Thomas Mahaffey was elected president of the Indianapolis club for the coming year at a meeting held last week. The other officers who will serve with the new chief executive are Mike Fox, vice-president; Jack Slattery, secretary; and Joseph Spalding, treasurer.
The organization closed a successful year with a banquet held at the Oldenburg Inn. Speakers of the evening were Brother Ephriam, C.S.C., treasurer of the University and former-principal of Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, and Brother Justin, C. S. C. Co-operation was the keynote of Brother Ephriam’s address. He pointed out that this characteristic is necessary for any fraternal body to function smoothly.
The retiring president is John Scanlon.
Clevelanders To Banquet
Next Tuesday the underclassmen of the Cleveland club of Notre Dame are to be hosts at a banquet given in honor of the departing seniors. It is to be held at the Indiana Club rooms in South Bend.
This banquet is an annual affair, and the committee is doing everything in its power to make it the best in the history of the club. Each of the parting members will say a few words to the underclassmen.
Plans are already under way for the first summer formal which is to be held shortly after the beginning of the summer session.
“Dome” Distribution
The Dome will be distributed to seniors on Tuesday afternoon, May 24th, it was announced today. Underclassmen will receive their copies on the following Wednesday and Thursday.
Only those students whose names appear on the approved list, issued by the Secretary of the University, will be entitled to receive a copy.
Distributors will be located in the rear of the Main building, from 1 p. m. to 5:30 p. m.
BY A NOSE
James Gerend, who last week became the Student Activities Council’s new president in an exceedingly close ballot.
K. of C. Will Hold Second Old Clothes Collectieon
The second of the bi-annual old clothes collections undertaken by the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, will begin next week, it has been announced by Grand Knight James Collins.
All the clothes collected will be turned over to Reverend Edward Finnigan, C.S.C., rector of Sacred Heart parish, who will distribute them among the poor.
Charles Fiss who was chairman in charge of collection last fall will again be in charge. Hall representatives will be: Sorin, Robert Streb, Leonard Donaghue, John Wittliff, Patrick Quirk; Corby, Edward Barrett, Charles Nash, Hugh McNamey, Frank Donalty; Walsh: William Dea, Frank Miller, Gerald Conway, Charles Quigley; Badin: Donald Lusardi, Peter Connelley, Warren Schwantes; Howard: Ray Maber, John Cahill, Howard Flannery, John Carry; Alumni: John Jager, Fred Becklenberg, James Gerund; Dillon: Peter Viviabo, Irwin Crotty; Morrissey: William Murphy, George Murphy, Frank Hon-erkamp, John Brost; Lyons: Joseph Strauss, August Von Boecklin, George Wenz; St. Edward’s: John Walsh, Charles Bolger, Harold Stone, Frank Messina; Brownson: Leo Hazen; Carroll: James Lannon; Freshman: Edward Callahan; Sophomore: Theodore Pape.
SIX WILL COMPETE IN
FROSH SPEECH FINALS
Coyne, Quinn, and Cox To Be Judges of Contest.
Having withstood the cuts of the preliminary trials of the Freshman Oratorical Contest, six men will compete this afternoon in the finals.
Joseph Crowley, John Cramer, Charles Hackbruch, John Clancy, Joseph Becek and John Cummings are the finalists. The judges are Ronald Cox, Edwin Quinn and William Coyne of the speech department, and James Boyle, president of the Wranglers.
During the trials held earlier in the week the following men were eliminated: A. Korzeneski, Richard Bullman, Robert Jassoy, John Donovan, Franklyn Stroud, John Carbine and Armand Albo.
Seniors* Praise Goes To Waidner and Arnheim
The Senior Ball of 1932, held last Friday evening at the Palais Royale, brought to a successful close the social activities of this year’s graduating class.
Nearly two hundred and fifty couples danced to the strains of Gus Arnheim’s orchestra. Arnheim came in for much praise for his novel selections. Between numbers the guests were entertained by the famous trio of the Arnheim troupe.
Saturday afternoon the class held their tea dance at the South Bend Country club, where Fred Waidner was the musical attraction.
William Ackermann Elected President of Wheeling Club
William Ackermann, a junior in the Science school, and native of Wheeling, was elected president of the Wheeling club at their regular meeting Tuesday night. Ackermann succeeds Edmund Sargus in the president’s office.
The post of vice-president was awarded to Jackson T. Gandour, a third-year man in the Commerce department, who also holds the office of Advertising manager on this year’s Dome.
Russel Rickus takes James Harris’ place as secretary of the organization, while James B. Beltz succeeds himself as treasurer.
May 20, 1932
Eleven
ITALIAN CLUB HOLDS SPAGHETTI DINNER
Oh, Yes, They Elect Their Officers, Too.
Officers elected for the coming year at the last meeting of the Italian club are: president, Jerome Ferrara; vicepresident, Andrew Maffei; secretary, Rocco Cacciatore; and treasurer, Leonard Cacciatore.
To inaugurate the newly elected officials a spaghetti dinner was held on the following evening at Vum-baca’s restaurant. At a business meeting held before the banquet a new constitution was voted upon and. adopted to go into effect next September. ■
This evening the year’s activities will be brought to a close with a smoker which will be held in the Carroll “rec” in honor of Ex-president Leo Schiavone.
Spectators, Wranglers Hold
Banquets as Final Activity
(Continued from Page 7)
clouds of realism knock down the rainbows of your imagination.”
Previous to the talk of Father Cavanaugh, O’Shaughnessy, president of the club, turned the chair over to President Elect James Boyle. He in turn, called on the graduating seniors. Introduction of the nine new members took place and the banquet adjourned.	,
John Wilson, Jack Driscoll, James O’Shaughnessy, and Neil Hurley will leave the organization through graduation. William Darrow, the other graduate, was not present last night.
In his talk to the Spectators Father Miltner, the club’s moderator, spoke of the traits which characterize the educated man as opposed to the merely informed individual, who goes through life with a conglomeration of ideas, without any underlying . consistency in his thought and his philosophy.
Edmund Stephan, retiring president, acting as toastmaster during the evening, called upon Paul Hallinan and Nicholas Kaelmes, graduating seniors, for short talks. Other men to address the group were John Pick, the newly elected president, William B. Dreux, secretary, and Louis Hasley, member of the Notre Dame faculty and one of the founders of the Spectators.
UNANIMOUS
Robert Monahan of Worchester, Mass., who was the Boston club’s almost unanimous choice for its presidency at a recent meeting.
Jeans, Astronomer, Announces New Theory of the Universe
By Intercollegiate Press.	•
New York, May 19.—A special cable to the New York Times here said that Sir James Jeans, noted astronomer, advanced a new theory last week when, delivering a lecture at Manchester university, he described the universe as a stick standing on one end and falling over steadily at a constantly increasing speed. The infinitesimal amount of the fall, however, would require an eternity of time, according to Dr. Jeans.
Fr. Cavanaugh To Address
K. of C. At Last Meeting
Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, will speak Monday at the final meeting of the year to Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus. The meeting will be held at 7:45 p. m. in the Notre Dame council chambers in Walsh hall basement.
John Wittliff, lecturer of the council, who has charge of arranging the entertainment for the meetings, said that there would also be musical entertainment.
As this is the last meeting, all business of the council will be officially closed, it was announced by Eli Abraham, financial secretary.
LARGE CROWD ON HAND TO SEE SCIENCE MOVIE
“Romance of Drugs” Is Title of Movie Given Wednesday.
The movie, “The Romance of Drugs,” was shown in Washington hall last Wednesday evening.
The picture, a talkie, depicted the manufacture of drugs, pills, and other biologicals as they are made in the plant of the Eli Lilly company of Indianapolis. The process was traced from the raw material, which was inspected and analyzed before entering the machines, to the finished product.
During the manufacture the material is constantly analyzed to insure correct formula and purity. Most of the work is done by means of machines which are marvels of mechanical perfection. Views were also shown of the farm where the animals are raised for the purpose of making sera.
The picture was shown through the courtesy of the Eli Lilly Company of Indianapolis, who was the host to a number of seniors who visited the plant last month.
Edward Troy Elected Head of N. D. Branch of A.S.M.E.
Edward Troy was elected president of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers at the final meeting held this week.
Captain Bowers, a former World War air pilot and later an aeronautical engineer in South Bend, spoke to the society on “The Future of Aviation.” He quoted statistics on the advancement of aviation in South Bend and predicted a great advancement as soon as the present “depression” has passed. The captain stated that the owning of an airplane by an individual is still considered a luxury in the same class with a yacht.
Troy, who succeeds James Yoch as president, will have John Barbazette as vice-president, Walter Fransiole as treasurer, Henry Donnelly as corresponding secretary, and J. Tehan, as recording secretary.
It was announced that aviation enthusiasts may secure free copies of the booklet, “From the Ground Up,” from Frank Murray, 225 Sorin hall. They explain in simple language how an airplane is operated and the functions of its various parts.
Twelve
The Scholastic
Men About the Campus
ST. MARY’S STUDENTS HEAR 65-PIECE BAND
Because of the short time left until graduation, and because of the many Seniors worthy of a position in this column, The Scholastic is following the policy of iiinning two undergraduates here each week.
By Edward O’Brien
Kay Pfeiffer is from Louisville. He likes horses and Hughie Ball, another Kentucky lad. He has the rather unique and boasted distinction of never having had a date at St. Mary’s, but it would seem that there is a certain attraction in South Bend which explains everything. And now that Spring has come, oh well—
But don’t get him wrong, Ray is an engineer, and they are reputed to be lacking any sentimental characteristics.
President of Engineers
Engineer Pfeiffer is president of the Engineer’s club. This is the largest club on the campus, having a membership of two-hundred and fifty. Under Ray’s leadership, the club engineered its first annual dance, and the affair was both financially and socially successful. Modernistic decorations, resusitating the K. C. ballroom, were all designed by members of the Engineer’s club.
Pfeiffer rooms with John Keaney and has roomed with him for the past three years. Keaney is from Louisville, too, and is studying Pre-Med. The two have been arguing for three years as to which is taking the better course. Of course, Engineering is the better because Ray says so himself.	•
Ray is particularly interested in television. His thesis is on this subject, and he would like very much to enter the field upon leaving school. At present there are no prospects for his doing so, but he may find an opening in about two years.
Quite A Tennis Player
Engineer Pfeiffer is well known around Louisville, and New Albany just across the river, for his tennisplaying ability. He was a flash in high school as a tennis player, but ’ due to the time required of him in doing Dr. Caparo’s duties and other studies, he cannot go out for the varsity tennis team here. They say he’s quite a golfer, too.
Hugh Ball, a close friend of Ray’s, reveals that the President is responsible for a new fad created at Nazareth college in Louisville. This lad Pfeiffer bears watching.
By Roy Scholz
Little is it known that on the Notre Dame campus, in Walsh'hall to be explicit, lives a former traveling
Fred Bauer
In stately Walsh a former traveling salesman lives.
salesman. Fred Jachin Bauer is his name, and he claims Memphis, Tennessee as his starting point.
When Fred arrived here the glamor of the press attracted him, and soon our hero was distributing Scholastics; not satisfied with this he changed to advertising during the second semester.
For three years Fred chased copy, sold ads, collected bills, and wrote copy. Last fall, in his senior year, by a process of elimination, this culminated in the appointment as advertising manager of said Scholastic.
Capable Advertising Manager
This position he has most ably filled, organizing the advertising campaign each semester, and allotting prospective customers to the undergraduates for interviews, (he holds the devastating effect of his own personality as a last resort.) For each issue of the magazine, an advertising dummy is made, around which the editors build the paper.
. National advertising is hanidled through collegiate advertising agencies who sell the space, check the advertising power of the magazine, and subtract their commission. Advertising is at its height between Fall and Christmas and between Easter and Spring. Between Christmas and (Continued on Page 13)
N. D. Musicians Give Outdoor Concert On Monday.
Entirely surrounded by water on the island in the lake at St. Mary’s College, the Notre Dame concert band of sixty-five musicians presented an outdoor concert to the students Monday evening. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta directed the band.
Featured on the program presented for the St. Mary’s students was a selection written by Professor Casasanta for the college. The theme will be adopted by the college as a school song. As yet it has no title and the words remain to be written. The song was received with great enthusiasm among the student body.
The band played numbers varying from marches to classic. Included in the program was a motet and “The Ave Maria,” by Schubert.
Harvard ‘Crimson’ Advocates Barring Students Who Work
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cambridge, Mass., May 19. — Students who have to spend too much of their time working their way through college would be barred from Harvard university if the Harvard Crimson, student newspaper, had its way.
In an editorial announcing that 27 eastern colleges, including Harvard, had outlawed the “sympathy appeal” by student salesmen, the Crimson said:
“The myth that any able-bodied man can support himself and at the same time realize the full advantages of a college education must be destroyed. And there is no better way to do it than by refusing admission to men who are compelled to spend so much time and go to such ends to earn money for themselves that they lose many of the most essential benefits of a college education.”
Prof. Reilly Under Knife
Professor Philip Reilly, of the Department of Spanish, College of Commerce, underwent an operation at St. Joseph’s hospital, South Bend, Monday for appendicitis.
Both he and Father Walsh, who underwent a similar operation last week, are reported as greatly improved.
May 20, 1932
Thirteen
PREXIS MEET SUNDAY TO SELECT CAMPUS RULER
All Clubs To Be Represented In Undergraduate Poll.
Elections of officers of the Presidents’ Council will be held Sunday in the north room of the library, at 10:30 a. m.
A. Charles Hitzelberger urged that all newly elected presidents be at hand to cooperate in the selection of the president of the council for the coming year.
It was announced that the financial reports, which have been requested of all the campus clubs, are due today. This request is made in order that these reports may be audited as soon as possible.
Forms upon which the reports may be made, can be obtained at any time at room 207 Walsh hall.
174 Students Registered In Law School for 1932-1933
One hundred and seventy-four students are registered in the Notre Dame College of Law for the year 1932-33, according to figures as announced by Dean Thomas F. Konop.
Following is a summary of the registration data: first-year men, 77 students; second-year men, 63 students; third-year men, 33 students; special, one student; total, 174.
Jimmy Walker Believes In Public Service
By Intercollegiate Press.
New Haven, Conn., May 12. — In an interview published in the Yale Daily News, Mayor James Walker of New York expressed the opinion that “no finer career -of usefulness is open to the university graduate than service in the administration of public affairs.” He said in part:
“Gone forever are the torchlight days when the qualifications for officeholding depended upon political preferment gained only through being a good fellow in the neighborhood. The complexities of government today certainly demand as much intellectual ability as a high executive position in a bank or corporation.”
MAN ABOUT
Ray Pfeiffer
He never dated at St. Mary’s, and is particularly interested in television. See page 12 for Man About Campus.
Cast Is Announced For University Production
(Continued fi-om Page 5)
will be seen as Robert E. Lee; Miss Virginia Byers, South Bend, will appear as Mrs. Goliath Blow; Mrs. Katherine Basler will play the part of Mrs. Otherly, and Miss Margaret Burroughs, the part of Susan, the maid.
Others who will appear in the cast are George Higgins, Franklin Straud, Vigillius Phillips, John Ryan, Thomas Stritch, and oJseph McCabe.
The action of the play is divided into six incidents, all vital scenes in the life of Lincoln. Historically, the play follows the presidential administration of President Lincoln and his reactions to the Civil War.
The play will be presented in Washington Hall for the first time Saturday evening, May 28. A second performance will beg iven Sunday evening, May 29, and the Commencement presentation on Friday evenin, June 3.
Criminals as a group have physical characteristics differing from those of non-criminals and criminals vary physically according to the types of crime which they commit, in the opinion of Professor Earnest A. Hooton, anthropologist at Harvard university.
Declaring that psychiatry finds it useful but “not the sole way to salvation,” Dr. Adolf Meyer of Johns Hopkins University asserts that the field of psychoanalysis ought to be strictly limited.
SEMINAR PICKS THREE LEADERS FOR NEXT YEAR
O’Shaughnessy, Weil, Clark, Get Executive Posts.
James B. Clark, John O’Shaughnes-sey, and Granger Weil have been chosen as a committee to head the Economics Seminar for next year. The selection was made at a banquet held Tuesday evening at the Oldenburg Inn.
Pi'ofessor William H. Downey, Mr. Joseph L. Apodaca, and Mr. Louis Buckley made short talks at the banquet. They assured the members who will be present next year that they would make it a point to attend next year’s seminars and stressed the benefits they had received from meetings this year.
Requirements for those who wish to become members of the seminar are that they be economics majors in their junior or senior year.
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued fi-om Page 12)
Easter there’s lots of news (necessarily).
Advertising Manager Fred takes great pride in telling about his job as travelling salesman which he claims is the best job he ever had. For weeks he travelled over gravel roads, and slept in country hotels, never visiting a town of more than 12,000.
A girl named Helen, a light suit, books by Willa Cather, the Post, and Isham Jones are all winners to Fred. A radio which was obtained in his sophomore year still plays incessantly.
Although he was out for the freshman basketball team for two days, Fred’s college life has been barren of athletics. Recently he acquired a “golf bug” which is supplanting his former hobby of photography. Examples of the latter are scattered about his room.
After he graduates from the College of Commerce (where he is majoring in philosophy) in June, he intends to enter his father’s business, and again he’ll become a travelling salesman.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
PROBATION CURRICULUM TO EXPAND ACTIVITY
Announce New Faculty Member in John A. Sullivan.
The scope of the probation work curriculum will be extended next fall so as to include preparation for administrative positions in institutions for juvenile delinquents, as a result of the addition of Mr. John A. Sullivan to the faculty of the Department of Sociology, according to an announcement made by the University today.
Mr. Sullivan, a graduate of Boston College and the New York School of Social Work, has just completed two years of experience in a supervisory capacity at the New York House of Refuge which is the state reformatory for delinquent boys.
The Notre Dame probation work program which prepares college men for positions in probation, parole, and prison administration was established in 1929, and was the first experiment of its kind in America. A similar curriculum was introduced at Harvard university last fall.
Present day leaders in the field of criminology believe that most of the important positions in the correctional field in the future will be held by specially trained college graduates.
Chicago To Use Talkies For Freshmen Classes Next Year
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, Ill., May 19.—An educational innovation, the basis of which will be talking motion pictures for classroom work, has been announced by Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago.
Production will begin at the university in a few days on a series of 20 talkies on the physical sciences. Next fall they will be tried out on the members of the freshman class.
Lectures by noted professors will be synchronized with the films, which can be repeated as often as necessary to bring home the lesson to the student.
According to Dr. Hutchins, four years of study was needed to perfect the new educational plan. Under present plans the movies will be sold to other colleges and universities and other institutions of educational nature.
SPEAKER
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
Points out traits characteristic of educated man as opposed to merely informed individual.
E. J. Connolly Becomes New Manager of Dining Halls
Coming from New York, E. J. Connolly assumed his duties Monday as manager of the University dining halls. He succeeds the late Robert J. Borland.
In an interview with a Scholastic reporter he expressed the hope that he will be able to carry on the same type of dining hall management that Mr. Borland established.
“My one thought,” he said, “is, if possible, to avoid the repetition of meals which cause monotony from sameness; sameness should be guarded against in school diets and in that respect, I hope I’ll be as successful as was Mr. Borland.”
With a background of twenty years experience, the new manager came from the Hotel McAlpin, New York City. While at McAlpin, he had charge of the largest training table system of New York hotels.
The Notre Dame appetite is well known to Mr. Connolly. On several occasions while at the McAlpin, he supervised the diets of the visiting Notre Dame teams.
In assuming his duties last Monday, his first contact with the University proper was made. When asked his impressions of Notre Dame, Mr. Connolly said: “The dining halls are the finest, best equipped school refectories I have ever seen. The atmosphere of Notre Dame is most impressive; it makes one feel that it is a good place to be.”
ITALIAN CLUB ARRANGES PILGRIMAGE TO ROME
Many To Attend Classes At University of Rome.
The Italian Club of Notre Dame, under the supervision of Professor Pasquale Pirchio of the University is sponsoring a pilgrimage to take place this coming summer.
The trip is to be divided into two sections, one attending the summer courses of study at the University of Rome, and the other spending the entire time in travelling with a prearranged group or alone, as preferred.
Arrangements have been made with the Italian government so that all Italian museums, galleries, excavations, monuments, and antiquities can be visited.
The members of the parties are to leave New York June 24, on the M. V. Vulcania. Enroute to Rome they will visit Gibraltar, Algiers, Naples, and Venice. Those who attend classes at the University of Rome in either Italian language, literature, art, or history will be granted an artistic diploma at the end of the course.
They will embark for the return trip on August 23.
Students Without Rooms Asked To Register Names
Students who were unable to obtain rooms for next year at the time of the drawing may place their names with Registrar Robert Riordan on the waiting list.
They are to indicate their choice on the list and each student will be given a room according to the order in which his name appeared on the original room drawing list.
N. J. CLUB FEATS SENIORS
(Continued from Page 6)
Carton will be his assistant.
Announcement was made that the bids for the spring dance to be held at the Cresmont Country club, June 17, will be available for distribution at the end of this week. They may be obtained from President Addoni-zio.
Plans for a most active alumni club under the leadership of the graduating men were discussed. The banquet was the final campus activity of the year for the New Jersey club.
May 20, 1932
Fifteen
At The Commerce School Dedication
RESERVE OFFICERS TO MEET HERE TOMORROW
Manion, Bott, and Campbell Slated To Take Part.
Left to right; Alfred Shaw, superintendent of construction; John F. Cushing, Chicago; Miles W. O’Brien, Sozith Bend; Edzvard N. Hzirley, Chicago; C. C. Mitchell, Chicago; Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago; A. R. Erskine, Sozith Bend; Warren Cartier, Liidington, Mich., and Frank E. Hering, South Bend.
500 Pack Washington Hall to Witness John Perone And Band In Uproarious Stage Show
By Mitchell Tackley
The Captain George A. Campbell contact camp for the officers of the National Reserve of the Gary and Elkhart county district will be held here tomorrow and Sunday May 2122.
The camp is being sponsored by the 327th Field Artillery and the 13th Chapter of the Indiana Reserve officers’ association. It is named in honor of Captain Campbell, who was instructor of cadet corps here at the University before the World war in which he was killed in action.
To Dine in the Evening
In the evening a dinner will be held in the Dining- Halls. Captain Clarence E. Manion, 327th Field Artillery, will be toastmaster. Lieutenant Herbert J. Bott, of the College of Commerce, will speak upon “The Relation of Topography to Military Operations,” and Professor Thomas B. Campbell, of the department of history, will talk on “Observations in the Orient.”
Text of Byron Kanaley’s Speech of Presentation
Five hundred swarmed to the Bengal benefit movie and stage show presented in Washington Hall last Saturday evening under the sponsorship of The Scholastic. Undergraduates, seniors and their guests, and South Bend people comprised an appreciative audience.
John Perone and Company was the major attraction of the stage “extravaganza.” Al Stewart and his Notre Dame Jugglers supplied the music element. Nordy Hoffman, Ernie Gil, and Dan Smyth contributed much to the entertainment of the crowd.
From the rising of the curtain at 6:45 p. m. until the beginning of the movie program, the audience was kept in an uproar. With Perone as master of ceremonies the Jugglers opened the show with several popular selections. Wise-cracking, punning, and crooning were features of the program.
The stage presentation was followed by the showing of a news reel, a “Betty Boop” featurette, and the movie depicting a biographical study of George Washington, released for use in conjunction with the bi-centen-
nial celebration being held this year.
The George Washington picture evidently failed to “click”, as a large number of the audience left shortly after its beginning. By the end of the show, there was a scant dozen in the auditorium.
Over one hundred dollars was turned over to Father O’Hara by the editor of the Scholastic for the Bengal Missions.
Fascist Students Honored
By Intercollegiate Press.	-
ROME, May 20.—Several thousand Fascist students, gathered here last week, were given the motto “Book and Musket” by Premier Benito Mussolini, who lifted a textbook and a gun aloft as he spoke to the cheering undergraduates.
He said in part:
“In this tenth year of Fascism your watchword more than ever is this.” And he held aloft the symbols.
And you know how kindly the world is in its comments on what it does not understand.—Conrad.
I have the honor, as an associate of Mr. Hurley on the Board of Trustees of this University, and as his friend, to present to the University in Mr. Hurley’s name this magnificent building.
Knowing as I do the purposes which inspired the donor in making this gift, and knowing from my long association with Notre Dame as a student, an alumnus, and as a trustee, the spirit of the University itself, I cannot but feel there is a happy meeting of minds in the mutual relationship which this benefaction establishes between Mr. Hurley and Notre Dame.
Therefore it is that, with singular satisfaction and with keen appreciation of the privilege that is mine, I present to the University in the name of its donor, the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.
Band Concert Notice!
The University band will present a concert this evening at 6:30 on the steps of the Main building.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
President Honors Hurley In Speech Of Acceptance
TEXT GIVEN BELOW
Donor of Commerce Building Pledged Thanks of Students, Both Past And Present.
Following is the text of Father O’Donnell's speech given last Tuesday afternoon at the dedication of the new Hurley School of Commerce.
For the first time in the history of Notre Dame, a president of the University is in the happy position of accepting from its donor a major benefaction in the form of a building, an establishment designed to facilitate and extend the work of the University in a particularly important field.
Our founders probably dreamed of this day, Mr. Hurley, and in their name and in the name of all who have cherished the ideals of this school, I give you thanks, the thanks of ninety years of Notre Dame.
Pledges Gratitude
More than that, I pledge you the gratitude of unnumbered years to come, in the name of those generations of students who will be the direct beneficiaries of your foresight and your benevolence in establishing this College. It shall proudly carry your name forward to a posterity that will keep it forever in benediction.
In speaking thus, Mr. Hurley, I am aware that embarrassment is created for you, that some violence is done your modest spirit, even that something unreal, if not untrue, is introduced into a transaction which is no dream at all but a practical business man’s expression of a conviction arrived at by years of observation and experience.
Realities of Commerce
Foreign and domestic commerce are realities. They are the veritable axes upon which the material welfare of nations turns, while their implications go far beyond the bounds of that which is merely material in the life of peoples. The complexities of the problems they present grow with the hour. No man can
alone successfully cope with them. Organization is necessary, and not only organization in the actual field of operation, but there must be, too,
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. <!. . . in the happy position of accepting from its donor a major benefaction.” an organized muster of forces in preparation for entrance into the field.
Doubtless the day will never come when genius, of whatever kind, need be schooled and trained, but the history of the world forbids us to expect that lesser men can dispense with the help which their fellow-men have learned how to bestow. Education is predicated thus upon experience which confirms belief.
That education is not confined to college walls, as we are so often reminded, formal educators should be the first to admit, if for no other reason than because of the implied compliment that the college is its natural home.
Possibilities of Training
In the laboratory and the lecture hall of experience, here and in other countries, you, Sir, have come to see the marvellous possibilities of formal academic training for so practical a thing as modem business, because life has taught you that trade is not merely, nor even primarily, a matter of money-making; rather it is a serv-(Continued on Page 28)
FRESHMEN LECTURES TO BE DISCONTINUED
Arts and Letters Faculty To Change Plans Next Year.
Discontinuance of the freshman lectures held each year in the beginning of the first semester of the school year was decided upon at the last meeting of the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters. The announcement was made through the office of Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the school.
At the meeting the advisability of continuing these weekly lectures was given protracted consideration. It was generally conceded that the response on the part of the freshmen was both discouraging and disproportionate to the efforts expended on the part of those who gave the lectures.
A committee of faculty members was appointed to study the problem and to provide a more suitable means of introducing basic problems of collegiate life to the freshmen of the college. Announcement of this new plan will be made in a later issue of The Scholastic.
The general problem decided upon for discussion during the meetings of the coming year is that of improvement in teaching and the training of the younger faculty members.
No little enthusiasm for the project which will undoubtedly result in great benefits for the experienced teacher as well, was shown.
Northern N. Y. Club Elects
Officers For Coming Year
James Munn was elected president of the Northern New York Club at a meeting of that organization held on Tuesday evening in the basement of Walsh hall. Harold Desnoyers was elected vice-president.
Other officers elected for thee oming year are William Burns, treasurer, and Mitchell Tackley, secretary. In the president’s seat, Munn succeeds Al Seymour.
Plans for the summer formal to be held at the Bear Club, Lake Placid, N. Y., were discussed. The event is planned for -August 15 and the attendance will be restricted to Notre Dame students of past and present. The club voted to have two tickets to the Notre Dame-Army game next fall given as a door prize.
May 20,1932
Seventeen
Monogram Formal Scores Success
---------
200 Couples Throng Palais Roy ale For The Year’s Last Social Event
Paul Host Chairman
△
V
Miss Betty Bushnell ‘ Louisville, Kentucky
Nordy Hoffman
Presiclent
△
V
The Monogram Club of the University held their annual Formal last Tuesday evening, with the Palais Royale as the mecca for the campus athletes and their guests. This year’s ball, following in the footsteps of the other Notre Dame formats of the past year, was voted a grand success.
Stonebumer Orchestra Scores
Glenn Stoneburner and his Kilties, popular South Bend orchestra, furnished the musical touch for the evening’s dancing. The local leader and his ten-piece makers of melodious tunes kept the select crowd in a happy mood with their performance. Stoneburner played all the popular hits of the day, and made a distinct “hit” with the dancers by playing almost all request numbers.
The Formal this year, as in past years, found the athletes laying aside
By Walter Kennedy
their usual spiked shoes, shorts, moleskins, and other sporting equipment to don formal attire.
Campus Personalities Present
All of the campus personalities in the world of sport were in evidence, seeming to be as well at home on the dance floor as on the field of battle.
As usual the comedy touch, ever so prevalent at an affair given by the Monogram club, was supplied by the candidates for admission to the select circle of the club. Gene Howery and Denny O’Keefe were the ring leaders of the initiation, which found Joe Kennedy in the spotlight with his songs and crooning. The rest of the candidates supplied the background for the musical numbers.
This year, departing from usual custom, the Monogram club charged a small fee for the dance with each
member being allowed a guest ticket besides his own. This kept the dance exclusive, with only about two hundred couples in attendance.
The hours of the Formal were from nine to twelve, with twelve-thirty permissions in effect for those who attended.
Guests of Honor
The guests of honor were Miss Betty Bushnell, of Louisville, Kentucky, who was escorted by Paul Host, general chairman of the Formal, and Miss Ruth McMillan, of St. Mary’s College, who was the guest of Nordy Hoffmann, president of the Monogram Club.
The list of patrons and patronesses included: Mr. and Mrs. Heartley Anderson, George Keogan, John Voedisch, Stephen Ronay, Judge Cain, and William Meehan.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE LAIAIL
WANTED: NURSEMAIDS
Columbia university football stalwarts have found lucrative employment as “nursemaids” to the young sons of wealthy New York families. They owe those jobs to the panic which followed the Lindbergh kidnaping.
PRESIDENTIAL RECREATION
Candidates for the Harvard polo team practice riding on wooden and electrical mounts before they straddle the flanks of a real honest-to-goodness horse.
HATS PRESENT
At a certain eastern college there is a rule that permits a class to dismiss itself should the professor fail to appear ten minutes after the beginning of the period. A math class followed this regulation and was severely reprimanded the next day. “You could see I was here,” said the aggrieved professor, “My hat was on the desk.”
The next day when the professor entered, not a student was in the room—but on each desk there was a hat.
SANDPILE LECTURES
Because of the general horror of lectures at Johns Hopkins professors are obliged to hide their topics behind farcical titles. A recent prize-winner was “Electrons, at Work and at Play.”
HOW MANY LIVES?
Instead of the cat dragging in someone, at Chattanooga, someone dragged a cat into the zoology department. It turned out to have two bodies, eight legs, two mouths with hair growing on the inside, two tongues and one palate.
HOT SERVICE
Freshmen at Gettysburg are required to carry matches for the upperclassmen. Recently when a neophyte bumped against a table in a fraternity house, his clothes caught fire and he was badly burned.
PHOTOGRAPHED EGOISM
During an examination a student at M. I. T. photographed the exemption list because his name appeared there and he wanted to show it to his parents.
TWELVE YEAR WAIT
A student at Center college resolved to remain on the campus until his Alma Mater defeated Tate college at football. His dream has finally been realized after a wait of twelve years.
ONWARD AND UPWARD
Eight men on the basketball team at Westminster college are six feet, six inches in height or over. A move toward the higher things in basketball, one might say.	'
STATIONS FOR WAITERS
A design for a “Thumb Station,” a place for students to rest while awaiting rides to school, was given first prize in the Clemson college architectural contest.
OLD DEAH
Mr. Coghill, travelling Rhodes scholar, who arrived in the United States recently, was busily engaged one afternoon in his hotel lobby in perusing one of the most recent phenomena of his country known as “Ballyhoo.” He came across an item that puzzled him not a little. After cogitating awhile, and, troubled by something that escaped his British sense of humor, he turned to his companion across the table and said, “I say, could you tell me who is this bally person, Elmer Zilch?”—Just another triumph of American mind over matter!
HEIDELBERG WILDMEN
“The old order changeth . . . .” The University of Heidelberg has gone modern. Until recently, “No dancing, no card playing,” was the rule. Now the students may attend four dances a year (with their parents’ permission) and may play cards whenever they please.
May 20, 1932
Nineteen
EDITCK’J PACE
CAMPUS CLUB ACTIVITY
Chronicled prominently in The Scholastic this week are accounts of club meetings. There are glowing tales of annual banquets, of official elections, and faculty speakers.
This is, it appears, the period of club activity. No longer does the lethargic attitude of laxity appear. Rather, aspiring politicians, anxious to wear the crown of office when they return to their home locality, have beat up undergraduate interest to such a pitch that large turn-outs can truthfully be recorded.
It is an inspiring situation. Vote snatchers run from hall to hall, promising newer activity in one breath, and unbraiding the present officers in the next.
But, then, the meetings are held. Boys actually do meet and “exercise their privilege of the ballot.” Freshmen, who believe such things, flock to the polls and rally round the new standard bearer, like a savior.
Sophomores and juniors, however, who have been fooled before, and if they wish to remember their president, write the new leader’s name indelibly in their notebook. They know that they’ll never hear of him again until it’s time for the Christmas dance.
By this The Scholastic implies that it doesn’t think very much of all the sudden club activity, nor does it hold much hope for the future, regardless of who received the “honorary” positions to any of the sectional offices.
IN APPRECIATION
In the news section of The Scholastic this week is an account of the successful Bengal motion picture show and stage “extravaganza.”
Editorially, The Scholastic wishes to thank all of those individuals who gave of their time and ability to make the affair a financial, as well as a social, success.
To John Perone, The Scholastic again proffers its felicitations. For the second time in as many shows, Perone has been the greatest con-etributing factor in scoring a hit for a SCHOLASTIC enterprise.
To Al Stewart and the boys of his Notre Dame Jugglers, The Scholastic, too, wishes to express its thanks. Al had a job playing that night, but insisted that they would not com-.
mence until after the Washington hall extravaganza.
To Nordy Hoffman, Smoky Coyne, Dan Smyth, Ed Krause, and others who appeared in the histrionic cast, the appreciation of The Scholastic is sincere.
Then to Fred Eisemann and John Ryan for their work back stage. To Edmund Stephan, Granger Weil, Walter Johnson, Patrick Corcoran, Mitchell Tackley, John McElligott, Raymond Waters, Louis Rhuby, Ed Van Huissling, and others who aided in the work of door men and ushering.
Finally to all of those members of The Scholastic staff who gave of their time to sell tickets, to aid in preparing the stage, and in running the incidental errands that those in charge desired.
The thanks of The Scholastic editorial staff go all around.
■
A COLLEGE ARISTOCRACY?
In the Harvard Crimson of May 2 we find an editorial supporting the suggestion that students who are obliged to work their way through college be refused entrance because “they lose many of the most essential benefits of a college education.”
Our attitude toward this editorial is one of indignation. That such could be written by an intelligent, unbiased mind, we find hard to believe. That it was written by one who is not faced with the need of supporting himself, cannot be doubted.
What the editorial actually urges is monetary discrimination in college education, an idea directly opposed to all thoughts of justice and equality. Such discrimination can mean nothing less than a college aristocracy built on the value of the dollar.
The man blessed with rich parents is the only man who should be educated. The man with poor parents, intelligent or ambitious though he may be, cannot enjoy the full benefits of college life because he must spend part of his time in working.
Therefore, the poor man must content himself with remaining unlearned until he can earn enough money to enable him to become a part of the aristocracy.
Tiventy
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Iowa Nine Here For
Hawkeyes Boast Veteran Squad; Palt, Lagger, Expected to Pitch For Irish
Twin Bill
SIXTEEN GOLFERS TO PLAY FOR N.D. CROWN
Elmo Nelson, Catcher, Three-Sport Star, Leads lowans; ’ N. D. Lineup Uncertain.
By James S. Kearns
The Notre Dame home baseball season will reach its zenith today and tomorrow when the Hawkeyes of Iowa university invade Cartier field for a two-game series against Coach Keo-gan’s charges. The series will practically be the conclusion of the home schedule as the only remaining game will be played against Michigan State on commencement week-end.
Veteran Pitchers
A veteran pitching staff, a slugging captain at the catching post, and an infield and outfield interspersed with experienced lettermen are the strong . points of a powerful Iowa squad. Three experienced hurlers, John Ingraham, Bill Rieke, and Franklin Stempel, are the nucleus of the hurling corps.
In the outfield Wesley Fiala, a monogram winner and a senior, and Marshall Riegert, a converted short stop, are the veterans. Riegert played regular guard with the Hawkeye basketball team last winter. Chris Schmidt, a newcomer to the Vogel-coached squad, completes the outer trio.
Two veterans, Jim Kenny, a first sacker, and Gordon Prange, third baseman, are fixtures in the inner circle. Kenny is a made-over second baseman, having held down the keystone post for two years. Prange, also a veteran, hit .351 last year to lead the Iowa batters.
A pair of sophomores are filling the other two positions in the Iowa infield with Frank Dragger at short and a linotyper’s dream named Schultehen-rich at Kenny’s old post at second.
Captain Elmo Nelson, labelled “Iowa’s most versatile athlete in a decade,” will do the catching. The Hawkeye sensation has collected six major monograms so far and is expected to take his seventh and eighth this spring. He is the first Iowan since Aubrey Devine to collect monograms in three sports. So far* this year he has batted over the .500 mark.
Palt, Lagger, Mannix
The Notre Dame lineup will probably be much the same as the one that started the last few games. Captain Charley Palt, Ed Lagger, and Charley Mannix are the outstanding hurlers and will probably carry the brunt of the work. Lee Cummings, Billy Powell, and Denny O’Keefe loom as fixtures in the infield.
Either Al Russo or Paul Kane will get the call for the other infield post. Russo is a much better’ hitter than Kane but can’t seem to field as cleanly as the midget sophomore. Joe Shee-ketski, whose hitting has been the redeeming feature in an otherwise impotent Irish attack will undoubtedly do the catching.
Kozak In Field
George Kozak, another leading hitter, will be in right field with Lomasney, McGrath, and Hugh Devore working for the other two places. Devore, late of the football squad, made his first appearance with the baseball team last week against Michigan State at East Lansing.
Trouble seems to be in store for the Irish hitters in the series as the Iowa squad boasts two good southpaw hurlers. So far this season the Notre Dame hitters have had all sorts of difficulty connecting with the port side slants thrown up by Roy Henshaw, Vic Neigenfind, Herb Harris, and others who have opposed them on the mound.
Tourney For Livingston Cup Opens; Finals On May 29.
(First round pairings for the University-championships will be found on page 22.) Notre Dame’s sixteen leading golfers were to tee off today in their annual drive for the University championship. The title carries with it permanent possession of the Livingston trophy, yearly award made by Mr. Leon Livingston of South Bend tc the winner of the meet.
Qualifying Ends
Qualifying rounds ended last night at six o’clock and the drawings were completed immediately. The first foul’ members of the varsity squad were seeded in the draw without playing the qualifying rounds. The other twelve places went to the players scoring the lowest totals for 36-holes of medal play turned in during the past week.
The first round of matches will be 18 holes, match play, and must be completed by Tuesday, May 24. The second round, under the same rules, is to be finished by Friday, May 27. Semi-finals and finals will each consist of 36 holes of match play. Semi-finals are slated for Saturday, the 28th, and the final match for the following day, Sunday.
Former Winners
Larry Moller, former varsity captain and finalist in the national inter-collegiates in 1930, won the championship and the Livingston award last year when he defeated Vince Fehlig, then a freshman, 8 and 7, in the finals. Moller had defeated John Montedonico in the semi-finals, 5 and 4. Russ Beaupre was the other semifinalist, losing to Fehlig, 3 and 2.
The 1930 tournament was won by Art Bradley who was eliminated in the second round last year.
May 20, 1932
Twenty-one
ITS CAPTAIN BALDWIN NOW—CAGERS ELECT
Star Guard Named ’33 Leader; Gilbert Makes Awards.
Cage Captain-Elect
— - - - - - - — ■ ... ■
Johnny Baldwin
Whose mates have given him a neiv nickname—“Cap"—with unanimous election to the basketball leadership.
Johnny Baldwin, ace guard on the Notre Dame basketball teams of the past two years, was named captain of next year’s quintet at the annual basketball banquet held Monday. Letters were awarded to twelve members of the cage squad at the banquet.
Monogram Winners
In addition to Baldwin, the man receiving monograms were Captain Norb Crowe, Bill Newbold, Ray DeCook, Tom Burns, Ed Krause, Joe Voegele, Al Schumacher, Leo Crowe, Clay Johnson. Each of the men also received a gold basketball charm from Gilberts of South Bend.	.
Paul Gilbert made the presentations in the feature address of the evening. Other speakers included Athletic Director J. C. Harper, Coach “Hunk” Anderson, Ed Smith, freshman basketball coach, and Ed Healy, formeiAll-American tackle at Dartmouth. Each of the graduating lettermen and Manager Charley Spangenberg made a brief address. Coach George E. Keogan acted as toastmaster.
De Cook To Coach
Ray DeCook and Ed Krause were awarded trophies by the Indianapolis Star for winning places on that paper’s all-state basketball team. At the same time, it was announced that DeCook had signed as head coach at St. Joseph college, Renssalaer, Ind.
In his new position DeCook will coach football, and baseball as well as the St. Joseph cage squad. He will, in addition, act as instructor in physical education. DeCook has been an outstanding member of the Keogan-coached cage teams since joining the squad in his sophomore year.
Six of the monogram winners will graduate in June. The group includes Norb Crowe, DeCook, Newbold, Burns, Johnson, and Schumacher. The first four have earned three monograms at basketball, and Johnson and Schumacher each received two. Captainelect Baldwin is the only other repeating letterman, with Krause, Voegele, and L. Crowe all getting their first cage awards. '
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Semi-Finals Reached In ‘Scholastic’ Golf Tourney
GOLFERS DEFEND STATE TITLE ON SATURDAY
FIVE MEN REMAIN

Five Men Make Trip To Greencastle; Fehlig Off Team.
Moore Plays LaLonde, Winner To Meet Consolati; Corcoran vs. McMonagle.
By Henry B. Asman
The Scholastic Handicap Golf Tournament was nearing completion this morning with but one quarterfinal match remaining to be played in order to narrow the field down to four men.
Mike Moore is scheduled to play Tom LaLonde, star of the frosh squad today, for the right to meet Al Consolati in the semi-finals of the lower bracket.
Becvar Loses
In the upper bracket, Corcoran pulled a surprise to tip Art Becvar by a 2 and 1 count, and will meet McMonagle in the other semi-final match. McMonagle earned his berth by defeating Jake Kunz, 2 up.
The 36-hole semi-final matches must be completed and recorded by Sunday evening at 6 o’clock. The finals will be played before Wednesday evening, May 25.
Play in the latter rounds of the tournament has been characterized by the closeness of the matches. In the second round Tarasovic was forced to the twentieth green before he could take the measure of Ed. Melchione, while Al Consolati took 19 holes to defeat Powers in the same round.
Barnhardt Wins
Barnhardt, taking full advantage of his 10-stroke handicap, and playing steady golf, pulled two surprises in rapid succession fhen he eliminated Clarke by 2 and 1 in the second round and then followed with a 2 up victory over Bob Powell in the third. Consolati put a stop to his march in the quarter-finals.
The largest margin of victory recorded in the tourney was chalked up by Kunz in the second round. He. defeated Osweiler by 10 and 8. Most' victories, however, were by two or three-hole margins.
Schedules And Match Results In Tournament
SCHEDULE OF MATCHES
Fourth Round Moore vs. LaLonde.
Semi-finals
Corcoran vs. McMonagle;
Consolati vs. winner of Moore-LaLonde match.
RESULTS OF MATCHES
Second Round
Corcoran defeated Kotte, 6 and 5. Guimont defeated Sheedy, 2 up. Becvar defeated Gleason, 5 and 4. Spalding defeated Stephan, 2 and 1. McMonagle defeated Fox, 4 and 2. Martin defeated Flanigan, 5 and 4. Kunz defeated Osweiler, 10 and 8. Lehan defeated Koontz, 6 and 4. LaLonde defeated O’Brien, 1 up. Olson -won by default.
Pahhnan defeated Leonard, 6 and 5. Moore defeated Kolb, 3 and 1.
Powell defeated Hechinger, 2 up. Bernhardt defeated Clarke, 2 and 1. Tarasovic defeated Melchione, 1 up (20 holes).
Consolati defeated Powers, 1 up (19 holes).
Third Round
Corcoran defeated Guimont, 2 and 1. Becvar defeated Spalding, 2 and 1. McMonagle defeated Martin, 6 and 5. Kunz defeated Lehan, 2 up.
LaLonde defeated Olson, 5 and 4. Moore defeated Pahlman, 4 and 3. Barnhardt defeated Powell, 2 up. Consolati defeated Tarasovic, 2 up.
Fourth Round
Corcoran defeated Becvar, 2 and 1. McMonagle defeated Kunz, 2 up. Consolati defeated Barnhardt, 3 and 1.
At sea one can see 2.96 miles at a height of five feet above the water. At ten feet above the water the visibility at sea increasse to 4.18 miles, and at 500 -feet one can see 29.5S miles.
Five members of the Notre Dame golf team left this morning for Greencastle to defend their title in the annual Indiana Intercollegiate championships tomorrow. Manager Frank Buhl accompanied the squad which was composed of Captain Bill Redmond, Bill Veeneman, Johnny Montedonico, John Gostisha, and Vince Fehlig.
Fehlig is slated for competition in the individual championship with the other four making up the Notre Dame entry in the team play. All of the quartet, however, will also be considered for individual honors at the end of the 36-hole journey.
Defending Champs
The Irish will be defending a team title that they have held for two years, and an individual championship that has gone to a Notre Dame entrant for the same length of time. Playing under the same circumstances that surround Fehlig’s entrance this year, Larry Moller'copped the individual trophy a year ago with a total of 305, one under Louis O’Shea, his teammate.
Captain Bill Redmond won the individual award two years ago and will be one of the favorites to take this year’s event. Purdue and Notre Dame rate as the outstanding entrants for the team title with the Boilermakers having a slight edge by virtue of their victory over the Irish two weeks ago.
TOURNAMENT PAIRINGS
The following are the pairings for the first round of the University golf championship tournament scheduled to start a today. Qualifying rounds - ended last night at six o’clock and the drawings were made by Frank Buhl, manager of golf. The schedule:
Wm. Veeneman vs. John J. Jordan. A. R. Martin vs. A. J. O’Brien John Gostisha vs. R. Morrissey Thomas O’Melia vs. Vince Fehlig John Montedonico vs. John Clarke Dan Henry vs. Wm. Slader Wm. Cole vs. J. Gleason R. Albert vs. Wm. Redmond.
May 20, 1932
Tzventy-three
MEYER NAMED CAPTAIN OF N.D. TENNIS SQUAD
Team Leaves For Match With Detroit; Seek Second Win.
Led by Carl Meyer, newly elected captain, the Rambler tennis squad took to the road today for their second match to be played abroad. All arrows point toward Detroit where the Irish will meet the Detroit net team today. The local players, with one victory over the Michiganites this spring, are pointing for their second win.
Fall Runnerup
Meyer has been playing No. 2 position during the early part of the season in The Scholastic fall tournament the new leader went to the finals before losing to Louis Chreist, champion. Meyer is a senior in engineering, and lives in Mound City, Ill.
The strength of the Irish in the singles play should carry them through. In the initial meeting of the two squads, which the Ramblers won, 4 to 1, four of the five singles matches went into the books as Irish victories.
Detroit’s ability in the doubles - match play is not known, as rain prevented their being played in the contest on the University courts recently. However, the teaming of Louis Chreist, Scholastic champion, and Dick Kelly has given the Ramblers a duet that is hard to heat.
Team Improves
There has been a great improvement in several of the racquet wield-ers of the local squad since the opening contest this year. Dick Kelly and Chreist are becoming more invincible with every match, and their play as a doubles team has been nothing less than exceptional.
An Irish victory today would be the second of the year, and would help a great deal toward balancing the three defeats suffered at the hands of Western State Teachers, Northwestern, and Chicago; the latter the 1931 Big Ten champions of tennis.
Our education, such of it as is of durable importance, comes haphazard. It is tinged by the enthusiasms of our teachers, gleaned by suggestions from our friends, prompted by glimpses and footnotes and margins.—Morley.
GOLF TEAM DROPS 4-2 DECISION TO PANTHERS
Fehlig Shoots Low Score For Irish; New Scoring Used.
The golf team lost its second match of the season last Saturday when it was defeated, 4 to 2, by the University of Pittsburgh team at the Highland Country Club in Pittsburgh. Only one round was played and the results of both singles and doubles matches were computed from the single score.
Vince Fehlig, playing at No. 3, was the only member of the Notre Dame team to win his singles match, and paired with Montedonico, gave the Fighting Irish an even break in the doubles. A new system of scoring was used at Pittsburgh, only one point being awarded for each match instead of the usual three. Had the Nassau system of scoring been used Notre Dame would have dropped the match, 10 to 8, even though the average medal score of the locals was half a stroke less than that of Pitt.
Sleepy Smith
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Com Flakes, PEP Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE WHEAT Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffer real coffee that lets you sleep.
In the singles Fehlig shot 79 to whitewash his opponent, Jack Decker, who carded 87. Bill Veeneman tied Sekay with a card of 80, but lost on the match play count.
The Wolff brothers took the honors in the medal scoring, getting 77 and 78, while Fehlig was next with his 79. The lowest best ball score was 73, carded by Fehlig and Montedonico.
Summaries:
Singles: R. Wolff, 77 (P), defeated Redmond, 81 (ND). Sekay, 80 (P), defeated Veeneman, 80 (ND). Fehlig, 79 (ND), defeated Decker, 87 (P). defeated Montedonico, 80 (ND).
Doubles: R. Wolff and Sekay, 74 (P), defeated Redmond and Veeneman, 76 (ND). Fehlig and Montedonico, 73 (ND), defeated Decker and C. Wolff, 78 (P).	.
Five states, Arizona, Delaware, Nevada, New Mexico, and Wyoming, have only one congressman each, although they have, of course, two senators each. Vermont, Utah, New Hampshire, and Idaho have only two congressmen each. New York State has 43 congressmen, the largest of any state.
He WENT through his freshman year in a daze. Now he’s a soph— and still doesn’t know what it’s all about. Yet Smith isn’t so much lazy—as sick.
That’s the trouble with constipation. It’s so treacherous. You may never know you have it. Yet it often causes headaches, listlessness, sleeplessness, and a general “down” feeling.
Just eat two tablespoonfuls daily of a delicious cereal: Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN. See how much better you feel after a week. Ask that it be served at your favorite eating place.
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Spartans Topple N.D. 5-2 As Irish Infield, Hitters Falter
IRISH 73, Pin, 53— WILSON WINS ANOTHER
ERRORS PAVE WAY
State Scores Four In Fifth; Notre Dame Rally In Ninth Fails; Devore In Lineup.
By Joseph A. Morper
Michigan State College defeated Notre Dame’s faltering baseball team last Saturday at East Lansing, 5-2, before a capacity crowd. It was a tough game for Captain Palt to lose as all of the Spartans’ runs were unearned.
Griffin, however, hurled commendable ball for the collegians, striking out eleven Rambler batsmen. Hugh Devore, fresh from spring football practice, played his first game of the season in left field for Notre Dame.
Score In First
State opened the scoring in the first inning. Fawcett was safe on O’Keefe’s error. Cuthbertson was safe on a fielder’s choice, Fawcett taking second. Madona sacrificed both runners. Morse grounded out, and after the play, Fawcett stole home.
Two men were out in the fourth when Notre Dame scored two runs to go into the lead. McGrath, first man up, grounded out. Devore fanned. Kozak singled, and went to third on Joe Sheeketsld’s double. Denny O’Keefe sent both runners across with a single.
The Spartans sewed up the game in their half of the fifth. Langer grounded out. Griffin singled. Cummings let Fawcett’s liner go through him for an error, Griffin holding second. Cuthbertson flied out and it looked as if Palt would get out of the hole. Madona then hit a grounder to Powell at short. Russo was unable to hold Powell’s hurried throw and it went for an error on Powell.
Double Scores Three
Morse, next batter up, sent a hard double over Devore’s head in left and three State men registered. Kircher followed with a single, sending Morse home with the fourth Spartan run of the inning.
After one out in the ninth, Hugh Devore got his first hit of the game, a single to left. Kozak followed this
hit with another one-base smash and there was hope for a rally in the Notre Dame dugout. Sheeketski forced Kozak at second and O’Keefe drew a pass, filling the sacks. Here Coach Keogan inserted Palmisini to bat for Cummings and he ended the game by striking out.
Box score:
Notre Dame (2)	ab	r	h
Kane, ss.........................1	0	0
McGrath, cf .....................4	0	0
Devore, If ......................4	0	1
Kozak, rf........................4	1	2
Sheeketski, c ...................4	1	1
O’Keefe, 3b......................3	0	2
Cummings, lb ....................3	0	0
Powell, 2b, ss...................3	0	0
Palt, p (c)......................3	0	0
Russo, 2b........................2	0	0
*PaImisini ......................1	0	0
Totals .........................32	2	6
* Batted for Cummings in ninth.
Michigan State College (5) ab	r	ii
Fawcett, rf......................4	2	0
Cuthbertson, 2b .................4	0	0
Madona, ss ......................4	1	0
Morse, c.........................4	1	2
Kircher, If......................4	0	1
Eliowitz, lb ....................4	0	0
Gafner, cf.......................4	0	1
Langer, 3b ......................3	0	1
Griffin, p ......................3	1	1
Totals .........................34	5	6
Summary—Errors: O’Keefe, Cummings, Madona, Powell. Two-base hits: Morse, Sheeketski. Three-base hit: Gafner. Struck out: by Griffin, 11; by Palt, 6. Umpires: Green and Olmstead.
Character—An Accident
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, May 19. — That any character training resulting from athletic competition is merely accidental is the belief of Professor William L. Hughes of Teachers College, Columbia university.
“Coaches of athletics have had a blind and fervent faith,” he said recently, “that they were contributing in some way to character development and have gone on without any specific plan to secure changes in conduct.
“Character building awaits the results of the movement to analyze it before it can proceed to build on a certain foundation. The physical educator, the athletic coach, must join all the social agencies of the school in a unified character education enterprise.”
N. D. Scores Heavily In Runs; Pitt Wins Weight Events.
Piling up ten first places, five seconds, six thirds and half of a twoway tie for a second, the Notre Dame track squad defeated the Pittsburgh university thinlies Saturday on Pitt field, 73 to 53. •
Alex Wilson, weekly star for the running Irish, continued his policy of turning the outstanding performance of the meet when he raced to a win in the 440, six yards in front of Kellar, Pitt star, in :48.6. Rudy Oberg-fall, Notre Dame sophomore, came up in the stretch to challenge Kellar but the latter held him off by inches.
Robert Wins 880
Clyde Roberts, rapidly moving up to the front rank of the point-winners, ran a most acceptable 880 in 1:58.9 to cop the event. The sophomore runner has come along fast since the outdoor season got under way and looked exceptionally good on the heavy Pitt track.
Joe Egan, new Irish sprint ace, grabbed off a pair of second places behind Harris of Pitt in the two short dashes. The rain soaked condition of the track slowed both races considerably.
Notre Dame scored heavily in the two distance runs by taking first and second in each event. Eddie King and Joe Young ran one-two in the mile to win handily. King returned to the track to trail Gene Howery in for another one-two finish in the two-mile jaunt. The Irish pair were in complete control of the race and won easily in 9:59.8.
Pitt Wins Weights
Pitt picked up the majority of its points in the field events, gaining an even split with the Irish in that division. Notre Dame won four of the events, the high and broad jumps, pole vault, and javelin throw. A first and second in the shot put, and a first in the discus were the heaviest scoring that Pitt managed all afternoon.
The Notre Dame field events winners included Norb Christman in the javelin, Eddie Gough in the broad jump, Bob Darling in his favorite high jumping contest, and Bob Rohrbach in the pole vault.
(Continued on Page 28)
May 20, 1932
Twenty-five
Get your slice of this
464 cash prizes this month for “blurbs"
25,000
Palmolive Users
Collate Users
HERE
ARE
Write your “blurb” here, men! Get some of that $25,000
What can you Palmolive users say to help Al out? Or what can you Colgate shavers add to Joe's side ot the argument? If you don't use either, start now and take a shot at this teal money!
VEAH> show
ME A BETTER
SHAVING CREAM
IT GETS RIGHT
DOWN WHERE THE
RAZOR WHACKS
EM OFF-RIGHT
AT W SKIN UNE
— IM TELUNG yOU
THERE'S SOMETHING
TO THIS OLIVE OIL
BUSINESS NOTHING
LIKE PALMOLIVE
FOR KEEPING THE OLD
FACE FEELING FINE
MAYBE SO.AL-
BUT TAKE A
LOOK! THERE'S
WHAT Y CALL A
CLOSE. SMOOTH
SHAVE,GOOD FOR
NOTHIN!
EXPERIMENTED WITH
shaving creams
for YEARS. AND
IVE NEVER FOUND A
LATHER THAT STANDS
UP ON THE FACE UKE
PALMOLIVE'S
WEu., JOE- HERE GOES
AOR A REAl SHAVE iVE
AND ANOTHER THING
THAN COLGATES
ALL DAY NOTHIN’
LIKE COLGATE’S
IISTEN to Joe and Al! Nothing will ever j convince Al there’s a better shaving cream than Palmolive. Nothing will ever sell Joe off Colgate’s!
Millions of men are like Joe and Al. That’s the kind of loyalty that has put Colgate’s and Palmolive miles ahead in a field of 176 competing brands- made them the world’s biggest sellers by far
Where do you stand in this big Colgate’s vs Palmolive argument7 That’s what we want to know
Here's what you do In ONE of the empty “'blurb” spaces (not both) at the right, or on a sheet of paper, help Joe out—or help Al out If you’re a Palmolive shaver, write a boost for Palmolive If you use Colgate’s, write a "blurb’ in favor of Colgate’s Just "horn in” on the argument—and may the best "blurbs” win.
THE CONTEST RULES
MAIL "your "blurb ’with name and address ro Contest
Editors, Dept. CN-191.R0. Box 1133, Chicago, Illinois.
The prize money (totaling $25,000) is divided into six sets of monthly prizes (each set totaling $4200) At the end of each month prizes are awarded (see list at right) for the best "blurbs* received during that month, as follows:
Feb. 29, $4200 Mar. 31, $4200 April 30, $4200 May 31,$4200 June 30, $4200 July 31, $4200
{ Contest closes July 3L 1932/
contestant will be awarded full amount of the prize tied for. Decision of the judges shall be final
Some bints fo help you win Here are some facts about the world’stwolargestsellingshaving creams—Colgate’s and Palmolive. Here are some of the reasons why men prefer these famous shaving creams
PALMOLIVE
1. Multiplies itself in lather 250 times. 2. Softens the-beard in one minute.
3.	Maintains its creamy fullness for 10 minutes.
4.	Fine after-effects due to olive oil content.
Here are the prizes for each month—464 in all!
For Best Crigate oe	‘	For Best Paterirot “tertT
1st. . . .$508	1st. . . .$580
2nd. ... 125	2Rd. ... 125
3rd. ... 50	3rd. ... 58
Oant. . . 25	Start. . . 25
28 next . . 10	20atrt . . 10
200aot . .	5	2Nmrt . .	5
Contest is open only to residents of the United States and Canada. Employes of the manufacturers and their families are not eligible to compete.
In event of a tie, each tying
COLGATES
1.	Breaksupoilfilm that covers each hair.
2.	Small bubbles get down to the base of the beard, bold water against each hair at skin-line and soak it soft where the razor works
3.	Gives a dose, skin-line shave due to small bubble action.
4.	Gives a lasting. 24-huur shave.
Free Samples
Men! A beautiful gift box containing generous trial tubes of
both Colgate's and Palmolive Shaving Creams, as-well as other useful toilet products, is being distributed. If you fail to get yours, ask the business manager of this paper why.
Twenty-six
. The Scholastic
Phone	XRAY
Office 2-1067
Residence 3-4041
Dr. L S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
Assess Students Participating in Riot at Massachusetts I. T.
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cambridge, Mass., May 20.—Fifty cents is being assessed each student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who participated in the recent “riot” at M. I. T.
It is said that in the “riot,” caused when students attempted to prevent firemen from extinguishing a fire they had built in the dormitory quadrangle, one Cambridge fireman lost
his pants and other firemen were hampered in their fire fighting.
The fifty cents a head is being assessed to cover the cost of damage to fire apparatus. No institute property was hurt. If a student takes an oath that he did not participate in the affair, he is not required to “come across.”
Howard Wins
Howard hall defeated Alumni, 4 to 3, Thursday afternoon for the championship of Group II, in the Interhall baseball league. Alumni had eliminated Dillon from the three-way tie Wednesday.
"The Greeks Had a Word For Them" XZESPIO (born with wings)
EXHIBIT A. MERCURY — EXHIBIT B. PEGASUS
In the best families (or any others for the matter) that doesn’t happen nowadays. Hence the United States Air Corps offers some attractive inducements to you college students for whom it has built a $10,000,000 institution at San Antonio, Texas, where they teach you to fly and while you are learning :
Pay you a salary of $75.00 per month. Pay your living expenses.
Supply you (free, of course) with snappy, tailor-made, sky blue uniforms.
Grant you the social and military privileges of potential officers.
Pay your traveling expenses from your home to the new field at San Antonio.
700 men are taken in each year. The course requires a year to complete and includes over 200 hours of solo flying. Those who stay the full year are commissioned as Lieutenants in the Air Corps Reserve.
If you don’t like the training you may resign at any time. For example:
Should you stay three months and then resign you will receive $225.00 cash, your round trip expenses from your home to San Antonio, and about 50 hours of solo flying.
The service and associations of the Air Corps gives its members a very real distinction and a very noticeable breadth and poise.
If you have applied and are ready to go, we have compiled information and tips giving you inside' angles and dope that will be invaluable when you arrive at the field. If you haven’t applied yet then by all means get our information. We tell you the entrance procedure and certain twists that make your getting in easier and quicker. The information, written by men who have been through the school, covers all points from beginning to end that you are interested in knowing. This information cannot be obtained elsewhere; it is complete. Nothing else to buy. The price is $1.00, or sent C. O. D. if you desire.
NATIONAL AVIATION SERVICE
742 S. Hill St., Los Angele., Calif.
German Club Elects Officers
Anthony W. Wirry was elected to the presidency of the German club at the final meeting of the year held last night in the basement of Walsh hall. Wirry succeeds Charles F. Weiss. Supporting Wirry next year will be Andrew O’Keefe, vice-president; M. C. Daviscourt, secretary; F. L. Wen-iger, treasurer, and James Pick, press-agent.
Dr. Paul Mange, faculty adviser to the club, gave prizes in the form of books to the best students in all German classes. Those receiving prizes were Adrian J. Wackerman, Karl J. Schueppert, James Hamilton, Bro. Bartholomew, C. S. C., John F. Pick, Louis Stolorow, John Biger, C. S. C., David W. Dalrymple, Rollin Bunch, and Robert Hamilton.
The
Hoffman Hotel
announces that
Carl McMann
(14 years with Oliver Hotel
Barber Shop) .
Has been appointed manager of the
Hoffman Barber
Shop
May 20, 1932
Tiventy-seven
Notre Dame Linked To Nation By Air Services
University of Notre Dame students may now board an airliner at the South Bend Municipal airport and travel home to any city in the United States in less than 24 hours, according to local representatives of TransAmerican Airlines Corporation, pioneer Mid-Western U. S. Air Mail, Passenger and Express carrier.
Boarding a Trans-American Airliner at the local airport, one may
now travel to Chicago in 45 minutes, Detroit in 105 minutes, San Francisco in 24 hours or to any other city of the nation with equal speed. Or by boarding a United Air Liner plane which operates in connection with Trans-American Airlines here, one may travel to New York in less than six hours.
Carl Fites, local representative of Trans-American Airlines, may be reached for information on air travel, by phoning his offices at the South Bend Municipal Airport, 3-8151.
Fly Away Home
Instead of a long, hot train trip to start your vacation, fly home in a swift, cool airliner. Measure your travel time in minutes, not hours— hours, not days. Start planning now to travel with
"Not Black and White-But White and Gray"
... .at least that’s what most of the campus is wearing in sport footwear. The never shoes in white and gray look better and keep clean longer. Besides, you will find the new Gilbert last more comfortable and better adapted to summer weather.
In the new Florsheim styles we are showing a beautiful oxford in dull kid—one that takes a polish like Rockerfeller used to take a million. It’s the smartest shoe we’ve seen yet and it’s comfort is something you’ll marvel at.
It costs you nothing to try on a pair. Five minutes later you’ll own them yourself.
GILBERT SHOES at $5, $6, and $7.
GENUINE FLORSHEIM’S at $8, and $9.
» » » »
(he TIUmi/ 3eteQ/nothe4/!
C!!£ERT<
813-815 $.MIChlgm SC.
BE NOTRE DAME MINDED—ASK FOR BILL CERRI
^Iransatnericaii
Plane fares are little higher —and in some cases lower— than train plus pullman. Here is a partial schedule out of South Bend Municipal Airport:
45 Minutes to	105 Minutes to
CHICAGO	DETROIT
Lv. 10:45 A.M.	Lv. 9:45 A.M.
2:15 P.M.	1:15 P.M.
4:55 P.M.*	3:45 P.M.*
6:30 P.M.	5:15 P.M.
* Daily except Sundays, Mondays,	
Tuesdays and holidays.
The Chicago planes make excellent connections with other airlines for all points in the northwest, west, southwest and south.
There are additional schedules to Indiana and Michigan points. Call the T. A. C. office, South Bend Municipal Airport.
3-8151
for additional information, rates and reservations.
FLY ON THE GOVERNMENT MAIL LINES
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Text of Father O’Donnell’s Speech of Acceptance
N. D. THINUES BEAT PITT (Continued from Page 24)
(Continued from Page 16)
ice by which a man’s country profits and all its citizens and all the peoples of the world.
' This beautiful building, devoted to the study of Commerce, is, then, no temple to Mammon. A school that aims to serve elementary human needs cannot but subserve ultimate human destiny. Within these walls, young men are taught, and forever shall be taught, to put first things first in the ordering of their life, wherever it shall be lived and under whatever conditions.
Poverty of Things
The poverty of things and the futility of setting one’s heart upon them never in all history perhaps was plainer than it is today. That is a tremendous blessing for which this generation of young men should never cease to be thankful.
If ever delusions were without excuse, if ever vision was clarified, if ever sound sense was inescapable, it should be in this particuar hour which has burst our bubbles and shrunken our conceit and yet left us with confidence and courage to begin again, to build anew and build better.
Faith in the Future
For that is the important thing and that is the real inner significance, it seems to me, of this dedicatory ceremony. We open a school of foreign and domestic commerce at the precise moment in the world’s history when both are at an intolerable and inexplicable standstill.
Why? Because we have faith, faith in the young men of today and tomorrow, faith in ourselves, faith in our country and in other countries, too; above all, faith in the watchfulness and abiding care of that benign Providence, the power of that prevailing hand which holds all our destinies in its gentle grasp, which steered the first ships breaking trade routes around the world, no less than it guided the philosopher or the scientist in his secluded study.
Breadth of View
There is to life a totality of aspect which exclusive attention to details 'may blur. "To see life steadily and to see it whole” is one expression of the aims of education. I believe the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce in the University of Notre Dame will meet the challenge of that high requirement.
I cannot close these few and alto
gether inadequate remarks without a word of special appreciation to the architects of this building, the nationally famous firm of Graham, Anderson, Probst and White, of Chicago, whose senior member, Mr. Ernest R. Graham, honors us with his presence on this occasion.
Thanks Mr. Graham
This building is on their part, too, a gift, for Mr. Graham, the moment he learned that Mr. Hurley was making this benefaction to Notre Dame spontaneously offered the free services of his firm to erect this building. Mr. Graham, we thank you and your associates, more particularly Mr. Alfred Shaw, who has been your devoted representative throughout.
Mr. Hurley, with a grateful heart, I accept your gift. And in your name I present it to its real owners, these boys, the students of your College, and to all who shall come after them.
Prof. Names Compositions To
Foster Music Appreciation
By Intercollegiate Press.
Middletown, Conn., May 19.—What are the ten best musical compositions —those of which a working knowledge may give a person claim to musical culture?
Professor Joseph S. Daltry of Wesleyan university gives his list and explains that in his mind anyone claiming culture cannot base the musical side of it upon mere recognition of certain well-known pieces. Appreciation must also be present, he says.
He names eleven compositions which he thinks are representative of the best and with which everyone should be familiar:
Missa Papae Marcelli, by the father of sacred music, Palestrina; J. S. Bach’s Mass in B minor; Don Giovanni by Mozart; Beethoven’s Eroica Symphony; Tristan and Isolde by Wagner; Brahms’ Ein Deutches Re-guiem; Schubert’s Erlkonig; Schumann’s Etudes Symphoniques; Chopin’s Etude in A minor (“The Winter Wind”); Debussey’s Afternoon of a Faun, and Stravinsky’s Fire Bird Suite.
President Frank Aydelotte is to go . to Germany soon to study the characteristics of biological laboratories there preparatory to erecting one at Swarthmore College, made possible by an annonymous gift of $900,000 to the college.
Summary:
100-YD. DASH —Won by Harris (Pitt) ; Egan (N. D.), second; Huller (N. D.), third. Time, 10.1 seconds.
220-YD. DASH —Won by Harris (Pitt) ; Egan (N. D.), second; Monheim (Pitt), third. Time, 22 seconds.
440-YD. DASH—Won by Wilson (N. D.) ; Keller (Pitt), second; Obergfall (N. D.), third. Time, 48.6 seconds.
880-YD. RUN—Won by Roberts (N. D.) ; Watkins (Pitt), second; Little (N. D.), third. Time, 1:58.9.
MILE RUN—Won by King (N. D.) ; Young (N. D.), second; Gaines (Pitt), third. Time, 4:31.4.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Howrey (N.D.) ; King (N. D.), second; Smoyer (Pitt), third. Time, 9:59.8.
120-YD. HIGH HURDLES—Won by Pore-don (N. D.) ; Thiessen (Pitt), second; Fagan ' (N. D.), third. Time, 16.1 seconds.
220-YD. LOW HURDLES—Won by MacBeth (N. D.) ; Manheim (Pitt), second; Theis-sen (Pitt), third. Time, 25.9.
16-POUND SHOT PUT—Won by Valenti (Pitt) ; MacMurdo (Pitt), second: Finkle (N. D.), third. Distance, 44 feet, 7% inches.
POLE VAULT —Won by Rohrbaugh (N. D.) ; McConnell (Pitt), and Bohrman (N.D.), tied for second. Height, 11 feet, 6 inches.
HIGH JUMP —Won by Darling (N.D.) ; Lewis (Pitt), secobd; Thiessen (Pitt), and Simms (Pitt), tied for third. Height, 6 feet, 2 inches.
JAVELIN THROW —Won by Christman (N.D.) ; Tormey (Pitt), second; Finkle (N. D.), third. Distance, 159 feet, 9 inches.
DISCUS THROW — Won by MacMurdo (Pitt) ; Groves (N.D.), second; Luch (Pitt), third. Distance, 120 feet, 10% inches.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Gough (N. D.) ; Sebastian (Pitt), second; Simms (Pitt), third. Distance, 22 feet, 3% inches.
Turks Misunderstand Texan
Who Walks Backwards
By Intercollegiate Press.
Istanbul, Turkey, May 18. — The folks of this country may he known in the United States as “the Terrible Turks,” but the police of this country think the United States has some funny ones of its own, .
One of them, they think over here, is Plennie Wingo, of Abilene, Texas, who is attempting to establish some kind of record by walking around the world backwards.
In the first 3,926 miles from Fort Worth Wingo was going strong without trouble, but Balkan police regulations fail to comment on crabwise progress across the frontiers. The Bulgarian police arrested Wingo, then released him. The Turkish police arrested him and locked him up. Now he’s broke in jail here.”
May 20, 1932
Twenty-nine
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
When Captain Bill Redmond graduates this June the loss for next year’s team will be considerably lessened with the addition of the entire Dillon Hall team. These freshmen, four in number, had an average best ball of 76 in winning the interhall championship from Alumni, 12% to 5%.
Cole, Dillon’s best man, established the interhall record for 1932 when he
NOTICE!
All interhall sports equipment must be returned immediately to the Physical Education building. Men charged with the equipment will be held responsible for its return.
F. Clarence Tomasi, Interhall Equipment Mgr.
shot a brilliant round of 78, one stroke less than the total made last week by Pugliese, Alumni golfer. Henry, who was paired with Cole, had the highest score made by any Dillon-ite, and that was 84.
Cole took all three points from Pugliese, who previously had been considered about the best of the interhall golfers. Pugliese shot an 83. Henry dropped three to O’Brien, who shot an 82, but Cole’s shooting was good enough to cop the doubles, 2% to %.
In the other foursome, La Londe, captain of Dillon, won from Moore, of Alumni, 3 to 0. La Londe totaled 82 while the latter han an 86, incidentally the highest score of the day, revealing the ability of the golfers on both teams. Morrissey, the remaining Dillon golfer, had an 82 and beat Powell, who had an 84, 2 to 1. La Londe and Morrissey also won the doubles, 2 to 1.
Lineups:
Dillon (12%)—Cole (78) 3,Henry (84) 0. Alumni (5%) — Pugliese (83) 0, O’Brien (82) 3. Henry and Cole won the doubles, 2% to %.
Dillon—La Londe (82) 3, Morrissey (82) 2. Alumni—Moore (86) 0, Powell (84) 1. La Londe and Morrissey won the doubles, 2 to 1.
The Harvard University Library has purchased about 20,000 volumes, comprising the jurisprudence section of the Stolberg-Wernigerode Library', one of the most important privately owned set of books in Germany.
NOTICE
All Crew Members, Supervisors, Team Captains and Student subscription salespeople who wish to avail themselves of the opportunity for free scholarship made possible-through the courtesy of the leading Magazine Publishers again this year are requested to apply to the national organizer, M. Anthony Steele, Jr., Box 244, San Juan, Porto Rico, stating qualifications fully.
Hello Men!
Smith’s Cafeteria 111 E. Jefferson Blvd.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Men’s $8 to
$10 Oxfords
Crawford—
Osteo-Patik
others we
cannot
advertise
Formerly Selling $8 to $10
$4.85
Practically all sizes and widths in lot. You’ll probably buy 2 or 3 pairs. For the young man as well as the older man.
All sizes in others at $1.85, $2.95 and $3.85.
GIL-BRO‘S
330 S. Michigan St.
Thirty
The Scholastic
St, Eds Wins, Three Are Tied In Interhall Leagues
Late yesterday afternoon, Alumni and Howard met in a contest to decide the winner of Group II in the interhall league. The winner is to meet St. Edward’s, leader in Group I for the interhall toga. Alumni already holds one victory over the Howard nine.
St. Edward’s, holder of one crown for 1932, football, will be out for their second title, one that was won by a “Minims” team in 1931. Because of the fact that Lyons is the only team that offered them any real competition, the St. Edward’s team will be favorites for Sunday.	,
In Kane and Schinkowitz they have two better than average pitchers. The team is also composed of. sluggers. Licalzi, Buckley, and Alberts are some of the players who swing a potent bat.
Most of the games Sunday were won by forfeits. But there was one game in which the interest was as intense as if it were a championship game. This was the game between Morrissey and Lyons, which Morrissey won, 3 to 2. The teams are representatives of sophomore halls and, neighbors as they are, they took their enmity to the diamond.
The game was a pitching duel between Johnny Brost, of Morrissey, and Jim Louy, of Lyons. Each allowed eight hits. Morrissey scored first jn the initial inning. Lyons tied the score in the third. - Morrissey again took the lead in the fourth, scoring two runs. Lyons tallied once in their half of the fourth and that was all the scoring for the day.
Final standing	of	the	Interhall
Playground league:			
Group 1	W	L	PCT.
St. Edward’s		__6	0	1.000
Sophomore		__4	2	.666
Corby		__3	3	.500
Lyons 		__3	3	.500
Morrissey		__3	3	.500
Badin		__2	4	.333
Sorin		__0	6	.000
Group 2	w	L	PCT.
Alumni		__5	1	.833
Dillon		__5	1	.833
Howard		__5	1	.833
Brownson		__3	3	.500
Walsh 		__2	4	.333
Carroll			5	.167
Off-Campus 		__0	6	.000
Soccer and Banquets For La Raza Club Guests
. The La Raza club had as guests last week-end the Sociedad Latino Americana club of Michigan University. A soccer game was played between the two organizations Sunday morning with the visitors coming out on the long end of the score.
Two banquets were held in honor of the men from Michigan. One on Saturday evening took place at the Morningside hotel, and the other on Sunday evening was spread at the well known Oldenburg Inn. Speakers at the latter occasion were Dr. June-ney, a member of the faculty of the medical school at Michigan, and Pedro de Landero, honorary president of the local club.
Short talks were also given by Luis Valverde Fiyaewa, president of the Sociedad, and Edward Labarthe, a graduating member of the La Raza club.
Transportation to and from the Oldenburg Inn was furnished the members and their guests through the courtesy of the Bogda Chevrolet Company of South Bend.
IE WAS NO RACOON-COAT COLLEGE HERO-BUT A LOWLY MILL-HAND!
He wasn’t ready to die for “dear old whoozis”—He thought college spirit a racket and a girl’s love “the bunk”
RAMON NOVARRO and MADGE EVANS
IN THE FRANCIS WALLACE STORY
HUDDLE'
It’s real—it’s true—it’s the most unusual story of the season!
STARTS TODAY
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
^^COLFAX
May 20, 1932
Thirty-one
Splinters From The Press Box
By James S. Kearns
THE STRANGE CASE OF MR. FEHLIG
When the Irish golf team strode to the first tee in the opening match of the year, a tall, husky sophomore was slated for the No. 1 position. When the match was over, and Vince Feh-lig had shot a 76 for the low round, the choice seemed justiled.
During the following week Fehlig shot a pair of 79’s in the challenge matches but bowed to Bill Redmond and Bill Veeneman to slide to No. 3 for the Loyola meet. At the end of the day’s play, he had again scored the lowest round with another 76.
Johnny Montedonico licked him to start the next week’s challenges, hut when the team travelled to Detroit, it was Fehlig who shot a 73 for low score. He missed scoring honors the next day at Michigan State but came back to gain the honor against Purdue, the following Thursday with a 36-hole total of 154. He slid up a bit for the Iowa match but came
down to the low-man post in the finale at Pitt last week.
The strangeness of the case reached its climax this week when Fehlig dropped out of the first four and lost a chance to play as a member of the team at the state tournament tomorrow. When a golfer who is low in four of six matches can rank no higher than fifth, we’re inclined to cross our fingers and wonder about a thing called luck.
Playing in a similar position last year, Larry Moller entered the state meet as an individual competitor and copped the championship with a 72-hole score of 305, one stroke better than Louis O’Shea who was low for the victorious four man Notre Dame team.
YOUSE GUYS
That live in the south wing of Dillon, attention please: This may be a case of locking the door too late, but we can’t pass up the opportunity to remark a bit on your very obvious lack of golf etiquette.
It was first called to our attention during the Iowa golf match, that a certain group of well-wishers draped themselves over the Dillon window sills and shouted out to the gallery for results of the matches as they reached the 13th green, just behind the hall.
It’s a nice spirit and all that, but the shouting would be more in place after the foursomes have holed out, not during approach shots or at the precise moment some one is addressing a 20-ft. putt. A word to the wise. ...
The Ideal Gift for Graduation
The New Kennedy Radio — at Depression Prices! For further information and demonstrations see Bernard J. Roethele at the Publications Office or 12 Corby Hall.
SHIP YOUR BAGGAGE HOME by
Railway Express Agency Inc.
“Fast Dependable Service”
No extra charge for collection and delivery within prescribed limits.
RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY Phone 3-6121
REVIVE YOUR SPIRITS with the “REUNION NUMBER” of THE JUGGLER featuring
LOPKER’S MASTERPIECE COVER
CARMODY’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY by “TIGHE” WOODS
SKETCHES BY EX-EDITORS DEMPSEY, GRADY, MacNAMARA
It’s All in the REUNION NUMBER
25c Copies Now on Sale 25c
Thirty-tivo
The Scholastic
GIRLS
Do Not
Smoke Pipes
You’ll never see her smoking a pipe.
THE GIRLS haven’t left us many of our masculine rights. They fly our airplanes, drive our cars, smoke our cigarettes — but they don’t smoke our pipes!
They’ve left us this one manly right, anyway.
A man almost has to smoke a pipe nowadays. A pleasant necessity! For a pipe filled with good tobacco
is just about the best smoke a man could want.
And if you’re troubled about selecting a tobacco, . remember that
Edgeworth is the popular favorite in 42 out of 54 colleges. It somehow seems to fit the college man’s taste. Edgeworth
is cut especially for pipes, it bums slowly, it gives a cool smoke. You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or, for a special sample packet, write to Larus & Bro. Co., 100 S. 2zd St., Richmond, Va.
For men only—the joys of a pipe.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive
and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15^ pocket package to $1.50 pound humidor tin.
On Down the Line
With Joe Morper
AMHERST and WILLIAMS played the first college baseball game at Pittsfield, Mass, in 1854 . . . AMHERST won 66-32 . . . ADOLFO LUQUE faced 1148 batters in 1923 . . . Only two, RAY BLADES and GEORGE KELLY, hit homers . . . ED STRANGLER LEWIS has engaged in more than 3,500 wrestling matches . . . GENE VENZKE, holder of a record-smashing mile mark of 4:10, will enter PENN next fall . . . OXFORD runners use an electric rabbit to pace themselves in workouts. . . .
V
Jockey DANNY McAULFE, unconscious after being thrown from his winning mount at Pimlico, was weighed in the arms of a track official to make the victory official . . . The shortest member of the CORNELL eight man crew is 6 feet one inch . . . When PAUL DEBRUYN won the Boston Marathon he was promoted from his job as stoker in a hoetl boiler room to that of engineer . . . Experts claim that his sudden prosperity will affect his Olympic chances. . . .
V
LEW FONSECA, White Sox manager, has traded ten players since becoming manager of the Pale Hose . . . The revised roster shows eight American Leaguers who were not with the club in 1931 . . . REGINALD DENNY, the movie actor, once was middleweight boxing champion of England ... And IVAN STEZCHEN-KO, premier basso of the Philly Grand Opera Company, wrestled for the championship of Russia at the age of 16. . . .
V
MRS. GLENNA COLLET VARE, winner of five U. S. amateur golf championships, started playing when fourteen . . . And she won her first national title at twenty . . . ED WALSH pitched 464 innings for the White Sox in 1908 . . . ELMER FLICK was recently given recognition of being the batting champ of the American League in 1905 . . -Only amateur starters will he used in the coming Olympics . . . PHAR LAP, believed by many to be the greatest horse that ever lived, did not hold one world record. . . .
ALLERTON HOTEL.
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in. Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet .surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
your copy of the
DOME of 1932— « « « «
In order to give our subscribers the fastest and earliest delivery possible, we are now accepting requests for the
DOME of 1932
the most complete and detailed annual ever printed at Notre Dame
Address your letter to the DOME of 1932, Publications Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
THE DOME
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Safe
MR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY, ----NQZR£-£AM£y—H&t
*v
Boswell Sisters
BJIED.T.

DW/

•M.
X ❖/x. $
RUTH ETHNG
Distinguished radio and musical comedy star. Every Wednesday and Saturday at 10p.m.E.D.T.
Alex Gray
One of the outstanding voices in radio. Every Tuesday and Friday eye* nine at 10:30 E.D.T.

• all you couId osk for I
..	Tobacco CO.

