Scholastic
February 7, 1977
1976 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL REVIEW
I
IBM MEDS (xrsiA m ii x<;
PEOPLE
And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Marketing or Engineering.
We will be interviewing at	.
The University of Notre Dame oh February 22, 1977.
...	To find out about IBM and let us
find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or	•
write to: Mr. I.C. Pfeiffer, College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611.
IBM
An equal opportunity employer
, Front Cover: Tom Everman
J Back Cover: Tom Everman and Bernie
Valenti
Photographs: Tom Everman 1/2, 3, 4/5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 18, 19, 20, 21, 29, 30 / The OBSERVER 11 / Tim Krause 12, 13 / Greg Young 22, 23 / Greg Rosalia 26, 27. Artwork: Lee Hendricks 14 / Mike Natale 24 I Sherry Simon 28. '
Statistics on p. 15 courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information.
Vol. 118, No. 7, February 7, 1977 Notre Dame, Indiana	
FEATURES 3 Pittsburgh 5	Purdue 7	Northwestern 8	Michigan State 10	Oregon	, 11	South Carolina 12	Navy 14	Georgia Tech 15	Season. Statistics 18 Alabama 20 Miami 22 Southern California 26 Gator Bowl 28	Jacksonville:	. - A Nice Place to Visit, But... 29	Scoreboard 30	After 9-3, and 12th in Both Polls: The Experts Reflect.	Tom Kruczek John Delaney Chuck Sweeney Burt Brunner Burt Brunner Tom Kruczek Ted Robinson Tom Kruczek Bill Delaney Bob Piller Tom Kruczek Paul Stevenson Burt Brunner Rosemary Mills
REGULARS 2 First Word 16 Gallery . 24 Perspective	Tom Kruczek Tom Everman Bob Piller
Football Review Editor
Tom Kruczek -
Scholastic Editor
John Phelan
Managing Editor
Annemarie Sullivan
Design Editor .
Sherry Simon .	- . , t.
Production Manager
Charles Sweeney
Copy Editor
Karen Caruso
Layout Editor
Julie Runkle
News Editor
Kathleen McElroy
Photography Editor
Tom Everman /
Advertising Manager
Peter Breen
Business Manager
Mark Ondash '■	;
Consulting Editors
Gilda M. Montalvo, Bernie Valenti
Advisory Board
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel Bro. John Benesh, C.S.C., James, Cook, Richard .Conklin, Elizabeth Christman
Staff
Dave Beno, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Feord, Susan Grace, Dan Lombardi, Barb Frey, Gary Harden, Don Orban, Jim Ryan, Sue Hart, Andrew Gotuaco, Jim Romanelli, Maureen Reynolds, John Delaney, Lee Hendricks, Tom Browne, Jim Jordan, Ed Rodgers, Norman Burkhart, Maria Maggi, Maureen Kelly, Mary DeRoche, Betsy Birch, Jennifer Ryder, Christie A. Herlihy, Clare Leary, Andy'McKenna, Hector Cecilo Ham, Theresa Rebeck, Mike Doherty, Howard Rand, Lisa Fulks, Tom Westphal, Robbie Moore, Rosemary Mills, Kevin Connolly. Joseph Caverly, Nicholas Durso,-Michael LaValle, . Lisa Michels, Sheila Kearns,. Peggy McGuire, Fran Gilbert, Russ O'Brien, Carol Ruppert, Marc Novak, Burt Brunner, Dave Dreyer, Marylou. Walsh, Lacey Fortune, MaryBeth Hines, Thomas J. Waldock, Joe Caverly. .	'	4
Hall Representatives: Kim Gumz, Mary Millen/Tom Westphal, John McLutchon, Russ Angelo, Greg Skranznas, Sheila Gavan, Mary Reppa, Wendy Fend, Kevin Paulson, Joe Lauck, Norman Burkhart, David Perry, Ed Rodgers, Kevin Gorman, Don Orban, John Delaney, Jeff Scholemer, Kathy Connely, Jessie Reed, Jim Jordan, Burt Brunner, Dan Lombardi, Russ O'Brien, Tom Browne, Terry Molony, Ruth Hohl, Julie Runkle, Jay Tidmarsh, John Muldoon, Matt Branyansky, Joe Caverly, Peggy McGuire.
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body.
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.- The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic.
copyright © 1977 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be reproduced without permission.
First Word
by Tom Kruczek
It’s been said so often that it’s almost trite. Notre Dame has the best student body in the nation. Since that statement is rather broad, I would like to modify it to read that the students are the people that make Notre Dame football a i	unique event.
:	It’s the students who make a
:	Notre Dame game an event that
i	people go'home and tell their neigh;	bors about. Before the game, there
i	are the hordes of students that sell
!	food and other things to the poor
i	unsuspecting people walking around
I	the campus. Then there are the
great numbers that go onto the field to form the tunnel at half time and make the signs that hang out of dorm windows. It’s the students who lead the crowd in the vociferous cheers that bring the team from the locker room before a big game. All of this helps to make a Notre - Dame football game something to remember—something unique.
; The football team, of course, is also composed of students, and these are real students who go to classes, take tests and live in the same dorms as do “normal” students. There’s no Devine Hilton here, like there are at other schools. Sometimes it’s hard to conceive of players from places like Texas and Oklahoma being students, as they’re more like semi-pros than the students they are supposed to represent. The students are also the ones who manufactured some of the most ridiculous and vicious rumors a season back about Dan Devine. They also listened and repeated reports from Pittsburgh, a city 400 miles .. away, that the head coach had been fired. These students love to look for that one savior that will take an average team and make it an immediate national champion. The students are the ones that booed Rick Slager in the first game of the season and who second-guessed on i	just about every play sent in this
year.
2
And all of this isn’t necessarily wrong, because this is what makes Notre Dame football the unique event that it is. People don’t talk about the time they went to see Iowa play Wisconsin, but they do talk about the time they went to a Notre Dame game. It’s because the students focus their attention so strongly on football during the season, and perhaps blow the games out of proportion, that this maniacal devotion to the sport—Notre Dame football-—is something special.
If it means at times that some individuals have to be booed or derided, then it is something that has to be accepted as part of the game. Other schools, including some that Notre Dame visited this year, could care less for what happens at the Saturday get-together. They could care less about who ■ the coach is, who sends in the plays, or how the defensive secondary plays. - ■	;
Not so at Notre Dame., The students here care—they care so much as to come out in April and May to see the team scrimmage on Saturdays. Last April, one scrimmage had an estimated 500 people attending, and most were students. Part of . the students’ interest comes out in a fanatical desire to see the team win. When the team doesn’t, . someone will catch the students’ wrath, as Devine found out last season, arid to a lesser extent this year.	-	;
The students of Notre Dame may not be the best in the nation like it has been said all too often, but they are inexorably linked to football. The students make Notre Dame a place where more than Just a game is played,on a Saturday. It’s where an event that lasts a
whole weekend takes place, and it is something that is remembered.
And remembering is what The Football Review is all about. It’s, remembering a season and the -events that took place during that season. Just like the season and the events of a football weekend draw their flavor from the students, so too this magazine is work from the students.	’
The Football Review is put together once a year as a special issue of Scholastic. The magazine you have before you is a; student publication, which means that it is written, edited and designed entirely by the students, which makes it something special.
It’s special because those of you who do not reside on this campus get an opportunity to see what we, as students, think of the past season.. You probably could get a more polished magazine if the University were to put one out, but it would be a University publication which would reflect what the University thinks, and not what the real people of this place think.
Perhaps what we think will surprise you. Not everyone here is • wildly crazy about many of the things that happened during the season. On the other hand, not everyone here thinks that the future of Notre Dame football is doomed. What you’ll get in this issue is both sides of Notre Dame football, the good and the bad, and that for sure you would riot get from a University publication. But the students will give you both sides.	.
Since 1948, the students have given to the school and outside circulation The Football Review, We hope that next year, and in the ' years to come, The Football Review will remain in the hands of those that know the football season the best—the students.	"
The magazine this year has been put together with an open mind to ‘ what you the reader think and want. After reading the issue, we hope that you will learn some things that you did not know about Notre Dame football. We also hope that suggestions will come to mind for ways of improving the issue. Let us know about your thoughts; we’d like to hear them.	; :
We hope, lastly, that you enjoy our effort of The Football Review.
Scholastic
Pittsburgh
by Tom Kruczek
First games are always difficult
for a young team, but the opening game against Pittsburgh represented more than just^a chance for the inexperienced players to get their feet
wet in game : competition.. It also represented a game which could
make or break a season.	.
Notre Dame was coming; off a difficult season that was filled with rumors of dissent and team difficulties. The Irish heeded a win to
put tiie talk of last season behind them and to avenge the miserable showing against the Panthers last year in Pittsburgh. Also, the Irish were coming into the game with question marks at virtually every position, and the game represented a chance for the team ? to erase the questions and start the season with confidence. ,
That’s what could have happened. What did happen was a show by Tony Dorsett and Bob Haygood that was nothing short of tremendous in a 31-10 drubbing of Notre Dame. Pittsburgh outclassed the Irish in just about every way possible, and at the game’s end, the question marks that existed prior to the game were still there, and now even more were added.	.
“In situations such as this it’s
easy to blame one segment of the team or an individual,” Dan Devine related after the game. “But we lost as a team and they won as a team. It would be hard to isolate what hurt the most, as we expected more from everyone.” '
Expecting more from everyone wasn’t hard; as the only good drive of the game for the Irish came on the very first possession. Quarterback Rick Slager looked confident and poised in the pocket and the whole offense looked as if they had been playing together for a year instead of just in their first'game. The key play was the touchdown, with Ken MacAfee delaying at the line, then going against the flow of the play to catch the pass and take it in 25 yards for the score.	• .
.Pittsburgh came right back, and made ABC very happy as they countered the Irish score in just
seven plays. The big play of the
drive came on the first play from scrimmage for Pitt as Dorsett blew through the line, broke two tackles and 61 yards later was pulled down
from behind by Ross Browner.
Although the big run by Dorsett
admitted after the game that he did not see LeRoy Felder step up, and while the quarterback was hit releas-
seemed to take the wind out of the Irish sails, the defense stiffened and at the first quarter mark the score
Tony Dorsett in a familiar setting, breaking away from the Irish defense.

was 7-7. It was, however, just inside
the second quarter, when the turning point of the game occurred. Slager, trying to pass, took his eye off the cornerback on the right side
covering Mark McLane, who was coming out of the backfield. Slager

February 7,1977
3
ing the ball, Felder picked off the pass and returned it from the Irish 30 to the two-yard line. Two plays later Pittsburgh scored.
The next drive was equally disastrous, and whatever confidence the starting quarterback may have had disappeared completely as Jeff Delaney intercepted at the Notre Dame 33. Three plays later quarterback Haygood dove over from the one and now the Panthers held a dominating 21-7 lead.
The Irish then got their first break of the game, recovering a fumbled punt on the Pitt 23. Slager was sacked while trying to pass Carl Johnson for a 13-yard loss. Dave Reeve then missed a 44-yard field goal wide, and the break went for naught.
PITTSBURGH ................
Pittsburgh .......................        7	14	0	10—31
Notre Dame  .........................     7	3	0	0 — 10
Scoring:	.	'
N.D. Slager to MacAfee, 25 yards (Reeve kick).
U.P. Dorsett, 5-yard run (Long kick).
U.P. Haygood, 1-yard run (Long kick).
U.P. Haygood, 1-yard run (Long kick).
N.D. Reeve, 53-yard field goal.
U.P. Long, 34-yard field goal.
U.P. Cavanaugh, 8-yard run (Long kick).
Jerome Heavens finds out why the Panthers defense was one of 1976's best	• •	■::	: ■'.-. sr : :
The only other score of the half, came on. Reeve’s record-setting 53-yard field goal with 2:59 left to play in the half. It broke the old record held by Joe Perkowski from 1961 when he kicked a 49-yard field goal against Southern California.
In the third quarter the Irish, through various avenues, foiled themselves. The first drive of the quarter started on the N.D. 26, with Notre Dame picking up three first downs while keeping the ball on the ground. However, with the Irish moving well, on the Pitt 42-yard line, Hunter turned the ball over on a fumbled pitch, which Arnie Weatherington fell on for the Panthers.
On the next drive following a Pitt punt, a dubious play selection stalled
the drive deep in Notre Dame territory. Starting on their own five behind runs by Heavens and Slager, Notre Dame incurred another motion penalty for its 40th yard in penalties of the day. After Hunter gained two yards arid Heavens picked up four, the Irish were faced with a tough third and nine situation. Instead of trying to get the first down, the Irish chose to toss a long pass from the Notre Dame 17. Slager missed on the deep route to Kris Haines at the Pitt 40, and another drive was stalled.
The third drive of the quarter was started thanks to a crushing tackle by Bob Golic on Haygood. The quarterback fumbled the ball while trying to pass, and Ross Browner recovered for Notre Dame on the
Pitt 44.	:
But on the next play, a holding penalty forced the Irish back to their own 39. From there they were unable to move the ball and were forced to punt. ;	"
In the first drive of the fourth quarter, the Panthers were able to take 3:26 off the dock with a drive that ended in Carson Long kicking a 34-yard field goal. The Irish were now down 24-10 and in desperate need of a sustained drive.
On the next series for Notre Dame, the offense failed again,; and as the Irish quarterback left the field, boos filled the. air. Restic’s punt traveled just ten yards, and Pitt had the ball on the Notre Dame 37. From there, the Panthers needed just two plays to score. Tony Dorsett of course had one of those plays, a 28-yard run. Matt Cavanaugh carried it in the final three yards to wrap up the scoring for the day. It was at this point that the Pitt, spotters left the press box, signaling that even the usually. conservative coaches thought that game was over with 9:33 left to play. n
Tony Dorsett finished the game with 181 yards in 22 carries and over the past three seasons the Heisman Trophy candidate totalled 651 yards against Notre Dame.. Dorsett was named the offensive player of the game by ABC. television, and Randy Holloway the .. defensive player. ;	, ,	. . .
The game was made even worse with the knowledge that starting defensive’ tackle Jeff Weston incurred a knee injury which would require surgery. Add to that the academic difficulties ■ j which caused Jay Case to be declared ineligible for the season plus separated shoulder of Joe Montana, and certainly the Irish football fortunes looked bleak.
4
c Scholastic
Purdue
Purdue-Notre Darned An intense, intrastate rivalry was being renewed for the 48th time. The Boilermakers came into South Bend after a hard-fought victory over Northwestern, and the Irish had been outplayed by Pittsburgh in their initial contest. Last year on a gloomy Saturday in West Lafayette, Notre Dame just got by Purdue, 13-0, on some last-minute heroics by Luther Bradley.
The Irish this year took the opening kickoff and proceeded to use the running of Jerome Heavens, Al Hunter and Mark McLane to reach
Bringing the halfback option pass back to college football, Al Hunter prepares to unload a touchdown pass to Mark McLane.
February 7,1977	?
the Purdue 36-yard line. The Boilermaker defense stifled the N.D. effort, but after the Purdue offense failed to move, they were again confronted with the driving Irish offensive unit. This time, however, Hunter dropped a pitch from quarterback Rick Slager and linebacker Rick Arrington covered for Purdue on his own 44.
Scott Dierking, who had; gained 151 yards the week before against Northwestern, led the Boilermakers into Irish territory. On third down and three yards to go, Ted Burgmeier and Bob Golic teamed up to stop the
by John Delaney
Boilermaker tailback. A 49-yard field goal attempt fell short.
Notre Dame put its offense into gear on its next possession. Hunter dashed for 24 yards, and three plays later, freshman Dave Waymer gained 14 more on a reverse. The Purdue de-
re- * fense turned stingy once again and the Irish settled , for J a 39-yard
Dave Reeve field goal with 47 seconds remaining in the first quarter.
Following an exchange of punts, the Purdue offense began to execute in their next appearance on the field. They marched 52 yards in 14 plays on the strength of Dierking’s legs and an 18-yard Mark Vitali-to-Jappy Oliver pass. The Irish secondary tightened as the Boilermakers got closer to the N.D. goal line. Scott Sovereen’s second field goal try of the afternoon fell short again, this time from 41 yards. ‘
Jerome Heavens, workhorse of the Irish backfield, took things, into his own hands as he powered his way for gains of six, six and five yards. In a third-and-three situation, the entire Purdue defense swarmed the sophomore fullback and stopped him at the line of scrimmage. Two Purdue mistakes were to keep the Irish drive alive.. Firsts the Boilermakers were penalized for roughing the punter, and oh the following play they were called for pass interference, giving N.D. a first down on the Purdue 26. The luck of the Irish ran out as Slager’s pass was intercepted by Paul Beery, who returned the ball to midfield.	'
Quarterback Vitali again went to the’air futilely. Dave Eagin dropped back to punt, faked and looked for a receiver. Luther Bradley would have none of this and pinned Eagin for a 13-yard loss. Boilermaker coach Alex Agase explained after the game that “the receivers didn’t hear the call.” According to the Purdue coach, the fake was a good call. “It was a dam good time,to do it. We used the same play last year against Notre Dame,; and used it, effectively. The kids just, didn’t hear, the call.” Regardless, the Irish took oyer on Purdue’s 38. J
5
' AW
Displaying the pursuit that won him the Outland Trophy, Ross Browner chases a Boilermaker.
After Hunter rushed for five yards, Devine unveiled his razzle-dazzle play. Slager pitched out . to Hunter who threw a somewhat wobbly halfback option pass which flanker McLane caught and carried into the end zone. Of his touchdown toss, Hunter
The Irish defense continued their uncharitable ways in the second half. They shut down the Purdue passing game with a combination of excellent coverage by the secondary and steady pressure by the line.
yard zigzag run into the end zone. Reeve’s boot was wide right, but the Irish held a commanding 23-0 edge.
Later in the period, N.D., with Gary Forystek leading the second-team offense, began what looked to become another scoring drive. Willard Browner’s 28-yard jaunt highlighted the Irish drive to the Purdue 30. Misfortune struck again when halfback Vagas Ferguson Tumbled and the Boilermakers recovered.
, Inspired by the Irish miscues, the Purdue “0” mounted a scoring threat. Vitali started finding receivers for his tosses, one in particular. He teamed with Reggie Arnold on four passes and the Boilermakers found themselves only seven yards from a touchdown which would break the defense’s consecutive quarter-shutout streak. However, on the next play, running back Bennie Leverett was hit hard, lost the ball, and Joe Restic recovered for N.D. With less than - two minutes to go, the home team could taste their first victory of the
,	Purdue. began the third quarter
modestly remarked, “I was lucky. On with a drive which ended at their 45 '	’	’■	‘	' with another Eagin punt. Ted Burg-
meier returned the kick 33 yards to 1976 season..	?	.	.
the Purdue 48-yard. line. Utilizing ; Coach; Alex Agase was disap-the running talents of Heavens and pointed in his team’s effort, yet felt Hunter, and ; a . Slager-to-MacAfee they performed well. He commented, aerial, the Irish progressed to the “We failed in some of the strangest P.U. 17. Dave Reeve came in for ways. We found every way we could a field goal attempt but the kick was not to score.” Dan Devine had some blocked. However, it was blocked be-- words of praise for the boys from cause the Boilermaker rush was off- West Lafayette, “We beat a' good side. From the 12 on fourth down - football teamone that was well
■ a pass, three things can happen and ' two of these things are bad. I’m happy it worked out. We worked on ' it every day (in practice) to make ? sure we got it down, but I still was ; a little lucky.” Reeve added the extra ? point to give the hosts a 10-0 advan-; , tage with slightly less than two minutes to play in the first half.
: ' Mike Northington ran the kickoff “ back to his 20 and Purdue went into ‘ its hurry-up offense. Aided by a pass-
with three to go, Hunter went over - conditioned.” Of his own team’s ap-
interference penalty on Notre Dame, right tackle for a seven-yard gain, pearance,, Devine said, “We made a the Boilermakers progressed to the On the next play Heavens twisted few mistakes but I thought we exe-N.D. 32. On the last play of the sec- and turned to advance to the one. cuted well for the most part.” He ond? quarter, Vitali threw to Reggie Slager then took it in, and Reeve’s summed up the team’s as well as his Arnold who fell to his knees just two kick made it 17-0.	■ . .	personal feelings when he remarked,
yards away from six points as the Following an exchange of punts,; “This feels a heckuva lot better than gun sounded.	/	Purdue advanced from its own 20 to last week.” .
The first half was characterized by	its 38, on its next possession, in three
the Irish taking advantage of Boiler-	-----	--	--
maker miscues. Not all went well
for N.D. in the first 30 minutes. On the last play of the half, free safety Randy Harrison fractured his left
plays. Vitali followed it up with a deep pass, only to be intercepted by Irish cornerback Burgmeier, who; C sprinted to midfield before he was tackled.
Notre Dame took full advantage . ’
forearm. Lost for the season, he was
replaced by sophomore Joe Restic,	_	.
who saw very little action last year ered 49 yards in three minutes as Al at the safety spot. ’	Hunter capped a fine day with a two-
of this opportunity. The Irish cov-
Notre Dame .... Purdue ......
3	7	7 __ 6 — 23
.. 0	0	0	0 — 0
Scoring:
N.D. Reeve, 39-yard field goal.	-
N.D. Hunter to McLane, 33 yards (Reeve kick).
N.D. Slager, 1-yard run (Reeve kick).
N.D. Hunter, 2-yard run (Reeve kick wide)?
Although Mark McLane didn't carry the ball often, here he runs outside on Purdue. / p:
- .. Scholastic
6
Northwestern
by Chuck Sweeney
When the Fighting Irish marched into Dyche Stadium on September 25, it was for the last time. The Irish have been matched against the Northwestern Wildcats 43 times in the last 87 years, winning all except seven games while tying twice. 1976 marked the end of the Northwestern era for the Irish, however, as no future games are scheduled between the two teams. \	\
Notre Dame'’ arrived at Northwestern for the final encounter heavily favored. Injuries to starters Jeff Weston and Randy Harrison over the first two weeks of the season had raised some concern about the Irish • depth at various positions, especially in the defensive line. The Irish needed to beat the ; Wildcats soundly in the wake of the loss to Pittsburgh the first week and then coming back with a shaky victory over Purdue a week later. The Irish, 1-1, needed the win to shore-up any confidence gaps. Although the first quarter had been scoreless, in the second quarter the Irish came through. After a 32-yard drive, Al Hunter scored the first six points 'on a 16-yard carry. With 55 seconds left in the half, the Irish got on track for a second time. Rick Slager connected with Dan Kelleher for a’38-yard gain which was followed by an eight-yard touchdown pass to Willard Browner. N.D. went for two with Slager pitching to Browner who then tossed the option pass to Kelleher, wide open in the end zone.	.
. The second'half brought 34 more points for the Irish, as they con-tinned to shut out the Wildcats. Early in the third quarter Slager found halfback'Tom Dornin for a 70-yard touchdown pass. Additional scoring was provided by Hunter with a 37-yard run, tightend Ken In rushing it was Notre Dame 331 reception, and an interception in the fourth quarter by linebacker LeRoy Leopold.	•	' /
Notre Dame dominated the statistics, leading in first downs 24-11. In rushing it was Notre Dame 331
yards to Northwestern’s 92 yards, and most impressive of all, the Irish rolled up 231 yards passing. Slager set a new Notre Dame record for pass completions, hitting 12 of his 14 attempts for a .857 percentage. This topped the old mark of .813 set by Bob Williams in 1949 against Michigan State. . .	. ;
Settled in at quarterback, Rick Slager hit on 12 of 14 passes to set a new completion mark.	,	"	-
Notre Dame ..  ..........................  0	14	21	13 — 48
Northwestern :  .........................  0	0	0	0 — 0
Scoring:	i ,	:	-	,
N.D. Hunter, 16-yard run (Reeve kick wide). , \	.
N.D. Slager to W. Browner, 8 yards (W. Browner pass to	. ;
Kelleher - two points).	.	z
N.D. Slager to Dornin, 70 yards (Reeve kick). .
N.D. Hunter, 37-yard run (Reeve kick). ...	/
N.D. Slager to MacAfee, 7 yards (Reeve kick). ,	..
N.D. Lisch, 4-yard run (Reeve kick). , .	.
N.D. Leopold, 57-yard interception return (Reeve kick no good).
Dan Devine commented after the game, “I am proud of the way our people kept their poise. This is the second week that we have had bad things happen to us early in the game. We had enough problems in the first half, but those things have a way of being taken for granted when you win.”
February 7,1977
7
Michigan State
The fourth game of the season 47-yard field goal, giving the Irish a brought together two teams with dif- lead that was not to be relinquished, ferent perspectives of 1976. Notre Dame, coming off its big/win the week before, was looking forward to avenging last season’s defeat by Michigan State and improving its bowl chances. The Spartans, however, were in an entirely different situation. Denny Stolz was gone as head coach and several important performers were sitting out suspensions, both the result of NCAA recruiting violation penalties.
MSU featured a wide open attack'
in their first three games, passing the £ ball almost twice as much as the .Irish. Their offense was averaging . 407 yards per game with both Levi
Jackson and Rick Baes, returning backfield stars, and Ed Smith coming off a 324-yard passing effort against North Carolina State. The defense had been the trouble spot for Coach Darryl Rodgers, yielding 73 points in
State.
Schmitz at the N.D. 28, but Schmitz
As the game opened, it appeared 'broke the kick coverage, cut to the that Rodgers' suspicions were right sideline, and raced 40 yards down to on the money. The Spartans received the Spartan 32. This play was em-
the kickoff, could not move, and punted to the Irish 38. Al Hunter
blematic of the field position the Irish would receive in the first half, caus-
burst off tackle on the Irish’s first ing Rodgers to comment afterward play, cut to the outside, and sped to ‘that “all day the defense was put in the MSU 38, a gain of 23 yards, poor field position by bad punt cover-Notre Dame kept the ball on the age. Birney punted well, but received ground for the next four plays, set- no coverage until’late in the game.” ting up the ground game—today's Notre Dame went the rest of the game plan. The drive stalled at distance in seven plays, with Hunter State’s 30, but Dave Reeve kicked a scoring off right tackle with 5:28 to
by Burt Brunner
play in the first quarter. This drive again was indicative of Devine's game plan—- all runs, and using mostly the two-tight-end system instituted against Purdue.
Reeve kicked off into the end zone, but the Spartans could gain only nine yards in six plays, and again Birney punted the ball away, this time to Burgmeier on. the Irish 29. Rick Slager tried to catch the State defense asleep, but his pass to Ken MacAfee on first down was too high. A fumbled pitchout on third down lost 12 yards, so Joe Restic came in to punt for the Irish. Restic, who averaged 46.3 yards a punt for the afternoon, hit a line drive which flew, bounced and rolled 63 yards to the Spartan 26.
This time MSU ^ mixed the pass with the run and moved to the Irish 37, but two incomplete passes and a sack by Ross Browner, (who had 3 in the . game for 22 yards) forced another punt. The ball sailed into the end zone and the Irish went to work from the 20. Notre Dame followed with one of the best drives of the young season, moving the 80 yards in 11 plays while using up over five crucial minutes. Slager completed two important third-down passes and threw 20 yards to .Terry Eurick for the score. Afterwards, Eurick recalled that the play was a “fullback in. the flat play. MSU flooded my side, but Rick dumped it off and there was no one around. The line blocked well and I was off.” Again Reeve kicked the conversion and the Irish led 17-0 after only 21 minutes
Tom Dornin, almost but not quite, of play.
evading tackle in MSU game at Michigan State eventually moved •	~	. East Lansing. .	the bah down to the Irish 14-yard
just three games, including 31 the	°	,	line, but two passes by Smith were
week before. The new coach feared On the next drive the Spartans deflected and Hans Nielsen came in the worst beforehand, claiming Notre again could not move the football, to try a 31-yard field goal. The kick Dame was “a much better team” running twice and passing on third was wide right, much to Rodgers’ than a previous opponent, Ohio down. Tom Birney punted to Steve
anger as he later called it “a chip shot, and one that had to be made.” For the half, MSU totaled 60 net yards with only 22 rushing yards on 16 carries. The Irish meanwhile had
rolled up over 180 yards with Al Hunter leading the way with 68 yards. 7
' Unfortunately for the Irish, the second half was exactly opposite as far as' offensive movement was concerned. Tom Dornin's fumble on a. counterplay was recovered by State on the Irish 32, but the Spartans could only move one yard in four
8
Scholastic
plays. Nielsen came in and booted a 48-yard-field goal with 11:44 Jeft in the third quarter.	.L .
Again the Irish failed to move and State set up its offense on the N.D. 46 following a 37-yard Restic punt. Two passes and a run netted only five yards and again Hans Nielsen , entered the game. This time his 57-yarder was short, - resulting : in a touchback. But the Spartan defense had made minor halftime adjustments and again stopped the • Irish cold, resulting in yet another punt, which was downed at the MSU 46. This'time, however, Smith found his leading- receiver Kirk Gibson on a crossing pattern and he carried the ball down to the Irish, 16-yard line for a gain of 38 yards. The Irish defense again tightened send in came, you guessed-it, Hans Nielsen; This time his 29-yarder split the uprights and the Irish lead.shrank to 17-6.
The Irish offense again entered, but stayed for only one play when Slager’s first-down pass to MacAfee was intercepted on the 39-yard line byKen Jones. The N.D. defense yielded only three yards in three plays, bringing our friend Hans NieL sen back into the game. His 50-yarder was partially blocked by Jim Browner, resulting in another touchback.
' Fumbles, incomplete passes,' quarterback 'sacks and strong defense took center stage7 for the next ten minutes. Finally, at the- five-minute mark, with the fans either heading for the exits or falling asleep, the Irish took over in. excellent field position at the 50. The offense, with a few hew faces in the lineup, woke up and proceeded to move the ball to the one-yard line. Slager passed to MacAfee for the score because “the defense was jammed for the rush,”
Devine later explained. Reeve’s extra	.	.
point 'with'36 seconds left brought of grange in previous years and in the score to 24-6. But the heroics practice. The two field goals , he did were not over, at least as far as the 'make, ‘however, tied Nielsen with straight win over a Big^en team this Irish were concerned.'Marshall Law-	Dick Kenney (the kicker in the :’66
son entered at QB for State and classlc) with 19 career field goals.
promptly completed a 28-yard pass ~ to Eugene Byrd. On the next play, however, he overthrew Byrd and Joe Restic intercepted. Restic returned the ball 45 yards to the Irish 37, and t appeared to have a chance of going all the way, but was finally downed • at the 32. Restic later said that “it ? was as hot out there as any game I’ve played in and I just ran out. of t steam.” !	_ J .......	'
February <7,1977
Spartan runner Rick Baes meets Irish co-captain Willie Fry, one of many
such meetings.
On the next play the Irish, looking either for AP Poll votes or a chance for practice under;game conditions, passed. Slager’s aerial was caught by MacAfee at the 17, but he was immediately tackled as time ran put.
: In his post-game conference Rodgers didn’t withhold his opinion of State’s play for very long. “The pass protection stunk, our passer certainly did not play well either. Our players were in a complete daze in.the first half . . . the most ridiculous thing I’ve seen; But in the second half, our defense played as well as it has all
Jerome Heavens by using six differ-_	ent running backs. Rick Slager again
upset over the lack of the running had a 100-yard passing day, hitting on nine of 19 for 111 yards.
year,” he stated. Rodgers was also
game, but he did praise the Irish defense stating that it is. “every bit
as strong or stronger than Ohio defensive effort, stating ft was. a “reState’s.” And why did Nielsen try . markable achievement” that the Irish field goals from such long distances? haven’t given up a touchdown in
“We felt that if you keep chipping three straight games.” Commenting away with the three’s then eventually on MSU’s third-quarter rally, Devine we’ll get the seven’s,” claimed Rodg- stated his satisfaction with the ers, adding that Nielsen had this type team’s “exceptional poise, especially
Notre Dame .........r................—....... Michigan - State  .......................  ...
Scoring:	'
N.D. Reeve, 47-yard field goal.
N.D. Hunter, 6-yard run (Reeve kick).	:
N.D. Slager to Eurick, 20 yards (Reeve kick) .
M.S. Nielsen,'48-yard field'goal. / ;
•' M.S. Nielsen, 29-yard field goal. .	*;
- N.D/ Slager to MacAfee, 1-yard (Reeve kick).
* And speaking of these things, Dave Reeve kicked his 21st to move into first place with Bob Thomas on the career list. But more importantly, the Irish .defense held MSU to’just 174 yards, a whopping 233 under their average. Smith and Lawson, combining at quarterback, could complete only 11 out of. 34 passes including two interceptions. : .	-
Offensively, for the Irish, Hunter and Eurick both rushed for oyer 60 yards while Willard Browner added
31 as N.D. tried, to offset the loss of
. Coach Devine was pleased with the defensive effort, stating it was. a “re-
considering how young it is.” The game represented the third
season and the largest victory margin in the series since 1970.-	. /
10	7	0	7 — 24
0	0	6 - 0 — 6
9
Oregon
by Burt Brunner
The weekend began with Ziggie Czarobski and his teammates on the 1946 National Championship team entertaining the pep-rally crowd and ended with the traditional “Victory Clog” dance of the Irish Guard. In between, it was hunting season for Notre Dame as the Oregon Ducks left town on the short side of a 41-0 score.
Al Hunter gained his 1000th career yard on N.D.’s first offensive play and kept right on going, rushing for three touchdowns and 97 yards, not to mention his three pass receptions for 47 more yards. His backfield mate, Rick Slager, completed 11 of 18 passes for 135 yards, with Ken MacAfee grabbing three and Mark McLane three also, one for
a touchdown.
But the talk of the crowd and Oregon Head Coach Don Reid was the defense. This group, led by ends Ross Browner and Willie Fry, permitted the Ducks zero net rushing yards and only 146 yards passing. And the Irish were facing the nation’s 10th- . ranked quarterback, Jack Henderson. Under constant pressure, he was able to complete only seven of 16 passes for 50 yards. The shutout ran Notre Dame’s streak of quarters without allowingj a touchdown to 16, only four less than the team record of 20 quarters set by the 1946 team being honored.
The high points of the game, as far as most of the fans were concerned,
Ken MacAfee grabs yet another pass as the Oregon Ducks watch.
The game started out just as it would end; the Ducks could not move the ball and punted. Notre Dame immediately moved to the Oregon 8-yard line, but Dave Reeve’s field-goal attempt was wide left. The next drive found the end zone, however, covering 38 yards in only three plays. On the second play of the series, Dave Waymer took the handoff from Hunter and started what looked like a reverse. He pulled up, though, and fired a 33-yard pass to wide receiver Dan Kelleher on the one-yard line. When Slager punched in for the score, the Irish led 7-0. t,
After a short punt, the Irish re. ceived the ball on Oregon’s 33-yard line, this time using only five plays to score. Slager fired an 11-yard pass to McLane in the right corner of the end zone, Reeve converted, and the gates; were open., N.D. again scored just 38 seconds into the second quarter, this time on a nine-yard inside run by Hunter, though Reeve’s kick was blocked. Highlighting the drive were Slager’s passes to McLane and MacAfee. ' .
On the kickoff, Dennis Bullock fumbled when hit by Tony Zappala, and Luther Bradley recovered on the Ducks’ 34. The Irish covered this distance in only six plays, again with Hunter scoring. This time he swept left end; for seven’yards, and the home team lengthened its lead to 270. N.D. threatened later in the half, but lost the ball on downs at the Oregon ten. ,	:	<
After 30 minutes of football, the Irish had run 48 offensive plays (22 of these using the effective twp-tight-end system) to only 26 for the - Ducks. More importantly, Notre Dame had converted on four of eight third-down plays while Oregon, could cash in on only one of eight. ;
The second half featured the Irish defense at their best as they intercepted three passes while the offense pushed across two more scores for the final 41-0 score. Ted Burgmeier’s 20-yard punt return set the Irish offense up at the . Oregon 37 and, on the second play,. Hunter broke loose for his 31-yard run. In the fourth quarter, the Irish second-team offense moved 70 yards in eight plays. Vagas Ferguson showed his skill and potential on a beautiful 24-yard burst up the middle, breaking two tackles and side-stepping another., He later scored from the two-yard line with 7:59 left to play.. The remaining time saw Mike Banks and Ross Christensen intercept to thwart other Duck threats. , ?	"
both came in the second half. With 25 seconds left in the third quarter, Hunter swept right end, cut back across the grain between two tacklers, and sped 31 yards for the score. This was “the” run as #25 showed the speed and the moves that everyone has been expecting from the Greenville, N.C., junior. As Hunter later added, “I feel quicker than I did at the beginning of the year.”
Notre Dame ........................................................................14	13 T 7 .— 41
Oregon .............	0 , 0 \ 0 ‘ 0 — 0
Scoring:	:	/
N.D. Slager, 1-yard run (Reeve kick).	’
N.D. Slager to McLane, 11 yards (Reeve- kick).
N.D. Hunter, 9-yard run (Reeve kick blocked).
N.D. Hunter; 6-yard run (Reeve kick).
t N.D. Hunter, 31-yard run (Reeve kick).
, N.D. Ferguson, 2-yard run (Reeve kick).
10
■ . Scholastic
South Carolina
by TomKruczek
Coming off an excellent performance against Oregon the week before, Notre Dame had no reason to believe that. South Carolina would be the start of something unfortunate. But the game at Columbia was a slow start to a performance that would be concluded two weeks later in Atlanta,* Georgia. The Irish this time got by the Gamecocks, 13-6, thanks to some last second heroics by strong-side safety Jim Browner.
The Irish jumped off to a good start. Starting in their first possession from the N.D. 20, Rick Slager directed the offense through . four first downs, three of them through the air. Ten plays ? later the ball rested on the Gamecock nine-yard line, where Slager rollea out right t hitting : Willard Browner in the end zone. Dave Reeve added the kick, and with 10:15 left in the quarter the Irish led by seven. ,
After trading punts, the Irish got the ball back on their own 48. This drive was less productive: than the initial one, and following two first downs, Dan Devine was forced to call in Reeve for a 37-yard attempt. With 4:11 left in the quarter, his kick was good.	■
Reeve had the opportunity to try his foot at another field goal, with 5:08 left in the first half. The Irish began the scoring drive on their own 28, keeping the ball almost exclusively on the ground. ; ; < f.-.
From the 28, they worked the ball up to . the South Carolina 14, where the drive stalled and Reeve kicked his second field goal of the day. ■
The Gamecocks then went on the board as the half came to its con-elusion. Starting off with 1:25 left to play from the S.C. 15, the Gamecocks got their first break of the drive on aroughing-the-punter call with less than a minute to play. The penalty moved the ball to the Gamecock 36, where Steve Swinehart, subbing for starting quarterback
February 7,1977
Ron Bass, completed to end Phil Logan for 15 yards. On the next play Swinehart hit Ben Cornett for 14 yards with 29 seconds left before being pulled down by free safety Joe Restic. After three incomplete passes and an Irish offsides, Britt Parrish was called in with two seconds left in the half to try a 49-yard field goal attempt. His kick was good and South Carolina was down by 10 with a half to play. J
The third quarter was nothing more than changes of possession for both teams. The Irish punted once, tried one 42-yard field goal that. missed, and Slager was intercepted once. The Gamecocks handed over the ball via three punts, which averaged 34 yards. Clearly neither team held any advantage going into the final quarter, as neither team did anything in the third quarter.
The fourth quarter'was different, however, as South Carolina jumped on Notre Dame in their ,first possession. Starting on the 50, the Gamecocks moved down the field with
Notre Dame	................... 10	3	0	0 —13
South Carolina ...... ...............0	3	0	3 — 6
Scoring:
N.D. Slager to W. Browner, 9 yards (Reeve kick).
N.D. Reeve, 37-yard field goal. /	,	■
N.D. Reeve, 30-yard field goal.	.	-
• S.C. Parrish, 49-yard field goal. \	;	.
S.C. Parrish, 49-yard field goal.	l
Aided by Rick Slager's hold, Dave Reeve booted his way into the record book.	,	•*	f :	'
Bass back at quarterback. Combining runs and passes, S.C. moved down the field before having their drive stalled at the Irish 14. Parrish was then summoned and put three points on the board by a 35-yard field goal. The drive also ate up five minutes on the clock, which was now very important to the Gamecocks’ comeback attempt.
With 5:33 left after an N.D. punt, the Gamecocks began their final drive. Starting on their own 30, S.C. in four plays was on their own 48. On the next play, running back Kevin Long picked up six yards and the Gamecocks were now in Irishi territory. McKinney and Clarence Williams then carried for runs of 9 and 12 yards, respectively, with the ball now on the Notre Dame 21. With 3:32 left in the game, Long lost three yards, thanks to a crushing tackle by Willie Fry. On the next play, Bass, trying to pick Cornett out of a, crowd, threw and was intercepted by Jim Browner on the 15 with 3:23 left, and S.C. was stopped.
11
Navy
By all means, the game was a gross mismatch. . Notre Dame had won five consecutive games since their opening loss to Pittsburgh, and had not allowed, a touchdown in the process. Navy was one and six after
losing five straight games, including Irish on the board with a 47-yard a 70-14 loss at the hands of Michi- field goal.	\
gan and a 45-0 whitewash by Pitts- By keeping Navy out of their end burgh.	' *	1 zone in the first quarter, the Notre
Mike Calhoun and Ross Browner pressuring the quarterback,
With rumors concerning his job . security abounding, Middie Coach George Welsh made two .moves designed to help his anemic offense. Little did the Irish know that the changes almost led to the biggest upset of the college football season.
, Notre Dame’s 27-21 victory was . extend the record quickly died in highlighted by the new Navy, pass- the hands of Navy’s Mike Galpin ing combination of sophomore whose interception and, 22-yard quarterback Bob Leszczynski and return left the Middies on Notre freshman wingback Dave King. The Dame’s 17.	'	: \
pair hooked up ten times, including After two .running attempts': by three times in a furious fourth ^Reggie Thompson'failed to gain, the quarter drive that ' came within tone for the remainder of the chilly inches of a winning touchdown. ' afternoon was set. Leszczynski
inches of a winning touchdown. . .
The game was played in Cleve- dropped back and lofted a pass in land’s Municipal Stadium before a;	t	.
crowd of 61,172 that turned out to of the end zone. As Jim Browner
the direction of King in the corner
witness the first major college foot- spun the wrong way, King came up the season./After throwing for. 180 ball game in the Ohio city since with the reception for a 7-3 Navy yards.in the first half, the offense' 1952.	• "	\ lead.	changed, and the ball was kept on
The Middies' running attack was
? The , Notre Dame offense, which absent all day, so Leszczynski and stalled in the second half against / King went to work through the air South Carolina, looked just as on Navy’s next possession. Passes of stagnant in the first quarter against / 25 and 14 yards to King put, the ball Navy. Willard Browner’s fumble on on the one. From there, Larry . the second series cost the Irish good Klawinski took it in over left guard field ; position and persuaded Dan and suddenly, people began to take Devine to put the ball in the air. Navy seriously.
12	'	' ■	..............
by Ted Robinson
. On their last possession of the quarter, Rick Slager, who enjoyed a fine afternoon, connected on passes of 17 yards to Dan Kelleher and ,14 yards to Ken MacAfee. When the drive stalled, Dave Reeve got. the
One of them was Kelleher, who had his finest day as an Irish receiver with seven receptions for 162 yards. “Navy challenged our rush, but they let us have the short pass. We went to work on that, which proved to be the measure of the ball game.”	. ' '
It was Kelleher who put ' Notre Dame back in the game midway through the second quarter. Slager delivered a perfect toss on a crossing pattern over the middle, and Kelleher turned on the speed for a 58-yard touchdown, play. ,
“The play took a little longer to develop than it did in practice, but Rick’s throw was there, and it was up to me,” the senior split end later recalled about his first Irish touchdown/	■*• y
Al Hunter culminated a 60-yard drive with a five-yard burst over left tackle for the score that gave Notre Dame the lead at 17-14. Then, two plays after Ted Burgmeier recovered a Joe . Gattuso fumble, Slager and Hunter connected on a 28-yard pass play* to send the Irish off at the half with a 24-14 lead.
It was obvious that during the halftime, Welsh had decided to abandon the - running^ game altogether, as Leszczynski spent the entire third quarter standing in the pocket trying to .pierce the, Notre ■ Dame pass coverage. .
Dame defense established
a new
school, record of 21 consecutive quarters without allowing a. touchdown, surpassing the mark set by the 1946 National Championship team.	.	> N
^ However, any Irish attempts to
“They were in a man-to-man, and, we felt ,we could pass on them,” Leszczynski noted. “Our two-man patterns are designed to go against a man-to-man and we were success-
ful.” Successful was the word, as he completed 21 of 45 passes for 294 yards on the day.	•
After the momentary second-quarter collapse, the Irish defense was bending but not breaking. lt took a dubious pass-interference penalty in the end zone against Ted Burgmeier on the third play of the final quarter to set the Middies^up on the one. Thompson did the scoring honors and Navy was back in the game. ’	:	/
Throughout the second half, the Irish offense reverted to a pattern that was to characterize their play over the course of the second half of
changed, and the ball was kept on the ground, even on obvious passing situations. .	’	. .
That pattern was broken* for one play following Thompson’s score, but thanks to Kelleher, one play was all that was needed: Slager launched a bomb in the direction of the Navy end zone? The ball floated " as Kelleher. leapt between Galpin and
Scholastic
Greg Milo to snare the ball from their grasp. The 45-yard completion was the finest catch of the year for the Irish, yet only three points was the result.
That was because on third down, a Slager pass slipped through the hands of Steve Orsini and Reeve booted his second field goal of the afternoon to give the Irish a six-point cushion.
They should have known that six points was no cushion against the Middies this year. Memories flashed back to 1974’s 14-6 Irish triumph, a game which Navy led until the fourth quarter; and of 1975’s 31-10 Irish win, in which Navy outgained the Irish, but .was victimized by a blocked punt and an interception off a fake punt.
With 8:30 remaining, Leszczynski took over from his own 20, and proceeded to take the Middies to the Irish 16. The key play was on third-and-13, with a 28-yard pass to Steve Scott, who stole the ball from Luther Bradley.
On the 16 the drive stalled as Leszczynski misfired on a third-and-
two pass. Welsh decided to go for, the first down on fourth down and came up inches short of victory. Only the fingertips of freshman Dave Waymer, just inserted into the game in place of Browner, broke up a pass intended for Scott.
' ’ “Inches, it’s a game of inches,” noted Scott. “Coach Welsh told me to break a post pattern, at the goal line and cut right across the field. The ball was right there—it was six points—but he (Waymer) made a great play; and tipped it away.”
With five minutes left, the Middies were not ready for the ride back to Annapolis yet. After an Irish punt, Navy got the ball on their 16 with 1:50 left to play.
After moving the ball to the 30 on two short passes, Tony Zappala sacked Leszczynski for a nine-yard loss. But on ; fourth-and—19, Leszczynski and King pulled off another miraculous reception for a 22-yard gain. With the clock moving, the pair connected for 19 more yards, advancing the ball to the Irish 38.
After throwing the ball away to stop the clock with 25 seconds left, Leszczynski was dropped for a loss by Mike Calhoun arid Ken Dike. However, Calhoun was shaken up on the play and the clock was stopped with one second remaining.
Leszczynski’s last-gasp pass for Scott was intercepted by Bradley in the end zone and the three hour
and five minute marathon game was completed.
wllipiCLCU	Cleveland was muddy; but once again AI Hunter moves outside for
. In a relieved Notre Dame locker yardage.
The Al Hunter "point of view" as Rick Slager prepares to pitch on the option.
room, Devine had some reflective words: “I’ve been involved in games like this before where a team is favored because of its record, and I
Notre Dame .. Navy .....
Scoring:
N.D. Reeve, 47-yard field goal.
Navy Leszczynski to King, 17 yards (Tata kick).
Navy Klawinski, 1-yard run (Tata kick).
N.D. Slager to Kelleher, 58 yards (Reeve kick).
N.D. Hunter, 5-yard run (Reeve kick).
N.D. Slager to Hunter, 28 yards (Reeve kick).
Navy Thompson, 1-yard (Tata kick).
N.D. Reeve, 24-yard field goal.
think this was a similar situation where we could have been upset.” .. How prophetic those words would turn out to be.	,
21	0
14	0
3 — 27
7 — 21
3
0
February.7, 1977
13
Georgia Tech
The Irish then began what would be their final drive with 14:22 left to play in the contest. Starting on their own 20, Hunter carried three times for four yards, and Joe Restic was called in to punt On the punt, Tech was called for holding, and the Irish had a second chance, i
Georgia Tech is the type of game that usually gets overlooked when a preseason glance is given to the schedule. It was coming late in the season, when the Irish already will have the kinks out of the offense. It was right in front of the Alabama game, and two weeks prior to the annual game with Southern Cal.
But the Georgia Tech game, after the season, would not be overlooked. Notre Dame traveled to Atlanta with a mark of 6-1 while just the V/Cek before, the Irish were ranked 11th in the country. This week was different, however, as Notre Dame fell to an extremely charged-up Tech team 23-14.
"Tech coming into the game was 3-4-1, but got on the scoreboard first. It came just inside the second-quarter mark, with Tech taking the ball 66 yards in 12 plays, before stalling at the N.D. 14. Danny Smith came in and with 11:01 left
on the scoreboard, Tech was up by three.
On the following drive the Irish got on the scoreboard themselves thanks to some fancy passing by Rick Slager. Slager completed three' tosses to Ken MacAfee, and through the running of Al Hunter and Terry Eurick the Irish moved in front by four.
The next time the Irish had the ball, they again went on the board, aided in part by a Tech miscue. Harper Brown, back in punt formation, lost his grip on the ball coming from the snap. Brown then
froze when he looked up and saw Ross Browner and Luther Bradley coming in on him, and was sacked on the Tech 35-yard line by Bradley. . From there it took the Irish just six plays to score. The drive was capped by Hunter’s run over a block by Steve McDaniels with 1:53 left in the half.
Tech countered immediately with the big play being a 46-yard end
by Tom Kruczek
sweep by Drew Hill to the N.D. 18. Hill might have scored on the play had he not run into his own man, guard Bob Curley, who was literally holding off Bradley. On the play, as Curley, Hill and Bradley were sliding out of bounds, Bradley was called for a personal foul, and the
ball was moved to the Irish 8. On the next play Gary Lanier carried it in eight yards for the score, and Tech was down by four at the half.
After an exchange of punts late in the third quarter, Tech again mounted the attack. Taking over from their own 20, back Bo Thomas provided some broken-field running for a 45-yard gain to the Irish 35. From there David Sims and Lanier carried the ball, with Sims putting the ball over with a 10-yard end sweep with 2:59 left, and Georgia Tech was ahead by two.
With 12:15 left, Tom Dornin carried on a left end reverse from Hunter. Ted Horansky was leading the blocking, and appeared to get his head in front of Freeman Colbert. The officials didn’t see it that way, and called Horansky for clipping. After the game, Devine called this play “the biggest play of ,the second half, and maybe of the game.”	, ; \ (
Then, on the next two plays, with a first down and 29 situation set up, N.D. appeared to push the panic button, and tried two long passes to Kelleher. Both fell just over his fingers, and after a draw play to Eurick, the Irish were forced to punt.
It turned out that this drive would be the last major one for the Irish because for the next seven minutes, Tech controlled the ball, marching 66 yards in 15 plays for the final score of the day and the Yellow Jackets had a most impressive win.
Georgia Tech .........................     0	10	6	7 — 23
Notre Dame  ............................   0	14	0	0 — 14
Scoring:	r \
G.T. Smith, 31-yard field goal.
N.D. Hunter, 2-yard run (Reeve kick).
N.D. Hunter, 3-yard run (Reeve kick).
G.T. Lanier, 8-yard run ( Smith kick).
G.T. Sims, 10-yard run (Smith kick wide).
G.T. Sims, 16-yard run (Smith kick).
14
Scholastic
1976
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL STATISTICS
(ELEVEN GAMES)
SCORING BY QUARTERS					PASS RECEIVING						RETURNS					
Notre Dame 		 Opponent 	.		 TEAM STATISTICS Total Offense 		 Total Plays 			 ■ Yards Per Play 	 ‘ Yards Per Game 	 Net Yards Rushing 	 Attempts 	 Yards Per Rush 		 Yards Per Game 		64 7	109 55 :	19 52- 16 51- ND 4001 847 4.7 363.7 2280 609 3.7 207.3	— 274 — 149 OPP 3011 776 3.9 273.7 1324 483 2.7 120.4	Kelleher 	 MacAfee .\	 Hunter 	 Demin 	 McLane 	 Eurick 	 Haines 	 W. Browner ...	G 11 11 11 11 7 10 11 10	PC 24 34 15 5 9 5 3 5	Yds. Avg. 522	21.8 483	14.2 189	12.6 124	24.8 110	12.2 65	13.0 64	21.3 53	10.6	TD L 4 3 1 1 2 1 0 2	ong 58 26 28 70 33 38 35 15	Interceptions Hunter 	 Eurick 	 Harrison 	 Burgmeier ....	2-	42-0 Schmitz 	 Leopold 	 1-	57-1 Waymer 	 1-	24-0 Restic 	 4-	92-0		Punts 4- 1-0 2- 17-0 20-138-0 18-168-0		Kickoffs 12-241-0 10-181-0 1- 28-0	
					Orsini 	 Ferguson 	 Heavens 	 S. Hart 	 Schmitz 			11 8 3 3 11	4 3 2 1 1	47	11.8 27	9.0 22	11.0 9	9.0 6	6.0	0 1 0 0 0	14 17 12 9 6	Becker 	 Banks 	 Christensen .. MacAfee 	 J. Browner ..	1- 0-0 1- 0-0 1- 16-0 2- 0-0 2- 0-0 1- 2-0			3-	34-0
Net Yards Passing 	 Comp. Percentage ....... Attempts 		 Completions 	i... Had Intercepted 	 Touchdown Passes 	 Yards Per Comp	 Yards Per Attempt 	 Yards Per Game 	 Interceptions Made ......... Yards Returned /	;... Punt Return Yards ’.	 Number of Returns 	 Average Return 	 Total Return Yards 		 Kickoff Return Yards 	 Number of Returns 	 Average Return 		 Average Punt 					1721 .466 238 111 17 15 15.5 7.2 156.5 16 233 324 44 7.4 577 541 32 16.9 41.7	1687 .419 291	ND 	 OPP 			11 111 11 122		1721	15.2 1687	13.8	15 7	70 63	Bradley 	 Weiler 	 Orsini 	 Golic 					3- 3-	27-0 30-0
				122 16 7 13.8 5.8 153.4 17 217 165 28 5.9 372 704 42 16.8 36.5	PUNTING Restic 		G . 11	No. 63	Yds.	Avg. Long 2627	41.7	63			ND 	 OPP 		16-233-1 17-217-0	44-324-0 30-163-0		32-541-0 42-704-1	
					ND .	 OPP 			 PASSING Slager 	 Lisch 	 Forystek ........ Hunter 		 Waymer ...... Restic 		 W. Browner ..	.11	63	2627	41.7 . 11	90. 3283	36.5 G No. Comp. Pct. Int. Yds. 10	172	86	.500	12	1281 6	41	16	.390	2	267 3	17	5	.294	2	99 11	1	1	1.000	0	33 10	1	1	1.000	0	33 11	2	1	.500	0	4 10	4	1	.250	1	4				63 62 TD 11 2 - 0 1 0 0 1	DEFENSIVE STATISTICS *™ Heimkreiter 	 118 Dike 	 99 Golic 	   99 R. Browner 	„....	97 Calhoun 	 92 Becker ....	  .	89 J. Browner 		 80 Fry 		   77 Burgmeier 		 54 Restic 		 54		TL-Yds. PBU 1-4	0 8-25	0 6-25	1 28-203 7 12-41	3 1 4-27	2 4-14	3 9-65	1 1-2	3 3-10	3		FR 1 2 0 4 2 0 0 0 1 1	BK 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0
Number of Punts 	 Yards Punting 	 ) Had Blocked 	 Penalties Against 		 Yards Penalized 		 Fumbles (Lost) 			 . Yards Returned 		 Total First Downs 		 by rushing 		 by passing 	.....				 63	90 		  '2627	3283 ..:	 0	2 	  51	47 			598	513 	.29(18)31	(14) ..;...		0	0 		  215	173 „....		126	69 			76	88			ND 	 OPP 		 RUSHING Hunter 	...i; Ferguson ......... Eurick 		 Heavens W. Browner ... Orsini 		 Lisch 		 McLane 	 Knott 			 Dornin 			11 238 1 11	291 1 G TC ..	11	233 8 ‘ 81 ..	10	46 ..	3	54 ..	10	41		11 .466 17 22 .419 16 Yds. Avg. 1058 ' 4.5 350 4.3 230 5.0 204 3.8 170 4.1	1721 1687 TD L 12 2 0 0 0	15 7 ong 64 24 59 12 15	Bradley 	 Harrisonf 		 Zettek 	 Johnson 		 Zappala 	 Banks .;	 Dubenetzky 	 Christensen 	 Eastman 	 Leopold 	 Flynn 				OU 		 26 		21 		20 		18 		16 		14 		13 		12 		10 		9	0-0 3-5 0-0 4-42 0-0 0-0 0-0 1-9 0-0 12	/ 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0	1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
by penalty 	 INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE -	G in		..........	13 LEADERS Plays Yards on**		16 Avg. 5.4 4.7 4.3		..	Il ..	6 ..	7 ..	2 ..	11	J J 37 18 5 5	159 4.8 77 2.1 56 3.1 25 5.0 18 3.6	o : 4 0 0 0	26 21 13 13 24	Weiler 	 Orsini 	 Likovich 				8 ......	7 		7 ......	6 ......	4 		4	0-0 0-0 0-0	0 0 0	0 0 0	0 0 0
Hunter	 Ferguson 			11 8	I 234 81	r | .1091 350		Waymer Forystek 		 Slager 		10 ..	3 .. 10	2 5 49	17 8.5 - 6-1.2 -78-1.6	0 0 2	14 6 13	Waymer 	 Morse 	 Dornin ..:			0-0 0-0 0-0	4 0 0	0 0 0	0 0 0
RESULTS . . . Won 8, Lost 3,		Tied 0			ND 	:		 OPP		 SCORING Hunter 	 Reeve 	 Kelleher 	 Lisch 			 , MacAfee'	 • Ferguson ........ Slager 		 McLane 		 . W. Browner ..	.. 11 .. 11 G .... 11 ....; 11 .... 11 ....	6 .... 11 ....	8 .... 10 ....	7 .... 10	609 483 TD 13 0 4 7-4 3 32 2 2	2280 3.7 1324 2.7 PAT R-PA 0-0 0-0 29-33 0-0 • 0-0 0-h. 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0			Meyer 						4	0-0	0	0	0
ND 10' PITTSBURGH		 23 PURDUE 	 48 at Northwestern 	 24 at Michigan State 	 41 OREGON 		 13 at South Carolina 		 27 at Navy (Cleveland) ... .14 at Georgia Tech 		 21 ALABAMA 				 40 MIAMI 	 13 . at Southern Cal 		 TEAM SCORING	.	.		OPP ..... 31 ..... 0 ..... 0 	 6 ..... 0 	 6 ..... 21 	 23 ..... 18 	 27 	 17	Attendance 59.075(c) 59.075(c) 44.936 77.081 (c) 59.075(c) 56.721 (c) 61.172 50.079 59.075(c) 59.075(c) 76,561 .. ■ Kirx " Ann						20 10 FG 0-0 9-18 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0. 0-0 0-0	64 61 TP 78 56 26 24 18 18 12 12 12	Westonf 	 McLane 	 Eurick 		 Schmitz 	 Martinovich .... Carney 	 Ferguson 	 Kelleher 	 Huffman 	 E. Hughes 	 -McDaniels 	 Woebkenberg .. MacAfee 				3 		3 		3 		3 		2 		2 		2 		2 		2 		2 		 1 	 1 	 1	0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0	0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o	0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 1 0	0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total Points .’	„... Average 				 Touchdowns 		 by rushing 					 . by passing 			 . by return 		 by recovery 		 .Field Goals (Made-Att.) Safeties 		 PAT—Kick 			 PAT—Run 		;	 PAT—Pass 					274 24.9 36	149 13.5 18 10 7 1 0 8-15 0 15-16 1-1 - 0-1	Dornin 		 Leopold ........ Eurick 		.... 11 .... 10 .... 10	. -1 1 1	0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0	0-0 0-0 0-0	6 6 6	Moore 	 Hunter 			 1 	 1	0-0 0-0	0 0	0 1	0 0
			20 15 1 0 9-18 0. 29-33 0-1 1-2		ND 1		 OPP 			.... 11 .... 11	36 18	29-33 0-1 15-16 1-0	9-18 8-15	274 149	Vinson 	 Slager 	 lisch 				 1 		0 		o	0-0 0-0 0-0	0 0 q	0 1 1	0 0 o
					*53 yards vs. 39 yards vs. 47 yards vs. 17 in											
						rmsDurgn -	. Purdue Michigan State : we					ND 	 OPP 			 1138 	 1047	87-497 53-295	37 29	18 22	4 2
						47 & 24 yards vs. Navy 31 & 42 yards vs. Miami						* Includes solos and assists fOut for Season					
February 7,1977
15
Alabama
by Bill Delaney and IrisI1 wound UP n°th-7	7 ing from the drive.
first regular season meeting between ■ A P™„punt °f 20 yardsgave N.D. editor of the Scholastic and editor of the two schools.	great field position on their own 3°,
But it was not the two teams that and ** In^ sc?nng, mach‘ne started to roll again. Al Hunter
Bill Delaney is a former sports
the 1974 and J75 Football Review. He
is currently an MBA student at Notre played in the bowl games that were
Dame.
There was a great deal of apprehension up to the Alabama weekend surrounding the Notre Dame foot-
two teams’ minds, as both had to salvage a season, and each figured that ball team. The loss the previous a win would accomplish that objec-
weekend to Georgia Tech did so tive. Despite the season-opening loss
much for Pepper Rogers and his crew, and little for the Irish cause. The questions surrounding the De-
vine Corporation had resurfaced Alabama also had two losses, and it ?U5 down jesu e _ m a umbe, with the loss to Tech. It would have was only mathematical before the	the ns n0 a^aln or
Tide would lose its traditional their
been a different situation if the Tech had beaten the Irish honestly, but they beat Notre Dame without even throwing the ball. That went out before Rockne.
Alabama represented one of the fiercest opponents Notre Dame ever faced. Armed with two victories by one- and two-point margins in bowl games, the Tide was coming to South Bend to play the Irish in the
Leading the first-half passing assault on Alabama, Dan Kelleher leaps for x^orry about once again.
another completion.
to meet on the chilly field this Saturday. The past excitement of the bowl games was far away from the
to Pitt, the Irish had fashioned a
powerful defense and sporadic of- . x x. ,	. .
fense to come up with a 6-2 record,	end zo^ an aPParcnt
first-place finish in the SEC.
. On the first possession of the game, the Irish marched downfield from their own 24-yard line behind quarterback Rick Slager. Passes to
Ken MacAfee for 18’and 25 yards ?an ^Ueher on the left sideline for ■ moved Notre Dame through the Ala- 56 yards and the ^score.^eeve con-bama Une, something which sparked	on tho extfa Polnt Je
the capacity crowd of 59,075.	Irish now on top by seven with the
. But the drive stalled at the 12 and fir^, sco^e the day’ /
The advantage was soon to mount
record-setter Dave Reeve was called upon to hit the field goal. Unfortunately the kick was wide to the left,
went through left tackle for 36 yards and the first down, bringing the ball into Alabama territory. ' Slager then went to MacAfee for
eight and Hunter for seven and the Irish were at the Tide four-yard line. However, the misfortunes of the past weeks continued to haunt the offense and Steve Orsini’s carry
This wave of inefficiency con-
tinued to plague both sides until the beginning of the next quarter. On the first possession of the second quarter, Slager rolled left and hit
to 14 as Slager again moved Notre Dame downfield with • some excellent playcalling. Passes to Kelleher and MacAfee moved the Irish past midfield, where the explosive running of Vagas Ferguson took over. The freshman back, who had seen little action throughout the season, was a surprise starter at the outset of the contest. In this drive Ferguson’s jaunts of 12; and 13 yards put the . Irish down to the Alabama 17. Hunter took over from there, and on two runs the Irish scored again.
But the bubble of invincibility was soon to burst. On Alabama’s next possession, quarterback Jack O’Rear marched ’Barna downfield behind his rushing, bringing the Tide past midfield. But' the key to . the scoring drive was an interference call on Luther Bradley at the 11-yard line. His interference ;of Ozzie Newsome resulted in a 24-yard gain for the Tide. O’Rear then took over the controls, and, three plays later, . Alabama broke the scoring barrier. The; 77-yard scoring drive took four minutes and 19 seconds,
and gave the Irish something to
But Slager and company put the
18
Scholastic
I
Tide score behind them, and took the offensive again. A 25-yard pass to wingback Tom Dornin quickly gave the Irish fine field position. After a few quick runs, Slager found MacAfee over the middle for 11 yards and a first down. A four-yard burst by Heavens over left tackle gave way to Vagas Ferguson. The freshman broke around right end from the 17 for seven points. This put Notre Dame oh top, 21-7 going into half time.
The third quarter appeared to be a continuation of the previous 30 minutes for the Irish, as they moved consistently' with their first possession of the half. Starting from their own 20, Slager stayed on the ground behind runs by Hunter and Ferguson to move the ball to the Alabama 45. But the drive was soon halted when Slager’s aerial,■ ' intended for Kelleher, was picked off by Tim Krauss, who returned the interception to the Irish 30. But the Tide could not move the ball, so Jack Berrey was called in to attempt a field goal. His kick was true? and Alabama cut the lead to 21-10 with: 4:05 remaining in the third quarter.
Alabama then had the opportunity to score, with its next possession as Rutledge carried the Tide from its own ' 32 behind some
fancy passing to Newsome and Bill Flanagan before the quarter ended. On the first play of the fourth quarter Rutledge found Newsome all alone for 30 yards - and the score. Electing to go for the two-point conversion, Newsome again scored for the Tide, taking a pitchout from Rutledge for the conversion, and a 21-18 score.
It was at this point that many of the fans could sense that impending doom was at hand. Playing a conservative style of football in the second half for the past few games, the Irish had barely come out on top of the contests, and the loss the previous week gave many an uneasy feeling. .
But not this afternoon. Despite Slager’s injury when he was hit , behind the line, the Irish hopes were kept alive by Sophomore Rusty Lisch. He killed enough time on the clock to enable the Tide to gamble for the big play. However, the big play was all Jim Browner’s, as the; big cornerback intercepted Rutledge’s pass in the end zone for the Irish. The sophomore back was
all alone in the left corner when Rutledge put the pass up. Rutledge had failed to see an open receiver on the wide side of the field.
Lisch then took over, and some fine runs through the line ate up valuable moments for the Irish. But the Irish could not continue their
drive and were forced to punt. Alabama began to roll with the possession, as it moved from its own 22 to 47. But the defense took over and Ross Browner dumped Rutledge for
But in the end, the victory left many questions unanswered. How could a team that had lost to a weaker Georgia Tech team come back and play a balanced game
And when you get past the line you meet the linebackers. Bob Golic and Doug Becker combine for the stop.
a four-yard loss. On fourth and nine -from the 43, Rutledge saw his team’s hopes lie on the field as his pass intended for Newsome fell short. Lisch sat on the ball for the last two plays as time finally ran out on the; stadium clock as the Irish found themselves winners, 21-18.
The win was an impressive one for the Irish. The offense was able to move on one of the more threatening defensive lines in the. country. Despite the loss of Slager, Rusty Lisch moved the offense when he
Notre Dame      ........................ 0	21	0	0 — 21
Alabama    ..........................      0	7	3	8 — 18
Scoring:
N.D. Slager to Kelleher, 56 yards (Reeve kick). ;
N.D. Hunter, 2-yard run (Reeve kick).
U.A. O’Rear, 1-yard run (Berrey kick).
N.D. Ferguson, 17-yard run (Reeve kick).
U.A. Berrey, 38-yard field goal.
U.A. Rutledge to Newsome, 30 yards (Newsome ran for two points).
had to, providing a new facet to the quarterback position>— speed. Ferguson proved Devine and his coaching staff to be geniuses with their decision earlier in the week to start the freshman. He finished with a 24-carry, 107-yard performance in the afternoon.
against one of the tougher teams in the country? Why does the conservative style of play continue to surface after the Irish build a comfortable lead? If the Tech game had realized, a favorable outcome, then could the Alabama win perhaps have meant a major bowl invitation? But we’ll never know about that. What , we do know is that Notre Dame swept to its third consecutive triumph oyer Alabama — something that many of the greatest teams cannot brag of.
February 7,1977
19
Miami
Sophomore Joe Restic returns his fourth quarter interception 21 yards to set up a Dave Reeve field goal.
Amid the excitement of bowl
turns. But this ’76 home finale continued an alarming pattern characteristic of this season: a strong first half followed by a second half in which the Irish offense turned conservative, merely content to wait out the game.
Notre Dame’s first points came on a 31-yard field goal by Dave Reeve, ending a drive highlighted by the left end sweeps of Al Hunter, who accounted for 41 yards of offense. It was Miami’s next possession which started the parade of costly fumbles. Miami ■ quarterback E. J. Baker;
.pitched to Johnson for a five-yard gain, but Johnson was jolted by linebacker Doug Becker, freeing the ball. Tackle Mike Calhoun then recovered
. for N.D. at the Miami 25. Dan Devine later, commented that fumbles are either offensive mistakes or the result of defensive aggressiveness, and attributed Miami’s problem to the latter. “We forced them by good defense,” he maintained. The Irish followed the break with a 23-yard pass completion from Lisch to end Dan Kelleher, who placed the ball on the five-yard line. Three plays later, freshman fullback Willard Browner
Kelleher for his second touchdown of the game, with 1:02 left in the first quarter. .	.	.
Following a Miami drive which went nowhere, Steve Schmitz’s 25-yard punt return brought the ball to the 32 of Miami. A personal foul on Hurricane tackle Eddie Edwards advanced the ball to the 11, and Rusty Lisch crossed the goal line on a seven-yard circle around left end as the Irish streaked to a 23-0 lead.
Little more offense was generated in the remainder of the half, as the two teams traded punts and interceptions. Notre Dame played an excellent defensive game, giving the offense numerous opportunities to score. Meanwhile, the Miami offense in the first half was. limited to two yards rushing, while Baker and his replacement, Frank Glover, could only hit on three of 12 passes. This, however, was not an accurate prognosis of what was to happen in the second half. .	.	• . •
The opening kickoff of the second half reinforced the notion that the Irish would continue to roll in a re-lentness rout. Hunter carried it 54
game invitations, Notre Dame de- threw an option pass to Kelleher, yards , until he was stopped at the feated the Miami Hurricanes 40-27, who made a fine catch in the comer Hurricane 30 by John Turner. With aided by turnovers which took the of the end zone.	Hunter and Vagas Ferguson punch-
wind out of a second half Hurricane Miami immediately turned the ball ing the ball down to within the one, resurgence. This game introduced over again on its next possession. Lisch snuck it in to increase the
Rusty Lisch as the new Irish quar-	Baker completed a 14-yard pass to	lead to 30-0 with only 2:33 elapsed
terback, who was filling in for the	.Adams, who was struck down by	in the third quarter. This	was also
injured Rick Slager. And Lisch per-	Ted Burgmeier. The ball was	the first touchdown scored	by Notre
formed credibly, probably estab-	loosened, and Steve Heimkreiter re-
lishing himself as the quarterback covered at the Hurricane 40. The
of the future.
< offense took over and promptly
Several records also added sig- moved down to the 27, where a hold-nificance to the contest. Junior half-, ing penalty pulled them back to the back Al Hunter set two single-season 42. From here, Lisch connected with marks as he became the most prolific rusher in Notre Dame history on the most carries. The former broke Marchy Schwartz’s 1930 mark of 927-yards, while the latter shattered the more recent record of Wayne Bullock, who carried the ball 203 times in 1974. Hunter finished the game with a total of 943 on 212 carries, with one game remaining in which to become N.D.’s first 1,000-yard runner. Miami’s 45 pass attempts was the third record, equaling the number thrown by Navy earlier this year setting a new single < season record.
Dame in the second half, since the Oregon game on October 16, five games previous. But the ensuing kickoff triggered the Hurricane comeback which brought them to within ten points of the Irish, 30-20.
The game was decided for Notre R	,
Dame by a combination of Miami Dodging and darting, Al Hunter.broke Marchy Schwartz's season rushing
turnovers and opportune kick re- mark against the Hurricanes.
20
. Scholastic
Moving toward the Irish goal, Miami finds the inside yardage tough
Tim Morgan fumbled the ball, got control, eluded three defenders and raced up the sideline to complete a 93-yard return for a touchdown. Miami Coach Selmer said, “Timmy (Morgan) turned it around for us.” Devine concurred, saying that the “kickoff return got them back into the game. I’ve seen that type of return before.”
j Plus, the N.D. offense did very little the rest of the game. Almost totally disdaining the pass, only four were attempted and one completed (an impressive 22-yard snare by MacAfee of a pass from Lisch) as the Irish were content to run the ball at the Hurricanes* defense, which was waiting for each thrust. Of a total of seven punts, five occurred in the second half. But the Irish did manage two fourth-quarter insurance scores, again both follow-irig Miami mistakes. Dave Reeve kicked his second field goal after Joe Restic’s interception and 21-yard return, plus a pass interference call moved the ball within field goal range. Eight minutes later, QB Frank Glover was hit by Ross Browner and Calhoun while attempting to pass. The fumbled ball was finally captured by Ken Dike at Miami’s 14-yard line. It took the Irish only one play to score, as Al Hunter once again victimized the right side of the Miami defense, upping the score to 40-20 with only 2:13 left in the game.
Miami, on the other hand, was able to put together an offense for the final 30 minutes. Despite the :
continual harassment by Notre Dame’s defensive ends, of whom Ross Browner recorded four sacks for 50 yards in losses and Tony Zappala (replacing the injured Willie Fry) for 33, a triad of Hurricane quarterbacks ripped the Irish defensive backfield. They completed 17 of 33 passes for 202 yards, finding strong safety Jim Browner particularly vulnerable. Near the end of the half, Luther Bradley found himself at that safety spot, while freshman Dave Waymer took over at cornerback, to no avail. The Hurricanes scored a second touchdown in the third quarter on a one-yard pass from Baker to Charlie Claud. Another drive begun at the end of the quarter resulted in another score, as E. J. Baker threw another short pass to Woody Bennett in the end zone. The muffed two-* point-conversion kept the deficit at ten points. The two Notre Dame
Notre Dame	.................. 17	6	7	10 — 40
Miami .........................        0	0	14	13 — 27
Scoring:
N.D. Reeve, 31-yard field goal.
N.D. W. Browner to Kelleher, 4 yards (Reeve kick).
N.D. Lisch to Kelleher, 42 yards (Reeve kick).
N.D. Lisch, 7-yard run (Reeve kick wide).
N.D. Lisch, 1-yard run (Reeve kick).	.
U.M. Morgan, 93-yard kickoff return (Dennis kick).
U.M. Baker to Claud, 1 yard (Dennis kick).
U.M. Baker to Bennett, 3 yards (Two-point conversion failed).
N.D. Reeve, 42-yard field goal.
N.D. Hunter, 13-yard run (Reeve kick).
U.M. Mason to Tokarski, 9 yards (Dennis kick).
scores then followed, but Miami constructed one last scoring drive which covered 80 yards in 13 plays. New quarterback George Mason directed it as all 13 plays were pass attempts. Mason finally hit receiver Tokarski on a nine-yard pass with only seconds to play. Notre Dame then ran out the clock with a final score.of 40-27.	\	'
The victory earned Notre Dame an invitation to the Gator Bowl which was extended at the game’s conclusion. Dan Devine commented, “I want to do whatever the team wants to do because they have worked so hard. The team has voted to go to a bowl game.” The consensus among the team indicated that the issue of a major or minor bowl was not important. There was just a desire not to repeat last year’s decision to reject any bids and the opportunity to represent Notre Dame in postseason play.
February 7, 1977
21
Southern California
by Tom Kruczek
Last year, following the Southern Cal game at Notre Dame, Dan Devine drew the football team ’round in the locker room. He promised those on the team who would not be graduating that in the three years they had left at the University, they would not lose to Southern Cal. Dan Devine nearly kept that promise this year.
It’s always tough to lose a game when you outplay the opposition, and this year the Irish did outplay the Trojans. Unfortunately they also out-errored the California team and in the end that was the downfall in a 17-13 loss to USC.
After the game was ’ over, it was not the errors that were on the minds of the team and coaches, but rather the errors that might have been made by the officials. After the game, a shaken Devine dropped his usual noncommittal attitude toward officiating breaks. Or he sort of did.
“I’d like to comment (on the officiating) but I don’t think I should. It’s one of the hardest things I have to do, to hold inside my feelings, and one of the toughest things I have to do in life. When a team fights its guts out, then the officials should fight their guts out too and should be right a hell, of a lot more times on calls than they are wrong.”
The calls in question both occurred in the fourth quarter and the player in question on both occasions was Luther Bradley. The first came
on S.C.’s second possession of the final quarter on a third down and four from the Trojan 26. Bradley was called for pushing off at the Irish 49 on flanker Sheldon Diggs and Southern Cal had excellent field position. Six plays later the drive concluded with Glen Walker’s 46-yard field goal.
The next time that the Trojans had the ball ‘ the flag went down again, and once more Bradley was the guilty party. This time it went down next to the Irish bench, with the official making the call from a location yards away, and to the back of Bradley. On the play, Dave Way-mer intercepted the pass, so the interception was negated by the penalty.
After the game Bradley had little to say about the interference calls. “In my opinion those plays weren’t interference on my part, although I’m sure that the officials were doing the best they could.”
The first quarter was a standoff,
Southern California  ..................    0	7	7	3 — 17/
Notre Dame ...........................     0	O ' 0	13 — 13
Scoring:	r
S.C. Hertel to Diggs, 6 yards (Walker kick).
S.C. Evans to Simmerin, 63 yards (Walker kick). _
N.D. Lisch to Ferguson, 17 yards (Reeve kick).
S.C. Walker, 46-yard field goal.	;	:
N.D. Usch, 1-yard run (Two-point conversion fails).
with the Irish spending most of the time deep in their own territory. The deepest penetration they could muster was to the Trojan 32. Of course one of the reasons for the offensive difficulties was that Notre Dame began their drives deep in their own territory. The first three drives began on the N.D. 16, 13 and 38.	.
The second quarter brought little change. Rick Slager, coming off a shoulder bruise suffered two games earlier, was the starting quarterback. Midway through the second quarter Slager was taken out in favor of Rusty Usch; Devine related that Slager, who completed three of seven passes with one interception for 32 yards, was taken out because of a re-injury to his ailing shoulder.
The best drive for Notre Dame came in the closing moments of the half. Taking over from their own 22, on the running of Al Hunter and Vagas Ferguson, the Irish were able to move downfield. The big play of
Sophomore quarterback Rusty Lisch sprints upfield against Southern Cal.
22
Scholastic
This play fails to gain as Scott Zette combine on the tackle.
the drive came on a dazzling run by Rusty Lisch on a roll-out left. The play covered 19 yards and the Irish were now at the S.C. 41. Three straight left-side carries by Ferguson left a fourth and one situa- . tion. Hunter got the fourth down call and was stopped by cornerback Mike Bums behind the line for a
yard loss, and the drive was stifled. Taking over on their own 33, S.C. promptly, drove up the field; eight plays later the Trojans were on the Irish 6-yard line. Two plays later Rob Hertel, replacing starter Vince Evans at quarterback, found Diggs covered tightly by Ted Burgmeier. Hertel fired anyway into the right comer of the end zone, and Diggs pulled it in for the touchdown. The half ended that way with the Trojans on top 7-0.
Southern Cal then jumped on the Irish again 1:30 into the second half. The key play occurred witty Evans. back at the helm. While under pressure, the senior quarterback hit Randy Simmrin who took the' ball 63 yards in for the score. Walker/added the point after and the Trojans held a 14-point margin.
It lasted that way until four plays or 54 seconds had elapsed .in the final quarter? This time it was Notre Dame’s turn to go on the board, with Rusty Lisch the key man involved. Taking over on the N.D. 32 following a 23-yard punt by Walker, Lisch moved the ball in one play to the S.C. 33. The play was a six-yard pass to wide receiver Kris Haines who then took it 29
yards on his own before being inevitable.
k, Pete Johnson, and Ross Browner
brought down. On the next play, Dan Kelleher was on the receiving end of a pass by Lisch, who picked up 16 yards to the Trojan 17. Lisch then ended the drive by finding Vagas Ferguson open just past the line, who then carried it in for the score. After Dave Reeve’s conversion, the Irish were down by seven with
nearly an entire quarter to play.
The Trojans and Irish then traded punts before Bradley incurred his second pass interference penalty of the game, this one leading to a Southern Cal field goal. Ricky Bell was used comparatively little in this drive, as well as through most of the game. Bell, a Heisman Trophy candidate who needed a big game against Notre Dame to make a seri
Finding the opening against the Trojans, Dan Kelleher prepares for the
ous contention for the Trophy, carried 21 times for 75 yards, being used at the fullback spot instead of his usual tailback position. Bell was used at fullback in place of Vic Jackson who injured his knee early in the contest. ,
The Irish, now feeling the pressure of being down by ten points with just over seven minutes to play, took to the air repeatedly. In the next 20 plays, the Irish quarterback put the ball in the air 11 times, completing four and having one intercepted. These weren’t impressive statistics although Lisch’s performance under the rush applied by the S.C. line was commendable. The sophomore never lost his poise through the entire afternoon, even though in the closing stages of the game the Trojans led by Gary Jeter and Walt Underwood were rushing hard on the pass every play.
With 1:33 left to play, the Irish began their final drive of the game from their own 24. Lisch connected on passes to Ken MacAfee and Kelleher, then scrambled for nine more yards to take the ball to the 44 of S.C. with just over a minute left. Two plays later Lisch carried again, this time around the right side for eight more yards with 50 seconds left. Two plays later Haines worked his way clear in the end zone, but as
the pass was on its way, Haines was interfered with, and the Irish had first down on the one. With 30 seconds left, Hunter was stopped cold.. Lisch was then foiled through the air and on the ground, before sneaking over Ernie Hughes two plays later for the score. After a missed two-point conversion and with just the kickoff left, S.C. had its 18th win in the 48-game series.	.
February 7,1977
23
Perspective
Not Just Another Game Story
by Bob Piller
Sportswriting is often a difficult and tedious undertaking. A mass of statisticsj plays and quotes must .be assembled and coordinated in a story which, for the most part, should avoid a myriad of cliches. After so many games have been played and after so many stories have been written, it dll becomes rather sterile.
In 192% Grantland Rice wrote one of the more memorable sports stories, using mythical illusion and natural analogy which embellished the story and lent to it an almost literary quality. So, using this article as a
model, here is an attempt to reintroduce flair, as Rice did, into sports
writing.	vine rushed his Four Horsemen to strong arm of a Francisco Franco,
Outlined against a blue, blue No- the track and they exhibited the provided the navigational expertise vember sky, the four horsemen rode potency of Secretariat. The Trojans of the chief officer of the Argo
again. In contemporary lore they are known as Cancer, high-blood pressure, Coronary Infarction, and swine flu. These are only aliases. Their real names are Slager, Hunter, MacAfee . and : Flatulence. . They formed the trough of a South Bend cyclone before which another Southern Cal football team was almost swept over the precipice of the Los Angeles Coliseum, as 93,000 spectators peered down on the bewildering panorama spread on the green plain below. And no one can deny, the USC cheerleaders were breath
taking.
A cyclone can’t be snared. It may be surrounded, but somewhere it breaks through to keep on going, usually in the wrong direction. When the cyclone starts from Notre Dame, where the candlelights still gleam through the Indiana sycamores (some things never change), it usualy fizzles out by the time it reaches the sun-washed valleys in which lies the city of angels. The cyclone struck again, as Notre Dame lost to USC 17-13, with a set of back-field stars that ripped and crashed through a strong Southern Cal de^ f ense, which ripped and crashed right back.
24
Notre Dame lost its 18th game in . Tatupu, who didn’t play, but who has 45 USC starts through the driving given many throughout the nation power of one of its greatest back- the courage to accept their names, fields that ever churned up the turf But USC had no great quartet who of any gridiron and the stomach of seemed able to carry the mixed blood any fan in any football age. Brilliant of the tiger, the antelope and the
backfields may come and go, but dull ones seem to stay. In Slager, Hunter, Dornin and Ferguson, covered by a fast and charging line, Notre Dame can take its place in front of the field. .
Coach Robinson sent one of his finest teams into action, since it was his only team, an aggressive organization that fought to the last play around the rim of darkness. But De-
had their share of stars in action, such stars as Bell, Evans, Diggs, Jeter, Simmrin, Watson, Crick and many others, but they were up against four whirlwind backs who picked up at top speed from the first step as they swept through scant openings to step out of the parking lot and into the stadium. The Trojans had great backs in Bell and White, and a great name in Mosi
aardvark.
The first quarter produced little of the football magic which has made this game the popular and maniacal pastime that it is. It matched many a Super Bowl in excitement. Notre Dame, with its back against the wall, fought like a cornered animal. That animal, however, was the gerbil. The
second quarter witnessed little improvement. Slager, ruling with the
of the chief officer of the Argo
Merchant.
Devine then optioned fori Rusty Lisch to take the helm in the search for the great white whale. In this man lies the rising sun of Notre Dame football fortune, and he led the Irish on their best drive of the day. Al Hunter and Vagas Ferguson blasted a path from their own 22, and Lisch provided the spectacular; with a 19-yard run which showed signs of
Scholastic
lightning and thunder. Three frantic efforts by the fleet and powerful Ferguson furnished the Irish with a fourth and one, but the USC defense stymied the following critical plunge. Hunter was repulsed for a yard loss, forcing the Midwesterners to relinquish the offensive.
This spark fostered a Trojan fury, and they found themselves six yards from placing the Midwesterners in a 7-0 deficit. Quarterback Rob Hertel, replacing the equanimiously ineffective Evans, was the man who first climbed down from the Trojan horse to stun the Irish. A A well-placed spiral met flanker Shelton Diggs in the corner of : the end zone, and the
Outlined against
a blue-gray
October sky, the

Four Horsemen
rode again
In dramatic lore
they art known
as Famine
Pestilence, pestruction
and Death; These
are only aliases
by the Midwesterners* belligerent Ross Browner, released a lance before succumbing to the violent seductions of the ubiquitous defensive stalwart. An awaiting Randy Simm-rin finding himself behind a defense spellbound by the sacred gift completed the 63-yard play. Thus, although besieged with the confines of their own high-walled fortress, the Trojans were walking hand in-hand with Fortune and were fighting on to victory with a 14-0 lead.
But the men of the lake were not to be denied. Entering the final, and eminently decisive quarter, the Irish again made a game of it. Striking quickly, Lisch, in conjunction with Haines and Kelleher, gave hope to the despairing Irishmen. Notre Dame found itself poised at the Trojan 17. A short pass to Ferguson, who slipped precariously, but recovered in remarkable fashion, deftly cut to the left and outraced an overplayed defense to the gates of Troy. But hope may be a cruel expectation as well as an anxious awaiting of a blessed event. The Fates were to plague the Irish with gross misfortune. A pass interference penalty reminded everyone concerned of the presence to a force beyond the control of any mortal actor or mentor. The penalty was to haunt the Midwesterners, as the subsequent Trojan field goal created an even larger increment to be overcome.
The Irish attempted to regenerate that cyclone, going to the air 11 of 20 occasions. The results were not sufficient to alter that which had become destiny. And the spectators knew that the once defiant will of the visitors had been extirpated.
" "A Cyclone Can't
, A
be surrounded,:but
somewhereitbreaks
?	through to: keep on
■	- cyclone s	f rom g-:; / ■ ’
‘ South Bend, where the - Z ?
^7^ >
< gleam th rough the
^Indiana
inthewaymust
The Trojan horse loomed ever larger, and the once expected sack of Troy turned into a dignified attempt to exuent from the field. The stoic USC defense sustained that which had become imminent. A last-second score lessened the scoring hiatus, but the cyclone from South Bend measured to be about as great as the mountains of its northern Indiana locale.	.
half ended with the men of Troy protecting their hard-earned advantage.	:
. The men of the sun struck again early in the second half, as the sun god fought through the sea of chaos to re-emerge as the victor on yet another play. The ploy was simple and . time-worn. The Trojan horse was again unattended, seemingly an object; for the invading foes to capture and to hold as the ultimate prize—a reward left by .the gods for a job well done. .	.
. But the gods ; play with their human toys, and perfidy rules as history does repeat itself. A beleaguered Evans, ostensibly the prize ensnared
FadiIty or StudehtReps
Sell Summer
TOurOlllii
SLOWEST possible airfares: ^
LOWEST possible rail fares1
LOWEST possible accommodation rate's? / HIGHEST possible commissions! : ? to EUROPE

' Cal I tbi I free (800) 225-4580/Ask for Dom Messina .|£or write/HduDAIR.STUDENTTbUR^
y: 1505 Comm onweal th Ave.,Boston,MA 021357A >; 1';	\
February 7,1977
25
Gator Bowl
by Paul Stevenson
The Notre Dame football team travelled to Jacksonville, Florida, to participate in the 32nd annual Gator Bowl Classic, their first postseason appearance under Head Coach Dan Devine. The Fighting Irish downed Penn State in the contest 20-9 to in
crease their record in bowl competition to 5-2.
from his own end zone to the Penn State 35-yard line. The Notre Dame
Penn State fullback Matt Suhey finds himself victimized by an Irish gang tackle.	f
This was the fifth matchup be- offense drove the ball the remaining tween the two schools, with the Irish 35 yards to paydirt, to capture a lead holding a 3-0-1 lead in the series they were not to relinquish in the which saw its last confrontation in battle.
1928. Notre Dame entered the classic The key play in the scoring drive with a season mark of 8-3, while the came with 3:47 left in, the first Nittany Lions compiled an overall ’ quarter as the Irish were faced with record of 7-4.	a fourth and one at the Penn State
Penn State was first to reach .the 16-yard line. Junior halfback Al scoreboard on a cold December 27th Hunter swept off-tackle for five yards evening in northern Florida. The to give the Irish a first down on the Lions held Notre Dame to a meager Lions 11-yard line. Two plays later seven yards on their first possession with a first and goal at the Penn following the opening kickoff. State State one-yard line, Hunter scam-then took the ball from their own pered around left end for the first 35-yard line to the Irish ten . before Irish tally.
stalling. Faced with a fourth down The Lions were unable to move the
and three, Tony Capozzoli came on to boot a 25-yard field goal to cap the 12-play drive and give the Nittany Lions what was to be their only lead of the ball game..
On the ensuing kickoff, Terry Eurick returned the Matt Bahr kick
ball on their next series of downs and were forced to punt The Irish took control in excellent field position on their own 42-yard line. Seven plays later on the State 26-yard stripe, Notre Dame quarterback Rick Slager hit All-American tight end Ken MacAfee for 17 yards and a first down on the Penn State nine-yard line. . ..	.	:
The Irish seemed ready to score again, but then the offense began to sputter. Slager hit fullback Steve Orsini with a four-yard toss and then handed off to Hunter for an additional three yards. With a third and goal at the State two-yard mark, freshman fullback Vagas Ferguson was stopped for no gain. On fourth down, Slager overthrew MacAfee in the end zone and the Irish had to surrender the football to the Nittany Lions.
The Penn State defense had held, and left their offense trailing by only four points instead of a possible 11. However, the Lions’ fortunes soon faded as they returned the ball to Notre Dame. Four plays after taking possession of the football, Lion quarterback Chuck Fusina hit wide receiver Mike Guman with a two-yard strike. Guman was hit immediately by Irish linebacker . Steve Heimkreiter and fumbled the ball into the hands of Notre Dame defensive halfback Jim Browner on the 23-yard line.	;
Notre Dame marched from the Lion 23 to the five before the offense stalled again. Dave Reeve was called upon to kick a 23-yard field goal. Reeve’s attempt was successful, as the Irish extended their lead to 10-3.
Once again, the Lions were unable to move the ball with any consistency during their next series of downs. Notre Dame regained control of the football and took advantage of their possession. The drive which began on the Irish 49-yard line ended with
26
Scholastic
Hunter’s off-tackle dive on third and goal on the Penn State one. Reeve added the point sifter, and the score now read 17-3.
The final Irish tally came with only seconds left in the first half. After a poor 22-yard punt by the Lions and an interference call on State, Notre Dame had excellent field position on the Penn State 32 with only 17 seconds remaining; before intermission.
Slager found senior wide receiver Dan Kelleher open, and connected for a 26-yard strike.' Following an incomplete Slager pass, Reeve came on to give the Irish a 17-point lead as the half came to a close.
In the first two quarters, the Irish led Penn State in first downs with an 11 to five advantage. Notre Dame also commanded total yardage with a 191-86 edge.
The Fighting /Trish looked as though they could score when they desired. Notre Dame outplayed the Nittany Lions by an overwhelming margin in the first half. Although the Irish went on to win . the 32nd annual classic, their performance in the final quarters was not quite as . phenomenal as they allowed Penn State to narrow the gap in final statistics. .
The second half was reminiscent of many of the Irish clashes throughout their 1976 campaign. Notre Dame was unable to put any points on the scoreboard, counting on the tenacious defense to turn back any Lion threats.
Penn State began to move the ball with considerable consistency during the second half totaling 11 first downs and an offensive output of 188 yards. Notre Dame, on the other hand, in the second half was only able to add six first downs and 82 yards total offense.
Although the Lions were able to move the ball in the final two quarters, they could only reach the goal line once. Two Penn State threats were thwarted by Irish interceptions. With 9:14 left in the classic, the only Lion touchdown of the contest was set up. Linebacker, Bruce Clark broke through the Notre Dame specialty team line and blocked a Joe Restic punt, which gave the Lions a first and goal on the Irish eight-yard line. Two plays later, Fusina connected with fullback Matt Suhey for six. Fullback Bob Torrey was stopped for no gain on his two-
■'1
Steve Orsini (plus towel) prepares to take on the Nittany Lions.
point conversion attempt and the score remained 20-9.
State began to drive again with 6:53 remaining in the game. The Lions were on the Notre Dame 17-yard line and were presented with a second .and one. Fusina’s pass was intercepted by Irish defender Ted Burgmeier at the three, who returned the ball 32 yards to the Notre Dame
Notre Dame............................   7	13	0	0 —20
Penn State..............................     3	0	0	6 —9
Scoring:
P.S. Capozzoli, 26-yard field goal.
N.D. Hunter, 1-yard run (Reeve kick).
, N.D. Reeve, 23-yard field goal.
N.D. Hunter, 1-yard run (Reeve kick).
N.D. Reeve, 23-yard field goal.
• P.S. Fusina to Suhey, 8 yards (two-point run failed).
35. From there the Irish ran out the clock to enjoy their fifth bowl victory in seven attempts.
Statistics that leaned so heavily toward the Irish in the first half were evened out by Penn State after intermission. Notre Dame led in first downs 17-16, while the Nittany Lions had a one-yard advantage in total offense 274-273.
The game may not have been played for the National Championship, but the game did have some significance. Irish mentor Dan Devine summed up the situation best,, saying, “It was good to finish with a win and it makes for a good start for next season.”
Following the Gator Bowl, Dan Devine announced two coaching changes for the coming season. Neither change affected the group of coaches, as both of the changes were primarily administrative in nature.
Mervin Johnson was promoted to the post of assistant head football coach. He will, in the newly-created position, be able to make major decisions in the absence of the head coach. The only time, however, that the head coach would be out of town for periods of time is during recruiting, so the decisions that Johnson might have to make could relate largely to administrative concerns. Johnson will retain his role as offensive coordinator and will continue to call the offensive plays.
On the defensive side, Joe Yonto was named as defensive coordinator. According to Yonto, the move is largely organizational, “but it does mean a lot to me personally.” The Irish have not had a defensive coordinator, and the move will, according to Yonto, “bind the defense up and make decision-making a bit easier.”
February 7,1977
Jacksonville: A Nice Place to Visit, But. . .
by Burt Brunner
“Jacksonville has been an excellent training site. The food has been the best of any bowl Pye been to and we’ve had a good time with no incidents.”
This comment by Coach Dan Devine on the eve of the 32nd Gator Bowl reflects the attitude of the Notre Dame squad following its first trip to Jacksonville. The 40° temperature wasn’t exactly Orange Bowl weather, and there wasn’t any French Quarter, but the attendance of 67,827 did outdraw the Cotton Bowl by 9,000 fans. More importantly, the coaches and their charges enjoyed themselves during the stay. Winning the game didn’t hurt, either.
Much of the credit for the trip belongs to Joseph O’Brien, business manager of athletics. It was his job to assemble the itinerary based on the wishes of Coach Devine and to supervise its usage through Dan Buck and his staff of five head managers. This required a separate office for Mr. O’Brien and one for the managers at the team’s headquarters. Each player received an eight-page itinerary before the trip which was updated six times during the stay.
Notre Dame will receive approximately $300,000 for its participation in the Gator Bowl. This amount consists mainly of television rights paid by ABC to the Gator Bowl Association under their contract. ABC will make a sizeable profit on this game considering the viewing audience. Yet the Irish would have received substantially more from the television network for a national, regular
season game. The rest of the money comes from gate receipts, radio rights and other minimal activities. All expenditures the Irish had will come from the $300,000 amount with the net profit not expected to be anywhere near the sums received from prior “major” bowl games.
. The bowl receipt is placed into Endowment C for use by various academic departments. This net profit figure can be found on University financial statements, but an itemized list of expenses is not released. As an
example to what a school would spend on a bowl trip, the University ' of Florida spent over $130,000 this ( year for its official party’s trip to the 1/ Sun Bowl.	b
The list of expenses for a bowl *
game covers many major items. Meals for the squad, spending money, hotel rooms and transportation are just a few. A stretched DC-8 for transportation, for example, costs about $23,000 to charter for the trip. The marching band’s expenses also come out of the $300,000 figure. Over 150 band members flew from South Bend on Tuesday, December 21, and stayed at the Jacksonville Beach Sheraton till Wednesday, December 29. Each band member received $12 per day ($84 total) to cover all meals and incidental expenses. The group’s itinerary featured several concerts and, believe it or not, a few twice-a-day practices.1
The rest of the Notre Dame entourage totaled 203 people broken down as follows: official party-101, traveling squad-87, players’ wives and children-6, managers and train-ers-9. The official party consisted of the coaches, their wives and children, team doctors and their families, University officials (Moose Krause, Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., and Roger Valdiserri among others), and various other athletic employees. The majority of this group was to leave South Bend on December 21, but due to bad weather left from O’Hare Field in Chicago. The party was lodged at the Turtle Inn on Atlantic Beach, occupying five floors of this hotel. This family-owned hotel was described by Mr. O’Brien as one of the “best on the beach” and its accompanying restaurant as possibly “the best restaurant in Jacksonville.” Penn State also wanted to stay at the
ready to play. Everything was just right. We had an excellent time.”
Turtle Inn but the Irish had already reserved the hotel.
Each player on the traveling squad received a check in the amount of $262.00 covering transportation, meals and incidentals, according to NCAA rules. The majority of this amount (approximately $100) represented the cash equivalent cost of a plane trip from the game site to the campus following the game. The players were allowed to either fly back to South Bend on the chartered team plane or fly to their homes using the money from above. All meals were not provided for the full squad and a portion of this money was allotted for that purpose. The NCAA also allows $5.00 per day (for a period not to exceed ten days) for out-of-pocket, unitemized expenses.
The team itinerary scheduled daily workouts at Bishop Kenny High School in Jacksonville with either free time or a planned activity filling in the rest of the day. Among these activities were visits to Marineland and St. Augustine, a night at the dog races and a tour , of the USS Saratoga. Several players rented cars during the stay and visited: Disney-world on the Tuesday following the game. A Christmas Eve Mass at St. Paul’s Church was also arranged with the Notre Dame Marching Band providing the music for the liturgy and carols.
Put all of these practices, activities, plans, dollar amounts, and the game together and you have the Notre Dame Gator Bowl, 1976. Perhaps Elton Moore summed it up best: “We weren’t bverpracticed, but were
28
Scholastic
Pittsburgh	31	’ , Notre Dame	10
Notre Dame	.	23	Purdue	0
Notre Dame	•	48	; , . Northwestern	0
Notre Dame	' : -24 '	Michigan State	6
Notre Dame	41	. Oregon	0
Notre Dame	13	. , < South Carolina	6
Notre Dame	:	27	>	.	Navy	21
Georgia Tech	23	Notre Dame	14
Notre Dame	21	Alabama	18
Notre Dame ■	40	Miami	27
Southern Cal	17	Notre Dame	13
Notre Dame	20	Penn State	9
February 7,1977	29
Although rarely seen, sportswriters influence a team's image for a large number of readers.
After 9-3, and 12th in Both Polls: The Experts Reflect
by Rosemary Mills
The preseason outlook was not as good.as it usually-is for the Irish, A season-opening loss to Pittsburgh and injuries did not brighten the picture. During the next ten games the Irish surprised themselves with tal-• ent from unexpected sources.
Joe Doyle, the sportswriter who covers the Notre Dame football games for the South Bend Tribune, feels that the Irish had an outstanding season. He noted that it was a young team which did not have the; total maturity of other teams. Doyle cited Ross Browner and Ken Mac-Afee as the veteran leaders on the team responsible for some of the Irish success.
Particular games of interest, according to Doyle, were those against Alabama and South Carolina. The first half of the Alabama game was the best display of both offense and defense according to Doyle. During the game against South Carolina, the Irish showed a consistent, steady defense.
A Notre Dame alumnus, Dave Condon, now writes for the Chicago Tribune. Condon also noted that for a young team Notre Dame had an outstanding season. In his opinion, if the Irish had played Pitt at the regularly scheduled time, it would have
been a victory for the Irish. N.D.’s other losses, those to Georgia Tech and USC, did not dampen Condon’s enthusiasm about the season in general.
The loss to Georgia Tech he analyzed as being the outcome of Tech’s psyche. They knew that a defeat of the Irish would take the edge off their expected victory over Alabama. Another factor which influenced the loss was the fact that it was Home-coming weekend for Tech.
Even though the Irish lost to USC, Condon called it a fine game. In his opinion, it was the best job of coaching that Dan Devine ever did.
Perhaps the most disappointing game this season was the poor victory the Irish managed against Navy. Condon attributed Navy’s success in that game to their eagerness to play N.D. .
Adding his thoughts on the N.D. season, Ed Sanesbury of United Press International declared that the Irish did much better than expected from the preseason outlook. With Al Hunter the only veteran back, Sanesbury cited Vagas Ferguson and Willard Browner for the tremendous jobs they did. As freshmen, he stated, they were very important.
, Although it’s difficult to gauge exactly how a team will be ten years in advance, when the schedules are drawn up, the Irish' opponents didn’t fare too badly on the season for the 1976 year. i/	Y/j
All totaled,- Notre Dame opponent; records came to a respectable 63-59-2. That figure is slightly inflated, however, thanks to the perfect record of Pittsburgh and the near perfect mark of Southern Cal. Besides those two schools, South Carolina and Alabama ’ also”were over the .500 mark;on the season while the other seven schools' the Irish faced during the regular i season finished below the halfway! mark., >	.
Listed below are the records of the; ; 11 teams.
Pittsburgh .....„.:......:..........12-	0
Purdue ............2.5-	6
Northwestern .1.:....... .......	1-10 i
Michigan State	..	4-	6-1
Oregon	4-	7
lSouth Carolina	....6-	5	J
■Navy -	12.:..:..........^.4-	7	■ 2
Georgia Tech ..............21...	4- 6-1
Alabama	9- 3
Miami	8
Southern Cal	1/'
30
Scholastic
The chief job of the Irish, Sanes-bury thought, was to “overcome key injuries,” such as those of Jerome
Heavens and Jeff Weston. He added that the Irish were aided by Ross Browner and MacAfee who had their usual good years.
Paul Hornung, commentator from the Notre Dame highlights show, considered every factor of the season, and asserted that Notre Dame did a fine job. The bid to the Gator Bowl was the climax to a successful season. Although all teams expect injuries, he noted that N.D. was hit harder in key positions this year. Especially helpful in overcoming these injuries, Hornung thought, were Rusty Usch and Vagas Ferguson.
All of these writers were in agreement that next season might be the one to look for. With senior quarterback Rick Slager graduating, Joe Montana was expected to take over his position. According to Condon, Doyle and Sanesbury, Rusty Usch is coming into his own. He may be a contender for the quarterback slot. This was even more evident after his impressive appearance in the game against USC.
One factor that might make for a better season is a considerably easier schedule. Opening against Mississippi will have much less pressure on the team than the Pitt game did. In 1977, the three service academies will not pose as much competition as other schools might have. While Army, Air Force and Navy may have good teams, it is the opinion of Joe Doyle that the academies do not compete on the same lever of football as other major schools do. .
. Paul Hornung agrees on the possibility of another outstanding season. He sees Hunter, MacAfee and Browner as the nucleus of the team and
looks to them for leadership. Hornung also sees Hunter and MacAfee as potential candidates for the Heisman trophy.
While he did not mention any Heisman candidates, Dave Condon looks to Heavens and Ferguson as being two of the great backs of the country next year. Condon mentioned the strong possibility of a national championship, “if all goes well.” With other potential championship teams coming from USC and Alabama, it is possible that a team may become champions with one or two defeats.
Although the final won-lost record for the Irish has not greatly improved, all four writers agree that
Devine is making an adjustment to N.D. This pertains not only to his coaching succession to Ara Par-seghian, and other greats, but to the Notre Dame community as a whole.
The pressure on a Notre Dame coach is more than that at any other school. According to Joe Doyle, no one coming to N.D. knows how much the sport of football means to the school. An Irish coach must not only have a good relationship with the team, but with the whole student
body. He must know the people and how they react.
By the observations of Condon, Devine is a much calmer man this year as compared to last year. Anyone analyzing him must bear in mind that Devine has always had the difficult .task of following legends. He was awed by the enormity of the Notre Dame coaching job according to the Chicago writer.
Condon summarized Devine’s position as comparable to that of a woman’s second husband. If her first hus
band is no good, her second husband will be great no matter what he does. If, by some chance, her first husband was great, no matter how hard the second one tries, he will never be any good.
< Next year, the Irish football team will have three co-captains, two coming from the defensive side and one representing the offense. Named at the football banquet of December 8, ends Ross, Browner and Willie Fry are the defensive captains while Terry Eurick is the offensive captain for the 1977 season. ■
: Also honored at the banquet was : Al Hunter . who, along with Ross ; Browner, was named Most Valuable Player of the 1976 season. Quarter-
: back Rick Slager was named winner of the John P. McMullan Award which is given each year to the player who best exemplifies the role of the student-athlete based on ac-i complishment in the classroom and as a leader both on and off the field.
: Fry was one of the captains for ’ ;the 1976 season, which also had a total of three captains. That was not how it was planned, however, as senior Mark McLane, who shared the captain’s role with Fry through most of the season, was suspended for violating training regulations after the Georgia Tech game. McLane did not play in the loss in Atlanta, and was officially suspended’ by Dan Devine. the day after- the game when the team returned to South Bend. Reserve tight end Jim Weiler was I named to replace McLane as co-cap- ] tain for the remainder of the season.J
February 7,1977
31
South Bend Symphony
Eugene Fodor violin soloist
Saturday, February 5, 8 p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium
Tickets at the Door
' .■	; .	... $5 $4 $3	-. ■ '
"Meet the Artist" reception following performance at the Notre Dame C.C.E.
, \ J First western world top prize winner in . Tchaikovsky violin competition.
Next year’s FOOTBALL REVIEW
;	.. . is also available as part of
a year’s subscription to / SCHOLASTIC.
You can receive eleven regular issues plus the FOOTBALL REVIEW
;	for only $5.
i Scholastic
; La Fortune Student Center
: Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
! Please send ; years of Scholastic j at $5.00 per year to:
i Name
: Address
: City
: State ...................................... Zip ...
HAVE A-HEART!
Send her the FTD LoveBundle Bouquet for Valentine’s Weekend.
Reach out and touch her with this. FTD LoveBundle™ Bouquet. Your -FTD Florist can send one almost
anywhere by wire, the
FTD way. Order early. (Most FTD Usually available	C0(T
Florists accept major credit cards.) for less than j

FTD
*As an independent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices.
Say FTD.. .and be sure.
.	© 1977 Florists’ Transwbrid Delivery
One is not Enough
Extra copies of this .
FOOTBALL REVIEW ■
are available for your friends
, at $1.50 per copy.
I **ww*www**w«**ww****ww*www*wwwwwwwww*ww*******************ww******
Scholastic
La Fortune Student Center
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
Please send—— copies of this issue of Football.Review at $1.50 per copy to:
Name	................
Address .........................................
City ...................................
State ..........................  Zip	.......
32
Scholastic
NOTRE DAME’S SUMMER SPORTS CAMP PROGRAMS
ALL-SPORTS CAMP — CONCENTRATED HOCKEY CAMP CONCENTRATED BASKETBALL CAMB — CONCENTRATED
FOOTBALL CAMP
A variety of sports camp programs conducted right on the campus of the University of Notre Dame, utilizing the University’s professional staff, as well as its facilities.
Programs Include:
★	An all-sports program in which each camper enrolled receives daily instruction in each of the following five sports: baseball, basketball, football, golf and tennis.
★	A concentrated Hockey program conducted by the Notre Dame Hockey staff, in which each camper receives three hours of ice instruction per day, plus power skating drills — weight training — hockey films and lectures.
★	A concentrated Basketball program conducted by the Notre Dame Basketball staff. Instruction centers around offensive ball handling, shooting and rebounding, as well as all phases of defensive play.
★	A concentrated Football program conducted by members of the Assistant Coaching Staff. This program features instruction in offensive line and backfield play and defensive secondary, linebacking and interior line play.
All camp programs also feature swimming and recreational activities.
Brochures outlining dates, application procedures and more details about each camp program are usually available after February. By checking the appropriate box or boxes below, your name will be included on our mailing list for camp brochures when they become available.
I am interested in the:
•	All-Sports Camp.............................   □
•	Concentrated Hockey Camp........................ □
•	Concentrated Basketball Camp.................... Q
•	Concentrated Football Camp...................... Q
Send following information to:
Joe Sassano, Coordinator Notre Dame Sports Camps Athletic & Convocation Center Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
Name.................................................................... Age............
Street Address.......................................................................
City.................................... State..................... Zip..............