Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disco quasi semper vie turns; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 6, 1882.	No. 34.
Recollections of Saguache.
[Saguache, a town of central Colorado, and county seat of a county of the same name, is situated -near the point where the Cochetopa Pass connects with the northwest corner of San Luis Park. The town is environed with hills: the main chain of the Cochetopas to the north and west, and the La Garitas to the southwest, spurs from the same running out towards the east of Saguache. The Saguache river and its tributaries are parted into numberless streamlets for purposes of irrigation, every furrow of the field having its runnel of sparkling water. The nearest point of the Sangre de Cristo range is about twenty miles a little north of east. Sierra Blanca, including the highest mountain peak in Colorado, is visible at a distance of fifty miles to the southeast. Southward, the San Luis Park stretches beyond the Rio Grande,— its total length one hundred miles with a breadth of seventy-five. The solitary dome of Conejos breaks the level of the southern horizon.]
■	1.
By swelling hills begirt around And sheltered from the gale Whose gusts unceasingly resound Throughout San Luis vale,	.
How favored thou with genial air, How bright in sunshine, and how fair
Beneath the moonbeams pale!
11.
What ores thy braes, Bonanza, bear
No tongue of man may tell;
And matchless are the virtues rare
Of famed Pagosa’s well.
The sick seek these; the former, ill With maddening cares more fatal still, Her busy hordes indwell.
in.
No miners crowd Saguache’s marts
* In feverish lust of gold;
No sulphurous taint its worth imparts
. To waters pure and cold.	1
Let other cities find such aid;	1
But her foundations, firmer laid,
Rest upon wealth untold.
IV.
, Recumbent on their fragrant loads
The gay rancheros sing;
The droves of kine that throng the roads
Show whence their riches spring;
From the broad fields of waving grain A threefold crop the farmers gain
And live as lives a king.
v.
How grand to them thy peaks that scale The wondrous views displayed:	’
The lakelets of San Luis vale	_
By sunlight mirrors made;
Behold, in atmospheric change, Sangre de Cristo—mighty range
Advance, recede and fade.
VI.
At morn a thousand sunlit hills
In erubescence glow;
At noon a thousand crystal rills	.
With golden ripple flow;
At eve an amethystine hue
Steals slowly o’er the distant view, Empurpling all below.
VII.
Go on, Saguache, and prosper still
Beneath thy golden sun;
Grow brighter, mightier until ’
The destined goal is won;
Unrivalled then assume the place
Reserved for her that wins the race
By thee so well begun.	.	-
A. J. S.
Notre Dame, April 30th, 1882.
A Visit.
Queen Victoria’s visit to receive an address, and the London Spectator's lately more than favorable notice of the boys’ acting, have brought into prominence the Jesuit school of Beaumont. And I fancy there will be many of the readers of the Scholastic to whom some slight notice of this school may prove of interest, destined as it is in future days to play a leading part in Catholic education.
A short half hour will suffice to carry the visitor from London to the south-eastern station at Windsor, where the late attempt on the Queen’s life was made. Catching a glimpse of the castle, as we leave the station and turn to the right, ten minutes’ quiet walk brings us to Salter’s boat-house. Hiring a boat, we push, out into the stream and with a few vigorous strokes dash under the bridge, past the eyot and the lock, and behold on the left bank the noblest monument English king ever built to his memory, the royal school of Eton.
520	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Across the broad playing fields, how beautiful, set in exquisite green foliage, the old red building looks! and by its side, a very poem in stone, rises in graceful beauty the chapel of Henry VI. Within those walls how many of England’s greatest men have been trained! Sir Humphrey Gilbert, immortalized in Tennyson’s Ballad of the Revenge; Barrow, the divine; Porson, the famous Greek scholar; Arne, the musical composer; Hallam, the historian; Giles and Phineas Fletcher,-the dramatists; Fielding, the novelist, are a few of the names we call to mind. Across these meads roamed Canning and Wellington and Gladstone; here was nurtured the poetic genius of Praed, and Frere, of Gray and Shelley. Floreat Etona! Yes, long indeed may Eton flourish, nursery of poets, warriors and statesmen.
Whilst looking at the college, our boat has drifted down the stream underneath the stately pile that crowns the Windsor slope. The graceful spires and airy pinnacles of St. George’s Chapel bring to recollection the memories of by-gone days; they speak of the gorgeous and imposing festivals of Plantagenets, Tudors and Stuarts; of Wolsey too, the great churchman, whose chapel, now called the memorial chapel, is a wonder of art. And there, with the Queen’s flag mast-high, is the Round Tower from whose summit so many miles of fertile country, so many scenes of beauty and historic interest may be seen. The tower’s strong walls have held imprisoned numbers of goodly men, nobles, princes and kings. There James of Scotland caught the first glimpse of Lady Joan Beaufort, his future queen, there he solaced the long solitary hours of his confinement by the composition of “ The King’s Quhair,” the description and crown of his love. ’Twas there too the noble Surrey saw his Geraldine, the inspirer of his song, and there in prison he pined till the cruel king signed his death-warrant. Countless are the memories that flash across the mind as we look on this lordly building, that not inaptly may be called the epitome of England’s history.
Leaving behind us the terraces and wooded heights of Windsor, soon we reach the rich Datchett fields. True, our national poet, Shakspeare, lived not here, but what a glamour in his “ Merry Wives ” has he thrown round Datchett meads! Surely there, just where the brook enters the river, must be the place where Falstafl, the fat old knight, floundered out of the buck-basket into the Thames. And on the other side of the river, past the long avenues of beaches, elms and chestnuts, lies the spot where in in ancient days stood the oak that Herne the hunter was said to haunt. ,
But there is no time to dally; so, urging our boat down the river, by banks rich in flowers and dotted here and there with the sweet-scented hawthorn, the soft green of scattered willow-trees drooping above, and long beds of the tenderest blue forget-me-nots dipping in and out of the stream, we soon sight our journey’s end, old Windsor. Mooring oui' boat close to the spot where stood the king’s palace when Edward, Saint and Confessor, ruled the Saxon land, we saunter
quietly up the road and pass through the lodge-gates of Beaumont, up the winding avenue, under lofty elms, bee-haunted lindens, and branching oaks on which in profusion grows the sacred mistletoe, by clumps of bright flowering rhododendrons and trees that tell of far distant America and Australia, onward till at last we mount the rising hill and reach the front of the college. Before entering, let us turn and look once more at the country that lies at our feet. Across the river, and somewhat to the left, faintly discernible through the hazy atmosphere, rises the spire of Stoke Pogis’ church, ’neath the shadow of which rests, alongside his mother, the poet of the Elegy. Separated from the rustic churchyard by a little fence is the old home of Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania. Still nearer us, but more to the south, bosomed in lofty trees, is the little village of Horton, endeared to the lovers of English literature as the residence of Milton.. Here he wrote many of his early poems, among them Lycidas and Comus, and as some say, Il Pen-seroso and L’Allegro; whilst there, a few miles away, at Chalfont, he gave the finishing strokes to his grand epic, Paradise Lost. Directly in front, on a hill, stands another of the great schools of England, Harrow, of whose famous children the best known to Americans is Byron. Our eyes, following the silver Thames, rest on a long, wide plain, backed by an abrupt, well-wooded range of hills. The hill is famous—the Cooper’s hill of Denham’s muse—but still more famous is the plain, and known to all as Runnymede. Opposite, nestling in the river, is a little island covered with huge walnut trees and encircled with poplars and willows, the island where King John signed the Charter of English freedom.	'
For a home of- learning and education, what fitter country could be found, filled as it is with the memories dear to the scholar and student of literature, history and song; and the land itself exceeding fair to look on, so fair, indeed, that one realizes the truth of Stoddard’s praise of England’s beauty.	•
Turning now towards the college, but little of which can be seen from this side—enough, however, to form an opinion that the building is but a poor specimen of architecture—we pass through the front entrance and are ushered into a cheerful and tastefully decorated guest-room hung with costly engravings and pictures. In a few moments, accompanied by one of the masters, we stait to inspect the college. If the outside was but poor, the inside makes ample amends. Nevei' was building better adapted and arranged for school-boy life! The magnificent refectory, lofty, well-lighted, with its bright outlook onto green lawns and beds of flowers; the play-rooms with their billiard tables, and the walls covered with prints, engravings, and photographs; the reading-rooms, well carpeted and curtained, stocked with books and everything necessary for the comfort and convenience of the student; the class rooms, the lecture halls, study place, and above all the exquisitely clean, sweet, well-ventilated dormitories—all charm and delight the visitor. And the boys, too, whom
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
52t
we meet in our stroll, neat and graceful, with happiness beaming on theii* faces—everything forces us to the conclusion that here, at last, we have found an ideal school life.
Beaumont is the result of an attempt to work out a problem that has long vexed the minds of Catholics. When the penal laws were relaxed, and Englishmen allowed to receive a Catholic education at home, instead of being forced to seek it in France or Belgium or Spain, many schools were founded. Ushaw and Oscott and Stony hurst sprang up and did good work. These schools, however, were conducted much in accordance with the continental system of strict silence and constant supervision. But this system, the necessity of which under certain conditions is not denied, was hardly in keeping with English ideas and customs; nor indeed was it necessary, for the greater number of the boys are gentlemen, trained at home to the habits of self-restraint and denial, which lie at the root of all true gentleness. . Many were the attempts made to frame a new system which should combine needful supervision with a larger and more progressive freedom. Out of these attempts rose Edgbaston, founded by the great Oratorian so dear to Catholics, Cardinal Newman, and the Jesuit school of Beaumont. Well and successfully has the new system worked, and rarely is the greatei' freedom abused.	.
Such is the information gathered from our guide as we pass through the long corridors on our way to lunch. For the boys’ dinner bell has sotmded, and there they come, without hurry or confusion, quietly talking. As they cross the threshold of the refectory, conversation ceases, to be resumed once more when grace has been said. We walk through the refectory, and notice the behavior of the lads: it is in keeping with the neat and quiet elegance of the appointments.
At lunch, our guide explains the general order of the day: The boys rise at 6, wash, go to Mass, breakfast, after which there is a short interval, and at 7.30 studies commence; from 8.30 to 10.30, class, followed by recreation till 11; then class again till 12.30, after which comes washing, and at 1, dinner. After dinner, recreation till 3, then studies and class; at 5, an hour’s recreation, followed by studies from 6 to 7.30; next comes supper, aftei' which another hour is spent in study, reading, or play; then night prayers and bed, except for the very studious, who, if health permits, are allowed one more hour for work. ,
Like all the great public schools, Beaumont is conducted on the classical system. Against this of late years loud has been the outcry, principally from persons who are either unacquainted with the real working of the system, or ignorant of what true education is. This is neither the time nor place to discuss the question; suffice it to say that at Beaumont, as elsewhere, the best classical scholars are usually the best in science too. Not long ago, first in the London Classical Honors list stood the name of a Beaumont boy; and his attainments in exact science were on a par with his classical knowledge. But though such success is highly to
be valued, not by it should a school be judged. The real test is the men it. turns out. If this school trains men fit for the world’s struggle, self-reliant, manly, truly religious, in a word, Catholic gentlemen, then it is good, and such a school as Catholics are seeking. Well, Beaumont is yet in its infancy, but from such a test it would emerge triumphant. To prove the assertion would be to become personal; well known, however, in London and scattered over England are many rising young men whose lives and actions redound to the honor of the school they claim as their Alma Mater.
Unfortunately, we must bid the place good-bye. A row up the swift stream is very different to the pleasant and easy journey down, and will tax. our utmost energies. So, bidding our hospitable guide farewell—Iris invitation, “Mind you come again and pay us a longer visit,” rings in our ears—-we hurry down to the river, launch our boat, and catch’ a last glimpse of Beaumont through the thick trees, a glimpse of beauty that neither time nor distance have effaced from the mind.
“Acu.”
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Mr. John Boyle O’Reilly has been chosen to read the poem at the reunion of the Army of the Potomac which will be held next month, in Detroit.
—The celebrated Austrian engraver Wittig died lately in Rome. His medal commemorating the .coronation of Leo XIII is regarded as a masterpiece.	-
—One of the most beautiful books published in Paris this year is Count Roselly de Lorgues’ “ Christophe Colombe,” Edition- de Luxe. It is issued by tire Society Generale de Librairie Catho-lique.
—James Freeman Clarke, in his recent work, “ Events and Epochs in Religious History,” makes a plea for the Catholic custom of praying for the dead. His inferences drawn from the inscriptions of the Catacombs, regarding early devotion to the Blessed Virgin, however, might easily be proved incorrect.
—Messrs. Jansen, McClurg & Co., of Chicago, have published a second revised edition of Prof. Hoya’s “Tables for the Determination, Description and Classification of Minerals,” which contains, besides all the valuable matter of the first edition, a table describing the species, a table classifying species by basic elements and ores, and all the blow-pipe reactions referred to in the work.
—In the recently published biography of Cardinal Newman we are told that “ The Dream of Gerontius” was rescued by an accident from the waste-paper basket. But this is an exaggerated version of the true story of the publication of .the fine poem and of the little store set on it by its author, who, on being asked to contribute to a periodical, sent the manuscript, saying, «I have routed this put of a drawer/*	•
522	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The second volume of the “ Catholic Records ” was, we are glad to hear, practically completed before the death of Father Knox, of the London Oratory, and it will shortly be issued by Mr. David Nutt. It contains letters and memorials of Cardinal Allen, from the year 1567 to about 1612. These are transcribed from the Public Record Office and other English collections, as well as from the archives of the English Colleges at Rome and Valladolid, and from the archives at Brussels and Simancas. Some two hundred and twenty of the letters are now being printed for the first time, so that the work can hardly fail to be of great interest to students of Elizabethan history.
—In a recent address on music, delivered at Manchester, the Duke of Albany said:
“ It may not be generally known, but it is nevertheless admitted by the most learned and most hostile of Continental critics, that in the early discovery and practice of music England was in advance of all the nations of Europe by very many years. The round or glee, ‘ Summer is Coming,’ which is one of the musical treasures of the British Museum, is now accepted by the most learned antiquaries of England and Germany as the work of a monk of Reading, in Berkshire, in or about the year 1225. This is more than a century and a half before the admission of Dufay to the Papal Chapel, in 1380, which has hitherto been always taken as the earliest landmark in the history of modern music. We -were a century and a half in advance of Flanders, Italy, or Germany. Moreover, this very early composition, instead of being grave and dull, is far more melodius and more attractive to the unlearned hearers than any music of the corresponding period in the foreign schools. In a word, this little glee, which is the germ of modern music, the direct and absolute progenitor of the oratorios of Handel, the symphonies of Beethoven, the operas of Wagner, is a purely English creation, dealing with English sights and sounds, and is animated in a very high degree by the truly English qualities of a’ sense of fitness and proportion, and sweet, simple domestic tunefulness.”
—Ottaviano dei Petrucci, the father of the art of type-music printing, was born of a good family at Fossombrone, between Ancona and Urbino, June 14, 1466. Before 1498 he had established himself at Venice; for on May 25th of that year he obtained from the Seignory the sole privilege, for 20 years, of printing “ figured music” (canto figurato) and music in the tablature of the organ and lute—a privilege which he exercised there till about 1511. At that date he left the Venetian business in the hands of Amadeo Scotti and Nicolo da Raphael, and returned to Fossombrone, where, on October 22, 1513, he obtained a patent from Pope Leo X for the monopoly of musicprinting in the Roman States for 15 years. His latest work is dated 1523, and shortly after that he probably died. Petrucci’s process was a double one; he printed first the lines of the stave, and then, by a second impression, the notes upon them. In fact he discovered a method of doing by the press what the German printers of ^atronendruck^ oi- pattern-printing, had done by hand. His work is beautifully executed. The “ register,” or fit, of the notes on the lines is perfect; the ink is a fine black, and the whole effect is admirable. But the process was expensive, and was soon superseded by printing in one impression, which appears to have been first successfully accomplished by Og-
lin of Augsburg, in 1507.—'American Art Journal.
Books and Periodicals.
Eclectic Shqrt-Hand: Writing by Principles instead of Arbitrary Signs. For General Use and Verbatim Reporting. By J. Geo. Cross, A. M. Third Edition: Thoroughly Revised and Completed. Chicago: S. C. Griggs & Co. 18S2. 12 mo., 228 pp. $2.
We have been favored by the publishers with a copy of this book, together with a letter stating their belief that “ a knowledge of short-hand would be very useful to the student during his college course, and in after-life would certainly be of the greatest service in securing a desirable position in business, particularly in the larger cities, where the demand for short-hand writers is rapidly increasing.” All which is undoubtedly true, and we commend the advice to the attention of students at Notre Dame and elsewhere. As to the particular system of phonography explained in the book before us, it differs so much from anything of the kind we have hitherto met—and in our search for the best we have examined seven or eight systems or methods —that we cannot say, after the brief examination we have been able to give Mr. Cross’s Eclectic, whether or not it equals or is superior to the Pitman system. This much we can say: Mr. Cross’s system gives evidence of originality, and of great fertility of invention. In a future issue we may attempt an analysis and give our opinion of this new system of short-hand. The book is a handsome specimen of the book-maker’s art, and reflects credit upon the publishers. It is printed on heavy, toned paper, and neatly bound.
—Although- not the opening paper, Mr. Archibald Forbes’s “ Lecturing in Two Hemispheres” is, we think, the most attractive one in the May number of The Century. Edmund Clarence Stedman contributes an elaborate critical sketch of James Russell Lowell and his poetry. A portrait of the poet, by Kruell, forms the frontispiece of the number, and a contribution from his pen,— “ Estrangement,”—is also given. Mr. W. D. Howells’s “ A Modem Instance,”—a story of American life,—is written in a light vein, with occasional dashes of pathetic humor. “Carlyle in Ireland,” from recently discovered MSS., is a patchy affair, reflecting no credit on Carlyle or anyone else; it is not even a readable production. Emma Lazarus, a Jewess, ably defends her co-re-ligionists from the attacks of Brafmann and Mad. Ragozin. Miss Lazarus’s paper is ably written, and leaves it beyond a doubt that her people have been misrepresented, and persecuted without just cause in Russia. Constance Fenimore Woolson contributes a charming art-gossip sketch entitled “ The Street of the Hyacinth,” and Mrs. Burnett’s “ Through One Administration ” is continued with unabated but quiet interest. The illustrated articles are, as usual, the chief attraction in The Century. The first of these, “ The Canadian Mecca,” by W. Geo. Beers, is splendidly illustrated by H. Sandham. As to the article itself, even in the title there
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	523
is a direct insult to the thousands of Catholic readers of the magazine, and the writer has more than once gone far out of his way in order to heap insult upon insult. It does not satisfy him to, speak in a slighting tone of miracles witnessed by hundreds, and in which thousands—nay, millions—believe, but as he can find no fault with the clean and neatly-attired Canadian pilgrims to “ La Bonne Ste. Anne ” he must perforce bring dirt from foreign countries to throw at them and Catholics in general. Such an outrage upon common sense and common decency is unpardonable. Catholics do not intrude themselves upon Protestant worshippers in order to carp at and insult them in public print. This kind of work is left to such men as W. Geo. Beers. A man who is so grossly ignorant of ordinary Catholic matters as to write of “ morning Vespers ” is simply impertinent in attempting such subjects at all. Richard Grant White’s 3d paper on “Opera in New York” is an excellent one, and finely illustrated; so also is the critique on “ George Innes,” with six illustrations from his landscapes. “ The Hellenic Age of Sculpture ” is superbly illustrated. The various departments of “ Topics of the Time,” “ Literature,” and the “ World’s Work” contain much interesting matter.
Household Library of Catholic Poets, from Chaucer to the Present Day. (13501881.) Edited by Eliot Ryder. Joseph A. Lyons. The University of Notre Dame, Indiana. 1881.
This book has been well received by the press on both sides of the Atlantic. It is the only work of its kind in the language. It represents the best work of Catholic poets, and contains many of the brightest gems of English poetry; has selections from more than one hundred authors, English and American. It contains many poems which have become favorites the world over, besides others of note and popularity. The work is furnished with an alphabetical index of the names of poems, an index of authors, and also one of first lines. Both in contents and in manufacture, this is one of the finest specimens of Catholic book-making ever produced in this country. Prices,—post free: Subscription edition, limited (with an admirable portrait of Chaucer), $5. Cheap edition, $2.
College Gossip.
—Girard College is to have a complete machine shop, with a workbench, forge, and gas engine for each of the ninety pupils in practical mechanics.
—Yale, noted in the past for her advanced ideas, both in government and methods of instruction, seems likely to return to the long-discarded system of college discipline. President Porter, in his annual report, stated his belief in the plan of appointing monitors and watchers. He disapproves of the practice of college authorities leaving students to their honor and trusting them with self-government.—Ex.	.
—Prof. W'. W, Goodwin, of Harvard, author of
the well-known “ Greek Grammar,” and “ Greek Moods and Tenses,” has accepted the invitation of the committee of the school at Athens of the Archaeological Institute of America to assume the directorship of the school for the first year. The announcement that it will begin its labors under the guidance of a scholar so eminent as Prof. Goodwin will be welcome to all who are interested in the cause of classical archaeology, as affording a substantial guarantee that the work will be entered upon in a serious spirit.
—One of the most noticeable features in .the development of the West is the surprising number ’ of colleges that have sprung up. It is the evidence of New England blood and education as directive forces in western civilization. Many of these colleges are well endowed, and steadily advancing in prosperity and usefulness. Westem men recognize the necessity and advantage of a generous endowment; and they come forward with their money and furnish the conditions requisite to attain the highest aims of a college. Eastern men have the same appreciation of the value of colleges, but some of the oldest institutions here have suffered for years from insufficient means.—Brnnonian.
—The traditions which cluster around the life of a great university, if collected, would furnish material for a voluminous and inspiring volume. It is a work, we believe, which has not yet been undertaken by any one. The following story is told in Michigan University: In the year 1854, Prof. Francis Brannow came from Leipsic to Ann Arbor, to fill the chair of astronomy and to act as director of the observatory. He was a thorough scholar, the author of a valuable work on Spherical Astronomy, and a man whose services were highly esteemed in the scientific world; yet, for a time, he lectured to one student only. Later in life, Prof. Brannow was accustomed to call these lectures the most important he ever delivered, since his solitary listener was James C. Watson, afterwards America’s distinguished astronomer.—Unidentified Ex.	.
—The natural consequence of hazing is to. create a breed of youthful ruffians and bullies in every college and academy, and their pranks in different schools during the past two years are too fresh in the minds of the public to need mention at this time. Like others, Bowdoin College has its quota of “ hazers,” and not long since several of them proceeded to exercise their peculiar arts on a youth named Strout, the son of a well-known resident of Portland, Me. They succeeded, by using chunks of coal as missiles, in injuring one of the boy’s eyes, to such an extent that he will probably lose the sight of it entirely. For this, the father of Strout has brought suit for damages against seven of the highly-educated persons who were engaged in the assault on his son, laying the damages in each case at $10,000. It is to be hoped that the courts, now that the matter has been squarely brought before them, will give so emphatic an opinion on the sub- -ject of “ hazing,” that in the future its exponents will be few and far between.—Laporte HeraldChronicle.	-
524
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JVotre Dame, May 6, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms., • 50 per Annum. Postpaid.
MAnss EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of. the cun-ent volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
-—Last week the sad news reached us of the death of Mr. Thomas A. Corcoran, of ’65. - His many friends amongst the Professors and students of Notre Dame were shocked to learn that he had been thus suddenly called away in the maturity of life, whilst yet full of bright hopes and manly aspirations. But the Christian heart rejoiced to know that his soul was prepared to meet its Maker, that his death was calm and peaceful.
Mr. Corcoran entered the University of Notre Dame in the fall of ’63. He remained two years, during which time he distinguished himself alike by his splendid intellectual gifts and the manly, noble qualities of his heart. He graduated with honor in June, ’65, and on leaving college settled in Cincinnati, where he began at once to fit himself for the practice of the law. He soon made his mark, and was in a short time elected a member of the Ohio Legislature. He served in this capacity for a number of years, and then undertook the editorial management of the Catholic Telegraph. In June, ’67, he delivered the Commencement Oration at Notre Dame, at which time he received the degree of Master of Arts. The following extract is from an extended notice in the Catholic Telegraph :
“ Mr. Corcoran had spent the winter in Florida, and, in
company with his' wife, had returned to Kansas City, where he was taken severely ill. To those about him it was clear from the first that the hand of death was upon him, and that preparations must be made for the worst. He was removed for better treatment to the Sisters’ Hospital, where he received every attention that religious zeal and Christian charity could suggest. At the end of ten days, strengthened by the Sacraments of the Church and surrounded by his wife, his brothers and sister, he passed peacefully away, kissing the image of his crucified Saviour, and repeating the prayers, which, as he himself said, ‘ his good and saintly mother had taught him.’ At that moment early memories rose up in his mind and his thoughts went back to her, who had not only inspired his earliest thoughts to God, but had pursued him with her prayers day by day down to his dying hour. And his fond expression concerning his venerable mother at such a time and in such a connection, is a beautiful trait of character, revealing both his manhood and the depth of his religious nature.
“ Mr. Corcoran was, intellectually, finely endowed, and possessed a warm and generous heart. He was loyal to his friends and forgiving to those who had done him wrong: Though quick to resent an insult, he was incapable of harboring a spirit of revenge. He was genial and dignified in company, and at all times a Christian gentleman. May his soul rest in peace! ”
—;Ralph Waldo Emerson, so long known as the Sage of Concord, was buried on Sunday last. The funeral services, though simple, were, the papers inform us, singularly impressive. Testifying by their presence their respect for the illustrious deceased, were many of the most prominent men of the country.
The career of Emerson was, in many respects, exceptionally fortunate. Universally known as a man of philanthropic views and generous impulses, he was universally popular. Brownson, in an article written more than thirty-five years ago, speaks of him in terms of most affectionate respect. His reputation, too, as a writer and thinker was very great. Indeed, for close on to fifty years it was co-extensive with the English-speaking world. As we need not say, there were multitudes of people most enthusiastic in Emerson’s praise. Judging by their laudations, one would think them ready to swear both to the manner and the matter of everything he said or might be pleased to say. Speaking for ourselves, we could never feel the least enthusiasm of this kind. Again and again have we tried to read Emerson, and done our best to like him as a writer, but could not;- to use the phrase of old Dr. Johnson, “ we could not get on with him.” Emerson wrote much both in prose and in verse, and it would be absurd to deny that he.oftentimes wrote well. But to our mind his works lack that indefinable something that fastens strongly on the attention and compels us, as it were, to read on. Will his reputation as a writer last? We doubt it much. We venture to say that thirty years hence, when a new literary generation will have made its appearance, but few, save those' really curious in the history of literature, will know anything of Emerson but the name.
Little, however, as we admire Emerson as a writer, we admire him as a teacher of religious truths even less, or rather, in this latter capacity, we cannot admire him at all: we can .only reprobate his views as strongly as possible. Of faith, in the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	525
. - - \
Catholic sense of the word, he had simply no conception. Instead of it he had a dreamy sentimentalism, the meaning of which, as an able writer has remarked, he may not himself have* understood. With all his intelligence and brilliancy and learning, he was, after all, through the course of his long life, but one of those men, of whom the world is full, that are always seeking and never attaining to the knowledge of the truth. Hence, his views on the subject of religion are, as we have said, such as we can only reprobate in the strongest manner. This, for the present, is what we have to say regarding one of the most remarkable men that our country has so far produced. What a pity that, like his friends Brownson and Hecker, he did not see and embrace the truth in its fullness!
—The Philopatrians did themselves great credit last Wednesday evening. There is abundant evidence from the Roll of Honor that they include many of the best boys among the Preps., and their entertainment proves that, besides being very good, they are. very talented; in a word, the “little Philopatrians” have made their mark and done honor to their Society and their department.
The entertainment consisted of three short plays, each of which was well arranged, and adapted to the capacity of the youthful actors. Prof. Lyons has the faculty of always hitting upon the .most suitable pieces and assigning the different parts to those best qualified to present them. The exercises were opened with a stirring piece from the Band, the best we have had for a number of years. Then followed a song and chorus, well rendered by the Choral Union and members of the Philo-patrian Society, after which an address in French was read in a very pleasing manner by L. Gibert. When the applause had subsided, F. Lund stepped forward and declaimed, with much spirit, an appropriate selection entitled “Patriotism.” The address of the evening, which had been entrusted to G. Buchanan, was nicely composed and well read. The song, by Masters Gibert, Foote, and Courtney, which preceded the first play, was excellent, although the young vocalists were sufffering from colds. The music discoursed at intervals throughout the evening by the Band and Orchestra was up to the usual high standard.
The first drama chosen for representation was, “ A Dark Cloud with a Silver Lining,” a comedy in one act, the leading characters of which were admirably sustained by Masters Hanavin, Devine, Buchanan, and Murphy, assisted by Masters W. Graham and M. Devitt. Next followed “ The Recruits,” which merited the same praise. W. E. Jeannot, E. Howard, and J. F. Whelan deserve special mention for their rendition of their respective parts, and they were creditably supported by Masters Kitz and Snee. The drill, which concluded this part of the programme, was highly appreciated, and evoked rounds of applause. “The Judge,” a farce in one act, the next in order, was greatly enjoyed. Master Muhlke, as judge, and Masters Bailey and Whelan as lawyers, were well up in their pails; and the
other characters were not less creditably taken by Masters Gallagher, Campau, Livingston and Wilbur.	.	.
“The Triumph of Justice,” which closed the ■ exercises of the evening, has always been a favorite drama at Notre Dame, and though frequently represented in past years by Seniors and Preps., we doubt if it was ever better played than on Wednesday night. To mention all who took part and appeared to advantage would be to reproduce the names of the dramatis personce given elsewhere. Besides,- we have already gone far beyond our limits of space, and the familiar footsteps of good little James, who muse sometimes call for “ copy ” in his dreams, will soon be heard upon the stairs.	.
The drama concluded, Master E. Wile, surrounded by his amiable associates, delivered one of the nicest little epilogues we have ever heard, after which the Band played the march for retiring. The closing remarks were made by Rev. Father Granger, to whom the Entertainment of the evening was complimentary. He praised the young performers very heartily, and thanked them for the honor confeiTed on him.
We congratulate the Philopatrians on the success of their entertainment, and on the promise they have given of something even more creditable at their next appearance in public.
Exchanges.
—The Paper World' for April has swelled to the size of 72 pages. A year ago it contained but 40 pages in all, but so great has been its success both in a literary and advertising way that the publishers have been compelled to spread still wider the wings of The Paper World.' This handsome periodical is a credit to our country. The April number* contains a letter from a firm in Pennsylvania acknowledging its great benefit as an advertising medium, and on our part we bear cheerful testimony to its ability in a literary way. Its sketches of men and things are ably written. Tact and ability characterize its every feature. ' -
—The Portfolio for April is rich in poetry, good poetry; and the prose is not of a poor order either. The exchange department, always interesting, is doubly so this month. The following is an example, and conveys a moral:
“‘True criticism requires wisdom, mere fault-finding shows the lack of it.’ Such is the quotation with which the Exchange Editor of the King’s College Record enters upon his criticisms which are throughout fair and good-tempered, and manifest, we think, a good deal of that critical wisdom which consists, as far as our college papers are concerned, in a certain amount of literary taste, coupled with an honest desire to take the best and not worst view of our rivals.”
The exchange editor is on her mettle with the “ Patriarch Student ” of Hie 1 Varsity, and, evidently, there is good cause for it. She wields a scintillant pen. The ’ Varsity man will have to put his best foot foremost if he. intends tp hold his position.
.526	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The College Cabinet is publishing, in serial form, the notes of travel of a lady friend. In the second of her letters she refers to the death of. Louis IX, of' France, who in compliance with the wishes of his wicked and heartless mother, issued the murderous edict against the Huguenots. The writer says that in his last moments the king fried in vain to shut out the vision of that terrible night, and expired, crying, “ Oh, what oceans of blood! I am undone forever!” And well he might cry out, “ Oh, what oceans of blood! ” Whether or not the weak or wicked monarch died in despair, we cannot say; but certain it is that the St. Bartholomew- massacre was a subject of stern reproof and detestation by every right-thinking person, from the Pope downward. Catharine de Medici, the queen-mother, was, we may' add, anything but a good Catholic; we doubt very much if she could be called a Catholic at all; she did not live a Catholic life, and a few years before had been colleaguing with the very party whom she so mercilessly butchered.
—The Virginia University Magazine has of late had able contributions to its columns. The new board of editors have undoubtedly raised the standard of tire magazine, and deserve credit for their exertions. The essays on “ Duelling,” “ Literary Censure,” and “Richelieu as a Statesman” —in the February number—were very creditable; so also are those in the March number, just to hand. “Should he be Sent to College?” contains some very good points, and others—well, they may find application to institutions that the writer had in view. “ Tennyson’s Last Poem ” is very neatly and circumspectly criticized by “L.”; “A Mistake ’’—the mistake of rashing a young man through a college course—conveys its own moral; no one can dispute it. “ The Apostle of the Indies ” took us by surprise; we had been so accustomed to see Catholic subjects hacked and mutilated by young men who knew nothing about them,—even in pre. vious numbers of The University Magazine,— that we were hardly prepared for anything like tire present sketch. It is strange that people who are preparing an essay do not oftenei' study its proper bearing, and at least avoid blunders that are . ridiculous—such for instance as that in the leading article of The Century for May, where “ morning Vespers ” are spoken of. Shakspeare, presumably a nominal or negative Catholic, has the “ evening Mass,” but strange as it may seem to Catholics who have not read much there have been “ evening Masses.” Among the other essays in the March number of the Magazine, “ The Jew in Germany ” displays a wide range of reading and much original thought; “ Individual Character ” is well written. The abbreviations “Wash” and “Jeff,” for the Washington and Jefferson Societies, forcibly remind us of our familiar local term “ St. Joe,” so they are beyond our criticism although harsh to the eye and ear. We think the exchange department of tire Magazine altogether too meagre, which is, perhaps, the only fault we could find with our excellent and enterprising Southern contemporary, if we were disposed to find fault with it, which we are not.
Personal.
—R. S. Barrett, ’75, of Georgia, has a position in the Commercial printing-office, Cincinnati.
—Mr. Sam Perley is still with his brother-inlaw, Mr. Alexis Coquillard, and doing well. . Sam is destined, we think, to become one of the leading -citizens of South Bend.
—T. V. Fox, of ’66, is engaged in the confec- -	5
tionery business in Fort Wayne, Ind. .Joe was a prominent member of the Band in old times, when it could boast of thirty-five members.
—F. J. Weisenburger (Commercial), of ’75, spent a few hours at the College this week. He was on his wedding tour. Mrs. Weisenburger is spoken of as a most estimable young lady.
—The following persons were among the visitors this week: Mr. George Saviers, Chicago, HL; Mrs. Henry Mugy, and Mrs. Sophie Rettig, Wabash, Ind.; Mrs. C. Muhlke, and Mrs. I. H. Tied-mann, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. T. M. Fulton, and Mr. D. K. Croford, Buchanan, Mich.; Rev. M. W. Barth, South Chicago, Ill., and Mrs. L. G.’Tong, South Bend.
—Rev. Dr. Hallinan, at one time a Professor here,.is now stationed at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Little Rock, of which Very Rev. yEgidius Henne-maqn, O. S. B., is the worthy rector. Both have numerous friends at Notre Dame, who will be glad to hear from them. Father yEgidius is also VicarGeneral of the diocese of Little Rock, where his great learning and worth are highly appreciated.
/ Local Items.
. t	*
—Keep off the grass!
—Work on the new Minim Hall is rapidly advancing.	.
—All the leading magazines and reviews are on file in the Library.
—It is needless to state that the Philopatrians’ programme has crowded out “ lots of things.” .
—The Sorin Cadets express themselves highly pleased with their drill-master, Mr. Elmer Otis.
—The beautiful Easter egg kindly presented to the Minims by Very Rev. Father General was won by E. P. Nash.	.
—Very Rev. Father General is expected back at the end of the month. The Minims have postponed their Parisian dinner till then. They , are wise in their generation. •
—He had the ' spring fever bad. It attacked him in the region of the spinal column. An unsympathetic physician prescribed a blister 8x10 inches. The idea cured him.
—The statue of the Blessed Virgin in the Junior study-hall has been tastefully decorated with beautiful flowers, tapers, etc. The work reflects much merit on B. Thomas Aquinas and Master McPhillips,	■	, ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The 6th regular meeting of the N. D. S. A. was held Friday evening, April 28th. General matters were discussed, but no papers read. Mr. Kuhn’s experiment, showing the galvanic'action of a frog’s muscle, excited much interest.
—A hotly-contested baseball game was played last Tuesday afternoon between the second Senior nine, headed by W. E. Bailey, and the first Junior nine, headed by R. French. Both “teams” played well, and all agree that the game, was the * most interesting of the season.
—Mr. Jacob Wile, of Laporte, sent last week a very handsome colored lithograph of the City of Rome, the steamer in which Very Rev.- Father. General made the voyage to France. It hangs in the parlor of the Presbytery. The City of Rome reached Queenstown on the 30th ult. .,'	’
—Rev. President Walsh opened the May devotions Sunday evening with an excellent discourse, in which he traced the rise and progress of the devotion of the month of May, and explained the motives of honoring the Blessed Virgin, exhorting his hearers to imitate the exalted virtues of the Queen of Saints as the best means of rendering her homage.	.
—The “little Philopatrians” did well, didn’t they?—particularly those who took tire leading parts in “ The Triumph of Justice,” viz.: F. Lund, G. ‘Deschamp, Leon Gibert, H. Foote, D. C. Smith, A. Richmond, E. Bailey, W. Ayers, H. Metz and others. The' subordinate characters were also well’ represented by . those whose names appear in the programme.
—The 18th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held April 30th, at which declamations were delivered as follows: J. H. Dwenger, “The Light Brigade”; F. P. Nester, “The Sinking Cumberland”; J. J. McGrath, “ The Ship on Fire”; Ames Winsor, “ The-Swallow”; T.Norfolk, the“Height of the Ridiculous ”; W.’ Welch, “ What is Glory ” ? W. Miller, “ Marius.” Master Ryan Devereux gave a criticism on the exercises of the previous meeting.. Public readers were then appointed for the following week. At this meeting, Masters Francis Schmitz and J. M. Studebaker were admitted to membership. Selections in vocal music by Masters O’Connor and P. Campau closed the exercises.
—On the 30th ult. the College nine sustained a severe defeat administered by the “ Green Stockings,” of South Bend. Although a little chilly, the day was a pleasant one, and many visitors were on the grounds. The Juniors and Minims were also on hand to do the accustomed clapping. The game was promptly called at a quarter past 3 o’clock, by Mr. O’Neill as umpire. Our boys' went to the bat, and as they succeeded in scoring only one run, • they at once looked for defeat. Some of our nine are not heavy enough for the pitcher that the South Bend club puts in the diamond. Gallagher, Flannery arid Kuhn exerted themselves to hold the laurels that had been won
from the Juniors, but fate was against them. Our boys now realize that they need more practice.	-
—The complimentary reception tendered to the members of the Mignon Club last Saturday evening, in Washington Hall, was, in all respects, the most brilliant affair of the kind ever given at Notre Dame. Among those present were the President and Vice-President of the University, Prof. Lyons, Prof. Edwards, B. Emmanuel, B. Leander, the members of the Columbian Literary, and Gillespie Choral Union, also the graduates of ’83. The hall was brilliantly lighted, and decorated with natural flowers. Each guest on entering was presented with a fragrant boutbniere. After some time had been spent in the exchange of social greetings, an elegant spread, made up of delicious salads, cakes, fruits, candies, ices and French coffee, was served by Russ, of South Bend, who on this occasion eclipsed his former reputation of being the best caterer in the Northwest. While the courses of the menu were being discussed, Ebel’s orchestra discoursed some of their most enchanting music. Among the pieces performed by the orchestra after supper were a difficult cornet solo; by Mr. Elbel, and the popular Irish Patrol, which was enthusiastically encored by the Junior members of .the audience. Altogether, the evening was one of unusual enjoyment, and the committee of arrangements, Masters M. Foote, A. Gall, E. Gall, H. Kitz, L. Gibert, B. Zekind, A. Richmond, G. Tourtillotte, and M. Bums, have cause for rejoicing at the grand success of the event.
—The following programme was carried out at the tenth Annual Exercises by the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association, of the University of Notre Dame, Wednesday evening, May 3d, 1882. The entertainment was complimentary to Very Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. C.:
PART FIRST.
Grand Opening March...................N.	D. U. C. B.
Song and Chorus.............................Choral	Union
and Members of the Society-
French Address..................................L.	Gibert
Declamation—Patriotism..........................F.	Lund
Address of the Evening................G.	Buchanan
Song L. Florman, L. Gibert, H. Foote, J. S. Courtney Prologue..................-...........A.	Brewster
Music.....................•.............Orchestra
PART SECOND.
A DARK CLOUD WITH A SILVER LINING.
( Comedy in One .Act.) . Paul Smithers..........................-W.	Hanavin
Jack Thompson (His Friend).............J.	Devine
Mr. Simpson, M. C.................G.	Buchanan
Mr. Biown.........................  M.	Murphy
Postman............................ W.	Graham
. Attendant  .......................  H.	Devitt
.	THE RECRUITS.
AN INTERLUDE.
Mr. H. Greeley...........’...............W.	E. Jeannot
Captain Graham.............................E.	Howard
Sergeant Sprout, (Secretary).............J.	F. Whelan
Snowball and Johnson—(Recruits).... H. Kitz and H. Snee Exhibition Drill of Raw Recruits, followed by a Dress
Parade in charge of E. Bailey, F, Lewis and W. Ayers,
528	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Music.
.N. D. U. C. B.
THE JUDGE.
(A Farce in One Act.')
The Judge................................G.	W. Muhlke
Lawyer Shortbrief................'...........E. Bailey
Lawyer Pinquill..........................J. F. Whelan
Gendarmes...............J.	Gallagher and G. Tourtillotte
Wm. Walker.................•...............A. Campau
Clerk of the Court.......................J.	Livingston
John Spring..................................M. Wilbur
- Attendants, etc., etc.
Music......................................Orchestra
PART THIRD.
THE TRIUMPH OF JUSTICE.
{A Melodrama in Two Acts.)
Colonel Regolio............................F.	Lund
Captain Xavier.........................G. Deschamp
Claudio................................Leon Gibert
Augustino...........................•......H. Foote
The Baron..............................D. C. Smith
Pablo (An Eccentric Steward)...........A.JRichmond
Estevan...................•................E.	Bailey
Gaspardo................................W. Ayers
Myrtillo...................................H. Metz
Benedict................................Fred Fishel
Tomaso....................,................H. Snee
Stello.....................................J. Devine
Pedro....................................E. Drendel
Francisco.. Bartolo J Carlo S-.
Antonio J Leonardo "] Anselm | Alonzo | Ignatio S-Giulio Ludovico Juan J Montefiore' Statio , Xaverio ’ Catafalco Epilogue___
Officers
Attendants
Guards
.... J. Kahman fB. Baca J.Castillo (J. Powell ’J. Friedman P. Yrisarri Sam’l Katz E. Gerlach F.Danielson Fred Ryan H. Hibbeler fj. Flynn J. Zaehnle ' F. Kengel C. Devoto .....E. Wile
March for Retiring..
GRAND TABLEAU.
. .N. D. U. C. B.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, Armijo, Arnold, W. Bailey, Barron, Bryant, Browne, Bell, Bolton, Cullin, Clements, Christian, Conway, G- Clarke, T. Clarke, Cleary, Jas Delaney, Dorsey, Donegan, Drury, F. Ewing, Eaton, Fitzgerrell, Flannery, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Farrell, Fleming, Flynn,* M. Falvey, J. Falvey, Fishburne, Galonski, Gray, M. Healy, T. Healy, Johnson, Kinsella, Kuhn, Kerndt, Livingston, Larkin, Lipmann, Murphy, McErlain, Minnis, Meyer, McCarthy, McGinnis, McDermott, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, W. McGorrisk, McEniry, Nash, Noonan, O’Reilly, O’Neill, O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Paquette, Pierson, Pillars, Ryan, Rettig, Rasche, Ruger, W. Schofield, Solon, W. Smith, E. Smith, C. Smith, Steis, Sturla, Tinley, Tracy, Treon, White, F. Yrisarri, Zettler, Mason, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Archer, Browne, Bacon, Barron, Brewster, Buchanan, Baca, Barnard, Boone, Bowers, Campau, Colyar, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtuey, W. Coghlin, Devine, Dolan, Devoto, Drendel, Danielson, N. Ewing, Ed. Fishel, Fred Fishel, Freyermuth, French, J. Flynn, M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Florman, Gibert, Graham, Grever, Gerlach, E.
Gall, A. Gall, Guthrie, Gallagher, Hoffman, Hibbeler, Hurley, Howard, Hanavin, Heffernan, Halligan, Jeannot, Johnson, Kelly, Kolars, Kengel, Kitz, Kahman, Lund, Livingston, Laumann, Lewis, McGordon, J. McGrath, McPhillips, Murdock, Mahon, Meyer, Neeson, Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, J. O’Donnell, Orsinger, C. Porter, H. Porter, Peery, Quill, Ryan, Richmond, Rose, J. C. Ruppe, V. Rivaud, L. Rivaud, Roper, Smeeth, Snee, Schaefer, Tappan, Taylor, Taggart, Vernier, Williams, Warner, Wilbur, Metz, Warren, Zaehnle, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Brandom, Beall, Berthelet, Chirhart, C. Campau, P. Campau, F. Coad, Chaves, Cur--ran, Cummings, Devitt, Ryan Devereux, J. Devereux, Dwenger, Dirksmeyer, Davison, W. Devine, A. Devine, Frain, Fehr, Graham, G. Gibson, P. Gibson, J. Garrity, F. Garritty, Hewitt, Hynes, Hopkins, Johnson, A. Kelly, J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, Kellner, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McCawley, McGordon, Masi, C. Metz, Miller, Nash, J. Nester, F. Nester, Norfolk, O’Connor, F. Otis, A. Otis, Piatt, Papin, Pick, Peters, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Powell, G. Price, E. Price, Quinlin, Roberts, Rebori, Rose, Roper, Stange, Sommer, Schmitz, Studebaker, Tong, Thomas, Vosburgh, Welch, Walsh, Whitney, Winsor, L. Young, C. Young.	•
* Omitted by mistake last week. ’
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their ’ classes during the month past.]	.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. O’Reilly, Becerra, Galonski, Larkin, Morse, Steiger, Fitzgerrell, Jas Delaney, Clements, Kavanaugh, Minnis, McEniry, Vander Haden, Grout, E. Fenlon, T. Fenlon, C. Smith, Smeeth, Gibert, Yrisarri, Browne, Neeson, Peery, Graham, Zaehnle, Jones, Kahman, Lund, Hibbeler, F. Fishel, Howard, McPhillips, Rosenheim, Quill, Murdock, Gerlach, Kitz, Hanavin, Castillo, A. Gall, Halligan, Drendel, Wilbur, L. Rivaud, J. V. O’Donnell, Brewster, H. Foote, Danielson, Vernier, Osborn, Wile, Meyer.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Brandom, Berthelet, Chirhart, C. Campau, P. Gampau, Coad, Chaves, Curran, Cummings, Devitt, Ryan Devereux, Dwenger, Dirksmeyer, W. Devine, Frain, Fehr, G. Gibson, P. Gibson, F. Garrity, Hewitt, Hynes, J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, Masi, Nash, F. Nester, Norfolk, O’Connor, F. Otis, A. Otis, Piatt, Papin, Pick, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Powell, E. Price, Roberts, Rebori, Stange, Sommer, Schmitz, Studebaker, Tong, Thomas, Vosburgh, Welch, Walsh, Whitney, Winsor, L. Young, C. Young.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the-courses named—accord- . ing to the competitions, which are held monthly—Director of Studies.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography— M. Van Loon; Grammar —Messrs. Danielson, Wilbur, Halligan, Kahman, Bacon, O’Donnell, Richmond, HofMan, Peery; Arithmetic— Messrs. Van Loon, Smeeth, J. V. O’Donnell; Geography and History—Messrs. Zaehnle, J. McGrath, O’Donnell, Hess, Brewster, Wile, Drendel,Peery; Penmanship-; Algebra—Messrs. Fishburne, Kolars, W. Bailey, Johnson, Heffernan, C. Murdoch Barron; Latin—Messrs. Farrell, Heffernan, Kolars, T. Healy, Fleming, Browne, McIntyre, McDermott; Greek—Messrs. Cleary, T. Clarke, G. Clarke; Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Drendel, .Gerlach, Hibbeler, Zaehnle, Meyer, Danielson, Quill, Rivaud; German— Messrs. E. Fishel, E. Gall.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters P. Gibson, Dwenger, W. Prindiville, Welch, Nash, F. Nester, J. J. McGrath, Norfolk, Frain, F. Otis, Whitney, Brandom, R. Otis, Adams. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
529
jjfarg’s ^tiuknig.
One A file West of Notre Dame University.
Different Standpoints.
In arranging pictures for exposition, we find each artist very eager to secure for his work a good light, and very anxious that the critics view it from a favorable position. This is easily understood ; for everyone knows that the most admirable painting- may pass unnoticed if viewed from an unfavorable standpoint, while one with but few good .touches may elicit over-much praise if put in a favorable light.
This well-established fact may seive to explain the conflicting opinions we often hear expressed by sincere people, in regard to persons, evpnts, places, and things. No two of them has taken the same standpoint. Tor the endless variety of time, circumstance, and individual temperament pre-• vents any two persons from seeing the same subject in precisely the same light, hence the seeming discrepancies and contradictions to be found even in the accounts given of many historical and local facts.
It is interesting to hear the same scenes and in-dividuals described by persons who looked at them from different points of view. The military man, looking from his standpoint, sees in a terrible battle something magnificent. The tender-hearted woman, looking from the standpoint of home and family affection, sees cruel carnage, hears the wails of the wounded and the cries of the heartbroken mothers, wives and children, left desolate by the terrible conflict.
When these United States of America attempted to establish their independence, Washington and his brave officers, soldiers and sympathizers were spoken of by the English as ungrateful, arrogant rebels, while the lovers of liberty honored them with the' title of w brave, self-sacrificing patriots.” Each party looked from a different standpoint. As with great actions and nations, so with individual character. Has not each individual as many characters as there are persons to judge him, and standpoints from which he may be viewed? And oh, what a very different person he appears when seen from the standpoint of self-love and blind affection, or in the light of severe, though just criticism! The fond mother, for instance, gives a glowing picture of the beauty and lovable qualities of her dear children; hear the same children described by those who are simply indifferent to them, and you cannot imagine that the same persons could have been the originals of such different pictures. Let us humbly hope that our guardian angels see us as our dear mothers see o	o
US.
Some persons are gifted with the happy faculty of making life a series of tenderly beautiful, nat
ural pictures, and sublimely grand religious views* These happy beings look at everything from the most favorable standpoint, and provided they do not, by a fictitious kindness, try to falsify the truth, or attempt to justify or ornament vice, such people are always beloved, for they carry sunshine wherever they go. Others, of an unhappy temperament, seem just as determined to produce unmeaning or disagreeable pictures. Such people would sketch London in a fog, or choose a dark, rainy night in which to photograph our beautiful St. Mary’s. They never fail when picturing an object or subject to take a standpoint that will include everything that can detract from the beauty or reputation of the originals. Fortunately, such gloomy artists are not numerous. It is indeed very important that we find out from what standpoint persons have viewed a subject before we accept their opinions, for, alas! many allow their prejudices so to influence them that they determine beforehand never to look at any object or subject except from the standpoint of their individual likes, dislikes and personal interest; but generous, intelligent minds are ever willing to look at a subject from .all sides, and only when they have thus viewed it, do they come to a positive decision. Such noble souls seek the whole truth for the love of truth, not parts of the truth for their own gratification. They, eagle-like, soar above the smoke and dust of petty interests and prejudices, and look at life’s pictures from a sublime standpoint.
It is often perplexing to choose between the conflicting testimony of persons equally entitled to credence, but by hearing both sides a pretty correct view of the matter may be obtained. Yet how many, whose influence is widespread, rashly write, and speak strongly, on subjects that they have never taken the trouble to investigate, except from some unfavorable standpoint! Thus they present us with such unpleasant pictures of the most beautiful objects that we never wish to see the originals. This fact may be easily and pleasingly illustrated by supposing an artist sent to take views of the beautiful stained-glass windows of the church at Notre Dame. The said artist does not enter the church, but paints a picture of each window as it appears to him from the outside; most unsightly pictures these would be; very faithful, it is true, but he would be pronounced a very ignorant or unjust artist, were he to present them as true pictures of those much-admired stained-glass windows.
In listening to the opinions of others, great allowance must be made for differences of education and association, for these have much to do with the manner in which things are. viewed. Hence it is unjust, as well as unreasonable for persons to be angry at others for not seeing things as they see them. Instead of getting angry, would it not be better for each to look at the subject from the standpoint of the opposite party? . This would create a mutualz forbearance, for we all listen more readily to the arguments of those who are willing to look at our side of the question than to arbitrary
53°	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
opinions, which, though they may convince the mind, can never persuade the heart. That this interchange of standpoints just recommended is favorable to truth and charity may also be illustrated by the church at Notre Dame. Let us suppose two g-entlemen visiting’ Notre Dame. One, seeing the church only from the outside, is not at all favorably impressed; and being unaccustomed to stained-glass windows, he pronounces them simply a patch work of daubed glass. The other gentleman is a connoisseur in art, and goes inside of the Church; he is delighted with the architecture, the ornamentation, and those windows! why, they ' are exquisite gems of sacred art! These two gentlemen meet, and the first expresses his depreciating opinion of Notre Dame church in general, and those horrid, patched-up windows in particular. The second gentleman is disgusted and shocked at such injustice and flatly contradicts what he considers an untruthful statement, and praises the church in glowing language. They are both about to get angiy, but the wisest of them proposes to go back to Notre Dame and exchange standpoints. The former outside gentleman now goes inside of the church, and oh, what confusion he feels to see how rashly unjust he has been not only in his opinion of that admirable structure, but also to the enthusiastic but truthful admirer of the beautiful church! The former inside gentleman, now looking at the building from the outside, much regrets his angry feelings at the depreciating remarks that annoyed him, for he sees that from the outside certainly the building was not very attractive nor the windows very beautiful. They now meet in an amiable mood. The enthusiastic admirer has learned a lesson of patient forbearance with those who differ from him. The other, that he should never form an opinion of an edifice till he has seen it from more than one standpoint, and the proper standpoint from which to view stained-glass windows is from.the position intended by the artist who painted them, viz., inside of the church. Thus an exchange of standpoints has produced the happiest results for the cause of charity and truth.
What has been said in regard to mutual patience and forbearance with those whose tastes and opinions differ from each other, does not of course imply that we must accept or defend what is morally wrong; for the law of God teaches us that everyone must, when there is a question of duty, be judged from the standpoint of the personal- obligations of his state of life. The parent, the child, the citizen, the soldier, the statesman, the ruler, the religious, the priest, and all other states and conditions in society, have each a standpoint of positive duty, which cannot lawfully be ignored; thus, while every latitude is given in regard to the position from which individuals may view the grand panorama of life, yet when we wish to get a right view of things relating to Faith and morals there is a standpoint to which God Himself directs us, viz.: His holy Church. From this standpoint we see our obligations in that divine, supernatural light emanating from the counte
nance of Him who from His majestic throne sees all things at a glance.
Thus illuminated and directed in our views of all that is of vital importance, we may safely and joyously look at the minor pictures of life from every variety of standpoint.
S. M.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT deportment; and observance of rules.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Feehan, Wiley, Bland, Beal, Maude Price, M. Campbell, R. Fishburne, L. Lancaster, A. Price, Rasche, Simms, Vanderhayden, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Edie Call, Butts, Barlow, Etta Call, M. Fishburne, Hackett, A. Leydon, Mowry, Owens, Margaret Price, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Thompson, Todd, Chirhart, Sawyer, Wallace, Behler, L. English, Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Adderly, Clifford, Wagner, Harrigan, Newton, Metzger, Castanedo, B. English, Gavan, Mulvey, Smith, Northrop, Ives, M. Eldridge, 2d Tablet— Misses Dillon, Fox, Chrischellis, Donnelly, Fendrick, L. Heneberry, McKenna, A. Nash, H. Nash, Shickey, Wall, ' Black, M. Casey, Coryell, Legnard, McCoy, McGordon, Mary Price, Papin, Rosing, J. Reilly, Rulison, Thomann, Fenlon, Fleming, Williams, Green, H. Hickss, N. Hick, J. Pampell, Parker, M. Watson.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C.^ Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, Chirhart, Considine, Coogan, Dillon, Heneberry, O’Neill, Paquette, Robertson, Mosher, A. Martin, Fehr, McGrath, -Sullivan, Chaves, Richmond, Mary . Otis, Schmidt. 2d Tablet—Misses A. Clarke, M. Ducey, Welch, Coyne, Krick, Best, Condron, Otero, Mattes.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses N. Brown,' Campeau, H. Castanedo, Rigney, Sawyer, Burtis, McGrath, Martha Otis, A. English.
List of Excellence.
[The following young ladies mentioned are those who have been the best in the classes of the Course named, according to the Competitions held during the past month.]
French—Misses Galen, C. Lancaster, Feehan, Bland, Richmond, Otero, Sawyer; German—Misses L. Van Patten, H. Van Patten, Todd, Keenan, E. Call, Eldridge, Considine; Astronomy—Misses M. Clarke, A. Dillon, L. Fox, Feehan, Hanbury, L. Lancaster; History—Misses Claffey, Cavenor, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, M. Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Wiley, Barlow, Butts, Etta Call, Casey, R. Fishburne, Ginz, Keenan, Legnard, C. Lancaster, 'McCoy, A. Rulison, Shickey, Semmes; Chemistry—Misses Simms, L. Lancaster, Edie Call, Fendrick, McKenna, Ave Price, M. A. Ryan, Todd, Rasche, Wall; Philosophy—Misses Barlow, Butts, Black, Etta Call, Chrischellis, A. Chirhart, L. English, M. Fishburne, R. Fishburne, Ginz, Keenan, Legnard, McKenna, McCoy, Owens, Papin, Mary Price, Ave Price, Margaret Price, M. A. Ryan, Rulison A. Richardson, Ramsey, Shickey, Spangler, Thompson, Todd, Waters; Rhetoric—Misses Edie Call, E. Chrischellis, M. Campbell, K. Campbell, R. Fishburne, Fendrick, L. Lancaster, McKenna, A. Price, Rasche, M. A. Ryan, Simms, L. Shickey, K. Wall; Grammar—Misses Adderly, Ducey, A. Eager, Fleming, C. Harrigan, Reutlinger, M. Chirhart, Coogan, N. Hicks, A. Clarke, Green, Ives, A. Castanedo, M. Dillon, K. Ducey, A. Martin, Morgan, G. O’Neill, S. Campeau, Coyne, Chaves, Haney, Mattis, Mary Otis, Richmond, Robinson, Rigney, Sawyer, Schmidt. '