HIGH LIGHTS
Bonfire Tonight Lawyers' Dance Four-Year Plan New Lay Trustees Beat Southern Cal.
Vol. 75
Number 8
November 21, 1941

THANKSGIVING: ALL THIS AND TURKEY TOO
Charles T. Fisher
President, Fisher Co., Detroit, Mich.
Joseph P. Kennedy
Former Ambassador to Great Britain
Terence Cosgrove
Alumnus, Los Angeles Attorney
William J. Corbett
Chicago Businessman
John J. O’Brien '
South Bend Lathe Works
George L. O’Brien
O’Brien Varnish Co., South Bend
New Trustees Appointed
The above men have been apointed to the newly expanded Board of Trustees of the University. The Associate Board of Lay Trustees, has been increased this year from 16 to 24 members. The group, now expanded, was organized in the fall of 1920, and charged with the responsibility of holding, investing, and administering the endowment funds of the University. The members of the Board are elected for a term of six years.
Joseph A. LaFortune Alumnus, Tulsa Oil Man
Walter Duncan
Alumnus, LaSalle, III. Businessman
COLLEGE PARADE
■—■ By ROBERT LeMENSE
The Navy Log
“Published weekly from October until June by the Midshipmen of the United States Naval Academy”—says the masthead. A magazine, one half inch wider and longer than the Scholastic. Each issue is built around some central theme as Plebe Issue, Football Issue, Advertising Issue, etc. Humor for the most part is kept on the clean side—with occasional lapses. Writing is tops most of the time — exceptional sports treatment. Good photography and good cartoons although many of the latter cater principally to a naval audience, and rightly so. Overall blow: VERY GOOD. (Editor’s Note: This columnist is not an aspiring Naval R.O.T.C. man.)
I. Q.: 42.6
The two were painting the ceiling. Said the one on the floor holding the ladder to the one painting:
“Say, do you have a good hold on that paint brush?”
“Yeah.”
“Well hold on, I’m taking the ladder with me.”
—The Current Sauce
Our favorite in the moron series concerns the three “mo’s” who dug the ditch six feet by five feet by 10 feet. After the job was all done, they proceeded to fill in the hole again. The hole was filled and still quite a pile of dirt remained. Said moron number one to moron number three.
“See you idiot, I told you we should have dug this deeper!”
"Sauce for the Gander"
The above is the title of a column written by Max Shulman for the Minnesota Daily. Every once in a while Max cuts a little burlesque with his typewriter. Here’s a little bit that caught our fancy:
“IN THE FAR EAST, A JAPANESE BATTALION was annihilated when it was ambushed by Chinese guerillas who were camouflaged to resemble a rice field. “Darn clever, these Chinese,” said Premier Tojo of Japan when he was informed of the incident. H. V. Kattlehom, the noted news analyst, summed up Premier To jo’s statement thus: “The good-natured reply of Premier Tojo will go a long way toward improving Far Eastern relations.”
“In the winter quarters of the Ringling Brothers circus, four more elephants dropped dead, bringing the total to 12. These deaths have circus men and veterinarians baffled. There seems to be no explanation for the sudden demise of the pachyderms.
“H. B. KATTLEHORN, noted news analyst, summarized the elephants’ death thus: “The demise of the elephants must be due to one of three causes: First, it could be a natural death. But what is natural about 12 elephants dropping dead? This is the most unnatural thing I could think of.
“Second, it could be murder. But why should anybody want to murder 12 elephants? If someone has murdered these beasts out of sheer mischief, I think he should be ashamed of himself.
“Third, it could be suicide. But why? Mr. Ringling told the press that the elephants were very happy, and suicide was the last thing in their minds.
“I am afraid that this mystery will go down in the annals of crime as unsolved.”
No War or AEF — Ohio State
Again the campus poll of student opinion. The Ohio State Lantern did the honors. To “Should the U. S. declare war on Germany now?”—83% said NO. On three separate questions asking if army, naval, or air force aid should be sent to Britain came 88% NO, 73% NO, and 78% NO respectively.
Pictures Don't Lie or the Veracity of "Life"
Many of you saw the article, or rather the series of pictures, on a pep rally at Northwestern University — the series appeared in Life magazine. We have lifted these few items from the Nov. 11 issue of the Northwestern Daily—read these and then look over the series again.
“Everyone seems to be talking so about Northwestern’s band and the general Jack of school spirit at football games this fall that I might as well add my two cents’ worth too.”
“Life’s spread on Northwestern’s preMichigan pep rally was interesting in light of the fact that most students are continually bemoaning the fact that this is a sophisticated institution entirely lacking in school spirit. Life presents us
as a hysterical bunch with an overwhelming love for our football team whom we affectionately call the Wildcats. You should read it. It will make you feel absolutely typical.”
Well, Tie Mah Shoe!
Two colored gentlemen, who had just reduced the population of a farmer’s hen roost, were making a getaway.
“Laws, Mose,” gasped Sam, “why do you s’pose them flies follows us so close?”
“Keep gallopin’,” said Mose, “them ain’t flies, them’s buckshot.”
Dire Predictions
Visited the University, of Michigan recently. Listened to the Navy game in an atmosphere about as friendly as Churchill would run into in a Munich beer parlor. Most of the U. of M’ers were pro-Navy. After N. D. won, they contented themselves with ominous warnings as to the way their big boys, Kuzma, White, Ceithaml etc. would trample over the Irish next year. Thinking of Rymkus, Ziemba, Neff, Dove etc., we nodded gravely, “Yes, we will certainly have to find some big boys, but Frank Leahy can probably uncover something.”
W. P. A. Special
The superintendent of an Insane Asylum noticed an inmate, who had been an inventor, pushing a wheelbarrow upside down.
“Why do you have it upside down?” asked the superintendent.
“You don’t think I’m crazy, do you?” was the reply. “I pushed it right side up yesterday and they kept filling it with gravel.”
—Queen’s Journal
Miss X. Pensive
I knew a girl named Passion
I asked her out for a date.
I took her to dinner.
Gosh! How passionate.
—Awgzvan
Highway 31
Ruth rode in my new overdrive.
On the seat in back of me,
I hit a bump at fifty-five, And rode on ruthlessly.
—The Old Maid ❖
Holding — 15 Yards!
“The referee for today’s game is at the gate with two friends. Shall I pass them in?” inquired the gatekeeper of the coach.
“A referee with two friends!” gasped the coach. “Sure!”
3
THE WEEK
NEXT WEEK
By John A. Lynch
By J. Q. O'Connell
Top of the Week:
Revenge for 1938!
Move Over, Nostradamus!
The copy for this column is supposed to be in five days ahead of publication, which makes our 75-watt crystal ball very useful in dishing up news hot off the pen of Old Man History. Gazing into the fiery filaments, as of Monday, here’s what we found will have occurred by Friday:
Nov. 17: Adolph Hitler assassinated.
Nov. 18: Josef Stalin assassinated.
Nov. 19: Benito Mussolini assassinated.
Nov. 20: Win. Churchill assassinated.
Nov. 21: Mr. Roosevelt left today for an unnamed destination, on an extended fishing trip.
If any of these little items have happened as this is read—not a cent less than half a million, Hollywood!
Hot Stuff:
While the great bon-fire idea was still in its infancy, there was some question about the site. A couple of Lyons Hallers suggested a gigantic thing, with Badin Hall as its base, but Father McAvoy is said to have had a few mild objections.
"After Playing A Great . Game."
We were quite put out last Saturday when the announcer up at Dyche Stadium failed to introduce himself. He was such a jolly, friendly fellow, with a kind word for everybody.... Speaking of announcers reminds us: If Ted Husing should be around tomorrow, we hope that Jack Bermingham, or Mr. Petritz, or somebody, will tell him that our halfbacks don’t remind us of Red Cagle of Army, or Johnny Butler of Georgia, or Joe Zilch of Slippery Rock. From where we sit they look a lot like Notre Dame meh, which is good enough for our money.
❖
It Can't Happen Here
Rector: “So you’re taking a midnight, are you, Thomas?”
Thomas: “Yes, Father.”
Rector: “You know you’re scheduled
BEAT SOUTHERN
4
CALIFORNIA
to serve my mass tomorrow morning at 6:05?”
Thomas: “Yes, Father.”
Rector: “Well, as long as you’re staying out late tonight, it will be all right if you don’t show up until 6:10.”
Hither and Yon
Byron Vincent Kanaley, known to his intimates as “Moonface,” suggested the other day that every American soldier be outfitted with a violin, so the army could fiddle while London burned. His comment was so cleverly worded that he has since received congratulatory telegrams from both “America First,” and “Aid to the Allies.”
We were thumbing through the bound volumes of this publication in the library the other day, in an attempt to discover what made Wemhoff and his predecessors so successful as authors of this column. The answer was: feuds. Frank always had a good running feud a-going, so we’ve oiled up the typewriter, and now we’re all set. Come on, LeMense, rare up and be nasty at us.
Joe “Dynamite” Dimond has asked us to convey, through this medium, his best wishes to all the beautiful young ladies who will be visiting the campus over the week-end. Joe has posted a blank sheet of paper on the Alumni Hall board, where they are to write their names, addresses, and telephone numbers. Joe also asks that the girls limit the list to 50 names, as, by his own confession, he is a rather slow worker.
We noted with delight that rutabagas wer scheduled for the Thanksgiving Day dinner. We say “with delight” because we saw a man eat some once, and it was a joy to watch his face.
New Low Dept.
Last Monday several football players from one of our rival schools enlightened us, via the airwaves, with their personal ratings of the opponents they had faced. Minnesota was the toughest; Michigan, the smartest; Indiana, the fightingest, etc. Our unfortunate' aggregation was labeled “the team we should have beaten.” To these two stalwart lads, for their Moonday morning quarterbacking, we give: THE BOTTOM OF THE WEEK.
SATURDAY, NOV. 22:
Southern California vs. Notre Dame, Notre Dame stadium, sell-out crowd watches Irish finish an undefeated season, home-comers in usual jovial mood, Notre Dame’s gifts to the Navy march in first dress parade, 1:30 p.m.
Movie, “Remedy for Riches,” Disney cartoon and news, 6:40 and 8:00 p.m.
Victory Dance, sponsored by the Student Commission for Decent Literature, music by Jack Molloy’s orchestra, Progress Club, 8:30 p.m.
SUNDAY, NOV. 23:
Radio Club, auditions for those interested in trying out as sports commentators, preferably those with a good sports background, radio studio in Engineering Building, 11:00 a.m.
The Interhall football championships, Walsh vs. Zahm, "Notre Dame Stadium, 2:00 p.m.
MONDAY, NOV. 24:
Preregistration in courses for second semester, through Wednesday.
Track Meet, National Collegiate, Notre Dame squad goes to East Lansing, Mich.
Newscast, Vail Pischke and Jack Kelly cover the campus, WSBT, 4:15 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 26:
Notre Dame Symphonic Band, “Tiger Rag” in concert style, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Engineers Club meeting, technical and football movies, Engineering Building auditorium, 7:30 p.m.
THURSDAY, NOV. 27:
Thanksgiving Day again; those who missed it last week will find the turkey cold. ’
Campus Quiz, Notre Dame students match wits with members of the fairer half of a South Bend high school, WSBT, 4:00 p.m.
Charity Ball, St. Mary’s College, invitations still being sent out, see your local mail man.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered aa second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
NOVEMBER 21, 1941
Number 8
ULUS WILL LIGHT FIRE AT PEP MEETING TONIGHT AS SOUTHERN CAL. GAME FESTIVITIES GET UNDER WAY
On Monday evening Student Council Prexy Gene Schumaker sat happily in the cafe and ate his steak, fried potatoes
GENE SCHUMAKER
and catsup. Things were going well; he had a big appetite. On Tuesday and Wednesday his diet slackened, his brow was furrowed with worry. By Thursday evening he was gulping cokes, nipping hurriedly at hamburgers. Reason:
the Student Council had been doing big things so far this year. On Friday night they were promoting their biggest.'
Eugene Schumaker had good reason to worry. Tonight the Council will stage a big bonfire, the first for a long time at Notre Dame. He wanted it to be a success. Added to this he had other woes: hall decorations, the pep meeting at the bonfire.
Impetus behind all this activity is Notre Dame’s football team, which hopes tomorrow night to be the first undefeated outfit since the days of Knute Rockne. As the team won games this season, student spirit picked up, reached a peak on Navy and Northwestern week-ends. It is the job of the Student Council to keep this spirit at a peak, to climax the season with a great display of loyalty . for the team.
Tonight after supper the band will meet students outside the dining halls and lead them across the campus in a torchlight parade to the scene of the bonfire near Notre Dame Avenue. At • the bonfire will be a platform for speakers, bleachers for guests, floodlights illuminating the scene. On the program will be Pat Manion, dean of the College of Law, and Frank Leahy. Others contacted to speak but not definitely confirmed by the time the Scholastic went to press were Don Ameche, Arch Ward, and Elmer Layden.
After the work of the pep meeting is over Paul Lillis, captain of the Fighting Irish, will light the bonfire and the Glee
Club will swing into their melodies.
On Saturday a group of judges will view the various hall decorations and pick out the winner. This week chairmen of various hall decoration committees assumed mysterious airs and hid well the secrets of their decorative designs. Heading the list as favorite for the award is Dillon Hall. All week long energetic committeemen worked by floodlight in the rear of the Gold Coast hall, consuming the $75 appropriated by hall residents for their decorations. By Friday they had reared a gigantic Trojan in front of their hall, stepped back satisfied with their work.
There were other men doing mysterious work this week. They were members of the student council, appointed to dig up material for the fire. All week long they hounded down available material. On Thursday they assembled the stuff at a chosen spot; on Friday they worked hard to set it up for this evening’s festivities.
Dillon Hall: $75 for a Trojan
Army Air Corps Exams Will Be Given Soon
We were up to see Major Tom McConnell, advance member of Aviation Cadet Examining Board, Monday afternoon and got the straight information about the Army Air Corps. Major McConnell announced another chance for , Notre Dame students to avail themselves of the opportunity of attending the Army Air Corps Officer’s Schools. All week, Major McConnell has been interviewing those men who feel that their qualifications call for officer’s training rather than allowing themselves to be simply called to duty as a selective service trainee. All college men have a special opportunity in the Air Corps and this coming week many of the Notre Dame students will take their physical examination.
The major announced that the Army Cadet Examining Board will be at the University each day starting Monday the 24th through Friday the 28th. The examinations will start each morning at 8:30 a.m., and those men wishing to take the physical examination should appear before the board at that time with their complete application made out in triplicate, three letters of recommendation, their birth certificate or documentary evidence thereof, and a transcript of their college credits. Men. with two years of college will be exempt from the later mental examinations.
Men passing the physical examination and either exempt from the mental or passing it, will be sent to the Army “West Point of the Air” for 35 weeks of intensive training, during which they will receive more than 200 hours of actual flying in Army planes. They will graduate as second lieutenants in the Army Air Corps Reserve with an income of $245 per month, and a bonus of $500 for each year of active duty—paid upon return to civil life.
An effort is now being made to get enough Notre Dame men started on the way to Army cadet schools to form a Knute Rockne Flying Unit. To qualify for the physical examination men must, be: 20 and not 27; a citizen for the past ten years; physically sound; unmarried; and have at least a high school educa
5
tion. (Men with two years of college are exempt from later educational examination.)
During the 35 week training period the government takes out a $10,000 term policy on the potential flyer, and at the expiration of that period the aviatormay continue the policy himself on a very economical basis.
If a student is “washed out” in the piloting- school, he is generally given a chance in one of the other departments of the Air Corps. These other possibilities include the assignments of navigator, armament man, bombardier, radio technician, and chemistry specialist. (Naturally, for these last two positions there are the customary prerequisites.)
In the course of Major McConnell’s talks until the inquiring students he commented that this war will be to the airplane what the first maelstrom was to the automobile. Instead of a boy buying a Model T, he’ll invest his savings in a used Piper Cub. The Major also averred that at the end of this emergency, virtually every university in the nation will comprise a school of aeronautics.
There it is fellows—the best and most profitable way to avoid the draft we know of.—Ed Adams
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Erskine Country Club
Scene of Law Club Ball
Tonight’s the night. Approximately 50 future jurists, their dates, and guests of the Notre Dame Law Club, will congregate at the annual Law Club ball this evening at the Erskine Country Club. Tunes for the occasion will be provided by Bob Richardson and his Modernaires. Richardson, a popular figure on the campus, is the Law Club representative on the Student Council.
The ball will be one of the highlights of the Notre Dame homecoming, and tomorrow members of the Law Club and their dates will sit in a special reserved section of the stadium when the Irish take on the Trojans of Southern California.	.
Queen of the ball will be Miss Jane Cagney, Chicago damsel, who will be the guest of John Ward, law student from Barrington, Ill., who resides in Walsh halt Ward is general chairman of the ball.
Guest of honor at the ball will be Miss Elizabeth Morrow, of Seneca Ill. She is the guest of Ed Kelly, also of Seneca, who, like Ward, is also a Walsh hall habitant. Kelly is president of the Law Club.
Prominent personages who have been
. . . one of the highlights of the Notre Dame homecoming . . .
invited to the ball include Dean and Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, Hon and Mrs. John P. McGoorty, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. F. Konop, Mr. and Mrs. William D. Rol-lison, Mr. and Mrs. Elton E. Richter, Mr. and Mrs. Homer Q. Earl, Mr. and Mrs. James J. Kearney, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Abrahams, Mr. and Mrs. Milton A. Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. Francis Jones, Mr. John H. A. Whitman and Mrs. F. A. Leyes. Of this group Manion is dean of the College of Law, McGoorty is judge in the Cook County superior court in Chicago, and Jones and Johnson are prominent South Bend attorneys.
Officers of the Law Club are Edward J. Kelly, president; John W. Barry, vicepresident; Robert E. Sullivan, secretary; Peter T. Alonzi, treasurer; and Robert E. Richardson, representative on the Student Council.
Committees working on the ball are: Music, Richard F. Swisher, chairman ; Allan Burns, Edward Porten, Ward Rafferty, and Charles Murray; Hall, James J. McGoldrick, chairman; Jordan Hamel, Mervin Bagan, Theodore Frericks, John Speca; Reception, Henry P. Schrenker, chairman, John Killen, William Hosinski, William Mooney, Harry Murray; Invitations, Joseph J. Barr, chairman; James Divar, Anthony Bernard, Thomas Gillespie, James McVay; Decorations, John H. Verdonk, chairman; James Neu, Alex Tsiolis, Leo Linck, Lawrence Ferguson; Football Tickets, Rocco J. Montegna, chairman; Joseph Miller, James -Lancaster, Timothy Green, James Lang; Pziblicity, Ernest C. Timpani, chairman; Jerome O’Dowd, John Meyer, Timothy Mahar, Robert Sinon; Arrangments, Cecil E. Jordan, chairman; Daniel Dahill,
BEAT SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
Henry Anderson, Charles Hasson, and William Syring.—Dave Condon.
Knights To Sponsor Annual Variety Show
Despite all rumors to the contrary, the Knights of Columbus announced early this week that they would definitely conduct the annual K. of C. Vaudeville in mid-December.
Tom Tearney and Bill Hickey, with the able assistance of Jack Whelan, will personally supervise the affair. These men have been singularly successful in presenting both last years’ vaudeville show and the Frosh Fete earlier this semester. -
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., a pastmaster in the art of entertainment, will act in the capacity of advisor to the committee. It was through Fathei-Burke’s suggestion, two years ago, that this show, once the leading entertainment presentation of the schoolyear, was resumed after a period of a few years.
The prizes offered by the Knights are $25 for the winner, $15 for the runner-up and $10 for that performer who wins third place.
Competition is open to anyone on the campus. Two years ago, Jack Whelan carried away the first place money with his magic; and last year Reggie Flynn’s orchestra proved to be the best on an excellent program.
More announcements about this affair will be found in later issues of the Scholastic. But in the meantime prospective competitors are advised to begin practice on their acts. .
ADMINISTRATION
Famous Artists Work on Centennial Project
Anyone who dropped in at the recent art exhibit in the library must have been impressed by the sculptures of Eugene Kormendi and the paintings of his wife, the former Elizabeth Fejervary. To many people in the United States and Europe, these names are synonymous with the best in contemporary art. To students of Notre Dame these are the names of two internationally famous Hungarian artists now living in South Bend, who left their native Budapest some years ago, studied in Rome, Berlin, and Paris before coming in 1939 from Holland to America.
Now employed by the University, Mr. Kormendi works in a studio on the top floor of the Administration Building. There he dexterously molds figures from clay, or fashions them from wood, terracotta, bronze, or plaster, for as he says “a European sculptor must be able to work in any medium.” For next year’s centennial celebration he is preparing a large medal symbolizing a century of progress at Notre Dame. Besides his creative work here, Mr. Kormendi will teach in the summer art courses at the University, according to present plans.
. . modernist in his simplicity of style . .
The popular artists are also great travelers in their own right, their itinerary including major European and American cities. Kormendi has exhibited extensively in all of the European capitals and large cities, and is represented in many important museums. He studied in Paris under Rodin.
The press has been generous in its praise of his works. “Although Mr. Kormendi is a modernist in his simplicity of style,” says one, “he is accurate in his likenesss. Master of a flawless taste, he finds it unnecessary to dramatize his sculpturings.”
The most famous of Kormendi’s works include an heroic European war memorial of five continents represented by five lamenting women; a beautiful statue of the Empress Elizabeth of Hungary, in Budapest; and plaques bearing the portraits of Most Rev. John F. Noll, bishop, of the Fort Wayne diocese, and of Archbishop Samuel A. Stritch of Chicago.
Mrs. Kormendi studied with Matisse and has to her credit cheerful paintings of parks and beaches, and fine ceramics.
—Tom Clemens
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Fr. Boland Compiles
Pamphlet on Encyclicals
The Popes and Christian Citizenship, a pamphlet containing excerpts from Encyclical Letters of five popes, compiled by Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has been issued by the social action department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. The handbook considers the citizen in all the basic institutions of social and political life and treats such subjects as the origin of political authority, purpose of the state, rights of the family, duties and rights of the citizens, education, forms of government and church-state relations. The excerpts are from the Encyclical Letters of Popes Leo XIII, Pius X, Benedict XV, Pius XI, and Pius XII. Catholic Action for October says of the compilation: “A Vade Mecum for Democracy’s Defenders. The excerpts which Father Boland has chosen — and the matter of selection must have been a very difficult one, since the Encyclicals are so full of wisdom and guidance for our times — constitute a comprehensive indictment of the doctrine of unlicensed individualism to which the world has long subscribed and which has led to almost immeasur
able misery, and to slavery and despotism. At the same time they point out concretely the necessity of and the way to secure sound institutions for the preservation of the individual in ordered and self - disciplined freedom and peace — which is one of the professed aims of our democracy.”
Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C.
Father Boland organized the Department of Politics at the University in 1935, both the undergraduate and graduate division. Last year he collaborated with the Right Rev. Msgr. John A. Ryan, D.D., of Catholic University, Washington, D. C., in publishing a textbook entitled Catholic Principles of Politics which has been adopted in many Catholic colleges and universities.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Eminent Jurist To
Lecture at Notre Dame
Roscoe Pound, Dean Emeritus of the Harvard Law School, and one of the foremost jurists in America, will give a series of lectures at Notre Dame early in 1942. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University said in announcing these lectures: “On the invitation of Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law, and through the generous cooperation of an anonymous benefactor, I am happy to announce that Dean Emeritus, Roscoe Pound of the Harvard Law School will deliver a series of four lectures at Notre Dame the latter part of January.”
Dean Pound will take for his subject, “The Revival of Natural Law.” All members of the Bar Associations in Indiana and the neighboring states are invited and many prominent lawyers are expected to attend.
Father O’Donnell said that Dean Pound is the first of a group of dis
7
tinguished American scholars to be invited annually to lecture to the students of the College of Law, according to the policy adopted by Dean Manion and the faculty of the College.
Dean Pound has had one of the most distinguished careers in the history of legal education in America, culminating his work in the Harvard Law School, of which -he was dean from 1916 to 1936. He is the author of several.recognized books and is a widely quoted authority.
The lectures are scheduled to be held Jan. 22 to 26 inclusive.—Frank Kearns
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Indiana Academy of Science to Meet in Centennial Year
The 57th annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science was held at De Pauw University, Greencastle, Ind., from Oct. 30 to Nov. 1. Several members of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame read papers: “The Hydration of Mixtures of 1-Heptene and 1-Heptyne” by Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell and Mr. Edward J. Tomcik, “The Preparation and Reactions of Lithium Urea” by Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell and Dr. Barbara IL Campbell, “Equilibria in Solutions” by Dr. William H. Hamill, “Recent Trends in Plant Taxonomy (higher plants) ” by Dr. Theodor K. Just.
The invitation of the University of Notre Dame to hold its next annual meeting here was extended to the Indiana Academy of Science by Dr. E. G. Mahin, a past president of the Academy, and was unanimously accepted. For the ensuing year Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell was elected chairman of the Chemistry Section and Dr. Theodor K. Just vice-president of the Indiana Academy of Science.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Prof. DuBois Represents Notre Dame in Panama
From the Canal Zone this week came word that Prof. Benjamin DuBois, formerly professor of French at Notre Dame, is serving in the United States Army down there and what is more, enjoying it.
In response to a letter from Ed Drinkard, a former student, Prof. DuBois wrote this week of his experiences in Panama. The letter, by the way, was written in French and presented no mean problem in translation.
On Nov. 1, Prof DuBois, now Lt. Cel. DuBois, received a visit from Bishop O’Hara who was enroute to Santiago, Chile. This is only one of the professor’s contacts with Notre Dame, however. He has organized an Alumni Club consisting of 20 Notre Dame graduates who are in service down there. In addition, the N.D.
8
football games come in excellently south of the border, Prof. DuBois said.
Because of a shortage of men, the officers are obliged to act as their own cooks. The professor’s forte is pastry, but we have no corroboration for this.
In his letter, he inquired after several of the students he had known while at Notre Dame and added that he would be glad to hear from any of his former associates who found time to write.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Angus McDonald Dies
In the death last Saturday of Angus McDonald of the class of 1900, Notre Dame lost one of her most distinguished alumni. As an athlete and student, and later as a trustee he was not only an enthusiastic but an exemplary son of Notre Dame. His entire career, with the exception of three years, was spent with the Union Pacific Railroad in which he started as an accountant, becoming successively controller, vice-president, and ultimately president in 1932. From that position he directed the activities of more than 100 subsidiary companies. Even more conspicuous than his industrial acumen was his loyalty to his Church and his Alma Mater. In 1931 Pope Pius bestowed upon him Knighthood in the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. In the same year he was the speaker at Commencement at Notre Dame, and was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. A Requiem Mass for the repose of his soul was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church, Wednesday morning, by Father Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University.
Angus McDonald, R. I. P.
N. D. Professor Develops Teaching Technique
Mr. Reichle, past teacher and head of the speech department at St. Louis University High school, and a new member of the department of speech faculty at Notre Dame, begins his teaching here with a good bit of satisfaction. Never having taken a “speech lesson” in his life, Professor Reichle has developed, nevertheless, a method of teaching speech which although it cannot be said to be the last word in speech training, has proven itself to be highly successful in the past.
Proof that Mr. Reichle’s original manner of instructing the voice has proved to have a firm basis lies in the fact that one of his students of last year, a Phillip Reither of the St. Louis High school, was one of the 15 prominent St. Louis people nominated for the annual St. Louis civic award. Reither, was the first student, college or high school, ever to receive the much coveted nomination and was recommended because of the outstanding work he did last year in the field of public speaking.
Last year the various dioceses of the nation conducted speech meets to select speakers who were to participate in the national finals of the Mission Crusade oratorical contest held at Rochester, N. Y. The archdiocese of St. Louis the students at St. Louis University High school, where Mr. Reichle was instructor in oratory and declamation, merited first honors in all five divisions of the meet, together with three second awards.
Because of the great success of his students at St. Louis, as well as the fact that Mr, Reichle is a goodly speaker himself, Mr. Reichle has been conferred the title and honorary degree of Paladin Leader, by the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade. By virtue of this degree Mr. Reichle is entrusted with the power of conferring membership, is entitled to participate in all national round table discussions on procedure, as well as the right to attend all local and national conventions.
Mr. Reichle is a graduate of Columbia University, has taken six years of postgraduate work at the St. Louis University besides studying a year in Canada and spending some time at the Regis College in Denver, Colorado.—Pa^il Carr
Art Awards Presented to
Notre Dame Artists
At the first annual fall exhibition by St. Joseph County artists, two Notre Dame faculty members were awarded prizes. Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department of fine arts, was awarded the Outstanding prize for his portrait of Bishop John F. O’Hara, and Mr. Francis
J. Hanley was awarded the portrait prize for his painting, “Portrait of a Young Man in a Cricket Coat.” The model for this painting was a Notre Dame student, John J. Scherer, junior in the department of architecture.
The exhibition will continue at the Progress Club in South Bend through Nov. 7 and will be open daily to the public from two until five in the afternoon and from seven to eight-thirty in the evening.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Chern. Club Meets
The St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society will hold its second meeting of the year in the auditorium of the Engineering Building on Tuesday, Nov. 25, at 8:00 p.m.
—Tom Duffy
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Prof. Sessier Finishes
Historical Mural
Designed and executed by Professor Stanley S. Sessier, head of Notre Dame’s Art Department, a colorful mural of early South Bend, called The Portage at the St. Joe, was formally shown to the public Monday. Located in the new sixthfloor tea room of Robertson Brothers Department Store in South Bend, the mural sets the provincial theme of decoration for the entire room. .
The work measures six by sixteen feet and was done in oil. From left to right is painted a chronological panorama of prairies and forests, Indians and missionaries, pioneers and soldiers. The transition from the covered wagon to the railroad brings the mural to the Civil War period, where it ends. In a misty background, however, are evidences of present and future buildings of South Bend and vicinity. These include St. Mary’s College, the Log Chapel, and the Dome.
Proof that the mural represents more than meets the eye is the fact that it required historical research covering a year and a half. Two months of actual work on the large canvas were required. Mr. Sessier had invaluable assistance from a former pupil, Mr. Edward Reilly.
Over seven pounds of paints were required to finish the murals, and the completed work was fastened to the wall with an adhesive compound of concentrated turpentine and 25 pounds of white lead.—Tom Clemens
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Bishop O'Hara Speaks on Church of the Air
The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former president of the University, was guest speaker on the broadcast of
“Church of the Air” last Sunday morning, Nov. 16, in connection with the seventh national Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, which held its annual session in Philadelphia, Nov. 15 to 18.
The Congress drew more than 40,000 members of the clergy and laity. Sixty bishops from the United States and Canada and the ranking Hierarchy of each of the South American countries attended 70 meetings and listened to some 200 speakers.—Frank Kearns
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Better Pan-American
Relations Now—Alcayaga
In the opinion of Sefior Edward Alcayaga the prominence given in our papers to the purely sensational news of Central and South America has hindered strong cultural and commercial relations between those countries and the United States.
Senor Alcayaga, Spanish lawyer and professor from the State University of Chile and now teaching at Notre Dame, has been a student of Pan-American relations for many years. He has published a five-point program to strengthen rela-
.. For Alcayaga, more editorial writers..
tions between the United tSates and South America, and advocates first of all an improvement in the presentation of South American news in the American press. Other factors to promote relations include the appointment of leaders to direct the inter-state program; fostering the work done in schools, colleges, and universities; and publishing books and pamphlets that will educate the peoples of both Americas regarding one another.
Senor Alcayaga proposes a bureau for the purpose of translating into Spanish exery important article appearing in this country, and to translate into English worthwhile articles printed in Spanish publications. “The services of a skilled editorial writer on the great dailies of the various South American capitals should be engaged. His duties should consist in strengthening the bonds of the two Americas, and in directing the publication of the translated articles from the States in the Latin American newspapers.
The leaders to direct the program, the professor says, should be acquainted with the language and psychology of the various peoples and should know the country thoroughly. This can be accomplished only by residing several years in South America. Educational institutions, too, are expected to cooperate in the program and motion pictures are considered an important factor in the work of bettering relations.
According to Senor Alcayaga there has never been a more opportune time for strengthening the ties between the United States and South America.
—Charles Kleibacker
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Metallurgy Department Features New Exhibit
In the metallurgical laboratories of the Engineering Building there is a new glass-enclosed, chromium-plated exhibition case, containing bearings of all types and sizes manufactured in South Bend by the Bantam Bearing Corporation. Dr. Edward G. Mahin, head of the Metallurgy Department, announced the presentation of the gift last week.
Included in the display are ultraprecision bearings having tolerances, or allowances, of one ten-thousandth of an inch, and sections of the massive bronze cages which are used for holding in place the rollers of huge steel mill bearings. One hundred and eight of these rollers, each weighing 20 pounds, comprise the “rolling elements” of a modern steel mill bearing. In the collection may be seen many smaller types of ball and roller bearings, and a variety of the important bearings used in gun, tank, submarine and airplane construction.
Some of the bearings on display are chromium-plated. This, of course, is not the case when the part is actually in service; the chromium is used to prevent any deterioration of the metal, and, incidentally, adds a brightness and smartness to the whole display.
The case of bearings will remain as a permanent feature of the equipment in the Metallurgical Laboratories.
—J. H. Johnston
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus	Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers William Scanlan . John Dinges_____ William Baader .. Robert E. Brooks .
.....Managing Editor .....Promotion .....Sports Editor .....Art	Editor Administration Editor
Don Heltzel............................Campus	Editor
John A. Lynch ...............1..........Photo	Editor
Ed Drinkard ......................Staff	Photographer
Elmer Silha ............................Advertising
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 F'. M.; General Staff, 7 :00 P. M.
SENIOR JACKETS
Rumors are—as usual—rampant over the handling of the Senior class jackets. First discussed some weeks ago, the idea is rapidly approaching full realization. Therefore, we feel that the time has come to reveal the truth about this new campus policy.
There is to be no “racket” whatsoever in the selection and distribution of these jackets. The entire setup is to be managed by the K. of C. on a strct no-profit basis. The jackets will be sold to Seniors at cost plus a few cents to cover the actual expenses incurred. Thus all prospective buyers may be sure that their financial interests will be well protected. At the same time the selection of one of the most reputable clothing firms in the country is adequate proof that only the best materials will be used.
Because we consider this scheme to be an excellent example of the revival of student initiative in student affairs, we offer our full support to its sponsors.
We are not at all concerned with the actual sale of these jackets, since that will be left to the decision of the individual, obviously. But we are interested in the fact that such a decision can be made.
THANKSGIVING
Safe in our particular Shangri-La from the very real dangers of a not very pleasant world, we may well be grateful for this refuge from the coming storm. The future is none too bright no matter which particular branch of national policy you uphold. Our way of life will certainly be disrupted and may be completely changed during the next decade. Whatever the outcome, we all know full well that our generation will have to bear the brunt of the conflict—whether it be physical or otherwise. There is no neutrality for youth in a national emergency. Participate we must.
Since die future is so foreboding, there is all the more reason why we should be thankful for our present security. We have here at Notre Dame every opportunity to live a
full life and to develop at will every aspect of the fundamental character of man. We are limited only by our own spiritual capacity—and every day finds that capacity greater than before.
This shelter of sanity, then, is Notre Dame. While we may and often do complain about minor annoyances there is no ignoring the fact that we are truly fortunate to be here. In all sincerity, then, we may say, “Thank God for Notre Dame.”
THE OLD TIMERS
Of the fifty-five thousand who will watch Notre Dame try to make its final hurdle in the path toward an undefeated season, tomorrow afternoon in the Stadium, none will be cheering louder and praying more softly for an Irish victory than the sixty or seventy men sitting on a bench in front of the Notre Dame cheering section. They are the Old-Timers, the Crimmins’s, Lillis’s, Brutz’s, Hargreave’s, and Juzwik’s of the Notre Dame of yesteryear, who come to the campus once every year, to watch through their slowly-dimming eyes the grandeur of an Irish team fighting its way to victory, and to hear the irresistible strains of the Notre Dame marching songs.
After the game they’ll pass through a campus that they never dreamed about when they slept in Brownson, or Carroll, or Corby Hall; and they’ll stop at the Dining Hall for a banquet and wonder what happened to the old bam that used to stand there; or how the glistening sidewalks and velvet lawns of the quadrangle could have replaced the dusty road that used to be there.
Most of us will be too busy preparing to welcome the first undefeated season in ten years to notice these visitors who are more a part of Notre Dame than we are, as they walk about the campus.
But we shall have that opportunity at the pep-rally and during the half when they will be introduced—then a “He’s A Man” for some letter man you may never have heard of but whom Notre Dame will always remember will then be in order.
10
CAMPUS NEWS
Senior Class's Four-Year Plan For Social Readjustment Will Swing into Action Soon
Freshmen Will Benefit
This week Senior Class President
James O’Neal announced a four year plan for social readjustment of relations
JAMES O’NEAL
between St. Mary’s and Notre Dame students.
The plan, first step of which will be taken a week from next Sunday, calls for a series of Freshman dances to be held on Sundays at St. Mary’s. The
dances will be exclusive to the members
of a designated freshman hall. First hall to be picked is Zahm, whose members will be invited to attend a tea dance at
St. Mary’s a week from Sunday.
Zahm hall members who go will find pinned upon their coats their names. When they arrive at St. Mary’s they will find the entire Freshman class waiting for them, each with her name pinned to her dress. Forbidden from the dance will be all members of other Freshman halls and all upper-classmen.
O’Neal said St. Mary’s upper-classmen will not be allowed to attend the affair and added that only those men who have dates with St. Mary’s girls will be allowed on the St. Mary’s campus that Sunday.
Crusading for the plan this week is
For St. Mary's girls, no more stags.
N. D. Stags: for them, no more girls.
President O’Neal who has already visited Zahm Hall, where he spoke to residents after night-prayer, explaining the benefits of the plan. He will explain the setup to other Freshman class members on succeeding weeks as their halls are picked for the occasion.
Responsible for the four-year plan is the Senior Class. The embryo was born in their minds by accident one day as a group discussed St. Mary’s - Notre Dame relations, deciding they could be improved. The plan was presented to the disciplinary office, which sanctioned the project. At St. Mary’s it was greeted with equal enthusiasm.
A week ago a committee selected by O’Neal traveled across the road to talk over the matter with a committee of St. Mary’s students. Preliminary plans were laid at this gathering. Last Tuesday the final meeting of the two groups was held with plans being completed. Included on O’Neal’s committee were the following: Edward Griesediech, Frank Pollnow, Thomas Hennigan, Vic Assad, Mark McGrath, Ralph Simons and Jack Hughes.
The plan aims at getting freshmen students of St. Mary’s to meet Notre Dame freshmen. As new freshmen come in each year a new series of dances will
be held, and it is hoped that after four years a new and stronger bond will unite St. Mary’s and Notre Dame.
Next Sunday will see the last stand of the now famous Notre Dame stag line. Included in the objectives of the plan is the elimination of the line, long looked upon with the disapproval by the nuns of St. Mary’s.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
"Dome" Editor Issues Last
Call For Individual Shots
On Monday of this week there came an ultimatum from 254 Dillon Hall. Quiet, soft - spoken Joe Hillenbrand meant it when he said, “No more Junior and Senior pictures for the Dome will be taken after Nov. 28.”
Hillenbrand should know, for he is the editor of the ’42 Dome. He said that about 1,000 individual Junior and Senior pictures have been taken so far; that 300 more have yet to be snapped. Said Editor Hillenbrand: “If they want their pictures in this year’s Dome, they will have to get down to Walsh Hall basement sometime within the next two weeks. The photographer can snap about 40 a day. That means that those who wait for the last-minute rush might be left out.”
In regard to the coming Dome, Hillenbrand was reticent, had little to say. One change from last year’s issue is the fact that there will be no campus views of various buildings in the front section of the annual. Dome photographers will go inside the buildings, snap students at work and play, thus portraying the purpose for which the building exists.
Also mentioned as a change from previous Domes was the announcement that no city and state clubs will appear in the ’42 edition.
Thus far, work on the Dome is proceeding ahead of schedule. Sent to the printer early this week were the various hall group pictures. In regard to the cover design, Hillenbrand said two companies have submitted designs, one of which will be chosen soon. The editors are working on an idea , of eliminating the word “Dome” from the cover, and will carry instead the outlines of the Golden Dome.
A conference was held last week with a representative of the Rogers Printing
11
Co. of Chicago and another is scheduled within the next two weeks.
If work proceeds according to the schedule the Dome should appear on the campus about May 20.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Inter-Hall Debating
Enters Second Round
Early this week inter-hall debating shifted into second gear, picked up acceleration. Debaters pulled in their belts, gargled their throats, anxiously memorized their notes. Teams in the upper division clashed for the first time last Tuesday; teams in the lower division met for second-round encounters last Monday.
In the lower division debates a week ago, Brownson-Carroll, Morrissey and Holy Cross were victors. This week Zahm Hall drew a bye, while Holy Cross was pitted against Cavanaugh. Brownson-Carroll met Lyons and Breen-Phillips clashed with Morrissey.
On Tuesday the three-team upper division met. With Sorin drawing a bye, it meant that only Walsh vs. Dillon was on the program.
A team can remain in the'debates until it has been defeated twice. Winners of the upper and of the lower division will meet for a final debate to determine the campus champion to which will go the Student Council trophy. Stan Litizette, chairman of inter-hall debates, said it had definitely been decided that the campus champion would not meet a team from St. Mary’s, as last year St. Mary’s turned down a similar invitation.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Members Sought for New Class in Radio Theory
Permission was obtained last week from Father James Trahey, Notre Dame co-ordinator of civilian defense, to organize a class in Radio Theory and Practice for the benefit of those who desire to apply for amateur radio licenses.
With radio a preferred profession for those who are to be inducted into the Anny, many more students have become interested in this hobby than ever before.
Father Trahey will give his assistance to this important phase of national defense and will obtain a faculty instructor for the class as soon as the organizers have supplied him with the names of a sufficient number of students to make the course practical.
Either during or after the potential “hams” have finished their theory in
struction, they will have the opportunity of taking an additional course in code work.
The three requisites for an amateur radio license, besides the American citizenship of the licensee, are a knowledge of radio theory, the ability to send and receive 13 words per minute in code, and a knowledge of federal regulations con-, cerning radio.
.. potential "hams" will get experience..
An appeal is made to all those who are interested in taking this course to drop in at 155 Dillon Hall at the earliest possible time so that the organization of the course may proceed with the greatest possible speed.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Notre Dame Was Once a Co-Educational School
“Caroline, are you going over to the Main?”
“Yes, Bette, I have a class there in room 109. That’s right next to Brownson Study Hall.”
This is not a story about another University that just coincidentally named one of its buildings “The Main” and had in it a study hall named after Orestes Brownson. This story is about our own “No Woman’s Land,” Notre Dame.
When the University Administration opened the annual Summer Session after the first World War, there was a shortage of male students and for this and other reasons, women students were allowed to attend the school. A short time after, they made a ruling that no more lay women would be allowed to attend classes at the University. However, in order to be fair toward those women who had come every year and were only one session away from their degrees, the University allowed them to finish their courses and obtain their degrees.
So, if ever you run into a woman who tells you that she has a degree from this University, don’t let that dubious look slide oyer your face, because, as farfetched as it sounds, Notre Dame was at one time a co-educational institution. We were born twenty years too late.
—Frank King
Doyle Reveals Junior Prom Committeemen
Edward Doyle, Morristown, N. J., has been appointed by Junior Class President William Costello as general chairman for the Junior Prom, scheduled at the Palais Royale the night of Feb. 6.
Few plans have been made yet for the Prom except for the announcement of committees and the fact that automobiles will be permitted. Time of the dance has not yet been decided upon.
Doyle said two bands are being considered, that of Charlie Spevak and that of Bobbie Bums. Doyle was in Chicago during the Northwestern week-end making some tentative arrangements along this line.
Announced as committee chairmen were the following men:
Music, Bob Walsh and Joe Kresock; Tea Dance, (to be held the following Saturday afternoon, as there is a basketball game scheduled for that evening) Walter Jones; Publicity, William Brady; Programs, William O’Neil; Tickets, Richard and Robert Padesky (price has not been decided upon); Patrons, Robert Nenno; Favors, William O’Connell and Robert Gardner; Decorations, Herb Melton and Jerry Currier.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Student Council Asks For
Suggestions and Opinions
Many students are continually “griping” about the lack of activities on the part of the Student Council. Many are wondering if the Student Council is at all worth having at Notre Dame and some even feel that this organization should be discontinued. However, the president of the Student Council, in an earlier issue of the Scholastic, asked all students to contribute their opinions and suggestions, that the Council might act on them.
The Student Council wants student opinion and so it urges all students to write letters of suggestions to the president, Gene Schumaker, in 315 Sorin Hall, or to contact Student Council members. The Student Council welcomes such let-. ters—even if they are full, of “gripes”— if, at the same time, they can offer some suggestions or solutions.
To date, no letters have been received, yet students continually complain. Instead of merely talking things over in bull sessions, why not drop a letter to the Student Council, which promises to consider and act upon each and every suggestion?—Bill Clarke
12
Campus Thespians Will Show Shakespeare's
"Merry Wives of Windsor" in Early December
Hank Dahm, Walsh: “The best I've seen since my Freshman year. Seems to be continually rising.”
Jack Conry, Alumni: “The spirit is up when the team is down.”
What about that musty old volume of Shakespeare’s works you threw in your trunk at the last minute? True, you haven’t used it so far, but here’s your chance to give it a break. Once more, in the celebrated “Merry Wives of Windsor,” Shakespeare is coming to the campus.
bill hickey Entering upon the fourth week of practice, a group of 20 actors, under the direction of Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., has made excellent progress. According to Father Coyle the play should be ready for presentation the first week of December. “But that depends entirely on how well we can do it,” said the director. “The play won’t go on until we feel we can do justice to Notre Dame, to Shakespeare, and, of course, to ourselves.”
“The Merry Wives of Windsor,” is hardly considered in the upper bracket of Shakespeare’s great plays. But it is one of the only two in which the pompous figure of Falstaff appears. Falstaff, in his swaggering egoism, might be called Shakespeare’s most popular character. The part is played by Bill Hickey, of Alumni Hall, who admirably portrays many embarrassing predicaments. In the major plot Falstaff is opposed by Ford and Page, two gentlemen of Windsor, played by Dave Curtin and Jerry Hein-len, and their wives, Mrs. Ford and Mrs. Page, played by Elizabeth Janko-vits and Mary Ahern. Adding considerably to the action of the play are the roguish followers of Falstaff: Pistol, Nym, and Bardolph, played by Phil Ster-opoli, Griff Allen, and John Hencley.
In the minor plot Lyle Joyce as Abraham Slender, Dan Gentile as Fenton, and John Groeger as Doctor Caius all vie for the hand of Ann Page, played by Barbara Dulcey. The supporting roles of Mistress Quickley, Sir Hugh Evans, the Host, and Justice Shallow are taken by Patricia Drain, James Poinsette, George Uhl and Dan Downey. Much of the humor of the play rests on the shoulders of Andy McElroy who takes the role of Peter Simple, a part deftly described by the character’s last name.
It is suggested that, for a fuller appreciation of the presentation, persons planning to attend read the play beforehand. Contrary to modern stage, knowing the plot of Shakespearean plays does not spoil the enjoyment of the performance. As compared with the contents 6f
the lines, the plots of Shakespeare’s plays constitute a small part of the total value of each drama. And it is necessary to study the lines since they cannot be grasped at the first hearing. In the presentation of “The Merry Wives of Windsor” campus residents may well look forward to an enjoyable evening.
—Daniel Doivney
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Campus "Quiz” on The Spirit at Notre Dame
Pat Donovan, St. Edward’s Hall: “The spirit for the last week has been pretty good.”
Robert Franz, Zahm: “I think it’s improving, in comparison to what they say it was last year. It’s getting better all the time.”
Jack Lawson, Breen-Phillips: “I don’t think any other school in the country can come up to the Spirit of Notre Dame.”
Frank Allegra, Brownson: “Gradually coming back to its usual standards.”
Frank Kelly, Carroll: “I think the spirit’s pretty good.”
Clark Guinan, Carroll: “It’s O.K.”
John Kirby, Sorin: “It’s spiritual!”
... in December they feel they can do justice to Shakespeare and Notre Dame ...
13
Larry Aubrey, Alumni: “More spirit this week that there has been before.”
Jack Riedl, Dillon: “Improving immensely!”
Bill Wylie, Badin: “I expected great things as a Freshman. It wasn’t here. -This year it exceeds all my expectations.”
Bob Fisher, Howard: “It’s pretty good right now.”	-
Thomas Kelly, Morrissey: “I think it’s at a new high now. Let’s keep it rolling!”—Carl S. Coco
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Commission Will Hold
Victory Dance Saturday
The Notre Dame-Southern California Victory Dance, staged by the Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature, ■will be held Saturday, Nov. 22, at the Progress Club. Music will be furnished by Jack Molloy’s Cavaliers and dancing will be from 8:30 to 11:30.
Committee for the dance headed by Louis Kurtz, includes Edward Conger, John Terry and John Lynch. This group will decorate the hall in a homecoming motif. Proceeds will go to a fund to send Scholastics to graduates and Notre Dame men in United States service. Tariff for the evening will be §1.00 per couple. “St. Mary’s may Go”—as usual.
—Robert Velvick.
ELEVEN ARCHITECTS AWARDED BEAUX ART PRIZES
This week all was calm in the Architecture Building. Students grouped around desks and talked shop, others bent industriously over drawings, a few sat on the steps facing the Main Quadrangle and smoked peacefully.
The architects were satisfied. They had brought home the bacon. The bacon this year was in the form of 11 awards from the recent Beaux Arts contest. The architects had reason to be complacent: 11 members had submitted entries, all 11 had won awards.
Prime pieces of bacon were brought in by John B. Carney, bespectacled senior from Des Moines, la., and Douglas Francis Haley of Vallejo, Calif. Both men were awarded mentions in the Class A program for a college union building.
First mention in Class B, the highest award made in this division of the con-
Architects Carney, Rossi and Supplitt brought home the bacon.
"Scholastic" Reporter Finds Rector of Cadillac Hall
Most Notre Dame students, when asked if they know who the “Rector of Cadillac Hall” is, will probably reply: “Cadillac Hall, that’s a new one on me. I didn’t know there was any by that name around here, much less know the name of its rector.” And yet “Cadillac Hall” and its “rector” are traditions of Notre Dame dating back long before many of us were bom. You see, “The Rector of Cadillac Hall” is the nickname affectionately bestowed on John Mangan, Notre Dame’s official chauffer, and custodian of the University garage.
Johnny is probably one of the busiest men around the campus, as we found out after striving in vain for about two weeks to find him long enough to get an interview. His duties keep him constantly on the go, driving the various members of the University’s administration and chauffering visiting notables. We considered ourselves fortunate to finally catch John the other day.
We found him in back of the University garage indulging in his favorite pastime, horseshoe pitching. Seeing that we had him cornered, he agreed to give
14
test, went to John J. Sherer and Edward L. Holland. Title of their problem: Civilian Aeronautics School.
Also awarded mentions in Class B were: James J. Gallagher, Paul B. God-ellei, Robert B. Hackner, Lloyd W. Moss, Mark A. Pfaller, Ugo D. Rossi and George L. Supplitt.
Reward for their work in a nine hour sketch problem for a lodge for mountain climbers was given R. B. Hackner and J. J. Sherer when both received mentions in this section of the contest.
The Beaux Arts contest, considered by collegiate architects the best in the country, was judged by a group of prominent New York architects. The fact that all eleven students won mentions in the contest was fitting tribute to the work of instructor F. Montana.
the interview, on the condition that we play a couple of games with him. Despite the fact that John is the acknowledged champion of these parts, we agreed and were soundly beaten. However, during the course of the play John gave us some of the more interesting points of his long career here at Notre Dame.
John came to Notre Dame 31 years ago, in 1910, just two months after Knute Rockne entered school. Since that time he has served in many capacities, finally landing in his present job as University chauffeur in 1928. Since taking over as official driver for the school, John estimates that he has driven about 225,000 miles. That is, of course exclusive of his own pleasure trips. We asked John what he did in the summer and replying in his rich Irish brogue he said, “Sure, and I go for a trip in me car.” Sort of a busman’s holiday, we thought.
John makes the unique claim of having driven most of the bishops and archbishops in the United States at one time or another. When Pope Pius XII came to Notre Dame during his visit in the United States, John had the honor of meeting the Holy Father and chauffeur-
ing him during his visit here. Many notables in all walks of life have been his passengers when they visited Notre Dame. John knew Knute Rockne well and relates many stories of their friendship. .
When we asked Johnny if he would tell us some of the funny experiences that he has had while driving for the University he said: “1 sure C6uid tell a lot, but you couldn’t print thim without embarrasin’ some moighty important people.”
All in all, John Mangan has had a very interesting career as chauffeur for the University in the past 14 years. We personally hope that there will be many more for John Mangan, “The Rector of Cadillac Hall”—a real Notre Dame man.
—Bob Kuipers
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Bookman Reviews "Keys of The Kingdom"
In this column each week a member of the Bookmen, an honorary campus organization of students who like to read and discuss contemporary literature, will review some new work, to inform Notre Dame students of the important literary opera that are being read today.
Biggest news of books is A. J. Cronin’s Keys of the Kingdom. By July 21 it had sold over 250,000 copies, and had become, in effect, a best seller before publication. Since August, according to Publishers’ Weekly it has led all book sales throughout the nation.
Cronin’s story is the life of Francis Chrisholm from childhood in Tynecastle, Scotland, through missionary labor in China, to aged priesthood back in his native home. Both of Chrisholm’s parents had been drowned crossing a swollen river. When the girl he loved was killed Chrisholm needed no further urging. “First his parents, then Nora. He could no longer ignore these testaments from above. That year he joined his boyhood friend, Anselm Mealey, in the English seminary of San Morales, Spain.”
But while Anselm Mealey was a conspicuous student with his eloquent tongue and pleasant manners, Francis’ nonconformity troubled his scrupulous teachers. As child of a Protestant mother, and victim in his father’s death by neighboring bigotry, Chrisholm regarded tolerance as the greatest virtue, approached only by humility and kindness. Once he had impulsively remarked during an apologetic class, “Surely, sir, creed is such an accident of birth, God can’t set an exclusive value on it.” His teacher had replied, “What an admirable heretic
(.Continued on page 15)

Band Will Hold First
Concert Next Wednesday
The Notre Dame Band will open its concert season this coming Wednesday, Nov. 26, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall.
This is the first o f several concerts to be rendered by the band this year. In spite of the numerous games that the band has appeared at lately, a fine and varied
prepared. The com-not as yet been de
program has been plete program has
cided upon but the feature number of the evening will be “Victor Herbert’s Favorites,” a medley of some ten of the most popular compositions of this great
composer.
The complete band will be used for this concert. Instrumentation is better this year than it has been in the past and a well balanced organization has been obtained.
Professor Casasanta, who will conduct, is well pleased with the spirit shown by the members this year1 and has expressed his gratitude for their fine cooperation. He has also said that there exists a fine future for this year’s group.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Nation to Hear Vox Pop
On Notre Dame Campus
The famous pioneer radio interview, Vox Pop — The Voice of the People, with Parks Johnson and Wally Butterworth, is coming to Notre Dame to tell its 12 to 14 million listeners about the University’s world renown in letters and science and the fame of the undefeated football team.
The broadcast will be held on the campus, Monday, Nov. 24, from 7:00 to 7:30 P. M., CST, and will be heard over the nation-wide CBS network.
This wil be the second Vox Pop broadcast from Notre Dame. Johnson and Butterworth were here previously Oct. 3, 1940, at the premiere of the “Knute Rockne” motion picture. •
The Vox Poppers plan to introduce a hand-picked group of Notre Dame undergraduates and Frank Leahy, football coach. School cheers by the students, a selection by the Glee Club and the singing of the alma mater song will be included in the broadcast.
The persons who will be interviewed will be awarded useful and amusing gifts of merchandise for their efforts in answering questions at the microphone.
J. A. Haley, University public relations director, will be in charge of the local arrangements. He will be assisted by Bill Bivens, Vox Pop’s advance man and announcer.
Twenty N. D. Students To Be Listed in "Who's Who"
The current issue of Who’s Who containing the biographies of students in American colleges and universities will list 20 students of Notre Dame, according to information received this week from the editor of the publication.
Listed among the W/io’s Who of the
LARRY KELLY	PAUL PATTEN
Notre Dame campus are such current “Men about....” as Matthew A. Byrne, Met Club prexy; Jesse DeLois; John W. Gilbert, various engineering clubs; Charles M. Kearney, of the Wranglers and Bookmen; Lawrence J. Kelley, chairman of Senior Ball; Paul B. Lillis, captain of football team; Bernard 0. Mar-bach, prominent in Catholic Action affairs; Neil J. McCarty, former Dome editor; William E. Meier, Wranglers.
Peter V. Moulder, Senior class officer; James E. O’Donohoe, co-editor of Scrip; James P. O’Laughlin, former writer of “The Week” in the Scholastic; James J. O’Neal, Senior Class president; Paul E. Patten, Senior Class officer; Frank J. Pollnow, Senior Ball committeeman; Thomas V. Powers, managing editor of the Scholastic; John A. Reilly, editor of the Scholastic; Eugene Schumaker, president of the Student Council; Charles A. Tobin, and Thomas J. Walker, president of the Press Club.
FRANK POLLNOW
JIM O’LAUGHLIN
The biographies of these men will be included in the book, of which the coming issue will be the eighth annual publication. New idea in this year’s collegiate Who’s Who will be a survey of students who were listed in the first and second
editions, seven and eight years ago, to ascertain what professions they are engaged in at present.
BOOK REVIEW (Continued from page 14) you would have made, my good Chris-holm.”
Chrisholm labored in only two parishes in Scotland. His understanding bishop foresaw that missionary work would best afford this young priest the opportunity to practice his devotion to the weak and poor. During the next 36 years in Pai-tan, China, Father Chrisholm fought bandits and famine, plague and intolerance, finally returning to Scotland, a sorry figure, scarred and broken. To all those at home, especially to Bishop Mealey, his record had been a disappointing failure.
If Cronin errs in this story it is on the side of being too melodramatic. His figures are cast too well as either black or white. His long chains of circumstances, including a near-miraculous escape from bandits, seem somehow unreal. Priesthood bespeaks a quieter life than famines, plagues, torturing, rapes, bandits, and plundering. Cronin may well have sacrificed a great biography to a merely exciting novel.
It may be said that Chrisholm’s tolerance approached indifference. Monsignor Sleeth had been sent to investigate Father Chrisholm’s poverty-stricken parish. Sleeth came upon Father Chrisholm while the latter was lecturing to his class.
“ ‘Our bones may moulder and become the earth of the field but the spirit issues forth and lives on high in a condition of glorious brightness. God is the common Father of all mankind.’ ”
“Molified, Sleeth looked at Father Chrisholm. “Excellent. Didn’t St. Paul say that?”
“No.” The old man shook his head apologetically. “It was Confucius.”
Sleeth was staggered.
Keys of the Kingdom is a beautifully written book. By other hands less adroit and able than Cronin’s, Chrisholm might have been dull and insincere. His life may have been a conspicuous failure to his bishop, but he is now a brilliant success to all others.—John Uty
Long Runs Harass Gridders
Notre Dame’s footballers expressed great satisfaction with the lightness of the new nylon jersies they introduced at the Indiana game. Too much dye, however, weakened the fibre and caused large runs to appear. The manufacturer has since replaced the damaged shirts.
15
INTRODUCING
By RAY DONOVAN
Don Hogan
The East blessed Notre Dame with the passing sensation of the nation, but Chicago also claims an Irish halfback who is a passer of no mean ability.
Donald John Hogan, lanky Irish back, learned his football at St. Ignatius High School in the Windy City, the same institution which produced scout Bill Cer-ney. Other members of this same St. Ignatius team who could not be persuaded by Don to join him at Notre Dame include one man who has been opposed by the Irish squad this season, and still another who gave Minnesota’s Golden Gophers plenty of headaches last Saturday. Gene Curran, Iowa guard, and Church Jacoby, Indiana back, were teammates of Don in his high school days.
During his prep days, however, Hogan did not concentrate entirely on the gridiron. The lad participated in swimming, basketball and track besides playing better than average football with his school eleven. It was while training to be a-
mermaid that Don copped the blue ribbon in his event in the All-city Catholic meet. He also claims that during his four years at St. Ignatius he was elevated by his classmates to a different class office each year. In his spare time, Don participated in debating and warbled with the school glee club.
In his sophomore year Notre Dame the Chicago athlete appeared to be lost in the shuffle of a host of outstanding backfield stars, but Mr. Hogan didn’t report for the Irish squad to be included in the list of the also-rans. He adopted the theory that practice makes perfect, and in his junior year began to move up in the pack. This, his senior year, finds the youth a much better than average passer and Don has proved . a real threat during every
game in which he has seen action.
One of the Chicagoan’s outstanding hobbies includes chess. Hogan reports that he has been playing and defeating his father in this studious game since the
age of six, and he has thus far been unbeaten in collegiate competition. All challengers are urged to get in touch with Don in his Walsh hall room.
Summer vacation finds the gridman pursuing interests originating in his activities with the St. Ignatius swimming team: Don patrols a Chicago swimming pool in the capacity of a lifeguard. It is in this field that Hogan had one of his most hair-raising experiences. It seems that an adult went under, with over 900 children in the pool. Don pulled him out and found that the man was suffering from an epileptic fit. Of the sixty persons the lad has rescued, this one above all others gave him a sensation which he never wants to experience again.
Hogan’s present major at Notre Dame is only an advance preparation for his ultimate aims. Don is at present a major in philosophy, but states that after graduation he wants to continue his education and go into the field of law. All this, of course, is dependent on one big factor—the draft. His chances of reach
ing his aim appear excellent, however, since he will not reach his twenty-first birthday until “the night before Christmas.”
Don admits that the greatest thrill he
has ever received on the gridiron occurred on the last play of his high school career. On this play the youth caught a pass for the touchdown which gave his team victory. Rivaling this, however, must be the part Hogan played in scoring a touchdown against Illinois. With his accurate passing, he set up the score.
Whatever may be said of him, Don cannot be said to lack the stature or determination to be one of the greatest halfbacks in the midwest. He stands six feet, two, weighs 189 pounds and is one of the best competitors on the squad.
Tomorrow’s game with Southern California will likely find the Irish relying on their famed passing attack. Angelo Bertelli, left half, will be on the firingline. Don Hogan, his understudy, will also be there—waiting for his chance to foil the Trojans.
Mike Hines
Thomas Edison once said that the definition of genius included two factors: one percent inspiration, ninety-nine percent perspiration. If this definition holds, the Notre Dame football squad can boast a man who should be well on his way— Mike Hines.
Michael Leo Hines, a native of Kewanna, Indiana, never played football before coming to Notre Dame. His native high school was not large enough to support the pigskin parade. In fact, before enrolling underneath the Gold Dome, Mike had only seen one game— the 1935 Irish victory over Pitt. Ever since reporting for freshman football in 1938, the giant youth has certainly possessed the inspiration to play varsity ball. His persistency, which can be attested to by the entire student body, has resulted in a position on Coach Leahy’s 1941 unbeaten varsity squad.
During his first two years at Notre Dame, although he was confined to playing B-team ball, Big Mike certainly made his presence felt by the coaches, players and students alike by his pep, chatter and everlasting desire to climb higher up the ladder toward the varsity. Last year Mike earned a starting position on Coach Cerney’s traveling B squad. This year finds the lad battling for a starting berth on the varsity, a much improved and ever-fighting, enthusiastic gridman.
Although Hines did not get the chance to play football in high school, he did make up for this by starring on the diamond and on the hardwood for Kewanna High. Mike won four monograms in each of these sports, and also earned his freshman numeral in baseball in his first year at Notre Dame.
Mike is not the first of his family to (Continued on page 20)
16
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Walsh and Zahm, In Varsity Silks, Clash
In Stadium For Interhall Title Sunday
By Coleman McGuire
Sunday at 2:00 p.m. is the time set for the second annual playoff to determine the champion of the Notre Dame 1941 Interhall Football Leagues. The rivals will don varsity silks and take over the stadium for the game.
This year will find the two extremes, Freshmen from Zahm, and Seniors from Walsh battling for the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell Trophy, and for individual medals given to members of the winning team.
The trophy, emblematic of intramural football superiority, has rested in St. Ed’s Hall for the past year. Last year, on a wind-whistling wintry day, Dillon and St. Ed’s fought to a 0-0 tie. Dillon marched up and down the field quite freely until within 20 yards of payoff territory. Here the heavy St. Ed’s line would brace and stop the charge. After the game a coin was tossed to determine the possessor of the trophy. St. Ed’s called it right.
This year finds a Freshman hall, Zahm, as the representative of League I. To gain this position, Zahm marched through the season without a defeat, culminating their march with a spectacular victory over favored Dillon last week. The secret of Zahm’s success is no secret. They possess a team spirit which comes very close to equalling the spirit of this year’s varsity. Coupled with this, the squad possesses a great amount of talent in such lads as O’Grady, Mahoney, and Cuddigan, just to mention a few.
Zahm’s coaches, John Jaworski and Scoop Scanlan have worked out a five man line defense similar to that of the varsity, except that end Bill Mahoney is in the backing up spot.
Sunday Zahm intends to win and believes that it will. Remember that they alone forecast their victory over Dillon.
Some Tough "Gentlemen"
On the other side of the picture we see the opponents, the “Gentlemen” of Walsh. Here is an eleven that is made up almost entirely of players from last year’s champion Dillon and St. Ed’s squads, or from the “B” squad of Layden’s regime.
Here you will find plenty of spirit, but a different type from that of Zahm.
Walsh has been determined from the start of the season to win. They have shown this by practicing regularly and preparing for each game. For talent, they have some of the best. They have shown faults, and possibly the most outstanding has been their lack of passing plus a weak pass defense. But they may point to the fact that Badin’s passing outfit was not able to score against them. Win or lose Sunday, they will be in the game with the most determined squad in either league.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Interhall Starting Lineups
ZAHM HALL	WALSH HALL
Mahoney ____________L.E------------- Miller
Mead _______________L.T--------------- Raaf
Ames________________L.G-------------- Deery
O’Grady ____________C___________ (G) Graliker
Fitzpatrick (G) ____R.G------------ McNulty
Milliman __________  R.T------------Farrell
Kelly........ R.E Fitzgerald
Murphy _____________Q.B---------------Byrne
Cuddigan (C) ___....L.H------------ Daigler
Crowley ___________R.H.--------------Delois
Sawitz _____________F.B-------------- McKay
Kickoff—2 p.m„ Sunday. Notre Dame Stadium.
McKay, Daigler Score As Walsh Wins League Title
Walsh 13 - Howard 0
Walsh earned the right to play for the championship when they knocked off Howard, 13 to 0, last Tuesday.
The “Gentlemen” began marching in the first quarter, and topped off their drive with a short touchdown plunge by their big fullback, Bernie McKay.
Scoring then subsided until late in the third quarter. Penalized 15 yards back to the Howard 32, Walsh sent Daigler on a solo reverse around right end. With the help of one downfield blocker, he crossed the goal line standing up.
On the first play of the fourth quarter, DeLois of Walsh ran from his own 25 to the Howard 40, but Walsh couldn’t keep the drive moving. With two minutes to go, Walsh recovered a fumble on the Howard 10, but then returned the ball in like manner to Howard.
Possibly Howard’s best single showing was Shea’s block of Daigler’s attempted kick. This showed the spirit Howard demonstrated throughout the game. Howard
fought ’til it hurt, for Joe Fritter, wiry end, was forced to leave the game with an injured ankle. Spirit was not enough, however, and Walsh’s machine hurled the last obstacle from its path for the championship of League II.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Zahm Spirit Beats
Week-end Ridden Dillon
In a game where a Zahm victory was expected by only their own players, the Zahmbies thoroughly beat Dillon, 13 to 0 last Sunday and won the League I Interhall football championship.
Since the beginning of practice early this fall, Dillon was slated to be the strongest team in the league, and until last Sunday they were proving it week after week, rolling up large scores while holding all opponents scoreless. Zahm was considered as the only threat to Dillon early in the season, but did not turn in any large or impressive scores.
Sunday, however, Zahm definitely showed the campus their superiority. In the first quarter, Cuddigan threw to Bill Mahoney for the first touchdown to be the first team to score against Dillon. To prove that the one touchdown was not a mistake, Murphy intercepted a pass, starting a drive which was climaxed by a 15 yard touchdown run on a reverse by Cuddigan. Fitzpatrick’s excellent blocking made this possible.
The deception employed in this last run was so well handled that not a Dillon man had a chance at the ball carrier. Credit for a lot of this should go to Coaches John Jaworski and “Scoop” Scanlan, who also presented a five man defensive line much to their opponent’s bewilderment. Dillon’s only threat came late in the first half when they drove to Zahm’s four-yard line.
The win was not gained without paying a price, as tackle Tom McCoy, one of the best and hardest working players for Zahm, suffered a broken leg. In addition, Ames suffered a bruised nose, but he is expected to play Sunday.
One thing must be said for Dillon, and that is the fact that Johnson was missing from their lineup. But this cannot detract from Zahm’s win, as Zahm outplayed their foe from the kickoff to the final gun. The victory was the simple result of their will to win, and their confidence that it could be done. So hail to the champions of the league!
17
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
By Red Lonergan
In the last 25 years all sports have undergone a great change in method and skill. We are primarily concerned with football and how it has changed for the better in this period of new methods and styles. Everyone remembers how football was played in its beginning in America. The heaviest team was the best team and woe to the weak. Rules were made to eliminate rough tactics, but the heavier team was by far the better bet. Apt players were passed over because of their lack of weight and the coach with a brainy backfield was in clover.
When the big change in methods began, every sport was turning to science. If a single man could teach an elephant to fetch and carry, what couldn’t a smart quarterback do with a group of trained men? This was the beginning of wide open games. Forward passes were widely used and tricky playing was making high scores possible. It takes brains to call a pass when the opposition least expects it. Coaches were developing trick plays which were unbeatable the first time used. Breaking up trick plays meant brains, consequently it took even more brains to make the plays better. Teamwork has become so good now that it is even possible to run back a punt for a touchdown if each man is in his place.
We cite the example of the Nebraska-Minnesota game in 1936. There was no score till the last minute of the game. Nebraska had to punt and a touchdown was made. Wilkinson of the Gophers took the ball on his 12 and lateralled to a teammate who ran 88 yards for a score. The audience thought it was a break, but here is what happened. The Cornhuskers’ ends were down to tackle the receiver. He drew them out of the play and passed to Andy Uram. Uram had to face only nine more tacklers and he had exactly nine blockers. Each man was in his place and this rmusual play was put over. It took just a little observation to see that possibility; and Minnesota’s coach spotted it. It is such playing that has made football the wide open game we see and speak of today.
QUESTIONS FOR THE WEEK
1.	Northwestern’s Lynn Waldorf was coach at what Bix Six school before coming to Northwestern ?
2.	In what three years did Northwestern beat Notre Dame?
3.	Who won the first All-American Captain’s Cup donated by Mrs. K. K. Rockne?
4.	This is a deviation. By what nickname does the
18
University of Pittsburgh go? (It is sometimes called the Cathedral of Learning. That isn’t what we mean.)
5.	Who is the only one to make All-Pacific Coast three years in a row?
6.	Connect these two players with their schools, a) Pudge Heffelfinger. b) Elmer Oliphant.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Leahy Announces 1941-42 Cage Card; 12 Home Games
Definite signs that the local hardwood campaign is soon to get under way, appeared in the announcement early this week of the 1941-42 Notre Dame basketball schedule by Head Football Coach and Director of Athletics Frank Leahy, in conjunction with the approval of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics.
The 21-game card will pit the Irish against the same rugged competition that they have met in the past—plus some worthy newcomers.
The schedule features home-and-home series with traditional rivals, Northwestern, Michigan State, Marquette, and Butler,-plus a late December invasion of the Big Nine for games with Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, and the aforementioned Wildcats.
Among the teams whom the Irish did not face last year, and who will appear on the local court this season, are: Franklin College, in the curtain-raiser on Nov. 29. The Great Lakes Naval Training Station, St. Louis University, Harvard, Washington University of St. Louis, and Western Reserve. Also invading the lair of the Irish will be, Syracuse and Kentucky, two teams who showed the Keoganmen plenty of basketball, when they entertained the Irish abroad last year.
Highlight of the schedule will be the annual New York trip to meet N.Y.U. in Madison Square Garden, on St. Valentine’s night. The Violets, always a powerhouse in the East, show every evidence of producing another great quintet this winter, thus making their meeting with the Irish another spine-tingling affair.
As has been the custom in past years, the campaign will come to a close on March 12, when the Irish invade Detroit for a game with the Titans of Detroit University.
Preparing for the opening game with Franklin one week hence, Head Coach George Keogan and his assistant Ray Meyer, have been bringing the boys along rapidly, to enable them to reach the peak of condition by that time. Though the starting team has by no means been decided as yet, it is apparent that it will come from the following men: Forwards: Chuck Butler, George Sobek, John Niemera, and Buster Hiller; Guards, Cy Singer, Capt. Art Pope, Bob Rensberger, and Jim Engel; and Cen
ters: Frank Quinn, and Bob Faught. However, there are a number of other good men who will no doubt be heard from before the season is over.
1941-42 N. D. BASKETBALL SCHEDULE Nov. 29—Frankin College—here
Dec. 3—Great Lakes Naval Training Station—here Dec. 6—St. Louis University—here
Dec. 13—University of Wisconsin—there Dec. 19—University of Michigan—there Dec. 23—University of Illinois—there Dec. 31—Northwestern—there
Jan. 3—Harvard University—here Jan. 7—Washington University—here Jan. 12—Syracuse University—here Jan. 17—Butler University—there Jan. 21—Northwestern University—here Jan. 24—Michigan State College—here Jan. 31—Marquette University—here
Beb. 7—University of Kentucky—here
Feb. 14—New York University—there
Feb. 21—Western Reserve University—here
Feb. 24—Butler University—here
Feb. 28—Michigan State College—there
March 7—Marquette University—there March 12—University of Detroit—there
—James A. Clemens
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Soccer Champs Missing
As Challengers Gang Up
Latest word from the soccer front indicates that the St. Louis club is now dodging opponents. Faced by a growing list of competitors which now includes squads from the Naval R.O.T.C. unit, the La Raza, several teams from the physical education department as well as a number of hall and club groups. It was the St. Louis club which evaded combat last weekend, when one of the phy. ed. teams, ready for battle, searched in vain for the St. Louis boys, who were in Chicago for the Northwestern tussle.
According to Mr. Scannell, director of the soccer league, the current successful football season has detracted interest from soccer, but, after next week, he expects an adjournment to the soccer field, where any and all teams are welcome. The offer of financial reimbursement for trouncing the St. Louis club, the campus champs, still stands. All teams ready to challenge should see Tom Hennigan, at 231 Alumni hall, who assures us that the club will positively play all comers, from here on in.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Notre Dame Harriers
In National Meet
Sunday evening Coach Bill Mahoney will gather his cross-country men and lead them to East Lansing, Mich., where the National Collegiate Cross Country Meet will be held on Monday, Nov. 24.
Seven Irish harriers are expected to make the trip, and they are reported to be in fine condiiton. The team will return to N. D. Monday night, after competing against some 200 stars, representing schools all over the country. The Mid-west is expected to send most competitors to the meet, but the East and Far West are to be represented too.
Trimbournis "Champs" Lead Campus Bowling League
fCCH THE PREJJ BOX
by BILL SCANLAN
JUZWIK KICK SCATTERS WILDCATS
At the first Notre Dame practice session under Coach Frank Leahy here last March, Steve Juzwik dashed through two lines of gridders for the satisfaction of press cameramen . . . Coach Leahy, standing at one end, remarked, “Come on, Steve, let’s beat Northwestern!” . . . Now, eight months later, Steve’s trusty right foot is credited with kicking the all-important point in the 7-6 triumph . . . Though he’s the shortest man on the first team—five feet, 8% inches—Steve saved the day against the Wildcats on two other occasions, once halting Bill de Correvont as he trailed behind three men leading interference, and later intercepting a pass in the end zone and stopping a dangerous threat.
UNIVERSITY BOWL GAME POLICY UNCHANGED
With the end of the collegiate gridiron season near, ambitious and imaginative bowl game directors begin i amors that Notre Dame may compete in their respective extravaganzas . . . The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, told us Sunday: “The general policy of the University is not to participate in any bowl game. There is no disposition whatsoever on the part of the University to change that policy.” . . . Notre Dame has had that policy for 15 years, adopting it shortly after the Irish beat Stanford in the Rose Bowl game of 1925 . . . Notre Dame feels that its players and coaches deserve the rest after a long season which began with spring practice last March.
LEAGUE CHAMPIONS — AND NO BALL
Zahm hall, champions of Interhall league No. 1, won the crown without a ball . . . Whenever the club practiced, it was forced to borrow a ball from one of the informal groups playing touch football, or scrimmage' against someone who had a ball . . . Zahm faces Walsh for the University championship without its ace tackle, Tom McCoy, out with a leg injury . . . McCoy ranks easily as one of the classiest linemen in the loop . . . Nick Pepelnjak, who scored on an 85-yard run for Irish reserves against St. Benedict’s college in Kansas a year ago, has a brother spelling the name around Virginia, Minn. . . . Young Bill recently scampered for six touchdowns in one game against Hibbing, with runs ranging from 10 to 60 yards.
MADDOCK LEADS IN MINUTES PLAYED
Bob Maddock, Notre Dame’s edition of a Trojan workhorse from Santa Ana, Calif., enters the Southern Cal. game as the top man among workers for the 1941 season . . . His total is 353% minutes . . . Dip Evans ranks second with an even 350 . . . Others in the 300 class are: Brutz (349), Bertelli (335), Capt. Lillis (333), Wright (328) and Juzwik (325).
WALSH PACKS TRUNKS FOR TRIPS
Equipment manager this year is Ed (Doc) Walsh, silver-tongued senior from Troy Center, Wis. . . . The Badger got the name Doc from the character of the Seven Dwarfs ... It is Walsh’s duty to keep track of the 10,000 oi- more items gridders include on trips, ranging from three sets of game jerseys and trousers, rain and regular shoes, 30 containers of special water, and 14 large trunks . . . The clever Irishman, who is majoring in sociology, also performs in University radio programs as chief aide to John (Snuffy) Kelly.
. . . 7-8-9, BEAT THE TROJANS
Notre Dame 26, Southern California 6.
As the All-Campus Bowling League
moves into its tion, there is
fourth week of competi-increasing evidence that league leadership is going to be hotly contested. While it is early in the season, and the teams have not begun to string out as they will later on, there is nevertheless one group that
capt. joe palmer looks for all the world like the one that any
team must beat if it has its sights set on the championship. “The Champs,” led by lanky, red-headed “Nibs” Trimbourne, of Lyons Hall, have mopped up on everything in sight so far, due mostly to the fine work of their captain.
At a meeting held before the start of the season, the captains of the 14 competing teams elected Joe Palmer, senior pre-med, as captain, Jim Fayette, senior commerce student, secretary, and Lou Spagnulo, junior pre-med, treasurer of the league.
For the convenience of all, the captains decided to divide the league into two parts, one to be met in the afternoon, and the other at night. Each week cash prizes will be offered and trophies will be awarded at the season’s close.
As one more feature, director Tom Halligan has arranged to have this year’s league sanctioned by the American Bowling Congress. In keeping with this, the alleys have been renovated, new pins obtained, and each league match sees a man taking care of the foul line.
Outside of league play the K.C. alleys are open each afternoon until four o’clock, -when leagues begin. The usual price is 15 cents per game, but, until three o’clock any afternoon, two games can be bowled for 25 cents. The alleys will also be opened on Saturday and Sunday afternoon.
So, everything’s ready for you. Come on over any afternoon, and let’s see how good you are. A new automatic “coke” machine has been installed in the Walsh basement for bowlers and other thirsty people with nickels.
GIVE HER A GRANDFATHER'S CLOCK ...
if you are one who wants to be remembered daily. Or .... if that's not so handy, you'll get the same results with:	"NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT"
19
Notre Dame Risks Unbeaten
Record Against So. Cal.
May history not repeat itself!
This cry cannot be stressed too much when Notre Dame plays Southern California. Look at the record book. The 1931 Coast eleven halted a streak of 26 games in which Notre Dame had been undefeated but tied once by Northwestern on a rainy Soldiers field in Chicago. Three years ago the men from ’ Troy snapped an eight game winning streak, 13 to 0, at Los Angeles, to kill Elmer Layden’s best chance for a national title.
Once again Southern California is in a favorable position to play David to the Irish Goliath. A Trojan win would enable them to cast off their doormat role in the Pacific conference and salvage some of their past glory. So the incentive is there.
The Record
Notre Dame
38	Arizona	7
19	Indiana	6
20	Georgia Tech	0
16	Carnegie Tech	0
49	Illinois	11
0	Army	0
20	Navy	13
7	Northwestern	6
Southern Cal.
13 Oregon State 7 0 Ohio State 33
6 Oregon	20
7 Washington State 6
0 California 14
0 Stanford	13
The game tomorrow, which will be the sixteenth in the oldest continuous intersectional rivalry involving a Pacific coast team, will conclude Notre Dame’s first
Beat Southern Cal!
season under the guidance of Coach Frank Leahy.
The Irish will be called upon to face a line that averages 204 pounds from end to end. Lew Hindley and Bob Jones patrol the Trojan flanks; Don Wilier and Jim Crowther, the tackles; Ron Thomas and Norman Verry, the guards, and center, Max Green. Norman Verry, at a mere 234 pounds, is typical of the “beefy” Southern California guards of the past.
Bob Robertson, Doug Essick, Bill Bledsoe, and Dick Manning cavort behind this line. In the words of assistant coach Bill Cemey, who has scouted the Trojans, “Robertson is one of the finest backs on the Pacific coast.”
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, their polished attack given a tremendous inspirational lift by the 7 to 6 defeat of Northwestern last Saturday, are determined to give the Irish institution its first undefeated season since 1930.
The following seniors will make their last appearance in Irish grid togs when they suit out for tomorrow’s contest: Hercules Bereolos, Jim Brutz, Bernie Crimmins, Ray Ebli, Bob Hargrave, Mike Hines, Don Hogan, Steve Juzwik, John Kovatch, Joe Laiber, Paul Lillis, Bob Maddock, Ed McNeill, Paul Patten, Joe Postupack, Joe Prokop, Gordy O’Reilly and Andy Chlebeck. Another worthy senior whom hard luck, in the form of an early season injury, has kept on the sidelines is Eddy Sullivan.—Frank L. Kunkel
Honor Trojan Coach
During the half-time intermission of the Southern California-Notre Dame game tomorrow, the 56,000 spectators will stand in silent tribute to the late Howard Jones, former coach of the Trojans who died early this spring.
The Notre Dame band will then play the Southern California school song in honor of Mr. Jones, long a close friend of Notre Dame.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 16) claim Notre Dame as his alma mater. An uncle, Professor James F. Hines, taught history here for some thirty years. Another uncle, Joseph P. Costello, was a member of the Irish track team in 1912.
Although Mike reports that his biggest football thrill came when he played with the reserve team that defeated St. Benedict College last year, a more gruelling experience was falling through the ice while laying traps on a creek, and walking a mile with both feet frozen stiff.
This leads to Mike’s chief off-gridiron hobby—hunting. Those students who are up at the crack of dawn every morning may catch a glimpse of him almost every fall and winter morning tramping off from Alumni hall toward the Notre Dame woods to bring ’em back alive. He invites any of you who want to drag out of a warm bed that early in the morning to join him.
Mike explains that at one time he had a collection of some twenty-one hunting dogs, but at present only one of these remains. Hunting is the lad’s chief hobby, but running this a close second' is fishing and trapping, which occupies a great deal of his time in the summer and winter.
Hines’ summers are usually spent in hard labor on the family farm near Kewanna, striving to reach top physical shape for the ensuing football season. The past summer, however, was spent putting a bright green hue on the Notre Dame football stadium.
Mike’s brother, who was an athlete of no mean ability in his high school days and who captained his high school five in his senior year, is enrolled at Notre Dame as a pre-med student. Professors in the pre-med school will bear out the
A MINK COAT FOR PEGGY?
Maybe she deserves one, but if that won’t go — and a card won’t do — YOU’LL BE RIGHT WITH
"NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT
20
fact that the younger half of the Hines family is as much of a student as his older brother. The younger Hines finished the first quarter with an average of 95 percent.
The giant Mike’s first and greatest love and ambition after graduating is to follow the line which he has pursued for the past three years at Notre Dame and land a coach’s job. He points out, however, that later on in life he would like to practice law. Immediately following graduation, though, Hines has a more important and inevitable job to perform—in the United States Army.
Mike has not risen to any great heights as far as the newspapers are concerned. His name is not sent far and wide every Saturday over the airlanes. But for those of us who know him here at Notre Dame—there will never be another Mike Hines.
Mostly About Our Stadium
If the 15,000 cubic yards of concrete in the present Notre Dame stadium were made into a tower ten feet square, it would reach a height of five and one-half times that of the Woolworth Building in New York City.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
The original sod of Cartier Field, where Notre Dame did not lose a home game in 23 years was moved into the new field upon completion of Notre Dame stadium. Southern Methodist played the first game in the stadium in 1930, losing 20-14. Navy lost the dedication game the following week, 26-2, to the late Knute Rockne’s last team and his second straight national championship eleven.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Notre Dame stadium personnel for each game amounts to nearly 800 people. The parking lots, immediately adjacent to the arena, easily accommodate more than 15,000 cars. Policing every game are state and local officers, as well as private detectives.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
“Finest in the land” is the recommendation given N.D. stadium press box by sports reporters throughout the country. Enclosed in glass on the east side of the structure, it rises 60 feet above the ground. There are facilities for 375 writers, telegraphers, announcers, and cameramen.
A ton of football “mite” is no gross exaggeration of this year’s Irish starting squad. In the backfield there are 721 pounds of speed and versatility. The varsity forward wall carries 1402 pounds. Total of 2123.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
Notre Dame stadium, used exclusively for football, measures a half-mile around, is 45 feet high, and seats 56,COO fans. There are more than 2,000,000 bricks in the edifice which, if laid end to end, would reach from Notre Dame to the Cleveland waterfront, approximately 300 miles. The 400 tons (approximately 20 carloads) of steel used in its construction if converted into bullets, each weighing two ounces, would total almost 6,500,-000 bullets. If these were fed steadily into a machine gun shooting 100 a minute, the trigger could be pressed for 44 days and 10 hours before the supply would be exhausted.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
There have been 51 games in the stadium since its dedication in 1930. Of these the Irish have an enviable record of 41 won, nine lost, and one tied.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
There will be an “All South Dakota” finish to the Notre Dame schedule Saturday. Justin McCarthy (Sam) Barry, Southern California successor- to the late Howard Jones, was bom in Aberdeen, S. Dak., and Frank Leahy, Notre Dame successor to Elmer Layden, professional football czar, came from Winner, S. Dak.
Four Uniforms For Irish — Just In Case
If you don’t believe the Notre Dame team is classy, watch the game tomorrow. You’ll change your mind. And not only is this team classy, but so is the wardrobe which the “Fighting Irish” have to choose from during the football season. The team’s equipment is the best and contains everything, from gabardine practice pants to rain shoes and woollen underwear for bad weather.
Besides these items, the wardrobe includes: 1 pair of satin game pants, 1 pair of two-way-stretch game pants, 1 pair of rain pants, 1 blue jersey with white numerals, 1 green jersey with white shoulders and white numerals, 1 duprene blue jersey with gold numerals, 1 duprene green jersey with
gold numerals, 1 pair of practice shoes, 1 pair of game shoes, 1 practice helmet, 1 gold game helmet, 1 set of green and gold socks (gold on lower half), 1 set of blue and gold socks (gold on lower half).
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry -
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH ANO JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg. South Beno. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building Telephone 4-380
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER M.D.
M. J. THORNTON M.D.
Phone 3-2805
residence 4-1S44
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J.M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2S74
JUST BECAUSE .
• Can sometimes be the best reasons! With parents it is the acts beyond the line
of duty that count the most! An unexpected gift — one given "just because" — often means the most . . .
"NOTRE DAME IN PORTRAIT"
21
DISC-CUSSION
By Ed Roney
Someone asked me the other day why I didn’t “slam” some of the records in my review. The answer is very simple. I don’t intend to review any records that need that treatment as there are a sufficient number of good recordings to fill the column week after week without wasting valuable space on any poor ones.
The big news this week is the Victor contest. To the 512 people who send in the best answers of 50 words or less to the question, “I like the Victor Record Catalog because-------Victor will give a group of prizes ranging from a ‘Magic Brain’ Victrola-Radio and $100 worth of records to a record by Toscanini and the N.B.C. Symphony Orchestra. The first prize is valued at $695 and the last 500 at $1.00 each. The other eleven range from $299 to $27 in value. The entry may be written on either the official entry blank to be found in any record store or on a plain piece of paper. Entries should be mailed to the R.C.A. Victor Contest, Box 58, New York City. This is a great opportunity for those who appreciate good phonographs and records to obtain some free.
Jimmy Dorsey had two excellent recordings released lately that should make anyone sit up and listen. On the first record is “Wasn’t It You” featuring Bob Eberly on one of those slow romantic numbers which are Bob’s specialty, and “Moonlight Masquerade,” another hit with a slow tempo and Bob on the vocal. The second record has “It Happened in Hawaii,” the third in the “Amopola” series where Bob takes it slow and Helen O’Connell gives it that swingy touch. On the reverse is “Tropical Magic” from the picture, “Week-end in Havana” featuring Bob at his best again. For a lot of Dorsey and a lot of Bob Eberly try these two records.
“I Got It Bad” is written by Duke Ellington, played by Benny Goodman, and sung by Peggy Lee. This medium-paced tune from “Jump For Joy” glides in a fascinating groove with an exceptionally good grouping of the reeds and brass. Peggy’s vocal is really something to listen to. On the reverse is one of Benny’s own tunes called “Pound Ridge” and it’s all jive and jump with Benny’s clarinet, Cootie Williams’ trumpet and Sid Callett’s drums. Only fair for any-’ one except swing addicts, but the first side makes up for it.
For something with a really different and very enjoyable tone try Enric Ma-driguera’s “Piano Concerto.” Although most of you probably have this by someone or other by this time, you might lend an ear to this one for it’s in Bolero time and just right for a good bit of “Rumbaing.” Next to Martin’s, I consider it the most beautiful of this oft-recorded melody. Coupled with it is the “Cuban Yodeler,” a comic novelty-song featuring beautiful Patricia Gilmore, who rates
V-166
Sil
Have fun-be friendly
Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum The Flavor Lasts



with the best-of-the-best of the girl vocalists. A top-notch record on both sides.
With nary a slip of the tongue, Kay Kyser brings forth “Popocatepetl,” a sparkling waltz, good for easy dancing and featuring a good vocal by Harry Babbitt with Sully, Jack, and Max helping out. Some good piano work also helps out. For the flipover, Kay has “by-u by-o,” called the Louisiana Lullaby, which has a series of novel vocal effects and a swell chorus by Harry, Trudy,

st Aw
22
Jack, and Max. This one is moderate in tempo but not in entertainment.
Some sort of a prize should go to Shep Fields for the craziest song title in a long time. “Ooh—Does Your Mothei' Know You Smoke?” is the name of his newest record. Ann Perry asks the questions and the boys in the band help her on a nifty melody. “’Twas Not So Long-Ago” backs it up and this is a beautiful number in which Shep turns his many reeds loose. Eddie Kelley and a quartette handle the vocals on this number from Hamerstein - Kern’s musical score for “Sweet Adeline.”
One of the best vocal renditions of that popular hit, “Elmer’s Tune” is that sung by the Andrews Sisters. To be done right, this number- should be sung by more than one person, and these three do a nifty job with their sweet-and-swing version. Backing this one up is another nifty named “Honey” with a lot of mighty nice swing lyrics.
Bandwagon Playbacks
Look for some Victor platters by Bob Hope. . . . Artie Shaw has just signed a contract to play for five hours at a private party in Cincinnati on Christmas Day for §4,500. . . . Charlie Barnet is the newest bandleader to take to strings. . . . He now uses four fiddles and a viola on some numbers. ... It would take over-50 centuries to play every record ever made. . . . They number over a billion. . . . Saxie Dowell wrote the “Three Little Fishes” on a bus.. .. Jimmy Van Heusen wrote “Heaven Can Wait” while operating a freight elevator. . . . Dinah Shore now has a Sunday night commercial. . . . Gene Krupa features his “Drum Boogie” in the picture “Ball of Fire.” . . . Harry James had to become legal guardian of his new 17-year-old saxist in order to use him in some states. . . . Kay Kyser has a collegian-looking blonde and a striking brunette to take the place of Ginny Simms. . . . Helen Forrest is now with Harry James. . . . Benny Goodman has just waxed four sides without any
drums as an experiment. . . . Glenn Miller has just added a third tenor sax to his group.
BEAT SOUTHERN CAL!
ANSWERS TO SPORTS QUIZ
1.	Kansas State.
2.	In 1901, 1935, and 1940.
3.	Joe Kurth, All-American tackle from Notre Dame.
4.	The Height of Ignorance.
5.	Monk Moscrip of Stanford did this in 1933-34-35.
G. a) Yale University.
h) Purdue and U. S. Military Academy.
It is estimated that at least half the nearly 1,500,000 youth in American colleges are working to help pay their expenses, while 20 per cent are paying all their costs.
University of Chicago, celebrating its fiftieth anniversary recently, launched a drive for §12,000,000.
Each time you taste ice-cold Coca-Cola, you are reminded that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience... many a refreshing experience... has taught people everywhere to trust the quality of Coca-Cola.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY of South Bend
1107 Beyer Avenue
TAKE IT EASY!
SHOPPING THIS CHRISTMAS
"Notre Dame in Portrait1
NOTRE DAMEj LOCAL
Copyright 1941. Liccett & Mtebs Tobacco Co.
JOHNNY MIZE and
MORTON COOPER
St Louis Cardinals' first baseman and pitcher. They play ball together, hunt together,and together enjoy Chesterfield—the cigarette that Satisfies.
hesterfield
Smokers take to Chesterfield like a duck takes to water... because they’re definitely Milder Cooler-Smoking... Better-Tasting
Chesterfield’s can’t-be-copied blend . . . the right combination of the best cigarette tobaccos that grow both here and abroad . . . gives a man what he wants...a cigarette that’s definitely MILDER and that completely SATISFIES.
CHESTERFIELD FOR A MILDER COOLER SMOKE
24