
~******************************************************** 
Need To Publicize An Event Or Promote Sales? 
Scholastic Has The Lowest 

Advertising Rates On Campus 

$3.35 per column inch $110 for full inside front cover ... Discounts for regular customers 
WE DESIGN ADS, TOO! 
Get The Most For Your Money Let Your Ads Be Seen In Scholastic 
Contact. the Scholastic office, third floor LaFortune or call 239-7S69 for more information 
********************************************************* 

Contents 
April 15, 1987 Volume 128, No. 21

Scholastic 

On the Wagon? 

10 
By Kathleen McKernan 
Three years after its inception, students and adminis­
trators evaluate the effects and effectiveness of the 
alcohol policy. 
Getting Tough All Over 

13 
By Rob Hennig 
Tighter alcohol restrictions are forcing many college students to find something besides beer to quench their thirsts. 

Departments Student Life 
4/Week in Distortion: Nothing in Particular 6/ 007 Is Forever By Katie Cronin
5/0n Other Campuses: With Beer Comes Progress 19/Music: It's Easy As Pie Although he will no longer be teaching his legendary class, Dr. Emil T. Hofman will con­
20/Final Word: Next Year, 700! 
tinue as Dean of Freshman Year of Studies. 

Sports 
14/ Hardtop Hysteria 18/ Scoreboard 
By Phil Wolf 

For 16 years, Notre Dame's athletes and couch potatoes alike have endured rain, snow and skinned knees for a shot at the Bookstore Basket­ball crown. 
Cover by Jim Gallagher 
Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS student advertising, Inc. 
l:l 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part withou. ,.;ermission is prohibited. 

Scholastic 
Vol 128 April 15 1987 No. 21 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 

Founded 1867 
Editor: Kathleen McKernan 
Managing Editor: Mark Dillon 

Business Manager: Cathy Coffey 

Editorial Staff 
Sports: Marty Burns Departments: Mike Farnan Student Life: Sara Harty News: Steffanie Keller Copy Chief: Bob White 

Production 
Graphics Arts Manager: Patricia Brienza, Photo Manager: Allan Lim Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek Production Managers: Amy Weber 

Business 
Administration and Circulation: Matthew Bradley Controller: John Harper Advertising Manager: Dave Marcantuono 
Issue 21 Staff 
Layout: 
Art: Jim Doerfler 
Jim Gallagher Sue Serrato 
Tim Letscher Diane Ricker 
Distribution: Photography: 
Mike Hoban Chuck Ray Joe Vitacco 


Aprll 16, 1987 


If you have an opinion about something in Scholastic, write us a letter clo 
Scholastic Letters LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame IN 46556 
Letters to the editor must be typed and must include the author's-name, address and phone number. Letters should not exceed 250 words in length. 
• I 
:1 
3 





Nothing in Particular 
Coyle takes the opportunity to get some things off his chest and clean out his distorted file 
By John Coyle 

With most of my few remaining mental capabili­ties having been tapped due to a year of stringent and anxiety-producing academia and because the boneheads running this rag failed to tell me I had to write one of these poor excuses for humor 'til an hour beforehand, I've decided to devote this article to nothing in particular and any­thing in general. This will be a mindless, virtually unintelligible discourse on irrelevant trivialities of everyday human existence. So without further ado .. 
... most people probably don't know it, but if you play Jermaine Stewart's hit single "We Don't Have To Take Our Clothes Off (To Have A Good Time)" backwards at 78 r.p.m., there is a moral and pious . message in the form of a righteous rap by none other than Father Theodore Hesburgh. And it goes some­
thing like this . . . 
"Priests, give me a beat ­
Don't you young boys and girls go procreating. 
I don't give a damn· how long you've been dating, 
With rule number eight around, there's just no 
mistaking." 
Before marriage, I ain't standing for no 
consummating." 

. . . there are two sure signs of spring at Notre Dame, strategically placed water sprinklers and touchy, feely couples taking long, romantic walks around the lakes. And the sounds of •both are unmistakable. First, the sprinkler: Chk-Chk-Chk-Chk-Chk-Chk -Chk-Chk-Chk "Oh no, (fill in your favorite expletive), I hate these damn sprinklers." And now, the young lovers: "Oh look at that little ducky, isn't he adorable, pumpkin? You're adorable, poodles." Kiss-kiss-kiss, smooch-smooch-smooch, slobber­slobber-slobber ... 
· ... has good old Peter Cottontail gotten a raw deal or what through the years? He has been hoppin' down the bunny trail, giving out candy for the last hundred years or so and what does he get in return? Nothing, the big zippo. Wiseguy Bugs Bunny gets all the rabbit publicity and fat old Santa Claus wins all the human­itarian awards. To add insult to injury, Bugs gets to live in a luxurious mansion in Hollywood while that Claus character hangs out in some pleasure palace in the North Pole. Meanwhile, poor Peter literally lives in a hole in the ground out in some lonely meadow. And if you ever thought that living in a hole is fun, try it when it's raining and your new compact disk player is floating downstream ... 
... I'm sure that Father Malloy is going to do a great job, but I'm not real big on the Monk moniker. Monk, president of Notre Dame. It's just too easy to confuse it with the name of the head guy at a monastery, and we all know how far from the truth that is. Don't we?!. .. or maybe ~e don't ... 
. . . is there anyone out there who can really imagine Father Ted and Father Joyce pulling up to the beach in an R. V., piling out with a keg and some tunes, wearing Jams and Vuarnets.?It isn't going to be the wildest road trip ever, but "A" for effort, guys, and stay cool ... 
... well, this is about all she wrot.e for this kid. Time to be moving on for this cowboy. New trails to be blazed and all that kind of stuff. But don't despair, faithful readers -or is it reader -(thanks, Mom), I'll be back next fall for more fun in the Indiana sun . That is, if I can survive my summer internship. "Oh yes, more coffee, Mr. Spacely. Cream, no sugar, right?" "Time to empty the trash can? I'm right on it Mr. Slate." Hope everyone has a great summer and hey, just keep being you, okay? 


With Beer Comes Progress 
Edited by Steve Sparks 

The discovery of beer prompted neolithic man to undertake farming for the first time 
Beer turned neolithic man to farming 
after 10,000 years of anomadic existence and, conse­quently, began civilization as we know it today, said anthropologist Soloman Katz as quoted in the South Bend Tribune. It was an accidental discovery by prehistoric humans. They found that if wild wheat and barley, soaked in water to make gruel, were left out in the open, it would convert into a bubbling brew that made whoever drank it feel good, said Katz. This convinced him to settle down and cul­tivate the grains. It also led to other types of farming and the eventual formation of stable societies, not to mention the development of pretzels. 
Students setting off bottle 
rockets caused a fire which forced the evacuation of 1,000 residents at North­ern Illinois University, published The Chronicle of Higher Education. Two university police officers and two gra­duate assistants were treated for smoke inhalation at a local hospital. One dorm room was completely destroyed and . one floor of the building, Stevenson Towers South, had smoke damage. 
Tight electric-red leotards 
worn by Kansas University's Crimson Girls dancing squad have been banned by . the school's athletic department, reports the University Daily Kansan. The February 8 Kansas-Notre Dame basketball game was their last performance in the one-piece, fuU length leotards. Gary Hunter, the associate athletic director, said· he had received several phone calls and letters questioning the squad's performance and choice of attire. He also said that some people were concerned that some of the dance moves were in questionable taste and that the uniforms were "not very flattering to the young ladies." It could be, however, that the uniforms were all too flattering. 

Charged with serving alcohol to minors, 
14 Penn State fraternities have asked the court to rule that the 'prosecution's evidence is "insufficient," reported the Weekly Collegian, a Penn State Univer­sity student news publication. The fraternities' attor­ney, Ed Blanarik, stated at the hearing that the two undercover officers (both female) who entered vari­ous private parties did not · establish that the liquid consumed by minors at the houses 
contained alcohol. To provide suffi­cient evidence, Blanarik said, the prosecution needed to show that the liquid met the legal definition of alcohol -that it contained at least 0.5 percent alcohol. "It could have been a liquid such as 'near beer,"' he argued. "Also, no one established that (the officers) had ever tasted alcohol before." 
The impeachment of President 
Reagan was the overwhelming outcome of a vote by the student body of Hampshire College in a survey that involved over 50 percent of the student body, reported the Brown . Daily Herald. In the mock election, Reagan lost his power by an overwhelming 96 percent, being charged with breaking federal and international laws. How­ever, only 10 percent of· faculty members and 5 percent of the staff voted. The same type of vote at Brown University resulted in an opposite out­come. 
April 16, 1987 
St udent Li f.e 



007 Is Forever 
By Katie Cronin 

Although he will no longer be teaching his legendary class, Dr. Emil T. Hofman will continue as Dean of Freshman Year of Studies 

Legend has it he's "dated" more freshman girls than the entire freshman male popu­lation combined, and truth has it that he's been entered in the Chi­cago Tribune Golden Glove Bouts -heavyweight division. Further­more it's not fiction that he is also a gourmet cook. Sound like a pos­sible candidate for the next James Bond film? 
Maybe someday, but for now Notre Dame will retain its 007 ­Dr. Emil T. Hofman. Although he will step down from teaching Chemistry 115-116 at the end of this semester, the car with his dis­tinct ET007 license plates will still be parked in its special spot out­side the Freshman Year of Studies office for several more years because Hofman plans to continue to remain busy as dean of the col­lege. 
Hofman officially resigned from teaching for two major rea­sons. "With two jobs, I wasn't doing what I wanted to do with either. And I think that it is important for someone else with fresh ideas and methods to teach the course," he said. 

Does this mean there'll be no more Friday seven point "Emil" quizzes? Does this mean freshmen who take Chemistry 115-116 may finally have a real social life, going out on Thursday nights with Arts and Letters or Business stu­dents who take Geology? Does it mean there'll be no more Emil Parades to North Dining Hall before his finals? "Who knows? We'll have to wait and see," said Hofman. 
But Hofman said he has no regrets about resigning from teaching. "I'm looking forward to leaving chemistry. I think it is important to end it now. I'd regret continuing. It's right, just for the students who follow, so that they have a better course offered by others in the future," he said. "It would hurt me to give a course that would fall short of what I'd want to give." 
Hofman began his career as a Notre Dame teaching assistant in 1950, but never intended to teach. "The first day I was on that floor as a TA in General Chemistry Laboratory I knew what I wanted to do for the rest of my life. Honestly, it was as dramatic as it sounds." He was appointed to teach the General Chemistry Lab in 1953, the year the Chemistry Department moved itself into the newly built Nieuwland Science Building. At the time he was told it would be a one-year position, but instead, it turned into 35-year tenure. 
Looking back, Hofman consid­ers 197 4-1977 to be "the great years." These were the years after he adjusted to the addition of women, and before he had a stroke in 1977. But Hofman thinks he taught chemistry best before Notre Dame went coed. 
"I had a certain style then," he said. "It was very comfortable for me. I was a macho drill instructor, marine-corps. type. The guys liked that very much. I had a wonderful rapport ·with them. The most diffi­cult year of my career was the year Notre Dame went coed. It took a couple of years for me to really find my relationship with the girls. Then I assumed the role of a father figure with the girls ­and have loved it ever since." 
"I think he really has a special love in his heart for his women 
Scholastic 





Student Life 

students," said former student Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. Malloy best remembered Hofman's ability to write on the blackboard and erase it at the same time. He believes that Hofman is part of the Notre Dame tradition and a fine example of a person given to teaching. "He loves all his stu­dents. He really wants the stu­dents to succeed." 
Hofman takes greatest pride not in any accomplishment of his own but, instead, in the success of his students, although he. takes no responsibility for their successes. "I teach not only chemistry but students," he said. 
Hofman credits his students with teaching him the importance men in class anymore, Hofman said that he will take the initiative to maintain close contact. 
"He's a marvelous person who's been a friend of many generations of Notre Dame first year students and helped prepare them for their next three years at Notre Dame and for life," said University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh. 
Hofman has been Dean of Freshman Year of Studies since its inception in 197 l. He will con­tinue as dean in the future. "To resign from teaching was entirely his own decision. He intends to do more in Freshman Year of Stu~ dies," said Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
his world-reknown inventions, have been concocted. "I'm such a bland person, that it takes these inventions of the students to make me even somewhat interesting. The rumors are all inventions of students' far-fetched minds." 
He also has been the basis for many students' pranks. He once was entered as a contestant in the Chicago Tribune Golden Glove Bouts. In the '60s, one student filled out the application and sent it in, in Hofman's name. And then a football player volunteered to to go into Chicago to take a required physical for him. He was unaware of their fun until he received his schedule for the bouts.· 

of being careful not to judge a person too soon. "Never count a student out," he said. "Once they overcome the starting obstacles, they do such remarkable things." 
His favorite advice to freshmen is: "Learn as much as you can, about as much as you can. And seek to identify the goals you want to pursue, rather than merely be processed toward goals already determined." He also encourages all students to· approach the pro­fessors more. 
Trying to meet as many stu­dents as possible, Hofman takes freshmen girls, and guys too, out to eat. "I depend on the outside interaction I have with students." Although he will not be seeing a majority of the incoming fresh-
Aprll 16, 1987 
Any further accomplishments would just be adding to an already impressive record. "He's spectac­ular," said Hes burgh. "He loses less than one percent of his incom­ing freshman, and there have been semesters he hasn't lost anyone. On the national average, fifty percent of all freshman drop out." 
According to Hesburgh, more freshmen feel a personal relation­ship with Hofman, than any other professor, because of the attention he gives them. "There's nothing mechanical about his administra­tion. He helps the students with their fears and hopes, calming one and enlarging the other." 
Over the years, many rumors, ranging from his large bankroll to 
He never discovered the culprit until this past year. Before a foot­ball game, he ran into an alumnus who had a troubled conscience and finally confessed to the practical joke. Hofman wasn't offended. "I made it all the way to the finals of the heavyweight division," he said. "And I lost in a very ques­tionnable split decision." 
Does Hofman mind being. called Emil? "Does Father Hes­burgh object to being called Father Ted?" he said. "I like to think of it as a term of endear­ment." And according to the many students he has taught during the past 35 years, it is a reasonable assertion from a man otherwise known as Notre Dame's own secret agent 007. II 






On The Wagon? 
By Kathleen McKernan 
Three years after its inception, students and administrators evaluate the effects and effectiveness of the alcohol policy 
When Lewis Resident 
Assistant Mary Beth 
Seiner was a freshman, 
she used to go from 
~ party to party in the 
men's dorms with her 
friends. "There was a 
lot of beer," she said. "The par­
ties in the dorms were a lot like 
SYRs except not as formal and 
without dates. You got to meet lots 
of new people. We used to go to 
parties in the dorms every week­
end night." 
John Tyler is a first-year law student and a second-year RA in Grace. He added to Seiner's description of pre-policy days at Notre Dame. "The rules w~re very lenient on parties. There were a lot of people crammed in rooms, a lot of people drinking in the party rooms." 
Junior Lynsey Dodd doesn't remember Notre Dame before the alcohol. policy. She ·started as a freshman in the fall of 1984, the first year of the policy's imple­mentation. But her sister, now a senior, used to tell her of parties and dances and drinking. "I don't really know firsthand what I've been missing," Dodd said, "but I remember her calling me on the phone, talking about Dillon par­ties, Walsh parties, and all that stuff. There was beer every­where." 
Scholastic 



News 
Within a month, the seniors that do remember Notre Dame before the 1984 Alcohol Policy and Regu­lations will graduate. The memories of hall parties will lose their immediacy. Few students will remain who participated in the storming of the Administration Building or the rally outside Corby Hall following the release of the committee report. Within that same period, the third anniversary of the announcement of the University Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol will arrive. 

The committee grew out of the 1983 report, "Priorities and Com­mitments for Excellence," the ten-year plan of the University. One of the issues that arose repeat­edly was the problem of alcohol on campus, said Executive Vice President-elect Father William Beauchamp, committee chairman. 
"We began that committee without any preconceived notions," Beauchamp said. "We met with Counseling and Psych Services (now the University Counseling Center), rectors, and a random sample of students to fill us in on the issue." 


Some differences exist between the recommendations of the com­mittee and what actually became part of the policy. The committee suggested the adoption of the fol­lowing regulation: "No happy hours, parties, or similar events are allowed in private student rooms." The eventual policy, however, left the individual dorm rectors with the responsibility for making the decisions regarding parties in student rooms. 
"We did not create a dry campus," said Beauchamp. "We would be naive to think our stu­dents would not drink. We decided what we wanted in the residence halls; they should be places to live, sleep and study. Rather than make the campus dry, we arrived at more of a middle of the road approach." 
The March 25 issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education quoted Associate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick, under the heading "Some Cam­puses Officially Dry." Goldrick said in The Chronicle, "There's been a complete change in the atmosphere and in what happens at those kinds of social gatherings (SYRs)." 
:Aeauchamp also discussed the difficulties with SYRs and the alcohol policy. "(The SYR) is a recognized inconsistency in the policy." He said that some say the policy was made to cover instances of legal liability. He also said, however, that if liability was the only reason for the policy, there would be no SYRs. "Before the policy, SYRs tended to be a dif­ferent type of thing. The primary focus of the SYR was not alcohol. They were big social events," he added. 
Tyler, the RA from Gi:ace, said, "From my experience, drink­dorms as well as around campus. There's a lot more social cons­ciousness drinking, not so much drinking to get drunk. But there were and are those who abuse alcohol and those who drink to excess. I think that would happen in any situation." 
Seiner believes that the alcohol policy cuts down on visible drink­ing, but that that is not necessarily such a good thing. "Drinking still happens," she said, "it's just what kind of support those with prob­lems end up getting." 
"People who would have prob­lems are still going to have prob­lems. Before the policy, if you were going to have a problem, more people would know about it, because you would be drinking publicly. Now, you're not going to get the same level of support," she continued. 
Senior Scott Stephen moved off campus this year, partly because of the alcohol policy, but that was not his only reason. "I didn't move off campus directly because of the policy, but it had a lot to do with it. I thought I was at the age when I could decide whether or not to drink." 
In reaction to the alcohol pol­icy, if students have not moved off campus, some of their parties have migrated. First semester, there were three separate tragedies involving students, alcohol and driving. Two of the three charged in the occurrences were on­campus students. Just last week­end, there was an incident off­campus involving Notre Dame stu­dents at a party where one was hit in the face with a beer stein, requiring emergency medical attention. 
But the administration has said that .it hesitates to make policy from quick reaction to incidents. Said Beauchamp, "Our decisions are not made strictly as reactions 



Nevvs 
things into account. When I've been asked how I would feel if things happen, I've said, 'I'm going to feel awful -but not responsible.' We can have all the rules we want. What's the differ­ence if students, or any people, do not take responsibility. Students have to be aware of the decisions they make all the time." 
The original committee made a number of recommendations for programs to be added along with the rules prohibiting the party rooms. Many of those programs have been started. For one, the committee encouraged the incep­tion of Alcohol Awareness Week. It also suggested special training sessions for RAs, adding that "a significant portion of the hall staff orientation · should be devoted to alcohol-related issues." 
The Hall Presidents' Council began the Buzz Bus this year after the first semester's accidents involving students and drunk driv­ing'. . Said Co-Chairperson Shelia O'Connor, "There seemed to be more going off campus for par­ties," Joanie · Cahill, the other co-chairperson, said that the Buzz Bus was started to "provide tran­sportation from bars alld off­campus parties for students who had had too much to drink and didn't want to be driving.'' The Bus averaged 75-100 people a night. 
For the underage remaining on campus, the opening of Theodore's, the undergraduate non-alcoholic nightclub, has pro­vided a social altenative. Vince Willis, general manager of the club, said that "(Theodore's) gives the students and outlet.that didn't exist before." 
Willis also serves on the national board for BACCHUS. BACCHUS, which the report describes as "a national organiza­tion organized by collegians that streses the responsible use of alcohol," was another group that the University Committee for the Responsible Use of Alcohol sug­gested be formed on campus. 

"It was a real easy year to talk about alcohol because of the three tragedies first semester," said Willis. "I do also think that people ai-e realizing that what BACCHUS stands for is a good thing. It's not saying 'don't drink.' But there are some problems associated with drinking when it becomes an excess: on the minor side, the lia­bility thing, the inconvenience, and then on the real serious side, you have the people who die." 

lJniversity President Father 
Theodore Hesburgh said he 

prefers to leave any possibil­itie~ for modification of the policy with President-elect Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. Said Hesburgh, "Ultimately whether it should be revised or not should be left up to the new president. I think there's been a lot of good action. Having seen before and after I like after better than I like before." 
According to Beauchamp, Mal­loy has planned to start, a "blue­rib bon task force on drugs and alcohol." Malloy said of his task force, "I am in the proces of put­ting it together. I am just in the process of organizing it so I can't tell you anything more than that." 
Some of the RAs have said that they recognize the difficulties that college students face with alcohol. "It seems that in our society, growing up requires a ritualistic . experience with alcohol," Tykr said. "I don't know if that's going to be replaced very easily." 
Dr. Tom Brian, staff counselor 

at the University Counseling Center, said that although there's a high percentage of student involvement with alcohol m the college years, that does not lessen the severity of the problem for some. "Some students will develop a life-long problem with ·alcohol," he said. "It's hard to predict. Some will 'grow out of it.' But in that growing out process, 
some people die." 
Although many have said that alcohol awareness has increased in the past few years with the pro­grams and suggestions of the University Committee for Respon­sible Use of Alcohol, still others say that there is little difference, except that some people have moved the revelry off-campus or isolated it within private rooms. 
Alumni resident Marty Loesch is the RA in a section with 44 freshman out 50 students. This has given him considerable opportun­ity to see the way freshman social life now differs from the party room socialization of the years before the alcohol policy. He said the freshmen in his section seem to do their drinking in their rooms. He also added that he would encourage more activities for the underclassmen. For Loesch, the chief difference lies in the loca­tion. "Social events tend to be small-scale gatherings in indivi­dual rooms." 
"As an RA," said Seiner, "I don't see my freshman drinking very much, but that doesn't mean that they don't or won't." 





Tighter alcohol restrictions are forcing many college students to find something besides beer to quench their thirsts 


At a February 29 basketball game at Marquette University, the Notre Oame Fightin' Irish were. treated to a fan reac­tion not found in the 
ACC. Students threw beer at the Notre Dame bench, prompting some Marquette officials to call for a beer ban in the Mar­quette arena, said a March 27 article in the Marquette Tribune. 
Administrators· at other colleges and universities have also developed stronger alcohol policies in recent years. An article in the December 17 Chronicle of Higher Education focused on a survey of alcohol use on 352 campuses nationwide. Accord­ing to the "Alcohol Risk Management Survey," conducted by David S. Ander­son and Steven M. Janosik, more than 
9 9 
You Must Be, 
21 
(And prove ;9 


Getting
"Q To Eflte.r! 0 

60.5 percent of the respondents have changed their alcohol policies as a result of a raise in the legal drinking age to 21. 
Ohio is one of the dwindling number of states whose drinking age has not been raised to 21. Although the University of Dayton has followed the nationwide trend, establishing alcohol programs with an educational focus, without the · influence of state law, restrictions have been minimal. 
Alcohol consumption at the University of Dayton has not changed much in the past few years, said senior Stephen 

Dean of Students Michael Gordon talks to students as a police officer takes notes after a fraternity raid at Indiana University. 
Olvany, chief justice for Dayton's Student Court. Despite the tighter rules at Dayton, Olvany said his fraternity still has its 70­kcg party at the beginning of the year. 
Compared to other schools, the University of Dayton has made few changes. The most recent change has been that the university raised the price of beer sold· in the dormitories to a dollar a can, said Steve Olvany. In other changes, the university-.,has restricted campus organizations from having parties on week nights. "They've made it a little bit stricter, but the alcohol policy is not bad," said Olvany. 

April 16. 1987 

News 
"We developed. an alcohol awareness program in November of I 983," said Jack Riley, associ­ate dean of students. "We have done a lot to educate dorms and social groups. We're working with the BACCHUS people." Riley said that Dayton moved to a wristband policy for parties at the university, with a colored band if the students is 19, the legal age for beer in Ohio, and a different colored band if the student is 21. 
One result of the increased res­trictions has been an increased 
interest in fraternities and sorori­

ties.. "Fratemity life has pic~e:d_ 
up in the past couple of years," 
said Olvany. "Most of the frater­

nities and sororities on campus are 
local as opposed to national," said 
Riley. He said that national 
chapters are subject to restrictions 
imposed by the national office, 

but local fraternities have no such 
restrictions. 
Students at Indiana University, however, are facing tougher enforcement both on and off the campus. William Bailey, director of the Alcohol Information Cehter at Indiana University, said that although the alcohol policy has remained unchanged, it is now being better implemented. "The written policy has not changed since 1969. Clearly, the written policy is being enforced much more closely," said Bailey. 
The upswing in enforcement at IU can be attributed mostly to the arrival of a new dean of students in the fall of 1982, said Bailey. "When Dean Michael Gordon first came in, it was one of the fore­front issues that had never been addressed," said Student Body Vice President Terry Anker. "It seems as though things were a lot more lenient (before he came here)." 
In the residence halls, con­

. sumption of alcohol is not permit­ted, but the university's search and seizure policy limits access offi.. cials can have to private rooms, Bailey said. If minors are caught by their resident assistant drink­ing, Anker said, the penalties often include being reported to police. 
At IU, the biggest increase in enforcement of alcohol restrictions has been at fraternities and sorori­ties. "Our regulations have iJ.ev_er permitted alcohol in fraternities and sororities," said Bailey, "It's only been this year that (police) have been able to make a signifi­cant impact in (alcohol use by) fraternities and sororities." 
few have been raided by the state excise police, said Anker. Anker also mentioned the excise police raiding local bars in Bloomington. "I think people are . going to become adjusted to it," said Anker. "But I don't think people drink as much. I think people are afraid now." 
Unlike at IU, the changes occuring at Marquette University have been related to a change in the state drinking age. In August of last year, the state of Wisconsin raised its drinking age from 19 to 
21. A grandfather clause, how­ever, was written into the law. Under the provision, those aged 19 or 20 (who could legally drink 

Bailey said that this year university police have been work­ing with the Indiana State Excise Police, raiding fraternity parties,. confiscating the alcohol and mak­ing arrests. In the past year, authorities have seized 24, I 8 and 14 kegs at various fraternity par­ties. "The university has put four fraternities on complete social probation, one has been suspended," said Bailey. "Many of the fraternities are now continuing to have parties, but are not serving alcohol," he added. 
Although some fraternities have held parties .off campus, a before the law went into effect September I) are exempt from the new law. 
The increase in the drinking age has affected Marquette. "There are more divisions among the students in terms of students who are able to drink and who are not able to drink," said James Moore, dean of students at Mar­quette. Moore added that about half of the sophomores and almost all of the freshman are now under­age. 


News 

Along with the state drinking age increase came some revisions in Marquette's policy. "This past summer when the law changed in the state, we made some changes," said Moore. The Mugrack, a campus restaurant, open to all stu­dents, will now restrict the selling of alcohol to those of legal age, according to the Marquette Jour­nal. During Grill Concerts, a popular feature at the Mugrack, only students of legal drinking age are allowed inside the restaurant, and all drinking is restricted to the premises. 
Also, alcoholic drinking at offi­cial hall functions will be res­tricted to only the two residence halls which have a predominantly over-21 population. Although stu­dents not of legal age bringing alcohol into underage dorms might be checked, Moore said, "What people_ do in their own rooms is their o:wn business." 
There is some question as to whether the increase in the drink­ing age will really have any effect on student life. "I haven't seen that much of an effect," said Al Geiser, executive assistant of the Association of Students of Mar­quette University, Marquette's student government. "The only change has been in drinking (at campus functions). We're not allowed to serve alcohol with our events," he added. The ban on beer at basketball games could provide another change. 
"To me, raising the drinking age has not stopped underage drinking," Geiser said. He said that many underage students use fake identification to purchase alcohol. But Geiser also said that there has been an effort made to develop activities for underage students. "(Campus organizations) are gearing their programming for 
April 16, 1987 
people who cannot go out drink­ing," he said. 
One major change in campus social life has been the elimination of block parties, including the Marquette Block Party, a yearly tradition attracting visitors from other campuses. Geiser said that the decision to eliminate all block parties was a liability decision and not related to increased restric­
jl[,~,Whaf -~.eo~l¢S.do/ -.iQ.kth~it;ri~ri ro<>ms•··· isifhei~~;• .'Oijh bti'sin~~s~;Ji'···· \> .. ··.•·•···· 




t~~~~i~~~~f~i "i!&i 

tions on campus drinking. "Wisconsin has no ceiling for lia­bility as far as lawsuits. Before, Marquette used to pay somewhere around $14,000 to $26,000 for block parties for the whole year. With the hiked cost ... insurance went up for just one block party to $96,000," said Geiser. 
Recent years have also brought changes at Northwestern Univer­sity. Northwestern adopted an alcohol policy for the residence halls and fraternities and sororities in the Fall of 1982, said Julie Kies, assistant director for residential life. She said that these are guidelines only. "It's not enforced to the letter of the law. It's really more of an advisory role. We just give them guidelines to follow," she said. 
The policy has been effective so far, said Kies. "In an educa­tional sense, what has occurred has been very successful. It has cut down the volume of alcohol that has been consumed," she said. 
But Northwestern's Student Government President Martin Axelrod said that although there have been many rule changes, they haven't had much effect on stu­dents. "The behavior really hasn't changed that much. Some of the liquor stores here deliver. I think it's still very easy to get alcohol." 
In contrast, Indiana University's stricter enforcement, including the administration's cooperation with local and state police, is taking its toll, said Terry Anker at Indiana University. "Your large fraternity parties of 30 kegs or more are a thing of the past," he said. 
But David Anderson, consultant and former administrator at Ohio University said that, in general, alcohol policies are not tough enough. "A lot has occurred, but we've got a long way to go." Most universities are responding to the need for stricter alcohol regula­tion, but "the commitment level to actually implement (programs) just isn't where it needs to be," said Anderson. 
As more states raise their legal drinking age, colleges will con­tinue to respond in various ways. 
For now it is safe to say that alcohol awareness is a subject of concern on college campuses. If alcohol policies continue to tighten as they have in the last five years, Notre Dame basketball players may not have to carry umbrellas on their next road trip. 

Sports 




Hardtop Hysteria 

For 16 years, Notre Dame's athletes and couch potatoes alike have endured rain, snow and skinned knees for a shot at the Bookstore Basketball crown 
Although "only" 64 teams will head into the fourth round of Bookstore Basketball XVI today, tournament commissioner Steve Wene has had his hands full with his work this spring. When the playing started on March 31, there were 662 teams registered to compete for the title, making Bookstore Basketball the largest basketball tournament in the world. But just 16 years ago, the. tournament was only a concept in the· minds of Fritz Hoefer and Vince Meconi. 
In the fall of 1971, Hoefer was named commissioner of An Tostal, and he was looking for new events to add to the four-year-old spring celebration in 1972. He wanted to come up with a competition that 
would rise above the fun-and­games events of An Tostal and appeal to the athletes on campus. A basketball tournament was born, and Meconi was named the first commissioner. It was the first An Tostal event with a serious athletic character. 
As early as 1971, there was mention in The Observer of a "Jocks vs. SMC Basketball Game," which occasionally was referred to as Bookstore Basketball, although it was a far cry from the tourna­ment played today. The game featured a team of Saint Mary's women (referred to as "girls" in the newspapers of the time) against the Irish varsity basketball players, who donned boxing gloves for the game. Competition was held at Saint Mary's, and also at Notre Dame beginning in 1973, to determine the team that would face the jocks. The last such game was played in 1977. 
In the meantime, Meconi's tournament had taken hold of the interest of the Notre Dame student body. The first tournament was announced in The Observer on April 10, 1972, and was called the Bookstore Hysteria Tournament, apparently a reference to "Hoosier Hysteria," the unofficial name of 
14 


Sports 

the Indiana state high school tour­nament. According to Meconi, the tournament was to "feature the style of ball which is characteristic of games here at Notre Dame." The rules stipulated that "iron man fives" would compete, in any weather conditions, with no sub­stitutions allowed. Games were to 21 points, with no free throws and a two-point margin necessary to win. Referees were provided only for the final playoff, a best-of­three series. 
Meconi's intent was to run the tournament according to the rules generally used by players of "pick-up" games at Notre Dame, many .of which were played on the courts behind the Hammes Book­store. Although some of the rules have been modified (there now are free throws, and the entire tourna-
Brothers of Manhood, this year's favorite, has the inside power of Donald Royal (far left) and Joel Williams; president-elect Malloy (below) gives his team a different kind of power. 

ment is single elimination), the spirit of the tournament has remained intact. 
Fifty-three teams entered the tournament in 1972, which was characterized by sloppy weather and sloppy officiating. The rules were tested in one game, when the Dogs and the ·Zephyrs went into overtime (34-32), played in the rain and with only nine_ players after ·one of the Zephyrs was injured. The game scheduled after that one was played in pouring rain and complete darkness. 
The first tournament champion team was The Family, which was composed of four varsity basket­ball players (John Shumate, Dwight Clay, Gary Brokaw, Pete Crotty) and the· quarterback for the varsity football team (Cliff Brown). "We started Bookstore Basketball," recalled Shumate, who now is an assistant varsity basketball coach. "That was my team that used to play with boxing gloves." But with the gloves gone, Hawks and Geese fell to The Fam­ily in the first championship. 
Meconi, who remained· com­missioner in 1973, saw the need to create some eligibility rules for Bookstore II. Teams were allowed only one Notre Dame varsity basketball player each. Later, in 1976, a limit was set of three total varsity athletes per team. From I 972 to 1979,. varsity basketball players led some of the best teams irt the tournament, and four out of six champions during that time had the football team's starting quarterback. Last year's winning team, Lee's BBQ Roundhouse, featured former Irish basketball player Jim Dolan and then-Irish QB Steve Beuerlein. 
By 1974, the tournament had grown to 136 teams, and bleachers were erected behind the bookstore for the semifinals and finals. In 1978, the semis and finals were moved to a makeshift stadium behind the ACC which could 

accomodate 2500 fans. In 1984, the tournament moved the final games to Stepan Court I, where they will be played again this year. 
In addition to the tournament title, participants compete for a variety of awards, including the Mr. Bookstore honor, given to the non-varsity athlete who best exhibits the ama­teur spirit of the tournament. A tournament MVP also is named, in addition to the Golden Hatchet Award (for the player who com­mits the most blatant fouls), the Hoosier A ward (for the player with the worst shooting percentage despite many attempts), and the Iron Man A ward (for the player who shows the most hustle and determination in the face of inju­ries, skinned knees, or 6-9 opponents). Beginning in 1977, the All-Devine Team (later the All­Faust Team and now the All-Holtz Team) was made up of the football players with the best performances in the tournament. 
As the tournament grew in size and popularity, its campus press coverage increased. Scholastic first got in the act in 1977, and The 



Sports 


Observer began leading off its sports section every day with 

Bookstore results, even giving the entire back page to the tournament one day in 1977. By that time, the newspaper had come to recognize female students as "women" and noted that one team was composed of five women that year (they lost to a team with three football players). In 1978, women were given a separate .tournament of their own, although they still are permitted in the main tournament. 
Coverage of Bookstore Basket­ball began to reach beyond campus in the mid '70s. Local radio and television stations started to report on the semifinals and finals in 1976. In 1978, Sports Illustrated featured a story about Bookstore Basketball titled "Look Out for the· Manhole Cover." The story, · by Rick Telander, focused as much on the pursuit of women and beer by Notre Dame men as it did on the tournament. 
Telander also made reference to the team names, few of which were "even semiprintable in this magazine." It was not until 1982, when Dave Dziedzic was commis­
16 
sioner, that tournament officials tried to censor team names. This year, the self-censorship was deemed insufficient by the Office of Student Activities, which 

replaced  many  names  with  team  
numbers.  
The  title  of the  Sports  Illus­ 

trated story refers to a manhole 
cover just outside the key on one 
of the courts behind the bookstore. 
Telander quoted Kelly Tripucka, a 
freshman on the varsity and the 
star of Strapamasquon And The 
Combat Wombats, as commenting 
to commissioner emeritus Tim 
"Bone" Bourret "I love the water 
hazard on this court, and I like the 
manhole cover on that one. You 
ought to have a different hazard 
for each of the courts." The tour­
nament is played on 12 courts 
these days: eight outside Stepan, 
two behind Lyons, and the two on 
the Hammes Hardtop. All but the 
bookstore courts now have lights, 
and all of them do include the 
natural hazards associated with 
asphalt courts. 

With the Sports Illustr~ted story came national prominence ..; and trouble -for the tournament. In 1979, Tripucka's team was forced to play without him, Bill Hanzlik's Chumps were without their star, and Tracy Jackson's Jackson Five became the Jacksonless Five. The NCAA had ruled that all varsity basketball players are ineligible for Bookstore Basketball. That . was big news for the tournament, although it affected only a handful of the 320 teams in 1979. 
It all started in Providence, Rhode Island, where Steve Lichtenfels, a junior at Providence College, wanted to start a similar tournament at his school. He got the okay from Dave Gavitt, ath­letic director and former basket­ball coach for the Friars, and Gav­itt in turn decided to check with the NCAA. When told that varsity players. would not be allowed to participate, Gavitt. pointed to the Notre Dame tournament as a pre­cedent. The NCAA claimed to be unaware of Bookstore Basketball at the time. But when David Berst and the rest of the NCAA Board of Enforcement looked ip.to the matter, the varsity players were found to be ineligible, since organized competition is off-limits to NCAA players except during the summer months. 

Interest in the tournament con­tinued to increase, despite the reduced number of varsity ath­letes. Football players still were allowed to participate, and games were scheduled later in the even­ing to accomodate spring football practice.· The Chumps won the 1979 tournament without the aid of Hanzlik. In 1980, Jackson appeared on the sidelines to coach 
the  Still  Jacksonless  Five,  and  
Hanzlik,  having  completed  . his  
varsity  eligibility,  went  to  the  

championship with Defending Chumps. The tournament that year had· 3 84 teams. 

Teams like the Esophagus Con­strictors can fill the sidelines, if not the basket. 
Scholastic 



Sports 

-
On The Block. The New Kids were newly-hired football coach Gerry Faust and his assis­tants. Although Faust's team bowed out in the first round of action, the new coach earned the Hoosier A ward and a national reputation for mingling with the students. Entertainment and Sports Programming Network thought that made a pretty good story and offered to televise the final game of Bookstore Basketball 
X. But ESPN already had plans for the Sunday of An Tosta!, when the Bookstore final traditionally is played. Bookstore commissioner Rob Simari was asked to move the game to Tuesday night for ESPN. He refused, saying it was not in the spirit of the tournament to change the rules for the TV cover­
age. 
Simari's tough stance with ESPN was not the first hard-nosed decision handed down by a book­store commissioner. In 1975, for example, varsity standout Adrian Dantley's team made it to the Sweet Sixteen of Bookstore IV. But Dantley had to miss a scheduled game to attend a banquet at which he was honored for a 37-point game he had for the Irish that year. The commissioner refused to reschedule the game, and Dantley's team bowed out of the tournament. 
In 1982, with 453 teams com­peting, the all-weather rule sur­vived its toughest test. On April 5, it started to snow at about 2 p.m., commissioner Dziedzic recalls, and by game time that afternoon, court boundaries could not be seen. The 
games  were  played  despite  the  
snow,  which  amounted  to  six  
inches  by  dusk.  That  was  the  
second  time  snow  had  fallen  on  

Bookstore Basketball, the first 
April 16, 1987 
Aycar later, one of the 384 teams was called New Kids 
being an inch in 1974. That same day in 1982, the first-ever shutout was avoided when a player forgot to switch ends after halftime· (1 l points by one team) and scored on his own team. Several shutouts Rebellion Makes A Brief Appear­ance. It was the day after the big snowfall in 1982 when that team played half the game in boxer shorts and then stripped down to Jockey briefs for the second half. 

have been recorded since 1982. 
A year later, Dziedzic's tourna­ment had 512 teams, a perfect number for a single-elimination tournament. It also was confirmed as a world record. A call to The Guinness Book of World Records in .London was en~ugh to verify the record, although it is not listed in the published Guinness records. "They have us on file and have told us to call ourselves 'the world's largest basketball tourna­ment' until someone tells us other­wise," Dziedzic was quoted as say­ing in The Observer. 
If there were a record for the world's wackiest basketball tour­nament, Bookstore might lay claim to that one, too. The names have been cleaned up or censored, so they must rely on cleverness more than in the past, and the players are just as clever. Dressing up has become more important than the game it~elf for many Bookstore participants. This year, the Druids have added their antics to those of classic teams such as the all-throat· Esophagus Constrictors and the berobed choir members of Five Screa.QJ.s From A Loft. 
Perhaps the award for best cos­tuming should go to The Boxer 
Bookstore XI also featured the, first annual Hall of Fame Game in 1982. The following year, The Even Worse Off arrived by chauffeur-driven limousine for the contest. After a trampoline­assisted dunking exhibition, the team was blessed in Latin by University President Father Theo­dore · Hesburgh. Even with Hesburgh's help, however, The Even Worse Off was no match for Love And The Shooting Stars, featuring former varsity player Karl Love. 
Hesburgh's appointed succes­sor, Father Edward "Monk" Mal­loy, has taken a more active role in the tournament. An Irish varsity player from 1961 to 1963, Malloy has played on a team in every Bookstore Basketball Tournament. This year his entry is called All The President's Men. 
The idea for the first tourna­ment was to provide some fun but serious competition for the f rus­trated jock at Notre Dame. Since then, Bookstore Basketball has grown into a huge event in which any student can throw elbows and block the shots of varsity athletes, football coaches and university presidents. And when it rains, everybody gets just as wet, regard­less of ability. II 
17 

. !: 




Scoreboard 
A roundup of the week in sports: April 6 -.April 12 Compiled by Ed Jordanich 
Detroit Twinbill Offers Irish Another Chance 
BASEBALL -Notre Dame travels to Detroit this Saturday for a doubleheader with the Titans. The Irish will be trying to change their luck against Detroit, which beat the Irish all four times the two teams met last year. 
Coach LARRY GALLO's Irish will return home for a doubleheader against St. Joseph's on Easter Sunday before hosting Western Michigan next Wednesday· and Butler next Thursday. 
Gallo hopes the momentum gained from a win against 30th-ranked Tulane last weekend can turn the season around. Notre Dame's 8-6 victory over the Green Wave in the second game of its doubleheader in New Orleans was keyed by home runs from CHRIS FLYNN and TIM HUTSON. ,Freshman BRIAN PIOTROWICZ went the distance for his second win ·or the season. 
LACROSSE -One of the biggest wins of the season for the Irish last year. came in a come-from-behind win over Denison on Alumni Field. This year Notre Dame must travel to Granville, OH to face the Big Red. Saturday's match-up will be a Midwest Lacrosse Association contest. 
Last Saturday the Irish made another comeback in a I 5-11 win over Kenyon Col-. lege. Coach RICH._O'LEARY and his team won their third game in five outings with seven consecutive goals in the last 20 minutes, while holding Kenyon scoreless. JOHN OLMSTEAD and Scholastic athlete of the week JIM SHIELDS had five goals apiece to lead the Irish attack. 

GOLF -Hoping to improve on last year's 16th-place finish, Notre Dame will be in Columbus, OH this weekend for the Kepler Intercollegiate Invitational. 
The 54-hole tournament, hosted by Ohio State, will take place on the Buckeyes' Scarlet Course. The Scarlet Course also will be the site for the NCAA Championships to be held in early June. 
MEN'S TENNIS -Notre Dame completes its swing of matches against teams from Michi­gan with a match in Ann Arbor against Michigan today. Yesterday's contest with Western Michigan and last Sunday's home match with Eastern Michigan send the Irish into a tough test with the Wolverines, currently the team with the best record ·in the Big Ten. 
Against Eastern Michigan, Notre Dame recorded a strong 7-2 victory that upped coach TOM FALLON's squad to 15-9. BRIAN KALBAS and PAUL DAGGS won their match at No. 2 doubles and each defeated their singles opponents as well. DAN WALSH turned in a fine comeback, winning· his No. 4 singles match, 6-0, 0-6, 7-5. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS -The women's team takes to the Courtney Courts this afternoon for a match with Western Michigan. Action is s~heduled to begin at 3 p.m. 
The Irish are 6-8 after last weekend's split in two road matches. Coach MICHELE GELFMAN's team beat Toledo 7-2 on Satur­day, and lost to Eastern Michigan 6-3 on Sunday. 
TRACK -This Saturday Notre Dame travels to Indianapolis for the annual Indiana Inter­collegiate Outdoor Championships. Starting times are slated for I 1:30 a.m. 
Indiana and Purdue are expected to head the field in the JO-team meet. The Hoosiers won the Intercollegiate Indoor earlier this year and also beat the Irish in a four-way meet two weeks ago. 
"Certainly we would like to place in the 

top three and preferably overcome Purdue .s well," said coach JOE PIANE, "but this is always a tough meet and to place that high requires a strong team effort." 
SMC TRACK -The Belles captured their own title in the Saint Mary's Relays last weekend. Their 78 team points easily outdistanced Marion (30 points) and Franklin (l 7 points). 
CECILIE GERHING and DIANE CAN­CRO led the Belles in the distance events, combining to win the 5,000-meter race. 
KELLY O'BRIEN, MARGARET CUSHWA, LiANNE STEVENSON, and MARY CAS­SIDY also shined for Saint Mary's, winning the 800 medley relay with a time of 2:06.3. · 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
NATALIE ILLIG 
Illig, a sophomore tennis player from Tulsa, OK, built on some mid-season momentum with two victories at her No. 5 singles spot last week­end. The consecutive straight-set wins upped lllig's record to 9-5 on the year, the best individual mark on coach Michele Gelfman's squad. The recent surge comes on the heels of a big singles win against Michigan two weeks ago and a solid performance over spring break when the Irish were in Hilton Head, SC. 


JIM SHIELDS 
Shields, a senior 
attackman from Can­ton, NY, heads into' this Saturday's gam~' wiih Denison on a scoring hot streak. Despite a nagging leg • injury that has both­ered him all year, Shields scored a personal-best five goals in last Saturday's win over Kenyon. "Jim takes advantage of his scoring opportunities," said coach Rich O'Leary. "He has good instincts and is very smart in front of the net. He's good at finishing off a play and sticking it in the net." 
18 
Scholastic 
--. -~
-~~ 
. ; : rt· -:. . -: -~~ '. --. £·. : .::_, :·~ ~: -=_ .-.'·-:--~~ _· -;:_' 





It's Easy As Pie 
Tips for the aspiring young rock "n' roll star 
by Tim Adams 
eing a veteran to many a


B
rock show, by luminaries as wide-ranging as porn-rocker 

G.G. Allin and dinosaur-rockers Van Halen, I think I've got a rea­sonable handle on what constitutes good· stage behavior and what's simply screwing around. And i know there are bands out there with reservoirs of hidden talent who totally blow it by trying to act "wacky" or "cool." Got news for them: playing lounge versions of Dead Kennedys songs just plain ain't funny. Do you really want to be a cool rock star? Then avoid doing everything on the following list. For my sanity, please. 
DON'T: 
1) play keyboards 
2) wear ~•nu-wave" anything 
3) play Cars covers 
4) write songs about high school 
S) wear. shades onstage 
6) cry during a song 
7) take five minutes between songs and don't say anything at all ­
8) play Knack covers · 
9) have backup singers, unless they're tough chicks tn leather 
10) attempt scissors kicks unless you can do it without looldng like a dork 

April 16, 1987 
11) do magic tricks 
12) play zither, unless you're the Happy Flowers 
13) smoke a pipe (legal ones, any­way) 
14) stand in one place the whole time 
15) play heavy metal, unless you're totally mocking the concept 
16) play R.E.M. covers 
17) throw things at an unwilling audience, especialiy fecal matter 
18) thank your mom, dad or God 
19) bring 50 or so of your loudest buddies to make it appear as if you're actually good or popular or something like that 
20) shriek histrionically just because "that's the way Whitney does it" 

21) tell the audience to "clap yo hands!" 
22) play stupid punk rock and think you're good because a few idiot skinheads slammed; they'd slam to the sound of a garbage disposal 
23) make lame attempts at rapping 24) have a great band name and then stink 
25) have a stupid band name (pick just about any ND band name a.o:: one to avoid) 

26) make a big fuss about the fact that you're downing some brews onstage 
27) act "sensitive," like Morrissey (lead singer of the Smiths) 
28) play "Sweet Jane" 
29) do· James Brown imitations that are actually Eddie Murphy imitations of James Brown 
30) play "Should I Stay or Should I Go?" and pretend you know a lot about the Clash 
Aahhh, now that that's off my chest, some of you may be wondering just what I do consider cool behavior for a band. It's really not that hard: just buy some black Converse shoes (natch), learn a few Iggy and the Stooges covers, crank them amps and you're on your way. 'Tis easy as 
pie. ¦ · 

Next Year, 700! 
: 
Plagued with controversy, Bookstore continues to prosper as another great ND tradition 
By Steve Wene 

Sixteen years ago a Notre Dame student named Fritz Hoefer first envisioned a 

third major athletic season to go along with the varsity football and basketball seasons. Today Book­store Basketball (with a capital "B," thank you) is the world's largest full-court basketball tour­nament. It has grown to thirteen times its original size, reaching 662 teams this year. Bookstore sets tlie standard for tournaments around the nation, for it is copied by other schools like the Univer­sity of Texas and Creighton University. 
Like most freshmen at Notre Dame, I was awed by the size and excitement which surround Book­store. I was excited enough by it to apply for the position of Tourna­ment Commissioner the next fall and was lucky enough to be chosen over 15 other applicants to succeed Jeff Blumb as Bookstore XV com­missioner. 
When I took the job, I was told alternately that it was "the best job on campus" and "three months of sheer hell." The tournament lived up to both billings. Despite the long hours, occasional frustra­tions, and too many days standing in the rain, snow, wind, and sleet of South Bend, the excitement I felt has never left me. 
One of the things which has 
20 

affected the image of Bookstore and which deserves comment is this year's name controversy. The biggest question is: how will it affect the future of Bookstore? 

I look back on the incident with very mixed. emotions. I had very few alternatives after the objec­tions were made by the Office of Student Activities, especially in light of the threat of Bookstore being• ended if the problem was not solved. Student Activities sug­gested a schedule composed com­pletely of numbers and captain's names. I believed that a schedule which eliminated the "unfit" riames but retained the others would be easier to both finish on time and deal with during the tournament. 
The alternative was worked out fairly well. The one question which has been widely asked is why certain names were elim­inated while others were not. Our criteria for eliminating names was affected by one important con­straint -time. We had less than two hours to review and rewrite a 26-page schedule. As a result, if an objection was made as the name was read off, it was eliminated. If no objection was made, it remained. There was no time for in-depth consideration. 
As far as names go in the future, the tighter restrictions on names will remain but will be dealt with at the time of registra­tion. It will be up to ,teams to come up with names without bla­tant sexual connotations, libel pos­sibilities, or racism. I expect a fair number of names like "We Were a Number Last Year" or "Censor­ship is an Ugly Thing." 
I believed when I started, and believe even more strongly today, that Bookstore is one of those traditions which makes Notre Dame special. As Fritz Hoefer and Vince Meconi, the first commis­sioners, en visioned 16 years ago, Bookstore is basketball played the Notre Dame way -intense, com­petitive, and, most of all, fun. 
I look forward every year to seeing teams like "5 Guys Who Coat Themselves in Breakfast Cereal," the "Esophagus Constric­tors," or "Too Short to Shoot." Bookstore is for those who play basketball once a year and love it, no matter what their ability, as much as it is for those who exhibit the hard play for which the tour­nament is also famous. 
Next year some member of the class of '90 will become the eighth comm1ss1oner of Bookstore Basketball. It is a hard job but not hard to love. If you're interested, don't be afraid to ask. Bookstore may be the World's Largest tour­nament, but it hasn't stopped growing yet. Next year, 700! 

Scholastic 


Life In Hell 

.. 
.SATOui 




OF-HELL 



LO VE.SLAM.ME!i:'S T~XTBoOK 

W\-lfa.) I-\AoJC:,11JC, VP Ai.l(:,R.IL'::) o.J /).. L0VE'2.., 
WATCH THO~E 
FlrJGf2.5.1 
LE.Av,..iG ':lov s--ri.tA.,o&,:, 'THE.Q.E.

SOON PE~ BlC.k::Ela1oJ6, BALEl=uL 
l..ll'E. A Bf.Al14€.1' WHAL.E.,

OOOlit· SLAMM1JJ(7 
-.JORM. 

~ ~ 
oJc1t'E.',.it\lS STOii.., 15 EoJTl~l,.L'' . l<TIO .. ~l. OIJc DA~, 0'->I: OF llll: PEoPLE 60'1" Q.1.10 0.tJ"" R~ S~M.,;LA,,Jc.E; To 1,r,101v10uALS F!:O UP Fo~ Tl-lE LAST TIME, A>JD Lhll..,C, Oi:!. D-.A1' IS PU~U'1 C<>1,1<1• 
OE.,TA.l.,
sPLI T Fo~cVER. 

DIV ID1tJC:, UPiHE. (:,OQOIES THE DE.SPt.RATE. PLE.A 
,,..., \F ~OU ARE DUMPED LOVER (,E"1TL.~ Rf.MEMSEA, u i=e wAS' 
HOW jC DUMP ~OUR 
0"-lC.I:. BEAVTI FUL AND FooO DIOr-.l'T 'TASTE. LIKE

BE IN A BAO MOOD FoR CAR.v8c,A~O.
SE.VE.RAL Mo,vTH5. PVNC.H '?oue. PILLOW, "30T
C.R.1T1c.1ze QoJ'1T!i1rJG Ai.lD 
T~E. WALL.
E.Vt.'!.•:rn--11..iG,. IE= ':!Ou CA..,'T 

00>J'T00'1f:T! I'LL DOM':, SA~ SoM~"li-11,J(':, MEAN, SA~ LtlTl..E C.ritlli!LESTo.._, PANCE!.' 
00oJ'"t AC.T OrJ AN"! 8R.1C:,t{T l\lO'Ti-11.l(:, AT ALL, '1ou 1..ovE THAr ! IDbAS ",ov Sui:>17E:>-lL'1 &E.T, S.icH o.c; S1-10.v,.,G '10111?. HE.AO \-\OrJc ~oul2. J~LESS ,JE~~­
OR P1c.1C1oJ(:, Fl(,l-11"S Wl'TH 8uR.L'1 
iHE. WA 11" 
'THU&t;,SToP HMuJG si.x. 
DO "3QT LOA.TH.£ '::)ouRSl,.l..r. 
".)ou c.~ >JO MOR.E. Al'J 
EI\T MEALS ,,..; SILE->C:E.. 
WI-IE.aJ QUE.STIOIJE.0, R.~i:iJSE. 

(JtJ LOVA/3.Lc PATHE.TIC.To SA~ WI-\AT '3ou Aj2.E 
.JE.~1;:. i'l-!Cl.i '?OU €.VE~ WER€.·
Tl-l1.ik1.ic,. 
l.JI-IE.,.) T\.\E. PR.oPE.12-MoMEtJT 

'TH!;./aE lS 1-\o~E "™~No.JI:. C.oMES, I...OulE.lt THI: SooM. 
C.VTTI.EF 15~ 1.J "TI-\E SE.A.. 
'THE...i SC.R.Al'v\. 
oo STEW IN '1oUR 0v.J>J Jv1CH,
DUM?ISM oo s AiJO DotJ'TS' 
ltJ0IJl.c, tT SE 01<'.
~ 
IF I Si.Er-T ovTS10E ~oull oooQ TO•IIC,HT? I i.lO"''T M'llc:E AN~ '-lo •S~. 


.~ 
00,-J'T TAKE, ':,ov'2 PAu,l OVT o.J TH.e. R'e~ oi:: Tl-IE WOli!LD. 
Distributed by Acme Fe·atures Syridicat~. 

~ --. ':.. . 
~ ~--• ---------' -• • ~ --• • ' -• -' • <
~ ~ 
• -~ ' , -. :i~::.,.C.,.,.) ­



I. 'S
. . , '
__ ,, 
i . 0 
i' I'll 
OLD
o\5)~t 
N 


\o~ TOWNE 
RESTAURANT 
. 213 N. FRONT 
DOWNTOWN NILES 684-7774 
· INTRODUCES: 

HALF-PRICE
DRAFTS. 
50 CENT 12 OZ., 65 CENT 16 OZ. AND $1 24 OZ. DRAFTS 
SUN.DAY, MONDAY AND TUESDAY 
AND 
CINDY'S SPECIALS: 


$1MIXED DRINKS 
WEDNESDAY.THURSDAY 
AND FRIDAY 

i:::, '.Z 
1/1) 0 
9 :::­
n, n, ­
3:r:n 
;o ~­
., = 
'st­
(II > 
= 
(l'Q 
;-ft) 
l 

NON-PROFIT ORG. 
. u.s. POSTAGE PAID 
' 
' 

Notre Dame,
I 

i Permit No. 
I 

NO COVE·R 
21 AND ND/SMC ID RE 
Indiana 10 
z c,· 
Cl Z· 
i -I ,_,· 
' :::0 
<' 
'fll rn 
:::0
: t;I 
(1)
. )> 
,-.,. '3: 
-I
: rn -<. 
. .· 
:::o· 
0 .. 
:r: 
,_, ,_, <'· 
fT1 .
z (1)·· .• 
;1 
-:11 -
:11 
>
"· 






