AJowl A
WINSTON
tastes good—like a cigarette should!
FINER FILTER!
AND DRAW SO EASY’
THEY TASTE SO GOOD'
S’xfc WINSTON aiiq-ditMuq ci^o/iette.!
WINSTONS are so easy-drawing!
There’s no effort to puff! Winston’s finer filter lets Winston’s finer flavor come clean through to you. The full, rich flavor is all yours to enjoy!
■ Smokers who go for flavor are sure going for Winston! This filter cigarette really tastes like a cigarette. It’s the filter cigarette that’s fun to smoke!
New, king-size Winstons are easy-drawing, too! Winston’s finer filter works so effectively, yet doesn’t flatten the flavor. The full, rich, tobacco flavor comes through to you easily and smoothly.
Try Winstons! They taste good — like a cigarette should!
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C
KING SIZE,
L T r
a 1 E R
A V o R

Scholastic
Vol. 96 FEBRUARY 18, 1955 No. 13
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mortiturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
The ARROW points to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS ................  News
ROBERT KAUFMAN .... Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ......... Copy
Charles.McKendrick................
......	    Assistant	Copy JOSEPH CONNOLLY   ...Features KEN WOODWARD .. Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER ... Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT ..... Photo Editor
JIM FITZGERALD ...................
____________ Photography Coordinator JIM GULDE __ Head Photographer
JOHN P. DEFANT .. Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
WITH WELL-ROUNDED MEN IT'S ROUND-POINTED COLLARS
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo. John Boyle, Joe Connolly, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Francis Hurley, Ed Joyce, David Kubal, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Janies McDonald, John McMahon, Janies Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust. Paul Underkofler. Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, and Ronald Weirs.
SPORTS STAFF: Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Jack Kirby, Ray Leschcr, Joe Madigan. Bob McDonald, Joe Norton, Bob Parnell, and Bob Ruhl.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon and Loran Sheffer
OUR COVER—Balloons, miniature beer mugs, the Commanders, and 500 happy couples comprised the final fling at festival making on campus before the Lenten season. John O’Brien captures the eager fun-makers going after the balloons just released from the Centerceiling. A feature on the Mardi Gras, with pictures by O’Brien and Jim Guide, appears on pages 15, 16 and 17.
Ask any college man with the casual look. He’ll tell you Arrow round collar shirts, like the Radnor “E,” above, are the finest in quality, the utmost in correct fit and comfort. They are authentically styled to keep you looking your best.
Slide into a Radnor, left, or the new Arrow Pace, right, with a slightly wider spread to the round collar. In oxford or broadcloth ... French oi barrel cuffs, these Arrows are casually right for you ... for every college man. Round-collar shirts in broadcloth, only $3.95. Oxfords, in white or colors, $5.00.
SHIRTS & TIES
CASUAL WEAR
UNDERWEAR HANDKERCHIEFS
February 18, 1955

A REAL
FUTURE
letters
AWAITS YOU WITH A GROWING Weapons System Organization
At TEMCO a two-fold oppcrr-t.i?/ awaits engineers, physicists and mathc-^;:ticians who want to grow professional/.
First, the entire engineering department is organized under the systems concept. This necessitates the combined services of civil, electrical, mechanical and aeronautical engineers, physicists and mathematicians, all of whom will have the opportunity — indeed, will be required — to become familiar with all areas in the aeronautical sciences. Highly^ specialized work will be demanded, of course, but it will be conducted within the stimulating framework of a broader background in related fields. Your opportunities, here, for professional growth are unlimited.
Second, TEMCO offers a Master Engineering Training Program designed to develop today’s engineering graduates into the systems engineers of the future. This program includes a Graduate Study Plan leading to Master of Science degrees, and a Job Rotation Plan which permits you both to specialize without confinement and to diversify without loss of direction.
For further information on the opportunities awaiting you in Systems Engineering at TEMCO, write I. Nevin Palley,
Vice-President Engineering, TEMCO Aircraft Corp., P. O. Box 6191, Dallas, Texas.
DAUAS.HXAS
South Bender Defender
Editor:
I have just had the doubtful pleasure of reading “The Inside Scoop on a Certain Local City” written by one of your talented staff writers, Jim O’Shea, whose name I do not find listed in the^ staff list on page four. Surely such an industrious journalist who so faithfully carries on the tradition of the Scholastic deserves space alongside your other staff members.
Mr. O’Shea gave a fine student’s history of South Bend in the article but I’m inclined to believe that I, too, have seen his comic historical source book. The article itself is just typical of a prevailing attitude towards South Bend^ on the part of ND students.
In my three years of study at Notre Dame I have learned many things. But perhaps the most profound knowledge I have gained concerns two particular fields of specialization at which the discontented ND student excels.
One of these is his particular adroitness in criticizing, condemning, and complaining about those “dames” across ( the road. The other consists in an equal i aptness in criticizing, condemning, andA ' complaining about South Bend.
In both cases after he has talked him-zelf blue in the face he does a turn-nbcut. He takes phone in hand and boldly requests (with no sense of shame) ; ’ escort one of those “skirts” from ad 'ss the great white way. Or else he ignores the z-ee movies in Washington Hall and spends his weekends, as well as many week nights . . . cat howling in a local dounts-A., i .ovie house. It must^ j' really be an effort for come of these 1 bored playboys to walk through mr “crumby” city and take out some vi’ our “mediocre,” “ugly,” “fat,” “skinny,” and “strange” girls. It is surprising how they can even consider marrying these females but statistics -will show they do.
If nothing else students of this type are one of two things. They are either imbeciles or out and out hypocrites.
No South Bend resident will denyR that their home town is not a second New York City, or Los Angeles, or Boston, or Las Vegas, or any other fast living, or fast stepping, night clubbing t town. South Bend is an industrial city suitable for those who want to work i hard, honestly and decently and enjoy their friendships without a skyline of neon bulbs.
(Continued on page 32)
The Scholastic^ ,
the week
by John O'Brien
Top of the WEEK . . .
Patriot of the Year . . .
The Fun Week
The last weekend of jolly old uninhibited fun seems to be upon us. Many local inhabitants can be seen inhaling a little more deeply these days, in anticipation of the long season sans smokes that lies ahead. Others, whose principal vices are other than the partaking of such carcinogenic fumes (cancer sticks, that is) can be seen making more frequent journeys to Joers’ and other local establishments.
But our official recreational media have been highly intensified for us in this last week before the upcoming penitential
season, with the myriad Mardi Gras ______________________________________________________
activities. The Ball was nothing short of a howling success, much to the credit of those who worked so hard to present it. The balloon releasing just after the double coronations was a good substitute for the Bunny Hop, as far as exercise goes.
As for the favors, they were very
much miniatured beer mugs . . . perhaps in anticipation of the coming season. .The “Commanders” exceeded all expectations. The drummer-leader of the group answered the boos to a Bunny Hop request quite tactfully by saying “We’re here to Please you . . . this is your party.” Please us they did.
The Carnival
The WEEK would be derelict in its duty if it omitted a few choice comments about the roaring three-day car-^nival of the past WEEK. The St. Mary’s contingent was well received with loud hurrahs and some extemporaneous tossing of coins by the more rambunctious male members of the audience. One character in the skit, by name of “Barney Google,” had the right idea . . . “throw dollars” . . . but none was forthcoming. Of all the nerve, throwing ivater at us out of a Seagram’s bottle.
Word has been wandering around that Wche Chemical Engineers must have a secret agreeihent to keep the proceeds down. Seems that their wheel was off balance and they didn’t have it set to compensate for this slight error. We hear that they made all of $1.30 on the first night. As soon as they were completely out of money, a strange darkness fell over the booth and little men were seen changing the odds. Reminds me of the Aesculapian booth two years ago. We had some racing mice, and one louse of
^February 18, 1955
a mouse insisted on winning all the time. Darn near broke us ’till we could get some stimulating drugs for the others.
At this writing, we have not yet seen the Hawaiian dancers act from Chitown. Maybe coin tossing will be appreciated there.
The New Look
Did you notice the new section in the Scholastic called the “Showcase”? It looks like the Juggler is in for some competition. But then as O’Shea would say, it’s a fair match . . . they both come out about as often. But for me, it’s the big Cigarillo contest . . . “How to increase the popularity of cigarillos” ... as an old time smoker of those little
gems, I would say “Just don’t smoke ’em when anyone’s around.”
“On King, on you huskies. .
Things have really been rough around here in this poor man’s Yukon . . . been waiting for* some enterprising commerce man to start a dog team line to and from classes. We could really use one on that wasteland in front of the Infirmary. Some guy got mired out there in the snow and froze solid ’fore they found him . . . he’ll thaw out come spring. Speaking of getting mired in the drifts, several Alumni men found it difficult to contain their laughter when the snowplow got stuck between their fair hall and Dillon ... it served the cottonpicker right for making a U-turn in there . . . and not cleaning off the private passageway between the two halls. That’ll learn him not to slight us.
The Old Problem
Looks like the Marriage Institute is going to have a great year. At least the topic of the first lecture is going to hit the spot with a lot of local char
acters . . . “Male and Female Psychol- . ogy” with emphasis on how to understand women. If they can succeed in putting that point across, the whole shebang will be well worth the effort. Beware, fair damsels, the old boys are usin’ scientific weapons now . . . but the girls have got the edge on us . . . they’ve been using sinister, diabolically scientific methods for thousands of years. But at least we’re on the right track . . . hope you got your tickets, but there might be just a few left. Hustle it up, men, forewarned is forearmed. All of which brings to mind the
Flub of the WEEK
The guy who went out with the girl who sprained her ankle on the ice ten minutes before the Mardi Gras Ball . . . couldn’t make it to the dance . . . guy had to be in at 12 .. .
New Favorite
Thanks to several fine movies and some top-flight power publicity, (among other things) the very charming face of one Grace Kelly is gracing more and more rooms around these parts lately. She joins the long list of those who consume flounder and the like on Friday who have hit the top in the flicks and allied fields. But there’ll never be another Ann Blyth . . . even if she did go off and many that Irish obstetrician. While we’re on the subject of movies (and there is no other connection) I notice that one J. Garland Luft has been nominated for an Academy Award. . . some slim pickins these days.
To Nosey . . .
or Cyrano de Bergerac if you will . . . but especially to Gene Gorski and the entire cast of the latest Washington Hall extravaganza . . . for their polished production and presentation of a real toughie to put on. I’m almost, scared to say anything more, ’cause I’d really be out on a limb if Washington Hall burned down Wednesday night, say. I was going to say that any of you who haven’t seen it already better hustle over tonight or tomorrow sure. Oh, heck! I think I’ll say it anyway . . . Don’t miss it! Barring such catastrophes, the cast inspires such confidence that a good “review” in advance is a pretty sure thing.
Let George Do It
We were kinda’ hoping that Bishop Sheen would send his little angel in his place for the celebrated Washington Birthday exercises . . . but I guess that he couldn’t find another eraser . . . but anyway, we’ve got a General George, which is pretty apropos, to say the least, for February 22. (That’s October the 145th for you Pogo Fans)
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . won’t be here.
iin uis!
Look at this
T-Bone Steaks

with spaghetti French Fries and
ALL THE COFFEE YOU CAN DRINK
Tuesday and Thursday
A real saving for
N. D. STUDENTS ONLY
Ail this at the
ALBANO
Spaghetti House
415 N. MICHIGAN
DRRWTURB0W
\PPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces'’
- EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
arvt
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
calendar
FEBRUARY 18
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—The University Theater group continues with its spectacular production of Cyrano de Bergerac, starring Notre Dame’s Gene Gorski and St. Mary’s Gayle Baumer. 'The Irish Actors are winners again, and not by just a nose, either!
ST. MARY’S ‘COLISEUM’ (8:30 p.m.)—Seems some SMC seniors were a-hankerin’ for some dancin’ in those thar crinkly duds thet make all kinds of noises when they walk so they invited their ND men-folk (at least for the evening) to the big “Crinoline Dance.” Ah reckon thar’ll be quite a few “distant” friends a-dancin’ to Dad Gels’ aggregashun tonight!
GRANADA (ends Feb. 25)—Things start to pop when several loyal braves disagree on contract terms and throw down the White Feather challenging Uncle Sam’s finest. This one for Vetville’s younger set.
COLFAX (ends Feb. 24)—Esther Williams and the champion dance duo team with Howard Keel and George Sanders to put a smile on an old Roman mask in the unserious Jupiter’s Darling. Elephant cavalry, catapult and pitch-fire, a little underwater action, and a couple of unbelievable dance routines make this a welcome relief from mill-run serious historical films recently on the rampage. Bravo!
AVON (ends Feb. 23)—Richard Burton and the always popular Maggie McNamara recount the poignant romance between actor Edwin Booth and his leading lady in Prince of Players. Budding dramatists—hark!
FEBRUARY 19
STUDENT CENTER (9 p.m.)—Don Gels moves over to home ground tonight for the last big fling before Lent. ND men and their guests will provide the dancing part of the show.
FEBRUARY 20
RIVER PARK (today only)—For those who appreciate good movies, Act of Love starring Kirk Douglas and Dany Robin returns. The Golden Mask is the co-feature.
FEBRUARY 21
DRILL HALL (8:15 p.m.)—Famed conductor Mishel Piastro will present his “time honored” Longine Symphonette in a program of semi-classical music. Tickets for the Concert and Lecture program will be available at the door at $1.50.
RIVER PARK (ends Feb. 22)—The fabulous novel of Don Camillo comes to life in the English movie, The Little World of Dom Camillo. Hats off to the River Park for bringing it to town!
FEBRUARY 22
DRILL HALL (8 p.m.)—Gen. George C. Kenney, USAF, will deliver the major address at the Senior Class annual Washington Day Exercises. St. Mary’s and the general public are invited to attend.
FEBRUARY 23
WASHINGTON HALL (7:30 p.m.)—The first lecture of the 1955 Marriage Institute will be delivered by Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd with the emphasis on “How to Understand Women.” A question and answer period will follow and a coffee session will be conducted with the lecturers in the Center afterwards. Some of you old timers could use this lecture, from what I have gathered!
STATE (ends Feb. 24)—Two oldies gain admission. The hilarious tongue-teaser Phffft starring Judy Holliday and Jack Carson and They Rode West with Robert Francis and Donna Reed. You’ll have to check your old Scholastic for the word on these . . . your real old ones.
6
The Scholastic
1
Edi tot's Page
Hear the Symphonette
Since September the Concert and Lecture Series has presented a varied program of fine events, usually without charge. Monday night it will present one of its finest programs of the year, the Longine Symphonette conducted by Mishel Piastre, one of the few presentations with a necessary admission charge. We urge you to attend this presentation and those which remain in the semester.
® February 18, 1955
A Pat on the Back
From what we’ve seen and heard, this year’s Mardi Gras was a tremendous success. Financial statements aren’t available yet but a look at the crowds that jammed the Mardi Gras Ball and the Carnival make it evident that returns should be substantial. And, the greater the returns, the greater is the likelihood that the cost of rebuilding and decorating the Student Center basement will be borne completely by money raised by the Mardi Gras and generously matched dollar-for-dollar by Mr. Joseph LaFortune.
The Ball was enjoyed by 500 couples despite the weather (which mere words cannot describe) and thousands had a lot of fun at the Carnival. The fellows at the Jazz Concert played some good music, though it sometimes wasn’t as jazzy as expected.
A lot of people deserve a lot of credit for their parts in making the Mardi Gras what it was. But only a few can be mentioned by name. Mardi Gras Chairman Tom Hayes and Ball Chairman John Weithers organized the major parts of the celebration. But they would be the first to call attention to the jobs done by their various committees, the campus clubs and Vetville who operated booths and everyone who contributed in any way to decorating the Navy Drill Hall so well that many have called it the “best-looking” Carnival yet. No one would overlook the St. Mary’s girls and their “Roaring Twenties” show that added to the festival air; it was a lot of fun.
Congratulations—and thanks to all of you for a job well done. And thanks to everyone who supported the 1955 Mardi Gras.
Almost Over
Tuesday is Washington’s Birthday. To many it will mean a holiday and the chance for a short vacation at home or elsewhere. But to 850 Seniors it will mean something else. Up to now many of us have realized that we are going to graduate come June but it still seems a little vague. Come Tuesday night the full import will probably strike every senior: “It’s almost over!”
And it is almost over, this four or five-year college career. There are only three-and-a-half months remaining before graduation. Tuesday night’s exercises will make this as immediate to this year’s class' as it probably did to the class that took part in the first Washington Day Exercises 106 years ago.
General Kinney, the major speaker, will probably mention the responsibilities to be assumed, the obstacles to be faced. Bishop Sheen, who cannot appear in person to receive the “Patriot of the Year” award bestowed upon him by the Senior Class, will accept the award in absentia. He will probably call attention to the challenges that face us today, in a i proxy-delivered speech of acceptance.	j
Whatever either may say, there is still time for preparation before . | graduation on June 5. Several important activities for seniors remain, among them the Marriage Institute and the Senior Retreat. Lent is coming and classes remain. There is an opportunity for strengthening and increasing spiritual and intellectual qualities. The stretch is the time to give everything you have. There is a place for enjoyment in the final semester; that doesn’t even need mention, for obvious reasons.
Give it a thought—four years at Notre Dame are almost over, but only almost.	'
'	.	'	7
“Dress” Pruett wants to know:
What type of training program does Du Pont have?
DONALD C. MILLER received his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Ohio State University in June 1937. During the following month he started work with the Organic Chemicals Department of Du Pont at Deepwater Point, N. J. Since then he has received and given many kinds of technical training. Today Don Miller is a general superintendent at Du Pont’s Chambers Works—well qualified to answer questions about training programs for college men.
DRESSLAR M. PRUETT expects to receive his B.S. in Industrial Engineering this summer from Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College at Stillwater, Okla. He is president of the local student branch of A.I.I.E. Naturally, he is interested in selecting the best job opportunity for a successful career based on his technical training.
Don Miller answers:
Training has many facets in a big firm like Du Pont, Dress, and a great deal of thought has been given to make it truly effective. We look upon training as a very important factor in a man’s career. We think that the best way to train a college graduate is to give him a maximum of on-the-job responsibility in a minimum length of time. That’s the general guiding policy at Du Pont, Dress.
NOW AVAILABLE for student ASME chapters and other college groups, a 16-mm. sound-color movie—“Mechanical Engineering at Du Pont.” For further information write to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
"E6. U.S.PAT.Orf-
KTTER THNGS FO* BETTER UVNG... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH “CAVALCADE OF AMERICA” ON TELEVISION
Of course, each department varies this general policy to suit its special needs. A new man being trained for production supervision may first spend a year or so in laboratory or plant development work. Or he may spend his training period as a plant operator. Thus a man obtains firsthand knowledge of his process, and establishes a bond of mutual respect with the men he’ll be working with on his first major assignment.
A young man interested in sales is often first assigned to a plant or laboratory dealing with the products he will later sell; or he may join a group of trainees to learn selling techniques right from the start.
An engineer, chemist, or other technical graduate is usually chosen for a specific job within his major field of study. Such a man brings specialized knowledge and skill to his job, and he is encouraged to put them to use promptly. But at Du Pont his experiences on the job are supplemented with lectures, conferences and discussion groups. In a very real sense, new technical employees continue training in their specialties after joining the Company.
To sum it all up, Dress, Du Pont’s training program is individualized to provide a new man with specific opportunities to learn from contacts with more experienced men. The prime objective of Du Pont training is always kept clearly in mind—to develop men for future advancement and effectiveness in the organization.
a

8
The Scholastic
scmusrn
Volume 96, Number 13	Notre Dame, Indiana	February 18, 1955
0 Announce New Room Registration System
A slightly varied room-choosing plan will be put into effect when room registration begins on March 22. Roommates must now be chosen from an eligibility list, which is being prepared by the Office of Academic Affairs.
The system was devised to eliminate “bumping” of one student by another ® with a higher average. The new plan is to list as many names as there are accommodations, according to academic standing. Thus, if there are 900 open. ings for sophomores, the top 900 freshmen will be listed in academic order, the first on the list having first choice of his room and roommate. The roommate’s name, however, must also appear ’ on the eligibility list.
■ The plan was devised by the Administration’s Committee on Discipline $ and the Student Senate concurred with the proposal.
Alternate Plan Dismissed
A special committee of the Student . Senate, composed of Chairman Don Yeckel, Pete Campbell, Roy Belknap and John Henzel, reported that it suggested as a possibility, having each room considered on a combined average. This would supposedly give the poorer stu-0 dents an opportunity to be nearer the school, the library and other facilities. The Administration felt, however, this was still unfair since rooms are theoretically alloted on the basis of average and, under this system, many “middle” average students would be left out.
The new system follows the theoretical allotment system more closely than previous systems.
According to Joe Daley, president of the Student Senate, the special commit-0 tee concurred on the Administration’s plan, but requested that a more acceptable plan be devised in the future. “We have asked that the Administration continue to consider the problem,” Daley said.
Meanwhile, the Office of the Prefect of Discipline has requested that any undergraduate student now living on campus, who intends to live off campus in the fall semester, obtain a letter of (Continued on Page 33)
0 February 18, 1955
Both Mardi Gras Cars Go to Freshman's Family; Architects' Club Takes First in Booth Contest
Both of the Grand Awards in this year’s Mardi Gras contest went to a single family in the drawing on Tuesday night. Lawrence F. Foster received the keys to both the ’55 DeSoto Firedome Eight and the ’55 Plymouth Hardtop Convertible for his father and himself.
“Nothing like this has ever happened to us before,” said the breathless freshman after his name was called by Carnival Chairman Tom Hayes.
Foster, who lives in Los Angeles, now has the problem of getting the cars back to his home.
“My father was planning to come to South Bend this summer but I guess he’ll have to come sooner now,” he said.
The oldest of seven children, Foster now has a ’41 Pontiac which will presumably be disposed of to make room for the Plymouth Hardtop.
Foster lives in Zahm Hall and is in the College of Science. He expects to major in chemistry.
The car awards was the climax of the four-day affaii- which was opened by the Mardi Gras Ball on Friday night.
TOP AWARD AT 1955 MARDI GRAS
Freshman’s Father Gets DeSoto Firedome Eight
9
In addition to the Ball and carnival, the weekend featured a jazz concert and a variety show by the girls from St. Mary’s.
First prize for best appearance was given to the Architects’ Club booth which sold refreshments. They were awarded §25. Second prize of $15 was given to the Detroit Club, which had a modernistic motif for its dice booth.
Judges in the booth contest were Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident of the University; Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs; Mr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, dean of the Science School; Tom Armstrong; and Hayes.
Hayes said the financial results of the carnival will be announced in the near future. Proceeds from this year’s Mardi Gras and those of last year, which totaled more than §13,000, will be doubled through the gift of Mr. Joseph LaFor-tune, donor of the Student Center. The money will be used for the renovation of the Center basement and to install the Huddle on the first floor of the old Science wing.
Fennelly to Launch IRC Conference Friday; Two-Day Session Draws Throng to Campus
John Fennelly, a member of the executive committee of the Committee for a National Trade Policy and unofficial assistant to Clarence Randall’s committee on foreign trade policies, will deliver the opening address to the Midwest Regional Conference of International Relations Clubs next Friday. The address, entitled “A Foreign Economic Policy for the United States.” will be given in the Engineering Auditorium at 11 a.m.
Fennelly, of the investment banking firm of Glora, Forgan & Co., received a doctor’s degree in economics from Columbia University in 1928. In addition to his business activities in the field of international finance, he has been associated with Paul Hoffman in the Marshall Plan and other international affairs projects.
Twenty-three Colleges Here
Twenty-three colleges and universities from Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin will attend the two-day conference sponsored by the Notre Dame International Relations Club. Following the opening address, a series of 19 discussion periods on problems in international relations will be held.
A paper will be read by one of the delegates at each discussion period, and a general discussion period from the floor will follow. Notre Dame professors will serve as moderators for each of the discussion periods.
Also on the conference agenda is a banquet at the Oliver Hotel, a mixer in the Student Center, and a business session. Regional officers will be elected, and a site for next year’s conference wall be chosen at the business session.
John J. Kennedy of Notre Dame’s Department of Political Science is serving as faculty conference advisor and will give the closing address next Saturday.
Jack Goetsch, Midwest Region president and Notre Dame IRC president is supervising arrangements for the conference. His committee chairmen are: Art Perry, programs; Fred Bordalio, registration; Charlie Najjar, arrangements; Phelan Thompson, food; Dick Scherer, social; and Peter Sturtevant, publicity.
. The opening address and all of the discussion periods will be open to Notre Dame students.
“The conference should be especially valuable for economics, finance, and political science majors,” Goetsch said, “but it should also be valuable for anyone who is interested in the vital international problems which face the United States.”	-
[The discussion periods listed below will be held in the O’Shaughnessy Building (O’S), the Nieuwland Science Hall, (N), and the Main Building (MB)].
Friday at 2:30
1.	“Aid to Our Allies: Which Should Be Stressed—Economic or Military?” 202 O’S.
2.	“Trade, Not Aid—Will it Work?” 203 O’S.
3.	“Is Increased East-West Trade Advisable?” 205 O’S.
4.	“Foreign Aid: Changing Emphasis
MR. JOHN FENNELLY
Keynotes IRC Gathering
from Europe to Asia—Favorable or Unfavorable?” 205 N.
5.	“U. S. Tariff Reduction—Advantages and Disadvantages.” 261 N.
Friday at 4:15
1.	“Air Power vs. Ground and Sea Power.” 202 O’S.
2.	“Are We and Our Allies Ready for an Atomic Pool?” 203 O’S.
3.	“Foreign U. S. Air Bases—Worth the Cost?” 205 O’S.	.
4.	“Should the U. S. Adopt a Program of Compulsory U. M. T.?” 204 O’S.
5.	“Should Nuclear Weapons Be Used to Combat Further Soviet Aggression?” 214 O’S.
Saturday at 9:30
1.	“Indo-China and Korea: Did the Free World Lose Prestige?” 331 N.
2.	“Should We Break off Diplomatic Relations with Communist Countries?” 228 MB.
3.	“Should the Goal of Our Foreign
Policy Be Co-existence or Liberation?” 227 MB.
4.	“Should Red China Be Diplomatic- 0 ally Recognized by the U. S.?” 230 MB.
5.	“Is the Western World Successfully Combatting Soviet Aggression?” 241 MB.	;
6.	“United Nations: Success or Failure?” 118 N.
7.	“Nehru: Friend or Foe?” 123 N.
8.	“The Value of a Rearmed Germany.” 327 N.
9.	“Communist Expansion in Asia in Retrospect and Prospect.” 339 N. fl
ND to Host AB Deans In Three-Day Meeting
Deans of more than 100 Catholic liberal arts colleges will discuss curriculum problems at a conference to be held at the University March 2, 3 and 4, it was _ announced recently. “Christian Culture and Catholic Liberal Education” will be the theme of the sessions scheduled at
the Morris Inn on the campus.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be host to the group and will address the opening session. The keynote speaker will be Rev. Joseph IM. Marique, S.J., of Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., who will discuss “The Implications for Catholic Liberal Education of Christopher Dawson’s Recent Writing.” Dawson’s views on Christian culture and Catholic education will serve as a point of departure for the conference discussions.
The Catholic educators will explore new approaches to liberal education. They are expected to exchange information about revised liberal arts curricula
recently adopted by several colleges and to receive informal progress reports on —. self-studies underway at’ other institutions.
Scheduled to speak at the conference are Rev. James Campbell, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C.; Mr. O. W.. Perlmutter, chairman of the Academic Council, St. Xavier College for Women, Chicago, Ill.; Rev. Paul O’Connor, S.J., dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, St. Xavier University, Cincinnati, O.; and Rev. George Garrelts, Newman Club chaplain, University of Minnesota.
Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters, will address the conference banquet March 3. A discussion period following Father Sheedy’s talk will be led by Sister Fredericus, O.P., of Rosary College, River Forest, Ill., and Brother Casimir Gabriel, F.S.C., Manhattan College, New York City.
The Scholastic
10
St. Mary's Celebrates * Indiana Charter Day
Next Saturday St. Mary’s College will celebrate Indiana Charter Day, which commemorates the centenary of its charter under the laws of the State of Indiana. The day’s festivities will include a luncheon to be attended by well-known educators, followed by the blessing of the ground for Moreau Hall and O’Laughlin Auditorium.
Guests will include administrators of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and of Notre Dame. Also participating in the celebration will be administrators of Indiana colleges, state and city school officials, principals and critic teachers in the South Bend public schools. The College Advisory Board, members of the staff, the Alumnae board, chaplains and faculty members, students in the School of Sacred Theology, and the Senior Class of the College will complete the guest list.
Luncheon speakers will include representatives of Indiana U., Butler U., and Notre Dame, Dr. John W. Ashton, Dr. Paul A. Cunliff, and Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C.
Sister Marie Perpetua will speak for St. Mary-of-the-Woods College for Women, Dr. Frank E. Allen for the public school system of South Bend, a Mayor John A. Scott for the city of ™ South Bend, and Sister M. Madeleva for St. Mary’s College.
The subjects of the talks will be “Education as I Have Come to Know It.”
The blessing of the ground for the new Moreau Hall and O’Laughlin Auditorium will follow the luncheon. Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., will officiate. Following a citation to the O’Laughlin Q family of Chicago, benefactors of the O’Laughlin Auditorium, an address will be given by Mr. Charles F. Murphy, distinguished architect. Sister M. Madeleva, president, will conclude the program.
Detroit Club Elects Officers; McPartlin Wins Prexy Post
Jerry McPartlin won the presidential post of the Detroit Club on Feb. 10 by a slim nine-vote margin over his opponent, Bill Markley.
Other officers elected to help him run the organization were Pat Cogan, vicepresident, who won on a close second ballot; Dan Kelly, who was the majority winner for treasurer; Lou Bosco and Bob Bogg rounded out the administration as recording secretary and correspondence secretary, respectively.
The new officers will assume their active positions immediately.
9 February 18, 1955	r
Chicago Couple Will Open Institute Feb. 23; O'Dowds to Lecture on Marital Psychology
Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd, members of the Christian Family Movement and the Cana Conference of Chicago, will deliver the initial lecture of the Marriage Institute in Washington Hall Feb. 23 at 7:30 p.m.
Former chairman couple of the Lay Executive Board of the Cana Conference and Pre-Cana speakers, the O’Dowds will speak on “iMale and Female Psychology” with special emphasis on how to understand women. At the conclusion of their talks a special ques-tion-and-answer session will be held, followed by an informal coffee hour in the Student Center.
Marry While in Navy
A graduate of Notre Dame with a Ph.B. in Commerce, Mr. O’Dowd went directly into the Navy as a commissioned officer after leaving the University in 1942. During his 30 months in service he made eight war patrols on the U.S.S. Shad and was awarded the Bronze Star and the Navy Commendation as torpedo and gunnery officer.
Before his discharge in 1945, he married Mi’s. O’Dowd, who was then an ensign in the WAVES, in San Francisco. Since then, both Mr. and Mi’s. O’Dowd have been active in family life work in the Chicago archdiocese. Much of their time is spent raising a family of their own — five children ranging in ages from eight and one-half to one and one-half.
MR. AND MRS. FRANK O’DOWD
When They Started Out 10~Years Ago.
O’Dowd now holds the position of sales manager for the Millwork Division of the Edward Hines Lumber Co. Speaking on the Marriage Institute, he said, “This graduate and his wife will be motivated toward the assignment by our mutual love for Notre Dame and inspired by our understanding of Our ! Lady’s great desire to have ‘her men’ prepared for marriage and family life.”
Institute Six Weeks Long
Sponsored by the senior officers and Department of Religion, represented by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., the Marriage Institute will continue for six weeks.
Also speaking at the various Institute sessions will be Dr. Louis Leone, Chicago physician; Dr. John J. Kane, head of the Department of Sociology and author of Marriage and the Family: a Catholic Approach; Rev. Thomas McDonough, assistant chaplain of the Calvert Club at the University of Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe, and Mr. and Mrs. Peter Fitzpatrick, all leaders of the Cana Conference movement in Chicago.
The Institute, limited to graduate students, undergraduate seniors, engaged ! and married students, works with the I purpose of teaching Notre Dame men how to live the fullest Christian life as husband and father. A one dollar fee is I being charged for the entire series. 1
11
Rep. Bentley, Contemporaries Discuss Views On Post-Liberation Problems in East Europe
When the countries of East Central Europe are eventually liberated from Communist domination, their leaders will not be prominent refugees, but rather will be drawn “from the ranks of those who remained and somehow survived the Communist terror,” Rep. Alvin M. Bentley of Michigan predicted here last Friday night.
“Without intending to minimize the importance of the work carried on today by prominent refugee individuals and organizations, it is not believed that they will be able to return to their former roles of influence and prestige following liberation,” Bentley asserted.
Representative Bentley, a Republican member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, discussed post-liberation problems at a Notre Dame symposium on “The Fate of East Central Europe: Hopes and Failures of American For-.eign Policy.” The symposium was sponsored by the University’s Committee on International Relations and its Center for Soviet and East European Studies.
The existing spirit of nationalism in the countries of East Central Europe “is the greatest obstacle to communization of the area,” Bentley declared. This nationalistic spirit should be encouraged by American foreign policy and could be‘expected to reach its peak at the time of liberation, he said. Bentley warned, however, that “it will be an immeasurably difficult task to reconcile this resurgent nationalism with any trend toward regional federation or eventual integration with Western Europe, especially in view of the antipathy toward federalism that null already exist ■ because of experience with the Commu
REP. ALVIN BENTLEY (center left) AND SPECIALISTS
Stress “Need for Medical Assistance For East Central Europe”
nist version of it. And yet,” Bentley continued, “the reconciliation must be made since some form of regional cooperation on all planes appears to offer the only hope for the political future of East Central Europe.”
Representative Bentley, the most seriously wounded of the five Congressmen shot by Puerto Rican terrorists last year, stressed the necessity of re-integrating the cultures of Western and Eastern Europe in the post liberation era “as a necessary preliminary to the establishment of a European community itself.” Bias and distortion will have to be removed from textbooks, films, and other communications media, Bentley said. New teaching staffs will have to be created and youth organizations will have to be reactivated in accordance with their original concepts, he explained.
“As might be expected, the problem will not be one of educating the liberated peoples to be against Communism—little or no work of this kind is required for those who have actually lived under such a system,” Bentley asserted. “But the need for modern medical assistance to restore health and physical vitality and the need for education to teach the freed peoples the concepts and belief of the Western world regarding human freedom and material progress are very real indeed. Such needs can obviously not be met by the liberated peoples of East Central Europe alone,” Bentley said. “They must receive cooperation and assistance from the free world.”
. Other, symposium : participants included Pfiilip E. Mosely, director- of the Russian Institute at Columbia Univer
sity; Robert F. Byrnes, director of research at the Mid-European Studies Center, New York City; and Nicholas Spulber, lecturer in economics at Indiana University. Prof. Stephen Kertesz, director of Notre Dame’s Center for Soviet and East European Studies and former Hungarian minister to Italy, served as moderator.
Fr. Hesburgh to Attend Education Conference
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, and Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy, will participate in the Tenth National Conference on Higher Education to be held in Chicago Feb. 28 to Mar. 2. The conference is sponsored by the Association for Higher Education.
Father Hesburgh will serve as chairman of a meeting on “Safeguarding the Quality of Educative Processes in In-stitutions as Enrollments Increase.” Father Ward will serve as chairman of a meeting on “Who Should Go to College?”
The conference will bring together approximately 800 faculty members and administrators from all types of publicly and privately controlled colleges and universities throughout the nation to study “The Meaning and Mission of Higher Education.”
Problems identified by educational leaders throughout the country as being the most crucial ones facing higher education will serve as a basis for study groups in the 1955 conference according to John R. Emens, president, Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind., and president of the Association. AHE is a department of the National Education Association.
B'Nai B'Rith Invites Debaters ® To Speak on Brotherhood
Debate representatives from the University will speak to the South Bend > chapter of the B’Nai B’Rith, a national ’ Jewish organization, Monday in conjunction with National Brotherhood Week.
General theme of the week is “One Nation Under God.” National chairman of the week is Mr. Ben Duffy, president a , of Batten, Barton, Durstine, and Os-born—Advertising Agency.
The speakers, in order of appearance, are: Jerry Brady, freshman AB; Joe ( Saunders, senior AB; Fred Eckart, sen- । ior in the Program for Administrators; < and Jack Martzell, freshman Commerce.
The orations will center around the roles played by individuals in their particular religions in reference to the theme of Brotherhood Week.
s	The Scholastic $
12
’1 GRACEFUL IMP...
By F. X. NEWMAN
It’s quite a leap from the clipped wisecracks and snub-nosed pistols of Detective Story to the florid rhetoric X and flashing swords of Cyrano de Bergerac, but the University Theater has executed that leap with style and grace, giving us a Cyrano full of color, movement and vitality.
Probably what a good production of Cyrano needs above all else is flair— a swashbuckling sweep that constantly dazzles. I doubt that it is a play which will bear intense scrutiny; it is more a piece of theater than of drama. But, f given a production with style, it can be a brilliant piece of theater indeed.
I don’t suppose anyone who has seen or read the play—and that must include just about everyone—would advocate giving Cyrano the sort of austere modern-dress reading often given to Shakespeare or Sophocles in recent years.
A good production of Cyrano should enhance the romantic illusion that is Cyrano’s world. His world is one of ex-travagant gestures and noble passions. Even the pastry-cooks are poets. To create and maintain this florid world several things are necessary.
Gorski Has Command
First of all, of course, there is need for an actor with the command, ingenuity and style to keep Cyrano himself constantly interesting and sur-9 prising. If there was ever a one-char-■L' acter play, this is it, and its demands on the actor who plays Cyrano are rigorous.
Then, too, the production itself, both in the obvious physical aspects of setting and costuming and in the less tangible aspects of movement and pace must maintain the bravura quality of this romantic world. Cyrano demands a great deal of flair on the part of the director and set designer.
* The present production is particularly fortunate in the first respect but less so, I think, in the second. As Cyrano, Gene Gorski gives a striking performance. His Cyrano is a tall, compelling figure of dashing brilliance. Mr. Gorski speaks the rhetoric delightfully, sings the songs gaily and fights the duels with gusto. When he is in command of the stage—which is, in fact, almost all of the time—the play glows.
Not only does he swagger grandly, as
in the opening scene where he fights a duel to the accompaniment of an improvised ballade, but he is also an adroit comedian. The scene in Roxanne’s courtyard in which he pretends to be a traveler just returned from the moon is really excellent foolery.
The only reservation I have about his performance is that he seems to be somewhat less in command when he has to portray the pathetic Cyrano—the frustrated, pining but despairingly hopeful lover. I felt less drawn to pity him in this role as I was compelled to admire him as the magnificent cavalier. As a swaggerer- he is superlative, but as a pathetic lover he seems to me merely competent.
Gains Pity in Death Scene
He overcame this, I felt, in the last scene, however, the scene in which he dies just as Roxanne discovers that it is he whom she has really loved. This closing scene is a curious blend of bluster and pathos as the dying Cyrano plays the chevalier to the last. It strikes me as extremely difficult to do, but I felt that Mr. Gorski played it extremely well.
On the whole, despite the reservation I mentioned above, Mr. Gorski’s struck me as the finest male performance I have ever seen at the University Theater.
Mr. Doyle’s direction I thought a bit uncertain. It seemed to fluctuate between realism and fantasy rather curiously. Some of the characters were conceived broadly and fancifully, Ra-gueneau, for instance, while others, notably Le Bret and the other soldiers, usually were quite direct.
In particular, Michael Kennedy, playing the Comte de Guiche seemed undecided whether he was a blustering fool or a genuinely cynical villain. (In spite of this, Mr. Kennedy displayed a good deal of authority and, judging from his work here and in Detective Story promises to be a first-rate actor.)
But these are minor objections to a job of direction which on the whole maintains an air of controlled brightness and vitality to serve as the backdrop for the rich brilliance or the pathetic tremors of Cyrano. It is a very attractive and entertaining job.
The settings for this production are surprisingly elaborate for a University
“CYRANO” GORSKI . . . magnificent precipice
Theater production. And on the whole they are satisfying—the opening set of the Hotel de Bourgogne in particular is very striking. But despite their elaborateness they seemed somewhat drab and overscrupulously realistic. I felt that somewhat less carpentry and a little more freedom might have produced an effect more consonant with the spirit of the play.
One small point in the staging seemed to be a definite error- in taste. As back' ground music for the balcony scene between Roxanne and Cyrano, somepne chose the familiar Prelude to Afternoon of a Faun. The associations which cling to this piece of music are rather incongruous with the scene on stage and were something of a distraction for me. On the other hand the sound effects of the battle scene were very effective.
Supporting Actors Good
Besides Mr. Gorski, the other principal actors are, on the whole, quite good. Gayle Baumer’s Roxanne is sufficiently arch and charming to justify Cyrano’s raptures and Christian’s gloom. Charles Hickman’s Ragueneau is a very winning performance, likeable and funny. As Christian, Tom Neville is big and handsome, though somewhat ill at ease. I have already referred to Mr. Kennedy’s de Guiche. Among the minor players a few whom I particularly liked were Gene Leyval’s bemused Capuchin, James O’Donoghue’s sturdy Carbon de Castel-Jaloux and Georgia Ann Weber’s pert Orange Girl.
If I were you I’d make for the box office and pick up a ticket or two, if you haven’t done so already. This Cyrano is a fine, big show which will afford a full evening’s entertainment at an attractive price.
February 18, 1955
13

New Faces in an Old Party
By ED JOYCE
Internal struggle mixed with military and political conflict is blamed by Professor Michael S. Pap, a member of the Notre Dame Soviet and Eastern European Center, for the recent resignation of Georgi Malenkov as top big-wig in the Russian Kremlin.
Last week newspaper headlines screamed the news of Malenkov’s resignation and the appointment of Nikolai A. Bulganin as his successor. In order to get an expert’s view on this shake-up, the Scholastic obtained an interview with Pap whose life’s work has been devoted to the domestic problems of the Soviet Union.
According to Pap the entire problem of the Kremlin shake-up dates back deep into Russian history. The fifteen years of Stalin domination, threatened only once by world war, set a precedent that Malenkov could not match. Stalin managed to supress military force within the USSR and maintain political domination, a task that Malenkov was failing to accomplish.
Realizing that he was failing in this tactic, Malenkov changed his attack and tried to influence the people with a so-called desire to improve internal conditions.
Pap asserted that Malenkov’s policy was “nothing more than a continuation of the Stalin policy but by other means.” The Malenkov policy, still tainted with the
Lenin philosophy of taking one step backward to later take two steps forward, soon began to draw disapproval from Communist party leaders including Boss Nikita Khrushchev, top party man.
In the midst of the struggle for power, L. P. Beria, then head of the powerful Russian Secret Police, made his move for control of Soviet power, only to meet with the famous Russian disappearance and later suspected death. After the downfall of Beria, Malenkov grew more vigilant and tried to line up his supporters for eventual absorption of power, but he again was unsuccessful.
Pap saw the present struggle for political power developing immediately after the death of Stalin in March of 1953. Malenkov tried his best to capture political leadership in the first days after Stalin’s death —and almost succeeded. The Soviet press hailed him as a leader and a disciple of Stalin. This situation lasted only a few days when he was forced by members of the ruling clique to give up his position as general secre
PROF. MICHAEL PAP
Bulganin: Just Another Link
tary of the Communist party—the most important position in Soviet Union control.
Malenkov’s failings flashed upon the world last week when he issued a statement of resignation. It is upon the projected world outlook that Professor Pap best expresses his opinions.
The Ukrainian-born professor maintains that the big shake-up is just one step in the struggle for control of Soviet power. He sees Khi-ushchev as the eventual Russian leader, and believes that Bulganin and Malenkov ■will ultimately meet the same fate as Beria, Trotsky and other “liquidated” Russians. Pap adds further that the struggle between army and political power could possibly lead Russia into a civil war.
Pap disagrees with many of the leading newspaper editorials that the Formosan situation will become more critical. Pap holds that because of the instability of the Soviet government, Red Chinese leaders now face the problem of “just whom to believe in the Kremlin.” A promise of assistance from one leader might be an unkept promise from another.
This gives rise to another military question concerning the effect of the Russian change upon the American draft situation. Pap’s solution to this question is that the United States should not let
up in any manner its present policy on the draft. He maintains that a let-up would only give the Kremlin time to re-adjust to its internal disorder.
“If the United States would offer settlement of world problems at this time by applying political pressure it might accomplish a great deal,” says Pap.
With Malenkov’s resignation came several assertions by Russians that the USSR has “all kinds of weapons for the complete defeat of its aggressors.”
Professor Pap says further that “Russian leaders in the past and present camouflage their weakness with loud announcements of their accomplishments. It was their weakness rather than their strength that made them make such an announcement.” Pap points out that Beria, while in power, acted as head of the atomic energy development in the USSR and with his removal much of the secret data left with him.
Pap concludes that the military faction and the Communist party are coming to a showdown. A mili-(Continued on page 30)
14
The Scholastic
AT LEFT: Carnival and Ball
BELOW: Dancing harlequins
(L-RI Miss Ann Lee Tyler, Tom Hayes, John Weithers, and Miss Judy O’Brien.
backdrop as Commanders satisfy Ball-goers.
Final
Fling
That’s
Music, mirth, and lasting memories.
4.
about the only way to describe the Mardi Gras carnival of ’55. The crowds seemed larger, the festivities livelier, the decorations brighter . . . and the snow deeper than ever.
Action started fast as the Commanders paraded through then- swinging arrangements at the Friday night Ball. And they were really doin’ the mambo —500 couples to be exact. The warm spirit of gay old New Orleans engulfed the balloon-speckled Student Center; and dance-goers scoffed at Michiana’s persistent blizzard.
Came Saturday morn—well, late Saturday morn —and the whole campus was buzzin’ with action again. In the afternoon, the cooler cats (those not already frozen) headed for the Fieldhouse and a jazz concert by Don Gels and his rhythm-happy crew. The campus combos sailed into a program of boogie, blues, and bop.
At 7:30 p.m., Father Joyce performed the traditional ribbon-cutting ceremonies to open the Drill Hall carnival. The troops, poured in and found the usual drabness buried in a rainbow of color and excitement. Highlight, of course, was “The Roaring Twenties” revue presented by the belles of St. Mary’s. The gals from across the Dixie practically rewrote the history books; the “Twenties” never roared so loud before.
Sunday brought more music and dancing. A three-hour “Sweetheart Social” marked the eve of Valentine’s Day . . . and the sad departure of many charming weekend visitors.
'Still, the fun had just begun. And the pace increased during Monday and Tuesday nights’ Drill Hall celebrations. Even hula dancers (Chicago style) turned out to aid the cause.
But, as the saying goes, all good things. . . . It’s all over now except the problem of filling our empty wallets. And what a problem!



Baby, it’s cold outside!	And then the fun began . . .
MUSIC, MIRTH AND MEMORIES •
\ . A SNOWBOUND CARNIVAL
Big Boost for Center and Charity
T February 18, 1955

By JOE CONNOLLY
AND JOHN ADAMS

UMMER is a-coming, bringing with it the opening of what is probably the most ambitious project in the history of Notre Dame—a University-owned commercial television station.
At this moment a veteran staff of TV experts is hard at work preparing to beam the Notre Dame signal into 140,000 receivers in the Michiana area. The twofold nature of their job makes it particularly difficult. Not only must they conceive, construct and successfully operate a new station—no small problem in itself; they also must provide a steady schedule of programs faithful to the traditionally high standards of the University.
The station, WNDU-TV, was authorized last August by the Federal Communications Commission. Operating on UHF channel 46, the station’s strong signal will range over an area of approximately 6500 square miles.
The decision to enter this highly-competitive field was reached almost three years ago by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president. They formed the Michiana Telecasting Corporation, with all stock owned by the University, and applied to the FCC in September, 1952.
Buy Radio Station
At first, two other applicants were also seeking the one available local channel. One soon dropped out of contention; and the second withdrew its application after selling South Bend radio station WHOT to the Michiana Corporation. So the school now has both radio and television outlets.
Plans call for an eventual joining of
the two operations, sharing personnel, studios, and equipment. Similar combined set-ups have proved efficient and economical in other locales. But, for the time being, WHOT will remain at its present downtown location.
Soon after its authorization, WNDU-TV became a National Broadcasting Company affiliate. The managerial post for the station immediately attracted the notice of many of television’s top people. Bernard C. Barth, then operations and program director foi- the Crosley network in southwestern Ohio, was selected for the job and made vicepresident-general manager of the Michiana Corporation.
Though primarily a specialist in programming, Barth is familiar with almost every facet of radio-television work as he has had 18 years’ experience in the field. His career started in 1936 when, as a teen-age vocalist, he was signed for a radio program in Rapid City, S. Dak.; within three years he worked his way up to program director of the station. In the following years he announced, wrote, directed and produced shows in Cincinnati, Philadelphia, Asheville, N. C., and Weslaco, Tex.
Then, in 1948 he joined the Crosley network, considered by many to be the finest television operation in the country. For two years he was executive assistant to the vice-president in charge of television; during this time he bought all the film properties for the network and handled the largest number of network properties outside of New York.
Chooses Tides
After his appointment here, Barth began a careful search for his two top aides, a chief engineer and a sales manager. For his engineer, he selected George Smith—a man whom he had never met before but ’ whose record seemed outstanding. Perhaps most important is the fact that Smith had already designed and constructed three TV stations, UHF and VHF.
He, too, has had 18 years’ experience in the field, and once owned a radio sta-
18
The Scholastic
a	tion. Before accepting the	job here, he
i	was chief engineer for	the George
>	Storer operations, one of	the largest
|	privately-owned chains of	radio and
I television stations in the country.
; The new sales manager is William Thomas Hamilton, who will direct time |	and program sales to local, regional and
|	national accounts. A veteran of 20
j years’ experience in sales and advertis-• I 'nS> he has been a network sales execu-| tive with the Columbia Broadcasting |	System since 1949. He has a seat on
|	the Board of Governors of the Radio
and Television Executives Society.
These three men are now directing 1 their crews in a race to construct the ;	$750,000 station and install facilities as
■ quickly as possible. The station, which will be telecasting by mid-summer, is being built on the site of the old Vet-ville Recreation Hall. The simple, one-| £ story structure is so designed that additions can easily be made whenever the need arises.
; It will contain a single studio 80 feet i	long and 60 feet wide, a film projection
room, a control room, and the general offices.
। The studio will be similar to most I commercial stations. A battery of three cameras will be used in the building;
a one will be strictly a studio camera but :	the other two will be combination in-
' door-outdoor cameras. Most of the light-j ing will be on trolleys to facilitate mov-!	ing from one set to another in the
■	back-to-back floor plan. Sound pick-up
equipment will consist of a pair of boom . microphones plus a number of suspended “mikes.” All of the equipment is RCA’s latest design and is capable of transmitting network color programs.
On Feb. 28, Father Hesburgh will I £ preside at ground-breaking ceremonies for WNDU-TV’s 538-foot tower. This $35,000 structure will be constructed at the cornei- of Ironwood and Kern roads, just south of the city limits. The spot was chosen for two reasons. First, it was acceptable to the Civil Aeronautics Administration because it is well out of the way of airlines passing over the campus. Secondly, it is on a direct line with the other local television station’s tower; thus, TV antennas
in South Bend will not have to be rotated for better reception when changing channels.
A saucer-shaped disk on campus will beam the studio’s signal into a similar disk attached to the powerful 12% kilowatt tower transmitter. The transmitter, in addition to its standard equipment, will also house an emergency film and announcer studio.
Veteran Staff
In discussing plans for the station, Barth emphasizes the fact that this is not a student-run operation like WNDU radio, “The Student Voice.” He is organizing a staff of about 30 thoroughly trained professionals. These experienced outside men will handle all directorial duties.
However, one of the prime aims of the University in buying the station is the desire to train capable and responsible television administrators. This program will begin in a small way when the station opens; a limited number of students will be employed in the studio as floor men, prop men, and technicians. Those students who are picked for the staff will be trained by the “pros.”
Student-employees will be chosen almost entirely on the basis of their ability to learn, rather than on previous experience. About 25 students, working part-time, will be rotated among the available jobs. Naturally, those who prove themselves capable will be moved up to more skilled and responsible positions.
Barth is especially eager to hire qualified Notre Dame men because they have the moral training so essential for responsible leadership in this field. He believes that, “There is room for greater moral standards in TV today. So give me a guy who has the standards already plus the necessary imagination.”
Student Training
The ultimate aim of the station is to expand into one of the largest and best equipped television centers in the country, with duplicates in most of the equipment strictly for student training. The station will become the focal point for a new Department of Communication Arts, which is even now in the
planning stage and may be in operation within the next three years.
All profits from the station over and above what is needed to operate and buy new equipment will be used to establish this department—an enterprise almost as costly as the station itself.
Nobody is more enthusiastic about this student training program than Barth himself. In the past he has taught communications courses in other universities. He claims that “most television and radio schools are sadly lacking” since classroom lectures can never replace the invaluable experience of actually working in a studio. The Department of Communication Arts should go a long way toward solving this problem.
Since the University applied for a commercial channel rather than an educational channel (which was also available), Barth is assured that the administration wants WNDU-TV to be a progressive leader in' establishing high standards for the industry.
“The calling card of Notre Dame,” he points out, “is one of the finest in the country.” That thought will guide him in establishing a programming policy for the station. “We’re not interested in putting just anything on the (Continued on p. 33)
BERNARD C. BARTH
Quality in Simplicity
February 18, 1955
TRIBUTE TO A FREEDOM-LOVING NATION □
Senior Class Awaits Exercises
This Tuesday night approximately 850 members of the Notre Dame Senior Class will file into the Drill Hall to participate in the annual Washington’s Birthday Exercises. Most of these seniors vaguely remember having heard about the Exercises even back in their freshman days. They know that this is a traditional event in the school year . . . and that their attendance is expected. But few really understand the significance of these Exercises.
Yet, in some sense, almost every act of the University sheds light on the true meaning of these ceremonies. The Administration has always tried to impress upon students the importance of understanding the culture, history and politics —in short, the spirit of America. This need was first felt by Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C., the founder of Notre Dame, when he established these Washington Day Exercises over a century ago.
Father Sorin realized that as a Catholic university, Notre Dame would have the responsibility to prepare its students for family, community and business life, and to encourage in them a love and respect for their country.
Value of Freedom
And few native-born Americans probably evei- had as great respect for this country as did Father Sorin, a humble immigrant. For America gave him the opportunity to serve both God and his fellow men; it enabled him to fulfill his desire to found a university. His personal experience taught him to value the freedoms of the United States. For
Program:
Date: February 22, 1955
Time: 7:15 p.m. Seniors meet in Fieldhouse.
8 p.m. Ceremonies start in Drill Hall.
Presentation of Patriotism Award by Dick Burke, Senior Class president. Speech by General Kenney.
Presentation of new American Flag to the University by Joe Daley, president of the Student Senate.
Acceptance of Flag by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University.
[ 20
that reason, he wished to commemorate in some way the birthday of “the Father of our country.”
That was the beginning of the Washington Day Exercises here. Ever since, the University has faithfully tried to follow the example set by Father Sorin by enkindling in its students a deep appreciation for their national heritage.
Patriotism Award
Down through the years, attendance at the Exercises was compulsory for graduation. But two years ago the Administration decided that the members of the Senior Class should be permitted to organize and execute the Exercises as they deemed proper, and that attendance should no longer be required for graduation. This confidence toward Notre Dame’s seniors has had gratifying results; their enthusiasm for the traditional ceremony has even created some new features.
Last year, for example, the seniors inaugurated a “Patriotism Award.” It will be presented annually to the man they select as “an outstanding patriot who exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity and service to country.” The 1954 recipient was FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover.
This year’s’ award has been voted to Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, auxiliary bishop of New York and national director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith. The 60-year-old prelate is being honored for his lifelong contributions to the American public.
Bishop Sheen is known and admired by millions of all faiths, who have listened to his numerous radio talks, have watched his current “Life Is Worth Living” television series, and have read some of his long list of informative books and pamphlets.
Holds ND Degree
In the 1930’s he was one of the few well-informed experts who recognized the dangers of Communism. He carried on an active and public fight against the evil long before it gained international attention.
This is the second award given to Bishop Sheen by Notre Dame; in 1941 he was presented an honorary degree. Because of his network television commitment, he will be unable to attend the convocation; so the award will be made “in absentia.”
The appearance of a great speaker of national prominence is another feature recently added to the already impressive
GENERAL KENNEY
Air Expert Will Speak
ceremonies. Tuesday’s major- address will be delivered by General George C. Kenney, retired Air Force veteran. He was formerly commander of the Allied Air Forces in the Pacific theater during World War II.
Expert on Air Power
General Kenney’s long military career presents an exceptional record of public service to his country. Enlisting as a flying cadet in 1917, he consistently rose through the ranks and retired as a full general in 1951. He has received the Distinguished Service Cross with one Oak Leaf Cluster, Distinguished Service Medal with two Oak Leaf Clusters, * Silver Star, Distinguished Flying Cross, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star and Purple -Heart. He is also an Honorary Knight Commander, Military Division, Order of the British Empire, and holds awards ; from five other nations.	5
He is now serving as president of the ~ Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. He also holds an honorary degree from the University.
The 65-year-old general is considered ■ a highly competent authority on the i future air age of America. Experienced J, in handling men and addressing them on < their own level, he will undoubtedly be	|
able to impress on the seniors the im-	|
portance of their place in the world.	।
This, therefore, is the aim of the	|
Washington Day exercises. It gives all I graduating seniors the chance to re-	|
fleet on the fortunate circumstances of 1 their life in this freedom-loving coun- 1 try; and it reminds them of their duties | as citizens of that country.	1
8
The Scholastic
p* WOU Mike Chatter
Ilt has long been acknowledged that . this particular column packs about as ? much, if not less, reader interest for J the campus masses as a truss ad. The placing of it here in the hinterlands of the Scholastic, along with story con; tinuations and announcements of .£• government grants to study Mau-Mau 1 social functions, is indicative of the • quality of writing in these efforts.
. However, even if John Crosby, or some other luminary of the commercial world, were authoring these weekly . pieces the fact would remain that, no matter how much finesse was attached to this written criticism, the individual person is the last judge of what he will _ listen to and enjoy on his campus crystal set. In other words, it should be the « function of this bit of propaganda to | present in some obtuse fashion what is J new and interesting on WNDU.
Station Has Revised Format
Recently, the Student Voice has come up with a revised format of broadcasting which includes several bright spots in the weekly lineup. Chief among these is a news roundup on Sunday evening at 8 which goes under the label of “The World This Week.” Using as many as twelve announcers, this half hour program moves with a zest and speed unusual for college broadcasting. The net result is a solidly packed half hour of listening to the news of the past week from the world-wide and national levels and a review of the campus scene.
Another recent addition is a program which ostensibly should have a rather limited appeal. This offering is called “Speaking of Books,” and appears weekly at 7:15 on Monday evenings. In this case WNDU was wise in not considering members of the student body for the task of narrating these shows. Members. offtfie faculty lend not only their reputation, but also their narrative talent to this new series. The format of these shows permits an interesting discussion of the books in question and does not focus on the scholarly aspects, but rather on the general and informative aspects of the work.
A rejuvenated' program entitled “Focus” is heard at 8:30 Thursday evenings. Packing a dynamically written script it occupies itself with such topics as, “What would happen if an atomic bomb hit your city.” The writing savvy of Paul Fullmer, erstwhile sports editor of the Scholastic, contributes the impact which makes the difference between “Focus” and its predecessor, “The Science Forum.”—Bill Byrne
February 18, 1955
GLEE CLUBBERS SEE THE SIGHTS IN NORFOLK
Just One of The Stops on the 3,400 Mile Semester’s Jaunt
Glee Club Gains Acclaim on Southern Jaunt; Performs Before Ten Thousand in Five Cities
The University of Notre Dame Glee Club concluded its longest and one of its most successful tours in recent years on Feb. 26, after spreading its fame and the fame of the University over the southern and midwestern parts of the country.
Jim Irwin, publicity manager of the Club, stated that each and every concert was lavishly praised by audiences and received overwhelming approval by critics for fine choral technique, interpretation, varied repertoire, and showmanship.
Over ten thousand people were entertained by the 36 choraliers at concerts in Memphis, Tenn.; Frankin, La.; Norfolk, Va.; Canton and Hamilton, 0. The largest single group which gathered to hear the singers was in Memphis, where 3600 attended the concert. Free nights were enjoyed by the members of the Club in Montgomery, Ala.; Columbia, S. C.; and Washington, D. C.
The Glee Club is under the direction of Dr. Daniel H. Pedtke. Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., club chaplain, accompanied the men on the entire eight-day tour. All the engagements were used to gain funds for charities in the sponsoring cities.
The concert was divided into three sections. The first was composed of classical numbers, the second included Negro and religious spirituals, and the third section was made up of Irish and school songs. The regular program was concluded by the uniquely-arranged “Notre Dame Victory March.” The group received three encores after each concert.
The songsters are currently preparing selections for their annual Easter
tour through the East. Among the highlights of the trip will be the annual appearance of the Club on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” TV Show, where they will appear before millions of viewers for the eighth straight year.
The tour, which last year covered 2500 miles, took the singing Irish to New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New York State for concerts. Plans for this year’s tour are not yet complete.
NSA to Offer Low-Cost Travel, Foreign Study
The National Student Association here on campus is offering the “Work, Study, Travel Abroad—1955” program for all students who are interested in going to Europe this summer.
Trips to Europe, Scandinavia, the Balkans, the Middle East, North Africa and a chance to study at such universities as Paris, Vienna, London, Oxford, or Edinburgh for students or professors are available at a minimum of $625.
Run on a non-profit basis, the NSA tours are conducted by the Students’ International Travel Association. A 75-day insurance policy covers both air and sea accidents.
A special program for qualified students and professors allows for free passage to Europe as orientation leaders. .	-
To obtain brochures describing the 25 tours abroad offered by the NSA, interested students are asked to contact Gordon DiRenzo in the YCS offices in the Student Center any Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday between 3:30 and 4:30.
21
Notre Dame Drops Policy, Accepts Bowl Bid Irish to Match Wits Witii Nation's 'Brains'
Hints were given last week that the University has finally loosened up on its anti-bowl policy. The Irish have accepted a bowl bid and will meet the winner of the Oberlin-Mount Holyoke contest in a tilt that will challenge the vaunted prowess of the Irish. Rose, Cotton, Orange, Cigar Bowl? Indeed not, the Irish null participate in the Quiz Bowl, a contest that is played on a radio hookup rather than a gridron. The knowledge contest is run off between two four-player teams, each matching wits against the other via radio.
Students are invited to attend the recording of this program next Thursday night at 8 in the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center. The broadcast, however, will not be over the NBC radio network until 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 26. The Notre Dame team is made up of four seniors who have acquired at least a 90% average while at the University. They were not chosen on that basis alone, however, for Mr. Leonard F. Sommer, assistant professor of speech and supervisor of the Irish team and its director Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, played recordings of previous programs and asked the men a variety of questions, so that those who were chosen would show the ability to think quickly and intuitively. The Irish team is comprised of Pat DiPasquale of Somerville, Mass., and Francis Newman of Brooklyn, N. Y., both English majors, James Cantrill of Lexington, Ky., a science major, and Chuck Doherty, Pittsburgh, Pa., majoring in accounting.
Team Buzzes to Answer
The three-way radio hookup Thursday night will include Notre Dame, Quizmaster Allen Ludden in New York City, and the Irish squad’s opponent. Ludden first throws out a “tossup” question and as soon as a player thinks he knows the answer he signals his referee to push the team’s buzzer, which instantly lights a bulb in the Manhattan studio automatically cutting off the impulse from the other team. If the answer is right, it earns ten points and gives the •winners a chance at a bonus question worth from 15 to 50 points. If a team thinks it can anticipate a tossup question, it is free to internipt Ludden before he finishes, but if the answer is incorrect, there is a five-point penalty.
The winning school gets $500 each week which is donated by Good Housekeeping magazine, while the losers receive wrist watches. The ■winning team also automatically earns the right to
22
continue competing each week until beaten. Last week Oberlin defeated Minnesota which had amassed twelve victories in a row this year while earning $6,000. The Gophers last year won eight straight with the Irish included among its victims. Hoping to redeem themselves, this year’s Notre Dame team is constantly practicing by throwing questions at one another and reading up on general subjects with emphasis on current affairs, literature, and music.
SENATE FEE
Senate President Joe Daley has announced that those who have not paid their Senate Activities Fee for the coming semester will be able to do so from 3 to 6 daily at the Senate office in the Student Center. Also, those who have not received their activities cards will be able to pick them up in the office during the same hours. Activities cards will be required for admission to all Senate functions.
Fr. Baldwin Announces Annual Angling Contest
To stimulate interest in the annual fishing contest Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., has announced weekly prizes during this year’s contest in addition to the grand prize.
Sponsored for the past five years, under the direction of Father Baldwin, the contest is held in St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s lakes from the time the ice thaws, usually in March, until June 1.
In the past the one who caught the biggest smallmouth or largemouth bass during the contest was awarded a cash prize. This has presented a couple of problems. First of all, should a large fish be caught early in the contest, interest drops off. On the other hand widespread interest often hasn’t been aroused until the last few days of the contest. As a result the winning fish has frequently been rather small.
The weekly prizes are expected to remedy this situation.
Fishing is usually at its best in the early spring. However if students don’t have their casting rods at school, Father Baldwin suggests that they bring back their equipment after Easter vacation.
Most of the fishing is done off shore though there is a boat available for each lake. These boats are locked up and
the key must be obtained from Father Baldwin in Corby Hall.
An example of the type of bass which are in the lakes can be seen at the Reco Sporting Goods store on Main Street in South Bend, where, mounted on the wall, is a six-pound bass caught in St. Joseph’s lake by Father Baldwin just last year.
Paul Butler to Speak Before Academy of Political Science „
Paul Butler, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, will speak on “My Job as National Chairman” tonight at 6:30 in the Sunny Italy restaurant. The evening’s events will be sponsored by the Academy of Political Science.
John Marchal, a political science major and president of the Academy, with the help of Jim Irwin, Ed Vizard, and Casper Taylor, has been able to f) bring many noted politicians from all parts of the world to speak before the organization.
Among the men they have sponsored are Thomas Bath, Republican county chairman, Edward Voorde, Democratic county chairman, Sheppard Crumpacker, Jr., and John Brademas. John Kennedy who spoke on Latin American policies and Karl Jorgda, who presented a talk on Nazism, have also appeared on similar programs.	f}
The Academy of Political Science, comprised of juniors and seniors, soon expects to have Michigan’s Governoi-G. Mennen Williams address the group.
Freshmen to Occupy St. Ed's; Pangborn to House Juniors
The new $800,000 Pangborn Hall, to be occupied for the first time in the
fall semester, will accommodate 200 juniors, it was recently announced from the Office of the Prefect of Discipline. St. Edward’s will become a freshman hall, and Badin will be filled by sopho

mores.
With the new arrangement, Fisher, Alumni and Walsh will remain senior halls. Pangborn, Dillon and Sorin will be occupied by juniors. Badin, Howard, Lyons, and Morrissey will house sophomores, and St. Edward’s, Farley, Breen- J Phillips, Cavanaugh, and Zahm will be filled by freshmen.
With this arrangement, all freshman will reside on campus. There will also be one traditional hall for each of the first three years. St. Edward’s was built in 1882, Badin in 1890 and Sorin in 1888. At present, the Junior Class has two of the older halls, Sorin and Badin.
The Scholastic
Fifteen Firms Visit Campus on Feb. 23-25; GMC, Allis Chalmers Head Placement List
An impressive list of 15 interviews has been announced by the Placement Bureau for the three-day period of Feb. 23-25.
’ Leading the Wednesday interviews will be B. Perini & Sons, Inc. of Framingham, Mass. They are interested in B.S. and M.S. civil engineers who have already completed their military requirements. B.S. and M.S. electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and any others interested in the graduate training course of the Allis Chalmers Manufacturing Co., of Milwaukee, should also appear on Wednesday. Sunbeam Corp, and the Aetna Life Insurance Co. will hold conferences with A.B. and commerce men, primarily for sales work.
Aetna is also considering mathematicians that might be interested in an v actuarial career. A one-year training program is to be offered to B.S. electrical, mechanical, and civil engineers : by the Ohio Edison Co. of Akron, 0.
American Airlines will interview business administration and accounting mai jors. Winding up the Wednesday inter-• views will be Sikorsky Aircraft, of Bridgeport, Conn. Their interest lies in B.S. and M.S. aeronautical, mechanical, civil, and electrical engineers. They will also see metallurgists at a special meet' 1 ing on Thursday.
'Thursday’s agenda consists of the Standard Oil Development Co. of Linden, N. J., and the east coast division of the Esso Standard Oil Co. Both firms are looking for B.S. and M.S. chemical engineers, civil, electrical, and also mechanical engineers. The Ohio Fuel Gas Co. will also interview B.S. civil engineers, mechanical and industrial engi-• neers and accountants. B.S. and M.S. chemical engineers, interested in sales will report to the Spencer Chemical Co. of Kansas City, Mo. on Thursday.
A two-day program of interviews for Thursday and Friday has been arranged for B.S. and M.S. mechanical engineers, electrical, industrial, chemical and aeronautical engineers, by the General Motors Corp. M.S. and Ph.D. metallurgists, chemists, physicists and mathematicians are also urged to attend. GMC is offering training programs and assignments for commerce men, and a chance for summer employment for junior engineers and accounting majors.
The Sperry Gyroscope Co. of Great Neck, N. Y., will be interviewing on Thursday and Friday, as will the Chance Vought Aircraft, Inc., of Dallas. The Sperry Co. is seeking B.S. and M.S. aeronautical engineers, mechanical, electrical and civil engineers, along, with
B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. mathematicians and physicists. Chance Vought will talk with B.S. and M.S. electrical engineers, mechanical, aeronautical, and civil engineers.
Two other firms, Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc. and the Federal Telecommunication Laboratories, of Nutley, N. J., will hold conferences on Friday. B.S. and M.S. chemical engineers and B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. chemists are sought by the Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc., while B.S. and M.S. electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, and B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. physicists are desired by the Federal Telecommunication Laboratories.
Shopping Center Opening Follows Easter Holidays
Progress on the new shopping center and book store has been delayed by the weather, according to Mr. Francesco Montana, architect on the project and head of the Department of Architecture.
Originally scheduled for completion in January, the store will probably be opened after the Easter holidays.
First floor of the center will be the new home of the Notre Dame Book Store and the novelties, accessories and clothing now handled by the store will be sold there. Textbooks will be available on the second floor where a selfservice system will be in effect. The basement will contain ten bowling alleys.
WELL- ANOTHER OAT , ANOTHER DOLLHR.
The other campus building project, Pangbom Hall, is on schedule and, according to Mr. Vincent H. Fraatz, Di- -rector of Maintenance, will be ready for occupancy in September. When completed, the hall will be all double rooms and will accommodate 213 students.
Pangbom’s prototype, Fisher, is being enlarged by having 38 rooms added to the third and fourth floors of the south wing.
Grad Scholarship Available For Mediaeval History Study
A graduate scholarship at the Mediaeval Institute will be awarded to a qualified student for the 1955-56 academic year, according to an announcement by Rev. A. L. Gabriel, Institute director. The scholarship, which provides $620 tuition and a $980 stipend, will be given to a young man studying for the master’s degree or doctorate in mediaeval studies, Father Gabriel said.
To be qualified, an applicant must possess a bachelor’s degree and be recommended for graduate work. He also must reveal a specific interest in the Christian culture of the Middle Ages. A reading knowledge- of Latin and either- French or German is also a requisite.
Applications for the Mediaeval Institute Scholarship will be accepted until March 15. Application forms may be obtained from the Dean of the Graduate School here. Further information about the mediaeval studies program may be procured from Father Gabriel.
February 18, 1955
fl
Want to travel and study abroad?
Enjoy yourself...
refresh with Ceke
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel
Visit the countries of your choice . . . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East. Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA's economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
BOTTLED UNDEI AUTHORITY OP THE COCA.COlA COMPANY BY
Coca Cola Bottling Co. of South Bend
BHmWIHII:
TWA nw now Attuttts
KEEP ALERT FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
ATTENTION
ELECTRICAL
AND
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
A representative of Ohio Edison Company, Ohio’s largest electric utility, will be on campus Wed., Feb. 23, 1955 to explain its one year Junior Engineer Training Program for graduates.
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
Phi-Beta1
35 tablets in handy tin
NOQOZ
AWAKENERS i
®
SIGN UP NOW FOR INTERVIEW
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition
Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
COCA-COLA PRESENTS THIS WEEK’S JOE HARRIS BASKETBALL FORECASTS
Friday, Feb. 18
Cincinnati over Dayton
Holy Cross over Fordham
Xavier over Western Kentucky
Saturday, Feb. 19
Duquesne over Villanova	J)
Illinois over Wisconsin
Kansas over Nebraska
Kentucky over DePaul
Indiana over Northwestern
Michigan State over Iowa
Minnesota over Michigan
Notre Dame over Tulsa
Ohio State over Purdue
St. Louis over Detroit
Monday, Feb. 21
Illinois over Iowa
Indiana over Purdue
Michigan State over Northwestern
Notre Dame over Kansas State
Wednesday, Feb. 23
LaSalle over Fordham Louisville over Xavier
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
24
The Scholastic d A
’ Scholastic Sports
CAGERS FACE TOUGH THREE GAME CARD
^Trackmen Host MSG After Michigan Rout
Irish Tangle With Tulsa, Kansas State on Road; Marquette Moves Into Fieldhouse Thursday
By JOHN GLAVIN
The University of Michigan dealt the Notre Dame thinclads their first defeat of the season, 80 to 34, in a meet held last Saturday at Ann Arbor. Michigan more than lived up to the pre-season predictions, crediting them with having ® one of the best track teams in the nation, as the Wolverines swept eleven out of twelve events.
Tomorrow afternoon, Notre Dame’s track team will meet Michigan State in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
The Michigan meet was highlighted ; by a duel between the two fastest mile runners in collegiate competition, Bill Squires of Notre Dame and Captain 4 John Moule of Michigan. Squires held J the lead for the first seven laps, but 1" Moule came strong in the last 220 yards, '-I running the fastest collegiate mile of : the year in 4:09.9.
5 This time erased the former record ' of 4:10.7, set by Squires against Purdue 1 the previous week.
; The bright spot for the Irish was the 11 continued improvement of Byron Beams I who won the shot put with a heave of i 52 feet, 1 inch.
-1O The Spartans have won two of their three meets this season, and should provide some strong competition for the
>1' Irish.
Summary:
= One mile run—John Moule (M); Bill Squires 1	(ND); Jack Gits (ND). Time—4:09.9.
:	60-yard dash—John Johnson (M) ; Al Pestrichella
i	(ND); John Vallortigara (M). Time—:06.3.
i Shot put—Byron Beams (ND); Dave Owen (M); > Ben Zajeski (ND). Distance—52 feet. 1 inch.
s 440-yard high hurdles—Grant Scruggs (M); Bill 1 Copeland (ND); Bill Keegan (ND). Time—:49.5.
65-yard high hurdles—Jim Love (M); Jim Baker f^D); Jesse Blount (M). Time—:08.5.
Broad jump—Junior Stielstra (M); Tom Hendricks j (M); Roger Severson (M). Distance, 22 feet. 9 g inches.
S Two-mile run—Ron Wallingford (M); Geoff Doofl	ley (M); Jim Daly (ND). Time—9:27.8.
880-yard run—Pete Gray (M); Al Schoenig (ND): J Kobe Jones (M). Time—1:54.5.	_
fl Pole vault—Bob Appleman (M); Tom Skimming 8	(M); Jim Redman (ND), John Stevenson (ND).
H	Ross Matson (ND), tied for third. Height—13 feet.
,>y - 6 inches.
High jump—Mark Booth (M); Bernie Allard H (ND); Howard Liverance (M). Height—6 feet. I® 6 inches.	.	.
65-yard low hurdles—Tom Hendricks (M); Jim la Love (M); Jim Baker (ND). Time—:07.4. a Mile relay—Won by Michigan (Dave Hessler. Fick H Flodin, Al Goldberg, Grant Scruggs). Time—3:22.5. I 0 February 18, 1955
Coach Johnny Jordan’s quintet, fresh from convincing victories over Bradley and Butler, tangle with Tulsa University tomorrow night at Tulsa. On Monday night, the Irish move to Manhattan, Kansas for an engagement with Kansas State.
The Irish now hold an 11-7 season record, with six games remaining.
Sparked by Jack Stephens and John Fannon who had 23 and 22 points respectively, the Irish ripped Bradley 8763. Playing his best game of the season, Fannon hit consistently from the field and played a cat-like game under the boards. Bill Weiman netted twelve points which gave the Irish a well rounded scoring punch, something lacking in recent games.
The Irish rumbled past Butler 81-71 with another one-sided offensive Monday. Lloyd Aubrey’s 30 points paced Jordan’s five as they again copped the Feeney Trophy, annually awarded to the winner of the Notre Dame-Butler game at Indianapolis. Stephens added 21 more points to his season total.
ROGER CRAFT
Averages Don’t Mean Much
JOHN FANNON
Scalped the Braves
Bob Patterson will lead the Tulsa Hurricanes against the Irish. “The Blond Bomber,” who stands 6-4, has been moving along at a 25.8 point clip per game. He has hit better than 40 percent from the field and is setting a .750 pace from the free throw line.
Patterson is within reach of setting new all time scoring records at Tulsa that will probably stand for quite a while, considering Coach Clarence Iba’s possession type ball. Iba says he is All-American timber because of his rebounding, scoring, defensive ability, and leadership.
Behind Patterson in the scoring column is Dick Couter, who is averaging better than twelve points pei* game. The 6-5 center is a ragged rebounder and sharp on defense.
Playmaker on the squad is the hard driving guard, Jerry Hacker. The “take charge” guy keeps Iba’s offense slow and deliberate.
Roger Craft is the sparkplug in the Kansas State lineup. He has averaged better than eleven points per game and
25
TERRY RAND
Another Skyscraper
leads the elub in rebounding. The 6-7 senior has hit on 44 percent of his shots from his center position.
Jim Smith, with a 13 point average, is the leading scorer on Coach Tex Winter’s State club, but has been plagued by injuries all season.
Pachin Vicens, 5-9 sophomore guard, has been receiving plaudits from Wildcat fans. As of late, the little Puerto Rican has been hitting from the field with unerring accuracy and taken up some of the scoring slack.
The Irish will have a definite height advantage but they will have to reckon ■with a speedy and fast-breaking Wildcat offense.
On Thursday, the Irish return to the friendly confines of the Fieldhouse for a game with Marquette which promises to be a real battle.
The high flying Warriors are currently one of the top ranking teams in the nation and recently accepted a bid to play in the NCAA tournament next month.
Key player is 6-9 Terry Rand. The high scoring center, who led the team in points last year, is well on his way to copping that title again this year. Rand is a rugged rebounder and is deadly from the field around the key.
Wittberger Back Again
Ross Wittbergei- is another steady scorer but has been off his top-ranking form lately because of illness. When hitting on all cylinders, Rand and Wittberger make up one of the best one-two scoring punches in the Midwest.
Rube Schulz and Bob Walczak add balance to the Milwaukee quintet. Walczak has a 86.8 free throw percentage, which places him fourth in the nation.
Bob Van Vooren is another standout guard on Joel Nangle’s outfit.
26
Fencers Face Two Dual Meets Over Weekend i After Easily Drubbing Buffalo's Crew, 19-8 0 I
Notre Dame’s fencing team rebounded from the Iowa defeat to easily outpoint a strong University of Buffalo crew, 19-8, last . Saturday afternoon in the Fieldhouse.
The Irish fencers are on the road for the weekend. Today they meet Case and Fenn in a dual meet at Cleveland. Immediately following these matches they travel to Columbus where they tangle with a pair of Big Ten giants, Ohio State and Wisconsin, in a triangular battle tomorrow.
Coach Walter Langford indicated that Notre Dame should get by Case and Fenn for a sweep. However, concerning tomorrow’s contests with O.'S.U. and Wisconsin, Coach Langford states, “If everything goes right, we have a good chance of beating both schools. On the other hand, both are very capable of defeating us.”
Fencers Point For Wisconsin
Notre Dame will especially be pointing for the Wisconsin match due to the fact that the Badgers were the only swordsmen to edge the 1954 Irish fencers, thereby marring a perfect season.
As for outstanding personnel, Ohio State has produced a terrific sabre man in Bischoff. Wisconsin, similarly, has a
Filipiak Throws 610 Series As Toledo Regains Top Spot
The Toledo Club replaced the A.I.E.E. in the top position of the Gold League of the Kampus Keglers by taking three out of four from the latter team Sunday. Bob Filipiak of Toledo came out high for the day by rolling a 610 series.
In other Gold League competition the Met Club won three out of four from the Milwaukee Club to retain their third place standing and the Cleveland Club dumped the Kansas Club in three out of four games to hold on to fourth place. There are only three points now separating the first four teams.
The Detroit Club gained undisputed possession of first place in the Blue League by taking four points from the Rochester Club. The Air Cadet Club, that was deadlocked with Detroit last week, dropped back to second by losing three out of four to the Irish Club. Moving from seventh to fourth place, the Chern. Engineers swept four straight from the Accounting Club. Ed Walkins of the Air Cadets rolled high for his league with a 554 series, followed by Detroit’s Joe Breitenwischen with a 525.
notable sabre man in Charles Kortier, as well as an outstanding sabre team.
Notre Dame, on the other hand, has a pair of boys who also could be considered members of that select group. That pair being epee performers Don Tadrowski and Jerry Isaacs. In five matches they have compiled individual won-lo^t records of 12-2 and 11-2, re-|) spectively.
Other Notre Dame fencers with commendable records in their divisions are Pierre DuVair, Co-Captains Jim Waters and Tom Dorwin, and Gene Gasse.
Giving an over-all summation of his team’s personnel, Coach Langford stated, “This squad is the least experienced since 1947, but it is making noticeable progress.”
Last Saturday’s win against Buffalo t} was the season’s third for the Irish against two setbacks, both at the hands of Iowa. Kentucky couldn’t make the meet as originally scheduled because of the bad weather.
Co-Captain Jim Waters and Pierre DuVair each won two bouts without defeat in the sabre, while Co-Captain Tom Dorwin won two in sabre, and Jerry Isaacs did likewise in the epee.
Other point-getters toward the Irish cause were John Friel, Don Dixon, Bill f ) Fox, Julio VizcaiTondo, Frank Dwan, Gene Gasse, John Brogan, and Denis Hemmerle.
Fencers Seek More Freshmen
Coach Langford is anxious for any freshman who is interested in fencing to contact him in the fencing room any afternoon after 4 p.m. The fencing room is located on the north side of the Fieldhouse, underneath the permanent * ' bleachers.
He emphasizes that no experience is necessary, since nearly every member of the varsity team has learned all his fencing since the freshman year.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2i-Howr Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477

The Scholastic fV

Bumper Crop of Bengal Hopefuls in Training; •Two '54 Champs Returning to Defend THIes
। With less than a month before the preliminaries, 100 candidates still remain in active drills for the 1955 edi-। tion of the Bengal Bouts.
This is the biggest turnout in the Bengal Bouts’ history and veteran coach Dominic Napolitano says that this year’s bouts should be the best yet.
@ “Nappy” says that there are two reasons for the big turnout. One is the
Irish Face Chicago In Wrestling Match
The Notre Dame Wrestling Club plays host to the University of Chicago tomorrow in a match that begins at 2 p.m. in the Vet Rec Hall. The Irish “ will be out to better their .500 mark, and at the same time will be trying to snap a two-match losing skein.
Wrestling at home last Saturday before a capacity crowd, the Irish lost to a powerful Western Illinois team, 21-9, in a battle which saw the losers finish very strong, but too late to save the match.
Notre Dame was unable to get started until late in the meet and Western Illinois captured the first three matches, W all on pins. This made the score 15-0.
Crowley’s Fourth Straight
In the fourth match unbeaten Terry Crowley, a 147-pound sophomore from Omaha, Neb., outwrestled Harry Lester, twelve to two, to give Notre Dame its first three points. It was Crowley’s fourth straight victory, including one pin.
_ Western Illinois took the next two 9 matches, but the Irish were beginning to apply pressure. Roger Beghtol outpointed Pat Williamson and Chuck Henzy lost a heartbreaker to Carl Grant, six to four. The score then stood at 21-3 against the Irish.
Then came Notre Dame’s final spurt. Freshman Jack Armstrong built up an early lead and then coasted to an easy nine to seven victory. The match, however, wasn’t as close as the score indicated.
™ Going into the final match, Notre Dame was 15 points behind. Heavyweight Bob Salvino, a cool junior from Chicago, easily turned back Walt Gerber, adding the final three points to Notre Dame’s cause.
Terry Crowley summed up the match when he said, “They had more balance than any other team I’ve seen, and cer-' tainly more than any team Notre Dame | has faced this year.”
February 1955
successful novice tournament that was held in the fall and the other is because there are only two returning champs. Harry Higa, the 127-pound champ, and Sal Profaci, the 142-pound champ.
The Bengal Bouters are rounding into
given so that all the fighters have a chance to win a trophy.
The preliminaries will be held on the night of March 10, 11, and 12, with the semi-finals on March 14 and the finals on March 16.
MON. & TUES. FEB. 21-22 2 BIG NITES! Doors open 6:15
DOMINIC “NAPPY” NAPOLITANO
Run, Drill, and Punch . . . Daily
Bestseller
‘ONE OF THIS YEAR’S. FUNNIEST MOVIES!^
I .o —N. Y. Her.-Trib.
shape under an intensive training program prescribed by “Nappy.” Each fighter must run 16 laps, or two miles, in the Fieldhouse, followed by one-half hour of calisthenics, 45 minutes of fundamental instructions, one-half hour of hitting and defensive drills, and then finish off the day by boxing three rounds.
By March 10, the first night of the preliminaries, 65 fighters will be left to compete for the University open championships in nine weight divisions, ranging from the 127-pound class to the heavyweights. Surprisingly, the light, middle and heavyweight divisions have the most entries.
Annual Bengal Awards
Three awards, the Bengal Bout Award, the Father Ryan Award, and the Sportsman Award, will be presented on the night of the finals.
The Bengal Bout Award will go to the person who has done the most for boxing in the last year. Kid Gavilan was last year’s winner. This year’s winner has not been announced yet.
The Father Ryan Award goes to the outstanding fighter who does not reach the finals, while the Sportsman Award is given to the fighter who displays the outstanding qualities of. sportsmanship and cooperation. These awards are
NO. SIDE-Mishawaka Busses STOP AT THE THEATRE
An AMERICAN LANGUAGE Hit fraa @
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S Pizza Our Specialty SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI STEAKS and CHOPS Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight Open Sundays 5 to 9 p.m.—■ For Student Convenience.
537 North St. Louis
A AQUIW L® LIBRARY aid HaH BUI SHF
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and, , Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
splints
BILL SQUIRES
Wilson tabs him “almost an
by Paul Fullmer
A skinny bandy-legged kid with a stubby blond brush cut whipped mechanically around the Fieldhouse oval eight times three weeks ago against Purdue and when the tape snapped, he had smashed his own mile record with a tingling time of 4:10.7. This was nothing new to Billy Squires, easily one of the best collegiate milers and the first Irishman in 20 years to break the fabulous Greg Rice’s record.
Beat Rice’s Mark
Squires cracked Rice’s mark in his sophomore year with a blistering 4:13.7 mile in the Fieldhouse. Equally capable outdoors, Billy traveled down to the Texas Relays and breezed to victory in the Jerry Thompson Mile in the creditable time of 4:14.2.
The Arlington, Mass., junior, however, is not out to just break individual marks here at Notre Dame. Coach Alex Wilson uses Squires for his “bread and butter” man in intercollegiate competition. Last year Squires set marks in the 880 and mile, and Saturday he will perform in both the mile and two-mile runs against Michigan State because Coach Wilson thinks the Irish will need two first places and not one record, al guy to work with and the best thing about
him is his modesty.”
An outstanding, but erratic, high school miler, Squires picked Notre Dame for its “tradition, coach, and scholastic standing, and I’m certainly glad I made the choice.” High school coach “Doc” McCarthy taught Bill the key to relaxation and Wilson has drilled him extensively this year on the importance of smart pacing. Michigan’s John Moule toppled Squires last weekend at Michigan because Bill ran himself out in the first three quarters. “I tightened in the last lap when he caught me,” Bill explains. “I believe that I could have hit 4:09 if I hadn’t tightened. I guess the Purdue race has to be my best race to date.” Bill is going to stick with his pacing style, however, because he believes it is the only way to keep his time down.
Top Form For Central Collegiate
Wilson explains that Squires has worked exclusively on his pacing so far this season and that Irish track fans should have no fear that Bill has lost his kick. He will brush up on his sprinting next week and will go all out in the Central Collegiate Conference meet here on March -5. Bill feels that “The home track means as much to a miler as it does to a basketball team and the C.C.C. will be my last indoor shot.”
Coach and pupil have different predictions on what Squires’ best 1955 rime will be. Bill has always dreamed of “just breaking 4:10, but I suppose about 4:08 is my goal.” Wilson, however, feels that “He is quite capable of running 4:05 this year. He is a great miler today and certainly a better miler than Greg Rice was at Notre Dame. Once he regains his kick, he’ll be hard to stop.’’ Squires realizes that from now on the improvement is toughest. “The third quarter of a race is the killer because you know that you have to kick in that last lap to knock precious seconds off your previous time,” he adds.
Wilson has tentative plans of entering his two-mile relay team in big-time meets this year, and Squires will only run the mile if he can get “at least an hour’s rest between events.” Bill has no objection to this strategy because “The relay will build up Notre Dame’s name nationally and it will also be beneficial to the other three team members.”
And just what makes this kid click? Coach Wilson has the answer, • “He puts Notre Dame before Squires!”
Stephens Nears Irish
All-Time Cage Mark 1
After 18 games, Capt. Jack Stephens still leads the Irish in scoring with a 21.6 average on 120 field goals and 119 foul shots. Stephens has scored 389 points and is now only 26 points behind Dick Rosenthal’s record-breaking three-year total of 1,226.
Following Stephens is center Lloyd Aubrey with 290 points and a game । average of 16.1. Aubrey dropped in 30 points against Butler to increase his lead over forward John Smyth. Smyth has now scored 247 points for a 13.7 average. He slumped a bit when he scored only ten points in the Bradley and Butler games.
In fourth place is forward John' Fannon with 173 points and a 9.6 game average. Fannon, handicapped by a slow start and injuries, reached his peak । against Bradley with 22 points.
Guard Bill Weiman with an average of 6.2 for 113 points and reserve Lee Ayotte, who has scored 85 points and a 4.7 clip are the only other consistent
scorers.
The Irish in 18 games are averaging 75.2 points per game compared to the opponents 72.1.
Scoring:
Stephens ........ 18
Aubrey .......... 18
Smyth ........... 18
Fannon .......... 18
Weiman .......... 18
Ayotte .......... 18
Hornung .......... 4
Bedan ........... 10
Morelli ......... II
Rebora ........... 11
Jastrab .......... 4
Higgins .......... 1
King ............. 4
Luepke ........... 2
FG	FT	TP	Avg.
120	149	389	21.6
114	62	290	16.1
99	49	247	13.7
60	53	173	9.6
46	21	113	6.2
40	5	85	4.7
8	1	17	
3	7	13	
5	0	10	
2	3	7	
2	1	5	
6	2	2	
i	0	2	
0	0	0	
G
Jim Guide, head Scholastic photog- --rapher, caught the Fighting Irish in -
action as they walloped Bradley, 87-63, on Feb. 10.
The roaring-hot Notre Darners couldn’t do anything wrong and found the Bears’ bucket from all over the
court. Fieldhouse fans had not seen such action all year as the Irish offense and defense paralyzed all Bradley spurts.
The following Notre Dame players appear on the right hand page:
John Fannon (7) Lloyd Aubrey (10) Lee Ayotte (12) Jack Stephens (15) Bill Weiman (17) John Smyth (18) Gus Luepke (19) Paul Hornung (21)
28
The Scholastic j
The Firehouse Five’s Hottest Night
Fish. Steaks, Chops and Chicken
Kline Gets Early Look At Baseball Batteries
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty "Chicken In the Rough”
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.30
Joe Nabieht’s
Restaurant
Coach “Jake” Kline called out his pitchers and catchers last Monday in preparation for the 1955 baseball season. The purpose of the practice is to see what kind of batteries the Irish will have when spring practice opens.
The pitching staff is again thin and doubtful. Loss of lettermen John Reynolds and Jim Dalton leaves the staff thinner than last year. Coach Kline has only three returning lettermen in Angelo Capozzi, 3-2, Jerry Spaeth, 2-0, and Leo Lindbeck, 1-1. Other contenders are Bill Roth, Ben Cardella, Bernie McClorey, and Ed Kelly.
Dick Bunker, John Hammett, Pete Delongchamps, Paul Besser, and Tom Sheehan are the contending sophs. If they develop, the season could be less dismal than last year when the Irish won only ten out of 22.
The catching department is also very thin. Loss of letterman Dick Gaberik by graduation and Dick Farrell because of an arm injury leaves Tom Pettersch to carry the load. Pettersch was used sparingly last season and his hitting leaves something to be desired. Elmer Kohorst is an outstanding prospect and will give Pettersch competition.
213 N. Main
Open Sunday
Concerning the team’s chances for a good season, Coach Kline said, “The catching is weak and the pitching is " questionable. If the sophomores come through the record could be improved. However, it actually is too early to make any prediction.”
He added, “Last year my whole pitch
ing staff notched only ten victories. 1953 Stan Konopka matched that himself.”
In by
New Kremlin Faces
(Continued from page 14) tary victory could be new hope
for
world peace, as he believes that a military dictatorship would fill the governmental vacuum with a semi-democratic government.
The chances for Russian war at this time are slim, Pap points out, as Russian policy makers are too busy with^Q) unrest and weakness in their own camp to sit down and make war plans.
Professor Pap, one of the three permanent members on the Notre Dame Soviet and Eastern European Center, received his Ph.D. in political science from the University of Heidelberg. A resident of the United States for six years, Mr. Pap has been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1950.


30
The Scholastic^)
For+y-Hour Devotion To Open This Sunday
The Forty-Hour Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in memory of the forty hours during which the Sacred
Body begins
The at the
of Jesus lay in the sepulchre here this Sunday.
Forty-Hour Devotion will open
9 o’clock Mass on Sunday morn-
ing. Adoration will begin at noon and run until 6:45 p.m. Monday and Tuesday the Blessed Sacrament will remain I exposed from 6:30 a.m. until 6:45 p.m. ■ Students are asked to drop in at their V leisure time and spend a half hour in I prayer.
A plenary indulgence may be gained once each day by those who receive the Sacraments, visit the church, and recite six Paters, Aves, and Glorias. An indulgence of fifteen years may be gained A each time the church is visited and the above-mentioned prayers are recited with a contrite heart. The confession re-Iquired for gaining the plenary indulgence may be made at the time of the Forty Hours, or during the octave preceding or following it.
The Forty-Hour Adoration began in Milan, Italy, about the year 1534. The devotion was first introduced in the United States in the diocese of Philadelphia in 1853 by Bishop Neumann. a Today every parish church chooses a time during the year for this devotion. l The favorite occasion for this adora-I tion was the three days before Lent, I at which time the carnival season was I at its height. The Forty-Hour devo-F tion provided the antidote whereby the L faithful made reparation these three f days for those who sinned, as well as for their own shortcomings.
The Department of Religion urges all £ to attempt to attend this devotion, and to also sign up for a half-hour of adoration each week during the coming Lenten season.
CHRISTIAN HISTORY TALKS
A colloquium on “The Christian view of History” is currently being held on Tuesdays at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge.
The remaining dates of the colloquium, under the direction of Rev. Martin C. D’Arcy, S.J., follow: March 8, 15, 22, 29; April 19 and 26; and May 3, 10, and 17.
Lectures on varied topics are also being currently given by Father D’ Arcy in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. on Thursdays. The remaining dates are: March 3 and 10, April 21 and May 12.
All sessions and lectures are open to the public.
Circle This Date
MARCH 1,1955
You can discuss career opportunities with our representative at this time.
Our THREE-MINUTE STORY is in your Placement Office.
ELECTRO METALLURGICAL CO.
A Division of
Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
r' RENTA
ROYAL TYPEWRITER
FROM ROYAL
Late modelS-Adjusted for new machine per- Munir formance. Immediate • m delivery. Special rates ummi to students
Royal Typewriter Co. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend
Phone CE 2-3336
FILTER TIP TAREYTON
Gives You The True Tobacco Taste You’ve Been Missing!
W February 18, 1955
31
ATTENTION
Engineering Graduates
and
Sr. Engineering Students
Majoring in electrical, mechanical and aeronautical engineering and in physics and math.
Start your career with Sperry, leading engineering company enjoying an enviable record of stable, consistent growth through the development of new and better products since 1910
Following are some of the engineering fields Sperry is engaged in:
Electronics — Microwave — Radar — Servo-Mechanisms Computers — Aircraft Navigation — Electronic tube development including Klystrons — Fractional H. P. motors and transformers — Communication equipment Loran — Sonar — Fire control equipment — Controls for Guided Missiles — Technical writing —Standards engineering work, digital computers, solid state devices, etc.
•	9 graduate schools available in vicinity of laboratory for further studies through company paid tuition refund program.
•	Modern lab facilities and equipment available to you for the further development of your technical education
•	Association with top men in the field
•	Top Rates
•	Full employee benefits
•	Modern plant, in suburban area, 45 minutes from the heart of New York City
•	Convenient transportation
•	Recreation facilities and congenial friendly associates
•	Adequate attractive housing available
•	A satisfying, well paid career awaits you at Sperry
SUMMERTIME POSITIONS OPEN
FOR STUDENTS IN JUNIOR YEAR WITH GOOD ACADEMIC RECORDS
Our engineering department heads will be available Feb. 24 and 25 to give you full details and tell you about the high level engineering work Sperry is engaged in. Please arrange for appointment at your placement office.
SPERRY Gyroscope Co.
DIVISION OF THE SPERRY CORP.
Marcus Ave. & Lakeville Rd.
Great Neck, Long Island, New York
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
A joke is a joke. I’ll go along -with a gag when you joke about my home town but when the joke grows stale and antiquated common sense demands that a new joke be substituted.	.
It seems to me that a student who travels hundreds of miles from home to study at a notable university does so to get an education and not have a good time. There are enough “party colleges” throughout the country who cater to that type of individual.
You seem to be laboring under the illusion that South Bend is known as “that city next to Notre Dame.” It might refresh your memory that South Bend is known for many things besides its proximity to ND.
The names of Studebaker, Bendix, Oliver, South Bend Bait, South Bend Toy, et al. were well associated with South Bend before Rockne and Dorais teamed up on forward passes. It is noteworthy to point out that the Democratic Party National Chairman is a home product and that in all the accounts of his selection to that post, South Bend was not mentioned once as being “that city next to Notre Dame.”
It is not Notre Dame which South Bend wished to grow toward, but it was because of the location of the ND campus which split South Bend into two parts: the city itself and Roseland, just north of the campus.
South Bend and the University of Notre Dame have remained on good friendly relations for a long time and are expected to remain on those terms in the future. I am sure that neither has suffered from its relationship with the other but both have gained from it. Continued good relationship, despite student attitude to the contrary is both anticipated and hoped for in the future.
I wish to thank you for giving me this opportunity to present the other side in this issue and I hope that you will print this letter so that others might read it. I can hardly see how a Notre Dame student expects public attitude to be any different than he believes it to be unless he does something to deserve a good rating on the part of the South Bend citizenry.
Arthur James Perry 403 N. Studebaker St. South Bend
Editor’s Note: Mr. O’Shea is a Scholastic columnist and no columnists appear in the staff list. Mr. O’Shea’s article was written and published in a spirit intending no harm. We sincerely appreciate present good relationships and hope they will continue and increase in the future.
32
The Scholastic 9
Rooms
■g (Continued from Page 9) parental permission and have it sent directly to the Office immediately. All letters received after March 4, will not be considered.
Any off-campus student who intends to reside on campus, and who attains the necessary academic average, should notify Mr. Emerit E. Moore, Director of Student Accounts, as soon as possible before March 4. Otherwise he must 9 make application to the Office of Student Accounts after the close of preregistration, April 1.
Any student who wishes to continue living off-campus, needs no additional permission to do so.
TV Under the Dome
(Continued from Page 19) air; we want quality, real quality, something we can be proud to put the Notre Dame stamp on.”
The station will probably have a fullday schedule of programs at its outset; but at first it will have 'to rely almost completely on NBC network shows and films. The only locally-produced “live” shows will be the service 'variety—news and weather reports, educational features, and the like. Gradually the schedule of “live” shows will expand in num-W her and scope. And far in the future there is hope for a unique network show emanating from WNDU-TV’s campus studios; at present, of course, this is still in the “dream stage.”
To decide what type of programs are wanted here, Barth must try to answer this basic question: “What is good television?” He is certain that television is most effective when it is a “simple, wholesome vehicle . . . well publicized.”
Need to Simplify
He feels that television in its early stages has been guilty of over-production. “TV,” says Barth, “is the most intimate medium of communication and
art existing today. There is a need for simpler shows that still have a big audience appeal.”
Today, he finds indications of a new and more popular trend. Nine out of every ten commercial announcers are successful because of their natural personalities. This trend is even more important to the so-called “name” performers. He cites as examples Bishop Sheen and comedian George Goebel, who literally couldn’t give their shows away to begin with, but who are now much in demand by all the networks.
The Notre Dame station, therefore, will feature a few key personalities who
will be versatile enough to do various types of shows.
These next few months will undoubtedly be extremely rugged for Barth and his willing staff. The problems are numerous; the time is short. But they are determined to fulfill the aims outlined by Father Joyce when the project was first announced: “To make Notre Dame’s great resources for education, information and entertainment available to the city of South Bend and the Michiana area.”
EDDIES for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE 602 S. WALNUT
ENGINEERS
Electrical and Mechanical
Representatives of the
Detroit Edison Co.
Will be on campus
FRIDAY MARCH 4,1955
Contact Placement Office
Will also interview Sophomores and Juniors interested in Summer employment
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation
Los Angeles will interview here
Tuesday, March 1,1955
33
February 18, 1955
the Mt page
by Don Yeckel
This is the season of memories. Last Saturday the nation paused and remembered the birthday of Abraham Lincoln. Tuesday we will mark the birth of George Washington. It is a time to reflect on the past and the present, and to hope for the future of our country.
Here
On Tuesday the Notre Dame Senior Class will honor the greatness of these men and of the nation by its traditional Washington Day Exercises and by the awarding of its “Second Annual Patriotism Award.” It is fitting that we do this.
But to give an award to “The Patriot of the Year” is no easy thing. Many were the arguments among seniors about what a patriot is. I’m not sure that I know— or rather, I am sure that I don’t know.
This is no small problem. It faces us whenever we read the paper or listen to the radio or watch television. For
there are people who would tell us what patriotism is, people who would tell us that we must be patriotic as they are patriotic or be traitors to our country, people who would stand behind the greatness of Lincoln and Washington and dictate to the conscience of a nation. It is these people whom we must stand with or against on this Washington’s Birthday.
Center of the Universe
And what form does this patriotism take? What banner does it fly? It marches with a militant Americanism, and shuns the ways of foreigners. It makes America the center of the Universe, and the source of all social and political values. George Kennan, former Ambassador to Russia, described this movement in an address given in 1953 at the dedication of the O’Shaughnessy Building: “. . . these forces are narrowly exclusive in their approach to our world position, and carry this exclusiveness vigorously into the field of international cultural exchanges. . . . The people in question seem to feel either that cultural values are not important at all or that America has reached the apex of cultural achievement. . . . The remote pasts of foreign artists and scholars are anxiously scanned before they are permitted to enter our land, and this is done in proceedings so inflexible in concept and offensive in execution that their very existence often constitutes a discouragement to cultural interchange. ... In this way, we begin to draw about ourselves a cultural curtain similar in some respects to the iron
34
curtain of our adversaries. . . . What is it that makes us fear to acknowledge the greatness of other lands, or of other times, to shun the subtle and the unfamiliar?”
We see these forces of mistrust in action every day. The English want only our money and the Chinese Nationalists our guns, they tell us. There is an instinctive and profound suspicion of every country, idea and method that is not “American.” Every other nation is merely “using” the United States. “Why don’t they just let us alone?”
This is a kind of national inferiority complex. It is a view that sees in every action of a foreign country some attempt to “use” us, to hop on the gravy train and take advantage of what we have gained by thrift and energy. Essentially, it believes that Americans are never persons to foreigners, but only things.
Things and Persons
A “thing” is an inert object. It has no reference to us, except as something to be controlled and used. It is Nature, alien and hostile to man. The struggle to overcome or be overcome by things is a battle between two worlds.
In a person, however, we see ourselves reflected. Some “thing” turns into another “I.” “. . . one day St. Martin meets a beggar, as he thinks, naked and in rags. He makes to pass him by as he has passed by hundreds as if they were all the same and were of no use to him. But the beggar importunes him and on a sudden impulse Martin takes his immense military cloak, and dividing it, gives one half to the beggar; and as he does this, in the
very gesture, . . . instead of looking upon a thing, he recognizes a person, like to himself, but oh so different from ~ himself. ... He says no longer ‘It,’ but ‘Thou’ , , ,” (Fr. Martin D’Arcy, The : Mind and Heart of Love)	i
But if we have an inferiority complex, we also have a superiority com- I plex. For we in our turn seem to treat I other people as things. At least our militant patriotism does. It seems to think that only an American can be a person, and undergo love and anguish and fear and hope. Others are, for all practical purposes, merely things. " ®
The “It” and the “They”
What is the “it” and who are the “they” that I have spoken about; these people who tell us these things? “They have no distinct organizational forms. They are as yet largely matters of the mind and the emotion in large masses of individuals.” (Ambassador Kennan). Over a hundred years ago Alexis de • 1 Tocqueville sounded the warning: In w modern society everything threatens to become so much alike, that the peculiar characteristics of each individual will soon be entirely lost in the general aspect of the world.” Mr. Kennan asks, “What is it that causes us to huddle together, herdlike, in tastes and enthusiasms that represent only the common denominator of popular acquiescence. . . ?” He adds, “It may not seem to many of us too dangerous that _ we should all live, dress, eat, hear, and W 1 read substantially alike. But we forget how easily this uniformity of thought and habit can be exploited, when the
.will to exploit is there.”
The “it” and the “they” are no less than the American people.
The Positive Side	’
I think I know what patriotism isn’t. | I still wonder exactly what it is. It — ] has something to do with the essential ™ ' dignity of people as persons, and the absolute contradiction of treating people as things. It must see kinship with the , Korean and Chinese and Russian. It owes its first allegiance to humanity.
Nor does this patriotism overlook ' America. It reveres the America of Washington, who first guided this nation that was founded on the right of , man to be a person and not a thing. It honors the America of Lincoln, who saw iasra a nation “dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal,” and who found a contradiction in slavery, the contradiction of a man being a thing.
It believes that we are deeply privileged i to live in the United States of America. : It shares “the bated hopes of all . . . who I wish to see preserved the great qualities	|
by which this nation has thus far been	*
distinguished: its tolerance, its good | nature, its decency, its health of spirit.” I
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS _ f
Choice of Parents
Choice of Wife
Choice of Job
You don't hove any
choice on the first and
																
				FIELDS (				3F	SPECIALlZATlOh					1		
				2	.	g	z “ 1	o	: ? “												
	SCOPE OF OPPORTUNITIES		AERONAUTICAI MECHANICAL 1 CIVIL ENG. ELECTRICAL EN ELECTRONICS ARCHITECTURA HYDRAULICS El ADMINISTRATIS PHYSICS MATHEMATICS CHEMISTRY METALLURGY													
																
ADMINISTRATION			•		•	•	•				•					
POWER PLANT ANALYSIS			•		•											
AIRCRAFT STANDARDS			•		•	•	•	•	•	•					•	
PRODUCTION DESIGN			•		•	•	•									
FLIGHT TEST LIAISON			•		•		•									
AIRFRAME			•		•	•			•							
MECHANICAL COMPONENTS			•		•					•						
INSTALLATIONS			•		•		•			•						
LIAISON			•		•	•	•		•	•						
TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS			•		•		•	•	•		•					
AERODYNAMICS			•		•											
MISSILE DESIGN			•		•	•	•	•	•	•		•	•			
DYNAMIC ANALYSIS			•		•	•						•	•			
STRUCTURES DESIGN			•		•	•			•							
STRUCTURES MATERIAL					•									•	•	
STRUCTURES TEST			•		•	•			•	•		•				
WEIGHTS			•		•	•	•	•	•	•	•		•			
RELIABILITY					•		•	•				•	•			
ANTENNA							•	•				•				
SERVO MECHANISMS			•		•		•	•		•						
AEROPHYSICS			•				•	•				•	•			
ElECIftONICS design							•	•				•				
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS DESIGN							•	•				•				
GUIDANCE & FIELD OPERATIONS							•	•				•				
DEVELOPMENT			- •		•	•	•	•	•	•			•			
FLIGHT TEST ENGINEERING			•		•											
FLIGHT TEST ANALYSIS			•		•											
FLIGHT TEST INSTRUMENTATION			•		•		•	•				•				
TOOL ENGINEERING			•		•											
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING					•		•	•			•			•	*	
QUALITY CONTROL			•		•		•	•						•	9	
very little on the second
On the third however, it’s strictly up to you— a poor choice can throw you years behind your classmates and a good choice can put you years ahead.
At Chance Vought, young engineers (Aeronautical, Mechanical, Civil and Electrical)
have every opportunity to make a mark for themselves in the industry that places the greatest value on engineering skill and ingenuity.
The very nature of the modem aircraft—its immense complexity and its never-ending development—presents technical problems that are unparalleled in any other field of engineering.
The chart illustrates two things; first, the extent to which our work involves the various
engineering and scientific specialties and second, the scope of the opportunities that exist for the young engineer.
For more information regarding these employment opportunities please contact your placement office in order to arrange for an interview with our representative when he is on campus, *r write for a copy of “Your Career With Chance Vought Aircraft”.
Address:
We invite you to discuss your career opportunities in the aviation industry with us. Contact your placement office today
•week

Engineering Personnel Section

Chance Vought Aircraft
INCORPORATED
CHANCE VOUCNT
for on appointment for your inter-
Jarreft, Chance
P.O. Box 5907
view with A.
Vought Aircraft Engineering Personnel Representative, who will visit youi campus February 24-25.
Dallas, Texas
NO CIGARETTE
LIKE CHESTERFIELD
$ Ixctrr & Mvim Tobacco Cd.
PUT A
Smite in Yout

^CHESTERFIELD
You ll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness — mildness — refreshing taste.
You ll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s quality — highest quality —low nicotine.
VS’'
IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD
warn


