The Notre Dame
Scholastic
March 2. 1956
An "Operator'7
par excellence
It’s not just his suave “pitch”— he’s got the inside track on style and value, too. Here, he sports an Arrow Gabanaro—the sport shirt that fits perfectly, in neck size and sleeve length. Gabanaro comes in a new lighter weight rayon gabardine ... 13 solid colors. Now available in a new medium-spread collar. Just $5.95.
-.lA’A’Olt
CASUAL WEAR
—first in fashion
ARROW Gabanaro —
smarter than ever!
This is the shirt every college man buys sooner or later. Its smart looks and careful tailoring set it apart from the ordinary sport shirt. And, Arrow Gabanaro is the shirt that comes in your exact sleeve length and collar size. See this better-looking, lighter-weight, better-fitting sport shirt in a wide range of colors—and yowr individual size. $5.95.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
March 2, 1956
3
5

THE TASTE IS GREAT!
f
W«5S?o«^
w-woooc
©AT. CO.
pTAREYTON
FILTER Tl
9f %
Here you have the best in filtered smoking— Filter Tip Tareyton, the filter cigarette that smokes | milder, smokes smoother, draws easier — the or^ one that gives you Activated Charcoal filtration. All the pleasure comes thru...the taste is great!
MW
SMOKING
MW

ONi
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTE^*
6
The Scholastic
by William M. Malloy
Stdut
likes roses, not mutiny
March 2, 1956
7
Thunder from Kefauver’s Camp
Editor:
“Entree” this week was very good except for one particular statement giving reference to the “Kefauver rally” of last Feb. 17.
The “mob of arms, legs, and lungs” which you so described leading a “Kefauver for President” banner was led not by Spike Daly in the least, but by our illustrious and clever campaign manager, Sil Resciniti. Since electing Sil Resciniti as Kefauver campaign manager, he has been nothing but a leader, and everything led on behalf of Senator* Kefauver will be led by Sil. The rest of us shall follow him, and will be gloriously led to victory in the April Convention.
I do hope you realize the power of the weekly “Entree” column to disorganize our thoroughly planned leadership. We of the Kefauver Committee kindly request that you print in the coming Scholastic a correction of the misinformation so printed. It need not appear as a “flash,” but we sincerely desire that you humble yourself and rectify the injustice. It is very important to our committee that we carry out the campaign promises of our manager, one of which was truth and sincerity which the printed error tends to demoralize.
The Kefauver for President Committee.
INVENTORY
For the Best in
Reference Books
School Supplies
t
j -----------------------
I f
Typewriters and Repairs
Architectural, Drawing and Fine Art Supplies
Collegiate Stationery Sportswear, and Jewelry
Records, Radios, and Repairs
Greeting Cards
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 March 2, 1956 No. 16.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter		at Notre Dame,
Indiana.	Accepted for mailing	at special rate of
postage, June 23,	Section 1101, October 3, 1918.	, 1917. Authorized
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor
ED JOYCE.....................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN _________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL __________Assistant	News '
DAVE THOMPSON...........Assistant News^.
JAMES McDONALD ..........Assistant New? JIM STEINTRAGER.......... Assistant News JIM O’BRIEN .............Feature	Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator	|
RICHARD NAVIN.................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON ..........Business Manager	j
NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager	■
JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator	t
JOE NORTON ...............Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN..............Assistant	Sporty I
RAY LESCHER .............Assistant	Sports’
Entree ...............            7
Repercussion ................     8
View ________________________     9
Campus Scene .....................11
Folio .......................    15
At a Glance.................    .18
Showcase ......................  22
Irish Scene .................    25
Time Out ......................  29
Back Page ....................   38
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Luggage
The
Notre Dame Bookstore ON THE CAMPUS
Photo Developing, Cameras, and Films
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee [ Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas	[
Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-	f
ley, Joe Heimoski, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim	5
Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-	t
carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, [ Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David J Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh. i SPORT STAFF: John Barthel. Andrew Carnazola, -Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, John Grady, Russell f Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz. Brian ■, Moran. Robert Parnell. Edward Rohrbach, James | Short, Carl Skiff.
BUSINESS STAFF: Loran Sheffer.	<
Member of Catholic School Press Association, A>-sociated Collegiate Press. Represented for national i advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., I 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.	f
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the ; school year, except during vacation and examine- j tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad- • dress all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c. j ==__==_=^=
ON THE COVER “Scholastic” departs from its usual line of covers to run ’ sensitive portrait of Robert (QueegV Sasseen by Photographer Gerry Traffi-canda.	:
The Scholastic p I

• education
Mention the subject of a “liberal education” on a university campus and you’re likely to generate a three-day bull session even among the most retiring of students.
There will usually be two schools of thought on the mat-i	ter: that of the fellow who is enrolled in a program of
•	“liberal” studies, and that of the student engaged in a cur-
. ^nculum with heavy emphasis on technical, or “non-liberal,” ^training. The first group will attempt to convince the other that only by wholeheartedly exposing oneself to a “liberal education” can such a goal be approached. The second group, being half-convinced that enrollment in a “liberal” : program is a prerequisite to a “liberal education,” will pooh-pooh the whole idea of such an education because, the group will argue, what is the value of knowledge for its own sake, where are you going to get your bread and buttei' when you get out of here, etc., etc.
:	We think that both groups take somewhat naive and
; adamant stands on the subject.
A' We will go along with the fellow who is following a course of “liberal” studies to a certain extent. We admit that such a curriculum is a definite step and a reasonable approach towards becoming a “liberally educated” person. But it takes more than merely being exposed to such an educational program; the student must have a certain predis-position—a kind of liberal attitude of mind—towards “lib; eral education” and must initiate within himself the desire to seek out such an education.
j Nor do we think that the program followed by the first ) group is the only means to approach liberality in education. J The position of the second group is wrong insofar as ap-f praising the value of a “liberal education” is concerned. ’ This false, negative rebuttal is used only because the group feels that perhaps it is missing out on something, and the old “sour grapes” routine appears to be the best wav out.
1 We feel that members of this second group should look at the positive side of things. If they grant the desirability of a liberal background, and they should, then these students should try to determine how such a background can be acquired outside a “non-liberal” academic curriculum.
We believe that one of the best media for broadening 1 one’s education is participation in the field of extracurricular activities.
Take the engineer, for example, who holds down a posi-Wion on the Scholastic; or the pre-med who plays first trombone in the University Band; or the finance major who authored a short story in the Juggler. Are not these individuals “liberally educating” themselves to a certain extent? Are they not participating in these activities purely for the pleasure and satisfaction derived? Do they not pursue these efforts merely for the sake of doing so?
We would hold then that a “liberal education” is not reserved only for a certain group of students, only for those who follow a “liberal” course of studies. Surely it is the individual himself who determines the extent to which he will strive for intellectual excellence. Such a goal does not demand the exclusion of all technical knowledge. Rather it would emphasize the inclusion of pure cultivation of the mind as an end in itself, above and beyond the technical knowledge which the intellect may acquire.—P. L.
absurdity
Last week’s Senate meeting had to be called off for the lack of a quorum—enough senators had deliberately left the chamber so as to prevent the meeting from continuing. The apparent cause of this “collapse” of student government at Notre Dame (as one commentator put it) seems to be a lot of rather professional-looking politicking going on over the forthcoming Student Body President election.
It appears that one of the Senate’s commissioners has decided to run for the presidency—immediately upon hearing the news, some of the more legal minded of the senators, led by one of the more junior members, rose to the call. “Something more to rabble-rouse about,” thought they, and off they went crying “Constitution!”
According to the Senate Constitution, any junior with one year’s experience in the Senate (plus a few other prerequisites such as academic average) is eligible to run for the Student Body Presidency. Also in the Constitution is the fact that the Senate is composed of voting and non-voting members. It would seem that there is no question involved in the matter since the Constitution is so explicit.
The fly in the ointment is a ruling by Senate President Tom Crehan in filling a vacancy in the vice-presidency last fall. When the previous vice-president resigned, the Senate moved to elect a new one from its members in accordance with the Constitution. Before nominations were in order that commissioners would not be eligible—he was upheld by the Senate. The reasoning behind this is that the Senate felt that the new vice-president should be elected from the voting members of the Senate since all of these men are elected by the Student Body (commissioners are appointed by the Senate) and thus all the officers of the Senate would, in effect, be elected by the Student Body.
And so the rabble-rousers say, “Ah-ha, since the Constitution says that in the case of a vacancy in the vice-presidency, ‘the Senate shall elect a new vice-president from the members of the Senate,3 this must mean that commissioners are not members of the Senate, since they were not eligible, and therefore this commissioner is not eligible to run for the presidency since he has not had a term in the Senate.”
It seems to me that the whole situation is reducing itself to absurdity. In the first place, the Senate, or anybody else, is getting pretty far afield with an interpretation of an interpretation of the Constitution, which this group is resorting to. In the second place, the spirit of the Constitution is just as clear as the wording—any man who attends the meetings of the Senate and who heads an executive branch of the Senate is surely in as good a position as the next Senator to know about the workings of student Government. In the third place, President Crehan’s ruling was for a special situation, an unexpected vacancy, and cannot really in justice be applied to this situation. If anything, the Senate was wrong in upholding Crehan, in view of the Constitution, and it seems to me that the Constitution, as it stands now, takes precedence over this ruling.
The most commendable aspect of this whole situation is that the other three candidates, all of whom are eligible without question, have nothing to do with this movement and, indeed, are rather perturbed about it. And well they should be.—J. A.
March 2, 1956
9
Engineers, Physicists, Mathematicians, or Metallurgists:
The Westinghouse Man With The Facts will be here on March 5
Ask your placement officer for an appointment NOW!
You’ll soon have to make that crucial decision . . . where to start your career. But, before you decide, you owe it to yourself to talk with the Westinghouse Man With The Facts. He’ll be here on campus on the above date to interview engineering graduates. Be sure to get on his schedule. He wants to talk with Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical or Industrial Engineers, Physicists, Mathematicians and Metallurgists. Ask him about career opportunities at Westinghouse . . . the million-dollar Education Center with its complete training program ... how you can select a career in an industry of your choice, doing the kind of work you prefer... Master’s and Ph.D. degrees at company cost . . . chances for advancement . . . how other men made fast progress. He can tell you ... he has the facts.
You’ll want to know, too, about the big Westinghouse expansion program, and how it offers you exciting opportunities for growth. And, about interesting and rewarding work in such promising new fields as nuclear energy, automation, decision devices, semiconductors, military and industrial electronics. There’s plenty of room to'move around . . . and up ... at Westinghouse.	‘
A frank talk with him will help you make a sound decision. So, contact your Placement Officer now and have him make a date for you with the Westinghouse Man With The Facts.	A-1045
you CAN BE SURE...IF ff^festinghouse
10
The Scholastic

OamfutA Scent

CAMPUS-WIDE ELECTIONS Scheduled for march 22
Senate to Decide Eligibility of Social Commissioner;
Crehan’s Interpretation of Constitution Under Fire
5 " Campus elections for student body G president, class officers, and college sen-■ ators will be held on Thursday, March 1 22, Dick Lewis, chairman of the Blue 1	Circle Election Committee, announced
‘	this past week.
;	Nominations for the offices will open
; on Monday, March 5 and will run until ;	6 p.m. on Sunday, March 18. Nomina-
6 tion blanks will be available starting < zZjiext Monday at the Senate office in the ^Student Center. Along ■with nomination blanks, the candidates will also receive campaign expense blanks and a list of Senate elections rules.
The March 22 election date is much earlier than past years. The new Senate, however, will still take office at the beginning of May as in the past. The early election date was decided upon in order to allow the new student body president and the new class officers to itorganize commissions and to plan activities for next year. In the past, senate and class officers have claimed they have been handicapped by the late election date.
At the present time a special Senate Committee is studying election problems and election legislation. This Committee will report to the Senate at the March 8 meeting.
In regards to present election legislation, Lewis stressed that expenses are limited and all campaign publicity must Conform to Senate and University regulations. Violations of these rules will be prosecuted by the Judicial Commission.
Candidates for both student body president and senate office must have at least an 80% academic average and a satisfactory disciplinary record. (A satisfactory disciplinary record means that a student has not been under suspension in the last year and is not presently under disciplinary probation.)
Disagreement over a further qualification for student body president caused considerable disorder at the Senate meeting of Feb. 23.
March 2, 1956
A motion was brought before the Senate to discuss whether members of the Blue Circle should be allowed to serve as senators or as student body president. During 'discussion of this question, a constitutional problem arose as to “what constituted a quorum?”
Tom Crehan, student body president, interpreted the “two-thirds of the body,” referred to in the Constitution, to mean two-thirds of the total Senate body. This interpretation would include both voting and non-voting members of the Senate as senators. Several members of the Senate disagreed with Crehan in his interpretation. These senate members felt that the “two-thirds” referred only to two-thirds of the voting senators.
The fact in contention in this constitutional argument is whether Pat Logan, junior from Day ton, 0., and social commissioner of the Senate, is eligible to run foi- student body president.
The Senate constitution states the qualifications for student body president as: “The president must possess the minimum requirements for senatorial candidacy and have at least one semester of experience as a senator.”
If Crehan’s interpretation holds, Logan ■will be eligible, since he would be considered a senator as the social commissioner. But if only voting members of the Senate are to be considered as senators, Logan will be ineligible for the coming elections.
Jim Hughes, freshman senatoi- from Columbus, O., is one of the Senate members opposing Crehan’s interpretation. He points out that at the Oct. 3 Senate meeting Crehan maintained that only voting members of the Senate were eligible for office. Crehan said that it was his intent to eliminate the possibility of an appointed commissioner being elected to the Senate offices. The Senate at that time backed up Crehan in his decision.
Hughes says that Crehan’s recent decision directly contradicts his decision of Oct. 3.
“The Senate constitution states that
PAT LOGAN
. . . at Senate crossroads . . .
the student body president must be a senator,” said Hughes. “It is my belief that only an elected person and not an appointed man should be considered as a senator, and therefore eligible for the presidency. This part of the constitution may be unwise, but as long as it is part of the constitution, I feel that we should enforce it.”	.
Freshman 'Frolic' Committee Announces Ticket Sale Date
Ticket sales for this year’s Freshman Frolic, to be held May 4, will begin in the basement of the Student Center on Thursday, March 22, at 6:30 p.m., Dance Chairman Rudy Hornish recently announced.
The sale will continue Friday and Sunday. Bids will sell for $5.50 and hotel reservations may also be made at this time.
David Carroll and his orchestra, nationally known recording group from New York, will furnish music to blend with a “Carousel” theme. The formal dance will be held from 9 p. m. until 1 a. m. in the Student Center.
Two o’clock residence and car- permissions will be granted. A special rate on summer tuxes will be available, and a blind date bureau will be set up.
Other weekend events will include the President’s Review by the combined ROTC units Saturday afternoon and a Student Senate dance in the Center Saturday evening.
A Communion breakfast on Sunday will climax the weekend.
11
CHAIRMEN BRODERICK, TAYLOR, OWEN A voter gets the word.
Convention Caucuses Slated for March 5-18; Announce Delegate Election Results Sunday
State delegations in the Mock Democratic National Convention will begin holding caucuses on March 5, according to Jack Owen, delegations chairman. All caucuses will be held in the Law Auditorium with the exception of those on March 6 when the Engineering Auditorium will be used. The time has not yet been designated.
On Monday, March 5, state delegations from Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, and Idaho will convene.
March 6 is the date set for meetings of the Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, and Massachusetts delegations.
Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey and New Mexico will meet on March 8.
On March 12, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma and Oregon will convene.
On March 13, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, and Virginia will assemble.
On March 18, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming, Alaska, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Canal Zone, and the Virgin Islands delegations will gather.
Keynote auditions for the Mock Democratic National Convention were held yesterday by the Academy of Political
Science. Each contestant was required to give a five minute speech before Judges Rev. Stanley J. Parry, C.S.C., and Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, both members of the Department of Political Science, and Mr. John D. Tumpane of the Department of Speech. The winner, judged for stage presence, delivery and style, will be announced next week.
Two thousand delegates and alternates were elected Feb. 19 from among 2,400 nominations. Of the 1,372 delegates, 200 will be from St. Mary’s College. A folder with the complete list of delegates and alternates will be made available to each of the state delegations and posted this Sunday in the residence halls.
Senate Meets Sunday To Discuss Constitution
The Student Senate •will meet Sunday afternoon in the Student Center to discuss proposed Constitutional Amendments.
One probable motion will be to separate the legislative branch of the Student Government from the executive branch, that is, to separate the Senate from the Blue Circle. In effect, this motion would mean that no Blue Circle man would be allowed a seat in the Senate. ~
Another issue is that the Constitution, after being standardized and revised, should be re-ratified by the student body.
At the present time, a two-thirds vote'^ of the Senate will pass an amendment. The argument is that under the present j system it is too easy to change the Con- : stitution.
Explicit definitions of a senator, the power of the Court and othei- prominent issues are to be given.
An amendment concerning the senior vote in the elections for student bodxwx. president will also be considered.
LeMay Asserts Need For Poised Air Force
General Curtis E. LeMay stated here Feb. 22 that superior- long-range nuclear-air power and adequate defensive airpower “poised in readiness on a con^)' tinuing basis” are America’s best means of preventing atomic war. This airpower, he said, “must have the unquestioned capacity to win the decision in any global nuclear war if it would keep world peace.”
The commanding general of the Strategic Air Command delivered the principal address and received the 1956 Patriotism Award of the Senior Class at the University’s 107th annual Washing^ . ton’s Birthday exercises. LeMay was cited for his “brilliant service to the nation.” Former recipients of the award include FBI Chief J. Edgar Hoover and Bishop Fulton J. Sheen.
Recalling that bombers dropped a total of 2,900,000 tons of explosives on Germany during World War II, LeMay r asserted that “today the equivalent of that destructive firepower is available in a single weapon. Today’s air capa/a bility,” he said, “can be simply ex^ pressed: one plane, one bomb, one , target.”
“The peaceful existence free men want can he maintained so long as we are convincingly ready to deal quickly and effectively with those who might be tempted to deprive us of it,” LeMay declared. “Such an asset of poised and ready power, backed by the moral position of our nation in the free world, is . the most powerful possible deterrent to war, and therefore our strongest gua^ J antee of continuing peace.”	t
General LeMay said that “winning the ; peace calls for the same order of patriot- j ism that wins wars.” Patriotism, he told ; the Senior Class, “should be a sustained i and sustaining thing, second only to re- ? ligion as a driving force in American i life.”
Other speakers included Rev. Edmund : P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of Notre Dame; William K. Warren, ; Tulsa, Okla., senior class presiden^^ I Joseph G. Bill, Garden City, N. Y., vic^ / president; and Philip Agee, Tampa, ft Fla., convocation chairman.	|
12
The Scholastic
ND's Schiller, Ninneman to Host 27 Teams Engineers to Display In Annual Invitational Debate Tourney Here 'Cars of Tomorrow*
The Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament will be held March 9-10. Twenty-seven teams from throughout the country will participate in the ^xtourney.
" Each team will consist of two students prepared to debate both sides of the question. Each college may enter only one team. Richard Schiller and Richard Ninneman will represent Notre Dame in the tournament.
The first-place winner will be awarded the Rev. William A. Bolger trophy. Notre Dame plaques will be awarded to the four semi-final teams; and the first and ^second place winners will also receive Tau Kappa Alpha plaques. The outstanding debater for the first six rounds will be awarded a Notre Dame plaque, while the next nine speakers will be
Scholarship Bequest Open For Miller Four-Year Grant
A son of a Miller Brewing Co. em-^iloyee will be awarded a $2,000 scholar-^ship to Notre Dame, according to a fund established by Mrs. Fred Miller in honor of hei- late son, Fred, Jr. The four-year scholarship will start in September.
Brewery employees’ sons wishing to apply must do so directly to the committee on scholarships at Notre Dame before March 1. The committee will select the winner based on an examina-^tion score and scholastic record.
Fred Miller, Jr., a student at Notre Dame, was killed in a December, 1954, plane crash which also claimed the life of his father, then president of the Miller Brewing Co.
given certificates of excellence.
Among the top schools competing are: Boston, Case Institute, Dartmouth, West Point, Annapolis, Loyola of Chicago, Purdue, Utah, Kansas State, Kentucky, Marquette, Chicago and William and Mary.
Topic for the tournament will be: “Resolved: That the non-agricultural industries of the United States should guarantee their employees an annual wage.” National controversy over this subject has led to its selection as the yearly topic for all official debate activity in the country.
The debate topic is selected from a current national problem which definitely has two sides. Once chosen, debaters then develop speeches for both sides of the argument.
Activities will begin Thursday, March 8, with registration of the teams in the lobby of the Morris Inn. On Friday and early Saturday, elimination rounds will be held in the Student Center. The semifinals and finals will take place Saturday afternoon, after which the awards will be presented.
Officials for the tournament are: Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, director of Forensics; Paul Coffey, tourney chairman; Jack Martzell, reception and registration chairman; John Hirschfeld, tabulation committee chairman; Joe Slade, room reservations; Brendan Fagan, awards committee chairman; and Jack Conroy, timekeeper committee chairman.
PONTIAC EXPERIMENTAL ‘STRATO-CHIEF
Highlights Engineering Open House.
The Pontiac “Strato-Chief” will appear as one of the “Automobiles of Tomorrow” at the annual Engineering Open House, according to a recent announcement by John Dyon, exhibition chairman.
The auto will be featured at the Auto Show to be held April 20, 21, and 22 in conjunction with the Open House. Dyon explained that in addition to the Strato-Chief, and the other cars of the future, there will also be displays of motors and chassis of present day autos. A special display will contrast an antique auto with these dream cars.
Frank Cooke, in charge of the metallurgy display, has announced that his department will demonstrate methods of testing the strength of steel, aluminum, brass specimens, and radioactive minerals. One of the more novel demonstrations will contrast the relative powers of an alnico magnet and an ordinary magnet.
Bill Brehl, chairman of the Open House, has announced the names of the men chosen by their respective clubs to arrange the department Open House displays. They are: John Chihan, architects; Greg Conron, electrical engineers; Tom Claussen, mechanical engineers; and Steve Jurman, chemical engineers. Other department representatives are: George Broucek, aeronautical engineering; Cooke, metallurgy; and Arnold Schwartz, civil engineering.
ND Knights Hold Breakfast; Band Director Gives Speech
The Notre Dame chapter of Knights of Columbus, held a Communion breakfast at the Morris Inn following last ^unday’s 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. William T. Morrison, C.S.C., who celebrated the Mass gave a short talk at the breakfast.
Main speaker was Robert O’Brien, director of the Notre Dame band, who spoke about the connection the band has with the local councils of the Knights of Columbus in the various cities it visits on its tours.
Don Timm was given an award as the outstanding “Knight of the Semester” tfor the work he has done for the Coun-*1. It was also announced that the Council initiated more than 100 new members into the Order recently.
March 2, 1956
13
Mock UN Assembly Scheduled for March 9; Agenda Topics Include Arab-Israel Debate
'Richard III' Tickets ' Go On Sale March 7-9
The International Relations Club will sponsor a Little United Nations Assembly in the ballroom of the Student Center on March 9 according to chairman Pete Keyes. The purpose of this mock general assembly will be to give the students an idea of the proceedings of a typical UN meeting.
Arab-Israel Problem
The proposed topics on the agenda include a debate concerning the present problem existing between Israel and the Arab states, the proposed entry of a mythical nation, and the problem of the creation of an international police force. These, and other topics, will be discussed during the two sessions which are tentatively planned to run from 3 until 5:30 p. m. and, after a recess for supper, from 6 until 9:30 p. m. The delegations will be chosen from the various halls and campus organizations and will represent
Summer Date Chosen For Vocation Institute
A decade of development in the fostering of religious vocations will be analyzed at the tenth annual Vocation Institute to be held here July 12-15, according to an announcement by Rev. John J. Doherty, C.S.C., Institute director and director of vocations for the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana Province.
Several speakers featured at Institute sessions in former years are being invited to address this year’s meeting, Father Doherty said. They will review the developments in the field of vocation work during the past ten years and suggest new methods and techniques for the future, he explained.
More than 200 priests, brothers, sisters and laymen engaged in vocation work come to Notre Dame each summer for the Vocation Institute. Their numbers are always swelled by religious attending the University’s summer session.
Members of the Vocation Institute advisory committee, in addition to Father Doherty, are Rev. John J. Egan, director of the Cana Conference, Chicago; Rev. Gilbert Graham, O.P., vocation director for the Dominican order’s St. Albert the Great province; Rev. Edward A. Buen-ger, C.S.C., associate director of vocations for the Holy Cross Fathers; Brother Frederick, F.S.C., vocation director of the Christian Brothers, Glencoe, Mo.; and Sister Maria Assunta, C.S.C., of St. Mary’s College.
14
the viewpoints of the various nations concerned.
The meetings will be open to the student body in the same manner as is practiced by the General Assembly.
The committee besides Keyes, includes Peter Sturtevant and Jerry Lunden. John Bure and Joseph Joyce are in charge of appointing the delegations and assigning the nations which they will represent.
Meetings of this type have been carried out successfully at other universities. Indiana University sponsors an annual inter-collegiate convention.
Among the members of the Notre Dame delegation at this year’s Indiana Little United Nations Assembly are Keyes and Bure of this committee. At Indiana, Notre Dame will represent the delegation from the U.S.S.R.
Everyone interested in participating should contact his hall or campus club president.
ATTENTION CLASS OF ’57
All students who expect to graduate in June 1957 and have not yet made an appointment to have their picture taken for the 1957 Dome should do so as soon as possible in room 2-C of the Student Center.
TOURING PLAYERS IN THE SPOTLIGHT
Scene from March 9 presentation.
Two features will be presented in Washington Hall during the next two weeks as a part of the Concert and Lecture Series.
Next Friday, March 9, at 8:15 p.m. Touring Players Inc. sponsored by th^’ American National Theater and Academy are scheduled to appear when they will present their version of Shakespeare’s tragedy Richard Hi.
Tickets will go on sale at the Washington 'Hall box office March 7 to 9 from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., and 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. General admission is $1 and $1.50 for the public, and 75 cents and $1 for students and faculty.
Among the Touring Players cast are; Margaret and Lisbeth Blake, and Mr. John High. The Blakes are responsible for the founding and production of the company; while High is a familiar face both on televison, and on the Broadway stage, where he appeared with Mary Martin in the Lute Song. The Players have appeared on “Omnibus.”
On March 14, the Notre Dame sym-phonette, under the direction of ProLg Charles A. Biondo, will give a concert^ in honor of Mozart, in the year of the 200th anniversary of his birth.
The symphonette will play Mozart’s Symphony No. .38, The Prague, and the minuet from his Symphony No. 39 with Edward Neylon as soloist, the symphonette will also play Mendelssohn’s Piano Concerto in G Minor. Since the symphonette is an amateur organization there will be no charge for admission.
The Scholastic
t this stage of the game of national politics, it has doubtless become clear to any and all of the aspirants for the Democratic Presidential nomination that they will be continually vexed by three problems. The three are, in no particular order, desegregation, Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Harry Truman. The latter two are known to have „very little in common. At any rate, Wthere is little risk of inaccuracy in the thesis that the Democratic hopeful who is able to cope most agreeably with this difficult political triumvirate will be selected by his party in its August Convention.
Indeed, the dilemma is such that, of all the eligible and desirous Democrats, only Adlai Stevenson and Tennessee’s Sen. Estes Kefauver have had the bra-^jfvado to declare themselves genuine candidates. Ohio’s Gov. Frank Lausche seems content, for the time being at least, with nothing more than the pledged support of the Ohio delegation. His recent pronouncement that he would be a candidate for election to the Senate was something in the nature of a public admission that he was not a serious candidate for the Presidential nomination. On the other hand, anyone who thereby con-Acludes that Lausche has made himself ^unavailable is apt to be quickly reminded by Lausche himself-that the exact oppo' site is true.
The problem presented for the Democrats by President Eisenhower is so obvious as to be nearly self-evident. It seems likely that by the time this appears the President will have announced his decision on a second term. Meanwhile, the Democrats have been har-^rassed by widespread doubt and confu-"sion as to the true worth of the nomination since the standard-bearer, whoever he is, will quite possibly be pitted against Eisenhower himself next November.
four in the running
by BOB O’MALLEY
success or failure of a particular candidate in the Convention.
But Truman has adopted a pose of neutrality and quite probably "will go through with it. This is not to say that Truman has no preference. In truth, it is quite conceivable that the former President has two distinct preferences, one for the nomination and one for the Presidency.
This apparent contradiction is in reality a model piece of consistent political logic on the part of Truman. His two favorites are undoubtedly Adlai Stevenson and Gov. Harriman of New Yoi'k. In the general course of things, few compliments are exchanged between Sen. Kefauver and Mr. Truman.
Gov. Harriman, thus far a rather coy political quantity, is a special favorite of Truman’s, both because of his administrative abilities, which are considerable, and on account of his political beliefs, which are almost wholly in agreement with Truman’s. Besides, the two men have long been close friends and admirers of Truman’s Fair Deal. If Truman were to disclose his personal preference for the Precidency, he would probably pick Harriman, for one or all of the above reasons.	•
On the other hand, Stevenson, without being politically snobbish about it, has
tended from time to time to mildly disassociate himself from Truman and the Fair Deal, in accordance with his own slightly more moderate political philosophy. Truman, formerly a solid Stevenson man, has cooled off a bit.
Nevertheless, the former President, always the astute politician, has never confused the relative merits of Stevenson and Harriman as vote-getters. On that score, Stevenson seems to outrank the New York governor, although Harriman’s surprising gubernatorial victory in 1954 has caused an .upward re-evaluation of his status. But Tniman, withal a sincere Stevenson admirer, would in all likelihood consider Stevenson a better candidate than Harriman.
The comic irony of this situation lies in the fact that Harriman and Stevenson are close friends and that Harriman formerly was accustomed to laud Stevenson’s qualifications for the Presidency until Tammany Hall leader Carmine De Sapio wisely put a stop to that. On the night of his election in 1954, Harriman declared flatly that Stevenson was his man for 1956. Tammany leaders haven’t been the same since.
The desegregation issue, bitter among the Democrats, will probably be patched up somehow after the Convention but
(Continued on page 34)
It is this prospect of a direct clash with Eisenhower which keeps most of the ambitious Democrats cowering in the background, talking incoherently to themselves, content to take occasional pot-shots at Vice-President Nixon. As vote-getters go, the President is a pretty ifair specimen, the best since Franklin ^Roosevelt. The Democrats ■will remember Roosevelt and fear Eisenhower accordingly.
The inclusion of the name of Harry Truman in the litany of Democratic problems is not such a curious phenomenon as it might appear at first glance. He is considered an asset of sorts to the Democratic party in general, although in some quarters there is doubt on that score. Nevertheless, his political influence creates a problem for each indiIndual candidate inasmuch as Truman, if he chose to do so, might exercise a good deal of influence with regard to the
March 2, 1956
15
Potential actors get the feel of the play with the help of Coach Doyle.
University Zkeater
backstage operation
by FRED SYBURG, Department of Speech
Theater is a magic word. It brings to mind bright lights and greasepaint, marque, top hat and second row center, belly laugh and tragedy. In the theater, you step out of yourself into surroundings at the control of the playwright, the actors, and the man at the spotlight.
Maze of switches on the new lighting control board.
But, like most of modern magic, theater is a complex whole, constructed of hundreds of factors, tangible and otherwise, and welded together by art, experience and long hours of painstaking hard work. At this printing, these factors are combining to produce the Caine Mutiny Court Martial.
Another important factor in the pro-^ duction of a play is the whole physical setup, including lights, props, makeup, wardrobe shop and other divisions. In its efforts to provide training for students in the theatrical arts as well as entertainment for the student body as a whole, the University Theater has expanded and modernized the facilities1 in Washington Hall.
The playgoer may have little realiza-0 tion that behind the curtain in Washington Hall lies an area of often-feverish activity. Here are located the offices of the theater staff, the carpenter shop, the paint room, the costume room, dressing rooms, makeup rooms and the lounge.
The latest improvement in the technical facilities has been the installation of a new switchboard to control the lighting for the productions. Constructed in/a the University electric shop, the newV control board has greater flexibility and versatility than the old control unit. In addition to the dimmer units formerly used, the new board incorporates a new unit of six to 2000 watt dimmers. A highly flexible connecting system permits any stage circuit to be plugged into any dimmer. Think of that. This added dimmer capacity and greater flexibility should result in more varied lighting^ effects than were previously possible.
Last fall, new spotlights, more power
Make-up; a great challenge.
ful than before, were installed in the balcony to give greater illumination to the downstage areas. Other technical improvements in the last two years have been the addition of a beige traveler curtain, a canvas sky drop and a shark’s tooth scrim drop, first used in the house exterior for The Alchemist.
The carpenter shop contains all the tools necessary for the construction ol scenery. Here the lumber is measured and cut for the flats and other pieces of
The Scholastic
| <|i scenery which make up the settings; the ' scene paint base of glue and water is mixed. Dry paint pigments from which j all colors can be mixed are kept in the paint room. Storage of large pieces of scenery requires spacious accommodations. Scenery flats are repainted and used over and over.
Scenery is not the only item to create storage problems. The costume collec-^tion of the University Theater is increasing in size and diversity. A new wardrobe has been constructed on the third floor behind the stage.
Boxoffice business booms.
. Also on the third floor, the theater lounge: scene of rough rehearsals, theater classes, informal meetings of students connected with the theater. Here too, l the production cast assembles briefly before the opening curtain to glean the ; ^filial words from the director; then a i	prayer and “on stage.” The rest of the
।	rooms, which once provided practice
j	shelter for aspiring musicians, are
i	equipped as dressing rooms, complete
|	with lights and mirrors to facilitate
operations with greasepaint and powder. For a professional theater, the box office is the thermometer by which the . health of a production is gauged with j	anxious eyes. At Notre Dame, a week
i	before a production goes on, the box of-
j Jfcfice in Washington hall is open for ticket j vsales; receipts are used to defray pro-I	duction costs. The University Theater
j	has installed the Globe ticket system,
j employed by major professional theaters, I for a more adequate control of the ticket ij operation and check, and complete records are possible and kept.
Entertainment and education; these are the aims of University Theater. At this time, progress is being made toward । ^these goals by a broad and diversified •; theater program, which includes three ‘ major productions, a theater workshop
Theater workshop in action.
course, as well as the
above-mentioned
A feature of
the
Theater Workshop
are the by and One of
improvements in the physical plant. Eev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C. directs the program, assisted by Mr. Edward L. Doyle and Mr. Fred W. Syburg.
.experimental productions given for the members of the group, these experimental productions,
In choosing the major productions, the U. Theater aims at diversity; this year provided by a classical play, a modern play and a musical fantasy. These productions are not merely an extra-curricular activity, but as a means for student instruction and practice of the theatrical arts. The ultimate goal of University Theater is a full scale academic program in drama in which the major productions will serve as opportunities for drama students to practice classroom theories.
At present, Theater Workshop, a noncredit course is presented in lieu of a more developed program. This course includes a survey of all the theater arts, acting-, stagecraft, directing and other phases of production. In the Workshop, a student can get both theoretical and practical training to aid in efficient performance of tasks connected with production.
Carpentry shop constructs sets.
Hello, Out There, by William Saroyan, will be entered by University Theater’ in the one-act play tournament at Marian College in Indianapolis soon.
March 2, 1956
17
/It a Qlatux
STATE
Yellow Tomahawk (tonight and tomorrow). And the Fighting Cowboy, a couple of Westerns, man!
Betrayed Woman; (Sunday through Tuesday) B; with Carole Matthews and Tom Drake who does a good job with his essentially weak part. Also; Ben-gazi; A-l; Tough guy Richard Conte is in this story of Africa with Victor McLaglen.
AVON
The Stratton Story (tonight and tomorrow). A re-issue starring James Stewart and June Allyson in the story of a major league pitcher, the tragedy that befalls him, and how he overcomes it.
The Three Musketeers (Sunday through Tuesday). Another oldie with Gene Kelly, Lana Turner, the late Alan Hale and Gig Young.
The Bottom of the Bottle (begins Wednesday). A psychological type thing with Van Johnson playing an escaped convict, as well as an alcoholic. Joseph Cotten on the other hand plays the mean big brother who has been a big success in life, and has deserted his poor little brother. With Ruth Roman as Cotten’s wife.
COLFAX
Helen of Troy (ends tomorrow). A super-collosal extravaganza, but still not too bad with it all. With Rossana Podesta and Jack Sernas.
Court Jester (begins Sunday). A-l; Many critics have acclaimed Danny Kaye’s performance in this one as the peak performance of his career. There was a time when Kaye relied mostly on nonsensical double-talk for his laughs, but in Court Jester he shows he has developed into a top-flight comedian. He is cast opposite British actress Glynis Johns, and is ably supported by Basil Rathbone, Angela Lansbury, and Cecil Parker.
GRANADA
Picnic (ends Wednesday). B; Fine performances by William Holden, Kim Novak, Susan Strasburg, and Rosalind Russell highlight this film nominated for six academy awards.
PALACE
Battle Stations (tonight through Tuesday). A typical war picture depicting life on a carrier during World War II, with John Lund, William Bendix, and Keefe Brasselle. Also; Fury at Gunsight Pass, a pretty fair western with Richard Long, Neville Brand, and-David Brian.
Anniversary Waltz (Wednesday only). A stage play in a humorous vein.
Invasion of the Body Snatchers (Begins next Thursday). A so-called chiller with Kevin McCarthy and Dana Wynter in The View from Pompey's Head. Also; Indestructible Man.
RIVER PARK
Honky Tonk (Ends tomorrow night). An ancient cinema; probably brought back to capitalize on the Clark Gable-Lana Turner combo success (?) in Soldier of Fortune. Also; Tarzan’s Secret'Jungle.
Trial (Sunday through Wednesday). A “message” picture which lashes out against race prejudice and communism; both, has Glenn Ford as a young lawyer, Dorothy McGuire as his secretary, and Katy Jurado, as the mother of a teenager accused of murder. The best performance however, comes from Arthur Kennedy, whose performance as a commie rabble-rouser won him an academy award nomination. Also; Siam, a Disney travelogue with human interest.
Ma and Pa Kettle at Home (Begins next Thursday) is teamed with Francis Joins the Wacs in a double bill calculated to make audiences laugh. Whether it will or not will probably depend a great deal on how many of the previous Kettle and Francis films they have sat through. This type of humor tends to get a little monotonous after awhile.
18
Gangster (Wednesday and Thursday) and Panhandle form a bill of two oldies, both of which were well received when they came out, and so should still be pretty fair.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
The Treasure of Sierra Madre; with Humphrey Bogart. Admission, 25 cents. Saturday: Shows at 12:45 and 3:30; 6:45 and 9:30. The story of three American derelicts who are brought together by a common goal, then made to hate each other because of mutual distrust. This academy award -winning movie is the second of a series of distinguished films being sponsored by the Student Senate.	<
CENTER AMPHITHEATRE
Yanks Ahoy, with William Tracy and Joe Sawyer. Admission free. Student Center, Sunday, March 4. Shows at 1:00, 2:00, 3:00, 4:00, 6:30, 7:30, 8:30, and 9:30. Formerly a feature length comedy, now cut to fifty minutes this film is the second in a free series of movies to be offered every Sunday in. the Student Center. Two army sar-geants are placed in a situation designed to create belly laughs and knee slappers. Good diversion.
—Reviews by Harry Blanton
UNIVERSITY THEATRE
Caine Mutiny Court Martial continues tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15.
WSND
Sunday night, 9:55, Insights into •Music. Sunday from 3 to 4, Adventures in Sound. Tuesday at 8:30 it’s Campus Quiz. Monday through Friday, Just Music from 1:30 to 3:30.
USE YOUR I.D. CARD AND SAVE AT ALBANO’S RESTAU- g, RANT.—See page 23.
The Scholastic
W ne of the kindest things ever V_y said about the University Theater is that it’s “not too bad . . . could be worse.” But now, after its presentation of Herman Wouk’s Caine Mutiny Court Martial, a good deal more than that can be said for it. Because at last the University Theater has chosen a vehicle which demands acting, which • demands that the actors and director convince their audience that this thing on stage is actually happening. In the Caine the players cannot hide behind 17th. century English satire or 20th. century English mysticism. Instead they must delineate immanent, believable situations. And the cheering thing is, they do this rather well.
This is somewhat amazing in light of previous performances where the actors could bluff their way through a good deal of the play on the strength of the audiences’ remoteness from the situation, and its subsequent incomprehensibility. Here the cast has ambitiously tackled a play which is not only familiar to the audience as written in the modern idiom, but familiar through Wouk’s widely-read best-seller, and the very recent dramatizations of it for stage, screen and television. This was a risky experiment, and successful one.
In the first act, the prosecution presents its case against the alleged mutineer, Lt. Steven Maryk. Philip Donahue, as Maryk, does not invoke the slightest sympathy in the audience; he simply plays the role of a well-meaning clod who is totally unbelievable as the leader of a mutiny. Thus, he loses all the subtle naivety that the part demands, and substitutes for it a pouting schoolboy who knows practically nothing except how to swear effectively at his attorney, Lt. Barney Greenwald.
Greenwald, as portrayed by Allen Riley, is unfortunately just as unreal as Maryk. Instead of the frustrated idealist we are presented with an athletically bombastic oaf who demonstrates about as much conviction in his role as a Bolshevic asserting the existence of a natural law. In these two roles the play falls far short of the mark. It is a little difficult to resolve this failure with the ultimate success of the play, but perhaps it is due to the fine compensating performances turned in by the supporting actors, notably the witnesses for the prosecution.
James Cooney, as the prosecuting Judge Advocate, serves as an admirable sounding board for these witnesses, despite the fact that he has altered the figure of the prosecutor into a blustery stuffed-shirt. Happily, nothing is lost in the transition.
• Robert Sasseen, in the central role of Commander Queeg, is introduced as one of -the first witnesses, and he brings with him the first real spark of life in
“Caine" on trial
by JAY MADIGAN
the play. There is a remarkable resemblance between the Sasseen portrayal and Lloyd Nolan’s television performance, extending even to voice inflection and the use of gestures. Perhaps in the very beginning, the paranoid char-
acter of Commander Queeg is betrayed a little too much by a playful superficiality in his responses, sometimes to the point of inanity.
The piece de resistance of the play comes in the second act when Queeg degenerates into a sniveling lunatic. In this, Sasseen demonstrated with magnificent self-assurance the force and power of Wouk’s drama, and immediately captured the attention of the entire audience. Here is a beautiful example of the meaning an actor can put into his work by immersing himself in his role;
Another fine piece of acting was done by Gavin King, as Lt. Keefer, the slick phraseturner, the latter-day Homer. Keefer on the witness stand was a joy to behold, but in the last scene of the play, one in which he plays a very important part, Keefer is not even facing the audience. An unfortunate error in staging places him with his back to the audience for almost the entire scene. The setting for the scene is a hotel banquet room, and for some inexplicable reason a table and a few chairs were expected to convey that impression. These might even have been sufficient had the scene more stage depth and had Mr. Keefer been placed on the right side of the table.
Other excellent performances were given by Joseph Kelly, as Signalman
Junius Urban, and Reginald Bain, as Lt. (j.g.) Willie Keith. Kelly and Bain both brought out the essential qualities of their character with superlative ease and aptness. Kelly’s touch for comic relief was carried to exactly the right degree as was Bain’s characterization of the immature collegian forced to cope with mature problems.
The battery of experts called by the prosecution, Captain Southard—the expert on ship handling (George O’Donnell), and Doctors Lundeen and Bird (Benedict Harrington and Michael Kennedy—the experts on psychiatry—were all suitably impressive as being quite inexpert. Sometimes this was overdone, but nonetheless they all proved to be pleasantly diverting. The battery of j u d ge s was adequately impassive though sometimes just blank. They could at least have looked sympathetic or shocked, as Queeg systematically destroyed himself, but they chose rather to look interested, as at a zoo.
After the defense had presented its case in the second act, and convinced everybody that IMaryk was the good guy, and Queeg was the bad guy, the audience is treated to one of the most utter anti-climaxes ever. The crew of the Caine retires to the hotel to moralize about how Keefer is the real bad guy, and how maybe old Queeg wasn’t such a bad guy after all. By its very nature this scene is difficult for any troupe, and the University Theater simply wasn’t up to it. What with Keefer with his back to the audience, and Greenwald acting like Rock Hudson teaching his first Sunday school class, the whole thing was indeed regrettable.
Generally, the play moved swiftly and well, with practically no prolonged, dreary action whatever. A great deal of emphasis was placed on details and it plainly shows and helps. One rather painfully evident flaw was the universal blocking of gestures. At some points it even appeared as if there were specified gestures for the different syllables of a word.
The set of the court martial room, designed by Fred W. Syburg, was handsome, uncluttered and in every way adequate. As a matter of fact, this description can well be said for the entire production, and it is most gratifying to be able to go beyond that point in regard to a good portion of the caste. Cheers to the University Theater for a fine Trial in its own defense.
—J. Madigan
March 2, 1956
19
The Graduate School
eye on the future
by PAUL COFFEY
The Baccalaureate degree. To most of us, it represents a goal, and at the same time a severing of relations with formal education—it is the official end of classroom life. But to many students, the degree will not be an end, but a beginning; a key which can unlock the door to a new world of formal study, a world fascinating in its vastness, intriguing in its interests, and limitless in reward. At the present time, approximately 37-5 Notre Dame students are exploring this world of the intellect, under the direction of Bev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School.
Ever since 1918, when the formal program for graduate students began at Notre Dame, the University has realized the need for men with higher degrees in the complex world of today, and has endeavored to provide facilities for advanced study which are in keeping with her leadership tradition. Now, more than ever, with .the pressing need for masters and doctors in science and engineering, education and government, as well as in business, does graduate work take on an ever-increasing importance. Today, with the added emphasis on the educated man, more funds are available for graduate fellowships and scholarships than ever before, and the students of ability who wish to attain advanced university education can do so more easily than has ever been possible in the past.	.
The long-range earning potential of the graduate holding a master’s degree, or a doctorate usually makes the sacrifice of earnings during the one to three
In grad, school, the real heroes are men with brains.
extra years of study an excellent investment. However, this is by no means the only reason, or even the main incentive for the graduate student at Notre Dame. In addition to the financial benefits which his advanced degree makes attainable, and the greater qualifications which its holder possesses, there is the personal reward, intangible perhaps, but very real, which comes from the successful conquest of this world of learning. Difficult to express, it might be considered as a combination of satisfaction in attaining a difficult goal, and a feeling of competence and superiority in one’s field. But most of all, this reward consists of partial satisfaction of intellectual curiosity and happiness in the power of increased knowledge.
With this tremendous growth in the intellectual development of the student, there might very well be a grave danger of a dwarfing of his spiritual life, a losing sight of his real goal and ultimate purpose in life, and a loss of perspective in pursuit of intellectual goals. It is with these dangers in mind that Notre Dame fosters a Catholic intellectual environment, in order to keep uppermost in the student’s mind his ultimate purpose in life; to provide the setting most conducive to the attainment of that end.
But this atmosphere, important as it is, is not the only appeal the ND Graduate School has to offer the prospective student. Its excellent faculty, supplemented by adequate laboratory and library facilities, offers the student outstanding educational opportunities. The faculty of the Grad School, built around a hard core of experienced and outstanding professors, is currently being broadened by the Distinguished Professors Program, which has brought to the campus such men as Ivan Mestrovic, world renowned sculptor; Bev. Philip Hughes, outstanding British historian; Bev. I. M. Bochenski, noted professor of Philosophy from the University of Fribourg; and many others, who have become eminent in their fields. Due to the relatively small number of students, there is excellent opportunity for close contact with this outstanding faculty for the individual student.
Bealizing that any intellectual center is only as good as the students it produces; that distinguished students are as much needed as distinguished professors,
Notre Dame has been very generous in providing financial assistance of various kinds to grad students of ability. There are excellent opportunities for teaching fellowships', scholarships, and grants in aid.
Most recent are the John Lingard Fellowships in History, offered to two graduate students annually, who are to undertake study under the direction of^ Father Hughes. The University itself offers 20 full tuition scholarships, in addition to the many fellowships and
The grad school motto is“viva culture, or “culture vivo," or ...
scholarships offered by industry and friends of the University to the able graduate student.
But, although in excellent condition at the present time, the Graduate School ’ follows the trend which characterizes Notre Dame today—expansion. At a recent Graduate Communion Breakfast, Father Hesburgh announced that graduate enrollment will soon be increased to^ 750 — approximately doubled — with a^ proportionate increase in emphasis, faculty and facilities, programs of study, and expansion of the fellowship and scholarship program. Through this effort, it is felt that graduate opportunities will be made available for many more students, but not to the extent that the excellent student-professor contact will be lost, as it is in so many “massproduction” educational institutions.
The Catholic educational atmosphere,^ giving proper perspective to the stu-® dent’s work; the many outstanding and highly competent professors; and the adequate physical facilities—the stage is set for graduate study. From this point on, though, the conquest of this world of knowledge is dependent upon the student himself. The University can only provide the facilities and the atmosphere; as in any intellectual pursuit, the actual conflict always comes back to the student.
Scholastically, the course of graduate^/ study at Notre Dame is difficult; the volume of work is great, and must be handled with careful exactness. Although
The Scholastic
20
I
^rad students are required to live off-campus, the environment for study is on the whole good, as is necessary for the concentrated application necessary to succeed in graduate work.
Individual initiative, with its demands and particular rewards, remains the keynote, the driving force behind the exploration of this world of knowledge.
■ ^Due to small classes, generally run in ; seminar form, there is excellent oppor-j tunity for active student participation, 1 which is strongly encouraged. And in | addition to the required credit hours in 3 class work, those in pursuit of the mas-J ter’s degree must submit a Dissertation ■j on some subject in their major field. If i member of the Research Program, the | student must show adequate reading 5 ^.knowledge of French or German.
j Realizing the need for improved in; struction in elementary and secondary s schools today, the University has inau-.1 gurated a program of graduate training geared to meet the particular needs of } prospective teachers. Although neither ■ a dissertation nor language is required j in this program, the student is intro) duced to the importance of research in ' 5 his field. But no matter which program | he chooses, research or non-research, the I student is assured of outstanding oppor-
tunity for growth in knowledge, with hard work as a prerequisite.
But the student life of the Notre Dame advanced student is by no means limited to the class room and formal research— beyond the classroom he has excellent opportunity to enjoy the Catholic intellectual atmosphere of Notre Dame along with his fellow students. An introversion of personality in search for specialized knowledge is discouraged, and a
Grad, student association committee at regular Thursday meeting.
cooperation in learning is fostered by lectures, discussions, and various educational associations. There are occasional student-faculty informal meetings within the departments, and such groups as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Chemical Society, and several others, foster a cooperation in learning.
History discussions, the International Relations Symposia, and the question periods after the many lectures allow a free interchange of ideas within the overall pursuit of truth. While the grad students have no official meeting place, they make good use of the Cafeteria and Huddle, the Student Center Rathskellar, and the several college lounges to hold informal “bull sessions/’ and relax in a congenial social atmosphere. But always, pervading the life of the grad student, is a realization of the reason he is attending Notre Dame’s Graduate School—to develop himself intellectually, yet not lose sight of the long range goals of his life under a sea of purely academic research. His work is not merely an attempt to satisfy his own curiosity, but is a search for ultimate truth through a knowledge of the truth in his own particular- field.
In order to preserve this social unity
of graduate life outside the classroom, a formal organization has sprang up. The Graduate Student Association functions as the representative of its members in relations with the University, and attempts to provide a unified social and cultural, religious and intellectual, life for the grad student.
Due to the intense course of studies undertaken by its members, the GSA is by necessity loosely organized, and must
The Notre Dame graduate association boasts of members from many corners of the world.
provide a variety of social and cultural activities from which the student can pick whatever suits his likes and schedule. This organization must use considerable judgment in planning, since it must be careful to schedule activities which are in harmony with the schedules of members. Meetings must be infrequent and informal, but activities are ample to provide good contact among the group.
In the religious vein, the GSA sponsors a weekly Mass for members, occasional Communion Breakfasts, and Retreats. From an educational and cultural point of view, noted speakers are often presented at meetings, and plans are currently underway for a series of classical movies (open to all).
The GSA is the source of answers to the many questions grad students may have about the University, its regulations, facilities, etc. Through its officers, President Robert F. Hochman, Secretary Bernard W. McManus, and Treasurer Roger- Hipskind, the GSA seeks to provide an even greater- unity among the (Continued on page 33)
Folio here presents the first of two articles on the Graduate School, the first dealing with the general setup of the graduate school, the second to examine the various departments and fields of study more closely. Our thanks to Bernie Me Manus, Phil Gleason and Don Carbone, graduate students, for their invaluable assistance in researching and outlining information and Art grad Bill Glass for his illustrations.
March 2, 1956
21
SktMMGte
conquest by night
by PHIL GIBSON
A SCATTERING OF THE STARS blink Oil and off through breaks in the skimming clouds. It seems that it is the stars that move—like slow gliding meteors. Only this trace of starlight. On the ground complete darkness. Damp and deep chilling. Buildings barely visible. Utter silence.
Around the corner of a squat grey building flows a dark form. It sprints quickly and quietly across an open space — and begins to climb the wall of a larger building.
That’s how it would have looked to anyone who was watching at that early morning hour. Like any of a hundred run-of-the-mill “cat” burglaries. Only it was something much more unusual. The scene of this action was the campus of the University of Notre Dame. It was a weekday night sometime during the fall of 1955. The chief and only actor was myself.
For weeks I had studied the Objective. A dozen times I had lounged near the corner of the Huddle drinking roof beer —or paused on the steps of the Student Center—or looked out from the comparative privacy of one of the side rooms of that building. All the while measuring, judging, estimating—how far, how slippery, how strong?
At last I felt the route was worked out—complete to the last inch. And that night I would act.
I would climb Washington Hall.
No doubt quite a few students who have pondered that unique, craggy piece of architecture have had the same thought occur to them for a fleeting moment.
In my mind the idea stopped and implanted itself firmly—and quite soon grew to be almost an obsession.
This was the result of several factors. I have done some mountain climbing in the summer and become fairly proficient —particularly in some of the more acrobatic types of rock work. Thus my desire seemed possible. Also I remembered reading something about mountaineering clubs at English universities which make a practice of. .climbing all
22
the buildings on their campuses. Jolly practical jokes, eh what?
And at Notre Dame it would really be a ripper.	'
At last the night was here. I remember my thoughts and feelings as clearly as if they were present now.
A really black darkness. Only the few stars sparkling above between the
clouds. Wet air. Rain later maybe. But not for a while.
And here’s the trash can. Back five steps—dire crunching underfoot.—one . . . two . . . three . . . jump! Both feet on trash box fast spring up the metal giving. Flat against the wall one hand over the ledge—shoulder muscles straining—hurt—ah the other hand—easy now —look straight up—star moving in blueblack—a chin-up—leg over—and body— and stretch out on the wide narrow rough smooth concrete LEDGE.
How nice to lie all night—just on my stomach, forehead against stone—lie here—no further—until morning;
Grab the railing before the window-get up—stepping in front of the other window—
—Onward, chaps!	®
—Yeh—mush you huskies and all that
But onward—look up—if only this silly building didn’t lean forward. But that didn’t stop Hillary or Hertzog or Shipton or Algernon Twiddle—
—Who the hell was Algernon Twiddle? ‘	_ J
—He climbed the tower of the Parlia©- ■; ment Building one foggy night to draw -a face on Big Ben—unfortunately half- ; way up he fell off and ...	;
—Stop thinking—climb!	'
Yessir. I’m afraid I have too much imagination to be a good mountaineer —now comes the really cute part—reach out around—get over—knee braced hard —into the shallow chimney—where the bricks of the tower face stick out to tb^ side—what a crazy way to build—elbow in—ever done one this rough before?— maybe that narrow chute near the top of Doran peak . . . but this is only a few inches deep and even less near the top— oh well—into it now—what a place to get stuck—why didn’t I stay lying on the ledge—or jump off and go to bed— a great desire to have stayed in bed in the first place—why not let go now? Only a ten foot fall?	£	(
—Onward and all that trash!
—Aye aye sir. (Drop dead.)
Let go of the window edge—all the way around now up—up slow isn’t it? , This is ridiculous. It’s cold isn’t it?
Shut up. Rumble . . . murmur . . . cold	i
. . . rough bricks . . . squeezy here ...	i
tight push up against the rough brick	|
. . . mrrrr . . . rmmmbbb . . . ouch! Bit	,
myself in the squeeze . . . only a fewA-. j more inches and I can reach around to* the edge of the round window—suppose this place is built so cockeyed that this channel doesn’t run quite as high as the east one I only studied real close—here goes—slip around reach way across the j bricks—flat—rough—got slot it—squeeze	।
tight! Now the right foot into the little window on the left—left arm up—right	■:
leg straight! Swing around—up—back	*
on the face again—but no place to stop—	,
next comes a real lunge—onto the West	:
Roof-	< | i
In the big round frame now—fike a barrel in the fun house when you hold ’ onto the top and turn around with it— at least this isn’t turning—or is it—ough —Straighten reach back around the edge ( —hook one leg—keep the right toe hold- > ing—I’d like to kick out a pane of glass. i —That would be naughty.	.
—Yes, yes—(jump off will you) — right hand—convenient little carving this —fleur-de-lis they call it I think—into	a
it now the toe—this is possibly the"^ ’ world’s most ridiculous position for- the human body to assume—stretch left arm	|
The Scholastic	M
the edge of the West Roof six or seven inches away—get ready for a big push— you can’t stay here forever—
—Why not?
—So damn embarrassing — imagine everybody going by tomorrow and looking- up and—well go then!—just getting strength—don’t want to miss—slanting hold—what a sticky mess—
0 —Nonsense—just a leg or two.
—And an arm or two—and a neck or two—allright. Out.
Out got IT—swing like an idiot—left —right hand—two that’s better—up— hard over the edge.
Slanting roof—great—lie here—all night. No. A minute then. I’m sweating all over—cold shiver—dark—turn j^head—turn over—look up—blurry clouds moving not even one star now—getting thick—suits me—if only it doesn’t rain.
Shall we go? Okay—walk up the roof —bent neat—now the main roof—behind the spire—this part will be easy—all this decoration—like frosting on a cake—
1 Al Smith
ANNOUNCES THE OPENING OF HIS NEW CLASSICAL RECORD DEPARTMENT
S pecializing in all classical long play record labels
•	Westminister	•	Audiophile
•	Vox	•	Concert Hall
, •	Cook	•	Urania
•	Replia	•	Vanguard
—and all other major labels.
We specialize in the finest high fidelity equipment by such Nationally famous manufacturers as • Electrovoice • University • Bell • Fisher • National • and many others.
All systems and components sold at Audiophile net prices.
AL SMITH’S HI FI SOUND
STUDIO
412 South Michigan Street
AT 9-6540
AT 7-3553
unless something breaks—But that didn’t stop . . .
—All right!
Grab that screwy frieze or whatever —no—up there—now pull . . . toe in the slot . . . now the nnnn . . . now reach up and grab the peak over the window —if it doesn’t come off—pull out—bad— I think it’s giving—uup—now don’t push it with your clumsy feet, Clyde.
Yes Melvin.
Here’s the bit with the hooks . . . don’t even have to drive a piton of my own. ... I wonder what they’re for— replacing shingles or something. Hook on a board with ropes? . . . maybe something else . . . but they make nice foot and hand holds—so lets go! Excelsior! Rah team! Up—the moment of glory is near.
Unless I slip and tear my belly open on one of them and shower my guts all over the building. That would be a mess wouldn’t it—
—It would . . . but don’t.
—Right. Onward. Remember what Hillary said when he came down from the peak of Everest.
—Remember it but don’t say it.
—Exactly. Well gung-ho and all that garbage.
—I think you’re becoming trite—	,
—Aren’t we all—but after tonight. . . —Death!
—Oh stop. It is windy isn’t it? Well remember- what Twiddle said when he came down from the Tower of London.
—It wasn’t the Tower of London.
—It might just as well have been.
—What did he say?
—SPLAT!
—Ugh. Now you’ve got me scared— climb!
—Exactly. Satisfaction and malicious mirth. Up—leg—foot. Up. Hand . . . hand . . . foot . . . this is just like a ladder.
Now arm around the concrete knob— grab cold iron—clamber up around the knob feet—watch out for this crazy cookie cutter . . . UP! Now balance here —we’ve done it—a handkerchief tied right on top of the lightning rod — laundry number torn out—completely anonymous—now back down and safe to bed—it better not rain in the next twenty minutes—wait’ll they see that tomorrow —the perfect gag . . . gag—
* * *
Editor’s epilogue:
Later on that night it began to rain. Just before morning, a full-fledged thunderstorm had developed. Lightning sprayed about the heavens, occasionally flashed at the sodden earth. And lightning rods quite frequently. . . .
King Size Cheese Piza
FOR
$1.00
AT
Albano’s
Every day of the week plus many other benefits for your purse. All that is needed is a student LD. card.
Listen to this:
T-Bone Steak $1.25
Spag Plate ....75
Ravioli Plate _75
We are recognized for club banquets at Notre Dame.
See us first and save.
415 No. Michigan
Phone: CE 30903
KEEP ALERT FOR A BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling" cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake . . . alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
'NOQOZ
AW A K E N E R S <
March 2, 1956
23
A frank message to graduating electronic and mechanical
ENGINEERS
You know it ... we know it'. . . so let's be frank about it.	/
The demand for engineers—experienced or graduate —far exceeds the supply/And, from now on in, you are going to be sought after more than a triple threat halfback for next year's varsity.
You will be promised many things (including the moon with a fence/iround it), and for a young man just getting started these things are pretty hard to resist. /
So, again, let's be frank. We at Farnsworth won't promise you/the moon. (Although we are working on some ideas that may eventually get you there and back./We are an old, young organization. Old, in the sense of being pioneers in the field of elec-tronics./(Our technical director, Dr. Philo Farnsworth invented electronic television.) Young, by being the newest division of the world-wide International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, devoting our efforts exclusively to research, development and production of military and industrial electronics, and atomic energy.
All of which makes Farnsworth big enough for stability and technical perspective, yet small enough for mobility, flexibility and recognition of the individual. Here you will be associated with and encouraged by a team of eminent scientists and engineers with many "firsts" to their credit in the field of electronics. Here you will be heard . . . not just one of the herd.
We earnestly invite you to hear the whole fascinating Farnsworth story. We're pretty certain it will make the decision for your future easier.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 22
■ISSUES > 1*1*1 • ANTENNAS • MICIIMAVES • INFIAIEB • SILII STATE • TEST SHIPMENT • INlIST11*1 T. V.
FARNSWORTH ELECTRONICS CO., FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
24
The Scholastic
H>uik Scatu
IRISH WIND UP SEASON TOMORROW NIGHT
BILL FOX
Cagers End Dismal Season Against Bradley; Aubrey, Fannon, Weiman Conclude Careers
by JIM GOETHALS
“Mr. Basketball”
Mullins, Fox to Speak
At Basketball Banquet
Lawrence “Moon” Mullins, former Notre Dame great, has been chosen as the guest speaker for the Villagers Testimonial Basketball Banquet honoring the 1955-56 Fighting Irish. The banquet will be held on. March 8th in the new Knights of Columbus Hall. Mullins was the star fullback on Knute Rockne’s 1929 and 1930 National Championship teams.
After his graduation from the College of Arts and Letters in 1931, he remained in the field of sports, serving as head coach at St. Ambrose in Iowa and St. Benedict’s in Kansas, and was also on the coaching staffs at the Universities of Kansas and Loyola of the South. In 1951 he was made athletic director at Kansas State and only recently was given the athletic reins at Marquette University.
In addition to Mullins, the Villagers are presenting another top attraction— Bill Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis News. Mr. Fox, another Notre Dame graduate, has been covering sports for some thirty odd years. During this time he has earned the title of Indiana’s “Mr. Basketball,” and is rated as the top authority on high school basketball in the Hoosier state. Fox has been with the News since his graduation in 1920 and in that time has closely covered all
Irish athletics.
Three of Coach Johnny Jordan’s current campaigners will terminate their college playing careers tomorrow evening at Peoria, Ill., where the Irish cagers will contend with the Bradley Braves to close out the ’55-’56 basketball season. After experiencing a season of ups and downs, more often the latter, the team would like nothing better than to complete their schedule on a pleasing note, that being a victory for the departing senior members, Lloyd Aubrey, Captain John Fannon, and Bill Weiman.
Notre Dame, for the second time this season became prey to a highly inspired, tourney-bound DePaul Demon last Saturday night in the Chicago Stadium. This time the score read 70-64. As a result, the Irish losses now total 14, equalling the all-time losing mark, as against 8 wins.
In addition, to add to the misery of the defeat, the win enabled DePaul to proudly post their first home-and-home series sweep from the Irish in the history of the rivalry. DePaul had beaten Notre Dame 77-74 in January.
Dominating the scoring for DePaul, who earlier in the day had received an invitation to play in the post-season
FORWARDS JACK GOWER AND LEE UTT Lead Bradley war party.
NCAA tournament, were rugged center Ken Jaksy and oft-heralded Ron Sob-ieszczyk, with 27 and 20 points respectively.
Center Lloyd Aubrey, the only consistent Irish scorer, again carried the burden for the Irish, scoring 18, while Captain John Fannon contributed 14 points to the cause.
Aubrey continued to pace the Irish from the floor with a 22.7 average and is a cinch to set a new season high for Notre Dame. The hefty pivotman, with 2 contests remaining, had compiled a season total of 498 points, only 9 shy of the record 507 set by former center Dick Rosenthal, and 3 short of Jack Stephens’ best of 501.
Nevertheless, the record 4-year total of 1314 set by Junior Stephens is out of reach for Aubrey and may well hold for a long time in the record books.
Burly junior forward, John Smyth, is second to Aubrey in- scoring and has been an outstanding defensive specialist. “Smitty” and Fannon have been the big men under the boards for Notre Dame.
Senior guard, Bill Weiman, continues to excell as the heads-up playmaker for
March 2, 1956
25
the team and as of late has been picking up some of the scoring slack with his left-handed hook and jump shot.
Coach Jordan has been alternating Fannon, and currently hot junior, Joe Morelli, in an attempt to obtain a scoring punch. For the past four games this strategy has worked effectively. The new face of Morelli in the lineup has added speed, and drive, as well as a scoring jump shot to the Irish offense.
The Bradley quintet, on the other hand, although recently capsizing Oklahoma A&M’s conference title hopes with an impressive win, have been feeling the sore effects of losing two of their key men to ineligibility. The two lost to Bradley were Shelly McMillon, 6-5 experienced center, and 6-6 Barney Cable. Cable had been the club’s leading scorer with 247 points in 15 games for a 16.5 average before being dropped from the team.
Dqspite this loss of height and experience, Bradley still has a front line averaging 6-3 plus, plenty of talent, and much youth.
The starting forwards for the Braves will be Jack Gower and Lee Utt, the two leading scorers. Oddly enough both have identical averages of 11.7 points in 23 games. In addition both are sparkplugs on defense and should give the Irish offense a rough time.
Sophomore Gene Herberger, the 6-8 center, is another steady scoring threat and a mainstay in the rebounding department for Coach Bob Vanatta’s crew.
The guard slots will be occupied by lettermen Curly Johnson and Chuck Sedgwick. The latter of the two is a fine, experienced playmaker, and helps diversify the Brave offense and attack with a good set-shot from out-court.
AUBREY LEWIS AND FRIENDS Soph star ties meet record.
Chicago, Toledo Keglers Close to League Titles
With the championship only three weeks away, the Detroit Club, Irish “A,” Chicago Club and the Toledo Club continue to set the pace in the Kampus Keglers.
Garden State, in the early Wednesday league, moved up several notches to tie California for second place though Chicago has already clinched top position with a dominating 46-18 record. Lou Solomon of the Cal Club is the individual leader of the loop with a 161 average while Jim Nieuland and Chuck Gordon both bettered the previous single game high last week with 225 and 212 games, respectively.
In the late Wednesday loop, Toledo warded off the Cleveland Club’s bid for first place by sweeping all three games with their state rivals and increased their lead to six games. Jim McLaughlin pushed one mark ahead of Dick Torda as he upped his average to 169 while Toledo’s Torda slipped a notch to 168. John Zeyler’s potent 270 effort held comfortably on to the individual game high.
Two points separate the Irish “A” and the Wisconsin keglers in the early Thursday league. Bill DeBot’s 162 average leads those standings by four points.
Detroit comfortably heads the late Thursday group with a ten-pin average lead over the Irish Air Society though both these teams and the 'Met Club are tied in the won-lost standings. Torda’s 177 average, high for the Kampus Keglers, rides well ahead in the late Thursday league standings.
Irish Defend CCC Ti+I^ After Loss to Indiana
Notre Dame’s highly regarded track team suffered its first defeat of the season last Saturday as Indiana squeezed by the Irish 52%-51% in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
Tomorrow the Irish tracksters will£ seek their third straight Central Collegiate Conference championship in Michigan Normal’s new 3% million dollar fieldhouse.
The Indiana meet was close all the way with the mile relay and the high jump events deciding the winner.
As the mile relay started Notre Dame was on top 47-43. Bill Keegan ran the first lap for the home team and was^ about five yards ahead when he passed the baton to Joe Foreman, but Foreman couldn’t match the speed of Hoosier Jim Ely who opened up a big lead for Indiana on the second lap. Bill Squires regained the lead from Harry Caffey on the third trip and the last lap was neck and neck. Aubrey Lewis who had run in three events prior to the relay kept in front of Don Ward until the fourth turn. The Hoosier co-captain sprinted by Lewis on A that turn and was about two feet ahead going into the final stretch. In an all-out effort to catch the fleeing Hoosier, Lewis lost his stride and stumbled about five yards before the finish line giving Indiana the event.
The mile relay put Indiana ahead 48-47 with just the high jump to be completed. At the finish of the last running event there were four men still jumping: Warren Anderson and Cal Boyd of Indi- a ana and Bernie Allard and Tom San-” facon of Notre Dame. Anderson and Sanfacon tied at six feet two inches. This meant that the Irish had to take first place in the event to win the meet. The bar was at six feet six inches and Boyd leaped it on his first attempt. Allard followed suit and the bar was moved up another inch. Boyd failed in his three tries so the meet rested on Allard’s last attempt. The big Irish ace didn’t quite make it and the event was tied giving Indiana the meet.
Aubrey Lewis and Bill Squires both finished first in two events, Lewis in the 60-yard dash and the 60-yard low hurdles and Squires in the 880 and the mile. The latter he tied with Ed Monnelly also of Notre Dame.
In the 880 Squires set a new dual meet record of 1:54.2. The old record set by Cliff Anderson of Indiana in 1952 was 1:55.1.
Lewis tied a record in the 60-yard low hurdles equaling the old mark of :07.1 ™ set by Bill Williamson of Indiana in 1954.
26
The Scholastic
JACK ARMSTRONG	CAPTAIN AND COACH
Who’s next?	Plot Case strategy.
Matmen to Finish Season Against Wheaton;
Crowley, Pivonka, Armstrong in Case Tourney
®	by JIM SHORT
j The Notre Dame wrestling team winds up its first year of intercollegiate varsity competition tomorrow afternoon when it meets Wheaton College at Wheaton, Illinois. On Friday, March 10, three Irish matmen, Terry Crowley, Bob Pivonka, and Jack Armstrong, will travel to Cleveland to compete in the Case Tech 4-1 ; Tournament, one of the nation’s top I " wrestling tourneys.
’ The Wheaton match shapes up as the locals’ most rugged test this season. Nine Crusader lettermen from last year’s squad which walloped the Notre Dame i Wrestling Club 28-4 are back for Wheaton. The picture for the Irish is somewhat brighter, however, since the Illinoisans’ top two starters have recently been declared ineligible for scholastic reasons. One of them, Capt. John O’Neill, last year’s 147-pound Case Tech 4-1 £ champ, had a streak of 14 consecutive wins including eleven pins before being declared ineligible.
Despite his loss, ND Capt. Crowley expects Wheaton to be “really tough.” “They’ve got lettermen starting at almost every weight,” Crowley commented. Among these starters will be a 157-pound sophomore, Henry Nuss, who copped eleven of 17 starts in his freshman sea-. son. His replacement, Dave Lindberg, is also a returning letterman. Other monogram winners wearing the orange and blue in Saturday’s match will be Dave .Garber (7-7 last year) at 123-pounds; Ross Kinsler of Seoul, Korea,
(6-6) at 130-pounds; Paul Teasdale (7-7-2) of Kenya, Africa, at 177-pounds; and Winston Hurlburt of Belgian Congo, (2-4), a heavyweight.
If Buddy Day, a 123-pounder who has been out of action for- the past two months with a knee injury, is available tomorrow, Notre Dame will be fielding its strongest team of the year. Bob Pivonka, who usually wrestles at 137-pounds, will attempt to strengthen Irish chances in the 130-pound division, a weak
BOB PIVONKA
Eyes 137-pound title.
spot so far this season. Crowley, who has a 7-1 record including three pins in the 147-pound class, will switch to 137 for this meet. Pat Williamson, a returnee from last year’s wrestling club, will compete in the 147-pound division. Top ND winner this season, Jack Aim-strong, an 8-0 competitor in the 177-pound class, will try his luck in the 166-pound bracket at Wheaton. If Day is not fully recovered, Joe Schaefer will continue to replace him in the 123-pound event. Crowley claims the changes in divisions by most of the team should strengthen the squad by eliminating the weak spots.
The Case Tech 4-1 Tournament, which attracts many of the nation’s top wrestlers, will take place next Friday and Saturday in Cleveland, Ohio. Irish wrestling coach, Tom Fallon, feels confident that Pivonka, Crowley, and Armstrong will place high in the tourney.
Badinites Head Field In Volleyball Tourney
Under the student-direction of Tom Sheehan the interhall volleyball tournament will wind up its competition Monday, March 5. As of Monday each squad in the eight team loop had completed four matches with Badin leading the pack with a clean slate.
Sheehan explained that “originally we had planned a double-elimination tournament. But, the response was too poor for such a format. Instead, we set up a round robin and the interest has progressed immensely in the past week and a half among the competing teams.”
This volleyball competition is another forward step in the expanding program of interhall director, Dominic Napolitano. Sheehan expressed the hope that “an outdoor volley-ball league would be organized in the spring, since the present tournament although off to a slow start has shown encouraging progress.”
Under the present set-up four matches are scheduled for Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, at the west end of the Fieldhouse. Each match consists of three individual games.
Thus far, Badin Hall, under the student-direction of Ed Likar, has been victorious in all but two of their twelve games, while rolling up a 4-0 record. Badin’s break-away victory came against ' Off-Campus, with Badin edging the latter in two out of three sets.
Badin’s biggest hurdle in their remaining three tilts will be Sorin (3-1), currently in a stalemate with Off-Campus for second place. A Sorin victory in this crucial match could possibly throw the race into a three way tie. A Badin victory would cinch the crown for them.
March 2, 1956
Veteran Klinemen Continue Fieldhouse DriHs; Tallahassee Tourney to Open Season in April
For the last three weeks the Irish baseball team has been filling the field house with the crackle of hardballs slamming into padded gloves, as they begin early-season workouts.
“We haven’t lost a game yet this year!” grinned Coach Jake Kline. “But it’s too early in the season to say much more than that about the squad.” Another three weeks of indoor practice await the Irish, before they head south on March 26. For the following week Notre Dame will face powerful teams from the East and Mid-west in a tournament at Florida State, in Tallahassee. Then, they return to South Bend for the opener in mid-April.
A solid string of returning lettermen expect to boost the dreary record of seven wins against ten setbacks turned in by last year’s club, composed mainly of sophomores. The ’-56 Klinemen will feature a tight, sparkling infield with plenty of experience. The outfield also has the necessary know-how, but must carry a larger bat to the plate for Irish success. However, the big question mark surrounds the mound, with Coach Kline’s top three hurlers disappearing from action.
Five veterans return to the Irish infield to form the strength of the team. At first base, Jim Cusack and Mike Lesso are battling for the starting role. Last year Cusack ranked second on the Irish hit parade, with a .342 average. Two juniors, Ed Hurley and Jim Carideo, have all but tied down the keystone sack and shortstop spot, while third base is still wide open. Don Sniegowski led the Irish last year at the hot corner, batting
FIRST SACKER MIKE LESSO Back in shape.
.371, but either Tom Jaeb or Joe Geneser could win his slot.
Junior Elmer Kohorst will take his place behind the plate again this spring. The lanky but powerful backstop owns a good arm and potent bat. Next in line for the job comes Ron De Matteo.
The starting outfield can expect a great deal of scrambling and shuffling before opening day, with many contenders for the berths. Capt. Dan Nespo, Jack O’Drobinak, Joe Yaeger, Bill Teschke, and Bob Nowakowski all return to patrol the fences, along with a trio of newcomers, Bill Reisert, Joe Brennan, and Joe Ahearn. But last year the outfielders’ bats were silent, and Coach Kline is hoping for improvement. Yaeger’s healthy .318 average was the only effort to top the .250 mark.
But the key Irish weakness rests on the mound. Pitching ace Dick Bunker is gone, and with him goes the “arm” of the club. Another slice out of Notre Dame’s mound staff is the move of Ron Mottl into graduate school. And Coach Kline lost one of his brightest prospects in years when Jim Brady, a sophomore from Jersey City, N. J., took his smoking fast ball and cracking curve to the Detroit Tigers as a bonus rookie. Brady will continue his education at Notre Dame during the fall semester for the next five years, hurling for the Tigers the rest of the year.
A pair of juniors, Paul Besser and John Hammett should lead the hurlers this season. Neither held winning records last year, but gained in the experience column. Three more sophomores, Chuck Symeon, Ron Jebavy, and Henry
Bretting, are shaping up in field hous£ workouts.
No definite schedule has been released to date, but the Irish should open around April 14, and will probably face the same Big Ten opponents at home as last year.
Fencers Bow Twice;
Victory String Ended
Notre Dame’s fighting fencers fell from the ranks of the unbeaten as they lost a close 14-13 decision to Illinois and were whipped by Wisconsin, 17-10 last Sat. at Madison. In the third meet, Illinois downed Wisconsin 17-10, to claim the Midwestern Fencing Championship.
The Irish, whose season record now stands at eleven wins and two losses, opened the triangular meet against Illinois and matched them point for point until the Illinois pulled away to a 13-10 lead. The spirited Irish then won the next three bouts to tie the score at 13 all. Then, with tension at its highest peak, Larry Kaufman of Illinois won the final and deciding bout thus breaking the Irish "victory streak at 17.
The stunned Irish lancers were unable to get started against Wisconsin and ' they fell before the Badgers 17-10. The 17 points scored by Wisconsin were the most points scored against the Blue and Gold since 1943 when Wisconsin defeated the Irish 19-8. The double loss also marked the first time in history that the Irish have lost both ends of a triangular meet. The Epeeists, led by Denis Hemmerle (4-2) and John Brogan (4-2), were the only successful division for the Irish as they won ten of 18 ’ bouts, downing Illinois 6-3, and losing to Wisconsin, 5-4. Irish Captain, Don Tadrowski (2-4) suffered his worst day of the season but still boosted his season’s mark to (28-6) only five wins less than the Irish record of 33 wins in a season. Hemmerle’s record in Epee now stands at (26-7)
Dave Friske (3-3) and Frank Dwan (3-3) led the Irish sabre team which upset Illinois 5-4, and then lost to Wisconsin 6-3.
Jack Friel (3-3) was the only successful member of the foil team, which won just five of 18 bouts, losing- to both Illinois, 7-2, and Wisconsin, 6-3.
Irish Coach Walter Langford called the meet, “No tougher than we had expected” and he added, “The match with Wisconsin was much closer than the score indicates, because Wisconsin won eight of theirs by the margin of 5-4. Coach Langford also said, “We will still have a fine season. The boys have come a long way to get up to 17 wins and next week they’re going to start all over again.”

28
The Scholastic
Swimmers Face Miami U. After Win Over Chicago
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame Swimming Club travels to Oxford, Ohio, where they will put their string of consecutive victories on the line against a highly rated Miami team. Judging from ^past performances, swim coach Gil Burdick feels that the Ohioans will have the upper hand. Although Miami has only been in competition a year longer than our own club, they are ranked j among the best in the nation and will ‘ certainly provide the Irish tankmen with i some good competition. Xavier, whom ; the Irish defeated earlier in the season ; .^will also compete in the meet.
; On Wednesday, February 22nd, the i tinmen humbled the University of Chi: cago squad, 67-17. Although the Irish were competing in their third meet in i	four days, they managed to capture nine
;	firsts in the ten event program, with four
i men scoring double victories. J
; Mike Regan captured first place in the '	50 and 100-yard free style events, while
^caP^a‘n Mike Connelly duplicated this ; ^feat in the 220 and 440-yard free styles, j Jim Garrity led the 200-yard medley and j 200-yard backstroke competitions. Dick j Katis, John Kroha, Bill Holland, Dick J Nagle, Paul Kerwin, and Regan com-| bined their talents to win the 300 and |	440 freestyle relays, with Holland, Ker-
1 win, Nagle and Regan setting a new pool I record of 3:45:5 in the 440. The diving 1 honors went to Ed Healey while Chicago took their sole first place when Rouse
I won the 200-yard breaststroke.

Gymnasts Idle Until March 17; Suffer Loss to Strong Western
The Notre Dame Gymnasts suffered their fourth setback last Saturday at 1 the hands of Western Illinois, as they i were snowed under 74-28. It was the tenth victory in eleven outings for West-"ern Illinois.
The best performances the Irishmen could muster were four seconds, Bill Brunot took two of them on the horse and parallel bars, and Ev Hatch the other two on the high bar and rings.
Western Illinois completely dominated the meet as they won first place in every event, and placed first, second and third on the trampoline and in tumbling.
Notre Dame’s next home showing will be against the University of Illinois of Chicago on March 17th, which should prove more fruitful for the Irish.
Things didn’t go too well for the Irish athletes over the past weekend. After winning their first two meets of the season, the track team ran up against a tough Indiana contingent in the Feldhouse Saturday and dropped a close decision. The Wilsonmen ran well but Indiana was just a little better. The Irish basketball squad met N.C.A.A. bound De Paul in Chicago and bowed for the second time this season to the Demons. The boys handled themselves pretty well but De Paul had too many guns. And the previously unbeaten fencers took it on the chin twice in the triangular meet with Illinois and Wisconsin in Madison. The Illini played the villain role again as they nudged Coach Langford’s boys 14-13 to break the Irish string at 17 straight. 'Strangely enough, it was Illinois who broke another Irish win streak of 17 in 1953. The score—14-13.
Things Are Looking Up
But better days may be ahead. The Indiana meet was the last of the indoor meets at home. The fog will be clearing soon and there is hope that the puddles may drain, so Coach Alex Wilson may be able to get his boys out in the fresh air and sunshine. At least he would like to get them outside before some of them get killed by Jake Kline’s hopeful hurlers. The baseball squad members are working overtime to lose some of the excess poundage they piled up during the fall and winter, and together with the track and basketball teams and the Bengal Bouters, they make the Fieldhouse look like a sporting goods display.
Irish baseball fortunes should be on the upgrade this year. Only hurlers Ron Mottl and Bernie McClorey were graduated from last year’s squad so Jake has a good nucleus of regulars left for this season. One other severe loss occurred this year however, when left hander Dick Bunker failed to meet the scholastic eligibility requirements and left school at the semester. Bunkei- was a mainstay on the Irish ball club last year and his absence will be felt.	.
In addition to the returning veterans, a few promising sophomores are expected to bolster the team’s chances. The team will continue workouts in the Fieldhouse until it warms up outside. The season will open with the regular southern trip during Easter vacation, and the team will then return to Cartier Field to meet Indiana in the home opener.
* * *
Upstairs in the boxing room, out of range of the unguided missiles, the Bengal Bouters are rounding into shape for their March 18 debut. This year’s Bouts are liable to be the best of all time with seven champions returning to defend their titles. The Heavyweight class will attract quite a bit of interest, as it does each year, but the action in the lower weight divisions will be no less thrilling. Last year’s 177-lb. champ, Dick Shulsen, has moved into the Heavyweight division this year to challenge defending champ Charlie Connor. 167-lb. champion, Pete Noznesky, has moved up a notch also and will battle for Shulsen’s vacated title. There will be other switches and weight division changes to distribute the fighters more evenly and make the action more interesting.
Upsets In The Making
Although there are quite a few titleholders returning, they are not necessarily the boys to watch. At least not all the time. Some of the Bengal Bout entrants who have had tough luck in previous years are determined to make the grade this time, and a few upsets wouldn’t be surprising. Three in particular are working extra hard to come up with a ’56 Bengal Bout championship. Mike Mulrooney, Jim Connelly, and 'Sal Profaci have each been in the bouts for three years. Mulrooney made it to the finals last year but lost to Pat Cannon. Profaci and Connelly won titles in 1954 but were upset last year. This year the three are hoping things will be different.—J. N.
March 2, 1956
Mock Convention Furor Recalls Highlights Of Eisenhower, Vandenberg Nominations
by JOE ACCARDO
That American spectacle known as the Political Convention will be previewed at Notre Dame when 2,000 students participate in the Mock Democratic National Convention in the Drill Hall, April 16 through 18. This will be the third postwar gathering of budding public servants and political analysts. The two
Now Arthur Murray combines parties with lessons to speed you on your way to popularity
There’s no better way to build your confidence than to go to parties. That’s why Arthur Murray invites all students to special parties to give them a chance to practice what they’ve learned with different partners. Why not find out about this unique party way of learning to dance. Come in now. Open 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. daily. Visitors welcome.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St. CE 2-3339
previous have been Republican conventions.
Dr. Paul Bartholomew originated the Mock Convention in 1940 so that the college student might gain some practical experience in American political life. That year, Democrats gathered to nominate President Franklin Roosevelt for a
FOR YOU...A l/2 Hr. FREE TRIAL Lesson Come in now for your Special Half Hour FREE TRIAL LESSON, and your success as a dancing partner is guaranteed.
third term. Notre Dame was also honor-5? ed by a visit by FDR’s Republican opponent in the Presidential race, Wendell Willkie, an Indiana native.
April 1948 saw the late Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan nominated for the Presidency edging Minnesota’s Governor Harold E. Stassen on the sixth ballot. California’s Governor Earl Warren was chosen Vice-Presi-^' dent. Vandenberg’s campaign began three weeks after Stassen, Warren, Gov. Thomas Dewey of New York, Senator Robert Taft of Ohio, and General Douglas MacArthur were entered in the race. General Dwight Eisenhower’s name was also entered late.
General George C. Marshall, House Speaker Joe Martin, Representatives Edward Martin of Pennsylvania, Caroll^ Reece of Tennessee, and Clare Booth “ Luce of Connecticut, Senators George Aiken of Vermont, Burton Wheeler of Montana and Owen Brewster of Maine were entered with crooner and favorite son Bing Crosby of Washington.
By the third ballot it became evident that the convention hinged on which way the southern bloc would turn. The movement of Gen. Marshall’s support toward Harold Stassen solidified the^ Eastern factions behind Vandenberg and swept him to victory.
Guest speakers included news and special events announcer Henry J. Taylor and Nobel prize winner Dr. Arthur . Compton.
The familiar names of Taft, Warren, Eisenhower, Stassen and MacArthur were entered again in the 1952 convention. In addition, Oregon Senator Wayne Morse, Illinois Senator Everett Dirksen,^ and Connecticut Governor John Lodge competed. Eisenhower beat out Taft on the seventh ballot for the Presidential nomination. Again, as in 1948, popular Governor Warren was chosen Vice-President.
In return for Warren support, Eisenhower backers aided in sweeping the smiling California Governor into the Vice-Presidential nomination on the first ballot.
The air of political realism was again $ lent to the convention when commentary was offered by Paul Harvey of the Chicago ABC network and Walter Trohan, chief of the Washington Bureau for the Chicago Tribune.
Observers feel the campus climate becoming warmer and the pressure gaining. A prevailing political wind is blowing toward the Drill Hall from various directions. A mysterious smog appears now and then after a delegation caucus in one of the many smoke smothered^,, assembly rooms on campus. The sun is " expected to break through sometime in April.
30
The Scholastic
driving Range to Open After Easter Vacation
I Edward “Moose” Krause, director of athletics, and Leo Linbeck, physical facilities commissioner of the Student Seriate, have recently announced that, as ^a result of increased student interest in ^jolting, a golf driving range will be constructed this semester. The new range is to be located behind the Aeronautical Engineering Building, facing directly east.
Increased interest in golf and extensive use of the golf course in recent years showed the administration that there was a need for a driving range. In accordance with this increased inter-^est, the administration decided to build the practice area.
The range, to be put in use immediately following the Easter vacation ; period, will be erected under the advisor-ship of the National Golf Institute and the United States Rubber Company. The < number of units has not yet been determined although the range can be ex-1 panded later if further student demand warrants it.
i ® A nominal fee will be charged for the I use of balls, estimated by Linbeck at $.25 ; a bucket. Group instruction will be of-5 fered in the fundamentals of the game 3 and golf etiquette. Members of the var-| sity golf team and qualified faculty 3 personnel will conduct the sessions, ri
I ------------------------
| YCS Continues Study |®Of Engineers1 Course
j The curriculum of the College of En-4 gineering, being discussed by Young 1 Christian Students and interested guests, will be considered from “the specialization versus general engineering” view-| point on March 14 in Room 123 of i	Nieuwland Hall.
| Tonight, Prof, and Mrs. John J. Ken-| nedy will discuss “The Major Issues of the Forthcoming Political Campaign” in
I a joint Notre Dame-St. Mary’s Y.C.S. 3" meeting, in the St. Mary’s clubhouse.
1 Prof. Kennedy is a member of the de-} partment of political science, associate ! editor of The Revieiv of Politics and a member of the International Relations
I Club. Mrs. Kennedy was a former mem-| ber of the board of directors of the South j Bend League of Women Voters.
1 Tomorrow, the freshman sections of both colleges will discuss “The Racial
| Question in Education” at St. Augus-j _ tine’s Parish, South Bend. Fr. Thilman, ; fp the pastor, will speak on his experiences with Negro problems and the Y.C.S. members will continue the discussion in groups of four and six.
Your best move to make next... is to check the outstanding opportunities a very particular engineering senior is sure to find at the Radio Corporation of America, world leader in electronics.
An RCA engineering management representative will be on campus—
MARCH 9
See your placement officer now for your appointment. Ask him, too, for literature with the down-to-earth facts about RCA
careers.
RADIO CORPORATION off AMERICA
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
iiuius LIBRARY aid INK SIR
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Sunny Italy Cafe A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
March 2, 1956
31
JACOB VS *
electrical engineers mechanical engineers physicists
Let ARMA talk with you about YOUR future in the Dynamic and Challenging Field of Electro-Mechanical Instrumentation
BRIDGE
NORTH
Spades	A K	2
Hearts	K 2
Diamonds	A J 10	7 6
Clubs	754
WEST
Spades	10 9 8
Hearts	Q 10 3
Diamonds 5 4
Clubs A 10 9 8 6
EAST
Spades	7 6 5	4
Hearts	9 8 7	6 5
Diamonds	K 9
Clubs	Q 2
SOUTH
Spades Q J 3
Hearts A J 4
Diamonds Q 8 3 2
Clubs K J 3
BIDDING:
See ARMA when our representative visits your campus shortly. Ask your Placement Officer for details.
Or you may send inquiries to: Mr. Charles S. Fernow Administrator of Technical Education
ARMA
Division American Bosch Arma Corp.
Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.
North ID 3NT
East P P
South
P
West P P
Opening lead: 10 of clubs.
NEXT VACATION:
a thrilling TWA trip to 'faraway places I
Imagine! For just $91 down, you can visit 1J fascinating European countries! Other tours feature Bombay, Cairo! Take 20 months to pay with TWA's "Time Pay Plan"!
What a wonderful way to see the world. You travel to European cities or exotic lands in the Middle or Far East And you can study from 2 to 6 weeks at an accredited foreign university. Specialize in a subject such as literature, music, art—arrange your travel-study tour to include as many cities as you wish. Full college credit for those who want it.
Best of all, TWA’s “Time Pay Plan” includes hotel expenses and
other costs as well as your roundtrip fare on TWA’s famous Constellation fleet. Start planning your trip by mailing the coupon today!
Me finett.
mas WOULD MKUHtS
U J 4. • tuson ■ MUCS • 4SI4
1 am interested in:
□ Tours Abroad
□ “Time Pay Plan”
□ Independent travel to
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, TWA Air World Tours Department CM, 380 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Dear Sir: Please send me information on your 1956 Travel-Study Tours.
(countries)
Name------------------------------Position_____________________
Address--------------- City------------------State______________Phone_________________
Last Saturday the National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament was held at the Student Center for undergraduates here who desired to participate. The format of the tournament is interesting: Sixteen hands specially prepared by a bridge expert in New York City are sent out to all the participating colleges each _ year at this time. In each of these hands™ there is some problem for one of the players at the table to solve. These decisions are equally divided among the North-South and East-West pairs. The desired result is designated as the par for the hand. To illustrate, par on one hand might be to bid and make four spades. On another hand, par would be to defeat your opponents in four spades by making an advanced defensive play.
The above is one of the par- hands £ played last Saturday. In this case, it is South who has to make a particular play as declarer to score the par result on the hand. Before I continue, examine the hand and see if you can discover what his play is.
The point at which the play must be made comes at the first trick. When East plays his Queen of- clubs on his partner’s 10 lead, South must avoid winning the trick by playing his three. Let us consider the reasoning behind this play. First of all, if the diamond finesse is going to work, South will always make his three no-trump contract with overtricks. However, it might not work. If the King of diamonds is behind the dummy, when East gets in, a club is going to be led through the declarer’s J-3. Then, if West originally led from five clubs, the contract will be set a trick. South loses nothing by playing a low club under the Queen, since even if the diamond King was on side, he would have to give up a club trick toward the end of the hand. And he may gain a great deal if the cards lie as they do in this hand.
—Jim Jacoby
32
The Scholastic
Grad School
(Continued from page 21)
students of the Notre Dame Graduate School, to strive for an even greater emphasis on cooperative search for truth. The grad student is by no means ; forced into any rigid pattern of educa-■, j^tion—his individualism is respected. But Wthe intrinsic value of the facilities for J' cooperative growth in knowledge offered :	by the University is very attractive to
; the student who allows the facilities to i complement his own individual study. ] A chance to develop the intellect, with-i out becoming introverted or lop-sided; a and most important, a preservation of ] true perspective in this development— , these are the values to which the Notre ; t^Dame Graduate School points with pride. ] In the highly specialized world of today, J with its intricate economic and diplo-_• matic machinery, its highly developed 4 scientific findings, and its lack of a true I philosophy, there is a need for men of advanced learning, for men who have used their baccalaureate degree as a key and have gone into a world of advanced study, to emerge deeper, more developed individuals.
But along with this need for the highly ’"educated man, there is a need that this man does not lose sight of the importance of his ultimate goal, God, in the intensity of his education. This need, for the advanced engineer, scientist, philosopher, and educator who sees his particular knowledge in relation to his ultimate goal, is recognized by the Notre Dame Graduate School, which strives to provide the facilities, the faculty, the - atmosphere for this brand of education.
____________

Local Delegation Will Attend International Relations Meet
The NS A International Relations Seminar to be held this weekend at Western College for Women in Oxford, 0.,
i will have a three-man delegation repre-4 senting Notre Dame, according to local i NSA Coordinator Tom Shehan.
♦ The Notre Dame delegation will be headed by Pete Sturtevant, vice-chairman for international affairs of the Indiana-Ohio region. Other delegates ; will be Tony Yurchak and Conrad Hub-J ner.
Academic Freedom Week, as nationally organized by NSA, will be recognized here on campus from April 9-16. The Spring Regional Assembly of the Ohio-Indiana region will be held on April 28-29 at Oberlin College.
The ninth Summer Congress of the ^NSA will be held at the University of Chicago from Aug. 19-29. There are openings for seven voting delegates and alternates on the Notre Dame delegation.
There are two important reasons why the Martin Star is rising...and why your career can rise along with it:
...The finest aircraft plant, engineering, electronic, nuclear physics and research facilities on the eastern seaboard.
___An entirely new management concept in Advanced Design and weapons systems development, embracing creative engineering ranging upward from nuclear powered aircraft to anti-gravity research and tomorrow’s satellite vehicle.
There are exceptional opportunities for dynamic young engineering talent at the Glenn L. Martin Company in Baltimore, Maryland.
See the Martin representative visiting this campus Contact your placement office for appointment and further details.
MARCH 14th

BALTIMORE • MARYLAND
March 2, 1956
33
WANT A COOLER SMOKE?
...DISCOVER EDGEWORTH!
No other tobacco can duplicate the Edgeworth cut, because it’s actually “readyrubbed” by an exclusive process. See in the picture what a difference this makes. Edgeworth's even-sized chunks (Picture C) burn slow and cool, with never a touch of tonsue bite.
EDGEWORTH'S SPECIAL BURLEYS
No one in over 50 years has ever equalled Edgeworth’s way with tobaccos. Tobacco
AMERICA'S FINEST PIPE TOBACCO
EDGEWORTH'S EXCLUSIVE wrap-around pouch is heat-sealed. Moisture can’t get in— . freshness can't get out.
experts agree that white hurley is best of all for pipes. But Edgeworth looks for a certain type of white burley, grown on well-drained land on sunny hillsides, just like fine wine grapes or fine coffee. Then these special hurleys are aged for years before blending. This is another reason Edgeworth smokes cooler—8 to 10 degrees cooler by actual test.
EDGEWORTH
Made by loros * HroHrar Co., Inc. Richmond, Virginia
Four in the Running w
(Continued from page 15) until then, the Democratic candidates, specifically Mr. Stevenson and Sen. Ke-fauver, are faced with a hot issue. The advocacy of speedy and total desegregation drives the Southern Democrats practically to stark raving madness. On the other hand, many influential Negro lead™ ers were so thoroughly irritated by Stevenson’s tentative suggestion for careful and gradual desegregation that Stevenson temporarily lost ground to Kefauver, who all the while has been demanding immediate desegregation.
Kefauver’s strategy on this is beautifully simple, his tactics faultless. Curiously enough, the Tennessee Senator is woefully lacking in Southern suppor^ (except in Florida) so he has nothing whatever to lose by courting the disfavor of the Southerners, most of whom have long since become disenchanted with Kefauver as a result of his consistent record of agreement with the Northern liberals.
Stevenson, stronger than Kefauver in both sectors, is currently experiencing a bit of difficulty keeping his Northern support intact, especially among the Ne.^ groes. If large portions of this support were allowed to swing to Kefauver or another candidate, the resulting deadlock might necessitate a compromise candidate, heretofore not involved in- the squabble. This is, to be sure, a remote ' possibility since Kefauver is consistently frowned upon by many of the big city Democratic organizations in the North as a result of his whirlwind investigation tour in 1950.	£
Summing it up: Stevenson — way^ ahead and running easily. Kefauver— nothing to lose. Harriman—good man, a remote possibility. Lausche—fourth in a field of four but not worried about it.
High Total Cops Bridge Meet For Steinthal-Solomon Team
Jack Steinthal and Lou Solomon averaged .708 to win the duplicate bridge^ session at the Student Center last Sunday. The Dick Rupp-Chuck Vandegrift and Pat Synder-Pat Bradford combinations tied for second with .618. Joe Bill and Gene Martell were next in line with .569.
The Bridge Club is affiliated with the American Contract Bridge League. Winners are awarded prizes, fractional master points in the ACBL, with a monthly game in which full master points are awarded. No previous experience isi needed to take part in the games, which’ are held every Sunday in the Student Center at 2 p. m.
34
The Scholastic

^felgart Signed to Play
ForMay 18 Senior Ball
The Senior Class will hold its annual Ball on Friday, May 18, a week later than originally planned, according to information released recently by General Chairman Jim Kramer. Les Elgart | nd his Orchestra will provide the music for the formal dance, scheduled foi" 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the Drill Hall. “Feste Romana” has been selected as the theme by the dance committee.
Three o’clock permissions and car privileges for the entire weekend will be granted to the approximately 600 Seniors who are expected to purchase the $10 bids.
For Saturday evening, tentative plans Siave been made for a dinner-dance to be
held at the Erskine Country Club for about 150 couples. Four hundred couples are expected to attend the Com-
munion Breakfast on Sunday in the Dining Hall, following the 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Arrangements for the speakers’ program have not yet been completed for the Breakfast.
In order to avoid long lines, a tentative program of ticket-selling has been ^.vorked out. It is hoped that bids will be sold the evenings of April 10, 11, and 12 in the three senior halls, instead of the Student Center. However, those students desiring an additional ticket for : the 'dinner-dance or a reservation in the Morris Inn will have to go to the Center.
Those Seniors who only want a dance bid plus a Breakfast ticket can purchase these in the halls while also securing ^downtown hotel reservations.
Besides Kramer, other dance chairmen are: Walt Peeney, business manager; John Madigan, decorations chairman; Jim Mahary, refreshments; Chuck Van-degrift, tickets; and Jack Fiehrer, who is in charge of entertainment.
Also included are: Dave Friske, physical facilities; Pete Cannon, hotel reservations; Mike Kiley, dinner-dance; Bill Markley, Communion breakfast; and Joe Wiebel, publicity.
; ^Architecture Major Awa de d $25 for Model Home Design
1 Philip Bradtke, a senior architecture | major from Chicago, Ill., was notified | recently that his plan for a model home Iwon a $25 prize in the 1956 Indianapolis Home Show competition.
Bradtke received one of the nine main prizes given for the best design of a 1 midwestern suburban home for a family I Oof six-
s The nationwide contest attracted ap-
proximately 200 entrants from both the amateur and professional fields.
BELL SYSTEM OPPORTUNITIES
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
For openings in various positions in all parts of the country for Seniors and graduate students in
Engineering, Physics, Science, and Mathematics Also for Seniors
in Liberal Arts and Business Administration
REGISTER NOW at the Placement Office On the main floor • Administration Building
INTERVIEWS on APRIL 17, 18
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
CRKWTURB0W
\OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Brener nt the Pieced
— EYES EXAMINED ---
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2’/2x3l/2 in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order $1.00
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJMJ. Bldg.
March 2, 1956
35
Spaghetti and Meatballs prepared with that “just right Italian accent”
CE 3-04U
Students Too Smart? ND's Quinn Thinks So
Some college students are too smart and efficient for their own good, according to Edward R. Quinn, head of the department of testing and guidance at Notre Dame.
Students with superior mentalities sometimes become frustrated in choosing a college course and career, Quinn says, “because of their intense interest and outstanding aptitude in several fields of learning.” He cited the case of one student who wants to become a doctor, a mathematician and a high school teacher.
“This is a more serious problem than it seems and a student in such a predicament requires patient and careful
direction,” Quinn points out. He ex| plained that superior students undecided as to their course and career are given a variety of readings dealing with their several areas of interest. After completing the readings, the student’s reaction is tested by a skilled counselor. Generally, Quinn says, the student himself will gradually eliminate the alternatives and settle on one career or field of endeavor.	I
A member of the Notre Dame faculty for 19 years, Quinn emphasizes that a counselor should never indulge in crystal gazing and pick out a specific occupation or course of study for a student to follow. The department of testing and guidance, he explained, never tries to place a boy in a particular- position but rather in the “job family” where he has the most interest and aptitude.	4
ELECTRONICS
• MECHANICS
CONVAIR
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION
POMONA, CALIFORNIA
We’re looking for Good Engineers. This may be one way to catch them but we think you’d rather hear the story of real engineering opportunities from one of our representatives. You are cordially invited to
Campus Interviews Tues, and Wed., March 13th and 14th, 1956 if your training is in:
AERODYNAMICS • THERMODYNAMICS MATHEMATICS • PHYSICS
(WE NEED ENGINEERS l)
CONVAIR - POMONA (California) has one of the most modem and best equipped engineering plants in the country. Its work is in special weapons systems for the U.S. Navy Bureau of Ordnance. The well-known GUIDED MISSILE “TERRIER” is a product of this division. CONVAIR - POMONA offers country living near metropolitan Los Angeles in beautiful Southern California.
Contact your Placement Office for time and place of interviews.
36
The Scholastic
Graduate Work Grant
A graduate scholarship at Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute will be awarded to a qualified student for the 1956-57 academic year, according to an announcement by Rev. A. L. Gabriel, Praem., Institute director. The Scholarship, which provides $620 tuition and a $980 stipend, will be given to a young man studying for the master’s degree or doctorate in mediaeval studies, Father Gabriel said.
To be qualified, an applicant must possess a bachelor’s degree and be recommended for graduate work. He also must reveal a specific interest in the <;hristian culture of the Middle Ages. A eading knowledge of Latin and either French or German is also a requisite.
Applications for the Mediaeval Institute Scholarship will be accepted until March 15. Application forms may be obtained from the Dean of the Graduate School. Further information about the mediaeval studies program may be procured from the Director of the Mediaeval Institute.
Senate Plans Two Parties For Coming Weekend
. The Student Senate will sponsor two social activities over the weekend. Sat. - urday night in the Student Center there will be an Open House party for couples. The usual records and refreshments will be provided. On Sunday afternoon in ^he Student Center, a Musical Afternoon party will be held. WSND plans to broadcast this program which will feature Glenn Miller music only. Tickets will be sold in advance tonight from 6 to 7 p. m.
Pat Logan, Senate social commissioner, again stated that he hopes it is clearly understood that “these social activities are not intended to disrupt the penitential spirit of Lent. They are being permitted only on the condition that ^fetudents also display a more positive spiritual attitude.”
Logan continued that in accordance with this policy the Student Senate, working with the various hall councils, has organized a plan of daily hall adoration in Sacred Heart Church.
The Senate has voted to cancel all student activities before 7:30 p. m. on Wednesdays in order that all students will be able to attend Lenten Devotions the Church.
Logan also announced that the Senate, working in conjunction with the YCS, will sponsor a Lenten lecture series.
1956 Graduate Engineers
*
Here are the opportunities you have been seeking! Investigate our top salaries and excellent training programs that develop you for technical and administrative responsibilities.
Research and Development
Quality Control
Industrial Engineering
Equipment and Plant Maintenance Combustion and Fuels
Power
Coke and By-Products Manufacturing
Planning and Development of Plant Installations
Field Construction
Production Supervisory Training
These are career opportunities unprecedented in the history of our company as the result of a tremendous expansion program now in progress. Become a member of our future management team. On MARCH 9, 1956, our representatives will be on your campus.
Inland Steel Co.
East Chicago, Indiana
March 2, 1956
Bach Pap
by Curt Matthews
i f
I-
the college drinkers
I
a mild hoax
£
To many unknowing or uninformed people the average college student must sometimes appear as one who is bucking for a permanent position in an alcoholic ward.
Everyone, from the great American novelist to the Broadway playwright seems to feel a certain justification in picturing the typical collegian as an unrestrained sort of creature who spends all his father’s money on beer and related beverages.
The drinking activities of college people have sort of grown legendary ever since Sigmund Romberg wrote the Drinking Song. The beer stein has become as much a part of the college student’s make-up as horn-rimmed glasses and pull-over sweaters.
It’s gone so far that a couple of magazines even ran feature articles exposing the part drinking plays in the daily life of the average college student.
However, if for no other reason than the maintenance of truth, I think someone ought to point out that a great deal of what is said about drinking in college is nothing more than part of a mild hoax.
I don’t think nearly the number of college students are headed for that alcoholic ward as many people would lead you to believe.
I’m not going to say that drinking isn’t a part of college education, but I seriously doubt if it’s quite as big a part as common opinion would have it.
■ I don’t think college students as a .social group drink more per capita than •say apprentice carpenters as a social group. The difference is that drinking done by college students gets more talk and publicity than that done by apprentice carpenters.
There are several reasons why this little drinking hoax surrounding the college student is kept alive. Not least among these is the college student himself who, while certainly not a heavy drinker by country club or cocktail set
38
standards, often likes to have people think of him as one who does just a little more than his share of drinking.
He’s always ready with a tale of this excursion or that occasion simply because people have come to expect him to be supplied with at least a few stories of his drinking exploits. It’s one of the few occasions when the college student betrays his quality of sincerity.
Then too, since most college drinkers are relatively new at the game, I think they tend to exaggerate their participation in this new “adventure.”
Another reason for the college drinking hoax is the conscious effort of the college grad to keep it going.
It’s a habit of mind to remember the pleasant and to forget what seems unpleasant. As the college grad looks back on his “golden years of flaming youth spent among the ivy halls” he prefers to remember the party that lasted until four a. m. rather than the one he missed because he had to study until four a. m.
So the picture of college drinkers and drinking is made to seem just a little more intensive and extensive than it actually is by these post-grad publicity agents. According to the tales of most old grads no one will ever play quite as good football, break quite as many regulations or do quite as much drinking as they did. 1
And, while this habit of calculated exaggeration on. the part of those out of college may really be sort of quaint and harmless it does add support in a way to this little hoax which surrounds college drinking.
Still another reason why people sometimes get the impression that every weekend on a college campus is a “lost” one is that collegians usually do their drinking under some kind of regulations which, when not observed, can place him in disciplinary hot water. And people in hot water always seem to make the best conversational subjects.
In other words, people are more likely to hear about students drinking because they are more likely to get in trouble— not necessarily because of their drinking but because they are students who are drinking.
There is yet another reason for the illusions about the amount of drinking done in college. Some students have a habit of making an unreasonably impor^' tant “thing” out of going to the local pub. Some students, I think, fall into three main categories: the ritualists, the congregators and the exhibitionists.
The ritualists would be those who run to the same popular dispensary every day because they have done it for the last two weeks or two months or two years and they don’t want to break the string. It sounds sort of ridiculous, and it is, but you’ll find it.
The congregators are those who seen^ to have some basic urge to do their drinking in groups of no less than ten. Needless to say one group of ten attracts more attention than two groups of five. ;
The exhibitionists do their drinking’ solely to impress others with the fact that they look old enough to be served.-They try to make a big thing out ofj being in a bar. These people are gaudy,] loud, and generally ill-mannered. And;
of course, these few are often
upon as representative students.
One thing is common ists, congregators, and
looked. colleg4|
of all
among
ritual
exhibitionists!
They all demonstrate a definite lack ofj maturity, and all add support to the] somewhat false notion that college stu3 dents drink more than other- social? groups of similar age.	g
So it seems to me that any considers^ tion of college drinking activity points?
up one important fact: certain group! and certain people are conspicuous mere ly for their efforts to keep alive this mik hoax that the beer mug has replaced th text book.	|

PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PREI
jg.

Your Bachelor Degree can earn career opportunities in these technical areas:—
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS
ELECTRONICS
Guidance Systems Instrumentation Telemetering
SERVOMECHANISMS
Electronic Design Analogue Simulation
TESTING
Missile Acceptance Testing Test Equipment Design
•	Flight Test
Instrumentation
Installation
•	Service & Training
BELL AIRCRAFT IS WORTH A
Yes, and a third look too! If you’re interested in a future offering advancement, professional recognition and continuing challenge . . . our representative is the man to see. With world-wide recognition for outstanding advances in aircraft, missiles, electronics and a diversity of other projects . . . you’ll find the Bell engineering team offers unlimited opportunity for building a great engineering career.
Our representative will be on campus:
March 12 and 13
or Address Inquiries to: Manager, Engineering Personnel
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
Rocket Development
Research Laboratories
Servomechanisms Hydraulic and Valve Development
Structural Test •
MATHEMATICIANS and PHYSICISTS
Dynamics Analysis
Aerodynamics
Electronic Development
Servomechanisms Development
Rockets Research
To holders of a Master or PhD Degree, Ml oilers exceptional opportunities in advanced research on a variety of projects.
ri
1. SUPERIOR TASTE. L&M is good to your taste — its superior tobaccos, rich yet light and mild, are especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.
2. SUPERIOR FILTER. The flavor comes clean! Only L&M has the Miracle Tip—pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. L&M is quick on the draw, actually improves your enjoyment.
SoQ®^10^ o Quick on the “ DRAW
EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
KING SIZE
Enjoy LM -America’s Best Filter Cigarette
_____ ©Liggett& Myers Tobacco Cd.