Notre Dame Scholastic.
Disce quasi semper vieturus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 8, 1882.	No. 30.
(Selected.)
Ye Poet Hys Epitaph.
Thynke not of mee,
That I am in ye grave, and this foole’s hande
That grasp a scribblynge quille hath fallen to duste Beneath ye rotted tissue of a shroude
Catch thou ye daie! go laughynge thro’ ye lande Whiles ye sun shines for thee; recke not of cloude Nor storm; ne deem ye worm that gnaws mee must Revell one daie in thee.
Not for mine eye
Ye painted imagery of a poet’s brain
Drawne in thy daie by some new lord of songe;
Not for mine ear ye harmonys to break
In unborn years from Musicke’s conynge trayne, Albeit if aught of mine hath lived to wake A chaunce response thy reveries among Contente mine ashes lye.
j. w. GREEN.
The Abbe de 1’Epee.
The possibility of conveying instruction to the minds of the deaf and dumb began to be distinctly asserted in the sixteenth century. Rudolphus Agricola, of Groningen, mentioned that he had himself witnessed a person deaf from infancy, and consequently dumb, who had learned to understand writing, and, as if possessed of speech, was able to note down his thoughts. This statement was called in question; but “ the theoretical principles on which the art rests were discovered and promulgated by the learned Jerome Cardan, of the University of Pavia, his native place. He was born in 1501, and died in 1576.”
Pedro de Ponce, a monk of the order of St. Benedict, in Spain, who died in 1584, is stated to have been the first, or at least the most noted, amongst the early practitioners of the art of teaching the deaf and dumb. About forty years after the death of Ponce, John Paul Bonet, another Spaniard, to whom is attributed the merit of being the inventor of the one-handed alphabet, published a book on the subject. His work, which was in after years useful to De 1’Epee, is entitled Reduccion de las Lettras, y Arte fara ensenar a hablar los Mudos. During the time of Bonet, the art was also making some progress in Italy. Many first discoveries were probably made; several
of them originated with, or were carried forward by, philologists, and particularly among-the schemers for an universal language. In England, John Bulwqr’s name must stand prior to that of any other individual as an author on the subject, and his views, i as given in ‘ Philocophus,’ are sound and practical.
It has often been attempted to place Dr. Wallis at the head of this list of discoveries in England: but Bulwer’s ‘Philocophus, or the Deaf and Dumbe Mari’s Friend,’ was published several years before Wallis attempted even his treatise on speech, and he did not publish his claims as an instructor of the deaf till 1670.
The Abbe de 1’Epde holds a high rank amongst the friends and instructors of the deaf and dumb. Previous to his time, and during it, the art of teaching those laboring under this calamity was pursued more as a cunning craft, for the benefit of a few individuals who carefully concealed their modes of operation, than as a means of enabling men to alleviate one of the many natural evils to which the . human race is liable. The Abbe de 1’Epee brought to the work a disinterested benevolence, an ingenuous frankness, a patient perseverance, which elevated the art into a profession honorable in itself, calculated to enlist men’s sympathies and to extend the will and the power of rescuing from mental oblivion those deprived of the usual means of communication with their fellows.
Charles Michel de 1’Epee was bom at Versailles in 1712. His father, who was the king’s architect, was a clever and a good man, and brought up his family as all good men wish to do. Young De 1’Ep^e was therefore fitly trained up. No scenes of domestic misery, arising froiri the indulgence of evil habits, passed before his eyes—his parents taught him the theory, and showed him the practice of the fear of God and the love of his neighbor. He was educated for the Church. Conscientious scruples stood in the way of his obtaining Holy Orders: and he could not get past the rank of deacon. He therefore turned his attention to the law: but this profession did not suit his inclination and spirit. “ His only desire was to be a minister of the gospel of peace, and-at last he was successful.” A nephew of the celebrated Bossuet, being then Bishop of Troyes, finally ordained M. de 1’Epde, and gave him a canonry in his cathedral-church.
The Abbe de 1’Epee’s attention was directed to the education of the deaf and dumb by an incidental circumstance. Business took him one day to a house where he found only two young women, who
TllE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
were busily engaged in needle-work. He spoke to them repeatedly, but received no answer. The mother arrived, and explained to him the cause of their silence—the two sisters were deaf and dumb! A kind ecclesiastic named Vanin had tried to educate them by means of pictures; but after’ his death they were neglected. “Believing,” says M. de 1’Epde, “ that these two children would live and die in ignorance of their religion, if I did ndt attempt some means of instructing them, I was touched with compassion, and told the mother that she might send them daily to my house, and that I would do whatever I might find possible for them.”
M. de 1’Epee recollected that when he was about sixteen years of age, his tutor, in a conversation he had with him, had proved to him that there is no more natural connection between ideas and the sounds by which they are expressed to the ear, than between these same ideas and the written characters by which they are expressed to the eye. Thus, take any particular word, say 'water or fire:—the Englishman who hears these words spoken, or sees them in writing or in print, immediately associates the words with the thing's themselves, but to a foreigner, ignorant of our language, they convey no meaning at all. If ideas can be conveyed to the mind independently of sight or of sound, it follows that the blind can be taught to read by their fingers, and the deaf and dumb to speak by their hands, and to hear with their eyes. On this groundwork, M. de 1’Ep^e commenced and devoted himself to the task of teaching the deaf and dumb. Some people thought him a fool for his pains, and ridiculed his labors; others pitied the infatuation of the good-natured enthusiast, vainly, as they imagined, trying to get access to minds shut up in prison. But neither sneers nor pity stopped the labors of the worthy Abbri. At last, public opinion began to change; a clergyman said to him one day, “ I formerly pitied you, I now pity you no longer: you are restoring to society and to religion beings who have been strangers to both.”
“ One day,” says M. de 1’Eprie, “ a stranger came to our public lesson, and, offering me a Spanish book, said that it would be a real service to the owner if I would purchase it. I answered that as I did not understand the language it would be totally useless to me: but opening it casually, what should I see but the manual alphabet of the Spaniards neatly executed in copper-plate! I wanted no further inducement; I paid the messenger his demand, and kept the book. I then became impatient for the conclusion of the lesson; and what was my surprise when I found this title, Arte para ensenar a, hablar los Mudos. I had little difficulty to guess that this signified ‘ The Art of Teaching the Dumb to Speak,’ and I immediately resolved to acquire the Spanish language for the benefit of my pupils.” This book was Bonet’s, already mentioned.
M. de 1’Epde’s attention was soon afterwards directed to another book, written in Latin, by John Conrad Amman, a Swiss physician, who resided at Haarlem, and who, in 1690, had undertaken the
instructions of a girl, deaf and dumb from birth-These two works enabled him to form a system for himself, which though it was deficient in real usefulness as compared with the improvements since made in this department of instruction, was yet .abundantly successful.
But M. de 1’Epee did more than devote his time and labor to the instruction of the deaf and dumb. His income was about $2,000 a year. Of this he allowed about $500 for his own expenses, and he considered the remainder as the inheritance of his adopted children—the indigent deaf and dulnb-— to whose use it was faithfully applied* There was no kind of privation which he did hot ilnpose on himself, for the sake of his pupils. In order to supply their wants, he limited his own. So strictly did he adhere to the appropriation .which he had made of his income, that in the rigorous winter of 1788, when suffering undei’ the infirmities of age, he denied himself fuel, i$ order not to intrench upon the moderate sum to which he had confined his annual expenditure. All the remonstrances of his friends on this point were fruitless. His housekeeper, having observed his rigid restriction, and doubtless imputing it to his real motive, led into his apartment his forty pupils, who conjured him to preserve himself for their sakes. He yielded, not without difficulty, to their persuasions, but afterwards reproached himself for this concession. The Abbe, in his old age, and when the effects of his labors were too conspicuous to be reviled, received both approbation and flattery. The ambassador of Catharine of Russia offered him rich presents. “ My Lord,” said the Abb^, “ I never receive gold; tell her Majesty that if my labors have claimed her esteem, all that I ask is, that she will send me a deaf and dumb person, or a master to be instructed in this art of teaching.” When Joseph of Austria visited him, he expressed his astonishment that a man so deserving had not obtained at least an abbey whose revenues he might apply to the wants of the. deaf and dumb. He offered to ask one for him, or even to give him < one in his own dominions. “ I am already old,” said M. de 1’Ep^e; “if your Majesty wishes well to the deaf and dumb, it is not on my head, already bending to the tomb, that the benefit must fall, it is on the work itself.”
The success of the Abbd de 1’Epde was not complete, but he pursued his methods with openness and candor, and with the single desire of promoting the moral and intellectual advancement of the deaf and dumb. Heinecke of Leipzig and Pereire of Paris must be regarded as his rivals, but he invited them to a discussion of the merits of the various systems, which they declined. While the good Abbe, with that frankness which formed a beautiful feature in his character, solicited the examination and the judgment of the learned upon his methods, his rivals shrouded their proceedings under a veil of mystery. The Abbe devoted his life and fortune to the service of the class whom he had taken under his protection. Pereire refused to disclose his methods except for a large recompense; and Heinecke, in addition to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Kyi
receiving payment from the rich, had 400 crowns annually allowed him by the Grand Duke of Saxony. Both these persons made the art they professed an interested speculation: the Abbd de 1’Epde only tolerated the rich; he was proud of being the instructor of the indigent. His successor, the Abbe Sicard, carried forward the principles of De 1’Epee; he instructed his pupils in the elements of composition, a branch of their education comparatively new, and in which Sicard most completely evinced his superiority over his master. Sicard at first conducted a school at Bordeaux; on. the death of the Abbe de 1’Epee, he was called to fill his place at Paris.
The Ptolemaic and Copernican Theories.
AN ABSTRACT OF A PAPER READ BEFORE THE SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATION.
To us, the year of our Lord 70 is doubly memorable. As students of history, we recall it as the date of the destruction of the Jewish temple, city and nation; as students of astronomy, we remember it as the year in which Ptolemy Claudius was born. With the death of Hipparchus, the greatest of ancient astronomers, the science ceased to flourish among the Greeks proper; but if the parent country, wearied by its ■glorious strides in art and science, was sinking— even as the aged hero of many battles—into listless inaction, Greece’s colonies, like faithful children, were emulous of her pristine glory. One of these, Alexandria, founded by Alexander in 332 B. C., had, for a long time, been as famous for learning as for wealth and commerce. During centuries, the minds of her most learned men had found occupation as well as pleasure in the science of the stars. Their knowledge of this branch seems to have culminated in the person of Ptolemy Claudius, the author of the Ptolemaic System*.
The compilation and enforcement of such a system would seem to have been labor enough for one man’s lifetime, hence we are justly surprised at his wisdom and the extent of his labors when ■ we read that he, besides, is the author of the Great ' Collection or Almagest, the standard authority on astronomy for fourteen centuries, containing, besides his system, various tables giving relative distances of the planets as compared with the distance ■of the sun from the earth. This work is still sacred among some of the Eastern nations. Another portion of Ptolemy’s writings is supposed to have suggested to Kepler the idea of his laws. Ptolemy substituted sines for chords, and made other valuable additions to trigonometry. He was the author of a very complete geography, giving the latitude and longitude of all the places mentioned. A detailed history of Ptolemy is beyond the design of this paper.
What is known as the Ptolemaic System is the subject of the first portion of this article. This system may be treated under fou,r headings, First; he
accepted.the well-known theory of the rotundity of the earth, and how could he reject it, since sea-faring people bore continual .evidence to its truth, and since the sun is seen by the people living in the East before it is by those in the West? He cited, as a further proof of the rotundity of the earth, that, to an observer going southward, stars which were in the zenith gradually approached the northern horizon, while at the South new stars came into view—hence there was a change of horizon. These are still the proofs that the earth is round.
• Secondly, Ptolemy regarded the earth as stationary, or fixed in space; for, were it not, he argued, the motion of the celestial sphere would draw the earth to one side, and the planets would not appear to us in their usual regular succession. To use his own words: “ If the earth had a motion of translation common to the other heavenly bodies, it would, in consequence of its superior mass, precede them in space, and pass even beyond the bounds of the heavens, leaving all animals and other bodies without any support but air, which are consequences to the last degree ridiculous and absurd.” To those ©
questioning the earth’s immobility, he says, on account of its supposed superior weight and compactness, it “would have a motion more rapid than any of those bodies which encompass it, in consequence of the great circuit through which it must pass in so short a period; wherefore such bodies as are not supported by it, would always appear to possess a motion contrary to itself, and neither clouds, nor projected bodies, nor birds in flight would ever appear to move towards the east, since the earth, always preceding them in this direction, would anticipate them in their motion, and everything, except the earth itself, would constantly appear to be retiring towards the west.” But it seems queer to us that since Ptolemy saw all the other planets moving, he did not from analogy, draw the conclusion that the earth, also a planet, must be in motion. Further, since when travelling by water our boat appears to stand almost still, while the water and other surrounding objects seem to be moving with great rapidity, analogy-should have suggested the query, could not the sun be the centre of the universe, and the earth one of the planets revolving uniformly around it?
Thirdly, Ptolemy taught that the heavenly bodies form a system composed of eight immense, hollow, crystal spheres placed at fixed distances, and all revolving in circles from east to west in 24 hours. In proof of this theory he asserts that the days and nights are the result of this daily motion in spherical revolution. The error here is that Ptolemy considered the earth stationary.
Fourthly, Ptolemy placed the earth as the centre of this revolution of the eight celestial spheres, arranging them in the following order: the Moon in the first sphere; in the second, Mercury; in the third, Venus; in the fourth, the Sun; in the fifth Mars; in the sixth, Jupiter; in the seventh, Saturn, and in the last all the fixed stars which, notwithstanding their distances, were still clearly visible, on account of the transparency of the globes, Ptolemy, bearing in mind his belief in
458	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the earth’s immobility, naturally maintained that were the earth not the centre of this revolution, it would be drawn to one side, and thus the planetary motion on that side would be greatly accelerated. Suppose' the particular side were the east, then would the mornings be shorter by so much as the evenings would be lengthened. Diurnal irregularities would be the order—but as such was not the case he concluded that his theory must be the true one. His opponents now asked the question, “ What keeps the earth in this fixed position ? ” His answer almost deprives Newton of his birthright; he replied that the earth, being merely a point of the Universe, was sustained by the force of the Universe surrounding it.
We have seen that Ptolemy taught a revolution of the heavenly bodies and how he substantiated this doctrine, but he also taught that there were two kinds of motion in the revolutions of the planets, direct and retrograde. The motion of the sun and moon was of the former, the moon accomplishing the revolution of the heavens in one month, and the sun in one year. To the five other planets, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn he attributed a mixed motion, first direct, then retrograde, but mostly the former, z. e., such as if they revolved around a point which was itself in spherical motion towards the west. This is known as his Epicyclic theory.
But Ptolemy’s researches did not cease here: he further discovered that the motion of the moon, as also that of the sun, was “ faster in some parts of their orbits than in others,” but, unlike the sun, the moon’s apogee and perigee moved eastward at such a rate as would cause them to complete a revolution of the moon’s orbit in nine years; he also first discovered and described the moon’s evection.
The above is a brief account of the life-works of Ptolemy. The system which bears his name was during ages supposed to be the acme of astronomical wisdom. To him, considering the time in which he wrote, should be awarded the praise due to pre-eminent learning and energy of research. In conclusion, so great was the credit of his works, that astronomers contented themselves with copying, teaching, and explaining the Ptolemaic system, and the world continued to'believe in it until Tycho Brahe, Kepler, and Newton demonstrated the truth of the Copernican; nay, more, the system of Ptolemy was even embodied in the religious belief of many of the Eastern nations, and as such is to this day professed. This brings me to the second part of my subject.
Copernicus, the morning star of modern science, was born at Thorn, in Poland, in 1473. He was the son of a surgeon, and having made his studies at Cracow was ordained priest. He was professor of mathematics at the University of Rome, and was afterwards advanced to the dignity of Canon of the Frauenberg Cathedral. While in Rome, he became familiar with Cardinal Cusa’s “ De Docta Ignorantia? printed soon after the invention of printing, a work which assigns reasons for the revival of the Pythagorean theory. When he had returned honie he gave his atten
tion to the science of the heavens. By night with unaided but unwearying eye, he sat watch ing the heavens from the Cathedral tower; by day, poring over that “ rudis indegestaque moles of astronomical lore, he ever sought to increase and verify his knowledge. He grasped in his clear and logical mind the truth, no matter by whom professed, and supplied from his own knowledge what was wanting, and thus constituted that splendid system which cruel fate destined as his monument, for he read the first copy in print of his book "De Revolutionibus Orbium Ccelestium”. on his death-bed. This work was dedicated, by permission, to Pope Paul HI, and published at the expense of Cardinal Schoneberg and of Gisio, Bishop of Ermeland. It was not till 1507 that Copernicus began his astronomical studies. Ris researches extended to the remotest times, “fathomed every depth and shoal ” of the ancient doctrines, and the result of all this labor is what is known as the Copernican system, which was published some years after the noble Columbus gave to the Old a New World.
Let us glance at the principles of Copernicus’s system, and their proofs. His system is divided into two propositions. First, that the earth revolves from west to east on its axis, which is at an angle of 23^° to the ecliptic. Secondly, that the earth is one of a system of seven planets whose centre of revolution is the sun.
Copernicus accepted as a fact the rotundity of the earth, which had been adhered to during all ages of the world. He proves his first proposition, that the earth revolves on its axis, by the following line of argument: Knowing the shape of the earth and its comparative size, it is certainly far more probable that day and night are produced by the earth revolving on its axis than that day and night are caused by the heavens, with all the planets and stars, making an entire revolution round the earth, through theii' celestial orbits, in the short space of 24 hours. Besides, some of the heavenly bodies which we see, are, he reasoned, at an immeasurably great distance from us, hence they would have to move so rapidly in order to complete a revolution of theii' orbifs in so short a time as to make it totally impossible for us to see those bodies. In other words, he claimed that the farther the heavenly bodies were from us, the, faster would they have to move in order to effect a revolution in so short a time, and in consequence of this incalculably swift motion it should be impossible for us ever to behold these distant bodies.
The second proposition is that the sun is the centre of the planetary system. We must not understand that Copernicus makes the sun the common centre of all their orbits, but that he gives the sun—allowing for the excentricity of 'its orbit, which was even then known—an orbit in common relation to the orbits of all the planets. Copernicus knew the law which we express by the theorem, “ If an observer in unconscious motion sees an object at rest, that object will seem to him to be moving in a direction opposite to his own and with an equal velocity.” He knew this law, and, having in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
459
vented a large quadrant, he observed the planets and found that while the sun continued moving in its orbit the planets were revolving around it from west to east in their orbits, which always maintained the same position in regard to the sun .in this order: Mercury, Venus, the Earth (around which the moon revolves), Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. On the above observations he based his second proposition.
This is the system of Copernicus. The Ptolemaic may be called the necessary halfway-house on the great highway of progressiveness, whose ultimatum was the Copernican System.
It is sometimes asserted that the illustrious Copernicus was dubious as to the truth of his own system, that he did not proclaim it boldly, but gave it to the world as an hypothesis. The great Humboldt settles this point; he says: “The language of Copernicus is powerful and free, and bursts forth from his inmost convictions, and thus sufficiently refutes the ancient opinion that he has brought forward the system, which immortalizes his name, as an hypothesis, made for the convenience of calculating astronomers, or as one which has but a probable foundation.”- It was not a doubt of the truth .of his system, but it was fear of what procured the death sentence for Pythag-orus, made a martyr of Socrates, a fool of Columbus, drew a retraction from Galileo, and forced the Protestant Kepler to take refuge in a Jesuit monastery and .Tycho Brahe, another Protestant, to fly a Protestant country and accept a professor’s chair in the Pope’s College—that deathless tyrant, public opinion—which caused Copernicus to de-ler publishing his work. “ For Copernicus,” a •celebrated author says, “was reserved the grand honor and tire danger, for there is ever danger in
O J	o
bringing old notions into disrepute by introducing new systems of truth, of exploding the Ptolemaic idea and of promulgating a correct, though imperfect, theory of the Universe.”
William H. Arnold, ’83.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—The next meeting of the International Literary Congress will be held in Rome, next month.
-—Herr Zumbusch, the Austrian sculptor, is engaged upon a statue of Maria Teresa which is to
be set up in Vienna.
—The report of the discovery of a manuscript of Homer at Mount Athos turns out to be a
hoax—a vagary of a crack-brained antiquary.
—The eminent Catholic historian John Gil-mary Shea, LL. D., contributes a paper on “ Early •Catholicity in Indiana” in the next issue of The Ave Maria.
—A worthy and gifted priest named Schweizer, well known by his compositions of Church music, died lately at F rciburg, Baden, at the age •of 57 years. May he rest in peace!
—Oscar Wilde is going back to England in a few weeks. We are'sorry to lose him, but we’ll do the best we can when he is no longer present. Perhaps it is well for America as well as England to be prepared for the shock of his death.
—The 1,900th anniversary of the birth of Virgil occurred on the 1st ult. The Pontifical Seminary celebrated the occasion by reading original poems in honor of the bard of Mantua. Many Cardinals and other distinguished persons were present.
—Bach will be represented at the fifth May festival of the Cincinnati Musical Association by his greatest work, indeed the greatest in the whole literature of religious music, that sublime Inspiration, the St. Matthew Passion, which has been heard complete only once before in. this countiy. It was produced in Boston, in 1879.
—At Edinburgh, in the early part of March, died Dr. John Muir, a renowned Sanskrit scholar. He was one of the few, it is said, who could venture with success to publish in India and submit to the eyes of pandits at Benares poems written in the Sanskrit language. At the Congress of Orientalists at Florence, in 1878, the great German Sanskritists rose to bid him welcome, a testimony to his high reputation for scholarship.
—Mr. Bancroft anncounces that he is almost ready to write “ The End ” to his history of the United. States. The author’s residence in Germany has produced a marked change in the latter volumes of his history of the United States—a change that is not an improvement. If the work is known and read one hundred years hence, a question will be raised as to whether the 3d and 10th volumes of the work were written by the same hand.
—Three volumes of an excellent English translation of Cornelius a Lapide’s great commentary upon the Holy Scripture are now ready, completing the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. Mark. The translator is the Rev. T. W. Mossman, B. A., Oxon. It is curious, three centuries after the so-called Reformation, to have a Protestant clergyman present to the world a new edition of the invaluable work of the prince of Scripture Commentators, the same a Catholic priest.
—In England, scarcely a week passes away without our being called upon to mourn over the loss of some curious house which is connected with one of the famous names in the world’s history. One week it is the cottage in which “ Hudibras ” Butler was bom that is swept away by an unsympathetic owner; the next sees the venerable mansion which Gilbert White occupied changed into a dwelling of the present age; then comes an announcement of the destruction of the suburban retreat in which Samuel Rogers penned his laborious couplets. If we cross into France we find that either through the action of the State or the local authorities such relics of the past are religiously preserved for the pleasure of posterity.—Pall Mall Gazette.
460	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Api*il 8, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, . 50 fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Riddle Mirbllox’s communication, entitled “Professorial Verbiage,” on another page, will be1 of great interest to students intending to follow pedagogic pursuits after graduating. We hope the writer will furnish further illustrations of the rich-, ness of the professorial vocabulary for the Scholastic.
—Our local columns are generally so crowded that it has been necessary several times to cut down the reports of Societies, particularly those handed in late in the week. To prevent jealousy and dissatisfaction as far as may be, we beg to request the secretaries of the different associations to make their reports as brief as possible in future, and to omit—or we shall have to do so—whatever is not ad functum. We would gladly allow more space to a record of the doings of the literary, scientific and religious organizations of the College, but we see it is impossible. Later on we may substitute full reports of the Societies for another department of the paper, to which we find it impossible to do justice. Until then, however, let the regulation stand, “ Boil it down.”	.
—We regret exceedingly the appearance of a serious typographical error in Mr. Anderson’s interesting essay on the Mound Builders, published last week. It is hard to understand how it could have occurred, but blunders in printing are often as unaccountable as they are provoking, The meaning of the sentence, “The principal classes of the earth works are geographically divided into three regions,” etc., was entirely
destroyed by the transposition, “ The principal works are classes of the earth graphically divided into three regions.” We hope Mr. Anderson will fare better in future writings, and we think we can promise it on the part of our printers, etc. In this connection we desire to state that those contributing essays to the Scholastic are always welcome to see a proof of their compositions, and to make any corrections or slight changes that may be needful. At the same time we earnestly request contributors to prepare their MSS. carefully before handing them in. New paragraphs, additional sentences, (“angel’s wings”) and the like, are but of the question. Besides being slovenly habits to encourage, the press we are under every week to get the Scholastic out in time does not admit of such delays.
Some persons, many persons, write in such a manner—we do not refer to Mr. Anderson, whose “ copy ” is excellent—that it is next to impossible to decipher their words, and mistakes in printing are a natural result. Another incentive to profanity is the habit of writing on both sides of the paper. A one-sided view in this case is the most commendable in a writer. -
—During these last days of Holy Week the lovers of art as well as the devout have been attracted to the western transept of our beautiful college church to view the temporary sepulchre erected to commemorate the great event which, though it occurred eighteen hundred years ago, is still undimmed. In this repository Gregori had placed a -paliotta to represent the dead body of our Divine Saviour laid in the tomb. The modelling of this picture is so perfect that the beholder imagines himself in the terrible presence of death itself. The agonized countenance of the God-Man, with its majestic and awful beauty, smeared with blood, torn by the cruel crown, the poor tortured body, with its spear-pierced side and wounded hands and feet, have been depicted with a realism most startling in its effect. As some one well said: “ This painting is a sermon of rare eloquence and unction.” The sacred body is represented in a rich sarcophagus, lined with crimson damask, and placed in a reclining position on a support covered with snowy drapery. The warm tints of the damask play in reflected lights on the cold white of the winding-sheet, and the pallid hues of the beautiful body, rigid in death. The severe beauty of the drawing and the technique which characterizes the whole composition has led our local connoiseurs to pronounce this work Signor Gregori’s chef-d’oeuvre, though this is said of every new creation of his brush. We hear that this beautiful specimen of his art is an Easter gift for Very Rev. A. Granger. It is a worthy companion piece to Magdalen presented last Easter by Prof. Gregori to the Very Rev. founder of Notre Dame University.
—On Saturday last an exhibition of stereoptican views was given in Phelan Hall, before a numerous
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	461
and appreciative audience, by the Rev. Prof, of Physics. The views were excellent, both as to their instructive and amusing qualities. Although Father Zahm always gives interesting exhibitions, the one on Saturday had its various features so happily combined as to make it one of the best of the year. First, a large number of astronomical slides were presented, which showed clearly to all present the relative motions of the planets, the occurrence of eclipses, and various other celestial phenomena. After this came a number of specially-prepared geological slides which gave a very exact idea of the relative states of vegetable and animal life in the different ages of geology. Some photographs of local worthies were then shown, which created great amusement, and tended to overcome any feeling of drowsiness that might have been roused in those who took slight interest in the astronomical and geological views which preceded. A large number of transparencies were also thrown on the scene, some of them taken from objects of interest in Europe and some from America, celebrated statues, etc., etc. So perfect was the representation that one would almost fancy the statue was actually before him. A very amusing feature of the entertainment was the projection of live animals on the scene, and a fight between some fish and a crab caused great merriment, especially among the younger portion of the audience. We hope that Father Zahm will favor us with more such entertainments before Commencement, and that they will afford the same amount of amusement and'instruction.
—The members of the Mignon Club have done honor to themselves by giving public recognition of the efficient services rendered to the students of the University by Prof. Paul, of the Musical Department. The Professor was invited to be present at their last regular meeting, and shortly after his arrival Mr. Bailey read him the following address, and presented, on the part of the Club, a massive silver epergne and fruit-basket:
Prof. Paul :
Dear Sir:—For more than a year your name has been associated with all that is bright and pleasing in the history of Notre Dame. Your cheerful presence has ever been with us in our scenes of joyfulness and mirth. No entertainment has been complete without you. Ever ready to promote the interest of the students, and to do all in your power to make their leisure hours pass pleasantly, you have won the gratitude and esteem of all. No night has been too stormy, nor cold too severe, to detain you when called upon to assist us in our amusements. You have always given your services readily and cheerfully. In consideration, then,. of the many favors which you have extended to the students of the University, we, the members of the Mignon Club, take this opportunity of tendering you our most sincere thanks, and of expressing our appreciation of your great kindness, by presenting you this evening with an Easter-gift as a slight token of our’esteem. Accept it, then, as a memento of our lasting gratitude and good will towards you. That you may long live to enjoy it, and that you may ever remember us with kindness, is the sincere and ardent wish of the members of the Mignon Club of ’82.
The Professor, although taken completely by surprise, replied in a graceful and appropriate little speech, after which a serenade was given by the
Cornet Band. We congratulate Prof. Paul on the high esteem in which he is held, and trust his valuable services will long be continued. That he is the right man in the right place is the conviction of every one.
—We hear it rumored that quite a change is contemplated in the matter of collegiate honors, though it will not probably take place this vear. As far as we have learned, the First Honor gold medal, whose value will no doubt be increased, will be awarded only after three years instead of two, as heretofore. Second Honors will then, we presume, be given only at the end of two years. • It is likely, also, that the Second Honor will consist of a silver medal instead of a mere mention, as at present. We think there is little doubt that a Third Honor, or honorable mention, will be instituted to be conferred after one full year’s attendance and, of course, exceptional deportment, as in the case of the other honors. This third honor will probably take the form of a certificate.
Not being in a position to know with certainty what the plan is for the new departure, we submit the above for what it may be worth. We opine that the motives of the change are to attach greater importance to First Honors, and to make them more valuable and, consequently, more desirable. It is easy to understand that the matter of awarding First Honors must be a difficult one for the Faculty to adjust. Sometimes the candidates have not passed the required time in the same department, then again, as in the case of small boys coming from the Minim department, allowance has to be made for change of government, etc. As far as we are capable of judging, we consider the change that is said to be contemplated a great improvement over the present system, if for no other reason than the gradation that it will effect. We have heard it said, though we do not know with how much truth, that experience has proved that for First Honors particularly a longer time of trial is desirable. Though it may be so, we are of opinion that the Facuity would not be disposed to withdraw any of the many First Honors that have been awarded, even though it were in their power to do so. Happily those only who truly deserved the coveted bays were decorated with them. It is well, however, to place them so far above those who might dishonor them that the possibility of their ever doing so may be removed.
Professorial Verbiage.
As numbers of our young men are destined for the profession of teaching, we think it not inappropriate to give some attention to that choice of words which constitutes the distinctively professorial style, for much depends, in this as in other professions, on the appropriate peculiarities of diction.
The adverb is the part of speech in which the professor chiefly luxuriates. What inexhaustible • resources lie in the effective use of the word “ thus,” accompanied by the proper flourish of the chalk!
462	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
We know a man whose $3,000 a year is chiefly due to his mastery over this quadrilateral. And “ hence,” followed by a stiffening of the upper lip, and a slight knitting of the brows! Does it not inevitably carry conviction in its train? If these small words are so invaluable, what shall we not say of “ eminently,” “ peculiarly,” “ unquestionably so ” ? “ Peculiarly,” for example, can be uttered in such a manner as to indicate the propriety of the hearers’ minding their p’s and q’s. Then the adverbial phrases: “so to speak,” “without doubt,” “in a certain measure,”—how rich and varied the possibilities they open up! Who can sufficiently praise the man who invented the convenient “ as it were ” —so handy when you don’t quite know what you mean, or, indeed, when you don’t mean anything in particular? In short, there is a seductive sinuosity, if we may be allowed the expression, about the adverb, which especially commends it to professorial attention.
As to verbs, in the present state of science, the judicious professor will avoid, as much as possible, the use of the indicative mood. Everything being so -very uncertain just now, it becomes desirable to use a mood which leaves you a loop-hole to crawl out of, in case the conclusions of to-day should be contradicted by those of to-morrow. Unhappily, the downright, matter-of-fact genius of the English language has almost extirpated the subjunctive. The verb “to be” still has it, and the expressions: “Be this as it may,” “Were we to presume so far as to assert,” “Were it to be propelled in a direct course to the comet,” “Were he to be called to account for his assumptions,” etc., are not only convenient, but imposing. In other verbs, the functions of the legitimate subjunctive are clumsily— not to say, baldly—performed by the potential. But of those favored tongues which still possess a subjunctive, how their professors exult in it! How they revel and cavort amid its mazes! We had a fine old gentleman teaching Greek here once. When the boys did not know their lesson, all they had to do was to ask some question about the subjunctive mood, and the rest of the hour would be occupied by professorial explanations.
The pronoun “I” should be rarely used from the chair. “We” is not only less egotistical, but it suggests an indefinite number of backers. For example, when the professor says: “We should always endeavor to discriminate, so to speak, among the beauties of Homer, those which—” etc., the class behold a vista opening up, of literary persons of every age and sex, all in admiring attitudes, endeavoring to discriminate.
With regard to abstract nouns, the Professor will not coin such phrases as “ the Suchness of the the Me ” or “ the Elsity of the Other.” When he hears'them quoted from modern metaphysicians, he will simply beam through his spectacles with paternal indulgence mingled with a sort of amused compassion. Abstract nouns in general will be no great favorites with him. When he strikes them in the text-book, he generally illustrates by the concrete^—something familiar—the dog— the cat—the red-headed girl—the rolling-pin. His .
normal mental attitude is one of amiable condescension, varied by glimpses of the Eleusinian mysteries in the back-ground with the dim, shadowy and undefined phantom of the dubium Cartesianum brooding over all. A serene, untroubled brow, occasional rapid glances at the south-east corner of the ceiling, and a slight— very slight—protrusion of the lower lip will suggest all this. The protrusion of the lower lip is attained by using words ending with an m sound, preceded by o or u. Resume is a very fine word for this purpose, as it not only produces the required effect, but gives the opportunity of exhibiting a nicety of pronounciation, avoiding the vulgar extremes of ^Rezoom'” and “Resheivinl “Foster”. is another very effective word. Uttered with the countenance irradiated by a fatherly glow, it “tells” to much better advantage than “ encourage.” “ Adapted,”—or, better, “ eminently adapted,”—followed by a mere souf^on of a smack of the lips, sometimes speaks volumes.
It is hoped that the present article will aid in suggesting general methods of choice in words for professorial use. With our limited space we can do no more. The richness of a thorough professorial vocabulary can only be illustrated by prolix exemplification.
Riddle Mirollox.
Personal.
—Mr. Samuel Jennings-, of ’63, was elected trustee of Clay township, last Monday. He will make a popular and efficient officer, without a doubt.	.	.
—We regret exceedingly to learn that our friend Eliot Ryder is seriously ill at his home in Dorchester, Mass. He has our sincere condolence, and we trust he will soon be able to resume literary work.
—Michael J. Kelly, of ’75, one of the brightest students of that year, has been engaged in the ” Hamilton National Bank, Fort Wayne, Ind., ever since -leaving here. He enjoys the fullest confidence of the directors, and is succeeding well.
—The Rev. Daniel J. Spillard, C. S. C., of ’64, at one time Prefect of Discipline, is now rector of St. Mary’s Church, Austin, Texas. He is in excellent health, and hard at work as usual. There is not a more efficient clergyman in Texas, or one more widely known and esteemed than Father Spillard.
—T. A. Daily, of 74, is still a valued member of the Faculty of Goliad College, Texas. We have received a welcome letter from him, assuring us of his affectionate remembrance of Notre Dame tmd the Scholastic. He has our thanks for a Goliad paper, containing an article which he rightly surmised would be of interest to us.
—Among the visitors during the week ending April 5th, were: Mrs. Lund,Dolton, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Nash, Macachuk, Ohio; Miss Nellie McGor-don, Muskegon, Mich.; Mrs. M. W. Jones, South
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. :	463
Bend; Mr. J. C. Thomson, Lyman, Ohio; Mr. H. Metz, Nashville, Tenn.; Mrs. A. Gall, Indianapolis,Ind. ; Mrs. and Miss Howe, Chesterton, Ind.
—We are pained to announce the death of one of Notre Dame’s best friends and most devoted patrons, as well as one of the most genial and whole-souled men, whom it has been our privilege to number among our acquaintances, Mr. Thomas Nelson, of Chicago. He will be missed at our annual Commencements, at which he had been a constant attendant for more than a quarter of a century. May he rest in peace!
Local Items.
—Alleluia!
—April showers !	.
—“ Don’t put me in the Scholastic.”
—Dick has been sent to Watertown, Wis. ’
—Daniel Boone returned on Tuesday. Welcome !
—There is an editorial this week on First Honors, etc., that will prove interesting, we think.
—The Notre Dame ’ Scholastic appeared last week in a handsome new dress.—South-Bend Register.
—It would be well if the public readers were r to pattern after the one that read in the Junior dining-room last Tuesday.
—The South-Bend Weekly Times has changed its form, and its interesting and varied contents are now more “ getatable.”
—N. Ewing was awarded the best bulletin for the month of March ; E. Fishel, the 2d best ; F. Fishel and C. C. Echlin, the 3d best.
—Lost—a small rosary of brown-colored beads to which several small medals were attached. The owner will be very grateful for its return to the printing-office.
—The Juniors went fishing one day last week and returned with some fine specimens of the finny tribe. Master Mahon caught the largest which weighed over five pounds.
—Several of our college exchanges have had favorable comments on Mr. Arnold’s free trade . essay. An extract from it is published in a recent issue of the Iowa State Journal.
—A snake, fully four feet long, was seen crossing the road between the lakes, on Monday evening. The fellow was not disposed to hurry, neither was the one who wanted to get by.
. ■	—At a regular meeting of the Columbian Lit-
erary and Debating Association the question, « Should the Capitol be Transferred to Chicago ?” was ably discussed by H. West, E. Blackman, and H. Lauman. John Boyle O’Reilly read a well-written paper on Civil Service Reform.
—Our highly esteemed cotemporary, the Notre Dame Scholastic, appears in a handsome new dress which makes the many good things in that jour-r • nal read better than ever. The Scholastic ranks
among the best college papers in this country, and of late it has attained such a high standard of excellence that we must congratulate the editorial management.—South-Bend Tribune.
—At the township elections on Monday there were some scattering votes for certain members of the Faculty for constable. Prof. Lyons is no longer justice of the peace. This is an off year, and he said he couldn’t consent to run. His election would have been, sure had he wished it, as there is no more popular man in the county. That red box should no longer appear, Professor.
—The members of the Junior private dormitory are under obligations to Bro. Paul and Mr. Ross, of the Senior department. [Private dormitory, a deceptive name applied to the domain of the snorers .who have to be isolated or Morpheus will not “ show up.” It is said that the noises proceeding from this quarter towards morning, when the sleepers are on the home stretch are enough to raise—the hair of the most intrepid.]
—The 25th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Association was held on the 3d inst. Messrs. J. Zaehnle and J. D. Hibbeler were elected members. A well-written criticism was read by A. Richmond. Messrs. H. Snee, J. A. Devine, and A. Campati gave musical selections. Messrs. E. Wile, G. Deschamps, Fred Ryan, and F. Lund, delivered declamations. Readings were given by E. Murphy, E. Howard, J. Wilbur, D. C. Smith and L. Gibert.
—Two boys from Notre Dame registered at the Oliver this morning as from the “ colage.”—South-Bend Register.
They were of the Minim department, small boys. It may be asked if the Register man could spell better at their age ? The item, just as it stands, is objectionable, though we are sure no offence was intended.
Since the above was written the boys have made known that the entry was the work of another, that they had nothing at all to do with it.
—Master Eddie Cheever Price, of Lincoln, Neb., who arrived here on Monday, makes the 73d Minim, and only two more are needed to secure the grand dinner. A delegation of the small boys have waited on Very Rev. Father General to remind him that it is time to give his orders for the banquet, as a Minim from Washington, D. C., and another from Shelbyville, Ky., are expected in a short time.
There has been still another arrival, Master Thomas Roper. 74, now.
—The 29th regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held on the 30th ult. The Moot Court, which had been going on for four weeks, closed its term very satisfactorily. The lawyers for the defence were: A. Coghlin, G. J. Rhodius and J. L. Heffernan ; Attorneys for the Prosecution: C. Rose, J. Guthrie, Ed Fishel, and W. Johnson ; Clerk of the Court, C. Kolars ; Foreman of the Jury, N. Ewing; Sheriff, J. Kelly. All did their parts well. At this meeting declamations were delivered by Ed Fishel, C. Rose, C. Kolars, and A, Coghlin, The following
464	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
were appointed for public reading : A. Coghlin, C. Kolars, Ed Fishel, C. Echlin, G. Rhodius and Jno. Fendrick.
—On Thursday of last week, an interesting game of baseball was played between the Excelsiors and Mutuals. The Mutuals played well, but were defeated. The following score explains the game:
EXCELSIORS.
J. Neeson, c..........
T. Hurley, c. and p...
G. Rhodius, s. s......
W. Ayers, 1st b.......
J. Kelly, 2d b........
J. Whelan, 3d b.......
F- Lund, L. F.........
E. Baily, c. f........
J. Gallagher, r. f....
MUTUALS.
r. o.
R. French, c......... J. Guthrie, c. and p... C. Ziegler, s. s..... J. Ruppe, 1st b...... W. Coghlin, 2d b..... J. Heffernan, 3d b..., D. Smith. L. F....... C. Kolars, c. f...... D. Taylor, r. f......
Total................
3
1
3
2
2
4
5
4
Total.................  927
Roll of'Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, Armijo, Arnold, Berry, Bailey, Bryant, Browne, Bell, Bolton, Cooper, Cullen, Corry, Clements, Carroll, Chelini, Conway, G. Clarke, T. Clarke, Cleary, Commerford, Jas. Delaney, J. P. Delaney, Dorsey, Donegan, Drury, Donahue, Ewing, Eaton, Fitzgeriell, Fenlon, Farrell, Fleming, Falvey, Fishburn, Gray, Golon-ski, Grever, Johnson, Kinsella, Kelly, Kuhn, Kin-del, Kerndt, Kavanaugh, Livingston, Larkin, Mc-Erlaine, Minnis, Murphy, Metz, Meyer, McCarthy, McGinnis, McDermott, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, McGorrisk, McEuiry, Mason, Nash, Noonan, O’Reilly, O’Rourke, Orrick, Otis, Peery, Pierson, Peifer, Ryan, Ruger, Steiger, Schofield, Solon, E. Smith, Steis, Tracy, Vander Hayden, Wheatly, White, Yrisarri, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Archer, Browne, Bacon, Barron, Bowers, Colyar, J. M. Courtney, Coghlin, Chirhart, Dolan, Devitt, Devoto, Droste, Echlin, Ewing, E. Fishel, F. Fishel, Freyermuth, Fendrick, Fisher, Florman, M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Gibert, Graham, Gilbert, Gerlach, A. Gall, E. Gall, Hoffman, Hess, Hibbeler, Howard, Hannivan, Heffernan, Halligan, Johnston, Johnson, Kelly, Kolars, Kahman, Kitz, Katz, Lund, McGordon, Muhlke, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, McPhillips, McCarthy, Murphy, Neeson, Osborn, J. O’Donnell, J. V. O’Donnell, Orsinger, Peery, Ryan, Rosenheim, Rose, J. Ruppe, J. E. Ruppe, Rivaud, Snee, Schaefer, Sells, Schmitt, Tourtillotte, Taggart, Vernier, Whelan, Wilbur, Warren, Wile, Yrisarri, Zaehnle, Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Ackerman, Berthelet, Beall,
Brandom, Cummings, P. Campau, C. Campau, Coad, Chaves, Chirhart, Curran, Devitt, Ryan and J. Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Davison, Dirks-meyer, Dwenger, Frain, Fehr, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Graham, G. Gibson, P. Gibson, Hewit, Hynes, Hopkins, Johnson, A. Kelly, J. Kelly, J. T. Kelly, Kellner, J. J. McGrath, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGordon, McCawley, Miller, Masi, Metz, Norfolk, J. Nester, F. Nester, Nash, O’Connor, F. Otis, A. Otis, Piatt, Papin, W; Prindiville, D. Prin-diville, G. Price, E. Price, Peters, Rose, Roberts, Rebori, Stange, Sommer, Tong, Thomas, Vos-burgh, Welch, Walsh, Whitney, Winsor, L.Young, C. Young, Quinlin, Powell.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Galonski, Larkin, Morse, Steiger, Coughanowr, Fitzgerrell, J. Delaney, Clements, Kavanagh, Minnis, McEniry, Vander Hayden, Kelly, Smeeth, Gibert, Yrisarri, A. Browne, Neeson, Peery, Graham, Zaehnle, Jones, Kahmann, Lund, F. Fishel, Howard, McGrath, McPhillips, Murdock, McCarthy, Cavanaugh, Gerlach, Kitz, /Hanavin, J. Ruppe, Castillo, Schmitt, Halligan, Drendel, Wilbur, J. V. O’Donnell, Brewster, H. Foote, Danielson, Vernier, Wile, Meyer.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams, Berthelet, Beal, Brandom, Cummings, P. Campau, C. Campau, Chirhart, Curran, Devitt, A. Devine, Davison, Dirksmeyer, Dwenger, Fehr, F. Garrity, Graham, G. Gibson, P. Gibson, Hewitt, Hynes, Johnson, A. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kellner, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McCawley, Masi, Norfolk, Nester Nash, O’Connor, F. Otis, A. Otis. Piatt, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Powell, G. Price, E. Price, Peters, Quinlin, Rose, Roberts, Rebori, Stange, Tong, Thomas, Vos-burgh, Welch, Walsh, Winsor, L. Young, C. Young.
List of Excellence.
PREPARATOTY COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Van Loon, Gerlach, T. McGrath, Rivaud, Peery, Ryan, Warner, Tappin; Grammar—Messrs. Whelan, Fred Fishel, Kengel, Katz, M. Foote, Archer, Buchanan, Wilbur, Minnis, Berry, Garret, Halligan, Richmond, Graham, Bacon, Kahman, Kitz, J. McGrath, Nash, Commerford; Geography and History—Messrs. Peery, Jones, Smeeth, Hess, Drendel, Powell; Arithmetic—Messrs. Smeeth, Wilbur, Brewster, Wile, Reed, Steiger, Minnis, Murphy, Monahon,O’Donnell, Lund, Danielson, Quill; Algebra—Messrs. Barron, Kolars, Murdock, Heffernan, Corry; Latin—Messrs. Kolars, Heffernan, Falvey, McIntyre, Fleming,Healy, Brown; Christian Doctrine—Messrs. Kitz, Howard, Baca, Drendel, Danielson, Hibbeler, Gerlach, Rivaud, Schmit, Zaehnle; Greek—Messrs. G. Clarke, T. Clarke, Cleary.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	465
Saint ^taikmn.
One Mile West Of Noire Danie University.
—Visitors at the Academy during the week : Mrs. Beal, Laporte, Ind.; Mrs. Warren, South Bend, Ind.; Mrs. J. M. Pampel, Goshen, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. D. E. Sullivan, Urbana, Ohio.; Mrs. F. H. Sullivan, South Bend ; Mr. and Mrs. J. Martin, St. Joseph, Mich.; Mrs. Ryerson, Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. M. Butts, South Bend; Mrs. Northrup, Decatur, Mich.; Mrs. C. E. Dodge, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. W. C. Lyman, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. B. S. Barlow, Pekin, Ill.; Miss L. Stiles, Le Roy, N. Y.; Miss M. McGordon, Muskegon, Mich.; Miss Hollister, Hillsdale, Mich.; Professor A. J. Stehle, Zanesville, Ohio.; Mrs. ONeil, Peoria, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Hennebery, Miss M. Hennebery, Peoria, Ill.; Mr. J. Zenny, Indianapolis, Ind. ; Mr. J. Nash, Macachuk, Ohio.	■
(Selections from “ Rosa Mystica ” and “ St. Mary’s Chimes,” monthly MS. papers edited bj' the young ladies of the Senior Department.)
The Miracle of the Roses.
A hardened old sinner was Silas B. Cratt, With millions of money, and land, and all that, He scoffed at the Church, made fun of the priests, And sneered intensely at fast-days and feasts;
And boasted to French, Dutch, English and Irish, He was the wickedest man in the parish.
Blest Easter approaches in soft tints of green, Here a crocus half hidden or violet is seen, But no blushing roses nor japonicas rare To deck the church-altars so poor and bare. Good Pfere Le Gree sighs, and something like covet Steals in his eyes, though his heart is above it, As looking far down, from gray convent towers, He sees Silas Cratt’s rich hot-house of flowers.
The boldest deed ever recorded in Kent . Was performed by Father Le Gree, late in Lent, When he stood ankle deep in velvet and plush, Hard trying to keep back the sensitive blush, His rusty black gown and frank, guileless face In Cratt’s splendid hall, looking quite out of place, “ A lily or two, if you please, and a rose,”
He utters that much without altering pose, “ To-morrow I wish to deck the church altars, To honor our Lord ”—his voice now falters— As Cratt, looking at him with a sinister smile, Said, “ I think, Rev. sir, ’tis not worth your while To waste for some flowers so much pious chaff. Then this “ wickedest man ” roared a boist’rous laugh.: “ Why, man, you believe that your God grows the seed?”
The priest said, devoutly, “ I do, sir, indeed.”
“ And vou crave from me my~roses and lilies,
My exotics rare and daffadowndillies,	•	•
To dress up God’s altar? why, let Him entwine Sweet roses and lilies around His own shrine, I’ll give Him a chance.” This was said with a look That made the good priest grasp his beads and his book,. “ Come into my hot-house, for I kindly propose	.
To give to His altar my best baby rose;
Take that little slip from the sunniest shelf
For your church. Let God do the blooming Himself.”
Was ever a jest so flatly malignant?
The priest looked quite pale, and truly indignant.
But through holy ire, hope shot a bright dart, And he said, all on fire: “May God change your heart!” Then seizing the slip, he quickly retired, As with a grand thought divinely inspired;
While Cratt, in a rage, crushed several verbenas, And laughed a fierce laugh like that of hyenas.
Prostrate at the altar, through stillness of night, Knelt Father Le Gree, neath the chapel’s dim light, No thought, but of prayer, seemed to glow on his face, Soul poured out there, drawing faith from the place, While on the high altar, in pretty repose, Lay the delicate slip of Cratt’s baby rose.	■
Easter’s sun, flooding gold all over the earth,	-
Shone in the stained windows in splendor and mirth, Lit up in rare colors a rose-bedecked shrine, .
Where roses, sweet roses profusely entwine,
' Illuming his face, as in rapture of prayer, Knelt Father Le Gree, at his thanksgiving there. -
“ O blessed be God! ’tis Thy power divine
Has made lovely roses Thy altar entwine;
Change now the hard heart of the scoffer, whose pride Thy power and goodness so rashly defied.” Thus he prayed, while the roses, fragrantly sweet, Sent up their rich incense of thanksgiving meet;
Soon the long pent-up bells chant triumphant lays, For Silas Cratt kneels at the altar and prays.
L. W.
Music.
[Under this head will appear, occasionally, short extracts from lectures to the St. Cecilian and Gregorian Societies at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana. The material for these lectures, culled from every reliable source, have during the last four years become a prominent feature of the musical instruction of the Academy .J	-
Having finished our present subject, the few remaining minutes I will devote to answering questions frequently proposed.	'
1st. What is meant by the title, “an educated musician? ” An educated musician is one who has. studied music thoroughly as a science, and applied, its laws practically as an art. He should possess a certain knowledge of the liberal sciences, a fund of. historical reading, and a refined nature which per-, ceives the beautiful under whatever form presented.
2d. What is meant by classic music? Music, so good in all its attributes that it holds possession of the emotions of the soul through all ages, of
I
466	THE NOTRE bAME SCHOLASTIC.
time, irrespective of national taste, or the evervarying changes in style.
Many have an erroneous idea of the term “ Classical Music,” and imagine all the compositions bearing the name of an old author fall under that cate-gory; if the name of Beethoven, Mozart, Haydn, Martini or some writer of immortal fame be attached, it is at once dubbed “ Classic.” Whereas many compositions of those giants have not stood the test of time, and are no longer considered classical. To deserve and conserve this honorable name, it must be beautiful, well proportioned in form, well executed in detail, pure and elevated in style, with an originality of its own. It may be of the simplest, style, or of wondrous difficulty; playful, good-humored, fascinating, in short, possessed of all the qualities which charm; but never frivolous, commonplace, sensational or empty. Classical music, in two words, means “ good music.” The world is stored with masterly productions of every style, secular or sacred, thoughtful, calm, passionate or sad. There are countless compositions, from the easiest and lightest to the most difficult and profound. Then let the pupil learn to become faithful, strong and true, and let us hope, with the advancing tide of sound musical instruction, the weeds may be uprooted, and true music flourish. I am aware a great many people consider classical music “ a bore.” This is not surprising, for, probably, they have often assisted at its barbarous execution, but have never heard it rendered correctly and beautifully. Believe me, dear children, classic music, under the hands of an artist^ never fails to awaken genuine enthusiasm.
Airelles.
FROM MADAME SWETCHINE.
Pride dries the tears of anger and vexation; humility those of grief. The one is indignant that we should suffer; the other calms us by the reminder we deserve nothing else.
Let us ever exceed our appointed duties, and keep within our lawful pleasures.
It is a mercy to the rich that there are poor. Alms is but the material life of the latter; it is, at least in a degree, the spiritual life of the former. If the rich' could not give, they might still be charitable: the heart has a thousand ways for that; but the portion of wealth which they retain would no longer be purified, ennobled and sanctified by that which they dispense.
Intellectual pride is less outraged by the obscurities of Faith than by the authority with which it is clothed.	■
There are minds constructed like the eyes of certain insects, which discern with admirable distinctness the most delicate lineaments and finest veins of the leaf which bears them, but are totally unable to take in the ensemble of the plant or shrub. When error has effected an entrance, into such minds, it remains there impregnable, because no
general, view assists them in throwing off the chance impression of the moment. '
The injustice of men subserves the justice of God and often His mercy. <
Our vanity is the constant enemy of our dignity.	z
Providence has willed that all the virtues should originate in actual wants, and all the vices in factitious ones.
“Is not life useful when it is happy?” asks the egotist. “Is it not sufficiently happy when it is useful ? ” asks the good man.
We do not judge men by what they are in themselves, but what they are relatively to us.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Feehan, C. Bland, M. Campbell, R. Fishburne, L. Lancaster, A. Nash, Ave Price, Rasche, Simms, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Edie Call, Etta Call, Chirhart, M. Fishburne, Owens, Margaret Price, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Sawyer, Thompson, Adderly, Behler, L. English, Fleming, Mulligan, Newton, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Wagner, B. English, Eldridge, Green, Gavin, Ives, Northrop, M. Watson. 2d Tablet— Misses A. Dillon, Wiley, Beal, Chrischellis, Donnelly, Fendrick, J. Heneberry, McKenna, Wall, Barlow, Black, Coryell, Hackett, Legnard, McGordon, McCoy,’ Mary Price, J. Reilly, Rulison, Shickey, Wallace, Thomann, Fenlon, H. Hicks, Mulvey, Smith.
’	’ JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, A. Clarke, Chirhart, Coogan, M. Dillon, Robertson, Mosher, Krick, Sullivan, Richmond, Mary Otis, Best. 2d Tablet—Misses O’Neill, Martin, L. Heneberry, Paquette, Fehr, Ewing, Chaves, Morgan, Hibbins,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses A. English, J. English, Burtis, Rigney, Sawyer, Haney, Barry, J. McGrath, Martha Otis.
. Class Honors.
[The pupils mentioned in this list are those who have distinguished themselves in the Competitions held during the month.]
History—Misses Claffey, Cavenor, Galen, Walsh, Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Hanbury, Wiley; Logic—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Wiley; French—Misses E. Galen, Bland, Feehan, C. Lancaster, Beal, E. Call, Don-nely, McGordon, A. Nash, Owens, Price, M. A. Ryan, Shickey; Astronomy—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Fox, Feehan, Hanbury, L. Lancaster, Wiley; Rhetoric—Misses Etta Call, A. Chirhart, M. Fishburne, Ginz, Keenan, Legnard, C. Lancaster, S. Papin, Mary Price, Margaret Price, J. Reilly, V. Reilly, Rulison, Spangler, Thompson, Waters; Grammar—Misses Adderly, Behler, Clifford, M. Ducey, L. English, Eager, Fleming, Fenlon, Garrity, Mulligan, Newton, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Williams, A. Watson, Wagner, Chirhart, Robertson, N. Hicks, Coogan, B. English, Paquette, Considine, Dillon, Martin, Green, A. Clarke.
Other classes have not handed in reports.