Disce quasi semper victuras; viva quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA,* JUNE 24, 1885.
No. 42.
The American Constitution.—Its Triple ‘ Sovereignty.
Alumni Oration
Delivered at the 41st Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame,
By Hon. John Gibbons, A. M., ’68, of Chicago, Ill.
The British Colonies in North America, from the times when they were respectively settled until the breaking out of the Revolution, had no political connection with each other. Each colony or province possessed a domestic government, organized under a Commission, Grant, or Charter from the Crown of England, upon the feudal principle of fealty and allegiance to the King. The forms of government then existing in the Colonies are usually classified as Provincial, Proprietary, and Charter differing somewhat as to the mode of the appointment of the Executive and Council, but in other essential features they were substantially similar. Each constituent document contained certain reservations and restrictions to the effect that the ends for which the grant was made should be substantially pursued and that nothing should be done or attempted which might derogate from the sovereignty of the mother country.
To the student of Constitutional history these Charters are of great and absorbing interest. We find that under them one branch of the Legislative department, the lower House of the Assembly, was summoned directly from the body of the people—chosen by the freeholders of each Colony, who represented the popular will. It was these .branches of the Provincial Assemblies that took the initiatory steps in appointing committees to meet for the purpose of discussing their common grievances and to protest against the usurpations and infringements of their charter rights by the Crown and Parliament of England.
When the House of Burgesses assembled at Williamsburg, Virginia, in May, 1774, intelligence reached them that by virtue of an Act of Parliament the Port of* Boston was to be closed on the first day of June. They immediately passed a resolution setting apart that same day as a day of prayer and fasting “ to implore the Divine interposition for averting the heavy calamity which threatened destruction to their civil rights and the evils of
civil war, and to give them one heart and one mind firmly to oppose, by all just and proper means, every injury to American rights.”
The Royal Governor thereupon dissolved the House; but the representatives of the people,?' The Third Estate,” formed another hall—another memorable “Tennis-Court”—where they immediately assembled and resolved, that the interests of all the colonies were equally concerned in the late doings and usurpations of the Crown and Parliament. They thereupon appointed a committee of correspondence to consult with like committees of the other colonies as to the expediency of holding a general Continental Congress. The popular Assembly of Massachusetts, which met at Salem, on the 7th of June, of the same year, appointed a similar committee. These examples were followed by the other colonies, and on September 5th, 1774, the first Continental Congress, styling itself " The delegates appointed by the good people of these Colonies,” assembled at Philadelphia.
This Congress consisted of members or delegates from the respective colonies, each of which had causes of complaint against the mother country— the design being to discuss and set forth their respective grievances and look for redress in what they believed to be a Constitutional manner. It was not invested with any of the essential functions of government; but as new exigences arose, it adopted such measures as became necessary to guard the rights and liberties of the Colonies. It organized a Continental army, created a Continental currency, established a general Treasury Department, and did such other acts as were essential to the preservation of the common interests and protection of the colonies. It was not until aftei* the approval of the draft of the Declaration of Independence and the ratification of that instrument by the Continental or Revolutionary Congress that a complete union of a new national character was consummated; for, although the Colonies were in a state of revolution, they had not severed their connection with, nor dissolved their allegiance to the mother country.
Under the Declaration of Independence it was ordained and declared by the representatives of the Colonies,-in the name and by the authority of the people, “ that these united colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent States— absolved from all allegiance to the British Crown, —and that, as free and independent States, they
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
have full power to levy war, conclude peace, contract alliances, establish commerce, and do all other acts and things which independent States , may of right do. And for the support of this declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor.” Under this declaration of principles, the States were declared to be free and independent of each other, and their people, as a necessary consequence, absolved from all allegiance to the British Crown.
The people of the respective colonics—no longer the subjects of any King, Prince, Potentate, or ruler, in the exercise of that right inherent among men standing upon equality—were free to adopt any form of government they chose. In the exercise of that right they called into being a new sovereignty; not a sovereignty founded upon the feudal principle, but a sovereignty founded upon compact. This sovereignty they denominated a State, and the compact between themselves and the State they called a Constitution. Hence the term sovereignty, as applied to feudal institutions upon which the governments of many European countries—especially of England after the conquest —were founded, is unknown to American institutions. Under the feudal principle, we have sovereign and subject, lord and vassal. It regards the person of the sovereign as the object of allegiance and excludes the idea of equality between sovereign and subject. Feudalism contemplates the sovereign as reigning by divine right—the fountain of honor and authority, from whose grace and grant emanate all functions, franchises and immunities. We still retain the term sovereignty, but it is never ■ applied in its feudal sense. When we speak of the Sovereign Nation, the Sovereign State, the Sovereign People, we mean that power in which is vested the majesty of the law—the delegate of the State. .
A State is an artificial being, a complete body of free persons, united together for the purpose of enjoying common, protection under the law, and securing an impartial administration of justice.
“ Nothing which is exhibited on our globe,” says Cicero, “ is more acceptable to that divinity which governs the whole universe than these communities and assemblages of men which, lawfully associated, are denominated States.” To this artificial being, called the State, the people, by common consent, have transferred the prerogative of government. When it speaks, its voice is the voice of that divinity which governs the aggregate community denominated the State-Majesty.
Shortly after the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, the States, through their delegates appointed for that purpose, agreed upon an alliance or treaty which they styled “Articles of Confederation.” By these articles each State retained its sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every power, jurisdiction and right not expressly dele. gated to the United States in Congress assembled.
This was a friendly alliance among Sovereign States, entered into “for their common defense, the security of their liberties, and their mutual and
general welfare,” binding themselves to assist each other “ against all forces offered to, or attacks made upon them or any of them, on account of religion, sovereignty, trade, or any other pretence whatever.” The powers therein delegated to the United States were few and well defined, which were to be inviolably observed by every State. The Union under the Confederation was declared to be perpetual, and no alteration thereafter was to be made in any of the Articles of Confederation unless agreed to by a Congress of the United States and afterwards confirmed by the Legislature of every State. Time demonstrated that the alliance thus formed under the Confederation was inadequate to meet the wants of a great and growing nation. From the nature of its origin, it was necessarily a government of delegated and restricted powers. It “ began among the colonies, and grew out of common origin, mutual sympathies, kindred principles, similar interests and geographical relations. It was confirmed and strengthened by the necessities of war, and received definite form and character and sanction from the Articles of Confederation.” The Declaration of Independence was simply an arraignment of the sovereign, by his subjects, concluding with a mutual pledge of honor on the part of the subjects, each to the other, for their common protection and general welfare. The Articles of Confederation, being a treaty entered into by the States in their sovereign capacity, operated only upon the States, and.not upon the individual citizens thereof. It was soon ascertained that a government founded upon the narrow and restricted basis of the Articles of Confederation was inadequate to the wants of a great nation. Therefore the government of the Constitution was established, not by the delegates of the States, but by “ the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union,” etc.
The Articles of Confederation emanated from the States, but the Constitution emanated from the people and the States. It is a compact, therefore, binding alike upon the States and the. people. By it the union of the States is not only made perpetual, but indissoluble forever. And yet it has not destroyed or materially impaired the individual local sovereignty of the States. Under it, although the powers of the States are much restricted, all powers not delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the States, are reserved to the States respectively or to the people. The Government, under the Constitution, is so constituted that each State is endowed with all the functions essential to separate and independent existence, possessing all the powers—in local matters—possessed before the Union under the Constitution. This local sovereignty of the States is indispensable to the preservation of the Union, for without the States in the Union there could be no such political body as the United States. And, as is well said by a.great statesman and jurist, “ Not only, therefore, can there be no loss of separate and independent autonomy to the States, through their union under the Constitution, but it may be not unreasonably said that the pres
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ervation of the States and the maintenance of their-governments are as much within the design and care of the Constitution as the preservation of the union and the maintenance of the national Government. The Constitution in all its provisions looks to an indestructible union, composed of indestructible States.” We will search in vain the histories of nations to find a government similar to ours. Under the Government of the Constitution we have two sovereignties exercising governmental functions within the same territorial limits, each independent and supreme within its legitimate sphere. Each State has its own government, makes its own laws, establishes its own tribunals, elects its own officials and enforces its mandates within its own territorial limits: and although the line of demarcation between the government of the States and the government of the Union cannot be traced by landmarks discernible by the physical eye, yet, to the eye of the law, the line is as well defined as the great natural boundary which separates the territorial limits between the commonwealths of Iowa and Illinois—the Mississippi River. So that these two sovereignties, exercising jurisdiction within the limits of each State, stand in the same independent relation that they would if separated from each other by visible boundaries. Not only is this true, but, in the wisdom of the founders of this complex system of government, there can be no conflict of jurisdiction between the courts of these sovereignties, except such as may incidentally arise between the courts of the same sovereignty. In saying this, I am not unmindful of the fact that serious cases of conflict have arisen between the State and Federal tribunals. Yet there is no well-founded reason for such conflicts, as the separate powers of each sovereignty are clearly defined under the Constitution.
The founders of our government have declared, in no uncertain terms, that the Constitution and the Laws of the United States, which shall be made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land, and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. Hence it follows that, so soon as the Federal tribunal takes cognizance of a cause, or assumes jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the State tribunal eo instanti remains in abeyance until the Federal tribunal passes upon and decides the question. It is immaterial, therefore, whether the Federal tribunal has in law or in fact jurisdiction, or whether the law conferring jurisdiction is constitutional or not: the State tribunal must suspend further action in the case, so far as the merits of the controversy its concerned, as soon as it is brought to its knowledge that the Federal tribunal has assumed jurisdiction, or that the party seeking its jurisdiction has substantially complied with the provisions of the Federal law in that behalf enacted.
Mr. Justice Field, speaking for a majority of the Supreme Court of the United States in Tar-ble’s case, 13 Wallace, 407, draws the following clear, apt and forcible deduction from the argu
ments pro and con on this question of conflict of jurisdiction. He says: “ Whenever, therefore, any conflict arises between the enactments of the two sovereignties, or in the enforcement of their asserted authorities, those of the National Government must have supremacy until the validity of the different enactments and authorities can be finally determined by the tribunals of the United States. This temporary supremacy, until judicial decision by the National tribunals, and the ultimate determination of the conflict by such decision, are essential to the preservation of order and peace and the avoidance of forcible collision between the two governments.”
The citizens owe their first allegiance to the laws of the State from which they receive protection. The people, therefore, naturally look to the State for. all those blessings of peace and happiness which they enjoy. It is under the laws of the State the rights and liberties of the people are -regulated and protected in their relations to each other, as members of a common family. The title by which property is held, the manner of enjoying it, the mode and manner of its transfer, the descent and distribution thereof among the heirs of deceased persons, arc all regulated and governed by State laws. It is under the laws of the State that contracts of every name and nature pertaining to the various affairs of life are made, regulated and enforced. If a man commits an assault upon another, a trespass upon his property, assails his good name, or defames his character, it is to the laws of the State he looks for redress. In a word, it is under the laws of the State and its officers we are protected in safety and peace. In all matters pertaining to the life, liberty and property of the citizen, for which society is constituted, for which governments are ordained and established among o	*	o
men, the State is sovereign and supreme so long as it does not infringe upon certain rights delegated to the United States under the Constitution, O	7
inhibited to the States, or retained by the people. It is, among other things, inhibited to the States to pass any law impairing the obligations of a contract, to deprive any person of life, liberty or property, without due process of law, to deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.
Anything done or attempted by the State, even as against its own citizens, which would infringe upon or deprive them of any of these rights, would be contrary to the Supreme law of the land and the Federal tribunals would afford them redress and protection.
It is also provided in the Constitution that the United States shall guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government, and shall „ protect each of them against invasion or domestic violence. In these respects the United States stands in the nature of a legally constituted guardian of the States, to protect them, or either of them, from establishing any other than a republican form of government, to quell any domestic revolt which the local power of the State is unable to suppress, to prevent any State from intruding upon
664
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the rights and sovereignty of the other, and to protect each and all of them against invasion from foreign powers.
Having pointed out, in a cursory manner, the sovereignty of the State and the sovereignty of the Nation, it only remains for us to fix the status of the sovereignty of the citizen. The position which the citizen occupies in his sovereign capacity is difficult to clearly trace or intelligibly define. Wherein does this sovereignty consist, which is the boast of the citizen of the United States, and which distinguishes him from the subject under ' other forms of government? To answer this inquiry in a satisfactory manner it would become necessary to go back to first principles and trace the origin of Civil Government as first constituted by men in society for the preservation of order and peace; its growth and development as society progressed, its changes and transitions from the sept, or tribal, to the manorial or feudal governments: but as this would be impossible in the time allotted to me, I can only here deal with a few generalities. If we go back to the origin of government we are met, face to face, with the fact that man cannot exist in a state of nature separate and apart from society; and as government is necessary to preserve and to keep society in order, the right of sovereignty in man, as an absolute right, is inconsistent with the theory of government, and therefore an anomaly in law. Sovereignty presupposes a supreme, irresistible, uncontrollable authority; hence the right of sovereignty is not inherent in man— it is a right which pertains to him only as a member of society. These views may run counter to the popular notion of personal liberty, as well as to the accepted theories of law-writers, and, it may be urged, that they place man in a condition of dependance on society for everything which pertains to him, even for life itself. But if we lay aside the visionary speculations of theorists and come down to the practical reality, are they not correct? Man cannot exist without society, and to society, therefore, is he indebted for all the rights, absolute and relative, which he enjoys. “ All men are created equal, and are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; to secure these rights governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.” Accepting this definition of the equality of man as correct from a legal standpoint, yet it must be conceded that it applies to him only as a member of society. When we speak, therefore, of personal liberty, of the sovereignty of the citizen, the equality of all men, and the inalienable rights of individuals, it does not detract one iota from their force to say that these rights only belong to man in common with all others as members of society. The citizen, then, is sovereign in the sense that he lives, acts, and has his being under a government of his choice—a government which derives its just powers from the consent of the governed. If it be urged that it is not a government of his choice, that it does not derive its powers from his consent
as one of the governed, the answer is that his consent is expressed through the will of the majority. It- is essential to the preservation and perpetuity of all human institutions that the will of the majority should prevail. If it were otherwise, order and law would give way to confusion and chaos and there would be no stability in any form of government instituted among men.
The citizen of the United States is also sovereign in the sense that whenever the government becomes destructive of the ends for which it was created it is the right of the majority to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness. Herein lies the distinguishing characteristic between the sovereign citizen who lives under a government of his choice and the subject under governments founded upon the feudal principle. This sovereign right of the citizen of the United o o
States to alter or abolish the government is not an inalienable right without the Constitution, but a privilege secured him under the Constitution. For neither the citizen in his individual, nor in his aggregate capacity, can alter or abolish the government of the Constitution except in strict conformity with the mode provided in that instrument. Any change made or attempted, even through the medium of the ballot, otherwise than in the manner therein directed, would be as fatal a blow to Constitutional forms of government as if struck by the iron hand of armed rebellion.
It will be seen, therefore, that from the difference existing between feudal sovereignties and governments founded upon compact, such as ours, it necessarily follows that their respective prerogatives differ. There the power flows from the king or ruler; here it springs from the people: there it proceeds from above; here it emanates ’ from below; there the sovereigns govern as masters of the people; here president and governor are but the agents and servants of the people: there princes have personal powers, dignities and pre-eminences; here those whom we select as our rulers are mere officials, whose powers are defined and limited, nor. do they partake of the sovereignty otherwise than as citizens. '
If we would profit by the lessons of the past, these considerations must be kept steadily in view. Every man familiar with the -slow but successive steps through which liberty passed from the people to their feudal rulers; with the manner in which the tenure of office, at first elective, for a limited period, and as a public trust, became hereditary and as a proprietary right, will appreciate the necessity of guarding against encroachments upon the fundamental principles found in that great charter of the people, the Constitution.
The inestimable boon of citizenship, the right to exercise the elective franchise, is so easily acquired that those who stand most in need of the protection which it affords are too apt to underestimate its true worth. Unless we study the history of the past so as to understand and appreciate the nature
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	66;

of the revolutions through which the great principles of liberty, guaranteed to us under the Constitution, were wrested from the iron grasp of tyranny, we are unworthy to take our places in the ranks of American citizenship.
The man who pollutes the ballot-box by fraud, corruption, or intimidation commits treason against the institutions of his country. It is worse than the murder of his king, because he strikes down the palladium of' his rights and the barriers which shield him from oppression and tyranny. The ballot should not be placed in the hands of any man who does not appreciate the responsibility which attaches to the elective privilege.
We must not overlook the fact, however, that the laws are made for men as we find them, and not the men for the laws. Cicero informs us that in ancient Rome the very boys were obliged to learn the twelve tables by heart as an indispensable lesson to imprint on their tender minds an early knowledge of the laws and constitution of their country. In a government of the people; in a country in which political, civil, and religious liberty is the very end and scope of the Constitution, why should we not follow the example of ancient Rome by making it incumbent upon every youth in the land to study the Constitution? Make it a text-book in the common schools, for they are maintained by the munificent bounty of the State; and the grants which secure this bounty are protected by the Constitution; make it a text-book in academies and colleges, for their great properties, privileges, and franchises, held under the laws of the States, are made inviolable by the Constitution; so that, in the preservation and perpetuity of this great instrument, we are all alike interested— under it we are protected in our rights, properties, and privileges.
In a recent case decided in Michigan, Mr. Justice Cooley took occasion to say: “Personally, I have little care how this case shall be decided; but it seems to me that on Constitutional questions the Court is drifting to this position; that those Statutes are Constitutional which suit us, and those are void which do not.” This is a sad commentary upon the judiciary; yet the Judges of that State and of every State in the Union are far in advance of the people in patriotic devotion to the Constitution.. In a recent and somewhat celebrated case in Iowa, Chief Justice Day, in delivering the majority opinion of the Court, holding that a Constitutional amendment, adopted by an overwhelming majority, was unconstitutional because the amendment was not submitted to the people in the manner pointed out by the Constitution, took occasion to say: “We have approached and discussed this grave question with , a full appreciation of the responsibilities which it involves, and we have given to its consideration the earnest attention which its importance demands. We have sought to maintain the supremacy of the Constitution at whatever hazard. It is for the protection of minorities that constitutions are framed. Sometimes constitutions must be interposed, for the protection of majorities even against themselves. Constitutions
are adopted in times of public repose, when sober reason holds her citadel, and are designed to check the surging passions in times of popular excitement. But if courts could be coerced by popular majorities into a disregard of their provisions, Constitutions would become mere ‘ ropes of sand,’ and there would be an end of social security and of constitutional freedom. The Constitution is the palladium of republican freedom. The young men coming forward upon the stage of political action must be educated to venerate it; those already upon the stage must be taught to obev it. Whatever interests may be advanced or may suffer, whoever or whatever may be ‘ voted up or voted down,’ no sacreligious hand must be laid upon the Constitution.” Judge Day was relegated to private life, but he performed a patriotic duty in a great way. While in the keeping of a patriotic judiciary, who had wisdom enough ‘topluck up the weeds that grew in the richest soils and among the brightest flowers,” the Constitution will not suffer; but if through the venality or cowaidice of the judiciary Constitutions shall become mere “ ropes of sand,” the future historian who will write the decline and fall of American institutions, will place the name of Day beside the names of Marshall, and Taney, and Chase, and Davis, and the great and patriotic judges who acknowledged no fealty greater than loyalty to the Constitution, and feared no consequences except those resulting from dereliction of duty.
It was the peculiar boast of 'the Roman Emperors who first consolidated and codified the Roman laws, that they governed the various provinces of their vast empire, not merely by force, but by the influence of their rule; and that they not only subdued the barbarians by their power, but civilized them by their law. It was long the peculiar boast of Englishmen that a slave.or negro, o	O 7
the moment he landed in England became a free man, as defined by Magna Charta, and was entitled to the protection of her laws. But notwithstanding the glorious charter of Runney-mede, very many years elapsed before the advance of thought and growth of jurisprudence would extend the word “ freeman ” to include every British subject.
Nor was this peculiar alone to that age and clime, for in our own country, and in our own times, were found five millions of human beings without the pale or protection of the law, desti- • tute of every civil and political right. Our great Charter of liberty proclaimed the equality of men; but this, in the light of the history of the times, was meant for a race of men and not for all mankind. But thought advances, and progress marches, and the finger of revolution, guided by the hand of Time, has written in letters of blood in the Constitution of the United States the equality of all men before the law.	'	-	'	,
Then, may we not boast of the grandeur of our institutions, and the civilizing influences which our laws are producing among a people composed of different nationalities and races, differing in sentiments, tastes and training? Ebi* it imay be safely
666
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
asserted that in no other nation is the majesty of the law held in such profound reverence as in the United States. “The Constitution of the United States is a law for rulers and people, equally in war and peace, and covers with the shield of its protection all classes of men, at all times and under all circumstance.” It is a law binding alike upon the States and the people, and this law is the source? of all power in which the rights of sovereignty reside. We revere and obey the mandates of the law because the law is our national deity. The government of the Constitution “ is a government of laws, not of men.” It is a government which, in the wisdom of our statesmen under the Providence of God, will last while time beats in measured unison upon the shores of eternity.
Our Class—1885.
By W. H. Johnston, ’85.
Read at the Forty-First Annual Commencement.
I ■	—■
“ Our Class ”—There’s a soul in those words, A meaning felt deep in each heart:
Strange thoughts cluster round as we pause On* the spot where our lives drift apart.
“ Our Class ”—These are words we shall treasure As laden with memories bright—
Words whose dear recollections in future Will bring to us dreams of delight.
Our lives have a mission on earth;
Coming years will bring pleasures and cares:
And the friendships that ripened in school-days The world neither knows of nor shares;
And it matters to none but ourselves What harvest from past days we reap:—
Those days are now buried like rain-drops That fall on the breast of the deep.
To speak of the years that have passed,
Or the grief of the final farewell,
Would be only like mournfully tolling Our college-days’ funeral-knell.
To recall from the past her sweet memories
And tell of fair days that are fled, Would be only like roaming regretful
Through silent abodes of the dead.
Like a stream where it enters the ocean To mingle itself with the main,	-
Our lives leave a peace-blest dominion To enter where ruder kings reign.	■
We know not the life that awaits us, That lies like a far, hidden way t
Leading on from a portal concealing
The dim future years from to-day. -	-
Oh, could we throw open the portal .
That hides from our wondering gaze
The destiny held by the future,
And catch but one glimpse of those days
Which our hearts are so eagerly waiting,— Which dreams paint in brilliant array,—
Oh, could we but open the portal .
And look on the future to-day!
Yet perhaps disappointments unthought-of
Lie hid by that portal from view;
And perhaps there’s more pleasure in dreaming
Than if we unerringly knew '
What those days that we long for'will bring us;
And while these sweet visions may last, It were better to dream of a future
With the mystical portal barred fast.
If the opening portal would show us
A picture less perfectly fair	1
Than the one that our fancy has painted—
If dark mists of sorrow be there—
Then, open it not—bar it closer—
Let but Hope paint in splendor those years;— The brush in a hand that is ruder
Might yield but a vision of tears.
For Hope paints the fairest of pictures
Which knowledge might only destroy;
To know would too often but banish -The tenderest visions of joy.
And Hope is the soul of contentment,—
Even that to a child which is given Who toils toward the foot of the rainbow.
To climb to a mother in heaven.
Dear Classmates:—While Hope paints a future
Of honor, of love and of peace,
May your life-scenes in brightness unfolding ’ With time in their splendor increase!
May your guides be your conscience and knowledge, May men with respect speak each name:—
May the portal concealing your future Conceal but a labor-earned fame!
When your life-day is nearing its ending, May a retrospect glance bring content!
May the dreams of the past be but pictures
From years you have worthily spent:
Like the sun looking backward in grandeur
O’er the day ere he sinks in the. West, May you look o’er a mission completed, And over a world you have blessed!
The “ Jerusalem Delivered,” of Torquato Tasso.
’	“ Make thou my song lucid and pure,
Breathe thou the flame divine into my bosom.”
It is Tasso who speaks, who calls upon the muse to aid him as he sings the praises and adventures of the first Crusaders,—Tasso, the poet of Italy, around whose name hangs a halo of reverence and admiration. His life was one of singular sorrow and misfortune. After a short and happy boyhood, he was called from his mother’s side, and from that time until his death he met little else but disappointment. For some time he was under the protection of the Duke of Ferrara, and enjoyed the company of many learned men. He wrote various verses and sonnets, and, finally, his Aminta won for him great distinction. It seems as if fate has ordained that those whom she has endowed with superior intellectual abilities, shall pay for the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
precious gift by mental and bodily suffering, and Tasso proved no exception to the general rule. During long years his most earnest labor, his chief delight and his sweetest solace was the composition of the “Jerusalem Delivered.” When other friends proved faithless, he found it ever ready to soothe his lonely hours. Much time was passed in writing, revising, smoothing and beautifying the one object of his interest. It was of his own creation—something which to him was not inanimate. It was too full of noble heroes, of lively scenes and deeds to be without life; and when the envious pens of Antoniano and Sperone scratched and marred his treasure, we know they must likewise have wounded his sympathetic heart. But the criticisms of his pretended friends was not the greatest sorrow which awaited him. He soon learned that his private papers had been obtained, and that his poem was being printed in various cities of Italy. Overcome with melancholy, imaginary fears agitated his mind, and he fled from his protector who afterwards, for unknown reasons, sent him to an asylum which served as a home for the very pool* and insane. While here, were sown the seeds of the disease which brought him to an early grave. Among his other sorrows, he mourned the death of Lenora, the Princess d’Este, for whom he had long entertained feelings of the deepest affection, and who was often the theme of his choicest verses.
Tasso passed many months in the dreary prison. All his entreaties and those of his friends proved fruitless, and he was left with harsh treatment, gloomy surroundings, and jiarrassing thoughts for his only companions. During this time his epic was completed and published in full, and while all Italy was glorying in the possession of such a masterpiece, its author was condemned to the crudest suffering.
Finally, Tasso was released, but his mind and his health were alike impaired. Kind attention was bestowed upon him by several of his friends, and some time was passed in endeavors to restore him to himself once more. As an acknowledgment of his virtues and his genius, he was about to be crowned with laurels by the Pope, but ere the ceremony could be performed, a messenger from another world placed round his brow the bright and more lasting crown of eternal happiness.
, The work which has rendered famous the name of Tasso, is epic in character. The subject is one worthy of immortalization, and is so well known that we need not here dwell upon an explanation. The action lasts during one season, and all the events of that time are described in twenty cantos.
In the person of Rinaldo, Tasso has represented one of the members of the House of Este, and by some the whole poem is considered as complimentary to the prince who in his early years showed him such marked esteem, and whom Tasso never ceased to consider as one of his best friends.
We are unable to appreciate the entire value of the original, for a translation is, at best, but a poor imitation of the thoughts and expressions of the author. Thus we know that many of the beau?
ties.to be found in the Italian editions are lost when converted into'the colder language of Britain.
By some the Jerusalem is preferred to the^Eneid, and by all it is ranked no lower than third among the epics of all ages and nations.
The poem opens with a review of the troops before the last grand enterprise—the siege of Jerusalem—was undertaken. Although the train is long, the commanders many, Tasso does not tire with repetitions. The interest of the reader is kept alive here, as throughout the entire composition, and as his ready pen describes the grand array of knights and soldiers, the whole bright pageant passes before our eyes, and we join them with enthusiasm in their hardships, their trials, and their glory. The army is then conducted near the city and encamps for many days without its walls. While here, many are the exploits which the imaginative mind of the poet introduces, and so nicely are the fictitious incidents connected with the plot, that they never detract from the unity of the whole.
The characters are distinctly drawn, and the principal ones stand out in bold relief from the mass of common soldiers. We see Godfrey always the same noble knight, ever exhibiting the virtues of honor, piety and self-controE His appearance is well portrayed in the few words which describe his recognition by Argantes:
“ For genuine worth, tho’ negligent, is crown’d
With a sufficient ornament, array’d in its own excellence.”
His high sense of duty is shown in every word he speaks, in every action he performs; and his answer to the treacherous entreaties of Athetes, in which he says
“For not the lusts of power or gold afiect
The heart of him who ranks beneath the Cross,” breathes forth his master passion—devotion to his God.
Raymond, the good old night, who, “ old as he was, was still too young to fear,” must not pass by unnoticed. His battle with Argantesl in which he was protected by a celestial warrior, is a striking example of the spirit which actuated the soldiers of the first crusade.
Among the pagans are the bold chiefs and rulers whose courage wins admiration, while the secret plots of Ismeno, and the dark deeds of Idrartes awaken feelings of the deepest contempt for the deceitful intrigues of the sorcerers.
Tasso’s descriptive power is not inferior. In the battle between Argantes and Tancred so clearly does he sing their strength and the terror of the combat, that reality itself could make us feel but little more the horrors which his words describe. The combat grows fiercer and fiercer. The heavy armor of both warriors is pierced and the life-blood of each has tinted the dark soil. Still their stubborn pride will not let swords be sheathed, but on they fight until, in the words of the poet,
“The sage Pindoro spoke:
‘ “ Suspend, my sons, your rage:	.
Equal your glory, equal is your might.
No longer thus, th’inyeterate warfare wage,
668
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

And with rude sounds, unamiable, affright . Rashly the holy ear of quiet-keeping night.
Lull’d in soft rest, by night each creature lies, Man should but toil while shines the daily sun; And noble bosoms will but lightly prize . E’en noble deeds in silent darkness done.’ ”
From the fatigue and horror of war, we are transported within the city where the gentle pagan, Erminia, burning with an ardent love for Tancred, mourns his sad condition, and yearns to relieve his pain. Guided by a noble purpose, she leaves the gates and reaches in safety the Christian camp; but, ere she can be made known to Tancred, she is seen and pursued. After a night of anxiety she finds herself in the vicinity of a shepherd’s home. The quiet, the beauty of the scene, the kindness of the old flock-tender and the rural life of the princess are in striking contrast with the chivalrous pictures of the preceding canto:
“ Oft when her flocks from summer’s noon-tide rays Lay in cool shades, o’er-arched by gadding rivers, She carved on beeches and immortal lays, Her Tancred’s name; and left the mossy pines With sad inscriptions flourished; silent signs Of the unhappv flame her fancy fed:
And when again she saw her own fond lines, As she the melancholy fragments read,
Fresh tears of grief unchecked, her lovely eyes would shed.”
The fidelity of Erminia grows no less, and in order to reach again the camp near Jerusalem, she leaves her happy retreat, and joins the Egyptian army. She is conducted by Vaforni, the Christian spy, towards the Holy City; and on their way they find the long-sought knight, who, at last victorious over his enemy, Argantes, had left him lifeless on the plain, while he himself had paid the price of his success by many a serious wound.
Far different from the sweet Erminia is Clorinda, the woman warrior. Her beauty, strength and valor excite the admiration of Tancred and sway him sometimes from the path of duty. Perhaps no passage is more touching than that depicting the death of Clorinda, who, unknown to Tancred, engages in single combat with him, and is slain by the sword of him who ever sought to protect her.
The strange history of her life adds to the chain of fascination which had been forged bv her previous exploits with the crusaders; and her dying words form the last link which unites her life of adventure to that of life everlasting.
“ Friend, thou hast won. I pardon thee, and O, Forgive thou me. I fear not for this clay, But my poor soul. Pray for it, and bestow The sacred rite that laves all stains away.”
The agony which Tancred experienced when he discovered his antagonist to be the fair Clorinda! the long days and nights of mental suffering! and then, the plaintive voice in the forest when, his cruel sword pierced, not the oak, but the spirit which haunted him ever. Surely the poet must himself have suffered great grief in order to de. pict so vividly the mourning days of Tancred.
But, perhaps, the most interesting portion of'the “Jerusalem,” and that which Tasso himself liked best, is that relating the adventures of Rinaldo, - the beautiful bpy knight, who, in a moment of pas
sionate rage slew Gernando, and then submitted to self-exile. The deep treachery of Armida, which had often before caused discord in the camp, now had full play upon the forlorn youth. She found him sleeping and bore him to an enchanted island, where for many days he lived a life of luxury, until, at last, guided by a hermit of the desert, two messengers from Godfrey gained access to the fairy palace, and roused him from his indolence.
The description of the voyage of the two knights is full of beauty and interest. The distant views of old cities rising on the coast—the wide islands, teeming with birds and flowers, which had. never yet been touched by selfish, practical man, the placid waters, tinted with brilliant hues, obeying the command of the fair sailor who safely bore them in her gondola over “ Old Ocean’s wide expanse,” and then Armida’s palace, the crystal lakes, the shady bowers, the green slopes, all these Tasso has combined, and his lively imagination has enabled him to draw so clearly the picture, that, like a faultless mirror, his words cast a perfect picture on our minds.
Leaving the fainting Armida, the charming gardens and bowers, Rinaldo flies with his companions back to Asiatic lands, where a universal welcome awaits the savior of the army. He alone is able to rid the forest of the demons which had been loosed from Inferno. On him depends the success of all future undertakings, and it is his great gift of courage, united to the wisdom of Godfrey, that in the end gives the protracted war a happy termination.
The subject of the last canto is the attack on Jerusalem, and the picture is one of valorous deeds, heroic self-sacrifice and brave resistance. The impetuous Egyptians, with their grand display of numbers and boasted power, contrast with the small body of Christians, so resolute, so calm, so undaunted. Both armies are eager for the conflict. It has begun, and then the poet sings the deeds of that glorious day in language well deserved by the heroes who fought in the cause of all Christendom.
The sweet death of Edward and Gildeppe, the last moments of the Egyptian prince and the despair of Armida are well portrayed, and Tasso, having completed his happy task, brings his poem to a brief close with the stanza:
“Thus conquered Godfrey, and as yet there glowed A flush of glory in the fulgent West;
To the freed city, the once loved abode
Of Christ, the pious chief and armies press’d: Arm’d as he was, and in his sanguine vest, With all his knights in solemn cavalcade, , He reached th.e temple; then, supremely bless’d. Hung up his arms, his banner'd spoils display’d, And at the sacred tomb his vow’d devotions paid.”
Tasso possesses the happy faculty of shifting the scene from place to place, to relieve the monotony of a single site; and after a journey of many miles we find ourselves once more near the Holy City, refreshed and delighted, without having lost the connection with the preceding part.
Thus the realities of the. war form a strong frame-wprk, whose grandeur vve must ever admire.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	669
While around this the poet has twined so closely the beautiful wreaths of romance, the whole appears as one vast structure of interwoven flowers, the purest and fairest lilies being the souls of Godfrey, -while those of the lawless infidels are the deep, blood-red carnations.
Etta L. Call, Sf. Mary's Academy.
St. Edward’s Park, Notre Dame, Ind.
Heavenly silence, only broken by the whip-poor-will’s sweet calling,	.
Or the soft, low, soothing music of the fountains, dripping, falling
Like a shower of crystal rain-drops, with the sunlight sparkling thro’,
While the breeze across the “ AVE ” scatters spray like morning dew.
Blessed be the loving workers, faithful hands that gladly bring
All their best, of plant and blossom, to do honor to the King—
Good St. Edward, Royal Patron of the princely heart that reigns
As a monarch, well-beloved, o’er Our Lady's fair domains;
Blessed hands that plant the seedlings, water them, and watch them grow,
That in this world reap 'no glory from the harvest that they sow;	.
But hereafter, when the saplings leafy arches make o’er-head,
Over these “ United States ” their giant branches shall outspread,
“ Princes,” yet unborn, shall bless you as this pleasant Park they tread!
Graceful thought, of knightly bosom—for a “ Prince ” should blameless be,
First in honor, truth and courage, and all gentle courtesy;
Pure in heart, in word, and action; just in duties, great and small,
Like “St. Edward’s” saintly Founder—shining model for them all 1
Hiffh above his throne of blossoms, with his emblem in his hand,
In the future as the present, still may good King Edward stand;
Tho’ beyond the hallowed precincts of his realm the boys have passed,	'
Keeping, as their lives bear witness, hearts ..of “ Princes ” to the last.
May the Christian world thus know them “without fear ■ 1 and without blame,”
As the men God loves to honor, “ who were ‘ Princes ’ of Notre Dame! ”
Men, who scorn a thought ignoble; men whom all may love and trust,
And whose names shall live forever on the Tablets of the Just.
May they stand, when earthly honor -with its fleeting joys take wing,
Crowned with, glory everlasting in the Palace of the King!
Items from St. Mary’s Academy.
—Very Rev. Father General made a special visit to the pupils in the study-hall on Sunday evening.	,
—In the ornamental needle-work room, the display has never been excelled. Miss Munger has ' distinguished herself by the variety and perfection of her embroidery; the same may be said of the Misses Fitzpatrick, Alcott, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, M. Scully, K. Cox, of the Seniors; and the Misses Snowhook, Regan and Keys, of the Juniors.
—Among the visitors of the week are, Mrs. Sweet, Class of ’81; Mrs. English, of Columbus, O.; Mrs.’Church, of Denver; Justice Scully and wife, of Chicago; Mrs. Shephard, and Mrs. Balch, of Nebraska; Mrs. Gilkie, of Chicago; Mrs. Schmauss, of Rockford; Mrs. Lauer, of Rochester, Ind.; Mrs. Carmien, Elkhart; Mrs. Kidder, Monica, HL; Mrs. B. Coquillard, South Bend, and Miss Nold, Louisville, Ky.
—The examinations in vocal and instrumental music were closed.on Tuesday. An hour and a half every day, after the usual class duties of the day, has been devoted to the strict scrutiny of progress of each pupil since the last session. Beside ' the Board of Examiners, composed of the musical corps, presided by the Prefect of Studies, the Rev. Chaplain, Father Shortis, and the assistant Chaplain, Rev. Father Saulnier, have honored the department by their presence, which is the more to be valued because they have followed for years the progress of many through the various grades. The Superiors and lady visitors have also made their criticisms. The only regret w.as the absence of Very Rev. Father General. He will be pleased to learn that general satisfaction was given, and that the music department keeps on in its steady progress.	.
—The exhibition in St. Luke’s Studio embraces some magnificent work. A door-screen consisting of three pieces is the work" of Miss Munger, and the most notable feature of the exhibit. The centre-piece is of variegated chrysanthemums; at the right is a “Lake Scene,” at the left a “Forest View.” The frame, in excellent keeping with the beautiful painting, is of mahogany, elegantly carved and stained to imitate cherry. Two Italian heads in oil, by the same young lady, are admirable, with frames no less elegant than the piece first mentioned. Three paintings by Miss . Sheekey, “ The Fisher’s Daughter,” “The Fisher’s Return,” and an exquisite “Fruit Piece,” are very fine. Others, almost equally admirable, are the' work of the Misses Dunne, Heckard, Fuller, McSorley, and Shephard, in oil. The china-painting ’ done by the Misses Shephard and Richmond is very beautiful. The twin-sisters Gordon have some charming work, and deserve mention for their close and intelligent application. In the next issue of the Scholastic a more elaborate notice will be given.	.
I
670
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame. June 24, 1885.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip.concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sr.jo fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—The last number of the present volume of the Scholastic will be issued on Wednesday next. It will contain an account of all the proceedings of Commencement, together with a list of the Degrees, Honors, Prizes, etc., which could not appear in the present number. . It will also present a full report of the Commencement at St. Mary’s Academy.
—We may he permitted the publication of the following extract from a letter received from a student of last year as illustrating the well-known thoroughness and efficiency of our Law Course at Notre Dame:
“I passed the examination all right. Out of a class of 68, thirty-eight passed. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court said that it was the hardest examination ever had in the State. There were one hundred and fifty questions, and most of them were divided and subdivided into two or three others. The greatest difficulty of the examination was that there were a great-many mooted questions asked. The chairman of the board of examiners asked me who my preceptor was. When I’informed him that it was Prof.-----------, of Notre Dame, he said that he must be a fine lawyer and painstaking teacher, or my paper would not be so good as it was. I read nothing else but our State Statutes and your lectures in preparing for the examination, and but very few questions were asked that the lectures did not cover. About ten questions were asked on Common Law and Equity Pleadings, and I was the only one who answered them all correctly, .You know how to account for that ”	.
Commencement.
Commencement week opened on Monday the 22d inst. The regular summer examinations were ended at noon, and in a short time thereafter everything was ready to determine the standing of the students and the various awards to be assigned, like the laurel wreaths of old, as tokens of honorable merit and special aptitude and application. Out-limited space obliges us to postpone to our next number the publication of the “ Averages.” We may say, however, that the reports of the examinations have been pronounced most satisfactory, and the averages show a general application and good will on the part of the students during the past year—all of which, while redounding greatly to their credit, gives the most hopeful augury of even brighter years in the student history of Notre Dame.
As the afternoon progressed, the friends and relatives of the students and other visitors began to gather from all parts, so that when the time came for the evening exercises, Washington Hall was well filled with a large and appreciative audience assembled to witness the inauguration of the Commencement exercises, by the
GRAND ORATORICAL CONTEST.
This contest was held between a number of the advanced students, all of whom were at the same time members of the renowned Euglossian Association. The conditions of victory were made dependent upon merit of composition combined with excellence of delivery. Among the visiting friends, four were selected who kindly consented to act as “Judges”; they were: Hon. John Gibbons, ’68, A. M., Chicago, Ill.; Hon. Wm. Johnston, East Townsend, O.; Hon. Lucius G. Tong, ’62,and A. J. Egbert, Esq., South Bend, Ind. The contestants were Messrs. J. J. Conway, D. C. Saviers and T. F. Callaghan, of whom we shall speak more particularly in the course of this report.
Promptly at 7.30 o’clock the exercises of the evening were opened by the College Band, with a grand introductory march rendered in a style indicative of the high degree of proficiency to which it has attained. In our local columns will be found the -personnel of this organization, together with a special mention of their general efficiency.
When the Band had concluded, Mr. J. J. Conway, a Graduate of the Law Department of ’85, appeared upon the stage, and opened the contest, amid the applause of his fellow-students. His theme was “National Greatness,” and in his treatment of the subject, displayed great eloquence and a good command of language. After a few words of introduction, he announced that he proposed to consider “in what national greatness consists, and how we shall preserve it, and how near we are to it as compared with .other nations.” “That nation,” said the speaker, “is truly great which best affords its citizens the means of attaining the ends -for. whigh, nations were estab"
I
'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	671
lished.” Those ends were, not to satisfy individual ambition, nor to make desolate the earth in order to centralize wealth and opulence in one narrow district, but that nations might live on equal terms with each other and enjoy the bountiful blessings of life. Our national greatness is based upon a strong and unshakable foundation laid by our forefathers and cemented by the blood of the patriots of 1776— a foundation revealed by the motto emblazoned on the banner of the United States—“ Liberty, Justice and Equality.” The speaker proceeded to give a concise and withal interesting history of the English common law as the basis of our own laws, and he showed that our laws were the foundation of our greatness as the preservatives of our liberties, and therefore called for eternal vigilance on the part of every true citizen of the Republic. The peroration was an eloquent appeal to the students of Notre Dame to be ever mindful of the instructions received, and that the laws of the nation are the great bulwark of our liberties. .“ Yes, fcl-low-students,” concluded the speaker, “ we shall soon be called upon to take our parts in the great drama of life:—for honor’s sake, for Notre Dame’s sake, for our beloved country’s sake, let us act then as befitting students of Notre Dame and citizens of the United States. And when the twilight of old age sets in upon the day of our life, may it be our consolation to look back upon the glorious noonday of our earthly existence with pleasure and happiness.” Mr. Conway retired amid great and prolonged applause.
An intermission followed, during which Master J. J. Monschein, a bright young Cecilian of the Junior department, delivered a declamation entitled “ The Gladiator.” In its rendition he showed good and careful training; he spoke with clear, distinct enunciation, and his gestures were particularly fine. Next came a song and chorus—“ Home, My own dear Mountain Home!”—in which the solo was beautifully taken by Master Willie Devine, whose clear, ringing soprano voice was displayed to good advantage.
The second speaker of the contest, Mr. D. C. Saviers, then appeared, and when the applause which greeted him had subsided, he announced his subject, “Oratory and Eloquence.” In his introduction he said: “ there are men that have built themselves monuments of lasting fame, which serve as stones in the mosaic walk that leads back to the beginning of time, but none of these polished blocks are more beautiful and solid than those that are emblazoned with the names of the famous orators.” The speaker then eloquently passed in review before him, Demosthenes and Cicero of old, and Patrick Henry, Daniel O’Connell and other orators of modern times. “ Who,” said the speaker, “ has read the history of past nations and men; who has ever bestowed more than a passing thought upon the changes of empires and nations, without ultimately coming to the conclusion that eloquence owes its worth and greatness to Liberty—that Liberty has received the most beneficial results from eloquence.” Mr. Savier’s effort was well received, #nd as he retired with- applause', he was made the
recipient of a number of beautiful floral offerings.
Master Joseph Garrity, a prominent young Cecilian, then recited “ The Sailor-Boy’s Dream,” and his clear, distinct articulation and correct modulation of voice, with appropriate gesture, called forth great applause. This was followed by a song and chorus, “ The Prayer from Rossini’s Moses in Egypt,” which was a gem in the musical line and rendered in an artistic manner reflecting the greatest credit on the skill of the talented Director of the Orpheonic Association. The soprano solo by Master Willie Devine and the tenor solo by Mr. E. Riley were well rendered, and the bass solo was particularly fine. The whole was well received by the delighted audience.
The third speaker of the contest, Mr. T. F. Callaghan, then appeared, and, like his fellowcompetitors, was heartily greeted with applause. His subject was “ Patriotism,” and in its treatment he showed deep thought and study. “It is an established fact,” he said, “ that no nation can have continued existence unless the hearts of its people be warmed by the sacred fire of Patriotism.” In glowing and eloquent words the speaker paid a noble tribute to the memory, grand achievements and high motives of the distinguished patriots of ancient and modern times. He struck the keynote of his excellent discourse when he said: “Love of country is second only to love of God, and he who pours out his life’s blood in defence of his country is a brother to him who lays down his life for his faith.” Mr. Callaghan was heartily applauded as he concluded.
Mr. F. Dexter, of the Orpheonic Association, then presented an impersonation entitled “ The Spanish Duel.” The graceful movements and gestures, the varied intonations of voice from lively and gay to harsh and severe, called for by the exigencies of the piece, were given so correctly and dramatically as to evoke the prolonged enthusiasm of the audience. It was an, artistic production and showed the careful training which has developed powers that will be invaluable in the higher flights of oratory.	-
Mr. D. Byrnes, though not a competitor for the oratorical prize, concluded the evening’s entertainment with an earnest, thoughtful, and well-delivered discourse on the “ Progress of our Age.”
The “contest”—which, by the way, was not en-tirelv confined to the orators of the evening, there being a minor contest for the prize in elocution between those who declaimed—presented one of the, most enjoyable features of Commencement time. The decision of the judges will be made known this (Wednesday) morning. We may say that all the competitors reflected the greatest credit on themselves, and though but one obtains the prize, yet al? have lost nothing, but profited much by, the struggle for victory.	.
The exercises of Tuesday and Wednesday will be told in our next number. The Premiums were distributed yesterday afternoon at 5 o’clock, in the presence of numerous friends and visitors. The evening exercises were carried out as programme in pur local columns,	,	,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exch.ang'es-
One by one he turns them over, Scowls at this one, smiles at that;
This one marks across the cover, Throws that to the office cat;
Here he clips a commendation, There he writes a blue grim “ set”;
Marks here a slanderous allegation, There steals ail that he can get.
Through what wide realm his fancy ranges The man who edits the exchanges.
—Cornell Era.
_____It is with almost a feeling of envy that we take up one college exchange after another and tead the announcement, “This is the last number of the------—-------for the present college year.” Notre Dame is one of the last of the leading colleges to give the class of *85 their sheepskins and close her doors for the summer. We must, of course, bear the burden of an extra number of the Scholastic,—and, by the way, this burden seems to grow heavier as we draw to the final issue. It will therefore be with no little pleasure that we shall write the word “ finis ” at the end of this batch of Exchange notes and bid farewell to college editing. The task has been a pleasant one, but we have had a goodly share of it and will gladly resign the position of Exchange editor to some one more ambitious than ourselves for journalistic honor.
_____The St. James Reveille—from the St. James Military Academy—rather an odd name for a military academy—is a very neat little paper, and well edited withal. The S’/. James is young, and may grow and wax strong.
_____Our advice to Rouge et Noir—from Trinity College, Toronto—is, to open an Exchange department. Excepting the dailies—of which there arc only three—a college paper without an Exchange department is away behind the times.
_____The Academica, from the University of Cincinnati, has transformed itself into an advertisingcircular. Excepting a column and a half of personal notes, Academica is for the nonce filled with college advertisements. The students at the so-called University of Cincinnati must be very lazy, or the so-called University itself must be very poor if it cannot afford to publish a circular or pamphlet calling attention to its advantages (?).
_____The Harvard Daily Crimson incloses a neat brown circular containing the class-day exercises, which this year took place on the 19th inst. On the back of the circular is printed a diagram of the various buildings at Harvard. Verily the Harvard Commencement of to-day, with its icecream and salad and round-dances, is, as the Crimson remarks, different from the Harvard of long ago, when the first class graduated in a “sober and God-fearing fashion,” and “ye General Court of ye Massachusetts Colony did sit down at meat with ye lads to encourage them those primitive days, when “the .corporation treasury rolled in a maze of ‘ pecks of wheat’ and '-mellow apples,’ paid by the people for the support of learning,”
We wonder if people are any happier now than they were then? The athletes, at all events, are happy; the intercollegiate championship baseball pennant, which was finally won in the game with Brown, will fl}7 on Holmes Field next year.
—The Targum is publishing a short history of college journalism at Rutgers, from which it appears that the earliest attempt at college journalism there was in 1841, with the publication of the Rutgers Literary Miscellany, which died young. The College Quarterly, first published in 1858, lived for three years; one of its editors being domesticated by the faculty for making too free a use of his critical powers, the magazine shortly died—of grief for his absence, we presume. The Targum was established in 1869, anf^ has since continued to be a regular exponent of college life at Rutgers. The editors say in the present issue: “ We are proud of our paper. It contains the history of dur classes, of many of our alumni, of our professors’ lives, and, we must add it, jokes, besides our athletic and literary achievements.” They have good reason to be proud of their college paper. What college editor has not? As the years run on, and youth mellows into age. it may well be imagined that the zealous and hard-worked college scribe will look back with a feeling of still greater pleasure to the scene of his early journalistic labors.
—With a handsome cover and thirty-two handsomely printed pages of inside matter, the Queen's College Journal presents a handsome appearance. A good Exchange department—so sadly needed by many college papers—is one of the most attractive features of the current number. The Exchange editor of the Journal is at present engaged in a tug-of-war with the Niagara Index, and gives the Ex.-man of the latter credit for cleverness in turning the issue in his own favor. The Journal is particularly severe on some of the small-fry college papers of the United States. It says: “ We would be exceedingly sorry if the majority of the college papers published on this continent did rule. During the past few years there has sprung into existence a horde of miserable little ‘college’ periodicals hailing from so-called ‘universities’ and boys’ schools of every kind all over the States, and these have become so numerous as to be positively annoying, reminding one of pestiferous June flies or musquitoes. We do not exchange with them, but they come along most' regularly, cramming the post-office box and the waste-paper basket incessantly.” Some of these “June bugs” made an indignant onslaught on the Scholastic a few weeks ago for venturing to express an opinion about them; but unlike the 80,000 people that beat a hasty retreat from Atlantic City some years ago, chased by an army of hungry musquitoes, the Scholastic stood its ground and wasn’t wiped out of existence. It is here yet, and welcomes its fellow-sufferer, the College Journal. Regarding a paper that .wasn’t most cordially greeted by some of the “June bugs,” the Journal says: .
“ The Jsotre Dame Scholastic is publishing a series of.
!
:	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	6^
articles on “ The Country West of the Mississippi River,” which contain a good deal of useful information, besides being written in that easy running style which adds such a charm to descriptive writing. We regret that the Scholastic was not able to decide upon the merits of our Northwest rebellion, and trust that by this time our friend has become better acquainted with the particulars.”
—The Exchan$>e-editor of the College Message accuses us of foul play in our remarks on an article in the Ariel—“ Tarrift Protected America ”— which we ventured to criticize, and the Message for endorsing it. The Ex.-editor of the Message uses stronger language in his rejoinder than either the subject or our remarks called for. If he reads the Ariel's article again, with a little more care, he will probably discover that we were right. He says that we gave no proofs, and his assertion is as good as ours. As an assertion, yes; but the facts of the case are in our favor and against both the Ariel and the Message. If we gave no proofs it was not because there was not a plenty of them to give. In the first place, the writer in the Ariel attempted to falsify history; in the second place, one set of his arguments (?) contradicted another set. The article is too long to review here; we will therefore take it by both ends, double it up, and make short work of it. The writer starts out by saying that “ generations before tariff protection they [the “Yankee colonists”] planted manufactures of all kinds.” Such was not the case. In 1813 Francis C. Lowell, of Waltham, Mass., built the first cotton mill in the world, and a few years later John C. Calhoun had a bill passed in Congress—despite the opposition of Daniel Webster and New England—providing a revenue by high tariff on imported goods, protection to domestic industries, and encouragement of home production. Long before that,—in 1774—5—after the passage of the Stamp Act, the Sons and Daughters of Liberty pledged themselves to buy no goods imported from England; the Daughters formed spinning societies, and wove all the cloth used in the families. After fourteen years of protective policy, Calhoun, under Jackson’s administration, wheeled around, became a free-trader and a Nullificator, and narrowly escaped hanging by President Jackson. The high tariff was continued for ten years longer, making twenty-four years of protective policy. So much for historical facts. Now for a pointer in political economy. After the abolition of the tariff our manufactures lagged. Cheap labor enabled Europe to undersell our home manufactures on their own soil. Thirty years ago our iron, steel, cotton, and woollen goods were chiefly manufactured in Europe. No gentleman carried an American penknife or an American watch; our tables were supplied with English cuttery and English queensware. Our raw materials—iron, copper, cotton, etc.,— were shipped to Europe, and sent back to us in manufactures. Much of our paper came from Europe. Our gold was consequently leaving the country, to enrich European manufacturers. This notwithstanding the fact that the Ariel writer acknowledges that our varied climate, our mineral wealth and the fertility of our soil should make us independent of the rest of the world. Money—and
not cheap commodities—constitutes wealth. All the nations of Europe—except France—held, and still hold, gold as the standard of money, consequently European products have to be paid for in gold. Even now, under a high tariff, about $900,000,000 in gold annually leave this country for unnecessary imports, causing a proportionate depreciation of our silver—our silver dollar is now worth only 83 cents. Our country is therefore made so much the poorer by our dudes and dudesses, for whom American manufactures are not good enough. Now, if, as the Ariel acknowledges, our varied resources are not only sufficient for ourselves, but make us able to compete with the rest of the world, why not exclude foreign manufactures altogether (as the colonial Sons and Daughters of Liberty did), keep our gold, and give a bonus for all goods shipped on American bottoms, as was done under Washington’s administration? Ours is the greatest silver producing country in the world, and a bi-metalic standard is the best for our commercial prosperity at home. We need our gold to secure the status of our silver, which at present is depreciated and . has to be temporarily suspended. Until Europe changes the mono-metalic for the bi-metalic standard of money the balance in open trade must be against us, owing to cheaper labor there than here. Prices are low; but there is little money to buy, and the American poor man must deny himself, notwithstanding low prices. This is hut one phase of the question in dispute; with plenty of time and space we could easily tear to pieces the other flimsy arguments advanced by the Ariel and endorsed by the Message.
Personal.
—F. R. Grever, ’81, Cincinnati, is here for Commencement.
—J. R. Lambin, M. D., ’70, of Chicago, is attending the Commencement exercises.
—J. R. Larkin, Esq., ’83, Attorney at Law, Pottsville, Pa., is among the “old bovs” here for Commencement.	-
—Anthony J. O’Reilly, ’69, Gen’l Southern Agent of the “ Monon Route,” Louisville, Ky., is among the visitors at Commencement.
— We must defer to our next number mention of all the old students present at the Commencement exercises. Those we have named were among the earliest arrivals.	•
—We regret to learn the sad news of the death of Frank Carqueville, one of the bright Minims of ’79, which occurred on the 5th inst. His teachers and many friends at Notre Dame extend their heart-felt sympathy to the afflicted relatives of the deceased.
—The Chicago Sunday Teleg ram	14th,
characterizes a recent art exhibition at O’Brien’s Studio as “one of the choicest exhibitions of paintings ever exposed to view.” In particular a painting by our Signor Gregori is thus noticed:
“ Mean while, there has been no lack of pretty things to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
be seen in the outer gallery, and among these, as the most striking and noteworthy, is an ideal portrait of £ Lala Rookh,’ by Gregori, the artist of Notre Dame, Indiana, formerly of Rome, where he was patronized and honored by Pope Pius IX. He must have cherished an exalted idea of the possibility of feminine beauty, as his conception, as demonstrated upon canvas, is something more than angelic, for she is all of that in form, besides abounding in spiritual soul expression of grace .... The poetry of the beautiful story shines forth in those lovely eyes and charming iace; the silken,gauzy veil does not hide the exceptionally handsome contour, and the artist’s brush has moulded the arms and hands faultlessly with the object in view, doubt. less, to present a-perfect type of womanhood; the veil is held to the forehead by a coronet of costly jewels; gems of rare brilliancy decorate the fingers, and bracelets of gold and pearls encircle her arms. The background of purple is intended to represent the color of the tent where the first meeting of the lovers occurred.”
Local Items.
—Good-bye!
—Who got left this time?	-
—“Chas.” has a Prince—Albert.
—“Three cheers for Notre Dame!”
—'Rah! 'Rah! 'Rah! Nostra Domina!
—The “Skiver” has shoved his last “skiver.”
—The boy with a gold medal feels proud to-day.
—“Fige” says his “Captain’s Medal” is a jewel.
—The ubiquitous boot-black did a good business yesterday.
—Sheridan objects to vacations. He leaves for school this morning.	.
—Those balcony concerts by the Bahd have been most enjoyable.	. *
—Another Scholastic in a few days. Leave your orders at the Office.
—The singing of Rossini’s “ Prayer of Moses” on Monday- was very fine.	•
—The “ old bovs” have come out in good numbers this Commencement.
—The oarsman’s dreams are filled with the coxswain’s warning cry, “Strokes!”
—Our local dudes have appeared in the full splendor of a Commencement outfit.
—The Alumni Oration, by Hon. John Gibbons, of Chicago, is published in this number.
— Procure a copy of “Vapid Vaporings,” at Father Maher’s Office or from Prof. Stace.
— Our. LL. B.s support their newly acquired honors with a becoming dignity of manner.
—An artistic, life-like bust of the late Bishop Timon, of Buffalo, has been placed in the Bishops’ Gallery.	-
—A rumor has started somewhere that “ the Graduating Class are a fine-looking set of fellows.” Taffy- on a stick. '	•
—The questions now: “Are you going to return next year?” “Yes; are you?” “ Yes; goodbye!” “S°l°ng!”
—The Oratorical Contest was a decided success.
Each of the three contestants promises to be a leading light in the forum.
—The acquaintance of those boys who possess good-looking cousins is assiduously courted by the annual mushroom-brand of mashers.
—The fight for the Oratory Medal was in all respects a most spirited one, and the victor’s brow is now shaded by the laurel wreath.
—The badges of the Associated Alumni, Columbian, Thespian, St. Cecilian and Philopatrian Associations are very neat and tasteful.
—Our gallant Militia must have been exterminated on some bloody field. Their thundering steps have died away in the past. R. 1. P.!
—Not a trace remains of “old Science Flail,” but the new grand building looms up in all its splendor, an object of attraction to every visitor.
—Owing to an accident to oiie of the oars, the Regatta dwindled down to a “ scrub ” race. It was very exciting, however, and made enthusiastic by the music by the Baud.
—For the accomodation of the students and friends of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, the L. S. & M. S. R.R. will run two special trains leaving South Bend for Chicago this (Wednesday) afternoon at 4, and to-morrow (Thursday) morning at S.30. The other trains as ^er time table.
—Final meetings of the Columbian, St. Ceci-lian and Philopatrian Associations were held on the evenings of the 20th and 21st inst. At these sessions unanimous votes were passed expressive of the thanks of the members to the- Rev. President and the College officers and Faculty.
—Yesterday morning, at eight o’clock, solemn High-Mass—called the Alumni Mass—was celebrated by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. John R. Dinnen and Rev. N. J. Stoffel as deacon and subdeacon. An eloquent sermon on “The Duties of Life,” was preached by Rev. D. J. Spil-lard, C. S. C.
.—Four members of the Law Class of ’85— Messrs. Steis, Willson, Callaghan, and Conway— were admitted to the bai’ on last Saturday at Indianapolis. A special session of the Supreme Court was held at which the above-named gentlemen appeared and received certificates investing them with all the powers^and rights of Attorneys. No special examination was required, it being held by the Justices that the diplomas of the University were a sufficient guarantee of the merits and attainments of the applicants. ’
—-On Monday evening Rev. Vice-President Toohey distributed the diplomas of the St. Cecilia Association. These awards for proficiency as members of the Association and special attainments in the literary and dramatic branches were conferred upon Masters F. Hagenbarth, C. J. Stubbs, J. Monschein, C. R. D. Harris, W. Daly, M. B. Mulkern, C. Cavaroc, T. E. Cleary, E. Porter, J. Garrity, V. Morrison, W. Berthelet, S. Holman, L. Grever,W.Wabrauschek,J. Courtney, E. Darragh, G. Myers, W. Congdon, S. O’Brien, C, Mason, R. Oxnard and L. Chute,	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	675
—The following is the Programme of the Cantata produced by the Orpheonic Society, yesterday evening:
“Never Give Up!”—(Loxhai.)......Introductory Chorus
“ I’ll be Thy Guardian Rock ”—(Benoit)—Solo and
Trio—E. Riley, H. Paschel, G. O’Kane
“ I Wander’d Out Some Summer Eve”—(Goodrich')— Ballad—Solo—Willie Devine and Unison
“ Let the Hills and Vales Resound! ”—(Richards)—
Patriotic Chorus
Hear Me, Norma! ”—(Bellini)—Duo—Willie Devine
and Mortimer O’Kane “ We Will be True to Death ”—(Van Camfenhout)—Chorus “O Restless Sea!”—(White)—Trio, Willie Devine,
E. Riley, and G. O’Kane “ ’Tis the Last Rose of Summer ”—(Moore). Song—
“ Con Bocca Chiusa ”...........E. Berry and Quartette “ Chang-li Kang-li Pet-cin-li”—(B. A.)_Chinese Chorus “ Home, Sweet Home! (Payne)—Solo—W. Devine
and Quartette
“ Homeward Bound! ”—(Thomas)—Finale, General Chorus
—The Associated Alumni held their annual meeting yesterday at 12 m. in St. Cecilia Hall, which had been handsomely and artistically decorated and presented a fine appearance. The Alumni elected officers for the ensuing year as follows: President, Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’65; 1st Vice-President, William Hoynes, A. M., ’69; 2d Vice-President, Florian B. Devoto, ’76; Secretary, Rev. N. J. Stoffel, ’76; Treasurer, Joseph A. Lyons, ’62; Historian, James F. Edwards, ’72; Orator, O. T. Chamberlain, ’62; Alternate, W. P. Breen, ’77; Poet, Maurice F. Egan, ’8s; Alternate, T. E. Howard, ’62.
At the Banquet Rev. President Walsh presided, ■ and the following toasts were proposed and responded to: “Leo XIII,” Rev. D. J. Spillard, ’64; “ The University of Notre Dame,” O. T. Chamberlain, ’62; “The Associated Alumni,” Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’65; “Our President,” Judge Cleary, of Covington, Ky.; “Our Country,” Judge O’Hara, of Covington, Ky.; “The Press,” Hon. P. T. Barry, Chicago, Ill.
—Our Universisty Band of ’85 has earned marked distinction, not only because of the high degree of excellence to which it has attained, but also on account of the generosity with which it has furnished good music during the summer evenings for the enjoyment of the public. It is constituted as follows: Leader, Prof. D. Paul; E^ Cornet, J. W. Guthrie, A. Ancheta; Bl? Cornet, J. Spangler, F. Thurston; Clarionet,. W. Congdon; Piccolo, S. J. Dickerson; Eb Alto, C. Hausburg, F. Rahilly; E[? Tenor, F. B. Devoto, C. F. Porter; B[? Baritone, FI. P. Porter; B^Bass, J. Willson; E|z Bass, W. Carrier; Tenor Drum, W. Sykes; Bass Drum, W. Loomis; Cymbals, J. D. Reach; Triangle, T.J. McKinnery. The excellence of the Band is a striking proof of what esprit de corps or a general union and earnestness among the members can accomplish. The Band is an institution that should never die at Notre Dame. It has, in the past, contributed in no slight degree to the general harmony and enthusiasm of the various festive celebrations; and it can be made even more effective for the future, if the lesson taught by ’85 be faithfully carried out, viz.: the lesson of union and submission to authority.
—The Minims’ examination, which was opened on Friday by Very Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh, Rev. Fathers Granger, Spillard, Zahm, and other members of the Faculty, closed most successfully on Monday with an entertainment consisting of dialogues, recitations, etc., by the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic xAssociation. During the examination Rev. President Walsh complimented the Minims not only on the satisfactory and intelligent answers given to the problems proposed, but also on their polite deportment while under so trying an ordeal as an examination must be to a Minim. Besides the examiners, there were present on Monday a number of distinguished visitors, ladies and gentlemen from various parts of the country who had come to attend the Exercises; but all were-as much astonished as pleased at the grace and elegance which the Sorins displayed in every word and gesture. At the close, Very Rev. Father General arose and spoke at length in terms which showed the grand characteristics of his noble mind and loving heart. The breathless attention with which his words were received, as well as the burst of applause which greeted him as he took his seat, show that neither the Minims nor the distinguished visitors will soon be able to forget his impressive words.
—We have received from our humorous friend, the genial Prof. Stace, of Notre Dame, a copy of bis “ Vapid Vaporings,” under the nom de plume of “Justin Thyme'.” The author has brought together in a beautiful little volume the various humorous articles contributed by him from time to time to the Scholastic, published at Notre Dame University. The title is modest, indeed it goes further, and rather betitles the excellent contents. Prof. Stace is a deep mathematician, a humorist, a philosopher and a linguist, and by his writings could have achieved a fame in the literary world, but in the retirement of college life he has found a charm' that cannot be broken. The . little book is dedicated “to the students of Notre Dame University, Indiana, past, present and to come, by one of them who clutcheth wildly at the forlorn hope that sufficient will be realized from the sale thereof to pay the funeral expenses, on a very moderate and unassuming scale of the author,”—on a coffin lid. The Scholastic Publishing House, Notre Dame, Indiana, has done excellent typography on the book. We are sure that it will meet with a ready sale amongst all the students of Notre Dame, who possess the happiest, pleasantest and most affectionate recollections of the author.— Catholic Columbian. -	.
Forty-First Annual Commencement
of THE	;
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
PROGRAMME.
•	Monday, June 22, r88y.
3	o’clock p. m.....Reading	of Examination Reports
7	.30 “ “ “ Oratorical Contest, and Exercises •
by the Euglossian Association
6^6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Opening March.........................N. D. U. C. B
Evening Song (Awfaw Andre)..................Chorus
Oration—‘‘National Greatness ’’.......J. J. Conway
“The Gladiator ” (Personation)......J. J. Monschem
Song—“Home!’’ NIy Own Dear Mountain Home!"
(C- Krebs?) Solo.........W. Devine
Oration—“Oratory and Eloquence".......D. C. Saviers Overture..............................Orchestra
Recitation—“The Sailor-Boy’s Dream"......J. Garrity
Prayer (“ Moses in Egypt”)—Rossini.—Song and Chorus
(Soli), W. Devine. E. Riley, Geo. O’Kane
Oration—“Patriotism”................T. F. Callaghan
Personation—“The Spanish Duel”........F. A. Dexter
Oration—“ Progress of Our Age”........Daniel Byrnes
Closing March.........................N. D. U. C. B
Tuesday, June 23.
8.00 a. m...............................Alumni Mass
10.30 “ “ ...................................Regatta
11.30“ “ ............................Alumni Meeting
i.oo p. m............................Alumni Banquet
2.00 “ “ ..............................  Field	Sports
4.45 “ “ Distribution of Premiums in the Minim, Junior
and Senior departments.
7'3° >n-—Exercises in Washington Hall.
Overture.................................... Orchestra
Cantata....................By	the Orpheonic Association
Scenes from “Julius Ctesar”......By Members of the Thespian Society
Alumni Oration—“ The Triple Sovereignty of the Constitution ”...............Hon. John Gibbons, ’68
Closing March..........................N.	D. U. C. Band
Wednesday, June 24.
Opening March..'.......................N.	D. U. C. Band
Chorus...........................Orpheonic Association
Class Poem..............................Wm.	H. Johnston
Valedictory,.........................Sydney	J. Dickerson.
Distribution of Premiums, Awarding of Honors, Conferring of Degrees, etc.
Grand Closing March (Home! Sweet Home!)
N. D. U. C. Band
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Austin, L.—ist Premium in Phonography; Premium for Guitar.
Ancheta, A.—ist Premium in Physics; ist Premium in Chemistry; Premium in General Geometry and Calculus; ist Premium in Geology; 2d Premium in Surveying; Premium in Astronomy; Premium in Elocution.
Burke F.—Premium in Anatomy and Surgery; Mention in Criticism.
Browne. A.—Premium in Elocution; 3d Mention in ist Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention in Mineralogy; 2d Mention in Geology.
Burns, M.—2d Mention in Ancient History; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Breen, J. M.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Reading.
Baca, Felx.—ist Mention in English Literature; 2d Pre mium in 7th Latin; Mention for Gui’ar; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Burke, V.—Mention in General Geometry and Calculus; Premium in Elocution.
- Callaghan, T.—2d Premium in Criticism. -
Conlon, J. C.—6th Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Crilly, G. H.—2d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in ist Grammar.	.
Collins. W.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Chapin. P.—3d Mention in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in Phonography.
Conway, J. C.—2d Mention in 4 th Latin.
Crawford. E.—ist Mention in English Composition; ist Premium in Figure-Drawing.
Creel Jno.—i«t Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in 3d Catechism; ist Premium in ist Penmanship.	'
Combe, F.—2d Premium in English Literature; 2d Men tion in 5th Latin; 2d Mention in Zoology; 5th Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Combe, C.—2d Mention in Rhetoric.
Carbajal, P.—Premium for Flute.
Campbell, W.—2d Mention in ist Orthograghy; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in Telegraphy.
De Groot, J.—ist Premium in English Composition; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Dexter, F.—ist Premium in Modern Historv; Premium in English History; 2d Premium in Logic; ist Premium in 2d Special German; 3d Mention in Astronomy; 2d Premium for platting in surveying; Premium in ist Spanish; ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Dickerson, S.—Premium in ist Latin; Mention in Moral. Philosophy; Premium in ist Greek.
De Haven, G.—2d Premium in Type-Writing; 2d Premium in Phonography.
Duffin, C.—Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; ist Mention in Penmanship.
Dory, F.—2d Mention in 2d French; Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention in ist Grammar.
Dolan. M.—3d Mention in 4th Latin; ist Mention in Geology; Premium for Piano; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Estrada. S.—2d Mention in Spanish-English.
Finlay, C.—2d Mention in English History.
Flynn, J.—3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Reading.
Fox, Jno.—3d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Penmanship.
Goulding, P.—ist Mention in Physics; Mention in Chemistry; ist Mention is Astronomy; Premium in Elocution; 2d Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Guthrie, Jno.—ist Premium in Logic; Mention in Civil Engineering.
Gould H.—4th Mendon in ist Orthography; Premium for Guitar; ist Mention in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading.
Gordon, A.—3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; Mention for Piano; 3d Mention in Book-Keeping.
Horn, J.—Mention in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist Reading.
Hamlyn, J.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Mention in Rhetoric; ist Premium in 2d Phonography.
Halligan, J.—2d Mention in American Literature; 2d Premium in ist Geometry; 2d Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Howard, P.—2d Mention in Surveying; Premium in Elocution.
Hausberg, C. — ist Mention in American Literature; Premium for Piano.
Hasson, G. M.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; Premium in 3d Catechism; ist Mention in 3d Spanish.
Hutchison, F.—Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Mention for Piano; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar.
Johnston, W.—ist Premium in Analytical Chemistry.
Jess, W.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in Rhetoric; ist Mention in 3d Special German; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; ist Premium in Phonography; Premium in Elocution.
Kolars, C. C.—2d Pr-mium in Analytical Chemistry; Premium in Mechanics; Premium in Civil Engineering.
King, T.—4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping; Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Penmanship.
* Kleiber, Jno.—ist Mention in Mod -m History; ist Men lion in 4th Latin; 2d Mention in American Literature; Premium in 4th Greek; Premium in ist Spanish; Premium in Elocution.
Kegel, L.—Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing; ist Mention in Spanish English.
Kavanaugh, L.—ist Mention in Criticism; 3d Mention in Astronomy; 1st Mention in ist Christian Doctrine; Mention in Physics and Chemistry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Keys, T.—2d Men ion in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 1st History; 3d Mention in 1st Geography.
Livingston, A.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in 1st Grammar; 3d Mention in 1st Reading; 1st Mention in Penmanship.
McMurray, A.—6th Premium in 1st Book-Keeping.
Marion, A.—1st Mention in English Composition; Premium for Improvement in 1st French; 1st Mention in 2d Ge ometry; Mention for Guitar.
Murdo :k,S.—3d Mention in Surveying; 1st Premium ex-cequo for platting in surveying.
Miller, A.—1st Mention in 1st German; Premium for Piano.
Mathers, L.—Mention in Physics and Chemistry.
McCabe, Jno.—3d Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar.
McMillian, J. C.—2d Mention in 3th Arithmetic.
McKinnery, T.—Mention in' 1st Latin; 2d Mention in Logic; Premium in Moral Philosophy; 2d Mention in 2d French; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in 1st Chris tian Doctrine.
McGuire, P.—3d Premium in Rhetoric; ist Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Mention in 4th German; 2d Mention in 2d Algebra; 1st Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.	,
Meyer, F.—2d Mention in 1st Grammar.
McCartney, R.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Morrison, G. D.—2d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Meister, G.—2d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Murphy, J.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Pre mium in 2d Grammar; 1st Mention in 1st Geography; Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Noonan, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography: 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
O’Donnell, J. V.—1st Premium in Phonography.
O'Kane, G.—4th Premium in Vocal Music.
O’Donnell, J. P.—2d Premium in Phonography; 3d Premium in Type Writing
O’Connell, W.—2d Mention in English Literature; 2d Premium in Zoology; 2d Mention in Trigonometry; 3d-Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Paschel, H.—2d Mention in 3d Special German; 1st Premium in Phonography; Premium in Elocution.
Paschel, C.—2d Premium in 1 st Arithmetic; 4thMention in English Composition; 1st Premium in Phonography; Premium in Elocution.
Padilla, V.—Premium for Piano; 7th Premium in Vocal Music; 1st Premium in Spanish-English; ist Premium in 3d Grammar.
Perley, K.—1st Mention in Penmanship.
Prudhomme, P. P.—3d Premium in 1st Hfetory; 3d Mention in 1st Geography.
Porter, H.—Mention in Mechanics; Premium for Piano; Premium in Elocution.
Porter, C.—Premium in Descriptive Geometry; Premium for Piano.
Phillips, H.—2d Premium in 1st History; 2d Premium in 1st Geography.
Price, H.—4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Grammar.
Rothert, H.— 1st Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Zoology; 1st Premium in 1st Algebra; Premium in Trigon ometry.
Roth, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Ryan, O.—2d Premium in 1st Geography; Mention for
Flute.	,
Riley, F.—3d Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Rrach. D.—2d Mention in American Literature: 2d Mention in Astronomy; 1st Premium in 3d Spanish; Premium in Elocution.'
Ruppe, J.—2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 1 st Geography; 3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Rice. J. J.—1st Mention in 2d Algebra.
Rilev, E. J.—2d Premium in 2d Book Keeping; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Mention in 1st History; Premium for Piano; Sth Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Mention in Penmanship.
Rahilley, J.—Premium in Elocution.
Smith, A. T.—Premium in Vocal Music.
Smith, G. H.—Mention in 1st Greek.
Sheridan, F.—1st Premium in Criticism; Mention in 3d Latin; 2d Premium in Physics; 2d Premium in Chemistry; Mention in 4th Greek: 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Steis, H.—Premium in Elocution.
Saviers, D.—Mention in 1st Spanish: Mention in Physics and Chemistry.
Spangler, J.—Premium in Elocution.
Snapp, R.—Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar.
Troy, Jno.—1st Mention in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st History; Mention in 3d Catechism. *
Troy. Jos.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping: 3d Premium in 1st Orthography: 3d Premium in 1st History: Mention in 3d Catechism.
Williams, W.—1st Mention in 2d Arithmetic; rst Premium in 1st History; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Mention in 1st Reading.	-	"
Wagoner, Jno.—2d Premium in 4th Latin; Mention in 4th Greek; 2d Mention in Trigonometry.
Wiley, S.—Mention in Rhetoric.
Williams. A. S.—1st Mention in 2d Phonography; Mention in 3d Catechism. .	"
White, AI.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar.
Wilson, J. D.—2d Premium in Criticism; 1st Mention in Logic.
Woodbridge, L.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar. *
Werst, H.—1 st Mention in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Geography.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Ackerman, D.—3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Adams, A.—1st Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in United States History.
Ackerman, H.—3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Amoretti. E.—3d Mention in 2d-Reading and Orthography; 2d Mention in 4th Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention for Violin.
Arts, W.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Catechism; Christian
Bastable, T.—2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Borgshulze, W.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping: 3d Mention in 2d German; 1st Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Benner, E.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Mention in 1 st United States History; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Berthelet, W.— 6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in United States History; 2d Mention in 1st German; 2d Mention in 1st Algebra; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Barke, H —2d Mention in 2d Geography; Mention for Cornet.
Baur, J.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 1st Mention in 1st German; Mention for Piano.
Congdon. W.—2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Mention in Modern History: 1st Mention in Phonography; 2d Mention in 1st Geometry.
Cummings, M.—1st Premium for Reading: 2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 1st Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Clarke, M.—1st Premium in Phonography.
Colina, M.—1st Mention in 4th Arithmetic: 2d Mention in Spanish-English.
Chamberlain. W.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic: Premium in 2d Geography.
Cartier, G.—4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 1st Grammar.	-
Cartier, D.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 1 st Christian Doctrine.
Crawford, J.—3d Mention in Phonography.
Cavaroc, C.—4th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 2d Premium in 1st French; Premium for Improvement in-English Composition.
Cleary, T.—1st Premium in English Composition; 1st Mention in English History; 2d Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Mention in4th Algebra; 2d Premium for Public Reading; Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Courtney, J.—Premium in American Literature; 2d Premium in 5th Latin; ist Mention in Surveying.
Cooper, G.—3d Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention for Piano.
Cleveland, A.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship
Chute. L-—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine: Mention for Piano.
Dillon, E.—2d Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar: 1st Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping: ist Mention in 4th German; 2d Mention insist Penmanship.
Dempsev, J.—1 st Mention for Reading; 2d Premium in . ist Arithmetic.
Dorenburg, J.—Kt Mention in 1st Reading; 4th Mention in 1st Geography; 1st Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Dougherty, J.—2d Premium for Reading; 3d Mention in 1st Orthography; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
Donnellan. J.—2d Premium in Kt Reading; 1st Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Chrisiian Doctrine; 1 st Premium in Telegraphy.
Dalv, W.—1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in Ancient History: Premium in 4th German; 1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 1st Prem'urn in Sth Latin; 1st Premium in 1st Geometry;3d Premium for Public Reading.
Darragh. D.—2d Mention insist Grammar; 4th Mention in 1st Book-Keeping: 1st Premium i ■> 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st United States History: 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Dav, S.—3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium in^th Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Geography.
Devine, W.—1st Premium in Type-Writing; 1st Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
De Haas, L.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Mention in 3d Grammar
Emmons, J.—4th Premium in Telegraphy.
Eppstein, L.—3d Mention in 1st Grammar; 3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Mention in Penmanship.
Ewing, E.—2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in 2d Ge metry; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Premium in 6th Latin; 1st premium in Christian Doctrine.
■ Finck, A,—1st Mention in Mh Greek; 1st Mention in 5th Latin; 1st Mention in 3d Algebra.
Fisher, J —1st Mention in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Mention in 4th Algebra.
Fehr, F.—1st Mention for Reading; 4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in Linear Drawing.
Flood, T—2d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar: 1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Figure-Drawing.
Fraine, R—2d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in ist Geography; ist Mention in Kt United States History.
Grunsfeld, J.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Mention in 2d Ge graphy: 2d Mention in 3d German.
Grever, L.—4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping; 4th Premium for Public Reading; Premium for Piano.
Grever, E.—2d rdention m 2d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Garrity, J.—Premium in Elocution
Grimes, W.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Hove, A.—ist Mention for Reading; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; ist Mention in 2d Arithmetic; ist Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution.
Hemisbaugh, W.- ist Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in Phonography.
Harris, C.—2d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in English Composition; Premium for Improvement in Composition; ist Premium in Phonography; 3d Premium for Public Reading: ist Premium in Type-Writing; Premium in Elocution.
Howard, E.—ist Premium in i>t Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Hieronimus, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist German.
Hibbeler, J.—Kt Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; ist Ment’on in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in 2d German.
Holman, S.—3d Mention in ist Grammar; 4th Premium i-1 ist Arithmetic; 2d Prem'um in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 3d German; Premium for Piano; Premium in Elocution.
Houlihan, W.—3d Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Hagenbarth, F.—ist Premium in English Literature; 2d Premium in Botany; ist Premium in Zoology; ist Mention in Trigonometry; Premium in Elocution.
Hanson, J.—2d Premium for Reading; ist Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine; ist Mention in 3d Spanish.
Johnson, P.—3d Mention in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Penmanship.
Kelly, J.—2d Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Kegel, C.—4th Premium in Figure-Drawing; ist Mention in Spanish-English.
Kenny, H.—2d Mention 5th in German; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Klink, L.—2d Mention in 4th Arithmetic.
Luther, M.—ist Mention in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist United States History.
Long, H.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in English Composition; ist Mention in Phonography.
Long, F.—2d Mention in ist Grammar; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Chiistian Doctrine; ist Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in Figure-Drawing; ist Mention in ist Penmanship.
Loya, A.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; ist Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention for Reading.
Levin, P.—ist Mention in ist Reading; 3d Mention in ist Grammar.
Martinez, G.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premi-ium in Linear-Drawing; 2d Mention in Spanish-English; 4th Premium in ist Penmanship.	•
Mulkern, M.—Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Ancient History; 2d Premium in ist Geometry; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.	■
Muessel, A.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; ist Mention in 5th German; 3d Mention in 2d Penmanship.
McCourt, W.—ist Mention in 2d Orthography’; ist Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Men tion in 4th Catechism; 2d Premium for Reading.
Morrison, V.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; ist Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Mention in Botany; ist Mention in Zoology; 2d Premium in ist Algebra: istMention in -ist Geometry; ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Morrison, B.—4th Premium in ist Orthography.
Morrison, W.—2d Mention in 3d Algebra; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 7th Latin.
Morrison, R.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Catechism; 3d Mention in 3d German; 2d Premium in ist Orthography.
Monschein, J.—ist Mention in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Mention in 2d French; ist Pre mium for Public Reading;
Menig, G.—ist Mention in ist Grammar; 4th Mention in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Catechism; ist Premium in ist’Orthography; ist Mention in Reading.
Mason, C—ist Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Mention in ist Algebra; Premium for Violin; 5th Premium in Linear Drawing; 2d Premium in 3d Spanish.
Myers, G-—2d Mention in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Penmanship; ist Premium in ist Reading; • 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic: 3d Premium in 1st BookKeeping; ist Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in United States History; Premium for Violin.
Mullane, P.—3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Geography; Premium in Elocution.
Macke, B.—ist Mention in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium for Reading.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6^
Moody, A.—4th Mention in 1st Orthography.
Meehan, A.—1st Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Mention in United States History; 2d Premium in 2d Catechism.
Nester, F.—3d Mention in 1st Reading; 3d Mention in 1 st United States History; 2d Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Nussbaum, S.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d French; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; Premium for Piano.
Oxnard, R.— 3d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d.Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Catechism; 1st Premium in 1st French.
O’Brien, S.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premiumin 1 st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in United States History; 1st Premium in Phonography; 2d Premium in Type-Writing.
O’Kane, M.—2d Mention/in 1st Reading; 1st Mention in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Catechism; 2d Premium in 1st German; Premium for Piano; 2.1 Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium for Reading.
O’Connor, W.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Portillo, J.—5th Premium in Figure-Drawing; 2d Pre mium in Spanish-English; Mention in Telegraphy.
Prudhomme, E.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Catechism; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship. '
Porter, E.—3d Mention in Ancient History; 2d Premi-nm in English Literature; 2d Mention in 6th Latin; 1st Mention irt 1st Algebra; 1st Mention in 1st Geometry.
Real, M.—1st Premium in 2d French: Mention for Violin; 1st Premium in Linear Drawing; 1st Premium in Spanish-English.
Rose, L.—Mention for Piano; 2d Mention in 1st Orthography; 4th Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Rattigan, W.—1st Premium in 1st Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.	.’
Rebori, V.—1st Mention for Reading; 2d Mention in 1st Orthography; 3d Mention in 1st Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in United States History.
Ruffing,*C.—1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Mention in 2d German ; Premium for Piano.
Remish, J.—2d Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st United States History; 1st Premium in 5th Latin; Mention for Piano; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 1 st Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Reilly, F.—1st Mention for Reading; 3d Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Mention in 1st United States History.
Reynolds C.—2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; Premium for Piano.
Rogers, F.—6th mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Mention in English Composition; 2d Premium in Special 2d German ; 4th Mention in 3d Algebra.
Robinson, K.—3d Mention in 2d French; 3d Mention in Penmanship; Mention in Drawing.
Rietz, G.—2d Mention in 1st Penmanship; 4th Mention in 1st Reading; 5th'Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium for Zither; Premium for Piano.
Redlich, A.—1st Premium in 2d German.	'
Shields, }-—4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Stubbs, C.—1st Mention in Ancient History; 2d Premium in English Literature; Premium in 6th Greek; 1st Mention in 6th Latin; Premium in Elocution; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Senn, C.—1st Mention for History; 2d Mention in 1st German; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Christian Doctrine.	.
Spencer, C.—1st Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Mention in 1st United States History; 1st Premium in 1st Catechism; 1st Mention in 3d German; 1st Mention in 1st . Penmanship.
Sokup, J.—3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in Penmanship.	■
Smith, H.—3d Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Mention in 4th Algebra; 3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Soden, F.—1st Mention in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Christan Doctrine.
Stange, W.—1st Premium for Reading; 1st Premium in 1 st Orthography; Mention for Piano.-
Schmauss, E.—2d Mention in 1 st Arithmetic; Mention in 1 st Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention in 1st Grammar.
Shaw, F.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; Mention in Sth Latin; Premium for Cornet; 3d Premium in 1st Penmanship.	■
Sedberry, H.—2d Mention in 1st Grammar: 3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Mention in 1 st United States History.	,
Servis P.—2d Mention in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Geography'; Premium for Progress in Reiding.
o	o
Sheunemann, L.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Tewksberry, D.—1st Mention in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Talbot, J.—3d Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Mention in* 1 st Book-Keeping.
Tarrant. G.—2 t Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; 2d Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Thompson, W.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Thurston, F.- 3d Mention in 2d Reading and Orthog-aphy; Premium for Cornet.
Wabraushek, W.—2d Mention in 1 st Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 2d German; rst Premium in Type-Writing; 4th Premium in Linear Drawing.
Wagoner, P.—5th Premium in 1 st Arithmetic.
Warner, H.—3d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 2d Reading and Orthography; 4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Williamson, T.—2d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Catechism; 3d Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Wieting, G.—Premium for Progress in Reading.
West, C.—rst Premium in 1st Grammar; 2 • Premium in Phonography; 1st Premium in 7th Latin; Premium in 3d Special German: Premium in 7th Greek; 3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Zollars, E.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Mention for Reading; Mention in 3d Arithmetic. .
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Adams, E.—4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Ackerman, W.—3d Premium in 6th Reading.
Boos, J.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Bunker, I.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 7th Premium in United States History; 1st Mention in 1st Reading.
Berry, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1 st Geography; 5th Premium in 1st Orthography; Special Premium in Elocution; Premium for Piano; Premium in Vocal Music.
Bull, J.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Barger, E.—1st Mention in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Blakeslee, H.—6th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Baker, J.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Bloomingston, A.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
• Crotty, F.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention in 2d Orthography; Mention in Vocal Music.
Campau, C.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Cobbs, F.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Pre- ’ mium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Mention in 1st Penmanship; Mention in Vocal Music.
Carnahan, H.—3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Chute, F.—6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 4th:Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship.
Doss, J.—ist’ Premium in 2d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Reading.
Doss, E.—1 st Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in
<6 So
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Geography.
Dos?, L.—1st Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Arithmetic: 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Ernest, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic: 3d Mention in 2d Penmanship: 1st Mention in 2d Reading.	•
Fairey, T—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 1st Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Fairer, F.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4 th Christian Doctrine.
’ Falvey, E.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Garrity, F.—3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium ■in 2d Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Geography; Premium in Vocal Music.
Garber, F.—3d premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Geography.
Grunsfeld, I.—4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Mention in United States History; 7th Premium in 1 st Grammar; Premium in Ger-anan.
Grimes, A.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Pre-anium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.
Graham, R.—6th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Pre-anium in 3d Orthography.
Henry, W. J.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1 st Grammar; 3d Premium in United States His-torv; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 1st 'Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography.
Haney, O. W.—2d Premium in 6th Reading.
Hopkins, J.—1st Premium in 6th Reading; 2d mention an 4th Penmanship; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Healy, J.—6th Premium in 6th Reading.
Inderrieden, C.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 5th Reading; 6th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
. Inderrieden, R.—5th Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Penman-• ship.
Jones, S.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in .3d Geography; 4th Premium in4th Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 3d Reading.
Kelly, J.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Pre--,mium in Penmanship; 2d mention in 1st Geography; 5th Premium in United States History.
Kelly, E.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Reading; 4th Premium In Penmanship; 7th Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution.
Kellner, F.—2‘d Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Premium in Music.
Landen wich, G.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
McPhee, W.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Preminim in 1st Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 1st Penmanship; .4th Premium in 1st Geography; 5th Premium in Bible History; Premium in Elocution; Premium for Piano; Mention in Vocal Music.
McVeigh, A.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; xst Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; Premium in German.
Murphy, F.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Morgan, H.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; Premium for Piano.
McGill, W.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Pre. mium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 22d Mention in 3d Penmanship.
Mitchell, J.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Reading; Premium in Penmanship.
Mitchell, C.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1 st Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Mention in 3d Reading.
McNally, C.—6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 6th Premiumin 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention in Penmanship.
Moncada, J.—4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine;
4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; Premium in Linear Drawing.
McCourt, M.—5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Millard, W.—5th Premium in 6th Reading.
Mason, A.—6th Premium in 5th .Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Mainzer, AI.—7th Premium in 5th Reading.
McNulty, J.—3d Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography.
McGuire, T.—5th Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 7th Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Mention in United States History.
Mooney, C.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Mention in Penmanship.
Nussbaum, A.—1st Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Noonan, F.—5th Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; Premium for Bible History.
Nester, A.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Mention in Penmanship.
O’Kane, B.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Special Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Mention in 1st Geography; Premium in Elocution; . Premium for Piano.
Peck, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 1st Mention in 2d Reading; Premium for Piano.
Peck, J.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; Premium for Piano; Premium in Penmanship.
Piero, J.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 2d Orthography; 2d Mention in 2d Reading.
Piel, F.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Mention in Penmanship; Mention in German.
Paul, L.—5th Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Perkins, H.—5th Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship.
Quill, D.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in4th Arithmetic; 1st Mention in Penmanship.	•
Quinlin, C.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Rugee, F.—5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Ramsey, C.—5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; Premium in Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Salman, F.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Sweet, D.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship; 2d AI ention in 3d Orthography.
Scherrer, L.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; Premium in Elocution; 1st Mention in 1st Orthography; Alention in Vocal Alusic.
Stone, L.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Smith, C.—6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Reading; 7th Premium in 1st Orthographjr.
Shreneman, S.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Mention in 1st Geography; Premium in German.
Tracy, L.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic. .
Williamson, A.—4th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship; Premium for Piano.	-
Weston, F.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Bsress