A-/ow -fka sfars got-sfa/fecf..
50
10
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
William Holden says: “My Dad, a chemist, wanted me to follow in the business. But I got the play-acting bug in school and college. I was in a small part at the Pasadena Playhouse when they picked me to test for ‘Golden Boy’. I never worked so hard in my life! But the success of the picture made it worth it!”
i'm for camels 1 i've found they GIVE ME EVERYTHING I LIKE IN A CIGARETTE -GENUINE MILDNESS, REAL FLAVOR. YOU'LL LIKE CAMELS,TOO!"
Star of “The Bridges at Toko-Ri'
-A- Mildness arf Revor (JAMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE

I
WE ARE NEW “THE TWINS RESTAURANTS” Prop. by Brother and Sister
Come and Try Our "Pizza and Spaghetti" The Real Italian Way We Ako Have Home-Made ChiK Just the Way You Like It!
713 E. LASALLE
Scholastic
Vol. 95 MAY 21, 1954 No. 25
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Associates
228 So. Michigan St.
FLY
BE HOM* I* HOURS’-
UNITED

AIR
LINES
You can travel aboard United’s luxurious 1st Class Mainliners at fares comparable to traveling by rail with berth.
AND
You get full-course mealtime service for no extra cost. There’s no tipping and you enjoy many, many extra vacation hours at home.

2

SIR LINES
South Bend: for reservations, call 2-1401 or an authorized travel agent.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ................Features
FRED C. ECKART ..................News
PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ....Assistant News JOHN A. ADAMS .................  Copy
ROBERT B. FROLICHER............Sports
B. JERRY CAMPBELL ..........Circulation JERRY D. BAIER .............Advertising
BOB FOWLER........Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE.....Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Dave Cohen, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jerrold Hilton, Robert Kaufman, John Kelly, Eugene Les-mez, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Jack Mullin, Francis Newman, Dick Norton. Jim O’Brien. Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Norman Wendrowski.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Gnegen, Dave Kilkeary, Jack Kirby, Ray Lescher, Dick Mannion, Jim Morris. John Phelan, Bob ‘Ruhl. ADVERTISING ASSISTANTS: Ken Woodward. Pat Logan.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press.' Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: The gold and the blue, captured in the Senior’s class ring for 1954, seems most appropriate for the cover of our last issue today. We hope the graduating seniors will cherish this last Scholastic as a sort of incomplete scrapbook of significant events which took place during the last days of their four-year stay here at the University of Notre Dame. We, the editors of Scholastic, hope that our small effort in producing this magazine has been of some use to those who want to remember Notre Dame always.
gmJL
Hook Shop.
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
CAMERAS
FOUNTAIN PENS
winiix
NV A » T MOTO
128 W. Washington
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVBS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
May 21, 1954
A MESSAGE ...
FROM THE PRESIDENT
Office of the President
May 21, 1954
Dear Seniors:
The main purpose of this letter is to tell you quite sincerely that many of us think that you are the finest senior class we’ve had in a long time, if not ever. We think you’ve given a tone to the campus this year that has been excellent in so many ways that it is difficult to enumerate all of them. Many of you staffed the Student Senate and the Blue Circle, providing the top leadership that made giant strides in student government this year. Your class officers were both intelligent and responsible.
The new and excellent arrangements for the Washington Day Exercises are entirely due to your thinking and coopera- ; tion as a class. The Marriage Institute and the Senior Retreat gave additional evidence of your initiative. The seniors	f
who edited the Scholastic, the Dome, the Juggler, and the Technical Review made us all proud of these publications this year. | And, let’s not forget the seniors who staffed so many departments of a rejuvenated WNDU.	;
i
I’ve probably missed some of your top leaders and class achievements, like the superb Mardi Gras and the wonderful : Senior Ball weekend just past. But even so, none of us have missed the total impact of your class and the fact that the wonderful | year we’ve just had is in large measure due to all of you who led the way. This year’s juniors have their work cut out for	,
them next year to consolidate the gains you’ve made, and to try to beat the record you’ve achieved as a group this year.
I think you’ve accomplished one more thing that may have gone unnoticed, and yet will be very obvious in the year to come. The student body as a whole couldn’t have missed the effect of your good leadership. The recent elections gave ample evidence that they want the same kind of intelligent and responsible leadership again next year, if we have correctly judged the high calibre of men recently elected. I trust that this will become a permanent tradition at Notre Dame, that the student body will continue to elect the best and nothing less.
Leaving Notre Dame, the Class of 1954 will carry away with them our high hopes, our best wishes, and our sincere prayers. May Our Lord and Our Lady bless and keep you always.
Ever devotedly yours in Notre Dame,	■ ?
I
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President	|
4	The Scholastic I
Top of the WEEK
by Ken Murphy
BA on June 6th . . .
In Memoriam
The old Bog will be undergoing surgery before too many more moons set, so here are the athletes who braved rain, Sleet, snow, hail and pink slips to gain berths on the first— and last—•All-Bogball Team. Remember these names—some day they may be in the Hall of Fame . . . or, at least etched into the sidewalk around the new shopping center.
1954 All-Bogball Team
RIGHT-HANDED PITCHER: “Lefty” McGlynn.
, . LEFT-HANDED PITCHER: “One-J^nn” Nowack.
CATCHER: Yogi Raith.
FIRST BASE: Tie between Jim DeCoursey and Father Brown (2 votes apiece).
SECOND BASE: Tony Garruto (for .. , no better reason than that he had four-for-eight over the season and he wanted his name in	the	SCHOLASTIC	before	he
;	graduates).
:	THIRD BASE:	“Shoeless Jack” Nas-
I	hert.
I	SHORTSTOP:	“Slats” Milota.
J	LEFT FIELD:	“Dutch” Kelly (mainly	ly because that’s where	he’s	usually	out
in).
’ CENTER FIELD: “Pepper” Chickey (he plays ’em off the fire hydrant better than anybody since Abner Doubleday).
RIGHT FIELD: “Tiny” Moran (he can really go get ’em out there if he happens to be walking in the direction that the ball is hit).
SHORTFIELD: Bob “I’m Up First” Crespy.
UTILITY PLAYER: Ted Williams.
OFFICIAL SCORER: Gordon Bergquist.
Ethical Jocularity
Some of the most classic witticisms emanate from professors in the classroom who are frustrated by students’ answers to perfectly civil questions.
Take f’rinstance the other day in Ethics class. One Professor O’Grady, having just received a rather ambiguous answer from one of his pupils, patiently stroked his chin and counted to ten, then mused:
“You know, you remind me of the two fellows who were walking down the street. First fellow says, ‘Gee, don’t
j May 21, 1954 t	,
4 t t

Fred and Tom look an awful lot alike.’ The second fellow thought for a second and then replied, ‘Yeah, they do— especially Fred.’ ”
Thumper’s Playmate
The fabulous T. Samuel Williams (T for Thumper) definitely proved once and for all last Sunday that there is no such animal as a one-man team. After going 8 for 9, or 18 for 19, or something like that, and then seeing the Beansox drop both ends of a deuce, Williams himself must have realized that he cannot win the pennant all by himself. It is utterly impossible. His playmate Parnell will be back before long though. Then watch out! One guy can’t do it . . . two might.
Trib sports chief Joe Doyle thinks Williams’ performance was just a flash in the well-known pan, by the way. In fact, he’s so sure of it that he’s already taking bets that Williams doesn’t hit over .500 this year.
An Inquest
Ever wonder just what the words Scholastic and Week mean? This is a heck of a time to start wondering about it, seeing as how this is the last column, but we got to thinking about it the other day and . . . well, you know what happens when we start thinking.
After dissecting Scholastic we had something which looked like so:
Scholas/tic
As you all know, Scholas is the old Zambezian word meaning learning or education. Tic, well, that’s some sort of bug. Therefore, to complete our little syllogism, Scholastic means someone who is educated and has bugs.
Now, Week presented a bit of a problem. If you dissect it too closely, you
don’t have anything left. The only way we could see to solve the problem was to split it right down the middle:
We/ek
We is the person which yours truly has used in batting out this little gem of a column since last September. Ek, as you probably know, is an abnormal noise. Well, this one was a real puzzler but we finally decided that Week means there have been abnormal noises coming from this page since last September.
Auf Wiedersehen
Along about this approximate latitude and longitude in the: column each last issue, our predecessors have finally broken down and gone a little nostalgic on the troops. You know—goodbye, so long, farewell forever, and all that sort of stuff.
But we don’t like goodbyes, for one thing, and teardrops make the tjrpe-ink awful messy, for another. So we’ll just say chin up, hang in there, and remember always—vive la frontsteps!
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . 1A on June 7th.
Noted Theologians to Attend Summer Dogma Symposium
A theological symposium on the dogma of the Immaculate Conception will be held at the University from June 30 to July 2, the University’s Marian Year Committee has announced. Prominent theologians from this country and abroad will participate in the symposium which is one of a series of campus events and activities in observance of the Marian Year.
Rev. Carlo Balic, O.F.M., president of the International Marian Academy at Rome will speak at the symposium on “The Theology of the Immaculate Conception from the 9th to the 13th Centuries.” Father Balic will also give a series of lectures on Mariology at Notre Dame during the period immediately before and after the symposium.
Other symposium speakers and their -subjects include Rev. Urban Mullaney, O.P., Washington, D. C., “The Meaning of the Immaculate Conception”; Rev. Wenceslaus Sebastian, O.FJM., Edmonton, Canada, “The Immaculate Conception, the Compassion and the Assumption”; Rev. Joseph Montalverne, O.F.M., Lisbon, Portugal, “The Theology of the Immaculate Conception in the Past One Hundred Years.”	.
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2i-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN BUY WITH CONFIDENCE Nationally advertised WATCHES—DIAMONDS JEWELRY—RADIO Guaranteed watch repairing.
Marv/ri AMDXZXXXZV
I 2 <5 — NO. MICHIGAN ST .
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquets and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is____________
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN
3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
YOU ARE SO SMART TO USE A “GENTLEMAN’S GROOM-MASTER
For that well groomed appearance. Train your hair to stay in place. Well made of strong cotton net with adjustable elastic neck strap to fit all head sizes. To use: Slightly moisten and comb your hair and wear your “GROOM-MASTER” while you shave and dress. Just $1—We pay tax and postage. Imported and distributed by: HOUSE OF DIANE, 106 E. Russell St., Barrington, Ill.
MAY 21
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30 p.m.)—Where’s Charley? continues its run tonight as the final University Theater production. Three musical numbers will brighten up the tried and proven musical. The play ends Sunday.
COLFAX (ends tomorrow)—The Carnival Story (B) is a sordid tale of sex and violence with a troup of “carnies” on tour in Germany. Anne Baxter and Steve Cochran star in this opus along with an assortment of freaks.
AVON (through May 25)—The Living Desert (A-l) is another of Walt Disney’s masterful treatments of nature and its inhabitants. Probably the best bet in town.
GRANADA (through May 27)—Indians chase white men and Rory Calhoun pursues Peggie Castle in The Yellozv Tomahawk (A-2). A gentle co-feature, The Assassin, completes the bill.
PALACE (through May 27)—Prisoner of War (A) is scheduled to coincide with the June graduation of the seniors. Ronald Reagan is the Korean G.I. in this grim war story. Geraldine (A-l), the co-feature, is a happy-go-lucky story about Tin Pan Alley.
STATE (ends tomorrow)—Lady and the Ranger and California Outpost fill the usual Western bill.
MAY 23
COLFAX (through May 30)—Elizabeth Taylor battles Dana Andrews, Peter Finch, cholera, fire, and the animals in Elephant Walk (A-2). Ceylon is the backdrop for this domestic strife and fast-paced action.
STATE (through ’May 24)—Ma and Pa Kettle at the Fair and The Lone Hand provide this two-day interlude. They’re old, but not too bad.
MAY 25
STATE (through May 26)—Luck of the Irish and Texas Uprising combine a little light stuff with a rousing Western. It might attract a few nonchalant men before the panic sets in.
MAY 26
CARTIER FIELD (3:30 p.m.)—The Spartans of Michigan State invade the home lot of the Klinemen for a little return action. State dropped us in the first game, so revenge will be in the air. In Therrre!
AVON (through May 29)—The program’s caliber takes a sharp dip with Massacre Canyon and Mad Magician taking over.
MAY 27
STATE (through May 29)—Bend of the River and Law and Order give you a long double bill of shooting and horses. It might be a cheap way to ride out the day before exams. And then again, it may not.
JUNE 6
STADIUM (9 a.m.)—Bishop Babcock of Grand Rapids, Mich., will preside at the Baccalaureate Mass for the graduates and their parents. If rain descends in true Indiana fashion, the Drill Hall will be the scene.
STADIUM (2 p.m.)—The seniors will come to the end of the road. The long line of over 1,000 cap-and-gowned fourth-year men will wend their way across the Stadium turf to pick up the coveted Notre Dame sheepskins. The Drill Hall will be the site if the monsoons continue. Auf Wiedersehen!
6
■ The Scholastic
bo ms pbbb
THANKS
The editorial department of the Scholastic offers its most sincere appreciation to all who helped to make its job an easier and more complete one during the 1953-54 school year. Special thanks go to Mr. John P. Defant, director of publications, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs, Mr. James Murphy, director of public information, Indiana Engraving Company, and members of the Ave Maria Press staff.
I have spent four years of my life in the shadows of a community. that has, at times, been difficult to understand. Manv times I have '	i
wondered about the strange mixture of personalities, thoughts, and happenings that will forever remain in my memory7 of Notre Dame. This peculiar way of life—which is enshrined in the traditional atmosphere of the Golden Dome, the ivy-covered buildings, and the leisure of study—has nevertheless presented me with a number of disturbing tribulations.
There were menial trials—like the unending lines at the bookstore and the chow hall, the early7 curfew, the hash on Tuesday, the stiff atmosphere of the St. Mary’s tea-dance, and the unforgettable returns from St. Michael’s laundry7. There were more important problems, too— the metaphysical analyses, the notion of God’s essence, the history departmental, the eight-thirty test after a long weekend, the wedding invitation from the girl back home, and the fourth cut.
I would be ungrateful and even unrealistic, however, if I failed to remember that there were many other experiences which compensate for all of these so-called trivialities. I have made hundreds of new acquaintances—some of whom will remain lifelong friends. In my classes, I have come to know men whose guidance and sincerity were indispensable in helping me discern between right and wrong, good and bad. Outside the formality of the classroom, I had opportunities which many of the best people—wealthy and poor alike—would never have. I had daily Mass and Communion just a few doors down at the end of the hall. There was always a priest to call on if I needed him. Less essential, but just as integral a part of Notre Dame, were the many bull-sessions that went, at times, far into the night. From these, I unknowingly applied what I had learned in class—thinking, expressing myself, making a point, refuting an argument. My fondest experiences weren’t, however, confined to the classrooms and the resi- . dence hall. There were the home football weekends when the campus took on a carnival air, and the stadium was packed, and I could be glad I was a part of Notre Dame when that last touchdown pass flew into the end zone with just six seconds left in the game. And then there were the victory dances in the Drill Hall, the parties in the center, and—last, but not least—the movies in Washington Hall.
All of these impressions form a sort of montage of my experiences at Notre Dame. But the one thing which montages and printers’ ink doesn’t reveal is this: Notre Dame has taught me to accept the will of God, to live my life as a Catholic, to the best of my ability. With this appreciation, Notre Dame, I and 750 other members of the Class . of 1954 offer our thanks and bid you farewell.—Patrick Carrico
7 4
May 21, 1954
hum
Volume 95, Number 25
Notre Dame, Indiana
May 21, 1954
UNIVERSITY HOLDS 109th GRADUATION JUNE 6
Bishop, Five Laymen Will Receive Honors
President James R. Killian, Jr., of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology will give the commencement address and Bishop Allen J. Babcock of Grand Rapids, Mich., will deliver the’ baccalaureate sermon at Notre Dame’s 109th Annual Commencement Exercises on June 6, the University announced today.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will confer honorary degrees on the two speakers as well as on Harold S. Vance, president of the Studebaker Corp., South Bend; Dr. Samuel Eliot Morison, naval historian and professor of history at Harvard University; Thomas W. Pangbom, president of the Pangbom Corp., Hagerstown, Md.; and Ernest E. L. Hammer, Justice of the Supreme Court of New York.
More than 1,000 Notre Dame students
DR. JAMES KILLIAN Commencement and . . .
will receive graduate and undergraduate degrees at the Commencement Exercises which will be held in the Stadium. Bishop Babcock’s sermon will be heard during an outdoor Solemn Pontifical Mass to be
offered Sunday morning by Auxiliary Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne.
Dr. Killian was inaugurated as president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, his alma mater, in 1949. During his administration M. I. T. has established a School of Humanities and Social Studies and a School of Industrial Management. As executive vice-president, Dr. Killian shared with Dr. Karl T. Compton, then president of M. I. T., the task of directing the school’s vast World War II research program. A staunch advocate of a more general education in the engineering curriculum, Dr. Killian has written numerous articles in the field of engineering education and administration. He holds honorary degrees from several colleges and universities.
Appointed Bishop in 1954
Bishop Babcock was appointed Ordinary of the Grand Rapids diocese on March 31, 1954, after serving as Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit for seven-years. A native of Bad Axe, Mich., he was educated at Assumption College, Windsor, Ont., and at the North American College in Rome. He was ordained in Rome at the Church of St. John Lateran in 1925. Bishop Babcock served as vice-rector of the North American College from 1936 to 1940. Appointed a Papal Chamberlain in 1939 and a Domestic Prelate in 1946, the Bishop had served as pastor of the Cathedral of the Most Blessed Sacrament, Detroit, from 1942 until this year.
Vance joined the Studebaker organization as a mechanic’s apprentice in 1910 and in 1935 became chairman of its board of directors. In the intervening years he held posts as assistant treasurer, purchasing agent, assistant to the president, export sales manager, general sales manager and vice-president in charge of manufacturing. Since 1953 he has served as a special consultant to the Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization. He is a member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees as well as a member of the University’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering.
Dr. 'Morison, professor of American History at Harvard University, was
awarded the Pulitzer Prize in biography in 1942 for his Admiral of the Ocean Sea. In that same year he was appointed .official historian of naval opef- I ations during World War II. Five | volumes of his work have already 9 been published. He retired from the | Naval sei-vice with the rank of Rear | Admiral in 1951. A native of Boston, | Dr. Morison has been a member of the | Harvard faculty since 1915. From 1922- § 25 he was on leave of absence as Har- | msworth Professor of American History S at Oxford University, England. In ad- j dition to his series of volumes on World I War II naval warfare, he is co-author | of Groivth of the American Republic and | author of the Tercentennial History of ■ | Harvard. Dr. Morison has served as | president of the American Antiquarian g Society and the American Historical g Association. He is a Fellow of the Amer- । ican Philosophical Society and the Amer- | ican Academy of Arts and Sciences. |
Pangbom is the founder and president I of the Pangbom Corp., the world’s
BISHOP BABCOCK . . . Baccalaureate Speaker
largest manufacturer of blast cleaning and dust control equipment. He has served seven terms as a board member of the Maryland State Department of (Continued on Page 32)
May 21, 1954
Class of '54 Will Take Final Bow in Stadium; Weekend Agenda Includes Mass, Reception
The University of Notre Dame’s One Hundred and Ninth annual June commencement exercises will be ushered in by a concert to be presented by the University Band in the Main Quadrangle at 7 p.m. on Friday, June 4.
The activities on Saturday, June -5, will begin at 9 a.m. with the Class of 1954 making their last visit as a body to the' Sacred Heart Church. This private ceremony for graduating seniors only, will be followed at 10 a.m. by a procession from the Church to the Drill Hall, where Class Day exercises, awarding of prizes, and the commissioning of the ROTC units will take place. Student speakers on this occasion will be William Guilfoile, Senioi- Class president; Joseph Imbriaco, Valedictorian; and Thomas Field, Class Orator and retiring president of the Student Senate.
From 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. the families of the members of the Class of 1954 will be invited to inspect the many buildings and facilities of the University, and to meet the faculty in the various offices, classrooms, and laboratories of the Colleges. At 2 p.m. the're will also be a ball game on Cartier Field between the University of Santo Domingo and Notre Dame.
The Student Center, from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. will host a reception sponsored by the' University administration for the families of the graduates. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and other University administrators will be present to greet the guests.
Once again the University Band will render a concert in the Main Quadrangle, but Saturday’s starting time is 6:30 p.m. At 8 p.m. the University Glee Club will offer a concert in Washington Hall.
On Sunday, June 6, the exe’rcises will begin at 8:35 a.m. with an academic procession in the University Stadium. The stadium will also be the scene of a 9 a.m. Solemn Pontifical Mass. The Moreau Seminary Choir will supply the music at the' Mass in which Most Reverend Allen J. Babcock, D.D., Bishop of Grand Rapids, will deliver the baccalaureate sermon. Immediately following the Mass, a flag, presented to the University on Washington’s Birthday by the Class of 1954, will be' blessed and raised.
The graduation exercises will culminate in an academic procession to the University Stadium at 1:30 p.m. At 2 p.m. degrees will be conferred on the graduates in the stadium. In the event of rain the ceremonies will be held in the Drill Hall.
Visitors may obtain information at any of three points; a booth at the cam
pus entrance, the Main Building, or the University switchboard (3-711). Special cafeteria service for visitors will be available in both main Dining Hall wings from 12 noon to 1 p.m. on Sunday.
LeMense Appointed To Edit ND 'Lawyer'
The appointment of Robert D. LeMense of Iron Mountain, Mich., as editor of the 1954-55 Notre Dame Lawyer was announced recently by outgoing editor Carl F. Eiberger at the first annual Law Honor Banquet. LeMense, a veteran of both World War II and the Korean conflict, returned to Notre Dame
ROBERT LEMENSE
‘Lawyer’ Editor for 1954-55
in 1952, ten years after his first graduation. He served as editor of the Scholastic in 1942.
Also appointed to the Lawyer editorial board were the following Law school juniors: John A. Vuono, associate editor; Wilbur L. Pollard, articles editor; John P. Coyne, managing editor; Harry D. Snyder and Michael Dionise, note editors; Norman H. McNeil, Robert J. Hepler, and Richard E. Shipman, case editors; and Allan C. Schmid, book review editor.
Appointment to the Lawyer editorial board, considered one of the highest honors and privileges obtainable in the Law school, is made by the retiring editor on the basis of exceptional interest and application in legal work in addition to high scholastic and literary ability. Candidates are required to take
part in an intensive training course conducted by the editor and must have three articles accepted for publication to be eligible foi- consideration. They must also maintain an 85 average in law subjects.
The Notre Dame Lawyer, a quarterly law review published by the College of Law, is nationally known for its accuracy, topical interest, and the high quality of legal articles by eminent members of the legal profession. The present editorial board under the direction of Eiberger has published six issues in the past school year. A seventh issue will be published soon.
The Winter issue of the Lawyer merited national interest by its presentation of the legal issues involved in Congressional investigations. Reprints of the issue were sent to all high officers of the executive branch of government, including the President, all members of Congress, all federal judges, and many prominent members of the legal profession. This issue contained papers read at a law school-sponsored symposium considering abuses of the investigative process and proposing remedies for these abuses.
Senator Bricker will argue in favor of the controversial “Bricker Amendment” in the forthcoming Summer issue, which will discuss the pros and cons of the proposed constitutional amendment.
Cardinal Stritch Will Officiate At Vocation Institute Opening
Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago, will officiate at the formal opening of the eighth annual Vocation Institute at the University on the evening of July 15, it was announced here today by Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., Institute director. Cardinal Stritch will preach the sermon and be the celebrant at Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes on the campus, Father Wilson said.
The occasion will be a major observance of the Marian Year at Notre Dame. It will be marked by a candlelight procession to the Grotto with two thousand priests, religious and laymen attending Summer School at Notre Dame and nearby St. Mary’s College.
Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte,- Archbishop of Indianapolis, will deliver the keynote address of the Vocation Institute the following morning. Sessions of the Institute will continue through July 18 when Most Rev. William T. Mul-loy, Bishop of Covington, Ky., will address the assembly. The annual meeting has become a center for the exchange of information on the fostering and guidance of vocations to the priesthood and religious life.
The Scholastic |
fl
10
Brehl Succeeds Carrico as 'Scholastic' Head; Eckart, Fullmer Will Occupy Other Top Posts
This issue marks the end of the Scholastic’s printing schedule for the semester. With it a staff retires and a new one prepares to assume its place next Fall. The new staff was named recently at the annual publications banquet.
Larry Brehl, the Scholastic’s 1953 managing editor, will step into the editor’s post vacated by Patrick Carrico, senior journalism major from Louisville, Ky., graduating in June. Brehl, a junior journalism major from Washington, Pa., will be in his fourth year with the magazine, having served as a reporter his freshman year, assistant news editor his sophomore year, and managing editor this year.
Fred Eckart, junior business administration major from Tampa, Fla., will move into one of the associate positions in ’54. Eckart, succeeding Brehl, will also be lin his fourth year with the Scholastic, having been a reporter his freshman year, assistant news editor with Brehl the latter part of his sophomore year, copy editor the first semester of his junior year, and news editor during the last semester.
Paul Fullmer, a junior journalism major from Elmhurst, Ill., will move into the other associate post, replacing the present associate editor Blill Noonan, a graduating senioi- in journalism from Irvington, N. J. Fullmer joins the four-year circle, acting as a reporter his freshman and sophomore years, news editor the first semester of his junior year and features head the last semester.
FRED ECKART . . . and . . .
John Adams, sophomore AB student from Elmhurst, Ill., will be news editor. Adams served as reporter his freshman year, assistant copy editor during the
LAWRENCE BREHL
Editor . . .
first semester of ’53 and copy editor the last semester. Assistant news editor will be Freshman Robert Kaufman of Manitowoc, Wis.
Paul LaFreniere, sophomore commerceman from Marquette, Mich., will become copy editor next year after serving as a reporter last year and assistant copy and news editor this year. His assistant will be Freshman Charles McKendrick from New Orleans, La.
Dave Cohen, junior journalism major from Billings, Mont., will be the features head for ’54. Cohen has served on rhe news and features staffs this year. Assistant features editor will be Norris Bishton from Oak Foresit, Ill., and Robert Duffy from Tuckahoe, N. Y.
Succeeding Sports Editor Bob Fro-licher is Dave Kilkeary, who worked this year as a sports reporter. He is a junior majoring in journalism and hails from Pittsburgh, Pa.
Circulation manager will be James Gallagher from Hazelton, Pa. Photo editor will be Dick Hairsine from Wilmington, Del. He has been photo coordinator for two years.
Ken Woodward, a Cavanaugh freshman in AB from Rocky River, O., will move into the business manager’s post. He was assistant to this year’s business manager, Jerry Baier.
Commerce. Science. AB Begin Fall Ball Planning
Looking ahead to next Fall, the senators of the various colleges of the University have announced plans for their respective dance weekends.
Lee Crean has been selected by the ■ Commerce Activities Council from a group of applicants to act as general chairman for the Commerce Ball which will be held on Nov. 27, the weekend of i the Southern Cal football game.
Chairman Crean has announced the following committees and their heads to assist him: Eugene Lesmez, business manager; Fred Eckart, publicity; John Sennett, entertainment; Robert Hilger, tickets; Jerome Higgins, decorations; John Cogan, hotel reservations; and Conrad Conway, refreshments.
Joe Swift and John Sowa have been named co-chairmen of the Science Ball which will take place Oct. 1, the weekend of the Purdue game.
The following will assist Swift and Sowa for the dance: Bill Tunell, business manager; Jim Dwyer, decorations; Jack Nicknish, refreshments; Jerry Miller, tickets; Mike McCormick, entertainment; Karl Martersteck, hotel reservations; Dick Lewis, publicity; John Berber, transportation; and Fred Whitfield, blind date bureau.
Jim O’Shea has been chosen general chairman of the AB Ball to. be held Nov. 12, the weekend of the North Carolina contest. Assisting O’Shea will be Jim Sherer, publicity; Paul Hanlon,-tickets; and John Lochtefeld, decorations.
The Engineering Ball will be held on Oct. 22, while the Military Ball will take place Nov. 12.
PAUL FULLMER . . . Associates
May 21, 1954
11
NROTC Men to Join 8,600 Other Midshipmen For 'Learn by Doing' Cruises During Summer
By ROBERT KAUFMAN
Notre Dame NROTC students will join some 8,600 midshipmen from the Naval Academy and NROTC units in 52 colleges and universities for participation in Summer training schedules this Summer, designed to afford an opportunity to “learn by doing.”
There will be three major ’ practice cruises for about 6,100 midshipmen of the senior and sophomore classes. Aviation and amphibious training will be conducted for 2,350 midshipmen of the junior classes. Some 350 midshipmen seeking commissions in the Marine Corps are scheduled for special training.
The schedules of Notre Dame’s midshipmen will follow closely those of the representatives from the Naval Academy
Byrnes' 'Boxer' Wins
This 15-foot mural of a victorious boxer was painted by Richard A. Byrnes (lower right) as his senior thesis. Byrnes will receive the Jacques Gold Medal award annually presented to the fine arts student who submits the best thesis for graduation. He painted the mural and another panel with a sports theme on the wall of the boxing room in the Notre Dame gymnasium. Byrnes’ home is in Dunellen, N. J., and he is a graduate of St. Francis Xavier High School, New York City.
because of corresponding graduation dates. Cruise “Charlie” will account for 44 of the University’s contract students.
Severity regular and contract students are to participate in Cruise “Able,” while five regulars are signed up for Cruise “Baker.” A total of 26 juniors will receive amphibious and aviation training, while a group of 22 Marine Corps hopefuls are slated for the special training.
Midshipmen making the first cruise will visit ports on the Iberian Peninsula and European Channel. Those making the second will visit European Channel ports and ports in the British Isles; and the third cruise will bring men to ports in Canada and the' Caribbean.
Rear Admiral R. E. Libby, USN, commander of the Battleship-Cruiser Force, Atlantic Fleet, will be in overall command of the three practice cruises.
The first cruise vessels will be' grouped together in a training squadron consisting of the batttleships USS Missouri, USS New Jersey, heavy cruisers USS Macon and USS Des Moines, the escort carrier USS Siboney, eight destroyers and two minelayers. NROTC midshipmen taking this cruise will embark at Norfolk on June 6 and return to Norfolk at the end of the cruise, August 3.
The second cruise will be a training squadron consisting of the battleship USS Wisconsin, the' light cruiser USS Worcester, destroyers, and eight destroyer-type vessels. Midshipmen from the 28 universities and colleges not represented in the first cruise will leave Norfolk on July 12 and return to Norfolk, September 3.
Amphib, Air Programs
The third practice cruise of the program will be for 1,360 contract NROTC seniors who will sail in a squadron consisting of the heavy cruiser USS Pittsburgh, the anti-aircraft cruiser Juneau, four destroyers and seven destroyer-type vessels. They will depart from Norfolk July 19 and return to Norfolk August 27.
About 1,575 regular NROTC juniors will take part in a program of amphibious and aviation indoctrination. At the conclusion of this program half will go aboard an aircraft carrier for a three-week cruise. The other half will recdive aviation training at several different points. At the end of the three weeks those at sea wall go on shore and those ashore will board the carrier.
During the period June 24 to August 7 about 360 NROTC midshipmen se'eking commissions in the Marine Corps will undergo specialized training at Quantico, Va.
Civil Engineers Win Annual Chariot Race
The Department of Civil Engineering won the annual Engineering Open House chariot race last Saturday in the Stadium. The contest, held between halves of the Old-Timers game, was captured by the team of Frank Beardsley, driver, and Ed Prein and John Kennedy, “foot- , men.”	'
The plaque for the best all-around chariot went to the chemical engineers. The Department of Chemical Engineering also took home the trophy for the best decorated racer.
The trophy awarded by the Student Senate for its annual Technical Project * Contest will be shared by Co-Winners John Grindell and Robert Arguello.
The cup given for the best depart- i mental display was awarded to the aero- • nautical engineers.
These presentations were made at half-time of the Spring football game. '■
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, presented the trophies.	’
The Open House itself was officially 1 opened by Dr. Karl E. Schoenherr, dean I of the College of Engineering, Friday I afternoon.
Tours were conducted throughout the College of Engineering Friday afternoon and all day Saturday. A feature of the Open House was the air show held on Blue Field Saturday morning.
ND Social Season Winds Up With Picnic, 'Ball’ Tomorrow
Tomorrow night Notre Dame’s Spring social season will come to a close in the Student Center at 8:30—a “Farewell Ball” with queens and all. Highlighting the event, to end. at .11:30, will be the crowning of Miss Pat Centlevre, a , sophomore from St. Mary’s, College, as queen. Miss Centlevre will be attended by Misses Molly Malloy and Pat Moore, also from St. Mary’s. Miss Centlevre	<
was chosen queen of the “Farewell Ball”	i
by students attending the Senate dance ! on May 1.	I
Don Belloc and his orchestra -will provide the rhythms; the’ price is $1.25 per couple.
Tomorrow afternoon, the Senate is holding an “old fashioned” picnic in Pottawatomie Park from 1:30 rm til 5:30. The Senate has reserved the whole park for the occasion and all students from Notre Dame!, St. Mary’s College, and St. Joseph’s Nurses’ Home are invited to attend. Tickets are available from hall representatives.
Busses will leave the Circle for the Park at 1.

The Scholastic
RETRACTION
The SCHOLASTIC and Robert Greene make public retraction of a statement by Greene in the April 2 issue of this magazine, referring to Owen Lattimore as a “communist.” Lattimore was charged by Senator Joseph McCarthy as being a “communist,” but has never been proven so by due process of the law.
Writers' Conference Sets Meeting Agenda
On June 28, the Notre Dame Writers’ Conference will commence its sixth annual session, which will run until July 3.
This year’s program consists of three main divisions, each meeting for a two-hour period five times a week. They are: “A Workshop in Poetry,” “A Workshop in Fiction,” and “A Workshop in the Teaching of Creative Writing.”
The staff for this year includes: John T. Frederick, former editor of Midland, and one-time CBS commentator, novelist, critic, and anthologist, who will conduct the Workshop on Creative Writing; Richard Sullivan, novelist, short story writer, and book reviewer for the New York Times and the Chicago Tribune, who is in charge of the fiction department; Warren Beck, novelist, short story writer, and professor of English at Lawrence College and Bread Loaf School of English; Anne Fremantle, biographer, novelist, editor, critic, poet, and contributing editor to Commonweal; and Henry Bago, poet, critic, lecturer, assistant professor of Humanities at the University of Chicago, and contributor to The New Yorker, Poetry, and The Kenyon Review, who will handle the Poetry Workshop.
At each of the panel meetings there will be an informal lecture, and the reading of a submitted writing, which will remain anonymous. Criticism from both the lecturer and the floor will follow.
The evening activities for the five day period include: a reception on the opening day, a mixer, two informal gatherings, and a formal lecture. The hostess and secretary for the conference, Mrs. Ernest Sandeen, is in charge of the reception as well as all correspondence before the session and such details as the receiving of mail at the conference.
As in the past two years, Prof. Louis Hasley of the Department of English will again act as director.
Student Chemical Engineers From 17 Schools Here for Two-Day Annual Regional Meeting
Student Chemical Engineers from 17 Midwestern colleges and universities are holding their 'annual regional convention at Notre Dame today and tomorrow.
Highlighting the convention activities will be a talk today by Mr. Chalmer G. Kirckebride, president of .the American Institute of Chemical Engineers and
Bartholomew Publishes Book On Constitution Development
Supreme Court decisions which have been most influential in the development of the U. S. Constitution are summarized in a new book by Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of political science at the University. Nearly 400 cases are included in the volume, Leading Cases on the Constitution, published by Littlefield, Adams of Paterson, N. J.
Dr. Bartholomew’s book is believed to be unique in that it makes readily available for the first time in one volume the basic points of these cases and the gist of the Supreme Court decisions on them. It will be most useful to persons who wish to learn or recall the fundamental issues of a particular case. For the person who wishes to go beyond that, a listing of leading correlative cases has been appended to each case covered.
According to the author, the cases have been selected with particular reference to the fields of political science, law, history, economics and sociology. They are arranged alphabetically and two indexes are provided. One lists the cases alphabetically by plaintiff, by defendant and by popular name; the other catalogs the cases by subject matter.
Student Senate Accepts Plan Putting Socials on Pay Basis
The Student Senate at its weekly meeting last Monday night voted to accept part of the proposed tax plan offered by Commerce Senator Roy Belknap.
Under the new system the Senate will put activities that are purely social in nature on a paying basis. Senators will be asked to list the expenditures their committees plan to make so that tentative budgets may be drawn up for the Fall and Spring semester of next year.
A committee was appointed by Senate President Joe Daley to investigate expenditures and make recommendations for more efficient use of Senate funds, if possible. Daley appointed Dick Hairsine of Sorin Hall to head this group.
presently president of the Houdry Process Corp.
This afternoon the students are guests of the Ball Band Division of the U. S. Rubber Company and the O’Brien Paint Company where they will observe the applications of Chemical Engineering in industry. This evening will be occupied by an informal smoker in the Student Center.
Dean Karl E. Schoenherr of the College of Engineering will welcome the delegates in an address tomorrow, immediately preceding a technical paper, contest.
Tomorrow afternoon four men, prominent in different phases of Chemical Engineering, will talk to the delegates on “Your Career in Chemical Engineering.”
Mr. T. H. Chilton, head of Research and Development for E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, will speak on research and development; Mr. M. A. Varela, superintendent of General Chemicals Division of the Allied Chem-
DEAN SCHOENHERR
Welcomes Student Chemical Engineers
ical & Dye Corp., will speak on management; Mr. G. J. Welch, technical representative of the Bakelite Co., will speak on technical sales; and Mr. F. R. Beau-dine, process engineer for the Ball Band Division of the U. S. Rubber Co., will speak on production.
A banquet and dance at the Morris Inn will wind up the scheduled events. Mr. Kirckebride will address the delegates at the banquet and will present the awards to the winners of the technical paper contest.
May 21, 1954
13
| getuvi JWil&ktosieA.
By PAUL FULLMER
[	Freshmen—1950-51
i Over 1,000 freshmen were greeted by I messages from Father Cavanaugh and I Coach Leahy back there in 1950. . . Then J classes brought you back to reality. . . [ The GP was in its first year. Morning | checks and Dining Hall food completed ! the picture. . . The Freshman Mission i showed you the spiritual side. . . The ! Fatima Shrine on Dixie Highway was I announced. . . You experienced your ! first picnic and tea dance at St. Mary’s. ; Alex Wilson replaced “Doc” Handy as j track coach. . . The Irish topped North
Carolina in your first home game as a Notre Dame man. . . New Orleans and ; the Tulane Green Wave were the objects of the Student Trip. . . Purdue dropped a bomb in the Stadium and snapped the 39-game winning streak with a 28-14 stinger.
Work on the Science Building started. . . The freshmen hall presidents took their places on the Student Council. . . Father Cavanaugh broke ground for the million dollar Morris Inn.
Campus spirit flamed before the Michigan State game and the Spartans had to go all out to drop us 36-33.
The worst snow and wind in history (or so it seemed) hit South Bend. . . Harvey and the Mardi Gras became ’ topics of discussion. . . The SMC tea dance died a natural death. . . The Glee Club toured the South. >. . The Army , ' ROTC invaded campus and made ND an all-service school.
Mr. and Mrs. Broadway was the annual student musical selection. . . Russ Carlyle took the bandstand for the Freshman Frolic. . . “Out of the Sack with ,	Chas and Jack” reshaped the waking
.	moments of the campus sackmen. . .
Johnny Jordan replaced “Moose” Krause as basketball mentor. .
The . stirring May Day procession to the Grotto reflected the spirituality of ! Notre Dame. . . Final exams reflected the intellectuality and established a new crop of sophomores.
Sophomores—1951 -52
The trains and planes hustled the Class of ’54 back to “Test Town U.S.A.” and another year began under the Dome.
The University Theater announced plans for Faust. . . . The Class signed Al Trace for the Summer Serenade at the Palais. . . The triple-cut system went into effect for the Christmas vaca; tion. . . Suitcases were packed for the : Student Trip to Washington and Baltimore for the Navy game. . . The Irish ' Pipers, in their plaid outfits and plumed , hats, paraded at football games. . . Mor-• rissey and Cavanaugh, battled it out in
I, 14
the Stadium for the interhall championship. Cavanaugh took an 18-0 victory. . . . State dealt Leahy’s Irish their worst defeat, 35-0.
Catholic Players presented Twelfth Night and School for Wives in Washington Hall. . . Rocky Marciano was Bengal award winner and honorary referee. . . Law Dean Manion resigned to take a more active interest in his private practice.
Stay Tuned for Addleman was picked for the Student musical. . . Ralph Marterie played for the Mardi Gras as the troops prepared for Lent. . .
The honor system became the local issue for no good reason. . . A blood drive collected 1,899 pints for the Red Cross . . . WND, after much valiant effort, pushed its waves to the doors of St. Mary’s. . . April brought the Mock Political Convention. . . The pseudo politicians nominated Ike and Warren.
A few glasses hit the floors in the Dining Hall. . . The Choose Your Major programs came just in the nick of time. . . . The University announced plans for Fisher Hall. . . A new student government was argued and adopted. . . The Morris Inn opened on April 21. . . With many of his building plans completed and others in progress, Father Cavanaugh reached the end of his six-year term. . . Father Hesburgh moved into the presidency.
Juniors—1952-53
Father Hesburgh greeted some 5,400 students as he started his first year. . . The new water tower added the “Silver Dome” to the campus profile. . . Ike visited the campus a few days before school officially opened. . . A few juniors joined the seniors in plush Fisher Hall. . . Father Peyton, director of the family rosary campaign, dedicated the Fatima Shrine. . . The new Student Senate took over and looked to the future. ... A coat and tie were needed to enter the Morris Inn, according to the little yellow book. . . .
The Irish tied Penn 7-7 in the ’52 opener. . . Stevenson whistle'stopped at Drill Hall on cross-country swung. . . Student Trippers eyed Cleveland and the hard beds in the Armory before the Navy game. . . Mock balloting here gave Ike an easy victory and for once we were right. . .
June Valli visited WNDU on one of her publicity tours. . . The Sorin Student trip covered the half mile to the' North Carolina game in the Stadium. . . Johnny Long played for the first Commerce Ball before the big Oklahoma contest.
. . . The Scholastic splinter hit the Sooner game on the nose, 27-21, in what was one of the top struggles of modern football.
T. S. Eliot’s Cocktail Party cultured the troops a little. . . State threw a 21-3 monkey-wrench into a 7-2-1 football card. . . . Joe E. Brown captivated the large crowd at the football banquet. . . The eagers surprised the Hurryin’ Hoosiers in the Old Barn.
Blue Barron supplied the melodies for the first Military Ball. . . Tommy Dorsey was the band at the ’53 Mardi • Gras. . . Spike Jones livened up the Drill Hall with his washboard antics. . .
Father Sorin disappeared again. . . The' Irish were chosen for their first NCAA berth. . . “TV” Davey arrived for Bengal Bouts. . . Indiana bumped us out of the tourney as Schlundt pumped in 41 points. . . ND initiated own National debate tourney. . . University Theater burlesqued Waugh’s iVz'Ze Bodies in one of their best efforts. . . Brute Farce, the student musical, premiered in Washington Hall. . .
Harvard got our dander up and we bled 3,119 pints of blood to take the national record. . . Buddy Morrow splashed through the monsoons for the Junior Prom in the Rock. . .
And so we trudged home to prepare for the last lap of the old college career.
Seniors—1953-54
We came back to school with no worries—except the draft and getting a job. . . . A small recession loomed and things did not look good. . . Classes were now held in the shiny Liberal Arts Building.
The Irish toppled Oklahoma on their way to unbeaten season. . . Mr. Lewis donated a beautiful bus shelter for the downtown crowd. . .
Gipp, Layden, and Rockne joined the Football Hall of Fame during half-time ceremonies at the Pitt game. . . Woody Herman played for the first AB Ball that same weekend.. . . Purdue became our favorite school as they bumped off M.S.C. . . . The Student trip was cancelled for various reasons, depending on your viewpoint. . . Coach Leahy collapsed at the Tech game.
Archbishop O’Hara, C.S.C,. dedicated the Nieuwland Scieiice Building. . . The Sophomore Cotillion christened the new La Fortune Student Center. . . The lucky few on the Dean’s List lounged around with their unlimited cut privilege's. . . You got midnight lights on a trial basis that became permanent.
The Scholastic exposed eight St. Mary’s men. . . The Iowa' game (nuff’ said) . . . The Champions Ball honored “Our National Champs.”
Gay parties made Christmas a little brighter for the kids downtown. . . The
(Continued on Page 31)	■
The Scholastic
days dwindle down. . .
O, the
Last Of The Big Weekends
It was Wednesday; and then it was Thursday; and then finally Friday — and suddenly the campus was filled with the' bright dresses and gay talk of the dates of the seniors. They came from the East and the South, they came from New York and Chicago. They came in cars and they came in busses; and they ■came in on the PacemakeT or the 5:15 South Shore.
And these few precious days. . .
There were just three days— three days into which to cram so many things. There was the Senior Ball—the last dance of the last year. In the almost hazy light of the Drill Hall—now no longer a Drill Hall but a bit of Old Germany—the old men of the campus, the four-year veterans, spent a few hours amid soft music, tinkling laughter, and the gentle murmur of low-talking couples.

AUF WIEDERSEHEN
315 Alumni Hall Notre Dame, Ind.
May 21, 1954 Dear Editor,
We would like to take this opportunity to publicly thank the men who were responsible for what success we may have attained in the recent Senior Ball. The close cooperation that we received from committee chairmen and their respective committee men was indeed gratifying. Our only regret is that we could not offer them all more public congratulations for their months of effort, the result of which made our jobs a relatively easy task.
Auf Wiedersehen, George Pflaum, Jr.
Ron Mazzoli Co-chairmen, Senior Ball
Up in the morning, Out on the Job. . .
And then there were those few who didn’t seem to have enough cuts left in their Saturday classes and had to tear themselves from bed, and stagger off to an 8:30 class.
There’s a long, long trail. . .
And then there was the caravan of cars that set out for the Dunes with the laughing couples. There were the football and baseball games on the warm sand, and the hot-dogs, with sand in the mustard. And there were the couples just sitting and lazing on blankets and making small talk. There was even the fellow whose car broke down—and the fellow who lost his keys.
When on the earth the mist began to fall. . .
And then there were the tired couples, straggling back to the campus; the girls to their rooms to shake the sand out of their hair; the seniors back to their
Some moist decorations at Senior Ball.
16
The Scholastic
| “Four years’ waitin’; shot in 3 days!” I
J
I halls, a bag- of marshmallows clutched wearily in one hand, and stopping with | a sigh on the third floor landing to > dump the sand from their shoes.
! Cheer, Cheer, for Old Notre Dame. . .
£ And then there were those who went | to the Old Timers’ game and sat in the J warm sun and tried to capture a bit of | the feel of autumn as the old pros came I back to their home sod.
Class of ’54 and dates soak up the sun on their last weekend at ‘The Dunes’.
Waltz me around again. . .
And then there was the dance on Saturday night and again the soft lights and the soft talk.
Panis Angelicas. . .
And then there was the Communion breakfast and the tinkle of knife and fork and the speeches and the half-hidden yawns.
Bring memories of you. . .
And then there was little left but the warm memories of three sun-laden days with all the music, and gaiety and soft words that went to make them up.
Auf Wiedersehen, Sweetheart. . .
And then there was the empty campus ag'ain, as the girls left. They left on the 5:35 South Shore or the Pacemaker; they left in buses and they left in cars. They left for Chicago and New York; they left for the South and the' East.
Fr. Hesburgh scans the crowd before address at Communion breakfast.
The frisky Old-Timers entertain Senior ball-goers and 21,000 other partisans.
One caravan to Dunes had 17 cars; the three charioteers.
May 21, 1954
17
Did you ever brave the cold of a new snow for the sheer enjoyment of it, or run around in the rain because you liked it? The abo' manias are a few of the requirements of a successful Bog-Ballite. He must have no blood to freeze, a water-repellant skin, a let-th. studies-go attitude and a slight touch of insanity. Above all, the Bog-Ballite is a Notre Dame man who is following the dictates < years of tradition. Way back in years gone by, they discovered that nothing but stones would grow in Badin Bog, and they started lool ; ing for a use for the vast wasteland between Badin and Walsh halls. Too dry in sunny weather and too wet in rainy, too large ft I volley-ball and too small for baseball, too isolated for a parking lot and too near- residence halls for a stable, a use all its own was di: covered. Men too lazy to walk to the distant ball fields, and those looking for a good excuse for their faulty brand of athletics, bande
18
The Scholastic
►
Team
JIM PR£55£fl
TONY GflNWTO
JIM LiBEMJOaE
ftEBERG
"J£T"
MURPHY
5CH0ET2
PRAM RAlTH
BO&C/iWy
JO£ RZflR
UALLY 5TDUDER
JMR 5UU/WN
ner^H Hiimy
)gether in adopting the Bog and inventing a game that suited it, and it alone. The inventors of the game,
as well as its modern
SKIP
0O& CHOE?



articipants, would be very insulted if you should tell them that they are playing softball, or just plain ball. It is Bog Ball. Only the ame played in Badin Bog can make that statement. What other game has a fire hydrant for center-fielder and another for catcher, sewer cap for home plate, a tree for third, and a 60-foot wall equipped with a porch in right-center field? The more unfortunate, who aven’t braved pneumonia to conquer the challenge of Bog Ball, will welcome a new building; but we, the members of Notre Danae’s ast Great Bog Ball Team, are happy to be leaving with this finest of traditions. We warn you I Grass wouldn’t grow on it, and that ailding is going to sink some rainy day. The Bog will have its revenge. -
May 21, 1954
■ 19
Scenes Jrowi Past graduations
In about two weeks some 850 seniors will file onto the grassy field in the Notre Dame Stadium for the 109th Commencement Exercises — the 109th senior class to graduate from Notre Dame.
In 109 graduations, Notre Dame senior classes have come a long way—from the vestibule of Saint Edward’s Hall to a stadium seating 56,000. But commencement exercises have become more appropriate and important as senior classes have increased in size.
Almost fifty years ago, 1907 to be exact, 70 graduating seniors looked forward to a gala week of commencement “doings.” A Solemn High Mass followed by a baccalaureate sermon opened the week’s affairs ... a meeting was held in Brownson hall for the purpose of organizing the present Notre Dame Alumni Association . . . that same afternoon an early version of the Old Timers game was played—the Old Timers' swamped the Varsity by three touchdowns.
There was a concert given by the University Band and Glee Club. Distribution of diplomas and awarding of honors took place in Washington Hall and the University Quartet entertained by singing Home Szoeet Home . . . the class poem was read . . . and the class valedictorian made the appropriate speech.
The actual commencement exercises were held in the vestibule of Saint Edward’s hall, and the persevering nuns were publicly praised at the ceremonies for the “beautiful appearance of the hall.”
Rewarded for Deportment
Deportment prizes were ceremoniously awarded to “pupils having spent two years at Notre Dame and whose deportment was excellent.” And oddly enough, Sorin Hall gave a farewell reception for the faculty and class athletes while the University Band assembled on the porch of Sorin and serenaded with a tuneful overture. A faculty-varsity baseball game concluded the commencement week for 70 seniors who left Notre Dame— way back in 1907.
As the years passed by, graduation exercises at Notre Dame became larger and more elaborate. Ninety graduating seniors, in 1920, listened to an address by Senator David I. Walsh who warned, “Restlessness in the world is caused by materialism and the corruption of our youth.” Three senior orators gave force-
By DICK CONNELLY
ful speeches ... a poem was read by one of the more distinguished members of the class . . . the valedictorian addressed his classmates . . . and they too filed out into the world—from Washington Hall this time.
By 1931, the senior class had grown considerably and commencement exercises were held in the University Gymnasium. The previous week-end seniors held sway over the campus as the big social week-end of the year was in progress.
Who is Isham Jones?
Isham Jones and his orchestra played for the Senior Ball on Friday night at the Palais Royale. A quote from an early Scholastic perhaps puts it more aptly: “The Class of ’31 will dance— and will read secret, intimate messages from shining eyes.”
A Tea Dance at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club and informal parties in South Bend that week-end preceded the
“Did he really say I had a fourth cut
in that metaphysics class?”
next week’s graduation. Class Day Exercises and the awarding of honors were held in Washington Hall ... an Alumni banquet was held that night . . . a Solemn Requiem Mass was celebrated for Knute Rockne the next morning, who had died that year . . . and Sunday brought the coveted degrees—this time in the University Gymnasium.
Ten years showed no change for graduating seniors—commencement exercises were again held in the University Gym
nasium; however, a reunion dinner and smoker for the many visiting alumni spiced the week-end. There was the usual concert by the University Band and Glee Club . . . the usual baccalaureate sermon . . . the usual awarding of degrees . . . and the not-so-usual occurrence of leaving Notre Dame.
During the war years, Notre Dame revamped its policies “for the duration” as the Navy installed its V-7 program along with a thousand midshipmen. The Scholastic’s “Top of the Week” went: “Racing with the Moon” in reference to Vaughn Monroe who played for the Senior Ball; its “Bottom of the Week:” “The Battle of the Soft Ball Diamond.” The pomp and pageantry were missing these crucial years as the early May 10 commencement exercises highlighted J. Edgar Hoover’s address to the seniors. The alumni program, usually a three-day affair, was limited to one day in accordance with the emergencies of the time.
War Puts Cramp in Style
In 1944, a small group of 140 seniors assembled in Sorin Hall early one night and listened to Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., conduct the farewell ceremony; then began to wonder two days later when University President Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., celebrated a Low Mass and commencement exercises were hurriedly passed over in the rush of war.
But within five years, Notre Dame celebrated its 104th graduation in full regalia. Class Day Exercises were held in the Navy Drill Hall as the senior class president gave an introductory address. Navy and Air ROTC cadets received their commissions, and that night the Band and Glee Club gave their concerts.
The following afternoon, over- 600 seniors filed into the Notre Dame Stadium to listen to John S. Burke, president of B. Altman Department Stores, deliver* an address, and then receive their coveted diplomas.
Within two years, the size of the senior class had risen to well over 700 and it seems fairly certain that the stadium will hold preference over the vestibule of Saint Edward’s Hall. Perhaps in a like number of years the Stadium will be too small; if this is so, there will have to be a whale of a football team playing there each Fall.
I
20
The Scholastic
‘Scholastic’s’ Top Stories For 1953-54
By FRED ECKART
Athletics and academics garnered more than their share of the spotlight in the Scholastic’s selection of the six most important news stories of campus activities during the past year. Edited and compiled by the Scholastic staff and writers, these stories were, in the opinion of the editors, tops for ’53-’54:
Frank Leahy's Resignation
The resignation of Frank Leahy as head coach of football at Notre Dame, following closely upon his collapse (lower-middle, right) at halftime of the Georgia Tech game last Oct. 24, was rated by far the most significant of all the news. Not only did it draw an eleven page Scholastic spread, but it also rocked an “anticipant” nation, being covered from page to page in all the leading newspapers and magazines.
Dateline on Leahy’s official resignation was Sunday, January 31, 1954. “The college coaching profession has certainly
lost one of its most capable and colorful members”—Earl Blaik of Army. “One of the great coaches in the history of football”—Bud Wilkinson, Oklahoma.
“Senate Wants Another Dollar."
Out of a little smoke-filled meeting room of the Student Senate just before Christmas came one of the most controversial student issues in Notre Dame’s history—and the number two story of the year—the additional 81 activities Senate tax bringing the year’s fee to $2.
From the heated debates that ensued among “outsiders,” as well as Senate members, came the question “Why?”; and answering it was an aggregate report of each one of the Senate’s moneyspending agencies, as released to the Scholastic by Phil Bolin in his article “Senate Wants Another Dollar.” (middle, Left)
What’ll McCarthy’s Line Be?
Prior to the ensuing Army-McCarthy row and McCarthy-Murrow TV clash, (Upper Right)—students were treated
to an exclusive interview given Patrick Carrico, editor, by McCarthy’s Assistant Counsel, Donald Surine. Surine revealed the proposed strategy McCarthy would use in answering Edward R. Murrow’s TV charges. This “third most important” news-feature—“McCarthy and His Tsm’”—was debated by Robert Greene, pro, and William Hank, con.
More than 58,000 people personally witnessed the number four rated story of the year:
Gridiron Greats Gipp, Layden, and Rockne Enshrined in National
Football Hall of Fame
During the half-time ceremonies of the Oct. 17 Notre Dame-Pitt game the three Notre Dame greats were honored with plaques pre- (continued on Page 32)
May 21, 1954
j SCHOLASTIC’S PICTURE OF THE YEAR
I
Nov. 20.—And Notre Dame entered the packed stadium a 13-point favorite over a Hawkeye team not even considered a potential threat of winning. Foi‘ nearly four quarters the nation’s top sport scribes 3	blinked their eyes in astonishment as the underdogs stymied the Fighting Irish, finally pushing ahead
by seven points with two minutes and six seconds remaining to play, and the clock running out.
;	But time stood still for Notre Dame that Nov. 20—just long enough for one Ralph Gugliehni to fire a
•	perfect pass into the arms of one Daniel Shannon, waiting in the end zone. He did it once only two
seconds before the end of the fii-st half, knotting the score at 7-7. He did it again six seconds before the final gun—giving Notre Dame a 14-14 tie with the Iowa Hawkeyes; 56,000 screaming fans had heart murmurs; and Scholastic Photographer Jim DuBois took the number one photo shot of the year.
Shannon’s catch? It was the number one play of the year for the Fighting Irish in an undefeated, once-tied season ending with Notre Dame as the country’s number two team.
22
The Scholastic
Dining Hall's Legionnaire Steward, 'George,' Resigns After Twelve Years at Notre Dame
By TOM QUINN
Tom, Bill May Win Top Posts In Glee Club, Band Elections
George Beauchamp has worked in the Notre Dame Dining Halls for twelve years and he has be'come as much a part of the morning, noon and evening meals as the eggs and potatoes that go to make them up. But during the Easter vacation George was forced to retire for reasons of age and ill health.
George, popularly known as “General George,” has been in the West Dining Hall for the past year and has been “on the floor” his twelve years at Notre Dame, except for one short interruption of two semesters when he served as manager behind the counter.
George has made a habit of being friendly. He would start talking to someone at the end of the dinner line and move forward with him telling of his “army days” or of his life. He' could joke with everyone and still have his own way when it came time to lay the law down. He hated to see waste, and was forever picking up a glass of milk, a piece of butter or a dessert and carrying it from the empty table to “the boys.”
When it came time to shut the Dining Hall doors at the end of the meal, he admitted that he was sometimes soft-soaped. “When a boy told me that he had been serving Mass and that he didn’t have enough money to buy breakfast, I’d let him slip by.”
A "Happy Wanderer"
After twelve years in the Dining Hall George has seen and heard just about everything the students have to give. As he said, he just “enjoyed being around the boys.” It must have reminded him of his younger days.
George' started out in the French Foreign Legion in North Africa when he was 16, and he left it to come to America when he was 20. His first job in America “was driving a mule train underground in the coal mines in Pennsylvania.” From the coal mines George traveled to the copper mines in Michigan and then all over the country with a firm that tunneled new mines.
When the First World War came, he serve’d under General Pershing along the Mexican border and later in Europe as a sergeant in the quartermaster corps.
When it came time for George to be discharged his commanding officer wrote in a letter to his wife that he could not let him go because “there was not another man available to fill his job.” He was not discharged until his wife made a direct re'quest to Washington. George liked the army and he still shows
the letter that his commanding officer wrote to his wife.
George was not long out of the army when he joined the navy for a three-year hitch which gave him an opportunity to “travel around the world.” After he was discharged George went back to mine construction around the country and later started drilling oil wells for himself until the depression struck. He then went back to mining and ended up at Notre Dame in 1942.
Cheers for Grid Fan George
Since his arrival George has always been popular* with the students. At the Georgia Tech game last season, he received a standing ovation from 5,000 students as he walked down the sidelines and left the Stadium. When the cheers started he waved back with his hat “like Frank Leahy.” The Students were attracted to him as much as he was to them.
In 1949 when Notre Dame took No. 1 after beating Southern Methodist George was carried on the shoulders of the students down Michigan Avenue to meet the team coming in by train. He was handed a microphone atop “two wobbly trucks” and made a speech to the student body. After that he was hoisted to the train platform to greet every player as he stepped off the train. The band played For he's a Jolly Good Fellow and The Old Grey Mare for George. His coat was torn in the rumpus, “but,” he' says, “the boys were good about it.”
George enjoyed his job and he enjoyed working around “the boys.” He never missed a day of work unless he was sick. “Often,” he recalled, “I would get up hardly able to keep my eyes open and sick to my stomach, but instead of staying home sick, I would take the medicine bottle with me.” George still insists on working, claiming “the' armchair will kill him sooner than work will.”
George worked long hour's. For six days a week he would be at the Dining Hall at 6 a.m. and he would not leave until 7 p.m. In the last five years he missed only one day.
After twelve years of getting up at 5 a.m. and catching a bus to Notre Dame, George can’t break his schedule. He still gets up early, but he has no job. He is able to live on his Social Security and Veterans checks, but he would rather be working “just to be doing something.” He longs to be back at Notre Dame where he can “kid and joke the time away with the boys.”
William May, a junior commerce major from Takoma Park, Md., became the new Band president, while Tom May, a junior commerce major from Racine, Wis., was elected Glee Club president. Tom was secretary this year and librarian his sophomore year.
Jim Barry, a Milwaukee, Wis., junior, was picked as next year’s Glee Club vice-president; John Goedecka, a science man from Montclair, N. J., won the secretary post; while Jim Crimmins, an AB sophomore from Floral Park, N. Y., was victorious in the treasurer’s race.
The cessation of another May-poll in the Band room in Washington Hall showed Bill May to have the most votes for Band president. Another successful campaigner was vice-president Don Gels, Chicago junior in the College of Commerce.
Paul Krienke, a junior in AB from South Bend, snared the secretary slot. The new social chairman is Dick Mein-ert, an AB sophomore from El Dorado, Ark. Sam Scharber, a pre-med from Winchester, Tenn., completes the roster i of officers as alumni secretary. Jerry Gatto, a sophomore, was chosen drum major for the ensuing year.
Six men were appointed to positions in the Glee Club. Lee Crean, a Commerce junior' from Chicago, became business manager. He was the assistant business manager' this year. Gerard Pottebaum, Crean’s assistant, is a General Program sophomore from Teutopolis, Ill.
James Irwin, AB junior from Hamilton, 0., gained the publicity manager’s post. He will be assisted by William Jackman, General Program sophomore hailing from Whitinsville, Mass., and Al Virostek, Commerce sophomore from Warren, O.
Daniel Miller is the new librarian. He’s from Crosby, N. D., and a Commerce freshman.
MAY CONGRATULATES MAY
Band Prexy Bill and Glee Club’s Tom
May 21, 1954
n»

Finance Club Elects Officers
In elections held recently the Finance Club named the following officers for next year: John Casey, president; Anthony Vallace, vice-president; and Shaun Fallon, secretary-treasurer.
Prof. Ellithorn Gets ASEE Post
Prof. Harold Ellithorn, of the Department of Electrical Engineering, was named chairman of the Indiana-Illinois section of the American Society for Engineering Education. Prof. Ronald
I CONQUERED MY
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
in one hour

You can really dance after the first lesson I
When you can swing out on the floor and dance expertly, you, too, will feel proud—not inferior any more! Arthur Murray himself had a complex in his youth—and overcame it ,x by becoming an expert dancer. ; -And today experts trained by y him will help get rid of any • . ”I.C.” that hinders you—in society or in business.
In just a few hours your "dated” dancing will be transformed—you’ll know the latest steps—you’ll be a popular partner. Don’t wait! Phone MU 2-4647 or come right to the studio for a Free 15-minute dance analysis.
Copr. 1948—Arthur Murray Inc.
Please send me the new 64-page "Mur-LmaA ray-Go-Round” with g"	all its helpful hints
| g	on dancing and in-
formation about the Arthur Murray Studios. its parties, etc. I understand if I l|AIJ| E send this coupon m "I/HiIVE promptly I will also receive a certificate good for 2 FREE introductory dance les-
ttlld 2 Name
STUDIO
LESSONS
ARTHUR! MURRAY, 120 E. Wayne, South Bend, Ind. '
Ph. 2-3339	I
________________________Phone__________
Street___________________________________________________
City______________________________Zone______State________
(S)
Rich, head of the department of chemical engineering, was elected secretarytreasurer, and Hugh Ackert, assistant professor of engineering drawing, was named University representative on the section’s executive committee.
Basso New Grand Knight
Louis G. Basso, Law junior from Detroit, has been elected as next year’s Grand Knight of the Notre Dame K. of C. Council. Dick Miller is the new Deputy Grand Knight; Tom Armstrong the new Chancellor, and Jack Lee the new warden.
Other positions filled were: recording secretary, Frank McCue; advocate, Larry Corbett; treasurer, Joe McGraw; inside guard, Don Stuhldreher; and outside guards, John Casey and James Stapleton.
Cantrill New Third Order Prefect
The Third Order of St. Francis has announced results of its recent elections as follows: Jim Cantrill, prefect; Frank Tonini, master of novices; George Da-koski, vice-prefect. These men will assume their posts next September.
Elective Reading Registration Tuesday.
Registration for the elective course in developmental reading will be held in Room 240 of the Main Building next Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. There will be room for 40 students for the Summer Session and 200 for the Fall semester.
St. Mary’s Glee Club Concert Monday
St. Mary’s College Glee Club will present its annual Spring concert Monday evening at 7:30 in St. Angela’s Hall. The public is invited.
Student Law Heads Listed
The Student Law Association has announced its roster of officers for next year: Robert J. Maley, Jr., president; Dan Daley, vice-president; Paul Jackie-wicz, secretary; Barry Reece, treasurer; Tom Kelleghan, senior representative; and Jim Britt, junior representative.
New Kentucky Club Officers
At a recent dinner-meeting the Kentucky Club announced the following slate of officers for next year: Bill Dougherty, president; Carl Bratton, vice-president; Carroll Dowden, corresponding secretary; George Shelton, recording secretary; and Jim Krebs, treasurer.
Manpower Group Names Heads
Winding up its first year of activities, the Manpower Management Club held elections at its final meeting. New officers are: Bill Clusserath, president; Ron ■ Smith, vice-president; Tom Igleski, secretary. Gene Lesmez was appointed publicity director.
24
The Scholastic
SMastic Sports
KLINE’S CHARGES MOVE INTO HOME STRETCH
►
ND Closes Season With Seven-Game Stand; Wildcats, Boilermakers Silence Irish Batters
By BOB RUHL
Notre Dame’s diamond squad, looking for a little more success on the field, continue their home stand next Wednesday against Michigan State as the' Klinemen move into the final two weeks of the season. The Irish play host to two Big Ten contingents, Western Michigan and Santo Domingo during their Cartier Field stand.
Michigan State’s Spartans are an old nemesis, having whipped the Irish, 8-1, earlier in the season. The Spartans kept their first place Big Ten standing intact over last weekend by dividing a doubleheader with Michigan, winning, 8-4, and losing, 9-8.
The Buckeyes from Ohio State; in second place in the Big Ten are paced by the pitching slants of veteran and ace Paul Ebert. The Buckeye's brought their season’s record to nine' wins and three losses last weekend by sweeping both
DICK COLLOTON
Pair of Lefty Hitters Lead Irish in Batting and RBI Department
ends of a twin bill, 3-1, as Ebert bested Minnesota’s Paul Giel, and, 4-1 with Dick Finn spinning five-hit ball.
The Irish will be out to make it two in a row over Western Michigan, having beaten them at Kalamazoo in Ron Mottle’s first start of the season.
The University of Santo Domingo provides the competition on June 4 and 5. The South Americans, on the last leg of an American tour, bring a mediocre' 10 and six record with them.
Manager Horacio Martinez’s crew boasts of eight of the starting nine hitting plus the .300 mark. Third-baseman Juan Castillo is currently leading the team with an average of .391. George' Torres, 5-10 % second-sacker, holds the runner-up with a neat .355.
Righthander Miquel Savinson shoulders the largest part of the pitching load.
JIM TWOHY
The 5-8 veteran has an excellent earned-run percentage of 1.95. Another righthander, Francisco Sanchez, alternates with Savinson. Sanchez has struck out 11 in 21 1/3 innings, but has two wins and one loss.
The Irish, trying to shake off their losing ways, ran into more trouble the past week. Purdue’s Denny Blind showed flawless control, limiting Notre Dame to four hits, and showed the way for his mates to take a 7-0 victory back to Lafayette. Then, to add spice to the wounds, Northwestern’s' Wildcats dealt the Irish their second straight loss, 9-2.
“Gopher Ball” Does It
In the Purdue contest, Notre Dame’s John Reynolds was doing all right until the seventh when the roof caved in. Tom Peters and Randy Hunter singled. Then Reynolds served up a home run ball to Ray Rosenbaum. This gave the Boilermakers a 6-0 margin and brought in soph Leo Linbeck, who hurled flawlessly until the ninth, but found his control waver momentarily as he walked two men. Three hits followed to give the Boilermakers their final run.
Northwestern unleashed, a powerful seven-hit attack in the eighth inning to drop the Irish in Evanston May 12th. The victory gave the Wildcats a clean sweep of the two game series. Earlier the Wildcats had won the first game, 6-3, in South Bend.
Notre Dame had gotten off to a two ran lead in the second inning on singles by Mike Lesso, Andy Carrao, Jim Twohy and pitcher Jim Dalton, coupled with an error. The Wildcats evened the count by producing single markers in the second and fifth.
In the eighth, Northwestern greeted Dalton with successive' doubles by Don Blaha and Harry Stranski. Larry Kur-ka singled to center but the next two batters were retired. Pitcher Don Zitek tripled to left center and soph Gerry Spaeth took over the mound chores. Two errors and three singles, followed before the side was retired after 12 men had batted.
May 21, 1954
25
Irish Varsity Rolls Over Old Timers, 49-26; Guglieimi, Hornung Lead Mates to Triumph
Notre Dame's 1954 varsity, aided by the passing of two quarterbacks, veteran Ralph Guglieimi and freshman Paul Hornung, made a successful debut under new head coach Terry Brennan in the annual Old-Timers game last Saturday, rolling over an array of pros, former All-Americans and graduating seniors, 49-26, before 21,000 fans.
The patrons of the Spring training finale watched a team composed of many freshmen battle, out-guess, out-play and out-score such greats as Johnny Lujack, Bob Williams, Jim Martin, Jim Mello, Johnny Lattner, Neil Worden, Jim Schrader, Minnie Mavraides, Art Hunter, and Don Penza. Perhaps the most outstanding “show stealer” of the game was freshman Paul Hornung. Hornung, seemed to belong in Coach Brennan’s split-T backfield as he called, handled and passed for three of the' Varsity’s touchdowns. Another pair of frosh speedsters ran very well from the halfback slots for much of the sixty minutes. Jim Morse, who replaced Joe Heap who has been having trouble with his hip, and Dean Studer spelled Don Schaefer during the afternoon. Schaefer, a sophomore, was a quarterback last year but has been switched to half to fill the place made vacant by John Lattner’s graduation.
The Old Timers drew first blood when Lattner exploded over right tackle from seveh yards out. The scoring drive started on the Varsity 38 where Flynn recovered Guglielmi’s fumble. After
VARSITY SMOTHERS OLD TIMERS, 49-26
Worden Hemmed in by Tackler, but Slips Through
Senior Tom McHugh picked-up two, Williams passed to freshman Paul Schramm for seven, and again to Worden for 14. Then Lattnel- scored.
The Varsity came right back, and Gene Kapish tackled Jim Gormley in his end zone for a safety. Then, in the opening seconds of the second period, Tackle Sam Palumbo pounced on a McHugh fumble on the Old Timer 26 yard line. In one play the Varsity had their first six-pointer. Guglieimi passed the distance to Joe Heap in the end zone. Guglielmi’s try for the point was wide and the' Varsity had a two point margin, which they lost only once.
Both teams scored in the second quarter. The Varsity once and the Old Time-ers crossing into paydirt twice. After a series of plays and penalties, the Varsity took possession on the Old Timer 49 yard line. In seven plays, Guglieimi led his mates to six more points, the payoff coming when Guglieimi ran around right end and then laterale'd to fullback Nick Raich on the ten, Raich scoring. Guglielmi’s placement was good and the Varsity led 15-6.
After the kick-off, the Old Timers started a 67 yard march, climaxed by Bob Williams’ 30 yard pass to Lattner on the 15 and Lattner going the rest of the way to score. Again the Old Timers were within two points of the Varsity, 15-13.
It took the Varsity only four minutes to score again. Highlighted by Studer’s 24 yard return of Mavraides’ kick and
A
VETERAN STRUTS STUFF
Heap Sparkles in Early Play
Sophomore Dick Keller’s 30 yard sweep around right end, the Varsity scored on Hornung’s 23-yard pass to end Don George in the end zone. Hornung then converted and the score read Varsity 22, Old TimeTs 13.
On the kickoff, Coy McGee, of the championship post war .Fighting Irish, sped 20 yards. “Bull” Worden shot around right end to the Old Timers 37. Then Williams spotted McGee at midfield and dropped a neat pass into his arms, and he went all the way. Again Lu-j ack’s kick was wide' and the Varsity still led, 22-19.
In the first series of plays of the third quarter, Jim Mello intercepted a Gug-lielmi-to-Schaefer lateral and was not dragged down until the Varsity 25 yard line, a 15 yard jaunt. All-American John Lattner ran left end for 27 yards, and then his two-year running mate, Worden, crashed over center for the touchdown. Mavraides converted and the Old Timers were leading by four points, 26-22.
Less than two minutes later, Jimmy Morse took a pitch-out from Guglieimi and rocketed around right end for 62 yards and another Varsity score. Don Schaefer kicked the point and the score was 29-26; the Varsity not to go behind again.
Neither team scored again in the third period, and the final quarter opened with Williams punting out of bounds on the Varsity 30. Hornung took over at quarterback, and after an illegal-use-of-hands penalty put the Varsity back on their own 12 yard line, he passed to Studer for 17 yards. Studer then ran for 12 more yards over center for a first down on the Varsity 48. Hornung passed to Billy Rigali for 14 yards and then ran for 22 yards after all his receivers were (Continued on Page 31)
26
The Scholastic
by Bob Frolicher
Hail to the Victors
It has been a long haul since September, but the weeks have rolled around until now it is about time to sit behind Ithe office typewriter for the last time. Before going any further I will just mention, that like the Back Page, this closing column is not meant to be a sentimental expose, but merely a flashback of Irish athletics during our four years here at Notre Dame, and the part played by the average Notre Dame student.
This was Notre Dame’s year. The football squad, although they were not recognized as National Champions, still were number one in most people’s books. Six of the starting eleven, all seniors, earned All-American ratings of one kind or another and ND’s triple-threat Johnny Lattner became the first player in history to receive the Heisman and Maxwell trophies in the same year. We saw this team rise from one of the worst seasons under former- head coach Frank Leahy in 1950 to what the Old Master tabbed as “one of the greatest teams I have ever coached.” Under cage coach Johnny Jordan we saw the Notre Dame basketball team reach its height in recent years, and in Dick Rosenthal we have one of the greatest players in ND history.
The same holds true for the other sports. We saw the Irish fencers continue to establish the best athletic record year after year, and this year cap it with a crowning success by downing their toughest arch rival, Illinois. This is Notre Dame, led by such fellows as captains: Don Penza, football; Dick Rosenthal, basketball; Rod Duff, fencing; Joe Springer, track; Hal Reilly, baseball; Chuck Gallagher, tennis, and many others. These are the men who led the Irish teams to success. They are like the average student, but have something a little different so that when their Notre Dame team takes the lead, no matter where it m'ay be, it will be a well-represented ND team. These men will not only leave Notre Dame, but they will leave behind them a gap that will be difficult to fill.
Something That Separates It From Others
After four years at Notre Dame we are able to see that there is something different about ND which sets it off from any other school. Notre Dame is the fun, excitement, disappointments, tradition and spirit, but to most of us who will be leaving, it is the spirit more than anything. But then just what is the Notre Dame spirit?
Notre Dame spirit is not something tangible, something we can hold in our hands and look at. Notre Dame spirit is something inside of us, an inner feeling which draws thousands of students to the stadium, gym or wherever the Irish are playing to cheer them on to victoi-y or defeat but to give them their all. The spirit is something which teaches us good sportsmanship, honor, and glory; it is something which sends chills through our bodies at the sound of the “Victory March.”
In June almost a thousand students will graduate from here, but they will not be leaving Notre Dame, because Notre Dame is something you never leave. All you do is put your wonderful times in the past. You still carry that spirit, th'at inner feeling with you wherever you go and in many cases it becomes more alive, drawing the student back here again, even though only for a football game. What the spirit does to you inside you can never tell, but while there is a Notre Dame there will always be a great “Notre Dame spirit.”
Hats Off
Millions of thanks are necessary to express gratitude to all those who helped me with information and ideas this year: The Sports Publicity Office, headed by Charlie Callahan, and his left-hand man Jack Sand, along with Tom Welly and the office secretary Jo Papa; to Joe Doyle, Sports Editor of the South Bend Tribune, to Erwin Alfonsus who was an invaluable help throughout the year, to Bill Noonan, always on call, to the coaches and all the others who were instrumental in making this year a success.
Pitt Downs Thinclads; Squires Sets Record
A victory in the mile relay and a one-two finish in the javelin enabled the Pittsburgh Panthers to get by Notre Dame’s harriers, 71 2/3—59 1/3 last Saturday at Pittsburgh. Until these last two events the Irish had trailed by only a third of a point through most of the meet.
Alex Pestrichella, soph sprinter, was ' a double winner for the Irish as he took j the 100 yard dash in 9.8 and the' 220 in j 21.7. Bill Squires also continued his winning ways as he set a new Pitt Stadium record, capturing the mile in 4:14.6.
JOE SPRINGER, JIM HARRINGTON
Vaulting Duo to Compete in NCAA
Another record-breaking performance was a 13 feet, 10 1/8 inch jump by both Joe Springer and Jim Harrington, who tied for first in the' pole vault.
Other N.D. winnei-s were reliable Bernie Allard, who took the high jump at 6 ft. 4%; Jack Sorrano who threw the discus 135 feet 8 inches; and Jack Alexander who won the half-mile in 1:55.7.
Coach Alex Wilson and his thinlies have only three more engagements before the N.C.A.A. meet on June 12-13, at the University of Michigan. Tomorrow NJ), will be at Purdue for the Indiana State Meet, and at Western Michigan on the 29th for a dual meet with the Broncos. Only the men not having exams on that day will be able to compete in this meet.
W’ilson’s tentative list for the N.C.-A.A. includes eight of the Irish thin-clads led by Captain Springer. Other participants are: Harrington, along with Springer in the pole vault: Squires in ' the mile; Alexander, 880 yd. run; Har- . vey Newquist, hurdles; Pestrichella and Jim Pitcavage, sprints and Allard in the high jump.
27
May 21, 1954
Ace Stays Unbeaten As Netmen Win Two
Notre Dame’s tennis ace, Wally Clarke remained undefeated in singles competition as the Irish netmen shot over the .500 mark by defeating Purdue, 5-4, on ND’s home court and pasted the Detroit Titans, 8-1, on May 15 at Detroit.
In the Purdue match the Irish gained rhe victory by capturing two out of the three doubles matches. Up to that point Notre Dame and the Boilermakers had split singles matches. Clarke and Maury Reidy won the first doubles, 6-1, 6-4, and Bill Reale and Don Kennedy took the second doubles, 6-1, 6-0. Clarke extended his string in singles by downing Purdue’s Dick Cole, 6-3, 6-4.
The Irish ten journeyed to Detroit and the Titans proved to be no match as they gained victory in only one match. The combination of Clarke and Reidy again led the Irish to victory, Clarke continuing along his winning ways.
Today the Irish travel to Milwaukee to meet the Marquette Hilltoppers. After the Marquette match Coach Samson’s crew will stop at Madison to meet the University of Wisconsin on Saturday. The Badgers, led by Vincent, are rated
Safe Storage
Out-of-Season Clothes
No need to ship or carry your heavy winter and out-of-season clothes home for the summer. Leave them in our safe-insured STORAGE VAULT.
Your clothes will be protected from moths, fire and theft and the nominal charge doesn’t have to be paid until you pick them up next fall.
Notre Dame men in the years past have found this storage idea to be a good bet. You can also take advantage of it.
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	First Comer across the River
- On the Bus Line
as one of the Big Ten’s best teams. There will be no rest for the Irish as they return home Sunday, May 23, to face the rugged Iowa Hawkeyes in their final match of the year.
Coach Samson announced that Clarke and Reidy will journey to Seattle June 21 to participate in the National Intercollegiate Tournament, if authorized by the administration. .
Terry Hits Sub-Par Round;
Golfers Face Indiana, Purdue
The Notre Dame golf team pulled itself above the five-hundred mark for the first time this season, winning one and losing one in their last two outings. Fr. Holderith’s linksmdn won their fourth match of the season, defeating Louisrille on May 8.
Their third setback of the year came at the hands of the Northwestern Wildcats in a close' battle, 15%-11%. Jim Terry continued to lead the 'Irish with a par 71 against Northwestern and a subpar 69 against Louisville. Terry’s 69 was the lowest competitive score of the season for the Irish.
The team winds up its regular season tomorrow in a triangular match at Lafayette with Purdue and Indiana.
Freshman Nine Appears Strongest Team in Years
This year’s edition of the freshman baseball team appears to be one of the finest group of potential varsity talent in years. Coaches Harry Shay and Fred Bellessimo have been working with this year’s team, and have molded them into a well-balanced Outfit.
Heading the list of pitchers is lefty Dick Bunker, a great prospect from Norwood, Mass. In the first practice game with the Varsity last Friday, Bunker held the Klinemen hitless in his three innings on the mound.
Another southpaw, Barry Hynes, gives the team two fine portsiders upon which the coaches can alternate. John Hammett is the' number one right-hander. Hailing from Rocky River, Ohio, he has shown good form thus far. Other hurlers that provide needed depth are Pete DeLong-champs, John Salvati and Jim Besser.
Backstop Well Padded
The strongest department on the entire outfit is the backstop post. Heading the list of receivers is Elmer Kohorst, an Albany, Minn., product. Another first-rate receiver is Bob Aboczky, who played service' ball in Texas against such ballplayers as Don Newcombe of the Dodgers and Bob Turley of the Baltimore Orioles. Behind these two are Jim Morris, Vince Dooley and Tommy Hue-mann.
The infield, which plays very well together, has Jim Cusack at first base, Eddie Hurley at second, Tommy Carroll at short-stop, and Larry Moran at the hot corner. Cusack is a left-handed fielder and batter.
Two Good Infields
A second infield has Jack Brandt at first, Manny Guerrero at second, Larry Bedford at short-stop and Ernie Kletzly at third. Both units field very well, and their batting has shown promise, also.
In the outer garden, Jimmy Carideo from Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; 'Steve Johnson of Robbinsdale, Minn.; and Bobby Nov-akowski from Easthampton, Mass., shape up as the No. 1 unit. Dooley and Morris also can be moved out there when the need arises.
From a coach’s viewpoint the team, as a whole, is a sound fielding outfit and all have good arms, especially the catchers. The hitting is spotty in places, but by the end of the season it should be considerably improved. Next year these freshmen will be bidding for the berths left vacant by the' graduating seniors of this year’s club.
2S
The Scholastic
Finney Paces Fencers To Successful Season
Gerry Finney, the mainstay of Notre Dame’s fencing squad for the past three years, has just completed one of the finest seasons ever turned in by a Notre Dame swordsman.
Coach Walter Langford, fencing mentor, is very proud of Finney’s performances, which have been a key factor in helping to account for Notre Dame’s fine record, one of the best in the nation.
This record, which now stands at 68 wins and only eight defeats in the past seven years under the coaching of Langford and Herbert S. Melton, was continued in the traditional manner by the 1953-54 team, which chalked up a 12-1 record.
The greatest achievement of the Grosse Pointe, Mich., commerce senior is his two-year record of 60 wins in 67 matches, which is the best two-year record during the last 20 years of intercollegiate fencing here.
Finney’s name stands at the top of the list of the 121 men who have been members of the Irish squad since 1934. His percentage of .897 ranks him above such crack athletes as Nick Scalera (64-14), who competed here from 1949 to 1951; Mick DiCicco (63-20), 1947-49; and Bob Schlosser (71-23), 1947-50, who is the only four-year- letterman since 1934 and who has the largest number of wins of any fencer since that year.
of Bernie McClorey, namely a brilliant one-hitter, as Badin beat St. Ed’s 15-0. Badin also defeated Walsh, the runner-up, 8-2, and the Connecticut Club, Cavanaugh Gold, and Old College by forfeit as they dropped out of the league. Jack Murray has been Badin’s leading hitter-most of the season.
Two Alumni Squads Favored In Annual Softball Elimination
Playoffs in the annual interhall softball league began this week with some pre-tourney battles going right down to the line and some postponed games yet to be played. Mr. Maxwell, director of the softball league, hopes to finish the playoffs before examinations.
Last week’s big game saw Alumni set St. Ed’s down 9-0 behind the great pitching of Matt Kuluz. Last summer
Kuluz pitched his hometown team to the Mississippi State Softball Championship and is rated with Nick Dujmovich of the Detroit Club as two of the be^t pitchers on campus.
Mr. Maxwell planned to run a doubleelimination tourney with the first and second-place teams in league play competing. However, in case of bad weather, only the winners of each league will participate in ithe playoffs.
A composite picture of the teams in the playoffs included: Alumni Blue vs. B-P or Zahm Gold; Sorin or Zahm Green vs. K.C.; Alumni Gold vs. Detroit Club or Milwaukee; and Texas or Garden State vs. Law Club.
The pre-tourney favorites are the two Alumni clubs, Blue and Gold, with records of 4-0 and 5-0 respectively. Also a possible contender to capture the flag is the Detroit Club or the Law Club.
Howard Tackles Badin Squad For Interhall Baseball Crown
Howard’s interhall baseball squad ended the season unbeaten -with a 5-0 record and earned ithe right to oppose Badin for the campus championship, by squeezing out a 2-1 victory over Lyons last Sunday. The championship series, a best of three affair, began yesterday.
In the deciding game of League 2, Jack “Moose” Patz hooked up in a pitcher’s battle with Danny Yarr of Howard and although Patz out-pitched Yarr and fashioned a two-hitter, he lost the game on an error in a crucial seventh-inning spot by Tom Caplet, a Lyons infielder. Thus Howard, with Yarr on the hill, added Lyons to its list of victims, which includes LaRaza 6-4, Cavanaugh Blue 6-4, Dillon 4-3, and Farley 5-4.	.
Brilliant pitching has been the keynote for the owners of the Bog over the two-year span they’ve held the title and this session has been no exception. Maury Cicciarelli has been very stingy with hits in the games he has pitched and has been helped by the good efforts
May 21, 1954
Recently a young mid-westerner enrolled at a university as a Logic major. His father had told him, with some understatement, that he was illogical. He refused to squire a pretty girl to a dance because her name was June Betz and he was against gambling.	’
He wouldn’t eat avocados because they were also called “alligator pears” and he didn’t like alligators.
In addition, he was a slob.
Some of the men in his dorm tried to talk to him.
“Look at that shirt.” they said. “The material’s cheesy.
Why don’t you hop down and get a Van Heusen Oxfordian... it’s soft, fine oxford cloth.”
“I’m not attending Oxford. I’m attending Old Siwash,” answered our boy.
“But. look, Buster. This oxford cloth is woven tighter so it’ll last longer. It’s a smart investment.
And it only costs §4.50.”
“So who needs it? I might get hit by a truck. Then what good would it be?” quoth Buster.
“What about your collar? Flat as a pancake! Don’t you want a good-looking button-down with that famous Van Heusen relaxed-roll?” one asked.
“I got nothing against pancakes. I hate rolls.”
Note: Our man flunked Logic post haste, and was drafted.
The Army has him classified under “Secret Weapons.”

'Dome' Distribution To Begin Next Friday
Bernard “Bud” LaLonde, editor of the ’55 Dome, has announced that the '54 Dome will be distributed on or about Friday, May 28. There will be notices telling when, where, and how to obtain it.
LaLonde also disclosed his staff members for next year’s Dome, at the annual Publications Banquet 'May 9.
The associate editorship will be filled by Francis Burke. The other positions filled were: managing editor, Richard Williams; business manager, James Yonke; assistant business manager, Fred Brinskelle; photo editor, Jim Fitzgerald; sports editor, Eugene Griffin; halls editor, Donald Sniegowski; clubs editor, Robert Dahlan; social editor, Gregory Conyers; and engravings editor, George Dewey.
According to LaLonde, he would like to have a hall section in next year’s Dome and the removal of the geographical section. There will be the same general format as most modern publications—big pictures and very little text. There will also be a revamping in the staff setup, with several new positions being added. Among the new jobs are club editor, engraving editor, and the new official assistant editor—to train the freshmen for future service.
The plans for next year’s Dome will be completely laid out before next semester. “By getting the details out of the way,” says LaLonde, “we can get a more complete coverage during the year. That includes the Senior Ball, if possible.”
A new photography setup has also been inaugurated with only one photocoordinator, Paul Fitzgerald, for both the Scholastic and Dome.
Noted Editor Believes Soviet EconomyWeak
The economics of the Soviet satellite nations are “on the verge of collapse” as a result of collectivization and the heavy investment programs imposed by Moscow, John Scott, associate editor of Time International, declared here Tuesday.
Scott was the dinner speaker at Notre Dame’s seventh annual World Trade Conference. More than 150 Midwest businessmen engaged in exporting activities attended the sessions whose theme was “Sales and Sales Promotion Abroad.”
“Even if western-imposed restrictions on East-West trade were to be completely raised, there could be no revival of what constituted ‘normal’ East-West
trade,” Scott said. He blamed the failure of Eastern European nations to produce those agricultural surpluses which formerly constituted the foundation of East-West trade rather than western restrictive policies for the current impasse.
“Europe is unlikely to see East-West trade along the old pattern” even if there should be a relaxation of tensions or co-existence, Scott predicted. The former foreign correspondent said that if the industrialization plans of the satellite states eventually succeed, they will become producers of the manufactured commodities which they used to import from the West. Consequently, he
THESE ARE THE
wihsor Championship
IPALDINfi
CHAMPIONSHIP
The Tennis Twins (Spalding-made) are in their record in top tournament play. And here is the clinching proof: The Wright & Ditson is the only' official tennis ball used in all U.S.L.T.A. National Championships (since 1887). Official, too, in all U.S. Davis Cup Matches. Official adoptions of its twin, the Spalding, in other leading tournaments assure their championship stature in American tennis. Play the championship twins to your own advantage.
SpaldinG
Sets the Paee in Sports
said, the future prosperity of Western Europe “depends essentially on the development of its internal markets.”
In an earlier talk, John D. J. Morse, vice-president of W. R. Grace and Co., emphasized that “maximum salesmanship efforts” are required if United States traders are to hold or improve their share of the Latin American market. West Germany, the United Kingdom, Japan and other nations are providing “increasingly stronger competition” in the area, he said. Moore stressed the importance of good relations with Latin America, pointing out that “we are dependent on Latin American sources for many strategic materials.”
30
The Scholastic
'Where's Charley?' Hit Continues Run Tonight
The Broadway musical comedy, Where’s Charley?, will continue at 8:30 tonight before an expected second night packed house in Washington Hall. The University Theater, boasting an all-star casi, inaugurated a four-day run last night and will present performances tomorrow and Sunday night at the same time.
The riotous hit is student-produced with an all-student cast from the University, St. Mary’s College, St. Joseph’s Nurses Home, and South Bend. The cast includes Jerry Godwin as Charles Wykham; Dalis Ann Yoder as Amy Spettegue; John Noland as Jack Chesney; Myra Roberts as Kitty Verdun; Taylor Benson as Sir Francis Chesney; Dick Robinson as Stephen Spettegue; Mimi Scanlon as Dona Lucia D’Alva-dorez; Leland Groghan as Brassett; William Bleakley as Wilkinson; and an all-star chorus.
Marion Leszczynski is the student director of the play. Choreography will be handled by Allan J. Powers, while the music is under the direction of Dudley Birder. Prof. John D. Tumpane will supervise the entire production.
Tickets are on sale in Washington Hall at a price of 75 cents and may be purchased at the door each night.
Old Timers Game
(Continued from Page 26) covered. George Wilson slashed center for six yards. Hornung then passed to Bob Scannell for a touchdown. Hornung’s kick was true and the Varsity led by 10 points, 36-26.
The Old Timers failed to gain a first down after the kickoff, and Bigelow punted to Rigali who returned the ball to the Old Timers’ 44. Again Hornung passed to Scannell for another six points, but this time the freshman’s kick was wide and the score was Varsity 42, Old Timers 26.
The Old Timers again were ground to a stand-still and the Varsity took possession of the ball on the Old Timers’ 16. From here, Freshman Larry Cooke ran for one and Jack McDonnell for three yards. Cooke passed to McDonnell on the Old Timers’ two, and McDonnell scored. Jack Witucki converted and the score, with four minutes remaining to play, was Varsity 49, Old Timers 26.
After the Old Timers picked up a first down on Bigelow’s 43 yard pass to Jim Milota on the Varsity 29, they were halted on four plays and the Varsity took over again, the' game ending when Bigelow intercepted Cooke’s pass on the Old Timer 40 yard line.
Senior Milestones
(Continued from Page 14)
Irish showed their power in clobbering So. Cal and So. Methodist. . . Frank Leahy electrified the sporting world with his resignation and retirement from the coaching ranks. . . The next day Teny Brennan, the youngest major football coach, assumed the tradition-honored reins.
The Senate’s extra buck controversy blazed over semesters. . . J. Edgar Hoover won the senior patriotism award. . . . February 23 marked the opening of the Marriage Institute'.
Ray McKinley played for your last Mardi Gras dance and the St. Mary’s girls did the can-can in the Drill Hall. . . . WNDU moved into its new tower studios in the Liberal Arts Building. . . Kid Gavilan arrived for the Bengal Bouts.
The Irish made Indiana’s No. 1 rated Hoosiers their eighteenth straight victim before falling before Penn State in the NCAA regional finals. The eagers ended
WHY INCH THROUGH HIGHWAY TRAFFIC or wait until skyway weather dears? Take a train home and keep that very first date for sure! ITS MORE FUN GOING with the crowd all together on the train. There’s room for bridge or bull session. And, in the dining car, you can enjoy the next best to home cooking.
GO FOR 25% LESS than the regular coach fare by traveling home and back with two or more friends on Group Economy Plan Tickets. They’re good on trips of 100 miles or more. Gather a group of 25 or more and you each save 28% riding long-distance on the same train, then returning as a group or individually.
Consult Your Local Railroad Ticket Agent Well in Advance of Departure Date for Detailed Information
EASTERN RAILROADS
with a 22-3 slate. . . The Senate honored Rockne on the anniversary of his death.
Ambassador Jefferson Caffery was named 1954 Laetare Medallist. . . A selection committee vetoed the student musical. . . Father Lord, S.J., conducted the senior retreat.
A proposed service center and bookstore on Badin Bog doomed the great sports arena. . . You and Ralph Marterie bid “Auf Wiedersehen” to ND. . . .Dome awards hit the newsstands. . . Varsity made' you feel your years as they blasted the Old Timers 49-26. . . 1,158 seniors marched down the front steps for the first time.
The four years are over!
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
May 21, 1954
51
CANOE TRIPS
Quetico-Superior wilderness. Only $5.00 per man per day for complete outfit, aluminum canoe and food. For free folder and map write: Bill Rom, CANOE COUNTRY OUTFITTERS, Box 717 C, Ely, Minnesota.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A Notre Dame Tradition 11:30—1:30 NOON LUNCHES—75 < 601 N. Niles Ave.
no one else has Brooks Brothers LIGHTWEIGHT SUMMER SUITS made for us in our exclusive styles
Graduation
(Continued from Page 9)
Public Welfare and was chairman of the Selective Service Appeal Board for western Maryland during World War II. Actively interested in the advancement of Catholic higher education, Pangbom is a trustee of the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., a member of Notre Dame’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, and an advisory board member of Mount St. Mary’s College, Emmitsburg, Md. He has been honored by the Church as a Knight of Malta and a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre.
Judge Hammer, a native of New York City, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1904. He received his law degree from New York Law School and was admitted to the bar in 1906. He served in the assembly of the New York State Legislature during 1913 and was Public Administrator for Bronx County from 1914 to 1925. In that year he was elected Justice of the Supreme Court of New York State. He was re-elected to that high judicial post in 1939. Judge Hammer has been awarded honorary degrees by Fordham University and Manhattan College. He was invested in the Knights of Malta in 1945 and is a member of the Cardinal’s Committee for Catholic Charities. He is a member of the American Bar Association and the bar associations of his state, city and county.
We have an outstanding selection of Summer suits and Odd Jackets...including Da-cront blended with linen or other fibers, washable Orlom and nylon blends that require no pressing, and traditional cottons... all cool, comfortable and distinctively Brooks Brothers.
Suits, from $26.50 • Odd Jackets, from $ 16 tDu Pont’s fiber
ESTA8USHH) 1818
JFumishings, ||ats
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N.Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES - SAN FRANCISCO
Top Stories
(Continued from Page 21) sen ted to Mr. Layden, in person; Mrs. Dorothy Taylor, Gipp’s sister, and the widow of the immortal Knute Rockne, Mrs. Bonnie Rockne. Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune sports editor, presided over the ceremonies.
AB Revision; ND-lowa Tie
Scholastic’s “five-spot” goes to recent AB curriculum revision that will effect incoming freshmen next Fall. Required math courses for frosh, intensive six-day-a-week language courses, combined English and speech classes, a sophomore social science course, soph comps, senior essays and seminars (upper-middle, right) made the news released in papers and academic journals from coast to coast.
But, perhaps, the story that left the campus breathless, and will keep all grid enthusiasts talking for many years was the Nov. 20 NOTRE DAME-IOWA GAME, a 14-14 deadlock pulled out of the fire with only six seconds remaining in the game. (Bottom). Dan Shannon’s spectacular catch won him fame, Notre Dame a tie, and the story sixth place.
32
The Scholastic
National Debating Title Garnered by Doherty
a In the closing tournament of the season, Junior Charles Doherty brought home another national award for the Debate Team. Commerce-man Doherty was selected an “Outstanding Debater” at the Continental Nationals held recently at Marquette University.
>; The national meet drew teams from almost half of the states and concerned the topic of Congressional investigations.
1 In addition to his award in the singles 1 ■ division, he and teammate Donald Dowden placed fourth nationally in the teams division.
Commenting on the showing, Prof. r' Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, stated, “It has been an excellent season. i We are very happy that we were able to ■ end it with a good showing. Mr. Doherty, as in the past, will be a true asset to Notre Dame next year.”
Commerce College Magazine May Be Initiated Next Year
Plans for initiating a College of Commerce magazine next year are well underway, according to Gene Lesmez, head of the committee investigating the possibility of such a publication.
Research this past semester consisted primarily of collecting a record of various printing, editorial, and advertising phases connected with the magazine. The committee decided that the results were quite favorable and a report has been submitted to the College of Commerce administration.
The magazine, if approved, would consist of serious articles on business and sections dealing with College of Commerce affairs. Four issues a year are planned, 24 pages to an issue. Very little advertising would be included; there would be a color cover.
Sixteen Students Will Train As 'Regular' NROTC Cadets
Sixteen Notre Dame students have qualified for training as “regular” ROTC cadets in the University’s Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps. The announcement was made last week by Capt. Frank Luongo, USN.
The new regulars are: Freshmen T. C. Betterton, A. D. Biagi, A. J. Cierzniak, J. P. De^ssauer, R. A. Flaiz, D. Fuligni, R. A. Leitten, T. C. McMurtry, M. R. Murphy, P. O’Connor, J. M. O’Drobinak, J. A. Reeve, J. P. Scallan, M. J. Wey, C. P. Williamson, W. F. Reich; Sophomores F. F. Conte and J. T. Mullen.
By virtue of their regular status these cadets will be fully subsidized by the Navy during their entire college training, starting next September.
May 21, 1954
See the new Arrow Shirts at
Michigan at Washington—On the Corner
Cool Summer Forecast For Men Wearing Arrow Lightiveights
Judging from the current rush on for Arrow lightweights, it appears that the student body is headed for a cool and comfortable summer. Arrow lightweight shirts and sports shirts ... in white and popular colors . . . are now available at all Arrow dealers.
►
TRADE® MARK
---- SHIRTS • TIES * UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS * SPORTSWEAR —
33
by Gordon Bergquist
It’s almost 10 o’clock. In the basement of Sorin, an Engineer and a history major quarrel violently about efficient causes. Over in Farley, a freshman is delicately balancing a paper cup 'of water on the door of a room down the hall. Down at Joer’s, a philosophical senior thoughtfully slides a quarter across the polished bar. And up in a small single in Walsh, a harried Student tries to do the 'almost impossible; to make sense out of a crazy, mixed-up world and put it down on a paper for people to read. For the student is a journalist, though an amateur, and he has a deadline to meet. But as a
student, this journalist is seeking for something more than the news which will be dead and forgotten by tomorrow. Seeking for 'something that may have some meaning, some stability in the midst of change. Then too, this student has a problem; he has something to say, but he can’t find the words.
He gnaws his pencil, sighs, lights a cigarette, and sighs again. He starts a line, then crosses it out. He begins again —and falls to doodling on the side of his paper. But he has to write something. He looks at the clock. Ten-fifteen. He sighs again. He starts to write, and now some of the words come easier. . . .
Early in June, some 800 seniors will leave the Notre Dame campus. This last column is simply an attempt to look back at four years here. It isn’t meant to be maudlin; it isn’t meant to be sentimental. If it turns out that way, I apologize.
To begin, I’ll admit that I like Notre Dame. I’ve liked it more each year I’ve spent here. Here some will laugh. Let them. I secretly suspect that if they were forced to leave, they’d miss Notre Dame, too. I can say that I like Notre Dame in spite of a lot of things—because Notre Dame means more to me than a collection of likes and dislikes. I don’t like 11 o’clock lights; I don’t like checking in by midnight; I don’t like a lot of the regulations of the University —but I still like Notre Dame.
I could probably write a whole column on the fine education I have received here at Notre Dame—but it wouldn’t suit my conscience. The education at Notre Dame seems to be no better or no worse than that to be obtained at any major university. I could probably write a whole column on the wonderful religious opportunities at Notre Dame— but that isn’t the whole story.
If I could put down, accurately and precisely, just what Notre Dame is, I could probably make a small fortune
selling the secret to other universities. But somehow the picture won’t come out sharp and clear on paper.
It won’t come out sharp and clear, because Notre Dame is not something to be relegated to cold type or even to the warmest of colors. It won’t come out sharp and clear in these ways, because these things are dead, and Notre Dame is something living, feeling, breathing, moving on.
Notre Dame is part of, and more than, many things. It’s sunny autumns and sloppy springs. It’s griping at the chow and cheering at football games. It’s a group of students playing cards in a tower room in Sorin. It’s a lonely figure, wandering along the banks of St. Mary’s Lake, kicking at the Fall leaves. It’s the campus lights on a stormy winter night, making little golden puddles in a sea of grey and black. It’s all this and more.
Notre Dame is more than winning football games. It’s more than a forgetful freshman, h'anding in his first History term-paper late. It’s more than the Law School f reshman, awkward at wearing a coat and tie to class. It’s more than old stories, half legend by now, of Gipp, Rockne, Pilney, Shakespeare, and Lu-jack. It’s a part of all these, and yet more.
Notre Dame, for the men who are leaving her, is infinitely more than all the separate little things that go to make up the sum of one man’s existence here. Notre Dame is not simply one man’s being elected to the Blue Circle; it’s not simply one man’s starting at left tackle On the opening day of the season; it’s not simply one man’s graduating Magna Cum Laude. It is not these things because Notre Dame is a totality of achievement which far surpasses anything individual.
Notre Dame, for the men who are leaving her, is something greater than the sum-total of all the prayers and
masses offered up over four year's. Notre Dame is something greater than all the men who have graduated in past years and who will graduate in future years; and greater than all their accomplishments and reputations and sorrows and joys.
Notre Dame is even more than something that is added up; for there is subtraction, too—the students who did not graduate. And it’s division, too—the scattering of students after graduation. And it’s even multiplication—the thousands of students from thousands of homes.
Notre Dame, for the men who are leaving her, is not a place, not a group of men; it isn’t even a way of life. Notre Dame is a moment in time, a sort of suspension of the physical laws of the universe. Because, really, there is no time here. Four- year's are thrown together in a jumble of memories, heartaches, 'and good times. Not one student in a thousand while here thinks, ‘I’m getting older.”
This space in time, this pause in existence that is four years 'at college seems long now. But if you’ll bother to keep this, read it ten years from now and then think back. I think you’ll see what I mean.
When the last gowned senior gets his diploma and handshake in June, maybe he'll know what I mean even sooner. There won’t be many, if any, wet eyes. The Notre Dame man isn’t like that. But there will be a lot of thoughts, the past and the future all swirled together in that haphazard conglomerate we call rhe present. Because if there is any one thing that Notre Dame can be reduced to, it is nowness. Because Notre Dame is what it is now, for those graduating men. It’s something that they can see and feel and experience with their own minds and bodies, even if they can’t explain it.
Maybe I’ve said too much, or maybe I’ve said too little. Maybe what I’ve said has been too syrupy and sentimental. I have no doubt that it’s been disconnected. But what I’ve tried to do is get at the heart of this thing we call Notre Dame, mostly in terms of my own four years here. If, during the past four years, anyone else has felt the same feelings, or thought the same thoughts that I’ve tried to write down here, then I can feel assured that there is something, more than a mere physical place, that we call Notre Dame.
In the small single in Walsh, the student puts down the final period. He cleans up his desk by flashlight and crawls into bed. What he has written isn’t what he wanted to say—but it was the best he could do. At least it was what he believed. . . .

The Scholastic
Who ivants to walk alone when Daddy’s hand is there to hold?
Makes a girl feel the same size as everybody.
That’s the way all little girls and boys need to feel—safe in a world of love ivhere they can grow without fear.- That’s where the security we need begins—for every one of us.	-
To build security for those we love—that is our common dream. And it is a dream that can come true only in a country like America.
For only in a free land is every man and woman free to work for it.
It is by taking care of our own that we also make America strong. For the strength of our country is simply the strength of each secure home joined to the security of another.
Saving for security is easy! Read every word—now! If you’ve tried to save and failed, chances are it was because you didn’t have a plan. Well, here’s a savings system that really works-the Payroll Savings Plan for investing in Savings Bonds.
This is all you do. Go to your company’s pay office, choose the amount you want to save-a couple of dollars a payday, or as much as you wish. That money will be set aside for you before you even draw your pay. And automatically invested in Series “E” U. S. Savings Bonds which are turned over to you.
If you can save only $3.75 a week on the Plan, in 9 years and 8 months you will have $2,137.30. If you can save as much as $18.75 a week, 9 years and 8 months will bring you $10,700!
For your sake, and your family’s, too, how about signing up today?

The V. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Ptiblishers of America.

Today’s Chesterfield is the
Best Cigarette Ever Made!
Copjrifht 195-1. Licgctt & Muis Tobacco Co.
« £ J
*
5 •r J*
AMERICAS
MOST POPULA
2-WAY
CIGARETTE
The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.
The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine—the taste you want—the mildness you want.
The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

CHESTERFIELD BESTFOR FOU