Notre Dame Scholastic.
T)isce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
t Vol. XV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 17, 1882.	No. 40.
Our Staff.
Cologne.
tE, C< Qrrick, ’82.
W. H. Arnold, ’83. W. S. Cleary, ’85.
E. A. Otis, ’84.	R. M. Anderson, ’83.
C. W. McDermott, ’83. M. E. Donahoe, ’83.
A. F. Zahm, ’83. F. E. Kuhn, ’84.
F. X. McPhillips.
A Little Birds^DH?*''
In his cage my blithe canary, swinging, Fills with merry voice a roundelay;
From the early sunrise he is singing, Chirping, flying, flitting all the day.
They who call it cruel thus to hold him Never saw his joyous, twinkling eyes, Never heard the something that I told him Once, beneath delusive April skies.
When my hand drew back the sliding casement, Bidding him be happy and go free,
Thinking all the while, in self-abasement Never more a jailer stern to be.
So I left him, lingering, fearing, sighing, Loath to watch him soar and speed away, Loath to see him from my roof-tree flying, Sad to miss his songs and pretty play.
Evening fell, and in my chamber lying, . Wondering where the bird had found a nest, What was that around me feebly flying, What was that low drooping on my breast?
Ruffled plumage, tiny pinions weary, Every flutter seemed a throb of pain;
Ah! the prison-house was not so dreary, Tired Robin had come home again!	.
They who think it cruel thus to hold him Should have seen the wanderer’s listless eyes, Greet the loving care so quick to fold him Safe and warm from showery April skies.
Never morning now but sees him flitting ■ In and out, as happy as can be;
Never twilight but it finds him setting Drowsy-eyed, a willing captive be.
Birdie, warbler, beautiful canary !-
Trill the fulness of thy roundelay;
Of the rippling sweetness never chary Sing, my pretty Robin, all the day!
The following short account of a tour among the ecclesiastical antiquities of Cologne may perhaps interest those of our readers whp shave not had the opportunity of making such a pilgrimage themselves: to those who have had that happiness, we need offer no apology for recalling, die • many pleasant associations and holy memories, which that one word, “ Cologne,” brings back to the minds of all who ever visited it.
It was on a bright summer evening that*we stood for the first time beneath the giant Tower of Cologne Cathedral. There have been so many descriptions of the “ St. Peter’s of the North,” and so many failures in the attempt to adequately describe it, that it may almost be pronounced indescribable. And it is quite as inconceivable as it is indescribable; there is no imagining its forest.of bristling pinnacles, or its tower, so gigantic in its ruined incompleteness, or the surpassing beauty of its coronal of chapels, or the heavenly glory of the * choir they crown. Before us stood that halfraised tower, looking, as Hood beautifully said, “ like a broken promise made to God.” High up-amid the moss and weeds that grow upon the unfinished buttresses, was the antique crane, untouched since mediaeval hands hauled up the stones and mortar.
The doors were open, and we entered just as the last rays of sunset streamed through the mullioned windows,—throwing dark, mysterious shadows athwart the avenue of clustered columns, and increasing the awful glory of “ the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault.” A concierge, who soon guessed us to be strangers, approached, and offered his services as cicerone. He led us first to a little, dark side-chapel, which contains the pride and marvel of Cologne, the inestimable and far-famed shrine of the Magi, or three Kings of the East. He lighted up the dim recess with a few torches, and it became a dazzling blaze of gold and jewels; the tomb is literally covered with precious stones, diamonds, rubies, emeralds, topazs, sapphires, and amethysts, in the most gorgeous profusion, interspersed, too, with many beautiful enamels. The front of the chasse is of pure gold, elaborately wrought in antique devices; the remaining part is silver-gilt. The brilliant effect of the whole is considerably heightened by the strange contrast it presents to the three ghostly skulls which repose in crowns of' jewels upon the velvet cushions within, while
6i6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
their names, Gasper, Melchior and Baltasar, appear in sparkling rubies beneath. The minor relics of the Cathedral are preserved in the sacristy. As we returned through the coronal of chapels behind the high altar, we stopped before a picture of striking beauty. It was painted in three panels, representing the Adoration of the Magi in the tentrej St. Ursula and the 11,000 Virgins on one Side, St. Gereon and the' Theban Legion oh the bther. The artist was Master William of Cologne■, Who flourished, in the 15th century. .
The next morning we commenced our pilgrimage to the churches of Cologne; these are not few in number, for the city still retains a good deal of that ecclesiastical character, and something of that ancient piety, which, in Ages of Faith, made her glory in no less than 365 church spires. We heard High Mass in the Cathedral, and as we knelt within the enclosure in the carved oaken stalls, which nearer to the altar are appropriated to the canons, we had full opportunity for observing and feeling all the grandeur of effect, and the wonderful combination of gorgeous detail with severe design which has caused the choir to be compared to a’splendid vision. The windows, with the sun shining upon some of the most magnificent stained glass we ever beheld, looked like so many frames of jewels; the gilding and diapering of the chancel, of its niches, and statues of saints, was in keeping with the glow around them; and all appeared as they really were, just fresh from the restoring hands of the workmen. The only exception to the perfect harmony which prevails throughout the decoration of the choir is the high altar, which is a modern erection, put up in the 18th century, and designed in the “ Dark Ages ” of the Renaissance.
Our commissionaire now conducted us to the Church of St. Ursula and her 11,000 companions, the most extraordinary ecclesiastical edifice in Cologne. The legend tells us that these famous British virgins, on their way to Armorica, encountered a violent storm, which drove them far away to the northeast and forced them to take shelter in a harbor at the mouth of the Rhine. Here they were stopped by an army of invading Huns, and from them suffered a glorious martyrdom, about the middle of the fifth century; their bones were afterwards brought to Cologne and churches built in their honor in several parts of Germany. St. Ursulas’ in Cologne, was one of the earliest of . these erections; it is privileged with the possession of all the relics of its sainted patronesses; the double walls are filled with their bones and skulls; the church is crowded with paintings of their history, and in the “ Golden Chamber ” are shown many of their heads preserved in silver cases. There is nothing remarkable in the architecture of this church; scarcely any landmarks for the antiquarian, except the heavy columns and round arches, that tell of early Romanesque; no works of art—nothing to take off the pilgrim’s mind from what he comes to visit—the shrine of the Virgin Martyrs.
There is another ossuary in Cologne, the Church -
of St. Gereon, built to contain the remains of the Theban Legion, but it is interesting, besides, from an architectural point of view. The date of the church is about I2;oo, but the crypts underneath belong to the 10th century. The choir is very lofty; lighted by lofig; ilafrow windows, something of a lancet shape, and it is altogether what we shduld call early English. From the choir you descend several steps iiito the nave, or rather decagon, which is of a circular shape, (like the entrance to our Temple Church,) and corresponds with the form of round churches; originally copied from that of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem, and frequently adopted over the tombs of martyrs. The style of this decagon is heavy, and more like the Romanesque Gothic,- which prevails more or less throughout all the churches of Cologne. The best example of this style is the Apostles’ Kirche, which is the finest in the town after the Cathedral, and appears to be the type and model of all the lesser churches. It stands alone, overlooks a fine “Place,” and is a very imposing and venerable structure. The grouping of its tall, square towers, its apses and semicircular projections, is particularly graceful, and agreeably relieves the massive style of its architecture. The semicircular apse seems to be a distinguishing feature of the Teutonic Romanesque, and is supposed by some to have been copied from the cathedral of Treves, which, as an ancient secular Basilica, still retains the hemicycles, or tribunes, one at each end, which are now converted into choirs, and form two apses opposite each other, at the two ends of the nave. This double choir of Treves is imitated in the cathedrals of Mayence, Spires, and those of several other German towns, which are remarkable for the peculiarity of two high altars; while the single semicircular apse of the parish churches appears to have originated in the same model.
We next visited the Church of St. Mary of the Capitol, so called because it occupies the sites of the ancient Roman Capitol of “ Colonia Agrippina.” The building dates from the early part of the 11 th century, and is highly interesting as being one of the oldest in the town. There was a still more ancient one founded by Plectrudis, the Queen of Clovis, upon the same spot; she is commemorated in a monument placed outside the choir. Formerly there was a large convent attached to the church, but this has been destroyed; two of the Abbesses’ . tombs alone remain; their effigies are placed upright'in the wall, inlaid with stone, and look like brasses. The stained glass here is very rich and beautiful; it fills all the windows, and is apparently of a very. early period. This is quite a church to • explore, full of antiquities, and abounding in those exquisite little dim holes and corners which are sure to elicit some hidden treasure or glorious discovery, of which antiquarians alone can tell the value. There are several fine statues of St. Barbara, St. Catharine, and St. Martin, and one of the 1 Blessed Virgin. '	•
The Jesuits’ Church is a Gothic building of the same massive architecture as the others which we have noticed; but all that, at first sight, appears
- ^7%
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6i]
heavy in the exterior, is entirely counteracted by the decorations within. Clouds and wreaths, and flying angels, and cupid-like cherubs, suspended in the air, are distributed usque ad nauseam in the taste of many churches abroad, and in the most redundant style.
We did not spend much time amid these architectural fantasias, but with all speed returned to the 13th century, at St. Cunibert’s, a fine old building near the river. It was completed in the year 1248, the same year in which the cathedral was begun, but the designs must have been of a much earlier period, as it would seem that cen> turies might intervene between the heavy Romanesque of the one, and: .the exquisitely decorated Gothic, of the other. The tomb of St. Cunibert, Archbishop of Cologne, is within the church; it was the last we visited, and its beautiful painted glass was the crowning glory of our church tour.
The • curiosities of Cologne are not, however, purely ecclesiastical; there is a “Musde,” which most strangers visit, and though not of great value as far as its collection of paintings goes, it is yet one of much interest for all who take delight in the ancient German school of arts. It abounds in curious old paintings, and quaint devices, on panels and in triplics; and though most of the artists are unknown to the fame of modern days, there is not less of the severe design and minute detail, the “ Spiritualism of Christian Art,” which is the greatest charm of their more celebrated contemporaries. Albert Durer is there in two or three of his engraving-like pictures, with their decided outline, and their expression in every stroke; and Master William of Cologne, with the devout ideal and the deep earnestness of feeling so particularly conspicuous in his “ Death of oui’ Blessed Lady.” There are also several modern paintings, one by an artist of the Dusseldorf school, named Bendemann, which riveted our attention immediately by its striking beauty; it represented the Jewish captives weeping by the waters of Babylon. The varied expression given to each of the mourners, the noble attitude of deep resignation assumed by the fathers, the more impassioned grief of the “ Daughters of Sion,” and the hopeless misery of the mothers, whose eyes seemed immovably fixed, and turned towards the city of the Prophets, all harmonized into the rich coloring of an Eastern sunset, combined in rendering it one of those pictures which once seen can never be-erased from the memory.
We took our farewell look at Cologne on the bridge of boats by moonlight. And as we gazed upon that stately Catholic city, its high roofs standing out against the clear, cold sky, and its church-spires rising one above another, all round the great Cathedral and its prophetic crane, our thoughts wandered back to the days of old, to the days of St. Cunibert and St., Anno, when Cologne was in its glory, and its three hundred spires bore witness to its piety, when cavalcades of pilgrims journeyed from distant climes to kneel at the shrine of the Eastern kings, and princes lavished their costliest gifts upon the service of the Most High.	.
The Tale of CEdipus.	-
No tragedy in history or in fiction can equal the horror of the tale of CEdipus, and none illustrates more forcibly the stem justice*with which the gods visited the sins of fathers upon their children. Of all the legends of the Greeks, none ever supplied the theme for so many dramas. All the tragic poets tried their powers upon it. ^Eschylus wrote nine, though only one, the “ Seven against Thebes ” has been preserved. Euripides wrote three, of which only the “Phoenissse” has survived. Three of Sophocles’s, the most prized by the ancients of all his works, “CEdipous Rex,” “CEdipous at Calo-nos,” and “Antigone,” are still extant. We find in Homer various allusions to the Theban -traditibns of the house of Cadmus, furnishing evidence that previous to the Trojan War the calamities of CEdipus were widely known, and celebrated in popular song.
The plot of the tale, however, is so simple as to be compassed in a sentence. An oracle .foretells that CEdipus shall slay his father and be married to his own mother; and, against his own will and knowledge, he fulfils his destiny. By a sudden, revolution of., fortune we see a man, to all appearance as wise as Solomon and as blameless as Job, hurled into an abyss of misery and despair; and this by a chain of circumstances of whose real import he is himself unconscious until the final ' catastrophe. It was the skilful manner in which all these circumstances were presented by Sophocles in his play, that caused Aristotle to denominate (Edicts the King as the model and masterpiece of Tragedy. '
The poet carries us back to the same mythic period, with no pretence to historical date, to which Shakspeare transports us in his play of King Lear. Laius, King of Thebes, took for his wife Jocasta, “daughter of the wise Menoeceus,” but she bore him no children. In his distress he asked help from the god at Delphi, and Apollo declared that a son would be bom to him, but that by the hands of this son he should die. As soon as the child, the hero of the tragedy, is born, Laius pierces his feet, passes cords through them, and entrusts him to a servant, with strict charge that he should be left to die in the wilderness of Mount Cithaeron. A. shepherd finds him hanging from a tree, and, moved with pity, carries him to his master Polybus, King of Corinth. The wife of Polybus, Merope, being childless, adopts the foundling as her own son and gives him the name of CEdipus (“Swell-foot.”) He grows up to manhood, never doubting that he is the son and heir of Polybus, until an apparently insignificant occurrence disturbs his youthful felicity. At a banquet, one of his drunken companions assails him with the reproach that he is only the supposititious son of Poly bus. Stung by the affront, CEdipus, with difficulty, restrains himself for that day; but on the morrow he presents himself before his father and mother, tells them what has happened, and eagerly expresses a desire to learn the truth; although incensed against the
6i8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
author of the taunt, they fail to satisfy the doubts of (Edipus. The reproach-continually rankles in his. breast, and, at length, without the knowledge of his parents, he sets out for Delphi to obtain a satisfactory answer from Apollo. But the oracle, instead of answering his question, announces his destiny: That, unless he shuns his native country, he shall wed his own mother, beget a race hideous to mankind, and become the slayer of his own father. Having received this oracle, (Edipus resolves, hard as it may be to him, never again to see his parents, turns his back forever upon his Corinthian home, and wanders alone, not knowing whither, through the Phocian land. In the narrow pass at the spot where the road from Delphi branches off to Phocis and Boeotia, he is met by an old man riding in a chariot; the driver, at the same time, leading the horses. Both attempt with violence to force him out of the way. Enraged at their insolence, (Edipus deals the driver a blow, and then essays to pursue his way quietly. The old man, however, watches his opportunity, and at the moment when (Edipus is in the act of passing the chariot, deals a blow in the middle of his head with his double goad. Thereupon the stalwart (Edipus strikes a fatal blow in return. The old man falls backward from his chariot and dies. It was Laius. (Edipus had unconsciously killed his own father, and thus verified a part of the oracle given him at
'Delphi.
Proceeding on his way, (Edipus arrives in the neighborhood of Thebes, a short time after the intelligence of the violent death of Laius had reached there. At that time the Sphinx, a monster with the face of a woman, the wings of a bird, and the tail and claws of a lion, had her lair in that place. This monster had been taught riddles by the Muses, and as she sat on the Phicean Hill she propounded one to the Thebans. As often as they failed to give a correct answer, one of their number was carried off and devoured by the Sphinx; thus gradually decimating the inhabitants of the city. They were told by the oracle at Delphi that until they answered her riddle they could not be rid of their persecutor. Her enigma was the following: “ A being with four feet has two feet, and three feet, and only one voice; but its feet vary, and when it has most, it is weakest.” The answer of (Edipus has been translated in the following lines:
“ Hear thou, against thy will, thou dark-winged muse of the slaughtered;
Hear from my lips the end bringing a close to thy crime; Man is it thou hast described, who, when on earth he ap-peareth,
First as a babe from the womb, four-footed, creeps on his way;
Then when old age cometh on, and the burden of years weighs full heavy,
Bending his shoulders and neck, as a third foot useth his staff.”
Upon this solution the Sphinx throws herself from the rock, and (Edipus is recognized as the savior of the State, and receives, together with the throne left vacant by the death of Laius, Jo-casta, the widow of the king, as his wife. The
second part of the prophecy is now fulfilled, Heaven is silent for a long time, and (Edipus, as king of Thebes, passes many years in undisturbed prosperity, until, for his unconscious crimes, the wrath of the gods falls upon the State. Every source of life is under a curse; mildew blights the fruits of the earth, men . and beasts are swept away by some fatal and mysterious malady. The oracle is asked for advice, and the dreadful sentence falls upon (Edipus himself. He is determined not to cease investigating until he should succeed in bringing the truth to light or in setting the calumny at rest. But with every fresh inquiry, the horrible story is developed with additional evidence. When, at length, every doubt had vanished, and (Edipus, with dreadful certainty, found himself guilty of the worst crimes, no longer able to bear the light of day, he blinded himself. Jocasta strangled herself.
Thus deprived of light, (Edipus wanders about, and, led by the hand of his daughter, Antigone, arrives at a little village of Colonos, near Athens, where King Theseus received him with hospitality Here in a terrific storm he disappeared from the eyes of mortals, the earth opening her dark bosom to give him a refuge from the storms of evil fortunes.
W. S. Cleary, ’85.
Books and Periodicals.
—St. Nicholas for June opens with an excellent frontispiece engraving of “ Mr. Longfellow and his Boy-Visitors,” supplemented by illustrated sketches from Lucy Larcom and Hezekiah Butterworth, with engravings of Longfellow’s house, a corner in Longfellow’s studio, the old clock on the stairs, a bust portrait of the poet, and the western entrance of Longfellow’s house. The pen contributions about the poet contain many reminiscences and anecdotes of Longfellow in his relation to children—a beautiful trait in our poet’s character. “ The Great Tub-Race at Point NoPoint” will be enjoyed by the boy-readers of St. Nicholas,—though not exclusively reserved for the boys, as the girls come in with the honors of the race, as well as being privileged and interested lookers-on. We would like to call attention to Jessie McDermott’s beautifully engrossed and illustrated story of “ The Maid of Honor ” who had her nose nipped off by the black-bird, “ The Whirligig Club,” and the young hero who rode his bycicle over a long bridge at night to save a passenger train, Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge’s account of the “ G. B. C.,” and “ The Shooting Match,” in her beautiful story of “Donald and Dorothy,” and the many other nice stories and pretty pictures, but we havn’t space. St. Nicholas is a captivating periodical, both in stories and pictures, and will greatly help to impart a cultivated taste and elevated tone to its youthful readers. Published by the Century Co., New York. $3 a year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	619
An Apostolic Woman; or, the Life and Letters of Irma le Fer de la Motte, in Religion Sister Francis'Xavier. With a Preface by M. Leon Aubineau. Translated from the French. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 1882.
The life of a pioneer in a new country is always interesting, and when the country happens to be our own State, and the pioneer no rude backwoodsman, but a delicately nurtured lady, who has sacrificed the attractions and comforts with which civilization surrounded her early years, to devote herself to the welfare of her fellow-beings, the interest acquires a new and exalted character. The biography begins faithfully at her childhood, and we cannot refrain from quoting an incident of this epoch:	1
“ Irma considered herself pretty—and so she was—and, being possessed of this idea, loved to linger before a mirror in admiration of herself. Her nurse having told her that vain little girls who often admire themselves in a glass would finally see the devil in it, she persisted one day in spending several successive hours in musing before one and in calling upon his Satanic majesty, although she afterwards confessed that it was not so much the desire of seeing the devil as of frightening one of her sisters, who, shocked at her audacity, was prostrate in prayer for her conversion.”
She was very far, you see, from the stereotyped “ Sunday-school child ”; and her parents, at that time, could have had little hope of her becoming an “ Apostolic Woman.” The child, however, who went to meet the devil in the looking-glass, grew up to be the heroine who sought out and conquered the enemy of mankind in his own domain, rescuing the sinner from the grasp of his iron claw, and instructing the ignorant how to avoid hissnares.
We may be pardoned for making a longer extract from this interesting memoir, and giving entire Sister Francis Xavier’s “Prayer for Indiana.”
“ Remember, O Lord! this land of Indiana which You possessed from the beginning, of which You have thought from all eternity, which You held in Your powerful Hand when You created the world, and which was hidden in Your adorable Heart when, in dying on the Cross, You confided its poor inhabitants to the care of Your divine Mother.
“O Lord, remember Indiana! Say but the word and all will be children of Abraham. Send good laborers into Your vineyard—holy missionaries who will have no other interests than Yours, men according to Your Heart, and true servants of Mary, Your holy Mother.
“ They will defend Your glory, make Your name known, and save souls which You have redeemed with Your Precious Blood. Visit us by Your power and in Your mercy. We ask these favors by the intercession of our holy patrons, St. Joseph and St. Francis Xavier. Amen.”
Such were the aspirations of this truly good woman in behalf of this our State of Indiana, —aspirations which she daily—hourly—seconded by word and work. May our readers all unite In her prayer, imitate her example, and share her reward.
The work is well translated, neatly bound and excellently printed, with a portrait of the subject as a frontispiece, and another excellent engraving opposite page 250. We heartily commend it to our readers, as one of those books which make a man better while he reads,
College Gossip.
—A class of phonography has been started at Girard College, and the Pitman system has been chosen; so also at Cornell University.
—Students at Cambridge University are not allowed to • row on the river unless they present certificates of ability to swim from their parents or from the “University Swimming Club.”—Ex.	_
A sensible regulation, and one which ought to become general.
—The Professor of English in a certain French college was once astounded to receive the following note from a pupil who had not handed in the prescribed daily task. The note, useless to say, is a faithful translation from the French: ..
“ Sir :—I not have not made my devoir, because I not have not had of dictionary. I have endeavor, notwith-stand, but I have not can.”
—St. Joseph’s College, founded in Hong Kong, ‘ in 1875, by the Christian Brothers, had 80 pupils the first year; now it has 256. In all the educational institutions protected by the Government, the pupils who have been present for at least 200 days of the scholastic year are required to pass an examination, the programme of which is previously arranged for the six classes comprised in the plan of studies. Every student that passes the examination successfully has a right to a certain sum proportioned to the difficulties of the programme. The elective studies are paid extra. These sums are not given to the pupils, however, but go to the directors of the school. During the scholastic year of ’81—82, which terminated at Hong Kong, on March nth last, the Brothers presented 163 pupils for examination; 156 answered all the questions of the programme satisfactorily, being 96.93 per cent. This splendid result brought the sum of • $1,630.	-
—No doubt the Latin play produced under the auspices of the Sophomore Class, will attract a large audience next Saturday evening. The work of preparation has gone forward under the immediate and careful supervision of Professor C. M. Gayley, and those taking riles in the play have d.evoted a good deal of time to their work, and we are safe in saying, from looking over the caste of characters, that they will play their parts well. Let us approve of this first attempt to introduce a Latin play in this coum try, by giving the participants our hearty support next Saturday evening.—The Chronicle, University of Michigan.
The writer of the above item makes a mistake in stating that the forthcoming Latin play at the University of Michigan is the “ first attempt to introduce a Latin play in this country.” “The Captives,” of Plautus, was successfully presented at the University of Notre Dame three years ago. It was an “ April fool ” scheme—none but those managing or taking part in it being aware that the play on the evening in question was to be in Latin. Needless to say, the Latinists enjoyed “ The Captives,” and the others didn’t. Sophocles’s “ (Edipus Tyrannus ” will be put upon file boards here next week. If the aflair proves successful, the first Greek play in the West, as well as the first Latin play, will have to be placed to the credit 6f Notre Dame.	.
620	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Oration, by the Rt. Rev. Dr. Chatard, Bishop of Vincennes Distribution of.Premiums, Conferring of Degrees, etc. Music—“ Home, Sweet Home ”.................N. D. U- C. B.
Notre Dame, Jiuie IV, 188.2.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew a? a candidate for the favor and support of the, many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand? ,	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal^gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
’ Old Students should take it.
• Terms, $z. 50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
'	’	'	Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University. •	'
—We take pleasure in announcing that the distinguished journalist Donn Piatt will deliver an address to the graduates next Wednesday evening, in the new Hall. From what we know of- Mr. Piatt, we can confidently promise -a rare literary treat to all who will enjoy the privilege of hearing him. He will speak on the subject of Education.
—We gratefully ackowledge the receipt of an invitation to attend the second annual meeting of the Society of Alumni of Georgetown College, to be held in the Memorial Hall of the new college building, on the 21st inst. An oration-will be delivered by Hon. Walter S. Cox, and Mr. James Hoban, of Washington, will read a poem. We regret our inability to be present.
—The programme for next week, as at present agreed upon, will be as follows:	'
Monday evening ( Closing Exercises of the Euglossian ( and Addresses of.the Graduates Tuesday “	....................The Greek Play
Wednesday, a. m., 8 o’clock | Solemn Mass of the Alumni , (	Te Deum
Wednesday, “ “ 9.30 “ ..Reunion of the Alumni Wednesday, p. m..............Boat	Race
-• Thespian Entertainment and Address of Donn Piatt.
Thursday, a. m., 8 o’clock, Valedictory, by W. B.McGorrisk
—The Boat Club’s two splendid new 6-oar barges, built to ‘ order for the Club, by Mr. William Nofisinger, of Burlington, Iowa, arrived here on the evening of the 8th, and were immediately put into the water. The boats are of the latest and most approved model, and are beauties in every way—so much so that some of the members of the Burlington Amateur Boating Association, which is composed of members of the most respectable families of Burlington—for whom Mr. Nofisinger built a splendid boat last season, in addition,.tQ eighteen or twenty before that—say the Notre Dame Boat Club’s boats are superior for speed to anything in their own flotilla, choice as they consider it. Several among the younger members of the Burlington Association are enthusiastic oarsmen, and have spared no trouble or expense to give their Association a leading position. We think the Notre Dame Boat Club made a judicious choice in their builder, Mr. Nofisinger, whom the Burlingto-nians’ aquatic enthusiasm had pushed into the front rank of builders. The new barges are 40 feet long by 46 inches wide; have the Davis patent rowlock, sliding seats, spoon oars, etc.	.
The new boats are light, but of good material and substantially put together, being clinker-built and copper-fastened. There are now six boats altogether—quite a respectable little college flotilla —and what with the new boats, and the. new boathouse just finished on the east side of St. Joseph’s Lake, at the well-known bathing-beach, boating interests are proudly looking up. Many colleges would envy us the possession of either of our beautiful lakes.
—At the beginning of the second session, when the Scholastic passed under its present management, the Staff was dropped, with the intention, however, of reorganizing it later on, as soon as things were in good running order again. It was hoped that, meantime, all who cared to be associated with the paper, or who valued the distinction of having their names appear as co-laborers, would contribute essays, and otherwise show interest in the publication. An invitation to this effect was given to all the students in the first number of the Scholastic issued under the new regime; but we regret to say that it has been unheeded by -the great majority. Only a few, comparatively, of the students have manifested any desire to write for the Scholastic, or have given evidence that they appreciate the advantages which might be derived therefrom. This is regrettable, to say the least of it. We have heard it said that there is always a great rush for the Scholastic at 3 o’clock . on Saturday; that its contents are eagerly scanned by Seniors, Preps, and Minims; and that there is no end of complaints (fortunately there has been no cause for them the last few months) when the little sheet fails to appear.on time Be this as it
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
621
may, there are few who care to do anything for the paper, though there must be many who could if they would. It ought to be evident to every student that the Scholastic . presents an opportunity for the acquirement of a most useful qualification, one which is every day becoming more general. We are much mistaken if many will not regret in after-years their failure to profit by the advantages afforded them by a college paper.
It must not be supposed that we write to air a grievance. We have no complaints to make; and if we had, there would be no meaning in making them now. We have felt- all along that some explanation for not reorganizing the Staff was due from us, and it is. a satisfaction to make it. As a proof of our appreciation of the services of those who have contributed to the Scholastic since it has been under our control, we publish this week as “ Our Staff,” the names of all the contributors to the paper during the session. The Preps, are represented by Mr. McPhillips, and to their credit be it said there are many more among them who will be competent later on to render valuable aid to the Scholastic ; their willingness to do so has already been signified. Perhaps it is because the Preps, of former years were not so well known to us, but we consider the Juniors of ’81 and ’82 the most talented, most energetic and best lot of boys we have ever seen .at Notre Dame.
—The twenty-fourth Annual Banquet of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was given on Wednesday in the Juniors’ Refectory which had been profusely and tastefully decorated for the occasion with festoons of lace, evergreens and natural flowers. Promptly at four o’clock the long procession of invited guests, headed by the venerated Founder of’ the University and the venerable Mayor of South Bend, marched from the College corridors to the dining-hall, where the N. D. Orchestra was found discoursing the beauties of the Bohemian Girl. After discussing the viands, which were served in regular courses, the following . sentiments were read by Master Edward Fishel:
His Holiness, Pope Leo XIII.—May his throne be strengthened and his days lengthened, and may all nations behold in him the Vicar of Christ on earth.
Responded to by Very Rev. Edward Sorin.
Our Country.—The breach of harmony, caused by the : civil war being healed, may her sons, now united, ne’er sever, while Liberty’s form stands in view 1 May union sustain us forever, by aid of the brave and the true.
Response, by Mayor Ham.
The Press, the Educator of the Masses.—May it never forget its weighty responsibilities, but boldly stand forth as the champion of truth and right.	\
Answered by Prof. Howard.
The University of Notre Dame, our Alma Mater. —Increasing in. glory year by year. May she, like Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, ever point with pride to her children as to her chief ornaments.
Responded to by the President of the University. \ The City of South Bend upon which so many of the students’ hopes are wont to wander.
Responded by Hon. Aaron Jones. ’ .	.
The closing remarks were made by the veteran Prof. Lyons, in his usual happy style. At the conclusion of his speech he invited the members * of the St. Cecilia Society to advance to the President’s table to take a piece of the large cake in which, according to time-honored custom, a valuable gold ring, with diamond setting, had been placed. Master Frank Johnson, of Memphis, Tenn., was the fortunate winner of the prize. -
The Cecilia banquet, of ’82, is considered the best ever given under the auspices of that celebrated organization. Among the guests present were Judge Noyes, of Laporte; Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A.; Hon. Lucius Hubbard; Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C.; Mr. Tumock, of South Bend; nearly all the members of the Faculty, presidents and vice-presidents of the religious and literary societies of the University, members of the Philo-patrian Society, Euglossian Club, Comet Band and University Orchestra.
—Our attention has lately been called to an editorial in the Harvard Daily Herald on the best means of preventing the habit of drinking from gaining ground in colleges. Harvard being an institution in which the faculty exercise but very little control over the students outside the recitation room, and do not assume the responsibility of their moral training, the Herald very properly concludes that the only sure preventive lies in the creation of such a feeling of self-respect among the college men as will tend to put the person disgracing himself by an act of intemperance outside the pale of college respectability. So far we agree with the Herald. Public opinion is the force which sways everything to-day, colleges as well as governments. We know full well how meaningless prohibitory laws are unless backed by public sentiment. The cause of temperance will never triumph in colleges, or elsewhere for that matter, if young men, instead of asking themselves «Is it right or wrong that I should idrink ? ” and, acting accordingly, content themselves with the question: «Am I likely to be discovered and punished ? ”
But, though admitting that this manly public sentiment is the surest, if not the only means of checking intemperance among college students, we hold that it lies mainly with the faculty and officers of a college to create, or at all events, to promote the growth of such a spirit. College stu- -dents, however anxious they may be to decorate . themselves with the name of men, are, in general, too young to be expected to assume the burdens of manhood, or even thoroughly to understand its duties. They are still in the plastic state. During the four years of the college course, habits are formed, which,. whether good or bad, will be likely to accompany them through life. “ Lead us not into temptation ” is, therefore, for them a peculiarly appropriate prayer.	•
The Faculty of Notre Dame’ and, we may add, of all other Catholic colleges, consider themselves not merely the instructors but the educators of the young men entrusted to their care. Clothed for a .
^22	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
time with parental authority, they feel obliged to watch over, not only the intellectual, but likewise the moral training of their charges, with parental -vigilance. Hence they do not consider it safe to leave a matter of such importance as the formation of temperate habits among hundreds of young men to depend on the possible existence of a laudable sentiment among them. Appreciating to the full the importance, not to say the indispensable necessity, of such a sentiment, they feel themselves obliged to promote its development by every means at their command, and'one of the most efficacious means they consider to be the withdrawal of all occasions of temptation. A young man who has no love for liquor at the age of twenty-one will never be likely to contract a strong passion for it. Whether prohibitory laws, are beneficial or - otherwise in the great outside world, is a question which need not be discussed in these columns, but experience has convinced us that strict prohibition is decidedly beneficial to the little college world.
The college authorities are evidently of this opinion, to judge from the rules which have been in force here from time immemorial, and which have never been enforced more rigorously than during the year now drawing to a close. The discipline of Notre Dame, as all know, is mild; every effort is made to accustom students to look upon the college as a home, and such, we are glad to say, it is generally considered’. A young man sincerely disposed to do what is right, or as nearly right as he finds possible, may remain for years .without discovering that there are any “ resources of severity”-at the command of the authorities. If-the reins are held by the iron hand, it is carefully hidden beneath the velvet glove. But there are two offences for which, as the students have been repeatedly informed, no mercy need be expected. These are insubordination and intemperance: these are the “ unpardonable sins.” Against them—and particularly against the last—officers and Facuity have raised the black flag. Their motto is “ War to the knife, and the knife to the hilt ” if necessary, to prevent these evils from taking root. And we need not add that in this matter they have always had the hearty approval of those among the students—and they formed the vast majority—whose approval was worth having.
Personal.
—-John T. Cullen (Commercial), of ’75, is in the office of the W. St. L. P. R. R., Fort Wayne. He is doing well, to judge from a recent welcome letter he has sent us. .
—M. l’Abbe McGrath, Seminaire de St. Sul-pice, Paris, has favored us with a pleasant and obliging letter which gives evidence that, though absent in body, he is far from being forgetful of Notre Dame and the Scholastic. He promises some sketches of his travels for the next volume.
—Mr. W. W. Dodge, of ’74, of the firm of Dodge & Dodge, Attorneys at Law, Burlington, . Iowa, came down from Burlington on the 8th, with
Mr. Noffsinger and the new barges. We regret to say that he cannot be with us at Commencement, some important law business calling him to St. Louis, at that time. .
—We learn from the Osceola, ( Missouri,).Voice of the People, that Thos. M. Johnson of ’71 is likely to obtain the Democratic nomination for State Superintendent of Public Schools, which, in Missouri, is equivalent to an election. Mr. Johnson has been in political life since his graduation, and was a very efficient Prosecuting Attorney for some time in his own county, an office which, however, he declined when offered to him the second time. He is one of the few who, after the conclusion of. their college career, devote themselves to the study of the Greek language and literature. Mr. Johnson’s special object in this has been the cultivation of the Platonic philosophy, of which he thinks very highly, and in the interests of which he publishes the Platonist, a philosophical journal. We trust that his experiences in the political arena will not disturb that serene tranquillity of mind essential to the attainment of the Platonic Summum bonum.
—It is with sincere regret that we announce the death of Anton Buerger, of ’80, one of the most promising students of that year. He had many warm friends among the students and Faculty who will be pained to hear the news of his early demise, of which the Burlington (Iowa) Daily Gazette, furnishes the following particulars:.
“ Last night, Anton Buerger, only son of the late Anton Buerger, died after a brief illness of inflammation of the bowels. The deceased had been indisposed for a few days before last Sunday, improving sufficiently to be about that day. A sudden and fatal relapse followed this improvement, resulting in death at 11.10, last night. Mr. Buerger was a quiet, reserved young man, and at one time had inclinations to study for the priesthood, as he was a very ardent member of the Catholic Church. His age was eighteen years and five months; since the death of his parents he had resided with his sister, Mrs. Bosch. The Gazette block was part of the property belonging to the deceased, and his entire estate is valued at about $75,000, one-third of which is in money. His only heirs and relatives are two half-sisters, Mrs. Berthold Bosch and.Mrs. Martin Moehn, and an aunt, Mrs. Henry Stensbeck.”
Requiescat inface.
Local Items.
—Hurrah!
—Crowded out.
—“ To be continued in ’83.”
—The Scholastic will not be issued next week.
—They ought to know those Greek choruses, don’t you think so ?
—The programme for next week will be found on the editorial page.	-
—The examinations are announced to continue till Tuesday evening.	.
—Our friend John says he is going to send home his premiums by freight.
—The St. Cecilians had the first rehearsal in the new Hall .last Saturday evening. .	. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	623

—The Juniors enjoyed several evening walks around St. Joseph’s Lake during the week.
—The handsome gift presented by Brother Leander, last week, for the best boy in the Minim department, has been awarded by vote to Master Prindiville.
—The grounds around the College are beginning to look fine, thanks to the persevering efforts of B. Bonaventure. The flower vases, etc., are to be repainted.
—The Juniors have presented two handsome silver table-pieces to Mrs. S. Zaehnle, as a token of their appreciation of her kindness on the occasion of their annual picnic.
—Prof. Edwards is indebted to Master Paul Yrisarri, of Bernalillo, New Mexico, for a large collection of Mexican and Indian pottery presented to the Historical department.
—The Minims are having their usual summer picnic to-day. Anyone seeing them starting for the scene of action would say that a brighter and . happier lot of boys could not be found.
—We are requested by the Rev. President to state that the name of Bro. Remigius was omitted through an oversight from the list of Examiners on the Commercial Board, printed in last week’s issue.
—An exciting game of baseball was played, on the 11 th inst., between the third Junior nine and the apprentices. The game was a tie until the last inning, when the apprentices scored two runs on a heavy bat made by Young. BothThines played well. Score, 6 to 4.
—The interesting play of Pizarro, which the Thespians will bring out on Wednesday evening, • has been slightly remodelled to suit the occasion. As the society is composed of members of the Senior Collegiate department, a very creditable performance may be expected.
—The Novices deserve the thanks of everybody for “fixing up” the spring near the new boathouse. If you want a drink of the best water around the College, stop there sometime. The spring is particularly convenient for the members of the Boat Club, and they rejoice that it has been rendered serviceable.
—The Lemonnier Library Association gratefully acknowledges the receipt of specimens of Chinese workmanship from G. Castanedo, of New Orleans; C. Warner, of Nashville; and F. Ryan, of Topeka, Kansas; pictures, from A. Colyar, and G. Muhlke; curious pipes, from A. Richmond and W. Warren; specimens of vegetable ivory, from E. Wile, of Laporte; and several curiosities from Master J. Powell, of Indianapolis.
—We direct attention to one of the editorials in this issue of the Scholastic, in which the law here in regard to drunkenness and insubordination is clearly laid down. It contains nothing, perhaps, which has not been expressed before, and many times, still we venture to remark that it would be well for all to refresh their memories on the course that is sure to be pursued when either of these capital offences has been committed,
—The Notre Dame University Boat Club desire to express their thanks to Mr. H. Wilson, the gentlemanly and attentive passenger agent of the Burlington route of the C. B. & Q. R.R., for the kindly interest taken by him in the careful and speedy transfer of the Club’s new barges over his line of railroad and at the change of cars in Chicago. Also to Mr. W. W\ Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa, for the valuable services rendered by him.
—By all accounts the Seniors’ picnic, last Thursday, in Johnson’s Grove, was one of the pleasantest sociables of the session. The weather was very fine —couldn’t have been better—and the arrangements were so perfect that nothing occurred to mar the enjoyment of the day. A grand dinner was served at 1 o’clock, after which the boys indulged in va- . rious sports till supper time. The Band, was in attendance and contributed much to the pleasure of the occasion.	.
—Some remarks having been made as to the height of the smoke-stack and the unfinished spire of the church, a quadrant was called into requisition and the actual height of both soon ascertained. Scarcely anyone would believe that the church spire is higher than the smoke-stack, but it is nevertheless the case. The height of the former, taken with base and angle, as above, is 124 ft. 7 inches; of the latter, from the level of the gravel to the top, only 114 ft., 8 inches.
—The following item is . from the Burlington Hawkeye of the 8th instant:
Wm. Noffsinger, the crack boat builder, left last night for Notre Dame, Indiana, with two six-oared barges for the college club there. The boat& -. c very long and unwieldy when out of the water, and had to be lashed against the inside of the roof of a passenger coach. In accordance with the instructions from the parties who ordered them, they were named “ Evangeline” and “Minnehaha.” Two goodsized lakes adjoin the college grounds at Notre Dame, and we may expect to hear of a good record from the college club.
—The Iowa giant says he has lost 10 lbs. since he commenced pulling with the University Boat Club, and is in great glee over the matter. We regret to see good nature melting away after this fashion, but there is this consolation, that the stock is abundant and there is plenty of adipose tissue to spare. Tracy, on the other hand, has gained in weight; he puts on flesh instead of pulling it off, and says he never weighed heavier than , now. All in all, the Boat Club are a pretty solid lot of fellows. Otis and some of the others should try their hands at the oar.
—The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association held a special meeting on Wednesday for the purpose of making arrangements for badges on Commencement day. The President proposed that some money from the treasury be applied for the purpose, to which all agreed. He also expressed his satisfaction at the successful manner in which the members rendered their drama on the 6th inst. Speeches followed by several members. A vote of thanks was then returned to the devoted President of the Association, Prof. J. F. Edwards, after which the meeting adjourned.
- 624
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The large dynamo-electric machine procured from the Van Depoele Electric Light Co., of Chicago, has been placed in the boiler-house, and the six or eight electric lights spoken of some time ago are now in working order, and will be immediately placed in position. .Rev. Father Zahm expects to have everything in place and in complete working order in a day or two, and that during Commencement week we shall have the pleasure of seeing the darkness of night give place to a beautiful, clear light. The tests already made give evidence that-the light will be unusually steady and bright. So far, three lamps have been put up to light the- interior of the Academy of Music, one over the main entrance, one over the west side entrance and one suspended from the College portico. The lastfithree lamps, from their position, will' illuminate the grounds, and no doubt produce a magical effect. .	•
—The following is the programme for the twenty-fourth Annual Summer Exercises of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Society, and the opening of the new Hall, announced for this evening:
PART FIRST. Music..................................N.	D. U. C. B.
Song and Chorus......( F. Kuhn, G. Tracy, L. Florman :.....................( C. Echlin, etc.
Address..................................G. Rhodius
Music—“ Never to Late to Mend ”............Wagner
Orchestra.
French Address.........................J.	V. O’Donnell
Recitation.........-.....................Ed Fishel
Music—Last Waltzes of a Maniac.........N.	D. U. C. B.
PART SECOND.	'
THE OUTCAST.
A Drama in Three Acts. Translated from the French for the St. Cecilians, by Rev. President Walsh.
Alfred d’Anfreville........................C. Rose
Charles d’Aspremont......................Ed. Fishel
D’Orfeuil..........'.....................J. Grever
Nicholas..............................W. Johnston
Blaise...................................A. Coghlin
Catignac................:.............;. -. D. Taylor
Justice..........................................H.	Porter
Sergeant.........................................C.	Porter
The Valet........................................C.	Echlin
Pascal................................... N.	Ewing
De la Rochejacquelin....’..................M. Foote
-De la Rochefoucauld............;..........J- Kelly
Veuve Clicquot...........................C.	Murdock
.Grosjean..................................C. Kolars
Pierrot................................G.	Castanedo .
Orchestra. Duet.....................L. Florman and C. Echlin
THE OFFICE-SEEKERS.
A Farce in One Act.	:
Hon. Forrest Primeval.................H. Porter	.
Wm. Jones.............................J. Grever
Hon. Julius Truthful..................T. Hurley
Mark Blusterman....................C. C. Kolars
Jake Windbag...................... A.	A-Browne
Hon. Jesse Stubbs..................  L.	Florman
John Bluffer......-................:.J.	Courtney
James Dexter..........................F. Johnson
Adolphus Sleeker...................W.	McCarthy
Sam. Chinner..........................M. Dolan
Moses Scribble....................  :W.	Coghlin .
Jack Flyer.........................................H. Sells
Epilogue...'...............  ;.........a........G. Shaefer
March for retiring ;......................Caliph	de Bagdad
•’	-N. D. U. C. B.	~ r
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students . whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]	.
’	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anderson, Arnold, Armijo, J. Berry, W. Berry, Bailey, Barron, Bryant, Browne^ Bell, Bolton, Becerra, Cullin, Clements, Carroll, Chelirii,' Conway, G. Glarke, W. Cleary, Concannon, Donegan, Drury, Donohue, Eager, F. Ewing, Eaton, Fitzgerrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Farrell, Fleming, J. Falvey, M. Falvey, Fishburn, Garrett, Gallagher, Golonski, Gray, Grever, M. Healy, T. Healy, Jones, Johnson, Kinsella, Kuhn, Kerndt, Kavanaugh, Livingston, Lannon, Lippman, McErlain, Minnis,* Mon-oghan, McCarthy, McGinnis, Millett, McDermott, McIntyre, McDevitt, Morse, W. McGorrisk, McEniry, Mason, Nash, Noble, Noonan, O’Reilly, O’Connor, O’Rourke, Orrick, - Otis, Peery, Paquette, Pierson, Pillars, Ryan, Rettig, Rasche, Saviers, Steiger, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, O’Neill, Solon, E. Smith, C. Smith, Steis, Sturla, Thomp'-son, Tracy, Treon, Wheatley, White, Yrisarri, Zettler.
♦	Omitted by mistake laS(t week.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Archer, Browne, Bacon, Barron, Barnard, Boone, Bowers, Campau, J. M. Courtney, J. Courtney, Dolan, Drendel, Echlin, N. Ewing, Ed Fishel, Fred Fishel, Freyermuth, Fendrick, Fisher, Florman. M. Foote, H. Foote, Friedman, Gibert, Graham, Grever, Gerlach, E. Gall, Guthrie, Gallagher, Hofiman, Hess, Hibbeler, Hurley, Deschamps, Halligan, Jeannot, Johnston, Johnson, Kolars, Kahman, Kitz, Katz, Livingston, Lund, Laumann, J. Mc-Gordon, Metz, J. McGrath, T. McGrath, A. Gall, McPhil-lips, Murphy, Orchard, Osborne, Orsinger, Powell, Peery, Quill, Ryan, Rosenheim, Richmond, J. Ruppe, L. Rivaud, Ryon, Roper, Rhodius, Sells, Schaefer, Tappan, Taggart, Williams, J. Warner, Whelan, Wilbur, Warren, Wile, Zeigler.	.	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, Berthelet, Beall, Brandom, Cummings, P. Campau, C. Campau, Chaves, Coad, J. Chir-hart, Curran, E. Chirhart, C. Campbell, H. Campbell, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, R. Devereux, J. Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Dwenger, Dirksmeyer, Devitt, Davison, Frain, Fehr, Graham, J. Garrity, F. Garrity, Hynes, Hopkins, Hewitt, Howard, Johnson, J. T. Kelly, A. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kellner, J. J. McGrath,* J. McGrath, E. McGrath, McGordon, McCawley, Metz, Masi, Miller,. J. Nester, F. Nester, Nash, Norfolk, F. Otis, A. Otis, O’Connor, Piatt, Papin, Powell, J. Pick, C- Pick, Peters, G. Price, E. Price, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rose, Rebori, Roper,- Roberts, Schmitz, Stange, Studebaker, Sommer, Thomas, Tong, Vosburgh, Welch, Walsh, Winsor, Whitney, L. Young, C. Young.
♦	Omitted for two weeks by mistake.
Andrew Jackson was once making a stump speech in a small village away out West. Just as he was concluding, some one who sat behind him whispered, “ Give ’em a little Latin; it’ll be sure to take.” The man of the Iron, in a voice of thunder, wound up his speech by exclaiming: “ Efluribus unum—sine qua non—me ^lus ultra—multum in farvby The effect was tremendous, and the shouts could be heard for miles.......... •	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
^tarfemg
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
. —The competetive examination of the first Senior Class in English Literature took place last Friday. Results, highly satisfactory.
—The Graduating and First Senior Classes are proud of their proficiency in cooking. The viands prepared by these ambitious amateurs would do credit to an experienced housekeeper.
—The examination^ of the Music Classes still continues. Much'interest is shown in the advance-
- ment of the classes, as a hope of promotion to a higher class is the constant incentive to faithful practice.	•
—The Seniors and Juniors are pledged to bring back enough new pupils in September, 1882, to swell the roll-call at St. Mary’s to two hundred and fifty names, then they will also have a right to ask for a grand Parisian dinner.' •
—The Minims return many thanks to their kind patron, Very Rev. Father General, for the beautiful white lamb he has given to their department. “ Mary had a little lamb,” etc., is now the popular theme among the merry Minims at St. Mary’s.
—On the xoth, Rev. Father Steil gave an admirable critical lecture on the poet Goethe. All present were delighted with his just analysis of an author the beauties-and defects of whose writings render them both fascinatiner and dangerous.-
—On the 6th inst. Right Rev. Bishop Dwenger administered the Sacrament of Confirmation to a number of young girls who had been under special instruction for that holy Sacrament. The beautiful instruction of the Rt. Rev. Bishop on the occasion will be ever remembered. '	•
—The examination in the foreign languages will begin on the 16th inst., followed by the examination of the English classes. Several of the Professors from Notre Dame will be present at these examinations of the higher classes. The closing. exercises will take place on the 21st and 2 2d inst.
—Ori the nth inst. all the Catholic pupils were examined in Bible History and Christian Doctrine, in presence of Very Rev. Father General, Fathers Shortis and Zahm, C. S. C. The answers were generally so clear, prompt and correct, that the Rev. examiners gave the pupils much praise for their- intelligent and careful study of these branches.
—W. R. Weld, a graduate of Brown University, under Dr. Wayland, and for forty years a member of the Illinois Bar,- was baptized on .Corpus Christi in the Chapel of Loretto, by Very Rev. Father General. Very Rev. Father Granger, and Rev. Father Zahm; also Col. and Mrs. Otis, U. S. A., Mrs. Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kansas, and Mr.- Charles Weld, of San Francisco, Cal., were present at the interesting ceremonies.
—The Feast of Corpus Christi was celebrated at St. Mary’s with joyful devotion. The grounds were gaily decorated with floral arches, and at Loretto, Trinity Arbor, and the front of the Academy the Sisters and pupils of the different departments erected temporary altars from which to receive the Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament during the ■ procession.. Seniors, Juniors and Minims vied with each other in. orriamenting their particular ! recreation grounds, while the ’ Convent chapel, grounds, and halls were bright and redolent with lights and .flowers. . At five, p. m., the pupils formed in rank on the piazza, each- member of . the different sodalities carrying a beautiful banner. All then filed into the Convent chapel, where the Rev. Father Toohey, C. S. C., gave a short instruction on the origin and intention of .the Feast. The procession then formed, Very Rev. Father General, C. S. C., bearing the Blessed Sacrament, assisted by the Rev. Fathers R^z6, Granger, L’Etoumeau, Shortis, Frere, Toohey, Saulnier, Zahm, and Steil. Benediction was given first from the altar at Loretto, then at Trinity Arbor and at the front porch of the Academy, and finally from the altar in the Convent chapel. The singing of the birds and the playing of the fountains, mingled with the solemn chant of the priests and religious, added to the beauty and devotion of the scene, and every pious heart felt that it was a sweet privilege to mingle in so lovely a ceremonial in which the joy of the Feast will form one of The many holy reminiscences of life at St. Mary’s.
—The following is the order of the exercises to be carried out at the Annual Commencement on the 21st and 22d of June:
. PROGRAMME.
Vocal Trio—A Canone“ Si mi /restasse”......Garda
Miss C. Hackett, E. Hackett, and J. Reilly. ’, Essay—“ Influence of Literature on the Mind,”	'
Miss Hanbury.	,	’
Song—“ Farewell, ye Shores of Tagus ”.L'Africaine
.	Miss Wallace.	■
Essai—“ Les Lauriers”................ Miss Galen
“ Lucia di Lammermoor ”—Fantasie Dramatique. .F. Liszt'
Miss Fendrick.	’
Essay—“Wonders of the Starry Vault”...Miss Clafiey
Song—“ Merci, Jeunnes Amies ”  Les Ve/res Siciliennes Miss J. Reilly.
Essay—“ Die Vereinigten Staaten, eine Weltbiirgerschaft” Miss Clafiey.
Essay—“ Prose and Poetry of Life”.....Miss Galen
Grand Fantasia—“ Robert le Diable ”... Bodolfh Willmers Miss Galen.
Essay—“Restand Unrest”................Miss Walsh
Read by Miss Cavenor.
Chorus—“ Thanks be to God ”...........Mendelssohn
.	Vocal Class.
THURSDAY, II O’CLOCK A. M., J UNE 22. PROGRAMME.
“ Marche Heroique” (Opus 66)........Franz Schubert
Pianos—Misses L. Fendrick, J. Reilly, M. Campbell, L.
Coryell, M. Wiley, J. Heneberry, H. Hackett, M. Beal. Harps....................Misses Galen and M. Dillon
Quartette.and Chorus.....From “ The Bohemian Giri"
Quartette—Misses j. Reilly, C. Hackett, E. Hackett, and
M. Reutlinger. .
Chorus................................Vocal Class
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. 4 Cavatina—“ Santa Lucia ”...................Braga
Miss Julius—Harp. Accompanied by Miss Galen. ’
626
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—PREPARATORY DEPART. MENT.
harp Solo—“ La Danse des Sylphes ”...Godefroid
Miss Galen.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—SENIOR DEPARTMENT. Vocal Quartette—“ Where are thy Bowers?
...............».. .............From Semlramide Misses Reilly, Wallace, E. Hackett, M. Reutlinger.
DAME NATURE AND HER CHILDREN.
Ail Original Drama.
'	BY THE JUNIORS AND MINIMS.
Conceftd in G. Moll (Opus 25).... ..Mendelssohn Two Pianos... 41......................Misses Fendrick and Galeh
Grand Chorus—“ Primavera	........ C. Moderati
Vocal Class.
CONFERRING GRADUATING GOLD MEDALS—ACEDEMIC DE' , _ ■ •	PARTMENT.	.
Conferring Gold Medals—conservatory of music.
-	PRIZE MEDALS.
Distribution of crowns and honors in the senior, JUNIOR, AND PREPARATORY DEPARTMENTS.
Valedictory.......................... Miss Cavenor
. Closing remarks.....Rt. Rev. Bishop Chatard, D.D.
Fest March—(Opus 139)...............Joachim Raff
Pianos—Misses L. Wallace, Maude Price, E. Crischellis, K. Donnelly, J. Barlovr, M. A. Ryan, M. English, C. Bland Harps.................Misses Coryell and Mary Price.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Par -Excellence—Misses Cavenor, Claffey, Galen, Hanbury, Walsh, Clarke, Feehan, Bland, Beal, M-. Campbell, Donnelly, R. Fishburne, Glennon, Heneberry, Lancaster, McKenna, Ave Price, Rasche, Simms, Shickey, Edie Call, H. Van Patten, L. Van Patten, Craine, Etta Call, M. Fishburne, Hackett, Owens, Margaret Price, Mary Price, V. Reilly, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, Rulisnn, Thompson, A. Chirhart, Sawyer, Wallace, Bremond, Fleming, Behler, L. English, Mulligan, M. H. Ryan, Reutlinger, Adderly, Clifford, L. Wagner, Newton, Metzger, Foster, Hughes, B. English, Gavan, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Watson. ad Tablet—Misses Dillon, Wiley, Chrischellis, Fendrick, A. Nash, M. A. Ryan, Vander Haden, Wall, Barlow, L. Coryell, Keenan, McCoy, McGordon, J. Reilly, Thoman, K. Fenlon, Williams, Green, Mulvey, Smith, Northrop, Eldridge, Pampell,	,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Ginz, C. Lancaster, Ramsey, Spangler, Semmes, Chirhart, Coogan, Dillon, Robertson, Condron, Sullivan, Chaves, Mattis, Schmidt, Mary Otis, Best ad Tablet—Misses Clarke, Considine, Heneberry, Morgan, Martin, O’Neill, Mosher, Hibbins, Krick, Welch, Coyne.
•MINIM DEPARTMENT.	*
Par Excellence—Misses Campau, A. English, J. English, Burtis, Barry, McGrath, McKennon, Martha Otis, Haney, Sawyer.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
HONORABLY MENTIONED FOR THE MONTH OF JUNE.
Special Course—Miss Galen.	-
Graduating Class—Miss Fendrick.
ist Class—Miss M. Campbell.	\
2D Div.—Misses Hackett and Wiley.
2D Class—Misses Beal, J. Reilly.
2D Div.—Misses Bland, Coryell, Donnelly, J. Heneberry, Maude Price.
3d Class—Misses Barlow, Chrischellis, M. English, M- A. Ryan, Wallace.
2D Div.—Misses Claffey, Maude Casey, Fenlon, L.Foxj Keenan, Leydon, A. McGordon, Ave Price.	■
4TH CtAss—Misses C. Campbell, A. Dillon, Rosing, Shickey, H. Van Patten.
2D Div.—Misses Behler, Casey, M. Ducey, L. English, M. Fishburne, Fleming, Feehan, Ginz, Gavan, C. Lancaster, Morgan, N. McGordon, Margaret Price, A. Rulison, Simnis, Todd, Vander Haden, L. Van Patten, Wagner.
5tH CtAss—Misses Adderly, E. Call, Ducey, Dillon, L. Lancaster, A. Nash, Reutlinger, Robertson, Ramsey, McKenna, A. Rasche, Thompson, M. H. Ryan, Waters.
■ Classed—Misses C. Craine and L. Bremond.
Zb Div.—Misses M. Clarke, Chirhart, A. Clarke, Cas--: tariedo, Fehr, If. Hicks, Legnard, Metzger, Newton, Nor-thfdp, E. Papin, V. Reilly, L. Williams.	..
6Tii CtAss—Misses Black, E. Call, Coogan, B. English, Fisk, B. Hackett, Hibbins, Mulvey, McCoy, H. Nash, G. O’Neill, Owens, Spangler, Smith, Thomann, A. Watson, Wilkins, Wall.	„.	.
2D Div.—Misses M. Chaves, Davenport, R. Fishburne, Hanbury, Krick, Mosher, Mattes, Martin, Pease, Otero, Richmond, M. Richardson, A. Richardson, E. Wright.
7th Class—Misses Coyne, Condron, De Hart, Eager, Eldridge, Green, Harrigan, Mulligan, Otis, Rodgers, K. Sawyer, Schmidt, A. Wright, M. Watson. Classed—Miss M. Hughes.
8th Class—Misses Browne, M. Barry, Alice Sawyer.
9TH Class—Misses Best, Ives, and Welch.
ioth Class—Misses S. Campau, Agnes English, J. English.	’
• ORGAN.
Miss Claffey. -
harp.	-
ist Class—Miss Galen.	.
Sth Class—Misses L; Coryell, Dillon, N. Keenan, M. Price. .	.
6th Class—Misses E. Hicks and Otero.
GUITAR.
Miss E. Chrischellis.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2D Class—Misses B. Julius and C. Hackett.
2D Div.—Miss J. Reilly and L. Wallace.
3D Class—Misses E. Hackett, Coryell, Reutlinger.
4TH Class—Misses Fenlon, Rasche, Wall, Maude Casey, M. Ducey, Mary Casey, C. Ducey, M. H. Ryan, Robertson, Ramsey, M. Fishburn, Rulison, Simms.
5TH Class—Misses B. English, L. Bremond, Craine, A. Nash, A. Gavan.
There is this difference between happiness and wisdom, that he that thinks himself the happiest man really is so, but he that thinks himself the wisest is generally the greatest fool_Colton.
“ Bill,” said Bob, “ why is that tree called a weeping willow?”—“’Cause one of the sneaky, plaguy things grew near our school, and supplied our schoolmaster with switches.”
Slander is a vice that strikes a double blow, wounding both him that commits and him against whom it is committed.—Colton. ■
It is not the false truths which should be objec-. tionable, but the false tongue behind them.— Wit and Wisdom.	'
I had rather have one good friend than all the delights and treasures of Darius.—Plato.
Rare as is true love, true friendship is still rarer.—Rochefoucauld.
A friend should bear his friend’s infirmities.
—Shakspeare.	'	.
Truth is simple, requiring neither study nor art.—Ammian. '	.	■