Look for this smart new package!
Light up this great new, all-new king size cigarette. Cavalier’s new blend gives you great taste . . . rich, natural flavor that flows to you so
easily through the cooling extra length of Cavalier’s top-crop tobaccos. And—the smoke feels good to you, so smooth, so easy-going I It
feels as good as it tastes! Win this new, true smoking enjoyment for yourself with the all-new king size Cavaliers. Do it today!
NO CARRYING CHARGE
GILBERT'S
JUNIOR EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT
HAS NO EXTRA CHARGES!
THERE are no hidden or “extra” charges in the Campus Shop Junior Executive Charge Ac-■	count. It is simply a budget-method for junior
executives, young professional men and college men to accumulate a wardrobe. So, buy your clothing needs now and pay for them later . . . one-third in July, one-third in August and one-third in September.
May 4, 1956
Why Sen. Estes Kefauver reads The Reader’s Digest
A magazine like The Reader's Digest takes up where school leaves off. It touches on an impressive array of significant subjects. It throws a white light on the issues that confront us. It educates as it entertains."
THE CURIOUS CUSTOM OF GOING STEADY. Cameron Shipp describes the elaborate rituals and taboos of modern teen-age social life.
THE ARTOF UNDERSTANDING OTHER PEOPLE. Before we judge another, we should ask: “Might I not be as bad or worse if faced with his troubles?” Clarence Hall shows how amazingly our souls are enlarged by searching out the best in others.
In May Reader’s Digest don’t miss
CONDENSATION FROM BEST SELLER: “HOW TO LIVE 365 DAYS A YEAR." Half of those seeking medical aid can blame badly handled emotions, says Dr. John Schindler. Here he contrasts the damage done by flare-ups and worry with the healing power of good emotions, and gives 7 steps for cultivating a happier disposition.
vnua WOMEN DON’T KNOW ABOUT BEING FEMALE.
“As a doctor,” says Marion Hilliard, “I don’t believe there is such a thing as a platonic relationship between a man and woman who are alone together a good deal.” Here are her reasons.
Get May Reader’s Digest at your newsstand today—only 25#
43 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading magazines and current books, condensed to save your time.
Answers the Urge
Editor:
It is not often that I feel the urge to write a magazine or a newspaper and criticize or congratulate its publishers ? for something that they have printed^^ Normally I feel that my voice is far too | small, and my experience far too limited I to be in a position of judge, but after having read Bill Malloy’s Entree in the April 20 issue of the Scholastic, I felt it time that I break with my long-established tradition of silence.
The article, “It Happens Every Spring,” was one of the most beautifully written and imaginative pieces of worl^v that I have ever seen in our Notre Dame'-' publication. The word flow seemed poetically musical throughout most of the article, and the originality of thought and expression about such familiar events and places as the “spring fever” that touches us all during these weeks, and the little building next to Washington Hall was more than welcomed by most of the fellows whom I have talked to. If the Scholastic has been con-^ demned in the past for its unusual covers'-' and its tendency toward a liberal arts monopoly, I feel that its editors, and particularly Mr. Malloy, are to be highly congratulated for coming up with a column such as the one I have mentioned.
Thank you, gentlemen, for allowing me to enjoy so completely an amazingly
accurate description of the things we sometimes fail to notice in months of survival under the Dome. Bernard Morris 263 Cavanaugh
that our
©
‘Taste of a Third Grader’
Editor:
The letter of Mr. William Slavick in the Scholastic of April 20 evidenced all the good taste of a third grader attending a nine-year-old’s birthday party. The Democratic Mock Convention may now be history, but the universal praise for the efficiency and fair-^ ness of Dr. Paul Bartholomew, the department of political science and the ; Academy of Political . Science continues ' as current as this morning’s sunshine.
The essence of his somewhat rambling k masterpiece of disorganization was to make blood brothers of Dr. Bartholo- | mew, Richard Nixon and Gerald L. K. ’ . Smith, corporate sisters of General Mo-tors and the publisher of an “How to Do s It” pamphlet on infanticide as well as to convey the impression that the rabidx^. politicians who nominated the rather im-^|. posing slate of Adlai Stevenson and -f
(Continued on page 6)
The Scholastic
>1

•>y William M. Malloy
freud, raub
and letters

large news this week was the 1 100th birthday of Dr. Sigmund Freud. And although 'he was in no shape to celebrate, still Sigmund would be pleased to know that everyone is presently employed in defying everyone and acclaiming fearlessly to everyone that “I go Freud.” How revolutionary. And just what went on behind that big black cigar? What happened to Jung? What’s an id? Wasn’t Freud happy? All these ^luestions and more are answered in a ^^eries of articles on Freud in this week’s Saturday Review, each one of which begins with . . . “Never in the history of man has anyone had so much effect on, etc.”
John Raub is from Akron, Ohio, and he says that he misses it very much. The reason we wish to bring him to attention is because he is . . . well, unusual. The evidence we sight for this is rather par excellence.
“I think (said John) that many things ®hre written with tongue-in-cheek. Did you ever put your tongue-in-cheek? Do it right now. Stick your tongue in your cheek. Now move it back so that the tip of your tongue is behind your last lower molar. What’s it feel like? Now move your tongue between your gums and your cheek all the way around to the front and then over to the other side. Doesn’t it remind you of a jawbone of an ass? Terrible. I can think of nothing worse, unless it’s a tongue covered 0vith flies.”
We received a letter from a very lovely young miss whose picture is more than encouraging. She says that she is lonely
on a ranch in Texas and that she would be grateful to have a letter or two from some healthy young Notre Dame student. Anyone interested in a “pen pal” (but as Doug (Joie says: “Never underestimate . . .”) may write:
Katherine Stiglich 2728 Avenue “Q” Galveston, Texas
Continuing the business of letters, Fr. John Quinlan’s little 'history of Ireland and its humor was, in the words of Roget, “wrong, wrongful; incorrect, improper, not the thing; tortious (Law); in the wrong, in wrong or bad (slang), unsuitable, inappropriate, etc. 647.3; bad, etc., 649.8; invalid, etc., 945.11 unjustifiable, etc., (blameworthy) 932.14; illegal, etc., 964.5. 5. adv. wrongly, etc.; adj., wrong; 6. int., that’s too bad!, it will not do!”
Be reasonable, Father. By proposing a Society for the Encouragement of Wit and Humor among College Professors, (S.E.W.H.C.P.) you are being idealistic. For not only is humOr among professors impossible but likewise as students, the only group in the least interested in professors, we are so very weary of the same gags yeai- in, year out and the dreadful fear of the consequences of not laughing at them, that we couldn’t think of reading them, much less buying them. For example, we received a report of what students call a variation on standard joke 36 in one of the classes:
“For those of you who are looking at your watches it is thirteen after. It is
also thirteen after for those who are not looking at your watches.”
The number of times this joke has been pulled is astronomical, and don’t try to deny that grades are given in direct proportion to the response on a laugh meter cleverly hidden in each desk.
And just to prove the popularity of Entree let it be known that we received no less than thirty-six letters from the children of Brunswick Grade School, Brunswick, Ohio. Here is an excellent example of one:
Dear Bill,
I on then elttel spelliny and akllnet-1c. you Idl thei' teacher.
Bhukoe washed with soap once there was a boy who jwst cowld not keep his hair smooth, he had a way of running his fngers throwgh it to get it owt of running his fngers throwgh it to get out of his eyes, so it was atways standing on end.
my Mildred or
Dear Bill,
My teacher says your a squrt my favorite subject in school is English I no how old my teacher really is he is 26 years old. I like football and baceball. P.S.I like basketball to
Sincerely yours Roger Brown
May 4, 1956
5
Repercussion
(Continued from page 4)
Sen. Kennedy were in actuality wearing sack cloth cut from albino elephant skin.
It is indeed unfortunate that the unwashed, unlettered mob who sat in rapt attention as Paul Harvey vehemently lambasted the Eisenhower administration did not receive a more timely warning from Mr. Slavick. They would then, perhaps, have been more capable of recognizing the speech for what it was —a carefully constructed Republican plot calculated to lure the resurgent Democratic Party into a Dewey-like over confidence.
It is rather amusing- to note on one hand Mr. Slavick’s impassioned pleas for Scholastic impartiality while at the same time employing such phrases as “McCarthy and his ilk.” Consistency, in his opinion, is undoubtedly a virtue which only those of us plebeian enough to thank Mr. Nixon for his investigations leading to the Yalta disclosures and the conviction of Alger Hiss are required to practice.
It is now apparent that intellectual maturity is not an unfailing concomitant of the esteemed position of graduate students in English. The truly unfortunate circumstance, however, is that a person of the age required for tin's somewhat advanced position has not yet developed the good sense to avoid public display of his own inadequacies. Mr. Slavick’s letter amply proves that inspired writing can be even more obnoxious than the “soggy rhetoric” which he deplores.
Charles V. Doherty 322 Fisher
Communism: Documented
Editor:
Mr. Mathews may consider it a rather ambitious undertaking to teach Communism in our schools {Back Page, April 20), but nevertheless it is being done, and on no small scale.
All my Catholic friends that are attending non-Catholic colleges have told me of at least one professor- that avidly teaches Communistic thought in class. Thinks like 'Christ originating Communism’ and ‘Christ having brothers and (Continued on page 33)
INVENTORY
For Your “Crew Cut” hru-hut HAIR TRAINER
WITH LANOLIN
Keeps the Hair . in -that I "Stand-up* R Position
If you have stubborn hair to comb, KRU-KUT will keep it in place. At Drug Stores and Barber Shops.
Louie’s
Tuxedo
Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
Why Not?
Drive a ’56 Chrysler or Plymouth home this Summer! Save the cost of freight to your home town.
BUY NOW!
See Jack Moulder, ’38
Moulder Motor
215 So. Lafayette, South Bend Chrysler—Plymouth—Imperial
Repercussion .................    4
Entree .......................    5
View .......................      7
Campus Scene......................9
Folio ....______________________ 15
At a Glance .....................20
Showcase ....................    22
Irish Scene _________________    25
Time Out...................      28
Back Page ...,...............    34
DAKWTURB0W \OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS ----
Frames Repaired, Replaced
Broken Lenses Duplicated
“Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED ------
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
Vol. 97 May 4, 1956 No. 22
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
\\\«r w" >-
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
For Coming Proms . .
JOHN ADAMS	0 /
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ...News Editor ED JOYCE ................... Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN.........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL .........Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON ...........Assistant	New.<^
JAMES McDONALD ..........Assistant	News
JIM STEINTRAGER ...______Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN ..........  ..Feature	Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN ..............  Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON ..........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD. .....Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON ............Sports	Editor
JOHN GLAVIN .............Assistant	Sport^^
RAY LESCHER .............Assistant	Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe HeimoskT, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
• SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Andrew Carnazola, Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, James Goethals, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Robert Parnell, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff.
BUSINESS STAFF: Bob Parker and Loran Sheffer.^
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER Artist John Steczyn-ski does an ethereal interpretation of the Virgin by way of commemorating the month traditionally dedicated to her, May.
6
The Scholastic
rookies
It’s about that time of year now when all the “old timers” are relinquishing their commands and the new blood is taking over. Most of the “old timers” are invariably disconcerted to hear all the new plans that are being made to ^“liven up” the organizations that they have nursed and sweated over during the last nine months—it’s a tap on the old ego. to say the least, for them to have to admit that perhaps their administration was not all that it should have been. But then they have to chuckle a bit, too, to hear many of the grandiose ideals and plans that they were having a year ago being dusted off and brought out to air again. All they can do is shake their heads, hope for the best, expect the worst, and settle for anything in between.
But it’s a rather inane thing for them to sit and brood over the unfavorable turns that their administrations have •taken, or over the somewhat radical changes their successors are planning. A certain amount of adversity sharpens and strengthens an organization, trimming its fat and conditioning it as it comes and goes. The same can be said for those who are running the organization—they are all the more man for having faced some difficulty and overcome it. And, after all, that’s the principal reason why they’re at Notre Dame.
As to the radical plans for the future, just what is “radical” anyway? Different? In most cases I would say yes. Last year’s “old timers” were probably no less disconcerted by projected plans of this year’s new blood than we are by next year’s organizational heads. The ideas that are truly ^radical will almost invariably get a quick damper by someone in the organization itself—the rest, if they are successful, will be labeled “Progress.” And this is good, because once any sort of organization stops having new ideas that work, stops having “Progressive” stamped on it, it dies, and dies in a hurry in our fast-moving society. By “dying” I don’t necessarily mean going out of existence either—all too many organizations are dead on their feet and might just as well go out of existence. And so it’s inane to me why anyone should brood over new ideas being introduced into an organization that he really cares about—they’re for its own good. Sure it implies that some of the old ideas weren’t ^so red hot, but that’s life—not everything you turn out can W?e a bombshell. • -
My hat’s off to the new blood with the new ideas—they’re going to have a tougher time than they think, but it’ll be good for them and for the organizations, too.—J. A.
24mm
scholars
How come Catholic colleges and universities have made such a poor showing in the annual competition for ^.Rhodes Scholarships? Since the inception of this scholar-f j'ship fund in 1904, Catholic institutions of higher learning have produced a paltry dozen of the 1,478 Rhodes. Scholars hailing from the U. S. Notre Dame can claim; three of the twelve.	■ -
In an article appearing last month, America’s' education editor, Fr. Neil G. McCluskey, S.J., gives an answer. Fr. McCluskey says that the woeful Catholic deficiency in this field cannot be attributed either to a lack of quality in a Catholic education or to bigotry7 and prejudice against Catholic candidates on the part of the committees making the Rhodes selections. He states that Dr. Courtnev Smith,-American secretary for the Rhodes Scholarship Trust since 1953 and president of Swarthmore, “has earnestly tried to' enlist greater interest in the Rhodes program on the;part of Catholic institutions.”
Fr. McCluskey believes that Catholic colleges and universities have not “consistently worked to select and to prepare outstanding candidates for the Rhodes Scholarships. . . . On the other hand, leading non-Catholic schools have for years been presenting their best students for these keen competitions.”
To determine just how much interest non-Catholic schools do take in the scholarship competition, Fr. McCluskey surveyed a dozen of the institutions that have repeatedly taken a large number of these scholarships over the years. What Father found was that 1) “school officials value the scholarships as a distinctive honor which reflects favorably on the institution; 2) faculty interest in the Rhodes program ' takes the form of scouting by department heads and individual teachers to uncover ideal candidates; 3) doubtful candidates are never encouraged; 4) those upon whom the institution puts its mark of approbation are given help to prepare for the competitive State and district interviews; 5) former Rhodes Scholars on the faculty commonly make up the selection committee charged with screening and selecting candidates.”
At Princeton, for example, Fr. McCluskey continues, students interested in the Rhodes competition are aided in preparing application statements and in drafting a list of recommendations. Each year Princeton presents at least fifteen or twenty candidates who have been diligently chosen at the campus level. For the record, Princeton has had 89 Rhodes winners since the competition began — the largest total among the nation’s schools.
West Point makes it a policy never to recommend two cadets for the same State contest, thus avoiding competition within its own ranks. From the top five per cent of the senior class, some twenty students are picked each year to vie for the Scholarships.
A series of mock interviews prior to actual competition prepares Yale’s average group of twenty candidates. During the past three years. Harvard has approved 57, 51 and 46 men for Rhodes contests.
Contrast this, Fr. McCluskey says, with the total of 21 applicants presented by 19 Catholic schools in 1954 and the „ 15 candidates from 11 Catholic institutions in 1955.
We feel Fr. McCluskey has a strong case, and we are inclined to believe that Notre Dame is no exception. Two or three All-American footballers are discovered here every year; we feel there’s no reason why a like number of Rhodes Scholars shouldn’t be found here, too.—P. L.
May 4, 1956
7
i
h—ipTAREYTON
Tareyton’s Quality Tobacco
Tareyton’s Real Filtration
Full King Size
Full Measure





TAREYTON
All the pleasure comes thru
the taste
MODERN s,ZE
is great1
। S Y PUFF A T R
CF CIGARETTES
O* t co
8
The Scholastic
.CAROUSEL WHIRLS TONIGHT FOR FROSH SPRING FORMAL
Dan Belloc Orchestra Provides Music for Dancers; Communion Breakfast, Concert Highlight Festivities
£	by JIM DULAN
More than 400 freshmen and their dates will jump on the social “Carousel” this evening for their first whirl at a college springtime formal. Dan Belloc and his orchestra will provide melodies from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. as the “Freshmen frolic” in the Student Center.
Miss Lou Anne Monroe of Shaker •Heights, 0., will reign as queen of the 'evening’s festivities. A freshman at Barat College in Lake Forest, HL, she is the date of George Hahn, dance chairman and freshman class president.
Belloc, one of the country’s rising young band leaders, will be making his second appearance on campus this year with his MGM recording aggregation. The band played at the Engineers’ Ball in the Fall.
In addition to their dance dates, the ^Belloc crew has backed up such top recording artists as Eddie Fisher, Julius LaRosa, June Valli and Patti Page. Belloc is also a well-known song writer and, with his band, has recorded many of his own tunes which include Pretend, I IPas «. Fool, You are Ecstasy, and It's Anybody’s Heart.
The Student Center has been decorated to follow the theme of the dance, Carousel, and members of Joe McArdle’s decorating committee were busy today ^krutting on the final touches. Decorations ^^vill consist mostly of flowers. In addition to the dance band, accordion players dressed as Carousel barkers will circulate in the Rathskeller where refreshments will be served.
Car permissions and 2 a.m. residence have been granted freshmen attending the dance. It will be the first time in many years that the Freshman Frolic ■ has been formal.
The dance committee has obtained ^"ooms for the students’ dates at the ^Morris Inn and at South Bend hotels.
The weekend activities will include the President’s Review Saturday afternoon
by the combined ROTC units. Rear Admiral William F. James (MC) of the United States Navy will be chief reviewing officer for the event. The Navy ROTC unit will lead the parade and the Army and Air Force bands will provide music.
Saturday evening a jazz party has been scheduled for the Student Center from 8 until 11:30 p.m. Theme for the event will be “May Flowers” and each girl attending will be presented a corsage. Tickets will be $1 and will be sold at the door.
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the principal speaker at the Communion Breakfast Sunday morning in the East Dining Hall. The breakfast will follow the 8 o’clock Mass which the freshmen and their dates will attend.
Chairmen for the weekend are: George Hahn, general chairman; Joe McArdle, decorations; Wayne Faist, tickets; Tom Carroll, business manager; Dave Kelsey, publicity; Walt Butke, room accommodations; Jim Miller, re-
MEMORIAL SERVICE
A memorial service for Notre Dame servicemen will be held at 8:30 a.m. Sunday in front of the Administration building, it was announced by university officials. Members of the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units will participate.
Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., director of the Office of Military Affairs, will be the main speaker. Officers of the three ROTC units will also be present.
The outdoor service will be followed by a Military Mass in Sacred Heart Church with Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, as celebrant.
LOU ANNE MONROE ‘Carousel’ queen.
freshments; John Cassady, favors; Paul Anderson, blind dates; and Riley Miller, communion breakfast.
Grad Students to Stage Dinner Dance May 19
The Graduate Student Association will hold its first annual dinner dance Saturday, May 19, at the Morris .-Inn. The informal affair is for grad students and their dates.
Tickets for the dinner dance are now on sale in the various graduate departments and are priced at §6.75 each. They may also be ordered by calling Co-chairmen Bob Hochman at CE 3-2903 or Don Carbone at AT 7-4359 any evening.
Dinner will be served at 7:15 p.m. in the Morris Inn’s special parlor-s, with dancing from 9 to 11:30 p.m. in the Mahogany Room. Refreshments will be available at the nearby Golfer’s Lounge.
Other GSA activities during May begin this Sunday with a mixer at St. Mary’s College. Grad students will be entertained by some 50 SMC seniors, grad students and teachers at the SMC Clubhouse from 3 to 5 p.m. .
A stag picnic has been tentatively scheduled for May 20. Details will be announced later.
The relative merits of American and European systems of graduate study will be discussed by a panel of faculty members at a GSA meeting May 14.
To close out the scholastic year, the Graduate Student Association is planning a stag, family-style dinner.
May 4, 1956
9
JERRY DODGE, GINNY THOMAS Leprechaun, Woody's sister.
'Fintan's Rainbow' to Open Wednesday Night; Kleindorfer, Dodge, Vrancken Take Top Roles
Inaugurate Logan President ~ At Senate Ceremony Sunday
Newly elected Student Body President Pat Logan, college senators and stay senators will be inaugurated at a ceremony in the Student Center this Sunday. Short addresses will be given by Tom Crehan, the incumbent president,^ and Logan. The public is invited. v®
A Student Government Communion breakfast will take place on May 13. Member's of the Student Senate, Senate Court, Blue Circle, and Hall Councils will be present.
Topics to be considered at the first meeting of the new Senate will be next year’s tax policy and a scheduling of next year’s events. New appointments will be made and delegates for the NS.A^| and NFCCS posts will be chosen. "
Attempts have been made during this past week through appropriate legislation to streamline the organizational structure of the Senate and to change the Senate constitution in order to make it more efficient. Stay senators were also elected to serve in the Senate next year as a means of maintaining continuity in the changeover of senate members and officers.	.A
Finian’s Rainbow, the University Theater’s third production of the year, will open at Washington Hall next Wednesday, May 9, at 8:30 p.m. The spring musical is scheduled to run until May 13.
George Kleindorfer wall assume the role of Finian, Jerry Dodge wall play the leprechaun, Og, and Bob Vrancken will portray Woody Mahoney. This marks Kleindorfer’s first appearance before a Notre Dame audience. Both Dodge and Vrancken starred in last season’s musical, Seventeen.
Sue Brown wall take on Ella Logan’s Broadway role of Sharon McLonergan, Finian’s daughter. Virginia Thomas will make her debut as Susan, Joe Maier will play the role of Buzz, George O’Donnell will portray Billboard Rawkins, and Bob Moran wall be the sheriff.
The story concerns the hopeful and elderly Irishman, Finian, who steals a crock of gold from the leprechauns, thinking it will multiply. In addition, a group of sharecroppers plan to preserve their land against any encroachments by a demagogue named Billboard Rawkins from the State of Missitucky. The spark of love and the glitter of gold transform the situation and create a more amiable atmosphere.
The show originally opened on Broadway in 1947 and played a consecutive string of more than 500 performances. Successful Songs have endured until the present day. The best remembered are
If This Isn’t Love, Old Devil Moon, Necessity, When I’m Not Near the Girl I Love, and How Are Things in Glocca Morra?
The troupe of dancers will include Phillip Donahue, Gene Leyval, Judy O’Donnell, Don Ferrone, Judy Merton, Dan Dalton, Betsy Finneian, Dan Liddy and Hannah Grassberger.
The chorus will be composed of Le Anna Swartzbaugh, Jerry Trafficanda, Jackie Baumer, Bill Jackman, Pauline Stavrapoulous, Joe Mocarski, Pat Costello, Jim Reidy, Kay Flinn, Jim O’Donoghue, Sue Henderson, Tom Plofchan, Linda Lee, Pat Heffernan, Thamer Sacco and Dave Shanahan.
Stage manager Mike Koch will be assisted by Bill DeSeta and the crew composed of Ed Sullivan, Jack ReVord, Connor Haugh, Dave Roberts and Crane Day. Charles Bowen will handle props. Sam Nigro and David Neal wall control the electrical apparatus. The set was designed by Joe McArdle, and Terry Nieuwlandt did the carpentry work.
Tickets may be obtained at the University Theater box office located in Washington Hall daily from 2 until 5 p.m. and 6 until 9 p.m. .until the conclusion of the show.	.
Prices are $1 and $.75 for faculty, students and employees of the University and $1.50 and $1 for the genei'al public. Ticket reservations may be made by phone.
Cueny Takes Over Post As Head of Detroit Club
Last week’s meeting of the Detroit Club was the first for President Burke Cueny’s new administration. In addition to approximately 100 members, Cuney invited 15 St. Mary’s students to^ the meeting.
A current club project is the sending of Mother’s Day flowers back to Detroit. The corsages are bought by the members and distributed at home by the club as part of its annual policy.
At South Bend’s Eagle Hall on May 14, the Detroit Club will hold its annual senior dinner. The 30 seniors in the club will be treated to sirloin steaks. Jack Burns is chairman of the affair.
The Notre Dame Alumni Association of Detroit has extended a helping hand® to club members by inviting the campus club to submit the names of members who would like help in placement for summer jobs. The Alumni will also sponsor a Golf Day in Detroit in order to meet all members of the campus club.
Another plan for the summer is the annual June dance which will be held on June 9 in Port Huron, Mich. Joe Porter, chairman of the affair, stated that it will 'be an all-day outing, including golf, swimming, water skiing, baseball and buffet style dinner. In the evening the” group will don formal attire and dance to music furnished by a local band.
10
The Scholastic
Revisions Made in Spring Festival Plans;
Feature Two Jazz Bands at Saturday Concert
Details of the Spring Festival, which starts tonight with the Frosh Frolic and runs through next Saturday, were announced during the past week by Gep ^Durenberger, general chairman. Several Wrevisions have been made in the original program.
The stage production, set for tomorrow night in the Drill Hall, featuring a big-name entertainer, has been cancelled by the Festival committee.
In place of the Drill Hall entertainment, a jazz party has been scheduled for the Student Center from 8 until 11:30 p.m. There will be two jazz bands ^present for the affair which will have a “May flowers” theme. Tickets will be sold at the door for $1 and flowers will be presented to each girl attending. No stags will be admitted.
Reigning as queen of the dance tomorrow will be Miss Pat Hurley from St. Mary’s College. She hails from Toledo, 0., and is a sophomore majoring in elementary education. She will be crowned by Dave Kubal, chairman of g^he dance.
The Connnunion Breakfast scheduled for this Sunday in the Morris Inn has been switched to next Sunday, May 13. Hall presidents, new and old members of the Student Senate, and the Blue Circle will attend the Breakfast.
On Sunday afternoon, golf and tennis tournaments will be staged with winners receiving prizes. In the tennis competition, one player will represent each <all. Each player will be chosen by his all president or selected through an intra-hall tournament.
An outdoor jazz concert on the library lawn has been set for Monday evening.
Selective Service Announces Last College Deferment Test
The third and final administration of the Selective Service College Qualification Test for the present scholastic year ^ias been scheduled for Thursday, May 17, according to an announcement by Selective Service officials. The test will be held for students who were unable to take one of the earlier tests.
Application blanks and other information may be obtained from Rev. Robert Woodward, C.S.C., director of the Office for Military Affairs or from the Depai-t-ment of Guidance and Testing.
Students interested in taking the test ^hould submit their applications for the rtHay 17 administration as soon as possible. The test will be given at the University if enough students apply.
The campus pilgrimage to the Fatima Shrine planned for that evening has been cancelled.
A golf exhibition featuring Jackie Burke and Jimmy Demaret will be held Tuesday afternoon with students charged $.50 and all others $2.
A clown basketball game on the courts behind the bookstore, a half-hour twilight concert by the Glee Club octet on the library lawn, and a costume party in the Student Center have been scheduled for Wednesday.
“Gay Twenties” will be the theme of the costume party; those attending must have appropriate attire. Tickets will cost $1 per couple and will be sold at the door. Stags will not be admitted.
“Finian’s Rainbow” will also open on Wednesday evening in Washington Hall. The musical will continue until next Sunday.
The Eucharistic procession and outdoor High Mass scheduled for Ascen-
PAT HURLEY
Reigns over Festival.
sion Thursday have also been cancelled. On that afternoon there will be individual hall and club outings.
In the evening, there will be a “Stein Party—ND Style” held in the Student Center Rathskeller from 8 until 11 p.m. Tickets will be sold on Thursday and Friday from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Centei-basement. Tickets, priced at §.50 per couple, will not be sold at the door. Ed Pistey’s combo will be featured at the party.
The concluding day of the Spring Festival will feature the Old-Timers’ game in the afternoon and the Monogram Ball in the evening.
Lawyers Hear O'Malley At 'Gray's Inn' Meeting
“A man cannot be adequate to his own work, until he is adequate as a person,” Prof. Frank J. O’Malley told the members of Gray’s Inn, a law student organization, at their bi-monthly meeting last night.
Speaking on “The Meaning of Vocation in the 20th Century Power-World,” Prof. O’Malley stressed that “personal adequacy in judgment and decision is the factor that determines success or failure in one’s chosen profession.”
Gray’s Inn, founded last year by the Law School’s present junior class, is dedicated to fostering the art of advocacy. and offers its members opportunity foi- public debate and discussion.
Patterned after the English Inns of Court, at which budding barristers once received their formal legal education, this organization has retained many of the traditions and customs of these Inns, both in the conduct of its meetings and in the titles of its officers.
In elections held April 24, William L. Schierberl, Clarion, Pa., was elected treasurei- (president); K. Wayne Kent, Evansville, Ind., vice-treasurer; Lawrence A. Kane, Cincinnati, O., keeper of the black book; and Robert P. Gorman, Tiskilwa, Ill., master of revels.
Band Set for Final Shows; Graduation, Fall Plans Made
The ND Marching Band is scheduled to play at the Old Timei’s’ game, Saturday, May 12. It will also participate in the Armed Forces Day parade on Saturday, May 19.
Election of Band officers for next year will take place on May 17. The annual Band banquet will be held on May 31. At that time, the annual awards will be presented to the band members. The awards are based bn seniority in the band.
Dick Kopituk, an AB junior from Linden, N. J., is the new drum major of the Marching Band. With the assistance of the Marching Band committee, he is at present making plans for the half-time shows to be presented next fall.
The Concert Band is presently preparing for its part in the Commencement week exercises. For the second straight year, it is to present a full weekend of performances, for the graduates and their visitors,' beginning with a commencement concert in the Drill Hall on the evening of June 1. The following afternoon there will be a lawn concert in front of the Main Building. The Concert Band will play for all academic processions and commencement exercises on June 2 and 3.
May 4, 1956
11
charlie McKendrick
Editor . . .
McKendrick to Head 'Scholastic' Next Year; Norton, Thompson to Fill Associate Positions
Charles McKendrick was named editor of next year’s Scholastic at the Publications banquet last night. The announcement was made by John Def ant, director of Publications for the University.
McKendrick, a junior accounting major from New Orleans, La. will take over the reins from John Adams. In addition to serving as news editor this past year, McKendrick has had previous experience as both assistant copy editor in his sophomore year and as a reporter in his freshman year.
Other appointments for next year include Joe Norton, a junior journalism major from Rockford, Ill., and Dave Thompson, junior journalism major from St. Joseph, Mo., who were named associate editors. Norton is presently sports editor of the magazine after spending the first part of the year as assistant sports editor. Thompson is an assistant news editor.
Moving up to replace McKendrick as news editor for next year will be Jim Steintrager, a sophomore majoring in journalism from Detroit, Mich. Steintrager is an. assistant news editor this year.
Replacing Norton as sports editor will be John Glavin, a sophomore journalism major from Rochester, N.Y. Glavin is assistant sports editor at present.
Jim McDonald, presently an assistant news editor, will be copy editor next year. McDonald, a sophomore English major, is from Cincinnati, 0.
Heading the features staff as co-edit-ors wall be Dave Kubal and John Quag-
JOE NORTON . . . and Associate.
liano. Kubal, a sophomore journalism major from Lombard, Ill., is an assistant news editor this year. Quagliano, a general science major, is from Brooklyn, N. Y.
Several assistant news editors were also announced at the meeting. Named were George Clements, AB freshman from Penn Yan, N.Y., Jim Dulan, AB freshman from Zanesville, 0., Joe Hei-moski, AB sophomore from Chicago, Ill., and Bob Vondrasek an AB-Engineer freshman from Chicago, Ill.
Assistant copy editors will be Harry McKee, an AB-Engineer freshman from Western Springs, Ill., and Marsh Pidgeon, an AB freshman from Chicago, Ill.
Two assistant sports editors were also
COLUMNISTS WANTED
Manuscripts for a humor column and the “Back Page” for next year’s Scholastic will be accepted until May 20.
The humor column should contain humorous incidents relating to the campus or national college scene, or both. The “Back Page” should attempt to correlate campus or current events of interest to Notre Dame life. Any suggestions concerning format changes, however, will be considered.
Each applicant should submit at least three separate manuscripts. All entries should be addressed in care of the Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
appointed for next year. They are Bob^ V Early, an AB sophomore from Indianapolis, Ind., and Jim Langford, an AB freshman from South Bend.	।
At the banquet Adams said, “I have ' every confidence that these men will continue to improve the Scholastic because it is only through constant improvement that a magazine can remain truly alive and interesting. Charlie Mc-^ Kendrick has been extremely successfur as news editor this year—he has a lot of new and good ideas and I am sure they will go to make up not only an improved Scholastic for next year, but one with a wider and more vital appeal.”
Human Relations Club Selects New Officers ?
The Human Relations Club of Notre Dame held elections recently for the coming year. The new officers are Anthony Berejka, president; Michael Phen-ner, vice-president; Kenneth Uznanski, secretary; and Joseph Manzo, treasurer.
Father Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., moder-atoi- of the club, and past president Jerry Sweeney announced that the newly formed club was named winner ofW the Thomas J. Crowe award for inter- * racial justice. Given annually to the college organization club which has made an outstanding contribution to the cause of interracial justice. The award will be presented Sunday at the 19-56 Catholic Interracial Council Communion Breakfast to be held in Chicago’s Morrison Hotel.
The aims of the club are to promote better Social relations between students^ of all nationalities and races at Notre" Dame, to make the American students aware of social doctrine and social problems, and to work in conjunction with the students of other universities.
Wranglers Set Deadline For Membership Drive
Undergraduate students interested in joining the Wranglers Club next year should submit a letter of application to^ the Membership Committee, 139 Pang--" born Hall, before Wednesday, May 9th.
The Wranglers Club, a discussion group, meets weekly throughout the school year. The general topic this year has been “The Catholic Mind.” Recent papers presented before the club included “Christian Business” by Jim Driscoll and “Dante’s Law” by Paul Schierl. The papers were then discussed by the group.
Students who apply for membership will be interviewed by the present mem-^ bers of the organization. The presi- -dent of the Wranglers this year is John Meagher.
12
The Scholastic
*Prof. Rogers to Speak At Foreign Affairs Talk
“Who Directs American Foreign Policy?” will be the subject of a lecture by Prof. Lindsay Rogers of Columbia University Monday at 8 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. This session will conclude the symposium on “Diplomacy in a Changing World,” sponsored by the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations, for the school year.
The series will be resumed in the fall with another list of distinguished political scientists and world affairs experts as speakers. Dean Rusk, president of the Rockefellei- Foundation, will deliver the first of the 1956-57 series on October 15. Another to appear in the fall will be United Nations Secretary General Dag " Hammarskjold.
Dr. Rogers holds the Burgess Professorship of Public Law at Columbia and has also taught at the University of Virginia and at Harvard. He has also been a visiting professoi- at Oxford.
Glee Club to Finish Season With Chicago Performance
The Notre Dame Glee Club will finish its concert tour for the season with two engagements in Chicago next week.
On May 6, the Glee Club will sing at the Communion Breakfast for the Inter-Racial Council of Chicago.
On May 11, they will sing in the Chicago Stadium during the preliminaries of the Chicago vs. Ireland Golden Gloves match by special invitation of David Condon, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune.
Ticket Sales Set This Week For Elgart Dance on May 19
The Student Senate is sponsoring a “Sophisticated Spring-Time” with Les Elgart and his orchestra on May 19 from 8 to 11:30 p.m. in the Drill Hall. Chairman Jack Casey reports that the setting for the Senior Ball will be used as the 'background for the dance.
Tickets for the dance will be sold only on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of next week in the Student Center. The time for the ticket sales will be from 5 to 7:30 p.m. The dance committee points out that this will be the only opportunity to buy the $3 tickets.
Besides Casey, other committee chairmen working on the affair are Greg Devers and John Kiefer, hotels; Bert de Nourie and Al Mooney, tickets; Ed Sullivan, refreshments; Dan Bergen, entertainment; and Gep Durenberger, publicity.
Appointments Announced for '57 Yearbook; Bennett, O'Neil, Rose to Head ’Dome' Staff
Roger Bennett, junior accounting major from Reading, Pa., was named next year’s editor of the Dome in an announcement made this past week by the present editor, Don Sniegowski.
The new associate editor will be Charles O’Neil, an AB junior from Sioux Falls, S. D.
Other editors appointed included: James Rose, Commerce junior from Lafayette, Ind., managing editor; Dick Colman, AB junior from Dorchester, Mass., copy; and Dan Beggy, AB junior from Pittsburgh, photo.
Department appointments were Don Corbett, social; Joe Bumbleburg, sports; Ron Durand, activities; Ken Warsh, university; Pete Volante, halls; Edgar Bauer and Emile Bernard, seniors; and Joe Kneuer, art.
Assistant editors from the freshman class in the departments were John Maloney and Vito Nigrelli, social; Bob Janoski and Tom McHale, sports; Joe Slavin, academic; Louis Stettler, halls; Tom McBreen, seniors.
Sniegowski, in making the appointments, said: “I have every trust that these men will continue to work hard in improving the Dome. Roger Bennett has shown he is capable of coping with the many problems that he will face as editor. I also feel that his staff next year will be of great aid to him in assuring an improved Dome for 1957.
“I wish to thank all those men who
JIM ROSE, ROGER BENNETT, CHUCK O’NEIL
Year book chiefs.
have helped me this year and made my task less burdensome with their invaluable aid.”
Sniegowski also announced that this year’s Dome is almost completely printed and that final copy will go to press within the coming week.
The book will be distributed to the students starting Friday, May 25 at the Dome office in the basement of Farley hall.
Bennett, notififed of his appointment as next year’s editor, stated: “I am honored at being chosen editor of the Dome and I will do my best to live up to the high standards set in past issues, while at the same time striving to give my classmates a bigger and better yearbook. I feel that I have a very competent staff and that together we can .do the job.”
Circle Selects New Officers; Kopp to Lead'56-'57Activities
Gene Kopp, junior political science major from Charleston, W. Va., was elected chairman of the Blue Circle for next year at a meeting in the Student Center Amphitheater last Tuesday evening.
Vice-chairman will be Tom Shehan, an AB junior from Baltimore, Md. Art Johnson, a pre-med junior from Peoria, Ill. was selected for the position of secretary-treasurer.
May 4, 1956
13
ROTC Units to Pass in Presidential Review For Annual Military Ceremonies Tomorrow
The annual spring review of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, in honor of the President of the University will take place at 2 pan. tomorrow afternoon on the athletic field south of the tennis courts.
Distinguished visitors who will be present include: Lt. General William H. Arnold, U.S.A., commanding general, Fifth Army; Lt. General Charles T. Meyers, U.S.A.F., commanding Air Training Command, Scott Air Force Base; Rear Admiral W. F. James (MC), U.S.N., Ninth Naval District medical officer; Col. Harold E. Liebe, U.S.A., chief, Indiana Military District; and Honorable Edward F. Voorde, mayor of South Bend. Admiral James will be the reviewing officer.
Yearly awards to the outstanding cadets of each unit will be made during the ceremonies. These awards will be: to James Massey, Navy, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell Award, Society of American Military Engineers medal, the Aimed Forces Communication and Electronics Association medal.
Krebs Gets ND Award
James Krebs, Air Force, will receive the Notre Dame award. Other awards will go to: Roy W. Luckett, Army, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh award; to Gerald Massey, Navy, Reserve Officers’ Association medal, Marine Corps Gazette award, Bendix Aviation Post No. 284; to Walter Gill, Air Force, Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association gold medal award; to Jolin Patz, Army, the Reserve Officers’ Association medal; to Charles King, Air Force, Bendix Aviation Post 284 American Legion medal.
Jackson Sigler, Army, will be awarded the Bendix Aviation Post award; other awards will go to David Austgen, Air Force, the Society of Forty and Eight medal; to John Clifford, Air Force, the Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corp, annual award; to Herman Wolz, Army,
LOAN PAYMENTS
The final date for repayment of Student Senate loans is May 11. Students are reminded that all loans are due and payable as of May 1, and any loan which has not been repaid by May 11 will be turned over to the Office of Student Accounts for collection. In addition, those students who have failed to repay their Student Senate loans will not be permitted to take their final exams.
the Combat Forces Association award; to John Fitzsimmons, Army, the Combat Forces Association award; to Donald Gothard, Army, the Ordnance Scholarship key, the Armed Forces Communication Association award; to Robert Levis, Navy, the Convair award; to Dante Fuligni, Navy, the Navigation award of the University of Notre Dame; to Daniel Bergen, Air Force, Studebaker award, the Republic Air Power award; to Terence Byrne, Air Force, Air Force Association award; to Burton Lesh, Army, the military department award.
Chicago ‘Tribune’ Awards
William Lynch, Navy, will receive the Chicago Tribune gold medal. Other awards will go to: Lawrence Donovan, Navy, the Chicago Tribune gold medal; to John Hirschfeld, Army, the Chicago Tribune gold medal; to Lynn Hankes, Air Force, the Wilson Brothers award; to Michael Halpin, Navy, the United States Naval Institute award; to Peter Salsich, Navy, the United States Naval Institute award; to Charles Kappert, Air Force, the Paul D. Gilbert award; to David Berg, Army, the Military Drill award.
Thomas Nolan, Navy, will be awarded the Chicago Tribune silver medal. Other awards go to Paul Willihnganz, Navy, the Chicago Tribune silver medal; to
“There goes Gonfarb to pay his bill at Gilbert’s.”
George McTernan, Air Force, the Chi-^| I cago Tribune silver medal; and to Clarence Hutches, Army, the Chicago Tribune silver medal.
The combined ROTC units -will be I designated as a regiment for the review. The regimental commander will be Gerald Massey, of the Navy ROTC unit, who is in charge of the review this year. The regimental staff will be composed of^ the following cadets from each of the^ ROTC units: Charles King, Air Force, regimental executive officer; Roy Luckett, Army, regimental adjutant; and Ronald Casey, Navy, regimental operations officer.
Throughout the entire review, the companies of all three units will be competing for the honoi’ of being selected as the best company in the regiment. Judging will be based on overall smart-^ ness and appearance of each company, and precision in drilling.
KNIGHTS’ DONATION
Grand Knight Jim Olin of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus recently announced the gift of $125 to Vetville for the renovation of the children's play area. This is a part of the youth activities program of the local K. of C.
On the afternoon of May 14, election of next year’s Council officers will take place in the Walsh Hall basement chambers. Nominations will close on May 7.
14
The Scholastic
^olio
FOLIO here presents another in a series of articles on notable and interesting campus personalities. The author is a junior Journalism major, and the present sports editor of the Scholastic. The subject: Doctor Ste-9 phen Kertesz, a professor in the political science department and an expert in his field, as this article reveals.
A former Hungarian Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary is teaching on the Notre Dame faculty. No, he doesn’t wear a red tunic with gold epaulets and a baldric and ^word. He doesn’t even wear a monocle. In fact, Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, doesn’t look extraordinary at all.
But he is a man thoroughly schooled in international law and politics; an expert on Central European affairs, and a polished diplomat of many years’ experience.
He came to the United States after Soviet Communism choked off free thought and free speech in his native ^lungary.
Varied Background
Dr. Kertesz received his law degree from the University of Budapest in 1926. He continued his studies at the University of Paris, where he received a diploma from the Institute of Higher International Studies, and in 1929 he attended the Academy of International Law at the Hague.
He passed the bar examination in W931, and in the same year, he was appointed to the Office of the Foreign Ministry which represented the Hungarian Government before Mixed Arbitral Tribunals and the Permanent Court of International Justice at the Hague. Later Dr. Kertesz furthered his study of international law and international politics as a Rockefeller Fellow in this country, in England and in Switzerland. He studied at Yale in 1935-36, and in the following year at Oxford and in Geneva.
In 1938, the Hungarian Government commissioned him to work in the field of nationality problems among the countries of Central Europe. He was in the process of working out solutions to insure cooperation among Danubian nations when World War II erupted.
In the Foreign Office Dr. Kertesz belonged to the group of officials which tried to keep Hungary out of war and later, in contact with British and American representatives, to conclude an ^rmistice as soon as possible. But Hungary’s geographical position and the Nazis left little choice. Hungarian statesmen had to choose not between
by JOE NORTON
good and evil but between evil and lesser evil.
■In his book, Diplomacy in a Whirlpool, published in 1953, Dr. Kertesz relates some of his experiences in Hungary trapped between two totalitarian powers. After the Nazis took over the country in 1944, he was arrested and interned in several concentration camps and prisons with other ranking Hungarian officials. The Nazis, suspecting him of having underground connections ■with the Allies, accused him of treason. Detectives searched his apartment thoroughly but found nothing incriminating. He was brought to court martial, but the evidence the Nazis had wasn’t enough to convict him. They were reluctant to forget him, however, and reopened his case. In the meantime, Dr. Kertesz had retired to a hospital to escape further attention. Nazi detectives were dangerously close to finding him when the grace of God and the Russian advance forced them to drop the pursuit.
Russian “Liberation"
When the Russians moved into Hungary in 1945, the Hungarian people accepted the inevitable. But they soon found out what Soviet “liberation” really meant. The Russians raped and looted and forced many able-bodied men into slave-labor camps. Instead of being freed, Hungary had been reoccupied.
Fortunately, Dr. Kertesz escaped being sent to the slave camps and was able to join the new “Democratic” government which had been set up at Debrecen. He was appointed head of the Foreign Ministry charged with preparation of the Peace Conference, and in 1946 he went to the Conference as General Secretary of the Hungarian delegation. Since, in Hungary, relatively free elections took place and the Communists were defeated at the polls by popular vote, there was some hope that a really democratic system of government would be developed.
In 1947 Dr. Kertesz was appointed Hungarian Minister to Italy. By that time it had become apparent to him that
specialist from Hungary
the Communists were in complete control of the Hungarian government. He held the Italian post only until July of that year, when he asked to be relieved from his post, citing political reasons. The following September he made his break complete by resigning from the Foreign Service.
Joins ND Faculty
Dr. Kertesz came to the United States in March, 1948. He was visiting associate professor at Yale Law School in 1948-50. He was invited for the first time to Notre Dame as a visiting professor for the summer session in 1948. In 1950 he accepted a permanent position in the Department of Political Science here.
He was appointed head of the Committee on International Relations in the spring of 1955. As part of his work with the Committee, he is publishing a symposium on American foreign policy and how it has affected East Central Europe. The volume will be titled, The Fate of East Central Europe: Hopes and Failures of American Foreign Policy. It will include contributions from 14 of the nation’s foremost authorities on foreign policy and Eastern Europe.
The Committee is also sponsoring a lecture series under the heading of Diplomacy in a Changing World. Among the speakers will be Dean Rusk, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, Dag Hammarskjold, secretary general of the United Nations, Philip L. Mosely from the Council on Foreign Relations and Lindsey Rogers from Columbia University.
Dr. Kertesz is firmly convinced that diplomacy is of vital importance in our, as he describes it, “no-peace, no-war world.” But he cautions that this is the case only in countries outside the Communist orbit. “Soviet diplomats are disguised agents and Soviet diplomacy is but one of the tools of world Communism. The work for a genuine international understanding is an aspiration unknown to the Communist mind.”
(Continued on page 24)
May 4, 1956
15
Behind the scene—small set, expensive equipment, lots of cable.
WNDU-TV: a working sketch
by ED JOYCE
Stand-by studio!—Ready on Camera One!—Dissolve to One!—Cue talent!”
Director Bill McKenzie targets these orders into his near-mouth intercom as he directs the opening of Deadline: 6:30, a news show, from his control room seat in the studio of WNDU-TV, Notre Dame’s new commercial television sta-
Newscaster Hynes on camera.
tion. Flanking the director, an audio and video man regulate the sound and picture qualities.
In the studio, Floor Director Jim Kin-nane cues Newscaster Jack Hynes. The program is on.
Cameraman Bernie Lyons dollys his TV camera into position, focusing on Newscaster Hynes seated behind a large desk and speaking into a cone-shaped “mike” near his left elbow. Overhead lights brighten the scene with glare. Near-by, Camera Two focuses on an easel stacked with news photos.
In the film room, a projectionist threads the newsreel film for the program. A prop man prepares the material for the commercial.
Unknown to the people who view the area’s 176,700 UHF television sets, this scene goes on five nights a week. Behind this 15 minute show go hours of work by WNDU-TV’s entire staff of 55 people. Behind this 15 minute show goes $750,000 worth of equipment and a production staff of eight men.
The viewer in his home little realizes the resources behind the selector knob
on his TV set. He plays an important± part. He is the audience; he is the market. He commands the station’s vast facilities. A production staff works for his enjoyment.
The director of Deadline: 6:30 steers the entire program. He watches the program’s script, the monitors, the control panel and—the clock. He gives cues to audio, video, projection, cameramen, and floor director.
The floor director oversees operations within the studio. He guides earner:^ movement, cues talent, and links the control room with the studio.
The cameramen guide the rubberwheeled TV cameras around the studio. Each camera costs about $16,500. Camera One frames the newscaster. Camera Two pictures the news photos mounted on an easel. It also stands-by for commercials. Three ND students serve on the camera staff, changing between this job and floor direction. (The station employs 14 students on a part-timrA basis.)	*
Aiding the director, an audio man controls sound transmission. He regulates
16
The Scholastic
^ill microphones from an audio console in the control room.
The video man adjusts the picture quality before it goes out over the station’s transmitter. A group of small monitors line the front wall of the control room. The video man takes readings from these monitors, and thereby shades the picture quality for trans-^mission.
The picture signal travels on a coaxial cable to the telephone company in downtown South Bend. From there, a beam shoots the signal to the transmitter on the city’s outskirts. A 538-foot high tower sends-out the signal to the Michiana area.
Most people within this reception area are unfamiliar with the effort necessary -to prepare a 15 minute show. News-®baster Hynes puts almost three hours into readying the Deadline: 6:30 news show. He is assisted by two station reporters who spend countless hours covering news beats in this area.
Newscaster Hynes, older brother of Barry Hynes, AB junior, relies on the Associated Press for national and world coverage, but local events get his immediate attention. Over streams of yellow paper, printed with Associated Press Jhews, Hynes manages to sip a Coke while he muses over the program’s format.
In the newsroom, three teletype machines chatter as Hynes starts to amass the news for his program. His fingers scamper over the keyboard of an ancient typewriter as he begins to write the local news.
He checks the pictures that arrive over an Associated Press WirePhoto ma-^chine. He mounts the photos on large "‘flip” cards that fit onto the spindle of the studio easel, and gives a written description of these photos to the director.
A WNDU-TV newsreel cameraman covers important local news. The films are developed in the station’s photographic laboratory. A film technician properly edits the film. Hynes uses these films on his program.
About 20 minutes before program time, the newsacster makes a phone Pcheck of local news sources. He also makes a last minute tally of the teletype machines. After combining all his news material, Hynes buffs the rough spots from his script.
A small speaker briskly gives him a studio summons. The newsman, script in hand, adjusts his tie and dashes for the studio.
In the studio, Hynes rubs shoulders with the station’s sports announcer who just concluded a short sports show. The ^newscaster speeds to his chair behind a desk as prop men hurry to make minor changes in the set. This change occurs during a station break.
May 4, 1956
Control room—nerve
center of ‘Deadline: 6:30.'
During commercials, Hynes reads the advertising copy from a telepromptor mounted on the top of Camera One. He looks directly into the camera, and quotes the exact words the sponsors want him to say. While Hynes reads the commercial, Camera Two dollies-in to televise a “cut-in” shot of a prop man’s hand displaying the commercial product.
The commercial acts as the dollai-and cents life blood of the station. The
Camera frames close-up of news pic.
sponsor of Deadline: 6:30 pays $200 for 15 minutes of air time.
The station’s telecasting day is divided into four time periods, and the commercial price is prorated according to the potential audience circulation. The choice hours are in the evening from 6:30 to 10 p.m.
William T. Hamilton serves as WNDU-TV’s sales manager. He and (Continued on page 24)
Oh, you shouldn’t have.
53
E
What is this thing
called
man?

Now hear this!
Now hear this!
Friday, April 27. Grey clouds, foreboding clouds, and cool air greet 600 Junior imports, lovely ladies eager for the celebrated Prom, and the tours of the spring-bright campus. Their hope of sunshine unfulfilled, the gaily decorated^1 drill hall and the soaring song of Mar-terie’s trumpet and men, temporarily banished cares of straight hair and soggy slippers. Marilyn Jeffson reigned over Prom Chairman John Reardon and the others, till 2 a.m. permissions faded.
The weather, coldly ignored by the gay-goers, coldly replied •with every variety of moist precipitation. Tradi-^ ( tional tours of the campus were cui-tailed or cut short, and Sorin sightseers spent a dreary morning over the rail. “It can’t last,” thought the frustrated femmes,



A little casual contemplation.
moments in
the mist
photos by CHICK
A look at the agenda.
unfamiliar with the almost personal hatred of SB meteorology for the spring-festive weekends.
Dinner and dancing brought the first | ray of brightness on that Saturday afternoon, as 200 couples wended with care their way through the slow, creeping miasma, led by Miss Nancy McNamara ™ as guided by Bud Malloy.
The wait for dinner added a touch of realism for the male juniors, and lent an air of anticipation to the following fling. Guesting at the dinner were Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., and Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C. Ed Pistey, with a combo culled from the ranks of the Lettermen, provided the beat to batter the beat A brawlers. And then 12:30 drew a curtain of rain over the second act of the Big Weekend.
High Mass early at 8:00 a.m. with the justly famed Moreau Choir preceded the Communion breakfast under the mul-lioned windows of the East Dining Hall. Rev. Edward Duncan, director of the Newman Foundation at the University of Illinois, was the featured speaker at the breakfast.
" And still the weather was at bat. The putting green was deserted and the puddles unreflecting, as a cold and atomized mist wrapped the passersby with a clammy grasp that a ghoul might well envy, and soon—Senior Ball goers muttered the wish that this might have drained the system of its venom. It is to doubt, we think.
The “Moments to Remember” will not include a single ray of sunshine, lest it be that from a departing face, which says, “I had a wonderful time.”
MARTIN
High strung morbidly mops.
Moments to remember . .
At a QIomco
AVON
Cockleshell Heroes (through Saturday). A very well-executed war story starring Jose Ferrer and Trevor Howard, and produced by the former. The story concerns fighters in two-man kayaks who do their small part in the war. Supposedly, “The men don’t have room to sweat” in their improvised canoes but the tense action and their loves on the shore give this picture tremendous appeal. An intriguing and engrossing story with an unusual angle.
Simba, Terror of the Mammoo (Sunday through Tuesday). Another story out of the deep, dark jungle starring Simba. Is he a leopard? Is he a jungle boy? Is he an elephant? Your guess is as good as mine. However, the jungle shots are very good in this movie.
Gaby (Wednesday on) A-2. Do you lack young love? Has Ann Landers forsaken you? Well, this show is a panacea for these ills as it depicts true young love. The story and screen work are slow in parts, but here’s the gist of the plot. A girl and soldier fall in love, on last night of leave she rejects his love, he is killed in war, she has a guilty conscience, tries to ease it by “comforting” many sei-vice men with false promises of love. The roof falls in when one of those “comforted” returns to marry her. Don’t worry, everything ends happily.
COLFAX
Serenade (all week) A-l. The plump pizza pie, Mario Lanza, looking very much like the Detroit Lions’ 310-pound guard Les Bingaman, scales in about forty pounds overweight. But after a four year layoff, his booming voice and containing personality are more than welcome on the screen. The plot concerns a fickle patroness (Joan Fontaine), who champions Lanza, a humble vineyard worker, in his singing efforts. She then jilts and disillusions him when he has reached his zenith of ability. He marries another and joyfully rejects Miss Fontaine later. Mario’s songs are his usual fortissimo forte, and in all, he turns in a shattering performance.
GRANADA
Alexander the Great (through Tuesday) A-l. Here’s another one of those ■“spectacle” deals. Starring Richard Burton, Frederick March, and Robert Ransom, the. story is of Alexander’s warring sojourns and has received wide acclaim. Take this praise with a grain of salt, however, because these grandiose historical presentations usually deafen the patrons with their 20,000 foot soldiers tramping in the stereophonic sound, and to see two entire armies on one wide screen is just too much. Besides, Hollywood has probably done its usual job of distorting the details and making the movie convincingly unreal.
Proud Ones (Wednesday on) stars Robert Ryan and Virginia Mayo in a recent color release. No more dope on this at the moment.
PALACE
The billings were unavailable at this printing but we do know that the Migs South Bend contest will be held Friday at 8:30. The contest will be run under Miss America rules, and although the talent isn’t eyeworthy these affairs are always interesting.
RIVER PARK
Love is a Many Splendored Thing (through Saturday) is a hit of last year. The title song won an Academy Award, after being popularized by the Four Aces. A very good musical in color.	.
Three Coins in a Fountain is the same type picture, receiving the same award a year earlier, sung by the same group, and on the same bill. Three young gals pitch their coins in a fountain in Rome and before they know it, they’ve got three lads who escort them the rest of the movie.
Last Hunt (Sunday through WednesV day) B. The main asset of this buffalokilling story is the spectacular colored photography. Stewart Granger and Robert Taylor, two tested titans of the screen, unite to kill buffalo but then split over the affections of an Indian maiden, Debra Paget. In the end, Granger gets the gal and Taylor gets cold as he freezes to death under a buffalo skin^ after getting a cool shoulder from Miss^-* Paget.
Yankee Pasha is also on the same bill.
.1
STATE	[
Dig That Uranium (Friday and Saturday) A-l. The Bowery Boys go uranium-specting but end up in an un- I friendly hotel. Aftei- the management I tries the “mickied” drink, strong aim, I and pretty girl routines, the boys finally^ t end up still looking for uranium. A	i
thoroughly laughable page in the Boys’	*
diary to date.	j
Sudden Danger, A-2, is an average । picture starring Bill Elliott and Beverly	I
Garland.
Beachhead (Sunday through Tues-	I
day) and Sabre Jet are a couple of very I old war pictures. Don’t know who stars, I but if you want action, there’s plenty I here.	’F
Glass Tomb (Wednesday and Thurs-	I
day). The glass tomb is a big glass	a
cage in a circus in which a corpulent	|
Eric Pohlmann starves himself to death.	1
Morbidly-curious ci-owd eats popcorn	|
and sandwiches while paying to watch	9
him starve. Star John Ireland’s wife	I
is killed and the stereotyped plot fol-	|
lows the usual course. A fair British	i
import. —Revieivs by Terry Plunkett
WASHINGTON HALL T
Francis in the Navy is another of the donkey series starring the talking mule. This time he takes to the sea. , Human-type stars are Donald O’Connor and Martha Hyer. Shown at 2, 6:40, and 8:25 on Saturday.	'
STUDENT CENTER
Sergi Eisenstein’s presentation of the Russian Revolution, Ten Days That Shook the World, will be shown Sunday at 1, 3, 6:30, and 8:30. A silent picture.
SENIOR LOANS
All graduating Seniors who have received student emergency loans are reminded that these loans must be repaid by May 15. If they are not repaid by this date the Senior’s credits will be frozen and he will not receive his degree at the June graduation exercises. Payments may be made in Room 122, Main Building, between the hours of 9 $ a.m. and 12 noon and 1 and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.
20
The Scholastic
SUMMERTIME AND SMALL THEATER; straw hats and print dresses and a long-unused pulley squealing as the curtain goes up on opening night. Summer stock and senior play outdraw the sweltering local movie house.
Purists may have already flinched at the seeming confusion above of amateur productions and professional summer Astock under the heading of small thea-^ter. Summer stock, they might point out, is often as different in quality from amateur productions as it is possible 4 to be.
| But professional summer stock, although its growth in recent years has delighted both theater-goers and professionals, is a comparatively small field when one is speaking of small theater in A general, comprising everything from the ™ senior play in the high school gym, to the Drama society’s production, “two nights only in Magruder’s barn”.
There is a natural tendency for columnists generalizing to speak of backbones, e.g. amateur theater is “the backbone of Theater in America,” or some other such statement. There are a number of difficulties (aside from the columnist’s ignorance) which makes something like this difficult to say. For one V thing, “Theater” as a unity is pretty far removed from reality. For the people in Elk Haven, North Dakota (fictitious), “Theater” means the twice-yearly production of the Town Dramatic Society. We feel safe in suggesting that this idea is something rather different from the definition which might be given by Mr. First-Nighter; Broadway denizen.
There is, however, a sense in which A amateur theater is a most impoitant manifestation of the dramatic art. For small indeed is the town that does not have at least one production a year, and for this reason, amateur* production as such reaches a far broader audience than does even the ever-broadening penetrations of the professionals.
There is another aspect important to amateur productions, although it certainly does not apply to all of them. This is size. Small town, small comA pany amateurs generally play to smaller audiences, in smaller theaters. This fact lends a very important quality to many amateur productions, that of immediacy. 'The audience is close to the production, literally and figuratively, and this is a great aid to them in identifying themselves with the play. They become concerned with what the actors are trying to do; what the playwright is trying to say.
This is very important because, as a • matter of fact, this is exactly what the actors, the director and the playwright are trying to achieve. They wish to immerse the hearer in the play itself, so
by JIM O’BRIEN
that the justification for what happens is felt by the hearer; that he lives the action and becomes a part of it, rather than watching it as an interested (or not so interested) observer.
This implies first of all that the play itself be genuine and real, so that the hearer can identify himself in this way. This task is the concern of the playwright and a most demanding one. The director must translate the play into sound and gesture, action and flow, so that what happens on stage is an organic whole, a unity. If he fails at any point, that point becomes a distraction and serves to destroy rather than increase the identity of the hearer with the play.
The actor must fill his role and not more than that. The difficulties of these undertakings are familiar to all through a hundred mediums. Not the least is the knowledge of the fact that society recognizes the demands upon such people by tolerating (and even enjoying) the display of eccentric behavioi* outside the field of their chosen undertakings; the manifestation of the vagaries of artistic temperament.
The demands of acting and directing are such that amateurs can seldom attain a truly dynamic and captivating performance, such that they can win over a somewhat sophisticated audience in the second balcony or the 49th row. The double aid of natural immediacy due to theater size and an unsophisticated willingness to be captivated are a great aid to the vitality of amateur theater.
There seems to be a tendency in amateur theater away from potboiler plays
LOAN, SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS
Deadlines for loan and scholarship applications for the 1956-57 academic year have been announced by Rev. Alfred Mendez, director of Student Aid.
Upperclass scholarship applications must be submitted by May 15, and Fisher and Mendelson Student Loan applications must be made by May 30.
Information and forms may be obtained in Room 122, Main Building.
the play's the thing . . /
and towards the presentation of more challenging and better crafted productions. In their choice, they are aided by the critical judgment of contemporary time; they don’t have to take a chance on an unknown, but may enjoy the advantage of having a pretested production. The liabilities include dangei* of comparison with a seen or imagined level of professional-like production.
The application of the above remarks to the impending local theater situation may well indicate the danger of making generalizations. There is, for example, a certain difference between the Town Drama Society production and that of the University theater. For one thing, there is a rather greater variable in what I have here called sophistication. Big Town initiates mingle with veritable savages from the plains, the mountains and the canebrakes. Also there is generally a more critical attitude than might be found before the average amateur production. The local directors, coaches, etc. . . . are not exactly amateurs, either from the point of view of experience or by strict definition. Lastly, the fund of talent is different and probably greater than the ordinary theater group can draw upon.
These factors combined will be put to the test again on May 9th, when the University Theaters final production of the year treads the boards; the (roughly) 1946 smash hit musical, Finian’s Rainbow.
Finian’s Rainbow is a curious and brilliant mingling of hard fact and happy fancy. Sparked by fine music and original dancing, the tale of Finian and his lovely daughter Sharon, took Broadway critics and audiences by storm, and repeated its success all across the country. The reviewer remembers well this show, his first contact with modern musical comedy, as an amazing and wonderful experience which has bound him fascinated, to the greasepaint world of the theater.
Rainbow is not just a light and fanciful bauble to be quickly forgotten when the curtain rings down. It has wise things to say of serious matters and witty comments on every matter. And Og, the leprechaun, fantastically reflects a real image found inside of each of us. Finian’s Rainbow! Not one to miss by any means.
21
May 4, 1956
SkowaUA
law's labors lost
by NORRIS JAMES BISHTON
J’m very legal minded being that I come from a long line of lawyers and judges. To be exact, and one who is going to be a lawyer must be exact, my great grandfather was a lawyer and I have this cousin who is a justice of the peace. With such a background it is only proper that I have decided to dedicate my life to the Law. It is astounding sometimes, however, what a dedicated person, such as I, has to put up with. Consider what happened to me when I returned to Midwestern U. last fall where I am attending Law School.
I opened the door of what was to be my home for the next nine months and was greeted by the sight of a back seated at one of the desks. I set my bags down, cleared my throat, and said in a distinguished lawyer-like voice, “Good morning.”
“Just a sec,” said the back to me, waving a slide rule over Ms shoulder, “I’m in the middle of a thermo problem.”
Stunned at the immensity of the horrendous crime being perpetrated against me by the administration of the university, I sank to the bed. Imagine me, a brilliant young law student, being given an engineer for a roommate! ! ! Immediately my mind sprang into action, presenting plan after plan for righting the horrible wrong done me. My thoughts were interrupted by a tap on the shoulder. I looked up. The back at the desk had turned around and was smiling at me. “Hi,” it said, “I’m Charlie White, but you can call me Cruddy. Everybody else does. I guess we’re going to be roommates. I’m in engineering. What are you in?”
I tried closing my eyes, hoping he’d be gone when I opened them. He wasn’t. I decided I had better establish my status and set the tone of our relationsMp right then and there. I looked him in the eye and stated solemnly, “I am a law student. My name is J. Oliver Wendal Smith. You may call me Oliver.” He was very impressed with the fact that I was a law student and gave me a look wMch, in all modesty, could only be interpreted as worship. I decided to try and make a go of iwming with him, hard as it might be for me.
After one week of rooming with
Charles (I could never bring myself to call Mm Cruddy) I was ready to call it quits. It wasn’t that I disliked Charles. Rather I sort of liked the old boy. In his own way he seemed to be a very discerning person, and still worshiped the very ground I walked on. The real trouble was that I couldn’t talk to him. I could talk at Mm, but I couldn’t talk to him. He was the most self-centered person I had ever met. He knew one tMng, engineering, and that’s all. Anything that was not concerned with engineering couldn’t penetrate into his bi-ain.
For example, I Would come back from class and ask him a simple question anybody could understand like, “If E purloins property from A and sells it to C, and C, though under contract to D, sells it to E who does not know that B purloined it from A or that C is under contract to D not to sell property to anyone else, that is, E buys the property in good faith, would A have an action against E ?” and he wouldn’t understand it. He’d ask a lot of ridiculous questions like, “What does tMs mean . . .” about stuff that is perfectly obvious. It was plainly evident that I could no longer go on rooming -with a person I couldn’t even communicate with.
I went over to the Administration Office and explained to them why I should have a new roommate. They said, “No.”
I said, “No. Why?”
They said, “No, because.”
That just about covered all the arguments I could think of, so I left. I walked slowly back to the room, pondering what I should do next. There was only one solution and a desperate one at that, but I was willing to try any-tMng. I would educate Charles so that he would be able to think legally, and therefore he would be able to understand me.
I walked into the room and said, “Charles, put down that book. I am going to teach you to think legally.”
His eyes lit up as he replied, “Do you mean it, Oliver? Really mean it?”
“Yes,” I said, “but enough of tMs cMt chat. Let us get down to cases, as we say in the Law school. First, put away that slide rule.” He quickly thrust the slide rule to the other side of his desk. “Okay, Charles, we’ll start with
something simple—Misrepresentation Facts.”
“What of what?” he said.
“Misrepresentation of Facts. You know, facts, like (I groped for the engineering word), data.”
“Oh, yes, sure,: data.”
“Good,” I said.
he said, “I know,
“Now Misrepresenta-
tion of Facts occurs when someone con-^ ceals or alters facts another person has a right to know so that the person doing the concealing benefits or the person concealed from suffers damages.” I watched his reaction. He looked thoughtful for a moment, his brows kmt together, and then Ms hand began creeping across the desk in the direction of his slide rule. I hit him across the knuckles and he pulled Ms hand back, looking at me as if I had caught Mm with his hand in the cookie'* jar.
“I don’t quite understand what you mean by mis-mis-mis . . .”
“Misrepresentation,” I said. “Of facts.” Then I explained it to him all over, making it as simple as I could, doing everytMng humanly possible, and he finally got it. The rest of the week I spent every evemng working with him. I donated time I could have spent on _ my own studies. I taught him that * Defamation of Character is the spreading of information that tends to hold another up to contempt or ridicule or causes Mm to be avoided. I explained that Trespass of Property occurred when somebody entered something that did not belong to him and that Conversion took place when somebody took sometliing and put it to his own use. I told him that Assault was the threatening to do harm to another, and that the least toucMng of a person in anger was a Battery. At the end of the week 'I was exhausted. At the rate we were going it would take me the rest of the year- to instruct Mm in the most basic fundamentals, and I could not afford the time. I put it to him straight.
“Charles,” I said, “I’m afraid it’s no use. You will never be able to think legally. You can barely understand the principles, to say nothing of applying them to a concrete situation.”	a
Charles said that he just wasn’t cut • out to think legally, and I sadly agreed with Mm. I decided to wait until Monday and then inform him that he must move out.
The next day was Saturday. That evening the university had a mixer with the girls from a nearby girls’ college. I, of course, went, and much to my surprise, so did Charles. I caught a couple of glimpses of him at the mixer. He spent the whole evemng with this witch, who looked like a walking clothestree. W
Charles was asleep when I got back to the room. I debated waking him and

22
The Scholastic
felling him what I thought of his taste in girls, but decided to wait until mom-.ng. Then I would set him straight on girls. Even an engineer would be able to understand that subject. I felt that I owed him at least this before I asked him to move out.
The next morning 'I said, “That was some girl you were "with last night. JVhere’d you dig her up, the cemetery?” I He blushed and asked, “Do you mean Persilla?”
“Persilla!” I said. “What a name, but it fits. Please tell me more about Persilla.”
“Well,” he answered hesitantly, “I don’t know very much about her. I met hex- for the first time last night. Her father has twenty million dollars.”
“Twenty million dollars!” I gasped. fHow do you know?”
“Oliver, you’re hurting me.” I suddenly noticed that I was holding him by
the shoulders and was shaking him. I let go.
“How do you know?” I asked again.
“She told me.”
— My mind began working at a feverish Wpitch. It wouldn’t be so bad to be married to a girl whose father has twenty million dollars. I could think of nothing better for a struggling young lawyer than a father-in-law worth a pile like that. I suddenly remembered how Persilla had looked the night before, but I concluded that I hadn’t seen her in the best light. Besides, the progress medical science has made in the last few years has been phenomenal.
I turned back to Charles. “Charles,” V said, “that girl is just not your type.
So before she gets her hooks into you I’m going to do you a favor and take
her off youi- hands. Now, now, you don’t have to express your gratitude. I admit that I am sacrificing myself, but nothing is too good for my roommate.”
“Thanks, Oliver, but that won’t be necessary. I sort of like Persilla. Besides, I’ve got a date with her this afternoon to go walking down by the lake.”
“See,” I said, “she’s got her hooks in you already. It’s amazing what some of those girls will do to get a husband. No, Charles, I must insist that you allow me to take her off of your hands before it is too late.”
“But I don’t want you to take her off of my hands, Oliver,” he protested.
“Now, Charles,” I said, “this is no time for cheap sentiment. It is a time for action. You just give me her last name and what hall she lives in. You know hei' last name and address, I hope?”
“Yes,” he said, “there on a piece of
paper in my desk. But I still don’t want . . .”
“That’s quite all right, Charles,” I said. “Don’t worry about a thing. Just give me that piece of paper. I’ll call her up and explain that you can’t make it this afternoon because you’ve contracted some rare tropical disease like beri-beri, and that I’ll come in your place.”
“Misrepresentation of Facts,” he said.
“What?” I said.
“Misrepresentation of Facts,” he repeated.
“You mean you’re not going to give me that piece of paper,” I said.
“No,” he said.
“What kind of roommate are you anyway?” I asked. “Roommates are supposed to share things. Just wait. I am going to spread it all over campus just
what kind of guy you are. Why when I get through with you you’ll be the most hated guy on campus. No one will have a thing to do with you.”
“Defamation of Character,” he said.
“Stand there,” I said, heading for his desk. “Be smart. I’ll find that paper without your help.”
“Trespass of Property,” he said.
I ignored him. I went through every drawer of his desk until I found the paper. “I found it,” I shouted.
“Conversion,” he said.
I straightened up and waved the piece of papei- triumphantly in his face. He neatly plucked it out of my hand and put it in his pocket.
“Why, you no good hypocrite,” I said, shaking my fist in his face. “You ungrateful snake-in-the-grass. I’m going to punch you in the nose.”
“Assault,” he said.
That did it. I could take no more insults from him. I swung, but he stepped back so that my fist merely grazed his arm.
“Battery,” he said.
I knew when I was 'beaten. The monster I had created had turned on me. Defeated, I sank to the bed and buried my face in my hands. When I looked up Charles was looking dreamily out of the window.
“Charles,” I said, “I’m sorry.”
“That’s quite all light, Oliver,” he said. “I’m not mad at you.”
“That’s nice of you, Charles,” I said; “and I’m glad to see that you’ve finally learned to think legally. Legal thinking is an asset in any business.”
“I owe everything to you, Charles. -Why if it hadn’t been for you I would never have been able to impress Persilla last night. She thought all engineers were strictly from nothing, but when I showed her how much I knew about law she was really impressed.”
I groaned inwardly. “Tell me, Charles,” I asked, “how do you feel about Persilla?”
“I can’t, Oliver,” he said, blushing bright red. “You’d think I’m being ridiculous.”
“No, I won’t,” I said. “How do you feel about her?”
“Well, I,” he stammered, “I think I’m in love with her.” ’
“In love with her!” I said. “How can you be in love with her? You only saw her once.”
“I know,” he said. “I think it’s because . . ." He hesitated.
“Go ahead,” I said. “Because . .
“I don’t know,” he said. “I guess just because she’s so beautiful. She looks just like a slide rule.”
May 4, 1956
23
OFFICIAL
Class Rings
University oF
Notre Dame
Manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Co.
the Authentic mark of a Notre Dame Alumnus
available
at the
Notre Da me Bookstore
WNDU-TV
(Continued from page 17) his sales force act as the business agents for the station, selling program time to sponsors. They see that the commercial truly advertises the product and keeps within an ethical code of good taste set up by the National Association of Radio and Television Broadcasters. Hamilton suggests to clients that they abide by an unwritten law of the NARTB that limits commercial time to three minutes for each half-hour of air time.
Commercial sales have climbed ahead cf forecasts for the station’s first halfyear of operations. WNDU-TV televises 18 hours a day. Seven hours originate from the local studio. About five hours claim sponsors. The NBC network pays WNDU-TV for eleven hours of programs fed to the station.
Deadline: (>:■}() contains two commercials. After the last one, Newscaster Hynes rolls into his closing story.
Floor Director Kinnane, cued from the control room, flashes a dogmatic finger into the vision of the newscaster. Only one minute remains. Kinnane directs Camera One to move in, catching a closeup of the concluding newscaster. A few words, a quick smile, and Commentator Hynes bows out.
Director McKenzie orders both cameras to ‘‘stand-by”—then the order, “Dissolve!” The line monitor clouds to darkness. The screen dawns with a film slide of the station’s call letters.
An announcer says, “This is WNDU-TV, Channel 46, the Notre Dame station.”
Specialist
(Continued from page 15)
Dr. Kertesz believes that the West can and will remain victorious in the global struggle under three conditions:
(1)	“Si vis pacem, para bellum; if you want peace, prepare for Avar. The West must maintain increasing military superiority, and in case of necessity must take the military initiative. This will be the best deterrent to Communist aggression.
(2)	“The West should discard its passive attitude and start a bold ideo-. logical offensive for the conquest of man’s mind on a global scale. People need faith, and to have it they must believe in the Western solution of social, political and economic problems. It is a great anomaly that this truly revolutionary nation is often misunderstood abroad as a rigid 19th century capitalist country.
(3)	“Western societies should not worship their own economic wellbeing and should be willing to make sacrifices for their fellow men.”
Notre Dame
BLAZERS
• Lightweight Wool
• Custom Tailored
• Full Range of Sizes
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame Bookstore oh -	- camfutA
24
The Scholastic
Scute
BURKE, DEMARET PLAYING HERE TUESDAY
Top Professionals to Play Exhibition Against Former N.D. Stars on Burke Golf Course
Two of the country’s top professional golf stars will appear on the Notre Danie course Tuesday afternoon for an exhibition that will be open to students and the public. Jack Burke, recent winner hf the Masters tournament, and Jimmy Demaret, fellow pros at the Concord Hotel in Kiamesha Lake, New York will play with two Notre Dame graduates who are sharp amateur golfers in their own right. The two are Tom Sheehan, Irish golf captain in 1938 and 1939, and Creighton Miller, famed Irish football halfback in 1943 and now a
JACK BURKE
Masters champion.
Cleveland attorney. Sheehan set the qualifying round record and won medalist honors in the 1939 National Amateur tourney.
The exhibition is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Senate and all profits will go to the Babe Zaharias Cancer Fund. The golfers will tee off at 1 p.m.
Burke reached the peak of his career last month when he came from behind to snatch the Masters crown from amateur Ken Venturi. Jack had been run-nerup in the 1952 Masters. In 1954 he finished in a tie for second in the
rich Tam O’Shanter “World” championship which was won by Bob Toski. Burke finished second to Toski in the year’s money winnings with a total of $20,213.
Jack has been recognized as one of the nation’s best pros since 1949 when he climaxed the year by winning the Metropolitan Open. He was a member of the Ryder Cup team in 1951, 1952, and 1953. In 1952 he won four straight tournaments on the winter tour, posting an incredible 66 under par for the four tourneys.
Jack is only 33 but has been playing as a pro for 16 years. The war took him out of action for four of those years and he spent the time as a judo instructor in the Marine Corps.
Jack’s good friend and associate Jimmy Demaret has been a leading pro for 20 years. He has been three times winner of the Masters, runnerup to Ben Hogan’s record U.S. Open triumph in 1948, leading money winner and Ryder Cup member.
Jimmy’s first big showing was in a match play championship at San Francisco in 1938 when he beat Olin Dutra,
JIMMY DEMARET
Old pro.
Vic Ghezzi, Emil Mashie and Henry Picard to go into the finals against Sam Snead whom he beat 4 and 3. Demaret also won the Los Angeles Open in-1939 and in 1940 he won nine top prizes, including the first of his Masters titles.
Demaret’s best year was in 1947 when he won six tournaments, capturing the Vardon trophy for lowest scoring average and topping the money winners with 827,936.	’
Trackmen Face MSU; Show Well at Drake
Michigan State’s well-equipped track squad will oppose Notre Dame’s proficient cindeimen tomorrow afternoon .at East Lansing, Mich. Irish track mentor Alex Wilson speculates that the meet will be “very close.”
Stiffest competition from Michigan State should come in the distance treks and in the sprints. Old Notre Dame nemesis Henry Kennedy and Selwyn Jones in the distances promise to pile up points for the Spartans the way they did in cross-country last fall. Ed Brabham, Big Ten 60-yard indoor champ this winter, heads State’s speed contingent. Joe Savoldi Jr., team captain and son of the ex-Notre Dame football great, shifts his duties between the high hurdles and the shot put for the Spartans. Savoldi captured the high hurdles crown at Drake and pumps the shot over the 50-ft. mark.
Last Friday and Saturday at the famous Drake Relays Notre Dame found the top-flight competition and a waterlogged track not to their liking but still salvaged second place laurels in the distance medley and 440-yd. hurdles plus a tie for second in the high Jump, third and fifth in the hop, step and jump and a third in the 880-yd. relay.
Sophomore Dick Di Camillo opened up a good lead in his three-quarter mile ran in the distance medley after Joe Foreman had started off with a quartei' mile and Dale Vandenburg’s half mile. But in the anchor mile Ted Wheller of Iowa spurted past Irish mile star Bill Squires on the water-covered track to edge out Notre Dame by two yards.
Aubrey Lewis, with an eye pointed towards the Olympics, sped to second in the 440-yd. hurdles, which is equivalent (Continued on page 28)
25
May 4, 1956
Golf Squad Routs Sailors, Louisville, West. III.; Play N.U. Here Tomorrow, Detroit Monday
After splitting their opening matches against Indiana and Purdue, the Irish Golf Team came back strong last Friday to whip the fliers at Glenview Naval Air Station, 27-0. This was the first time in Notre Dame history that the Irish completely blanked a club for the day. Only once before, against Michigan State, did the Irish hold a 9-0 best-ball shutout in the morning round, but the Spartans bounced back to score in the afternoon.
Tomorrow Northwestern invades Notre Dame to try their hands on the Irish greens. Only three lettermen return for the Wildcats, but Coach Sid Richardson has a fine crop of newcomers battling for positions. Returning to the number one spot on the club is Rudy Boyd, who placed 14th in the conference championships last year as a sophomore. Dick Aultman had injury trouble last year, but turned in a fifth place performance in the Big Ten meet the year before. The third monogram winner is John Evans, who tied down the sixth slot on the squad. But Sonny Uebele, a new contender, is pushing Boyd for the first position this year. The Irish suffered a 15-12 setback at the hands of the Wildcats in their only meeting last year.
Next Monday the Irish journey to the Detroit links to face a powerful and experienced Detroit team. Junior Tom
UNKSTERS FINDING SUCCESS IN EARLY MATCHES
Father Holderith and Company lead Irish spring athletes.
Watrus, the son of professional golfer Al Watrus, pars the course to lead a Detroit club that beat the Irish by two markers last year.
Strong winds and warm 73-degree weather didn’t stop the Irish from rolling over the fliers last Friday, 27-0. Notre Dame won all three best-ball scores for nine points, and racked 18 more as each Irish player shut out his opponent. Lloyd Syron and Joe Mul-flur tied for low man honors with 71 scores. In the first nine holes, Syron shot a 33 to go two points under par on the short Glenview course, while both Charlie Thum and Mulflur parred a round. Navy’s Brower was low for the opposition with 76, one point above the Irish high score. Joe Grace and Thurn each turned in scores of 73, while Captain Leo Matt finished 36-38 for a 74 total. Winding up the day for the Irish, Stan Lorens shot 37-38 for a 75 score.
Last Monday the golf squad whipped Louisville and Western Illinois, 16 to 2 and 33% to 8%, respectively. The double win brought the Irish record to four and one.
Charlie Thurn led the local contingent with a 71-72. Thum totals 369 over the season and leads the team with an average of 73.8. Joe Grace was second Monday with a 71-75.
PRESIDENT’S TROPHY
Interhall spoils.
Off-Campus Close to President's Trophy Win
To provide a greater incentive for Notre Dame students to participate in Inter-hall athletics, the Student Senate has inaugurated the President’s Trophy, to be awarded to the hall with the most points gained in Inter-hall competition ! over the course of the school year. Besides strictly athletic competition, winning the trophy will encompass such university contests as bridge and hall decorations.
The trophy, a huge silver-plated memento valued at §250, will be presented i by Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the university, when I the final results from all Inter-hall sports can be tallied, sometime closely I after the finish of the sprung baseball I on May 15.	;
Off-campus currently is leading the ; field with a total of 75 points, comfortably ahead of second place Badin -with 49 marks to their credit. Both 0-0 and Badin have won two major Inter-hall sports. Cavanaugh is in the third spot with a creditable 45 points and Dillon leads the junior hall group with 37.	।
Points are awarded on a basis of 20 points for a first place showing, 15 for second, ten for third, five for fourth and ‘ down to one for eighth.	t
Each new fall semester 'will open up new competition among the halls for the President’s Trophy and the ■winning hall will have its name inscribed on the base of the trophy each year.
26
The Scholastic
*Western Michigan, Purdue Next for Klinemen After Weekend Split With Ohio University
This afternoon the Fighting Irish baseball squad will play a strong Western Michigan College nine at Kalamazoo. The two teams will meet again to-^norrow on Cartier Field. The Broncos, ^runnerup to Wake Forest for the National Collegiate title last season have returning lettermen in every position but two. If this is any indication as to this season’s success, the Irish will have their hands full.
Leading the Bronco hitting attack will be Lowell Johnson, Senior outfielder, who stroked .341 last yeai- while driving ^in 32 runs in 31 ball games. Johnson Wis ably backed up in the hitting department by another veteran, catcher Fred Messner. Messner last season played in 22 ball games, hit a healthy .305, and was flawless behind the plate.
Coach Charles Maher’s biggest weakness in this year’s lineup is in the pitching department. However, Maher has been noted for his superb handling of pitchers in the past.
“Nespo Leads Team
Coach Jake Kline of the Irish will start Mike Lesso (.233) at first base, Ed Hurley, whose .325 batting average is second only to Dan Nespo’s .333, at second, Jim Carideo (.323) at short and Tom Jaeb (.227) at third. Kline is still in doubt as to the starters in the outfield as, “the outfield is still very weak defensively.” Probable starters are ANespo, Jim Cusack (.297), and Bob rtSenecal (.133). The veteran Elmer Ko-horst batting at .265 will again be behind the plate. Kline did not name a starting pitcher.
Last year the Irish and the Broncos split two games. Notre Dame won the first by a 2-0 count and then blew an 8-0 lead in the second game and lost 15-10 in thirteen innings.
On Tuesday the Irish will again play host, this time to Purdue. The two Stearns have already met earlier in the ^season with the Boilermakers eking out a 4-3 win over the Irish. Coach Kline commented that, “with a few clutch hits we could have taken Purdue.” The Boilermakers are led by shortstop Tom Spear, first baseman Joe Sexon, and outfielder Tom Kolacki. Spear and Kolacki each collected two hits against the Irish last time around.
Coach Kline and Co. will travel to Evanston Wednesday to take on the ^Northwestern Wildcats. The game ^scheduled last Wednesday with the Wildcats was rained out. Coach Fred Lindstrom has lost six regulars from last
year’s squad. Only regulars returning are short stop Ed Broeker who led the team at the plate with a .385 battingaverage, first baseman Bruce Gordon who hit .272, and pitched Dale Pienta who compiled a five win, one loss record last season. However, Pienta will not be available for the game with the Irish as his attention will be focused on spring football practice.
The Irish lost their fifth game in seven starts last Friday, dropping a 9-1 decision to Ohio University on the winner’s diamond.
The Irish bounced back Saturday with a 7-3 win over the Bobcats. By defeating Ohio, the Irish stopped a nine game Ohio winning stream and became the first college team to defeat the Bobcats this season. Tom Bujnowski started on the mound for the Irish and went the entire distance allowing only six hits and striking out 15.
Notre Dame started quickly, scoring five runs in the first inning.
Elmer Kohorst opened the eighth inning by picking out a Bill Hinkle fast ball and drove it 345 feet over the left field wall. Jaeb’s single, a wild pitch, force out and a single by pitcher- Buj-nowski brought in the last Irish tally. Scotty Griesheimer hit for the circuit in the bottom of the eighth to score the last Ohio run.
COACH SAMSON AND THE RACKET SQUAD Captain Harry Smith demonstrates the art.
Netmen Host Purdue After Tennessee Tie
The Irish netmen inaugurated their
1956 home season last Friday afternoon when they came from behind to tie a greatly improved Tennessee A & I State squad. Captain Harry Smith and Chuck Vanoncini scored a 6-3, 8-6 victory in the final match to effect the tie. Vanoncini and Smith were down 5-4 in the second set, but rallied to take the set and match. Last Saturday’s home match against Northwestern was washed out.
In the four singles matches the Irish split with the southerners, Smith taking the first match in three sets. Vanoncini and Dean Richards went down to defeat in the second and third matches but Jim Rich emerged victorious in the final match.
This afternoon the netmen are playing host to Purdue. Coach Charlie Samson does not anticipate too much trouble from the Boilermakers, whom the Irish defeated last year 5-4, Notre Dame holds an 11-1 edge in the series between the two schools.
May 7th will find the Irish competing against the toughest team on their schedule, and the one Samson regards as the best in the Midwest, when they play hbst to the powerful squad from the University of Michigan. The Wolverines will be led by Barry McKay, who was recently named to the Davis Cup team. In the past, the Irish have managed to win seven of the twenty matches in which (Continued on page 28)
May 4, 1956
27
The local golf enthusiasts have a real treat coining to them this week when Jack Burke and Jimmy Demaret visit Burke Memorial Course to play their exhibition with Tom Sheehan and Creighton Miller. Burke and Demaret are well-known as two of the nation’s leading professionals and although Sheehan and Miller aren’t exactly in the same class, they play a pretty good amateur game of their own.
Jack Burke has been playing golf since he was seven. At 12, he shot a 69 over an 18-hole course, and at 13 he qualified for the Texas Junior. He was only 16 when he qualified for the U.S. Open, and has been playing as a pro since he was 18. This is quite a golfing career, and considering that Mr. Burke is only 33, it could develop into something legendary.
Reared in the Tradition
Jack’s father was also one of the country’s best-known professionals so there is good reason for his natural talent on the golf course. The elder Burke was pro at the River Oaks Country Club in Houston, Tex. where he exercised tremendous influence over the young golfers in the area. One of these was Jimmy Demaret who later tutored Burke’s son and is responsible for much of the latter’s success.
Demaret has been one of the country’s leading golfers for almost 20 years and has the trophies and prizes to prove it. He is easygoing and good-humored on the course rather than a deliberate, serious workman. Fellow golfers say he would have been the game’s best if it weren’t for his soft heart. “Demaret could have been undisputed ruler of golf,” said one oldtimer, “if only he had Ben Hogan’s killer instinct.”
But Jimmy is the “personality kid” of the fairways. His good-humored manner, sharp wit, and flair for fancy attire have made him one of the gallery favorites. Demaret serves as master of ceremonies at most of the tournaments and usually has a wisecrack for every golfer on the program.
Demaret has brought his pupil Burke along to the point now where Jack is almost at the peak predicted for him for years. Jack’s recent Masters victory is perhaps an indication that his success is almost at hand.
.And Burke’s game is bound to retain its steam because he is driven by one burning ambition—to win the National Open championship which escaped his late father.
“Dad played the circuit for years and won some thirty tournaments,” Jack says. “But he was disappointed because he never won the Open. I vowed long ago I Would do it or bust.”
Bom and reared in the golf tradition and possessed of tremendous potential, Jack should only need a small break to achieve his goal.
The Tuesday afternoon exhibition should be entertaining for any and all golf fanatics, and the Babe Zaharias Cancer Fund will benefit too, so keep it in mind.
* * *
Spring Mayhem
Spring football practice is heading into the final week before the Old Timers’ game and so far there haven’t 'been any serious casualties. Bob Williams, sophomore quarterback, suffered a possible concussion last Saturday though and may have to sit it out for awhile. Others on the injured list are senior halfback Sherrill Sipes with a dislocated bone in his shoulder, captain Jim Morse with a leg ailment, and sophomore tackle Don Lawrence, with a bad knee.
The highly touted crop of sophomores are continuing to hold their own after three weeks of battle and it is not altogether impossible that some of these boys will see a lot of action next fall. Ends Wetoska and Royer, tackles Mbsca, Lawrence, and Nagurski, and backs Pietrosante and Toth seem to be making themselves very evident in the scrimmages.—But next week the tale will be told.—J. N.
Trackmen Face MSU
(Continued from page 25)
to the 400-meter hurdles run in the Olympics.
Bernie Allard cleared 6’5” in the high jump but only gained a tie for second. The winning leap was only an inch and a half higher than Allard’s jump and the lithe ND senior has already sailed^ over 6’8” this year.	'
In the hop, step and jump, Tom San-facon placed third for the Irish with	।
a coverage of 4314 ft. Jack Cote landed	|
fifth spot with 42’10”.	4
The Irish contingent finished a rather ' distant third in the 880-yd. relay with Frank Hall, Bill Keegan, Joe Foreman and Aubrey Lewis carrying the baton for Notre Dame.
Slippery footing thwarted ND hope-w ful Byron Beams in the shot put. The winning effort for the meet was just under 55-ft. and Beams catapulted the	i
shot over 54 ft. last week at Ohio but	1
was disqualified at Drake because of	j
fouls.	I
Notre Dame also sent representatives	1
in the mile relay and four mile relay but | the mile group failed to qualify on Fri- 1 day and the four mile foursome did^ j not place.	w
The poor condition of the track didn’t r hinder Dave Sime in the 100 yards as the Duke speedster darted away from such competition as Bobby Morrow of ■ Abilene Christian to set a new meet ft record with a :09.4 performance.	• I
Netmen Host Purdue
(Continued from page 27) the two schools opposed each other. £ Tuesday, May 8th, Samson and his* < charges will take on the Michigan State ; squad here at Notre Dame, after which they null journey to Kalamazoo, Michi-	/
gan, for meets with Western Michigan	j
College and Kalamazoo College on the 10th and 11th. Although W.M.C. shut out the Samsonmen last year, they have i: been hit hard by graduation this year ;• and the Irish should provide them with i, good competition. However Samson is ? not as optimistic about Kalamazoo, _ ; whom he ranks a close second to Michi-< : gan in the area. The Irish will be looking for their first win against Kala- ; mazoo, after having been defeated by them last year by a 5-4 count.
On the year the Irish have posted a 6-3-1 log which Samson feels to be “at | least as good as, if not better than, was | expected.”	'
TENNIS
Coach Charles Samson will conduct a clinic open to all students on the varsity tennis courts at 1 p.m. Sunday.
28
The Scholastic
^wo Events Completed n Junior Tournament
The Junior class’s “Tournament of Champions” is in full swing at the present time. Under Bud Freidheim, dass vice-president and tourney chair-man, six events have been lined up, with two already completed and another two pnderway.
These activities, designed to bring the class somewhat closer together, encompass the whole semester and a wide range of sports.
The handball tourney under- the direction of Don Leone of Dillon has been completed for some time with Ed Ship-stad of Dillon gaining the winner’s trophy and Frank Reilly of Sorin taking hhe runnerup’s medal.
Basketball has been finished with Tom Mulcahy’s “Tigers” nipping a team headed by Frank Brophy of Sorin 32-31 in double overtime, thus completing an eight team round robin tourney.
Tennis under Bob Jurman and Soft-ball under Bill Holland and Nick Grasberger of Pangborn is presently under way but will not be completed for some time.
k The golf tourney will start Sunday ’nd track is tentatively scheduled for Ascension Thursday or thereabouts.
Badin, B-P Baseball Leaders;
Dillon Teams Pace Softball
Action was sparse in the interhall baseball and softball leagues last week because of the numerous rainouts. In baseball, Breen Phillips whipped Zahm 10 to 3 and edged Lyons 1 to 0 to merit ^prst place for themselves in the Gold League. Badin holds first position in the Blue League by conquering Off Campus 5 to 0 and shutting out the Physical Education Majors 7 to 0.
In other action Pangborn beat Howard 1-0; Zahm 5, Pangborn 2; Sorin 4, Cavanaugh 0; Phy Ed Majors 3, St. Ed’s 1; Cavanaugh 8, Off Campus 0.
On the softball scene, there were only four games played in the Club League. Cincinnati outslugged the Geologists 12 ^o 7. St. Louis and the Physical Edu-^^ation Majors deadlocked 13 to 13 in the Red League.
In Gold League contests, Buffalo beat the Capital District 8 to 7 and Calumet knocked off La Raza 7 to 1.
Dillon White got the best of Morrissey 7 to 6 in the Red League of the Interhall Division. Badin won over Pangborn 1 to 0 while Dillon’s White took another one as they beat Howard 13 to 4.
The Gold League’s only activity saw ^Walsh thumping Badin 7 to 1. Alumni Smeared Howard 9 to 1 in the Blue League’s only game. The Dillon Purples emerged victorious over Cavanaugh in the Green League’s lone game.
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Are you playing the right Spalding ball?
For the low handicapper, Spalding’s new high-compression air-flite® offers maximum distance. The exclusive dura-thin* cover withstands scuffing and bruising far longer. $14.75 doz., 3 for $3.75.
The Spalding kro-flite® couples distance with superb durability. The tough cover will stand up under surprisingly rough treatment and the ball stays round, white and puttable. $14.75 doz., 3 for $3.75.
The Spalding Olympic® is a medium-priced ball with a very tough skin. It combines exceptional wearing qualities with a playability usually associated with higher-priced balls. $11.40 doz., 3 for $2.85.
Many golfers choose the Spalding honor.® Popularly priced, it offers good durability and playability. Like all Spalding balls, it features True Tension winding for extra resilience. $9.00 doz., 3 for $2.25.
Get economy and quality in this golf ball. Spalding’s victor® is an “economy” ball with plenty of distance. The extrathick cover promises great durability. $7.00 doz., 3 for $1.75.
•trade-mark
Spalding
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 — 1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
Friendship Phntna
' Silk Finish' Photo* 2l/2xV/2 in.
20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order SI .00
WALLET PHOTOS, Bas 470, Faatori*.
May 4, 1956
29
JACOBY’S * BBIDGE
DEODORANT
Quickest, cleanest deodorant you’ve ever used! Simply glide stick under arms—it melts in instantly, Contains TH I OBI PHENE*, the most effective anti-bacteria agent It’s the New Kind of Social Security — gives you absolute assurance.
4 to 5 months' supply,	|OO
^Trademark	I p|us fax
no more
• runny liquid
• sticky cream
• messy fingers
At leading department and drug stores.
SHULTON
New York Toronto
WEST
NORTH
Spades	J 3 2
Hearts A Q 2
Diamonds K J 2
Chibs 8 5 4 3
Soades	6 5 4
Hearts	10 4 3
Diamonds 10 9 7 6 5
Clubs K 2
EAST
Spades	A 9 8
Hearts	J 9 8 7
Diamonds A 8
Clubs Q J 10 7
SOUTH
Soades K Q_ 10 7
Hearts K 6 5
Diamonds Q 4 3
Clubs A 9 6
The bidding:
North	East	South	West
P	P	IC	P
2C	P	2NT	P	A
3NT	P	P	P	™
Opening lead: G of diamonds.
The above hand, taken from the duplicate tournament at the Student Center last Sunday, poses an interesting problem for the defense. West was on lead against the game contract, and he cannot be criticized for choosing the normal lead of a diamond. The declarer, South, played a low diamond from the dummy and East won with the Ace.	£
From the diamond holding in th^ dummy, East knows that no more diamond tricks will be taken by the defense. East can count two tricks in Aces for the defense. He can also reason, examining his own club holding, that he and his partner will be able to defeat the contract of three no-trump if they can take three club tricks. For this to be possible, his partner must have either the Ace or King of clubs. Since East logically plays to defeat the opponents^ contract, he must now lead a club. His only problem is which club to lead.
East actually chose to lead the Queen. When this held the trick, South ducking with the Ace, East continued with the Jack. South won with the Ace, dropping West’s King at the same time, thus guaranteeing a stopper between the nine in his hand and the eight and a small one in dummy.
The correct play is for East to lead a small club originally. If West has at-least two clubs to an honor, there will be? no chance of the suit blocking, and East will surely be able to get in with his Ace of spades to make his club tricks. It is true that the conventional lead from a holding of Q J 10 is the Queen, but one must at the same time be alert for those exceptional situations where a slightly unusual play is required.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
The Scholastic
I SWITCHED TO
EDGEWORTH
COOLER
SMOKING
STARTS WITH THE TOBACCO
I FOUND THAT OUT WHEN
ONLY EDGEWORTH IS CUT THIS WAY TO SMOKE
8 T010 DEGREES COOLER
A. BITS AND FLAKES burn hot and fast, bite the tongue.
B. FINE CUT SHREDS all right for cigarettes— not so good for pipes.
C. ONLY EDGEWORTH gives you slow burning, cool smoking “chunks.”

Do you want cooler smoking too? Then do as smart smokers everywhere have done—switch to Edgeworth and prove the difference with your first wonderful pipeful. No other tobacco can duplicate the Edgeworth cut, because it’s actually “ready-rubbed” by an exclusive process. See in the picture what a difference this makes. Edgeworth's even-sized chunks o
(Picture C) burn slow and cool, with never a touch of tongue bite.
EDGEWORTH’S SPECIAL BURLEYS
EDGEWORTH
AMERICAS FINEST PIPE TOBACCO...
CANADA'S FINEST TOO!
INC.
No one in over 50 years has ever equalled Edgeworth's way with tobaccos. Tobacco
MADE BY LARUS & BROTHER CO., RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

experts agree that white burley is best of all for pipes. But Edgeworth looks for a certain type of white burley, grown on well-drained land on sunny hillsides, just like fine wine grapes or fine coffee. Then these special burleys are aged for years before blending. This is another reason Edgeworth smokes cooler—8 to 10 degrees cooler by actual test.	.
EDGEWORTH’S EXCLUSIVE wraparound pouch is heat-sealed. Moisture can’t get in—freshness can't get out. o	o
'Scholastic* Again Accredited With 'All-American* Honors
The Scholastic has been accredited with an “All-American” rating’ according to an announcement by the Associated Collegiate Press which recently concluded a nation-wide review of college papers and magazines.
All first semester copies of the Scholastic were analyzed and rated according to its own classification. The All-American rating indicates how it compares with other weekly newsmagazines on campuses throughout the nation.
Certain basic standards for coverage, writing and physical properties must be met to earn honors. The judges also look for unusual imagination and initiative, within the bounds of sound journalism.
NCASC Picks Co-Chairmen;
New Executive Post Created
Richard C. Clark, chairman of the National Catholic Action study commission, has announced the appointment of George Oser and John Foley as co-chairmen of the group for the next year. Both Oser and Foley are sophomores, enrolled in the combination AB-physics program.
It was also announced that a new post of executive secretary has been created in order to handle the ever-expanding areas of activity of the commission. This position will be filled by Jack Conroy, a freshman in the Commerce school’s program for administrators.
The NCASC is one of the twelve commissions of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, and has been seated at Notre Dame since 1951.
DEBATERS FINISH YEAR
At the National Invitational Debate Championships, held last weekend at West Point, N. Y., Notre Dame’s representatives, Rick Ninne-man and Dick Schiller, failed to qualify among the top 16 teams.
Individually, Ninneman and Schiller were ranked as the fifth and seventh best individual speakers in the nation for their performances in the eight preliminary rounds of competition.
To make the West Point trip, Notre Dame was chosen as one of five representatives from this region in eliminations held at Purdue University and attended by 24 schools. Only a select group of teams was invited to attend this tournament. Notre Dame was the only Indiana team selected.
This was the last tournament of the year for the Irish debaters and the final one for Schiller, Debating Club president.
I May 4, 1956
31
-----------------------------------------------,
Life Was Unbearable For J. Paul Sheedy* Till Wildroot Cream-Oii Gave Him Confidence
HARRY HEYL
Juggler's top man.
Sheady’a honey kept giving him the cold shoulder. "This is more than I can bear! Why not be n-ice?” he moaned. "What fur?” she demanded, "It’ll be a frosty Friday before I date you again. And just in glacier wondering
why, take a look at your shaggy hair.” This made Sheedy paws and think. So he got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he's the picture of confidence. His hair is handsome and healthy looking, neat but not greasy. Wildroot contains the heart of Lanolin, Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. Take Sheedy’s advice. Whether your hair is straight or curly, blonde, red, black or bruin, keep it neat with Wildroot Cream-Oil. In bottles or handy tubes. It’s the bearies!
* of 151 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
WILDROOT M
CREAM-OIL ■
LANOLIN
Ctooas T«( Mill Iflitvts DfrxiH ItAOVB 100H DUMUff
Spacial Stu&enl ^biAc/Mnl all
DAVIES - PARIS Formal Wear Rental and Retail
117 South Lafayette	Phone
532 North Niles Ave. CE 4-9644
'Juggler' Staff Picked; Heyl Appointed Editor i
Harry Heyl, a junior English major from Peoria, Ill., was named editor of^ next year’s Juggler, it was announced * J last week by the present editor John Meagher.
Robert Haverkamp of Naperville, Ill., has been appointed associate editor of J the magazine. He is a junior English major.	q
Terry Crowley, an AB junior from Omaha, Nebr., will be business mana-	i
ger next year and John Keyes, sopho-	|
more in the PFA from Wauwatosa,^- J Wis., will serve as his assistant. *	]
Appointments to the Juggler board : will be made after applications submitted in September have been considered.	fe
Heyl said that present plans call for an expanded review section next year dealing principally with the best of new ; paperback books.	’
Heyl commented on his appointment as editor: “I am very happy to be named editor of the Juggler and appreciate the honor. I -will try to continue the excellent work done by the magazine and ain:^ at maintaining its high level.”
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
32
The Scholastic
*Air Force Equipment Demonstrated to Cadets During Florida Easter Trip to Eglin AF Base
cadets saw. This hangar has 250 square feet of space for the testing of aircraft and parts at temperatures ranging from minus 80 to plus 130 degrees Fahrenheit.
Some 40 Notre Dame Air Force ROTC members spent this past Easter vacation in Florida, but not at Ft. Lauderdale. Their vacation was at the Eglin Field «k|t Valparaiso where 40,000 military and Civilian personnel cooperate in operational suitability testing of all Air Force aircraft and equipment.
The flight down to Florida was relatively uneventful as far as the weather was concerned. However the cadets were given orientation instructions on the intricate workings of the various dials and indicators on the instrument panel. Some of the cadets were also given stick time” at the controls of the ship.
The men spent their first night in barracks which were divided into seven man bays. They ate meals cafeteria style in the Non-Commissioned Officers’ Mess. There was no limit on the amount of food taken and the cost was only $1.05 per day. In the evenings the cadets relaxed in the Officers’ Club.
During the stay at the base the men _were shown films of several pieces of Air (^orce equipment. Feature of a film on aerial firepower was a B-36 which dropped 100-lb. bombs over a straight course demonstrating the devastating
tactical worth of that plane as both a conventional weapons carrier and a long-range nuclear bomb carrier.
A complete Air Rescue demonstration was also given the Notre Dame contingent. They also got a look at the $60,000 Jet Drone, capable of flying at near- the speed of sound, which the Air Force has constructed for aerial target practice.
The Climatic Hanger was another interesting Air Force project which the
FOREIGN SERVICE EXAM
The deadline for applications by Notre Dame students for the Foreign Service Officers’ written examination is May 11.
Candidates must then pass an oral examination, a physical, and a security check before appointment as foreign service officers.
Information pamphlets, sample exam questions, and application forms are available at the Placement Office. Applications should be returned to: Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, Department of State, Washington 25, D. C.
Repercussion
(Continued from page 6) sisters’ they “logically” prove. (Invalidly of course, but this is not discernible to the non-Catholic).
This is far short of the scope they reach in spreading atheistic and Communistic thought. And as to being ambitious—who gives them opposition? Certainly not the U.S. Government, and not the populace who hardly know what is being taught in the universities. And the blue suede shoe characters can find these falacious thoughts truthful when given to them in small bits, and logically proven at that.
While Communism and those who teach it are free to penetrate our nation and undermine our young, don’t believe for a second that they will not grab at every opportunity to do so. After all, Communism and a Christian world cannot co-exist; the Communists know this and are in the process of eliminating us —but are we doing anything about it?
Roger J. Ryan
111 Morrissey
UNIVERSITY OF
NOTRE DAME PRESS
Sunny Italy Cafe
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
Announces
THE MYSTERY OF THE WOMAN
Edited by Edward D. O’Connor, C.S.C.
A simple and profound explanation of three key beliefs regarding the Blessed Virgin Mary. These chapters are based on talks given last year to the present senior class by the eminent theologians and mariologists:
Walter J. Burghardt, S.J.
Ferrer Smith, O.P.
Monsignor George Shea
Two final chapters by Daniel Sargent and Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., are historical in nature and discuss the place of Mary in the history of our country and at the University of Notre Dame.	$2.75
CHURCH BUILDING and FURNISHING
Reverend J. B. O’Connell
A one-volume reference work, invaluable to pastors and architects, containing all the canons, prescriptions and rubrics regarding the building, furnishing and decorating of a Catholic Church.	$5.50
AT THE BOOKSTORE
10 nus UBUlYui NIK SHF
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
May 4, 1956
33
Rack Pc^e,
by Curt Matthews
the problem1
of conformity
i
A few years ago one Russell W. Davenport did a study of the American Way of Life for Fortune magazine. It wasn’t too far along in the first chapter that Mr. Davenport made this observation: “Men and women who insist on such a high standard of living, and are willing to expend so much energy to get it, must be hopeless materialists. Is it not true that the curse of this majestic continent is the drab uniformity of its products and the discouraging conformity of its mores?”
In two sentences I believe Russell Davenport has stated well what seems to me to be a sort of American dilemma. How are you going to produce everything, from automobiles to living room furniture en masse without sooner or later having everyone think and act en masse! As standardization becomes more and more a part of our basic culture just how are we to maintain a sensitivity for the diverse?
Now some may see no dilemma or apparent danger in standardization. Others may fail to see the connection between mass production and mass thought. For those who find themselves in such categories I suggest you stop reading this and turn to something like Mr. Huxley’s Brave New World, Mr. Orwell’s 198Jt, or Mr. Koestler’s Darkness At Noon. Or, if you find yourself short on time, just look in your daily newspaper under the Moscow datelines.
The conformity imposed by totalitarian governments seems to be essential to produce things en masse. It’s a matter of necessity and there’s only one great and significant difference between the conformity that appears under the system of totalitarian government and capitalistic economy. The serfs under communism conform because they are forced
34
to, while the citizens under capitalism conform voluntarily.
Conformity becomes a matter of convenience under capitalism just as it does under communism but for different interests. In America we have a growing conformity because its individuals are simply becoming more social conscious, or in sociological terms, other-directed. Under communism, the conformity is not due to social force but political force. In other words, under capitalism you are still free to practice a mild form of rugged individualism if you want to while under communism rugged individualism is strictly taboo because somebody with a chestful of medals says it is.
But, in spite of our Right of Rugged Individualism, we find ourselves becoming more standardized and conformed all the time. To quote Mr. Davenport again, “. . . the American passion for mass production . . . has standardized not only material products but also those of education, communications, and entertainment. . . . Standardization has molded American thinking and judgment to such a degree that it has made conformity a habit.”
That’s exactly it, I think, conformity has become a habit. It’s easier to practice, more convenient to operate, and less open to ridicule. We’ve become so class-conscious, so other-directed, that we jump at the chance to be part of the first and less conspicuous crowd to come along, from the YMCA to the Main Street residents. .
Speaking of Main Street and conformity I think it’s interesting to note that the two cities least populated with conformists in my mind, New Orleans and San Francisco, have no Main Street that is really a 'main street. That kind
of confoimity is reserved for the Muncie, Indianas around the country.
This problem of conformity is magnified by the fact that the pace of our civilization has been accelerated so much. It’s grown considerably more difficult not to conform. The time between the scat--tered acceptance of a thanks and it* being stamped out by the thousands by some machine has become so small that it’s almost non-existent. This may be a tribute to man’s ingenuity and -willingness to accept change but it stifles his desire to create change in some cases. For the non-conformists, who are usually i responsible for changes, find they can’t । stay ahead of the crowd and so just stop trying.
Of all the places where non-conformitj^ has died, nowhere is the death more evident than the American college campus. The college campus used to be a sort of refuge for non-conformity. People used | to say, “students ain’t people.” But the | student today is just another non-entity, and what is more discouraging, glad to be. At one time the student had a right | to be a little bizarre, he had the right	|
to riot, the right, if not the obligation,	|
to withdraw from the stagnation that surrounded the campus but dared not^ to invade it.	.	1
I
The presence of campus confoimity j | has become so conspicuous that the presi- 11 dent of Brown University recently told his students, “Some day I should like to ■ go to an informal student party and I find one or two people in light gray suits or even in brown suits,” find a person § who “did not have a striped tie on” or	B
who wore a “variation on the chino	S
trousers.”	I|
I think he’s asking too much. He’<^ || 'be doing well, in my opinion, just to find |s an informal student party.	|i
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS	IS
CHOOSE FROM THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF SUITS AT THE CAMPUS SHOP . . .
What size do you wear . . . what Brand Name do you like . . . what designer’s version of today’s styles look best on you . . . what color and pattern do you prefer? You’ll find it at the Campus Shop ... or we can get it for you in a few minutes, if necessary, from Gilbert’s in South Bend . . . where we have one of the largest selections of men’s fashions in the midwest. Yes, choose from thousands and THOUSANDS of Brand Name suits at the Campus Shop . . . now!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
So 10 ^So Quick on the ---------------------DRAW’
LM
America's Best Filter Cigarette
2. SUPERIOR FILTER. The flavor comes clean! Only L&M has the Miracle Tip—pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. L&M is quick on the draw, actually improves your enjoyment.
1. SUPERIOR TASTE. L&M is good to your taste — its superior tobaccos, rich yet light and mild, are especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.
©Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.


EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
KI N G SIZE
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
