BECOME A REGULAR Sctudo^Uc READER
It’s the easy way to keep up with Notre Dame activities — educational, social and recreational — from week to week.
Subscription Rate, January through May, 1948: $2.25 for 15 issues BOX 185, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL ELECTRIC
. A chem engineering major at Illinois, John is now shaping up a chemical career in the G-E Air Conditioning Department
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
The Story of John Stiefel
After receiving his B.S. in chemical engineering at the University of Illinois in 1942, John Stiefel went into the Army Chemical Corps, landed in the sixth wave on D-Day, mortared the Nazis, got mortared himself, and came out with a Purple Heart, a Bronze Star and a great eagerness to get back to the practice of non-destructive chemistry.
He spent three weeks travelling from one employment interview' to another. In the end he decided on General Electric—particularly the Air Conditioning Department in Bloomfield, N. J.
“I figured,” he says, “that a company like G.E., growing outside of purely electrical projects into such chemically based fields as atomics, paints, and plastics, would offer all the chemical opportunities I would want. I wasn’t wrong.”
At Bloomfield, John has helped staff the Works Laboratory and plan its expansion. He is now the laboratory’s Chemical Section Head and a consultant on chemical engineering problems for the Department. With further expansion underway in personnel, equipment and floor space, John's job grows steadily.
For your copy of “Careers in the Electrical Industry,” write to Dept. 237-6, General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
GENERAL
a
As commander of Company A of the 87th Chemical Mortar Battalion, John hit the beaches early on D-Day, won five battle stars
ELECTRIC
2
e
LETTERS
STOP, LOOK & LEAP
Dear Editor:
I have just returned to Saint Mary’s after an absence of two months during which time the accident that took the lives of Marie Despres and Joseph Hailer occurred.
I understand that in a recent Scholastic the impression was given that no form of traffic control at this point on the Dixie highway had been requested. I am sending you the attached correspondence to correct this impression.
Mother M. Rose Elizabeth. Office of the Superior General, St. Mary’s Convent, Mother House, Holy Cross, Ind.
The exchange of letters between Mother Elizabeth and Mayor Dempsey follows.—Editor.
October 22, 1945
Mayor F. Kenneth Dempsey,
South Bend, Indiana.
Your Honor:
I am writing to submit a request to have a traffic light installed on the Dixie highway at the entrance to Saint Mary’s College, Notre Dame, Holy Cross, Indiana. It is a well-known fact that this is a hazardous spot for both tourists and pedestrians. We believe that a light would do much to prevent further accidents and casualties. May I ask your kind assistance in this matter.
Very sincerely yours,
(signed) Mother M. Rose Elizabeth, Superior General.
October 25, 1945.
Sisters of the Holy Cross, St. Mary’s Convent, Holy Cross, Indiana.
Attention: Mother M. Rose Elizabeth. Dear Mother Elizabeth:
This will acknowledge your letter of Octobei’ 22, 1945, with reference to a traffic light on the Dixie Highway at the entrance to St. Mary’s College.
I believe, with you, that some form of traffic control at this point would tend to reduce accidents and result in the safety of pedestrians.
However, the Dixie Highway is under the exclusive control of the State Government. I am writing today to the ^proper authorities asking them to give consideration to your request upon this problem.
Be assured that any influence, that this office might bring you to accomplish the desired results, will be given. If at any time, you find that we can be of service, please let us know.
Very truly yours,
(signed) F. Kenneth Dempsey, Mayor of South Bend.
Scholastic respectfully calls attention to dates on letters. Exactly two years from the date of the mayor's letter Marie Despres and Joseph Hailer were killed.—Editor.
Dear Editor:
Much has been written and spoken about the dangei- of the St. Mary’s crossing on “Homicide Highway,” otherwise known as U. S. 31. The Scholastic is doing a noble job of keeping the
When you go home for the holidays
say "Merry Christmas"
1. An Arrow shirt. 2. An Arrow Sports Shirt. White or striped. Handsome, warm, rugged.
3. A few selected Arrow ties. . Stripes, foulards or knits. Don’t forget yourself!
FREE BOOKLET—Write for your free guide to better dress, "The What, When and Wear of Men’s Clothing." Address College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.. N. Y. 16, N. Y.
ARRO W SH/RTS and TIES w ■	-----------
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
episode alive in spite of the continued negligence in failing to this date to do anything about protecting the students’ lives.
This letter comes to you to bring to light a similar condition on what should be christened “Suicide Lane,” or Eddy Road, especially at the junction of that highway with the newly-paved road at the south edge of Cartier Field. . . .
The Eddy Road crossing is used daily by at least 70 of the 115 Aeronautical Engineering students going to and from the new Aeronautical Building east of Eddy Road. In addition, there are many residents of Vetville who also make frequent, if not daily, crossings at this point.
The Indiana Highway Commission is (Continued on Page 25)
3
TOP OF THE WEEK
Rector: “How are you going home, son?”
WASHINGTON HALL—
Objectionable in Part
As an actor, I pride myself on being an infallible judge of motion pictures. There are some things that even an actor can’t take. One of them is the Saturday night epic in Washington Hall (named after its builder, George W.).
Last week a student from this institution of very high education showed his ivories to all of my old cronies who whistle and hoot to their heart’s delight every Saturday night in the aforementioned vista. I would like to explain to our assassin why we whistle, wheeze, snort, roar, and guffaw.
First of all, it takes your mind off the movie. Nothing more could be desired. Nothing can take your mind off a Z-pic-ture, that was made when Mary Pickford and Clara Bow were still tots, more than a good mellow sssssssssssk. Take those sssssssssssk’s away from me and I will be forced to spend my Saturday evenings studying. On second thought, that may be the object of the whole thing.
Secondly, no gentleman would ever take his girl to one of those things that happen in Washington Hall. A lad who is too cheap to take his flame to a B-picture in South Bend should be forced to listen to sssssssssssk’s.
Thirdly, what ever gave our lamenter the impression that those catastrophes are movies? Some of those things are so old that the titles include the notice: “With the Revolutionary New Sound.” I have braved these shows of ignorance so many times that I can play the part of any actor in the cast without missing a line.
To all whistle-haters I say, if you can’t stand the noise, you’ll have to wait until the feature arrives at the State or Anno downtown.
FOR COMMERCE MEN ONLY
Last week a copy of Catholic Comics
slid under my door. I thought the mailman had mistaken my room for the Commerce man’s next door. He subscribes regularly to all of these horrendous magazines, because they are needed in his work. Checking the cover closely, I noticed that this comic mag was free. A lettei- inside told me that it would be an excellent Christmas gift for all of my friends. Having no friends, I merely looked at the pictures.
I am frank to admit that I am not in favor of this type of comics. Consider what would result if every denominational organization in the country tried the same thing. The bookstore would be full of Communist Comics, Protestant , Comics, and maybe even a monthly copy of Holy Roller Comics with a photo of somebody rolling on the cover. I am aghast at the possibilities of such an epidemic. I know we do not need all of these comic magazines. Only yesterday a Commerce man told me he was already near liquidity of capital assets trying to buy and read all of the comic magazines that are now for sale.
OPEN LETTER TO SANTA CLAUS
Dear Santa:
I have been a good boy all year. I have ate my beans without a whimper. I have cribbed for only one or two tests. I have passed by the Stratigon as if it were just a hardware store or something. I have never been to St. Mary’s. Not even to see the little'lake that everybody says is so beautiful to look at. Please, Santa, would you bring me the following for being so good:
(1). An illustrated cook book that I can give to the Dining Halls.
(2. A beautiful blonde—any color.
(3)	. Carbon copies of all the physics, history, and religion tests.
(4)	. Eleven new All-Americans for Mr. Leahy’s representative ’48 football team.
Thanking you in advance,
Bobby Vierhile
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Larry Turner: “I’m taking the Freedom Train!”
Seat c
hq, floe Wilcos
No South Bend baiter, I do not list myself with those who, no matter where they come from, excoriate South Bend because of the fact that their true loves do not happen to be here, or because they can find nothing else to complain about at the moment. But as one of those who heard the Boston Symphony’s fine concert in John Adams High Auditorium a couple of weeks ago, I awoke to the fact that South Bend is in need of something decent in the way of a public auditorium.
John Adams is called an auditorium by way of euphemism, and not by virtue of its nature, since it is nothing more nor less than a basketball floor. J am not certain how the Boston Symphony felt about playing under a sign reading “We won’t boo, How about you— John Adams Hi-Y,” but I do know that there were many mutterings from those paying customers who sat either on bleachers, flat chairs on the basketball floor, or in the remote regions of the sidelines where they could not see half the orchestra.
South Bend needs a civic auditorium befitting a city of 120,000, and it needs it at once. It was reported that Kous-sevitsky, regular Boston conductor, refused to come here because of the lack of a respectable auditorium. South Bend should be ashamed of that statement and ought never to let it be said again.
JOURNALISM DEP T.:	5
No doubt Henry McLemore has had about all he wants of hopping mad college students by now, following his juvenile outburst against the Radio Acceptance Poll. How the man could be unaware of the vast percentage of veterans attending college is beyond me; perhaps he only wanted to stir up a hornets’ nest. From the buzzing that has gone on around this particular- hive, one could conclude that he succeeded very well. Like others before him, some of whom have been mentioned herein before, McLemore is a good sports writer gone very wrong. Sports writers seem to feel a primordial urge to get their words on the editorial page, where they usually make fools of themselves sooner or later. The sports field is languishing for lack of good writers at the moment. I move that McLemore cover himself with sack cloth and ashes, and ask some-one in the pressbox to move over, please, he wants back in.
4
• WE HERE HIGHLY RESOLVE . . .
Every year at Christmas vacation everyone swears by the greater and lesser saints that he will convey to his residence large tomes of learning and that he will study like mad during the vacation. Does he do it? No. Do I? No. It would save wear and tear on baggage if all the books were left here. From the amount of use they get at home, it ain’t worth it to take them.
STRANGE BEDFELLOW DEP'T.:
America’s-farm-boy-made-good, Henry Wallace, now proclaims that he, Wallace, will vote for Taft if Taft is nominated. This statement, which undoubtedly the Republicans were overjoyed to hear, adds confusion to the already chaotic condition of politics, wherein both the Chi Trib and the Daily Worker are inveigling against the Marshall plan W with equal vehemence. Perhaps we shall next find Mr. Wallace abjuring the New Republic for the editorship of the Tribune, while Mr. McCormick meanwhile takes over Wallace’s Farmer, which at least is in the Midwest.
WHERE BUT THE GARDEN?
The announcement that Joe Louis’ next, and perhaps last, fight will be held, as usual, in New York’s Yankee Stadium is about as astounding as the fact that Georgia went Democratic in the last election. The Broadway assortment of managers, writers, and sundry hangers-on would, of course, expire forthwith in cataleptic fits if the fight were to be held anywhere else—except, perhaps, in Hollywood or Miami, the other two legs of the magic triangle. Present at the fight, of course, will be the usual dignitaries who get all the good seats, while everybody else can go hang. Once upon a time, when the forest primeval was young, Joe Louis actually fought a fight (Bob Pastor) in Detroit, his home town. Broadway saw to it that such outlandish behavior was not repeated. I am not a Midwestern section-alist, but I do get sick and tired of New York’s getting everything worth while. Perhaps the fight bigwigs are afraid of the Indian massacres that await all who venture west of the Hudson.
MORE THINGS, HORATIO . . .
I commend to you the letter of Mr. Carberry in this week’s letter column. This is the first time that I have ever been bracketed with Colonel McCormick. If Mr. Carberry will come to my room sometime when he has nothing else to do, I shall personally sing him “La Donna e Mobile.” In Italian.
That’s all until after Christmas. Merry Christmas, Happy New Year, and ' ' see what you can do for Student Relief over the holidays.
SHERMAN SAYS
Bill Sherman, publicity director for the Minnesota Club, gave us the latest scoop on the club’s Christmas dance. It will be held in the Mirror Room of the St. Paul Hotel in St. Paul. The dance is being held in collaboration with the Minnesota Alumni Club. Bob Rogers of the Alumni Club and John Sullivan, campus club president are heading the affair. The Minnesota Club, reorganized this year, has really done some fast moving. They have started a petition, which is averaging 250 names a hall, to have the lakes cleaned for ice skating; and if possible, have the school set up decent skating facilities. In line with the petition the club is forming a hockey team to play local outfits. A basketball team is also being formed.
BUFFALO
The Buffalo Club is holding a formal dance the evening of Dec. 26, in the Chinese Room of the Hotel Statler in Buffalo. This dance will be restricted to 100 couples. An autographed football will be given away as a door prize.
Scraping the barnyard rubbish and mud from their’ boots, the members of the Rural Life Club invaded the domain of their more industrially-minded brothers last week. A small group, led by Professor Willis D. Nutting, President Bob Brzezinski and Secretary Bob Reinders scouted the plant of the Oliver Farm Machinery Company in South Bend. They found an extensive establishment employing some 2100 workers, and housing all the equipment necessary to turn scrap iron into plowshares and cultivators. The boys thought the p«ant interesting but were glad to get back to the pot-bellied stove and talk over next year’s crop.
FLORIDA FROLICK
The newly organized Florida Club held a supper meeting at the D.A.V. the other week. Southern-fried chicken and steak were the fare. The boys were unable .to get any grits. Travis Marshall
is the club’s newly elected president, Tino Siera is vice-president, Jack Murphy, secretary, Sy Trotter, treasurer, and Pete Sheehan, corresponding secretary. The Florida Club plans on having a special train take its members home for the vacation.
The Utica Club will hold its big Christmas dance Dec. 29 in the Mulberry Room of the Hotel Utica. George De Kime has been appointed dance chairman. Tom Reagan, Phil Aquino, and Tony Marino will handle the tickets. Bob Brennan, Bob Drummond, and Don Zwerski will be the dance patrons. Mike McGuire and Dan Fessia will handle the decorations. An autographed football will be raffled off the night of the dance.
INTO NEW ENGLAND
The Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Mass, has been revived on campus after an absence of a number of years. All residents of Rhode Island and Southeastern Mass, are eligible for membership and participation in the Christmas dance which will be held by the Alumni during the vacation. Officers appointed in the election were: Jim Sullivan, president; Jim Murphy, vice-president; Al Grezebien, secretary; Colin McDonald, treasurer.
LA.S. BANQUET
The Notre Dame Student Branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences sponsored a banquet for its membership on Monday evening, December 15, at the D.A.V. Club in South Bend. Thomas J. Neff, off-campus student, was in charge of dinner arrangements, while Vice-Chairman Walter M. Marut secured the speakers.
Guests of the I.A.S. were Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, c.s.c., executive assistant to the President of the University; Rev. Joseph D. Barry, c.s.c., Director of Student Activities at Notre Dame; Mr. Stanley B. Smith, Project Engineer for Bendix Aviation Corporation of South Bend; Mr. Frank N. M. Brown, Head of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering, and the members of the faculty
5
of the Aeronautical Department. Chairman Joseph M. O’Hara, graduating senior, presided at the gathering, while Father Sweeney, Father Barry and Mr. Brown spoke.
The Notre Dame I.A.S. has a very extensive program of activities outlined for the remainder of the school year. At the next meeting, January 8, the group will have a guest speaker from Capital Airlines who will discuss the airlines as a career for the graduate aeronautical engineer. Other speakers for next semester’s meetings will be men from the industry qualified to speak on many phases of aeronautics.
The second issue of The Burble made its appearance two weeks ago, considerably improved over the first, more or less experimental, issue. The third issue, reports Editor Ernest Tursich, will be ready for distribution at the next I.A.S. meeting early in January.
MISCELLANY
The Northwest Club, the newest organization on the campus, elected officers last week. Herb Strecher was put in the president’s slot. Bob Rotchford is the new vice-president; Curran Higgins, treasurer; Bill O’Neil, secretary, and Jim Rotchford, sergeant-at-anns. The club’s territory includes Washington, Oregon, British Columbia and Alberta. A postChristmas dinner is planned.
The St. Louis Club will take off tomorrow in its private car containing a supply of coke large enough to carry the boys to St. Louis.
The Chicago Club will hold its annual Christmas Dance in the Casino Room of the Congress Hotel. Prexy Ed Hoban says that this year’s dance will be greater than last year’s. We’ll have to go and find out.
NEXT SCHOLASTIC
The next SCHOLASTIC will be published Jan. 16. Letter writers are reminded that the deadline for letters is Saturday morning before publication.
COPY READERS' CLINIC
SCHOLASTIC copy readers and editors are reminded that a copy readers' clinic will begin Wednesday, Jan. 7, at 7 p. m. in Room 120, Main Building. All others interested . are invited to attend. The clinic will run for three nights, ending Jan. 9.
COLLEGE DADADE
By JOHN ARMSTRONG and JIM O'RIELEY
GO EAST, YOUNG MAN, GO EAST . . .
According to the Boston University News, unmarried male students who are on the lookout for wives should head for New England, “the land of plenty.” The Neivs, quoting Prof. H. D. Lamson, a sociology professor at Boston U., goes on to state that the South and Southwest should be avoided since they are just the opposite of New England. There, “eligible men are in the majority.”
DAVIS OF NOTRE DAME . . .
Several stalwart footballers from Colorado School of Mines recently ran into Glenn Davis of Army on a westbound train, reports The Oredigger. After trading exaggerations with “Mr. Outside” for several minutes they accompanied him to the diner- for lunch. The diminutive Davis ordered the same fare as his burly companions but the waiter told him that his selection was restricted to football players. The whitecoat was then informed that his customer was a football player and his name was Glenn Davis. “You mean the great Glenn Davis of NOTRE DAME?” queried the bug-eyed waiter.
DRAGGED IN FROM THE LOG . . .
Professor: “I will not begin today’s lecture until the room settles down.”
Voice from the rear: “Go home and sleep it off.”
EDUCATION IN ACTION . . .
Down at Centenary College there are at least two’ intelligent students. According to the Centenary Conglamorate these two fellows were picked up by local police for speeding and dragged into court. The pair of quick-thinkers were prepared, however, and proved that the police car which was a Chevrolet, could not have caught up with them within the space they did if the students were traveling the rate of speed they were accused of. The judge fined the boys though because he had become confused, but he suspended the fines because he did have a sense of humor.
Blessed are the poor, for they shall inhabit the earth.	—Shriek
FOR THE BIRDS . . .
The Ohio State Lantern brings us the story of the woman who went into her employer’s refrigerator to get a soft drink just before Thanksgiving. When she opened the door, a nude and shivering turkey descended, much to her great surprise. It seems the turkey had been chloroformed, and picked before the owner made sure of its death. The next time was the last time.
Another item in the Lantern reports that an annual custom of the male stu
dents of Ohio Wesleyan of yelling and barging into a girl’s dormitory was re

cently banned by the Student Government. However, the girls just turned the tables on the boys in one of the men’s dorms, much to their groggy surprise.
SUCKERS . . .
Southern Cal’s Daily Trojan reports that before that school’s recent hard-fought grid game with UCLA, five thousand raspberry lollipops shaped like a bear’s head were distributed among SC students by a campus organization. The idea was to “lick the Bruin.”
BRASS RAIL LOGIC . . .
Drink is man’s worst enemy.
But we should love our enemies.
Therefore......
—Tapped from the Regis Brown & Gold 'S
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS
The Noon Hour Concerts, which have been presented on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays between 12:30 and 1:30 in the Cavanaugh Reading Room, ended for this semester on Wednesday, December 17.
This brought to a close an elevenweek series of concerts at which a total of 577 students and faculty were present. No more concerts will be presented in the remainder of this semester; however, the concerts for the Spring Semester will begin on or about Monday, February 8, and will run for fourteen weeks.
The exact date of the beginning of the Spring Semester Concerts will appear in the SCHOLASTIC a week or two before concerts begin.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
CALENDAR
THE STAFF
FRANCIS J. KEENAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN A. O'CONNOR---------------------------Associate	Editor
EDWARD J. SNYDER---------------------------Associate	Editor
JOSEPH WILCOX Feature Editor PETER BROWN-------------------------------------------Sports	Editor
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News Editor ROBERT STOCK ----------------------- Associate News Editor
JAMES FERSTEL  Photographic Editor DONALD BIRREN Art Editor E. A. CORDESMAN  Art Editor WILLIAM GORMAN  Librarian ROBERT KOPF _______________Circulation
JOHN CLARK ------------------------------------ Circulation
M. E. VARGA--------------------------- Advertising Manager
JOHN S. BRENNAN--------------------------Faculty Moderator
iiiiiiHttiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiintiiiinttmHaisHHiuiiiiiiiiiiiiHHmiiiiMiiiiaatiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiHaitHtMitiii
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York. City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is' published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dec. 19 CHRISTMAS VACATION begins at noon. AU roads lead homeward. Pity the poor wretches who must stick around here. You can bet your life the trains and busses will be jammed, as all schools are letting out at the same time. A master-stroke of planning.
CALIFORNIA-bound chartered bus leaves for the golden west. Promises to be hub-deep in oranges within 50 hours. That’s going some.
Dec. 24 CHRISTMAS EVE. No place like home. All over the Christian world there’s a spirit of love and kindness. As this is progressively stamped out the day becomes just anothei- day. Let’s keep it alive.
Dec. 25 CHRISTMAS DAY.
Jan. 1 FEAST OF THE CIRCUMCISION, a holyday of obligation.
BOWL GAMES grab the spot as the ’47 season bows out.
Jan. 5 NOTRE DAME vs. GEORGETOWN, basketball, here in our own grand fieldhouse.
Jan. 6 CLASSES resume. Where did the time go? Is this semester necessary?
Jan. 7 NOTRE DAME vs. BUTLER, basketball, here. INTERHALL WRESTLING preliminaries begin.
Jan. 10 NOTRE DAME vs. DE PAUL, basketball, here.
Jan. 16 INTERHALL WRESTLING finals. The grapplers tangle for the school championships. If talent is promising we may see some of our boys go into intercollegiate competition.
MEET THE EDITOR
Christmas Seals
When Scholastic Art Editor Don Birren was in the
South Pacific during the war he was impressed by the Tahitian ivory sculpture, but outside of this isolated instance
Don Birren
there wasn’t much to be appreciated in his line.
Don is married; his wife, like himself, hailing from Chicago. They have a fine little son, Pete, age four months.
Right now Don is a post-grad, working for his teacher’s degree. He’d like very much to study in Europe, but that’s a long way off. He’s 25, and in addition to plying the sculptor’s chisel, wields a feather-light sketchpencil, oil brush, and stylus.
. . • Your Protection Against Tuberculosis
7
Ute	.
Scholastic Subs for Santa
On Christmas day two months will have passed since Marie Despres and Joseph Hailer were mowed down in cold blood as a result of gross negligence. Over six years before that accident Scholastic sounded an ominous warning only to be gagged. Two years before the accident St. Mary’s politely requested that some safety measures be taken. (See letters on page 3).
Perhaps these efforts bore no fruit because they were too soft, too sweet, to near pussy-footing to shake those in responsibility out of their lethargy. At any rate those responsible forgot fast and did nothing.
With Yuletide fast approaching it might be proper to write Santa Claus and ask him to do something. At least he might reward those students, members of Student Council and the Administration, who since the disastrous happenings of two months ago have tried in vain to correct the dangerous, existing conditions. Perhaps he might alsp enlighten the numbed minds of those responsible for such a sickening display of inaction.
Sad to say, Santa Claus probably has bigger things on his hands this year with all the suffering needy around the world to care for.
Thi-s, Scholastic has decided to don the red suit and beard and do some pinch-hitting for the man from the North Pole.
First of all, it will give the slovenly so-called guardians of public safety until Jan. 10 to erect adequate safety measures at Homicide Highway. On Jan. 10, St. Mary’s will hold its annual Winter Carnival and pedestrian traffic at the crossing will be unusually heavy. If Indiana weather and the state highway department come through true to form Homicide Highway will be icy and twice as dangerous.
If by Jan. 10 nothing has been done, Scholastic will erect signs a sufficient distance from the crossing to warn on-coming drivers of the impending danger. Scholastic will further supplement these signs with red flares so that even the near-sighted can’t miss them.
After over two months of begging and pleading, Scholastic feels it high time that the state rose off its haunches’ If the state is too unconcerned to do so, then Scholastic feels itself justified in making a token effort to prevent further wanton slaughter of its readers because of open, criminal negligence!
Share Your Good Fortunes
In the preface of the fifth report submitted by World Student Relief, one of whose three component parts is the Pax Romana, this brief survey of conditions facing the university world was presented:	'
“Students in Vienna endure hunger. In Hungary inflation destroys the basis of student life. Yugoslavian students with little outside help, struggle to rebuild their shattered universities. From Athens to Warsaw tuberculosis looms as a mortal threat to hundreds of young men and women for whom no adequate care is provided. Scattered throughout the continent thousands of displaced students and student prisoners of war wait behind barbed wire to know what their future is to be.
"India suffers from famine and its students lack many of the facilities which they need in order to study properly. Chinese students are on the march again, this time back 8	*
towards the traditional centers of their culture in the large cities of the coast. In the Philippines university buildings have been destroyed, buildings which were the pride of a young nation seeking its freedom.”
Simply stated, this is the picture of the student world today — a world, however, in which the United States is notable by its absence. A survey appearing in the New York Times this week reported that foreign students in many cases fare worse than other sections of the population in regard to the critical shortage of food. Again, what of us here in the United States, and at Notre Dame in particular?
Blessed with more abundance and a higher standard of living than has ever been known anywhere in the world, it is certainly in the true tradition of the approaching Christmas-time to SHARE our good fortune with those who have nothing. The ease with which this can be done, and the very slight sacrifices which will mean so much to so many -of our destitute brothers, makes 100% participation in the * foreign Student Relief Campaign mandatory.
The real spirit of Christmas, of Christ on earth, must be kept alive, even in the face of the overwhelming commercialism rampant today. As brothers and members of the Mystical Body of Christ we cannot relax nor be at ease while there is a single part of that Body suffering — and suffering, too often, as a result of our own neglect.
Looking Backward
As the hour nears for the bouncing babe bannered 1948 to send the old man with his ragged scythe down memory lane, Scholastic looks back with beaming pride upon a year that gave us:
Blue-Circle-YCS freshmen orientation;
A rollicking student trip;
A bus shelter for our commuting population;
Kampus Keglers stirring up city clubs;
A Student Relief Campaign fastly gaining momentum;
Bus service to Farley Hall;	-
Enthusiastic drumming for home-town Christmas * dances;
The greatest football team anywhere, anytime.
However, at the same time we must gaze over our shoulders with mixed scorn and shame at:
Dangerous, speed-stalked Homicide Highway;
Tardy, hardship-provoking GI checks;
Over-crowded, cough-choired, late Sunday masses;
A growing tendency towards rigid academic departmentalization ;
The cellar-level, moron-tempered movies routed here by Balaban-Katz;
The grade-school antics at Washington Hall’s corroded cinemas;
The Jack of interest in upper class elections.
And so another tottering year heads down the dusty path to oblivion, and publications everywhere choose their man-of-the-year. No non-conformist, Scholastic joins her sister sheets in naming the lucky codger-about-campus: for us it’s “Fop,” the gnomish, mustachioed, glint-eyed old gent . who is the janitor in the cafeteria men’s room. A diligent (h) worker, this little man always has a kraut-scented good word for the world and the weather. Oh, to be like Pop! ‘
’The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing	'
at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 12
DECEMBER 19. 1947
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
CAMPUS GIFTS SWELL RELIEF
Manning, Raymond Elected Chairmen of Junior Prom
The Junior class wanted a Prom after all. They turned out a week ago and elected Ed Raymond and Jim Manning to head the dance committee. This twosome defeated Bob Brown and Bill Halligan, their nearest opponents, by 33 votes.
Raymond and Manning have already announced that either Eddy Howard or Elliott Lawrence will play for the dance on April 9. Their convincing platform indicates that the Prom will again be held in the Rockne Memorial.
Jim Manning is a member of the Knights of Columbus and the Chicago Club. Ed Raymond, his partner, is also a Knight, a member of the Glee Club, A. I. C. H. E., and the Milwaukee Club. His home is in Racine, Wisconsin, and he is studying to be a chemical engineer. Manning is in the A.B. school.
Their plans call for the circulation of a questionnaire to all Juniors before the dance to find out just what the class wants in the way of a Prom. After the dance another circular will be distributed to determine what the class disliked about the affair.—L. S. Connor.
A SHATTERED WARSAW SCHOOL For soup — a rising Relief treasury
Irish Debaters Triumph At Iowa Speech Tourney
While the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame were busily clinching their claim to their second straight National Championship in football, the unknown and unsung Debate squad was winning in its own right. Mr. Leonard Sommer, coach, and his team of six men walked off with top honors at the annual Speech Tournament held by the University of Iowa at Iowa City, Iowa.
The team was composed of three freshmen, a sophomore, and two upperclassmen. Frank Finn, Jim Beymer, Tom Ninneman, Quint Marlow, Bill Carey and Bill Dixon were those who made the trip.
In discussion, Frank Finn and Bill Carey received overall ratings of superior, while Jim Beymer was given a rating of excellent.
Finishing with seven wins and one loss, the Notre Dame team earned the best all-around average in both discussion and debate, to be adjudged the top team in the tournament.
Drive Closes Month Following Vacation
By KEN THOREN
Old King Midas and his golden, overflowing coffers were nothing in comparison to the rising treasury of the Foreign Student Relief Campaign. Although the drive is only three weeks old the shekels are already pouring in like those proverbial pennies from heaven.
A $600 check was sent into the national headquarters on Dec. 11. It represented the first step toward achiev-ment of Notre Dame’s goal of $35,000, and was the total return from the Villagers Club contest, which awarded an autographed football, and the proceeds of a victory dance.
Approximately $700 has been collected through the personal subscription campaign. The Blue Circle has covered dose to 60 per cent of the residence halls, with $600 being the amount collected, while off-campus contributions have netted another $100. Cliff Bloom, of Badin Hall, chairman of the subscription drive, stated that the drive will be extended until after the Christmas vacation to allow contribution by the remaining Notre Dame students.	*
The delivery of 10,500 donation books was completed last Friday. In each envelope was an instruction sheet, an illustrated brochure concerning the Chrysler “Town and Country,” and two ticket books.
The books must be returned by February 8, 1948. Returns may be brought into the basement of the dining hall any day during lunch or dinner. AU-checks are to be made payable to the Student Relief Committee, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Lou Burns, chairman of the Relief Committee, said that e<en though the sale of tickets on the convertible will inelude persons who are not Notre Dame students, only an N.D. man can win the Plymouth. If, at the drawing on February 10, the winning ticket had been sold
(Continued on Page 20)
9
McCaffrey, Burns Struggle to Interpret Inconclusive, Lethargic Senior Ball Poll
By HARRY MONAHAN
whether to engage the Palais, the Navy Drill Hall or the Cavanaugh Reading Room. It is their hope that senior interest and cooperation will improve after the Christmas hiatus to help the committee stage a successful Senior Ball?
Displaying the lethargic spirit which has characterized student cooperation in the activities of both upper classes this semester, the seniors turned what was hoped would be a majority-recording survey into a weak whisper of inconclusive statistics.	’	_
Of some 1,000 students eligible for this year’s Senior Ball only 200 considered it important enough to express any opinions or suggestions. Survey forms were available at the Deans’ offices in all colleges during pre-registration, but even this convenience could not foster any appreciative response. -
Those seniors who did cooperate with their committee showed a majority preference" for a candlelight dinner to precede the Ball and for an informal dance to complete the program on Saturday evening. The minority farm vote injected its own suggestions for the Saturday evening affa:r by recommending either a barn dance or a hay ride and steak roast. Tom McCaffrey, Larry Ryan, and George Burns, co-chairmen, now face the problem of squeezing all of this into the $15.00 per senior budget which also was recommended in the poll.
Voting for the “name” band preference fell in the music talent pool like buckshot on the opening day of duck
LAW STUDENT CONGRATULATES PROF. AND MRS. ROLLISON For a double anniversary — a bi? celebration
season and managed to score hits on all of the big birds in the covey. Some shots were even fired at such long-departed brethren as Tommy Dorsey and Artie Shaw who have entered Valhalla to disc jockey for their cake and caviar. The four top contenders, however, were Vaughan Monroe, Tex Benecke, Elliott Lawrence and Claude Thornhill. These bands will be contacted immediately to ascertain their availability. The remaining list of choices will be used should none of the above four be able to make the Ball arrangement.
No decision has been made as yet concerning the date of the Ball. The proposed “Senior Week” plan will meet a tough opponent this week, one round to a decision, in the final examination schedule. Discussions with administration officials should settle this question before students entrain for home tomorrow.
The committee has expressed disappointment at the results of this poll. It had been hoped to be able to form a definite plan for the Ball from this survey. Senior disinterest has made the survey an entirely inadequate instrument for that. With such meager returns to act upon, the Senior Ball Committee cannot even judge the possible attendance accurately enough to decide
Law Club Honors Professor Rollison
For the first time in the history of the Notre Dame Law Club, a communion Mass and breakfast was held in honor of one of their professors. The man to be so honored was William D. Rollison, professor of law. The occasion was a double one: Mr. and Mrs. Rollison’s twentieth wedding anniversary and Mr. Rollison’s twenty-fifth as a teacher.	-
More than 150 students of the law school and their wives, together with the law faculty and guests, took part in the Mass at Alumni chapel. They heard the Rev. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., member of the faculty of law, pay tribute to Mr. and Mrs. Rollison on their twenty years of married life and to Mr. Rollison’s qualities as a man and a teacher.
The breakfast afterwards was held at the Oliver Hotel. In addition to Mr. Rollison, the speakers were Dean Manion, of the College of Law, who lauded Mr. Rollison as a “gentleman”; Judge J. Elmer Peak of South Bend, who spoke of Mr. Rollison’s scholarly works on wills; Dean Emeritus Konop of the College of Law, who appointed Mr. Rollison to the faculty; the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., who spoke in behalf of the University; and the Notre Dame alumnus Gerard Feeney, graduate of the Law,.' School, who spoke for the law alumni of the University. Toastmaster was William Pelling.
Listed in WHO'S WHO
Professor Rollison received his A.B. and LL.B, from Indiana. University, and his LL.M. from Harvard. He was a member of the faculty of law at Alabama University from 1922 to 1930, when he accepted an appointment to the Law faculty at Notre Dame. He has practiced law both in Indiana and in Alabama. A member of the American Bar Association, Mr. Rollison is listed both in Who’s Who in America and Who’s Who in Law.
One of the outstanding authorities on wills in the country, Mr. Rollison is the author of Rollison on Wills, and Will Clauses. He is also the author" of many articles in legal quarterlies, and is re-_ nowned for his classroom wit and erudi-^ tion. At present he teaches Torts, Wills, Trusts, and Mortgages.
10
• Student Body Favors ND Entering NSA
K.C.'s Shaggy Performers Apply Finishing Touches to Vaudeville's Corroding Corpse
In the largest campus election ever held here, the student body of Notre Dame last Tuesday, by a vote of 1703 to 245, indicated their intention of affiliating with the USNSA, commonly known as the NSA. This vote was the go ahead signal for Notre Dame’s three delegates from the Madison, Wisconsin, convention to inaugurate a series of meetings and forums that will follow the plan of action adopted by the assembly of the Constitutional Convention last summer, and which will make possible the preparation of next year’s delegates to the National Convention.
In spite of contrary opinions on the w question of affiliation, most of the students who voted showed a better-than-average knowledge of the weight that this election carried in the national society of students and offered specific reasons for casting their ballots in the fashion that they did.
The majority who voted in favor of joining the NSA sensed a need for Catholic participation in the student community of the world and saw the NSA as a means of making this transitory step possible. As one student put it, “Unless our ideologies are felt by all nations of the world we have missed the first purpose of our education.”
Exchange oi Ideas
Many others were of the opinion that there is much to be gained through an W exchange of ideas with other types of educational systems, and that the NSA seemed a practical medium for making this transfer of theories and experiences possible. Even others looked to the potentialities of foreign studies through NSA facilities as a workable step to a lasting world peace through an international understanding of the everyday problems of all peoples.
Since the scope of functions of the NSA is so diversified, the first activity on the Notre Dame campus will be to draw up a workable program that will benefit the majority of the students in everyday pursuits of their education. It will be based on a careful study of those principles of the NSA wiiich will fill the needs of the system of education used here. Immediately after the Christmas vacation, at a time and place to be an--^nounced, there will be a meeting for all "those interested in making the NSA their extra-curricular activity.
By GREG HALPIN
The long-dead body of Vaudeville was cremated last Wednesday and Thursday nights at Washington Hall.
Yearly it had been dug up from its grave by ghoulish local Knights of Columbus but in the past, after a brief resurrection, had been given back to the earth in the same condition. Last week its rotting bones were fired to ashes by a combination of poor management, even poorer presentation, and an amazing lack of talent.
Three artistic student performers played firemen in a valiant attempt to put out the blaze. For their heroics they were awarded the three top cash prizes. However, they were not able to salvage much out of the whole mess. John Broderick, a booming bass baritone from Chicago, sang his way into the §30 and first place with his well-rendered “Without a Song” and “Invictus.” He was followed on the judges’ list by another Irishman with a tenor voice from Pittsburgh, Pat Sullivan, who sang true to key and to his race with “Danny Boy” and other such tributes to the Green. Finishing with the show money was juggling basebailer Benny Kozlick of Chicago. Benny came through with an extra-base rendition of the ’46 World Series and did amazing things with some silver balls and a pair of hands.
These three stood out from a small group of contestants who were ready, willing but, for the most part, hardly able to present the impression they were talented. There was Jerry Farron who can put a song across nicely in a low, emotional voice; Bob Azar who had the merciful taste to avoid Edward G. Robinson, Jimmy Durante and other overdone personages in his impersonation routine; and then there was the What Four Quartet who took to the hills for their music and should know enough to stay there from here on in. There were others, but Christian charity demands the withhold:’ng of their names from public print.
The show was surprisingly well attended for its two-night run considering what it had to offer its audience. Perhaps the attraction lay in that it was free. To many, it mustn’t have seemed even worth the expense of time. And to all the students presenting and watching the whole thing, there must have been some shame at the realization of how little talent, dares to show itself under the Golden Dome.
WINNER BRODERICK Three played firemen
Glee Club to Tour Midwest
If you want to see the world these days you can choose one of two alternatives—either sign up in Uncle Sambo’s Navy or join the Notre Dame Glee Club. The muscular canaries will begin their annual jaunt on Friday, January 30.
Although they will not cover the 3,500 miles they did last year, they do expect to travel some 1,150 miles. The first town to enjoy the warblers will be Indianapolis. Next in line, on Saturday night, January 31, will be Evansville. Then in rapid succession will crane Nashville, Memphis, and Paducah on succeeding days.
Sixty members will make the trip during the mid-semester holiday, and will travel in nice, big, shower-less busses. Professor Daniel Pedtke will be waving the baton with William Gibbon, a junior music major, serving as the accompanist. Nolan Sheehan and Robert Ruetz, both tenors, are slated to be the program’s soloists.
Another Glee Club tour, on a much smaller scale, will be held tonight when . the entire organization of 130 members rove the campus, singing Christmas carols. Like spring practice, this will be just a preview of what can be expected from the boys when they really take to the road.
II
I
Nation's First Natural Law Institute Meets
By LAWRENCE CONNOR and DENNIS O'NEILL
The Natural Law Institute, first session of its kind in this country, was held last week in the Law Auditorium. Part of a plan to make the Notre Dame College of Law the foremost in the country, the Institute was financed by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New York.
Prominent lawyers, judges, clergymen, educators, students and other interested persons jammed into the auditorium to hear America’s most distinguished authorities on natural law. Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., and former president of Notre Dame, was the Honorary Chairman of the Institute, while Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, presided.
Father Cavanaugh welcomed those attending the Institute, saying that the future of American jurisprudence lies in giving law students a proper sense of the basic inter-relationship of the positive law and the natural law.
He emphasized Notre Dame’s attitude stating, “It is, of course, most appropriate that this Institute be sponsored by the Notre Dame College of Law—the oldest of Catholic law schools in the United States. The faculty here has always insisted that law must be taught in its relation to God, the source of all rightful authority. The faculty retains a deep respect for the foundation of American institutions, and persists in the belief that a school which attempts to teach law apart from its God-related
12
perspective does something much less than justice to American jurisprudence.”
Clarence Manion, dean of the Law school at Notre Dame, was the first of the five speakers, with the topic “The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers.” He emphasized that the American legal system must return to the natural law of God.
Stressing that the Declaration of Independence is the best possible condensation of the Natural Law, Dean Manion further explained: “It was England and not America who abandoned the ancient tradition of English liberty. In 1776 the British government was insisting that the ‘law of the land’ and the ‘immemorial rights of English subjects’ were exclusively and precisely what parliament described them to be. This claim for parliamentary absolutism was at variance with all the great traditions of the common law and the natural law as recorded throughout the centuries from Brackton to Blackstone. By abandoning their ingrained concepts of the Natural Law, the colonists undoubtedly could have made a comfortable settlement of their taxes and navigation difficulties with England, but they chose the alternative so well and logically described in the Declaration of Independence.
“As a result of the devotion of the Founding Fathers to the Natural Law and the natural God-given rights of man. America exists today as the only
country in the world where the individual citizen has rights that his government as well as everybody, is constitutionally bound to respect.”
Some of America’s foremost educators and lawyers heard Ben W. Palmer of the University of Minnesota, erudite legal writer and scholar, speak on “The Natural Law and Pragmatism.” Mr. Palmer insisted that unless pragmatic philosophy is driven out of the American legal system, the system will be shattered and chaos will result.
“One hundred and forty million men and women, each unique and infinitely precious in the eyes of God, seek refuge in the temple of American law,” he said. “They look for protection against the abuses of arbitrary power whether by individuals, ruthless minority groups, or by the clamorous majority in a vast continental democracy. If they find that the foundations of that structure have been subtly undermined so that it no longer gives them assurance of protection, if they see with newly-opened eyes that the law administered therein is merely the embodiment of arbitrary force, of command and not of reason or enduring principles of justice, they will shatter it to bits and revert to primeval chaos or insurrection organized. And that catastrophe will occur if a pragmatic philosophy dominates the law,^‘ particularly American constitutional law.”
Mortimer J. Adler, professor of law at Chicago University, discussed “The Philosophy of Natural Law.” The author of a number of books on law, Dr. Adler is one of the top authorities on Thomistic law and philosophy in this country. He stated that the only hope for peace is a world government based on the natural law, with coercive and positive sanctions.
World Government Only Solution
“More people in the world must start thinking about the Natural Law as applied to the Positive Law if world peace is to result and endure. The only solution to World Peace is World Government, and this government must be based on a working knowledge of the Natural Law as applied to the Positive Law. The world today is as full of war £ as it was three years ago, even though an actual shooting war is not in progress,” Dr. Adler continued.
“People throughout the world must be taught to depend on the Natural Law, which requires will power to obey, as opposed to the positive law, which is based purely on rationalism. Positive law is merely an act of opinion and reason. In positive law, then, since one man’s reason is as good as another, any man could make the laws.
“Too many law schools throughout the United States are tending to base their teachings on the positive law, with little or no consideration given to the Natural Law. This must be corrected if the nation is to have lawyers with a working understanding of law based on the Natural Law.”
Harold R. McKinnon, prominent San Francisco attorney and lecturer, spoke ™ on “The Natural Law and the Positive
Law.” He cited numerous cases in
showing that natural law has survived because men naturally think in terms of it, despite the legal realists who would exclude the moral values from positive law. He said that natural law is bound by reason in contrast with positive law which is relative, contingent and changeable.
“The values which they thrust out through one door,” according to Mr. McKinnon, “reentered through another. And any effort to place those values at any point short of the ultimate principles of the practical human reason is similarly futile. There is no choice between these principles and some other source of values. The only choice is between values and an effort to remake man without values, the consequences of which we have lately witnessed.
“We who retain the truth in our practice, toy with an alien philosophy at-our peril. As a man thinks, so is he, or so he will be. Even now the signs are not wanting. A moral science has discovered a divine power in the atom, which for lack of values has already been used experimentally on human beings and now challenges not only constitutional guaranties but life itself. The family, the unit of society, is a vanishing institution. Education is on a starvation diet, deprived of the fundamental orientations of philosophy and the things of the spirit. Thus we in the democracies, on whom has fallen the burden of world leadership in a critical hour, are ourselves ‘disregarding the omens and disdaining the stars’.”
The final speaker, Rev. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., professor of legal ethics at the University of Notre Dame, noted authority on Canon Law and advocate at the Rota, pointed out that “all human beings should become increasingly aware
of the fact that every true law is de- ' rived in some way from the Divine Eternal Law.” His topic was the “Eternal Law Background of the Natural Law.”
“Since the Eternal Law is that supreme and exalted plan of government existing in God Himself, the Supreme Legislator, all plans of government on inferior planes are derived from the Eternal Law,” acocrding to Father Doheny. “Hence it is that all laws, in so far as they partake of right reason, are derived from the Eternal Law. In other words, all that is just and lawful in temporal laws is derived from the Eternal Law.”
'Lawyer' Discusses German Peace Views
The majority of the German people are not at this time convinced in any way of the crimes established by the Nurnberg trial except perhaps of the horrors of the concentration camps, Paul Reuter, noted French author, declares in an article in the November issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, published this week by students in the College of Law.
The article, “Nurnberg 1946—The Trial,” was translated into English for the Lawyer by Robert D. Nuner, Instructor of Modern Languages at Notre Dame, and a former Major in the Military Intelligence.
Included in the staff of the Lawyer are: William B. Ball, editor; John E. Cosgrove, associate editor; Charles T. Dunn, case editor; Burton M. Apker, note editor; Thomas F. Broden, book review editor; Robert E. Fitzpatrick, secretary; John M. Anderton, Robert F. Burns, James D. Sullivan, and Richard H. Keoughan.
FATHER CAVANAUGH AND MORTIMER ADLER	DEAN AND MRS. MANION WITH FATHER DOHENY
. . . better inter-relationship of positive law and natural law
13
By GREG HALPIN and HARRY MONAHAN
“. . . and, honey, don’t be late. I wanna’ be there when that band starts playing,” and the Irish start dancing.
And dance they will, for the Notre Dame student body, broken into geographical segments through the Administration’s Christmas gift of 19 big days at home, will swing forth in formal array in campus club and alumni-spon-sored invasions of ballrooms and dance floors all over the nation. Almost every club is preparing to highlight their members’ vacations with a touch of hometown sophistication.
The swirl of events will encompass the swank Starlight Roof of the Waldorf as well as the casual Schlitz “Brown Bottle” and will ricochet into midwestern barns and out under a frosty Michigan moon in a sleigh. This extensive holiday program is the result of a remarkable revival of student interest in these campus organizations over the past year.
The ultra in Christmas dances is being sponsored by the Metropolitan Club of New York. With the invitation to “Meet me at the Waldorf” and with starlight in their eyes, Met club members are deep in preparation for the big night of Dec. 26, when they will bump heads with the clouds over Manhattan while dancing to local favorite Harry Arnold on the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf-Astoria.
The Roof, labeled by Waldorf publicity spielers as a “tribute to the celestial,” is the top after-dark attraction of
CONGO ROOM OF WASHINGTON S CARLETON HOTEL To the scent of gardenias and roses ...
noh day - inn
the world’s most famous tourist cabin. On the 26th it is expected to play host to over 200 New York students, alumni and their dates. Chairman Phil Shea has all the ingredients of a never-to-be-forgotten affair and is making the most of them. All of which might lead to the question of the month: How are you gonna keep ’em down at the Palais after they’ve seen the Waldorf?
Central New Yorkers will give the holiday season a final jolt of merrymaking when they move their “Holiday Ball” into the East Room of the Hotel Syracuse on Jan. 3. They will probably still be engrossed in reminiscent thoughts about the dance when they are once more herded into South Bend.
Chairman Tom Kelley will lead the Buffalo aggregation into the Chinese Room of the Hotel Statler for that club’s holiday celebration. Bandleader Gene Regan will whip up the musical menu to be served to the assembled Irish and their guests on Dec. 26.
The Sheraton Hotel in Rochester will be the meeting place of vacationing students and alumni when Carl Dengler and his band start the music rolling on Dec. 27. Some lucky party that night will carry home a souvenir of Notre
Dame’s first undefeated season in 17 years in the autographed football which has been secured as doorprize. Roches-terites will gather at the Standard Brewery on Dec. 23 in a pre-Christmas stag party.
The elite of New England will converge on Boston the night of Dec. 26. Club Prexy George Sullivan will throw open the doors of the Georgian Room for the assembled clans. The music of Art Rubin will keep the pace going after the opening gun.
New England belles who have been fortunate enough to receive the formal invitations dispatched for this dance are preening and preparing that “New Look.” Which means that the race for “Queen” promises to be a close and hotly contested battle. The presentation of a Notre Dame blanket and an autographed football to some lucky ticket holders will also add to the festivities.
Down in Philly the brothers are gathering with dates at the Sylvania Hotel the night of the 26th. There they will dance to the music of George Young and the “Harmony Kings.” Bart Johnson is running the semi-formal affair.
Stan Kenton, ably abetted by thrush / June Christie, will serenade alumni and I students from New Jersey the day after f Christmas. Frank Dailey’s “Meadow-' brook” will be the scene of this portion of the holiday celebrations.
Even the nation’s capital will not be exempt from the vacationing Irish. Washington, Maryland and Virginia residents will help the Notre Dame Club • of Washington, D. C., make their semi-formal dance in the Congo Room of the Carleton Hotel the bright spot of that . locale’s holiday schedule. Dec. 28, is the date set for the dance, while Tai Powers is also preparing plans for an informal j party at the 823 Club in Washington sometime during the vacation period.
Down below the Mason-Dixon line, in' West Virginia, the Ohio Valley Alumni Club of Notre Dame is entertaining alumni and friends in Wheeling at a semi-formal dance featuring the music of Mark Lockseyer in the Carrol Clubl The West Virginia Club on campus isj\ cooperating with the alumni group badc? home in ticket sales and publicity.
In Louisville on the 26th there wilMM^ formal dancing at the Henry Clay Hotelf sponsored jointly by the Notre Dame
14
=Hop-
alumni in the horse country, the Kentucky Club here and the Xavier University Club.
Stambaugh Auditorium will be the scene of the Youngstown Club’s. Christmas social function. Al Russo’s music will set alumni and student feet shuffling on the evening of Dec. 27. Cochairmen Mike Lyden and Jack Mayo will be on hand to award the autographed football door-prize.
Toledo students will find that club Resident Mike Hoeflinger and a hard working committee have assembled a packed schedule to keep them busy during the vacation period. They will meet at “The Barn” on the 21st in an antiinflation Hard Times Party with dancing, refreshments and prizes. On the 26th they will exchange blue jeans and saddle shoes for white ties and formals to attend the alumni sponsored dance at the Crystal Room of the Commodore Perry Hotel. Toledo clubsters, in a parting gesture to the holidays, will collect all college men in the Toledo area at a stag party in the K. of C. Hall on Jan. 2. Men from Detroit University, Toledo University, John Carroll and Dayton have been invited.
The Second Annual Scholarship Ball sponsored by the Cincinnati Alumni and campus club will be that club’s Christmas social offering. It will be held in the ^ivillion Caprice of the Hotel Nether-land. A highlight of the affair will be the presentation of the annual award to the outstanding Cincinnati student now attending Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit will play host to returning students at a formal dance in the Hotel Tuller, Dec. 27. Plans for a stag party are in the making and the committee will spread the good word when they are completed. The hardier members of the club will brave the cold on a sleigh ride on the 29th.
Another Hoosier group going all out in a formal way will be the Fort Wayne Club which is holding its affair- on the 27th at the Fort Wayne Country Club with music by Herman Binkley.
Dick Broeren, newly elected president of the Fox River Valley Club, has been caught in the holiday rush, but came up ^;h the plans for the club’s formal aance at the Conway Hotel in Appleton, Wisconsin. Club members are leaving
Time
Dec. 26, open in their date books.
Milwaukee clubsters will have hardly gotten the slush of South Bend off their galoshes before they troop down to the Schlitz “Brown Bottle” on the 22nd as guests of the brewery. The Shorecrest Hotel will be the scene of an alumni-sponsored formal on the evening of the 26th. Two nights later the Log Cabin Ballroom will echo to the “stylish” music of Leroy and h’s “Musical Knights” when they stage their Barn Dance. On the 2nd of January the Pabst Brewery will play host to the Milwaukeeans in the final event of the vacation.
The Windy City Gang has a stellar entry in the vacation parade of dances. The Casino Room of the Congress Hotel will see the Irish in action on the evening of Dec. 26. One of the fair maidens from St. Mary’s, Miss Claire Dailey, date of Dance Chairman Joe Archibald, will reign as queen over the festivities. Bill Otto will supply the music for the assembled Chicagoans.
The Chicago Club is working hard to put this dance on a par with its previous affairs. In particular they want to continue the policy of drafting entertainment talent for the evening from around the Loop. Previous dances fea
STARLIGHT ROOF OF THE WALDORF ASTORIA . . . was added a whiff of Indiana pine
tured Dorothy Shay, the Park Avenue Hillbilly, and Monica Lewis warbling for the throng. Attempts to get Bing Crosby and Bob Hope for this Christmas show have hit a snag. This duo cannot * be convinced they should leave the mild California weather to brave Lake Michigan’s icy blasts.
Statler Hotels are in for another Irish invasion in St. Louis where the local campus club of the same name is holding its Christmas semi-formal. Al Tucker, a local leader, will be on the bandstand playing for the students and alumni.
There will be no corn shucked in Iowa on the 27th of December. Iowa clubbers will invade Des Moines’ Hotel Savory that night to hold their Christmas hoedown. The Grand Ballroom will absorb the Irish that night and club president Bud Newgard will present the autographed football door-prize.
There are persistent rumors around campus that Oklahoma Club prexy Bob Mannix has struck oil. It all started when the club announced they would hold a formal Christmas dance in Tulsa on the 26th and that the tariff was an astoundingly low §5.00 for five, people. The affair is in the Crystal Ballroom of the Mayo Hotel. Chairman Bob She-heen is working with the alumni.
And so, the biggest social splurge ever initiated by campus clubs will spill its festive spirit over all parts of the country come the next two weeks. To the scent of gardenias and roses in many ballrooms this Christmas there will be added a whiff of Indiana pine.
15
/t.i.'i ViMud JloqaMPvdiuufl.,.
TODAY’S STUDENT WORLD
First-hand observations show hunger, cold, disease to be the heritage of students returning to war-shattered universities
Many Notre Dame students who served in Europe and Asia during the war know the extent of damage to universities, cities, and towns. In the postwar period, conditions, instead of improving, as he hoped, have unfortunately become worse. Instead of the peace and security that the stricken populace hoped for, there has been prolonged insecurity, disease, distress, and misery. Even the weather seems to be allied against them, as the crop failures of the last year have increased the chance of famine.
Going to school hungry day after day, week after week is difficult for American students to imagine. This is the common lot of European students. The normal food ration per day is between 1000 and 1500 calories; 1500 is almost at starvation level. It is merely enough to sustain life. This amount of food would probably consist of four slices of bread, one slice of sausage, ersatz or imitation coffee, soup and potatoes. In times of extreme scarcity, even this diet would seem luxurious to a European student. Ration cards are required at restaurants, and so the majority of students eat only two meals a day; breakfast is omitted. The restaurant meals normally consist of potatoes, roots, and carrots in the form of salads and vegetables. Such food contains little or no substance. Meat is a thing of the pre-war past.
By VINCENT HOGAN
Equally as bad as the food situation is the shortage of clothes. Students wear the same clothes week in and week out. It is a common sight in university towns to see students going to school with shoes held together with rags and rope.
The classrooms in many universities are for the most part improvised setups because of the great devastation wrought during the war. Whole universities were wiped out in the destruction and classes are often held in the bombed-out hovels that still remain. The rooms are unheated and open because of damaged walls. Sitting numb with cold in a classroom is not unusual. Even professors are so cold and weakened from lack of food that they are forced to rest in bed for hours after lectures. The universities lack even bare essentials such as pencils, paper, and books, while libraries have been destroyed and even basic textbooks are lacking.
Unlike many American students whose parents support or assist in supporting them, most European or Asiatic students do not know such security. Some, separated from their families during the war, have no idea whether they are alive or dead. They cannot, therefore, obtain support from them, even though they were previously wealthy. It is . needless to write that most of the students are forced to work most of the
VINCENT HOGAN
N.D. promises to lead the way
time to get money enough to live under inflation-ridden conditions. Despite the almost insurmountable problems connected with their living, these students are displaying extraordinary energy and ingenuity in trying to solve them. Heroic sacrifices are being made by them; sacrifices that seem unbelievable unless one sees personally what they are doing to keep themselves going.
The housing problem is a very serious one. Living in inadequate, overcrowded and damaged quarters is commonplace. Hotels and residence halls for students were destroyed by the war or have been requisitioned for use by the occupying powers. All these factors are, of course, detrimental to the students’ health and morale.
The general health of the students is a source of real anxiety. The problem is
* (Continued on Page 20)
STUDENT CANTEEN IN ATHENS	.	CHINESE STUDENTS LINE UP AT A BEAN MILK BAR
It isn't much fun to 90 to school hungry

16
• SCIWLASTICSPCKTJ
Irish Cagers Face Work Over Vacation
By JOE ARCHIBALD
Notre Dame’s fighting basketeers will play five games during the Christmas holidays. The Irish will meet Georgetown on the'.r home floor, January 5. The remaining four games with Denver University, Kansas University, Indiana _ University, and Purdue will be played away from home.
Up to date, Notre Dame has won two games while dropping one. They won their opener against Indiana State, 66-49, to extend their home court winning streak to 34 games. The squad then moved to Champaign, only to find the men from Ilinois a bit too'strong, as the Irish lost a tough battle, 40-38. Then, last Saturday night, the folk of Chicago received their first look at the 1947 squad, when Notre Dame played Northwestern and emerged victorious, 61-55. Kevin O’Shea suffered a slight injury to his knee, as well as suffering the prolonged riding from both the players and the crowd, in the Illinois game, but came back to tally 14 points in the NU game.
At this point, John Brennan leads the scoring with a total of 43 points. Kevin O’Shea is second with 36 points. Next comes Leo Barnhorst, with 33, and Paul Gordon with 19. The team as a whole has a total of 165 points, to their opponents 144.
Denver, under Coach Ellison Ketchum, employs a fast break. They do not concentrate too much on the long range “set” shot. This always makes for a higher scoring game. Last season’s record stood at 16 wins and 10 defeats. This season’s record, thus far, shows two wins and two defeats. They have beaten Eastern Kentucky and Saint John’s, while dropping games to Saint Joseph’s, of Philadelphia, and Georgetown. The “Hoyas” took the game in an overtime period.
The Denver lineup includes at forwards, Jack Hauser, one of the top e scorers in the Big Six, and Paul Hickey, an agile 6'3" ballplayer. At guards, they
GET THAT BAU, PAUL!
Northwestern's Jim Barr and Notre Dame's Paul Gordon lunge for a free ball during last Saturday's game at Chicago Stadium. Kevin O'Shea, foreground, and N.U.'s Chet Strumillo watch the action
have Ken Jastrow, an excellent ballhandler with a good shot; and Bill Weimar, who because of his speed has been nicknamed “gazelle boy.”
The center slot is protected by “Chink” Alterman, who is noted for very rugged rebounding. They have able
(Continued on Page 19)
Inf erhall Cagers Open Play After Vacation
An all-out mobilization of basketball talent has been announced this week by Mr. Ernest Szekely, supervisor of the prospective student leagues. Plans for four leagues have already been prepared to .fulfill Mr. Szekely’s goal of “giving as many boys as possible a chance to play competitive ball.” All leagues will start one week after vacation.
Fast and furious competition is a certainty among the 15 or 20 teams which have already signed up for the open
league whose members play on Monday, Wednesday and Friday afternoons. Cagers in this group are not limited to halls or weight requirements. Only exmembers of the varsity squad and members of the current freshman squad are ineligible.
A red-hot tussle for the championship crown is also expected in the interhall league with every hall on campus to be represented plus Vetville and off-campus aggregations. This group will be di vided into eastern and western divisions and will play at 7:15 and 8:00 pjn.
Comprising the third and fourth sections will be a graduate league to meet on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons and a “little-man’s” league whose members must weigh less than 150 lbs. This section palys after the open league games on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
- Cilmax of the student season will be a round robin between the strongest teams in the open and interhall leagues to determine th school championship.
—Tom McNally and Tom Adams
17
SPLINTERS
West Coast Scribes Bewildered at Irish Power; * Laud Frank Leahy as All-Time Coaching Great
from the Pressbox
By UM BUTZ
Now that Notre Dame has safely tucked away its second consecutive national football crown the wolves will
begin to howl louder and longer thanE ever before that the t Irish should be boy--cotted. The fact that Notre Dame has an. 18-game streak: without defeat, and that Coach Frank; Leahy has directed: three consecutive national championship teams (1943 1946, 1947), which is just about par for the course, will
cause the “reformers

to point an ac-
cusing finger South Bend way and demand that something be done.
Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., fired away at these hypocritical persons last year at the football banquet in a speech which many prominent sports writers believe to be the best of its kind on record. It should serve to answer the critics again this year. There is something drastically wrong with the thinking of people who would penalize a team that fights hard and clean for victory and achieves its goal.
The same situation faced baseball a few years back when the “Break Up the Yankees" cry resounded throughout the country. The New Yorkers had been winning pennants and World Series with monotonous regularity. Their only crime was that they worked hard at the game —harder than did their opponents. They played good, sound baseball, and they deserved their victories.
But the day came when the Yanks no longer packed the home run wallop in their* bats; the pitchers no longer came through with shut-out performances. The Yanks were no longer world champions.
And the day will come when Notre Dame, too, will fall from her present position atop the collegiate gridiron pile. Even the greatest coaching staff in the country (which Notre Dame has) and the hardest work in the world cannot- produce a champion if the material
Out Los Angeles way they’re still scratching their noggins in wonderment at the cyclonic showing made by the Irish in their recent rout of the bowlbound Trojans. Also, sports scribes were in general favorably impressed by the players’ conduct both on and off the field.
On the gridiron Notre Dame was a determined team, awesome in its power and dazzling in its speed. Notre Dame’s chain-reaction, downfield blocking jolted the foundation of the Coliseum as it hasn’t been recked since the quake of ’33.
Off the field the men were distinctive gentlemen, gallant representatives of their school.
For some idea cf West Coast comment, pipe these passages from assorted columns:
Fred Knell, USC Daily Trojan: “There is nothing to be ashamed of in defeat. The whole squad fought their hearts out down to the final gun, but when you are facing the Notre Dame assemblage, you need far more than heart. If a team ever deserved the tag ‘magnificent,’ it was the Irish in the second half. Whether they could topple the top teams of the pro league, the Cleveland Browns or Chicago Cardinals, is a point that can only be discussed, but both local pro entries would be in for a scrap to salvage any prestige.
“The Irish runners never stopped running, even while on the ground, and the blockers never stopped ‘laying leather’. ... On kickoffs and punts, the Irish blocking was phenomenal. It seemed as though the ball carrier would lead the tacklers right to the blocker, who proceeded with the butchery as per schedule.
“. . . With Brennan all in one piece there is no telling how high the score might have gone.”
Vincent X. Flaherty, Los Angeles Examiner: “Most people agree that the
is not there or the breaks go against you.
So, let the folks who would occupy Notre Dame’s position in football take . a lesson from the Irish. It isn’t done with mirrors or “professional” athletes. The situation here at Notre Dame has always been open to public view.
Let’s have no more cf this “Break Up the Irish.”
late Knute Kenneth Rockne was the greatest football coach that ever lived . . . but last Saturday, only a little while after Notre Dame had stunned more than 104,000 humans . . . they were talking about this mild-mannered, soft-spoken man named Frank Leahy.
“They spoke of his utterly astonishing record which today stands without parallel in all football history, and which remains in a class of its own even when you think of the great Rockne, or Warner, or Heismann. or Michigan’s football patriarch, Fielding Yost. Leahy’s lifetime record lists 61 victories, 5 losses and 4 ties. ... No celebrity can match him for patience. . . . Leahy •<© said the nicest thing about his victory " was that Jeff Cravath had shook his hand after the game and told him ‘Frank, that was the cleanest football game I ever saw.’ ”
Bra ven Dyer, Los Angeles Times: “That line, from end to end, functioned with all the ruthlessness of a juggernaut. Nothing human could hope to survive its crushing power. . . . The Irish linemen are big all right, but they’re fast too; fast almost beyond belief. . . . Lujack richly deserves the honors heaped upon him ... a Notre Dame team that can only be described in superlatives.”
Pool Sharks Take Fourth Place in Billiard Meet
Last week Notre Dame competed in the intercollegiate three-cushion billiard tournament, but was unable to improve on its previous showing in the pocket billiards tournament. Against the Universities of Florida, Purdue and Indiana, Notre Dame’s team took fourth place with a total score of 80. Within the group, Indiana won with a top score of 101.
There were three other groups into which the remaining universities competing were divided but no results were received from them when Notre Dame phoned their results to the central office in Chicago at the conclusion of the team’s play. Father Sheedy officiated as referee at the Rec Hall when the N.D. men ran up their 80 score.
McMahon totaled 24 points, equaling the effort of the top Indiana scorer and sharing honors for best in the. group. The team representing the University was P. Blum, Hopper,: Madden, McMahon, Adler and reserves Mclnery and J. Blum. Adlei* replaced Klein who was * originally on the team.—Dave Yerex.
18
। Vacation Basketball
(Continued from Page 17) reserves in Gene Steinke, Roy Nelson, and Dick Yates. This will be their first game at home this season, so they are sure to be “hot” for the fighting Irish.
Then, on December 23, the Irish play the hardwood five of Kansas University. Kansas, under Coach Phog Allan, opened their season with a victory over Emporia Teacher’s College. The darkhorse All-American halfback, Ray Evans, and Otto Schnellbacher, chosen on many pre-season all-star basketball teams, are two of the stars on the team.
New Year’s night will find O’Shea, Brennan, Barnhorst, and Company showing their wares in the Butler Fieldhouse in Indianapolis. That is the night Notre Dame meets the “Pore L’il boys” from Indiana University. Plenty of competition should be the result, as Ralph Hamilton, who has finished, and is now playing pro ball, is the only starter missing from last year’s lineup. The following night of this round-robin tournament in Indiana’s capital will feature a game between Purdue University and Notre Dame. Purdue is missing the services of both Anderson, and Paul Hoffman.
The night before Notre Dame is scheduled to head back to classes, Elmer Ripley heads a group of his well-schooled Georgetown Hoyas into the fieldhouse for its first meeting with Notre Dame on a basketball court.
For Ripley and two members of his squad the Notre Dame stop of their six-game itinerary will be a kind of home-coming. The genial “Rip” guided Notre | Dame to a 17 and four season during 1945-46. On that squad were two boys who broke into the starting lineup down at Georgetown—Ray Corley and Tom O’Keefe. In the nation’s capital sportwriters have tabled them as “basket buddies.” They were roommates at Notre Dame and are just as inseparable at Georgetown.
With them will come Danny Kraus, called one of the best playmakers in collegiate ball, Andy Kostecka, who scored 410 points last season, Ed Brembs, the Brown .boys, and Joe Culhane out of Rochester, N. Y. It was Culhane who scored five points in the overtime period last Saturday night to give Georgetown a victory over Saint John’s of Brooklyn.
Currently, Georgetown is rated No. 1 team in the East, and much of it is due to the smart coaching of Ripley, the man who has walked among kings but never lost the common touch, and the floor leadership of Kraus and Kostecka.
Cteney'A, Chattel
By JOE CHENEY
You’ve read about Horatio Alger he-loes and smiled to yourself that incidents like those happen only in books. This season you watched a guy ivith number “40” slashed across his back sitting on the bench waiting anxiously to hear Coach Leahy yell his name.
Quiet - mannered, but full of get - up - and -go spirit, Bob
Livingstone leaped into the Iowa game hoping to show the whole student body, who had wondered all year why Livingstone didn’t get a chance to play, that he had a pair of shifty hips and plenty of exciting speed left in his six-foot frame.
Livingstone was over-zealous on the first couple of plays and jumped the signal. As a result, Notre Dame was penalized for backfield in motion and the students’ choice was back on the bench.
In Cleveland the following week the Hammond scat-back intercepted a Navy pass and galloped 42 yards down the sidelines for Notre Dame’s final score. The entire section where the Notre Dame students were watching the game cheered, yelled, and screamed the praises of Livingstone as if his score had broken the tie instead of moving the Irish out in front 27-0.
From then on Livingstone saw plenty of action. But when Terrific Terry was unable to play against Southern Cal, Coach Leahy started the kid who had told him off during an excitable exchange of words during the 1946 Tulane game. His 92-yard romp to Touchdown Territory must have given “The Liver” the thrill of his young life. And smoothtongued Frank was pretty happy, too. He had finally found his break-away runner!
TURNING PROFESSIONAL
Most of the graduating players will sign on the dotted line in the very near future while others have already agreed to the terms offered them to play professional football next season.
Joe Signaigo and Gasper Urban will probably ink contracts from the Los Angeles Rams at a figure around $5,500.
Ziggy Czarobski has been offered a two-year contract from the Los Angeles Dons calling for $7,500 per year. Art Statute will play for the Buffalo Bisons for $4,800. Captain George Connor, drafted by Boston and Cleveland, will probably go to the Browns at a figure around the^lOjOOO mark.
Johnny Lujack, a Chicago Bear and Chicago Rocket draftee, will no doubt fill the shoes of Sid Luckman next year. The Bears are looking for a drawing card to outshine Trippi of the Cardinals and Johnny should be able to practically name his own price. Since Trippi signed a five-year contract for $100,000, Lujack should receive as much if not more.
Since Bill Gompers is not yet 21, he had to write for his Dad’s permission to sign with the Buffalo Bills who are offering him about $5,500. Pete Ashbaugh’s services have been demanded by the Pittsburgh Steelers at an undisclosed amount. Cornie Clatt may play for Buffalo, George Sullivan for Boston, and Simmons, who hasn’t as yet been drafted, would like to play for one of the west coast teams. Bob Livingstone hasn’t decided whether he’ll sign with the Chicago Cardinals or Buffalo.
A SUGGESTION
It might be a good idea if the 1948 football captain were elected as soon as possible after Christmas vacation. Last season many of the ’46 squad had to vote via telephone which caused some unpleasantness among the players. George Connor was unnecessarily put on the spot last spring when the votes were carried out of the room where the players had assembled to vote. No matter whose name was announced as the ’47 captain, the others who thought that they might have won had a feeling that they “wuz robbed.”
JUST WONDERING DEPARTMENT
I wonder- if the Student Council might investigate the chances of opening the water valves to flood Cartier Field, for skating this winter. It could be easily arranged if permission were granted by the administration. The flood lights could be turned on and a few well-placed bags of sand would make Cartier Field a safe and convenient place to enjoy the wintry evenings ahead.
WANNA BET?
Don’t sell the Trojans short in their coming game with Michigan in the Rose Bowl. Michigan had a tough time downing Minnesota whose heavy line out-charged the Big Nine champs all afternoon. Southern Cal has a heavier line and might give Elliott and Chappuis some bad moments.
I’ll take Southern Cal over Michigan 20-14.
19
Today's Student World
(Continued from Page 16)
aggravated by inadequate medical care resulting from a lack of medical instruments, x-ray facilities, and hospitals. While one could cite countless examples in other European and Asiat^ areas, let us take the recent case of a medical examination in Munich. It disclosed that seventy percent of the students (most of whom were displaced students from the Baltic states, or refugees from the Balkans) were underweight by more than ten pounds. Twenty percent suffered from stomach diseases and a large percentage was already affected with tuberculosis. Colds, pneumonia, and lowered resistance to disease are the results of the lamentable conditions under which they live as well as of the starvation diet. Physical and mental energy dwindles rapidly. Listlessness, difficulty in memorizing and lack of normal initiative follow as well.
Another great legacy and tragedy of the war is the feeling of isolation among the students. They have been cut off from the world for years. The world that they knew has been shattered. Now, they are eager to find out what has been happening in the world as well as to read as many books as they can. They are longing for contacts with the outside world and recapture the sense of human solidarity and the feeling of belonging to the world community again. One Austrian student leader asked me to be sure to send him a book on Catholic philosophy and an anthology on Catholic poetry. His eagerness is typical of most European students’ avidity for American books and periodicals.
Food Is the First Need
Because of the great need of students abroad, appeals have been made to America for assistance. A large part of the money raised in relief will be spent for food to be distributed. That, of course, is the first need. In many countries, canteens are being opened to furnish adequate meals for the hungry, or even starving students. While the meals are not luxurious, they are substantial.
Shelters are being built to take the place of hovels and the dingy, overcrowded rooms. Reading rooms are also provided to take the place of studying under, cold, unhealthful conditions, or studying in bed to keep warm. Pencils and paper are included to satisfy the essential needs. Books and periodicals are sent to equip libraries and universities. Intellectual relief is almost as important as physical rel'ef.
Either the students have lost everything by the war, or, if displaced persons, they have no access to anything
they may have had. For evident reasons these displaced students have made decisions to form new lives for themselves elsewhere. Their fate if they return to their native countries is altogether too obvious to them. Scholarships are being provided to enable these otherwise destitute students to carry on their education. Several universities in countries not directly affected by the war have assisted in aiding student victims of the war. Most of these displaced students from the Baltic states and the Balkans are Catholics, and need only encouragement and funds to enable them to take their places as leaders of their countries.
Medical supplies, x-ray equipment, and treatment at rest and rehabilitation centers are important expenditures of funds resulting from the relief drive.
A Picture on a Desk
An incident recently occurred at Notre Dame which is significant of the feeling of charity and human solidarity. One of the graduate students from China at N.D. has a picture at his desk of a starving, emaciated man of India being succored by his fellows. I asked him out of curiosity the reason for such a unique picture, and he replied: “Every time I look at this picture I feel more and more grateful for the good fortune I am now enjoying. It makes me realize what a gift it is to have enough food, clothing and room, while in so many other parts of th? world there aren’t even the barest necessities.”
The gratitude for our well-being as well as sympathy for the plight of the student victims of the war motivates the present relief drive here. Students, recognizing Christ suffering in the needy European and Asiatic students, are presented an opportunity to show their Christian faith in a tangible way.
This relief drive has the undivided support of all Catholic colleges and universities in the. United States. Already the financial returns of some of the small Catholic colleges is amazing, especially in considering the small student bodies. This great effort is a manifestation of good will and a desire on the part of those colleges and all Catholic students in the U. S. to show in an active way their friendship and interest in the welfare and urgent needs of other members of the less fortunate student community. Sacrifices made in support of this drive will help others to live.
As the recognized leading Catholic university in the United States, Notre Dame promises to lead the way. Its goal of $35,000 will present a real contribution to students abroad. That goal should not be hard to attain.
Santa Visits Young $ Vetville Citizens
The mercurial gentleman with the white whiskers and portly frame who is probably blamed for more disappointments than the stork, had an early appointment this Christmas season with the children of Notre Dame’s married veterans.
Mrs. Ro Walsh of Vetville arranged the meeting between ths youngsters and the said Santa Claus this week and there were presents on hand for the children, drawn from “Old Faithful’s” pack, although it is commonly known that the drain was actually on the barely-sufficient allowance of the vets.
Had any precocious infant attempted to pry behind the luxurious folds of the beard Santa was disguised in, he would not have found the all too-familiar vis- ” age of his own father behind it—this was definitely an outside job. The kids were treated to light refreshments after the eventful interview and some arrangements were made to resuscitate “firsttime” parents. The affair was staged in Vetvillian Rec Hall this week.
The “villagers” and their council did not allow the children to claim all the fun however, and seasonal celebrations for the parents took place in the rec hall at 8 p.m. on the day previous to the children’s affair. The University Glee Club was present to add to the “citizens” enjoyment and dancing followed a review of a few football movies.—D. Yerex
Student Relief Drive
(Continued from Page 9)
by an outsider then another drawing will immediately follow to determine the student winner of the Plymouth coupe.
Plans for the gala Mardi Gras are gaining momentum and should be ready to burst into a flare of activity directly after the holidays. All campus clubs are scheduled to take part in the Carnival	;
with the Rebel Club sponsoring the	<
Mardi-Gras Ball. While St. Mary’s will not be represented by a booth at the	J
shindig, plans are being made for a	•
special night when the entire girls’ col-	'
lege will be invited to attend.
The freshman class of St. Mary’s	$
sponsored a box social supper and dance	?
a week ago Sunday night with all pro-	;
ceeds going toward the’r fund. Despite	s
the fact that the freshmen from here	\
were invited, seme 50 upperclassmen	:
had to fill in a void created by the lethargic frosh. The YCS handled the i details on this side of the highway and fl, reported that approximately $200 was 1 realized on the charity affair. ■	\
20
’notre dame names make news
Invitations
An invitation from the Hon. James Forrestal, Secretary of Defense, to serve on a special civilian committee to study the pay schedules of the Armed Forces has been accepted by the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, c.s.c., President of the University of Notre Dame.
GEORGE RATTERMAN A wedding ring . . .
In view of the present high living costs the committee is to maKe recommendations for the possible upward revision of those pay schedules if they deem it necessary. The committee conferred last week in Washington with Secretary Forrestal during which time they studied £ the findings of a board of Army, Navy and Air Force officers augmented by members of the Geodetic Survey and Public Health Services, which for the past several months had been studying the problem of inequalities and disparities in service pay as compared with that of private industry. . . . Father Cavanaugh has also accepted another invitation, one to serve as a public member of the Board of Trustees of the Nutrition Foundation, Inc., in New York City, an organization designed to support the basic research and education in the science of nutrition in the United States. . . .
Representing Notre Dame at the Heat Transfer Symposium held last week at Oak Ridge, Tenn., was Professor JOSEPH B. FARRELL, of the Chemical Engineering department here. The symposium, which was conducted by the Nuclear Energy for the Propulsion of Aircraft Division of the Fairchild Engine and Airplane Corporation has been working toward a solution to the prob
lem of applying nuclear energy for the propulsion of aircraft through new methods of heat transfer.
Expectations
Planning a wedding during the Christmas holidays is blond personable WILMER (BILL) RUSSELL, gigantic two-monogram tackle on the Notre Dame football team. Bill, whose home is in Omaha, Nebraska, is marrying Miss Alice Staats, a registered nurse from the same city in St. Mary’s Church in Omaha on December 27. . . .
And also looking forward to a postChristmas trip to the altar is GEORGE W. RATTERMAN, of Cincinnati, Ohio, one of the few athletes at Notre Dame ever to win four monograms in a single year. George will be married on December 27 to Miss Anne Elizabeth Hengel-brok in St. Thomas Church of Fort Thomas, Kentucky. Ratterman, one of the most versatile young men ever to participate in sports at Notre Dame, is now the regular first-string quarterback for the Buffalo Bills in the AllAmerica Conference of professional football. . . .
Seeking the nomination on the Democratic ticket for governor of Ohio is
CUEMASTER RUTH McGINNIS IN ACTION ... in the side pocket
former Notre Dame football player RAY MILLER, brother of TOM MILLER, HARRY (RED) MILLER and brother of DON MILLER, of Four Horsemen fame, who is now the Federal District Attorney for the northern Ohio district. Mr. Miller is the uncle of Notre Dame’s famous CREIGHTON MILLER and is now represented at Notre Dame by his son, RAY MILLER, JR., from Breen-Phillips Hall, a fullback on the freshman squad. . . .
and Rotation
Last week in Notre Dame’s ancient Rec Hall the woman pocket billiard champion of the world, Miss RUTH McGINNIS, entertained the pool campus enthusiasts who could jam themselves into that quaint structure with an exhibition of pocket billiards supreme. The left-handed lady champion has defeated many male pool sharks in her professional career and Notre Dame’s JOHN COWLEY, the high score man of the recently-formed Irish billiard team was no exception. Though Johnny fought a game battle, the years of experience in Miss McGinnis* favor served her well and she added another victory to her ever-increasing string.
21
Birder to Halt G & S; Musicomedy Next
All conjecture and rumors to the contrary, Gilbert and Sullivan appear doomed for a vacation from the Washington Hall production schedule.
At least those were the sentiments of Prof. Cecil Birder as the final curtain fell on the recent G & S extravaganza, Pirates of Penzance. Since Maestro Birder is the key man in local musical productions, it can safely be assumed that something new will be in the offing come next fall.
When pressed by questioning, Prof. Birder loosened his wing collar, puffed on his waning stogie and tersely commented: “I’d like to try. something by Friml, Herbert, or deKoven. I think the place is ripe for a good musical comedy.”
Upon further queries, Producer-Director Birder let it be known that Rudolph Friml’s The Firefly and Victor Herbert’s Babes in Toyland held a soft spot in his future plans. About deKoven he said no more.
But he was heard to remark that he and his Savoyards had about run the gamut of presentable Gilbert and Sullivan light operas.
Though not congenial to Pirates’ veil-thin plot and face-falling first-act finale, the professor was pleased with the success which the show met in its four-day stand. It played to a full house at every showing and on two occasions even had to throw open standing room.
Nevertheless, none but the most fervent Gilbert and Sullivan addicts were expected to moan if next year’s presentation transcends from the British light
WHAT ABE ALL THE SMILES FOR?
There's a good reason. SCHOLASTIC broke down last week and feted its overworked staffers with a feast of steak and beer at Eddie's Place to celebrate the debut of the Football Issue
opera to musical comedy. Backed by years and years of G & S successes, Prof Birder could look forward to far fewer reconversion difficulties than experienced by his gridiron contemporary when in 1942 he scrapped the tried-and-true Rockne shift for the streamlined Model-T.—E. J. S.
Rebels Win War of Dates; Will Hold Mardi Gras Feb. 6
“I srvear I’ll fight, if I live I’ll fight
Those hellish hordes forever—
But bend the knee or surrender the 'right?
'Never—never—never!”
In the spirit of this old Confederate poem, the Rebels’ Mardi Gras dance committee last week huddled over coffee daily at noon in the Caf.
Victory seemed impossible. Besides their own Mardi Gras dance, picked the best of last year’s run by impartial Yankee spies, two other dances were scheduled on their pre-Lenten date. All three battle lines were drawn tight. Then the Notre Dame Junior class yielded, and finally, St. Mary’s Juniors followed with a “great compromise.”
Result: The Rebels' second Mardi Gras dance will be staged Friday, February 6, at the Palais Royale complete with continuous music, carnival masks, late permisisons, and the Rebel Mardi Gras spirit.
This week, Rebels Dick Bevington, Bill Slavick, Webb and Trav Marshall, Ray Hymel, and Paul and Joe Owens huddled over Caf tables again, and came up with more vital information.
Through Student Council cooperation, the entire student body will be eligible
to reach for the 500 bids. Dates may be from out of town, in town, St. Mary’s V Freshmen, Sophomore, or Senior Classes (the S.M.C. Junior Prom will also be Feb. 6), or from the Rebels date bureau. The queen or guest of honor will be selected by the Rebels. Bids will go on sale January 5th at $3.00 per couple. The dance will probably be informal, as last year.—Bill Slavick
Hinsdale's Danson Noel
The Young People’s Club of St. Isaac Jogues parish, Hinsdale, Ill., a member of the DuPage Catholic Youth Federation, will sponsor the second annual Danson Noel on Saturday night. Primary purpose of the Federation is to facilitate the meeting of the Catholic youth of the county.
Tickets for the dance, which will be semi-formal, may be obtained from Al Westrick in Lyons Hall or Bob Westrick in Breen-Phillips for the price of $2.50 per couple.
The New Jersey Club
Invites All
NOTRE DAME MEN
to
NOTRE DAME NIGHT
Rank Dailey's Meadowbrook Route 23, Cedar Grove, New Jersey
DECEMBER 26, 1947
Tickets Aren't Necessary — Bring Your Date and Enjoy the Music of
STAN KENTON
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Coast-to-Coast Broadcast That Night
22
Music ’ Books » Radio
BOSTON SYMPHONY CONCERT . . .
The Boston Symphony Orchestra, directed by Richard Burgin, presented a diversified program, exquisitely performed, in its recent concert in John Adams Auditorium. Music lovers of this area will long remember this evening of music-making, which featured Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, and also included “Don Juan” by Richard Strauss and the First Symphony by Jan Sibelius.
The concert opened with the Sibelius piece, with its shades of Tschaikowsky throughout. This work has relatively little merit in comparison with Sibelius’ later symphonies, but as played in this concert, it might well have been one of the greatest works ever written. It was a thrilling experience to hear this comparatively immature material performed so that it gained in stature and became fine, intense music. The Boston Symphony could have played almost anything and it would have sounded superb.
“Don Juan” received an interpretation which displayed the brilliant orchestration, and yet captured all of the subtle beauty contained in the work. The brass section, which had skillfully produced the cold, piercing notes so prominent in the Sibelius symphony, adjusted itself easily to creating the softer, yet vibrant, A tones called for in this tone poem.
The climax of the evening came with Beethoven’s Symphony No. 5, and this performance left nothing to be desired. The orchestra had plenty of full, surging power when it was needed, and the sober, easy-flowing sections (especially the second movement) were supplied by the warm, transparent tones of a truly remarkable string section. As the stirring, triumphant fourth movement was concluded, it is doubtful whether anyone in the audience was not aware that he had heard a great performance of great music.
As the conductor, Mr. Burgin handled the orchestra ably, and with assurance. Koussevitsky (Music Director) was probably far more in evidence than anything Mr. Burgin could convey to his musicians.
SATURDAY FOR MUSIC . . .
On the radio, Saturday has become THE day for the finest in music, even
though the good programs do crowd each other somewhat. In addition to ABC’s Metropolitan Opera programs and the NBC Symphony broadcasts, last week the Philadelphia Orchestra began an hour concert via CBS at 4 p. m. (CST), and NBC has resumed its popular series, “Orchestras of the Nation,” at 2 p. m. (CST). This Saturday the last named program will feature the Louisville Philharmonic.
RCA SIGNS TAGLIAVINI . . .
It is good news to hear that Ferruccio Tagliavini, Italian opera star who made a successful debut at the Met last January, has been signed to an exclusive recording contract by RCA Victor. The noted tenor has already made his first pressings for RCA, which will also have access to masters of the solo recordings made by Tagliavini for Cetra Records in Italy.
djulm’s Ihiibersity JitlpHil of Tatu
APPROVED BY AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION
Member of Associaiton of American Latu Schools
Three-year day and four-year evening courses leading to degree, LL.B.
(Summer Sessions conducted)
Students are admitted to the School of Law in September and February.
REGISTRAR —
96 Schermerhorn Street .
..	. J . ..	Brooklyn 2, New York
CHRISTMAS MUSIC ISN'T ALWAYS HYMNS . . . GIVE SOME AWAY . . .
A musical gift is an easy, but excellent, means of getting around the worries of Christmas shopping. If you have not done so, take a look at the possibilities your record shop has to offer. Of course, purchasing gift records requires some discernment on your part. Obviously it would not be wise to buy a hot-jazz album, say Columbia’s fine “Bix and Tram,” for the friend who dotes on Chopin. Also remember- that music soothes the savage breast, and that a recorded musical-story for children might be just the thing for that uninhibited nephew or cousin. The market is flooded with records for children and a choice should be easy.
WARING'S POPULAR PENNSYLVANIANS
Fred Waring’s popularity seems limitless and everlasting, and that is why his new album, “Program Time” (Decca, 4 12” records) would be a fine gift for anyone, anywhere. Each side is a feature “production” similar to those with which the Pennsylvanians wind up their week-day broadcasts. You can’t miss with the Waring treatment of “Begin the Beguine,” “In the Still of the Night,” “The Lost Chord” and “Jungle Drums,” to name a few of the stirring numbers. Performance as usual is good; record
23
in Bogota
SUMMER 1948
70 days
$1,200
For Students Only
Student tour by air with sightseeing lours in Cuba, Jamaica, and Colombia. Thirty-fi\e days in Bogota attending summer school. Live in private homes. Literature. language, and civilization courses. Credits, granted by Universidad de Colombia. may be transferred. Return trip via Cartagena. Barranquilla, and long stops and excursions in Panama, Costa Rica. Guatemala (Chichicastenango, Atit-lan, etc.) and Mexico (Puebla, Taxco, etc.). Trip on Pan American 4-motor planes.
Address inquiries to
Prof. Jose Sanchez, University of Illinois
Navy Pier, Chicago, Illinois
ALL MADE FROM IMPORTED BRIAR
No Breaking In No Bite
No Bitter Taste
/ SEE ' fit's Pre~SmokeJ
I
spo. $2®° • $35® • $5®®
Fashioned by Linkman
Dr. Srabow Pipe Co. Inc. Chicago n, III
surfaces adequate. For some of the best in Christmas music, listen to the album, “ ’Twas the Night Before Christmas” by the same outfit. It’s a pleasing package.
I'VE HEARD THAT SONG BEFORE . . .
Many compositions by Chopin are a part of that great mass of music which many people hum or recognize, but which they could not identify even if it meant winning a new television set. This is one reason why Chopin’s ballet “Les Sylphides” (Columbia, 3 12” records) will please both you and your friends. Originally written for Chopin’s instrument, the piano, this music is freshly and delicately played by the Boston Pops Orchestra conducted by Arthur Fiedler. These mazurkas, nocturnes, and lilting waltzes make comfortable listening, and chances are you’ll recognize them. Performance is delightful; record surfaces brilliant and sharp.
NEW KATCHATURIAN ALBUM CATCHY
Aram Katchaturian’s ballet “Gayne” (Scholastic, Oct. 31) continues to be an exceedingly popular album. The excitement of the music appeals to even young children as well as to adults. RCA Victor has just released a new Katchaturian work, “Masquerade Suite,” played by the Boston Pops under Fiedler. Again this is music easily enjoyed. The Waltz, Mazurka and Polka of the suite fall short of the intensity found in “Gayne,” but they are still extremely stimulating and full of life. The Nocturne seems like a wasted record side, but the Romance displays a graceful, silky melody, typically Katchaturian. Performance good.—Tom Hanifin.
University Payroll Swells; Doubles in Ten-Year Era
A record number of 1,507 persons are on the full-time employment records at the University of Notre Dame, it was announced last week by the Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Business Manager at Notre Dame.
Father Burke, who said that the total of full-time employees at Notre Dame is continually increasing, revealed that the University payroll has doubled during the past ten years. Not included in the figure are more than 250 priests and brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross who are at Notre Dame, but who do not receive salaries, and hundreds of Notre Dame students who are employed part-time helping to earn some of their expenses at Notre Dame.
The increase in the number of employees at Notre Dame, Father Burke explained, is attributed to the increase in student enrollment, an increase of research facilities at the University, and the organization of the newly-created Notre Dame Foundation.
If you were to mix a pinch of Napoleon with a dab of Jimmy Savo with a half teaspoonful of Tom Thumb, you would probably come up with a concoction labeled Lou Burns. Although diminutive Lou can never be called a BMOC literally, he certainly qualifies for the distinction figuratively.
Hailing from Washington. D. C., this energetic Commerce junior’ has his fingers in more pies than Mrs. Wagner ever sold in a month of gloomy Sundays. Among his many campus activities is ■■ the fencing team, of which he is cap- " tain. He is the senior delegate to the NFCCS and is a member of the Wrang-
LOU BURNS
The man for the job
lers. He belongs to the Washington-Maryland Club and is at present up to his neck, acting as chairman of the Foreign Student Relief campaign.
Gregarious Lou spent over four years in the Army with two and a half of them in the Southwest Pacific. He holds the rank of captain in the military intelligence and goes back into uniform during vacations.
To his campus friends it is a matter of curiosity just how the N.D. Puck manages to keep going. Whether or not he has found some secret formula, or is iust one of the benzedrine bunch, no one
knows. There’s no question, however, that when a job needs to be done Lou 'f i1 Burns is the man for it.
—Ken Thoren
24
e LETTERS
(Continued from Page 3)
equally responsible for the welfare of the residents of the State, whether’ temporary or permanent. It is the duty of the University to make this traffic condition known to the State authorities. The University should act at once to: (1) observe the situation at the intersection in question; (2) analyze and publicly discuss the many proposals already offered for pedestrian crossings at the danger-points on the main roads bounding the University; (3) take immediate temporary precautions (such as having a traffic policeman on duty during the rush hours) to prevent accidents before any can happen; (4) demand action from the Highway Com' mission in enforcing safety precautions; ^and finally (5) cooperate fully with the
State authorities in the development of a permanent pedestrian-crossing system at each of the critical crossing points on both the danger-highways. . . .
Northbound traffic is especially dangerous at this intersection because the motorists do not begin to slow down until they are abreast of the Aeronautical Building, where a state highway sign indicates a turn ahead—With the arroiv pointing in the wrong direction!
Ernest J. Tursich, 342 Lyons Hall.
At the rate such matters are corrected our advice is: “Pay up your insurance.” —Editor.
VOID, VILE VODVIL
Dear Editor:
. I have just returned from the Knights of Columbus Vodvil Show. There I was shown something I never expected to witness in a Catholic institution. Or maybe I’m wrong and ‘Vodvil’ is a Yankee corruption of the combined components “void” aid “vile.” But because of one occurrence I take my typewriter in hand to do a little kicking.
I suppose you and the other students know that Madame Somebody-Or-Other was ushered behind the iron cui-tain before she/he had finished her/his act. Or was that the final part of the act? At any rate the fellows didn’t like it, and they showed that by a decent collegiate demonstration. I don’t know why the act was stopped; but I’m not griping about that, although I liked Ma-dame’s performance and wish I had seen more of it.
The Master of Ceremonies (he would jbe called if he were) tried to quiet the audience, finally resorting to something very similar to “Act like white boys.”
And about such an exhortation in a presentation by a Catholic organization (whew!), I complain bitterly, I object vehemently, I vocalize vociferously—I fairly stamp my feet and scream.
I don’t know where Mr. So-and-So is from (maybe I should say “the so-and-so”), nor who he is. I don’t care. But he’s supposed to be a K. of C., not a K.K.K. I myself am from New Orleans —the deep South, the land of extreme racial prejudice. Who am I? Nobody. But I try to live as though I were baptized.
Sincerely,
William V. Redmann.
2005 S. Catalpa Ave., South Bend, Ind.
Bravo, Mr. Redmann. The Scholastic heartily agrees with your sentiments, and sees in your courage the promise of
and so’s the Greyhound fare
HOME
You won't get caught short at Christmas ... you’ll save more to spend on gifts, clothes, or entertainment— when you ride a Greyhound home for the holidays! In addition to the savings you make on Greyhound’s mighty low fares, you can enjoy the comfort of reclining chairs and the convenience of well-timed schedules. So when that campus calendar says it’s time to go home . •. remember ifs time to go Greyhound!
GREYHOUND
Catholic alertness. Let us hope the M.C.’s indiscretion ivas just a slip of the tongue.—Editor.
Dear Editor:
Will the character’ who through “mistaken identity” nimbly lifted my wool-lined, tan leather gloves from the bookstore counter while I was shopping there at 11 a.m., Wednesday, Nov. 26th, kindly return same to the bookstore clerk. No questions asked. My fingers are cold, are yours warm in my “hot” gloves?
Joseph Mengden. 426 Howard Hall.
IRISH OUT WEST
Dear Editor:
. . . Although I’ve lived in Southern California all my life, I’m an “Irish”
25
fan, which naturally leads to many arguments with loyal “Trojans.”
But at last it looks as if they’d run out of excuses — after Saturday’s game, there’s not much they can say! . . .
For once, there are no ------- (well,
hardly any) “ifs,” “ands” and “huts” flying around.
Hope it’s the same next year.
Nikki Magrandy,
10422 Denker Ave., Los Angeles 44, Cal.
SCORN FOR THE SCORNER
Dear Editor:
I should like to level the pen- of- corrective criticism toward one Joe Wilcox, Esq. I refer to his Dec. 5th masterpiece on opera—“a form of snobbery” as he put it, because they’re presented in foreign tongues.
Has “Scorner” Wilcox ever paid ear witness to Col. McCormick’s Saturday night “opera”? They are rendered in English. Results—let me cite a typical example. On the occasion of one of the top programs of that series, Marion Clare, a soprano (after a fashion), sang the first act Aria from “La Bbheme” in'. English. Aside from the singer's intrinsic shortcomings the passage was literally put to death by sole reason of translation. . . .
It might interest Mr. Wilcox, and Bertie McCormick tao, that the English language is prolific of consonants while Italian is a vowel language. How does Maestro Wilcox hope to reconcile this technical difference without rewriting the music? One can’t hope to realize an ear-satisfying translation without an inevitable musical transmutation. Call the results whatever you will, but don’t attribute such to Puccini, Verdi, Mascagni, or Mozart. If “The Scorner” desires English arias, let me endorse the superlative operettas of Herbert, Gershwin, and Romberg. But if he craves Grand Opera, he’ll have to accept it in th? manner which made it such.
I promise to join the crusade to equG “Don Giovanni” with a Southern drawl if he can make my neighborhood shoemaker sit through “Oklahoma”—sun~ in Hungarian.
Jim Carberry. 344 Morrissey.
Dear Editor:
The Society for the Preservation of What-is-Beautiful hereby extends to crusading columnist Joe Wilcox an invitation to address our little band of culture lovers at our next gathering, which may be very soon.
We would like this fellow to' tell us about art and music and drama and all
26
that is grand and uplifting. From the tone of his typewriter I’m sure this dilettante possesses the qualifications that characterize a omniscient epicurean of culture.
Italian opera in English! Tsk!
French opera in English! Oh my!
Picasso, Modigliani, Dali, a “muchness cf nothing.” Dear me.
This Wilcox must be heard. Let him speak out again. Such gems of chauvinistic thinking we have never heard.
Johnny O’Brien. Dillon Hall.
. . . Or “Accentuate the Positive” in Russian.—Editor.
FROM HAWAII
OVERNIGHT BY AIR
Wrtre < r wire us We’ll have gorgeous, exorx’ Hawaiian orchid corsages r.. s h e d via air mail special. Each h velv r.ewer is 2-Etc 3"m diameter.
Overnight delivery almost anywhere Fresher Longer Lasting. Guaranteed Reierer.ee: Security F:r<: \at:onai Bank Girt boxed and gut .arc enclosed.
Be . riEina! with your gifts. Thrill am	And where can you beat
these prices -
3 orchids in corsage . . . $4.00
5 orchids in corsage . . . $5.00
7 orchids in corsage . . . $7.50
Postpaid airmail special. Gift boxed.
Please, no COD's.
PICKPOCKET DEPT.
Dear Editor:
I am submitting this letter not in any hope of humiliating the person who stole the money from my wallet in the Rock this afternoon, but as a warning to others, who like myself, assume that all the men of Notre Dame are honest ■ iind trustworthy.
Open Letter to a Thief
This afternoon I went over to the “Rock” for a short swim. As I peeled off my clothes and hung. them in the locker the thought of checking my wallet occurred to me. But no, this is Notre Dame, where men are the pick of the country—honest, capable, trustworthy. That was my reasoning so I went off without bothering to check the wallet. I came back to the locker after the swim and found the wallet jammed haphazardly into the pocket of my pants; I also found that the money inside was gone.
The amount taken was little, but to me it meant a trip home this weekend. I doubt if this letter could possibly humiliate the kind of person who would do such a thing, but if his conscience starts to bother him, I’ll be in 249 Morrissey.
117-C South La Brea • Inglewood. Calif.
Let this also be a hint to my fellow students. When you’re at the “Rock” it is best to check everything including your bridgework. If this guy will take a couple of bucks, he’d probably walk away with the Dome if he could.
Jim McCarthy. 249 Morrissey Hall.
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your income limited only by your own efforts. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! We invite you to send for our scientific Aptitude Test, which measures your qualifications for this interesting work.
If you qualify, you may become eligible for our 3-year on-the-job training course, with a 2-year compensation plan which will not make you dependent upon commissions. After that, the Mutual Lifetime Plan offers liberal commissions, and substantial retirement income at 65. Write today to Room 1104.
ROSARY COLLEGE FEATURE
Dear Editor:
I have had the pleasure of reading your December 5, 1947, issue of your magazine Scholastic, wherein you pay
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
3< Nassau Street
New York 5; N. Y.
I
Alexander E. Patterson
President
> LETTERS
tribute to my school, Rosary College. It is such an appealing editorial that I would like to preserve a copy in my records. A second copy I wish to present to my classmate who hails from Colombia, South America.
This request may seem unusual, but I certainly would appreciate receiving two copies. Thanking you for your attention to this matter, I beg to remain,
Dolores Pat Race, Rosary College, River Forest, Ill.
NSA ELECTIONS
Dear Editor:
A vote of thanks is in order, both to (the Student Council and to the student body for the open-minded manner in which they received the NSA. By their vote they have, no doubt, keynoted a norm of action to be followed by other colleges and universities throughout the country that look to Notre Dame as the natural leader in student activities, and at the same time have given us a new incentive to go ahead with the work that we have started. I am sure that I speak for Marty McLaughlin and Jack Murphy in expressing these sentiments.
Bill Braun,
NSA Election Chairman, 355 Badin Hall

Singing of Missa Cantata to Commemorate Anniversary
Winding up their pre-Christmas ac-^tivities, the Liturgy Club assisted in the arrangements and the singing of the Missa Cantata on Sunday, Dec. 14. Twelve glee club members, led by Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, were also on hand for this Mass which was celebrated by the Rev. William Doheny, c.s.c. This Mass, in the Alumni Hall Chapel, was sponsored as a Communion Mass by the Law Club in commemoration of the twentyfifth anniversary of Professor William D. Rollison as a teacher at the University and of Mr. Rollison’s 20th wedding anniversary.
On Sunday, Dec. 7, the last pre-Christmas Mass, sponsored by the club itself, was celebrated in the chapel of Cavanaugh Hall for the members of the Liturgy Club and residents of the hall. The Mass was celebrated by Rev. F. Maur.
The club, whose membership now totals around fifty-nine, is making plans for a series of lectures next term on the liturgy of the Church. -Tentative plans ^iave it that the speakers will be members of the faculty.—Bob Edmundson.
WIN A FREE TRIP TO SCANDINAVIA
To commemorate the Swedish Pioneer Centennial in 1948, the Swedish American Line offers six trips to Scandinavia, for the hest
ESSAYS.

6 Free Trips to Scandinavia
and 12 Other Grand Awards
w
Three groups of contestants judged separately:
1.	College undergraduates
2.	High School and Preparatory School students
3.	Adults regardless of occupation
Contest closes April 1, 1948. Write today for complete contest information to
Contest Editor (Dept. S. R.) SWEDISH AMEBICAN UNE 636 Fifth Avenue, New York 20, N. Y.
Include Scandinavia in your next trip abroad. Travel on
■. the famous White Viking Fleet of the Swedish American Line. Regular sailings direct to Gothenburg, Sweden.
The White Vildng Fleet
Offices or agencies in all leading cities.

27
Copyright 1947, Liggett & Mms Tobacco Co.