THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PUBLISHED WEEKLY
A
Qisce (Quasi temper ^icturas :	(Quasi €ras Hloriturus
i
INDEX
,	PAGE
In Memoriam, Rev. John T. Boland_____________1_____Frontispiece
The Week________;__________________x______1___________J. A. 5
Commemorative Verses__________Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C. 9
Calendar _________________________________________________ 12
Editorial ____________________________________~___________ 13
Last Lines_________________________________Anselm D. Miller 15
Theatre News_______________________________Eustace Cullinane 17
A Flower of Venice___________________________R. E. Lightfoot 18
Book Leaves__________________________________Joseph P. Burke 20
Sports_____1____-_________________________________________ 24
The advertiser in Notre Dame publications deserves the patronage of Notre Dame men.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108. October 3. 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.

4	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3n Jfflemoriam
1867—3Rrt. Jofm ®. ^olanb,	1924
A S THE great bell of Sacred Heart Church boomed its last note LX Saturday morning there came to Notre. Dame the full realization of its loss in the death of a beloved priest and scholar, Father John T. Boland.	’
Father Boland endeared himself to the men of Notre Dame during the past five years that he spent at the University. His fairness and sympathy in the administration of the Secretaryship for the last three years brought him the respect and love of a host of friends.
The life of Father Boland was one of faithful service to his God and to his Order. For thirty-two years he labored with the Congregation of ' the Holy Cross throughout the country. Coming to Notre Dame in 1884 after his graduation from St. Joseph’s College in Cincinnati, he was ordained in 1892. Then followed busy, eventful years. In 1907 and 1908 he was teacher at Holy Cross College in New Orleans. Next came a year as a pastor in Watertown, Wisconsin. In 1909 he was made President of St. Edward’s College, at Austin, Texas. So ably did he serve in this office that five years later, in 1914, he was changed to the presidency of Columbia College in Portland, Oregon. Here he remained until 1919.
Then Father Boland returned to Notre Dame, first in charge of the Purchasing Department of the University and two years later as Secretary. It was in this office that Father Boland worked—worked until his health was shattered and he was forced to resign this summer. In an effort to regain his. health he went to Deming, New Mexico. And there Father Boland said his last Mass, and on Monday, September 29th, he gave up his soul to his Maker.
Notre Dame mourns deeply the loss of this priestly educator and Catholic gentleman. We can pay his memory no greater tribute than to say that Father 'John Boland was a true son of Notre Dame.	'
R.	I. P.
UD^-IIS. I
'Sc. h- tT
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	5
\/ 5 & o. ’3
j" 	.....""	— 	'	■ =■■ 1 A
...THE WEEK...
—.	—	-.-A
THIS department will endeavor to comment briefly, informingly, and informally, upon the trend of the campus news.
After the manner of the w. g. n., this department is designed to give the hurried reader the most information in the least time and space.
- The first week has been a month—a year to the homesick freshman. During this time the commonplace has been varied with highlights of tragedy and comedy. Among the first and most -painful of the former was registration. Unknown to many of the old members, the password had been changed during the summer and the first few days found the Western Union wires hot. Among the more attractive features of the opening week was an almost pre-season holiday— Defense Day. Notre Dame spirit revealed itself in the fine turnout of the student body for the parade. The cross country men showed up especially well. Classes were more officially opened Monday “and then the fun began.” Strange words hovered about the campus-“electives,” “18 hours,” “A. B’s,” “Certificates.” The freshmen weren’t the only ones wandering about with dazed expressions. ’ The classes of Brother Cyprian are asked to concentrate their attention on this problem: “Should a student working twice as hard for eighteen hours as a student who works half as hard as the first student for twenty-two hours receive a Ph. B. or an E. E.?”
- Girls officially disturbed the campus peace with the giving of the first Scholarship dance. The Mission began the following Sunday. As elsewhere noted there were two Missions this year, one for the Freshmen and one for the less worldly. By this time, chronologically, things are in full swing and this article is missing plenty that is interesting. But we can only hit the high and
general spots. A big pep meeting before the Lombard game-introduced the Freshmen to real Notre Dame spirit as expressed. The Blue Circle inaugurated the third annual “Hello Week” and aside from the upper classmen reporting a few snubs, probably suspicious freshmen, it has been most successful. The Lombard game actually lifted the lid from the pot of pep brewed at the pep meeting. The team has a big season ahead, and The Scholastic believes you can take the statement both ways.
Back to the Freshmen, upon whose shoulders falls the misfortune of being new and interesting. General reports are that the Class of ’28 has imbibed freely of the spirit and the democracy that are inherently Notre Dame’s. Occasionally reports come in that some learn less rapidly than the majority-coupled with these reports usually come the tales of vandalism, unbecoming conduct, and carelessness that the uninitiated believe to
be “college.” These occurrences are perennial and time and tolerance will either cure
or forget. The freshmen spirit at the Lombard game showed a new body of rooters that will contribute the real Notre Dame support.
Organizations are speeding along as though the year were almost over. The Scribblers are scribbling on one-act plays;
the K. C’s. are planning to get the boys in good"humdr for a drive for the Union; the
S. A. C. has done more work already than most legislative bodies do in a whole session; city, state, and national clubs are' holding homesick sessions; the Band has put in a very popular appearance at the Lombard game; the Glee Club rumbles as if ready to erupt any day. The Dome, the Juggler, and The Scholastic staffs have grooves behind their ears already. Even the books in the Library are showing signs of wear. School has commenced—“The fight is. on.”
/OS'
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
S.	A. C. SLATE A WONDER-PAD
F THE first month’s functioning of the S.A.C. is a criterion, Chairman Bischoff’s cohorts should join the Business Admin
istration faculty in a body. Speed, efficiency, and wisdom have marked the activities of the Council to date and the student body is justified in expecting an unusually successful year.
Of present import and interest is the Council’s rulings on campus organizations. Each organization has been requested to file with the S. A. C. secretary, John Twohy, a list of the names of its officers and a tentative program for the year. It is the purpose of the Council to frame a calendar of the year. Before deciding upon a meeting the officers of the organization are requested to consult this calendar. The purpose is twofold—to secure larger crowds for each meeting and to prevent serious conflicts.
For the benefit of the organizations, the S. A. C. announces that bulletins left in the box at the Main Building or with Corbin Patrick in Badin Hall will be posted each morning.
A faculty ruling this year states that no student on probation will be allowed to participate in any campus activity.
Paul Rahe has been appointed the campus representative of the organizations.
#	# sR
Another important project undertaken by the S. A. C. is the student trip to Madison. All students who plan to make this trip are urged to hand in their names early as the seats for the game are in great demand. The expenses of the trip are: carfare (excluding Pullman) $9.50; tickets to the game, $2.50. The rather steep price of tickets is due to a Conference ruling that no reduction in the price of tickets shall be made for visiting students. Tickets will probably go on sale next week. Plans for a parade and demonstration in Madison are under way. The Wisconsin paper, “The Cardinal” announces that all available space for the Notre Dame game has been sold out, while tickets for the Iowa game, Wisconsin’s homecoming, are still available.
The committee in charge of the student
trip consists of John Moran, chairman, Joe Bach and Jack Reidy.
s-:	5*:
In connection with football it is appropriate to mention the Grid Graph. The S. A. C. went to considerable expense to secure this feature for the campus. Reports on every game will be given in the gym. It is expected that the students will meet there as for a regular game. There will be cheers and music by the band as for the games at home. Entertainment between the halves is contemplated. To meet the expense involved in the purchase and operation of the Grid Graph the cooperation of the students is necessary and a full turnout in the gym for each out of town game is asked.
The Grid Graph Committees are: Finance, Paul Rahe, chairman, Ralph Heger and Mark Mooney; Operation, Ben Resting, chairman, Jake Purcell, William Daily, and Eddie O’Neill.
Football dances have been assigned to the various organizations as follows:
October 11—Wabash—Monogram Club.
October 25—Princeton—Junior Class.
October 31—S. A. C.
November 15—Nebraska—Seniors.
November 22—Northwestern—Sophomores.
The Day Dodgers will give a Thanksgiving Dance November 27.
The Dance committee: Elmer Layden, chairman, Don Miller, Dan Brady.
Concessions this year are subject to new regulations which it is hoped will benefit the students. There has been complaint in the past about the number of concession men canvassing the halls and disturbing the deep contemplation of the serious thinkers. To remedy this the concessions have been limited to those thought to be of value to the students: the men granted the concessions are not allowed to canvas outside of recreation hours; they are taxed ten per cent of their net profits. The money derived from this source will be used to build up the Notre Dame Band.
The Concessions Committee is comprised of Paul Kohout, chairman, Don Miller, and Tommy Green.
3: $ $ £ *
From the list of activities presented here,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
and there are others not yet complete or which will be mentioned elsewhere, it can be readily seen that the members of the S. A. C. have begun the year’s work in mid-season form. Chairman Bischoff announces that the Council meets every Sunday morning and will be glad to receive any suggestions concerning the student welfare.
The personnel of the Student Activities Council is:
Seniors—George Bischoff, chairman, John Moran, Don Miller, Joe Bach, Jack Scallan, Ralph Heger (treasurer), Bernard Resting, Paul Rahe, and Elmer Layden.
Juniors—Mark Mooney, Eddie O’Neill, John Twohy (secretary), John Purcell, and Dan Brady.
Sophomores—John Reidy, Tom Green, and William Daily.
':k ❖
Later Committees appointed are:
Traffic—Ralph Heger and Edward O’Neill.
Student Directory—Paul Kohout, Mark Mooney, and John Twohy.
PEP MEETING
HE SKYROCKET that broke Saturday afternoon and revealed Lombard on the extremely short end of a 40 to 0
score was fired from the Notre Dame gymnasium Thursday night. Behind the band and carrying red flares the boys from the East end of the campus came into the main quadrangle in such numbers that Sorin and Walsh thought the entire parade had formed without them. By the time Badin and Corby had entered the ranks the band was seated in the gym about ready to play the postlude.
Chairman of the S. A. C. George Bischoff opened the meeting and introduced the cheerleader Eddie Luther to the Freshmen. To the rest of us it was like introducing ham to eggs or half to half, sort of an essential relationship. Eddie’s vacation hadn’t hurt his pep and the cheering opened up this year where it closed last.
In the course of the brief meeting Father Hugh O’Donnell gave a brief talk on support of the team and sportsmanship among the students. Captain Adam Walsh promised
the greatest effort on the part of the team and asked very earnestly for the physical, mental, and spiritual support of the students of Notre Dame. Noble Kizer, guard and captain-elect of the basket ball team, made a few remarks promising the hardest kind of game from the team. Assistant Coach Tom Lieb followed asking that the fellows do everything to keep up the morale of the team regardless of how the games may go.
Coach Knute Rockne’s appearance was the signal for the wildest burst of enthusiasm. In a few words, Rock’s specialty, he outlined the program for the year. To put the effect of his talk mildly—it brought down the house.
The last speaker was Tim Galvin, prominent alumnus and orator, whose reminiscences added a very delightful few minutes to the meeting and served as a stimulus to the feelings of the listeners. In the ordinary world, the brilliant of yesterday is the commonplace of today. But in the records of combat, a brilliant performance is always thrilling, and the history of Notre Dame teams bristles, with such feats.
There was a unanimous groan when it was learned that Pete Vaughan was not to break the Michigan goal post on account of the consecration of Bishop Kelley, for it was believed that several important points had been omitted by Father Walsh in his last account. There were several other things expected that the tempus fugited away. But the main subject of the meeting was pep, and there wouldn’t have been any more pep displayed if the meeting had lasted from Thursday night till Saturday afternoon. And if you can judge the cause by the effect look at that 40 to 0 and draw your own conclusions.
NOTRE DAME’S BOY GUIDANCE DEPT..
Tom Lieb, ’23, Jim Egan, ’24, Russell McClure, ’24, and Brother Constantine, C. S. C., are among the nineteen men from the United States and Canada at present enrolled in the: newly established Boy Guidance Department. Thirty scholarships were made available by the Knights of Columbus when founding the t course, and it is expected that all of these will be filled before long.
0
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A MISSION FOR MORTALS
The annual mission at Notre Danie was preached last week by Father Richard Col-lentine, C. S. C. To be strictly accurate, it was one of the annual missions, since it was reserved for upper classmen only. Just what is the reason for holding separate sessions this week for freshmen has become a matter of conjecture. It has been alleged that the strong meat offered to upper classmen would prove too much for the supposedly inexperienced; but the real reason, more probably, lies in the fact that, unfortunately, Sacred Heart Church lacks the quality so notably present in the rubber baloon—that having furnished seats to a certain number, it can accommodate no more. That question solved —to our own satisfaction at least—we may proceed unmolested to the next. Was the Mission a good one? Certainly. Why? Because it was practical.
The heart and soul of every sermon and instruction was practicality. Each problem was taken up, examined, discussed, traced to its sources, and then, the causes exposed, the solution was presented and explained. Thus was the mission made practical. The implication is not intended that every problem so treated concerned at that moment each individual student. Rather, the discussion was widened to include also those things which perhaps confronted immediately only a small group of hearers but which would, at some time or other, inevitably arise in the life of nearly every individual present. The mission was not, therefore, merely a pretty exercise of devotion; it was a mission for mortals—mortals who by following its precepts might reasonably expect to attain the immortality which is perfect happiness.
And, in the end, what good did the mission do? That is a question which we cannot answer. Solutions of problems were presented; all that remains is the resolve to adopt them. If the mission was attended with that resolve, much good is being done. If not,—well, the old principle holds: what you get out of a thing is what you put into it. Some, bringing much, have gained much; others, bringing nothing, have gained nothing—or even less.
SCRIBBLERS OPEN BUSY SEASON
The Scribblers, like the S. A. C. and the K. of C., opened the season with a bang. Within the past month the club has elected its new members, listened to two prominent speakers, and made plans for a season that will eclipse last year’s success.
Five new men were elected to fill the vacancies in Scribbler ranks left by graduation last June. Because of the large number of Seniors in the club this year it was decided to limit the election to underclassmen. The following men were elected at the first regular meeting: Mark Nevils, John Gallagher, John Purcell, Lester Grady, and Francis Miller. These men are all interested in Notre Dame publications and had already fulfilled the requirement that the new member must have had some article printed on the campus.
Through the action of President Harry McGuire, The Scribblers were able to secure a speaker of national prominence, J. P. McEvoy. Mr. McEvoy is an old Notre Dame man and ordinarily addresses the entire student body on his visits. Business was speeding him this trip and it was only through a special meeting in the morning that The Scribblers were able to hear him. His talk was of the writing world in which he has made a signal success, and was of a very practical and encouraging nature, although delivered in the inimitable style that makes the McEvoy enthusiast grow fat.
The second prominent speaker was a new member of the faculty—Professor Charles Philips. Professor Philips is an author of international reputation, a wide traveler, and a decided asset to the literary circles of Notre Dame. His subject was the very interesting experiences he encountered in the publication of his latest book, “The New Poland,” which was published first in England and later in this country. Mr. Philips spent a number of years in Poland and his book is considered very authoritative.
FR. O’NEILL RETURNS TO PRESBYTERY
The Rev. Arthur Barry O’Neill, C. S. C., associate editor of The Ave Maria and the author of many books, was released from St. Joseph’s hospital last Thursday after an illness of six months.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
Commemorative Verses*
b
Justice and peace have kissed, the fine surrender With folded flags and swords consummated, While memory arises, strong and tender, Of these who are immortal being dead.
Peace, they are dust, a thousand quiet crosses This generation long have watched their sleep By convent walls and under lichened mosses Oi* on those fields the soldiers’ blood dyed deep.
Dead on the field of peace, the field of battle, Their fondest hopes fulfilled, their eyes alight, The hands that shook not though the cannon rattle, The hearts that fought not though the whole world fight.
These are the angels, you will tell me, mortal Of human mould such footway never trod,— For answer I shall lead you to the portal That opens inward on the house of God.
Behold them moving on those floors Elysian, The same soft step their earthways knew of old, And hopes that gave them comfort of the Vision Fulfilled in measure tongue has never told.
All has come true, and it was worth the breaking Of heart and body but to reach this goal ‘ With time’s endeavor done, their* spirit taking That rest which heaven alone can give the soul.
Who count the cost and parcel out devotion With thrifty eye will never understand These heroines,—go measure me the ocean With the small cup a child holds in his hand.
Build me a temple based upon the shifting* Sands of inconsequence, as gauge this thing, This bleak denial of the spirit- lifting The heart that breaking does not cease to sing.
Peace fall like dew, or war come down in thunder, The pulse that beats the same, the quiet eyes,— Seek you an understanding of this wonder?
You will not find it this side of the skies.
Heaven alone but makes earth tolerable,
Only eternity out-values time, Body and brain are then but serviceable Foi* purpose that is more than eai*th sublime.
Who drink Death’s stirrup-cup with ready rapture, Ride with all foes behind—their heart’s retreat No temporal enemy may hope to capture, Victory is won afar though named defeat.
For them a stone is raised, sculptured and storied; Their lives, a cup of water in His Name, They gave: in Him they lived and gloried, Two thousand years have gone to build this fame:—
Christ and His Cross, the secret of the sages, That consecrate the Sister’s life and death, The valiant women reaching through the ages Even to' her who was Mary of Nazareth.
Virgins they are whose work is that of mother To sons and daughters of the race of men That in their homeless need would know no other To smoothe then* pillow, these are mothers then.
The dark hour fell when this great land divided Tore sons and fathers from the home embrace— These sonless women, out of heaven quided, Said, Stay you here and watch, we take your place.
In fever* camp, in hospital, in prison, And where the deadly hail of battle fell, They moved, these Virgin mothers, a vision risen Of home and love, in the very murk of hell.
Deal gently with them, Time, for they were gentle, Peace crown them with the laurels of the brave, Who in a need, most dire and elemental	:
Gathered a nation’s pride about their grave. :
Today the selfsame faith that won this glory,	'
The race that kept this faith the ages long,	•
Have flung the banners of the Sisters’ story, Have reared this monument, have sung this song.
Take leave of them? not till the heavens darken, Not while America’s high dreams abide,— Stand God and Country, so shall all men hearken Their fame, their virtue and our rapturous pride.
* These verses were written and read by Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C., at the unveiling of the monument to the Nuns of the Battlefield.
10	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
K. C’S. PLAN SOCIAL PROGRAM
OTRE DAME COUNCIL 1477, of the Knights of Columbus, is to have an extensive social program for the year.
This was stressed by the newly elected Grand Knight of the council, Harry A. McGuire, at the first meeting of the year. Notre Dame council will give several dances during the year, organize its own orchestra and also its own quartette. It is the hope of the Grand Knight that the social activities of the year will tend to act as a foundation for the actual drive for a Union Building by the Knights of Columbus.
Officers were elected at the first meeting of the year. Aside from Harry A. McGuire’s election to the position of Grand Knight, Vincent Schneider was elected Deputy Grand Knight; James Egan was elected Financial Secretary; George Bischoff was re-elected Chancellor; Joseph Burke was elected Recording Secretary; Daniel Cunningham was elected Treasurer; Joseph Bach was elected Warden and Lester Grady was elected Advocate.
Jack Scallan was elected Student Trustee at the second meeting of the year, while Paul Hartman was elected Inside Guard and Willard Jones and Gregory -Gallagher Outside Guards.
Committees were appointed at this meeting, the chairmen being as follows: Fred Shannon, membership; Al Hockwait, house; John Elliott, sick; Paul Rahe, dance; and Thomas O’Connor, music.
The Rev. James Gallagan, C. S. C., succeeds the Rev. Paul Foik, C. S. C., as Chaplain of the council. Mark Nolan, past Grand Knight, is to be Lecturer.
In all probability the Notre Dame council "will hold three initiations during the present scholastic year. It will also publish three issues of the Santa Maria with Ray Cunningham as editor.
Members of the council had the pleasure of listening to the Rev. James Burns, C. S. C., president emeritus of the University, at their last meeting. The theme of his interesting talk was the Notre Dame endowment drive. He told of his tour of the country with Father McGinn, and his experiences with Notre Dame men in the different cities.
Father Burns brought his talk to a close with the promise to assist the council when if started its drive for the Union Building.
District Deputy Peak installed the new officers at the second meeting of the council; he was assisted in the ceremony by Grand Knight Fagan, of South Bend council.
A smoker is to be held in the near future.
PROMINENT MEN JOIN LAW FACULTY
Judge Dudley G. Wooten, Edwin W. Hadley and Clarence Manion were added to the faculty of the Hoynes College of Law during the summer vacation.
Judge Wooten is a man of wide fame as a jurist, political scientist and historian. After receiving his master’s degree from Princeton he continued there as a graduate student in History. Later he became a fellow in History and Political Science at Johns Hopkins, and at length began his legal training at the University of Virginia. After entering upon the practice of law in Texas he soon became conspicuous and held many public offices ranging from Prosecuting Attorney to Member of Congress. In Oregon, where he later lived, his prominence was no less and he held many offices of public trust. His outstanding ability prompted Archbishop Christie to select him, in 1922, to direct the campaign in defense of the parochial schools in Oregon. The success of the defense is Catholic history.
Judge Wooten is the author of several books; the list including: “A School History of Texas,” “The Land System of Mexico and Texas,” and “The Comprehensive History of Texas.” He has written, also, innumerable articles in various periodicals. He holds two honorary LL. D. degrees.
Professor Hadley prepared for law at Stanford University where he received the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Juris Doctor, and during his post-graduate work specialized in contracts, surety, quasi-contracts and equity. His honors as a student were exceptional.
He engaged in the practice of law at Palo Alto, and later filled a professorship in law at the University of Wyoming. It was from
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	11
the latter place that Professor Hadley came to Notre Dame.
Professor Manion is an old friend of Notre Dame, having taught politics here for three years. In addition to that experience, he prepared for the study of law by doing special post-graduate work in History and International Law at the Catholic University of America. After receiving his degree of Juris Doctor, Mr. Manion became a member of the firm of Walker and Walker, of Evansville, Indiana, and was soon widely known as a lecturer on legal and political subjects. At present he is preparing a History of the United States for High Schools.
One “iron man” in the pitcher’s box can almost make a team. Five hundred “iron men” on the side can almost break one.
A stroller on the Niles road reports such a variety of Fall colors that three traveling-chameleons suffered nervous prostration between South Bend and the State Line.
The Mission must have worked miracles Most of the violent coughs that were noticeable Friday night during Father Collentine’s sermon were completely under control Saturday afternoon when Eddie Scherer was calling signals, and Saturday night when the Howard boys were cracking wise at the Palace.
Opinions of an editor: The reporter thinks that the editor is the man who destroys the literary value of his write-ups. The person of opposite convictions thinks that he is a man who knows nothing and persists in writing a column about it. The constant reader —especially women—think that he knows everything and leaves out the most interesting parts. The entire staff think that he is blind to real merit. While every editor knows that he has to know more and work harder than men getting ten times his pay: take all the blame and none of the credit: make lots of enemies and few friends: and the only play he ever gets is when he plays the goat or h—1.
NOTES ON DISCIPLINE
TTENTION of the campus De Palmas, Vanderbilts, and Fords, is called to a recent bulletin from the office of the
Department of Discipline. Said mandate forbids the possession of automobiles by any student living on the campus. Those students living off the campus and desiring, and able, to motor to and from (and elsewhere), must have a letter from parents or guardian authorizing the risk. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell states that stringent action will be taken against violators of this rule.
Announcement has also been made from, this office, that all “cuts” incurred by those absent from classes in the interest of the University, will be referred to the Director of Studies and not, as heretofore, to the Prefect of Discipline.
Much misunderstanding will be avoided and some beneficial information will be acquired, according to Father O’Donnell, if newcomers on the Notre Dame campus will obtain the “Undergraduate Manual of Information” from the rectors of their respective halls. The booklet contains information relative to administrative affairs of the University and its educational program. Not only does it include instruction for registration, admission, and discipline at the University, but also a thorough treatise of the publications, students clubs and societies, musical organizations, dramatics, oratory, and debates. Notre Dame’s traditions, songs-, and cheers are a feature of its pages, giving-to the undergraduate who reads it a wide-knowledge of the University of Notre Dame.
Health Hints: If the customs and traditions of Notre Dame are amusing to some of ’ the Freshmen Class, we would advise them not to expose this weakness in the Fall as it often leads to a severe cold.
It was finally left to a construction company to “pave the way” for better relations between South Bend and Notre Dame.
Consciously trying to look intelligent is a terrible task, as the Seniors have discovered this week.
12	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
t	■	--- —	—
CALENDAR OF THE WEEK
Saturday, Oct. 11.—
Freshman Mission closes with Mass at 6:30.
Wabash vs. Notre Dame—Cartier Field; 2:30.
Monogram Dance—Tribunfi Auditorium—8:30—11:30.
Sunday, Oct. 12.—	.
Masses 6:30 and 8:15 Sacred Heart Church.
Holy Name Sunday.	.
S. A. C. Meeting 10:30 A. M.	.	'
Interhall Football morning and afternoon.	'
Monday, Oct. 13.—
Founder’s Day—no classes.	■
Scholarship Dance—Palais Royale.
Monday noon—deadline for notices for week
'	Tuesday, Oct. IL.—	.
K. of C. Meeting in Council Chambers, WalshHall—7:45.	.
This space mil be reserved each week for bulletin purposes. Organizations desiring to use this calendar must have notices in by Monday noon. Address letters to the Calendar Editor, The Scholastic, or present at the Scholastic Office, Corby Siibtvay.
News-gathering requires cooperation. If a reporter were always on hand most of the news wouldn’t happen. It is the aim of these few pages to present as much of the news of Notre Dame as an enterprising staff and hearty cooperation will allow. Your first thought is that the “enterprising staff” is a bughouse fable. We. don’t mind the idea because it only emphasizes the need of hearty cooperation. If the secretaries of the campus organizations, the heads of special projects, and the entire student body as individuals will help these columns to at least suspect news, the staff will attempt to do its part in transferring it to black and white. THE SCHOLASTIC news department will enjoy considering news stories or feature articles from any writer on the campus. '
THE STAFF
J. W. SCALLAN
Editor
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG News Editor
ALBERT SOMMER Assistant News Editor
THE NEWS
JOHN GALLAGHER
LESTER GRADY MARK NEVILS JOHN
F.
EDWARD T. LYONS Literary Editor
GERALD HOLLAND
Assistant Literary Editor
DEPARTMENT
ANDREW MULREANY JAMES WITHEY WALTER HAECKER
STOECKLEY
.THE LITERARY DEPARTMENT
HARRY A. M’GUIRE R. C. CUNNINGHAM JOSEPH P. BURKE
ANSELM MILLER
EUSTACE CULLINANE
RICHARD LIGHTFOOT
FRANCIS C. MILLER
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT CORBIN PATRICK Business Manager GEORGE SCHILL	JAMES WITHEY
Local Advertising Manager Foreign Adv. Manager
ALFRED DIEBOLD Circulation. Manager
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
CHARLES CASEY
DAVID HICKEY
FRANKLIN CONWAY

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
✓ : ' ' " ■■' 1 1 ——;
EDITORIAL
THE NEW SCHOLASTIC MAKES ITS BOW Like the famous Hydra, the old Scholastic and the Daily have been done away with only to have the new Scholastic arise—with even more heads. The new publication hopes to become the medium of expression for the entire campus. It hopes to see all, know all, and tell most of it. :
. A staff is as necessary to a publication as a handle to a pump but the aqua vitae must come from the student body; The Scholastic urges cooperation in all its departments, in the form of contributions. “Let not silken words be spun in the cocoon of obscurity.” Give them air and sunlight, as Dr. Copeland might say. Butterflies don’t thrive in this locality anyhow.
When scholastic death by diploma overtakes you, let it catch you in your prime, and not classed among the “mute inglorious Miltons.” We might suggest an appropriate place for “the noiseless tenor,”, too, but it isn’t connected with campus publications. “The only way to learn to write is to write,” as we are occasionally told. Notre Dame has its Department of Journalism, its entire Arts and Letters school, in fact, whose members will find the press a powerful ally. Certainly these men are not all listed on the staffs of the campus publications. And it is to such men, who are usually unsolicited because unknown, that The Scholastic appeals. For ■ our benefit, true, but-for your own especially, see to it that your name finds its way into print, at least occasionally.
To paraphrase—a few of us know plenty; most of us know something; but none of us know everything. And if we all get together through the medium of the Scholastic, it’s a pretty safe bet that we’ll all come out a bit wiser. For this obvious reason, The Scholastic will be very glad to receive any news stories, feature stories, poems, essays, short
stories," or any original forms of literature that genius may invent. Don’t be afraid to contribute—the new publication hasn’t any printed rejection slips nor has it an infallible staff. Contributions are fully as welcome to the members of the staff as their publication is to the author. The literary editor gloats when he can fill his space from contributions—the news editor probably will if he gets a chance—;the editor-in-chief never takes a deep breath anyhow until the magazine has been safely distributed, but knowing his staff, he, too, welcomes contributions. We will now step aside and the line will form on the right.
CRASHING THE GATE
It is the season for advice. All its elements lie about us — the freshmen awaiting advice with stretched ears, the upper-classman filled to his plethoric-depths with wisdom, and the thousand and one subjects for advice straining to catch our eyes, like little boys and their first somersaults. Even the sages of The Scholastic discover that they are not savants enough to withstand the craze of the season. They must bend their brows in thought and find something about which to advise someone. So here is the result :
Freshmen, if in the course of time, you hope to become something more than first-year men, don’t fraternize with any but first-year men.
Experience and common sense lie behind this advice. We don’t deny that a few exceptional men can live down the mistake they make in neglecting their classmen and seeking the comradeship of seniors. But we have seen a number of promising freshmen, endowed with precocity and personality, accepted in the company of juniors and seniors
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
because of their attractiveness; we have watched them get off to a bad start in their freshman year which they seldom overcame in all the remaining three. They sought familiarity with upperclassmen. They got it, and then lost their heads. Their imaginations outdid their brains; in their self-satisfied delusion they felt as experienced and as sensible as the upperclassmen with whom they fraternized—even the honors that perseverance had brought to their senior friends they half-imagined as resting upon their own freshman brows. In a few short months they believed themselves advanced far beyond the freshman stage—they were gentlemen of “savoir faire.” They were sophisticated, cynical, worldly.	.
In their sophomore or junior year such men usually fall ■with a thump. As freshmen they held their fellow-classmen in patronizing contempt; needless to say, the contempt was usually mutual. But after a couple of years have passed, and their senior patrons have left school, they discover the amazing fact that while they have been lolling in the luxury of a chimerical prominence, their lowly classmen have passed through the requisite stages and have somehow attained substantial collegiate success.
Our illustration is only an illustration, and perhaps overdrawn. But it points to the moral, which of course sounds the ancient warning against doing a good thing to excess. Acquaintanceship with upperclassmen should be uplifting and invigorating influence upon freshmen. If confined to respectful and not too familiar friendship, it is such an influence; for, consciously or unconsciously, certain upperclassmen invariably become freshmen ideals.
But let an ideal remain an ideal, freshmen, and don’t turn it into a Jacob’s dream ladder on which you expect the angels to carry you to heaven. If you do, you will be losing your opportunity of being someone’s else’s ideal three years hence. Take your place in line—let the fools try to crash the gate.
"HELLO WEEK” A SUCCESS
The school year is now well under way, and the third annual “Hello week” has just come and gone. Everywhere on the campus during the past week-end the little blue and
yellow “hello” buttons were conspicuously in evidence. And even if only a few fellows actually became better acquainted with one another, the campaign to promote more friendships was a commendable success.
Notre Dame has always been strikingly different from other universities when it comes to making acquaintances, because here a man gets to know another man not only through .the formal conventionality of introduction,; as at most universities where class distinction and fraternal affiliations enter into consideration, but more often by bumping shoulders with him day after day in the dormitories, the refectories, and the study halls. Even in view of this fact, a “Hello week” was not as inconsistent as it may seem, because the freshmen, for whose benefit the “hello” idea particularly was adopted, come from various localities and most of them are not accustomed to the spirit of democracy that always has characterized Notre Dame. True enough, they would familiarize themselves with the Notre Dame spirit in time, but the “hello week” merely stimulated and hastened the entire process with them.
Paradoxically, a university does not exist to educate by book and lecture. The education to be obtained at the university outside the covers of the text—the teaching of a man how to live with his fellowman—is equally, if not more important than the knowledge one could obtain from digesting thoroughly a set of the Encyclopedia Britan-ica, Emily Post’s Book of Etiquette, and a dozen or more treatises on Philosophy, Psychology and Psycho-analysis. Here at Notre Dame meh live together, eat together, laugh together, play together, and sleep together; they get to know one another very intimately, and from these intimacies their concepts of humari nature are formed, understandings are reached, and friends are created. And these friendships that are cultivated here at college, those friendships that may have been acquired during the recent “Hello week,” are things to be cherished and treasured no less than the profound spatterings of knowledge secured in the class rooms. For the life-long friendships formed at Notre Dame are just as important as the sheep-skin which the graduate carries away with him after four years.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
LAST LINES
ANSELM D. MILLER
ULES ELWING was a poet. By this I do not mean that his works had survived the sarcasm of the savants; nor
yet that his effusions and eccentricities had been duly noted and commented upon by that infallible authority of aspiring illuminati, Vunity Fair. •	.
For Elwing was a poet with a family and a sense of responsibility. It is only by considering this fact that we can understand his being with the Acorn Advertising Agency.
He was a poet never-the-less; dreams were his diet and words his playthings. He was never so happy as when making a symphony of language. He would dream of Seville, in Sunny Spain, and paint a word-picture that would carry the reader from his workaday world to the land of tawny toreadors and smiling senoritas. But then he would add a last line:
"It is here that the Keinz Queen Olives are produced, one of the seventy-seven varieties.”
At another time he would walk with his reader over rolling hills and through autumnal forests. In an inimitable manner he would clothe the trees in colorful harmonies; he would describe the last gay dance of leaves before a breeze that is restless to become a blizzard. When he had made the reader feel beneath his feet the very crackling of nature’s castaways, he would add the inevitable last line:
“You will enjoy these long walks if you wear E-Z Garters; they cause no pressure on the veins or muscles.”
Now Elwing hated these last lines; they made his dreams seem sordid. Always before writing them he would hesitate, grimace, and then blindly scrawl the last few words and hastily shove the copy toward his stenographer. Often he had been upon the point of resigning his position. But, at the thought of the loved ones at home, he had always made a new resolution to see it through regardless of hurt personal pride and artistic sense.
On this particular day Elwing had been unusually productive. Among other things,
he had described a night scene at a fashionable dining and dancing establishment. He had pictured the women, beautiful, lithesome creatures, dancing in the arms of sleek, smiling men. All were thoroughly enjoying themselves except—and here Elwing’s sympathetic pen had pictured the acme of everything desirable in woman. But she was in a corner, alone, forgotten, miserable. What had she done to deserve such a fate? Elwing’s last line answered the question:
“Again she had ordered, ‘A chicken salad, please.’ ”
Next Elwing had, in his imagination, succumbed to the lure of the road. In a powerful motor he had glided over smooth highways and through shady villages. He had climbed upward for hours and, at the top, he had looked down upon a sun-kissed panorama of virgin forests in which shimmering lakes were set like sparkling jewels. With a silent curse he had added the line:
“Gargle Mobiloil makes hill-climbing easy.”
Elwing felt a revolution surging within him. He grabbed his coat and hurried out into the open that he might think more clearly. After walking for an hour he lunched with a classmate whom he had chanced to meet and then returned to the office, newly resolved to sacrifice himself to Mammon. He disposed of several minor demands for copy and then picked up a more important assignment. It was from a company that was spending a great amount of money for advertising; the Acorn Agency needed the account. He must do his best.
For some reason his memory carried him back to the day of his marriage, and one by one the events of that memorable occasion passed before the eye of his mind. He remembered the months he had dreamed of that day; he remembered his careful preparations, his ride to the church—. And here, unconsciously, his pen began to put the scene on paper. The decorations, the guests, his best-man, the bridesmaids, the dignified old priest—all were in readiness. The rainbow of flowers became for him the arch of victory ; he had won the thing he most desired in the world. When he passed through the gates to the altar he would be entering
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Heaven. The future stretched gloriously before him.
He stopped writing, remembering that Nanine, his bride, had been late. Again he experienced the thoughts, the doubts, the fears which had flashed through his mind during those last few moments of agonized suspense. What if she should not come? He would be left at the altar. His hand brushed his brow as if to rid his mind of such a possibility. It came away damp with a cold sweat. Startled, he pulled himself out of his reverie and read what was on the paper before him. He had written a masterpiece containing suspense, feeling, and human interest. As copy for an advertisement it would sell the product in carload lots. In a flash his mind made a connection which his pen shrunk from. And yet—the company needed the account, his family needed many things; both were depending upon him. There was that dreadful sense of responsibility driving him on. He paced up and down the narrow office, he became frantic. . . .
Suddenly an inexplicable calm possessed him. Grim determination replaced doubt and indecision.. With a terrible curse Elwing strode to his desk and wrote the caption, “Left at the Altar,” above his latest brainchild. At the bottom he scrawled :
“That’s the insidious thing about Halitosis. . .”
Still cursing, he tossed the copy to his frightened stenographer, took an automatic from a drawer of his desk and, with a strange glint in his eyes, hurried from the office.
He had 'written his last last-line.
THE NEW DORMITORY
APID progress is being made on the new freshman dormitory which was begun about the first of September on
the south campus next to the Library. The building was designed by Vincent Fagan and Prof. Kervick of the University- Department of Architecture, and will cost two hundred thousand dollars.
The new. hall will have a frontage of two hundred and four feet and have a width of eighty seven at the wings. The structure
has been worked out in harmony with the surrounding buildings of buff brick and Bedford stone.
The four-story dormitory will be similar to Badin Hall, with a central tower. The main entrance will be approached by a flight of stone steps leading to a vestibule of cut stone which opens into the hallway extending through the width of the building.
On the first floor of both the north and the south wing will be a well appointed lounge and a beautiful chapel. The wings will have additional entrances leading to the walk surrounding the hall. The first floor will contain twenty three student’s rooms of ample proportions and well constructed with paneled plaster walls. The upper floors will have about double that number. Four baths will be |ound on each floor with private baths in the tower rooms. The tower rooms, built presumably for professors and prefects, will have stained glass windows and will rival those of any Eastern University. The floors wil be of maple and the halls covered with linoleum, while the lavatories will be of tile and tlie last word in sanitation.
The addition of lounges in the residence halls at Notre Dame is likewise an innovation which, it is hoped, will help to keep the students on the campus and cultivate a warm feeling of fellowship among classmates. '
The contractors, Marger and Sacks, have until July first to have the building ready for occupancy. The carpenters and bricklayers are; bending their efforts now to have most of the framework completed before the cold weather grips the campus. Mr. Louis Marger, when interviewed recently was very well pleased over the work completed to date and anticipates the erection of the building in record time.
The Old Students Hall is part of the building plan for the University, assured by the success of the recent Endowment Drive for $2,000,000.
I i
I.
The first football dance of the season will be held Saturday night at the Tribune Auditorium under the auspices of the Monogram Club. The Big Five will play; tickets sell for one dollar and fifty cents.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
THEATRE NEWS
EUSTACE CULLINANE ’25
We intend to hold forth indefinitely on this page, as theatrical reviewer. Our field covers every kind of entertainment or near-en-tertainment that will henceforth come to the theatres of our own South Bend. All forms of amusement are included within the scope of this review, from Paul Whiteman and his Symphony Orchestra to the Gazelle Brothers in “Bits ’o Bits.”
The methods to be employed are such as should make this account interesting. Ever bearing in mind the French axiom that “It is a sign of mediocritiy always to be praising moderately,” we shall distribute merited praise and necessary censure with an impartial, albeit a merciful, hand. If a show is poor, you will not have to read between the lines to learn the reviewer’s opinion of it; if it assays high in the quality of its amusement ore, you will be frankly exhorted to see it.
Our weapon invariably will be the rapier rather than the cudgel. In preference to mauling the carcass of some poor vaudeville act with abuse, the attack will be made, as far. as is possible, by thrusting it with the swift, sharp prongs of wit. Any tendency to be clever at the expense of charity will be scrupulously avoided. Superciliousness, too, ill becomes a column of this kind, and hence it will be diligently shunned. Following the foregoing principles, we hope that the criticisms will be popular. Our goal is to have these reviews read with the same thrill as accompanied that famous initial peek into Chapman’s “Homer.”
So far this year there have been several
fairly good moving pictures shown in South Bend, the most important of them being “The Sea Hawk,” with Milton Sills in the leading role. If this picture does not stir the Captain Kidd spirit in you, you are hopelessly unemotional. “The Sea Hawk” is one of the real classics of the screen, and admission to see it is a good investment in entertainment. Lloyd Hamilton and Larry Semon, respectively, blossomed forth at the Palace in two feature-length comedies that very effectively tickled the risibilities of the assembled multitudes. Thomas Meighan, too, deserted the role of the Rising Young District Attorney to play in Oliver Curwood’s “The Alaskan” at the Blackstone last week. The previous week found Mary Pickford stopping over at this theatre for a brief engagement in the resurrected “Tess of the Storm Country.” Her performance was typically Cleveland the picture provided good entertainment, even for those who had seen it before.
In the vaudeville sector comparative quiet has reigned so far this season. To date the best acts on the Palace program have probably been the performances of Miss Bobbie Adams, a good singer of jazz songs, La Ber-nicia, an excellent classical dancer, and a good offering by the famous team of Willie and Eugene Howard.
This concludes our rather brief summary of the theatrical situation up to the present. On the horizon are many noteworthy shows which soon will come for brief engagements in South Bend, the reports of which we are eager to issue to our more or less eager following.
18	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A FLOWER OF VENICE -
R. E. LIGHTFOOT
ON THE page of an open book that lies on the desk before me, there is a withered rose. Its pedals were once crimson and fresh, but now, they are saffron, and dry, and crushed. Its pristine fragrance is gone, but it still retains a faint odour. Its delicate odour may in time die, yet the remembrance of the old Venestian flower woman who sold it to me will never die.
“Why keep a rose bought from an old flower woman?” you might ask. But that is the story.
The great war had been over two years, and carrying out a resolution made while with the American Expeditionary Forces to. return to Italy some time, I found myself one day sitting languidly on the steps of an old quay on the Grand Canal in Venice.
The sky was a deep cerulean blue. Wisps of gauze-like clouds brightened by the sunlight, floated out over the sea. Innumerable sails of small boats glinted on the horizon. Through the canal below there glided graceful gondolas, fishing smacks and many other small boats of various descriptions. From the steps of a quay on the other side of the canal I could hear the soft strains of a harp and violin. The windows and balustrades that lined the canal, were bowered with the gayest of flowers. From out in the bay in a fisherman’s boat I could hear some undiscovered Caruso singing.
Nature was in a prodigal mood that day, and it seemed that the hearts of all Venetians were attuned to her mood.
As I sat idly on the steps of the quay steeping my senses in the beauty about me, my eye wandered to an old woman who was selling flowers from a cart near an old fountain which was but a few yards from me. There was a small group of children playing about the fountain. To me there was in the scene a sharp contrast between childhood and old age.
“My roses are the most beautiful in Venice,” I heard the old woman say to some passing tourists, as she pointed to her flower laden cart.
I recalled that commonly, in such instances, such advertisements are meant only
for the gullible tourist. Butl had heard the words “My roses are the most beautiful in Venice,” so many times during the afternoon, my curiosity was piqued. I turned to an old man who sat on the steps near me and asked him if what the old woman said about her flowers was true, and he avowed with al-■ most a tone of reverence in his voice, that her roses were the most beautiful in all Venice.
I soon found myself sauntering toward the flower cart.
“Will the signor buy my roses? They are the most beautiful in all Venice, signor,” were the inevitable words that fell on my ears.
The old woman was attired in black, and a shawl, also black, was thrown about her shoulders. Her face was bronzed, and lined with inumerable wrinkles. Her hands were gnarled and toil worn. As I stood contemplating her, she reminded me of a picture of an old woman, by Rembrandt, I had seen somewhere. She seemed to symbolize age.
“Will the signor buy my flowers?,” she queried again as she stood smiling at me, with what I thought was a very mercenary smile.
“Yes,” I replied, “just one for my boutonniere.” Whereupon she cut short the stem of one of the most beautiful roses I had ever seen, and placed it in the lapel of my coat.
“Gracias, gracias, you are kind, signor,” she exclaimed as I told her to keep the bit of change that was due. Despite the fact that she was selling flowers, it seemed to me that her smile was too tender to be actuated by a love for money. I had never seen, I thought, an old woman with such a radiant personality.
The roses in her cart so surpassed any I had ever seen that I wondered what her secret in raising them might be. “Why are your roses the most beautiful in Venice?” I finally asked her.
She did not answer, but stood gazing out toward the sea. The beaming smile had gone from her face, and what seemed a smile of sadness lingered there. She turned to her cart and began to busy herself with her roses. I felt sure that I saw her put her handkerchief to her eyes as she stood with her back to me.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
As she turned toward me again a wan smile hovered about her eyes. Only a deep sorrow could have engendered that expression, I thought. But it was soon dissipated like flakes of snow struck by the warm sunlight.
“The Virgin made my roses as they are, signor,” was her reply to my question.
“The Virgin?” I repeated.
“Yes, signor, my roses were not so beautiful when my Pedro marched away to fight for the king many years ago.”
“Your husband was a soldier?”
“Yes, signor, and a very brave one. He never came back. He died fighting for the king.”
There was a tremor in the old woman’s voice, and thinking that I had opened an old sore, I started to move slowly away, but she continued, seemingly anxious to tell her story.
“It was my Pedro that planted the roses in a box in our little court yard, signor. And it was in that little court yard that my three little boys used to play until they too marched away to fight for the king one day when the Great War came.” She paused for an instant, fingering the end of her shawl nervously. Her face suddenly gleamed again and she continued with a note of pride in her voice. “They were also handsome in their uniforms, signor. The king himself would have been proud of my little boys, signor.”
“But your rose and the Virgin?” I asked, wishing to divert her mind from what I knew was very painful.
“Ah yes, signor, I have not forgotten. Every day after my little boys marched away I went to the cathedral and prayed to the Virgin for her to bring them back to me. But they never came back, signor. And then one day a soldier came to tell me that two of
my little boys had been killed in his regiment. But no one came to tell me about my Angelo, my youngest little boy, signor. And then war ended. But my little Angelo did not come back. He died fighting for the king, signor.”
She was again toying with her roses, and I still wondered if she remembered my question. But she continued.
“One morning after the war was over signor, I was trimming my roses in the court yard where my little boys used to play, and I noticed a little rose about to bloom which was not like the other roses. And a few days later, signor: I went back to pour some water in the box, and there on the bush where the roses had bloomed when my little boys used to play in the court yard, was the most beautiful rose I had ever seen. It was not even colored like the others, signor. It was a deeper red, and so beautiful signor. And before long many people came to see it, and they all said that it was the most beautiful in all Venice. Then I clipped some stems from the bush and planted them. And that is why I have these,” she told me as she pointed proudly toward the flower cart.
“But why do you think that rose happened to grow in your court yard?” I questioned.
“The Virgin sent it to me” was her ready reply.	■
“And why do you think the Virgin made it grow in the court yard?” I continued.
Wrinkles gathered about her eyes in a tender smile I shall never forget.
“Because, signor, it was in the court yard that my little boys used to play.”
A few minutes later as I strode along the quay toward my hotel I could still hear the old woman saying to passers-by, “My roses are the most beautiful in Venice,” and to my mind there was no doubt that they were.
SHADOWS
SHE saw Him making crosses from the wood His foster-father had but thrown away.
It hurt her, and she wondered why it should—
He caught her hands, and lost her thoughts in play.
—ANTHONY SHEA.
20	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BOOK LEAVES
JOSEPH P. BURKE ’25
I
In a review of “The Morals of Newspaper Making,” by Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C. S. C., a reviewer in The Catholic World says that it supplies the needed moral training for our journalistic forces. “There is not a preachy word in these pages,” the review continues. Their high purpose is not defeated by visionary idealism, but is rather achieved and driven home with gripping force by an intimate sense of .the everyday, workshop atmosphere of the newspaper office.” The book is published by the University Press.
Ginn and Company have brought out “Selection from the Latin Fathers,” by Rev. Peter Hebert, C. S. C. The book is intended for classroom work and is supplied with a Preface by George N. Shuster.
During the Summer appeared for the first time a new weekly literary magazine called The Saturday Review of Literature whose editor is Dr. Henry Seidel Canby, Professoor of English at Yale and late editor of the Literary Review of the New York Evening' Post. Collaborating with Dr. Canby in the publication of this new project are William Rose Benet and Amy Loverman, as associate editors, and Christopher Morley, as contributing editor.
" * « #
“The Dark Cloud” is the name of the sec. ond novel from the pen of Thomas Boyd. The author , of “Through the Wheat” has selected a period from early America as the setting for his new work.
Joseph Conrad’s “The Nature of a Crime,” written many years ago in association with
Ford Maddox Hueffer, his friend and literary adviser, has been brought out in a new edition. This work belongs to Conrad’s richest creative period—the period of “Lord Jim,” “Romance,” and “Typhoon.”	.
To students of Shelly the publication of a history of the famous Cenci family is certain to be of interest. Corrado Ricci, former Minister of Fine Aits for the Italian government, has taken five years to gather together the material for his two volumes. It is claimed that he has done his work with the conscientious thoroughness of a real historian. “Beatrice Cenci” is generously illustrated.
“How is Your Heart?” That is the question to ask yourself at the nineteenth hole, or at the 27th dance, or after the last course of a big dinner. Dr. S. Calvin* Smith’s book on the subject is written, not in incomprehensible medical jargon, but in bright, cheerful, companionable everyman’s language by one of the country’s authorities on the heart.
❖ $ # $ $
A second series of “These United States” has appeared. “Bitingly honest and thorough in every detail (say the publishers) are these chapters-on various states in the Union.” They are written by twenty-seven native sons and daughters, including Willa Cather, Theodore Dreiser and Sinclair Lewis.
“Deceit” by Barklie McKee Henry, formerly on the staff of the Harvard Lampoon, is another “college” story. The Spring-field Republican estimates the book as “a worldly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
wise story, yet one that does not leave the reader disgusted with the characters.”
❖	3=	$ *
The play that many regard as the gayest .satire at present on the New York boards, “Beggar on Horseback” by George S. Kaufman and Marc Connelly, is now available in book form to the many people who enjoyed the theatrical production.
“The Anthology of Pure Poetry” is an October publication of Boni & Liveright. It is edited, with an introduction, by George Moore. It is explained that to the compiler “pure poetry meant something the poet creates outside of his own personality, objective poetry in relation to the external world.”
Voltaire wrote in an introduction to his “Dictionaire Philosophique: “It is only really by enlightened people that this book can be read; the ordinary man is not made for such knowledge; philosophy will never be his lot.” But times have changed since Voltaire’s day and Alfred A. Knopf has had the hardihood to publish a translation of Voltaire’s work. The translator is H. I. Woolf.
“The Story of the World’s Literature” by John Macy, with sixteen full-page half-tone illustrations, is on the Fall list of Boni and Liveright. The author “endeavors to trace in human terms the plot of the great intellectual story of mankind as it can be traced in the records left to us through literature.”
Maple Valley, Iowa, in the year 1897,
when the Countess (nee Poore) returns from her European adventures to the growing city of her birth—such is the situation at the opening of Carl Van Vechten’s latest,. “The Tattooed Countess.”
There has lately appeared a reprint of Laf-cadio Hearn’s inimitable collection of fairy tales from Nippon, “Japanese Fairy Tales.” The volume has a new format and is illustrated in color by Gertrude A. Kay.
In Joseph Hergesheimer’s new novel, “Balisand,” his first in several years, we are presented with a story of the Virginia of Washington and Jefferson.
“Guilt” by Henry James Forman is said to be an excellent mystery story, with a new twist at every turn, pivoting around a New York murder.
>>
The literature of New Orleans has received another contribution with the publication of “Creole Sketches” written by Laf-cadio Hearn for The Item during 1878-81. It will be interesting to compare his work with that of our contemporary columnists.
❖	* * * #
An interesting piece of news is that Reading Goal, the prison made famous through Oscar Wilde’s “The Ballad of Reading Goal,” is to be torn down to make room for modern flats. Wilde’s “De Profundis” was also written within the walls of this prison.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS
MUSIC at Notre Dame has begun lately to come into more prominence than ever before. In the past music and musical organizations have been somewhat neglected; so it is a real pleasure now to notice the increasing interest being shown in the Glee Club, the Orchestra, and the Band. Last year the three clubs made wonderful progress, but this Fall shows a remarkable improvement over the first of last year, and everything seems in order this year for a more interesting and ambitious musical program at Notre Dame than ever attempted before.
Since the advent of Dr. J. Lewis Browne, of Chicago, in the Fall of 1923, the Glee Club has steadily been growing in prominence and reputation. In the opinion of those critics who heard our Chicago concert last Spring Notre Dame now possesses one of the finest clubs in the Middle West. Dr. Browne is continuing as director of the Club, with Joe Casasanta as assistant.
Just before its June dance the Glee Club elected its officers for this year. Francis Howland ■wall serve as president; George Ward, vice-president, and Victor Lemmer as business manager. The officers are very well pleased with the response from the student body for the first try-outs, and at present there are about seventy-five men rehearsing- under the two directors. Of this number, about forty will be carried throughout the year.
The possibility of substituting the Glee Club for the choir from the Seminary for Masses on Sunday is being considered, but it is not certain just what decision will be made.
It is the intention of Dr. Browne and the officers of the Club to book concerts in some of the large cities of the middle West, as separate week-end trips, independent of the long tour to be taken during the Easter vacation. । Father McNamara ,in Chicago, was so well pleased with the concert given by the Club there in the Spring that he has arranged for another concert there this year. Also the Cleveland Alumni of the University have signified their intention of bringing the Club back again this year for a concert.
Work has commenced on an entirely new program which the Club will sing this year.
The Notre Dame Band played for the first time this year at the rally and pep meetingin the Gym October 2. The official opening of its season was made Saturday afternoon, when the Band appeared in uniform on the field before the Lombard game. The Band will be limited to sixty members though more than this number are rehearsing now. A feature of the Band this year is a Drum Corps, composed of six drums, which will make appearances separate from the main organization. Joseph Casasanta is the director of both the Band and the Drum Corps.
The Orchestra has started out on what promises to be its first big year under Dr. Browne’s direction. There are about forty members in the organization. Several innovations are being planned for the season. Among these is the formation of a Junior orchestra which will travel with the main body, but will feature popular music. Two trips are being worked by the officers, and both groups will make the tours.
Of exceptional interest is the fact that a series of concerts is being planned to be held in Washington Hall at regular intervals throughout the year. This idea is a new one on the campus and will doubtless be followed with great interest. The following officers were elected at the beginning of the year: Jay Masenich, president; Walter Houppert, vice-president; and John O’Donnell, business manager.
Probably the first appearance of one of the organizations away from the campus will be at the Wisconsin game, when the Band will accompany the team and students making the Madison trip.
No definite plans have been made as to the appearances of any of the organizations on their long tours, but as soon as they are formulated they will be announced by the officers of the respective clubs.
EX-FOOTBALL STAR WEDS
Friends of Danny Coughlin, ’22, famous halfback and basketball player, will be interested in the announcement of his marriage on Monday, September twenty-second, to Miss Mary Elizabeth Blackwood of Duluth, Minnesota.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
VILLAGERS BANQUET OCT. 14.
Father Hugh O’Donnell and Father Hol-derith will be the leading speakers at the first dinner meeting of the Notre Dame Villagers. The meeting is to be held October the 14th, in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. The dinner will be served at six-thirty o’clock. Reservations can be made with: Henry McNabb, Peter Abel, Joseph Braunsdorf, Jerome De Clerq, Samuel Jennings, and William Reasor.
Membership in the Villagers is open for all Notre Dame men whose homes are in South Bend. New members are urged to attend this first meeting as special plans have been made for their reception into the club.
October the 17th has been set as a tentative date for the club’s first dance. All Notre Dame men are invited to attend.
President Hagerty has appointed the following committees:
Executive Committee—Geo. Farage, chairman, Samuel Jennings, Claude Carson, John Nyikos.
Finance Committee—Joseph P. Miller, chairman, Chas. Glueckert, Lloyd Schroff, John Stoeckley.
Ticket Committee—Arthur Scheer, chairman, Thomas Hogan, Chas. Baumgartner, Michael Nyikos.
Dance Committee—Edmund De Clercq, chairman, Earnest Wilhelm, Edward Alher-ing, Seymour Weisberger.
Music Committee—Fred House, chairman, Alvin Hans, Edmund Luther, Clarence Harding, Wilford Walz.
Reception Committee—Daniel Kelly, chairman, Lewis Murphy, Peter J. Abel, Paul Jackson, Walter Condon, William Reasor, Leo Reider and Lester Wolf.
Decoration Committee—Sylvester Tabers-ki, chairman, John Prince, Howard Scanlan, Alvin Travis.
Entertainment Committee — Chairman, Benjamin Hersh, Carl Kemps, Paul Benitz, Francis Edgar Cody.
Publicity Committee — Henry McNabb, chairman, Harold Shanafeld, Paul Butler, Alvin Hans.
Membership Committee—William Braunsdorf, chairman, Earl Rex, Joseph Hogan, Dale Kuhns, Wilbert Roberts.!
SCHOLARSHIP DANCE MONDAY
With the memories of the first Scholarship Dance yet alive there comes the announcement of a “bigger and better” Scholarship Dance to be given this coming Monday, October 13, at the Palais Royale.
Feeling that the success of the first dance on Sept. 26 was a favorable indication the officers of the Club have made extensive plans for this dance of Monday night. The Music Masters 9-piece Orchestra will take the Palais Royale stage. The spaciousness of the ballroom will accommodate the large number of dancers expected. Invitations have been issued to an exceptionally large number of girls this time and the affair promises to be socially worth-while.
The Scholarship Club composed of South Bend women, gives these dances for a dual purpose. They serve to introduce Notre Dame men to the better sort of South Bend girls and they also finance worthy students at the University.
This year’s introductory dance was held at the Oliver. It proved to be popular to the point of being crowded. It was colorful, however, and included many new faces in the dancing throng.
The officers of the Scholarship Club are Mrs. D. L. Guilfoyle, president; Mrs. John Worden, vice-president; Mrs. J. M. Cooney, 2nd vice-president; Mrs. Helman, secretary; and Mrs. H. J. Weber, treasurer.
Tickets for the Monday night dance may be purchased either on the campus or at the door of the Palais Royale.
NEWS OF ST. JOSEPH HOSPITAL
Five students are confined in Saint Joseph’s Hospital in South Bend. Dortheas Meinert of Freshman Hall and George Sullivan of Walsh were operated on last week for appendicitis and are progressing rapidly according to Doctor Powers, the University physician. George Housely had his nose broken in football practice: while Thomas
i •
Ruckelhaus sustained'an injury to his leg. George Meredith is also confined with an injury received in football practice.
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
1
SPORTS
I
One Down, Eight to Go
“ROCK”
The performance of the team in the last three periods of the game, Saturday, promises much for a most successful season. The slogan is “Win every game.” A splendid start has been made and the Rockne machine is going forward to do what every Notre Dame team has tried to do, complete a season unmarred by defeat.
The debut has been made. The schedule is before them. It is a hard one, but the N. D. man is a hard fighter. The rough edges have been taken off the players who took part in the first game. Many substitutes were put in by Rockne. This first experience will be the basis for the start in ensuing-games.
Don Miller running behind perfect interference scored the first touchdown of the season in Saturday’s game. He showed inimitable form. Cemey, Crowley and Connell also came through with touchdowns. O’Boyle, a newcomer, showed splendid stuff in the last quarter. He has a big future. Adam Walsh, Notre Dame’s fighting captain, starred as has been his habit these last two years. He opened up large gaps in the offense making way for big gains through center. Again he was to the fore in the tackling.
Newspaper men called the game listless and languid. It was in many places. Notre Dame suffered from penalties. They hurt especially when long runs by the backs were thus sacrificed. That eagerness to go ahead before the ball is in motion will be taken out of the men before the crucial tests, the big games of the season. The Wabash game next Saturday will show an improvement in the various sections in which Notre Dame weakened at times last week.
THE NOTRE D'AME SCHOLASTIC	25
COMING OPPONENTS	NEWSPAPER COMMENTS
Nebraska played a good game against Illinois Saturday. The latter team should consider itself lucky to leave Lincoln without a defeat. Nebraska scored first in the game, the touchdown in the first period. Illinois tallied in the second quarter. It was the aerial attack opened by Illinois in the second quarter that swept the big Nebraskans .off their feet and saved the day for Illinois.
.	—o—
Princeton defeated Amherst by a score of 40 to 6. The Massachusetts school was too easy for the team that Notre Dame will oppose October 25.
—o—
The Army was superior to St. Louis University, last Saturday, 'winning from them by a 17-0 score. St. Louis made but two first downs during the contest. Two touchdowns, goals after touchdowns and a field goal made up the Army’s 17 points.
—o—
Northwestern scored a 28-0 victory over the husky South Dakotans Saturday. Baker of the Chicagoans lived up to his reputation as a triple threat man.
—o—
Wisconsin, coming through in the last half of its game against Ames, last Saturday, defeated the latter team, 17-0. Ames swamped Coach Ryan’s team in ground gained but could not score. Runs and plunges scored the touchdowns for the Badgers.
—o—	.
Georgia Tech defeated Virginia Military Institute last Saturday afternoon by a field goal. The game was hard fought and the three points decided the winner.
Carnegie Tech defeated Thiel, 22-0. The Pittsburghers played a hard, fast game, i
—o—	.	!
“Rock” doesn’t say much but there isn’t anyone on the campus who doubts that he has one of the best lines in the world.
Chicago Tribune—Notre Dame was too husky for Lombard winning in four quarters of listless play. Sensational runs, ranging from 25 to 60 yards, added a dash of-color to the contest at various stages and were responsible for the majority of Notre Dame’s points. Lombard was practically helpless after the injury to Captain Lamb.
Chicago Herald and Examiner—Rockne’s football athletes overwhelmed Lombard. The game was languid throughout with the exception of a brilliant run now and then in the last half. Lombard had the Notre Dame second string in an embarrasing position in the first period necessitating the entrance of the Varsity team with Captain Adam Walsh. Notre Dame was placed in bad holes in the third period when the first string men were withdrawn and were compelled to resort to the overhead play. Lamb, around whom Lombard’s defense was centered, succeeded in breaking away a number of times for small gains and was making headway against both Varsity and reserves up to the time of his being injured.
—o—
South ] Bend Tribune—Notre Dame beat Lombar^ with ease in the opener of season. Ragged line play on the part of the Irish and sensational runs at various stages of the game were the outstanding features. Lombard tried an early aerial attack but netted few yards on each pass. The Lombard team appeared helpless and unable to cope with the aggressiveness of the Irish offense after Captain Lamb was removed due to the injury he received. A galaxy cf men were used by Rockne who substituted at random during the last quarter. Scouts from Notre Dame’s opponents watched slip-ups of the game and it was evident that they were well satisfied with the outlook. Notre Dame was penalized at critical times, although the Irish were capable of staving off any disastrous results. Rockne will be without much support for his varsity line combination. The leaders for the reserve positions at present are not the aggressive type of forwards preferable to Rockne, as'was demonstrated in the playing.	-
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
South Bend News-Times—Notre Dame beat Lombard playing a conservative brand of straight football. After the passing of the first quarter the fighting Irish let loose with irresistable drive registering two touchdowns in each of the next three periods. Lombard put up an admirable game but suffered a great loss in the injury to Captain Lamb. Don Miller was to the fore stepping to the limelight with his brilliant open field running. The spectacular element entered into the game with the 57 yard run of Connell for a touchdown. O’Boyle featured in the last quarter. Despite the loss of their captain the scarlet gridders never let up in their defense against the N. D. attack. Notre Dame’s first appearance of the season drew the unstinted admiration of the spectators lining the field.
—o—
Chicago American—There is more than hope in the breasts of Notre Dame football enthusiasts. There is a feeling of supreme confidence. They think nothing is impossible where Knute Rockne, one of the games greatest coaches, is concerned. He has done such tremendous things in the past that he has carved himself an undying niche in the hearts of all at the Indiana institution.
FROM THE STANDS
Johnnie Weibel was right there all the time looking for fumbles. Twice was he fooled by a rolling headgear. But Johnnie also functioned when it came to stopping line plunges.
—o—
Those penalties kind of hurt, but each time the boys came through with a big gain after the cancellation of yardage.
—o—
The student body gave the Lombard men a good reception when they came on the field both at the beginning of the game and again at the half. That’s the stuff, fellows.
—o—
Good playing was appreciated by the stands. Both Lombard and N. D. players received a good “hand” when a play deserved praise.
The team that beat Marquette the week
before was unable to do a thing against Rockne trained men. They did start off well on the first play but although threatening for a time, their offense failed against the Blue and Gold team.
—o—
Lombard played to the last man. In the fourth quarter the last reserve was put in to the game.
—o—
That perfect flip of Cerney’s when he went over the line for the fifth touchdown was the subject of much comment by spectators. Someone lifted him clear off the ground in attempting to stop him but the N. D. man just “flew” over the line.
—o—	’
At the beginning of the third quarter there was a general passing of that fumbled punt dropped by an N. D. man. The pigskin just rolled from one hand to another, being muffed by three or four Lombard men before one of the red-shirted men finally fell on top of it.
—o—
Adam Walsh, the gritty captain of the Irish, sure played a “whale of a game.” Adam was there when it came to spilling the enemy and he sure did pile through Lombard on center rushes.
—o—
O’Boyle did some pretty kicking and the way he tore down the field on the long runs was the color of the game.
—o—
Layden played a good game at fullback and his toe was true when it came to tagging on the extra points after the touchdowns.
IRISH TERRIER JOINS IRISH
Tipperary Terrence II, a thoroughbred Irish terrier, joined the Notre Dame football squad today to fill the mascot post left'vacant by the death of Tipperary Terrence, who was killed in an automobile accident last Spring. The new fortune bearer, like his predecessor, was presented to the squad by the Toledo Club of the university and was formerly a resident of a noted kennel in Toledo. He will journey eastward next month to make the acquaintance of the army mule and pay a visit to Jungletown.
*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	27
STUDENT TICKET SALE	SORIN SPRINGS SENSATION
There will be plenty of student tickets for all games. Reservations have been made for student tickets for the Nebraska and Georgia Tech games and a block of 500 tickets is being held for the game at Madison, Wisconsin. The latter tickets will be in the hands of the S. A. C. and will be on sale after October 15.
Any student found scalping tickets will suffer expulsion from the University.
Three thousand seats are being held for both the Nebraska and Georgia Tech games.
Dates for exchanging numbered stubs for reserved seats will be posted on bulletins on different parts of the campus in time enough Tor all to make the exchange.
The center section will be reserved for Freshmen only. These men form the nucleus of the cheering section. Freshmen are not allowed to buy a seat with their ticket.
For out of town games apply at office for tickets.
For the Wabash game, as at the Lombard game, students need present only their season coupon book. This book must be presented intact. Stubs torn from the book will not be accepted. For these two games the entire East stand will be open for students.
INTERHALL RACE IS ON
The Inter-Hall race for supremacy in football is under way. The first games of the season were played Sunday when Sorin defeated Corby and Freshman and Carroll played to a tie. The game played by Walsh against Culver academy necessitated the postponing of the scheduled game between the Day Dodgers and Walsh. The Sophomore and Brownson teams played away from home Sunday. They were scheduled to meet on Brownson field Sunday afternoon. This game will be played at a later date.
BROWNSON DEFEATS GOSHEN ELKS
Brownson Hall team journeyed to Goshen, Sunday afternoon, and defeated the Goshen Elks 13-7. A touchdown in the last 30 seconds of play gave the game to Brownson.
Breaking a jinx of long standing, Sorin hall sprung the sensation of the interhall season by defeating Corby’s eleven 6-0. A number of ex-Badin stars featured the game. McNamee, speedy Sorin end, proved the hero of the occasion, his long run for a touchdown on a recovered Corby fumble accounting for the only score of the game.
Both sides report consistent outplaying of each other. The battle, from rumor, must have resembled the more hectic days before Troy. When mortal means of achieving desired ends were weakening, it is alleged that the gods, in the form of the timekeeper and the linesmen, intervened. One Corby fan reported that Haecker, center on the Sorin squad, found it difficult to understand the < signals of quarterback McGuire, with the result that Charlie Mouch often made a long run on a pass that should have gone to McCarron. But tossing all such vague rumors aside as any impartial editor should, no one in Corby can see how Sorin broke the seventeen year spell. Perhaps the presence of Al Sommers, Gus Scallaro, Walt Metzger, and Ben Kesting in the line which held Corby scoreless is the answer. Maybe it lies in the speedy backfield. There may have been any number of reasons but it is so hard to get an impartial report.
Sorin	Corby
McNamee____________LE Graham
Sommers_________x._LT____________Conlon
Scallaro____________LG___________Hurley
Haecker____________ C________Celebreeze
Metzger_____________RG___________Guinon
Kesting____________RT___________McCurry
McTernen____________RE__________Purcell
McGuire_____________QB__________Fordhan
Mouch_______________LH___________Nyikos
McCarron_____RH Carey
Roth_______________FB_________Centlivre
Score by Periods:
Sorin_______________________ 0 0 6 0—6
Corby ______________________ 0 0 0 0—0
Substitution: Sorin: O’Neil for Roth. Officials: Referee, Lieb; Head linesman, Wallace ; Time keeper, McNamee.
<
1
li
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SOPHOMORE HALL WINS
Sophomore Hall defeated Huntington, a semi-pro team, Sunday, rolling up a total of 19 points and holding their opponents scoreless. The Sophomore team as a whole worked well, completely outclassing the Huntington boys. Hogan and Reidy made the touchdowns. Hogan, playing end, intercepted a pass and crossed the goal line. Reidy played right half back and plunged through the Huntington line time and again. He also did some good broken field running. The sophomore line, throughout the game, held well.
CULVER BEATS WALSH HALL
The Walsh Hall team was beaten by one touchdown in a game played with Culver Military academy at Culver, Saturday afternoon.' The battle through the first half was fairly even but during the latter half the superiority of the Cadets brought them the lone score. The scoring took place in the third quarter. The Cadets returned the Walsh kickoff and on successive bucks placed the ball in scoring position.
z— ~	~ "	—	\
BASEBALL
V-	—	—	—a
For the first time in the history of the school, fall baseball practice was held. Two weeks were spent in trying out new material. Coach Keogan is now able to get a line on the prospects for next spring. He announces prospects are good for the 1925 season. Captain Roger Nolan was out with his men each day.
Some of the new prospects who showed up well were: Besten and Ronay, who are out for the N. D. pitching staff; Murray, Wilson and McGhee, infield men; Ryan, for the position behind the bat, and Quinn, for the outfield. No more practice will be held before Spring. The idea of the Fall practice was to give Coach Keogan a chance to line up his next year’s prospects.
—o—
N. D.’s pitching ace of last season, Hugh Magevney, is back again but will be ineligible to play with the varsity baseball team. Hugh, now under contract with John McGraw of the New York Giants, was the big
man of the nine last Spring. He scored a. number of victories over strong conference and non-conference teams. He is back at the University to finish his studies.
TENNIS
V-	--- -------------
Frank Donovan was recently elected to the captaincy of the 1924 tennis team. Donovan, a junior, is from Detroit. Last year he won the Western Indoor tournament, was in the Big Ten semi-finals, won the Indiana State championship and with former Captain Centlivre, runners-up in the State doubles. The election of Donovan took place a few' weeks ago at a meeting of the tennis team.
A class B tournament for freshmen and men who failed to make their monograms last year is now under way. Some of the entries are already in their third and fourth rounds. Final eliminations wilLbe made this week.
It will be a great boxing team that represents the Blue and Gold this year. Under the training of Charlie .Springer, ninety aspirants for honors are beginning that hard task of getting into form for the crucial test, elimination.
Springer, the trainer who hails from Be-laire, Ohio, has held the light heavyweight championship at the University the past two years. He suffered defeat but once and that time at the' hands of Mulholland, amateur light heavy of the country, at the Indiana-Kentucky meet. He is a junior in the law course.
. Charlie announces that he has plenty of material for all classes. The men of last year’s team will have to work hard to hold their positions.	'
Classes are held each week, on Monday, Wednesday and Friday afternoons at the “gym.” Within the next few weeks the trainer expects to have his charges in form and ready to battle for the honor of representing Notre Dame.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CROSS COUNTRY
V	-	-	-	----
Forty men are out for the cross country team. Captain John Wendland has the men out six times a week doing their stuff. Included in the men trying out are about an equal number of freshmen and varsity men. Five men who distinguished themselves last year have been working out regularly each night. The new material looks good to Captain Wendland and he expects another successful season.
The first meet will be held here October 25 when Northwestern will be the visitors. The next week, November 1, “Homecoming,” Indiana will come here to compete with Notre Danie’s cross country men. The run will be made each week over a three-and-a-half mile course. Prospects are bright for a dual win.
PLAY
SMOKE
DRINK
POOL? CANDY? CIGARETTES? POP?
IF YOU DO—DROP IN

CARROLL REC.
University Candy Store Under Steps of Music Hall
SAGSTETTER & SARGENT
GOLF
A meeting of all candidates for the golf team was held last Thursday. Fr. Hugh O’Donnell, who started the movement at Notre Dame in the spring of last year, was present taking an active part. Both Freshmen and upper classmen were-present.
Many valuable freshmen who showed up well last year will be eligible for the Varsity team. All Varsity men of last year are back with the exception of James Corbett, who was graduated with the 1924 class.
The Varsity candidates are: George Ward, captain; Jack Adams, “Ty” Bulger, Joe Foglia, Joe DeLeo, Dan Harris, Ed Fitzpatrick, Harry McGuire, W. McCarron, V. Schneider, Bob Stone, Fred Link, R. McClure, John Shouse, H. Creviston, Joe Ro-buski, A. Diebold and John Devereux.
The candidates for the Freshman team include: R. Breslin, G. Brueckner, N. Seiden-sticker, J1. Moitedonico, H. Ruppel, H. Jean, C. Grathmoke, J. Sheedy, C. Totten, F. Shannon, H. McCabe, F. Schroeder, A. McKevitt, E. Shea, W. Hillerich and A. Gury.
ALL
THE NEWS THAT’S WORTH READING IS IN
THE SCHOLASTIC
SUBSCRIBE NOW!
$2.00 PER YEAR
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Office, Main 619.	Residence, Main 1162
DR. EDGAR S. LUCAS DENTISTRY
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS Extracting and Surgery of the Mouth and Jaws
612 J. M. S. BUILDING
COMING!
2 Hour 25 Piece Symphony Concert Blackstone—Oct. 20.
Himself
^Orchestra
PRICES—$1 to $2.50 Plug Tax
SEATS NOW!
Ticket Sale Exclusively at ELBEL BROS. MUSIC STORE 106 South Michigan Street
ELBEL BROS.
SWIMMING
V-	-.	■	—
About 70 men have signed up in both the beginners and advanced swimming classes. Tom Goss, senior in the foreign commerce course, is instructing the men. The boy guidance and physical .education students will be drilled in the fundamentals of swimming and Red Cross tests.
The students of the advanced class will be ’ taught how to instruct beginners., in water safety precautions, Red Cross life saving and will be given swimming tests for entrance into the N. S. I. A. Whoever pass the tests will be given master’s degrees in swimming. Those who don’t pass the tests will be given Red Cross certificates. The latter certificates will aid in securing positions as life savers and instructors.
There are some good prospects among the freshmen for the freshman swimming team. Try outs will be given and the best men will be selected for the team.
FRESHMAN HALL 7, CARROLL HALL 7
After a hard-fought battle the game, between Freshman and Carroll, Sunday morning on Practice field, ended in a tie. Both teams played hard. There were fumbles and loose plays on both sides, but for the first game the two hall teams played good ball. There were plenty of rooters on the side lines to cheer for their respective teams.
Big Butch DeVault of the Varsity squad played right tackle for the Freshman. The big student prefect of Freshman hall was a large factor in bucking the Carroll line.
Carroll kicked off to the Frosh. After about five minutes of play the latter scored the first touchdown and Purcell made the extra point. Penotte carried the ball over for the Freshmen. There was no more scoring in the game until the third period when Gus McDonald scored for Carroll after picking up a fumble. Lavelle kicked the goal.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
31
Not a hair out of place and not a single flake of dandruff. Big and strong also. Adonis had nothing on him.
You can gamble he doesn’t say a word about “Vaseline” Hair Tonic. But he uses it almost religiously. Nothing like it for mastering unruly hair and keeping the scalp healthy. Rub it in regularly and your hair will stay with you and look right. At all drug stores and student barber shops.
Every "Vaseline” product is recommended everywhere because of its absolute purity and effectiveness. Vaseline
REG U.S PAT.OFF.
HAIR TONIC For the Health and Appearance of the Hair
Chesebrough Mfg. Company (Cons’d) State Street	New York
WRIGLEYS
After Every Meal
It’s the longest-lasting confection you can buy —and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser
ROCKNE DESCRIBES GREATEST PLAY
Knute Rockne describes, “the greatest football play I ever saiv.”
Coach Rockne says the most intelligently executed play he ever witnessed was the one by which Notre Dame snatched victory from defeat against Indiana university in Indianapolis in 1920.
With the score 10 to 7 in favor of Indiana, less than 60 seconds to play, Notre Dame’s ball oh fourth down and one yard from the Indiana goal line, such was the setting for the play described by Rockne as follows :
“Joe Brandy, Notre Dame’s quarterback, ' called for a quarterback sneak play whereupon George Gipp, left halfback, turned his face away from the crouching Indiana line and cried out in a loud voice:
“ ‘Wait a minute, Joe; my headgear’s caught and I can’t get my breath. Wait till I pull it off.’
“As Gipp proceeded to remove his headgear the Indiana players relaxed and raised their eyes to watch him.	■
“Brandy, standing about a yard from the center, simulated a yawning and a sleepy man stretching out his arms.
“As Gipp finished the last word of the sentence, the center snapped the ball to Brandy and the whole Notre Dame line from end to end charged shoulder to shoulder against the Indiana players.
“Brandy held on to the ball, took two steps and fell forward for the winning touchdown.”
CollegeN Ie nWantedg
Make S10 to S25 a week extra. College men everywhere are pay in g their way by selling Fowler Shirts direct to wearer. Fine qual-	.
ity made to measure shirts, reasonably priced. Featuring collar attached white shirts in Oxford and Broadcloth Absolutely, guaranteed products that bring repeat orders and build a permanent c'ientele. Commission in advance. Sales Kitsf umished to men who mean business.
Wife at once FOWLER SHIRT CO.
9 East 45$ St. NewYbrk
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
The FLY-FRONT COAT
‘Broad shouldered, easy
hanging—their conservatism proclaims their smartness. Cut in lightweight and winter weight woolens in patterns approved by college men.
*3450 to M930
NAT LUXENBERG & bros. 841 Broadway, New York
WRITE FOR | ( EXHIBITION DATES ) k.---------------:
Our style memo, book sent free on request
Write Your Name with
SANFORD’S INK
It Will Last Forever
SANFORDS
Fountain Pen Ink
“The Ink that Made the Fountain Pen Possible’*
When you have occasion to buy merchandise, patronize those who advertise in “The Scholastic.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HO or
—.... - =\
BERGUS LUNCH
Meal Tickets at Ten Per Cent. Discount
. ONE THIRTY-FIVE NORTH MICHIGAN v .......	■ ■	.
College Inn Restaurant
The Cleanest Place in Town Prices Reasonable $5.50 MEAL TICKETS—$5.00
230 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET
Opposite' LaSalle Hotel
Where was “Bill” when the Lights Went Out?
When your brain feels rather fagged after an evening’s cramming over your books, you will find here an oasis of refreshments.
You will find every thing here from chilblains to laundrybags. Our meals are pleasing everybody.
The Varsity Supply Store was inaugurated for the purpose of filling the needs of college men.
All sport events received here daily by Radio.
VARSITY SUPPLY STORE
NORTH OF CARTIER FIELD : BACK OF SOPH. HALL
Cleaning - Pressing
Special Prices to N. D. Students
- Repairing
Suits Pressed While You Wait
SERVICE TAILOR SHOP
'	210 North Michigan Street
ST. EDWARD’S COLLEGE
. “The Notre Dame of the Southwest.”
Faculty, Spirit, Efficiency of Notre, Dame. College Courses: Classics, Letters, Philosophy, Commerce, Science, Pre-Medical, Pre-Legal, Engineering, Agriculture.
Preparatory School—Complete High School courses, of study.
Ideal climate all year.
Address: Rev. Dr. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., Pres.
- ‘ Box 97, A. M., Austin, Texas.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	33
IF OUR CLOTHES DON’T MAKE GOOD-WE WILL----
“ROYAL PARK”
TAILORED AT FASHION PARK
’‘Royal Park” is to be had in the season’s newest colors, the best of fabrics, and in the -smartest styles. All sizes.
MAX ADLER
COMPANY
Campus Store—Washington Hall
ON THE CORNER	MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON

34
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RIVALS THE BEAUTY
OF THE SCARLET TANAGER
Come on Class Work
Duofold’s Ready to Go The Black-tipped Lacquer-red Classic Handsome to Own—Hard to Lose Jewel-Smooth Point Guaranteed 25 Years ■p OR an even start this Fall with your classmates—a little ahead of some, and as well equipped as any—take along ' the $7 Over-size Duofold or $5 Lady Duofold or sturdy Duofold Jr.
Every theme you write, every test you take, every lecture you note down, will gain the speed and dearness of this 25-year jewel-smooth point.
A pen you can lend without a tremor because no style of writing can distort its point. The Pen with the Press-Button Filler, capped inside the barrel—out of sight—out of harm’s way. The pen with the Duo-Sleeve Cap—an extra sleeve for an Ink-Tight seal. Its strong ★Gold Girdle was $1 extra—now no charge, due to large production.
Whichever you say—flashing plain black—or lacquer-red, black-tipped— though we recommend the color, for it makes this a hard pen to lose. At all good pen counters.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY Manufacturers also of Parker Duofold Pencils to match the pen, $3.50 Factory and General Offices, J ANESVILLE.WIS.
Bed and Black
Color Combination
25 Star Amit
With ring for chatelaine
Pam
WHfc Dw«M4Jr.K Same except for size
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
The SACK SUIT (Two ad three button) Cut with that conservatism carefully dressed men demand, and tailored in appropriate, rich patterns that stamp them as distinctive.
to M250
natLUXENBERG o’bros. 841 Broadway, New York
] WRITE FOR t V EXHIBITION DATES (
Our sty ie memo. book sent free on request