Beg .X )i 11 ■ Union
It's RUSS MORGAN’S top Decca Record!
K. J. Bewokls Tobncco Co.. Winston-Salem, N. C
C^Mft
And here’s another great retard
aws
It’s Morgan at his best... sweet swing at its best... in this new Decca platter, When it comes to cigarettes, Russ says in his typical Morgan Manner; “Camels suit my ‘T-Zone’ to a ‘T.’ ” Millions of smokers agree with Russ about Camels. More people are smoking Camels than ever before.
Try Camels on your “T-Zone”— Find out for yourself why, with smokers who have tried and compared, Camels are the “choice of experience.”
CAMELS
are my ■favorite
cigarette.!
than ewr before UtsS
LETTERS
LEAGUE OF DISPLACED PERSONS
Dear Editor:
Thanks be to heaven that Mr. Stock, at the end of his column in last week’s Scholastic, can see all the humor in the deal the sophomores got in regard to the room situation for next year.
Let it be known that Mr. Stock and his roommate for next year are jammed into a lousy room in the front of Alumni, which after all is within walking distance of the dining hall and those wonderful meals. Now if Mr. Stock’s remark means, in his sly brand of humor, that he is dissatisfied with his room, I’ll trade him.
Since my average was too low to swing a good room, and yet it was too high to enable my roommate and me to ' get a room together in Lyons or Morrissey which were finally opened to the juniors of next year, I ended up on the second floor of Cavanaugh, and the roommate of my choice will be on the fourth.
Now if Mr. Stock wants a bit of real humor, he should see the room I got for next year. It isn’t a forced double; it was just plain forced into the hall
Don’t get me wrong, I’m not complaining. I really like the east side of the campus with its long walks to all points worth going to, but my mother thinks that Alumni and Dillon are such nice halls and would like to have her son live there. I love my mother, and want to see her happy.
Maybe we can work this our senior year. How about it, Class of ’50?
Bill Eggers
206 Zahm
P.S.: If James Burke, who will also live in 249 Cavanaugh was wondering who his roommate for next year would be — it’s me. HI, JIM!
For your information Humorist Stock u’as so hilariously vehement in his ribbing of the too-funny room fozil-up that his copy had to be- laughingly slashed. Oh but it was funny!—Editor.
LET ANCIENT HISTORY DO IT
Dear Editor:
Your editor’s suggestion of the use of German and other nationalities in the armed services sounds much like the program that the Roman Empire tried in its dying days. In time of need this policy showed the weakness of a nation not willing to make sacrifices, but rathei-intent on enjoying the luxuries of the day and letting someone else pull out the chestnuts.
In these days when two ideologies are
The CLYDE Style 2603
The CAMPUS Style 2645
other styles
$9.95-$11.95
It’s the folk of every campus!
THE NEW, ALL-AMERICAN
AS SEEN IN DOUGLAS
* "" w
They look rugged ... they are rugged. Note their bold, triple soles . . . their bold heavy metal eyelets . . . their bold stitching and notched welts! Buy a pair of "Supersonics” today!
$
$
iff / 1 j
jDouq&H Skoet
W. L. DOUGLAS/SHOE CO.,BROCKTON IS, MASS.
210 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
3
contesting for the world’s approval and when a war’s outcome is likely to be settled in the first few weeks, (i.e. France, 1940) it is- imperative that a country like ours be prepared. There will be no year or two to prepare when the first blow strikes, in spite of all patriotic zeal.
Charles Dodge
Off Campus
Dear Editor:
It was with mingled emotions of amusement and disgust that I read from the Scholastic issue of April 9, 1948, the editorial “Let Jerry Do It.”
Failing to see any subtlety in “Let Jerry Do It,” I am inclined to believe that the composer was a military genius who had been permitted to look into the future. At any event, he certainly hasn’t looked very deeply into the era of Roman history during the third and fourth centuries — or even into the era of very modern European history. Yes —“Let Jerry Do It” like Rome let their Jerries do it, and be sure to “Let George Do It,” too—like Great Britain let their Georges do it at Trenton one Christmas eve-
Any presumably normal student wants to finish his studies in preference to learning, or relearning, to be a soldier, but it seems common sense that if one must be a soldier he can’t do it “ipso facto” any more than he can learn to fly a B-36 by playing hop-scotch on the walks around the quadrangle.
Certain parts of such editorials and columns such as “Let Jerry Do It” make much of the showing of the superb wit and vocabulary of the composer but do little else. On such questions as these, editorials and columns would do well to stick to facts and figures from the most authoritative governmental sources, which would be congruent with a crosssection of students’ opinions, instead of being a mouthpiece for personal opinions and pet ideas.
John A. Corrigan Morrissey Hall
Reader Corrigan should get his nose cut of those ancient history volumes, and start interpreting political and economic questions in the light of practical politics, not emotional thinking.—Editor.
THE NOTRE DAME WAY
Dear Editor:
The YCS gripe form enclosed in your latest issue will probably provide many hours of entertainment for the reading committee. Its effectiveness will undoubtedly end right there. What I would like to know is this: Will the committee throw the completed form in the wastepaper basket before reading or after? Or, if they are presented to a
University official, will he throw them in the basket before or after he reads them?
Responsible parties have in the past been informed of legitimate student complaints, and no action has been taken. The present poll will undoubtedly reveal (1) that the students are “fed up” with the poorly prepared food served in the dining halls, and (2) that the students believe modifications should be made in the disciplinary regulations. The Scholastic will run a big story on the results of the poll, no action will be taken to remedy the situation, and the student body will return next fall to find things just as they are now. The YCS committee will tell themselves that it was a good fight even if they did lose, and they will turn their efforts to other endeavors.
Lawrence D. Gilling
Walsh Hall
MR. INFALLIBLE
Dear Editor:
In last week’s Scholastic the picture of the piece of coal presented to the band on their recent tour east very plainly
“This dame must think I’m Dick Tracy! Nobody can resist delicious, clean tasting Dentyne Chewing Gum. Nobody can pass up that rich, long lasting flavor. She knows Dentyne helps keep teeth white and smiles bright. Yet I should find the guy who stole her Dentyne. If I could do that I'd be the D.A.!”
Dentyne Gum —Made Only By Adams J
gtaTioi
“It contained my car keys, $20 and a whole package of Dentyne Chewing Gum!”
says Shenandoah, Pa., and not Scranton. The coal is right, and the Scholastic, as usual, is wrong.
Lou Twardzik
Atta boy eagle-eyed Lou! You’ve discovered the error-of-the-week, and deserve the prize: first crack at the job of chief copy-reader. With your keen vision at the helm, Scholastic can be assured of regularly being right.—Editor.
"LADS! ! !”
Looking for a GOOD Pipe? ? ?
We have a representative selection of nationally known $5 to $10 Genuine Imported Briars with very slight imperfections selling for:
O4B9
Yes $1.89. The buy of a life-time! Come in and see this value yourself.
HansXrintzsch
Shop
138 N. Michigan
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867 itiiiiiinniiniiiiiitiiiiiiisiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiiiiuiniintiiiiiiiHiiiiniitiinniiHiniiiuiitiiitfitiiiiunniii
THE STAFF
’ JOHN A. O'CONNOR, Editor
Associate Editors EDWARD J. SNYDER JOSEPH A. DOYLE
JOSEPH WILCOX _____________________________________________ Features
PETER BROWN   Sports
SHAUN McDERMOTT  News
ROBERT T. STOCK __________________________________ Assistant News
JAMES FERSTEL ________________________________________ Photography
Editorial Associates HARRY MONAHAN	BUZZ WRIGHT	KEN THOREN
JOE HERRINGTON VIC DORR	GREG HALPIN
WILLIAM GORMAN __
JOHN CLARK ______ GEORGE KORHUMEL
B. T. KYSER JOHN S. BRENNAN _
______Librarian ______Circulation ______Circulation ______Advertising Faculty Moderator
iinttiiiiimHitiiiiiiiiitHiiiintiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiifiimniiiimiiiiiiniiiimiiiimiiiuiitimiiiimiiiiiiHn
'Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.

Don't Miss — In This Issue
NEWS	Page
CONVENTION—Gavel to Rap on Monday ______________ 9-10
ELECTIONS—Class Officers Elected May 13  11
OPINION POLL—Students Know Little of Situation .. 23
SPORTS
FOOTBALL—Pupil Versus the Masters, May 15  17
BASEBALL—Klin emen Drop First 3 Games __________ 19
TRACK—Spikesters Off to Des Moines  20
FEATURES
PROFS—Some Are Shiny Whistles, Others Clinkers _ 12
GIRLS—New Rochelle—Largest and Loveliest _______ 14-15
LOGIC—A Twist of the Wrist and a Milk Shake 18
COVER	-
Mike Hines demonstrates perfect political technique but Mary Beth Barry is not impressed. Photo by Jim Ferstel.
CALENDAR
APRIL 23
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, Phillip Sporn, president of the American Gas and Light Co., will address- Notre Dame engineering students. 7 p.m.
LAW BUILDING, YCS seminar on “Racial and Religious Tension in Our Society.” Prof. Louis Radelet will lead discussion. Room 108, at 7:15 p.m.
APRIL 25
GRANADA, The Fugitive, with Henry Fonda and Dolores Del Rio. From Graham Green’s quiet, hard-hitting The Labyrinthine Ways, this scenic motion picture captures a zealous priest’s flight across sweltering Mexico ahead of persecution’s hounds. Top bracket entertainment, especially with John Ford in the director’s chair. Companion feature, Where the North Begins, with Russell Hayden. The Moun-ties continue to bat 1.000.
STATE, Killer McCoy. Not a bad movie, though the story is old stuff. Mickey Rooney is confidently at home in the role of a scrappy Mick who crashes fistiana’s big time. Brian Donlevy is polished and Ann Blythe is plenty cute.
PALAIS ROYALE, dancing to Ted Gallagan’s orchestra.
APRIL 26
WASHINGTON HALL, Henry J. Taylor, of the Mutual Broadcasting System’s Your Land and Mine, will broadcast at 6:15 and hold an informal chat session following. ■
APRIL 28
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, Visual Merchandising Conference of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. Sponsored by the Marketing department of the College of Commerce. Runs all day, 8-5.
WASHINGTON HALL, Lecture by Dr. Arthur H. Compton, a Nobel Prize winner, on the subject, “Paths to Peace.”
APRIL 29
COLFAX, Duel in the Sun. It’s back again, this time without all the roadshow ballyhoo.
PALACE, The Senator Was Indiscreet, with dapper William Powell. Takes off on American party politics and Al-Cappish characters who kiss babies and promise good weather for northern Indiana in order to insure votes. All K. C.’s, class officers and political-minded campus wheels should take this one in. Companion feature, Driftwood, the story of a sophomore who is confused by the crystal-clear room-change policy inaugurated just recently.	.
STATE, Magic Toiun, with James Stewart and Jane Wyman. Companion feature, Rustler’s Valley. For this latter, patrons are requested not to indulge in the drinking of any intoxicating red-eye or tequilla before the performance and to check all firearms at the door.
APRIL 30
PROGRESS CLUB, Knights of Columbus Spring Formal, music by Myron Walz.
5
1
SCORNER'S SEAT
WJVA Fails In ’Cultcher' Bid;
Too Much Time Given to Drivel
By Joe Wilcox
HOUR AFTER HOUR
WJVA, South Bend’s newest radio station, insists on presenting a program of uninterrupted pap, week after week.
True to the letter
of its promise to present nothing but news and music to its listeners, WJVA plays endless hours of popular records. It feat u r e s practically every mooing crooner in captivity, some singing temp erature reports and time sig
nals (O my gosh and holy gee, the time is now exactly three) but, outside of half an hour on Sunday afternoon, I have
heard no serious music over its wave
length.
It seems to me that if a radio station purports to serve the public, it should attempt to please all tastes. Perhaps WJVA thinks it has paid its cursory debt to “cultcher” by scheduling its skimpy Sunday half hour, which conflicts, by poor program planning, with a similar half hour on WHOT, but at any rate it shows no design of playing anything the least bit “heavy” the rest of the week. It does offer, of a Sunday, some shopworn favorites from operetta and musical comedy, but generally it sticks to the bilge which comprises so much of popular music.
Certainly, WJVA should broadcast popular music, but the public taste also demands classical music. Here WJVA is remiss in its duty to South Bend. WHOT, which fails to air either the Detroit or Boston symphonies over its ABC outlet, is guilty in a lesser degree of the same offense. It does occasionally offer its own programs of classical recordings.
TRASH NOTES
I indicated above the state into which popular music has fallen. If there is, on the face of this unhappy earth, one profession which is grossly overpaid, it is that of penning popular tunes. The same themes, repeated time after time, consist, principally, of protestations of love, abysmal cries of lost love, angry get-thee-hence excoriations from double
crossed lovers, and gibberish tunes which pass under the name of “novelty numbers.” These last, which take hold of people like the black plague, flourish a few weeks, and disappear overnight, make their perpetrators wealthy and
EARCf AMERICAN TENNIS ■RULESCALLED TOR. EIGHT UMPIRES—1DDAX* HERE JU£ 15 OFFICIALS FOR, ASINSIEAIATCH/
...ONE UMPIRE,TEN LINESMEN,
ONE NET JUDGE,Two TOOT-FAULT Ounces AND A REFEREE Wo
JUST SETTLES DiSPUTES’....
TWINS OF THE COUNTS
BOTH THE DPER-5EM.ED WRIGHT&DITSON DAVlS CUP AND THE FIBER-WELDED SPALDING KRO’BAT TENNIS
RACKETS HAVE BEEN HAYED FOR YEARS BY THE BEST/
1W1KS— BurTHEY SHOULD GET

very wise in the way of fooling people. Only a few of the composers of such tunes, such as the inimitable Spike Jones and Arthur Godfrey, show much originality. Most of them merely scratch down the scale with variations, add any nonsensical words that come into their heads, and purchase yachts in expectation of the royalties soon to roll in.
Practically all popular singers are crooning males or screaming, harsh
voiced females with no musical education whatever, no knowledge of even the fundamentals of singing, and no desire to do anything except fatten their purses. They sound and they are as phony as a thirty-two dollar bill. Occa-
ihob. OUTZ
MnELL, TtiEy OUGHT* COME UP Mira ■nV RIGHT. answer/
BOTH MADE BY SPALDING
sionally there comes a “singer” to outdo all the rest in atrocity. At present, one Rose Murphy, who is the most annoying woman I have ever heard, bears off the palm.
As far as the music itself is concerned, much of it is pirated from great classical themes. People who never' heard of Chopin or Tschaikowsky whistle their tunes, transposed into popular' variations, and give the credit to some “tunesmith” of Tin Pan Alley who promptly steals somebody else’s music and adds some silly words. Little good original music has been introduced on the alley of late: witness the revival of tunes popular in the twenties and thirties. Occasionally a masterpiece will be written by Berlin or Carmichael, but the majority of the songs come, are noticed briefly, and pass into well-deserved oblivion. They are shallow in music, lyrics, and portray a similar lack of depth in their creators’ minds. In short, most popular music is a fraud upon the American public, which ought to wake up and lend no more ear to the outpouring of a decadent industry. Then, perhaps, the quality of popular music might improve.
SLOGAN: 1948
Billions for defense, but not one cent for housing.
Once-in-a-Lifetime Opportunity!
STUDY... TRAVEL...
SPAIN
68-DAY Tour—$798 ALL Expenses
By Ship from New York JULY 2 Sponsored by the UNIVERSITY of MADRID
For descriptive folder, write: DEPT. “C” SPANISH STUDENT TOURS
500 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 18, N. Y.
HOLIDAY
An Adventure in Good Smoking
Larus & Brother Company Richmond, Virginia
TOP OF THE WEEK
Spring—at last.
A BELT
Yup, spring seems to have finally found its way into weather-cursed northern Indiana. (It ■will probably snow the day this thing comes out.) But spring fever, that blessed opiate of all the ages, is outlawed at Notre Dame. There’s a dance around every corner, but your economics prof is there, too, armed with a 14-page test. The finals are only about a month away, and the outside reading program rolls along in unbated fury. In short, it behooves one and all to work like lousy little beavers.
Perhaps the toughest part to take is the outside reading—which brings us to the point of this essay. It’s not much fun slugging away at a massive, incomprehensible pile of required reading in a dreary library room on days when you can hardly keep awake in class. But a certain group of anti-social characters who have formed the habit of stealing the books have made things even tougher in the past and will do the same this quarter if they don’t cut it our.
There aren’t enough books in the first place in many cases, so when selfish jerks make off with half the available copies, it means some unfortunate student caught short in the last few weeks is going to flunk his test. It just ain’t nice, boys. Wise up; leave thievery to the professionals.
A BLOW
This corner hereby bestows its blow-of-the-week on WND, the student’s station. Kicked around like an old sock in its first few weeks, the campus radio outlet is now hitting hard and consistently. Frank Cronan and his crew have shaken off their early headaches, spawned some new ideas, and lined up musical programs well-calculated to satisfy their yap-weary listeners.
For meritorious service above and beyond the call of credit hours, a large “Nice goin’ ” to WND. We only wish it broadcasted longer than two hours a day. SNRC
From the rock-bound coast of Farley to the sunny shores of Lyons hundreds of campus politicians will descend on the
Drill Hall next Monday night for the opening session of the Student National Republican Convention. After a lapse of eight years during the late international unpleasantness, Notre Dame’s amateur vote-swingers will be at it again.
The convention committeemen having unwound several miles of red tape, are set for a terrific show, with enough candidates to make everybody happy. For three days the fire and fervor of a good, old-fashioned political scrap will visit Notre Dame. Maybe the delegates will even womp up a parade or two. The form charts will be thrown away. Any dark horse with a good kick in the back-stretch might win the nomination. Even Wallace.	•
For the best student production since the foreign relief carnival, don’t miss SNRC.
—❖—
MISREPRESENTATION DEPT.
The South Bend Civic Music Association is advertising itself on a sign carrying a picture of the Metropolitan Opera House. Somebody’s going to get an awful shock when he sees the inside of John Adams Auditorium.
SMOKE, SMOKE, SMOKE
Now that girls are likened to cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, you can expect to hear a conversation like this soon—
“Hey, Gerhardt, you still goin’s with Hazel?”
“Naw, Herbert, I ditched her.” “How come?”
“Too much nicotine..”
* •
On second thought, maybe it’ll read like this:
“Hey, Charlie, you still goin’ with Guinevere? I hear she’s a pipe.”
“Naw, Siegfried, I ditched her.” “How come?”
“I like chewin’ tobacco.”	.
Which pretty well runs that subject into the ground.
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Memo to the Dining Hall No. 2: Thanks for putting the juice in the cole slaw, gang. Now how about some bacon with the eggs?
7
tyt&m the	jbedh . . .
Let's Elect Qualified Leaders
Early next month a class election day will be held at which time the top four men of the new sophomore, junior, and senior classes will be chosen. It is the duty of every student to vote for the officers of his class, but not until he has heard what the candidates have to offer.
During the past year only one class has turned up with an active set of leaders. Oddly enough, it has been the freshmen, who until this year were prohibited by that vague term “tradition” from being allowed to have officers. Messrs. Carroll, Lavins, Muschello, and Whiteside have been more than worthy of their positions in the freshman class. With the Freshman-YCS paving the way, the first-year men have produced more events than the other three classes combined. They’ve had socials, meetings, picnics. Next on tap is a spring dance. Tentative plans call for an examination refresher.
The sophomores had their cotillion. The juniors, all 1,200 of them, couldn’t muster enough votes to elect officers, finally chose prom chairmen, and had a prom. The seniors, reputed to be loaded with administrative talent, held a party for January grads and will culminate the year with a ball May 7.
Unless we are badly mistaken, class officers are expected to do more than stage one formal dance during their tenure. In recent years they’ve often had a hard time doing this. In the future, their duties should be broadened, and class members should see to it that only capable men are elected. Often an “unknown” with a sound program can do more than some BMOC with a name.
While on the question of voting, the fall Student Council elections should also be considered. In the past some of the most imcompetent clods ever to set foot on the campus have found their way into the Council. As a result its prestige has waned miserably. Save for a handful of interested, capable workers, the Council would have deteriorated into oblivion. Undoubtedly a number of members from the present Council will seek re-election next fall. Some of them shouldn’t be allowed to vote, let alone run. Their records during the past year provide adequate testimony for* this contention.
If the student body ever hopes to install a progressive program on the campus, it will first have to learn to elect capable leaders. Recently, this seems to have been too much to ask from most of the qualified voters.
How About It?
Entertainment today is being used as a weapon like it has never been used before. Since the time when ancient Greeks enacted their spectacular pieces of dramaturgy in amphitheaters, political leaders have recognized the power which the drama possesses. In recent years the fascists of Germany and Italy and the Communists of the world have recognized how strong the propaganda values of the theater are when employed in the right way.
Reiterating what the Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., said in his speech last Wednesday night at the Drill Hall, the time has come for Catholics to once again take part in the theater which they have left to secularized individuals. It is time to forget those slightly puritanical ideas which have made the theater and everything it stands for falsely repugnant to Catholics. Entertainment is among the fields
which Catholic Actionists are being requested to enter. The theater, therefore, is truly a power, but a vacillating one and only beneficial when in. the right hands. Which brings us to the question, “Why can’t there be a theater group here at Notre Dame?”
There is the annual operetta in the fall and the student * musical in the spring, but are there any reasons why there can not be an active group of thespians with a schedule of	i
four or five plays a year? The excuse regarding lack of	J
talent can not be given for surely among our huge enroll- ; ment there would be enough interested to keep a theater i movement in continual production.
The year is fast drawing to its close. That, however, j is no reason why a theater group can not be organized for next year. The challenge is beckoning for Catholics to reenter the field of entertainment. What will Notre Dame’s . answer be to the plea?
A Little Christian Charity	*
From the catechism-days of the Sisters’ grade school most -of us recall the charitable precept, “Visit the sick.” It’s one of the corporal works of mercy.	'
And yet, here at Notre Dame, our own infirmary allows no visitors.
Would it be possible to arrange for certain hours on cer- ? tain days to be declared visiting hours at the Infirmary?
Then Notre Dame men could begin practicing corporal works of mercy right here, and this Christian practice would become so engrained that, like all other phases of Catholic training received here, Notre Dame men would ever be examples to outsiders for their sense of social justice and charity.
Visiting hours at the Infirmary would be a good thing.
A Step in the Right Direction
Every time the students here sponsor an event the cry is always for more and more. That was the story after Ellis Arnall, after the Bengal Bouts, and after the Mardi Gras carnival. Next week the students will again ring q the bell.
The mock political convention which opens in the Drill Hall on Monday night is student designed and student operated. Not only will the student get a chance to see how big time conventions operate, but he will also get a chance to , voice his own opinion through his delegates. That is why the convention will be well liked and well attended by the students.	.
The students in charge are Political Science majors who work in conjunction with their department. All have worked hard to make this event as close to the real thing as possible. They deserve the thanks of the entire student body for add- < ing a touch of reality to the scholastic temper of university life.	,u
Though the results of the convention will have no national significance, those who attend will get a chance to form an opinion or to solidify one already held. The time spent will be worth your while, so let’s get out the vote. Make another student-sponsored event a banner one! It’s a * step in the right direction.
8
4
si.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 89, NO. 23
APRIL 23, 1948
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Mock Convention Begins Monday
MGR. FRANCIS (TAFT) In smoke-filled rooms . . .
Campaign Managers Confident of Victory
By GREG HALPIN
From the smoke-filled back rooms of Sorin and the dimly lit basement of Cavanaugh the Notre- Dame politicos were starting a thundering march towards the Navy Drill Hall Monday night and the biggest mock political convention the campus has ever chewed cigars over.
Off to a slow start, campaign managers started booifting their- candidates late this week with the aid of literature, posters, rallies, parades and speeches. Some even resorted to baby kissing to push their man (see cover). How effective each has been will be adjudged Wednesday night as the convention roars to a conclusion in the Drill Hall.
A poll of campaign managers early this week found all of them traditionally confident of their favorite’s victory. Ralph Thorsen who is carrying the fight for Minnesota’s fair-haired whirlwind, Harold Stassen, believed his man was a “breeze” because of his “appeal to the student body” and as a man who “understands the veteran’s problems.” Dan Norander, the head Vandenberg booster, believes his man is a “sure-fire winner” because he’s a “man of democracy” and a “New Deal Republican” and that last one “should certainly satisfy everyone” according to Manager Norander.
Most pessimistic of all campaign chiefs was Tom Francis who is holding high the Taft banner. Said Francis: “You’re never defeated until the fight is over.” The words came with a grim smile.
Mike Hines was not available for interview but his energetic activities on behalf of Eisenhower speak for his own great spirit of optimism. A last-minute substitution in the Dewey machine which brought Jack La Vigne in to replace Lou Burns as the N. Y. Governor’s manager left that picture rather confused
MGR. LaVIGNE (DEWEY)
MGR. HINES (EISENHOWER) . . . cigars were chewed
9
CANDIDATE DEWEY A band wagon . . .
but Jim Cassidy is jubilant over what he thinks will be a “sweeping victory” for his candidate, Governor Warren of California.
Political experts on campus this week were making brave efforts at predictions but most preferred to reserve decisions until after the actual balloting gets under way on Tuesday night. However common opinion around the cafe coffee tables and Huddle juke box indicates that the Dewey delegation is the best organized; that anything can be expected from Eisenhower headquarters where Mike Hines holds forth and that an undercover move to try to nominate a dark horse candidate was being brewed by two campus organizations.
This last rumor is reported causing great consternation in official convention quarters where fear is expressed of an outside delegation splitting the whole convention wide open. Scholastic reporters, scanning the scene, report that from their observations anything can happen starting Monday night.
The actual convention proceedings are still in the formative stage but a tentative schedule has been set up for action in the Drill Hall. The Convention will be opened by Frank Keenan, General Convention Chairman, who will call the convention to order at 8:00 p.m. He will be followed by a local priest who will give the invocation. An address of welcome by an administration official will be next on the program. This speaker has yet to be named.
After remarks by the presiding officer and election of temporary officers, and the keynote address by the temporary chairman, there will be a roll call by states for committeemen to function on
the various administrative committees. There is a possibility that if business runs smoothly and quickly Monday night there may be a roll call foi' Presidential nominations at that time although present expectations call for this to be the first act on Tuesday’s agenda.
Nomination speeches and the first balloting for presidential nominations will be dispensed with Tuesday and continued Wednesday when balloting by roll call will continue until the necessary majority for nomination is reached. It is possible for a candidate to win on Tuesday’s balloting but because of the intense campaigning and feeling for candidates it is felt that this is highly improbable. According to Chairman Keenan: “A band wagon shouldn’t start rolling until Wednesday.”
Those who have not signed up for State delegations by Monday night may do so at the entrance to the Drill Hall prior to the opening of the convention provided places are still open. At last report delegations were filling fast. Also those who, having signed as delegates, have failed to receive their badges from
Convention Agenda
MONDAY
Chairman of the Republican National Committee, Frank Keenan, will call Convention to order.
Invocation.
Address of welcome by administration official.
Election of temporary chairman.
Keynote address by temporary chairman.
Roll call by states for nomination of one member from each to serve on administrative committees.
TUESDAY
Call to order.
Invocation.
Report of committees.
Appointment of permanent chairman.
Roll call by states for presidential nominations.
WEDNESDAY
Cali to order.
Invocation.
Roll call by states for presidential nominating speeches.
Roll call for ballot on candidates for president.
Roll call by states for vice-presidential nominating speeches.
Roll call for ballot on candidates for vice-president
Resolution of thanks.
Adjournment sine die.
NOTE: The above agenda is only tentative, and is subject to last-minute change.
CANDIDATE EISENHOWER . . . should roll Wednesday
their chairman may also do so Monday. Non-delegate students are reminded that there will be from 800 to 1000 delegates at the convention and they will, of course, occupy the main seating space of the Drill Hall.
To many who have been a part of the Notre Dame scene for many years this year’s political activities recall the prewar conventions sponsored by the American Government classes of the Political Science Department and even the campaign visit here in 1940 of Wendell Will-kie, Republican Presidential nominee. However, according to the men behind the scenes of this year’s event they “haven’t seen nothing yet.”
The spice of entertainment will be liberally sprinkled throughout the canvention agenda. Although plans have not yet been completed, it is definite that the Notre Dame Glee Club and a trio of St. Mary’s talent will supply musical interludes during the three nights.
The Glee Club is tentatively scheduled for an appearance Tuesday night, and Elaine Bruck, soprano; Mary Terstegge, pianist; and Penny George, popular blues singer, all from St. Mary’s, will put on shows on different nights.
The addition of WND to campus communication facilities greatly increased the flow of propaganda here this year and spread the “causes” to every corner of campus. The results have been inspiring from all angles but the big blowoff is yet to come.
The lid comes off Monday night in the Drill Hall and while six prominent Americans may not stay glued to their radios awaiting the results, here at Notre Dame the people’s choice will reign supreme.
10
DR. ARTHUR H. COMPTON "Paths to Peace"
Nobel Prize Winner To Speak on Peace
Dr. Arthur H. Compton, Chancellor of Washington University (St. Louis), one of the nation’s leading scientists, and Nobel Prize winner will deliver an address, “Paths to Peace” in Washington Hall Wednesday, April 28.
Dr. Compton, on tour of Indiana universities and colleges, is world-famed for his work in the physics of light and X-rays and as an educator of outstanding merit. He won the Nobel Prize in 1927 for showing that light can be regarded as being made up of rapidly moving particles called photons; discovered and interpreted change in wave-length of X-rays when scattered; headed the Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago during the war; won the gold medal of the Franklin Institute in 1940, the United States Government Medal for Merit in 1946, and numerous other awards from America and foreign countries for scientific achievement.
In 1946 he was presented the St. Louis Award as the citizen contributing the most to the educational, social, cultural and spiritual welfare of the city during that year.	•
New York Editor to Speak To Notre Dame Law Club
Mr. Oxie Reichler, editor of the Yonkers (N.Y.) Herald Statesman, called the “editor who put civics on page one,” will address the Notre Dame Law Club on April 28 in the Law auditorium. His subject will be “The Law and the Press.”
Last fall Mr. Reichler participated in a radio discussion with Notre Dame’s Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens on the subject of proportional representation. He is the author of a paper on “The Politician Hates P. R.”
Class Election Day Slated for May 13
Notre Dame students will vote for their “favorite sons” in the class elections on Thursday, May 13, at the Drill Hall.
At the last Student Council session, the election committeemen announced the date, and, at the same time, reported progress in arranging the program. They already have hall posters printed, and they plan to distribute 3,000 information pamphlets soon. Ivo Fatigati, eager election chairman, hopes to secure some voting machines too. Students may hand in their petitions for class officer candidates and college Council representatives in Room 345, Morrissey.
Notre Dame’s chances for future NSA participation look bad. Under present commitments, the Council treasury cannot pay the required dues. A special committee is now consulting campus NSA men regarding the wisdom of continuing membership if they can raise the needed amount.
Jack Kennedy told members that his social committee cannot find a place suitable for the storage of student equipment this summer. He also asked that hall representatives make charts for their bulletin boards so the students can indicate their choice for a student trip next fall. Morrissey Hall’s selections favored another trip to Cleveland for the Navy tilt.
Lou Burns addressed the Council concerning his departure to the NFCCS convention in Philadelphia (the local delegation left yesterday). The members passed a motion calling for Burns to tell the convention that Notre Dame wants to aid in the Student Relief drive next year. On the way to Philadelphia, Lou was to count the ballots on the campus UMT poll; the result will dictate his policies on the subject while at the convention.
Contented with their own banquet Tuesday evening, the Council members granted approval to three other social gatherings. Walsh Hall has a party slated for May 12, the staff of the Lawyer will get together April 27, and the Rocky Mountain Club will go picnicking some time early in May.
Laymen's Retreat Movement Scheduled Here in August
The Reverend Michael A. Foran, c.s.c., Director of Retreats at Notre Dame, announced this week that the Laymen’s Retreat Movement, which for years has attracted thousands of business and professional men to the University, will hold its 1948 Retreat here from August 19 to 22.
HENRY J. TAYLOR ‘Your Land and Mine*
'Your Land and Mine1 Hits Air From Here
The no-charge sign will be up at Washington Hall on Monday night, April 26, when Henry J. Taylor, whose radio talk, “Your Land and Mine,” is heard twice weekly over 450 stations of the Mutual Network, will broadcast from the archaic building’s stage.
Mr. Taylor, widely known for his war dispatches and his work as an economist and writer, will arrive at Washington Hall at 6 p.m. and the doors will dose at 6:15. The speaker will go on the air, via a special hook-up with WGN in Chicago, at 6:30. Taylor will speak informally after the program and will also hold a question-and-answer session.
After ten years of commuting to Europe, Mr. Taylor became a war correspondent and traveled widely through nearly 32 countries and on most of the major battlefronts. Bom in Chicago in 1902, Mr. Taylor was educated at the University of Virginia and began his journalistic career on the Kansas CityJournal in 1918.
Social Encyclical Students To Discuss Wage Problems
The discussion group which has been studying the social encyclicals will hold its next meeting on Tuesday, April 20 at 4 p.m., in Room 209 Commerce.
The group, which was formed at the beginning of the semester, discusses the relationship of economic principles and the moral law. At present they are covering the problem of wages. Rev. James T. Norton, C.S.C., of the Economics Department and Mr. C. B. Smee-ton, professor of marketing, are the moderators of the group which meets every other Tuesday.
11
By John A. O'Connor
A'
YOU MAY BE PSYCHO'.
If your ‘Hooper’ isn’t super and your best corrector’s shy, take this test and find out why.
Unhappily there is no Testing and Guidance Center for professors at Notre Dame. The average student signs up for his courses and takes what he’s handed, like Army stew, with very little chance for beef. Changing classes to hook a particularly desirable prof is an almost superhuman project, attained only by the most clever and lucky. For the student at Notre Dame the prof comes with the course, like a prize in cracker jack. Sometimes you get a nice shiny whistle; sometimes you get a clinker. Worst luck, the prof who gets a low Hooper rating from his class seldom if ever catches on; even his best correctors won’t tell him.
By and large professors at Notre Dame are a good lot. They are erudite souls, saturated with the wisdom of the ages and the Review of Politics, and timidly sensitive to instances that can give rise to their attic of cobwebby humor. Goldsmith tagged the schoolmaster so:
“Full well they laughed with counterfeited glee
“At all his jokes, for many a joke had he”	'
However, in order that professors everywhere may have a better understanding of themselves, and consequently revert to humanization before it is too late, the Scholastic hereby catalogues several of the various types of instruc-
THE PETTY TYRANT Simon Legree . . .
tors who usually haunt.a college lecture platform:
Claghom. This pompous prof reminds one of the comic-opera senator. Overbearing, dogmatic, this inflated instructor is always absolutely positive. Allows no argumentation, and few, if any, questions asked in class. Sticks to his magnificent notes, and strides about the room delivering bombastic oratory that usually mouths, or muddles, just what is written in the text. Love that lecture.
Mumbles. Talks through his teeth. Extremely hard to follow, unless it
THE QUIZ KID . . . with a jackal's grin . . .
would be -with a lead pipe. Grumbles through the semester with scant accentuation on any lecture item, then pops up with an exam that asks for every chewed word he ever muttered.
Quiz Kid. A week, often a day, doesn’t go by but that this bird pulls a cute one. Can give you ten good reasons why the daily quiz is the only way to teach, but most of them reveal a lack of confidence in student lecture interest, which may be well grounded. Sometimes they come as surprises, in which case he romps in a few seconds after the bell, grinning like a jackal moving in for the kill, and well stacked with test blanks.
Prussian. Ach, now here’s a stickler 'for the rules. Usually marks with a jeweler’s glass screwed into his eye.
THE PRUSSIAN . . . and an eagle eye
Hands out grade points with a tweezer. Thrifty when it comes to bulletins. If you wind up with a 69%, you get 69%, your just wage. Eagle-eyed on cuts and tardies. Always right, hardly ever approachable on a sour question, such as what was the matter with my answer to number six? Considers the text as the absolute authority, and covers it, every inch. Struts. Crows. Pounds it into their skulls. Ein book, ein quotation, ein answer! Oftentimes this type turns out to be hen-pecked at home.
The Pop-Off. Harmless ordinarily, but inclined to explode all over the place when cornered or when his favorite intellectual goat is trotted in for an airing. Victim of geyser-geared blood-pressure. Boiling point usually reached over political or racial questions that are tossed out by some innocent dupe. Not long for this world.
t ►
j
*
J
f
Merlin. The ancient wise-one. Has reached the state of the pure intellect. Dislikes athletics, and the idea that maybe the boys want to take in a show this weekend, instead of thumbing through tomes. Floats into the classroom, and out, always above the heads of most of the awed spectators. Ivy-covered, classics-bound, he’s pretty set in his ways. Victim of that professional ailment, intellectual hardening of the arteries.
Gasser. This guy can jabber for a full fifty minutes on his favorite topic and leave the class utterly bored. Should have been a barker with some carnival. Makes one wonder, who does the talking
12
at home? Comes test-time and he’ll quiz you on everything in the outside reading assignments, and here you have a notebook full of his artificial pearls.
Petty Tyrant. Also known as the Lash, the Slave Driver, Captain Bligh, Simon Degree, the Overseer, and the Whip. Wants to be Dean some day. Thinks nothing of giving fifty pages of translation over a weekend, or 300 pages of outside reading due the morning after the Junior Prom. Likes tests on football Saturdays too. Pleasant little despot. Takes his summer sessions at the Georgia Chain Gang School for Drivers. A holdover- from the sweat-shop era.
Actually the above list mirrors only those extremes that are particularly troublesome.
Fortunately few here at Notre Dame fall -within the pale of our Murderers’ Row. Most ND profs are helpful, understanding, liberal, kindhearted, long-suffering, full of suggestions for your acceptance and improvement, interesting to listen to, memorable, regular guys who teach you something. The student knows who they are.
For those who wish to discover whether or not they are among those who enjoy the students’ well-wishes, or are numbered among those listed for indictment on the day of judgment, the following questions might well be considered :
1.	Do students smile and speak to you when you meet? a) Is it a genuine smile, toothy, bubbling, or is it a frightened whimper?
2.	Do you smile and speak to students when you meet? a) Is it a genuine smile, polished, peppy, or is it a frightened whimper?
CLAGHORN Strides and muddles
Finn Defends Award At Debate Tourney
Will it be three straight? Right now, Frank Finn is defending his twice-won national discussion championship in Bloomington, Indiana, where five members of the Irish debate and discussion team are taking part in the Eighth National Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament.
Will Carey, Tom Ninneman, Joe Shelly and Quintin Marlow will join Finn in thrashing out the subject of “What should be done to insure peaceful relations among the nations of the world?” They are competing with representatives of 35 colleges from all over the nation— Alabama, Colorado, California, Montana, New Jersey, Virginia and many other states in the immediate vicinity of Indiana.
Most coveted prize of all is the Wachtel Plaque, won by Finn in his freshman and sophomore years, and awarded annually to the speaker adjudged best in all phases of the tourney. Last year, the soft-spoken but forceful little whirlwind from Denison, Texas, received a “superior” rating in five of the six stages of competition and an “excellent” tag in the sixth, compiling the highest individual score in the history of the tournament.
Winding up the public speaking season for the varsity team will be the invasion of West Point April 28, 29 and 30 for the National Invitational Debating Tournament. There, Finn and Carey will pit their arguments on Federal World Government against 32 other college teams, survivors of a year-long weeding-out process, conducted among 500 colleges from various regions of the United States.
3.	Do students shuffle their feet fifteen minutes before the bell rings in nervous anticipation of their liberation? a) Do they cling to their seats after the bell and cry “More, more!”?
4.	Do students moan when you walk into the classroom? a) Is it a muffled, despairing moan, or a nasty diminished raspberry?
5.	Do students seek you out in the caf, and enjoy kicking ideas around over a cup of coffee? a) Do students just seek you out?
6.	Do students ask questions in class, or do they just sit there like so many dolts and lap up the notes in obvious boredom?
Profs who can answer “Yes” to half these questions will be halfway towards finding out whether they are in need of adjustment.	•.
CHAIRMAN RAY AND DATE Uniforms and brass
Air Boys Hold First Ball at Country Club
Uniforms, brass, and campaign ribbons were the order of the day last Friday, when the Notre Dame unit of the Air ROTC sponsored its first annual Military Ball. From 9 ’til 1, the prospective shavetails glided across the floor of the Erskine Country Club to the tunes of Tony Papa and his orchestra.
“Friendly invaders” from the campus Naval ROTC group, reserve officers from South Bend and a visiting Canadian reserve airman added to the color of the event, conducted in true military fashion.
Highlighting the evening were a formal reception line, made up of student and staff officers, and a grand march, led by Lt. Col. Thomas Devanny, student commander of the corps.
As the first social project of the fledgeling organization, the dance was aimed at establishing a traditional, annual event. Chairman of the ball was Tony Ray. He was assisted by vice-chairman Lany Heuser and committeemen John Tierney, Jim Braunlich, Frank Brogen, Jim Meehan, Gene Reynolds and Tom Hynes.—Joe Dukert.
Utility Executive Addresses Engineers Tonight at 7 p.m.
Engineering students will be offered a speech tonight by Philip Sporn, president of the American Gas and Electric Service Coorporation and one of the best known utility executives in the nation. The speech will be given at 7 p. m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
13
At work in the college library
Patricia Schum. senior English major
from New York City
Claire Haley, sophomore art major from Beacon, N. Y.
NEW ROCHELLE
By KEN THOREN
To the unknowing stranger, Elm Street looks like any other placid tree-canopied, residential, suburban street. Much to the contrary, it is a hive of bustling activity. For beneath that deceptive green camouflage live 900 of the most kinetic girls that ever knitted one and pearled two—this is the College of New .Rochelle.
Located in one of New York City’s finest suburbs, and about 16 miles north of the metropolis’ heart, this institu-

tion is rightfully proud of its manj. beautiful buildings and its neat and compact campus. The first roots of the college started in 1897 when the Mothers of St. Ursula migrated from New Orleans and St. Louis to find the Castle School for Girls in New Rochelle. The order founded the college of St. Angela . in 1904 and then changed its name to CNR in 1910. It is now the largest Catholic women’s college in the country and attracts femmes from the world over
14
Pat Leibell, sophomore English major
from Washington, D. C.
, The entrance requirements are rugged but still the girls descend each fall se-, mester in droves.
As at Notre Dame, the main social events of the calendar year are the senior ball, the junior prom and the soph 1 T cotillion. Mission Day in the fall combines every merry bit of hoopla con' tained in the books. This past year’s ;	queen was Mary Foley (see photo)
:	whose brothei- Dennis lives in Walsh.
- The Swimphoney is CNR’s annual takeoff on Esther Williams and her lavish water scenes. It is held in the magnificent college swimming poool and is
r	_
llaisy Chains andhream Queens
Bernadette Mitchell, senior commerce major from Teaneck, N. J.
major from Manchester, Conn.
Barbara Rice, junior English major from Brooklyn
Claire Thompson, sophomore from New Rochelle. N. Y.
Betty and Mary Boehling, freshmen from Richmond, Va.
rated as one of the best student productions in the East.
Then there is the traditional daisy chain which is held every year on the Sunday before June commencement. All the girls wear their best pastel formats and then proceed to act like a dignified, sentimental chain gang. Partisans from Fordham, Iona, Manhattan, Yale and West Point, and even a few from ND, infiltrate the hallowed grounds to watch the poetic if not too exciting exercises.
Student publications include Annals. the yearbook; Quarterly, the magazine;
(Continued on Page 25)
Rosemary Quish. sophomore psychology
15
Sr. Ball Committee Urges Buy Bids Now
That jewel box Bob Flannery (right) is holding is the Senior Ball favor. It’s a good looking job made of Incite (that’s KAI (Si03)o), with the Notre Dame shield and a ribbon with the words “Notre Dame Senior Ball 1948” engraved on it in bronze.
This favor is the reason the ticket committee is urging you tentative dancegoers to purchase your bids now. It seems the manufacturer needs three weeks’ notice to construct them, and unless you want your date to wait a couple of weeks after the dance to receive hers, you’ll have to commit yourself in plenty of time. As a safety measure, the favor committee has ordered 550 of them already, but there may be more Seniors attending than that.
You can get these bids from a number of hall representatives: in Walsh, Bob Dalton handles them; Sorin, Frank Fitzpatrick; Badin, Bob Hennessey; Lyons, Jack McKinley; Howard, Paul Long; Morrissey, Jack McLaughlin; Alumni, Neil Gillespie; Dillon, FelixsSuarez; St. Edwards and Cavanaugh, Jack Murphy (in Cavanaugh); Vetville, John Zarante; Off-Campus, Jack Harrington (in 239 Walsh).
So far, the reservation committee has managed to arrange for over 200 rooms in the LaSalle, Hoffmann, and Oliver Hotels. If you need a room for your date, write to Miss Hazel Detwiler at the Hoffmann, Mr. Jack McNulty at the Oliver, and Mr. Jack Yates at the LaSalle. You had better get those notes off early, too, because South Bend will hold a state bowling tournament the same week-end you will want reservations. Thanks are in order to Father Barry and Mr. William Dooley, Assistant Alumni Secretary, for their help in reserving those rooms.
Bob Reynolds Wins YCS Presidency for Next Year
Officers for next year’s YCS were elected at a recent federation meeting. Bob Reynolds copped the presidency, with Kurt Kiesling elected to the vicepresident-secretary slot. Art Frericks was re-elected treasurer.
The campus organization held a day of recollection last Sunday morning, with a Mass starting the morning’s activities. It was celebrated in the Howard Hall chapel by Father Sheedy. A confeience and holy hour followed. The morning was closed with a meeting in the Rockne Lounge.
16
FLANNERY, JACOBS AND McGOWAN CHECK SENIOR BALL FAVOR KAI (SiO3)9 with a Notre Deane shield
Energetic Frosh Toss Spring Dance May 15
The Gay 90’s come out of the family album and take the spotlight once more as the Freshmen open the doors of the Navy Drill Hall on their Spring Informal May 15. Though there won’t be any galoshes or raccoon coats in evidence, the atmosphere will be strictly “ancient” in the Big Barn that night.
Two hundred and fifty couples will dance to the music of Tony Papa and his band at this big Frosh social, which sets the precedent for Freshman classes to come. This dance, as well as the picnic on May 6, is the brainstorm of the class officers and the committeemen determined to harness the spirit of the newcomers and wake up the traditional Irish “go.”
By getting the first year men together in functions along these lines, President Tom Carroll and his fellow incumbents hope to inject some revitalizing fluid that will prove beneficial not only to the class but to the school as well.
Under the general supervision of Ward McCabe, chairman of all Frosh social activities, six committees are busy pushing arrangements for the affair. Ken Thoren has put approximately 300 tickets at $2.00 each on sale with the Ticket Committee representatives. Ed Sullivan has started his Date Bureau for the Frosh who haven’t as yet extended invitations for the dance. Danny O’Neil is signing up talent for the intermission
show while Leo Brennan, Student Council Representative from Breen-Phillips, < pulls strings on the transportation angle.
Eighteen thousand feet of multi-col- r ored crepe paper have to be strung by Walt McGovern and his crew in an attempt to carry the theme—“51 Skidoo” —through the decorations. The publicity splurge has Frank O’Toole splashing details concerning the dance- around the halls. With three weeks to go, the committees have hit full stride.
From the looks of things at present, the Freshmen have hooked on to something good, and if the “Gay 90’s” goes off according to indications, the locked-up energy that is characteristic of first year men may become contagious.
—Al Laporte
'Bold Look' for Men Arrives; Esquire Predicts Long Stay
The “Bold Look”, the “most signifi- * cant change in men’s clothing in years,” has arrived and is here for a long stay * according to the latest fashion news in the April Esquire. The new men’s styles are symbolized in the collar stitching on shirts, wider ribbed socks, bulkier shoes and more sensationally loud ties. .
According to Esquire, this new trend is neither “faddish nor foolish,” but is a u reflection of the “good taste and masculine self-confidence that is typical of the well-groomed American male.”
Notre Dame men will continue to wear Army jackets, wrinkled slacks, and para- , troop boots.
SCHOLASTIC SECRTJ
I--------------------------
L i	• b——	'	1
Old Timers Might Jolt Varsity 11
All-Star Cast to Play in Spring Grid Finale
By HARRY MONAHAN
“Boil the Boilermakers, Boil the Boilermakers, Grrrrrrrrr! !”
(Excerpt from the Cartier Cantata)
That’s fine, boys, but we’ve got news for you. You’ve got a tough game to play before Purdue launches its invasion of the Irish domain next September and this game is going to make those Saturday scrimmage sessions look like May Day at Vassar. Because when the Old Timers take the field on May 15, for the annual taffy pull which concludes spring practice, they will be drawing from a potent parcel of former Irish gridders.
Among possible starters for the ancient ones are the Chicago tackle twins, Zig Czarobski and Moose Connor, which promises to make the afternoon interesting for the current crop of tackles. Johnny Lujack’s passing arm may perform on the local greensward and his defensive counterpart Pete Ashbaugh is expected to be on hand. Such names as Clatt, Earley, Gompers, Livingstone, Simmons, Sullivan, Ratterman and Mello may once more appear* on the Notre Dame Stadium program. Getting a running start on the Purdue “Rose Bowl Special” is all well and good, but don’t forget your May appointment with another bunch of Fighting Irishmen.
OLDTIMER LUJACK The annual taffy pull . . .
Weigh your shillelaghs, boys, Notre Dame’s 1948 National Championship stock goes on the block May 15.
While what has been publicized as the most important Old Timers’ Game in several years draws near, Coach Frank Leahy pessimistically scans a growing casualty list. With the line situation so critical, the Irish had to lose the services of a capable freshman tackle when Deane Thomas was sidelined. Bill Leonard came out of a pile-up in one of the
YOUNGSTER TRIPUCKA . . . wouldn't look like . . .
recent scrimmages with a broken rib. Irish grid ranks were thinned some more last Saturday when quarterback Bill Whiteside broke his elbow in a scramble for a fumble. Previously fullback Clifford Wilke had also joined Hugh Burns’ training room clientele. But not everything is so gloomy with the spring football maneuvers.
Last Saturday’s scrimmage session gave Irish fans a few boosts to counteract the injury jinx. Leon Hart snapped out of his lethargy and was pulling down the pitches of Frank Tripucka and Bob Williams with something of his old zip. Lancaster Smith also put on a pass catching display for the spectators. It was a continuation of the glue-fingered technique he has shown in the week day passing sessions. Lank’s running also raised his stock in the Irish grid picture.
The line play continues to be rough
and ragged. Williams and Tripucka were smeared more than once as the defense filtered in. Panelli and McGee found themselves trapped behind the line, too, as blocks were missed or assignments scrambled.
Emil Sitko drew the observation from one of the sideline kibitzers that a rule change should permit Irish opponents to use foxholes in the secondary to protect their defensive backs from “The Tank.” Larry “Scooter” Coutre, the other redheaded halfback candidate, kept pace with Emil. in running performance.
Coach Leahy has apparently found the number three man to back up “Pep” Panelli at the fullback slot. Frank Spaniel’s scrimmage performance assures the ^Notre Dame mentor that he will not be caught in a mid-season quandary should either Panelli or Swis-towicz be injured. Bob Williams, stellar frosh signal caller, took over the placekicking chores Saturday and was splitting the uprights with ease.
On the whole the backfield situation is excellent, but in the line Notre Dame could use some All-American tackle material. Coach Leahy is trying to find the right combination and is hoping that tackle coach Ed Krause will be able to develop two good men before the season opener with Purdue. If the present line situation does not clear up the Irish will have to take to the air, and with Tripucka and Williams pitching Notre Dame might slip through another “representative” season undefeated.
OLDTIMER RATTERMAN ... May Day at Vassar
17
Handba 1logician
Fr. Brennan Fools Foes with Thomistic Twist
Numeral winners are: Gene Bittner, Tom Boland, Joseph Eger, Neal Fichtel, Dan Begley, Richard Giedlin, James Hennessy, Jerome Halligan, Anthony Lipton, William McGee, Martin O’Connor and Eugene Kenny.
By BILL LYMAN
Getting Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S. C., Notre Danie’s esteemed logician, to tell about his handball achievements is like trying to force Clashmore Mike to jump hurdles when he’s not in the mood. You can’t do it.
“But Father,” you plead. “How can I write an article about your handball if you don’t tell me whom you’ve played and beaten?”
“Tell them that handball is a game of accuracy ... an inch one way or another means the point . . . there’s no Long John Yonakor on the other end to stretch out and make your aim look good.”
You’re sitting behind a screen over in the Old Gym looking down into the handball court where Father Brennan is trouncing Doctor Mullally, a fellow logician.
“Twenty-one—RIGHT ”
“RIGHT!”
You scamper downstairs to catch them between games. By the time you arrive Doctor Mullally is sprawled out on the floor and Father Brennan is squatting in the corner puffing a cigarette. He doesn’t look the least tired for all his fifty years.
“I’ve never seen anybody hit the ball behind his back and between his legs like that,” you open, hoping to flatter him into garrulity.
“Did you ever notice how many angles there are in a handball court?” he says.
“I heard Creighton Miller owed you 3,000 milkshakes when he left.”
“Oh, you couldn’t print a thing like that . . . say handball is the greatest game there is to condition for another sport like football or basketball. It develops speed, footwork, vision, quick thinking. . .
You ask him who you should say was giving the advice. It would have to be an expert whose reputation was established by a list of the players he had beaten.
Well, there was the champion of this state and that city. But, of course, you couldn’t print a thing like that either.
You see you’re at the end of the rope. He’s putting his handball glove back on and looking over at the form in the middle of the floor to see if it can go another game. You play your last card; you jab at his pride.
“I heard Jim White, the All-American tackle, could take you on, Father.”
18
“Well, don’t believe everything you hear,” he says, helping Doctor Mullally to his feet and changing the subject. “Would you believe it, the Doc here weighed 207 pounds when he started
FATHER BRENNAN SERVES
Creighton owed 3.000 milkshakes
playing handball here last semester, and he’s down to 186 now . . . Ready, Doc ”
“Serve away.”
So you leave him to his game and stroll out thinking about a certain little Irish terrier who won’t jump hurdles when he’s not in the mood. Whatever else you might say about Clashmore Mike, he’s no showoff. He’d just as soon perform when the stands are empty. Good old Clashmore!
10 Cagers Cop Monograms; Class Numerals to 12 Frosh
The Faculty Board in Control of Athletics has announced that varsity basketball monograms have been awarded to 10 players and one student manager for the 1947-48 season. The Irish varsity finished with a record of 17 wins in 24 starts. - In addition class numerals were awarded to 12 men on the freshman cage squad.
Monogram winners are: Kevin O’Shea, Leo Barnhorst, Paul Gordon, John Foley, James O’Halloran, John Goonen, John Brennan, John Hiller, Richard Kluck, Frank Kaufman and manager John Jacobs.
Evil-Eyed Keglers Try Double Whammy
By BOB CASURELLA
The maples down at the Bowl-Mor alleys are in for a heavy, vicious pounding as Notre Dame Bowling League play nears the record stage. The keglers are applying extra body-english to the stray balls and putting the double whammy on the head pin, attempting to pick up the extra point that will move their team one notch further up in the standings. May 9 is the day they are looking forward to, when the Blue and Gold Leagues will roll off for the Notre Dame Championship and the 17 trophies to be awarded to the winning combinations.
In the Gold League last week the Inter-American Affairs Club, in third place, met the first place Villagers and grabbed two of the three games to move into a second place tie. The once high and mighty Italian Club dropped three games to sixth-place Buffalo and missed their chance of regaining the league lead. They are now in a second place tie with Inter-American Affairs three games behind the Villagers. The Romans will have to regain their early season bowling form that dominated Gold League play all through the season to catch the Villagers. It’s a safe bet that the Inter-American Affairs club will hang in there and give the Italians and the Villagers trouble in the remaining weeks of play.
Boston, Rochester, Detroit, and Buffalo are all within striking distance of third place in the Gold League and will definitely decide fourth place. Youngstown seems firmly entrenched in the cellar. St. Louis, Jet Propulsion, and Rockford look like they will not be able to move up higher than eight place.
In the Blue League Vetville lost two games to the Syrian-Lebanese camel riders but are still leading the league by four games. The Vets look like they should be able to coast into first by winning just a few of the remaining games they have to play. Second place Toledo moved closer to third place by losing three games to Texas. Fox River Valley took two games from Columbus and are in third place two games out of second. Sixth place in the Blue League can be had by any of six teams with Pittsburgh and the Chemists leading the pack. The Aero club, Milwaukee, and Columbus will have a three way fight to stay out of the cellar.
. SPLINTERS k from the Pressbox
Irish Nine Meets Hawkeyes Over Weekend;
Both Seek Comeback After Early Losses
By VIC DORB
By JIM BUTZ
shooter on the 1948
onto
George Stuhr, monogram golfer in currently the best team, provided one of the best finishes ever seen on the local course in his match with Jack Owens, of Kentucky last Saturday. Needing a birdie three on the 18th hole to his oppponent’s four to win the match, Stub r carefully studied his third shot, some five yards oif the sloping green. Then he the green, his ball
curling towards and dropping in the hole.
But the excitement was not over. Owens, from approximately the same position as Stuhr, chipped crisply, and his ball rolled toward the hole, over it, and stopped a few inches past the pin. Stuhr had a 73 and a 2-1 victory.
True to tradition, the schedule-makers at Notre Dame have done an excellent job of making May 15 the sports fan’s busy day. First of all, there’s the annual Varsity-Old Timers’ football game in the Stadium. This should get the biggest play due to the preponderance of All-Americans (past, present, and future) on display. Between quarters and during times out the eager student can run out to Cartier Field to see how the baseball team is faring with Ohio State.
Also on display on Cartier will be the season’s lone track meet on home grounds — a dual affair with Michigan State, annually Notre Dame’s closest matched opponent.
Adding to the excitement will be a golf match over the Irish course with the University of Louisville furnishing the opposition.
What am I going to do? Why I’m going to Lexington, Ky., to see the tennis team in action with the University of Kentucky!!!!
The reason given for the shift of the Old Timers’ game from the Sunday to the Saturday date is that Notre Dame plays no varsity athletic events on Sunday afternoons.
After an unsuccessful road jaunt to open the season last week, Coach Jake Kline’s young charges will fight to redeem themselves today in Iowa City as they initiate a two-game series with the Hawkeyes of Iowa U.
Likewise chafing from a double loss to Michigan over the weekend, Coach Otto Vogel’s Hawkeye squad will try to hit the win column with a victory over Notre Dame.
Having been in action since March 22 the Hawks will rate a slight edge over the Irish in practice. Their first trip through Louisiana, Arkansas and Missouri netted them a 4-2 record. Since then they have been playing a hot and cold brand of baseball.
Coach Vogel’s pitching corps is built around the talent of three men, the veteran Jack Bruner, who had five wins and three losses last season; Wesley Demro, often a relief pitcher, but also an effective starter; and little Al DiMarco, the Hawks' star passer last fall, who was building himself a nice little row of wins until Michigan’s big guns
GOLD LEAGUE STANDINGS
TEAM	W.	L.	Pts
Villagers -------------------- 29	16	3.9
Inter-Ameriean Affairs  27	18	36
Italian Club  25	20	36
Boston ----------------------- 25	20	36
Rochester -------------------- 25	20	34
Buffalo ---------------------- 26	19	33
Detroit ______________ _______ 24	21	33
St. Louis  20	25	27
Jet Propulsion _______________ 20	25	26
Rockford --------------------- 20	25	25
ASME ------------------------- 13	32	17
Youngstown  13	32	17
Schedule for April 25th Rochester vs. Detroit Italian vs. Boston Villagers vs. ASME Youngstown vs. Inter-American Affairs St. Louis vs. Buffalo Jet Propulsion vs. Rockford
BLUE LEAGUE STANDINGS
TEAM	W.	L.	Pts
Vetville _______________________ 32	13	43
Toledo  28	17	39
Fox River Valley _______________ 27	18	37
Chemists ----------------------- 23	22	31
Pittsburgh---------------------- 24	21	30
Met Club 22	23	28
Monogram _______________________ 21	24	28
Syrian-Lebanese  21	24	28
Texas  20	25	27
Aero ___________________________ 20	25	24
Milwaukee ---------------------- 16	29	23
Columbus  16	29	22
Schedule for April 25th St. Louis vs. Texas Columbus vs. Chemists Milwaukee vs. Pittsburgh Vetville vs. Monogram Club Toledo vs. Aero Met Club vs. Fox River Valley
shelled him from the mound in the first inning of last week’s contest.
Backing up a potentially strong pitching staff, the Hawkeyes boast a veteran, infield with Pete Everett at first base, John Dittmer at second, hard-hitting Don McCarty at shortstop, and Keith Kafer holding down the hot corner. Capt. Lyle Ebner, catcher, centerfielder Erickson, and rightfielder Tedore have been accounting for most of Iowa’s power at the plate so far and should very possibly give Notre Dame’s outer gardeners a busy afternoon.
Last weekend’s sojourn in Cincinnati cost the Irish their first three games. Losing two close ones to the University of Cincinnati Saturday, 4-3 and 3-2 respectively, the Klinemen dropped another 4-3 decision to Xavier in the first game of a double header Sunday, then came back with their only victory of the trip, a 5-2 win behind the effective eighthit twirling of southpaw Jack Campbell.
Shortstop Jack Hunt’s roundtripper in the sixth inning of the first game Saturday won the game for the Bearcats and gave the Irish pitcher John Creevy the loss. The second game can be chalked off to errors. Walt Mahannah held the Bearcats to five hits but they capitalized on two free -passes by Mahannah and a couple of wild pegs by catcher Jim Pressley in the first inning to push across their game-winning run.
Errors again caused the first Sunday loss. Xavier had but one big inning, the second. They combined a double, two singles, a walk and a two-base error by rightfielder Tony Lipton to shove four runs across the plate. That was enough.
The Irish moundsmen were effective for the most part. Sherman and Creevy scattered eight hits between them in the opener; Mahannah gave up only five in the second game. Dick Kluck and Dick Smullen were touched for six in the loss to Xavier and John Campbell allowed only two runs on eight hits to cop the only Irish win.
Coach Kline’s lack of power hitters vanished as Notre Dame batsmen uncorked a powerful offense. Shortstop Pete Koblosh was the big gun, gathering eight hits in thirteen tries. First baseman Ray Petrzelka, second sacker Benny Kozlik, third baseman Gene Lavery and leftfielder Bob Machado contributed extra base raps. Costly misplays spelled defeat and not the need of a pitcher or a power hitter.
19
Drake Relays Draw Best College Stars
Notre Dame spikesters will compete in the biggest gathering of stars of the track year today and tomorrow at Des Moines, Iowa. The annual Drake relays, generally considered to be the top outdoor contest of the year, has attracted the top-flight stars from all of the nation’s schools, and promises to be a week-end of record shattering performances.
Coach Elvin B. Handy will enter between 18 and 24 men in the rugged competition in the hope of gaining recognition for some of his potential Olympic performers. The track director will rely heavily on his star hurdlers, John Smith and Bill Fleming. In the Kansas Belays last Saturday, Smith and Fleming both took spills in the race in which Harrison Dilliard made a record performance of 13.6 seconds for the 120-yard distance. Smith was conceded an even chance to take second from Clyde Scott of Arkansas, when he hit the last barrier and landed off balance. Fleming took a spill midway through the 10-hurdle race. Dil-liard’s time betters by one-tenth of a second the record jointly held by Forrest Towns of Georgia and Fred Wolcott of Bice Institute.
Smith and Fleming have continued to improve throughout the indoor season, and now seem to be in top physical form for the outdoor grind. Smith’s time for the 120-yard distance in -the Kansas meet would probably have been the best of his career. At Drake, Bob McDavid is expected to compete in the 440-yard hurdle contest.
Other Notre Dame entries in the Drake spectacle are the various relay groups, of which the two-mile quartet is expected to place high among the finishers. This group took third place behind a record breaking Wisconsin squad which turned in a 7:44.7 time for the distance. Coach Handy may shift the composition of this relay somewhat in order to obtain a better time.
The Irish will enter their usual mile relay team, which is also of a constantly changing makeup. The team will probably be composed of Capt. Ernie McCullough, Bay Sobota, Pat Kenny, and Bob Smith or Bill Leonard. Also entered for the South Bend group is a distance medley foursome. Coach Handy will make some decision late in the week concerning what other members of the track team will take part in the Drake affair.
Generally the Irish are not favored to break any records, but they are expected to show well in several of the special relay events. Some other individual performers may take part in the Drake classic, but Doc Handy seems to be will
ing to wait until the opening triangular battle with Bradley Tech and Drake the following week to let all of the individual stars shake off their shackles. Notre Dame, if there are no more serious injuries in today’s and tomorrow’s runs, is expected to have a successful season with its dual and triangular opponents.
—Jim Howard
LEAHY'S LATEST ARMOR
Wearing a broad grin, Ernie Zalejski displays the special brace rigged up for his weak knee.
Langford Pins Tennis Hopes On Jimmy and Jerry Evert
Coach Walter Langford will unveil his 1948 tennis squad on the Irish courts tomorrow afternoon against the Wisconsin Badgers. The match will open Coach Langford’s eighth season as Notre Dame tennis coach and he will be aiming for his fourth undefeated season. The Irish will field a team composed of five monogram winners and the 1947 interhall tennis champion.
The championship garnering brothers, Jimmy and Jerry Evert, will lead the court sextet in the opening contest. Coach Langford will call on the services of monogram winners Bob David, Joe Brown and Phil Lyons to attempt to solve the Wisconsin volley. Frank Nagel will move up from his interhall championship throne to make a bid for a varsity slot. The Irish may substitute one of the remaining tennis candidates in one of the doubles event, but Coach Langford is undecided as to who will get the call.
Wisconsin is expected to bring the same squad which tangled with the Irish last year. Notre Dame had little trouble conquering that squad, 9-0.
—Tom McNally
Irish Keglers To Try For First Bowling Win
Smarting under their second defeat at the hands of the Valparaiso pin-splitters, the Notre Dame bowling team will travel to Chicago Sunday to meet the DePaul keglers. DePaul will field a formidable squad and Manager Ernie Huffman will be hard-pressed to shift his bowling forces into a winning combination.
Valparaiso University’s keglers invaded South Bend and repeated their previous victory over- the Irish at the local Water’s lanes last Saturday night. It was a close match as Valparaiso held only a one point lead going into the final game. Gene Auguilli (Italian Club) led his squad to victory in the first two games and was well on the way to putting the third one on ice when Valparaiso squad came from behind to capture the third game and win the three-game totals honor by seven points to give them a 12-8 victory for the match.
John O’Brien (Jet Propulsion Club) captured high single game honors for the Irish with a 209, but the invading Budy Dittrich turned in a sizzling 237 to give match honors to the invading keglers.
The squad captained by Fri,tz Shadley (Pittsburgh Club) garnered four points in their set, while a third Irish squad lead by Charles Derrico (Italian Club) was only able to win one point in its set. Valparaiso’s Budy Dittrich led the visitors in their four point rout of the Notre Dame squad captained by Bob Bairley (Detroit Club). Even O’Brien’s high pin total could not stop the slaughter.
Both Valparaiso victories over the Irish bowling representatives have been by slim margins and Huffman is hoping that those few extra pins will fall on the Notre Dame side of the alley when they tangle with DePaul this weekend.
’ NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
April 23—BASEBALL: at Iowa.
TEACK: Drake Belays.
April 24—BASEBALL: at Iowa.
TENNIS: Wisconsin here.
April 27—BASEBALL: at Western Michigan.
May 1—BASEBALL: Indiana here (double header).
TEACK: Notre Dame and Drake at Bradley Tech.
TENNIS: Michigan here.
MARVIN JEWELERS
(Jnc.)
126 N. Michigan St. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
20
OVER THE GOALPOSTS
Dubber and Pro Have Equal Chance In Second Student Golf Tourney
By Pete Brown
Irish Linksmen Seek Revenge at Purdue
The golfers of Notre Dame will tee off tomorrow morning at Purdue University in the first of three away-from-home matches that should determine just how good their chances are to improve on their five-four-and-one record of a year ago.
In its last spasm before death, the Vets Club sponsored a golf tournament for campus pros and dubbers last spring. Strangely enough, their effort was a huge success. However, the effort took every last bit of strength in the club’s weary muscular system. Much rather than let a good thing die, the Scholastic has taken the baton from the Vets and is sponsoring the Second Annual Golf Tournament.
Joe Doyle, associate editor of the Scholastic, holds the tournament master job down for the second year. The faculty advisor to Doyle and his assistants is Mr. John Turley, master and teacher of the Aeneid.
The tournament is a good chance for anyone—even men like Ted Budynkie-wicz—to win a trophy. The winner of the last flight in the first tourney shot a blazing 120 to take a trophy which was equal in size to Art Arquilla’s championship flight award. Incidentally, Arquilla through his winning efforts last year won himself a place on the varsity golf team. So you can’t lose. Oh, yes! There is a §1.00 entry fee.
A FEW SPORT NOTES
Bud Joyce of Morrissey Hall has informed this department of a new campus activity—a Sailing Club. The Midwestern Collegiate Sailing Association has recognized the Notre Dame Sailing Club as an eligible member for intercollegiate competition. The University will not give the boaters status as a minor sport, so Joyce and his boys have had to become a campus organization with all the entailing paraphernalia— officers, elections, etc.
The organizational meeting will be held April 26 at 7:30 p. m. in Room 104 of the Law Building. Two crews of two men each will be sent to races at the University of Michigan, May 1 and May 22. Anyone with small boat experience is asked to attend the meeting.
This department has received a letter from Nib Trimborn of Vetville deploring the archaic softball situation in the Interhall League. Seems that locally we use ten men on the field whereas the Michiana Tommies, South Bend Blue Sox, and others use the regulation nine. The Interhall League has always been operated for the enjoyment and recreation of the participants. No attempt has
been made to make the teams professional or even semi-pro. No claim has been made for the playing ability of any performer. The boys are just out to have a little fun. The tenth man has more fun on the field getting in the other players’ way than he would have on the bench.
Softball is a game that copied its rules from the national pastime anyway. In the twenty years since the game got its start, the pitching distance has been successively 27, 30, 33, 35, 38, 40, 43, and now 45 feet. The base paths have been shortened and lengthened several times. Some leagues (chiefly Chicago and vicinity) use the 16-inch ball; others use the 14-inch; most use the 12-inch sphere. The South Bend Blue Sox—they call it girls’ baseball—use a 11-inch ball and allow the pitchers to throw sidearm. The point: As long as the teams play only for fun, as long as the softball rules committee has failed to solve the old hit-er-pitcher conflict, as long as the rules are in a constant state of flux, let them play the way they want to. But don’t get me wrong, Mr. Trimborn, softball is a great game; some day it will be stable.
TOURNAMENT COSSES DOYLE AND TURLEY Even Budynkiewicz has a chance
The Boilermakers were the only outfit to edge the local boys on the home links in 1947, and Father Holderith’s lads will be itching to return the favor tomorrow.
Following the Purdue match comes a nine-day layoff before the Irish journey to Wisconsin and follow this up with a date at Detroit.
Notre Dame holds a 9-5 edge in victories over Purdue in their all-time series standing. Never have the Boilermakers been able to win two in a row from the Irish, a precedent that may well he shattered tomorrow. Purdue boasts five monogram men back from the squad that took a 20-16 win from our boys a year ago.
Last Saturday saw Notre Dame open the season successfully for the 15th time in 19 years by upsetting Kentucky 18-9 over the University Burke course. The issue was never in doubt after the Irish amassed a 7)4-1% lead after the morning’s bestball play. Jack Fitzpatrick and Paul Hudak led the way in the morning’s play, winning their match 3-0 and firing a 73 and 74, respectively. George Stuhr took honors for the day when he went around in 71, even par, in his bestball match.—Jim Butz.
21
Names Make News
From Far and Near . . .
The “MacArthur For President” campaign headquarters on the campus might well be in 231 Sorin Hall, the local habitat of one DAVID A. RANDALL. Intended primarily for the SNRC, the thing began to get out of hand and assume huge proportions when Randall received a shipment of campaign buttons from the MacArthur headquarters to distribute. If a joke, Randall plays his part well for the button supply is depleted. No Wisconsinite, Dave is an engineering senior from Lowell, Massachusetts. .. .
A 142-pound semi-finalist in the recent Bengal Bouts, JIM SMITH, from Charleston, West Virginia, has been gaining recognition as a pitcher in a South Bend semi-pro baseball loop. The lanky southpaw, a commerce junior, will be twirling at Potawatomi Park for Manager Pop Frankel’s Northern Indiana Transit nine. . . .
Dr. Joseph Weiss, of Kings College, University of Durham, New Castle-on-Tyne, England, conducted a chemistry symposium here last week. Dr. Weiss, who is a noted authority on the chemistry of hydrogen peroxide and its related compounds, spent several days on the campus inspecting the work in chemistry. . . .
The sixteenth Catholic Information Center under the auspices of Convert Makers of America opened during March in a book store located off the busiest street in Dallas, Texas. Volunteer director is Mrs. Josephine Curtsing-
ED DIXON (LEFT) DOING ‘CASEY* A girl joined the family
er, mother of Badin Hall’s EUGENE CURTSINGER, arts and letters senior.
... A Voice Is Heard . . .
At a meeting of the Toastmaster’s Club of South Bend last week Notre Dame’s freshman oratory champ from Texas QUINTIN MARLOW, did a retake on his prize winning speech “1832 —a Powerful Hand.” Marlow, whose home is in San Antonio, defeated five other contenders recently in the annual Frosh Oratorical Contest with an impressive comparison of FDR and Andrew Jackson. . . .
Professor STANLEY S E S S L E R, head of the art department, spoke on “Masters Old and New” before members of the Progress Club’s art department last week. With colored slides to illustrate his talk Mr. Sessler traced the history of art from the 14th century until the present day. He also pointed out how the modern trend in art is influenced by the work of the old masters. . . .
Sharing the spotlight at the Sherman Hotel’s College Inn in Chicago is a new singing sensation, DARWIN DANE, formerly a Notre Dame student. Ever since he opened his first professional singing at the Sherman, Dane, who is now billed with Herbie Fields, Kay Starr, Sonny Howard and Meade Lewis, has been proving himself to be a success in the vocal game. . . .
According to Dr. LAWRENCE H.
JIM SMITH
A southpaw joined the team
BALDINGER, dean of the College of Science, four reasons for continued progress at Notre Dame are the loyalty of the Notre Dame alumni; the friendship of the large “synthetic alumni” group; the untiring efforts of HARRY G. HOGAN, chairman of the board of governors for the Notre Dame Foundation; and the dynamic, powerful force known as the spirit of Notre Dame. Dr. Bal-dinger outlined his reasons in a speech delivered before the Fort Wayne Alumni Club last week. . . .
Dean CLARENCE MANION, of the College of Law, delivered an address at the Achduth Vesholm Temple in Fort Wayne, Ind., last week based on his beliefs in the American system of government. In his talk, the eighth in the Centennial lecture series at the Temple, Dr. Manion asserted that “Faith in God is the first pre-requisite in America.” . . .
. . . To Bring Good Cheer
Engaged to ROBERT POEHLMAN, commerce junior from South Bend; Miss Mary lannarelli of Elkhart, Indiana, a graduate of St. Teresa’s College, Winona, Minn. The wedding will take place on June 5 in St. Patrick’s church, Elkhart. . . .
Engaged to JOSEPH D. ANDERSON, law school junior from Paducah, Kentucky; Miss Alma Jane Curtis, ex-St. Mary’s student from South Bend. . . .
Born to Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD DIXON, of Vetville, their fourth child, a girl, Susanna; weight: 6 lbs. 13 ozs. Law student Dixon is probably best known on the campus for his colorful portrayals of that frustrated slugger, “Casey At The Bat” . . .
22
Poll on Spain Brings > Shrugs, Few Answers
Back on the unfamiliar ground of world affairs, the Notre Dame student body reacted like the lost souls they are when interviewed by Scholastic reporters concerning Spain and the Marshall Plan. In answer to the query: “Do > you think that the Marshall Plan can work without the participation of * Franco Spain?” a majority of students were too ignorant of the facts to give an answer. As one poller put it: “Most of those I asked did not know very much about the Marshall Plan and those who * did know a little about it did not know how the inclusion of Spain would affect it one way or the other.”
Of those who, through their reading or classes, were acquainted with the facts involved, all but one favored the inclusion of Spain under ECA.
r Vernon Burkhart of 217 Breen Phillips, said it in these words: “As the only “ country which has successfully combated Communism, Spain is deserving of support in her anti-Red fight.” His sentiments were echoed by Don Sullivan, of 262 Alumni, who was quoted as saying:
, , “Spain too has fought Communism. Spain needs aid . . . why not aid Spain?”
** John Ankenbruck of 360 Morrissey, found a different reason for letting Spain in on the economic ball game. “Due to the fact that Western Europe is a single economic unit, Spain’s inclusion is necessary,” said John.
Backing this view up were the words of Dan Minahan, 224 Breen Phillips. Quoth Mr. Minahan: “Ravaged by civil war, Spain could not enter this last war, and yet she is condemned for her neutrality. She needs aid and the plan for European Recovery is not specifically for the Allies.”
The lone dissenter of the interviewers was Gene Myler, 217 Breen Phillips. “I ” am not in favor of extending the ECA to Spain because I think Spain could be better helped by opening world markets,” said Gene. “Instead we are giving aid with one hand and shutting the . door- of trade with the other.”
► Glee Club Shoves Off
On Last Tour Tomorrow
Still receiving kudos for their presen. tation of “Archangel Mike,” Dr. Daniel Pedtke and the Notre Dame Glee Club leave tomorrow to visit Columbus and Lima, Ohio. This is the last trip of the season and their last scheduled appearance before commencement week.
Last weekend the Glee Club repeated their Washington Hall program at St. Mary’s. Featured was the performance of the cantata “The Archangel Mike,” * written by Ed Cashman.	.
R.O.'s Complete Strategy For Spring Naval Formal
Not to be outdone in this year’s spring social doings on the Irish campus, the future skippers of the Notre Dame NROTC unit are planning big things for their Naval Ball to be held on May 1. Under the command of Dance Chairman Jack Donahoe the local midshipmen are rapidly making headway in completing plans for a full-scale operation in the best traditions of the Fleet.
First item in the log for D (Dance)-Day is the reception which will take place at the Vetville Recreation Center. As the boys in blue and their “drags” come aboard, they will be welcomed by a receiving line made up of Captain and Mrs. A. L. Danis, Commander and Mrs. B. F. McMahon, Midshipman Battalion Commander Richard Znaniecki and his date, Miss Marilyn McMahon of Rockford, Illinois, and Dance Chairman Jack Donahoe and his guest, Miss Joanne McCabe, sophomore from St. Mary’s. Captain Danis and Commander' McMahon are commanding officer and executive officer, respectively, of the naval unit at Notre Dame.
Miss McCabe will reign for the evening as Queen of the Ball.
Members of the army unit at Notre Dame are invited to the affair.
Busses will be provided between St. Mary’s and Notre Dame before and after the dance. Tickets are on sale for $2.30.
—Bill Bradley
FATHER THORNTON HANDS CHUCK RUSS BLUE CIRCLE PIN For 26 members—26 pins
ND Students Present
Piano Recital May 6
Two more of Notre Dame’s musicmajoring pianists will take to the keyboards the evening of May 6 in Washington Hall to keep the ivories tinkling in the style set by Bill Gibbons last night. The artists, Chuck Lienhart and Larry Metcalf, have slated four compositions along the classical vein in an hour-long recital starting at 8 p.m. Ascension Thursday.
Metcalf and Lienhart, both juniors, have studied under Mr. Daniel Pedtke. Both men are Glee Clubbers, Larry also singing bass in the famed campus quartet.
Blue Circle Work Lauded;
Pins Awarded at Breakfast
Reverend Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., ■ Registrar of the University and Mr. John Hinkel, head of the Department of Public Information were guest speakers at the annual Communion Breakfast of the Blue Circle held last Sunday in the faculty room of the Dining Hall. Father Thornton celebrated the Mass in Serin Hall chapel.	,
Both Father Thornton and Mr. Hinkel praised the work of Blue Circle members in spreading the spirit of Notre Dame among the student body. At the close of the breakfast, Father Thornton presented Blue Circle pins to 26 members.
Goodyear Co. +o Present Story of Marketing In Visual Education Program Wednesday
All students of the University will have an opportunity next Wednesday to get the inside story on the gigantic enterprise of marketing a major product in the United States.
In a full-day session, the million-dollar visual merchandising educational program of the Goodyear Tire and Jtubber Company, which has been used to train more than 25,000 dealers and dealer employees in past-war marketing methods will be presented. All marketing students have been excused from their Commerce classes in order that they may attend the full-day session. All other students, no matter' what college or major, are urged to attend during any free periods they might have.
The complete program, employing the use of a number of motion pictures and slide films, supplemented by lectures, charts and other, material, will be presented in the College of Engineering Auditorium in exactly the same manner it was presented to the company’s dealers. For purpose of this dealer merchandising program Goodyear took advantage of the lessons learned in the milD tary organizations through the wide use of visual training methods, basing its comprehensive program on the use of sound motion pictures and slide films. Advance preparation of the program required more than a year of effort and the expenditure of a million dollars.
PROSPECTIVE ACTRESSES TRY OUT FOR “IT AIN’T HAY New faces, new producer, new dates
Arrangements for the practical casestudy project were made by Mr. Brooks Smeeton, assistant professor of Marketing of the College of Commerce. The program will be under the direction of J. A. Lewin, manager of the Goodyear dealer department.—Pat Stanton.
Eager Actors and Actresses Attracted by "It Ain't Hay"
Over 35 aspiring actors showed up at the male casting procedure last Friday for this spring’s all-student musical comedy, “It Ain’t Hay.” Fifteen young women from South Bend then appeared Sunday afternoon to seek the female parts of the show. Definite cast lists are being prepared, and they will appear in next week’s Scholastic.
The dates for the show have been pushed back, the opening performance scheduled for Sunday night, May 16. Due to the change in dates, the announced producer George Bariscillo was forced to relinquish his job to journalism major Gerry Hekker. General manager for the production will be James Beymer, a sophomore in Arts and Letters.
There are still openings on the production staff for those who are interested. They should contact Producer Hekker or Manager Beymer for further details.
Sweet Music for K. C;
Noose for Chairman?	<
Sorinite Bob Luther was feeling fine	4
until he received the news, via the Scholastic, that he may have a date with a length of hemp rope — done up Georgia style.
From last Friday’s Scholastic came • the warning (From the Editor’s Desk, page 8): “Pity the poor dance chair- * man . . . without a ‘name band.’ A bunch of hep cats will probably hang that square.”
This sent Bob to the Grotto for extra prayers, kept his pulse thumping away ’ at 150 r.p.m.’s, but didn’t change his mind. Myron Walz had no name band, but would definitely play the Knights of Columbus Spring Formal at the Progress Club April 30.
“This name band business is the bunk,” . said Bob; “I like music that you can dance to, not prance to. That’s why we •’ engaged Myron Walz for the Spring Formal. Even his name suggests slow, smooth, satisfying shuffling.”
That was what nineteen other K. of C. dance chairmen had said. Every one of f the twenty Spring Formal dance chairmen have engaged bands that were fa- r mous for their danceable music, not for their razzle-dazzle, the like of which can be soaked up almost any Thursday afternoon on the Palace theater stage.
Myron Walz, this year’s bandsman, is a local lad who produces a brand of x music that’s smooth, crisp, and soft enough to keep the ear drums from a getting a finger sent through them. Myron started his career by brightening up some of those legion hall bingo parties and Polish polka-panics. It may not be a long way from Kowalski’s Hall to the Palais, but Myron’s gone the distance.
He keeps busy these days playing proms, x the Palais, and the St. Mary’s stumbles.
To most students, the K. of C. Spring Formal is a big break. There are no j pre-requisites to dance bids. The dance ; is open to all students. Tickets are on sale in the council offices in the basement of Walsh hall and in each of the halls. * Their value: $4.00.
It should be interesting to see how the hep cats react to Myron Walz and Bob Luther’s judgment. In case anyone’s interested, the latter’s neck size is 15%.	.
—Bob Vierhile
LOST'
GOLD '47 CLASS RING with red setting, inscribed “Kentucky Military Institute" Initials B. J. B.
BERNARD BAUTE, 221 Breen-Phillips Hall
24
WND to Broadcast Convention Sidelights
Station WND will set up microphones in the Navy Drill Hall at 7:45 p. m. Monday to broadcast the mock political convention. Highlighting the 15-minute session will ba the keynote speech by the convention chairman. Tuesday and Wednesday evening, at 7:45 p. m., WND will present interviews with students prominent at the convention. During the three-day session WND will interrupt programs to bring special bulletins and late developments in the convention.
Thursday evening’s Scholastic Concert will spin Stravinsky’s Firebird Suite. The Scholastic magazine-sponsored program, miked by George Engler, will feature the modern ballet music of this contemporary composer.
Latin Lyrics at 6:15 p. m. Thursday will spotlight the music of Brazil. Master of ceremonies George Murphy will bring news and chattel- in this second-of-the-series program.
Friday night’s News Discussion broadcast, unavoidably moved ahead to Wednesday of this week, will return at the regular time next Friday.
WND extends its Saturday night broadcasting schedule to one full hour beginning tomorrow at 9:30 p. m. Thirty minutes of uninterrupted music will prelude Claude Thornhill’s bandstand broadcast direct from the Palais Royale at 10 p. m.
Monday Evening Thursday Evening 6:00 Jumptime	6:00 Sack Time
6:15 Blue Champagne 6:15 Latin Lyrics 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Summer Theater 7:15 Scholastic Concert 7:45 Mock Convention 7:45 Uninterrupted Music 8:00 Sign Off	8:00 Sign Off
PORTRAIT OF A CONTENTED HERD Members of the Cleveland Club turn on their best smiles after holding their annual banquet last Thursday at the American Legion
Tuesday Evening 6:00 Sack Time 6:15 Yesterday’s Hits 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Summer Theater 7:45 Convention,Interviews 8:00 Sign Off
Wednesday Evening 6:00 Sack Time 6:15 Blue Champagne 6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Sports Parade 7:30 Summer Theater 8:00 Sign Off
Friday Evening
6:00 Jumptime
6:15 Blue Champagne
6:30 Moonlight Serenade 7:15 Classical Music 7:30 News Discussion
8:00 Sign Off
Saturday Evening
9:30 Uninterrupted Music
10:00 Claude Thornhill 10:30 Sign Off
College of New Rochelle (Continued from Page 15) and the aptly entitled weekly newspaper, The Tattler. Products, in the form of humorous quips and stories, from this highly rated paper have often been reprinted in the Schlastic’s College Parade column.
The Tea, which is the CNR version of the Huddle, is stuffed every afternoon ■with intent bridge players, giggling gos-sipers, clicking-knitters, and their combined lung-defying smoke. The Shore Road Drug and Berger’s uptown are two other haunts that the gals like to frequent. Then there is the soothing and nearby Long Island Sound which magnetically attracts the girls as soon as spring breaks, as does the famous and expensive Glen Island Casino.
Although rather far removed from our immediate area, the girls at CNR remain ■ever faithful to the ND cause. They are ethereal composites of beauty, friendship and intellect. It is lucky that it doesn’t cost anything to dream, because if it did many a fellow would be broke, and all because of the College of New Rochelle.
Foundation Receives
$551,803 in Gifts
The 1948 Manual and Guide of the University of Notre Dame Foundation was released for distribution last week and carries to Alumni and Friends of the University the up-to-date picture of the Foundation. The manual includes a breakdown of contributions received last year, a listing of state and city governors, and a comprehensive report on the needs of the University and the purpose of the foundation.
The master table of gifts of Alumni and Friends for 1946-47 in 203 Chairman Cities reveals that total contribu
tions added up to $551,803.00. The list of gifts of art and books and research equipment is long and varied; $28,000 alone was donated to the Outdoor Advertising Fund of the Commerce School, $79,475.68 in fellowships was received, by the Graduate School, plus industrial research funds amounting to $11,060.28. The Mediaeval Institute and the Library also gained hundreds of books and manuscripts.
'NOW, THtf MU KNOWI WANT A OK. 6KAB0W PKE-SMOKEO PIPE
$po . $200 . $350. $500
" Fodwonad by UniuKn
M GRMOW Fk Co. K, ChmmhIu.
25
CAMPUS CLUBS
4
DE CRANE SCORES TWICE
Elections held by the Cleveland Club last week at its spring dinner meeting found Vince DeCrane emerging with double honors. Besides being picked president of the club, the energetic DeCrane was chosen to receive the fifty dollar student prize donated by the Cleveland alumni. The new president succeeds Bill Braun, one of Notre Dame’s representatives to the NS A conference last summer.
Other officers elected were Bob Lally, vice-president (moved up from treasurer) ; Dennis O’Neil, secretary; and Ray Miller, treasurer. Lally and O’Neil succeed Charlie Roult and Frank Novak. The banquet, arranged by Lenny Zoller, was held at American Legion Post No. 50.
Other projects coming up for the Clevelanders are the Mothers Day Communion Breakfast and the annual Summer dance, both being handled by DeCrane. Brother Theophane, C.S.C., head master of the Holy Cross Gilmour Academy in Cleveland, will speak at the Communion Breakfast.
FLORIDA FROLICS
The fruits of long labor came to the Florida Club last week when the hard working Floridians were treated to a steak dinner at Rosie’s for their efforts at Foreign Student Relief Carnival. The Florida Club turned in the highest total per member of any club participating in the carnival. The steaks were its reward.
Members of the Rocky Mountain Club will assist at a High Mass at 8 o’clock Sunday morning, April 25 in memory of the -father of Ted Bugas, of Howard Hall. Father Roland G. Simonitsch will be the celebrant.
Veterans' Office Warns — 90 Days to Reinstate NSLI
The local Veterans Administration in South Bend announced last week easy steps by which veterans can reinstate their National Service Life Insurance. There are only a little more than 90 days left before the deadline for reinstatement.
Two steps are necessary to reinstate insurance:
1.	Sign a comparative health statement indicating your health is in as good a condition as when the insurance lapsed.
2.	Pay two monthly payments.
For complete details veterans should contact the Veterans Administration Office, 601 Whitcomb - Keller Building, South Bend.
The Headquarters for ARROW
ON THE CORNER — Michigan and Washington
FOR AN
OPEN AND SHUT
CASE
OF SHEER SHIRT COMFORT . . .
try an Arrow Gordon doubler in fine Gordon oxford cloth, $4.00.	.
The doubler is the only shirt we have ever seen that successfully leads a double life and looks well with or without a necktie.
Ask your Arrow dealer for a Doubler, a perennial shirt favorite of U. S. college men.
P.S. Doubler comes in regular collar sizes and sleeve lengths.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES M»	_______________________
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
26
“I’ve been in the telephone business a little more than two years.
“And what busy years they’ve been!
“The Bell System has added more than 6,000,000 new telephones, erected some 1200 buildings, buried thousands of miles of cable and made great strides in extending and improving telephone service in rural areas.
“Telephone service has been extended to automobiles, trucks and trains, and a new svstem for transmitting telephone conversations and television programs by microwaves put in operation.
“At Bell Telephone Laboratories they’re working on new electronic devices which will bring still wider horizons of electrical communications within view.
“I’ve had a part in this post-war progress.”
There’s a future in telephony. '
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM