WINSTON TASTES GOOD!
LIKE A Cigarette SHOULD!
E R
or
” E •' F
P 1 X E J 0 R R fl



WINSTON is the big brand on this range,ma'am_fbr filter and for flavor!
Once folks discover Winston, they just can’t keep the news under their Stetsons! They go for the flavor because it’s so clean and fresh — from a bright, clear blend of superb tobaccos. They like Winston’s exclusive pure-white filter, with the smart cork-smooth tip. And, they like to share a good thing when they find it! You try ’em. Then you’ll know why Winston is now way out ahead of the other filter cigarettes.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
[Nowavoiloble
in crush-proof box, too!
Smoke WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
A
Vol. 99 March 28, 1958 No. 19
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
I JIM STEINTRAGER :	Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL Associate Editor
*	JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS_____________News	Editor
HARRY McKEE _________________ Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY.................Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK ........... Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS _______________ Photography
,	LORAN SHEFFER___________Business Manager
MIKE KURAS______________Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN.......... Circulation Manager WALT RUDGE .........Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH................Assistant Copy
; BILL CONWAY.................Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS ______________Assistant Features ,	TOM LAMONT .Assistant Features
•	BOB SEDLACK _________ Assistant	Features
’ ED ROHRBACH.............. Assistant Sports L TED THOMPSON ............Assistant Sports
: News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken , Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob
Maruyama, Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang. Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, a John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim
O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
“Jockey brand underwear made me a brighter star!”
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
“ ‘You can’t play Cyrano if you wear baggy underwear!’ the drama coach told me. That was the day I bought my first pair of Jockey briefs. Quel fit! Quel comfort! I looked better and, amazingly, even my superb acting improved. Jockey briefs had made a dramatic change in my career!
“Now I get all the starring roles, thanks to comfortable Jockey brand underwear. And I wouldn’t think of accepting a substitute. You see, only genuine Jockey brand briefs are tailored from 13 separate, individually shaped pieces. That is the reason they give you such a smooth, comfortable fit!”
Jockey briefs are the most copied underwear in the world. Be sure you get genuine Jockey brand— they're tailored to fit.
FOR COOPER UNDERWEAR
Rasmussen Men’s Shop
MAIN AND WASHINGTON STS.
JOCAreV* brief
BRAND W
March 28, 1958
ENJOY THE FREEDOM OF
A HASPEL WASH *N
WEAR SUIT
$39.75
On the Campus—Notre Dame
. The Scholastic
Haspel’s Sir Perior... 75% Dacron —25% cotton . . . the remarkable suit that never requires pampering to always look its best. It practically takes care of itself. It keeps its shape, even on muggy days . . . wrinkles disappear overnight. When soiled, just suds it ... it drips dry ready to wear. Try one on at the Campus Shop now.
*G ILBE ST'S
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP
PAY	PAY
i
MAY	JUNE	JULY
No Carrying Charge
If you are a Notre Dame man, your charge , account is open at the Campus Shop. You can buy what you need now and, if you wish, charge it the Campus Shop way — one-third in May, one-third in June, and one-third in July. Naturally, you pay nothing extra for this convenience — no carrying charges. Why not use your charge account tomorrow?

‘griping’
WHAT is the value of criticism, or as described in the colloquial “griping”? It is supposed that every action must have a definite purpose — at least today — or what good does society derive from it? Griping which is a lower form of criticism does really have some value, for it is the first sign of disgust or insecurity which eventually, under careful guidance, reaches the “holy” state of criticism. It is true that griping may be caused by a rather uncomfortable emotional disturbance brought about by such things as classes, girls, and weather. But, it seems, that it arrives rather because of a basic disgust with prevalent and all-too-ordinary conditions.
Since criticism’s ultimate aim is perfection, the action becomes justified, and the primary state of griping can be allowed to exist because it may evolve into the healthy state of criticism. This latter level cannot be shaken by a high grade, pleasant dates, or a sunny day — it remains in spite of exterior conditions to expose the foolishness and insipidness of human beings, their institutions, and environment.
One who is truly disturbed with the mediocrity and stupidity that rules the present age will never, or are they able, to relinquish their right of criticism. Nothing will satisfy them but the perfection of society — this is why most saints die dissatisfied with the world — of course, we agree, that everyone who criticizes is not a saint.
It is a very good sign that there are students on this campus who care enough about Notre Dame to advance intelligent critiques of our situation. For the most part, we feel, that this is done with sincere intentions and an objective attitude. Therefore, we encourage this inspection of the essentials of our society, and sincerely hope that it never ceases — even after graduation.
—D.L.K.
March 28, 1958
vacation
t
Easter vacation is with us once more and with it comes an opportunity to demonstrate a true Notre Dame spirit. What is Notre Dame spirit? First of all because it is spirit, it is something which is essentially mysterious. Websters defines it as “the breath of life” and this probaHy comes as close as possible to the nature of spirit. Spirit then is the life of Notre Dame. It is that principle which makes the University live and grow.
But like all principles of life, spirit is perhaps best known in its manifestations. What then are the important manifestations of a Notre Dame spirit? Since spirit is tied up with the life of the University, it first should be concerned with the growth and improvement of the school. This does not mean mere physical growth but refers to ah overall spiritual and intellectual growth. Secondly, spirit must be concerned with preventing or avoiding any destruction of the existing life of the University. These are the basic manifestations of a real Notre Dame spirit.
How does this apply to Easter vacation? Very easily. Within a few days most of us will be heading home or to some vacation spot such as Florida. We will be on display in either case before many people who look at us as examples of Notre Dame men and therefore as embodying the spirit of Notre Dame. If we manifest our “spirit ” by creating a disturbance on the train or in some Florida bistro, we are not manifesting a true Notre Dame spirit. We have neglected the very things which should be most important to a real Notre Dame spirit. But make no mistake about it. No one is perfect and this goes without saying. More often then not the fellow who has “one too many” or who openly . “gripes” about the University before other people is not , maliciously intending to destroy or even harm die sprit of Notre Dame. He does so only because of his human weakness. But one has to be quite dubious about some Notre Dame students who are constantly acting as a destructive
• force to the University. They simply can not have die University’s best interests at heart They are thmkh^ only ~ of themselves, and, indeed, not very well of themselves. Which class do you fall into? If you belong, as most of -us do, to the first class dien be extra carefid of your conduct over Easter. If you belong to die second class nothing much . anybody could say would have any meaning. .
Where there’s a Man... there’s a Marlboro
Marlboro SM
~	a	Sturdiest box of all— —-^Sf
A long white ash means good tobacco and a mild smoke.
dependability. You get big friendly flavor with all the mildness a man could ask for.
Mild-burning Marlboro combines a prized recipe (created in Richmond, Virginia) of the world’s great tobaccos with a cellulose acetate filter of consistent
The cigarette designed for men that women like
The “filter flower” of cellulose acetate (modem effective filter material) in just one Marlboro Selectrate Filter.
a
YOU GET A LOT TO LIKE-FILTER • FLAVOR • FLIP-TOP BOX

Sturdiest box of all—
urith the exclusive self-starter.
The Scholastic
WSEEEZSSC^BB
John Jordan
Coach Johnny Jordan led his Notre Dame team to 24 victories this past season and has now accumulated 124 wins in his seven years at Notre Dame. His teams have dropped but 56 games over this same seven-year stretch, five of the losses coming this year. This year’s team finished seventh in the final Associated Press poll and eighth in the final United Press tabulation.
This 1957-58 season just completed marks the third time in the last five years that Jordan’s teams have won over 20 games, and this year’s victory total of 24 is the highest in the history of the school.
■ Jordan’s two wins in the three NCAA encounters two weeks ago brings his total in NCAA play to eight wins and four losses. This marks the third time in four tries that a Jordan-coached Notre Dame team has gone to the finals in NCAA competition.
Although the bonus shot after a successful free throw attempt was eliminated following the first six fouls in each half this year, Jordan’s team became the highest scoring team in . Notre Dame basketball history. This year’s team scored 2374 points for an average of close to 82 points per game. Last year’s team scored ten less points in one less game with the benefit of the bonus free throw rule.
Jordan enrolled at Notre Dame in 1931 and became active in both football and basketball during his freshman year. The next three years he concentrated entirely on basketball and captained the 1934-35 Notre Dame team. During his three years of varsity play, Notre Dame compiled a 49-19 record.
Shortly after his graduation, he accepted the head coaching job at Mount Carmel High School in Chicago, Ill., and he remained there through the 1949 season except for his three-year term as a Navy lieutenant during World War II. Three times he directed his Mount Carmel teams to the Catholic League Championship and won the City Championship twice. During his
stay at Mount Carmel, he attracted attention as one of the nation’s top prep coaches.
During the 1950-51 season he directed Loyola of Chicago’s basketball forces to a 15-14 record and returned to Notre Dame to take up the head coaching job at the beginning of the 1951-52 season. His first team won 16 of 26 ball games, and with many of the players from his first team he led Notre Dame to the quarterfinals of the NCAA championship the next two years.
. In 1952-53, under Jordan’s most capable leadership, Notre Dame won 19 of 24 encounters before losing a close contest to Indiana, the eventual tourney champion, in the quarterfinal round. The next year, the Irish, sporting a 21-2 record going into the quarterfinals at Iowa City, clipped the defending champion Hoosiers by one point in the Friday night game but were then upset by a hot-shooting Penn State quintet in the final game of the regionals the next night. For Jordan’s and his team’s outstanding performance during the 1953-54 season, the Metropolitan Sports Writers named him the “College Basketball Coach of the Year.”
Jordan’s team slipped a little bit the next year to a still very creditable 14-10 record and fell to a 9-15 mark during the 195556 campaign. But he led Notre Dame back into national prominence last year as the Irish ran up 20 wins against only eight defeats and finished 16th in the final Associated Press Poll.
Jim Gibbons
Jim Gibbons, in his second year as assistant basketball coach, has served as the chief aid to Johnny Jordan and has also handled the freshmen basketball players during the past two seasons.
Gibbons, a guard on the Notre Dame basketball teams from 1950-53, returned to Notre Dame from Mount Carmel High School in Chicago where he coached both baseball and basketball.
During his playing days for the Irish, Gibbons was known for his defensive ability and his adeptness at dribbling. Throughout his three years of varsity competition, the Chicagoan scored 210 points and was one of the team’s most consistent foul shooters.
Upon graduation from the College of Liberal Arts in 1953, Gibbons served a two-year hitch in the Army prior to taking up his coaching career at Mount CarmeL Gibbons, who also was a pitcher-outfielder for the Irish baseball team, serves as assistant coach to baseball coach Jake Kline during , the spring months.	.	—-
IO	-	■	.	•	'	" '
The Scholastic
A
♦
March 28, 1958
‘Ex Carde’
by Co-Captains Bob Devine and John McCarthy
“When your ability is the same as the other team’s and all other things are equal there is one thing that decides the winner, that is, ‘ex carde,’ from the heart.”
Any player who has ever played under Coach'Jordan will recognize these words. After playing three years for him a player probably hears the expression over a hundred times. When you first look at this Latin phrase, ‘ex carde,’ it doesn’t mean much, but it has a deep meaning for all of us who play for him.
It connotes a whole philosophy of sport; more than that a whole philosophy of life, not only to the heart of each individual, but it signifies the heart of a team. Each works not to see his own name in the headlines but to see the name of the team and of Notre Dame pushed forward.
To any of Coach Jordan’s teams here at Notre Dame, there is one main objective, to further the glory of the Lady on the Dome. He wants his team to win every game but if it came down to bringing disgrace on Notre Dame to win a game, he would rather lose.
Coach Jordan is not a great teacher of individual basketball skills. He admits that he cannot teach a boy to shoot, or dribble or pass. But he is probably
the finest coach in the country when it comes to teaching team play. He works not to build All-Americans but to build AU-America teams. He believes that a basketball game is won by five men ~ working together, not by five individual performances. Yet we can’t avoid the fact that in some years he has produced some great All-Americans, such as Dick Rosenthal, Jack Stephens, and his greatest, Tom Hawkins. But as he would say, “Five men win a game, not one.”
It is difficult to say how one feels toward a man who has been so close to us for four years. We could say that he is a great coach, but this is said of many winning coaches. Before all else, we would call him our friend.
A former player of Coach Jordan, Johnny Dee, now coach of the Chicago-Denver Truckers and formerly coach of Alabama, expressed his opinion of Johnny Jordan after Notre Dame defeated Alabama in the Sugar Bowl. He said, “I hope you go on to win the championship because you are playing for a gentleman.” '
It was a well deserved compliment coming from a man whose team he had just beaten. But in our opinion one phrase will best express our feeling toward Coach Jordan. He is above all a Catholic gentleman.
THE SEASON IN
R EVI EW
by Ed Rohrbach
th&NKWN LOOKS FOR BALL AGAINST BRADLEY
2
The Scholastic
Notre Dame’s basketball team stylishly swept its way through a 26-game reg-i ular season schedule against the coun! try’s finest teams, then bounced Tennessee Tech and Indiana from the NCAA । before bowing to national champion Kentucky in the Midwest regionals of the tournament. In all, the Irish won the most victories in Notre Dame’s basketball history as they compiled a superlative 24-5 season’s record. After a loss to Bradley on Feb. 1, the Jordanmen tallied twelve consecutive victories before their sound defeat by Kentucky.
< The Irish opened the 1957-58 season against St. Ambrose on Dec. 3 in the Fieldhouse. In this contest, Notre Dame led all the way, though St. Ambrose closed within three points of the Irish midway in the first half. At this point a field goal by Tom Reinhart and a jump , shot by Tom Hawkins pulled ND into a more comfortable margin and from there they went on their way to an easy 82-63 victory.
Four days later the Jordanmen journeyed to Madison, Wis., where they engaged Wisconsin’s Badgers in their first road game of the year. The Irish jumped off to an early lead, then weathered a mild Wisconsin uprising in the second half to win handily, 75-53. Hawkins paced the Notre Dame scoring with 26 points while Co-Captain John McCarthy was close behind with 22.
Nebraska, which later turned into the giant-killers of the Big Eight Confer
ence, faced the Irish the next Saturday evening in the Fieldhouse. The rangy Cornhuskers gave the Jordanmen a tight battle for the first 15 minutes but withered under the scoring pressure of McCarthy and Reinhart, who hit 26 and 17 points, respectively, and went down to a 69-56 defeat.
Marquette, which seemed likely to carry on their football misfortunes into the basketball season before they met Notre Dame, trounced the Irish, 78-64 at Milwaukee for' ND’s first loss of the campaign. The Warriors, outplayed the visitors in every department, especially in rebounding where they outjumped the Irish 55-37. Hawkins’ offensive showing was Notre Dame’s only bright spot as he poured in 31 points.
In their next encounter, McCarthy’s 26 points, mainly on jump shots from outside the keyhole, gave Notre Dame a comeback victory over Loyola in the Fieldhouse. The Irish held a scant five point halftime advantage but began hitting in the second half to win in a breeze, 82-63. Co-Captain Bob Devine’s 21 points and fine floor play was also a big factor in the victory.
Michigan State, defending Big Ten co-champion which eliminated the Irish in the NCAA play-offs the year before, overcame an ND 43-35 halftime lead to hand the Jordanmen their second loss of the season, 79-72. Fouls plagued Notre Dame’s starters in the waning moments of the game and, when Hawkins fouled
out, the Irish lost their scoring punch. In all, both teams accumulated 37 fouls in the grueling contest.	.
After a brief holiday respite^ the Jordanmen traveled to Indianapolis where they garnered their first championship in the Hoosier Classic. Purdue, which was later to make a strong bid for the Big Ten title, drew the Irish in the tournament’s first game.. 12,900 fans jammed Butler Fieldhouse for the game which was nip and tuck until Devine boosted Notre Dame into the lead with a free throw with nine minutes remaining. The “iron-men” Irish, who used only six players, then turned on a strong offensive burst that left the Boilermakers in their wake, 61-48. Purdue was not all finished, however, as they closed the gap rapidly before time ran out and gave Notre Dame a well-earned 68-61 triumph.
Indiana, which had been bombed by Butler the evening before, faced the Irish the following night. Paced by star forward Hawkins, who scored 17 of his 28 points in a blazing second half, ND tumbled the Hoosiers 89-74 for their second successive victory. Hawkins led the way for the Jordanmen with his 28 points. Butler’s loss to Purdue enabled the Irish to gain their first Classic title in five tries.	‘
On New Year’s Eve, Notre Dame went after its seventh win of the first semester against a strong contingent from Northwestern at McGaw Memorial Hall in Evanston. Though the Irish opened up a 19-point lead they collapsed in the second half before they regained their bearings to subdue the scrappy Wildcats, 71-66. Northwestern culminated a second half rally with a 64-63 lead with four minutes left in the game. Reinhart then capitalized on two free throws to give ND a margin they never relinquished.
Tenacious Butler held Hawkins in check the following Monday night at Notre Dame but Reinhart managed to pick up the lapse in the Irish offense by tallying 25 points as the locals went on to their eighth win of the season, 83-72. The Irish were in charge most of the way against the Bulldogs but had to. overcome a late burst by the visitors to gain their eleventh straight victory on the Fieldhouse floor.	.-	.
The Irish didn’t find Valparaiso too much trouble in their next game as they walloped the Crusaders 94-69 at Fort Wayne. Gene Duffy, who usually leaves the scoring to his taller teammates, broke loose with 22 points for Notre Dame. Tom Hawkins, however, who threaded eleven field goals, led the ND' scoring with 24 points.
For the first time in the season, the' Irish found themselves trailing at the end of the first half, against DePaul.
P
March 28, 1958
Way up there
The Demons were winning 37-36 when the halftime buzzer sounded in the Fieldhouse but in the final 20 minutes of play it was a different story as Notre Dame strode past a DePaul team, that became riddled with fouls, for a 79-61 triumph. Hawkins again was the Jordanmen’s offensive gun as he tallied 26 points.
Notre Dame suffered its third defeat in 13 games against Louisville the next Saturday night as the Cardinals pasted a 94-83 road defeat on the Irish. Coach Johnny Jordan’s team never quite recovered from a ten point spurt that sent the hosts ahead at the half, 46-37. The key to the Louisville win was superior rebounding, paced by 6-10 Jerry Dupont’s 22 recoveries. John McCarthy’s 26 points led the scoring for both teams. Bob Devine was second for the Irish vith 20 tallies.
The Irish successfully launched their irst of three appearances at the Chicago Stadium the following Saturday by swamping a good Illinois quintet, 81-67. Tom Hawkins showed his hometown ’oiks why he is the greatest scorer in <otre Dame history by sinking 16 fielders and seven free throws for 39 points. The Irish completely dominated play igainst the Illini, taking a 48-31 ad-rantage at the half and maintaining it hroughout the second half. The tri-imph gave the Jordanmen an 11-3 sea-on’s record.
A second half defensive show bottled p the Louisville attack four days later s the Irish scored a revenge victory ver the Cardinals in the Fieldhouse, 3-53. ND trailed 34-30 at the half but rand the range thereafter to wrap up leir twelfth win of the campaign. The Totre Dame scoring was evenly bal-nced behind Hawkins who set the pace ith 25 points.
The Notre Dame victory machine
chugged to a sudden, but not entirely unexpected stop, the next Saturday night in the Chicago Stadium, as Bradley’s Braves humiliated the Irish 81-70 before a 14,000 gathering. For four minutes in the first half the ND marksmen were unable to find the hoop as they lost a slim lead and Bradley went on to take a 45-33 lead at the half. The basketbailers could only, muster up a mild threat in the second half, closing the gap to six points, before the Braves took charge again. Hawkins was the star for the Jordanmen as he poured in 29 points.
In their next two games, the Irish maintained their winning streak on the Fieldhouse floor against visiting Canisius and the Air Force Academy. Against Canisius. ND expanded a slim four point halftime lead to a comfortable 71-59 victory. Despite faulty shooting from the free throw line, where they missed 13 attempts, the Irish, the one-two scoring punch of Hawkins and McCarthy, were too much.
On Feb. 8, Tom Hawkins turned in the best performance of his career at Notre Dame as the Irish humiliated an aggressive but small Air Force team, 98-70. The “Hawk” netted 19 field goals, a Notre Dame record, and five free throws for 43 points which tied the Fieldhouse mark set by Lloyd Aubrey in 1956. McCarthy also had a sizeable
Loose ball in the garden
hand in the rout by tallying 24 points.
The elusive 100 point scoring mark, which no Notre Dame basketball team had ever been able to achieve, became a reality the night of Feb. 10 in the Fieldhouse as the Jordanmen vanquished . Marquette, 106-74. The Irish were definitely revenge-minded.as they buried the hapless Warriors under a 62-35 halftime barrage and then, with reserves filling in for the varsity the last eight minutes, eclipsed the century mark with 2:21 remaining on Mike Ireland’s lay-up. Scoring leaders for the Irish were McCarthy and Hawkins with 22, Devine with 18 and Mike Graney who finished with 17 points.
Butler, which was apparently very anxious to avenge the loss they suffered to the Irish at South Bend, played the Jordanmen on a little better than even terms until midway in the second half when the Irish managed to knot the score at 78-all. With Eddie Gleason’s brilliant all-around play sparking the Irish, they finished very strong in the last two minutes to win, 90-81. Hawkins’ 33 points made him high scorer in the game.
Defending NCAA champion North Carolina was the basketball team’s next opponent. The talented Tarheels opposed the Irish on Feb. 15 at the Chicago Stadium in what was anticipated as the Jordanmen’s hardest test of the season.
The Scholastic

McCarthy scores against Indiana
The Irish snapped a 36-36 halftime tie with a spectacular surge at the beginning of the final half and never let up as they crushed North Carolina, 89-70. Tom Hawkins, though he was being double-teamed, put the biggest damper on the Tarheels’ victory hopes by cashing in 33 points. The triumph set the Notre Dame record at 17-4 for the season.
After their stunning win over North Carolina, the basketbailers trekked to the East where they engaged New York University in Madison Square Garden on Feb. 20. Though the Irish were solid favorites, the Violets took advantage of the Jordanmen’s sluggish play in the first half to stay within striking distance until McCarthy hit a jump shot with four minutes left before the intermission. With this incentive, the Irish increased their advantage to 37-31 at halftime and easily outdistanced the hosts on their way to a decisive 93-77 win. Hawkins, with 25 points, and McCarthy who added 24, led the ND attack.
Against Navy the following Saturday night at Annapolis, the Irish again suffered through a lethargic first half but caught fire in the last 20 minutes to zoom to a 85-63 triumph. In the contest, Tom Hawkins netted 24 points to pass the single season’s scoring record he set the season before. The junior forward’s output against the Middies gave him 583 points with three regular season games to go. Bob Devine gave the 1957-58 team another record by starting in his 75th consecutive game, besides making 17 aoints for his team.
In their last home game of the season refore a packed Fieldhouse throng, the rish starting five played absolutely cintillating basketball to open up an verwhelming 46-23 halftime lead over {oly Cross. Though coach Johnny Jor
dan sprinkled the Notre Dame quintet with reserves in the second half, ND maintained its comfortable margin over the Crusaders to win handily, 86-58.
Hawkins again was the top scorer with 24 points, slightly below his average of 25-plus per game. He was accorded a rousing and spontaneous cheer when he passed the 600-point mark in scoring. Senior Co-Captains John McCarthy and Bob Devine were duly saluted, too, by the roaring student body. McCarthy helped out w>th 17 points and Devine added ten for the Irish.
On the first of March the Irish went after their 21st triumph of the campaign against a rugged Detroit team at their home court. To beat the Titans, who refused to submit to the NCAA-bound Jordanmen. Notre Dame had to soar over the 100-point mark for the second time of the season. Though fan-
Tech guard blocks lay-in
tastic shooting put the Irish ahead 56-46 at the half, Detroit came storming back in the second stanza to tie it up at 82-all with five minutes remaining. Hawkins hit a fielder at this point but the Irish weren’t out of danger until a spurt with two minutes left gave Notre Dame a relatively comfortable eight point lead. Three members of each team were forced to leave the game via fouls and, in all, 51 fouls were committed in the hard-fought contest. The final score read: Notre Dame 102, Detroit 96.
DePaul was the last obstacle on the Irish’s 1957-58 schedule. The Demons, who are usually a powerhouse on their home court, capitalized on one of the Jordanmen’s poorer showings of the year to stay close until three minutes before the final buzzer when the Irish gained a 70-64 lead. Notre Dame stalled out from there until time ran out to win, 75-71. Hawkins paced ND’s offense with
22 points and McCarthy was close behind with 21.
Tennessee Tech, champions of the Ohio Valley Conference, were the Irish’s opponents in their first NCAA tournament game. The Golden Eagles put up a strong bid to the favored Irish until early in the second half when Notre Dame finally broke loose and left Tech under- a 94-61 deluge. In the game at McGaw Memorial Hall at Evanston, Ill., Hawkins paced the ND attack with 30 points.
With one NCAA victory under their belts, the Irish traveled to Lexington, Ky., where they faced Indiana’s Big Ten champions in their first game. Though Notre Dame had whipped the Hoosiers earlier in the season, they were only slight favorites to do it again over the much improved downstaters. ND got off to a slow start, trailing 12-6 in the early minutes, before their shooting picked up and they jumped into a commanding 4837 halftime advantage. Hawkins took the scoring burden from McCarthy who had been carrying it in the first half and led the Irish on to a 94-87 victory. He was the leading scorer in the contest with 31 points while McCarthy totaled 29.
Kentucky, the South East Conference champions, were Notre Dame's opponents the next evening before a capacity crowd in their home fieldhouse. It was simply an off-night for the Jordanmen as they were out-played by the Wildcats in every department and went down to a 89-56 defeat.
While the Irish were futilely trying to shake-off the Wildcat’s sticky defense, the Kentuckians found the Irish basket an easy mark, rolling to a 43-31 halftime lead and increasing it from there on. McCarthy was Notre Dame’s top scorer, with 17 points.
Wildcat defense stops McCarthy
larch 28, 1958
15
FIGHTING IRISH” BASKETBALL SQUAD. Back
NOTRE DAME 1957-58
left to
right: Assistant Coach Jim Gibbons,
row.
Lee Ayotte, Mike Farrell, Mike Ireland, Tom Reinhart, Mike Bekelja, Bob Skrzycki, Head Coach Johnny Jordan. Middle row, left to right: Student Manager Walt Huurman, Gene Duffy, Co-Capt. Bobby Devine, Co-Capt. John McCarthy, Tom Hawkins, Mike Graney, Trainer Gene Paszkiet. Front row, left to right: Ed Gleason, Don McGann, Emmett McCarthy, Bob Bradtke, Jim Williams.
Notre	Dame Final 1957-58 Basketball Statistics
	(Regular Season and three NCAA tourney games)
PLAYER	Games FGA	FG	Pct.	FTA	FT	Pct. Rebounds PF TP	Avg.
Tom Hawkins, f			 29 623 286 .459 224 158 .705 499 80 730 25.2
John McCarthy, f 								  29	543 212 .390 156 132 .846 314 75 556 19.2
Bob Devine, g 				    .	29 389 138 .355 126	93 .738 122 73 369 12.7
Tom Reinhart, c 						      29	287 102 .355	56	32 .571 196 85 236	8.2
Gene Duffy, g 				   29	177	63 .356	90	64 .711 102 52 190	6.6
Mike Graney, c 				   ‘	16 173	66 .382	52	26 .500 206 58 158	9.9
Ed Gleason, g 									  20	38	12 .315	24	18 .667	25 17	42 ......
Jim Williams, f-c				    14	35	14 .400	8	6 .750	27 17	34 		
Mike Ireland, c 					    16	37	10 .270	14	11 .786	45 23	31 ......
Bob Bradtke, g 					   10	11	2 .182	14	9 .643	7	9	13 ......
Lee Ayotte, c-f 					     7	13	5 .385	1	0 .000	9	8	10 ......
Mickey Bekelja, f				   6	6	2 .333	2	1 .500	2	2	5 ......
Don McGann, g				  1	0	0 .000	0	0 .000	0	0	0	...
TEAM	83
ND TOTAL		,				    29	2332 912 .391 767 550 .717 1637 499 2374 81.9
OPPONENTS’ TOTAL						   29	2116 807 .381 668 432 .647 1314 540 2046 70.6
16
The Scholastics®
TIME OUT
The annual basketball testimonial banquet, which took place last Tuesday night, was a thoroughly entertaining and enjoyable affair. The food was good and so were the speakers.
If you had to single out one predominate theme or idea which ran throughout the banquet, it would have to be the intense respect and friendship gained by Coach John Jordan with those who are associated with him.
Art Morse, the promoter' of college basketball in the Chicago Stadium, and assistant director of athletics at Loyola, explained it in part. He said that every basketball team looked pretty much alike. The thing which gave them real identity was their coach. And in some ways this is very true.
Coach Frank McGuire of North Carolina put it another way. “A lot of you people don’t realize what a 24-5 season is in basketball today,” he said. “There are no longer any have-nots in basketball for everyone has a good team nowadays. Coach Jordan and his team have beaten some of the best in the country, and if they played Kentucky seven times they would heat , them in six. It is truly unfortunate that they lost on the night that they played them.” This is a fine tribute to Jordan’s coaching ability by the man whose team won the National Championship last season, and who was selected as basketball’s Coach of the Year for that season.
But perhaps the greatest tribute of all was paid by Coach John Castellani, of Seattle, who was Jordan’s assistant coach here for four years. “Jordan treated me like a father,” he said. “When things were going rough, he helped me more than I can explain. Whatever success I have had, it was because of Jordan.”
Though these are strong words, they express the feelings of all of us. Of course our contact with Jordan was limited by comparison, but we can sincerely say that he is one of the finest men that we have ever met.
He is never too busy to say hello or offer that word of encouragement or help. Everyone is treated with the same friendliness, and this is sometimes the test of a real man, to treat everyone, regardless of station, the same.
Though the banquet was a happy affair, for some of us it was a little sad. It marked the end of the Devine-McCarthy era of Notre Dame basketball. Both of these men have had fine careers. Both have scored over 1,000 points in their three seasons, and Devine holds the record for consecutive games started, 81.
The graduation of these two will leave a great void in the Fieldhouse but they are being replaced by two who fill it quite ably. Gene Duffy and Tom Hawkins have a big job to do next year, for being captains after Devine and McCarthy won’t be easy. But they can do it, and maybe next year’s banquet will honor Notre Dame’s first NCAA basketball champions. We certainly hope so.—M.F.
Dees Unanimous Choice On All-Opponent Team
Archie Dees, Indiana’s 6-8 All-American center was the only unanimous choice on the Notre Dame basketball’s 1957-58 all-opponents team.
North Carolina’s Pete Brennan and Michigan State’s Johnny Green tied for second in the balloting among the Irish players with eleven votes each. Vern Hatton of Kentucky polled ten votes for the fourth position on the team and Mike Walsh, Detroit’s guard, rounded out the squad by getting five votes.
Kentucky and Bradley tied in the selection of the best team faced by the Irish this year. The Wildcats, who eliminated Notre Dame from the NCAA by a whopping 89-56 count on their way to the national championship, and Bradley’s Braves, who tumbled the Irish in the Chicago Stadium for their last loss in regular season play, each acquired five votes in the team’s balloting. The Indiana Hoosiers, who were downed twice by the Jordanmen, once in the Hoosier Classic and later in the NCAA quarterfinals, were picked on one ballot as was Michigan State, winner over the Irish, 79-72, early in the season.
Dees, the Indiana senior who paced the Big Ten scoring statistics, got the nod from all twelve of the Irish basketbailers to head the team. In his two games against ND, Dees netted 60 points to thoroughly convince them that he was one of the country’s finest players.
Green is the only repeater from last year’s all-opponent team. The junior center’s rebounding ability and frequent tip-ins were a big factor in the Spartan’s victory over the Irish in December. He tallied 19 points and gathered in most of the rebounds for the victors.
North Carolina’s Brennan impressed the Jordanmen by his ruggedness under the boards and almost one-man scoring show against Notre Dame in the Chicago Stadium. The Tarheel center hit 28 points against the Irish and was especially deadly from the free throw line where he scored twelve times.
Kentucky’s Hatton was the star of the game in the Wildcat’s easy win over the Irish. While directing the Kentucky offense from his guard position, Hatton managed to also be the game’s top scorer with 26 points. He later proved his value to the Wildcats by sinking a last-second jump shot to give his team a victory over Temple in the NCAA semifinals.
Walsh, Detroit’s 5-10 guard, hit 27 points against the Irish in their 102-96 triumph over the Titans. Before fouling out with a few minutes left in the game Walsh was keeping Detroit even with the Irish as he consistently connected on long set shots.
17
I
I March 28, 1958
Nineteen Frosh Basketbailers Appear . As Solid Nucleus for Future Irish Squads
Nineteen boys played freshmen basketball this year under the direction of frosh coach Jim Gibbons.
Heading the group were John Tully, Bill Crosby and Bill Noonan. Tully, a graduate of Regis in New York City, comes from Palisades Park, N. J. He stands six-foot-seven and plays the center post for the Irish. Although he hadn’t played the pivot too much before coming to Notre Dame, Tully has developed a good hook shot with both hands.
Crosby, a six-foot-four guard, is a product of St. Benedict’s Prep and comes from Linden, N. J. His best shots are a two-handed set and one-hand jump. Crosby is a fine rebounder, excellent on defense and has good split vision. His good basketball sense means he should play a lot for the Irish in the next three years.
Noonan too, is a guard, standing six-foot-one. He hails from Davenport, la., and attended the same prep school as varsity guard Gene Duffy—St. Ambrose Academy. A nice soft, one-handed jumper and good touch on his shots are his best qualities. Noonan has shown lots of improvement over the last part of the year. A good defensive man also, Noonan is a good prospect for our one-three-one style of offense.
The forward spots were held down by Jim Sullivan of Chicago and Denny Walljasper of Iowa City, la. Sullivan is a six-foot-five lefthander, and with his left-handed jump shot should be a strong
candidate for the right forward position vacated by Irish Co-Captain John McCarthy. Sullivan is a product of St. Ignatius in Chicago.
Walljasper, an Iowa City St. Mary’s graduate, was injured part of the season, thus hampering his playing time. He is a fair rebounder and might work well in Notre Dame’s double pivot.
Filling in for Walljasper while he was injured and doing a capable job was Pat Keai*ney. He played his high school ball at Loyola Academy in Chicago.
Helping out at guard were Ramon Vales and Ronnie Zak. Vales comes from Rye, N. Y., and stands five-ten. He is a good floor man and shoots a twohanded set shot. Zak, the same size as Gene Duffy at five-six, was coached by Tom McHugh, former Irish footballer. Zak comes from Toledo, Ohio.
Others on the squad included Dennie O’Shaugnessy, a six-foot-two forward from Fremont, O., and Jack Schroeder, a guard who drives well, from Garden City, N. Y. Three Cleveland, O.-area boys were also frosh players this past season. They were Jack Carey and Bob Kirstein from Lakewood and Tom Enright from Cleveland.
Dick Bendall, Schenectady, N. Y., Larry Erickson, Midland, Mich., Dan Hagan, Mexico, Mo., who also plays baseball, Bob Schmidt, Bakersfield, Cal., Paul Schmitz, Drexel Hill, Pa., and Mike White, Chicago, round out the squad. —Tom Bates.
Hawkins and Duffy Named Co-Captains
Tom Hawkins and Gene Duffy have been selected as co-captains of the 195859 Notre Dame basketball team. Hawkins, high-scoring forward and Duffy, 5-7 playmaking guard, were voted the honor by their teammates after the final game of the season at Lexington.
Hawkins, chosen on several All-Amer-ica teams this year, has been called “the greatest offensive basketball player in Notre Dame’s history” by Coach Johnny Jordan. This season Hawkins led the team in scoring with 730 points, setting a new one-season Irish scoring record. The old record of 576 points was set by Hawkins himself last year as a sophomore. Thus far in his two seasons Hawkins has amassed a total of 1306 points, only eight short of Jack Stephens’ four year career record of 1314 points. Hawkins also was the top rebounder on the club with 499.
Tremendous jumping ability and an uncanny shooting eye are the factors most responsible for Hawkins’ success. He is 6-5 and weighs 205 pounds. His spring has enabled him to out-rebound and out-jump taller opponents consistently; and his jump shot is virtually unstopable.
Hawkins came to Notre Dame from Parker High School in Chicago and is a sociology major in the Arts and Letters school.
Gene Duffy, the other co-captain-elect of the 1958-59 eagers, is from Davenport, Iowa. His high school record at St. Ambrose Academy is almost a legend. Winning 16 major letters in football, basketball,' baseball, and track, Duffy was an All-State performer in football and basketball and led the baseball team to the state championship as a sophomore.
Duffy, who is only 5-7, made the varsity team as a sophomore last year and played in 22 of the 28 games. This season he was a starting guard on the squad all season long and scored 190 points for an average of 6.6 points per game.
Because he is so small, Duffy does not show his value to the team in the scor
ing column. But his brilliant playmaking and skillful ball handling make him an invaluable asset on the court. His
sharp, quick, passes at just the right time continually leave his teammates open for easy baskets.
Duffy is a philosophy major in the Arts and Letters college and is the starting, center fielder on the baseball team. Last year he led the Irish in both triples and home runs and has aspirations to be a professional baseball player.
The Scholastic
* WSND Sports Director
/	Bill Chesson Gives His
Impressions of...
THE EASTERN SWING
When I learned that I was to travel East with the Notre Dame basketball squad to do the play-by-play of the NYU and Navy games, I was greatly elated. The Irish had so far won 17 out of 21 games and were fresh from an 89-70 victory over North Carolina in Chicago Stadium.
We were to leave from the Fieldhouse ■ at about three o’clock Wednesday afternoon February 19. I arrived.with suitcase, camera, and information on the two opponents about 2:30.
The team was just finishing a practice session so during my wait I took a few pictures of the team and talked to ’ Walt Huurman, senior basketball manager.
At the airport the ticket agent told ■ us that the runways were clear and that ■ above the low hanging clouds the visibility was excellent.
; We traveled TWA, with stops scheduled for Fort Wayne, Dayton, and Pittsburgh, before we landed at Newark International Airport.
Once on the plane I sat down next to
South Bend take-off
Co-Captain John McCarthy, who showed his appreciation for my company by immediately falling asleep. Coach Jordan and Mrs. Jordan were across the aisle, and behind them were Devine and Gene Duify.
We had just left Pittsburgh when the card game started. I was just about off -to sleep when I heard someone from up front yell:	-
“Bill. How ’bout some cards?”
The idea sounded good so I said I’d join them.
We played until the stewardess came by and told us we were approaching Newark.
The view was beautiful. We could see the lights of New York before us, blinking whites, greens and hundreds of other colors.
By the time we got our luggage, called cabs, and finally arrived at the Hotel Commodore it was close to eleven o’clock. I’m sure that I was the only one there who didn’t hit the sack right away. And I did as soon as I got off a couple of postcards.
“Appreciation for my company”
Rooming with Huurman had one definite disadvantage. As manager it’s Walt’s job to get everyone up in the morning. So he rises first and, much against my will, I rose second.
“Getting these guys up is a real chore, so I start early.”
The operator called at nine o’clock and Walt got up and went to work.
“1134, please . . . Tom? .. . Fr. Barry is saying Mass at ten in St. Pat’s. ... Be in the lobby at a quarter , of and we’ll all go over together. . . . 921, please ... Mike? . . . What took you so long? We have to be in the lobby in 15 minutes. . . . Yes, and get Bradtke out of the sack too . . .”
On he went until everyone had been aroused.	'
Father Barry said Mass in a small chapel way in the back of the Cathedral.
After Mass the team broke up into groups and went to breakfast.
When we finished breakfast, as the team was off until two, we decided to : take a walk down 42nd street and see the sights.
As we turned a corner, we ran into Hawkins and Mickey Bekelja coming the other way. They were both carrying packages. .
“Where have you two been? . . . What’s in the packages?”
“Records. They have a big sale right down the street.”
That sounded good to us so we went up to the next corner and found the shop.	_
We looked - around for about a half hour but couldn’t find anything that interested us so we walked down to Grand Central Station, and then, later, we went through the Rockefeller Center. -
The three of them, Ireland,- Reinhart, Cmtimied on page 20	. - /
19
March 28, 1958
Five Defending Champions Fight Tonight In Finals of Annual Bengal Mission Bouts
started. But Shulsen found an opening and slugged Davin with a solid rightcross to the jaw, and that was it.
Five defending champions won their way into tonight’s final round of the Bengal Bouts by winning their semifinal matches last Wednesday in the Fieldhouse. The 16 finalists will tangle tonight in the Fieldhouse for the championships in the eight divisions.
Only one defending champ was eliminated, but that was Pat Healy, last year’s heavyweight winner, in the fight that the crowd liked best of all.
The final bout of the evening and the second bout of the heavyweight division brought the crowd to its feet in thunderous applause at its end. Norm Odyniec, from Greensboro, N. C., and Pangborn, after being floored twice in the first round by Pat Healy from Baltimore, Md., and Breen-Phillips, bounced back to take a unanimous decision from the defending champion.
John Donovan of Chicago and Pang-bom Hall took the first bout of the evening on a split decision from Milam Joseph of Dallas and Pangborn. Both fighters struck for the head throughout, and both landed numerous effective blows to the head all through the fight.
In the other semi-final in the 127-pound division, Dennis Landry of Cincinnati, last year’s champ representing Keenan this year, pounded out a unanimous win over Roy Williams of Philadelphia and Keenan.
Leighton Young, an off-campus student from Houston, Texas, took a unanimous decision from Bob Weingart of Cranford, N. J. and Dillon Hall in the opening 139-pound match. In the second bout Ross Franco, defending champ from Napa, Calif., and Farley worked for a unanimous win over Richard Kruel from Dillon and Racine, Wis.
After a slow first round, Bob Fitzsimons of South Bend moved into the final bout in the 147-pound class by edging Dan McClorey of Detroit and Morrissey, in a unanimous decision. In the second bout, defending champ Ed Ricciuti of Sorin and Waterbury, Conn., hammered out a TKO win over Sam Haffey of Zahm and Cleveland, Ohio, in 1:25 of the first round.
Jerry Wilson of Walsh and Pittsburgh edged Hugh Ball, an off-campus student from Cleveland, Ohio, in one of the night’s most exciting and most evenly-matched fights. There were three knockdowns in the third round alone with Wilson connecting for two of them. Wilson took the bout by a split decision and advances to the 157-pound finals where he will face William Moore, the defending champion, from Detroit, Mich., and Dillon. Moore took David Miller of
20
Dillon and Houston in a unanimous de-* cision in the last bout before the intermission.
John Steinberg from Pangborn and Appleton, Wis., took a close-fought unanimous decision from James Rogers of Alumni and Buffalo, N. Y.
Mike Connor from Detroit, Mich., represented Morrissey and pounded to a unanimous decision over David Cormier from Westbrook, Maine, and Breen-Phillips. Connor had Cormier on the ropes much of the third round.
William Brelsford threw some of the hardest punches of the night in claiming the second TKO of the evening. Brelsford from Sheldon, Wis., and Dillon chased Vincent Distasio of the Bronx
Tonight's Finalists
ROY WILLIAMS ________MILAM JOSEPH
120 pounds
•DENNIS LANDRY. _____JOHN DONOVAN 127 pounds
•ROSS FRANCO_________LEIGHTON YOUNG
139 pounds
•ED RICCIUTI.________BOB FITZSIMONS
147 pounds
•BILL MOORE__________JERRY WILSON
157 pounds JOHN STEINBERG_______MIKE CONNOR
160 pounds
•BILL BRELSFORD______FRANK NACOZY
167 pounds JOE ANDERSON_________JERRY BAUGH
177 pounds PAT HEALY.___________DON LAWRENCE
Junior Heavyweight
DICK SHULSEN NORM ODYNIEC
Heavyweight
•before name indicates defending champion.
and Morrissey around the ring for close to two rounds in the opening 167-pound bout before he was awarded the TKO at 1:55 of the second round.
Frank Nacozy of Pangborn and San Diego, Calif., floored Richard Lombardi of Keenan and Lake Forest, Ill., to win the second semi-final match on a TKO at :48 of the second round. Lombardi got to his feet but was unable to continue.
Joseph Anderson from Cortland, N. Y. and Badin Hall beat Richard DeLamel-teure from Detroit and Farley in a fight marked by clinches. Anderson took this first 177-pound semi-final fight by a split decision.
Jerry Baugh, representing Pangborn and from Austin, Texas, slugged his way to a unanimous decision over John Diaz from Breen-Phillips and Oklahoma City.
Dick Shulsen scored the first knockout of the night with an :18 kayoing of Dave Davin in the first round. Shulsen, from Salt Lake City and Alumni, and Davin, from Chicago and off-campus, tore into each other as soon as the fight
Eastern Swing
Continued from page 19
and Huurman, left me about one to go ? back to the hotel for lunch and rest.
The rest of the afternoon I toured the -NBC studios. I got back to the Commodore just in time for dinner.	J t
I left the dinner table to go to the 2 Garden and set up the broadcast equip- j ment. My vantage point was good, just f
above the second tier.
In the first game of the double-header, j i St. Louis University whipped St. John’s of Brooklyn easily.
The crowd, though, was waiting for \ the Irish. NYU’s student body was 9 there but that was where the Violets X support ended. The rest of the crowd ? was for the Irish.
It was typical Notre Dame basketball; a slow start and a fast finish. Our lead | was small at halftime, but in the second | stanza we pulled away to win easily, 93-77.	|
After signing off for the Irish Basket- ? ball Network, I went down to the locker M room.
When the reporters were finished with g Coach Jordan they headed for Hawkins § and McCarthy. Gleason, as usual, was the last man out of the showers. |
Most of the team stopped for some- | thing to eat before going back to the T hotel.	i
We were scheduled to leave from La- T
Guardia for Baltimore about noon, Fri- i. " day. So in the usual procedure, Huur-man roused the team from slumber, we| went to Mass, and after breakfast head- S ed for the airport.	g?
My seat partner for the short hop to ; Baltimore was Williams.	S,
A bus took us to the Naval Academy > where we became subject to the courtesy of the United States Navy.	s
We stayed in the Naval Academy’s § new fieldhouse, where there is plenty of § room to accomodate visiting teams. |
That week- end there was a squash f tournament, a wrestling meet, and a rifle | and pistol match. So we had plenty of company.
The team held a light workout in the afternoon to get used to the floor. |
Friday evening was spent at pool and g ping-pong, as the team was confined to
the base by Coach Jordan. Graney, Ayotte, Bradtke, and Hawkins held down the pool tables until midnight when it was time for “lights out.”
Saturday morning we were aroused early by our special guide for the week end, Midshipman Third-Class Pete Du-lan.
Continued on page 25
The Scholastic
Engineering Open House Slates 'Explorama'; Auto Show, Exhibits Planned for April 25-27
p Preparations are well under way for the 1958 Engineering Open House to be
' held on April 25-27 it was announced j recently by the Joint Engineering Coun-i cil, sponsor of the event. Robert Norris, ! a senior from Middletown, O., is chair-| man of the three day affair.
‘ Since its initiation in 1952, the Open I House has grown until it is the largest of student-managed activities at Notre Dame. The Engineering Open House, aimed at the whole student body and the ? general public of South Bend, particularly the high school students, presents the Notre Dame engineer and the profession
ALUMNI DINNER
The Notre Dame Alumni Associa-tion will sponsor its annual dinner for graduating seniors in the New Dining Hall at 7 p.m. on April 23.
|li William Carey, a Notre Dame grad-i uate of 1951, will speak on the | transition from student life to career.
' 'Dimensions' Chosen Theme of Senior Ball
With “Dimensions” as its theme, the Senior Ball, with Harry James’ band , providing the music, has been scheduled for Friday, May 16, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. in the Drill Hall.
Bob Duffy, general chairman of the ball, has announced ticket sales will be in the Fieldhouse from 7:45 to 9:30 p.m. on April 15, 16, and 17. Seniors from Alumni Hall will obtain their bids on the 15th, those from Walsh and Fisher on the 16th, and off-campus seniors and those from other halls on the 17th.
The price of the bid is $10. Com-I munion Breakfast tickets, priced at $3, may also be purchased at this time, as ! well as hotel reservations. Tickets for ; a dinner dance to be held on Saturday, I May 17, at the Erskine Country Club, ‘ will go on sale April 18 in the Raths-। keller. The price is $8.
On Monday, April 21, late sales will provide a final opportunity for seniors ! to purchase tickets to the ball. No tickets will be sold after this date.
CAMPUS CLUB ELECTIONS
According to a new Student Senate regulation, all student clubs and organizations must hold their elections within two weeks after the Easter vacation. A list of the newly elected officers must be filed with the Student Senate before May 1.
in general. Last yeai- more than 25,000 persons attended the event.
Norris is in his final year in chemical engineering. A member of the Joint Engineering Council, he is also business manager of the Technical Review and was chairman of the Engineers’ Ball.
He reported that the theme for the Open House this year will be “explorama.” The departmental displays will portray the results of the engineer in searching out and applying better techniques and products for the use of man.
Activities will commence Friday afternoon with special guided tours for high schools in the area. Each department of the Engineering College will have open house with student-constructed projects and industrial exhibits on display.
Saturday will feature an Engineering Show followed by the annual Chariot Race. Wearing self-styled togas, and pulling hand-built chariots, representatives from each department will attempt to defeat the Architects, last year’s champions. On Sunday there will be an Air Show behind the Aero Building.
During the three days, an Auto Show, featuring experimental cars, will be held in the Navy Drill Hall. WSND will broadcast from the Engineering Lobby on Saturday and Sunday.
The committee assisting Norris in producing the 1958 Engineering Open House includes: Vince Naimoli, business manager; Brian Quinn, air show; Tim Cohan, auto show; Jack Lane, chariot race; Guy Weismantel, displays and tours; Roger O’Neil, engineering show, and Steve Sweeney, outdoor display.
Easter Retreat Plans Made For Gethsemani Monastery
Twenty-nine Notre Dame studentswill spend the first four days of their Easter vacation attending the YCS sponsored retreat at the Gethsemani Monastery in Trappist, Ky.
The students will leave the campus by bus on Tuesday evening and will attend three days of talks, conferences and Masses at the Monastery. On Holy Saturday, a bus will take them to Louisville where they can make connection for transportation home.
Vince Carroll has .been in charge of the arrangements, assisted by Roy Wessel who managed transportation. Wessel has announced that since the rented bus seats 35, six seats will be available for students who wish to travel to Louisville on Tuesday. Those interested should contact him at 143 Pangborn.
Concert Band Begins Vacation Tour April 5
The Notre Dame Concert Band will stall its annual Easter tour on April 5 with a concert at Antonian Hall, Pittsburgh, Pa. The 16 day tour will include concerts in Monessen, Pa., Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Meriden, Conn., Providence, R. I., Rutherford, N. J., Port Chester, N. Y., Holyoke, Mass., Auburn, N. Y., Canton, O., and Toledo, O.
The 56 man Notre Dame Concert Band is the most widely traveled college touring band in the United States, according to Robert F. O’Brien, band director.
Upon their return from this tour, the Concert Band will present the annual Spring Concert in the Drill Hall, at 8:15 p.m., Thursday, April 17. The Spring Concert will be a varied program of light and heavy selections. Pieces to be featured are Father Hager’s Sonatina for Band, and the premiere of the United Nations March by Stolze.
Breen Oratory Contest Set By Sommer for April 21 -22
The annual Breen Oratory Contest will be held on April 21 and 22, according to Prof. Leonard F. Sommer, director of forensics. Participants will be required to deliver a seven to ten minute oration of their own creation. The winner will receive a gold medal that is valued at $75.
Interested students should apply to Sommer in Room 344 of O’Shaughnessy Hall. A typed manuscript of the student’s talk must be submitted to him no later than April 14.
The Breen Oratory Contest is the oldest forensic event on campus. William Breen, a 1877 Notre Dame graduate, was its founder, the first award being presented in 1883. Last year’s winner was Jerry Brady.
Byron Janis Plays April 20 With South Bend Symphony
Byron Janis, an internationally renowned pianist, and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra will appear in the Navy Drill Hall in the final presentation of the Concert and Lecture Series Sunday, April 20 at 4 pan. Admission is free to the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College.
Tickets for the concert will be distributed at the Washington Hall box office on a date to be announced later. Faculty members who do not have Concert and Lecture Series tickets may purchase their tickets at the door.
March 28, 1958
21
COFFEE HOUR TONIGHT
A coffee hour will be held in the Student Center tonight following the Bengal bout finals. Coffee, doughnuts, and soft drinks will be served. The cost for the refreshments is $ .25.
On account of the retreat to be held at St. Mary’s College other than an open house, no activities will be held in the Center tomorrow.
Military Smoker Plans Set; Cadets to See 'Mr. Roberts'
Members of Notre Dame’s three ROTC units will attend the fourth annual TriMilitary smoker to be held in the Navy Drill Hall on Sunday evening at 8. Tickets may be obtained for $.35 at the door.
Arranged by the Tri-Military Council the affair will be highlighted by the presentation of the film Mr. Roberts. Also planned is a competition between the drill teams of the units for the Notre Dame ROTC championship plaque.
Plaques will also be awarded to the Army for winning the basketball championship and to the rifle champions, the Air Force. Refreshments will be served.
Committee chairman for the smoker is Pat Toner.
Don't Miss This Opportunity!
Never Again will you get a chance to do so little and stand to gain so much. A few moments of thought may win you a 17 Jewel Bulova Senator wrist watch. Here’s how:
Send your entry to the
Notre Dame Bookstore
Law School Symposium Planned for April 18 With Supreme Court As Focal Point of Study *
Describing the Supreme Court as threatened by assaults “too serious to ignore,” Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Notre Dame Law School recently announced plans for an April 18 symposium here on “The Role of the Supreme Court in the American Constitutional System.”
David Maxwell, Philadelphia, Pa., attorney and immediate past president of the American Bar Association, will preside at the symposium sessions, Dean O’Meara said.
Four papers dealing with various aspects of the current controversy regarding the Supreme Court will be given by Dean Eugene V. Rostow of the Yale Law School: Professor Robert A. Leflar of the University of Arkansas School of Law, Professor Sheldon D. Elliot of the New York University School of Law; and Carl McGowan, Chicago attorney and general counsel of the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad.
In outlining the scope of the symposium, Dean O’Meara emphasized that the sessions will be concerned with the Supreme Court as an institution. Stressing that the Supreme Court is not above
Just tell us in a letter of 25 words or less why you buy and use Sheaffer pens and products.
Don’t miss your chance. Do it NOW!
criticism, he declared that “the accusa- 1 tions and clamorous demands that fill the air are nevertheless calculated to I weaken public confidence in the court I and thus diminish its influence as a sym- J bol and spokesman of the rule of law in 1 an increasingly lawless world.
“Though much of the abuse of the court is purely partisan, a good deal of it,” Dean O’Meara contended, “results from a misunderstanding of the Court’s function and of the conditions under j which it necessarily operates.” The symposium, he explained, “will be beamed at people who are honestly mistaken about these matters.” The proceedings of the symposium will be published, he added.
Maxwell is a member of the Philadelphia law firm of Obermayer, Reb-mann, Maxwell, and Hippel. Educated at the University of Pennsylvania, he is a director of several corporations. From 1945 to 1950 he was co-chairman of the
National Conference of Lawyers and Certified Public Accountants.
Rostow graduated from the Yale Law * School in 1937, joined its faculty a year | later, and became dean in 1955. He t served as a State Department advisor
from 1942 until 1944 and as assistant executive secretary of the United Nations’ Economic Commission for Europe during 1949-50.
Leflar served as an associate justice of the Supreme Court of Arkansas from 1949 to 1951. He was educated at the University of Arkansas and at Harvard 4 ‘ Law School and has been a faculty mem- |f ber at the former almost continuously f. since 1928. He was dean of the Ark- | ansas Law School from 1943 to 1954.
Elliot is director of the Institute of l! Judicial Administration at New York I University and secretary of the Amer- I ican Bar Association’s section of Legal f Education and Admissions to the Bar. j He joined the faculty of the University of Southern California, his alma mater, in 1934 and served as dean of its Law School from 1947 to 1952.
McGowan is a member of the Chicago law firm of Ross and O’Keefe. He practiced law in earlier years in New York City and Washington, D. C. He has served as a faculty member and lecturer at the law schools of Northwestern University and the University of Chicago as well as a visiting professor at Stanford University Law School. During World War II he was a special assistant to the Undersecretary of the Navy. He was educated at Dartmouth College and the Columbia University Law School.
The Scholastic
22
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per tine. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary _ and all advertising must be presented Hy Mondav of the week of insertion.
ATTENTION, STUDENTS — Theses, Manuscripts, Themes and any other typing done quickly and accurately at very reasonable rates. Get in touch with Mrs. Frank Fabian at 813-A E. Wayne Street or call CE 3-6251.
SERVICES '
A WEEK IN THE SUN—$20.
Gateway Apts., 923 NE
18th Ave.. Ft. Lauderdale. Fla.
LOST
One Aqua colored Pilgrim V-neck long sleeve Sweater in Fieldhouse Locker Room night of Interhall Track Meet. Return to John Pauba, 430 Stanford.
TOURIST KITCHENETTES
4 miles North of Notre Dame. 200 feet East of Gulf Station on U.S. 31 —mile North of State Line.
Bargain Rates - Day or Night
Marketing Department Picks Sheffer for April 6-11 Meeting
Loran Sheffer, a senior from Lansing, Mich., and current Business and Advertising Manager of the Scholastic, has been selected by the Marketing Department of the College of Commerce as the outstanding advertising student at Notre Dame. He will represent the University at Inside Advertising Week to be held in New York April 6-11.
Sheffer’s selection was made on the basis of his academic and extracurricular achievements in the field, and his interest in advei-tising as a career. The award was made by a committee composed of Professors John Malone, head of the Marketing department, Ronald O’Neill and Harry Worthington.
Award winning advertising students from the top 70 colleges of the nation will participate in Inside Advertising Week. They will engage in seminars, tours and conferences and compete for the honor of the “Outstanding Advertising Student in the United States.”
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds Nationally Advertised Watches
Jewelry and Gift Items Jewelry and Watch Repairing
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
DR. N.HZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Sendee 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego.. Brisk as an ocean breeze, Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you’re at your best

when you top off your shave with Old Spice! ]OO
plus tax
AFTER SHAVE LOTION by SHULTON
March 28, 1958
23
Mims
UNUKY aid NIK SIIP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP 10 THE FACT THAT HESlN CLASS*
eat Aim mA bhih rom Avtuea
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in da« ... or when you’re "hitting tike books”. Take a NoDoz Awakencr! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake... alert! Your doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c	.
NO^OZ
AWAKENERS .
New Easter Policy Set For Campus Libraries
Library Director Victor Schaefer announced that students will be permitted to keep books during the vacation. They must renew them immediately before they leave to avoid the regular fines. This is a change in Library policy.
Divisional Libraries in the Main Library will be closed for cleaning as follows: Humanities Library on April 7 and 8, Social Science Library on April 9, 10, 11, and Business and Economics Library on April 9, 10.
Library hours during the vacation will be: April 1 thru 12—8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; April 4, closed at 12 p.m.; closed April 5, 6, and 13.
Alumni Secretary Schedules Universal Notre Dame Night
Thousands of alumni and friends.of the University will attend local observances of the 35th annual Universal Notre Dame Night during mid-April, according to a recent announcement by executive secretary James E. Armstrong of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
Dinner meetings will be held in more than 100 cities throughout the country, Armstrong said. This year’s observance, he explained, will spotlight Notre Dame’s new ten year $66,600,000 development program as well as the importance of continuing adult education for Notre Dame men and other college graduates.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, heads a group of Notre Dame officials who will address more than 50 of the alumni gatherings.
Other speakers will include Notre Dame’s executive vice president, The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce. C.S.C., The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation and Athletic Director Edward W. Krause.
Fr. Collins Announces New Hall Assignments
Hall assignments for next year
were
released last Tuesday by The Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., dean of students.
Alumni, Walsh, Fisher and Sorin are the Senior halls, while Dillon, Pangborn, Howard and Badin will be Junior. Lyons, Morrissey, Zahm and one-half of Cavanaugh are Sophomore halls with Keenan, Stanford, Breen-Phillips, Far
ley and St. Edward’s listed man.
This apportioning of the worked out by the Senate’s
as Fresh-
halls was committee
on hall assignments, headed by Herb Riband, and Father Collins.
Stanford is a freshman hall by the wishes of Mrs. Grattan T. Stanford and Keenan will be the same, since the administration considers them as one unit for administrating purposes.
Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores will be allowed off-campus and they will fill the vacancies in the halls of their respective classes. No Seniors will be in underclass halls, as it is this year.
If Freshman enrollment is greater than expected they will fill the other half of Cavanaugh hall; otherwise there may also be Juniors in the hall.
Students eligible to live in the same hall next year will still have to compete for their rooms on the basis of scholastic averages.
Debate Team Competes At West Point Tourney
The Notre Dame Debate Team qualified March 15 for the National Debate
Championship to be held April 24 to 26 If at West Point.	It
The team won its qualification with I i a record of five wins and one loss in the 14th annual regional elimination con-1 test, held in Cleveland.	|
John Whitney, a freshman from Bur- | bank, Calif.,, and Jack Martzell, a senior I from Sleepy Eye, La., represented Notre l Dame at the elimination contest. Mart- ' zell was named third best debater in ■ the contest.
Today and tomorrow the Debate Team will participate in the Judge Marx Debate Tournament at Xavier University.
GLEE CLUB CONCERT
Under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, the Notre Dame Glee Club will present their annual Spring Concert at Washington Hall on Sunday at 8:15 p.m. Accompanying the Glee Club will be Tom Plofchan and Tom Clifton. There will be no admission charge.
24
The Scholastic
:	Eastern Swing
n,'	Continued from page 20
E * Mass was in the main chapel, which 1^ is changed for the various denominations : that happen to be holding services. They J must have had a dance the night before j because several midshipmen were there with their girls.
We ate in the regular dining hall, 5 which is run on approximately the same • procedure as ours. One improvement ; over our system is the fact that they bring the food to you, and they keep bringing it until you can hardly walk away from the table.
j As the day wore on toward game time you could notice the tension begin to . mount as the team began to think of the game.
We ate an early dinner and the team went' back to their bunks to rest before the game. Graney and Hawkins stuck to the pool tables.
’ “Hey, Tom. Why do you shoot pool before a game?”
K “Keeps my fingers agile and relaxes K me. How about you?”
K “I’m just fighting off mental fatigue.” B About seven I took the WSND banner B and climbed to my booth high in the rafters. My engineer, Midshipman Secs' ond-Class Hod Tomlinson, was already ■ there.
B The Irish started cold, just as in the Bi NYU game, but capitalized on Navy’s Bi inability to hit from the free throw line B and had a twelve point lead at the half. B In the second half, the Middies made B a brief surge and cut oui' lead to six B points at one time, but we pulled away I again to win it. The final score was | 85-64.
I When the game was over the players ■ dressed quickly and went into Washingfl ton for the night. I visited some friends I and met the team at the airport Sunday ■ afternoon.
B Ayotte and Hawkins both came in ■ close to flight time and had to hustle to ■1 make it.
E The flight was a fast one and before K we knew it, we were landing at Midway ■ airport in Chicago.
B There was little time between planes B and we had to move quickly to make ■ connections.
B Once aboard the South Bend plane we B were greeted with the now familiar call, ■ “Welcome aboard to the Notre Dame B basketball team and congratulations.” ■ It was a good swing East.
Diamonds' Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JM.S. Bldg.
0RkWTURB0W
\0PT0MKTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
HaveaWUDofflM
Goin* home over vacation?
GOING BY
GREYHOUND* IS BASIC ECONOMICS!
e Lowest fares of all public transportation;
•	Frequent departures! Slickest time to many cities!
•	Air-conditioned comfort; picture-window sightseeing; fully equipped restroom; on all Scenicruiser Service® schedules!
Compare these low, low fares!
Cincinnati, Ohio $ 7.75
Detroit, Mich.	6.00
Harrisburg, Pa.	17.65
Houston, Tex.	26.50
Miami, Fla.	32.90
*plustM
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTO! DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food 601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
ITS SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
GREYHOUND TERMINAL, 117 WESTERN AVE. AT 7-7010
March 28, 1958
Back Pap
by JOHN KEARNS
spring
l
Rise, and put on your foliage, and seen
To come forth like the spring-time, fresh and green.—Herrick.
be
Since spring is with us in her official capacity, this is the time to write joyful poetry and prose celebrating her arrival. For spring is the glad time of year when life begins anew — even Christianity is seen to take cognizance of this.
But for some, spring is the frightful season, “breeding lilacs out of the dead land, mixing memory and desire, stirring dull roots with spring rain.” The call to new life is no promise, but a threat — one’s apathy must not be disturbed.
But spring will not allow ennui — her energy is somehow contagious. We belong too much to nature to ignore the sudden, exploding forces around us. When spring truly begins, the real world thunders into life. Sara’s barrenness is ended, she is with child. Sunlight, birds, buds, and greenness are all united in the symphony of life, the opus commemorating birth and childhood. For spring is the childish season, the time for be' ginnings.
Spring, though, is harmony, not discord. Fresh sounds, birth sounds, inspire this symphony; sunlight and green unify this canvas. Here there is order, things are in place; but formalization is forbidden. The scene is right, but not at reason’s bidding. For spring is the time of living and enjoying, not the time of thinking. Thought is out of place — it does not blend with a green background. Only life is for the living — speculation is for heroes or monsters.
Spring is the season of new life, the season to seize life. And to live, one must love — spring is the season of love. This love is for. everything, for grass and trees, for sun and rain, for man and woman. Nor can God be. excluded, for the others are only truly loved in loving Him. Love is the center, the basis of man. Without it, he cannot Jive, he can- -
not exist; without love, humanity dies. Love is the air of human existence, the -
foundation of all doing. Here is the only a . confined outlook.; The past imposes no rules on the present - one . plays no role; the .players do not play need only hold himself open to the full- ‘	‘	‘ ‘	’	‘
. ness of spring, the- fullness of life. Spring bears infinite promise; but it
.cipher that explains all'..tilings—it is .	the key to God’Himself .	■	.
- For God is Love, and the world is an t expression of Love.'Christ dies and life . r surrenders, Christ irises and love con-
quers. The Phoenix takesshape anew,; / . arid Light overcomes darkness. Love is
triumphant — sterility shatters on fertility. Spring is the time of resurrection, of life renewing itself. Spring demands the decision to live, and this is the choice of love.
Since love is the meaning, since love is always the meaning, love is greater than knowledge. The scale must dip on love’s side. Loving, not knowing, is the culmination of man. Knowledge may tempt, but the lover can do no wrong. The power that knowledge brings is as death compared to the strength of love. Spring has the life-force — its energy is love.
Spring being the time for birth and life, it is the season of childhood. Only the young can enjoy this time, but youth is offered to everyone. For spring is not exclusive, it invades the hearts of all. Because youth and spring are together, youth is a green time. Childhood is green in sunlight.
Green in sunlight carries one through time. In my green memory I am a child in a green world, in a green field under warm sun. The field is vast, but it is full, and in its fullness I am happy. I run and walk, I climb hills and wade streams and everywhere I am in green and sunlight. There are shadows too, but they are joyful shadows, belonging to the sun. The sun is pleasant, and I am free in my happiness and happy in my freedom. In my green youth, joy is warm and green — this youth is better than any youth, so delicious that no time has ever been as good. Through the green lens my years vanish and I romp in the green field. I am alone and I am surrounded, but above all I am happy; for the green glass obscures all pain, showing only good. In the warmth and greenness I change and I remain the same — for this greenness is the; past and must always remain the past. - Alas, I cannot go through the green glass —-I must watch from a distance.
: Though kept from this green youth, there is another open. Through the
greenness of spring youth is offered .to all. There is nothing of value to lose;
must be taken.	’
Hie fullness of spring overwhelms it satisfies all, lacking nothing. But it is
especially a time of sensation — it must be seen and heard, it must be smelled, and felt. Spring is greenness and laughter, it is violets and damp earth, and dirt crumbling in one’s fingers. Spring is wholeness, completeness — it is for all of man.
But spring is demanding as a lover, requiring the gift of self. Only by delivering oneself without reserve can one know her joys. Custom and habit must be shed to approach her mystery — she demands that her neophytes be garbed only in wonder. When spring has received her supplicants, giving themselves lovingly, she grants access to her mysteries. The richness, the bounty of

spring is held for the initiate — only he f can lose himself in the mass of sights-! and sounds and smells. The whole world | comes to life and life comes within as J,
well. The initiates are first of all alive, for spring has nothing for a speculative monster or a mere actor. One must truly live and love to belong to spring.
I

i
Spring rises upon a barren landscape g
and transforms it into a drama of birth® and life. In the stillness of death, spring S introduces the melody of the living. The J husk is broken off and the delicious fruity set’ free.
In spring gray becomes green, andH green carries with it all possible hues.|J There is the green of the grass and thei j blue of the sky, the green of the leafII and the yellow of the flower, there is^l green, and pink and yellow and violet,!? and green again. Gray becomes greenf) and silence becomes song. The song is* from birds and laughter and life — wel are in a green world but can make song] ourselves. Birth is a song and life is al song — living is the voice of the world,f; and spring is the concert hall and the« melody; Spring is a glad time — her colors are gay colors, her picture the ’ gayest of pictures — and the spring i song of the living is a happy song, a; song about joy.
But all. this drama of spring is dullness itself to the viewer — only the ; actors, enjoy it. For in this role, one
at life, they live it. Only the existin . know spring, for them is her pleasure held. One must.make the leap into ex: istence, where joy is to be found; Spring is the season for birth and rebirth, wha better time to begin to live? . .	.
The Scholasti
Great buy! the trim-fitting ARROW Glen
It’s the shirt with the standout choice in collars — the regular, button-down, or permanent stay Arrow Glen. Exclusive Mitoga® tailoring carries through the trim, tapered look from collar to waist to cuff. “Sanforized” broadcloth or oxford in stripes, checks, solids. $4.00 up. Cluettj Peabody 6? Co., Ine.
ARROW^
—first in fashion
Look your best...
the ARROW way
Nothing could be smoother than a Mitoga®-tapered Arrow st xt. And we’ve got ’em by the dozens in a broad range of collar styles and colors. Plus the newest stripes and checks. Pay us a visit.
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
YOU'LL BE BITTIN' ON TOP OF THE WORLD when you change to W
4
You get a more effective filter on today’s L&M
Look for the potent number.... on every pock... your assurance that you are getting L*M’s exclusive filtering action
Best tastin’ smoke you’ll ever find! Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos.