
WINSTON
tastes good—like a cigarette should!
s
R J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.


Filters so effectively...yet doesn't flatten the flavor!
FINER FILTER

■ New, king-size Winston is the filter cigarette real smokers will enjoy! Winston’s got real flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor. Along with finer flavor, Winston also brings you a finer filter. The Winston filter is unique, it’s different, it works so effectively — yet doesn’t flatten the flavor. Winstons are king-size for extra filtering action . . . easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons!
FINER
FLAVOR
KING SIZE TOO!
WINSTON tk
•Scholastic
Vol. 96 December 3, 1954 No. 8
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
•	Editor
LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate and Sports Editor PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor FRED C. ECKART
JOHN ADAMS ......................News
ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News PAUL J. LaFRENIERE ............   Copy
^Charles McKendrick .....................
......................................... Assistant Copy DAVE COHEN ...........  Features
KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager JIM GALLAGHER   ............Circulation
PETER STURTEVANT ..........Photo Editor PAUL FITZGERALD .......................
........... Photography Coordinator JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
0THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The ARROW points to
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o’clock
Headquarters for Your Arrow Shirts
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, John Boyle, Joe Connolly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Frank Dasek, Buck Harriss, Jerrold Hilton, Jack Hough, Ed Joyce, David KubaJ, James Lenox, Jim Loeffler, James McDonald, James Murphy, Arthur Price, Thomas Quinn, Dick Rust, Glenn Sheldon, Paul Under-kofler, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, and Ronald Weirs. SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Dave Davin, Bob Early, Kit Eckl, Gary Gates, John Glavin, Jim Goethals, Jack Gueguen, Jack Kirby, Ray Lescher, Joe Madigan, Bob McDonald, John Mullin, Joe Norton, Bob Parnell, Bob Ruhl, and Mack Stewart.
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staff photographers appear on the following pages:
Shop now for Christmas and relax!
Why not shop now for Dads, uncles and brothers? The campus stores are near, less crowded, and loaded with smart Arrow items for the male side of your Christmas list.
Be it shirts, ties, casual wear, handkerchiefs, or underwear, Arrow has them in smooth styles and perfect fit. Get them now and spend your vacation days restin’ and rompin’ in the easy social manner. Slide down to the man who sells Arrow and solve your Christmas-shopping cares today!
JIM GULDE—pages 18, 19, 22, 23, 25, 27.
JOHN O’BRIEN—pages 14 and 28.
MIKE THOMPSON—pages 10,
f 16, 17, 19.
A/l/lOW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR
OUR COVER—Some of the 400 gamboling couples bouncing to the musical beats of Buddy Morrow, “Monte Carlo,” it’s gay card-chip-and-dice motif in perspective, lingering couples reminiscing as strains of Good Night, Sweetheart faded—all a fitting finale for the fall season of College dances. Cover picture of the Commerce Ball by Jim Guide.
^December 3, 1954
^fARW-M^OSDICK;
by AL CAPP
THAT GIRAFFE II TH ATS NO STOLE MY HL GIRAFFE" DIAMOND NECKLACE!!
WllIkOOT f
HA!! NO REAL GIRAFFE'D HAVE SUCH DRY, MESSY HAIR" HE'D USEWILDROOT CREAM-OIL"



%

neacbutnot -uGh'-GREASY.? WHY DON'T YOU GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, CHARLIE? I
3

THAT'D BE 1LLEGAL-MYNAME IS EZIO.?

calendar
DECEMBER 3
AVON—(through Dec. 7)—This Is My Love. Stay tuned to your favorite afternoon soap opera for the lowdown on this one. Linda Darnell messes up many lives by falling in love with Rick Jason who loves Faith Domergue who is married to paraplegic Dan Duryea. Its only asset is that there are no commercials every ten minutes.	'
COLFAX—(through Dec. 9)—The long-awaited Desiree comes to town. Historical events get a kaleidoscopic treatment in this “not-as-good-as-the-novel” story of Napoleon, who races around Europe for romantic as well as political chickanery. Jean Simmons, as Napoleon’s first love, Desiree, is actually the center of the story. Brando plays Napoleon to the hilt but his pai-t is unintentionally amusing in places. Merle Oberon is excellent as Josephine. This isn’t a Waterloo by any means though; see it.
GRANADA—(through Dec. 9)—If White Christmas isn’t still on, local opera fans might find a study in Carmen Jones with Dorothy Dandridge and Harry Belafonte leading an all-Negro cast. Fast movin’ Carmen goes from a parachute factory down South to Chitown where she seals both her own and her boyfriend’s doom. This one isn’t as “fabulous and stunning” as a lot of critics make it out to be.
PALACE—(ends tomorrow)—Private Hell 36 and A Race for Life have been billed for your late evening nightmares. Ida Lupino, Steve Cochran and Howard Duff show cops get tempted like robbers in the first one. Any similarity between the movie title and a trailer No. 36 is purely intentional. For the other one ... do just as it says.
RIVER PARK—(ends tomorrow)—Go Man Go with Harlem’s own Globetrotters. Robinson Crusoe completes the bill.
DECEMBER 4
DALLAS, TEXAS—(3 p.m. EST)—Sixteen Notre Dame Seniors bid adieu to college football as the Irish go out to win No. 9 for Terry against the Mustangs from Southern Methodist. It doesn’t matter much now, but that will be the game of the day over your favorite progressive television station. At any rate, the nation will see and hear the Irish finish their season in victory.
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Johnny Jordan and his boardmen make their 1954 cage debut against Wisconsin.
DECEMBER 5
RIVER PARK (through Dec. 7)—The best place in the land for re-see’s.
This time it’s Sailor Beware with Martin and Lewis and Sequoia.
STATE (through Dec. 7)—For you of vivid imagination, for you who seek the “different” we give you The Adventures of Hajji Baba. As a chaser you’ll have to swallow Yukon Vengeance. What’s there left to say?


&
GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL? KEEPS HAIR NEAT-BUrMOT] UGH?-GREASY. NON- I AiCOHOUC. CONTAINS I LANOLIN-RELIEVES DRYNESS. I REMOVES LOOSE	[
DANDRUFF?? I
**«*»Bj
DECEMBER 8
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Northwestern invades the Irish hoophouse as the Irish dribblers’ second opponent of the cage year.
RIVER PARK (through Dec. 11)—Two more good “brought backs”— Three Young Texans with Mitzi Gaynor and So Big with Jane Wyman.
State (ends Dec. 9)—Pickup on South Street and Vicki. Words fail me, and so do profs. I’m studying this night.

DECEMBER 9
WASHINGTON HALL (8 p.m.) —The Notre Dame Symphonette, featuring Dr. Arnold McKee of New Zealand, will appear in a concert of classical music. The ensemble will be under the direction of Dr. Charles Biondo.
The Scholastic
the week
by John O'Brien
Top of the Week . . .
Senior’s last ND game . . .
The big Thanksgiving weekend is now a thing of the past, and the present past-time is counting the old days until the 17th. Considering the number of tests that have been scheduled around here for December, this might well seem to be the shortest month of the year. But woe to the guys who started counting the days too early . . . my heart bleeds for ’em with nothing else to do. But maybe the long letters from home about pink slips will be an incentive to hide the calendar for a while. (Psst. . . 14 studying days ’til Christmas)
•Thanks . . .
to the generous NCAA, who have very graciously consented to allow us to see the SMU game on television. I imagine that a lot of people around the country will want to join me in this wish. Now the big problem is to find a TV set somewhere around here that still has some standing room seats left. It appears that an ID card is necessary to watch the game in some of the local establishments . . . but if the TV dealers don’t set Aup bars in their stores on Saturday, I ^might be able to see the half-time ceremonies, or at least watch the ads. And while we’re on the subject of football, that Southern Cal. game was quite a ding-dong affair; that will be the last Notre Dame game we’ll see for quite a while, and it will be a good one to remember. The reason for the pessimism is rather obvious. . . I hear that Medical Schools frown on extended weekends, ^and for that matter, so does the U. S. ^Army. If one of these classifications doesn’t fit you, and you’re not going into the Navy, Marines, or the Air Force, then be pessimistic anyway . . . baby-sitting rates are high these days, you know.
It sure was a relief to see Jim Morse heading for-	the old	goal	line,	though.
Thought for	a while	that	we might be
going away	with a	bad	taste	in our
mouths . . .	it’s going to	take	half of
^everybody’s Christmas vacation trying to explain what happened with Purdue . . . just couldn’t afford another one to answer for. Well, see you at the rally.
Competition Now
After the very surprising offer we heard by Frank Leahy, I wonder if the Placement Office notices any let-up in business. The minute he made that offer to help any Notre Dame senior find a
job after graduation, you almost could see the imaginations of some of the guys in the stands. Visions of plush officers, and executive positions seemed to flash through many minds . . . but seriously though, that was quite an offer. And I’d wager that Frank Leahy is just the man to back it up with some real help to anyone who would seriously take him up on it. As for me, I still haven’t fully recovered from that booming pep talk he gave after Joe Daley presented him with the plaque and the Spiritual Bouquet. Man! That shook the coffee right out of my cup.
The Pulse of the Campus
It is of course, one of the functions of this column to keep its finger on the pulse of the campus. Each WEEK should bring an up to the WEEK report on what is and isn’t going on. With this in mind the following conclusions are in order: Campusites had better put their gloves on, winter is here. Watch yourselves on the sidewalks from now on, ’cause you’re on thin ice. And it won’t be long before that snow plow starts zooming around the paths and walks, so get your insurance paid up. With warm weather for so long now, it’s a wonder that there’s any green grass left on the campus, with all the intra-hall sports that have been going on. But the good old Indiana weather has come on to save the day for the grass and chase the bootbailers inside. Now Father Broestl can return all the confiscated equipment that was used on the Alumni-Dillon park. One more week of fair weather and it would be worthy of the name “Bog.”
The Rush Is On
The Notre Dame Bookstore ran an ad in the last Scholastic presenting their complete line of miniature rings.
This could mean many things, but it surely denotes that the Christmas rush will be on soon at that fine establishment. All will soon be hustling over to get their annual supply of pennants and monogrammed ashtrays. It’s always a good idea to have a couple of extra miniatures around, so be sure and get youi- order in early. The word is, “Be Prepared.” Besides, if you get all your shopping done before you leave, you’ll have a lot more time to study, do term papers and fun like that.
Courtesy of Western Union
Sure was great to have the up to the minute scores on the Edmonton Eskimos’ —Alouettes game broadcast in the Stadium. The Eskies must have quite a following down here, judging from the cheers that went up. And by the way, I didn’t hear any “the car is locked and the motor is. . .” announcements. Perhaps memories are getting better. But then the following will disprove that, I’m talking about the
Flub of the Week
Student being interviewed by prospective employer in distant city. After very successful interview, student decides to get directions back to his hotel. When asked at what hotel he is staying, student . . . can’t remember.
Bottom of the WEEK . . .
away.
A Favorite with College Men!
All white brushed leather in a smart plain toe blucher oxford. Thick red rubber sole and heel. Ideal for campus and plain or fancy loafing.
THE HANOVER SHOE
102 N. Michigan St., South Bend O	”
^December 3, 1954
HUGHES
COOPERATIVE
FELLOWSHIP
PROGRAM
Master of
Science
Degrees
ENGINEERS
or
PHYSICS GRADUATES
To those interested in advanced academic study while associated with important research and development in industry, Hughes offers two separate practical programs:
A program to assist outstanding individuals in studying for the Master of Science Degree while employed in industry and making contributions to important military work. Open to students who will receive the B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering, Physics or Mechanical Engineering during the coming year, and to members of the Armed Services honorably discharged and holding such B.S. degrees. As many as too Fellowships will be awarded each year.
Candidates must meet entrance requirements for advanced study at the University of California at Los Angeles or the University of Southern California. Participants will work full time during the summer in the Hughes Laboratories and 25 hours per week while pursuing a half-time schedule of graduate study at the university.
Salary is commensurate with the individual’s ability and experience. Tuition, admission fees and books for university attendance are provided. Provision is made to assist in paying travel and moving expenses from outside Southern California.
THE
HOWARD
HUGHES
FELLOWSHIPS
in
Science
and
Engineering
Eligible for these Fellowships are those who have completed one year of graduate study in physics or engineering. Successful candidates must qualify for graduate standing at the California Institute of Technology for study toward the degree of Doctor of Philosophy or postdoctoral work. Fellows may pursue graduate research in the fields of physics or engineering. During summers they will work full time in the Hughes Laboratories in association with scientists and engineers in their fields.
Each appointment is for twelve months and provides a cash award of not less than $2,000, a salary of not less than $2,500, and $1,500 for tuition and research expenses. A suitable adjustment is made when financial responsibilities of the Fellow might otherwise preclude participation in the program. For those coming from outside the Southern California area provision is made for moving and transportation expenses.
HOW TO APPLY
HOW TO APPLY
for the Hughes Cooperative Fellowship Program: Address all correspondence to the Committeefor Graduate Study
for the Howard Hughes Fellowships in Science and Engineering: Address all correspondence to the Howard Hughes Fellowship Committee
“I
1
Culver City, Los Angeles County, California
* £
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES
University of Southern California University of California at Los Angeles
California Institute of Technology
6
The Scholasti
samsm
Volume 96, Number 8 Notre Dame, Indiana	December 3, 1954
•REDEDICATION CLIMAXES MARIAN YEAR
Mass, Statue Blessing Honor ND Patroness
Climaxing the Marian Year, the University of Notre Dame will be re-^iedicated to Our Lady during solemn ceremonies on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception next Wednesday.
During the services a statue of the Blessed Mother, for whom the University was named by Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., in 1842, will be blessed.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, will begin the ceremonies by acting as celebrant of a Solemn High Mass in the Sacred Heart Church.
Special Prayer
A sermon on the place of Our Lady at the University, dealing mainly -with the reason the Blessed Mother should be Patroness of Notre Dame, will be given by Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., a member of the faculty for 40 years. The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing during the Mass.
W At the conclusion of the Mass, Father Hesburgh will recite a specially composed prayer rededicating the University to the Blessed Virgin Mary. After the services, a procession will move to the Circle for the blessing of the statue.
The statue, a white, limestone figure of the Virgin Mary as a young woman, stands almost seven feet high and is mounted on a shaft of the same size. It is the creation of Rev. Anthony <auck, C.S.C., a member of the art de-artment, and overlooks the entrance to the University in the direction of Notre Dame Avenue.
With one of her hands extended from the side and hei- mouth open to suggest speaking, the Virgin Mary stands in a position of welcome. Stress was placed on making a statue of Our Lady as a young woman because Notre Dame serves as an institute for young men.
According to Father Lauck, the plac
ing of the statue in the circle will reemphasize the position of Our Lady at Notre Dame. Visitors, upon approaching the campus, can see the Dome at a distance and, when entering the University grounds, will be greeted by the statue of the Blessed Mother which will serve as a further reminder of the spiritual meaning of Notre Dame.
Father Lauck spent most of this year building the statue. He has won numerous national and regional awards for his work in sculpturing including the George Widener Gold Medal for the most meritorious sculptured figure by an American in 1953. Father Lauck presented a limestone statue of “Monk at Prayer.” .
Wednesday’s events will climax a series of symposia, lectures, religious exercises, musical presentations and art exhibits in observance of the Marian Year. The Marian Year was proclaimed by Pope Pius XII to mark the 100th anniversary of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception.
DR. D’ALELIO New Head for Chemistry
Chem Department Names D'Alelio Head
The appointment of G. F. D’Alelio, vice-president and manager of research for the Koppers Company, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pa., as head of Notre Dame’s Department of Chemistry was announced today by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. D’Alelio will assume his new duties on Feb. 1, Father Hesburgh said. He succeeds Dr. Charles Price who resigned the post in September.
D’Alelio, who holds more than 300 patents, has been associated with the Koppers Company since 1947. During the previous year he was manager .of high polymer research for the Industrial Rayon Corp., Cleveland, O. In 1943 he was appointed director of research for the Prophylactic Brush Co., Northampton, Mass., serving as vice-president of that firm from 1944-46.
D’Alelio was employed by the General Electric Co. in its plastics department, Pittsfield, Mass., from 1936-43. He was staff chemist and director of GE’s plastics laboratories from 1941-43.
A native of Charlestown, Mass., D’Alelio received his bachelor’s degree at Boston College in 1931. He was awarded the Charles J. O’Malley Fellowship at The Johns Hopkins University where he received his Ph.D. in chemistry.
He is the author of six books and laboratory manuals including Fundamental Principles of Polymerization—Rubbers, Plastics and Fibers published in 1952.
D’Alelio is a member of professional and scientific societies including the American Chemical Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the American Institute of Chemists and the American Ordnance Association. In 1946 he received the Naval Bureau of Ordnance Individual Citation for War Research and Development.
^Pecember 3, 1954
Detective Story Review
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., the newest addition to Notre Dame’s growing department of dramatics, displayed his directorial talents to the student body last week, in the University Theatre’s opening production, Detective Story. His debut was a success.
On the whole, Detective Story was just plain good. Sidney Kingsley’s stirring drama of love and death in a New York precinct police station is a pretty big bite for any amateur cast to chew, but it was chewed well enough for a critical Washington Hall audience to swallow, with relish. We have seen nearly every production put on by the University Theatre in four years here, and sincerely believe that we’ll remember Detective Story after having forgotten every other play produced on the tottering old Washington Hall stage.
Any criticism of the play must, of course, center around the play’s leading character, Detective McLeod. McLeod was portrayed by James F. O’Donoghue, a freshman from Lindenhurst, L.I., and a Korean veteran, who put everything he had into the part, but, unfortunately, put too much of it in at the wrong times.
For a first attempt at a part of this size, O’Donoghue showed a great deal of dramatic talent. He played a tough, forceful cop, and he was tough and forceful to the nth degree, showing a lot of enthusiasm for the part, but seemed to lack judgment regarding his output of emotion. He worked himself up to an emotional peak in the first act, and then attempted to remain there for the rest of the play. This produced quite a strain, not only on O’Donoghue himself, but on the audience as well. McLeod’s force was obviously forced, in the last act, and it became as difficult for the audience to remain .keyed up to an emotional apex as it was for O’Donoghue himself.
For Miss Gayle Baumer, the St. Mary’s College junior who played the part of Mary McLeod, we have only the highest praise. Miss Baumer has appeared in several University Theatre productions in the past, but never before did she display the tremendous amount of talent that she has.
Reginald Bain and Ann Wainwright, who played the romantic team of Arthur Kindred and Susan Carmichael, made a likable couple on stage, but both seemed just a bit youthful for their parts. Bain was very convincing as a scared kid, but we couldn’t picture him as being a war hero. Miss Wainwright had a sentimental part, which is always tough on the actress, but we think she played it
just a little too sentimentally. The Arthur-Susan love scene in the last act, without Jim Luoto’s comedy relief, would have been rather gooey.
As for Luoto and Joe Kelly, who played the two burglars we offer our congratulations to two of the best comedians we’ve ever seen in Washington Hall. Luoto’s performance was flawless in almost every way, our only complaint being that his excellent acting tended to detract from some of the less competent players on stage. He made the transi-
JIM O’DONOGHUE
Force Was Obviously Forced.
tion from comedian to villain in the last act without even batting an eye. Kelly’s face was perfect for his part. His voice was not quite as good, but believe us, the face was enough.
Leo Guibault, who played Detective Brody, and George O’Donnell, portraying Lieutenant Monoghan, did excellent jobs on their parts. They were perfectly cast for their parts, and they played them sincerely and convincingly. Neither had to strain to achieve effect; neither overplayed his part or attempted to take anything away from the others.
Mike Kennedy made a rather blase Dr. Schneider, and showed remarkable restraint in his “heavy” role. Tom Kiernan made an effective, if a bit greasy, Tami Giacoppetti.
Rene Leyval, who played the reporter Joe Feinson, did a good job with his lines, but tried too hard to ham up the part with theatrical gestures which called too much attention to himself. John Kent was funny as Dakis, but seemed to be concerned with being funny rather than being Dakis.
Kieran Phelan, Phillip Donahue, and
W. Patrick Byrne did convincing jobs | in the roles of the supporting detectives, | and their playing helped to brighten th(h| atmosphere at the 21st precinct station. ;
Catherine Gaffigan received exit applause in the part of the shoplifter. She played it well, but we believe her over- -emphasis on her mannerisms tended to make the part less real. She was, if we may be so bold, a little bit over-directed.
Gene Gorski showed a great deal of improvement since last year as he played the idealistic lawyer, Endicott Sims. His j voice and diction were flawless. We can(w not say the same of Page Haizlip and Patricia Waechter, since both tended to slur their dialogue, and both overplayed i their parts. Miss Haizlip’s performance as Mrs. Farragut, a crazy woman, was just too crazy to be believable.
Hildegarde Vargyas, an old hand in University Theatre productions, tried >
valiantly to steal her one scene. She ’ might have done it, too, if it hadn’t been so obvious that she was trying' W E Tom Forster and Charlie Armbruster j had some good scenes as the two patrol- | men, and played them well. Tom Pez- | zuti was funny as “Crumb-Bum.”	|
Gary Gates, Peggy Murray, Ed Robin- | son, Frank Manning, Dick Robison, | Bruce Junius, Barbara Geary, John | Reynolds, and Beverly Mann all had | rather good bit parts. The best individ- g ual performances, we believe, were those g of Miss Baumer, Luoto, Guibault, and g O’Donnell.
The stage set was well designed, well 8 built, and well lighted. We congratulate ® Fred Syburg, its designer. Edward L. 1 Doyle also did a fine job in coaching the E individual performances.—Jim O’Shea E Class and Hall Officers 1 Elected by Freshmen	I
With the backing of one of the largest g turnouts of first-year voters in the his. jg^ tory of Notre Dame, Freshman Class 1 officers for the year were elected in & elections held recently.	£
Tom Hagerty, a Commerceman from £ Detroit, Mich., was elected president; | Bob Marr, from Boston, Mass., also a |
Commerce freshman, was chosen vice- : president; Tom Herrman, also from • Detroit, and enrolled in the College of f Science, was named secretary; Charley E Schaffler, from Memphis, Tenn., a | Science student, was picked as treasurer* | Hall officers and Student Senate repre-' | sentatives chosen were: Robert Morretti I
was elected president and Charles Clesi, j senator* of Farley; for Zahm, Ernest J Kallaman and Richard Myer were 1 named president and senator; Cava- =,
naugh men chose Richard Coyne and Fred Holzi, president and senator-; Breen-Phillips nominated Butch Hayes as President and John Henzel as sena
tor.—Jim O’Shea
The Scholastic
Carolers Will Serenade eSouth Bend Next Friday
Loud voices, not good ones, will be required for the second annual Christmas caroling program to be sponsored > by the Student Senate next Friday.
Pat Logan, Notre Dame chairman of the event, announces that ten busses will i leave the circle at 7 p.m. and pro-j ceed to St. Mary’s for the soprano con; tingent of the group. They will then go | ^to ten different residential spots in : ”South Bend where the choristers ■will < split up into groups of about 30.
Song leaders will come from the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Glee Clubs, and both popular and traditional songs will be sung. Mimeographed song sheets will be provided. Singing will last an hour and then the carolers will return to the Student Center for coffee, doughnuts, and dancing. Only the carolers ^will be able to attend the party at the Center.
Logan said that the purpose of the caroling is to promote Christmas spirit and a better feeling between South Bend residents and the students of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame.
Jean Ritcey is chairman from St. Mary’s.
Plans Finished for Student Center Basement; Area to House Lounge, Refreshment Counter
Plans for the enlargement of the Student Center through the utilization of the revamped basement area and the Science Research Building were announced recently by Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
According to Father Norton, the basement area will be decorated in approximately the same style as the first floor except on a more informal basis. The rejuvenated section will be used for club meetings, hall mixers, and various other meetings.
Elimination of the partitions in the basement will make it possible to build a large lounge and additional rooms on the side. Two of these spaces will resemble the card rooms of the first floor while another will be equipped with small tables for the use of off-campus students who bring their lunch. Coffeemaking machines are to be installed in the lunch room.
Headquarters for off-campus students and their chaplain will be included in the new addition. Plans are also being made to move some of the second floor
offices downstairs into the basement, so that a record listening room and a student workshop can be installed in their places.
Offices for the Scholastic, Dome, and other publications will be included in the area.
Father Norton further stated that much of the planning and financial assistance can be accredited to the students themselves. Last year Phil Bolin, social commissioner for the Student Center, in his final report made recommendations for many of the improvements that are now being made at the Student Center.
Through the receipts of last year’s and this year’s Mardi Gras, the former totaling $11,000, the students have been able to supplement the payment for the addition. Mr. Joseph LaFortune, who matched last year’s carnival sum and has promised to do the same this year, has been an aid in financing the improvements.
Another expansion of the student Center is expected to take place when the College of Science vacates the building behind the Center. Plans are now being made for the utilization of the Science
Belated 'Who's Who' Pictures
The pictures of Leo McEvoy (left) and Henry Weisbecker (right) were inadvertently omitted from the Scholastic layout on IF/m’s Who in American Colleges and Universities in the last issue. Both men were included in the 31 representatives elected from Notre Dame. McEvoy has served as assistant track coach for four years and as head freshman track coach. He organized interhall track and cross-country, and is a member of the athletic council of the Physical Education Club. Weisbecker was formerly the mayor of Vetville and is now vice-president of the Graduate Chemistry Club. He is a member of the Graduate Student Association and an associate member of the American Institute of Chemists. Weisbecker is also listed as a junior member of the American Chemical Society.
Research Building; work on it is expected to begin next summer. Part of the building will serve as a recreational room while another section will contain a refreshment stand in place of the Huddle. .	’	•
Doing the architectural planning for the basement are Frank Montana and Robert Schultz. Mrs. Laura Jenkins will serve as the chief interior decorator.
Navy Reserve Chief Gallery Lectures on Survival Monday
Rear Admiral Daniel V. Gallery, U.S.N., Chief of Naval Air Reserve Training and Acting Commandant of the Ninth Naval District, will give a lecture on “Survival in the Atomic Age” next Monday at 8 p.m. in the Drill Hall.
Admiral Gallery, whose headquarters are at Glenview, HL, is perhaps best known for the capture of the German submarine U-505 off the French West African coast in June, 1944. The Nazi sub was recently brought to Chicago where it is on permanent display near the Museum of Science and Industry.
A former student at St. Ignatius High School in Chicago, Gallery was graduated from the U. S. Naval Academy in 1921. He was a member of the U. S. Olympic wrestling team and participated in the Olympic Games at Antwerp, Belgium, in 1920. He received his wings as a naval aviator in 1927.
December 3, 1954
9
Commerce Men
In Monte Carlo
Against the gay backdrop of chips, cards and roulette wheels, 400 conservative commerce men and their dates gambled away “An Evening at Monte Carlo” last Friday at the Commerce Ball in the Student Center. This semi-formal affair closed the fall “formal” social season.
Buddy Morrow and his orchestra provided the music for the dancing future businessmen. Featured with Morrow’s outfit were vocalists Dorothy Kaye and Jerry Mercer. Mercer also did several impersonations.
Miss Mary Camblin of St. Mary’s College, the dale of dance chairman Lee Crean, was crowned queen of the Commerce Ball by her date.
The chaperones were drawn from the ranks of the commerce faculty. Dean James E. McCarthy and his wife were the guests of honor by proxy. Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith also made a brief appearance.
Special guests were 'Mr. and Mrs. Joseph LaFortune of Tulsa, Okla. Other guests included several members of the University Board of Trustees and Mrs. Buddy Morrow and their young son.
Saturday afternoon, after the usual campus tour, the commercemen and their dates watched the Irish dump USC’s Trojans. A limited number of tickets
Pianist s eye view of things.
forced the Commerce Ball goers to sit apart at the football game. The com- -mercemen rejoined the ranks of the troops for the game.
The Victory Dance took the spotlight Saturday night, and Sunday morning 65
couples attended the Communion breakfast at the Morris Inn. Speakers were Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., and visiting
professor Dr. Robert A. diana University.
Turner of
In-
Ei
t'
Oh, I do believe you.
Let’s sit it out.
Where they going?
10
The Scholastic^
&
I
Enjoy yourself...
refresh with Coke
BOTTLED UNDES AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
Coca Cola Bottling Co. of South Bend
Who made it? Which section placed the most men? Who is the player of the year?
You’ll get the answers when you get the new issue of Collier’s and meet the finest of all the All-Americas — selected by the American Football Coaches Association.
COLLIER'S 65th
ALL-AMERICA!
Don’t miss this authoritative last word on a great gridiron season, in
Collier's
DEC. 10 ISSUE ON NEWSSTANDS NOW
Coca-Cola Presents
This Week's
Football Forecasts by Joe Harris
Denver U., 34; Mexico U., 7
Florida A. & M., 27; Maryland State, 13
Florida U., 47; Tampa U., 6
Houston U., 20; Detroit U., 14
Midwestern U., 27; National U. (Mex.), 13
Notre Dame U., 27; So. Methodist U., 7
South Carolina U., 34; The Citadel, 7
Southern U. (La.), 34; Xavier U. (La.), 6
Texas College, 34; Arkansas A. & M., 7
NATIONAL PRO LEAGUE
Los Angeles Rams, 31; Baltimore Colts, 17 (Sunday, Dec. 5)
Chicago Bears, 17; Chicago Cardinals, 14 Cleveland Browns, 31; Wash. Redskins, 7 Detroit Lions. 24; Philadelphia Eagles, 17
New York Giants, 17; Pittsburgh Steelers, 14 San Francisco ’49ers, 21; Green Bay, 17
Sophomore Mixer Sunday
The Sophomore Class will sponsor a mixer for sophs only in the Student Center this Sunday afternoon from 2:30 until 5.
St. Mary’s freshmen and sophomores, A the Junior Daughters of Isabella, and young ladies from the St. Joseph’s Nurses Home have been invited. Admission is 25 cents with ID card. Coats and ties are required.
Chest X-Rays Next Week
A campus-wide tuberculosis chest X-ray drive will begin next Tuesday in the basement of the Dining Hall. It will continue on Wednesday, Thursday,^ Friday, and on the following Monday.
Facilities for an anticipated 4,000 persons will be available during the drive. Last year a disappointing 1,800 of the 7,000 people on campus utilized this service. Hours are being announced.
Tryouts For ‘Cyrano’	|
Tryouts for Cyrano de Bergerac, the ! second major production of the Univer- i sity Theatre, will be held next Wednes- v day and Friday nights in Washington i Hall at 7:45, according to Rev. Arthur \ S. Harvey, C.S.C.,	director of the Uni- I
versity Theatre.	‘
All students are invited to try out for the play.	;
Dining Hall Time	Changes	I
In order to alleviate the big lines g created by those who rush over to the — g Dining Hall after the 11:15 Mass, and those who go to the earlier Masses, the | Dining Hall has gone on a new Sunday | Schedule of 11:45 to 12:45. This will I give those who go to the early Masses B a chance to eat or at least get through g the lines before the crowd from the last g Mass comes in, which is usually about g 12:05.	|
‘SCHOLASTIC is All-American	I
The National Scholastic Press Association and The Associated Collegiate Press recently announced that the Scholastic | has received another in a long line of | “All-American Ratings.”	i
The award was based on issues of the | Scholastic which were published dur- | ing the spring semester of 1954. The f only newsmagazine in the nation to re- : ceive a “First Class Rating,” the Scho- i lastic received a perfect score of 1500	:
points.
12
The Scholastic^ ,
-IRISH RING DOWN CURTAIN TOMORROW
SMYTH, AUBREY, CAPT. STEPHENS, FANNON, WEIMAN AND COACH JORDAN
Inexperienced Five Out to Run Up Another Successful Season
e Jordan's Irish Open Four-Game Home Stand; Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Indiana Here
The Notre Dame basketball team will launch its 1954-55 season tomorrow night against Wisconsin in the Fieldhouse at 8 p.m. in the first of four consecutive home games. The Irish are faced with one of the toughest schedules in their history and have lost All-American Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, and " Bill Sullivan. Rosenthal and Bertrand were the two highest scorers in Notre Dame history. The returning veterans for this year’s team give Coach John Jordan firm hope of duplicating last season’s fine record of 22 victories in 25 games.
The Irish will be led by two returning regulars. Captain Junior Stephens will start at guard and John Fannon at forward. Lloyd Aubrey will take over a the pivot post vacated by Rosenthal, and Bill Weiman will be at the other guard position. Sophomore forward John Smyth will round out the starting five. Pressing these five for starting positions will be sophomores Lee Ayotte and Joe Morelli, and senior Steve Rebora, all of whom have looked very impressive at practice. Coach Jordan also expressed hope that sophomore centers, Jack Bedan and Gus Luepke could prove valuable when they are needed along
December 3, 1954
with Paul King, Tom Higgins, and Bob Jastrab.
Last year Cable was Wisconsin’s top scorer, and led his team to a fifth place tie in the Big Ten. Returning veterans Don Folz and Dick Jorgensen, teaming with sophomores Dick Zeiger and Dick Miller, will bring a fast, well-balanced team against the Irish.
Wildcats Out for Revenge
On Dec. 8 Northwestern will try to avenge the two losses the Irish handed them last season. The return of their leading scorer, Frank Ehman, and returning regulars Bud Grant and Jim Bragiel gives experience to the starting five. Northwestern also claims a stronger bench this year, giving the team overall strength.
Coach Branch McCracken will bring his Indiana Big Ten champions against the Irish on Dec. 11. The Hoosiers once again will be led by their All-American center, Don Schlundt. Notre Dame students will remember- Schlundt who scored 40 points against the Irish two years ago in the N.C.A.A. basketball
(Continued on page 15)
Face S.M.U. in Dallas In Quest of Ninth Win
Terry Brennan's Irish will be looking for their eighth consecutive victory at Dallas as they tangle with the S.M.U. Mustangs. They will face a Chalmer Woodward-coached S.M.U. eleven that has won six, lost two, and tied one. A capacity crowd of 75,COO will watch the Irish and the Mustangs close out their season in the Cotton Bowl.
A victory tomorrow would give the Irish a 9-1 season record and ensure their number four national ranking.
S.M.U.’s star this year has been Frank Eidom, who paced the Mustangs in their 21-14 upset win over Cotton Bowl-bound Arkansas. Eidom’s running mates in a backfield that features a flashy ground attack are John Marshall, Hal O’Brien, and Don Mcllhenny.
The Mustangs may miss the passing skill and field leadership of their star quarterback Duane Nutt. Nutt suffered a broken collarbone in the second period of the game last week. S.M.U. scored twice in the final period to bump off the Horned Frogs 21-6. This is the same T.C.U. club that walloped Southern Cal. 20-7 earlier in the season.
Joining Nutt on the injured list for tomorrow’s contest will be star Irish guard Ray Lemek. Ray suffered torn ligaments and possible bone chips in his knee against Southern Cal. The injury
DON SCHLUNDT
Hoosier Hooker back again.
13
came as Lemek attempted to block “Sad” Sam Tsagalakis’s successful field goal in the third perid. Pat Bisceglia will move into the line next to center Jim Mense to fill in for the injured star.
This S.M.U. club was beaten in the season opener by Georgia Tech, 10-7. The other Mustang loss was at the hands of Baylor. Texas, which ND toppled 21-0, also marred the Mustangs record by holding them to a 13-13 tie.
The game tomorrow will be the third consecutive one in which the Irish have closed out their opponent’s regular season. They were successful in putting an unhappy ending to the schedules of Iowa and Southern Cal; and the 17 graduating seniors who will be playing their last game for Notre Dame will be out to make it three in a row.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
SO. METHODIST		NOTRE DAME
Berry 		LE ..	... (c) Shannon
Gregg 			LT .		 Palumbo
Hawk 			LG		 Bisceglia
Arnecks 		C			  Mense
Hairston 			RG			  Lee
Knebel 		RT .		 Varrichione
Nix 				RE .			(c)	Matz
Roach 	—	QB .		 Guglielmi
Marshall 		LH			 Heap
Eidom 			RH		 Morse
O’Brien 		FB .			 Schaefer
Time—3 p.m. (EST)
Broadcast & Telecast: 3 p.m. (EST)
The Irish played their best game of the year at Iowa on a dry and fast field. The Texas Chamber of Commerce promises sunshine and mild temperatures for tomorrow’s game and Coach Terry Brennan hopes this will enable the Irish machine to run in full gear.
The Notre Dame passing game, that failed so completely against Southern Cal., has been primed this week in practice and the Mustangs will be fired at tomorrow.
Morse on the Move
Squires Paces Irish Harriers to Top Season As ND Places Sixth in NCAA Championships *
The Notre Dame cross country team concluded its season by placing sixth in the 16th annual NCAA championships at Michigan State College recently. It marked the highest finish Notre Dame has achieved in this meet in recent
years.
Allen Frame of the University of Kansas won the four mile race in 19:54.2. Bill Squires was the first man in for the Irish placing 14th. Jack Gits was 43rd; Al Schoenig was 47th; Jim Daly was 48th; and Neil Wallace was 80th.
Oklahoma A and M won the team championships, followed by Syracuse and Miami of Ohio.
Coach Alex Wilson of Notre Dame was elected president of the National Collegiate Cross Country Coaches’ Association at the coaches meeting preceding the meet.
During the season the cross country men won dual meets over Wheaton, Michigan Normal, and Marquette. They lost only to Indiana and Michigan. Later in the season, however, they faced Indiana in the Indiana State Meet at Butler University in Indianapolis and won the meet by easily trouncing the Hoosiers. The team also swept to another victory by outdistancing all opponents and winning the Central Collegiate Conference.
Individually, the top man on the team this year was Bill Squires, who finished first in the CCC. He was followed by
(Top row) Lucey, Gits, Schoenig, Squires, Coach Wilson; (bottom row) Linehan, Michno, Wallace, Daly, Morony, Porter.
Jim Daly who finished third in both the CCC and the Indiana State Meet, and Jack Gits, the only senior on the team. Four other boys: Al Schoenig, John Michno, Al Porter, and Neil Wallace rounded out the team.
The freshman cross country team enjoyed a very successful season this year _ by defeating Indiana, Michigan, Michi- w gan State, and Princeton, while losing only to Kansas University. They finished their season by winning the annual CYO 5,000 meter cross country championship Thanksgiving Day in Chicago.
Coach Wilson was very happy with the success of this year’s team and seemed very optimistic about next year when he said, “We had a much better team this year than we have had in the past, and we only lose one man (Gits). Also, our freshman team looked real good this year. I think we’ll have a very good team next year.”
WRESTLING
The Notre Dame wrestling club will open its regular season tomorrow at 4 p.m. against Illinois Tech. All students are invited to attend the matches. The site of the matches will be posted in all halls by tomorrow afternoon.
14
The Scholastic
Badin Tips Ed's 6-0 ^On Desperation Pass
A quick TD pass from quarterback Jerry Ryan to Bob Costello 90 seconds before the final gun gave Badin a 6-0 triumph over St. Ed’s and the interhall grid title. The slow-moving defensive struggle, on Nov. 21, was characterized by a muddy turf on Cartier Field that stymied both ofiensive machines, forcing k the action to focus between the two 30-* yard lines.
In capturing the crown in the Western division, Badin notched its seventh shutout in as many games and overcame the loss of their All-Interhall quarterback, Dick Rust. The Eastern champs also experienced a similar fate in the second quarter when their field general, Tom Mulcahy, fractured his ankle while cutting sharply on a keep-it I play.
J In case of a deadlock, it had been decided to grant the traditional gold
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
LCiJ-I'HXa'U
HUMS LIBRARY aid BOOKSHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan St. Ph. 2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
football awards to the team with the greatest number of first downs. But with 2:40 remaining in the game, both squads had chewed their way to five first downs.
At this point, the Badin brigade began their march. Converted fullback Ryan connected with Eddie Cosgrove for a first down on the St. Ed’s 35. A pass interference penalty on the next play dealt a fatal blow to St. Ed’s.
Ryan’s aerial spiraled far over the reach of its intended receiver, but the penalty renewed the Badin drive placing the ball on St. Ed’s 20. Capitalizing on this break, Ryan again took to the airways, hitting Costello on the three and he crashed into the end zone for the lone score.
Jerry Brann, John Reynolds, and Joe Kurseja spearheaded the Badin defense that stifled St. Ed’s. The Easterners did not penetrate past the Badin 30. John Fauntleroy sparked the only flicker in the St. Ed’s offense when he broke loose for a 20-yard sprint.
Basketball
(Continued from page 13) tournament. Indiana, like the Irish, is hurt by the loss of three regulars, but hope Dick White, Wally Choice, and Hallie Bryant can fill their shoes. Returning regular guard and play-maker Burke Scott will round out the starting quint.
On Dec. 13 Loyola, coached by George Ireland, will also try to take revenge for two losses last season. The team has four returning regulars in Bill Palka, Art Schalk, Jerry Lyne, and Ken Howard. Jack Carpenter at center will give the team added height and rebounding strength. •
Purdue will host the Irish on Dec. 15 in Lafayette for the first away game. The Boilermakers have their entire 1953-54 quint back this season. Captainguard Denny Blind, Joe Sexson, Don Beck, and Ted Dunn are slated to start by Coach Roy Eddy. A sophomore, and no stranger to Notre Dame football, end Lamar Lundy, could move into this line-up, trying to better last year’s 9-13 record.
BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 1954-55 Dec. 4—Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
8—Northwestern at Notre Dame
11—Indiana at Notre Dame
13—Loyola at Notre Dame
15—Purdue at Lafayette 18—Illinois at Champaign 23—Minnesota at Minneapolis 29—Sugai Bowl at New Orleans 30—Sugar Bowl at New Orleans Jan. 3—Louisville at Louisville 5—Butler at Notre Dame 8—New York University at New York
10—Holy Cross at Boston
15—Northwestern at Evanston
Feb. 5—DePaul at Chicago
7—Michigan State at Notre Dame
10—Bradley at Notre Dame
14—Butler at Indianapolis 19—Tulsa at Tulsa 21—Kansas State at Manhattan 24—Marquette at Notre Dame 26—Loyola at Chicago Mar. 1—DePaul at Notre Dame 5—Marquette at Milwaukee
Always Welcome at
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI
STEAKS and CHOPS Open 11 a.m. to 12 midnight 537 North St. Louis Five Minutes from the Campus
FLY
§
UNITED
Bl HOWE HOURS •
AIR

I
| UNES
I You can travel aboard
! United’s luxurious 1st Class Mainliners at fares comparable to traveling by rail
g with berth.
I
g You get full-course meal-| time service for no extra I cost. There’s no tipping and i g you enjoy many, many | extra vacation hours at § home.
^WHTED^
South Bend: for reservations, coll 2-7401 or on authorized travel agent.
December 3; 1954
■*9
Genuine Au^r-MatePen Silvered-Tip REFILLS m Red • Green • Blue
• Block
J
*1
RFJV
BLUE


On|y\^ 49*\®B
each
Exclusive n i new Paper-Mate i-/ Silvered-Tip Refill means smoother, faster writing! Just 10 seconds to ' insert...never blots...dries instantly. Get Paper-
Mate Refills wherever pens are sold.
Notre Dame Bookstore
Basement Badin Hall
Symphone+te to Give Recital on Thursday
The Notre Dame Symphonette will present its first concert in Washington Hall at 8:15 p.m. next Thursday, Dr. Charles A. Biondo, M.E., chairman of the University’s Department of String Music, announced recently.
Featured on the program will be Dr. Arnold McKee of New Zealand, presently here in the Department of Commerce. Dr. McKee, a Fulbright Scholar, will play a movement of Haydn’s Cello Concerto. He has spent much time helping to instruct cellists, and has been playing in many varied chamber groups in the Department of Music.
Included in the concert are Beethoven’s First Symphony and Gluck’s Iphiginia Overture. A change of pace will be noted in the presentation of the famous Brahm’s Hungarian Dance Number One.
Small chamber groups from the orchestra feature a string trio — violin, piano, cello — and a clarinet quintet composed of a string quartet and clarinet. These groups employ the “first desk” players of each section.
The string division of the department is now and has been during the past two years, helping the Catholic schools of the vicinity in starting string programs. Practice teachers are carrying on this work, helping themselves as well as the parochial schools.
National recognition has recently been accorded the University’s string program by the selection of Dr. Biondo as the string department editor of Musart, National Catholic Music Educators’ magazine.
Alumni Universal Communion Sundays Planned Dec. 5, 12
Universal Communion Sunday, an annual feature of the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs, will be observed in various cities throughout the country on Dec. 5 and 12.
According to Mr. James Armstrong, editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus, Communion Sunday is dedicated to the Blessed Mother and is part of the Alumni clubs’ general theme to stress the relationship between religion and good citizenship.
Originally planned for the Sunday nearest the feast of the Immaculate Conception, the Universal Communion Sunday will be observed this year by some clubs on Dec. 5 and others the following week due to the fact that the Immaculate Conception falls in the middle of the week.
John Cackley, managing editor of the Alumnus, credited much of the planning of Communion Sunday to the local alumni organizations.
DR RW TURBOW
^OPTOMETRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -----
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED —
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
one*. Immediate delivery. Special rates to students.
Free delivery, pick-up and service.
ROYAL TYPEWRITER CO.
309 E. Jefferson South Bend
Phone No. 2-3336
Fish, Steaks,(hops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.30
Joe Nabicht’s
Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
16
The Scholastic^
Father Smith to Explain •Immaculate Conception
Rev. Ferrer Smith, O.P., professor of theology at the Dominican House of Studies in Washington, D.C., will speak in Washington Hall next Monday evening at 8 p.m. on “The Immaculate Conception—Its Mystery and Its Meaning.”
This is the concluding lecture in the ^‘theology series which has already brought two other outstanding theologians to the campus to discuss the significance of the Mariological dogmas. It is also conceived as an interpretative preparation for the feast of the Immaculate Conception next Wednesday, which will close the Marian Year.
Father Smith was born in New York City in 1913, and later moved with his •family to Columbus, 0. After studying for two years at Providence College, he joined the Dominican Order, in which he was ordained in 1939.
After teaching cosmology and psychology at St. Joseph’s Priory in Somerset, 0., for two years, he went to the Dominican house of studies in Washington, D.C., where, after three years of study, he received his S.T.D.
His thesis, written under the direction • of the late Rev. Walter Farrell, O.P., was a Thomistic inquiry into the philosophy of John Dewey.
Since the completion of his studies,
LORD WEST
The first
BLACK
name in quality formals
lightweight year-round worsted
the authentic University model tuxedo... now in brand new in
for name of nearest retailer and free formal dress chart, write—
natural shoulders, narrow shawl lapel, flap pockets, center vent, non-pleated
trousers
LORD WEST
tailored by West Mill
101 West 21 St., New York 11, N. Y.
Father Smith has been teaching moral theology at the Dominican faculty House in Washington, and has given a course in the history of modern philosophy at Trinity College, Washington, for a year. He was also co-editoi’ of The Thomist for many years.
College ig-Class
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trelhewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
NYLON BIT Guaranteed Bite-Proof
MEDICO JUma Slater FILTER PIPE*3^&*5°° SS
Medico’s filter strains smoke of nicotine, juices, tars, flakes. When filter turns brown, throw it away with all the impurities it has trapped. Replace with fresh filter for mild, mellow smoking.
4— Actual pipe has your awn college letter on bowl
BRUSH UP OH YOUR DAHCIHG HUW AT ARTHUR MURRAY’S
LOW IN COST-HIGH IN FUN
A sure way to popularity is to be a good dancer. And learning to dance the Arthur Murray way is easy as A-B-C. One lesson and you’ll discover the shortcut to good times and dates galore. Lessons are surprisingly inexpensive, too. So don’t take a chance on missing the dances this winter. Come in or phone Arthur Murray’s today!
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. wayne	Ph. 2-3339
• December 3, 1954
17
1
Notre Dame Miniatures For Your Sweetheart
©
Christmas 1954
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings are used as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice or to a feminine member of your family with whom you share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring design is identical with the official ring, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST —NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS
Amethyst, No. 1, dark, buff top-faceted back.... $19.00 Amethyst, No. 2, light, faceted top and back.... 17.00 Aquamarine, genuine, faceted top and back  19.00 Black onyx................................      16.00
Blue spinel No. 1, buff top-faceted back...... 17.00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top and back    17.00 Garnet No. 1, synthetic, buff top-faceted back.. 17.00 Garnet No. 2, synthetic, faceted top and back.. 17.00 Ruby No. 1, synthetic, buff top-faceted back.... 17.00 Ruby No. 2, synthetic, faceted top and back.... 17.00 Sapphire, synthetic, dark blue ............... 17.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24k Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
Finger-size
Sapphire, synthetic, light blue........... .... $17.00
Tourmaline No. 1, buff top-faceted back....... 17.00
Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top and back........ 17.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS All-diamond cluster, 10K ......................$125.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, ruby or tourmaline center  ................... 69.00
WEDDING BANDS Ladies’, Plain or Beaded, Regular...............$	6.00
Contour................. 8.00
Man’s Plain or Beaded,	Regular................10.00
Contour................ 12.00
gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram.
Ring Size For Measuring Finger
3456789 1011
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
Notre Dame Book Store
Notre Dame, Indiana
18
The Scholastic^
A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
Here Don Garland makes noise distribution measurements
with a Level Distribution Recorder
My job is to help solve problems of noise and other interference on telephone lines due to power interference. Inductive co-ordination is the technical term for the work.
“First thing the Chief Engineer explained to me was that ‘all the answers aren’t in the book.’ He was right. Most of the problems have required a combination of electrical engineering, a knowledge of costs and generous amount of ingenuity. I like it that tvay. It’s given me an immediate opportunity to put into practice the theory I learned at school.
“In addition to this on-the-job experience, I have attended several special training courses conducted by the company. Now I’m breaking in a new man, just like when I started.”
• • •
Don Garland’s work is typical of many engineering assignments in the Bell Telephone Companies. There are similar opportunities for college graduates with Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. If you’d like to get more details, see your Placement Officer. He will be glad to help you.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM