and how it started
TERESA WRIGHT says: “Up to 16, my knowledge of acting had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first professional play, that was it: I only wanted
to act. I got into high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, sat for months in producers’ reception rooms. One rainy night, sick with
a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!”
,f Several years OQot
I -found out Came/s have -fhe naost: delightful flavor and wld^ss op any cigarette 5Try
Cannels and you'll be as enthusiastic as 11lf


START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Make the 30-day Camel mildness test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
SUCCESS STORY.
Camels — now more than ever the nationwide favorite cigarette!
CAIVI ELS
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
NEW NECKLINE NEATNESS
with Gilbert’s
White Shirts
Rounded Button-Down (White oxford)
Eyelet and Button-Down
$4.50 ‘values $2$^
give these fine white shirts notable Fall and Winter fashion importance. For casual comfort and that suave, dressy effect. Superbly tailored. All sizes and sleeve lengths, o
Widespread Button-Down Roll Collar (White oxford)
809-817 S. Michigan St.
Rounded Eyelet (White pique)
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
^October 1, 1954
3
calendar
OCTOBER 1
OLD GYM—Pre-game preparations for the Purdue Boilermakers will take place at 7:30 p.m. Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., and Bill Fischer, assistant football coach, will be the speakers—also a mysterious couple of choice word gentlemen from the football squad.
GRANADA (through Oct. 8)—Gene Kelly and Van Johnson go hunting in the Scottish highlands and come across the magical village of Brigadoon (A-l) where Gene experiences a love-at-first-sight ordeal. This converted stage musical with cinemascope and stereophonic sound manages to be good entertainment.
COLFAX (through Oct. 7)—The stage success Sabrina Fair is converted into an excellent movie, Sabrina (B), with Audrey Hepburn making her role in Roman Holiday look like practice. It’s a Cinderella story with Audrey getting herself involved with Humphrey Bogart and William Holden. The result is worth seeing.
RIVER PARK (ends tomorrow)—Scudda-Hoo, Scudda-Hay gives the farm boys a moment to relax and feel at home with that pretty miss, June Haver. Ray Milland and Jan Sterling provide some relaxing comedy in Rhubarb, the story of a cat who finds himself owner of a baseball team.
STATE (ends tomorrow)—Hong Kong with Ronald Reagan and Rhonda Fleming, and Sterling Hayden in Flaming Feather.
OCTOBER 2
NOTRE DAME STADIUM—The Fighting Irish meet the Purdue Boilermakers at 1:30 in an intra-sectional battle in their second home game of the season, and their second win, we hope. . .	-
DRILL HALL—The Boilermaker Ball gets up steam at 8:30 with Don Gels supplying the music for the local dancegoers.
WASHINGTON HALL—Captains Courageous with Spencer Tracy for those who lose their shirts on the parlay cards.
OCTOBER 3
AVON (three days)—Dale Robertson and Debra Paget combine their talents to solve the riddle of death in Gambler from Natchez (B). Despite a climaxing duel at dawn and some fancy swordplay this picture hasn’t enough to pull itself out of the dumps.
STATE (three days)—A romantic adventure comedy told against the backgrounds of Rome and Venice is Three Coins in the Fountain (A-l). Should this picture fail to fascinate as a comedy drama it can always manage as a travelogue. Paris Playboys is a slapstick comedy that has nothing to offer.
RIVER PARK (three days)—Marilyn Monroe, Betty Grable and Lauren Bacall combine their talents in How to Marry a Millionaire (A-2),.and show how they do it in River Park’s first cinemascope production.
OCTOBER 6
AVON (two days)—Spencer Tracy and Richard Widmark find themselves dead as a result of habitual violence in Broken Lance (A-2), a picture worth seeing.
RIVER PARK (three days)—Knights of the Round Table with Robert Taylor and Ava Gardner returns to South Bend for those who missed this superior production last year.
STATE (two days)—Dragonfly is a war-front melodrama with John Hodiak and Barbara Britton. Not too promising. Bitter Creek is a must for anyone who has not, as yet, seen hero Wild Bill Elliot in action.
Schofastit
Vol. 96 OCTOBER 1, 1954 No. j
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.	.
Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL Associate and Sports Editor
PAUL FULLMER
Associate Editor	,1g
FRED C. ECKART	®
JOHN ADAMS .......................News]
ROBERT KAUFMAN ....Assistant News! PAUL J. LAFRENIERE .............  Copy!
CHARLES McKENDRICK ____________  .....J
....................... Assistant Copy! DAVE COHEN ............  Features]
KEN WOODWARD ..Business Manager] JIM GALLAGHER .................Circulation] DICK HAIRSINE ......J
........... Photography Coordinate^ JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator]
Member of Catholic School Press Association. As-9 sociated Collegiatu Press. Represented for nationals advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc.',« 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. -< 'U THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the! school year, except during vacation and examina4B tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Ad-^ dress all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185,9 Notre Dame. Indiana.	’ '9
PHOTOS—Pictures taken by staffs photographers appear on the following pages:	y
Jim Guide—pages 19 and 26.j‘
John O’Brien—pages 5, 13, 18,i 20.	’
Gerry Trafficanda—pages 18, 19,. 26.
OUR COVER: Woe betide the befuddled! frosh left to fathom what must seem ai^ unsolvable enigma of residence haling buildings, classrooms, Bookstore and! what have you, after two weeks here!® But the mystery unfolds as he is taken]! in hand by his rectors, teachers, and! fellow student counselors who have pre-! pared for him a tentative schedule of a campus living. Thanks go to Jim Guide! for our cover portrait of a not-too-baffledl looking freshman, Clemens Aita, who! managed to beat the lines at the Book-1 store.	I
The Scholastic 1
4
by Jim O'Shea and John O'Brien
Top of the WEEK
It was good to get back this fall and meet my roommate .
freshman’s Folly
And speaking of school, I imagine this would be the appropriate time to give | out a few words of welcome to all (or both) of the readers who are now perusing I this column. I wish to especially welcome that group of sparkling, youthful fresh-■,1 men who are now prancing about the ND campus—in pegged pants. As all of us 1 know, there is nothing so sharp, nothing so absolutely stylish as the “tapered 1’1 trouser,” especially when it is accompanied by that master-coiffure, the D.A. haircut.
I imagine now that the fall styles have : already been set, we seniors will feel ............*.........—----------------------
obligated to dash off to the tailors and
.'j ^ave our trouser legs sewn up. We	j
' no?i’t want to be out of it, do we?	Glamorous Gloria
Rejuvenation at Rocco’s
Many things have changed since we upper classmen took leave of our be-r loved South Bend last May, and one of •I the most impressive changes took place in that celebrated emporium of fine pizza, Rocco’s. Rocco, as you must have • noticed, has added more ovens to his i kitchen, more tables to his dining room, ^nd more cheese to his pizza. As a !l! Special attraction, enterprising students i	can even talk the cashier out of a free
i	cigar—while they last. The march of
progress, however, is still slow. No change has occurred in the stone-faced Italian lady who stands in front of the j] table and says: “Lemme see your I.D. ; card.” . . . One coke, please.
! Real Live Orchids
. . . to the young gentleman who passed with Kelly green colors the stiffest test given at any school this | year. . . . Terry Brennan. And to the I team that looked so good in walloping Texas, thought by many to be strong | contenders for. national honors. And ‘ij to Ralph Guglielmi in particular, who proved that he belongs on the magazine ; covers, and most likely on everybody’s i All-America.
Tomorrow comes the second rugged ^est, and tonight we troops get another j chance to show that we’re in the fight . too. With one of the largest crowds ever to attend an ND pep rally on hand j last week, the cheering wasn’t exactly ; the loudest we’ve heard. But considering the heat, which seemed like 120° in the balcony, the support evidenced was perhaps the best that could be ex; pected under such conditions. But i remember gang, the more we roar, the more they score.
More than one Terry was in the
campus limelight the past week. Terry
Moore certainly left
GLORIA
her imprint on the ND men last Sunday, along with Gloria de Haven, Bob Hope and Jerry Colona. After following the two gals around all afternoon with an alert pail- of cameras, I’m inclined to go for Gloria. And I’ve got plenty of pictures to show w h y. It was really great hav
ing the whole Hollywood gang here, but
it’s almost the Bottom of the WEEK
when they have to leave. But then maybe they’ll come back sometime and autograph all the pictures we took. Bob Hope left not only a lasting impression, but $10,000 for a local hospital fund.
And So It Goes
Now that we’re settled down to business for another school year, the cards are all turned in after the campus magicians did their tricks with them, with all the last minute switching of classes and juggling of schedules. As soon as the bookstore line shortens up a little bit, we might even pick up a few books to fill up our empty shelves. No, it won’t be long before we’re settled down again, counting the days till Christmas. But before that time rolls
around again, there’s a lot of investigating to be done. Rumors like the one that says this year’s St. Mary’s girls are the best looking ever, deserve looking into.
i
Flub of the WEEK
Our vote for flub of the WEEK goes, of course, to the man who crowned the queen at the “Longhorn Leap” last week. After handing the customary corsage to the young lady, our hero turned to the microphone and said, “Congratulations, very much.”
>
And Again There’s—Ahem—St. Mary’s
For the past several years, the brave fools who write this column have received a few nasty letters from a few St. Mary’s girls. The reason for this, of course, is that WEEK writers have always made a few nasty remarks about these same girls. This year will be a difficult one for me—I have a younger-sister at the school across the road. -Let it never- be said, however, that the WEEK has shirked its duty. . . . When I met sis at the year’s opening mixer, her first question was: “Where are my ten?” Ah, that’s what I like—confidence!
(I informed her, of course, that she didn’t get ten. There are only 7.3 men apiece. Last I saw- of her, she was dancing with 0.3.)
Jab of the WEEK
I would like to take this WEEK’S jab at the mephistophelean professor who smiled at his class and said, “And because (heh-heh) our subject is so (heh-heh) interesting, we’ll plunge right in and read the first (heh-heh) five chapters for next class (heh-heh). . . ”
. . . Heh, heh, heh. . . . Anybody got a book?
Mercy! Such Language!
You should have heard what the troops had to say last Saturday, when the N.I.T. bus drivers, who had promised to wait ten minutes at Stl Mary’s for “good night pleasantries,” took off as soon as they were emptied. I guess it was a case where the busses didn’t approve of bussing.
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . the guy who bumped out my buddy last April.	.
^October 1, 1954
A Message ...
From The President
Office of tiie President
October 1, 1954
Dear Notre Dame Men:
It’s always a pleasure to welcome all of you back to Notre Dame after a long summer. By now, you have really;
found
way.
out that the summer is over. But then, at your age, you like to know that you are going somewhere, and Whether freshman or senior, you are on your way to somewhere worthwhile if you are making the best
are on of all
youi;
your
opportunities here at Notre Dame this year.
It would be interesting some time to calculate all of the miles covered by Notre Dame men from the time you
leave
here in June until you return in September. I covered and Athens (Greece, not Georgia). After seeing many would like to exchange for Notre Dame and you.
We have some interesting developments coming
a few, too, visiting about fifteen universities between San Francisco, universities and many student bodies, I haven’t seen any yet that I
up this year. Most of you heard Mr. Joseph LaFortune say that he
and his Student $50,000,
wife would match the $13,000 that you raised at the Mardi Gras last year to fix up the basement of the LaFortune .	-	-	t	*1
Center. He will also match whatever you raise this year. Looking ahead, this should bring our total fund to about!
to increase the size of the Student Center facilities by about one-third. Once this is done—and the planning is already
well under way—we would like to move the Huddle into the back of the Center, with an outside pavilion in the rear.
V:
I
We also hope to have ten bowling alleys functioning in the basement of the Hammes Shopping Center soon after you return from your Christmas vacation. Speaking of that vacation, I am really counting on your wonderful spirit and example as Notre Dame men to make it possible for you to be on your way home a day earlier than officially scheduled.	’I
Plans for the future call for a new residence hall, the Pangborn Hall, to be under way within the month. This win
provide us with 200 more rooms on campus next fall. We are still hoping for a benefaction that will permit us East Dining Hall, to save the freshmen that long walk, and to shorten the Dining Hall lines for upperclassmen, this in your prayers, as well as all the problems that Notre Dame faces.	•
We have the rather present prospect of more effective training of leaders for radio and television, since
to build ai|
Please keeffl
the Univer-
sity will soon have its own radio and television operation. More later, but for now, welcome back, upperclassmen; welcome aboard, freshmen, and congratulations on your record-breaking turnout in the freshmen mission. An orchid to the Blue Circle] on the best orientation program yet. To all of you, let’s make it a wonderful year.
Devotedly in Notre Dame,
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President
The Scholastic
6
■	Edi tot's Page
i
THANKS
The Scholastic extends its gratitude to Joseph LaFortune of Tulsa, Okla., for the generous contributions he has made to the Student Center. But for Mr. LaFortune’s gift of $135,000 last year the Center might not exist as it does today. Now he has offered financial aid to renovate and decorate the cellar for student use. This aid amounts to $13,000 now and an unknown sum which will match the proceeds of the Mardi Gras celebration in the spring.
Welcome, Freshmen
Another Fall has arrived at Notre Dame and with it the Class of 1958. The Scholastic a little belatedly joins many other groups and individuals here in welcoming you to the University. There probably is little we can add to what others have already told you: it will likely be a repetition. Nevertheless, it is part of what we have learned in three years on the campus of Our Lady.
You arrived here two weeks ago and classes are now only eight days old, so Notre Dame life is still somewhat hew and bewildering to most of you. It won’t be long until you’re seasoned veterans.
There is more to Notre Dame than watching the football team play and win a game as it did last Saturday. You’re here to gain a Christian education. That is the University’s prime reason for existence. And you’ll have to work hard to fulfill that purpose. But, like football, there are many other things integral to Notre Dame besides “hitting the books.” Things that are necessary to bring success in studies, things worthwhile in themselves. Foremost, of course, is the spiritual life which is opened to every student by the numerous chapels, devotions and facilities on the ' campus. Following it are social, recreational, sports and other extracurricular activities. The main thing is to keep these last in proper proportion to the spiritual and scholastic life.
Notre Dame is a vital thing, vital because it is made up of fine people: students, priests and faculty. Among these people you will make friends whom you will be happy to return and see each September, only one of various reasons why many students are glad to return to Notre Dame.
Now the fame of Notre Dame’s football team will make you proud to be known as a Notre Dame man. After four years here something more than the football team’s achievements, yet including them—something inexplainable called the “Notre Dame spirit”—will call forth a deeper and more profound pride in being a true Notre Dame man.
Again, we are glad to have you among the student body at the University of Our Lady, and to welcome back with you all the upperclassmen.
The Beginning of an Era
Last Saturday opened what sportswriters call the Brennan era at Notre Dame. Under head coach Terry Brennan the Fighting Irish began their 66th season with a 21-0 victory over Texas. It wasn’t easy then and it won’t be easy tomorrow or any other Saturday this fall. But, working together, they will do their best every football Saturday to bring honor on the gridiron to Notre Dame.
It isn’t an easy task for the youthful Brennan to succeed Frank Leahy as head coach. He can’t replace him; there can be only one Frank Leahy. Leahy never replaced the great Knute Rockne; he succeeded him and made a place of his own. So too With Brennan; he can and will, we firmly believe, make and fill well his own niche among the great coaches of football.
Congratulations and good luck, Terry, to you, your staff and the team. That twelfth man—the troops in the stands—is with you all the way.
7
^October 1, 1954
by faculty and students
iaiiiBiBi
Now! Write legible papers and notes, because Paper-Mate never smears, blots or clogs! Guaranteed leak-proof. No stoppages— more than 70,000 words without refilling.
Paper-Mate TV Sweethearts
Perfect size for purse or pocket
Click—point out Click—point retracts
Wide choice of school or college colors
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
FAIR TRADED
Silvered-Tip Refills in Red. Blue, Green, Black . . .
49*
• Nearly 1,000 suits in stock
• All the newest styles
• Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
• No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell

Paper Mate Pens Now Featured at the
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
9
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
BASEMENT OF BADIN HALL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
8
The ScholastiC
scmusm
Volume 96, Number 1 Notre Dame, Indiana	October 1, 1954
•Science Ball to Open Social Season
Center in Readiness For Tonight's 'Debut'
“Debut” is the appropriate theme of the Science Ball being- held tonight in the flower-bedecked ballroom of the LaWFortune Student Center. An estimated 250 couples will arrive at 9 p.m. for the “Debut” of this season’s first major social event; it also marks the first time this annual dance has been held on a football weekend. From then until 1 a.m. Notre Dame’s men of science and their guests will dance to the melodies of Bud Dinwiddie and his orchestra, a select group of musicians from the Chicago area.
Car permissions and an extended 2 0a.m. curfew are in effect for tonight only.
Presiding over the activites are two Queens, the dates of Co-Chairmen Joe Swift and John Sowa. Swift has invited Miss Susan Eager, a student at Caldwell College for Women, Caldwell, N. J.; and Sowa is host to Miss Mary Walsh from Villa Maria College in Erie, Pa.
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dr. and Mrs. Donald T. Chalkley, and ^Dr. and Mrs. William H. Hamill will ' serve as chaperons for the evening. Several other faculty members and their wives also plan to attend.
In a letter of welcome sent to all freshman Science majors, Dr. Baldinger, dean of the College of Science, included a special note encouraging these new men to attend the Ball. Then, as a novel promotional stunt, Dean Baldinger placed a free bid in one envelope of class cards selected at random before ^.the opening- day of registration. The fortunate and very surprised winner was Richard Reamer, a senior pre-med student who lives in Elkhart, Ind.
The committee in charge of preparations for tonight’s festivities includes Bill Tunell, business manager; Jim Dwyer, decorations; Dick Lewis, publicity; Tom Miller, ticket sales; Mike McCormick, entertainment; John Herber, refreshments ; Karl Martersteck, room reservations; and Tom Leahy, blind dates.
^October 1, 1954
MARY WALSH “Debut . . .”
Nominations for 'Who's Who' Begin Monday, Close Oct. 18
Nominations for the 1954-55 edition of WAo’s Who in American Coileyes and Universities will open next Monday, Oct. 4, and continue through Oct. 18, inclusive. Any senior or graduate student who is considered to be outstanding in extra-curricular activities is eligible for the honor of having his name
HEAR RALPH MARTERIE!
Your Student Senate sponsors Ralph Marterie and his orchestra in a two-hour concert next Tuesday, Oct. 5, in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse at 8 p.m. Student admission will be 50 cents.'
Watch your hall bulletin boards for further information.
SUSAN EAGER . . . Tonight
placed in this list, according to Who’s Who Chairman Karl Martersteck.
Anyone may nominate, or a student may nominate himself. Application should be in letter form and should include the person’s name, campus address, and a list of qualifications. All nominations should be sent to Who’s Who, 5 Sorin Hall.
Scholarship, cooperation, leadership in academic and extra-curricular activities, and promise of future usefulness are considered in the selection.
Ten juniors from principal campus organizations will form an electoral board which will do the actual voting.
Awards include an engraved certificate and plaque, recognition in the annual publication, and benefits of student placement service.
The TFAo’.s- Who annual, which has been published since 1934, will come out in the spring. Last year 32 Notre Dame men were selected.
9
University Inaugurates Its 113th School Year;
Enrollment Exceeds 5400 for All-Time High
More than 5400 Notre Dame students, the largest student body in the University’s 113-year history, have arrived on the campus. The Freshman Class this year numbers about 1500.
The formal opening of the schoolyear was observed Sunday with a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a sermon by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. The Mass was preceded by a colorful academic procession of more than 560 Notre Dame faculty members from the Administration Building to the Church.
‘Kaleidoscopic Nightmare’
Father Hesburgh in his talk, declared, “Only men’s minds can restore to today’s world the intellectual order destroyed by the kaleidoscopic nightmare of isms that have ebbed and flowed through these past four centuries.” He deplored “a growing distrust of intellectuals and things intellectual” at the very time the world should look to great minds for leadership.
The University President called on faculty members to help make Notre Dame “a new center of Christian culture. We have done, and are doing, a wide variety of good things at Notre Dame. If we do everything else and fail in this, our proper task, our high calling, our providential mission, then as we pray in the presence of God here today, we will be unworthy servants, and a failure as a Catholic university.”
Orientate Freshmen
An expanded freshman orientation program was planned to help new students familiarize themselves with the campus and its facilities as well as to adjust themselves generally to college life. During the orientation period freshmen heard talks by various officers of the University administration and the deans of the respective colleges. Other orientation periods have been explanations of effective study methods, the use of the library and the several ROTC programs.
Freshman tests were administered Sept. 18 in Washington Hall, Nieuwland Science Hall, and the Engineering Building. All freshmen were given a mathematics test and an occupational interest inventory exam.
Of the 443 enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, 418 were tested. All but one of the 348 enrolled in the College of Engineering were examined. Four-hundred eight of 424 commerce students were tested, and a total of 277 of the 282 science freshmen enrolled
10
received examinations. Students who had not been tested initially took the exams last week.
This year a battery of tests, different from those of recent years, was used because of a new mandatory college entrance examination not always required in the past.
New AB Curriculum
A new curriculum in Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters goes into effect with this year’s Freshman Class. Among its features are a required course in mathematics in the freshman year as well as an intensive foreign language course taught six days a week in the first year. Courses in economics, political science and sociology, formerly taught separately, will be compressed into a sophomore social science course. Students take five courses each semester instead of six and will be required to take a comprehensive examination at the end of the sophomore year and submit a senior essay prior to graduation.
Concert, Lecture Fare Prepared for 1954-55
Cultural and recreational values are blended together in the diversified program now being prepared for this season’s Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series. Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., serving as director of the series, has completed arrangements for seven events and has tentative plans for several more bookings.
On Nov. 9j as part of the second annual Festival of the Arts, 'Margaret Moyer, the noted English actress, will dramatize excerpts from Euripides’ play The Trojan Women. A theater-in-the-round setting is planned for Miss Moyer’s interpretation of the ancient Greek classic.
Melodies which usually echo across the Austrian highlands will be transplanted to the stage of Washington Hall Nov. 29, as the Tyroliers sing and dance to the music of their homeland. This group, though relatively new to the United States, has already distinguished itself in concerts and in a guest role on the Red Skelton television show.
Players Incorporated from Washington, D. C., now touring the nation for the sixth consecutive season, will hold forth for four days' beginning Jan. 11. For the first two evenings they have chosen Moliere’s comedy The Would-Be Gentleman! and for their two other per-
Soph Cotillion Sparks I Big Oct. 15 Weekend®
In a Broadway first-nighter setting, 500 sophomores and their dates will usher in the gala Michigan State weekend with the annual Sophomore Cotillion Oct. 15.
Charlie Spivak and his orchestra will provide the music for the “Premier” and a new vocalist, Miss Pat Scott, will । make her debut on the college scene witl® , her appearance at the second-year men’s dance.
The Student Center, dressed in all the glamour of the “Great White Way,” will (| play host to the Cotillion for the second ; time. Scenes from The Stork Club, El ' Morocco, and a Times Square band backdrop will add to the overall “Premier” theme effect.
All tickets for the ball were sold last Sunday and Monday. The dance will las® from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., and winter formal wear will be required. Weekend car permissions will be granted from 2 o’clock on Friday to noon Sunday.
The weekend will get underway Friday at 6:30 in the evening with a pep rally in the Fieldhouse. At 9 the spotlight will center on the Student Center for the Cotillion. Saturday afternoon Notre Dame Stadium will be the scene of action as the Irish meet the Spartans of Michigan State in one of the to]® games of the year. The regular Saturday night Victory Dance will provide j entertainment for that evening. The ac- I tivities will close Sunday morning with I a Communion Breakfast in the Dining Hall.
Tom Edwards is the general chairman of the Cotillion. The other committee chairmen are: John Slevin, business manager; Tom Doyle, tickets; Jerry^ Murphy and Joe McMahon, publicity ,® John Meagher, decorations; Ron Francis, accommodations; and Bert Millen, ■ Communion breakfast.	k
The queen of the Cotillion will be the fl date of the general chairman.	fl
formances, Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar. |
Also returning is the famed Juillard I String Quartet which will appear in I concert Jan. 17.	I
Because of its greater seating capacW ity, the Drill Hall will be the site of an | April 24 concert by the South Bend | Symphony, featuring as guest vocalist I Mr. Thomas L. Thomas.	I
On May 9, Mr. Earl Spicer will sing | various selections from his vast reper- I toire of American folk ballads.	I
Finally, on May 22, the Mazur Dane- I ers from Milwaukee, Wis., will offer a I program of Polish dances, performed in I their traditional old-world costumes. |
The Scholasti^
Barth Will Supervise ^University TV Station
Appointment of Bernard C. Barth, Cincinnati, as vice-president and general manager of the commercial UHF television station to be operated by Notre Dame was announced last week by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. The new station, whose call letters have not yet been as-^signed, will be affiliated with the Na-J'tional Broadcasting Company, Father Hesburgh. said.
Barth’s appointment- and the announcement of the completion of arrangements for NBC affiliation are the latest in a series of events designed to place the University in the radio and television field.
The Michiana Telecasting Corporation, a company whose stock is owned ^by Notre Dame, was granted final ap--^proval to build and operate a UHF television station over channel 46 in South Bend by the Federal Communications Commission Aug. 13.
Michiana had previously purchased radio station WHOT from the Universal Broadcasting Company to put the University in the commercial broadcasting field and clear the way for the TV channel grant.
This entry into the radio and television field by the University has been ^made to “make Notre Dame’s great resources for education, information and entertainment available to the city of South Bend and the 'Michiana area,” according to Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University and secretary-treasurer of the Michiana Telecasting Corporation.
WHOT’s broadcasting operations will continue at its present, downtown loca-—. tion for the time being. However, it is -^anticipated that eventually the station’s programs will emanate from studios on the campus. Plans for the location of the television station have not been
completed.
The new television station manager, Mr. Barth, is a veteran of 18 years in radio and television. He is currently serving as general program manager for radio station WLW, Cincinnati, and the WLW-TV network. He will arrive in

South Bend Oct. 15 to take over his new duties.
Prior to joining the WLW staff in
1948, Barth served as program director at WLOS, Asheville, N. C„ and KRGV, Welasco, Texas. He started his radio career as a vocalist in Aberdeen, S. D., in 1936/ Subsequently he served as announcer, writer, and producer with station WKRC and the Ralph H. Jones advertising agency in Cincinnati and WFIL, Philadelphia.
ARCHITECTS’ SCHEME FOR $800,000 PANGBORN HALL
Functional-Gothic Design for Fisher Companion
New Pangborn Hall Will House 200 Students;
Building Set for September, 1955, Completion
Plans for a new $800,000 residence hall were announced during September by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. The building, which will provide campus living accommodations for 200 upperclassmen, has been largely made possible by a generous benefaction of Thomas W. Pangborn and John C. Pangborn, through the Pangborn Foundation, Hagerstown, Md.
“With the marked increase in enrollment in recent years,” Father Hesburgh said, “the University has found it impossible to provide campus residence facilities for all its students. The construction of Pangborn Hall will enable many students who formerly lived off-campus to share more fully in the life and spirit of Notre Dame. I know I speak for generations of Notre Dame men in expressing the University’s gratitude to Thomas Pangborn and John Pangborn for their magnificent gift.”
Pangborn Hall, which will be Notre Dame’s fifteenth campus residence building, is to be erected on the new quadrangle between Fishei- Hall and the Rockne Memorial. Designed by the Chicago architectural firm of Holabird, Root and Burgee, the buff brick building will be a tasteful blend of modern functional and collegiate Gothic architecture. The structure will include 100 double rooms, a chapel and -recreation room. Construction will begin this
month and the building will be ready for occupancy in September, 1955.
Completion of Pangborn Hall will follow that of the Roy Hammes Shopping Center. Construction has started on the Badin Bog building which will house a bookstore, clothing store, and other recreational facilities.
The Pangborn brothers operate the Pangboi-n Corporation, Hagerstown, Md., one of the world’s largest manufacturers of blast cleaning and dust control equipment. Thomas Pangborn is a member
(Continued on Page 30)
Tumpane Takes Year's Leave To Do Dramatic Work in West
John W. Tumpane, assistant director of the Department of Speech and director of the University Theatre, has been granted a one-year leave of absence from his duties for a trip west in conjunction with his dramatic work. This summer Mr. Tumpane acted as director at the Vancouver Civic Theatre and the Portland Theatre in Oregon.
Mr. Tumpane received his A.B. degree from Yale University and a master’s degree in Dramatics from the Yale School of Fine Arts before coming to Notre Dame as an associate professor of speech. He has served as director of the University Theatre for the past three years.
October 1, 1954
11
Student Senate Approves Nine Appointments; Basement of Center Will Undergo Renovation
Approval of the appointment of nine new men to various positions in student government, the adoption of a new bus policy for social activities, and a report on plans for the renovation of the basement of the Student Center highlighted the first regular meeting of the Student Senate Monday.
Dick Beeman, WNDU station manager, was appointed to the Senate Publicity Committee by Senate President Joe Daley. Others appointed to important posts in student government were: Gordon DiRenzo, campus National Students’ Association chairman; Ron Kue-ber, student loan administrator; and Jack Rosshirt, Student Activities Court judge. Ray Kraemer was named temporary chairman of the Campus Clubs Committee to succeed Tom O’Malley.
Other appointees to Senate committees were: Dick Malesardi, physical facilities commission; Don Lueke and Joe Saunders, off-campus committee; and Jack Fitzsimmons, Campus Clubs committee.
New Bus Policy
The Senate approved a motion by Social Commissioner Jim Sherer putting bus transportation to victory dances and other Senate-sponsored social activities on a pay-as-you-go basis. The policy was adopted for economy reasons. Sherer reported that the Senate has furnished $1,375 worth of free transportation to a relatively few students using the buses in the past year.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident in charge of student affairs, announced to the senators that the proposed renovation of the Student Center Basement would cost between $45,000 and $50,000. Present plans call for the removal of all present partitions and the installation of new walls and ceilings.
Included in the area as large as the first floor of the Center would be a coffee room, a lounge, an office for an off-campus chaplain, the recreational facilities presently situated in Washington Hall, and offices for campus organizations.
Father Norton expressed the hope that the heavier work could be done on the project over the Christmas vacation and that the facilities would be available to the students by spring.
Loan Office Hours
Senate Secretary Tom Crehan announced the following office hours for himself and Ron Kueber, student loan administrator: Monday through Friday, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
12
Treasurer Dan Devine reported that $4,456.30 had been collected from students at the time of registration.
Other business conducted by the Senate included the appropriation of $210 for distribution to the halls for homecoming decorations, the approval of a plan to present a plaque to the winner of the hall decorations contest in addition to the travelling trophy, and the acceptance of the resignation of John Connaughton as spiritual commissioner.
LOBUND’s Reyniers Heads Germ Panel
A panel of distinguished scientists who advise the Office of Naval Research on projects in microbiology convened for a three-day meeting at the University which began Sept. 8. Host to the group was Prof. James A. Reyniers, founder and director of Notre Dame’s LOBUND Institute whose research in germ-free life is supported in part by the Office of Naval Research. ’ The ONR supports and encourages research that will lead to increased efficiency in naval operations.
Dr. J. Roger Porter of the University of Iowa’s department of bacteriology was chairman of the advisory panel. Other panel members were: Dr. William J. Cromartie, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; Dr. William D. McElroy, McCollum-Pratt Institute, Johns-Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.; Dr. Norman F. Conant, Duke University, Durham, N. C.; Dr. Herbert R. Morgan, University of Rochester, Rochester, N. Y.; and Dr. Emil Mrak, Food Technology Division, University of California, Davis, Calif.
During the sessions the visiting scientists inspected the facilities of LOBUND Institute and heard progress reports on its biological and medical research with germ free animals. Dr. Frank Orland, acting head of the Zoller Clinic at the University of Chicago, presented a report on dental caries research conducted in collaboration with Notre Dame scientists. Bruce Phillips, parasitologist of the National Institute of Health, reported on collaborative research on amoebic dysentery.
Representing the Office of Naval Research at the sessions were Capt. Clifford P. Phoebus, special assistant for bio-sciences; Dr. Rogei- Reid, head of the microbiology branch; and Lt. Cmdr. R. W. Swanson, assistant head. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, officially welcomed the group.
Upperclassmen to Pick Hall Councils Thursday
the
Students residing in upperclass halls will go to the polls Thursday to elect hall presidents and senators. Under a constitutional amendment passed last spring by the Student Senate, a separate senator will be elected from each hall to represent it in the Senate. Under
the unamended constitution the hall represented on the Senate by
was its
president.
Written nominee’s for which
nominations including
name, hall, and the position he is running must be sub
mitted to Jim Broughton, election committee chairman, in Room 204 Walsh before midnight, Oct. 4. All applicants must have satisfactory disciplinary records, be able to serve for a full year, and have a cumulative average of not less than 80 per cent.
The polls set up in each hall will b^ open from 12 to 1 and from 5:30 to 7 p.m. Oct. 7. The preferential ballot system will be used. Each voter will number all of the candidates in the order of his preference. If no one receives a majority of the first-place votes, the votes of the last-place candidate will be redistributed according to the second choices in the ballots marked for him.: This process will be continued until onej candidate has a clear majority.	।
The leading four candidates for halR president will form the hall council. 1
Freshman and off-campus elections: will be held Nov. 18.
Doherty Heads Debate Team Forensics Tryouts Continue
Charles V. Doherty, senior accountin major, has been named president of the Notre Dame Forensics team for the coming season, according to Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of forensics.
Doherty, a resident of Pittsburgh, Pa., has been a mainstay of the varsity squad for the past three years. Last year, in addition to receiving the Notre Damej award for outstanding debating, he was cited for outstanding achievement at the; National Catholic Debate Champion ships and the Marquette Intercontinental Tournament.
In addition to maintaining a 90 average for three years, Doherty is a member of the Blue Circle and president of the campus chapter of Tau Kappa Alpha, national speech fraternity.
Debate tryouts continue next week in the forensics room of the Student Center. They will be held Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 4:30.
The Scholastic
Leadership Workshop ^Announced by Senate
A four-day leadership training pro-। gram will be conducted under the sponsorship of the Student Senate and the Blue Circle over the weekend of Oct. 9, it was announced Monday by Senate President Joe Daley. The plan was approved in principle by the full Senate at Monday’s Senate meeting and was referred to the Blue Circle for administration.
The four-day workshop, according to । Daley, will be aimed at both present ' campus leaders and potential leaders, J especially in the freshman and sophomore classes. The goal of the program is 1 to train and educate student leaders concerning the meaning and value of participation in extra-curricular activities and to make known the opportunities present at Notre Dame for the de-*velopment of leadership.
Preliminary plans for the workshop include a series of lectures by student leaders, faculty members, and members of the administration on the essentials of leadership, a series of panel discussions on practical problems of student leadership, and a discussion on leadership opportunities at Notre Dame.
While stressing the importance of attendance by those already in positions -»of responsibility in extra-curricular activities, Daley also pointed out that anyone who is interested in extra-curricular activities is urged to attend.
The Senate hopes to follow up the four-day workshop by forming a student activities group from those attending the program. This group would be given the chance to apply what it has learned by working in student government. Arrangements are now being made >with other campus groups for similar programs.
Schedule Interhall Changes For Two Days Next Week
Upperclassmen desiring to change their present residence may do so starting Tuesday morning, according to the Office of the Prefect of Discipline.
Juniors and Seniors who plan to move : ^are asked to visit the Office of the Prefect of Discipline between the hours of i 8:30 a.m. and 11:15 a.m. and 1:30 I p.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Tuesday while l Sophomores the following day between 8:30 a.m. and 11:15 a.m.
Students may interchange only among their respective class halls. No changes will be permitted after Wednesday. Rooms must be vacated within 24 hours after the room change is approved.
LaFortune Scores With Another Center Gift
Mr. Joseph LaFortune addressed a crowd of more than 5,000 students and guests at the kickoff pep rally for the ’54 season last Friday in the Field House. In complimenting the spirit of the Irish, who battled and beat Texas the next day, 21 to 0, Mr. LaFortune drew exuberant cheers from the students as he announced an additional benefaction to the University for the renovation of the basement of the Student Center. His donation will include $13,000 (matching net receipts for the 1954 Mardi Gras) and a sum equal to the net proceeds of the 1955 Mardi Gras. Also pictured are Mrs. Joseph LaFortune and guest speakers Head Coach Terry Brennan and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, Dan Shannon and Paul Matz, co-captains of the Irish who introduced the members of the ’54 grid squad.
'Greenwich Village' Night Promised Engineers
Tickets for the annual Engineering Ball to be held Friday evening, Oct. 22, will go on sale Monday in the lobby of the Engineering Building. Sale of the 300 bids, priced at $3.75 each, will be held between classes and will continue throughout the week.
Johnny Palmer and his orchestra will provide the rhythms for the slide-rule men and their dates in the main ball room of the Student Center from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
The usual 2 o’clock residence permissions will be granted with cai- permissions from 12 noon until 2 a.m. the day of the dance for all Ball-goers.
“A Night in Greenwich Village” is the theme of the semi-formal affair. Decorations will create the colorful atmosphere of the old Bohemian village. Artists of all types gather and live in this quaint New York City village. Painters, sculptors, and visitors can al
ways be seen milling around the unusual sidewalk displays.
A novelty will be added to this year’s dance as couples will have their portraits etched with charcoal. In addition, photos will be taken with a simulated New York skyline as background.
A blind date bureau has been set up with Saint Mary’s and Saint Joseph’s Nurses Residence.
The Student Senate will sponsor a dance in the Student Center the following Saturday night. Further plans for the weekend have not yet been completed.
Tom Magill and Bob Baudenistel are serving as co-chairmen of the dance^ Assisting them will be Paul Marbach, business manager; Joe Kearney, tickets; Frank McCarthy, publicity; George Van Besien, decorations; Randall Carli, transportation; and Bernard Tracy, refreshments.
^October 1, 1954
Theatre Opens Year With 'Detective Story'; Father Harvey, New Staff Combine Efforts
By JIM O’BRIEN
The University Theatre will open its 1954 season in November with Detective Story, a powerful Broadway hit by Sidney Kingsley, and with a new staff under the direction of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C. Also in action by November will be the Theatre Workshop, another innovation in the history of Notre Dame dramatics.
Detective Story was selected by Father Harvey and the board because of its ease of production. Costumes for the play are contemporary and only one set is required. Furthermore, the play requires a large cast, which will give the new staff an opportunity to see as many students in action as possible. Casting was completed this week.
The Theatre Workshop is intended by Father Harvey to act as the pivotal point in a new theatre program aimed eventually at the creation of an academic department in the field of dramatics.
The Theatre Workshop differs from an ordinary drama club in that its objective is entirely practical, rather than social or literary. Also, the Workshop is not restricted to potential actors or authors, but will extend to all phases of theatrical work, from stage-carpentry, scenery and lighting, to make-up and publicity work. The Theatre Workshop will be open to students who are interested in any or all forms of theatrical work.
The function of the Workshop will be to promote interest in the University Theatre and facilitate work on productions during the year, as well as to provide experience and training for students. The Workshop will provide groundwork for the instruction of drama •on an academic basis leading to an A.B. degree in dramatics.
Theatre Laboratory
Another facet of the Workshop is the student laboratory. Here, fragments of student plays will be staged and acted so that the potential script writer or playwright will better understand the problems of stage productions. This device is expected to be of great service during the student musical.
The immediate policy of the University Theatre, according to Father Harvey, with regard to this year’s productions, will be to place the emphasis on quality rather than on quantity. In the past year, the University Theatre has produced four major plays, and a number of one-act plays. This year, the Theatre will present three major plays,
which will allow for longer rehearsal time and more careful production. In addition to Detective Story, Father Harvey expects to produce a classic play and the student musical.
New Musical Policy
Following the policy of quality, some changes will be made in the production of the student musical. Judges for the musical must receive both libretto and score by December. The early deadline will allow it time for revision in promising musicals which do not achieve the minimum standards. Father Harvey also announced that the musical will be faculty-directed, although students will work as coaches with the director, and
FATHER HARVEY
For Purposeful Drama
will direct various aspects of the show.
“It is our object to build a drama department — for the students,” said Father Harvey. “This will provide students with the means to acquire a systematic knowledge of dramatics, and also permit Notre Dame to make a significant contribution in this field.”
“I strongly urge any student who is interested in any phase of theatrical work to join in the activities of the Workshop for his own benefit and for that of the University Theatre,” added Father Harvey.
“If the proposed drama department is to become a reality, it must be built by and for the students and not for the faculty.”
Plans for the Workshop have not been completed, but notice will be posted when
(Continued on Page 33)
Hassam Fund Donates
Painting to University^1
“View of the Arao,” an oil painting by John Manship, has been given to the University art galleries by the Childe Hassam Fund through the American Academy of Arts and Letters, New York City.
The painting is one of 21 works of art by 18 contemporary artists recently purchased by the Academy for presentation,--to museums and art galleries throughout’* the country as provided for in the will of the late Childe Hassam.
Hassam, who died in 1935, is remembered not only as an artist in his own right, but also as the originator of the unique fund which bears his name. His will bequeathed to the American Academy the entire collection of his own 350 paintings and drawings with the request that they be sold from time tq^ time to endow a fund. This fund was to । be used, in turn, to buy the works of contemporary artists for presentation to selected museums and galleries.	j
Since the establishment of the fund in 1936, more than 80 works from the | • Childe Hassam collection have been sold I to provide funds for the purchase and I donation of works by such artists as I Isabel Bishop, Everett Shinn, Iver Rose, I David Fredenthal, Mitchell Siporin, An- | ton Refregier, Alexander Russo, Francis^ Speight and many others.	*9
Hesburgh Named Chairman I Of Senior Football Weekend I
The appointment of Jim Hesburgh as I chairman of this year’s Senior Class i trip was announced Monday by Class I President Dick Burke. Hesburgh, a sen- I ior in the program for administrators, 1 has been active in class activities forjl the past three years. He has served a^^ chairman of the Junior Prom Com- B munion breakfast committee.	g
Hesburgh announced that plans are g nearing completion for the trip to the I Iowa football game the week of Nov. 20. S According to present plans the seniors I will leave South Bend Friday afternoon ■ and will arrive at Iowa City early Fri- ■ day evening. The seniors will leave | Iowa City Sunday afternoon and return | to the campus by Sunday midnight.
A fee of approximately $27 will be*s charged. Included in the fee will be I train fare, a box lunch, two nights’ | lodging, a ticket to the football game, | and the traditional green derbies. Social I arrangements have been completed with i Iowa co-eds for. Saturday evening. I
Approximately 200 game tickets have been procured with the understanding I that they be sold only on a package basis. Only seniors will be eligible.
14
The Scholastic
! Fifty Members Added to University Faculty;
*Fr. Reith to Head Department of Philosophy
I! The appointment of a new department J head and 50 new faculty members at ■ the University has been announced by II Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-presi-i| dent in charge of academic affairs.
' Rev. Herman R. Reith, C.S.C., was named head of the Department of Phi-
I ^Josophy succeeding Rev. Bernard I. Mul-i "’lahy, C.S.C., who will continue to serve as assistant provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province. Father • Reith, a native of Kokomo, Ind., holds i degrees from Gregorian University in < |	Rome, the University of Notre Dame,
' :	and Laval University, Quebec. He has
; ; been a faculty member since 1945 j ex-1 cept for the period 1948-50 when he ■ taught at Portland University in Oregon.
I Dr. Joseph A. Becker of the Bell ' Telephone Laboratories, Inc., will serve as visiting professor of physics during the fall semester. Doctor Becker will conduct a seminar on “The Physics and Chemistry of Surfaces Viewed from . Atomic and Electronic Concepts.” He is a member of the University’s Advisory |:	Council for Science and Engineering.
■ Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, professor ;	of political science, has rejoined the
; University faculty after a year in Eur-I^.ope where he served as a visiting specialist in political science under the auspices of the U. S. State Department. A specialist in political theory, Doctor Hermens was appointed by the German i	Minister of	Interior	to a committee	of
I	13 outstanding European	and American
jurists and political scientists to survey I	the factors	making	for	stability in	a
|	democracy.
• Dr. Vladimir Seidel, professor of • £ mathematics at the University of Ro-I Chester, has been appointed visiting pro-j fessor of mathematics at the University k for the ensuing school year. Born in Odessa, Russia, Doctor Seidel was edu! j	cated at the University of Edinburgh,
J r	Harvard University, and the University
U of Munich. He is a specialist in the theory of functions, differential equa-
; tions and the Fourier series.
■ Dr. Robert C. Turner, professor of \ . business administration at Indiana Unis ® versity and a member of former Presi-I dent Truman’s Council of Economic Ad-‘ visors, will serve as a visiting professor >1 in the College of Commerce during the l| fall semester. He will conduct a weekly | faculty seminar in addition to teaching )‘j courses in business administration.
1 Three newly-appointed faculty members will have the rank of associate i professor. They are Rev. James P. Gib-f bons, C.S.C., history; and Dr. James A. | $ October 1, 1954
Jenkins and Dr. R. J. de Vogelaere, mathematics. Dr. H. S. Tan, research associate at Cornell University’s Graduate School of Aeronautical Engineering, will be a visiting associate professor in the engineering mechanics department.
Among those named assistant professors are Frank W. Barsalou, business administration; Earl H. Crisler, mathematics; Harold A. Foecke, electrical engineering; George W. Ford, physics; John E. Hardy, English; Rev. Edmund J. Hogan, S.J., religion; Robert R. Lewis, physics; Thomas Mayer, finance; John W. Mihelich, physics; John L. O’Donnell, finance; Robert Shanahan, engineering drawing; Rev. Edward S. Shea, C.S.C., modern languages; Bernard J. Ward, law; Robert Weinstock, mathematics; and Bernard S. J. Wost-mann, LOBUND Institute.
•, Instructors whose appointments were (Continued on Page 32)
Rector, Prefect Changes Announced for 1954-55
Five of the 14 University residence halls have new rectors for the coming year, it was announced recently by the Office of Academic Affairs. Thirteen prefects also received new assignments.
Two senior halls have new rectors this year as Rev. Edmund Murray, C.S.C., and Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., were assigned to the rectorships of Alumni and Fisher Halls, respectively. There are no new prefects in the senior halls.
Though there are no new rectors in the junior halls, both Badin and Dillon have new prefects in the persons of Rev. Joseph Shilts, C.S.C., on the third floor of Badin, Rev. Richard Murphy, C.S.C., on the second floor of Dillon and Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C., on the third floor of Dillon.
Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., is the new rector of St. Edward’s Hall. New prefects assisting him are Rev. Ralph Davis, C.S.C., and Rev. Donald Armbruster, C.S.C. Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., is the new rector of Morrissey. Rev. Francis Phelan, C.S.C., is a new prefect in the same hall. Lyons Hall has two new prefects, Rev. Edward Shea, C.S.C., and Rev. James Doll, C.S.C. Rev. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C., is a new prefect in Howard Hall.
Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C., is the new rector of Farley Hall. Farley also has a new prefect, Rev. William Graham, C.S.C. Rev. John Van Wolvlear,
New Advisor Program Aimed at Aiding Frosh
The newly-formed Student Advisor Progr am, sponsored by the Blue Circle, was set in motion yesterday as a group of 160 upperclassmen met with Dr. William M. Burke, newly appointed counselor for freshmen in the College of Arts and Letters and Commerce. Dr. Burke discussed ways and means of helping incoming freshmen with the group selected to serve as special student counselors to the freshman class.
Under the Student Advisor Program each student counselor will personally meet with approximately ten freshmen once a month for three months. These interviews will be held on an individual basis so that maximum attention can be given to each freshman’s problems.
The first series of interviews will be held in the rooms of the freshmen, and the final two interviews will be held in the rooms of the student advisors. Each interview will last approximately one hour.
The student counselors, primarily seniors, were chosen by the colleges of the University for their potential abilities to advise students on academic and extra-curricular activities.
The program is designed to complement the Blue Circle orientation program by integrating the incoming freshmen with the rest of the student body. John O’Meara, Blue Circle chairman and one of the originators of the plan, stated that the plan will “give freshmen the opportunity to learn from upperclassmen the true meaning of Notre Dame.”
The counselors will attempt to aid the freshmen under their guidance to realize why they are at Notre Dame, what they can expect from Notre Dame, and what Notre Dame expects of them. Cases of serious academic difficulties will be referred to Dr. Burke for more intensive counseling.
The Student Advisor Program has been formulated by O’Meara, Forst Brown, and Steve Provoznik from a preliminary report drafted by Tom Crehan. The program will be administered by a committee headed by Tom Sheehan. Representing the various schools in the University on the committee will be Jim Broughton, Arts and Letters; Don Gels, Commerce; Dick Lewis, Science; and Dick Capka, Engineering.
C.S.C., is the newly-appointed rector of Cavanaugh Hall. Zahm Hall has three new prefects, Rev. Gene Burke, C.S.C., Rev. James Buckley, C.S.C., and Rev. Francis Barr, C.S.C.
15
REV. JOHN A. O’BRIEN
Irish Marriage Rate, Mixed Marriages a Cause For Alarm
Father O'Brien Reports on Mixed Marriages
Six out of every ten Catholics who contract mixed marriages become lost to the faith, according to Rev. John A. O’Brien, noted author and marriage counsellor. Four attempt marriage outside the Church and are thus lost immediately, Father O’Brien said, while two out of the remaining six who marry before a priest grow careless and indifferent and ultimately cease to practice their faith altogether.
Father O’Brien reported the findings of extensive investigations of mixed marriages over a ten-year period in an address to the Newman School of Catholic Thought held during the summer at the University.
About one-third of all the valid marriages contracted by Catholics in the United States are mixed marriages, Father O’Brien reported, “and the trend instead of decreasing is on the upswing.” Much more surprising and dis-
States Marriage Rate Threatens Irish Race
A recent report by an Irish government commission reveals that the sons of the Emerald Isle “are indeed threatened with eventual extinction because of a phenomenally low marriage rate,” Rev. John A. O’Brien declared here recently. The government report, which was based on a six-year study of population trends, found Ireland “unique in having exceedingly high percentages of young unmarried persons and persons who never marry.”
The commission found that the average marriage age was 33 for men and 28 for women, but in rural areas this rose to 37 for men and 30 for women. The report declared that there was something gravely wrong in a community where there was such widespread “frustration of natural expectation.”
Earlier this year, the validity of Father O’Brien’s book, The Vanishing Irish, was publicly challenged by R. C.
turbing, he said, is the large number of Catholics, indifferent and nominal ones for the most part, who contract civil marriages before justices of the peace and even non-Catholic ministers.
The author of The Truth About Mixed Marriages told the college students that only about four per cent of Catholic marriages end in divorce while 14 per cent of mixed marriages, or 3% times as many, terminate in this way. The greatest loss of all, however, Father O’Brien said, is the children of mixed marriages. About 66 per cent of them are lost to the Catholic faith, he reported.
Father O’Brien blamed “the moribund social life in most parishes, the indifference of parents, and the segregation of the sexes in many Catholic schools and colleges” as contributing to the swelling tide of mixed marriages.
Geary, government director of statistics in Dublin. “The commission’s report,” Father O’Brien said today, “corroborates fully the thesis of the book and acknowledges officially how seriously the low marriage rate and emigration are affecting the Irish nation.”
Father O’Brien endorsed the commission’s plea for more Irish people to marry and to marry younger. “Ireland is the only nation in the world,” he said, “which has dwindled in the course of a century to half its population while other nations have been doubling and tripling in numbers.”
Measures must be adopted at once, Father O’Brien said, to reverse Ireland’s downward population spiral. As the government report indicated, the low marriage rate contributes to emigration while the intention to emigrate helps keep the marriage rate low, he said.
CSMC Convention Studies ’Red' Threat $
Students from Africa and the Far East joined more than 3,000 young Americans at the 16th national convention of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade on the University campus last Aug. 26-29.
In a special seminar the foreign students studied the effects of the rising tide of nationalism and the menace of Communism to missionary activities iii J their homelands.
A highlight of the convention program was the appearance of His Eminence Thomas Cardinal Tien, exiled archbishop of Peiping, and six American missionary bishops who were ousted from China by the Communists. The exiled churchmen discussed the ways and means of keeping Catholicism alive behind the “Bamboo Curtain.”
Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, archbishop' {fl J of Cincinnati and national president of the C.S.M.C., delivered the keynote address.
Referring directly to the current meet- | ing of the World Council of Churches at Evanston, Ill., Archbishop Alter stated that religious unity never will be achieved through “human compromise” or “mechanical organization.” He added that any attempt to reach religious unity must start with the concept that ? God Himself has willed that there be^ ’ such unity among men.
“As long as nations fail to accept, at least as a minimum, the sovereignty of God and the primacy of moral law, there can be no unity of minds or purpose, and hence no united action in implementing a program of peace or promoting the common good.”
Buddy Morrow's Orchestra Signed for Commerce Ball
Plans have gotten underway for this year’s annual Commerce Ball, according to the Ball’s general chairman, Lee Crean.
Commerce men will be serenaded by Mr. Buddy Morrow, his trombone, and orchestra on Friday evening, Nov. 26. The 400 Ball-goers will dance for four hours in the main ballroom of the Student Center.
A “Night in Monte Carlo” has been selected as the theme for the ball, with appropriate decorations. The gala weekend will continue the following afternoon for Commerce men and their dates as Notre Dame takes on Southern Cal in the season’s closing game at home.'
Further information will be disseminated after the Michigan State game, according to ticket chairman John Dwyer.
16
The Scholastic &
Hike Sono
r
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again.
Oh, it’s the hike, hike, hike of victory, The call, to rise and strike.
For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike.
(chorus)
Hark to the cheering song rising high, Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by ; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Bum high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
When Irish Backs Go Marching By
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry, Gathering foemen fling to the sky.
Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
j
(chorus)
And when the Irish backs go marching by
The cheering thousands shout their battle cry:
For Notre Dame men are marching into the game, Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through, They’ll sweep the foemen’s ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, • Then Notre Dame men will win that day. '
Victory March
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing her glory and sound her fame. Raise her Gold and Blue
And cheer with voices true:
Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game. Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
(chorus)
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name. Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her ioval sons are marching Onward to victory.
Notre Dame, Our Mother
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue. Glory’s mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
October 1, 1954
17
A quartet of Jumpin’ Joes and gallopin’ gals get in the mood at the Longhorn Leap.
Back Home Again'
Co-captain Matz at the rally.
Another Terry makes a stadium debut.
18
The Scholastic'-^
The troops have been back for nearly — two weeks. A few changes noted. Most -things about the same.
The frosh registered and got oriented early this year. They also went through their first SMC mixer. Then they stood in line—for books, chow and football tickets. This was all new to them.
The grizzled, old upperclassmen came back to a few new items also. The new library set-up. No fall Indiana monsoon —yet. Bogballers were absent for the ♦ first time since grass refused to grow between Walsh and Badin. A new head coach and a new ND fan took his place in the rooting section—Mr. Football— Mr. Leahy.
The first big weekend was filled with the word “Terry.” Brennan and Moore. Or Moore and Brennan.
Don Gels’ outfit sounded sharp Saturday night at the Longhorn Leap. The SMC frosh got the usual early rush.
Then back to the books for a week. What do you mean the work gets easier every year? Another weekend starting. Things haven’t changed much.
Soph Jim Morse is hit by a broad-beamed Longhorn.
---- In Indiana
“Hmm . . . let’s see, I think we have a card in Middle Egyptian Alchemy.”
October 1, 1954
19
Pay-as-You-Ride
By DAVE COHEN
The pay-as-you-ride bus policy for Senate victory dances is the beginning of a Senate social committee economy campaign, according to Jim Sherer, social commissioner. The Senate spent $935 last year on free buses for the students who dated. St. Mary’s College girls and St. Joseph’s nurses. “When the bus rates went up again this year, the social committee decided to start charging only the fellows who actually use the buses,” Sherer said.
He added that the Senate collected approximately $8,000 in activity fees in 1953-54. Of this, $1374 went to provide free buses at .Senate victory dances and parties. “This was too big a cut of the activity fee for a service to only a small percentage of the students,” he said.
Those men dating St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s nurses will still have bus transportation to the Senate dances but now it will cost them 50 cents for each dance.
“This economy measure—it will save $900 in a year—doesn’t mean that the number or quality of Senate social activities is going to suffer. Actually, what will be done is apply this buscost savings to other social activities. This way the man who doesn’t ride the buses won’t be paying the transportation for the ones who do,” Sherei" explained.
Along this line, the social commissioner added that the set-up used for selling
bus tickets to the “Longhorn Leap” last week has been changed slightly, making it easier for dancegoers to buy tickets. Starting tomorrow night, tickets will be sold at Holy Cross hall, LeMans Hall and St. Joseph’s Nurses Residence. Also, these will be three-part tickets. One part is given to the bus driver when you get on at the girl’s dorm, the second when you leave the dance and the last part upon return to campus. Tickets will also be sold singly.
“Last week quite a few fellows rode the dance buses without paying the 50 cent charge. In some instances the drivers didn’t know they were supposed to collect the tickets. In others the students hadn’t noticed the bulletins announcing where and when they could buy bus tickets. We decided to try and avoid this confusion and get a system that we can use the rest of the year,” Sherer said. He pointed out that the social committee wants this bus ticket business to be as convenient as possible for the student and that they believe the new plan is the answer.
From now on, it’s a “no ticket—no ride” policy. The bus drivers are in-stnicted not to let anyone ride without tickets.
The social committee—that spearheaded this drive to save student funds—is composed of Sherer, Dick Burke, Dan Devine and Frank Pedace. Burke, Devine and Pedace are class presidents.
*
Social committeemen Jim Sherer, Frank Pedace, Dick Burke and Dan Devine plan the new Senate dance bus ticket policy.
Sherer, the man behind the Parent-Son^ weekend last year, is a senior majoring in journalism from Bowling Green, O. He served on the social committee in 1953-54 when he was president of the junior class, moving to the top spot this year. The full roster of the committee will be completed after Freshman class and hall elections.
The committee is primarily an advisory group that works to coordinate all campus social activities. “We’re^ what you might call an idea committee. The Blue Circle, as the Senate’s execu-tive arm, does the actual administering,” | social commissioner Sherer pointed out. I “The committee’s functions have increased each year since then. We always try to get more and better social activities for more students whenever we can.”
In line with this policy, the committee has planned a full social calendar for the year. Aside from the regular Sen-„ ate dances and the Sunday afternoon* and Friday evening parties, a host of varied functions are scheduled. New proposals are: a coordinating travel bureau to help all the geographical clubs make transportation reservations for their members at vacation time; a varsity variety show for the spring; a series of Senate-sponsored movies to be shown three nights a week during Lent; ND-SMC Lenten trips to visit the crip-^.-, pled children’s hospital; a new get-to- * gether plan for social functions with neighboring Catholic girls’ schools; a coffee hour in the Center after each home game; an old-fashioned picnic and a policy of helping the various hall councils sponsor social functions, such as mixers, stags and banquets.
On the repeat side, the committee will continue the Christmas parties at the childrens’ and county hospitals, the annual ND-SMC Christmas Sing and thez. traditional class, college and Mardi Gras dances.
The social committee’s problem is to please everyone—and do it on a limited budget. Their three-pronged “attack” this year—economy with no loss of quality, continued cooperation with SMC and St. Joseph’s nurses and better relations with other Catholic girls’ colleges—is the social committee’s answer to the problem.
20
The Scholastic
Acoustical Training Needed In Anti-Submarine Warfare
Ear training is as important to certain Navy personnel engaged in antisubmarine warfare as it is to the first violinist of a symphony orchestra, according to Pro& Charles Biondo, Department of Music, who conducts the University Symphonette and teaches courses in ear training and music theory.
. Some Navy electronic equipment is \ised to evaluate the actions of enemy submarines by sounding musical notes of varying pitches depending on the target’s direction and speed. Operators of this equipment, Biondo explained, must be acutely sensitive to these pitch differences if they are to give accurate information to the conning officer who directs the attack.
Biondo, who is a lieutenant com-,mander in the U. S. Navy Reserve, devised a training program to sharpen the pitch acuity of the operators. During the program, the trainees must learn to distinguish pitches in all spectra of the scale from a unison to as little as a sixteenth of a note. According to Biondo, the best of musicians would experience difficulty in distinguishing a sixteenth of a tone difference.
The operator’s job is made even more difficult, Biondo explained, by extraneous sounds in the water such as fish, bubbles, currents and the like. The operator must not only distinguish between pitches, but must also remember them. Several seconds sometimes elapse between the outgoing impulse from the equipment and the returning echo.
Conductors are always on the lookout for musicians who have the gift of perfect pitch, Biondo observed. “There’s a place in the Navy, too, for such gifted individuals. In this electronic age music, ironically, is playing an important part in the defense of our country,” he said.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, Oct. 2—Feast of Holy Angel Guardians.
Sunday, Oct. 3—Seventeenth Sunday after Pentecost; Feast of the Solemnity of the Most Holy Rosary.
Monday, Oct. 4—Feast of St. Francis of Assisi.
Tuesday, Oct. 5—Feast of Sts. Placid and Companions.
Wednesday, Oct. 6—Feast of St. Bruno.
Thursday, Oct. 7—Feast of the Most Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
Friday, Oct. 8—Feast of St. Bridget.
ND Community House Renamed Columba Hall Honoring Pious Brother, Famed for Devotion
Shortly after the turn of the century, Brother Columba O’Neill, C.S.C., then cobbler at Notre Dame, began to promote devotion to the Sacred Heart among the students at the University. He did this by giving out little red Sacred Heart badges and asking those who received them to say the prayer that is printed thereon.
Soon other than students came to get the badge, for it was reported that favors and even cures seemed to have come through the use of the badge Brother gave.
Before long, people came from all over asking for the badge and for Brother to bless them with it, especially over aching and painful parts of their bodies. In all simplicity and faith, Brother Columba did this, and marvelous cures seemed to have taken place.
Gets Hundreds of Letters
As a result hundreds of letters began pouring in to the Cobbler who had to get secretarial help to answer the mail. All of this pleased him very much for it was a sure sign of increased faith and devotion to the Sacred Heart: the very end he desired.
Years before Brother Columba established his Apostolate of devotion to the Sacred Heart, he had made with his own hands and distributed 30,000 badges of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, for the Blessed Virgin and the Sacred Heart were never separated in his own devotion.
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., who preached the sermon at Brother Columba’s funeral Mass, Nov. 21, 1923, summed up the Apostolate of Brother Columba when he said:
“If he did not actually initiate at Notre Dame, he strongly and actively promoted devotion to the Sacred Heart, a devotion which years ago had not the general favor it has now. His efforts were crowned with a peculiar success. He lived to see all Notre Dame a shrine of the Sacred Heart.
A ‘Scholastic’ Obit
“It is not my purpose to discuss in detail Brother Columba’s Apostolate of devotion to the Sacred Heart. It was his life. With the humorous simplicity which kept him so sane and human he said, ‘I’ll be dying one of these days, and maybe they’ll be putting something about me in the Scholastic. You can tell them to say there was an old shoemaker at Notre Dame, and he had a devotion to the Sacred Heart, and there seems to have been some cures.’ In those words he wrote his autobiography.”
Since the work of the revived Apos
tolate was announced in the diocesan newspapers in early August, the Apostolate has been receiving over 2-5 letters a day from the sick, despondent, and incurable, from the armed forces, sanitariums and prisons.
It is fitting that the headquarters of the revived Apostolate should be in the same house where Brothei- Columba spent so many of his fruitful years. Brother spent the last 25 years of his religious life in residence at the Community House, a building on the University campus that now houses 75 Brothers of Holy Cross.
‘Columba’ Hall
In memory of Brother Columba, the name of the Community House was recently changed to Columba Hall at the request of Brother Ephrem O’Dwyer, C.S.C., Provincial, and with the permission of the Very Rev. Christophei-J. O’Toole, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
BROTHER COLUMBA BOOK
•	If you would like to learn more about Brother Columba and his Apostolate of Devotion to the Sacred Heart read the inspiring book. These Tzeo Hearts, 50c each, or 3 for $1.00. postpaid.
•	Remit with order: The Brother Columba Apostolate. Columba Hall, Notre Dame. Ind.
Dr. Schipper Chosen to Edit 'American Midland Naturalist1
During the summer Dr. Arthur L. Schipper was named editor of the American Midland Naturalist, a scientific journal published quarterly by the University. He succeeds Dr. John D. Mizelle who had edited the publication since 1947 and who will continue to serve as associate editor for invertebrate zoology. Mr. Mizelle resigned the editorship to return to a full program of teaching and research. Both men are members of the faculty in the University’s Depai-tment of Biology.
The American Midland Naturalist was founded in 1909 by the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., who developed the basic formulae for synthetic rubber at Notre Dame. Although the publication specializes in the natural history of the Middlewest, it has achieved national and international importance among botanists and zoologists.
Dr. Schipper, a native of Maquoketa, la., received his bachelor’s degree at Coe College, Cedar Rapids, and was awarded a master’s degree and doctorate by the University of Iowa. Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1948 he taught at Texas A. and M.
0 October 1, 1954
21
Beeman Announces WNDU Appointments
Richard A. Beeman, station manager of WNDU, recently announced that Pat McCartan has taken over as public relations director of the campus radio station. He will be in charge of all WNDU’s publicity, promotion and public relations activities. McCartan has been with the station as announcer and newscaster since his freshman year and presently is the regular newscaster on WNDU’s “Five Star Final” news program. In addition to his public relations duties, McCartan will continue to do the “Five Star Final.”
Beeman also announced that Ray Kennedy is now holding down the position of sales manager. Since taking over, Kennedy has set an all-time mark in sales.
Other appointments announced by Beeman include: Larry Buckley, continuity director; Jim Bergquist, program director; John McShane, technical director; John Bendel, chief production engineer; and Tom Cassidy, chief announcer.
According to Beeman, plans are now well beyond blueprint stage for the thousand-dollar Studio B, another addition to the station.
WNDU plans to present many programs of campus interest this year, including those of an academic and social nature.
Law Students Witness Simulated Court Case
The simulated trial of a driver whose car had struck and seriously injured a promising college athlete was held here yesterday in Washington Hall at 9:30 a.m. under the auspices of the College of Law. Judge Wendell E. Green of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Ill., presided and the verdict was rendered by a jury of law students.
Peter Fitzpatrick, Chicago trial lawyer and Notre Dame alumnus, represented the plaintiff who claimed that the injuries sustained in the accident had ruined his career. The defendant was represented by Chester A. Wynne, also a Notre Dame alumnus and attorney for the Chicago Surface Lines. The two attorneys have frequently opposed each other in accident and negligence cases in the courts of Chicago and Cook County.
A number of witnesses, including an orthopedic surgeon, testified during the trial which was held under simulated courtroom conditions. Those who testified saw one of several movies of the accident taken from different vantage points.
22
Student Trip to Descend on Baltimore Oct. 30; Weekend to Feature Navy Game, Tours, Dance*
The biggest event of the 1954 Notre Dame football season will occur on the weekend of October 29 when the student trip leaves for Baltimore to watch the Irish battle the Middies from Annapolis. An extra day is added to the weekend since Monday, Nov. 1, is All-Saints’ Day, a holyday of obligation and a free day.
The students will leave by train from St. Mary’s siding on Friday, Oct. 29, at 4 p.m. and arrive in Washington about 9 a.m. Saturday, Oct. 30. Buses will transport students from the train station to the Annapolis Hotel. Later on the buses will take the students back to the depot where they’ll board a train for Baltimore to witness the game which starts at 2 p.m. EST.
After the game, the students will return to the nation’s capital for a weekend of post-game activities. On Saturday night a dance, arranged by the Notre Dame Club of Washington, will be held. A blind date service for the dance will be arranged with nearby girls’ colleges.
On Sunday afternoon, students can go on a tour of Washington, oi’ to the mixers being given by the girls from Dunbarton and Trinity colleges.
Although it’s still tentative, there are plans to have a half-day tour of Mount Vernon on Monday, Nov. 1., which will
Dr. Caparo, Noted Professor, Dies During Summer Months
Funeral services were held here July 15 for Dr. Jose Angel Caparo, professor emeritus of electrical engineering at the University, who died July 12. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, was celebrant of the Requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Dr. Caparo, a native of Cuzco, Peru, served on the University faculty for 33 years and was head of the electrical engineering department from 1918 to 1939. Failing health prompted his retirement from the faculty in 1946. However, in retirement he wrote Desire for Gold and Conquest, an historical novel about 16th century Pei*u, published in 1953.
A 1908 Notre Dame graduate, Dr. Caparo received a doctorate from his alma mater five years later. He also held degrees from the University of San Antonio in Peru and the University of Chicago. He was a member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
end the weekend festivities. The students will leave Washington at 3 p.m. arriving at Notre Dame about 7:30 a.m. on Tuesday.
The whole weekend will cost less than $50. This amount covers train fare, J lodging for two nights, a box lunch on the way from Notre Dame to Washington, the game ticket, transportation be-^b tween the train station and the hotel, and a hot meal on the train Monday ; night enroute to Notre Dame. This doesn’t include the dance on Saturday night or the tours. The dance is $2.00 and the tours are $1.50 for those who wish to go.
Students who already have a ticket to the Navy game, or who have a place to stay in Washington can cut down on the total cost of the trip. However, tc® be an official member of the student trip and receive cancelled cuts for Friday’s classes the student must purchase a train ticket. Game tickets will be • sold only to train ticket holders.	•
Tickets are scheduled to go on sale I during the week of Oct. 11. Further details on the exact cost of the trip and the time and place tickets go on sale, will be given in the next issue of the Scholastic.
ND Granted $57,500 By Ford Foundation
Notre Dame has received a grant of $57,500 from the Ford Foundation in support of its research on the Soviet Union and the “iron curtain” countries of Eastern Europe, the University administration announced recently.
This area has been under study by faculty members for several years with the work coordinated recently in a Center for Soviet and East European Studies. The Ford Foundation grant, which is for a period of five years, will enable Notre Dame to expand and intensify this research.
“In the struggle we are witnessing between Soviet Communism and the free world for the minds of men, no geographical area is more important^ than East Central Europe,” the Rev.' Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, said in announcing the grant. “We are convinced that this area is in need of a great deal of study if we are to understand and properly interpret the realities of Soviet ideology and policies. Our faculty plans, therefore, to increase and intensify this
(Continued on Page 33)
. The Scholastic.^
Rhodes, Fulbright, Buenos Aires Grants Open 'Graduate Foreign Study to American Scholars
Applications are now being taken for candidates for the annual Rhodes, Fulbright and Buenos Aires Convention Scholarships to foreign countries, it has been announced by Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate
School. Blanks may be office of the Graduate ‘ WMain Building.
Rhodes scholars will
secured in the
School in the
enter Oxford
University in October, 1955. The Fulbright program embraces 25 foreign countries, while 16 Latin American countries are included in the Buenos Aires Convention program.
To be elegible for a Rhodes Scholarship a student must be a male citizen of the United States, with at least five year’s residence; unmarried; between >19 and 25 years of age by Oct. 1, 1955. He must have completed at least his sophomore year and have received official endorsement of his university.
Fulbright and Buenos Aires Convention eligibility requirements are United States citizenship, a college degree or equivalent at the time the award is to be made.
Financial Terms
An annual stipend of $2,920 is made Q for a two-year period in the Rhodes Scholarships. Terms of award under the Fulbright program state that stipends I are made entirely in the currencies of - participating countries abroad. They li cover transportation, expenses of a lan-|| guage refresher or orientation abroad, f tuition, books, and maintenance for one | year. No transportation or maintenance allowance is provided for dependents.
I Terms of award under the Buenos f > Aires Convention program include trans-1 portation, tuition, maintenance, sometimes incidental expenses.
Scholars who qualify under the G.I. ; Bill of Rights or other military educa-
HALL PICTURES FOR DOME
Hall pictures for the 1955 Dome will be taken this Sunday after-

noon, Oct. 3, schedule below, must be worn.
Farley, Zahm,
according to the Coats and ties
Sorin, Howard,
1 :00 to 1 :45 p.m.
Breen-Phillips, St. E d w a r d's, Walsh, Morrissey—2 to 2:45 p.m.
Cavanaugh, Badin, Alumni, Lyons—3 to 3:45 p.m.
Dillon, Fisher—4 to 4:45 p.m.
tional funds may expect the same benefits at Oxford as at an American university. A possible third year may be awarded if the scholar’s record at Oxford and plan of study warrant such an award.
Any secured School.
further information may be in the office of the Graduate
Placement Registration Opens for 1955 Grads
Seniors and graduate students expecting to finish at Notre Dame in 1955 began this week to register with the Placement Bureau, 122 Main Building. Employment interviewers will begin coming to the campus on Oct. 18, according to William R. Dooley, placement director, and will continue coming until next May.
As in past years, Mr. Dooley announced, graduate students will be interviewed throughout the school year. Seniors finishing next January will be interviewed in the first semester and seniors finishing in June and August
will be interviewed semester.
“Our appointments for campus interviews ahead of last year at Mr. Dooley said, “and
in the second
with employers are already well the same time,” it looks now as
though we will be even busier in 1954-55 than we were in 1953-54. From all indications, the companies will be seeking approximately the same numbei- of college graduates that they sought last year, at approximately the same starting salaries. And, like last year, they will all be entirely willing to talk with students who still have Armed Forces service ahead of them.”
Two hundred twelve employers made 264 interviewing visits to the Notre Dame campus in 1953-54, Mr. Dooley reported. The employers were represented by 373 individual recruiters who conducted a total of 3,241 interviews in the Placement Bureau. In addition, the Placement Bureau registered 51 teacher candidates for placement service during the past year and assisted 250 alumni who were seeking employment.
Besides providing campus interviewing service, the Placement Bureau provides employment counseling for students who ask for it and has available for student use a wide variety of informational material on all aspects of jobseeking, as well as company literature from hundreds of employers.
Three Dates Chosen For Frosh Law Tests
The Law School Admission Test required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American Law-schools, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on the mornings of Nov. 13, 1954, Feb. 19, April 23, and Aug. 6, 1955. During 1953-54 some 8200 applicants took this test, and their scores were sent to over 100 law schools.
A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised ordinarily to take either the November or the February test, if possible.
The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. It cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a bulletin of information.
Bulletins and applications for the test should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J. Completed applications must be received at least ten days before the desired testing date in order to allow ETS time to complete the necessary testing arrangements for each candidate.
Five Senior Men Appointed To Manage Class Activities
Dick Burke, Senior Class president, announced the appointment of five seniors to serve as chairmen for the major class activities of the year. The appointees were: Jim Hesburgh, senior football trip; Jim Ehret, Washington Day exercises; Ron Kueber, Marriage Institute; Jim Hipskind, senior retreat; and Jim Griffin, Senior Ball.
Burke explained that these men were chosen to administer these major activities in order to provide more efficient management of the events by centralizing responsibility and to free the class officers for other administrative duties.
President Burke emphasized in his letter that class officers will work closely with these chairmen and will continue to work for a “well rounded and successfully organized class program.
October 1, 1954
23
Notre Dame Publications
Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary Between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, by Stephen Kertesz.
The story of the totalitarian conquest of Hungary by the Nazi and Red regimes is graphically told by the man who served in the Hungarian Foreign Ministry’ during the war and postwar years.	$4.75
Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics, edited by Waldemar Gurian.
This basic text deals with the central question of the Cold War: Is the enemy “Eternal Russia” or Communist aggression?	$3.75
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology.
by Hans Kohn.
The first attempt in English at a comprehensive survey and analysis of Slav Nationalism, from its beginning after the Napoleonic Wars to its climax in and after World War II.	$6.25
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government 1945-1951, by M. A. Fitzsimons.
A lighting up of the major lines and development of the British foreign policy while the Labour Government held office.	$3.25
Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism, by Waldemar Gurian.
A clear and cogent treatment that reveals the basic features of Bolshevism as a social and political religion.	$3.25
Christian Democracy in Italy and France, by Mario Einaudi and Francois Goguel.
A study of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy and the MRP, the party of the Fourth French Republic.	$4.00
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, by Ferdinand A. Hermens.
An important volume on the effects of Proportional Representation between 1918 and 1950.	$4.00
Peter E. Dietz, Labor Priest, by Mary Harrita Fox.
This is a biography of America’s first labor priest. As a pioneer champion of labor, Father Dietz worked alongside such men as Samuel Gompers, Matthew Woll, Daniel Tobin, and Phillip Murray in his attempts to find a desirable solution to industrial strife. $4.75
Notre Dame, 100 Years, by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C. A complete and popularly written history of Notre Dame, filled with anecdotes and interesting stories. A perfect gift for that friend back home.	$4.00
The Review of Politics
A quarterly that provides in every issue a full range of articles which consider the problems of contemporary’ life within the historical and philosophical focus of the Christian world-view. Walter Lippman says, “I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics.” $4.00 a year
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. I.
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers, by Clarence E. Manion.
The Natural Law and Pragmatism, by Ben W. Palmer.
The Doctrine of Natural Law Philosophy, by Mortimer Adler.
Natural Law and Positive Law, by Harold R. McKinnon.
The Eternal Law Background of Natural Law, by William J.
Doheny, C.S.C.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. II.
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan.	$2.00
Natural Law in the Greek Period, by Maurice LeBel.
Natural Law in the Roman Period, by Ernest Levy.
Medieval Conceptions of Natural Law, by Gordon Hall Gerould.
The Natural Law in the Renaissance Period, by Heinrich A.
Rommen.	_
Status of Natural Law in American Jurisprudence, by Robert N. Wilkin.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. III.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00
The Natural Law and Common Law, by Richard O’Sullivan. The Natural Law- and Constitutional Law, by Edward S. Corwin.
The Natural Law and Canon Law, by Stephan Kuttner.
The Natural Law and International Law, by Carlos P. Romulo.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. IV.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00.
The Source of Human Rights, by George E. Sokolsky.
The Natural Law and the Right to Liberty, by Hon. Thomas J. Brogan.	.
The Natural Law and the Right to Property, by Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr.	_	_
The Natural Law and the Right of Self-Expression, by Felix
• Morley.	■
The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness, by John
C. Ford, S.J.
Natural Law Institute Proceedings, Vol. V.
Edited by Edward F. Barrett.	$2.00.
The Natural Law in the Jewish Tradition, by Rabbi Solomon Freehof.
The Natural Law in the Hindu Tradition, by Professor M. S. Sundaram.
The Natural Law in the Confucian Tradition, by Dr. Hu Shih.
The Natural Law in the Moslem Tradition, by Dr. Khalifa Abdul Hakim.
The Natural Law in the Buddhist Tradition, by Daisetz T. Suzuki.
On Sale At The Bookstore
University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, Indiana
24
The Scholastic ®
• Scholastic Sports
Irish Battle Surprising Boilermakers
Brennan's Charges Meet Purdue Challenge With Stout Pass Defense, Improved Backfield
By MACK STEWART
With the first of ten obstacles out of the way, Terry Brennan’s Irish host Purdue in the Stadium tomorrow at ”1:30 p.m. as they gun for their second shutout.
Purdue^has in the past" years upset not only Notre Dame, but also other strong Midwest opponents. For example, last year the Boilermakers shut out Big Ten champion Michigan State, 6-0. However, the most vivid upset in the eyes of ND men was on Oct. 1, 1950, when Notre Dame was thoroughly trounced 28-14 by the Boilermakers, thus ending the longest winning streak evei- achieved ^by any team in modern college football competition.
The Irish, however, have tightened their pass defense for the expected aerial barrage and tuned up their running attack for this contest.
Dawson, New Soph Sensation
Purdue is fresh from blanking Missouri last week, 31-0. They show a lot
TOM BETTIS All Big-Ten Guard
of power on the ground, with a fast charging line, and a new sophomore quarterback, Leonard Dawson, who could turn into a sensation in a very short time if he continues to pass as he did in the first half of last Saturday’s game.
The Boilermakers have exceptionally fine ends to receive Dawson’s throws in Bob Springer and Bob Khoenle.A sopho-
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
Purdue	Notre Dame
Kerr.........  LE	   Shannon
Paparazzo .... LT	  Palumbo
Skibinski ...... LG	   Lemek
Allen ........  C	... Szymanski
Bettis ......... RG	  Lee
Krupa .......... RT	  Varrichione
Zyzda .......... RE	  Matz
Dawson ....... QB	   Guglielmi
Brock .......... LH	  Heap
Peters ......... RH	  Morse
Murakowski .... FB _____ Schaefer
Time—1:30 p.m.
more, Khoenle hauled down two touchdown passes, and Springer one, in the second period as Dawson drove the Tigers wild with his accuracy. Khoenle also showed fine spirit by recovering a fumble which set up Purdue’s first touchdown.
At tackle, veterans Joe Krupa and Frank Paparazzo hold the starting positions. They are both seniors, heavy, and fast charging. Another senior, Frank Angelotti, and sophomore Ed Voytek provide the depth at that position.
Purdue .has some of the finest guards in the country with iron man Tom Bettis and Dick Skibinski. All Big-Ten last season, Bettis is considered by many as the country’s best linebacker. Again sophomores provide the depth; outstand-
BILL MURAKOWSKI
Injuries may slow the big boy
ing are Joe Stepanek, from DeLaSalle High School, Chicago, and Jim Shea, from the Windy City’s Mt. Carmel.
Center seems to be the Boilermakers’ weakest position. Senior John Allen is good on pass defense, but is not exceptional on offense. Other possibilities at the pivot slot are senior letterman Glenn Knecht, and sophomores John Simerson and Dale Snelling.
On the whole, this Purdue line is fast, heavy, and tough, and should keep the Irish on their toes all afternoon. Behind this forward wall is a backfield composed of a potentially great, but inexperienced quarterback, a fullback susceptible to recurrence of an injury, and two small, but hard hitting halfbacks.
Francis Gutman, a durable junior letterman, was a standout in last spring’s drills, but Leonard Dawson took over the signal caller’s position in Purdue’s first opening day victory in eight years. He appears to be capable of holding this position throughout the season. Stan Eaton and Ted Krzeczowski rank high on the list of possibilities.
Two mighty mites claim the halfback berths. At left half is senior letterman Rex Brock who is very effective both offensively and defensively. He will be backed by veterans Ed Zemba and Jim Peters. At right half is the leading ground gainer for Pui-due last year, Ed (Bino) Neves, a 5 foot, 5 inch, 155 pounder from Hawaii. He racked up an
0 October 1, 1954
25
average of 4.45 yards per carry last season, and is a terrific tackler and driving ball carrier. He will be backed by two heavy sophomores, Bill Jennings and John Carson.
Bill Murakowski holds down the fullback slot. He drives with straight power and has no trouble on defense. In case his injuries recur, Phil Ehrman, Jerry Jansen, and Jim Reichert are ready to fill his position. Another sophomore, Ed Sikora, could easily give the veterans plenty of competition.
Coach Stu Holcomb will go against the Irish with the versatile T formation he has used for the past seven years. He will depend largely on a ground game, but his aerial attack is greatly improved over former years.
Sophomores provide the depth on the Purdue squad, and the starting eleven has a number of second year men also. Purdue lost ten lettermen to last year’s June graduations, and for a while it looked as if all hopes of any Big Ten honors outside the cellar were only dreams come true, and although the Purdue squad is no champion, they are a potentially great team.
Irish Down Longhorns
A capacity crowd of 57,594 saw Notre Dame win its first game of the season under new Head Coach Terry Brennan as the Irish beat the Longhorns of Texas, 21-0.
Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi capital- . ized on one of his three first half interceptions, running the ball back from the Notre Dame 20 to the Texas 39. Fullback Don Schaefer moved to the 23, and two plays later, Guglielmi passed to
Dan Shannon on the 5, and Shannon carried over for the opening tally. Schaefer’s conversion was good, and the Irish led, 7-0.
Texas threatened twice in the first half, but the Irish defense held up against the Longhorns’ threat. After Hornung’s opening kickoff to Quinn of Texas, and two tries at the ND line,
THE TEXAS OFFENSE
Del Womack Sets Sail
half-back Delano Womack ran around right end and down the sidelines 35 yards for a first down on the Notre Dame 33. Quarterback Charlie Brewer’s pass to Howard Moon was ruled complete on the 7 because of interference by Guglielmi, but on the next play Brewer fumbled and Frank Varrichione recovered for the Irish on the 11.
After three futile thrusts at the Texas
line, halfback Jim Morse punted out of bounds for Notre Dame on the Irish 37^ the ball traveling only 18 yards. Wo^ mack and Bill Long failed to gain through the line, and a Brewer to Quinn pass gained only 3. Long punted out of bounds on the Notre Dame 17.
Guglielmi Plunges for Second Tally
Opening the third quarter Lansford of Texas kicked off to Morse, who returned from the 2 to the Irish 21. Gug-i~ lielmi passed to Morse for a first down-on the 40. Morse and Schaefer carried for 4, and Guglielmi passed to Heap on the Texas 40 and he carried to the 18. After Morse, Guglielmi and Heap had moved the ball to the 1, Guglielmi went off tackle for the score. Schaefer’s kick was good, and the Irish were out in front, 14-0.
Texas threatened again in the third period after Hornung punted to SimciUfb on the Notre Dame 39. Miller picked up 4 and Maroney 9 for a first down on the 26. Miller and Maroney combined again for five yards, and Simcik picked up a first down on the 8. Maroney fumbled and Lemek recovered for Notre Dame on the six, as the quarter ended.
In the final period Schaefer punted to Maroney, who signaled for a fair catch but fumbled, Varrichione recovering for Notre Dame on the Irish 48.J| Guglielmi passed to Morse, who carried to a first down on the Texas 26. Schaefer ran off tackle for 23 yards to the Longhorn 3, and Guglielmi ran around left end for the touchdown. Schaefer place kicked the extra point, and Notre Dame led, 21-0.
Schaefer Shows
IRISH WRITE FIRST PAGE IN BRENNAN STORY, 21-0 Breakaway Class	Irish Forwards Bury Longhorns
i
^the pKssbn
by Paul Fullmer
The first one is always the toughest—and it wasn’t too tough at that.
Terry Brennan’s chances have been discussed for’ months but now everyone has a chance to view his work and put their stamp of approval on Notre Dame’s 21-0 pasting of a highly-touted Texas eleven. Brennan moved into the nation’s hotseat with the utmost ease. It’s too early to tell what lies ahead, but nobody can deny that Brennan ran the show with the poise of a veteran in the face of continuous photographing. He handled the sidelines without assistants and relied on his phones and quarterbacks for his aid.
Brennan stuck with Frank Leahy’s magic blend of rugged line play, hard-driving backs, and just enough passing to keep the other fellow off balance. Many fans expected to see the Irish play a more wide-open game, but they used the tried-and-true patterns. Brennan, however, looked like the Casey Stengel of the gridiron with his frequent substitutions and back-field shuffling. And like Casey, Brennan had the horses to play that type of game. He shot linemen in when someone tired, sent in plays when the going got tough, and never stopped yelling encouragement to a team that wanted to win that first one for Terry. But with every man coming through like they did Saturday, “Casey” Brennan may have a tougher coaching job! He has three quarterbacks, eight halfbacks, and three fullbacks who can really move out there.
Schaefer Plays His Way Onto Team
Many writers have been wondering where the Irish would find replacements for Neil Worden and Johnny Lattnei- in the backfield. The 1954 outfit doesn’t have a Worden or a Lattner, but maybe they don’t need one. Instead of trying to replace two irreplaceables, Brennan has come up with some backs who will establish then- names before they pick up their sheepskins. Don Schaefer, a guy who likes to play football so much that he has dabbled at quarter, halfback, and fullback, earned his starting stirrups with another nifty running day and a seven yard average. His punting and place kicking make him doubly valuable. If • all-around Paul Reynolds can stay healthy this year, the Irish may have a backfield that can equal and surpass last year’s stellar combination. When Guglielmi, Heap, Schaefer, and Reynolds were running as a unit, it looked as if that was it.
The line, of course, remains as the key to the Irish success. They held Texas scoreless for the first time in 77 games. They fashioned the first whitewash since 1952. They were tough on defense, forcing fumbles and hurrying passers. They pushed the Longhorn forwards around with precision. Coach Bob Voights of Northwestern stated this spring that many major elevens will string along with their defensive units and hope they come through on offense. This fits the Notre Dame situation to a T. From end to end, the Irish present the strongest defensive aggregation in the country, bar none. There is strength, savvy, speed, and spirit.
Number Two Now On The Docket
The team should click better with this one big game under its belt. Del Womack found that the Irish are weak on end sweeps and Texas missed a TD via the airlanes only because Charley Brewer overthrew a wide open target in the end zone. The Irish can’t afford to miscue on pass defense against Purdue tomorrow because they have a lad -with four touchdown passes under his belt in his first varsity appearance—and then as a substitute. Len Dawson, however, will have to avoid the steady pressure of a team that wants to go all the way this year. Look for the Irish to let a little steam off as they temper the Boilermakers, 27-13.
Grace Paces Tourney As 24 Shoot Under 80
The 24th annual University Open Golf Tournament got under way last Sunday as 90 entrants teed off on Burke Memorial Course. The tourney has been run every. Fall since 1930 when Larry Moller, captain of the varsity golf team, won the title with a 297 for the 72 holes. This year as in the past, Golf Coach Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., is in charge of the tournament.
The tournament is played on the University 18-hole course which has a par 71. It is strictly medal play using summer rules, and is being held this year on Sept. 26, Oct. 3, 9, and 10. The contestants must each play 18 holes on these four days.
Two freshmen were leading the pack at the end of Sunday’s round. Joe Grace of Detroit holed out with a par 71 and Chuck Thuon of South Bend was second, carding a 72. Of the 24 men with scores of 79 or better, twelve are freshmen. This, according to Father Holderith, means that there will be a fine freshman golf team in the Spring.
Last year’s campus champion was varsity golfer Paul Minnich who tallied a . 298 for the 72 holes.
The winner of the coveted crown will receive a trophy in the form of a cup from William A. Burke, son of the late William J. Burke, after whom the University links were named. The winner’s name will also be engraved on the silver plaque which has the other 23 winners on it and remains in the Rockne Memorial Golf Shop. The runner-up will also receive a cup.
Following are the men with scores below 80: J. Grace, 71; C. Thuon, 72; L. Matt, 73; J. Foley, 74; R. Filipiak, 75; W. Varzellatti, 75; Jim Marus, 75; C. Kintz, 76; T. Hasara, 76.
L. Syron, 77; D. Vollmer, 77; B. Huot, 77; R. Hocks, 77; J. Pivnicka, 77; L. Limbeck, 77; T. Garside, 77; S. Merra, 78; T. Atchinson, 78; F. Manning, 78; J. Mulfluer, 79; T. Kinsler, 79; P. Loda, 79; J. Caldwell, 79; G. Gist, 79.
DR. N. FIZDALE OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 2i-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
9) October 1, 1954
27
mums LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
WELCOME HOME Notre Dame Men
We Welcome You to the
THE TWINS RESTAURANT
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI our specialties
CHOPS CHICKEN
T-Bo ne—STEAKS—Po rterh ouse
713 E. LaSALLE
2 blocks east of Hill St.
Favor Richards, Pagel In Fall Tennis Tourney
A flock of local tennis enthusiasts sought an inside track to a berth on Charlie Samson’s net team as the annual campus-wide tennis tournament got underway this week.
The tourney is loaded with promising stars who are expected to form the nucleus of future varsity teams.
Sophomore Harry Pagel, defending champion, who will be eligible for varsity competition this Spring, is topseeded to win a second straight title.
Five other seeded players are slated to provide plenty of stiff opposition for Pagel in his defense bid.
Dean Richards, who battled down to the finals before yielding to Pagel a year ago, is rated highly. A sophomore, Richards is the son of the great Vincent Richards, a national tennis star of two decades ago.
Sophomores Harry Smith and Jim Rich were members of the freshman team last spring and have plenty of tennis experience behind them. Rich was a semi-finalist in the tournament last year.
Two freshmen, Jerry Budzelek and Chuck Vanoncini, round out the group of seeded competitors. Budzelek is the Indiana State Junior Champion and is the cream of the freshman tennis crop.
Vanoncini hails from Fresno, Calif., a hotbed for young tennis stars. Excelling in such fast company has given him the necessary experience for tourney and varsity play.
Samson has five monogram winners returning from last year’s squad. They are the only students that are not eligible to enter the tournament.
If the weatherman is agreeable, Samson hopes to have the tourney completed within two weeks.
Baseball Drills Open; Kline Eyes Schedule *
Fall practice for the Notre Dame baseball team began this week under the tutelage of Coach Jake Kline. This fall practice was imperative since the season opens earlier this year. Kline stressed the importance of these practices in picking his starting nine. He expressed his confidence that the competition for the five open positions leftlb by last year’s graduation will help in bringing out the ability in the squad.
Kline is anxious to get a longer look at last year’s freshmen who we-e picked as the most promising in Notre Dame history. Everyone on the squad will have the chance to prove himself a capable starter in heavy drills and intrasquad games.
Expectations are running high over the returning pitching staff of Angelo® Capozzi, Gerry Spaeth, Leo Linbeck, Dick Bunker, John Hammett, and Peter Delongchamps. Returning catchers are Dick Gaberik, Elmer Kohorst, Bob Aboczky, Dick Farrell, and Bob Petersch. At first base, veteran Mike Lesso will have Jim Cusack and Ed Brandt competing against him. Don Sniegowski, Tom Russell, and Tom Carroll will battle it out for the shortstop position. Probable candidates for the keystone sack are Ed Hurley, Joe Suezowski, and> Ed Allen. At third base, Jack Witucki, Bill Moran, Ernie Kletzly, and Ed Can-ideo will try to fill the shoes of last year’s captain, Hal Reilly.
In the outfield, veterans Jim Tuohy and Bill Teschke will try to clinch their positions of last year along with Jack Dumas, Dick Yaeger, Ed Dean, Bob Nowatowski, Steve Johnson, Charles Grace, and John Keller.	.
Attention Students
Williams furniture Store located at 755 South Michigan Street offers ‘high quality’ . . . sturdily constructed, roomy
CHESTS $1188
nowreduced to only 
CLOSING OUT $795
812.95 hardwood book cases at "
WILLIAM’S FURNITURE STORE
755 So. Michigan St. Block north Gilberts
Wheaton Provides Opposition Tomorrow For ND Thinclads
The Notre Dame Cross Country team, under the tutelage of Coach Alex Wilson, is holding workouts daily in preparation for their first meet with Wheaton College tomorrow. The meet will be held on the golf course at 11 a.m.
Hopes for a successful season aren't based on the return of lettermen Jim “Spike” Daly, Bill Squires, Al Schoenig, Dick O’Keefe, and John Linehan.
Sophomores John Michno, Al Porter, Neil Wallace, and Fletcher Murphy are counted on to bolster the Irish, who had a poor season last year.
Coach Wilson feels that the team will be improved this year, but that the late start of the school year will hurt in the early meets.
28
The Scholastic^
^Future Opponents Foil Dope Book Lost Week; ' Iowa Topples Michigan State in Big Game
I The Fighting Irish, fresh from theii-rousing 21-0 rout of Texas last Saturday, tangle with the Boilermakers from Purdue. tomorrow afternoon in the sta-' dium as they bid for win number two.
Coach Terry Brennan’s Irish, however, will have to stop the Purdue aerial bar-^•rage which wrecked a strong Missouri ^'team 31-0 last week in Lafayette.
Purdue, winning its first opening day game in eight years, called on the strong right arm of sophomore signal-caller I Leonard Dawson to lead the way. The six-foot Boilermaker, playing his first college game, completed 11 of 17 tosses for 185 yards and four touchdowns.
Dawson took to the airways after a scoreless first quarter, and threw three I ^touchdown passes before the intermis-| ^sion. End Bob Springer hauled in the I first pass and scampered ten yards to I score. Rex Brock and Bob Khoenle, an-•| other soph, caught the other two passes good for 42 and 27 yards.
Third quarter action saw Bill Mura-kowski, veteran Purdue fullback restrained by injuries most of last season, cut through the Missouri line for runs of 30 and 16 yards before blasting over from the Missouri one.
a Khoenle ended the Boilermaker scor-ing in the final frame when he caught up with another Dawson pass that traveled three yards for the score. Jim Whitmer, a returning Army veteran, set I up this last scoring thrust by snaring another Dawson aerial and going 37 yards.
Pittsburgh’s Panthers fell, 27-7, last Friday night in Los Angeles before Southern California, a later season Irish ^>,foe. Southern California’s sophomore halfback Jon Arnett scored three touch-I downs after the favored Trojans were held to a 7-7 tie for three periods. Arnett scored from the two-yard stripe after the Trojans had driven 42 yards in the second period.
Pittsburgh retaliated when Henry Ford lofted a pass to Dick Scherer who rambled 49 yards to paydirt.
Michigan State couldn’t hold off a pressing Iowa contingent and lost to l ^jjithe Hawks 14-10 in the last quarter, fl Second string Iowa halfback Eldean 'll Matheson set up the last-ditch Iowa at-B| tempt when he took in a State punt and II wiggled 52 yards to the Michigan three. [ State held its ground for three downs. ■ But Hawk quarterback Jerry Reichow • followed All-American guard Cal Jones I through a small opening to tally the winning touchdown.
Iowa got going in the first period and pushed the defending Rose Bowl champs
! $) October 1, 1954
all over the field in the first half. The Hawkeyes drove for 152 yards and nine first downs to score in the second quarter when halfback Earl Smith squirted by two tacklers and sped 33 yards for the touchdown.
The Spartans roared back after the
intermission. State moved 75 yards
in
FOREST EVASHEVSKI
Hawks do it Again—Spartans this time
nine plays to tally. Bert Zagers ripped off one 25-yard gain and LeRoy Bolden
AMERICA’S FINEST MOTOR COURT SYSTEM
TOURINNS MOTOR COURT
U.S. 22, One Mile West of Pennsylvania Turnpike, Pittsburgh Exit
Your Headquarters for the PITTSBURGH GAME
AAA & Duncan Hines Recommended . . .Member, Penna. Motel Assoc.
Beautiful Sleeping Rooms
Uniform Rates 100% Air-Conditioned
Year Around Operation
For reservations or Free Booklets write or call
TOURINNS, 3735 Wm. Penn Highway, U.S. 22, Turtle Creek, Penna., Phone Valley 4-1312, or TOURINNS, Ft. Wayne, Ind., Allentown, Pa., Wilmington, Del., Stevensville, Md., Kiptopeke (Cape Charles), Va., or 20 E. First St., Mount Vernon, N. Y., MO 4-7667
scored on a six yard slash off tackle.
Iowa began to shift into high gear after receiving the kickoff. But Bolden squelched the thrust when he recovered a Reichow fumble on the Iowa 38. Spartan fullback Gerry Planutis booted a 23-yard field goal after the Hawks held on.
State’s Don Kauth punted from his own 12 with a meager six minutes remaining. Matheson found open field to his left and headed for the touchdown, nlichigan State’s Carl Nystrom nabbed him from behind only three yards from the goal line.
The game was marred by ten fumbles, with Iowa losing possession three times and the Spartans four.
Coach Eddie Erdelatz’s Navy Middies romped over William & Mary 13-0 in their opening encounter. Shifty Bob Craig, a Navy punior, picked up 126 yards in ten carries and scored one touchdown and had another called back because of a teammate’s clipping foul after whizzing 56 yards in the fourth period.
Craig set up the first Navy tally in the first quarter by reeling off 21 yards during a 70-yard march. Jack Garrow finished with a three-yard plunge over the goal.
Chet Burchett, Navy sophomore, scored the final Middie TD when he hauled the leather on two carries from the W & M five-yard line.
Before the game had ended, Navy intercepted four passes, William & Mary (Continued on Page 33)
Restaurant—Cocktails Super Service Station TV in Lounge
29
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trettiewey JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
ND, St. Francis Start AB, Technical Course
TYPING DONE
NEAT REASONABLE
MISS AUDRE SNIDER 1038 Niles Ave.
(2 blocks cast of Michigan)
Ph. 2-3530 anytime after 4 p.m.
MITCHELL TRAVEL SERVICE
LASALLE HOTEL Airline reservations at No Extra Charge
Phone 1-1181 or 2-2253
Eves, and Sun.—2-0947
A cooperative liberal arts-engineering program, designed to provide students with the cultural background of a liberal education as well as technical engineering training has been instituted by St. Francis College, Loretto, Pa., and the University of Notre Dame. Under the cooperative program, students may receive both their bachelor of arts and engineering degrees within a period of five years.
Officials of the two schools explained that students may pursue a prescribed liberal arts course at St. Francis College for three years and then go to Notre Dame for two years’ training in their chosen field of engineering. These students will be awarded theii- A.B. degrees as soon as they have completed the liberal arts requirements at St. Francis and will receive their engineering degree from Notre Dame at the end of the five-year period.
In a joint statement, Rev. Gabriel J. Loncosky, T.O.R., dean of St. Francis College, and Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs at the University, cited the co-
operative program as “a very important development in Catholic technical education. Through this program we are giving engineering students a much stronger foundation in the humanities than in the past. The program will be mutually beneficial to St. Francis College and Notre Dame.”
Five other Catholic colleges have established the cooperative liberal arts^,’ engineering program in conjunction-' with Notre Dame. They are St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn.; St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa.; St. Joseph College, Collegeville, Ind.; Villa Madonna College, Covington, Ky.; and St. Benedict College, Atchison, Kan.
New Pangborn (Continued from Page 11) of the Advisory Council for Science and#^ Engineering at the University and a ; trustee of the Catholic University of j America. Through the Pangborn Foun- i dation, which the brothers created in 1945, numerous grants have been made i for charitable, religious, scientific and educational purposes.
WNDU.Program.Schedule
640 KILOCYCLES
(Subject to change without notice)
ROCCO'S
Pizza Our Specialty
SPAGHETTI RAVIOLI STEAKS and CHOPS enlarged for better service
537 North St. Louis
Five Minutes from the Campus
WEEKDAYS—
11:50 Sign on; Almanac
12:00 High Noon News
12:15 One Night Stand
12:30 12:30 Club
1:00 World Reporter
1:05 12:30 Club (cont.)
1:30	*
2:00 Spotlight and the Bandstand
2:30 Showtime
3.25 World Reporter
3:30 Afternoon Concert
4:30 Daily Express
5:00 Five Star Final
5:15 Sport Report
5:20 Relax!
6:00 Invitation to Music
7:00 Lucky Strike News
7:15	*
7:30 Penthouse Pops
8:30	*
9:00 Requestfully Yours
9:55 World Reporter
10:00	*
10:15 Lucky Strike Sports Final
10:30 Music in the Night
11:00 Sign Off
SATURDAY—
10:50 Sign on; Almanac
11:00 Masterworks from France
11:30 This Weekend
12:00 High Noon News
12:15 March Time
12:30 12:30 Club
l:30**FootbalI scoreboard
3:25 World Reporter
3:30, Football scoreboard
5:00 Five Star Final
5:15 Football scoreboard
6:00 Forward March
6:15 Here’s to Veterans
6:30 On the Town
7:00 Lucky Strike News
7:15 Let’s Go to Town
7:30 Saturdav Night Record Partv
9:00 Club frlO
9:55 World Reporter
10:00 Here’s June Christy
10:15 Sports Final
10:30 Music till Midnight
12:00 Sign Off
SUNDAY—
6:50 Sign on; Almanac
7:00 Wake Up to Music
8:00 Sunday Morning Around the World
8:15 Wake Up to Music
9:00 World Reporter
9:05 Dreambuster
11:00 Sizing Up Sports
11:15 Serenade in Blue
11:30 Dutch Light Music
11:45 Join the Navy
12:00 High Noon News
12:15 Music by Castle
1:30 The Pennsylvanians
2:00 Sunday Showcase
2:30 Norman Cloutier’s Memorable Music
3:00 World Reporter
3:05 Grand Opera
6:00 BBC Presents
7:30 Paris Star Time
8:00 Sunday Supplement
8:30 Letters from Home
9:00 Night Watchman
9:55 World Reporter
10:00 Singing Americans
10:15 Sports Final
10:30 Nothing
11:00 Sign Off
* PROGRAMS INDICATED WITH AN ASTERISK VARY FROM DAY TO DAY ACCORDING TO THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULE:
1:30 7:15 8:30
10:00
Monday
Music by Roth Monday Quarterback White Plume Fran Warren Signs
Tuesday Penthouse Party Student Senate Pops Concert Musical Guide
Wednesday
Music by Roth Let’s Get Going
White Plume Date in Hollywood
Thursday
Man Behind the Melody Knights in Review Science Students
Musical Guide
Friday
Music by Roth Guest Star White Plume Tex Beneke Show
** WNDU will sign off during home football games. Away games will be broadcast. Football Scoreboard will be replaced by Request Marathon.
After football season
30
The Scholastic^)
Graduate Record Tests *Will Be Given Nov. 20
The Graduate Record Examinations will be administered at examination centers throughout the country four times in the coming year, the Educational ' Testing Service announced recently.
During 1953-54 nearly 9,000 students took the examinations which are required of applicants for admission to a ^number of graduate schools.
w This fall candidates may take the exams on Saturday, Nov. 20. In 1955, the dates are Jan. 27, April 30, and July 9. The Testing Service advises each applicant to inquire of the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take and on which dates. Applicants for graduate school fellowships should ordinarily take the designated examinations in the fall administration.
The exams offered in these nationwide ^programs include a test of general scholastic ability and advanced level tests of achievement in 16 different subject matter fields.
Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which provides details of registration and administration as well as sample questions, may be obtained from college advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N. J., or P.O. Box — 27896, Los Angeles 27, Calif. A com-•pleted application must reach the service office at least 15 days before the date of the administration for which the candidate is applying.
University Gives 161 Degrees At August 3 Commencement
One hundred sixty-one graduate and ^undergraduate degrees were conferred upon Notre Dame students at the University’s summer commencement exercises, Aug. 3. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., acting president of the University, presided at the exercises held in the Navy Drill Hall. -
Approximately 120 degrees in graduate studies were awarded. Nearly half of the graduate students were nuns.
An honorary doctor of laws degree was conferred upon Frank J. Lewis, } Chicago industrialist and philanthropist. Lewis, a prominent manufacturer, has contributed generously to various Catholic educational and charitable institutions. He recently donated funds for the Notre Dame bus shelter. His son, Edward D. Lewis, received a bachelor’s degree from the College of Commerce at the exercises.
The Commencement address was delivered by Prof. John Broderick, assistant dean of the College of Law.
It’s the one shirt that says—“You’re really with it.” And that campus-classic . . . the Arrow button-down shirt ... is ready in a solid variety of styles like the traditional Gordon Dover. With all these perfect-fitting Arrow shirts, you’ll get “button-down correctness” . . . PLUS a lift that gives a man his individuality. $4.50 in white broadcloth; white oxford, $5.00—same price in color!
HITT
A/{R AirSHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR
Make GILBERTS your ARROW headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
October 1, 1954
31
The Capital's tallest building offers
"“l BEST VALUES in
CAIRO and
hotel
Running water, from $2.75 with bath from $4.00 DOUBLE ROOMS
Running watar, from $4.50 With bath from $6.00
Large, two-room suites: with bath, idea* for families of four people from $10.00 per day $2.00 per day for any additional person, up to 8 people
BEAUTIFUL DINING ROOM AND COFFEE SHOP MEALS AT POPULAR PRICES Liberal commission to Travel Agents on all
Washington
/ " Stop a th.	Bnnu-
SINGLE ROOMS
bookings.
Cairo
Q Street at 16fh, N.W.
JAMES C. VANSTORY, SR., MGR.

LEARN T8 BE A GIGIMNCEI at ARTHUR MURRAY'S
IT'S EASY AND COSTS
A good dancer is never dateless. So come to Arthur Murray’s and let one of his experts teach you the latest steps in just one lesson. The whole secret is “The Magic Step To Popularity”—it makes all dances easy. It’s lots of fun and surprisingly inexpensive. So come in or phone the studio today!
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. WAYNE Ph. 2-3339
SO LITTLE
ND Educator Proposes Study of AB Programs 0
A conference of Catholic college presidents and deans to evaluate the new liberal arts programs being offered in many institutions has been proposed by the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education at the University of Notre Dame. Writing in the fall education issue of Commonweal, Father Cunningham makes some specific proposals for placing the study of Christian^ culture at the heart of the Catholic college.
“Catholic colleges are free of a problem that is a major headache for practically all other institutions, namely, the lack of a basic philosophy of life on which to build a new program,” Father Cunningham writes. “In oui- philosophy of life and, therefore, of education, the ideal outcome is the Christian person.”
“Even though all Catholic colleges are^ animated by the same philosophy of education, it does not follow from this that all will offer the same program of studies,” Father Cunningham stresses. “Quite the contrary. Each institution must analyze the student body it is serving, the staff it has or is acquiring, and the facilities of plant and equipment it has at the disposal of this staff to put over the program it has decided upon. No two institutions will be duplicates.”
The Notre Dame educator, author of/h General Education and the Liberal College, concedes that liberal education can be “only an introduction to the problems of life.”
Fifty Members
(Continued from Page 15) announced include Rev. Leonard J. Banas, C.S.C., classics; Rev. Frederick Barr, C.S.C., religion; Rev. James C.a Buckley, C.S.C., philosophy; John P. Connors, III, sociology; Michael DiCicco, mechanical engineering; Rev. James P. Doll, C.S.C., LOBUND Institute; Edward L. Doyle, speech; Joseph Duffy, English; Rev. Thomas J. Engleton, C.S.C., history; John Fizer, modern languages; Rev. Michael Forrest, C.S.C., | religion; Charles B. Hands, English; Rev. Thomas P. Lockary, C.S.C., physics; Rev. Luke Malik, O.P., religion; and Paul J. McCarthy, mathematics.
Arnold F. McKee, economics; Rev. Eman McMullin, philosophy; Rev. Matthew M. Miceli, C.S.C., religion; Paul Morin, English; Rev. Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C., history; Elias Schwartz, English; Donald W. Seelye, finance; Fred W. Syberg, speech; Fred D. Shell-abarger, architecture; William J. Thompson, business administration; Vincent Traynelis, chemistry; and Lionel Wyld, English.
32
The Scholastic^
Series of Three Natural ^Law Talks Open Friday
Dr. A. P d’Entreves of Oxford Uni-
versity, England, will give a series of three lectures on the Natural Law Fri-
: day, Oct. 8, in the Law Auditorium, | according to Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr. ' The first of the lectures will be given at 9:30 a.m. and the others have been ten-
I
tatively scheduled for 11 a.m. and 4 p.m., Dean O’Meara said.
£ A group of 13 Natural Law scholars, representing a cross-section of the nation’s leading universities and law schools, have accepted invitations to attend the lectures which are open to faculty members and students.
Dr. d’Entreves is Serena Professor of Italian Studies at Oxford. He is also of Magdalen College, Oxford-, and of the Royal Historical Society. He received his Doctor of Laws degree at the University of Turin in 1922 and took his PhD. at Oxford ten years later. Dr. d’Entreves is the author of a number of books including Dante as a Political Thinker and Natural Laiu; An Introduction to Legal Philosophy. He has also edited the Selected Writings of Thomas Aquinas.
Theatre Opens (Continued from Page 14) f this n-ogram becomes available to students.
Father Harvey received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame and a Master’s degree in dramatics from Catholic University, Washington, D.C. For twelve years, he was associated with the popular Little Theatre movement, and was one of the founders of the famed Blackfriar’s Guild while continuing special studies at Catholic University. In 1942, ^he returned to Notre Dame and became I a member of the Congregation of Holy ! Cross. In September of this year he re-i placed Mr. John Tumpane as acting di-j rector of the University Theatre.
Father Harvey will be assisted by I Mr. Edward Boyle and Mr. Frederick Syburg, both associate professors in the Department of Speech. Mr. Boyle received his A.B. degree from Villanova I University and continued studies in dramatics at Catholic University, where £he □ecame associated with Father Harvey. In addition, he has done two years i1	of summer work, and has acted as assis-
! tant director for a television-movie company in charge of producing semidocumentary films for such well-known | TV shows as Omnibus and See It Noiv. f Mr. Syburg attended Brown Univer-। sity and received his A.B. degree from Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa. After graduate work at Marquette, he continued studies and received his M.S. in
drama from Catholic University. Before his arrival at Notre Dame, he taught speech and drama at Clarke College in Dubuque.
Future Opponents (Continued from Page 29) three, and Navy recovered five fumbles while losing two.
Pennsylvania’s Quakers gave new coach Steve Sebo, recruited from last year’s Michigan State coaching staff, nothing to cheer about as the Duke Blue Devils charged through a loose Penn line and galloped to a 52-0 win. It was the worst whipping Penn has experienced since Anny’s Blanchard-Davis machine gunned home a 61-0 verdict in 1945.
Long-legged Blue Devil Byron Aid-rich marched the Duke eleven 76 yards for the first score in the second period.
A crowd of 35,000 saw the Blue Devils push over two more touchdowns in the third period and five in the fourth to complete the rout.
Aldrich accounted foi- two touchdowns himself. He plunged over from the two-yard line after he had picked up 65 of the 76 yards in the second period and his second in the final period on a four-yard plunge.
North Carolina got off to a winning start last week when they smothered a rugged North Carolina State team 20-6. Quarterback Marshall Newman scored one touchdown and passed to halfback Connie Gravitte for another.
A shirt-sleeved crowd of 22,000 saw State move past the Tar Heels’ 30-yard line five times in the first half only to falter before reaching the goal in the Atlantic Conference game.
Notre Dame’s Dec. 4 rival, Southern Methodist, begins its season tomorrow afternoon with a contest with Georgia Tech, which was upset last week by Florida, 13-12.
RENT A
ROYAL TYPEWR/TER
FROM ROYAL
MS
BEIIVEir
Late models. Adjusted for new machine per-
Royal Typewriter Co. 309 E. Jefferson South Bend Phone No. 2-3336
formance. Immediate • nn >■ delivery. Special rats

Dr.R. W.TURBOW Optometrist
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS ----
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated ‘‘Bring in the Pieces”
--- EYES EXAMINED ------
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
Ford Foundation Grant
(Continued from Page 22) research in political science, history and philosophy,” Father Moore said.
Faculty members who will form the corps of the research staff and their specialties include Dr. Stephen Kertesz, the satellite states and Soviet diplomacy; Dr. Michael Pap, the internal problems of Russia and Eastern Europe; Dr. F. A. Hermens, government structures and problems; Dr. A. R. Caponigri and Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C., Marxist philosophy; Dr. Boleslaw Szczesniak, Russian history; and John Fizer, Slavic languages. Other staff members will be announced in the near future.
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
☆
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough” % Golden Brown Fried Chicken
Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.30
Joe Nabieht’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
33
S October 1, 1954
the beck ptye
By DON YECKEL
This summer saw 1,000 church representatives from 163 denominations in 48 countries meet in Evanston, Ill., for the Assembly of the World Council of Churches. Many of these people lived in private homes during their stay here, and had an opportunity to observe at first hand American family and spiritual life. Their impressions, as recorded in an AP news-release, were definitely favorable :
Visiting churchmen from around the world say America is a much more religious nation than they had realized. . . . “There is an impression abroad that America is not very religious,” she [Miss Dora David, a member of the Church of South India from Palacottam, South India] said, “But during my stay here, I’ve had just the opposite impression.” Other- church representatives, in interviews. Imd similar reactions: “I find the church here has an interestingly firm place in society,” said Karimuda Sitom-pul. a Batak churchman from Indonesia. “It has a place in the common mind of the people.”
These observations were especially interesting to me, because this summer I had an opportunity to do a little research of my own into the lives of Americans.
Part of it was done in a meatpacking plant in Rochester, N. Y. There I worked with men of many nationalities and races—Cuban, Puerta Rican, Negro, “native” Americans. 'It was a wonderful opportunity—not to study them as interesting sociological specimens, but just to get to know them, to find out what they thought about and to share their hopes and dreams and fears. It’s surprising how much you can find out just working with people.
The other part of my research was done with the cooperation of the United States Government at Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Va. There I was given the opportunity of living with 43 other young men of my own age, students in literally dozens of different colleges and universities. They covered the length and breadth of our country —from Texas to Nebraska and California to New York. To some extent I found out what they thought about too, and shared their hopes and dreams and fears.
Together these two groups were a -cross-section’ of America. They spanned
our economical, educational, racial, and religious differences. They encompassed all that makes the United States what it is.
I saw much that was encouraging. I agree with the Assembly representatives when they “ . . . spoke highly of American friendliness and courtesy, variously calling the people here ‘nice, warm, good, helpful, kind and generous.’ ” Most of the people I lived and worked with were this and more.
I saw much that was discouraging. These people were humane, but not human; goodly, but not Godly. There is a difference.
They were humane: they were “nice, warm, . . . kind and generous.” But they were not human, in the true sense of the word. For to be truly human implies purposeful action, action toward an end—not a sort of blind gesture of kindness. That is why Aristotle, in a purely natural way, begins his discussion of human good with a discussion of ends:
If, then, there is some end of the things we do, . . . will not the knowledge of it . . . have a great influence on life? Shall we not, like archers who have a mark to aim at, be more likely to hit upon what is right?
The kind of good we talk about today is not like this. About a year ago a large magazine published an article on the charitable work of various Masonic organizations. The article quoted a Shriner as saying, “Darned if I know why I do it.” The remark was supposed to be a tribute to the unselfishness of such work. Actually it might better have been a criticism of its emptiness.
They were goodly: they gave to the Community Chest (or will some day), contributed blood, tried to be friendly. But they were not Godly. As Bishop Sheen has said:
Man once lived in a three-dimensional universe with heaven above, hell below and the earth in the middle, as a place of pilgrimage or a moment of novitiate where the soul could say “aye” or “nay” to one of its eternal destinies. In this hierarchy of creation, each temporal act became fraught with eternal significance.
This is no more. We no longer say to God as St. Augustine did: “Thou hast
made us for Thyself, and our hearts are II restless until they rest in Thee.” In || other words, few of us — immigrant laborer and college student alike—are Christian. We live in a more or less one-dimensional world, where heaven above and hell below become remote dream-worlds.
And so I agree and I disagree with the Assembly representatives. The little slice of Christianity that I saw wasn’t really vital—yet. But the tremendous potentiality is there, if only it can be realized.
It is good that we should think of these things. We are lucky to be given the opportunity and the inspiration to do so. This summer, for perhaps the first time, I realized that what I had been reading about and discussing for three years was right there around me. Socrates’ Thrasymachus works in a meat packing plant and the rich young Jew who asked Christ what he must do to be saved goes to Penn State. This^ is a discovery all out of proportion— I so easy and yet so hard to make. I
That is why I have spoken of these I things that I thought about this summer I —not because these things are new or I startling revelations, but because I have I overlooked them for so long, as you I perhaps have. Perhaps these observa- I tions are grossly in error, but at least 1 they are observations. We must have I a starting point to get any place, and I the starting point must be in the world^l about us.	I
It is now that we are forming the bed- I rock upon which our understanding of I humanity and Christianity will grow I and deepen. Never again will we live I the funny kind of dual existence that I is college life—a life compounded of I Spillane and Schlitz, Augustine and Aristotle. It is on our summer vaca- I tion and in our residence hall that we I are drinking in the raw material that^ will be given form and meaning in the I classrooms. It took me three years to discover that talking to a Baptist from Georgia Tech or an immigrant laborer I from Cuba are experiences quite relevant to the reading of Plato.
And for the freshmen especially, for this is primarily your issue of the Scholastic: use the precious right that is yours, and use it to the fullest. Don’t compartmentalize your life and make a false distinction between whatiT) you learn in the classroom and what you learn outside it. The two are one. The intuitions of your discussions, your books, and your professors are empty if they have no experience to enrichen them, and the activities of the world about you are meaningless if you cannot enlighten them with the intuitions of the classroom.
College is a precious right. It is also a privilege, a precious privilege.
34
The Scholastic^)
bp
Wl&v.
You’ll always look your best in HAGGAR slacks
Choose Your Fall Slacks from the beautiful selection of Haggar Flannels, Gabardines and many other fine fabrics ... at leading stores in South Bend and in your home town.
MORE MEN WEAR HAGGAR SLACKS THAN ANY OTHER KIND

r
;r
1’
JACK WEBB & BEN ALEXANDER
You know them best as Sgt. Joe Friday and Officer Frank Smith — stars of Chesterfield’s award winning “Dragnet” on TV and radio. They’re now in movies too . . . Warner Bros, great new picture “Dragnet”.
I
7.
MAtt*r t Z *. V _
av. a-‘ 5s Ip'
KING
,'O J nr
UIS^TTt
WESS

2^4 PAIRi
WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield King Size at the New Low Price and Chesterfield Regular
You’ll like Chesterfield regular —as Jack Webb does — or king-size, like Ben Alexander. Either way, you get the same satisfying mildness, the same wonderful taste, the same refreshing smoke every time. And you get the cigarette proved highest in quality — low in nicotine.
So change to Chesterfield. Enjoy America’s favorite two-way cigarette. They satisfy millions — they’ll satisfy you.
A&TTE5

TODAY'S CHESTERFIELD IS THE BEST CIGARETTE EVER MADE
CHESTERHE1D
BESTfOHVW

©Liggett & ^Myers Tobacco Co.