LISTEN TO THIS!"
**The things I find myself buying! . . .
"Enough paper clips in a year to fill a freight car ... telephone poles by the hundreds of thousands . . . tons and tons and tons of paper for your telephone directories . . .
“You see, I’m the ‘shopper’ for the country’s Bell Telephone companies. I’m a careful buyer...study markets all over the world... I get the best and know how to save by buying in large quantities from all sections of the country.
"That’s one reason why our nation’s telephone service is the world’s most economical as well as the world’s best.
* ‘I’m the manufacturer for the Bell System, too. I distribute the telephone apparatus I make, and all manner of supplies that I buy, to the telephone companies. To top it off, I install central office equipment.
"Remember my name . .1 . It’s Western Electric.’*
Western Electric SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM
(Unsigned letters will not be printed. The name, however, will be withheld upon request).
Sir:	.
While millions of people are starving, we, who during the War broadcast daily appeals for their support to the then conquered peoples and who pledged ourselves to uphold for the world the principle of “freedom from want,” waste food wantonly; so that if the dying could witness this contempt for Man, they would be made to wonder, in their anger, how we will escape the grinding jaws of hell. Europe is in a worse economic plight under allied control than it might have been if the Nazis had won their war. It is enough that the democracies have retracted their promises and so plunged the continent into a tenth-circle of hell. Catholics, at least, should consider their responsibility before God.
As for Notre Dame, herself, in order to conserve food in the Dining halls, I suggest that at the noon meal (when most of the waste takes place) students be allowed to request of the servinggirls that nothing be put on their plates which they know they will not eat. Especially in regard to vegetables, the girls might well ask each student whether or not he wants a serving. The saving in food should be considerable, at the very least a thousand pounds a week. The actual food saved could be sent regularly as a gift from Notre Dame to various universities abroad, or the money saved could be used to buy food to export in this manner. Such an enterprise would not only be right action, but would express to the all-but-despairing students of Roman Europe our solidarity in Christ.
-	A Veteran.
April 13, 1946 Dear Sir:
In the issue of April 12, you published, by Clarence Zimmer, a consensus of opinion . regarding peacetime military training. It would seem to us that those consulted either had not seen military service, or if they had they were in the minority.. We find your poll very unrepresentative. Veterans, or those who appreciate what was done in their interest during the war years, would not display such gross selfishness as evidenced by this article.
One youth suffering from delayed adolesence stated that, “Although a year of training wouldn’t hurt anyone, that one year would disrupt one’s education
(Continued on page 28)
2
^he ZNotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
By BILL BRAUN and FRANK McCARTHY
JOHN DEFANT, Editor
JACK HUMMEL -PAUL WEYRAUCH GEORGE COLLINS JOHNNY WALKER JOE CHENEY
Managing Editor Sports Editor Navy Editor Feature Editor News Editor
COLUMNISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
SAM SMITH ----- The Crow's Nest BILL BRAUN, FRANK McCARTHY .	. The Green Banner
ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	-	- Soph Soap
JERRY OLWELL -	-	-	_ Campus Clubs
¥ '
PHOTOGRAPHY
JIM FERSTEL _	_	_ Photographic Editor
AL KUNTZ	CHRISTY WALSH
FRANK CACCIAPAGLIA (Cover by John E. Swain)
CONTRIBUTORS
JACK SULLIVAN BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM MICHAEL GREENE BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI BILL LEAVEY ROBERT J. LEANDER JACK MINZING JOHN A. O'CONNOR
JAMES JOHN JIM REGAN JOHN THOMAS DICK DEITZ JIM CLEMENS PETE BROWN JIM MALER MEL GODDARD DICK DOWDLE CLARENCE ZIMMER LEONARD DENTE JOE WILCOX
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ARTHUR COUGHLAN _	-	-	- Circulation Manager
M. E. VARGA _	-	-	_	_	-	- Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles— San Francisco. THE SCHODAST1C is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame. Indiana.
4
It was suggested in a letter to the Scholastic, printed in our last issue, that the Student Council sponsor more campus activities . . . we have discussed this lack of campus social life with many of the students . . . the popular idea is this. . . . Once a week the Student Council should sponsor a campus dance to be held preferably in the Rockne Memorial^. . . the fee should be kept at a minimum of about twenty-five cents per person . . . for the benefit of stags, the girls from the Co-Hop Org. could be invited free of charge. . . . Let’s talk it up fellows. . . .
While we were home for the Easter Holiday . . . singular that is . . . we had a chance to glance through a copy of Pravda, and noticed that Joe Stalin predicts a good season for the Irish Gridders . . . now that the draft is just about over, it is rumored that the ARMY’S scouts, armed with carpet bags filled with Confederate money, are touring the South in search' of new material . . . once again Davis is president . . . and our football team’s current slogan seems to be, “Burn the Bridge” . . . last Wednesday Father Burke asked Shoulders Janicello if he thought there was going to be a scrimmage that day. ... “I think so, Father,” he replied . . . “We were blessed at noon.” . . .
The lyrics, “Putsi-Putsi,” featured in the current song hit, The Cement Mixers’ Blues, has a little different meaning out on the golf course ... in fact it’s so crowded on the back nine that Bill Phelan and Ed Egan had to stand in line to replace their divots last week . . . you know what a divot is ... a thud in the mud by a dud . . . out on the ball diamond they’re asking Bill Hassett if Tom Sheehan is really his barber or if that is just a short CUT to something better. . . .
The Intra-Murder Base Ball game between St. Ed’s and Badin turned into a GLASS-A contest and ended with a bang when a long low liner eclipsed a window in the student infirmary galley, and landed in a copper full of soup. Pudgy Jack Galloway is having a rough time as chairman of the Affairs Committee for the Junior Prom ... oh well.. . what’s one affair more or less these days. . . . Lou Tondreau has been working overtime at his new job . . . he is acting as blind date coordinator for the St. Mary’s Sophomore Cotillion. . . .
The cut-throat challenge system incorporated by the tennis team usually results in a daily quiz . . . the most asked question is, “Who beat Joe Brown today?” . . . the athletic department has developed a new synthetic shaving lotion for its tough bearded athletes . . . it’s called Scannell No. 5. . . . Judy, prima donna waitress at the Huddle, has invited many inquiries as to where and how she acquired the black and blue bruise on her jaw . . . the truth leaked out that it was incurred while she was standing too close to the cash register when the drawer sprung open. . . . After completing a rugged exam in Spanish class, Paul Hussar went home and dashed off a little epic called, The Lost Semester . . . and then there was the fellow who went over to the Biology Building to get a bottle of LOBUND to take home for his dog's fleas. . . .
❖
A while back a visitor asked where he (Turn to page 31)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 87, NO. 5
APRIL 26, 1946
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
National Hook-up on Universal N.D. Night
Prof. Stritch to Head Journalism Department
Mr. Thomas J. Stritch, of Nashville, Tenn., former Associate Professor of English at the University, has been appointed Head of the Department of Journalism at Notre Dame effective next September, it was announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University.
Professor Stritch succeeds the late Dr. John M. Cooney who had been head of the Department since 1913 before his death on October 16, 1945.
In announcing Professor Stritch’s appointment, Father O’Donnell said: “It is * a pleasure to announce that I have appointed Professor Thomas J. Stritch as Head of the Department of Journalism at Notre Dame, effective with the semester starting next September.
“Professor Stritch is well qualified by training and experience to direct the program of the Department in the spirit and tradition of the late, beloved Dr. John M. Cooney whose fidelity and devotion to Notre Dame will always be a cherished memory at the University.”
Professor Stritch received a Bachelor of Alls degree from Notre Dame in 1934 and a Master of Arts degree from the University in 1935. During his journalistic career, he served on the news staff of the Dayton Journal, the Nashville Banner and the South Bend Tribune. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1935 and entered the Navy as a Lieutenant in 1942.
During World War II, Professor Stritch served at various times as Executive Officer of the Public Relations Office, Ninth Naval District; Commander of various landing craft, participating in invasions of Sicily and Salerno; and as Training Officer, U.S. Amphibious Forces, Eighth Fleet; and Commanding Officer, Navy V-12 unit at both Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis., and the University of Richmond, Va.
K of C Formal Ball to be Held May 24
With the appointment of Ralph Hayman as general chairman for the Knights of Columbus Formal Ball, it was announced by Grand Knight Robert Sullivan that the dance will be held on the 24th of May at the Indiana Club. Further committees will be appointed during the coming weeks to assist in making this affair the social success that .it has constantly been since its inauguration on the Notre Dame campus.
The dance will be a closed affair in the sense that the bids will be restricted to 2C0 and that the members of the local council will receive first preference in the purchase of the tickets. The price of the bids has not been definitely settled but they will be either three or four dollars.
Negotiations for a band are now under way and the orchestra selected as well as the theme of the dance will be released at a later date. Present plans call for nine to one o’clock dancing with two o’clock permissions being granted to those who obtain bids.
STUDENT ARMY TRIP? WE HOPE!
As the Scholastic was going to press it was announced by SAC President Hayman that lames Coleman and Fred Hoover would head a council committee to confer with University officials and investigate the possibilities of a student body delegation accompanying the team to New York next November. As was customary in the past, the student body was permitted one trip and it is hoped that with many wartime travel restrictions lifted the University will put their seal of approval on the trip so that the student body may give their support to the team.
Honoring the memory of 324 Notre Dame men who died for their country in World War II, more than 25,000 alumni and former students of the University will meet in scores of communities throughout the United States in the 23rd annual obseiwance of Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 29.
Universal Notre Dame Night this year also will be dedicated to Notre Dame’s leadership in religion and citizenship to help establish and maintain peace. During the war years Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated, but with this year the unique celebration will be reestablished on a national basis.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will greet the 100 Notre Dame alumni clubs over a coast-to-coast network of the Mutual Broadcasting System, starting at 11:15 Eastern Standard Daylight Time, Monday, April 29, from New York City. Representative Clare Booth Luce will speak on the same broadcast. Both will be guests of the Notre Dame Club of New York.
In Washington, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will be the principal speaker at a dinner to be attended by Secretary of the Treasury Vinson, Attorney-General Clark, and many United States Senators and Representatives and other prominent government officials.
More than 9,900 Notre Dame men served in the United States Armed Forces in World War II. Besides the 324 who died, over 1,200 others were wounded, according to incomplete alumni records.
The Real Notre Dame
Millions of people in the United States are ardent supporters. of Notre Dame . football teams. But few of them know the real Notre Dame; the Notre Dame behind the headlines; the Notre Dame which, from a humble beginning 104 years ago in the Indiana wilderness, has flourished through the years since then,
(Continued on page 32)
5
Hayman, Huling and Cheney Elected
Student Activities Council Officers
Ralph W. Hayman, senior pre-law student from Philadelphia, Pa., was elected President of the Notre Dame Student Activities Council for the Spring semester as the council convened for its recent organizational meeting. Elected to serve with Hayman as Vice-president was Harold E. Huling, NROTC, of Chillicothe, Ohio, senior in the College of Engineering and Regimental Commander of the Naval unit on campus; and as Secretary-treasurer, Joseph M. Cheney, junior journalism student from Schuylerville, New York.
Three men were elected to serve with the three officers as members of the executive council of the student governing body. They are: Brendan A. O’Grady, of New York City, senior in the College of Liberal Arts, who will serve as Senior class member on the executive council; Richard A. Stack, of Mattituck, New York, Junior in the College of Commerce, who will represent the Junior class on the executive council; and Steven J. Val-etich, Farrell, Pa., Sophomore in the College of Liberal Arts, Sophomore member on the executive council.
The Council began immediately to lay plans for the coming semester and it is hoped that many activities that became war-time casualties will again be revived, and that athletic, social, and other
miscellaneous functions which pertain to the general student welfare will soon become realities. In keeping with this policy the council approved the proposal that a Council sponsored Field Day again be backed. James Sullivan and John Cauley were appointed by the council president to head the committee in charge of the event. A tentative date has been decided upon and is now pending the approval of University officials.
The Student Activities Council was born at Notre Dame after World War I. Its purpose was to provide an intermediary between the administration and the student body. From a humble and inconspicuous beginning, the SAC rose rapidly. By 1921 a workable organization had been evolved and established, and Notre Dame was represented in an intercollegiate conference of student governing bodies field in Chicago. Since then, the council has been an integral part of University life and has done untold good in promoting student interests. •
Today, under the guidance of Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C. S. C., Faculty Moderator of the council, it is on the crest of a new horizon of activity. With our present enrollment of approximately 3,500 men, the Student Council has been rejuvenated with new ideas of what the council should stand for in the eyes of
the students. Feeling that, as the channel of communication between the student body and the University authorities, the students needed a central agency where they could offer suggestions and also have a safety valve to exhaust their “gripes,” the SAC, through the generosity of Father Furstoss have acquired an office in Badin Hall. It is the hope of the council to crystallize and make effective the opinions of the student body by bringing them to the attention of the University administration.
If it be recognized that the planning of broad policies and legislating on student conduct in general rests with the University officials, and that cooperation on the part of the Student Council.is both advisable and helpful in carrying out these regulations, then the Student Council will be what it should be — a powerful good in all departments of student life and beyond this, a means of educating the student to govern himself and submitting to democratic authority.
The membership of the council this semester will consist of twenty-one men, representing colleges, halls, and the council of last semester. The names of the men in addition to the aforementioned are as follows: Paul Abraham, James Wise, Arthur Ulrich, Thomas McMahon, . George Kierman, Nicholas Willett, Jerry Feeney, James McCarthy, James Cole- , man, John Vaughn, John Cauley, James Sullivan, Fred Hoover, Robert Brown, and Clare Leser, NROTC.
New officers of the S.A.C. meet with Father O'Donnell. Seated with Father O'Donnell. Ralph W. Hayman, Jr., President. Standing, Joseph M. Cheney, Secretary-treasurer; Father Furstoss. Faculty Moderator; and Harold E. Huling. Vice-president.
Co-Hop Girls1 Club to Sponsor Dances
The Co-Hop Organization of South Bend, a young women’s club that advertises under the banner of friendship, fervor and youth, will sponsor four dances between now and the time that the Spring semester is dismissed.
The first of this series comes close on the heels of the Junior Prom so that all the dancers who cannot get to the Prom, for one reason or another, will have the opportunity to unleash their feet-shuf-fling abilities at the Progress Club on May 4.
The second event takes place at the same location exactly one week later, on May 11. Then the boards at the Progress Club will get a well-deserved rest as the next dance, on June 15, will be held at the Indiana Club. Since the criminals always return to the scene of their crime, the dancers will return to the Progress Club for the last dance of the semester on June 22.
All Notre Dame students are cordially invited by the girls of the Co-Hop Organization to attend these dances. Take it from there!
6
Glee Club to Sing
With S. B. Symphony
The Notre Dame glee club will join the South Bend Symphony orchestra on May 3 in a performance of “The Testament of Freedom,” by Randall Thompson, at the orchestra’s final concert of the season. It will be given at 8:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame drill hall with Ed-wyn Hames conducting. Witold Malcu-zynski, famed Polish pianist and pupil of Paderewski, will be the soloist with the orchestra. Mr. Malcuzynski, world-recognized interpreter of Chopin, and considered to be the successor of Paderewski in Polish music circles, made his debut in Carnegie Hall, New York City, four years ago.
Mr. Thompson, director of music at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, composed the score for this choral work as a tribute to Thomas Jefferson, who founded the institution, on the 200th anniversary of his birth. It was first performed by the* university glee club on the Charlottesville campus on April 13, 1943, and was broadcast on a coast to coast network.
For his text Mr. Thompson selected four passages on the subject of freedom from the writings of Jefferson.
Single admission ticket will be available for the concert, and will go on sale this week at music stores.
1,000 Male Singers To Present Concert
More than 1,000 men singers, members of 27 male choruses from Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin, are registered to participate in a victory sing to be staged for the public at 8 p.m., May 18, in the Navy drill hall.
Sponsored locally by the Studebaker, male chorus, the concert is an activity of the Midwest conference, Associated Male Choruses of America. Other registrations from individual choruses in the four states are expected this week.
This huge ensemble will present a program of 16 favorite male chorus selections, which have been rehearsed by each of the member groups. A single joint rehearsal, under director of conductors chosen from each of the four states, will be held in the drill hall the afternoon of the concert.
The Student Activities Council has installed a suggestion box at the entrance to their newly acquired office in Badin Hall. All suggestions and criticisms pertaining to problems peculiar to the general student welfare will be welcomed.
N. F. C. C. S. PREPARES FOR REGIONAL CONFERENCE IN GRAND RAPIDS MAY 4
A meeting of the Notre Dame delegates to the Regional Congress of N. F. C. C. S. to be held at Grand Rapids, Mich., next Saturday will be held in room 108 of the Law Building, Sunday, April 28. Crystallization of the plans of the delegation will take place, culminating more than a month of preparation for the two-day conference.
Heading the Notre Dame delegation will be the Commission on Veterans Affairs and the Commission for Catholic Action. These groups are under the direction of Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., chaplain of the Vets Club at Notre Dame, and Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., director of C.A. at the University. Thomas McCaffery is the student leader of the Vets N.F.C.C.S. group and Pat O’Meara is heading the C.A. group.
Delegates have been assigned to the following commissions in the N.F.C.C.S. framework: Christian Doctrine and Mission Study, International Relations and Inter-American Action, Family and Rural Life, Liturgy, Interracial Affairs, Press, and the commissions on Vets and Catholic Action Activity.
The Congress is to be held on the campus of Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, and will open Saturday, May 4, with a general session at 2:00 p.m. with the “Kick-off” address being delivered by Dr. George McMorrow of the philosophy department at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo. Dr. McMorrow is a graduate of Notre Dame and will use the Liturgy Study activities as the theme of his speech.
Following the opening general session the congress will break up into sectional meetings of the different commissions and special interest groups. These meetings will all use the general theme of the congress as the basis for their discussions. The theme adopted for the congress is “The Spiritual Rehabilitation of the Nation.”
At five o’clock the Fort Wayne Regional Council will meet to elect officers and lay plans for regional activity next year. Present officers in the region are: Frank Grimaldi of Notre Dame, president; Virginia Namee of Nazareth, vicepresident; Rosemary Fowle of Aquinas, recording secretary; and Patricia Burns of St. Mary’s, corresponding secretary.
Dinner will be seiwed to all congress delegates at six o’clock, and open house on the Aquinas campus will be held Saturday evening.
After Mass and breakfast Sunday morning, May 5, the congress will, meet in general session and the Veterans Af
fairs Commission from Notre Dame will present papers and introduce topics of discussion relative to the role of the veteran in the spiritual rehabilitation of the nation. Following the vets program will be the closing portion of the congress at which the sectional meetings will make reports of conclusions reached at their panel discussions.
The total delegation from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s is expected to number about 60 and all are going on chartered busses. The trip will start early Saturday morning and the students will re- • turn Sunday afternoon.
The Rev. William Cuningham, C.S.C., who serves as chaplain of the Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, has been most influential in the planning of the regional congress. Until this spring his activity in N.F.C.C.S. had been mainly in the Commission on Inter-American Action which operates in the “Chicago Area” Region, including both the Chicago and the Fort Wayne Region of which Notre Dame is a member.
St. Joseph N. D. Club
To Honor 13 War Dead
Honoring the memory of the 13 Notre Dame men from this vicinity who died in World War II, the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley will commemorate Universal Notre Dame Night, with a smoker in the Indiana club, it Was announced by Eugene L. O’Brien, club president.
Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law, will preside at the local celebration. Mayor F. Kenneth Dempsey will present greetings from the people of South Bend, and Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, will respond for the University.
Among honored guests will be Notre Dame faculty members who have rendered outstanding service to the United States government during the war in many different fields. Entertainment will be provided by the Notre Dame Glee club and by several student vaudeville acts.
Francis Jones is general chairman of the affair.
Dr. Menger Speaks
Dr. Karl Menger, head of the Mathematics Department, presented a paper at the meeting of the Association for Symbolic Logic in New York City recently.
7
Lunceford’s Band to Make Rhythm Their Business for Junior Prom
BY JACK MILES	.
The fact that Jimmie Lunceford and his famous orchestra are to furnish romantic rhythms foi" the Junior Prom is no longer news. The contracting of Lunceford’s band for the May 3rd date has been a topic of discussion for 10 days now. If you don’t know about it, then you may consider yourself very much unversed in Notre Dame doings.
The fact that Jimmie Lunceford has been associated with such “hot” numbers as “Whatcha Know, Joe?” “Rhythm is Our Business,” “For Dancing Only,” “’Tain’t What You Do,” “Well, All Right, Then,” “Wham,” and “The Honey Dripper,” has led to much conjecture on campus as to the tempo of the music for the night. Lunceford’s record seems to indicate that he plays pretty good “slow stuff,” for he has played at the University of Texas 11 times; at Cornell six times; and at Duke University on five occasions. Such outstanding colleges as Yale, Northwestern, Kentucky, Purdue, Chicago, Dartmouth, Harvard, North Carolina, Michigan, Kansas and others have engaged his talents at various times. This is Notre Dame’s first look at Jimmie Lunceford, and he’ll undoubtedly give everyone a good look and extremely pleasant listening.
Much of Lunceford’s fame has come as a result of his fine recordings for Decca. Such numbers as “Blues in. the Night,” “Rhythm is Our Business,” and “The ■ Honey Dripper” sent the music critics into their dictionaries in search of superlatives to describe the ensemble work
of Lunceford’s side-men. “Rhythm is Our Business,” incidentally, has become the band’s tagline, for it fits the Lunceford music to a “T.”
His style of music is distinctly recognizable, naturally, with the accent on ensemble, and critics and trade paper writers have discovered a well marked trend among other dance bands toward the Lunceford style. Sonny Dunham, Charlie Spivak, Sam Donohue, and others frankly admit that they have been influenced by Lunceford.
Lunceford received his first musical education under the instruction of James W. Whiteman, father of the Dean of Modern American Music, Paul Whiteman. This instruction was received in Denver, Colo., where his boyhood days were spent. Later, when his parents moved to Ohio, Jimmie attended Fisk University in Nashville, Tenn, where he won foui’ letters in athletics and dabbled a bit with music. After receiving his degree from Fisk, Jimmie got a job teaching English at Manassa, Tenn., high school. While there, he organized a school orchestra, and eventually got a nine-piece band together which he liked. Scon, though, the band was ready to graduate, but Jimmie persuaded them to go to Fisk, which they did. This enabled Jimmie to secure engagements for them, and they started together in 1927. Today, in the days of “Band-hopping,” five members of the original group are still with Jimmie.
The real break for the band came in 1934, when they were called upon to fill in for Cab Calloway at New York’s famed Cotton Club while Calloway was on tour. Lunceford and his boys were an immediate sensation. They have risen steadily ever since.
That’s the story, then. Music by Jimmie Lunceford, May 3, 1946. Place — Rockne Memorial. Two o’clock permissions from Friday morning to Sunday night. Tea dance at the Indiana Club on Saturday afternoon. One o’clock permissions Saturday. What more do you want? (Ed. note: A girl would probably come in handy.)
The price of bids has been established at $7.00. This will cover the cost of the Prom on Friday night and the tea dance the following afternoon. That seven bucks opens the door to a weekend that you won’t want to miss, and which you’ll never forget.
Famed Boys Choir at
Notre Dame Tonight
The Apollo Boys Choir of Dallas, Texas, will be presented in concert tonight at 8:15 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall on the Notre Dame campus by the South Bend Civic Music Association in cooperation with the University. This choir is an American version of the Vienna Boys Choir, which won world-wide fame before the war, and the only one prepared to replace it.	.
The choir was organized in 1935 by its director, Coleman Cooper. It is composed of 23 talented young boys between the ages of 9 and 14. They were chosen through competitive auditions and currently include representatives from nine different states. The organization is nondenominational, and therefore, open to any boy whose musical and academic ability can meet requirements.
During the past six years, the Choir has made over 400 appearances, including two performances for the late President and Mrs. Roosevelt; two recitals in New York’s Town Hall; two special appearances at the National Art Gallery in Washington; participation in the Bach Festival at Winter Park, Florida; several concerts with symphony orchestras; and broadcasts over all the major networks.
The boys are almost as famous for their personal charm as for their ethereal singing. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt said of these boys after their first appearance at the White House “. . . They are natural little boys, characterized by beautiful manners and a quick, apt response. They appear at ease and meet people and situations with grace and candor. They know hard work and the joy of accomplishment. They are justly proud.”
Spanish Profs to Meet
at Notre Dame May 4th
The University will be host to the Indiana Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese which will hold its annual meeting on the Notre Dame campus on Saturday, May 4.
Attending the meeting will be teachers of Spanish and Portuguese in colleges, universities and high schools from all sections of Indiana. Teachers need not be members of the Association in order to attend, according to Walter Langford, professor of Spanish at Notre Dame, who is serving as chairman of arrangements for the meeting.
8
BROTHER BONIFACE TO EXHIBIT VESTMENTS IN CHURCH SACRISTY
On Sunday afternoon, April 28, Brother Boniface will put on public exhibition in the sacristy of Sacred Heart Church precious vestments and rare treasures accumulated from various sources since the foundation of the church.
Among noteworthy items will be the Resurrection c h a s u b l,e, used only on Easter Sunday and Ascension Thursday, and which while on exhibition at the St. Louis World’s Fair in 1904 was valued at $35,000. It was presented to the University by the late Professor- James Edwards. Another rare vestment is the fabulous Crucifixion chasuble, embroidered by French nuns in an orphanage in Shanghai and decorated with sea coral and seed pearls. Today it is reputed to be priceless. Visitors will certainly want to see the full pontifical mass set pre- . sented to the University by Napoleon III, which has a complement of seven vesper copes of the finest spun gold overlaid with heavy gold tambour embroidery. Not to be overlooked is the personal chasuble of Fr. Marquette, S.J., the famous missionary. It was made in 1618. It came to Notre Dame from the Mission of St. Ignace in Upper Michigan.
Of considerable interest in the exhibit will be the gothic man-size crucifix of solid bronze presented by Napoleon III of France, and a three and a half-foot monstrance given in the name of the Prince Imperial. These gifts were accompanied by the now legendary coronation
crown of Empress Eugenie and which unfortunately has disappeared. A monstrous gold ciborium -with cloisonne ornamentation will also be put on exhibition. Its principal interest lies in the fact that it marks the foundation date of the Priest’s Eucharistic League and likewise commemorates the first Eucharistic Congress in the United States, which took place here at Notre Dame.
Notre Dame is also the proud possessor of the papal tiara of Pope Pius IX, perhaps the only one of its kind in the country, which Father Sorin brought from Rome as a personal gift. Among the various liturgical effects willed to Notre Dame by churchmen of the past is the humble wood crozier of Bishop Carroll, first bishop of Baltimore.
Many of the gifts, notably those from the French court, came through the personal solicitation of the Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C.S.C. He was one of the seven army chaplains from Notre Dame who served in the Civil War. A stately, statuesque figure, French born, his proudest boast, after his priesthood, was his American citizenship. He often told with obvious relish that it was this claim which awed the guards when he presented himself at the Imperial Court.
In 1866 he was a member of the ad-administration on the council of Father Corby, who was then president of the University. He commissioned Father Car-riei- to go to Europe to solicit gifts for the struggling school. Father Carrier
met his best patronage in France. After seven months he was able to send to Notre Dame more than 20 crates of contributions for the library then situated in the Main Building, the science and natural history departments, besides those destined for the enrichment of the church.
At the same time he supervised the making of a crown for which he furnished the design and for which Mother Angela, Mother General of the Sisters of Holy Cross, collected funds among her friends and from students at St. Mary’s. This crown which now forms part of the collection in the back sacristy of the church, is wrought of solid silver and fitted with semi-precious stones. It was oi-iginally intended to surmount the statue on the dome but this plan proved impracticable and instead it was suspended above the statue in the niche above the Bernini altar in the back of the church. It was removed during the renovation of the church in 1933. The donors have their names engraved on the fifteen cloisonne enamel medallions which stud the base of the crown and represent the various mysteries of the rosary. In 1886 thieves broke into the church and stole this crown along with the one donated by Empress Eugenie. -Both were eventually recovered but very badly battered. The newer pieces represent attempts at repair.
Dr. Guth to Speak
Dr. E. Guth will give a talk on “Reinforcement of Rubber by Carbon Black” on May 1st at the Godfrey L. Cabot Polymer Seminal- in Cambridge, Mass.
■ The Knights of Columbus vaudeville show played to packed houses for two performances in Washington Hall. Jack Milder, of Riverdale. Ill., pulled down the $50 first prize with his representative piano playing. Chicagoan Chuck Perrin's mimicry and comedy took second place, and Pat Sullivan, singer, placed third. Contest judges were Earl Reddin, Playland Park owner: Billy Richardson, Palace Theatre manager; and Greg Martin, of South Bend. —Photos by Cacciapaglia.
9
38 Candidates Receive ;
Knights' First Degree
Thirty-eight candidates were initiated into the first degree of the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus at the biggest campus ceremony of its kind to be held in the last four years. Handling the degree initiation was the Mishawaka degree team assisted by the officers of the University council.
Since this large initiation brings to over 80 the number of men received into the council during the year, it is fairly certain that the coveted goal of the Honorary Century club will soon be attained. The next first degree will be held June 4 at which time it is expected that the total of over 100 new members will be realized. Grand Knight Robert Sullivan, in urging the local knights to expand the present membership drive, also announced that a second and third degree initiation will be given on June 9 in cooperation with the Mishawaka council. At that time, a nationally known speaker will address the class during the banquet which is slated to follow the initiation.
Further announcements were made following the granting of the first degree concerning the revival of the K. of C. News, which will be a bi-weekly publication concerned with news of the local council on and around the campus. In order not to conflict with the Bengal Bouts which are being staged this year
K. of C. First Degree Team
Father O'Donnell to Give Series of Five Talks Over Catholic Hour
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will give a series of five talks over the Catholic Hour, starting April 28, it has been announced by the National Council of Catholic Men, which sponsors the Catholic Hour in cooperation with the National Broadcasting Company.
The Catholic Hour is broadcast at 6 P.M., Eastern Time, every Sunday, over the N.B.C. Network.
Father O’Donnell, who is a noted orator, will speak on the general subject of “Hail Holy Queen!” The individual titles of his talks will be: April 28—“Our Country’s Queen;” May 5—“The Merciful Mother;” May 12—“Less Sun Worship;” May 19—“Why the Madonna;” and May 26—“All Through the Years.”
Nationally known as an educator and administrator, Father O’Donnell has been intimately connected with Notre Dame for more than thirty years. He has been President of Notre Dame, which
by the knights, the next council meeting will be held on May 7.
Including a-good number of prominent figures in school activities, the 38 men taken into the council were able to witness a command performance given by the three winners of the recent K. of C. Vaudeville show.—James Sullivan
is conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross, since 1940, having succeeded the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Bishop of Buffalo, in that office. Prior to that, Father O’Donnell also was VicePresident of Notre Dame for six years.
A son of the late Edward J. and Sarah A. (nee O’Grady) O’Donnell, he was born at Grand Rapids, Mich., on June 2, 1895. After graduating in 1916 from Notre Dame, at which he achieved high scholastic and athletic honors, he entered the seminary of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He was ordained on December 28, 1921, at Grand Rapids, Mich., by the Most Rev. Edward D. Kelly, D.D., then Bishop of that diocese.
Father O’Donnell received a Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1922 at Catholic University where he specialized in American Church History. In 1923 he served as rector of Badin Hall on the Notre Dame campus, and from 1924 to 1931, as Prefect of Discipline and supervisor of student activities at Notre Dame. He also was Professor of History.
In 1931 he was named President of St. Edward’s University at Austin, Texas, and continued in that capacity until appointed Vice-President of Notre Dame in 1934. He was a pioneer in the early work of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade, which antedated the current Catholic youth movement in this country. As an active member of the American Catholic Historical Association, he served on its executive council for two terms and contributed to its official publication, the Catholic Historical Review.
Father O’Donnell was appointed by the President of the United States to serve on the Board of Visitors of the Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1942 and 1943. He is also a member of the United States Government’s Committee on Post-War Science, and is a trustee and member of the executive committee of the Nutrition Foundation.
Student Council to Meet Tuesday
The regular meeting of the Student Activities Council will be held next Tuesday night at 6:30 at the new council office in Badin Hall, it was announced by Ralph Hayman, council president.
A number of matters of importance to the student body will be discussed hence prompt attendance by all members is urged in order to expedite the meeting.
10
Hanley War Paintings on Exhibition in Gallery
A special exhibit of topical drawings and paintings of the Mediterranean theatre of combined operations during World War II, painted by Lieut. J. Hanley, Associate Professor of Fine Arts at the University of Notre Dame, will be on display in the Wightman Art Galleries at Notre Dame to May 22.
Paintings and drawings in Professor Hanley’s exhibit, many of which were done under actual combat fire, represent rapid impressions of North African ports, and scenes of the United States Navy and Royal Navy in action on the invasion beaches of Sicily, Salerno, Anzio and Southern France. Professor Hanley participated in these landings as a
Fr. O'Donnell Meets Sons of Alumni
The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., held an informal reception in the University parlors on April 16th for approximately thirty-five students who are sons of Alumni of Notre Dame. Mr. Armstrong of the Alumni Office arranged the affair and introduced the students to Fr. O’Donnell.
Fr. O’Donnell’s theme in a short, informal talk was the rich heritage which brings to a campus the sons of men themselves trained on that campus. The implied declaration of faith in the University that goes with entrusting a son is deeply appreciated by the University, Father O’Donnell added.
Problems of the modern world, for
member of a Flag Officer’s communication staff.
Two of the most significant sketches in the exhibit are a pair of drawings of HMS Spartan swinging on her anchor chain fighting fires after a direct hit by a glider bomb. This is the only record of the sinking of the Spartan.
Two pen and pencil sketches constructed at Anzio show the Anzio “H” hour on “D” Day, January 22, 1944, when the first wave of troops swept ashore, and another of a Landing Craft going into shore on “D” Day at Anzio. Both of these sketches were constructed under actual combat fire on the beaches at Anzio.
Watercolors in Professor Hanley’s exhibit include paintings of Navy establishments in Bizerte, Palermo and
which Notre Dame training is particularly essential, were outlined by Father O’Donnell. He stressed the need for application of this training by fathers and sons to solving these problems. It is a recognition of the need of fundamental principles, Father O’Donnell, emphasized, which motivates the sending of boys to Notre Dame, over and above the natural sentiment of an alumnus for his school.
Because of the added bonds of knowledge and background, Father O’Donnell said, the Office of the President should be considered a special haven for sons of alumni whenever problems arise.
—Leonard Dente
Naples. Some of the more interesting of the watercolors include the Loading of the Liberty Ship “Robert Bartley” and removing staging area equipment at Bizerte, Submarine Net and Buoy Depot at Bizerte, Palm Garden near the Admiralty House at Bizei-te, and Sengalese troops debarking from DD 3-5 at He St. Croix, Southern France.
One of the most interesting watercolors in the entire exhibit was made during an audience with Pope Pius XII in Capella di Clementina, Vatican City, on the Feast of the Epiphany in 1944. Professor Hanley sketched His Holiness in pencil during the audience and later reworked it in water color.
Two outstanding pastel paintings are included in the Notre Dame professor’s exhibit. The most noted one is a portrait of Rear Admiral Frank J. Lowry, USN, Commander of the Eighth Amphibious Force and in charge of the Allied landings at Anzio as well as a task force commander in Southern France. The other is a painting of Chateau Richard, headquarters of the United States Amphibious Forces at Arzou, Algeria.
A distinct and separate part of the exhibit are oil paintings of the Stations of the Cross for a Tunisian United States Navy Chapel. The stations were designed and executed by Professor Hanley and placed in the Quonset hut chapel at Bizerte by Lt. Commander Joseph A. McDonald, USN., Force Chaplain through whose efforts this unique chapel was erected.
The stations are in silhouettes of black against a neutral grey background with frames and accents in silver. At present the stations are in a collection of items used overseas in combat areas by Catholic chaplains and this exhibit will become a traveling exhibit as soon as it is assembled in complete form.
The exhibit at Notre Dame will be open to the public daily from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. and on Sundays from 2 to 5 p.m. until May 22.	.
The University of Notre Dame will go on Daylight Saving Time simultaneously with the City of South Bend, on Sunday, April 28, it has been announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Next Tuesday, April 30, the Y.C.S. Help Yourself Series will present the Department of English. All who are interested in this field are cordially invited to attend. The lecture starts at 7:30 pan. in the Biology amphitheatre. .
11
HCI I I N BENGAL
By JOHN DINGES
After the hands of the winners of the final bouts have been raised in victory, the gloves hung away till next year, the finalists’ souvenir trunks packed away and the Ninth Annual Bengal Bouts are but a memory, there will be a certain little band of people who will gratefully remember the fighters, promoters, and spectators of these bouts.
These people are the 120 Catholic missionaries in the American Holy Cross field of Bengal, India. Of this number there are 25 priests and about 15 Brothers who are Notre Dame men. There are also about 15 native priests. Nuns, too, are carrying the word of God in Bengal. Four sisterhoods are represented, one of which was founded by Sister Rose Bernard, C.S.C., of nearby St. Mary’s. In addition to the Holy Cross nuns from St. Mary’s are the Associates of Mary Queen of Apostles, all native sisters; Sisters of Mary Immaculate, from England and France; and the Catholic Medical Missionaries, founded by Dr. Anna Dengel and the Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., chaplain, St. Joseph’s Hospital. This last mentioned community is the first of its kind in the Catholic Church, its personnel being composed of sisters trained in the medical and nursing profession.
Holy Cross in India is in the northeastern part of India. The scene of labor, the Dacca diocese, is in eastern Bengal in the delta region of two of the greatest rivers in the world, the Ganges and Brahmaputra, which flood the land every year from June to September to such an extent that houses in this district are built on artificial mounds.
Besides the 18,000 Bengali Catholics the missionaries within the last 20 years have made some 12,000 converts from the Garo tribes, who have left their native Assam Hills and now cultivate the rich soil of the Bengal plains. In addition to the Garos, there is at present a strong movement among the hill-tribes and “untouchables” to the Church in the Bengal missions.
The East Indians look favorably upon the Catholic missionaries not only by reason of the educational, social, and'economic advantages which are offered but also are strongly attracted by the spirit tual character of Catholicism itself.
Institutions operated by Holy Cross in India include two large high-schools in charge of Brothers; one at Dacca, 1000 students, and one at Bandurah, 900 students; two catechetical schools for native
catechists, and a preparatory seminary for native priests. The Catholic Medical Missionaries are in charge of the Mitford Municipal Hospital at Ddcca and of two child welfare and maternity centers in the same city from which they work, among the women and children. At Too-miliah, 25 miles north of Dacca, the Holy Cross Sisters are starting a native hospital in which the new order founded by them will assist in the work. All the native Sisters will receive technical training from the Catholic Medical Missionaries.
Holy Cross first went to India in 1853 and remained until shortly after the American Civil War when the missionaries were called back and their posts taken over by the Benedictines. They returned to their labors abroad again in 1888 and worked in a field of 20,000,000 people. This was subdivided in 1927 into two dioceses and the American Holy Cross members now give their attention to the 12,000,000 souls in the Dacca diocese.
Missionary work in Bengal is carried on from “centers” which may consist of a boys’ boarding school; a tin-roofed church, priests’ house and catechists’ houses; the ever-present dispensary; a school and maybe a convent. Such a center may care for 30 or so native villages. There are 15 such Holy Cross centers in Bengal.
Life for the Bengal missionary presents a continuous series of problems and triumphs, trials and joys; everything from predatory tigers to capricious schoolboys. The annual four months of flood give him ample opportunity to exercise his nautical skill. When the rains and flood stages have gone, aside from railroads, a good pair of feet are the most reliable means of transportation, for the roads in many places are impassable, even to a bicycle, let alone automobiles, and certain muddy periods defy even the best efforts of horses. In the summer, heat presents a problem to which the tin roofs of some of the missionary buildings present a dubious solution. At times even the convenience of the gasoline mantle lamps is dispensed with since while their superior light is welcome, the added heat is not. In spite of the discomfort of the dampness the rainy season is welcomed for the coolness it brings. During this period it may rain hard for half an hour and then be clear the rest of the day, or it may rain steadily for three days, but it
is almost certain to rain some each day. But the work goes on; through flood and heat this labor for souls does not cease. One of the missionaries, Father Raymond Massart, has just come back to recuperate but is anxious to return to some fresh labor afield, which he has just begun.
Where do the profits of the Bengal Bouts go? As an example we may take the work of a missionary in the dry season when he usually makes a one-week trip per month and four or five one-day trips, working out of his particular center. The cost of this travel per priest including his catechist-cook combination is about $33.00 per month. These trips include the cost of travel, by rail if possible; lodging, although there are no hotels even in Dacca, a good-sized city; and coolie porters or guides. The catechists are lay persons who devote their full time to working for the missionaries. In the hill section support for them and their families is about $6.00 per month excluding travel and medicine. Catechists, too, travel as far as a $5.00 travel allowance permits; he takes about $2.00 worth of medicine with him including quinine and iodine. In short the expenses amount to a minimum of $50.00 per month for a priest including keep and travel; $10.00 per month for resident catechist.
And that is where the money from the Bengal Bouts will go. Where is a more truly worthy cause than to aid these workers, many of them Notre Dame men who have watched similar bouts in past years and who are now laboring afar and beginning to await the heat of an Indian summer in far-off Bengal?
Life in the raw in India. Two Holy Cross missionaries with leopard they shot.
12
"Scholastic" Looks In
Chuck Perrin is best known among Notre Dame students for his almost professional performance as an impersonator on the recent Knights of Columbus vaudeville. What is not well known is that he is a married G.I. confronted with the same problems and insecurities that every veteran has to cope with who tries to get a higher bracket education and maintain a home. Home, as Chuck and 30 percent of the married G.I.s in college have found out, is often making the best of it in something no larger than a top drawer.
To the average veteran stepping back into civilian life the G.I. Bill of Rights (Serviceman’s Readjustment Act of 1944, if you want to get technical) seems like a golden egg with more to come. But he hardly steps out of the Separation Center when he discovers that the free college education, plus a $65 a month subsistence allowance ($90 in case there is a dependent) doesn’t spread very far. With food prices rocketing sky high, clothes mostly on the ersatz side, and landlords racketeering, he soon has
to reconcile himself to skimping to live at all.
A few months after V-J Day American ships brought back nearly 4,500,000 veterans. In the comprehensive enthusiasm for their return no plans were made either to employ or to house them. The latter problem, euphemistically referred to by newspapers as the “housing shortage” was aggravated by the fact that 1,300,000 of the returning veterans had married in 1945. Since then the government had been advised that 1,600,000 additional veterans are proposing to marry during 1946. For most of them it means doubling up with relatives and friends. For those who go to college it means cramming into tiny rooms “with kitchen privileges,” where nailing up pictures on the wall is a mortal sin. Lucky is the G.I. who goes to a college where low cost housing has been specifically provided.
Theoretically, the G.I. at college could avail himself of a clause in the Bill of
On Mr. and Mrs. College
Rights. He could borrow up to $2,COO as a down-payment on a home of his own. But bankers are inclined to. scruple inasmuch as a college student with a small income is not a good risk. Besides, college students are usually far from home roots and don’t want to settle down permanently. And so the problem grows larger. Perhaps, it could be better understood if we go back to Chuck Perrin. Because Chuck is a typical cross-cut of all the married G.I.s who go to school and try to balance budgets and class assignments. •
Chuck was a pilot with the 316th Troop Carrier group. For dreary months in Panama, Trinidad, France and literary-sounding places in England, Chuck flew his plane and wondered what home would be like to come to. He dreamed of getting married and going to school and some day becoming a top-notcher as a journalist. And then the war ended. There was yet a lot of unfinished busi
ness but Chuck went home with a lot of other men eager to put their dreams to work. On August 25, 1945, Chuck married Marion Zapfe in Chicago. Taking advantage of the G.I. Bill of Rights he transferred to Notre Dame in October. Marion came with him to keep house and as Chuck puts it ‘‘plug him through school.”
Then came the endless fine-combing of South Bend for a place to live. Notre Dame welcomed Chuck in, but like so many other colleges had no housing facilities for married vets. After weary weeks in a rooming house, where the walls were paper-thin and moldings sheltered whole villages of pests, Marion accidentally heard of a vacancy on the east side'from a milkman. She applied for.it and was pleasantly surprised that it was spotless and that she didn’t have to take with it a lot of obsolete furnishings at a fancy price. Most popular racket among landlords at the moment is the practice of advertising apartments and then demanding that the lessee rent worthless furniture at many times its actual worth, to say nothing of its utility.
Chuck and Marion pay $35 rent a month for the unfurnished apartment. This is considered a pretty good bargain
Chuck is an inveterate nibbier. Likes snacks of cold sphaghetti before going to bed. The budget doesn't permit him to eat too much between meals. Besides, he claims the gremlin on the frigidaire sits up there like an uneasy conscience.
in the light of what single rooms command a week. The first of the many shocks a veteran must prepare for himself is the landlord’s overstatement of what constitutes home, sweet home today. Inflation has made old houses as
perky as prima donnas. Nashville has witnessed house prices Jump from 25 to 125 per cent above prewar prices. In some backwash towns of Missouri houses are selling as high as 200 per cent above 1941 prices. Like stratospheric rises are
Chuck and Marion play checkers. The easychair is reserved for the “master" of the house.
reported from Oshkosh, Tonawanda, Corinth, Michigan City, Burlington and elsewhere. In comparison, houses in South Bend have risen with only a modest spiral. But even that is awful high for a family that has to live on $90 a month.
After Chuck and Marion moved in they breakfasted for two months on a shaky card table and sat on trunks and valises. With a minimum of cash combined with a maximum of ingenuity they soon turned the tiny apartment into a welcome place to come home to. Chuck built bookcases, small tables and shelves out of knocked-down crates that the grocer threw out. Marion tried her hand at some custom tailoring and turned out a vanity table from a cast-off nail barrel and some old drapes. She stuffed the seat with a shredded old dress. Chuck made a bed reading lamp out of a German canteen that he brought back with him from abroad. After a lot of skimping on his allowance he managed to buy a small rug for the living room as a Christmas
14
gift for Marion. For six months they stored their food in a window box. Now they have an ice-box and both look at it almost with idolatry. Today the apartment represents something that Chuck and Marion can be proud to call home. Marion isn’t employed; both agree that
Marion Perrin is an expert cook. Her oatmeal cookies are something out of this world. "Mamma's Little Helper" seems to be only the receiving end here. He swings into action right after supper among the dishes and soap-suds. Anybody got a cake of Swan?
keeping the home they made is a full time job. Besides, there’s going to be a Junior- in June!
Marion is a thrifty buyer because she has to be on a budget of §35 a month for food. Often she walks several blocks extra to save a couple of pennies. Almost
miraculously she manages to keep a good, substantial table on a little above eight dollars a week. With $35 for rent, $35 budgeted for food, $5 for insurance, the Perrins have $15 left for splurging on bus fares, shoes and clothing repair, newspapers a couple times a week, and church on Sunday. That leaves nothing but the imagination for entertainment. Neither smoke and have seen only two shows since they’ve been in South Bend. A good show in town for two currently costs about $1.20 and that is a huge chunk out of an already slim budget set aside for incidentals. Both keep happy, however, by being good sports in a tight situation. After supper Marion reads or sews while Chuck struggles with higher culture. Most every night they play checkers sprawled out on the floor. Chuck admits he isn’t so good in this department. On Sunday afternoons they hit the trail in nearby Pottawatomie Park. Chuck has become an expert navigator along with local small fry who float home-made ships on the lagoon.
This is higher mathematics and home economics rolled into one. The problem is to make two and two come out five.
15
With raw food prices vaulting higher. Marion has to pinch pennies. She bakes to save on pastry. She walks extra blocks to get better bargains.
The Perrins attend St. Joseph's on Hill Street. Biggest complaint is the packed bus ride they must take on Sunday mornings.
Both look forward to the day when they will live close to Notre Dame among young people of their own kind in the long-promised housing unit village on Bulla Road. Wistfully sometimes Marion remarks that there ought to be some
channel whereby G.I. College wives could meet and talk out their problems together. Like so many other couples, they feel that the entertainment bogey could be beaten if they were free to come to the many programs offered on the campus.
And so the story ends about the Perrins. If it sounds at all idyllic, it is mainly because two people have determined to keep their heads and sense of humor until their immediate dreams come true.
(Photos by Al Kuntz)
Pottawattomie Park is a nice place of a sunny afternoon. Marion likes to think the lagoon is a miniature Lake Michigan. Chuck often sails boats but feels the neighbors' kids are skeptical of his viking talents. He claims he knows the monkeys in the zoo by name now.	'
16
Scholastic Sports Section
Tennis Team Opens
Against Navy Monday
Led by Capt. Bill Tully, newly named member of the Junior Davis Cup squad, the Notre Dame net team invades Annapolis Monday to open the 1946 Irish tennis season against Navy at 4 p.m.
The new honor bestowed upon the Bronxville, New York, netter by the U. S. Lawn Tennis Association places him in a group of about a dozen promising younger players who are brought together to be developed for possible future Davis Cup play. Members of the squad play against the most experienced men available. Tully is the first Notre Dame student ever named to the squad.
After Tully, who will be at the No. 1 spot against Navy, will be George Ratterman, outstanding all-around athlete from Cincinnati, followed by Ed Caparo at No. 3, Harry Erd No. 4, Arti Hoffman No. 5, and Joe Brown at No. 6. Coach Walter Langford said early in the week that if an alternate is taken on the Navy trip, either* Dick Fountain or Tyke Hartmann will be added to the list.
Tully and Ratterman will pair for the No. 1 doubles team and, though still uncertain, Coach Langford will probably start Caparo and Hoffman as No. 2, and Erd and Brown at No. 3.
Navy, who opened two weeks ago with a victory over the Merchant Marine Academy and then lost last week to North Carolina, 5-4, will send a predominately plebe squad against the Irish. Capt. J. H. Doyle of Berkeley, California, with two years of experience at the Academy, will oppose Tully, and H. I. Tilles, a second year man from New York City will probably be in the No. 2 position.
Plebes H. P. Fishman, former varsity member of the University of Pennsylvania team and Philadelphia Interscholastic Champion, and F. H. Fisher* of Seattle are the only other experienced netters on the squad.
Coach Art Hendrix will fill the other two spots with either high school experienced candidates or members of the 1945 Summer Naval Academy team.
“It’s an even bet ... I would like to think we’ll win it . . . the long trip will give them a little advantage though,” Coach Langford said. He added that Notre Dame would not enter the match in as good condition as later matches, but relatively speaking, the Irish are farther along than usual due to an
Baseball Team Wins 4, Loses I;
to Play Northwestern Tuesday
By PETER J. PESOU
Coming back to Cartier Field after its first road appearance of the season against the Purdue Boilermakers down at Lafayette, Ind., last Tuesday, the Notre Dame baseball team will play host to the not too ferocious Northwestern Wildcats in a single game which starts at 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April 30. The game is the first of a home-and-home game series between the Irish and the Wildcats; the two teams meet again June 4 at Evanston. After Tuesday’s game it will be a long time between ball games as far as spectators are concerned. Beginning May 4 the Klinemen take to the road for five engagements and will not play at home a^ain until May 18 when they will face Western Michigan.
OHIO STATE DEFEATED TWICE
It was hit, slide, and score all afternoon for Jake Kline’s boys E aster* Saturday as his embryonic major leaguers sharpened their batting eyes at the expense of four Buckeye hurlers, rapping out 27 hits and 19 runs to take both ends of the twin bill, 9-3 and 10-4. As the affair drew to a close, the baseball diamond on Cartier Field closely resembled a whirling dervish as player after player chased each other around the base paths. The warm spring sun had disappeared long before Schmitter popped up to Billy Hassett for the final out, and by that time all concerned more or* less welcomed the end of the fracas, including the handful of ■wind-chilled spectators who stuck it out to the end.
Leftfield John Mayo was the big man with the stick, failing to get on base only once in 10 trips to the plate. He collected 5 hits, two of them doubles, to drive in 3 runs, and also managed to score twice himself. His remaining four trips to the plate resulted in two walks, a life on an error and a fielder’s choice.
Basketbailer Dick Kluck turned in the pitching performance of the day as he shackled the Buckeyes in the 2nd game, yielding 4 hits while striking out 7 men. The four walks he allowed, however, were costly since two resulted in scores.
Kewpie Barrett drew the starting role for the 1st game and, despite the fact that he was reached for 10 hits, relin-
earlier start and more regular practice.
The squad will leave Sunday evening on the Baltimore & Ohio, and will return Monday evening or Tuesday morning.
The second match of the season will be on the Notre Dame courts May 4 •with Northwestern, led by Larry Daly, and former* National Boys Champion Bobbie Jake.—Billy Slavick
quished only 3 runs due to his effective clutch hurling as well as errorless support afforded by his teammates.
The Buckeyes took the lead in the 1st half of the second inning, scoring one run on two singles. This, however, merely stung the N.D. maple-swingers into action as they came roaring back with 4 big i-uns in their half of the same inning. John Mayo started the parade by working pitcher McDonald for a walk. “Seeds” Petrazelka got a life on an error when the right fielder failed to hold onto the ball, Mayo reaching 3rd on the play. Sheehan was intentionally passed which brought up Georgie Schneider with the bases fully occupied. He came through in proper fashion with a clean double to score Mayo and Petrazelka. Then shortstop Hasset got into the spirit of things with another base hit to score Sheehan and Schneider, but Bill was thrown out trying for second. Barrett grounded out and Kozlik took a 3rd strike to end the inning.
Singles by Raba and Mayo made it 5-1 in the last of the 3rd. Ohio State then changed it to 5-3 by scoring once in the 4th and once in the 5th. Seeing their comfortable lead being hacked away, Notre Dame buckled down to score 4 more runs on 4 hits in their half of the 6th which ended hurler McDonald’s performance on the mound. Katz took over for Ohio State and effectively held ND to two hits for the remainder of the game.
In the nightcap Notre Dame was never behind as they started the ball rolling in the very 1st inning with 3 runs. Singles by Gilhooley, Petrazelka, and Schneider plus a double by Mayo was the cause of it all. But in the 3rd inning with two away, Kluck had a tough time finding the plate and walked two men.
(Continued on page 21)
17
BENGAL BOUTS
Bengal Bouts Pre-lims
Pre-lims of the Bengal Bouts will start Monday evening, Aprril 29, in the University Fieldhouse sharply at 7:45 p.m. when ring fans will see the opening card of the preliminaries for the 1946 edition of the Bengals.
Under Trainer Dominic Napolitano’s direction, eight or more “elimination matches” will be scheduled each evening; then on Thursday night the Semi-final matches will be held to whittle down further the field of contestants for the crown. A week from Thursday, May 9, the final effort will be thrust behind clenched fist and glove.	*
The sale of tickets, already under way in campus halls, appears to need further clarification. A small charge of fifteen cents (15 cents to the Commerce student) will be levied - on those attending the Bengals each night this coming week, this to cover expenses. Bengal Finals will require N.D. men to part with a half dollar (you know, 50 cents). These prices will exist only so long as the advance sale continues; a twin ducat (two of the dam things) wil enable the student to harness his current extra-curricular affair and bring her along. Tickets may also be procured at the Bookstore and Huddle.
Advance sales downtown, purchases at the box office, and sales to other than students will be scaled at $1.00 for general admission and $1.50 for Ringside seats. Students and others must pay the established price at the box office.
Despite the fact that Walsh and Cava-
Phillies set glove strategy for Bengal Bouts. Left to right. Bill Meehan, Bob Pasquarella, Art Coughlan, Bill Corbett, and Ralph Hayman. Seated, Gus Cifelli.
By CHRISTY WALSH, Jr.
naugh halls are better represented than any of the other halls, but one campus club has made any effort to support contestants in the Bengal Bouts.
At an “official press conference” recently, top-ranking authorities of the Philadelphia Club released for publication a dope-sheet on their stable.
First billing of the Phillies (pun not intentional) was ex-marine Gus Cifelli, 21-year-old heavyweight contender. So as to avoid any embarrassment to the press, we quote: “He is at present the holder of the California-Nevada heavyweight championship, and also treasures many Marine sectional titles.” The following excerpt will surely send his opponent to the infirmary—long before the fight; “Cifelli has received several offers to turn professional.” Tabbed the “White Hope” by his backer, Cifelli entered Notre Dame at 280 lbs. and hopes to enter the ring at 257 pounds. Possibly the “coal-miners” of Philadelphia will explain the meaning of “White Hope.”
Bob Pasquarella, another 21-year-old Philadelphian, fought in the Bengal Bouts last year; he appears this year as defender in the 135-lb. class. Last year in the finals, Pasquarella K.O.d Bill Summerlin in the first 19 seconds of the opening round. Page 63 of the club release records the fact that this gentleman entered the ring for the first time here in 1945.
One more pair of gloves rides under the banner into the Bengal ring, these
fronting for James J. “Harp” Dougherty, ex-G.I. Winner of the Southwest Pennsylvania Amateur Championship in 1940, he hails from Woodlyn, Pa. Dougherty won over Joe Owens in the 175-pound finals of last year’s Bengals.
Bengal Officials Named
Promoter John Power this week announced the officials who will supervise ring activities of the Bengal Bouts, from the first night of the preliminaries through the finals.
The referees named are George Nate and George Van der Heyden; judges will be William Lubbers, Elmer Tepe, Harry Richwine, and Albert Doyle. All of these men have been qualified A.A.U. officials for a number of years.
George Nate was at one time the world featherweight champion, while George Van der Heiden formerly claimed the amateur International Lightweight title. All of these officials have been graciously donating their services to the Bengals for the past several years.
Szymanski Going Wild
Report from Czrobski
Releases from the training camp of Frank “The Killer” Szymanski this week were voiced by his tutor, ManagerTrainer Sigismund (The Aiderman) Czrobski, who reported that the “Killer” was rapidly rounding into A-l condition. In training for three weeks for the ap-procahing Bengal Bouts, the Killer is reported to have lost but 1% pounds to weigh in at present at a mere 225%. The chief difficulty for Czrobski in his managerial capacity has been in hiring sparring partners who can last for more than one day at camp. The South Bend employment bureau has not been able to meet his demands, and Gary steel workers are at present being imported. “Applicants from the student body at first had a preference and a seniority rating,” remarked Czrobski, “until local authorities declared the “Killer” out of bounds, under advisement from the University physician, who said that Szymanski was endangering lives and limbs.” This report was the result of two student sparring partners withdrawing from school to recuperate from severe concussions and abrasions. Czrobski then confessed: “It’s the application of Szymanski’s strange holds based on mathematical theories that causes so many
(Continued on page 21)
18
Left. Bob Wagner, Merritt Hoglund, and an unidentified Navy trainee work on the bags.
Top right, a group of aspirants for Bengal championships go through conditioning calisthenics.
Top left, coach and trainer Dominic Napolitano.
Center left, promoter of the Bengal Bouts, smiling John Power.
Above, John Gierek, Charles Dohnal, Don Rosati, Greg Despot, and Don White have their wrists taped in preparation for a few fast rounds.
19
20
Ohio State
(Continued from page 17)
This caused him to ease up on N. Ranz who drove one out to left center for a triple, making it 3-2. But in the *th frame the Irish put the ball game on ice with 4 more runs on 4 more hits— all afternoon Jake Kline's boys seemed to be able to score at will. In the afterclimax 7th, Ohio State scored twice with N D coming back with 3, making the final count read 10-4, Notre Dame.
The fielding gem of the day was turned in by 3rd baseman Georgie Schneider in the 5th inning of the second game. First baseman Cole had drilled a whistling liner that was hooking wickedly when Georgie leaped high into the air, legs apart a la Pepper- Martin, and swiped at the ball with his gloved hand to snare the out-bound rawhide.
FIRST GAME
NOTRE DAME 9
AB R H P A E Kozlik, 2b .................. 4	1 0 2	4	0
Raba rf ..................... 5	114	0	0
Gilhooley, cf ............... 5	114	0	0
Mayo, If .................... 3	12 10	0
Petrazelka,	lb .............. 4	117	0	0
Sheehan, c .................. 3	10	4	10
Schneider, 3b ............... 4	2	2	1	1	0
Hassett, ss ................. 3	0	2	3	3	0
Barrett, p .................  3	1110 0
Totals ................ 34	9	10	27	9	0
OHIO STATE 3
AB R H P A E
Baker, rf ................... 2	0	0	1	0	1
Wight, rf ................... 2	0	1	0	0	0
Phelps, 3b .................. 4	0	0	1	2	0
N Ranz, c —.................  4	0	2	4	0	0
Colburn, If  4	0	2	1	0	0
G. Ranz, cf _________________ 4 12 2 10
Cope, lb  2	1	1	11	1	1
Reese, 2b ___________________ 4	0	0	1	5	0
Johnston, ss ..............   3	0	1	3	2	1
McDonald, p _________________ 2 110 11
Katz, p --------------------- 1	0	0	0	1	0
•Phillips ___________________ 1	0	0	0	0	0
Totals ________________ 33	3	10	24	13	4
•Batted for Katz in ninth. ■
Ohio State __________________ 010 110 000—3
Notre Dame  041 004 OOx—9
SECOND GAME
Ohio State ------------------ 002 000 200— 4
Notre Dame  300 004 30x—10 (Kluck and Krivik; Donnelly, Smithers and N. Ranz)
N. D. II, PURDUE4
Taking advantage of the wildness of Purdue pitchers, the Notre Dame baseball combine chalked up their fourth victory in five starts with an 11 to 4 decision at Lafayette, April 23. Dick Smul-len kept eight Purdue hits well spaced while his teammates blasted 12 safeties off four Boilermaker hurlers.
Four hits added to 10 walks gave the Irish a 7 to 1 lead at the end of the fourth. They stretched the lead to 9 to 1 in the fifth before Purdue countered twice in the sixth. Notre Dame’s defense, however, reached its low point of the season as five errors were committed.
Score by innings:
RHE
Notre Dame ...... 104	220	110—11	12	5
Purdue  100	002	100— 4	8	3
Batteries: Smullen and Sheehan; Ladd, Sattler, Noel, Claseman, and Schimmelpfenig, Seetch.
ANNOUNCE BASEBALL SCHEDULE
The baseball schedule for the rest of the season is as follows:
May 4—Western Michigan, away
May 7—Iowa, away
May 8—Iowa, away
May 11—Michigan State, away
May 14—Michigan, away
May 18—Western Michigan, home
May 25—Michigan State, home
May 27—Wisconsin, away
May 28—Wisconsin, away
June 4—Northwestern, away
June 6—Purdue, home
June 8—Michigan, home
June 12—Bradley Institute, home
Mid-West Engineers
Meet at Notre Dame
The Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers has completed plans for the midwestern conference to be held here April 29 and 30. With talks on modern engineering by representatives of 12 universities, there should be keen competition for the cash prizes.
The technical sessions will be held on Monday afternoon and Tuesday morning in the Engineering auditorium. All students interested in these sessions are invited to attend.
The technical papers to be delivered include one by Martin Kilsdonk of Notre Dame on “Calibration of a Kynograph,” and 11 others by representatives from as many midwestern universities.
Bob Purcell, Ray Sabota. Bill Tully, and Bill Leonard, Notre Dame relay men who will perform in the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa, today and tomorrow. One of the most prominent annual track and field meets in the nation, the Drake Relays is the opening event on the 1946 Notre Dame outdoor track schedule.—Ferstei Photo
Killer Szymanski (Continued from page 18) fatalities.” The rule book of the University immediately classified the “Killer” along with shotguns, airplanes, automobiles, and Sweeney’s as dangerous instrumentalities.
Czarobski, an advocate of free speech, vigorously proclaimed further that: “Through my vast experience in the service, I encountered man^r pugilistic-minded men, but I have yet to see the equal of the “Killer” who last week was forced to take a four-day vacation, due to necessary repairs being made on six sparring partners by the best plastic men in local hospitals. Without a doubt,” continued the aiderman, “Szymanski will meet the winner of the Louis-Conn fiasco in the boxing room beneath the north room in the fieldhouse some time in September.”
The challenger in his quiet, unassuming manner, last week visited the Szymanski training camp, and then returned to Chicago to intensify his own training. The scholarly-looking contender, who by the way is a lover of Shakespeare and Plato, appeared to be in fine physical condition, but conceded that the “Killer” would have the reach on him. A picture of Szymanski and the contender taken together later proved not only that the “Killer” would have a longer reach, but was somewhat taller, heavier, and more robust than his opponent. Student observers unanimously made Szymanski an easy 5-1 favorite for the bout on May 9.
21
INII<II<IN<
By JIM CLEMENS
One of the best all-around athletes to perform beneath the shadow of the golden dome in recent years is William Joseph Tulley, captain and number one man of this year’s tennis team, and one of the mainstays of the Irish track squad.
Born in Yonkers, New York, December 9, 1925, Bill moved to nearby Bronxville at the age of five and has called this beautiful Westchester village home ever since.
Although Bill graduated from Iona Preparatory School in New Rochelle, New York, in 1943, he actually owes as much allegiance to St. Patrick’s High School in Miami Beach, Florida, for his family always spent the winter months down there, and thus Bill alternated his education between the two schools.
During the spring months Bill participated in tennis for Iona, capturing three monograms in this sport and captaining the team in his senior year. Unbeaten in singles play during his high school career, Bill captured the New York Metropolitan Junior Singles Championship in 1943, which ranks as the greatest athletic thrill of his high school career.
Transferring to St. Patrick’s for the winter sessions, Bill won four monograms in basketball for the Florida school, making the State’s All-Catholic team at forward in 1942. Curiously enough, he never thought of participating in track at either school, and it wasn’t until he came to Notre Dame that he donned spike shoes for the first time.
The 6 ft., 167 lb. blond Irishman made his appearance on the Irish campus in the fall of 1943, and immediately established himself as an athlete who would bear watching in virtually every sport. Trying his hand at indoor track that winter, he gained recognition as a miler and a half-miler of no little ability, and when the outdoor season rolled around, Bill found himself busy doubling in brass on the track squad and tennis team, a feat he has performed during the spring months ever since.
Twice a monogram winner in track and tennis, Bill’s rise to stardom among the Irish athletes has been little short of sensational. During two years of competition on the court squad, he was defeated only once in singles play and that during the Michigan debacle of last year
22
when the Wolverines shut out the Notre Dame netters after rain had forced the play indoors and the Irish were hampered by the tricky indoor courts. In addition to his laurels earned on the Irish court squad, he also gained further renown last summer when he captured the men’s singles crown in the St. Joseph Valley Tennis Tournament, defeating Jack Cardall, former California Tech ace, 8-10, 7-5, 6-3. In February of this year he was elected to the captaincy of the tennis team.
Running the mile and half-mile for the Irish track team, Bill has turned in a number of impressive victories to add to the Notre Dame victory total during the past two years. His best indoor mile was a 4:25 effort in this year’s Central Col-legiates when he finished second to Bill Leonard, current Irish middle-distance ace, while his best outdoor time for the mile was also 4:25, which gained him a sixth in last year’s National Collegiate Championships. Bill ran his greatest race to date in the recent Chicago Relays when he finished second by a scant foot to Bob Rehberg of Illinois in the 1,000 yard run.
Bill started at Notre Dame as a civilian but enlisted in the Navy in July of 1944 and is currently in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps program at the University. A Junior in Economics, he expects both a commission and discharge in July, and plans to return to Notre Dame as a civilian in the fall.
N. D.-lndiana Split Twin Bill. 5-1. 2-6
By RALPH WRIGHT
Notre Dame’s baseball team inaugurated its 1946 season by splitting a double-header with a strong aggregation from the University of Indiana at Car-tier Field last Saturday.
Coach Jake Kline’s nine captured the opener, 5 to 1, behind the briliant hurling of Jack “Kewpie” Barrett, while a big sixth inning gave the visitors from Bloomington a 6 to 2 triumph in the seven-inning nightcap.
Barrett proved too tough for the Hoosiers in the first contest, the slender redhead granting only four hits and sending eight batsmen to the dougout via the strike-out route. Indiana tallied in the sixth on Kilby’s double and a single by Rayl, but otherwise the Irish ace had everything his own way. Big Tom Sheehan handled the catching duties.
Notre Dame tallied only once during the four innings pitched by Johnny Logan, the Big Ten’s most valuable player in 1942, but hopped on Joe Normington for two runs in the sixth and one in both the fifth and eighth stanzas. Cohen was the Indiana receiver.
Rightfielder Elmer Raba was the big gun in the Irish attack, rapping two doubles in four trips to the plate. Captain Frank Gilhooley, Johnny Mayo, Ray Petrazelka, and pitcher Barrett each contributed a pair of safeties to the 13-hit total.
In the fifth inning centerfielder Gilhooley provided the fielding feature of the day with a running, back-handed catch of Logan’s drive to deep leftcenter.
The second game saw the Irish take a 2-1 lead in the second frame, but the Hoosiers tied it up in the fifth, and a four-run outburst in the sixth sent Dick Smullen to the showers and clinched the verdict for Indiana.
Smullen’s southpaw slants were quite effective until the big rally when he was relieved by right-hander Dick Kluck, who finished the contest. Stan Krivik was behind the plate.
Ralph Brickner and portsider Tom Marshall divided the mound chores for the victors while the former’s brother, Art, did the catching.
Notre Dame garnered eight safe blows with Stan Krivik’s mighty triple and single leading the way. A brace of singles by Raba gave the rightfielder a big “four for seven” for the day. Zych and Dudik each had two of the nine hits collected by the visitors.
Over 1,000 fans braved the intermittent rains and the cold weather to witness the contest.
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH—Scholastic Sports Editor
ones of Irish fans. 1942 guards on hand are Jack Jordan and Sterling Eaves, 1942 tackles back are Bill Healey and Ralph Slaten. Jim Castleberry, an end in 1944, is on the Tech campus now, too. In the backfield are former standouts such as Frank Broyles, Jim Luck, and Pat McHugh.
AROUND THE CIRCUIT
While the Notre Dame spring football practice field is adorned with returned stars of yesteryear, other midwestern schools are enjoying the same thing during spring football drills. Northwestern has welcomed the return of the Justak brothers, stellar linemen, and “Buckets” Hirsch, ramrod fullback from the 1942 eleven. Also on the scene is Vic Schwall, ’43 fullback. Dick Eggers, regular lineman on the 1943 team as a freshman, will be back, too, after he finishes his duties with the Navy. He is currently stationed on the Notre Dame campus as an athletic specialist. Illinois, the team that is plotting revenge against the Irish as the Irish are in turn plotting against Army, has great prospects for the coming grid season. At least Coach Ray Eliot is hopeful. Alex Agase, Mike Kasap, and John Genis are back from the 1942 squad as linemen. All were regulars. The 1942 Illini team, mostly sophomores, gave signs of becoming a title contender but the team was broken up by service calls.
Indiana, Big Ten champions last fall, has 16 letterwinners on hand from last year plus a host of returning vets. Among them are Jimmy Dewar, 1942 halfback, George Sundheim, Annapolis teammate of our own Bob Kelly, and Joe Black, 1942 letterman. Although now on the baseball team, Bob “Hunchy” Hoernschemeyer will be around to pitch passes in the fall. All of which causes a chuckle from this end when we hear-about Bo’s “Po’ Little Boys.” Michigan’s Wolverines have a rugged schedule ahead for ’46 including a tussle with Army. However, with old timers like Paul White, 1943 halfback and captain, 1944 guards Cecil Freihofer and George Burg, 1943 end Jack Petoskey, halfback Bob Vernier, 1942, backs Don Robinson and Bob Chappius, 1942, the Wolves should handle themselves in the usual smart Michigan fashion.
Purdue, a Notre Dame opponent in the Stadium October 19, has a healthy supply of ex-stars on hand. There are currently seven with others to come. They are: Henry Strain and Bob Chester, 1942 halfbacks; Bob Johnson and Otto Hurrle, centers from 1942, Dick Bushnell, 1943 halfback, Art Haverstock and Morris Kaastad, 1944 guards. Still another recent addition is Forrest Me
Caffry, 1942 end. Coach Cecil Isbell had 188 candidates out for practice. There should be 11 good men in that bunch somewhere.
While not a Notre Dame opponent this year, Georgia Tech has been on the Irish schedule for the past several seasons so their returning men should strike some familiar chords in the mem-
POPULAR	SMART
... as a	i ... like a
star pitcher!	j double play!
DouqSab^Shoeb
W.L. DOUGLAS,SHOE CO., BROCKTON IS. MASS.
210 S. MAIN STREET South Bend, Indiana
THE DRAKE RELAYS
Doc Handy’s track boys will have a big assignment on hand as they open the 1946 outdoor season today and tomorrow in the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa. Outstanding competitors from throughout the midwest will be on hand for one of the outstanding meets of the year. Bill Leonard stands the best (Continued on page 25)
23
CAMPUS CLUBS
By JERRY OLWELL
In the spot-light tliis week is the Philly Club which so far dominates the Bengal Bouts, and is also spearheading student activities’ for Notre Dame Night which is in the near future. The founder of this memorable evening was originally a Philadelphian. In the world of cauliflower ears the Philly contingent has three candidates. Big Gus Ciffelli needs no introduction to ex-Marines as he holds many yet unbroken records with that service. Upon arrival at school Gus weighed 285, but now boasts of a mere 268. Bob Pasquarella is this club’s second ray of hope.
Bob has the distinction of having the record for the fastest knock-out in the history of the Bouts. He annexed this fame last year when he canvassed his opponent in 19 seconds. His backers claim that it may take him 20 seconds this year. The third pugilist from Philly is middleweight Bill Corbett whose sponsors boast of his speed, which they say is equal to that of the new P-80. Brother he must be fast.
Incidentally Philly Club Prexy Art Coughlan and his two assistants Bill Meehan and Frazier Thompson announced that Mr. Ford of the Dining Hall has promised something special for ND nite, that is if he can find any food at all.
Attention Club Secretaries: Hereafter all notices of meetings and activities, smokers and dinners should be handed in at the latest Monday night to Jerry Olwell, Howard 338, or to the Scholastic Office.
Paul Pukish and Vic De Simon, Prexy and Vice-Prexy of the Rochester Club respectively have announced big doings for the followers of Northern N. Y. State. Among their future plans is included a Communion Breakfast. All clubs should follow suit . . . especially since May is the month of Our Lady.
The recently re-organized Peoria Illinois Club was thought by many to be a newcomer. It is anything but as they date back as far as 1928 when that club enjoyed many festivities including a dance in the Hotel Pere Marquette.
Another glimpse into the past reveals that the Chicago Club has quite a standard to live up to as Knute Rockne was its Honorary President in 1928.
The last meeting of the N. Y. Met Club was livened by a lively debate over the representation of students who though they live near, are not in N. Y.
City. Prexy Don Degnan said that these members are very welcome. This juvenile Winchell however is not satisfied. For the info of those would be Congressmen, I wish it known that they DID have their own clubs in the past. The history book revealed that a New Jersey Club dates back to 1928 when its members enjoyed their dances at both the Hotel Suburban in East Orange and the Newark Athletic Club. Also the New Jersey Alumni of ND would be only too happy to cooperate with a Campus Club representing New Jersey. For those students who live in Westchestei’ and Connecticut areas, they too had a club. It was called the Connecticut Valley Club and held many lively functions at the Hotel Bond in Hartford, Conn., and at the Westchester Country Club.
A suggestion for all Club Presidents: The Alumni of all cities has expressed a great desire to become acquainted with the active Campus Club that represents their home town. Your summer and winter formats would be a greater success if you had the support of your home town alumni. Write to them now.
Many of the clubs, led by the Philly Club, have started a new service for their members. They are writing to many resorts trying to secure summer jobs for their friends.
The California Club held its first affair, a dinner at Rosie’s. Tom McCaffery was called on to speak before the gathering. He mounted the speaker’s stand and then calmly said. “Gentlemen, as Mark Anthony said to Cleopatra when he called on her, I didn’t come to make a speech.” With this Tom sat down and bent elbows over that delicious amber inebriant.
The Fort Wayne Club recently reorganized and also learned during the Easter vacation that their club was in full swing way back in 1929. In those days, as an alumnus revealed, Ft. Way-ners danced to the music of Jack Ferris’s Band at the Elk’s Club.
The baseball season is now in full swing and soon inter-club competition will commence. Each club should have a soft-ball and volley-ball team. Rumor has
TTjl you're lookin? for a typist for your thesis work contact Mrs. G. E. McKnight, Morningside Hotel, South Bend, Indiana.
10 CENTS PER PAGE
it that competition will be very stiff, especially between those cities that have a major league ball team. It seems that these cities each think the best ball players come from their locality. Here is a chance to find out.
The Vets Club had one of its SUPER meetings the other night. But the greatest action didn’t occur until after the meeting and a few of the members were back in Howard Hall. Then all get-out broke loose as Jerry Feeney plugged in his electric shaver right in the middle of Red Skelton’s radio program.
YOUR HAIRCUT by appointment at
South Bend’s outstand-
ing Barber Shop —
FRED SHIVES
205 S. Main Street
™$on Bn shop
Phone 3-9386 for appointment.
FOUR BARBERS ON DUTY
For your reading enjoyment: Star of the Unborn Lustre in the Sky Wake of the Red Witch Duchess Hatspur Foretaste of Glory Journey Through Chaos And Another Thing Wasteland Man-Eaters of Kumoon
ruoqner’s
NEWS CENTER
127 W. Washington; SteeeU “In-therJ? M.'S. Building"
24
chance to bring home honors for Notre Dame. The distance runner will have a busy week-end as he is scheduled to run in the four mile relay, sprint medley relay, two mile relay, and possibly the distance relay. The Irish relay teams have shown up well this season and stand a better than average chance of coming in for some point places. Bill Bangert, Purdue’s shot put man, should take first but Irish entry Cliff Brosey should give him some competition. Frazier Thompson, dash man, has recovered from his leg injury sufficiently to take his turn in the 100 yard dash. Jim Mui-phy will run for the blue and gold in the two mile run while Johnny Smith and Bill Fleming are slated for action in the hurdle races.
N. D. Radio Club Airs
Four Programs Weekly
By BILLY SLAVICK
“This is the Notre Dame Radio Club presenting . . .,” may now be tuned in four times weekly on South Bend stations with the opening of the club’s spring program following an exceptionally thin winter semester schedule.
Through the efforts of the club, its moderator, Jim Kress; Adviser Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.; Lou Black, liaison representative; and University Publicity Director John Hinkel, the schedule now includes four 15-minute shows:
Weekly Drama—Monday, 7 p.m., over WHOT.
Musical Sketch Book—Thursday, 4 p.m.. over WSBT.
Irish Lore — Thursday, 4 p.m., over WSBT.
News and Views—Saturday, 2:45 p.m., over WSBT.
A weekly half-hour drama will soon be added to the list.
“The Casque of Amantillado,” produced by Goerge LaBuda, opened the drama series Monday night, April 15. The following afternoon, “The N. D. Musical Sketch Book” ■with the Notre Dame Glee Club presented its first spring program. Albert Garcia produces the Sketch Book, and Gene Mathews is the announcer.
Bob Mulcahey’s “News and Views” on the week’s campus activities, and Hap Cordeman’s “Irish Lore” with Bob Uhl and Warren Dana, cover Notre Dame news. “News and Views” is the only holdover program from the winter semester. Starting off with Frank Leahy, head football coach, “Irish Lore” will feature weekly interviews with head coaches and outstanding players of all the Irish athletic teams.
Budenz to Deliver
First Post-Retreat
Lecture October 11
Louis F. Budenz, who abandoned communism last fall to return to the Roman Catholic church, acknowledged that his first post-retreat lecture would be in Pittsburgh, Pa.
The occasion, he said, will be a Columbus Day banquet, Oct. 12, sponsored by the Knights of Columbus councils of the Pittsburgh district.
The former editor of the New York communist newspaper, The Daily Worker, said recently in revealing that he was writing a book that he would remain in retreat and silence at Notre Dame until the anniversary of. his return to the Church, Oct. 11. The book, This Is My Story, is scheduled for release Oct. 11.
Mr. Budenz said also that he had accepted invitations to speak in Boston, Mass., Nov. 3 and in Windsor, Ont., Canada, Nov. 17.
He said he has received upwards of 600 requests to lecture and that he intends to “respond with great restraint” because his “first duty is to Notre Dame.” He is teaching journalism and economics and has a full class schedule.
Since joining the faculty at Notre Dame Mr. Budenz has remained in virtual obscurity.
Really FINE FOOD
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
THY OUR
Spaghetti, Steaks, Chops, with crisp French Fries, green salad, basket of fresh Italian bread.
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
SAC Collects Clothing
The Notre Dame Student Council has collected approximately 600 pounds of clothing in its recent drive for Europeans affected by the war. The clothing is being packed and shipped to the Bishops’ War Emergency and Relief Committee of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, Washington, D. C., where it will be assigned to its appointed desti' nation.
uPTomn
cordially invites
Notre Dame students to try our dinners
120 South Main Street
(Across from the Courthouse)
Open 11:00 A. M. to 7:00 P.M. . seven days a week.
N. D. Jewelry as Souvenirs of
Notre Dame
Bracelets Compacts Pins
Lockets Necklaces
All initialed “N. D”
at
THE BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
ON CAMPUS
25
RO'S ARE TALKING ABOUT
The abridged four-month college term is a good way of completing a wartime college education, but occasionally it has its drawbacks. Last Monday 3400 students returned to face somewhat bleary-eyed a hideous week of mid-terms. What sleepy, “Boy, did I have a week-end 1” expressions were to be found in Monday morning eight o’clock classes! The chief crow had a difficult time climbing to his nest in order to meet the inevitable deadline and the Scholastic editors debated the possibility of withholding this week’s
All Through the Day Dark Town Poker Club Ah Yes, There's Good Blues
Tonight
Seems Like Old Times Full Moon and Empty Arms
LATEST TUNES
COPP’S MUSIC SHOP 122-24 E. Wayne St.
For Appointment	5 Barbers
Phone 3-0678	Manicurist
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
"South Bend's Leading Barber Shop"
SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT
W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
Qfuuu.'^ fait
issue from the presses and dropping serenely into the sack for at least one
relaxful Monday evening before saddening up the ponies for the coming week of exams. (Or don’t you listen to “Take It or Leave It?”) . . . Swanson walked into a Calc class a half-hour late and the instructor said quite severely, “You should have been here at eight o’clock.” . . . “Why,” asked Swanson, “What happened?”
The biggest surprise of the day happened when the navy band at noon formation burst into what was reported on good authority (Bandmaster Allen, no less) to be “Anchors Aweigh.” The majority of the navy unit hadn’t the strength to blow bubbles in a bottle of coke. But then, we have an amazing band. Or haven’t you heard them play a march in double time while speeding around the corner of the cafeteria heading for the chow line?
USN “You foolish kid” Widowitz was putting on liberty clothes Monday night preparing to “Leave the ship and go ashore.” Witz claims a person should not let studying interfere with his education.
❖
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
“Is that a picture of your- mother on your desk?”
DAFFYNITIONS
Sharpshooter: A man who has five daughters and they are all married.
Bacteria: Rear of a cafeteria.
Conscience: Something that makes you tell your girl friend before someone else does.
Waiter: A guy who believes money grows on trays.
POEM (?)
A girl who weight many an oz, Used language I will not pronoz. Her brother one day,
Pulled her chair right away; He wanted to see if she would boz.
INDEPENDENCE DAY PREVIEW
Agnes Young : “My brother swallowed a box of firecrackers.”
Al Stancuyk: “Is he all right now?” Agnes : “I don’t know. I haven’t heard the last report.”
RAMBLING
Those more adventurous souls who made the trip to Washington D.C. on the Columbian for the week-end had a joyous trip. However, one train from Chicago has been so consistently late that they are renaming it the 16th Century Limited.... Housing conditions in Washington are even worse than reported. The hospitals are so crowded that they can’t admit you with double pneumonia, only single. And they now operate two on a table—if the night nurse isn’t sleeping on it. ... A soldier from the South Pacific kept the club car crowd amused with his tales. He said that he couldn’t sleep in the ATO because of the mosquitos. One night he saw a lightning bug and said, “There’s no use, they’re looking for me with a lantern.” . . . Speaking of the Pacific we hear that someone has written a condensed . History of Japan: From Port Arthur to Mac Arthur. . . . Gee Eyes are still sweating out the return home, but Willaman claims his uncle is all set to serve another 20 years for his country on an island in the Pacific—Alcatraz.
Oscar Birdbrain is busy mailing in entries to Woody Herman’s “Win The Band” contest. (Paid adv. — We can’t live on only fifty dollars a month!) Oscar has already submitted 27 entries in his quest to get a name band for the RO ball in June. It was pointed out to Oscar that Woody’s music is hardly the type for formal dancing, but he claims that Woody will look nice in the Gold Room of the Oliver for his private party on Saturday. Oscar wrote a song that he is submitting also. He calls it, “Is my Baby Blue Tonight” or “Did You Fall In The Inkwell, Mama?” . . . Before Oscar entered the R. O. T. C. he was a mechanic in a candy factory ... he tightened the nuts in the peanut brittle.
26
137 Navy Men Receive
Commissions June 30
Of the 180 men eligible to receive commissions as Ensigns USNR at the close of this term, 137 have elected to accept the coveted one stripe and to serve on active duty for a year.
The remaining 43 men will be discharged and following their discharges will be commissioned at the naval activity nearest their home and immediately placed on inactive duty.
The June graduating class has the distinction of being the largest since the founding of an NROTC unit on the campus of Notre Dame in 1941. The primary purpose of the NROTC program is to furnish the navy officers not only with an education in the various navy fields but also with a well-rounded college background.
Although the NROTC program is to be placed on an inactive duty status in July, Notre Dame will be one of the universities which will continue to' train men for careers as future naval officers. The familiar chow formations and the blue and white uniforms which have dotted Notre Dame’s campus for the past five years will be a thing of the past. Instead, the RO’s will don those longed for “civvies” and the only difference between them and the regular civilian students will be their tri-weekly infantry drill sessions and the special navy courses which they will be required to add to their schedules.
The Holloway Bill which has been submitted to Congress is a proposal for a new peacetime NROTC program, one which will furnish the navy with a large number of qualified naval officers. The bill provides for the payment of tuition, books and all incidental fees as well as a monthly stipend of $50. Because of the recent slash in the navy’s appropriation, the passage of this bill is not a certainty. If the bill does not make the grade, the NROTC program will revert to the old peacetime plan. This plan furnished the naval student only with his uniform which he wore to drills and special formations, and one commuted ration per day. Recently a survey was taken among the ROTC undergraduate class to determine their preferences pertaining to the NROTC program. Sixty-eight have definitely decided they won’t continue; if the new peacetime program were passed, 46 would enroll in it and 62 are undecided as to whether they would or not; and if the old pre-war program was once again in effect 52 of the men would be willing to enroll in it.
University Press Club
Hears Warren Brown
Warren Brown, Sports Editor of the Chicago Sun, addressed the University Press Club and members of the Journalism School during a recent visit on the campus.
Mr. Brown availed himself of every opportunity throughout his lecture and the discussion that followed to emphasize the tremendous importance of valuing and respecting a confidence. “It was,” he said, “above all else a matter of conscience.” In answer to a question on the future of journalism, Mr. Brown asserted that with the alleviation of the current newsprint shortage there would be vast opportunities for the aspirant who is willing to learn thoroughly the diverse branches of newspaper work. In addition to background courses of English and avid reading, Mr. Brown advocated practical experience, for which, he stated, there is no substitute.
At the request of his audience, Mr. Brown assumed the role of prognosticator and pitted the St. Louis Cardinals against the New York Yankees in next fall’s World Seines. He also added his nominations for an All-Star team, selected from players whose performances he has viewed: Jackson, Cobb and Speaker in the outfield; Chase, Collins, Peckinpaugh, and Weaver around the
FAMOUS PHOTOGRAPHY...FAMOUS ADDRESS
infield; a mound corps of Johnson, Pennock and Passeau with Dickey and Hartnett the receivers.
Coach Frank Leahy, who with several members of his staff attended the lecture, asked permission to digress and requested Mr. Brown to enumerate Knute Rockne’s distinguishing qualities. In reply, the Sun’s Sports Editor stated that even at the apex of his career Rockne was an apt pupil. He was never above accepting criticism or new plays and variations from others.
Mr. Brown related an anecdote illustrating Rockne’s simplicity and devotion to his family. While coming from the west coast with his family and Mr. Brown’s, Rockne, instead of taking bows from the other people on the train who wanted to shower their, praises on him, complacently played “house” with the children.—Bob Meander
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Purchases gift wrapped free of charge.
Leading Credit Jewelers
BLOCK BROS.
Corner Michigan and Washington
27
Letters
(Continued from page 2) just when he would resent it most, at eighteen years of age. What’s worse, if a fellow graduates at 16 or 17 he is yanked right out of college. So on the whole I disapprove.” The student in question might he reminded that there are a great many on this campus who were removed from college, not at the impressionable age of eighteen or nineteen, but at the age of twenty and much older. And they went not for a year, but
For that "particular" card on that "particular" occasion —
I. W. Lower Co.
DECORATORS
130 N. Michigan St.
CUstoortlfs
For the Particular" Man
BERGAMOT Toiletries
After Shave Lotion..............................       1.25
Cologne _______________________________________ 1.25
SPORTSMAN Toiletries
After Shave Lotion....!...............................  1.50	to 2.50
After Shaving Talcum__________________________________75c and 1.00
SEAFORTH Toiletries
After Shave Lotion..__________________________1.00 and 2.50
Cologne---------------------------------------1.00 and 2.50
Cosmetics . . . Main Floor
three or four, and in many cases forever. Is it not harder for those who come back to return to college and pick up the threads of their past life, than for a nineteen year old who has served for a stipulated length of time?
Granted, the development in modern warfare has reduced the need for large standing armies. However, to .adequately train and equip a small, mobile, fast striking force, involving the complex duties of staff work, tactical problems, etc., it is quite unthinkable that they could receive the requisites of such train
ing as part of their college curricula.
The veteran accepted the responsibility of the war, now let the “youngster” take an active participation in the responsibility of the peace.
Three combat veterans,
W. J. Kelly,
F. H. Groves,
J. M. Veeneman
Cancer Drive
A campus drive to aid the national cancer fund will be sponsored by the Student Activities Council on Monday and Tuesday, April 29 and 30. Notre Dame is conducting the drive in cooperation with the St. Joseph County committee which has a quota of $18,500 to collect during April, designated cancel-control month throughout the nation.
One Grade Promotions for Reserve Officers
All Reserve Officers who served a period of active duty of two years (time and a half for overseas duty), who have an efficiency index of 35, who received no promotion while on active duty or coincident with relief from active duty, are eligible for a one grade promotion.
All Reserve Lieutenants who served eighteen months, Captains and Majors who served twenty-four months, Lt. Colonels who served thirty months (time and a half for overseas service) in grade since their last promotion and who are not promoted coincident with their relief from active duty, are eligible for a one grade promotion if they have an efficiency index of 40.
If you think you come under one of the above classes, drop in and see one of the officers at the South Bend Military District Headquarters.
N. D. Guidance Center
Serves Indiana Vets
The Veterans Administration Guidance Centers at Notre Dame serves veterans from 11 counties of the northern Indiana area, Russell C. Bowers, chief of the Guidance Center in Room 141, Main Building, revealed.
The primary purpose of this center is advisement or the testing and counselling of veterans on matters pertaining to education and training. All disabled veterans are required to go through the advisement program before starting a training or educational program under Public Law 16. However, any veteran of World War II either in training or desiring training under Public Law 346 may use the counseling service on request. Also, it is noted that any veteran pursuing any kind of training must request and receive an advisement before the veterans administration will allow him to enter a new program.
The advisement program starts with a study of all records, - school, hospital and service, which together with all pertinent facts gained from the interview are interpreted and validated through the use of the psychological testing program. This service is leased from Notre Dame. Practically every type of test is available, i.e., tests of mental ability, preference and interest inventories, psychological analysis of personality patterns, such aptitude tests as music, art, clerical, engineering, college aptitude, and many others. Combined, these many factors tend to give the veteran a better picture of his possibilities and potentialities.
28
New World Editor
Speaks Here Today
One of America’s foremost Catholic journalists, the Rev. Edward V. Dailey, editor of The New World, official publication of the Archdiocese of Chicago, will be a guest speaker’ at the University at 4 p.m., Friday, April 26, in the Auditorium of the College of Law.
Father Dailey will speak on “The Future of the Catholic Press.” Faculty members and students are cordially invited to attend.
A native of Chicago, Father Dailey has been editor and general manager of The New World, a leading Catholic newspaper, since 1940. Prior to that he had served for five years on the editorial staff of that newspaper. He was educated for the priesthood at Quigley Preparatory Seminary, Chicago, and St. Mary of the Lake Seminary at Mundelein, Ill. Following his ordination on April 26, 1930, he did parish work at Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago, for seven years.'
Fathei* Dailey also is well known as a speaker, having been special announcer for Catholic religious events for the Mutual Broadcasting System foi- the last eight years.
Among his best known works are: Pilis XI, Pope of the People, Young Jesus of Nazareth, The Way of the Cross, Cardinal Manning, Cardinal Newman, A Price of Light, Homeward Bound, Why? and This Movie Madness.
G. Boarman Winner of
B. Oratorical Contest
On Monday evening, April 15, the final round of the Breen oratorical contest was held in Washington Hall. Before an audience of approximately 400, the five winners of the preliminaries delivered their orations. First speaker was Mr. Richard Teall, C.S.C., who spoke on “Conflicts of Liberty.” Following were: Mr. Joseph Keena, C.S.C., who spoke on “Who is Jehudi”; Sam Hazo, “Never to be Forgotten”; and Roland Steinle, “Bigotry—America’s Sin.” The fifth speaker was Mr. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C. Mr. Boarman was selected by the judges unanimously as the winner. The title of the winning oration was “A Plea For Catholicism.”
The decision in favor of Mr. Boarman’s oration was unanimous. Exposing the philosophies of the world that a ' Catholic faces, the oration “A Plea For Catholicism” tried to awaken Catholics to the fact that their faith will be tried severely in the next few years. Mr. Boarman will be awarded the Breen Medal for Oratory, founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the Class of 1877, at the June Commencement.
Glee Club to Present
Musicale in Navy Hall
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, B. Mus., is now returning to its active prewar status in keeping with the gen- ■ eral rejuvenation of the Notre Dame spirit. It is a very active organization with a lively and progressive program. The Club is arranging several concert tours in this section of the country— in Missouri, Illinois, and our own Indiana—during the week-ends commencing May 10th and ending June 1st. The Club has received many offers for concert tours throughout the East but had to reject them due to the current accelerated semester. However, it is anticipated that these tours, which took place during the Easter- holidays, will commence next year.
,In keeping with their activated program, the Notre Dame Glee Club in conjunction with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra will conduct a musicale on Friday, May 3rd at the Navy Drill Hall. All students are invited to attend. The program will consist of: “The Testament of Freedom,” a choral symphony based on speeches made by Thomas Jefferson; “Tschaikowsky’s Fourth Symphony;” and “Lizst’s A Major Piano Concerto,” featuring Mr. Malcuzynski, a young pianist, who was the last student of Ignatz Paderewski and is reputed to be his successor. It promises to be a program that will afford a great deal of entertainment.
Mr. Pedtke .wishes to announce that the Glee Club, which numbers approximately one hundred and ten members, is
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.

now filled to capacity. But next semester will find the club returning to its pre-war system of having an “A” (Senior and Junior) and “B” (Sophomore and Freshman) groups. All new applicants will be tried out at that time. The Glee Club is recommended as one that will give its members a well-rounded, proportionated musical background.
A look at his background shows that at the age of twenty Mr. Pedtke played “Tsaikowsky’s Piano Concerto in B Flat -Minor” as a soloist with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. After teaching at various schools he came to Notre Dame in 1936. All during this time he directed the Glee Club, and for the past eight years has been head of the Music Department. On April 15 he presented an organ concert at the First’ Methodist Church of South Bend.—Al McNulty
GIFTS
for those you want to remember
arw
126 N. Michigan Street
29
Investigate Red Regime in Poland—Fr. O'Brien
The moral order of the world and the ideals of freedom and justice, for which American soldiers fought and died, demand that the United Nations turn the spotlight of investigation upon the Soviet puppet regime maintained by the Red Army and the Russian Gestapo to perpetuate the enslavement of the braver people of Poland, the victims of Nazi and Soviet aggression, the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion at the University, declared at a meeting of the Jewish War Veterans Club at the Hebrew Institute in South Bend.
“To free Poland from the invading armies of Hitler and Stalin,” continued Father O’Brien, “the Allies went to war. Against the might of these two brutal tyrants, Poland fought with desperate courage and gallantry. She has suffered more than any nation from the cruelty and brutality of these twin tyrannies. She deserves freedom from the Quisling regime now holding her in chains. Poland, not Spain, should be number* one on the international agenda.	'
“The spectacle of a Quisling spokesman, renouncing first Polish citizenship, then American citizenship, and now tak
ing orders from Stalin, presuming to speak before the United Nations for a gagged and betrayed Poland is an affront to international decency. If not stopped, it will undermine confidence in that organization. The Jewish War Veterans can strengthen the solidarity of the international conscience and safeguard the peace of the world by requesting the American government to take the following steps:
1.	“Focus the attention of the Security Council of the United Nations upon the pitiful plight of the Polish nation as a grave threat to the peace of the world.
2.	“Require the immediate withdrawal from Poland of the Red Army and the Russian secret police as their presence now constitutes an unwarranted aggression and unsupportable burden upon our Polish allies.
3.	“Withdraw recognition of the Soviet puppet regime in Warsaw7 and insist upon elections to give Poland a free and democratic government. -
“Injustice is like an infection in the body,” concluded Father O’Brien. It can’t be isolated. Unless it is eradicated it will infect the whole moral order and lead inevitably to violence and war.”
Debate Team Preparing For Purdue Conference
Technically, the debate season at Notre Dame is over. Except for one more occasion, when “Universal Military Conscription” wall be argued, debate has come to an end at Notre Dame as far as home engagements are concerned. In a series of return debates, from March through the first week of April, the Varsity debaters of Notre Dame have met Loyola University of Chicago, Western Reserve University, and Marquette University.
At present the members of the Varsity Debate Team, coached by Mr. Leonard Sommer of the Speech Department, are preparing for the Sixth Annual National Discussion Conference to be held at Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind., on May 9 and 10. Sponsored by the Tau Kappa Alpha, this Conference will determine the national championship for this year in that society.—Frank Finn
For Sale
Second hand Accounting Book . . . "Elements of Accounting." LaSalle. Phone 2-6790 for particulars.
30
r	"■	1 11
COLLEGE I AI AI L
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
This past week-end, the College Parade was away from the confines of South Bend for those of us who were fortunate enough to be able to go anywhere in our three off days — or were daring enough to enjoy those triple cuts (that’s three for the price of one). We who were able to escape the unpredictable existence that is Indiana’s in the Spring wish to tip our caps to those who so graciously received us. Next year, though, we’re hoping for that prolonged ten-day Spring vacation.
♦
On the 11th and 12th, the C.P. was a parade of talent across Washington Hall’s venerable stage. However, ’tis whispered to these super-sensitive ears that the best act of all was not allowed to go on. The question of the week, therefore, is “Who censored Carmen Miranda?”	•
❖
A girl is not necessarily an artist just because she paints and chisels.
—Butler Collegian
We should like to beg your indulgence, dear reader, while we chastise the editor. . . . Dear Ed, We don’t mind you deleting our copy and leaving half a story hanging in mid-air, as in the last edition, but please, oh please, don’t credit us with your own insert which is below par. This department never even heard of a publication called Flight Time much less read it. Both the excerpts and the style were below standard.
There’s a gremlin at ivork somewhere. We may delete copy, but we never insert inserts.—Ed.
WISDOM FROM DE DEEP SOOF
(courtesy of the Auburn Plainsman) Coeds are temperamental; 90 per- cent temper and 10 per cent mental.
❖
The Universities of Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin have announced that no out-of-state applicants will be accepted for admission next Fall. . . . Now all we have to do for a laugh is to wait for a similar proclamation from I.U. What man in his right mind would leave a state (any one of the other 47) to go to • school in Indiana?
The Chicago Gambolier defines a genius in the field of politics as one who can sit on the fence and keep both ears to the ground.
WJOTW DEPARTMENT
(culled from the Tennessee
Orange & White):
Prof.: I won’t begin the lecture until the room settles down.
Voice from rear: Better go home and sleep it off, old man.
❖
The modern girl is just like her grandmother. They both love the spinning wheel, only the modern girl wants four of them and a spare.
. Utah State Student Life
We’ll be shot by the Publicity Committee if we don’t mention the fact that the Bengal Bouts are now in full swing. Don’t forget now. It’s great entertainment for the price!
The Green Banner (Continued from page 4) could find The Spanish Bay ... at first we thought he meant a nite spot on the Dixie . . . but upon further questioning we learned that he was referring to the noon meeting place of the LaRaza Club.
Joe Kreyer had a pretty good racket carrying milk crates out of the Huddle . . . for a free coke . . . but John “Shake It but don’t Break It” Trave did him one better ... he churned a jug of soui-cream into a pound of butter . . . foi- a free malt. . . . “Just part of my training for the BENGALS,” said John. . . .
Jack McCourt and Bud Amer had big doings over the holiday . . . singular that is . . . they escorted two lady friends to dress circle seats in the press box to witness a basketball tournament at their hometown “stadium.” . . . Six jokers of the Barney Oldfield Dynasty headed by Joe and the Duke crossed the Ohio Boarder in a U-Drive-It car that disappointed their thirst for speed by kicking out at fifty-one miles per . . . and to hear Bill McCormack talk you’d think Moose Mathews committed the great National Crime by going to town with the strong box key in his pocket ... as it turned out over sixty Prom goers were turned away, sans billet. ... So in closing we say . . . beware of spring . . . the season when young men’s fancy turns . . . lands him in the discipline office.
A NEW DEPARTMENT of Catholic Religious Goods
Rosaries Prayer Books Medals Bracelets
Gold Cross and Chain
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan St.
Est.
. 1900
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—E. C. Beery OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Evenings by Appointment
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. INO.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3* *1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3*4269	,
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
31
Real Notre Dame
(Continued from page 5) contributing its share to the spiritual, cultural, patriotic and academic life of our country.
The late John H. Neeson, Notre Dame ’03, Director of Public Works of Philadelphia, founded Universal N. D. Night, which has been celebrated annually since 1924. Notre Dame was at the pinnacle of the athletic world at this time, due largely to the prolific newspaper publicity given to Notre Dame football teams. The exploits of the late Knute Rockne and the “four horsemen” had received great nationwide acclaim. Neeson, although an ardent sports follower himself, was alarmed at the disproportionate publicity being given to athletics. ,
For this reason, Neeson suggested that one night be designated each year to emphasize other important phases of Notre Dame to the alumni of Notre Dame, and through the alumni and the press to the general public. As a result, April 24, 1924, was set aside as the first Universal Notre Dame Night. All Notre Dame Alumni clubs, then totaling about 50, gathered that evening for this purpose. Thus was born a unique celebration which has grown larger with the years.
Universal Notre Dame Night is one primarily for club activity. However, by
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
NAME YOUR SPORT .
SONNEBORN'S has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue Phone 3-3702
press and radio the University’s broad program of development, interpreted by its alumni, has reached the increasing number of friends in this country and abroad. Since 1924, an increase in the number of outlets has been made. There are now more than 100 Notre Dame clubs. In addition to those groups in this country, Notre Dame clubs are also functioning in India, Philippines, Cuba, France, Mexico and many South American countries. During World War II, Notre Dame clubs were organized in all major war theatres.
Mr. Neeson’s suggestion to disseminate knowledge of the University’s non-athletic achievements was well received by the alumni. Most of this group realized that the educational background of Notre Dame, by a strange paradox, was little known by the same people who could name without difficulty the starting lineup of Notre Dame’s football team. The alumni knew that the University had a cultural, religious and patriotic history of which it could justly be proud. They wanted to impart some of that knowledge to millions of Americans who are interested in Notre Dame.
This was true in 1924, and is just as true today. Although Universal Notre Dame Night has enlightened some people regarding Notre Dame’s great achievements as a top-ranking educational institution, there are still many who regard Notre Dame merely as a mecca of football, where nothing has been accomplished save the winning of five national football championships and the production of winning teams in many other branches of athletics. They are in ignorance of the many spiritual, cultural, academic, scientific and other contributions made by Notre Dame since its founding in 1842 by the Rev. Edward Sorin.
Notre Dame has developed a spirit of leadership in the men she has trained. This can be seen from the war record established by her students and from the civic record of her alumni. There is one Notre Dame governor, one Notre Dame senator, and several Notre Dame representatives and mayors. On the religious side, several bishops have received their
Notre Dame degrees, including the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former president of the University and now Bishop of Buffalo.—Jim Regan
15 Burns Scholarships to be Awarded in Fall
Five residential-tuitional scholarships and ten tuitional scholarships will be awarded by the University of Notre Dame before the beginning of the Fall term which starts in September.
These awards, known as the James A. Burns Memorial Scholarships, are assistance scholarships for students who are in need of financial aid in order to begin their college course, but who have reasonable assurance that they can wholly or partly support themselves in their succeeding college years.
Candidates for the scholarships must have been graduated from an accredited high school, preparatory school, or academy before the end of June, 1946. It is advisable, according to the Committee on Scholarships at Notre Dame, that they should be not more than 17 years of age inasmuch as scholarships may not be resumed if the student’s residence has been interrupted. Scholars will be chosen from the candidate’s ratings in the College Entrance Examination Board examinations and their high school records. Valid evidence of financial need must be presented.
The applicant must write to the College Entrance Examination Board, P.O. Box 592, Princeton, N.J., to request admission to the examination held on June 1, 1946. Latest date for application without penalty is May 11, 1946 (May 4 west of the Mississippi). The applicant should then write a letter to the Chairman, Committee on Scholarships, University of Notre Dame, stating that he wishes to become a candidate and that he has applied to the College Entrance Examination Board for admission to the examinations.
Bill Sullivan Speaks
At Commerce Forum
William Sullivan, senior in the College of Commerce, brought out in an address to the Commerce Forum Wednesday evening the problems with which the United States is faced regarding immigration. The speaker also discussed his plan on how we should cope with these problems.
“To permit some of the world’s unfor^ New members who attended their first meeting are: Jack Alexander, John Du-cato, Paul Qualy, George Schott, George Weiss, Michael Yarbenet, and John Young. Professor Edmund A. Smith acted as moderator.
32
Economic Roundtable
Admits 7 New Members
At interviews held before the Easter holidays, the members of the Economic Roundtable accepted seven new men into their ranks, bringing the total club membership to .17.
The new members are: Tom O’Brien, Tom Fitzpatrick, Mike Yarbenet, Bernie O’Hora, Paul Qualy, Frank Scerawski, and Don Brady. The interviewing com-
mittee was headed by Bill McGah and Carl Karey, and the men applying for ' membership appeared before a meeting of the club at the Ramble Inn on April 11.
John Dee, Chicago law student and a . veteran of the Roundtable, delivered the first paper of the spring semester at the April 11 meeting, speaking on the vital issue of housing. He presente 1 the causes of the present critical situation of housing in the United States and dwelt on the solutions being offered in the govern
mental bodies to relieve the problem. Much of his paper was devoted to a study of the Wagner-Ellender-Taft bill now before Congress.
The Roundtable calendar for this semester has been drawn up, with weekly meetings on Thursday evenings scheduled to be held in the Ramble Inn where dinner will precede the business portion of the meeting. Three guest spots occur in the calendar, and Mr. John H. Sheehan, head of the economics department at Notre Dame, will be the first guest speaker.
RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING KEEP GENERAL ELECTRIC YEARS AHEAD
LIGHTING AT GENERAL ELECTRIC
THE amount of knowledge accumulated in lamp making is enormous. Some of this knowledge is committed to paper, but much of it is to be found only in the minds of technical and production men in the laboratories and in the factories. Among these men are scores who, on leaving their technical colleges, have since directed their special training to developing better lamps for less money. .
The manufacturing operations of General Electric’s Lamp Department are far-flung, its 36 plants being scattered about the country in 17 cities.
Altogether they add up to 94 acres of floor space roughly equivalent to an eight-story, mile-long factory a hundred feet wide.
The goal of G-E Lamp Research has always been to produce the best possible lamps for every lighting service—at the lowest cost. Over the years lamp prices have been repeatedly reduced while lamp efficiency has steadily improved. For example, the present 60-watt lamp bulb is 56 per cent brighter than its ancestor of 1923, yet costs only one-quarter as much. General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.
GENERAL © ELECTRIC
33
"Ethical Reform Needed In U. S.,"
Fr. Fitzgerald Tells Labor Session
It is most necessary that along with improving the social and economic environment in the United States there be far-reaching ethical reforms, the Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., professor of Economics at Notre Dame, declared at the fifth labor session of the Industrial Relations Institute in Toledo.
The Institute, sponsored by the Toledo Council of Catholic Men, in cooperation with the University of Notre Dame, will continue through the month of April.
“People in all groups,” stressed Father Fitzgerald, “must show a more eager acceptance of Christian social principles if we are going to have a proper regard for the general welfare. The prevalent tendency to use Christian teaching merely for the guidance of the individual conscience, but not for social and economic problems, is a serious obstacle in building a sound social order. Education in Christian social principles is sadly needed amongst all groups in society. Such knowledge will go far toward removing prejudices and misunderstandings.”
Father Fitzgerald pointed out that Pope Pius XII is well aware of the periodic economic crises that beset the United States, as is evidenced in his letter to’ the Catholic Church in America, Sertum Laetitiae, written shortly after the outbreak of World War II. Having stressed the gravity of the social question, Pope Pius XII stated: “You know full well what aspect it assumes in America, what acrimonies, what disorders it produces.” In urging us in America to apply to our problems the principles of the Encyclical, Reconstructing the Social Order, Pius XII said: “What a proud vaunt it will be for the American people ... if they untie the knotty and difficult social question.”
“Two false philosophies of society are largely responsible,” continued the Notre Dame professor, “for the indifference and scorn that have met the social teachings of the Church. One of these, Individualism, has destroyed through ignorance or forgetfulness, the social and moral character of economic life. The second false philosophy, Collectivism, had the way prepared for it, according to Pope Pius XI, by the religious and moral destitution brought on by Individualism. Unrestricted freedom of action was gradually .transferred to totalitarian governments which denied the authority of any moral law.
“In contrast to the erroneous tenets of Individualism and Collectivism,” said Father Fitzgerald, “the Church teaches the true purpose of the economic order; It
is not mere individual self interest. It is not glorification of the State. It is in the words of Pope Pius XI, “to meet the demands of necessity and decent comfort and to advance people to that happier and fuller condition of life which, when it is wisely cared for, is not only no him drance to virtue but helps it greatly.’
“Pius XI was well aware that because of the disorder resulting from Individualism, the State had been weighted down with many burdens not properly its own. It was his constant aim to encourage the growth of private organization in society to assume such burdens. A healthful development of organi~ation of employers and organization of workers is considered by the Popes as a key factor in promoting a social order that will assume adequate income to all.”
Father Fitzgerald emphasized that such freely founded, private associations, when they have achieved mutual recognition and cooperation, are in the judgment of the Popes, a natural means to promote a proper sense of social responsibility amongst all groups in the economy.
“Through them,” he declared, “every man could have a voice in determining his own economic life. Guided by the moral principles laid down by the Church, they would protect the liberty of the individual from autocratic public authority, selfish private power and forced labor.”
Electrical Engineers
Hear Amplidyne Talk
The Student Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was addressed by Mr. Huber, engineer at the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company’s Twin Branch plant. Mr. Huber discussed the various applications of modern power plant design being used in the stations, and said that one of the highest pressure boilers in the world was in operation there.
The talk was given to point out the most interesting features of the plant, which the Student Branch saw when they toured the installation on April 16. The tour was arranged by Mr. L. Stauder, the faculty adviser of the Student Chapter, through the local section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
Richard White, president of the Chapter, discussed “The Theory and Applications of the Amplidyne Generator” and followed his report with a demonstration in the laboratory showing the characteristics of the machine.
34
Establish World Gov't.
to Combat A-Bomb
Establishment of a world government is the only protection against the menace of the atomic bomb, according to Dr. Milton Burton, a leading authority on atomic energy, who is on leave from his duties as professor of chemistry at the University while completing atomic research.
Dr. Burton made this statement at Nashville, Tenn., in an address before the Tennessee Education Association meeting at the Hotel Hermitage. An authority on radiation chemistry, he was associated for the last three years of World War II with the Plutonian Project of the Manhattan District Atomic Energy Project at Oak Ridge, Tenn., and in Chicago.
“No one wins an atomic bomb war,” stressed Dr. Burton. “It is a war of total destruction and obliteration for both sides. If an atomic war is to be prevented, it has to be prevented by non-mili-tary measures. The only way we can see is by world government. This does not mean that the establishment of a world government would solve all our problems. Many problems will remain to be solved on the way to the achievement of a true world government. But good faith and good intentions are paramount. We must demand world government as our only and ultimate goal.”
Dr. Burton pointed out that every major center in Tennessee is a likely target for an atomic bomb during an atomic energy war. He stressed that “the existence of the project at Oak Ridge makes life during an atomic energy war almost impossible in Tennessee. It would be considered no waste of bombs to use five or six of them in this state.”
Emphasizing that during the last five years, scientific training in the United States has virtually ceased, Dr. Burton declared: “The military did not support a persistent effort to maintain scientific training in the schools. Men who would have stayed in school, who would have become the nucleus of the new generation of scientists, were drafted. As a result we have a hiatus in our scientific development which will affect this country through at least one generation, and perhaps more. We have lost in five years the advantages of scientific strength gained in the last 25 years.”
Endorsing the McMahon Bill now before Congress, the Notre Dame educator stressed that “in its original form the McMahon Bill is the only measure which has treated our national problem realistically, and which has emphasized the fact that the military solution to the problem is simply non-existent.”
Shorts the S.R.O. Variety?
Read this:
It’s no fun when your shorts allow you Standing Room Only. A man gets tired. A man has to sit down.
Quick and easy remedy: Wear Arrow ShortSj the most comfortable made.
You’ll sit without a squirm, ’cause they’re roomy, with no center seam to plague you. San-forized-labeled, so they won’t shrink out of fit.
See Arrow Shorts with Gripper fasteners today.
PS. If your Arrow dealer hasn't the one you want, try him again.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS ® SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs Adler s for ARROWS
Dim CMNEK... MKNIEAN ( MSNM6IM
35