hi noura duh
SCHOLASTIC
iihhlu ouipus naus momzrc
HARRY A. STUHLDREHER The Horsemen Ride Again
IN THIS ISSUE ...
SOPHOMORE COTILLION TONIGHT ARMY IS STUDENT TRIP PRESIDENTIAL POLL
PREVUE WISCONSIN GAME FOUR HORSEMEN HISTORY WISCONSIN EDITOR'S SLANT
THE WEEK
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS COLLEGE PARADE
OCTOBER 16. 1936
Don't Discard Your Typewriter Ribbons KNUDSEN RIBBON REVIVER restores them to original freshness; easy to apply—no soiling of hands. One ribbon does the work of four.
Agents JOE DRUECKER 102 Walsh Hall and THE BOOK STORE
Thank the G-men and the T-men, too.
BEHIND the scenes, in many a capture by G-men, will be found the service provided by T-men—telephone men (and women, too) of the Bell System.
Law enforcement officers make frequent use of both local arid long distance telephone service. They depend on the Teletypewriter, for quick and accurate transmission of written messages. They tighten their nets with the aid of yet another Bell System development, police car radio.
And so the telephone, with products and services growing out of it, helps to make your life happier, broader and more secure.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
TELEPHONE
Why not report "All's well “ to the folks at home? For lowest rates to most points, call by number after 7 P. M. any day or anytime Sundays.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oet. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.	'
Vol. 70
October 16, 1936
No. 4
COTILLION STARTS SOCIAL YEAR
President McDermott The Sophomores ivill . . .
October 23 is Deadline For "Scrip” Writers
Material for inclusion in the first issue of Scrip must be submitted to Editor Philip Welsh before Friday, October 23, it was announced this week. Copy should be sent to 315 Sorin Hall.
“We have room for work in any literary form,” Welsh said this week. “We want especially poetry, critical essays and short fiction. It is not necessary that the student has had work appear in Scrip before; we are anxious to present new names to campus readers. All contributions are welcome.”
Welsh plans some minor changes in the literary quarterly. It is expected that a new cover design will be adopted and that some new type faces will be used in the body of the book.
Four Hundred Couples ] Expected at First
Formal Dance
9
Contrary to report in The Scholastic of October 9, the use of automobiles at the Sophomore Cotillion is not permitted. The supply of taxis in South Bend is more than adequate to meet the needs of students and dance guests.
The Cotillion hours have been set from 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Students must be in their place of residence at 2:00 a.m.
The 1936-1937 Notre Dame social season will begin this evening at 9 o’clock at the Palais Royale when members of the Sophomore class and their guests dance to the music of Carlton Kelsey and his Hollywood orchestra at the annual Sophomore Cotillion. Approximately 400 couples are expected to attend.
Queen of the Cotillion, Miss Marjorie Sass, from Louisville, Ky., will be the guest of the Cotillion chairman, Mr. John Mulderig, of Auburn, N.Y. Guest of honor, Miss Barbara Perry, from Chicago, Ill., will be escorted by the Sophomore class president, Mr. Joseph McDermott, of Chicago, Ill.
The Palais Royale ballroom has been decorated in the traditional manner. A huge colored electric N.D. light is placed at one end of the dance floor. Notre Dame blankets and pennants are hung along the walls, and colored streamers spread out from the chandelier.
Arrangements have been made by the entertainment connnittee to broadcast an hour of the dance music, probably between 10 and 11 o’clock. The broadcast will be handled by the
Chairman Mulderig
. . . Swing out tonight
South Bend Tribune’s station, WSBT.
Carlton Kelsey and his Hollywood orchestra have recently arrived in the Mid-West after making a reputation on the West Coast. Kelsey attained most of his popularity by playing for such musical pictures as “Flying Down to Rio,” “Rio Rita,” and “Roberta.” He also played at the St. Francis hotel in San Francisco and prominent clubs in Hollywood and Los Angeles. It is understood that after playing for the Cotillion Kelsey and his band will leave for Chicago.
Tomorrow afternoon Cotillion goers and their guests will witness the Wis-consin-Notre Dame game from a special section on the east side of the field.
Resign yourself to famous names in sports. A few weeks ago it was James Fennimore Cooper at Marquette. Now Benjamin Franklin, at the U. of Detroit, is working at tackle.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
ARMY GAME IS DEFINITE CHOICE FOR TRIP.
RECORD FARE OF $16.55 SECURED;
LEAVE FRIDAY. BACK MONDAY
By Graham Starr
Official approval of the student trip to the Notre Dame-Army game at Yankee Stadium on Nov. 14 was granted after a petition for the New York game had been circulated by the S.A.C., it was announced this week by the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline.
The special round trip coach fare for Notre Dame students only, is $16.55, the lowest fare of its kind ever attained by the University.
Sale of both game and railroad tickets will open at the Athletic Office on Monday, Nov. 2, and will definitely close on Wednesday, Nov. 4 at 5:00 p.m. Absolutely no tickets for either game or trip will be sold after this time. Game tickets will be issued only to students who first purchase railroad tickets. They will be stamped, “Student ticket — will not be honored if presented by anyone else.” A representative of the disciplinary department of the University will be present to identify students at their gate of entry to. Yankee Stadium.
Through the efforts of Father Boland late last summer, an allotment of tickets was reserved for the Army game.
According to the tentative schedule, the student train will leave South Bend at 1:30 p.m., Friday, Nov. 13, on the Grand Trunk line, and will arrive at the Pennsylvania Station in New York at 8:25 (E.S.T.) Saturday morning.
On the return, the “Notre Dame Special” will leave the Penn station on Sunday afternoon at 2:00 o’clock (E.S.T.), and will arrive in South Bend at 6:55 Monday morning in time for classes at 8:00.
Free street car service will be provided between the campus and the station both before and after the trip.
Bostonians Meet To Lay Plans
Thirty-five members turned out for the Boston Club’s first meeting of the year on Thursday, Oct. 8. The president, James McLaughlin, greeted the new members and asked their cooperation and advice in the management of the affairs of the club.
Meetings will be held on the first Monday of every month. There will be smokers, dinners, and other social activities at various times throughout the year.
The members decided to have a Christmas dance in Boston and a committee was named with Bernard Megin as chairman. The formation of an inter-club bowling league was also discussed.
KNIGHTSOBSERVE
COLUMBUS DAY
AT SMOKER
•
Local Knights of Columbus observed the anniversary of their patron’s discovery of America last Monday night with a council smoker in the Lay Faculty dining hall, and with the presentation of a radio program from the campus station.
Professor Frank Flynn, trustee of the council and director of the graduate curriculum in social work, gave
Grand Knight Foy “Quality, not Quantity. . .”
the radio address. He alluded to Columbus’ qualities of leadership, pointed out the necessity of such qualities in the present day fog. His address was heard by the assembled council at their smoker.
At the conclusion of the radio talk the members heard short addresses by William McNamara and Rev. Julian Sigmar.
William R. Foley was chairman of the smoker and acted as toastmaster. He also introduced Lecturer Robert L. Grogan who spoke briefly.
Grand Knight Thomas Foy announced this week that plans are going forward for a membership drive. Five committee members have been placed in charge of this drive; they are: Arthur Gregory, Joseph Canale, Edward Haggar, John Mulderig and Timothy King.
“We are adopting a plan of selection this year,” Grand Knight Foy
STUHLDREHER SPEAKS AT PEP RALLY TONIGHT
All roads will lead to the Notre Dame Gymnasium tonight as the student body gathers there for the giant pep rally in preparation for tomorrow’s game with the University of Wisconsin. The trek will begin at the dining hall immediately following supper from where the band will lead the long line of marching students.
If tonight’s array of speakers may be used as a criterion this pep meeting should be one of the most interesting of the year. The Student’s Activities Council, in charge of the rally, should be congratulated on the excellent program which they have arranged.
This evening’s master of ceremonies will be Philip R. Bondi, president of the S.A.C., who will introduce the speakers to the assembled group. The Rev. Father J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, will be the first speaker of the evening, formally opening the program.
Paul Castner, who played football at Notre Dame in 1921 and ’22 and among whose many accomplishments is a 47 yard drop kick against Michigan State in 1921, will follow Father O’Donnell on the program. The third speaker of the evening will be another famous Notre Dame man who is returning as coach of a team which hopes to defeat Notre Dame tomorrow. Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback of the immortal “Four Horsemen,” will address the students of his Alma Mater.
The final speaker on the program will be Elmer Layden, director of athletics and head coach. Coach Layden’s addresses are always well received, and the students will anxiously await his opinion on tomorrow’s game.
Professor Joseph Casasanta will have charge of the musical program and will lead the band in the playing of the Notre Dame songs.
said. “We will limit the number of applications to be submitted to the council. The quality of our membership is more important than its quantity.”
The Knights of Columbus are sponsoring a football dance to be given on Saturday, November 21, the day of the Northwestern football game.
Santa Maria, news organ of the local council, will make its first appearance during the early part of November, according to Editor William Gomber. The sheet this year will .be eight pages instead of four.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
5
S.A.C. AIDS HOUSING OF GUESTS FOR THE OHIO STATE GAME
•
Since all hotel reservations are filled for the Ohio State game weekend, the S.A.C., at the meeting last Monday night, decided to maintain a list of private homes and rooming houses for the convenience of relatives and friends of students. In charge of William E. Foley, the housing problem will be cared for at the Alumni Office in the Administration Building.
The South Bend Chamber of Commerce, cooperating with the S.A.C. to make the week-end a pleasant one, is planning to provide extra transportation facilities on the day of the game.
A big pep meeting is planned for the Ohio State week-end. If possible, national or at least local broadcasting of the pep rally will be arranged for.
The first new campus club to apply for and receive organization rights from the S.A.C. was the Democratic Club.
Noting that several clubs are existing on the campus without activities, the S.A.C. passed a resolution requiring at least two activities to be held on the campus per semester by all clubs.
Eichard Delaney, chairman of the freshman smoker, announced that a skit contest among the freshman halls may be conducted at the forthcoming smoker.
Applications for charters for campus clubs, both new and old, are being received by Gene Ling this week. He stated that actual activities of the Presidents’- Council will be delayed until the matter of charters is cleared up. All club presidents are urged to send in their applications to 107 Walsh before next Tuesday.
Detroit Attorney Talks At Law Club Session
Under the direction of President Patrick Fisher, the Law Club held its initial meeting of the year last Thursday evening at 8 o’clock in the Lay Faculty dining room.
Attorney George A. O’Brien of Detroit, was the principal speaker. He discussed “Social Legislation and Constitution,” commenting on the constitutionality of minimum hours and wages. Dean Thomas F. Konop of the Law School told of his experiences as Congressman from Wisconsin. Other members of the law faculty addressed the group.
Frank B. Eoss, probate judge of Indianapolis, Ind., will address the club at its next meeting, Nov. 12.
ROOSEVELT, LANDON, LEMKE AND THOMAS ON "THE SCHOLASTIC" STRAW VOTE BALLOT IN TODAY'S ISSUE
With less than three weeks remaining before the national elections, The Scholastic is printing in today’s issue the first straw vote ballot to appear on the campus since 1932.
Names of the four leading candidates including President Franklin D.
SULLIVAN CHAIRMAN OF SATURDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL DANCE
Dan Sullivan
The social debut of this year’s senior class will be made tomorrow evening when the men of ’37 sponsor a football dance following the Wisconsin game. This affair-is the second in a series of “Victory Dances” that will be given during the current gridiron season. Class President Parker Sullivan announced early this week his appointment of Dan Sullivan of Amboy, Ill., a Senior in the College of Commerce
as general chairman of the dance.
This week the price of tickets has been reduced to 50 cents a couple. The reason for this reduction is to encourage attendance at the dances and thus set a precedent for the following Saturdays to come.
Tickets may be purchased at the doors of the Jefferson Plaza where the dance will be held. The hours are again 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. The management of the Jefferson Plaza has announced to Chairman Sullivan that the dance floor has recently been enlarged and the new dancing facilities will be ready for tomorrow’s dance.
Architects Meet
Last Wednesday afternoon, the Cercle Des Bossus, campus organization for students in the department of architecture, held its initial meeting in the Architecture building.
Eeginald A. Morrison, master, and Albert Van Namee, sub-master, conducted the meeting and outlined a tentative list of activities for the schoolyear before one of the largest gatherings in the club’s history.
Within the next month, the organization is to hold its first banquet, and it is planned to follow this up with other activities' about Christmas and Easter time.
Eoosevelt, Alfred M. Landon, William Lemke, and Norman Thomas, are included. Each student is asked to indicate his choice, exactly as though he were casting an election ballot, indicate the state from which he comes, and give the ballot to a Scholastic representative who will call for it on either Monday or Tuesday evening.
Legal Age Unnecessary
With campaigning at a fever pitch, polls are being conducted by scores of publications both of general and special circulation. Several leading universities are polling the student body since particular emphasis has been placed on the role of youth in national affairs.
In the local poll votes are being taken regardless of whether the student is of legal age to vote in the actual election. The poll is designed solely to take a cross section of student opinion on this important national question.
Party affiliations of the various candidates will not be specified on the straw vote ballot. '
1932 Poll Accurate
The last Scholastic poll, conducted prior to the 1932 elections, predicted the election of President Eoosevelt and gave him a substantial majority over his principal opponent, Herbert Hoover.
-All students are asked to fill in the ballot and have it ready on Monday or Tuesday evening to be collected by • the reporter who will call for it. There is no other way of having your ballot count in the poll.
SCHOLASTIC STRAW VOTE BALLOT
Eoosevelt .......... Q
Landon ............. Q
Lemke................Q
Thomas_______________□
Voter’s Home State:
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
DR. S. HOYT LECTURES METALLURGISTS ON NEW ALLOY
"NOTRE DAME HAS GROWN ON THE IDEALS OF HER FOUNDER.11 PRESIDENT SAYS IN SPECIAL RADIO ADDRESS
Dr. S. L. Hoyt, research metallurgist for the A. 0. Smith corporation, Milwaukee, Wis., addressed the October meeting of the Notre Dame section of the American Society for Metals last Thursday evening in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Dr. Hoyt discussed two subjects: first, heat-resisting alloys with special reference to Smith alloy No. 10, a high temperature electric furnace resistor alloy; second, the fractional oxygen method for analyzing weld metal and steel and a correlation of its findings with examination of polished samples by polarized light and with metallurgical behavior.
A former metallurgist for General Electric company, Dr. Hoyt was largely responsible for the commercial development of cemented tungsten carbide, known under the trade name of carboloy, an exceptionally hard tool material.
An announcement has been made by Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy, that the first meeting of the Chicago and Notre Dame sections of the American Society for Metals will be held on April 24, 1937 at Notre Dame. The Chicago section, the largest section in the country, is composed of about 750 men of the metallurgical industries and the educational institutions of the Chicago district.
Two Dances Scheduled After Army-ND Game
Army game - goers will be well entertained on Saturday evening, November 14, following the game, since two affairs, a military ball and a dinner-dance, are scheduled at two well-known New York hotels.
At the Hotel Pennsylvania, friends of Notre Dame are invited to attend a dinner-dance to be given by the Notre Dame alumni of New York City. No details have as yet been released.
While in the Belvedere Ball Room of the Hotel Astor, a military ball for the benefit of the Catholic chapel of the Most Holy Trinity, West Point, is to be held. The Rev. George G. Murdock, pastor, is the Catholic chaplain at the Point.
Vincent Lopez and his nationally famous radio orchestra will provide music for the dancing which will continue from 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Guest artists will appear at 11:00 p.m.
By Gregory Byrnes
“The cross for the worship of God, the flag for intelligent patriotism, and the statue of Our Lady foi- true manliness — these are the three symbols of the ideal upon which Notre Dame was founded and upon which it has grown,”
declared the Rev. John F.
O’Hara,
FORTY-EIGHT STATES TWELVE COUNTRIES SEND STUDENTS
•
Depression days are gone with the wind according to Registrar Robert B. Riordan’s report that 2,964 students, residents of all 48 states and 12 foreign countries, are enrolled here for the first semester.
In the swing back to normalcy, New York once again leads the other
Registrar Riordan
The final count is in.
states with 473. Illinois’ 441 is second, while Indiana, the home state is third with 397.
Other states which have more than 100 students are Ohio and Michigan which are represented by 264 and 205 respectively followed by New Jersey with 122, Pennsylvania with 181, and Wisconsin with 119.
Thomas McKenna, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters from Carlin, Nevada, is the first student to enroll from that state since 1932. Delaware, too, sends one student.
This report, according to the Registrar, is “presumptive proof” that the majority of the states have returned to a pre-depression financial level, since in almost every instance the states have sent the same student quotas as in the flush period of prosperity.
Of the student body 93.82% are of Catholic faith, but 19 other religious faiths and denominations are represented as well as a group of 16 students who claim no religious affiliation.
S.C., president of the University, in a special Founder’s Day p r o g r a m broadcast from the campus studios last Tuesday evening. Father O’Hara spoke of the ideal of service begun by the founders, the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., and his associates, and expressed the hope that this ideal will be realized more fully in the education and entertainment offered by the University in its radio programs.
Mr. James Armstrong, alumni secretary, also gave a brief address on the significance of Founder’s Day. The University Glee Club, under the baton of Mr. Joseph Casasanta, director of the campus musical organizations, gave a concert of Notre Dame songs especially suitable to the occasion.
The campus radio group will hold its regular meeting next Monday evening at 7:45 in the studio of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. It is planned to give individual auditions to all candidates for every department. Everyone is urged to be present.
The Founder’s Day program was the first to be presented this year from the local studios. Norbert Aleksis, student director of radio, said this week that he hopes to have a regular schedule of productions on the air within the next ten days.
Last year’s radio group developed the local broadcasting field and their general plan will be adopted. Programs will include faculty speeches, student drama, music, debating and other activities. It is hoped to revive the radio amateur hour. The auditions announced this week are for the purpose of unearthing campus talent to replace the regular staff lost last Spring through graduation.
Paul Nawak III
Paul Nowak, of South Bend, varsity basketball center on Notre Dame’s 1935-36 championship team, was operated on for appendicitis Tuesday morning in St. Joseph’s Hospital. The staff doctors report his condition as satisfactory. Although Nowak will probably miss the first few weeks of practice, beginning next Monday, he will no doubt he ready to ojin the squad for the initial game in the early part of December.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
MET CLUB RETURNS TO LIFE UNDER
NEW PLAN
•
By Frank Reilly
The New Yorkers will have their Met club once again.
This time, it will be run on a basis closely resembling that of the New Jersey club.
Terms of reorganization were presented at the revival meeting in the basement of the Library, Friday at noon. The keynote of the new plan is. a close cooperation between the Metropolitan club on the campus and the New York Alumni group.
The Alumni association from the metropolitan district is going to act in a general advisory capacity. Under this system, the campus club will submit to the Alumni association a list of bands and places it would like to hire. That group will consider the proposals of the campus club, and then approve or disapprove. The Alumni want the expenses kept down as much as possible for the first year.
Immediate necessity of paying the $100 debt to the Hotel Roosevelt has been waived. But it is hoped that the Christmas dance will show a profit large enough to cover the debt. Members were urged to attend this dance on that account.
The Sunday meeting was conducted by Phil Bondi, S.A.C. president, and Mr. Joseph Gelson, president of the Alumni association of New York City urged cooperation between campus club members and the Alumni. At this meeting, by unanimous vote, it was decided that in order to vote in the elections Wednesday night each man desiring to vote must pledge himself to buy one ticket for the Christmas dance.
Phil Bondi has appointed George Bonfield, of the S.A.C., to take charge of the meeting Wednesday night.
German Club Meets
Over 50 members were present at the first meeting of the German club, held Oct. 7. Prof. Wack, moderator of the club, spoke about the object of the organization. Activities for the coming year were discussed and plans were made for a year’s program. Elections will be held at a meeting in the near future from nominees selected at first meeting. The Rev. Hugo Hoever, O.Cist., was present at the meeting and addressed the members in a short speech.
It was announced that regular meetings of the club will be held every two weeks, with the next meet-, ing Oct. 21, the place to be announced later.
Ohio State Tickets
Student tickets for the Ohio State game will be distributed next week on the regular schedule instead of the following week.
Seniors: Monday, Oct. 19 from 1 to 5 p.m.; Juniors: Tuesday, Oct. 20 from 1 to 5 p.m.; Sophomores: Wednesday, Oct 21 from 1 to 5 p.m.; Freshmen: Thursday, Oct. 22 from 1 to 5 p.m.
Large Turn-out Marks Ohioans' Smoker
A 98 per cent turnout of the older members and an increased enrollment of 25 new Freshmen members were the highlights of the initial informal smoker held by the Central Ohio club last Friday.
The officers for the year are Girard Besanceney, president; Joseph Ryan, vice-president; Charles Wine-gardner, treasurer; and Thomas Elder, secretary.
Tentative plans for a Christmas Dance and a Communion Breakfast to be held in the near future in conjunction with another campus club were advanced by the members.
BLASTING BEDLAM OF BOOMING BELLS
This is a story of bells, not of those in the tower of some great cathedral or of those chiming away the hour on a luxurious trans-oceanic liner, but of harsh, strident, insistent clamoring of Notre Dame bells.
It is a story that every student should listen to, for bells are an integral part of his life. Breaking out upon the stillness of an early morning, they are the first sounds that the Notre Dame man is aware of upon awakening. But this is just the beginning, the warm-up before the game.
They ring for breakfast, dinner, and supper (lunch and dinner to you cultured guys). They shrill the call to classes. They buzz out the message that it’s time for night prayer. Finally they end their day’s work with a last, sharp clanging at ten o’clock—except when they have overtime to do. It is reported that one playful bell in Walsh did a little of this overtime the other night—’round about two.
Figure out how much of the time you listen to bells. Allow an average for every time they ring of a little less than a minute. That would total up to almost fifteen minutes a day, an hour and a half a week (including Sundays), fifty-four hours a year. • These are Arts and Letters computations, you engineers. Corrections welcomed.
Have you ever wondered where these annoyers of students had. their
7
Noted Catholic Editor Here For Lectures
•
Beginning Monday night, Oct. 19, and continuing throughout the week the Rev. James Martin Gillis, C.S.P., nationally known author, lecturer, and editor of the Catholic World, will give a series of five lectures concerning the old and new concepts of religion.
Father Gillis is noted for his Sunday night addresses on the Catholic Hour and his inumerable books written in defense of the Catholic Faith. Notable among these is False Prophets which caused quite a sensation a few years ago.
The program of lectures for the week is as follows:
Monday, Oct. 19—A New Approach to Apologetics.
Tuesday, Oct. 20—God; The Modem Meaning of the Word.
Wednesday, Oct. 21—Religion; The Old Concept and the New.
Thursday, Oct. 22—Faith; After a Century of Science.
Friday, Oct. 23—Morality; • The New Style.
beginning? Did they have them back in the early days of the University? We suspect they did. They weren’t, of course, the modem, stream-lined bells found in the corridors of new Cavanaugh Hall. They weren’t even electrically operated.
But there were bells. Of that we’re sure. Small, hand-rung bells brought to students of those early days the first notes of another morning. The clanging of this type of persuader can even to this day be heard reverberating up and down the corridors of Sorin on any dark winter morning. This bell, dear frosh, is a tradition, a relic of another age.
Notre Dame has grown into a great university since those early days, and with its development came the evolution of the bell. With the advent of electricity the work of ringing the bells was reduced to the pushing of a new button, and now a clock does the work. As time went by, they were changed from ugly pimples on the face of the corridor to painted mechanisms harmonizing with the general architecture. In the newer halls they are almost hidden, unobtrusive.
Yes, this is the story of bells, bells we can’t live with and couldn’t live without. If they were removed, scurrying freshmen and dignified seniors alike would be lost in the haze of “What time is it?” So here we pay tribute to the Notre Dame bells, the first salute they’ve ever received. May they ring loud and long!
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
Westerners To Meet For First Session
•
The newly organized Far West club, temporarily supervised by John Gallivan, a senior, from Salt Lake City, Utah, will hold its initial meeting Monday night in Brownson Recreation hall.
Members of the new club will include all Notre Dame men having their homes in Arizona, Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Nevada, Idaho, Montana, Washington, Oregon, New Mexico, and the territory of Alaska. The state of California was originally included; however, because of the unusually large enrollment from that state, a separate club was organized.
Assisting in arrangements are Phil Hostermann, Washington; Tom Foy, New Mexico; and Frank Burke, Oregon. Members of the club representing each state are contacting eligible members from all classes, in order to assure one hundred percent attendance which will be about 70 students.
Plans for the year feature entertainment at meetings with the complete elimination of politics within the club. Several public smokers are also on the club’s schedule. Officers will be elected at the meeting Monday night.
La Raza Club Hears Prof. deLandero
Reviewing the life of Christopher Columbus, Professor Pedro deLandero, spoke before the members of the La Raza at their annual Columbus Day banquet Monday night in the Oliver Hotel. Mr. deLandero is honorary president of the group which is composed of Spanish speaking students at Notre Dame.
Nine new members, four from Porto Rico, three from the Philippines, one from Cuba and one from Mexico, were introduced and spoke briefly. Albert E. Castineira, Havana, Cuba, acted as toastmaster.
The Rev. Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C., professor of Spanish, also gave a short talk.
Last week the club attended a special Mass in Sacred Heart Church for the insurgent forces in Spain. •
Patricians To Begin Membership Drive
Matthew J. Bruccoli, president of the Patricians, announced Tuesday, October 13, the appointment of a membership committee of John Mar-bach as- chairman; Thomas Doody and John Deane as committeemen. The committee will interview applicants for admission to the club. The deadline for -applications has not been determined.
From our studio high above the campus on the fourth floor of Walsh Hall, we present this week’s campus personality, Philip R. Bondi, president of the Students’ Activities Council.
Phil’s numerous duties include acting as master of ceremonies at all pep meetings . . . Says he was a little nervous at the Carnegie Tech rally, but hopes to gain confidence with each succeeding attempt. . .
Hails from Sterling, Illinois, where he attended St. Mary’s Community High School . . . Played guard and quarterback on the St. Mary’s football team. As proof of his ability
he points out that he received honorable mention on the All-State team in his senior year.
Phil is a Commerce student with Accounting as his Major. Despite legion duties, - his average is well above the ninety mark, and he hopes to graduate in June with Maxima cum 'Laude honors. . .
Shares a triple with Bill Lynch and Elmer Zenner of the Walsh Gentlemen. Was quite perturbed when his roommates forced him to occupy the ’ lower berth. Finally accepted after slight persuasion by Elmer Zenner. . .
Makes regular trips to social functions across the lake and an occasional tour to South Bend. Present plans call for more study. . . probably at Harvard for a law degree.
His hair-trigger smile has enabled him to make innumerable friends during his three years at Notre Dame. He is seldom angry even when addressed as Bill Phondi by some of his friends.
MISSOURI'S SMOKER IS SET FOR WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 21
•
The reorganized Missouri club held its first meeting of the year last Wednesday in Carroll Recreation hall. The club’s new president, Edward J. Reardon, from Kansas City, Mo., presided and outlined the organization’s program to the 41 members present.
The first activity of the club, said Reardon, would be a club smoker on Oct. 21 in Carroll Recreation hall. All students from Missouri, especially the freshman, are invited to attend and discuss future plans of the body.
Activity number two on the program is a banquet to be given just before the students leave for the Christmas vacation. It-will be held either in the faculty dining room or in one of the downtown hotels. At this dinner final plans will be made for the two Christmas dances the club will sponsor. One dance will be given by the St. Louis division of the club in one of the leading St. Louis hotels, and the other dance will be given by the Kansas City division in Kansas City, sometime during the holidays.
Reardon announced the following committees: Smoker committee: Al Erskine, chairman; Vincent Scheltz, and James Metzler. Banquet committee: Jack Zerbst, chairman, Tom White, Francis Toyne, and Thomas Rooney.
Junior "Dome" Pictures
First pictures for the Junior section of the Dome, Notre Dame yearbook, were taken Wednesday afternoon in the basement of Walsh Hall. Appointments with members of the Junior class for pictures to be taken throughout this month will be made by members of the Dome staff, it was announced by Editor Tom Radigan. Juniors wishing to have their pictures in the Dome must appear at Walsh Hall at their scheduled time, which will be between 1:30 and 5:00 on all week day afternoons.
Phil is very fond of popular dance music, and he knows the words to most of the “Hits of the Week.” His imitations of Vallee and Crosby, as heard in the Walsh shower room, lead to the suggestion that he appear on the Major Bowes’ Hour.
Phil worked in his father’s confectionery store last summer, but found time to make several week-end trips to Chicago. . . Has no definite plans following graduation, but hopes .to study law.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
9
THE WEEK
Top of the Week
Ordinarily, the “Top of the Week” is tucked away in the middle of the column, hut we couldn’t wait for this weeks’ zenith. Professors Engel and Rauch, of the Shakespearean department, learned and dignified gentlemen, were espied in a local Woolworth emporium buying books of Mother Goose rhymes. In a feeble attempt at minimizing their predicament, they protested that they were purchasing the rhymes for some children. Come now, that’s hardly cricket!
*
Belles Lettres
Advertising, we’ll admit is a wonthing, but its results are not always so wonderful. Alex Sloan, of Walsh, was the unwilling victim of some high - pressure solicitation by his mates on the third floor. They sent away for some false teeth powder for Alex. By special permission of the authors, we reprint a portion of the manuscript:
“Gentlemen:
“For years my teeth have been falling out and I have been the laughing stock of my friends. Often when I eat in restaurants I am embarrased because my teeth come out, once when I was in swimming and it cost me ten bucks to get new teeth in the ocean. . . Please send me as you say in your ad a trial box of your Klutch —is that the kind you use in your machine. I am the janitor in this building and all the students make fun with me because my teeth stick out and they say I look like a moose, I don’t think so.”
We didn’t dare change the punctuation or context. The rest of the letter is in the same vein, yet Alex got the powder. Naive, these Klutch men.
* * *
Confession
With.the football season comes the fan-letter craze, a form of pseudo-literary expression in which the soul of the author is unhesitatingly bared. Although our schedule is less than one-third completed, already varsity men have accumulated some priceless examples of gush. The mail men of Walsh and Sorin are particularly oppressed, but if they knew the innocent humor contained in the messages, they wouldn’t mind their extra burden. One of the stars received a letter addressed to Notre Dame College, Baton Eouge, Louisiana. The writer, a girl, said, among other things, that she is not just a plain nobody, but of a good family. She is young and pretty and she likes to do things with a kick in it (italics and phraseology are carefully reprinted).
By John A. Gillespie
Peace, Brothers, Peace
Since the announcement of the first victim of the lake, we have unearthed more than one repetition. A word of mediation: the spirit is laudable, but it can be misdirected. Every man should be allowed some griping, active or passive. Would you take away one of the pillars of Notre Dame? Complaining relieves heat, usually does no harm. And if you think the griping season is in full flower, wait until the depressing months between Christmas vacation and Easter, when the temperature collapses, the front of Sorin looks like a Florida real estate development, the infirmary is packed with wheezing, sniffling men, and the holidays are scarce. Ooops— there we go—griping. In the lake!
*
Double Allegiance
Whoever covered the Jersey Club smoker in last week’s issue did a nice, accurate bit of reporting, but he missed the feature angle. Or maybe he was afraid to print it. Well, with our usual lack of caution, we’ll give it to you. The guest speaker was the Rev. John Farley, C.S.C., whose attachment to New Jersey is as fervid as his love for Sorin. The good Father, in the middle of a rambling but none the less entrancing talk, mentioned that he once attended a Christian Brother’s school in Paterson, or Passaic, or one of those Indian towns. His school had no football club, so Father Farley donated his services to Paterson High and Passaic High, on alternate Saturdays. No sense in being scrupulous when a man likes to play football, is there? At the same Jersey Club function were rooters from Lexington, Buffalo, South Bend, Cincinnati, Rock Springs ( Wyo.), and points east. President Joe Quinn has too many friends.
* * *
Big City Stuff
It would seem that the pedagogical powers are taking a beating in this week’s developments. Now Professor John Turley, of the department of Languages, claims attention. He received a post card from New York. It read: “Having a wonderful time. Saw “Swing Time,” with Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Wonderful film. Be sure to see it when it comes to the Colfax. Gertrude.” Not knowing who Gertrude might be, Mr. Turley was justifiably perturbed. A closer inspection of the card revealed that it was a publicity stunt, sent by enterprising picture potentates to ballyhoo the Astaire-Rogers picture. For a while, though, our Mr. Turley was puzzled.
Bookmen Choose Four New Members
•
From a list of twelve applicants the Bookmen Club selected four new members to partially fill the maximum membership in the club. The names of the new members are: William T. Mahoney, junior; Vincent De Courcey, sophomore; Robert Cullen, freshman; and Robert Mullen, junior.
Simultaneously with the announcement of the new members, Harold A. Williams in charge of applicants for the Bookmen Club, said that another call for applicants will be issued early in the second semester.
At the meeting Wednesday, October’ 7, the club also approved an additional list of books to be placed in the circulating library of the club for the first semester.
Last Wednesday the club held a social gathering and reception for the four new members of the club. Beginning November 4 the regular meetings will be held in the Hurley Hall of- Commerce every two weeks.
Robert McGrath, president of the club, also announced that Arnold Lunn has promised to address the club in the near future.
Association Sponsors Essay Contest
A contest for high school and college students, who have studied English, economics or politics, is being sponsored by the Indiana Township Trustee’s Association with headquarters at Indianapolis, Indiana.
In an effort to bring before the public the benefits of home rule by township trustees, the association is offering prizes for the best essay submitted on the subject “The Benefits of Home Rule by Townships.”
Prizes offered in the college division are first prize, §40; second prize, §25 and third prize §10. Manuscripts shall not exceed 1,000 words in length, and must be postmarked not later than 12 p.m., Nov. 1, 1936.
Any student interested in entering the contest should get in touch with Professor Paul Bartholomew at his office in the Commerce building.
Rhode Island Meeting
Led by John Sullivan, a senior in the College of Commerce, the Rhode Island club has begun formulating plans for activities during the coming year.
At a meeting held last Friday night in the Brownson Recreation Hall a tentative program, including smokers, a Communion breakfast, and a dance during the Christmas holidays, was discussed.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C________..Faculty Adviser
PAUL FOLEY.....................  Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER.................. Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie The IVeelf
Anthony F. O'Boyle_______________College Parade
John Hurley______________________Feature Editor
Robert L. Grogan“Scholastic of the Air”
Joseph Rotondo In The Juggler Vein
News Staff
Louis DaPra----------------------------------•___News Editor
Harold A. Williams______________________-Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven Frank Reilly
Richard Riley________________________________Robert McClain
Graham Starr
Vincent Hartnett!
Gregory Byrnes }■____________________________Literary Editors
Harold Williams J
Sports Staff
Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe________________________Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride----------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_____________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott------------------------------James A. Waldron
.	James Dunn
Francis Kroeger_________________________________Art Editor
William R. Dooley, '26_______________________________Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	October 16, 1936	No. 4
WRITER'S CRAMP ...
IN THE first issue of the year, a revival was announced.
The Scholastic outlined a program designed to provide a weekly outlet for literary productions of the students. It was explained that the material was -to be strictly student work, voluntary contributions of readable manuscript. No “arty” prose or strictly fanciful poetry was to be accepted, the work was to be the presentation of Notre Dame men writing in Notre Dame style.
With the appearance of the fourth issue of the year announcement is made of a new system to handle this literary content. A board of editors will be appointed, few at first, this staff will work directly with student writers, contacting all possible sources of supply, reviewing all material, rejecting and choosing. It is hoped that • much selection will be necessary and possible. .
Material printed in the first three issues, with one exception, was solicited from faculty members and
individual students. It is hoped that an active, alert board of editors can some how stimulate what seems to be a distinctly lethargic literary output on the campus.
V
It is not the purpose of The Scholastic to bemoan the lack of such work, it is not necessary to flail the air, scrape, scuffle and beg material to fill our weekly editions. It is hoped, however, that literary effort on the campus is not totally dead. Any dormant int</rest will be ambitiously and energetically fanned. We hope to find some sort of life.—P.F. '
V
College men have become solely interested in dances, football games, and smokers, wail the critics. This week’s issue of The Scholastic contains ten or twelve news stories of the activities of local student clubs. According to their charters these clubs must sponsore at least two activities in each semester. Unanimously the clubs plan to conduct a Christmas dance and a smoker. The critics are apparently right
. V
Risking the idea of suggestion, we ask that Mickey Mouse and Shirley Temple be eliminated from the presidential poll being conducted on the campus. The four candidates named supply plenty of range to assert one’s individuality of franchise. It will not be necessary to invent new candidates.
.	V. _
Daily, in front of every door on the campus, is being presented an exposition of apologetics that can be found in no other place in the world, at any price. The series being printed by Mr. Arnold Lunn in the Daily Religious Bulletin, is -without question the finest thing of its kind to appear in print on the campus in years.
It is strikingly new to read ancient truths in the clean-cut prose of today and tomorrow. Mr. Limn accomplishes this with powerful, brilliant strokes that must not be overlooked. ,	-
.	• V
For fifty cents one can purchase a fat red volume in which the 1936 football season is completely played, digested, catalogued and chronicled even before any teams take the field. The editors have even chosen this year’s All American team three months in advance, picked the winner of all important games, given oracular advice about comparative scores—in fact its hardly necessary to. go ahead and play the season. The packaged age is reaching a zenith.
V
America in a recent issue gave the names of forty Catholic authors, in the United States and abroad, who deserve lasting recognition. The writers are those who have contributed some outstanding Catholic service in the English language. Heading the international list is Jacques Maritain whose writings have been translated. Christopher Hollis, Arnold Lunn and Shane Leslie are all on the recognized list. Sister M., Madeleva, C.S.C., hold high ranking on the American list, the only nun to be so honored.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.	11
CALENDAR
Friday, October 16
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial staff 6:30 p.m., general staff 7:00 p.m.; Sophomore Cotillion, Palais Royale, Carlton Kelsey and his orchestra, 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Saturday, October 17
Football, Wisconsin vs. Varsity, Stadium, 2:00 p.m., Football, Illinois “B” vs. Notre Dame “B,” Champaign, Ill.; Movie, Washington hall, First show for Freshmen, 6:40 p.m.; Senior Class Football dance, Jefferson Plaza, 8:30 to 11:30 p.m.
Sunday, Ocotber 18
Student Masses, at Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, K. of C. chambers, Walsh hall; Officers’ meeting, Knights of Columbus, K. of C. chambers.
Monday, October 19
Glee club practice 12:30; Band practice 4:00 p.m.; S.A.C. meeting, Library, 6:30 p.m.; Meeting of Arnold Lunn group, Law auditorium, 8:00 p.m.; Servers’ club meeting, Sacristy, Sacred Heart Church, 6:30 p.m.; Lecture, “A New Approach to Apologetics,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m., by James Gillis, editor' Catholic World.
Tuesday, October 20
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice 4:00 p.m.; Gillis lecture, “God: the Modem Meaning of the Word,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.
Wednesday, October 21
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; band practice 4:00 p.m.; Gillis lecture “Religion: The Old Concept and the New,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.; Annual Engineers’ Initiation, Gym; Bookmen reception, Oliver hotel, 8:00 p.m.; Press club meeting, Library.
Thursday, October 22
Glee club practice 12:30 p.m.; band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Gillis lecture, “Faith—After a Century of Science,” Washington hall, 8:00 p.m.; Law club meeting, Law auditorium; Italian club meeting, Carroll Rec., 7:45 p.m.
Prof. Watson Writes On Accounting
An illustrated article by Professor J. Donald Watson, instructor of finance in the College of Commerce, on the use of diagrams for simplifying and speeding up annuity calculations has just been published in pamphlet form following its appearance in Accounting Review, a leading technical publication devoted to accounting.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Something to Cheer About
Present day college students can gratefully doff their Stetsons to Professor Sarett of Northwestern University who recently had something to say of the modern crop of collegians as a whole. Since Professor Sarett is a veteran of 22 years experience in the teaching of college youths, we feel that his words are backed with some authority. We quote Professor Sarett:
“Five years ago youth in general talked much about sophistication and skepticism. It liked the posture. Today, there is less talk about it and no posture of sophistication. The young men and women now, “however, actually are a healthier and more wholesome type. It is the questioning approach of persons sincerely groping for belief in something to which they can tie, and which their intelligence can accept.”
Your Time and You
According to the figures accumulated by Dr. William O. Hotchkiss of Rensselaer Polytech in Troy, N. Y. a student’s time in college is worth about §1.50 an hour. As a basis for this amount, tuition figures, loss of wages while at school, contributions through the college and miscellaneous items were considered.
“Dutch Treats” and Now “Dutch Hazings”
“Hazing” might be an American college word, but the institution or practice it represents is also Continental. Over in Holland first year men at the University of Holland are required to keep their heads shaved and have a shining pate visible at all times. In addition to this they cannot use the doors of campus buildings but must enter and depart via the windows.
Exchange Excerpts
A student of St. Vaast College in France wished to destroy a teacher’s disciplinary record book because it contained his name. Unable to secure it directly, however, he turned arsonist and burned down the building wherein the instructor kept his records. The loss of the building is estimated at about §125,000 . . . George and Ira Gershwin a short time ago presented U.C.L.A. with a new rally song. The song is adapted from George Gershwin’s “Strike Up the Band” from the musical comedy of the same name. In appreciation U.C.L.A. made the two brothers full fledged members of the student body. ... Feminine approval and masculine disgust are all too evident these days at the University of Cincinnati. The discord is caused by the recent addi-. tion of girl cheer-leaders to the
From the Files of
The Scholastic
Oct. 10, 1876—The short delay-in getting out The Scholastic last week was caused by repairs on the steam engine.
Nov. 16, 1880—A young hurricane visited Notre Dame last Saturday night and remained here over Sunday.
Sept. 30, 1881—The Seniors have sent to Chicago for a football.
Oct. 19, 1882—The Juniors enjoyed an ice-cream festival last Wednesday evening. Choice music was furnished by the Crescent Club Or-
Oct. 11, 1887—The Band (?) was out serenading the other evening. It is in a rather primitive condition as yet, consisting of only two strong-lunged individual horn-blowers, and a muscular drummer.
Oct. 18, 1888—Rat hunting is growing to be a favorite pastime in this vicinity.
1889—Rugby football, as now played, is certainly too brutal a sport to retain popular favor. We are unwilling to believe that football will ever supplant the more scientific base-ball.
1890—The Class of ’90 will number 25.
1894—We may expect a hot game with Albion Thanksgiving day. Last week she defeated Hillsdale 12 to 0.
R. A. Brenneck is Guest Of Engineers
The Engineers’ Club held its first meeting of the year, Wednesday night, in the. auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Mr. R. A. Brenneck of Chicago, district manager of the Bakelite Co., lectured on “Recent Developments of Bakelite as an Aid to the Engineer.” His lecture was supplemented by two talking pictures, “Science Saves the Surface,” and “The Material of Infinite Uses.” Mr. Brenneck was introduced by the Rev. Father Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering.
Tom Carney, president, outlined the program for the year, including the annual initiation, which will take place in the Gym next Wednesday, Oct. 21; a smoker to be given some time before Christmas; the formal dance, April 9; and a banquet and picnic scheduled for early spring.
school’s “Yell Squad.” Bitingly the Cincinnati Nezes - Record says “In time U. of C. may become known as the birthplace of the first tap dancing cheerleading squad.” . . . 100 new courses have been added to Louisiana State’s 1936-1937 curriculum.
A LIGHT SMOKE LEAVES A CLEAN TASTE
A dean taste—a clear throat—what a joy when you wake up in the morning! You'll be thankful that last eve-
§
* * NEWS Fl
OF RICH, RIPE-BODIED
Copyright 1936. The American Tobacco Company
To feel good off
It’s not just the pleasure? smoking Lucky Strikes.. J
Its a Light Sn


your mouth. And when| your bath—your voice g the great, thing about 1 Strikes—being made fra leaftobaccos—taste gwdgl a light smoke, you feel gq And after smoking then]
Sweepstakeil to 41
11 From a veteraM anumber of etl
- • writing cornel we checked « entries confcal of the menexj can’t get arotii

smoke—Luckies.
RettES
! smoking —
?llow gets out of I fading good after lA clean taste in i,i start singing in fas a bell! That’s ^ht smoke. Lucky I the finest center-£
|d because they’re | smoking them, bo!
1SH! * *
□ring pleasure veterans
GIUSEPPE...
ALTHOUGH the sign over the door read, “Greek Restaurant,” the man behind the counter was as Italian as ravioli.
Hardly had I climbed o nthe scarred, hashhouse stool, when he charged down upon me, shouting as he came, “What’ll ya hav’ ma fran?”
“A couple of doughnuts and a cup of coffee.”
He turned toward the kitchen, and yelled, “One Java an’ a pair o’ slugs.” He wiped his greasy hands on an equally greasy apron, leaned very close, and opened the conversation.
Everybody, they call me Joe, Giuseppe, she’s ma real name. I’m a no Greek lik’ da sign outside say. De las’ fella run dees joint was a Greek. I get it from heem. I no take da trouble to change da sign. See?”
“Oh, yes,” I murmured and then felt as though I hadn’t said the right thing.
Joe’s hair was curly, and streaked with gray. The gray hair seemed to have been dropped at random, like artificial snow on a Christmas tree. His large shaggy eyebrows drooped, and curled slightly inward toward the sockets. His cheeks were red and puffed as though he were perpetually blowing an invisible bass tuba. Joe gave the effect of being a large, animated gargoyle.
I noticed that the coffee and doughnuts had already made their appearance in the little Punch and Judy contraption that opened to the kitchen, but Giuseppe ignored this and raved on.
“I been in dees contra’ fiv’ year. I learn to speek da American easy. I catch on queek. You would no theenk I jost been here fiv’ year, would ya?”
“Why no,” I lied, “you speak as though you have lived here all your life.” I reached into my pocket, and pulled out a dime. I thought that would surely remind him of the doughnuts and

ome in Legion, Texas, s allin the same hand-|:ach week. Of course o make sure that the i to the rules, and one I ted: "Most of the boys I -but I do and so I fill | r them.”
Jay that the boys have 'pickers, too.
pd yet? Have you won f.cky Strikes? Tune in !.e” — Wednesday and Is. Listen, judge, and Ines — then try Your , j.weepstakes.” And if 1 z smoking Luckies, buy try them, too. Maybe ing something. You’ll I vantages of Luckies—a j h, ripe-bodied tobacco.
The Oyster and the World by v- w. Hartnett
THE OYSTER turned away from the department store window and looked up the Avenue. It was the lunch hour, and thousands of office-workers were swirling up and down the broad sidewalks, as thousands of minds thought of food. The Oyster felt no hunger at all, for he had eaten an hour or more ago. He could not afford to be hungry at the lunch hour in his business, for it was between twelve and one that he did his best work. He flexed his supple hands gently now as he looked up the Avenue for trade, and hummed over and over a few bars of “My Old Kentucky Home.”
He began to move from the building into the current, lighting a cigarette. Was it by chance that a dignified old gentleman wearing a derby and cane was sauntering by at that minute? The Oyster fell into step behind his victim, his sharp black eyes quickly scanning the contour of the gentleman’s coat. A slight bulge in the right hip pocket . . . not enough to be made by a well-
By Edward Fischer
coffee, but not Giuseppe. He took the coin, rang up “no sale” on the cash register and continued talking.
I said, “Excuse me, but haven’t you forgotten something?”
“Whadd ya mean? Giuseppe never forget.”
“I thought I would remind you that I have ordered doughnuts anad coffee.”
“0 sure! I no forget it jost slep ma mind.”
He got the doughnuts and coffee, shoved them in front of me and assumed his former position. With elbows on the counter, face close to mine, he talked fast. Every time he opened his mouth the essence of garlic drifted toward me.
“Whadda ya think of da hard time? Da other day I say to Rosie—Rosie she ma wife—I say, ‘Rosie dees hard time she is heetin’ us pretty hard. Da business no what it usta was’.”
By this time, I had finished the first doughnut, and was wishing that Giuseppe would leave so that I could eat at least one in peace—but no such luck. The only difference betiveen the first and second doughnut was that Giuseppe leaned closer, breathed harder, and talked faster.
“Dominic Petrolle, hees da fella run da frut stan’ down street. Hees daughter Lillie, she gonna marry Guglielmo Roselle, but Guglielmo he is no account. Never had no sense; never will.”
I stuffed the last bit of doughnut into my mouth, gulped down the few remaining drops of coffee, and dashed for the door. Giuseppe shouted, “Come back sometime, an’ I tell ya som’ more da noose.”
As I rushed out of the door, another man passed me on his way in. I paused for a moment and heard Giuseppe shout.
“One cow juice an’ two da straw stacks.” The man must have ordered shredded wheat and milk.
I turned and looked back. Giuseppe was warming up to his next victim.
filled wallet. The gentleman stopped to light the cigarette, and the Oyster noted with glee that the firmly-shaped tubule bore a monogram in gold.
The Oyster moved over to a shop window, when he saw all this without attracting attention. When the elderly gentleman swung into stride again, the Oyster hesitated only a moment before taking up the trail. He had decided that the right-hand breast pocket was his best bet. So the Oyster began to rub his lean hands together again, as he looked up blissfully at the smoked-out sun.
The two were nearing the main entrance of a great Fifth Avenue department store. The crowds was a bit thicker here, and the old gentleman slowed down. The Oyster slid a little nearer, for the time had come to dip. They plunged into the eddies. The Oyster accelerated his pace; swung suddenly in front of his victim;
(Continued on Page 22)
14___THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
ATHLETICS
NOTRE DAME'S LAYDENMEN WILL BATTLE WISCONSIN UNDER STUHLDREHER
HERE TOMORROW
By Fred Digby
Elmer Layden versus Harry Stuhldreher. Horseman versus Horseman.
That will be the battle tomorrow when the Irish of Notre Dame meet the Badgers of Wisconsin, for it will mark the first time in history that teams coached by members of that immortal quartet, the Four Horsemen, have met
on the pikskin pastures. Not since the individual members of that group began coaching—after the 1924 season when the Irish defeated ten opponents and then annexed the National Title at the Bose Bowl—have they posted their teams against each other to do battle.
The Irish whipped the Badgers 27 to 0 last year but will find a much harder task on their hands tomorrow. In the short while that he has been at Wisconsin, Stuhldreher has accomplished a great deal. He had only the remnants of last year’s team to work with but has molded them into a fighting squad. He has lost some of these through injuries, but has developed men to fill the vacant positions. Moreover, he was. confronted with the difficult task of introducing the Notre Dame system into the school. His work, however, is already producing dividends and he is fast becoming the idol of the Badger fans.
Wisconsin is the only team on this year’s schedule that is even with the Irish in games won and lost. In the nine games they have played, each team has won four, and they once tied.
The Badgers opened their present season with a 24 to 7 win over a team which had beaten them last year, South Dakota State. Marquette, with one of her best teams in recent years, was barely able to eke out a 12 to 6 victory from the Badgers. Last week Purdue proved to have too much power for the Badgers and came out on the top end of a 35 to 14 score.
(Continued on Page 23)
On The Enemies’ Trail
TO DATE:
Wisconsin — has defeated South Dakota and was defeated by Marquette and Purdue.
Pittsburgh — has defeated Ohio Wesleyan, West' Virginia and Ohio State.
Ohio State — has defeated New York University and lost to Pittsburgh.
Navy — has defeated William & Mary and Virginia.
Army — has defeated Washington & Lee and Columbia.
Northwestern—has triumphed over Iowa and North Dakota State.
Southern California—has won over Oregon State and Illinois.
THIS WEEK:
Pittsburgh plays Duquesne.
Ohio State meets Northwestern.
Navy plays Yale.
Army plays Harvard.
Northwestern plays Ohio State.

MANAGER CORPS IS IMPORTANT COG IN GRID SUCCESS
•
By Charles Callahan
“There goes my roomie,” cried out an enthusiastic freshman as he sat in the unreserved section with his . newly-met St. Mary’s guest. At once his fair friend was all attention. She wanted to know which one was the “roomie,” and his number. Freshman Freddie was quickly informative: “He hasn’t any number; he’s the boy in the blue suit, carrying the blankets. He’s a manager.”
Her only answer was a disappointed, “Oh!”
While the above is purely fictitious, it serves as a striking example of the low esteem displayed toward such persons as managers by the average, uninformed, thrill - seeking, football spectator. It is the same type of fan who always watches the man with the ball, and never realizes that the ballcarrier owes his ground-gainage to the blocking accorded by his teammates.
Getting to the theme of our story it is going to be our purpose to show: how important managers are to a team, what their duties are, and the efficiency with which they perform them. To Senior Football Manager Paul Barker, and his two assistants, Jim McHugh and Al Schwartz, we owe most of our own enlightenment on the subject.
With the team travelling approximately 11,000 . miles this season, Barker has plenty to keep him busy. He must arrange for the transportation, secure hotel accommodations, and see to it that the players eat the proper food. Like every other football manager he makes doubly sure that every member of the party including the players, coaches, and newspaper men all make the train. If any were left behind he feels that his managerial, reputation would be
(Continued on Page 21)
&WST/MSCW TOMMEXSOH y^iNDWAQD LWPfiEte COL-E GAVRE WEfSS
THEWISCONSIN BADGERS:
THEY'RE MORE CONFIDENT THIS YEAR
THE .NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
15
ON DOWN THE UNE
JOE MEDWICK, of the St. Louis Cardinals, once planned on enrolling at Notre Dame to concentrate on a football career. The contract offered him by the Card management was too tempting however, so now Joe is hitting them for the Cardinals instead of the Irish.
TOM IRVING, Northwestern re-serve end and shot putter during the track campaign, established a great reputation for heaving the shot during his prep days in Chicago’s north Suburban League at Deerfield-Shields.
BILL TERRY took things pretty easy during the close of the past baseball season. Memphis Bill spent his sleeping hours with a pillow under his injured knee. A twisted cartilage may spell curtains for the Giant manager’s carrer as an active player.
ANDY PILNEY, the now famous “Scarlet Scourge,” made his debut as a major leaguer this summer with the Boston Bees. Sent in as a pinch hitter, the former Irish grid luminary sent one of TEX CARLETON’S curves for a pop-up to Chicago’s BILLY HERMAN. Andy finished the year- with the Syracuse nine.
Minnesota has a regular army of lettermen back this year. No fewer than twenty-four monogram winners are back in the Bierman fold. Honors for outstanding play thus far must go to BUD WILKINSON who is now holding down the quarterback post. Wilkinson is a reformed guard and fullback.
CASEY STENGEL’S departure as Brooklyn manager came as a distinct surprise. Among those mentioned to succeed the fiery Flatbush pilot are DUTCH REUTHER, LEFTY O’DOUL and BURLEIGH GRIMES. Many wouldn’t be shocked if old BABE RUTH is offered the position.
Enthusiasm is high concerning the chances of Southern California’s Trojans this year. One hundred and twenty - five backers accompanied Howard Jones’ team on the trip to Champaign. Southern California’s performance justified their confidence in the team.
PAUL “TONY” HINKLE is not only an outstanding basketball mentor but is deevloping good football teams at Butler University located in Indianapolis. Hinkle has coached the Butler gridders for only two years and in that period has lost but two games. They have also been champions of the Indiana Secondary college in both years.
ADOLF KIEFER, holder of three back stroke records, is now a student at the University of Texas. The young Chicagoan’s mark for the 100 meters was 1:05.9. Kiefer is only eighteen years of age.
(Continued on Page 20)
WISCONSIN SCRIBE POINTS WITH PRIDE AND VIEWS WITH ALARM; PREDICTS INTERESTING GAME TOMORROW
•
By Bob Shaplan
(Daily Cardinal Sports Editor)
Occasionally in the realms of King football, there occurs a clash between two front line teams which, because of a sentimental background, bears more than the usual interest. Such is the case in Saturday’s fracas between the Universities of Wisconsin and Notre Dame.
FIVE TEAMS RESPOND TO COACHES' CALL FOR INTERHALL
•
The possibility of an interhall football schedule being played this Fall still remains a big question mark as far as. those in charge of this program are concerned. Mr. Elvin R. Handy, of the Department of Physical Education, who is supervising hall sports this year, announced this week that uniforms had been issued for approximately five teams.
It is necessary that the contests begin not later than Sunday, October 18, in order to have every game completed before the heavy snows commence. Providing that each hall assembles a squad of tewnty-two men before Sunday, the race for the coveted championship should be a close affair. At the present, Sorin, Off-Campus, Walsh, and Howard appear as the strongest outfits, if the schedule can be enacted as it was originally planned.
Last season, the honors were given to Corby by the flip of a coin. St. Edward’s was the decisive winner in Group II, while Corby, Walsh, and Howard had a three-way tie for the initial position in Group I.
The new rules and regulations, this year, have been undertaken to provide the maximum amount of protection for those participating. . The interhall system not only provides recreation and amusement for the students, but, in addition, it serves as a stepping stone to the varsity. During the past several seasons a few men have secured their varsity monograms as an indirect result of playing interhall football.
The Freshmen Phy-Ed team scored a victory, last Sunday, at the expense of Cavanaugh, 4 to 3, in the opening hall soccer contest. St. Edward’s speedball artists came through with a 10-1 triumph over the Brownson yearlings.
The two teams are being coached by two men who were once teammates on the greatest football team ever turned out by the late Knute Rockne. They were stars in the most famous combination of backfield men that ever trod upon a football field, the Four Horsemen. And tomorrow for the first time since they graduated from Notre Dame Elmer Layden, fullback and Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback of that famous combination will meet, in a football sense, on opposite sides of the field.
Thousands of fans will wonder, tomorrow, what emotions those two coaches will feel as they watch their teams fight it out on the same turf where they once bi'ought fame to the Irish school. There is one thing we know, and both have expressed it, each have voiced respective fear of their opponents, and each would rather be back in the same backfield than coaching against each other.
Wisconsin and Notre Dame are both coached in the same method of play that Layden and Stuhldreher made famous over a decade ago. It will not be a matter of systems, but a mattei* of who is better versed in those systems. Naturally Notre Dame is. This is Harry’s first year at Wisconsin, and it takes time for a football team, no matter how good it is, to become accustomed to a new method of play. But the Badgers have mastered it pretty well and are rounding into form that a well drilled team should be in.
Jankowski, Golemgesge and others will provide more competition for the Irish than Carnegie Tech and Washington did, I believe. These men most of them seniors have been in the thick of the Big Ten wars ever since their sophomore years and know just what it takes to play topflight football. We hope that they will play top-flight ball tomorrow.
A few weeks ago we threw Frank Murray and his flashy Marquette Hilltoppers into a scare such as they’ve never received before. They had to work for their 12-6 victory, and when they achieved it, they probably weren’t quite sure whether they deserved it or not in the face of a gallant goal line drive made by the Badgers that was stopped only when (Continued on Page 21)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
INTRODUCING
SQUAD DRILLS DAILY FOR BADGER GAME
“Miller for Danbom,” has been a familiar phrase this year on the football field but a more familiar statement around the Notre Dame campus has been “Miller and Danbom.” When one writes or speaks of Larry Danbom it is inevitable that Steve Miller has to be mentioned along with him. These two boys, both top-flight full backs on the varsity, have a sort of Damon and Pythias relationship that warms the heart of every Notre Dame fan.
Ordinarily a person would think that two men, both out for the same berth on the football team and both approximating if not equalling one another in ability, would have more or less of a bitter rivalry between them. But this is not the case between Larry and Steve. All summer long this year the two fullbacks lived with each other in Steve’s house in Chicago. Mr. and Mrs. Miller demanded that Larry call them “Mom and Pop,” and admitted that they knew a good fullback when they saw one, besides Steve. The Damon and Pythias situation goes so far that Larry, when he gets out of school is hoping for a coaching job that wall take him to Chicago where — you guessed it— Steve will be practicing law and Larry can drop over and see the Miller family when ever he feels like it.
This column can only introduce one person at a time so we will have to leave Steve Miller for a week and concentrate on “Larruping” Larry Danbom, Notre Dame’s first player of 1936 to receive an All-American rating. Calumet, Michigan, the town that sent George Gipp, Hunk Anderson, 0. Larson and Vairo to Notre Dame has sent Danbom to carry on traditions of a great line of football players. The march of players from Calumet to Notre Dame will not stop with Larry however. Simonich, sophomore fullback, will carry on the Calumet banner when Larry leaves school and according to Larry, himself, will carry it as high as the rest who have come from that vicinity.
In Calumet High school, Larry played with Dominic Vairo, who captained the Irish in 1934, when Larry was a Sophomore. Calumet chose Larry to captain both its football and basketball teams in his senior year after he had been chosen for the All Upper Peninsula team and had received All State mention for football as well as All Conference Guard on the basketball team. After being chosen on so many “All” teams in high school an All-America rating would just about fill the list this year.
At Notre Dame Larry found himself relegated to the third string fullback position on the freshman
team. Earl Schofield, now at North Carolina State, and Max Marek, recent addition to the professional boxing ranks received the call ahead of him.
Things took an upward turn for Larry in his Sophomore year. Although he was understudying Fred
Carideo and Don Elser, Coach Layden found use for him in the Purdue, Pittsburgh and Army games of that year. It was in the Purdue game that Larry received his greatest satisfaction that of playing on the same team once more with Dom Vairo. Later in the year Larry starred in the Army game, although handicapped by a severe cold. His one thought in that game was not to fumble before the assembled thousands in Yankee Stadium, he didn’t, and earned for himself an iron man reputation.
Last year he saw active service in all the games and was in for the “kill” at Ohio State. Steve Miller had been in for the majority of the game but Larry was in there for those memorable last five minutes. During this game he was a participant in one of the weirdest pass plays on record. Mike Layden threw a pass to Andy Pilney, when Pilney caught the ball Kabealo of Ohio State came running along and grabbed the ball from Pilney, as he pivoted toward the Irish goal Larry came running up and grabbed the ball from him and headed the opposite way but was soon stopped. The pass Layden to Pilney to Kabealo to Danbom didn’t gain much ground for the Irish but kept the ball in their possession and that’s what counted at Columbus.
The hardest hitting man Larry (Continued on Page 22)
After excusing the first two teams from practice on Monday, Coach Elmer Layden renewed football practice with a morning and afternoon session on Tuesday. The keen dissatisfaction with the team’s showing Saturday against Washington university made this extra workout necessary on the ‘free” day.
Although Coach Layden has been stressing fundamentals all year, the sloppy blocking and loose tackling so obvious in the Carnegie Tech game again made its appearance in the Washington game in an even greater degree. So far as he can see practice is the only remedy, and therefore plenty of practice is in store for the team.
Besides blocking and tackling, long passing and punting drills were held in an effort to instill in his punters and passers a little more speed and accuracy. In his blackboard sessions Coach Layden tried to point out remedies for the numerous rule violations for which the team was frequently penalized Saturday.
The men were driven hard all week in an effort to gain a high degree of perfection and polish in the fundamentals. The all - important timing was also given consideration as this factor was sadly lacking against the Bears. The players were ' assured that no one was sure of his place on the squad unless he showed ability and application.
To add injury to insult last Saturday the Washington University Bears not only succeeded in holding the Irish to a 14-6 victory, but almost succeeded in putting the fullback combination of Danbom and Miller out of commission. Danbom received a slight concussion in the second quarter; and Miller, who replaced him, suffered a severe gash over the right eye in the third quarter. Danbom should be ready for action tomorrow, but it is very doubtful if Miller will. For replacements Coach Layden will have to rely on “Bing” Binkowski and Mario Tonelli, two sophomores who have plenty of ability but lack experience.
Frank Kopczak, who sprained a muscle in the back of his right knee against Carnegie Tech two weeks ago, is up and limping about; but, as yet, his leg hasn’t healed sufficiently to allow him to play. The rest of the squad, although bumped and bruised by the Bears, will be ready for action against the Badgers from Wisconsin tomorrow. The Badgers showed surprising ability in their game with Purdue last week and should give the Laydenmen a busy afternoon.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
17
ILLINOIS IS HOST TO "B's" TOMORROW
AT CHAMPAIGN
•
Coach Bill Cemey’s ”B” team will travel to Champaign tomorrow to take over the Illinois “B” men. The game should develop into a close, tough battle all the way. The few facts known about the Illini are favorable to them—they have many men from an excellent frosh squad of last season, and they have already pushed a 6-0 victory over the Purdue understudies.	•
Although our “B” team, on the other hand, has lost its one game to Niagara, the players have gleaned a great deal both in knowledge and experience from their defeat. They should be much improved; but since they’ve spent so much time giving the varsity sample of opponent strategy, they probably will be unable to present a really polished offense of their own. However, they are a scrappy outfit and their fight should make up for the few rough spots.
Last year we played a home and home series with the Illinois “B” men, winning a 12-7 tussle in the stadium on the same day that the varsity caught up with Ohio State, and dropping a 14-13 hair-line victory for Illinois at Champaign.
Joe Nardone on the left and Ed Crotty on the right will probably control the flanks for the first team tomorrow; Mullins and Guggisberg will be ready to take their places if given the chance. Charles Macaluso and Vin Probst will probably get the call over Dan Ryan and Tex Young at tackle. Sullivan and Fox will be the first string guards. Joe Battaglia will take care of the ball snapping whenever he is not being relieved by his understudy, Favero. The number one backfield will be made up of Willard Hofer at quarter, John Schulz at left half, Paul Morrison at right half and Maurice Kennedy at fullback.
According to Doctor W. M. Jardine, president of Wichita University, 73 per cent of his 1936 graduating class are already employed.
A notice at the University of Illinois: “A wildlife club for students— graduate and undergraduate will be organized,” Hm!
Not a bit superstitious about the 13 per cent increase in enrollment in his department, the dean of the college of Agriculture at the University of Vermont predicts greater increases next year.
IRISH TAKE SECOND GAME OF SEASON FROM SNAPPY WASHINGTON U. TEAM BY EIGHT POINT MARGIN
By Al Bride
Washington’s valiant band of iron men crossed the St. Joseph river, faced Notre Dame’s superior numbers on the enemy’s field, and after 60 minutes of skirmishing were forced into defeat by a 14-6 onslaught.
The Fighting Irish swept into the lead early in the second quarter, coun-
SO THEY SAY
“The 1936 copy of Notre Dame’s football team today attended to the second problem on its nine game schedule, sending a brave Washington University eleven back to St. Louis a 14 to 6 loser.”—Charles Bartlett in the Chicago Tribune.
“It took the combined efforts of 52 players of assorted sizes and shapes to keep Notre Dame from being upset by a fighting Washington university eleven from St. Louis, Mo., in a contest that was labeled a 'breather’ here Saturday afternoon and only the fact that Coach Jimmy Conzelman lacked manpower sufficient to cope with Elmer Layden’s army prevented the visitors from scoring one of the biggest surprise victories of the season.”— Jack Ledden in the South Bend Tribune.
“Notre Dame’s variegated collection of football players, almost as numerous as the slim crowd which watched the proceedings, indulged in another of their workout series winding up victorious, 14 to 6, over the rugged Bears of Washington U.”— Warren Brown in the Chicago Herald and Examiner.”
“Notre Dame overwhelmed Washington University this afternoon on yardage and first downs, but were only able to pull out with a 14-6 victory. The result, however, was never in doubt as Washington started their scoring threats in the final period.”— Edmond Bartnett in the New York Sun. .
“Although uncorking startling strength in the final period, a stubborn Washington university eleven lost to the favored Notre Dame team by a 14-to-6 margin today before approximately 22,000 fans.”—The New York Times.
Workmen chiseled the front steps of Indiana’s University’s law building to make them as smooth as they were in 1890.
tered again in the third period, and were marching towards a third possible score when the gun ended the game. Washington’s only touchdown came in the second half on a reverse over the left side of their own line.
Joe O’Neill
“. . . Flashing, Dashing, Smashing”
Washington, although by no means a set-up, were not taken too seriously because' of inadequate reserves, but after a few minutes of playing the game took on a different complex. The Missourians, playing a hard, smashing brand of football, were abetted by loose and sloppy playing on the part of the Laydenmen. The quarterbacks received very little blocking in running back punts, and in general the play of the entire Irish team was much below that displayed a week ago against Carnegie Tech.
However, several Notre Dame players gave brilliant performances in the 14-6 victory. Vic Wojcihovski ripped through the Bear’s line repeatedly for long gains as well as making a beautiful running catch on Wilke’s pass. Little Andy Puplis was especially brilliant in his kicking performances, getting away several spectacular boots that set the Washington boys back on their heels. Danbom’s line crashing and Pat McCarthy’s defensive work in backing up the line were also standouts.
The Irish lost the first opportunity to score when McCarthy, who replaced Wilke at left half, fumbled on the Bear’s six yard line. Washington recovered and immediately kicked to Puplis who returned the ball to Washington’s 30-yard line. Wojcihovski crashed over center for nine, (Continued on Page 23)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
Since every sports writer in the country has mentioned it at least three times by now, this column refuses to comment on the coincidence of two teams coached by members of the Four Horseman backfield meeting in the Notre Dame stadium tomorrow. You will probably hear more about it at the Pep meeting tonight, and we wouldn’t want to overdo it for the world. But spectators will undoubtedly see in action tomorrow a Wisconsin team that is livelier and more confident than any of those that the Badgers have produced for three seasons as a result of the change in coaches at Wisconsin.
We find that we are unable to get steamed up about the showing of the Irish in the Washington game last Saturday. From reading the South Bend and Chicago papers one would get the idea that Notre Dame looked like a high school team and that it took all of Layden’s many reserves to stem the tide of the “Iron Men.” This column does not know the source of that term Iron men, but we suspect that it pertains to the manner in which the Washington team handles its opponents. Larry Danbom and Steve Miller are what might easily be called rugged and hearty young men, but they seemed to be unable to stand up against the driving of the Washington team. (It couldn’t have been flying fists, could it?) '
At any rate the small margin by which Notre Dame defeated Washington is nothing to become alarmed at. The Irish were confident of victory and saw no need for pressing themselves to the utmost to beat a team that did not even have sufficient substitution material. Even so, there was a good deal of headsup football played. We were more than gratified to see the improvement in Wilke’s passing efforts. Also it does our old heart good to watch Vic Wojci-hovski at any time. His blocking is really something to write home about and his ability to “take it” positively leaves us gasping. The general quality of the line play also continues to show improvement, but it will get a much more serious test tomorrow when the much heralded Jankowski starts his plunging.
Far be it from us to apologize for anything that appears in this column, —we give it too much thought before writing. However, in view of certain malicious statements and liftings of the eyebrow on the part of the esteemed president of the Law club, — Fisher is the name if memory serves us rightly, — we hasten to explain what was meant by the term “flat pass over the line” appearing in this column last week_____Perhaps it should have been called a short pass over the line, but it has been called a flat pass so often in newspapers and over the radio that we thought that even a lawyer could differentiate between it and a pass to the flat zone which is also called a flat pass. However, if any readers of this column find it hard to understand, just let us know and we shall clear it up, — by drawing diagrams.
TRACKMEN COMPLETE ANNUAL FALL
HANDICAPS
•
With the completion of the Annual Fall Handicaps this afternoon Coach John P. Nicholson will have a fair conception of the kind of track team that will represent Notre Dame in the coming indoor and outdoor campaigns. Yesterday on the Cartier Field track half of the events were run off, and the results indicated to “Nick” that the dashes in particular have very strong representatives. Every year these Fall Handicaps have served as a means of prognosticating the success of the ensuing season, though the participants have had but three weeks in which to get in reasonably fair condition.
Captain “Bucky” Jordan and Bill Clifford in the century dash led the way to the tape with their characteristic drives from the fifty yard point. Observers were especially impressed by the speed and power of the 1940 aspirants for track honors at Notre Dame. The hundred yard men representing the Freshmen showed quite definitely that the dashes will be capably handled in the next few years. The few instances of “jumping the gun,” always a dash man’s nemesis at Notre Dame, indicates that at last the veterans have acquired the knack of sticking to their holes.
It seems that the possibility of having an interhall football league this year is still doubtful in spite of the urgings that appeared in the last issue of The Scholastic. Since the interhall season should be well under way by this time so that a complete schedule could be completed, it is quite possible that the Department of Physical Education will soon discontinue its efforts to fill the interhall ranks unless more applicants appear. The Scholastic makes a last pitiful appeal especially to the gentlemen of Walsh to stop this shameful game of touch football and sign up for the real thing. After all, are ye mice or are ye mice?
Wally Fromhart’s predictions for last week’s football games struck a better average than these which appeared the previous week. Out of sixteen choices only two were wrong. This week Wally discontinues a practice that no other football enthusiast in the country tries, — naming the scores as well as the winners, — and focuses his power of concentration on merely picking the winner. Here are Wally’s predictions for to-morrow’s games:
NOTRE DAME over WISCONSIN
Iowa over Illinois
Marquette over Kansas State Michigan State over Missouri Minnesota over Michigan Nebraska over Indiana
North Carolina over N. Y. U. Pittsburgh over Duquesne Navy over Yale
Jim Parsons, a mainstay on the team for two years because of his consistency in running sub - fifty quarter-miles, came through as anticipated in the 440. Close at his heels was Pete “Power-House” Sheehan who pushed him all the way. Both Parsons and Sheehan were scratch men, with other competitors having five yards handicaps on the leaders. “Buck” O’Connor also showed that he can be depended upon for a fast leg on the mile relay team.
The high hurdlers have been handicapped by the cold, damp weather from working hard on the local track, and have had consequently to do their limbering up in the gym. As a result of this the times turned in by them were not exceptional. However, William “T-Bone” Mahoney came through in grand style in his -favorite event. Some long-legged freshmen asserted themselves in this event too, the most promising up to now being Bob Laurence.
Alabama oyer Tennessee Catholic U. over De Paul Purdue over Chicago Tulane over Colgate Dartmouth over Brown Fordham over Waynesburg Army over Harvard Holy Cross over Manhattan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
19
Wisconsin Game Recalls Colorful Career of Four Horsemen
When Notre Dame meets Wisconsin tomorrow in the Notre Dame Stadium, it will mark the first time in history that two members of that famous quartet known as the Four Horsemen will he riding against each other. True, they will do most of their- riding on the sidelines, but never before have any of the three who became successful head coaches met each other in that capacity.
The Four Horsemen are history; some of the most glorious football history in the annals of the game. For two years they were just a good, promising Notre Dame backfield, but one afternoon in October they licked the Cadets of Army, and woke up the next morning to find themselves immortalized. The epithet was first applied to them by the dean of American sports writers, Grantland Rice, and his original characterization went something like this.
“Outlined against a blue gray October sky the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruc-
By Mark J. Mitchell
tion and death. These are only aliases. Their real names are: Stuhl-dreher, Miller, Crowley, and Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before which another fighting Army team was swept over the precipice at the Polo Grounds this afternoon as 55,000 spectators peered down upon the bewildered panorama spread out on the green plain below.”
On January 1, 1925 the Horsemen rode together for the last time. In a 'mighty charge they swept clean the greensward and defeated Ernie Nevers and his Stanford Indians by a score of 27 to 10. When the charge was over they were holding the Rose Bowl title, and had thus gained possession of that elusive and mythical will o’ the wisp, the National Championship.
The All-American roster that year included the names of Harry Stuhl-dreher quarterback, Jimmy Crowley left halfback, and Elmer Layden fullback. The only thing that kept Don Miller off the team was the pres
ence in a neighboring state of a certain irrepressible fellow whose name may be vaguely familiar. They called him Red Grange.,
All of the Four Horsemen went into coaching after leaving college. Stuhldreher coached the Villanova elevens with much success until he received his present appointment at Wisconsin last spring. Miller was coach at Georgia Tech for a time, and then at Xavier High in Louisville before he gave up tutoring altogether to practice law. He is at present a successful attorney in Columbus, Ohio. Crowley was mentor at Michigan State for four years where his practice of upsetting important teams became a sort of tradition. In 1933 he went to Fordham, and has thus far made an excellent showing there. Layden was a neighbor of Stuhldreher’s at Duquesne, after getting his law degree and spending two years coaching the Columbia College team in Dubuque, Iowa. Then in 1934 he was recalled to his Alma Mater to take over the
FOUR HORSEMEN: MILLER, LAYDEN, CROWLEY, STUHLDREHER
They Really Didn't Use the Horses
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
job vacated by Hunk Anderson. His record here speaks for itself. In the past two years he has won thirteen games, lost four, and tied one.
In taking up his duties at Wisconsin last spring Stuhldreher was faced with grave difficulties, having to rebuild completely a team which had won but one game last season. However, since then Harry has more than once expressed his old-time optimism and self-confidence, and from his record this year, the man whom
Take a HIKE through the DUNES
Wear your old clothes and forget books and studies—you’ll enjoy the Dunes this fall. Ride the South Shore Line to any of the stations in Duneland—there’ll be a convenient train for your return.	•
CHICAGO, SOUTH BEND AND SOUTH SHORE RAILROAD
4
SO^L^ORE
। Rockne called a master of quarterback strategy7, is out to give everyone a fight.
Thus when the Irish meet the Badgers tomorrow both Harry and Elmer will be remembering that day twelve days ago when together they rode against the Cardinals for Rock and for Notre Dame. And every son of Notre Dame hopes that he may be permitted to see four horsemen ride again, running, passing, plunging their way to victory for Rock and for Notre Dame.
On Down The Line
(Continued from Page 15)
St. Mary’s Galloping Gaels are Gaels only in name now. Ten nonCatholics are present in the sixteen monogram winners on SLIP MADIGAN’S eleven. On his first eleven are four Catholics, two Mormons,
Established 30 Years l<md£tre^ OPTOMETRISTS
222 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
AT YOUR DEALER
two Jews, one Christian Scientist, one Presbyterian, and one Episcopalian.
WADE KILLEFER of Indianapolis and DONIE BUSH of Minneapolis don’t have much faith in contracts. Neither of these two popular managers sign a contract to manage the Indians and Millers.
GUS SONNENBERG is a friend of ringside spectators. In eight years as a wrestler, Sonnenberg has dived from the ring into laps of customers 152 times.
Football ends from Indiana are in demand at Northwestern. Coach LYNN WALDORF’S first four ends are from the Hoosier state. Thev are BABE BENDER, JOHN KO-VATCH, JOHN ZITKO and CLEO DIEHL.
JIMMY COLLINS is expected to win many a game next year for the Cubs with his powerful bat. Out of 277 appearances at the plate during the past season, Collins drove in 48 runs. This is half the number driven in by FRANK DEMAREE of the Cubs who had 606 appearances at the plate. Demaree led the Cubs in batting in runs.
Though many Minnesota gridders played brilliant football against Washington, Coach JIMMY PHELAN of the Huskies rated TUFFY THOMPSON as the outstanding man of the afternoon.
TONY ALBANO, a stout hearted youngster from Brooklyn, has the old courage. He took up his post at the Polo Grounds eleven days before the World Series officially opened.- The previous mark was for a ten day period.	"
WILLIS HUDLIN finally won a game for the Cleveland Indians. The veteran was considered a starter before the season got under way. Manager STEVE O’NEILL gave Hudlin a chance to win his first game of the year on the final day of the season. Willis completed the year with the one victory and eleven defeats.
FRED CARIDEO’S debut as a coach was highly' successful. Fred is handling the Hoosier Beer Blues this fall. They opened their season with a convincing 26-0 triumph.
. BO McMILLAN has boosted Indiana University football since taking over the coaching job at the Hoosier institution. Two years ago,' there were but forty men on the football roster. This year that number has jumped to sixty. Indiana expects a banner season.
Pitt is taking on another tough customer in 1937. Duke University, coached by WALLACE WADE, is the new team on the Panther schedule of suicide games.
Football Managers
(Continued from Page 14)
ruined. Another thing that the senior football manager must have is first hand information of every player on the squad. He should possess a short thumb-nail biographical sketch of each man, and he must know when a player misses a practice or what team a man was on the day before.
As chief football manager, Barker is also head of the Notre Dame Manager’s Club. This organization operates according to a well-defined set of rules that are stated in its charter. It is composed of eight senior managers, eight juniors with two alternates, about sixteen sophomores, and all the reporting freshmen. The seniors besides Barker are Al Schwartz, who is also on football, being in charge of the stadium; Jim McHugh, the third football manager, whose duty it is to care for the equipment; Bob Weaver, track manager; Jay Manning, basketball manager; and Bob Waldeck, baseball manager.
As stadium manager, Schwartz is confronted with the problems of seating thousands of football fans at every home game. Matters must be kept well in hand and there must be no confusion. Under his supervision are over 700 ushers, gatemen and rampmen.
The handling of tons of equipment is the task of Jim McHugh. His greatest amount of work is on week days when everything that the squad might use while practicing is brought out on the field. These include 21 blocking dummies, 150 headgears, numerous buckets of water, injury pads, different colored jerseys, and 25 footballs. With the coming of cold weather, McHugh must add to this list 300 or 400 sweatshirts, 75 leather coats, gloves, and heatingpads. And this it is well to remember is only varsity equipment. The freshmen have their own. It is on the return home trips that the equipment manager really has a few problems on his hands. With the help of perhaps one other manager he must pack what it took 20 managers to pack back at South Bend, before they left.
The managers of one class are under the supervision of their brethren of a class above. That is, freshmen are answerable for their actions to sophomores, sophomores to juniors, etc. As a managei- creeps higher in the organization, the actual work he has to do lessens. However, correspondingly, his responsibilities increase. It is the seniors who have to take the blame for the mistakes of their underclass assistants.
This season 57 freshmen answered the opening call of Manager Barker. The number has now been cut down to 35. It is the freshmen who do a good deal of the “dirty work.” On account of this fact a good many
drop off after the first few weeks. The thrill and glamour has worn off, and also they had not expected such hard work as setting up two dozen blocking dummies weighing over 100 pounds apiece, carrying pails upon pails of water, and the monotonous duty of patrolling the outside of the fence to keep away unwelcome spectators when secret practise is being held. It’s a long, hard pull from being a freshman candidate up to a senior amnagership, yet there is a majoi* monogram waiting for the man who can do it.

Wisconsin Scribe
(Continued from Page 15)
a pass was intercepted on the two yard line.
Nobody expected Wisconsin to win that game. Nobody thought they’d come as near to victory as they did. The same team last year dropped a 33-0 contest to Marquette, but this season they faced an even better Marquette team, and with but three weeks’ experience in the Notre Dame system of play came within an eyelash of springing a major upset. The score alone was considered an upset.
Last Saturday Purdue went home thoroughly scared of Jankowski, our plunging fullback. The Boilermakers, considered a top-notch team of the Big Ten, had a harder time winning than the 35-12 score indiacted. Those five touchdowns they pushed over the line were well deserved, every one of them, and they had to fight plenty hard to get them.
We are fully conscious up here that you at Notre Dame have a far more powerful offense than we could possibly prepare. Wilke, Danbom, Wojcihovski, and Puplis are backs that will be feared by the greatest elevens in the country when you meet them. Your line is of the best. We don’t expect to beat you, but we can be certain of the fact that, barring any injuries suffered in practice this week we’ll be prepared to offer you as stiff if not stiffer resistance than we handed Marquette. The boys on our team will be fighting for their coach in more than the literal sense of the word.

YOUR
COLLEGE COLORS
VALUE FOR l(k
... and one inside white paraffin wrap* per from a tin of Edgeworth Jr. We - make this amazing offer of a $1.00
English Type Folding Pouch in Rep Cloth with Rubberized Liner for only 104 and one wrapper just to persuade you to try. Edgeworth Jr. Buy a tin of Edgeworth Jr. today. Takeout the inside wrapper. Send the wrapper and your dime togetherwith this coupon (or write your name, college and address on the wrapper)—and we will send your pouch immediately. Only one to a customer.
freshman lEAR« :
JOKING SECREI ,
WHAT DO YOU WANT
TO KNOW?
BILL,DO THEY GIVE A COURSE IN MAGIC AROUND HERE ?
** Cellophane" wrapped
MILD DOWN TO THE HEEL
15?
A TIN
HOW YOU
UPPER CLASSMEN GET SO MUCH ENJOYMENT OUT OF YOUR PIPES?
DON T TAKE A COURSE. GET A LOAD OF THIS.
THIS IS A SMOKE
RIGHT, FROSH. WHEN YOU'VE BEEN HERE A WHILE YOU'LL
KNOW
EDGEWORTH J
IS THE
COLLEGE MANS SMOKE
SPECIAL ■ INTRODUCTORY OFFER | ■ Laras & Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.	|
Enclosed find 104 and one inside white par* m affin wrapper from a tin of Edgeworth Jr., ■ for which send me $1.00 value oHt tobacco * pouch in my college colors*	I
__
Address—
City----
COLLEGE.
State-
Offer good for only 30 day*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
The Oyster & the World
(Continued from Page 13) and dug his right shoulder into the old gentleman’s chest. He cut into the cultured snort of annoyance with. a kick, deftly-worded apology; and while his voice oozed honey and balm, his trained fingers manipulated a thick wallet from the right-hand breast pocket into a pocket on the left side of his own suitcoat. The old gentleman was smiling now, and the Oyster' smiled cordially back and tipped his hat as he turned to enter the store.	.
The Oyster drew the ever-so-thick wallet out into the light and looked. It was elegant, rich, imposing. In all these factors the Oyster was not disappointed. It was when he zipped the sealskin open that he slowly whistled. Newspaper clippings, dozens of them; and two one-dollar bills. He opened one of the clippings. “Situations Available” . . . “executive having long and intimate knowledge of the merchandizing end of the camera business”; “Capable, experienced salesman . . .”; there were many like that, but not all. “Dignified man with good contacts to sell liability insurance, commission and small salary. . . .” And the Oyster whistled sharply between his teeth. An over-dressed young man with a carnation scruti

■	“But would your wife like it, Mr. Beanthorpe, if you raised my salary?” j
■	“Miss Ogilvie, I save enough on Twenty Grands to do it, any way I” H
I	i
Copr. 1936 The Axton-Fisher Tobacco Co., Inc.
WE CERTIFY that we have inspected the Turkish and Domestic Tobaccos blended in TWENTY GRAND cigarettes and find them as fine in smoking quality as those used in cigarettes costing as much as 50% more.
(Signed) Seii, Putt & Rusby Inc. (In collaboration with tobacco expert)
ALSO OBTAINABLE IN FLAT FIFTIES
nized him sharply, looking curiously at the open wallet. The Oyster came to his senses. The clippings were carefully tucked back into the bent leather. And with them, very strangely, went three ten-dollar bills. The Oyster was still a little bewildered, and in future years he was to be more bewildered when he thought of that momentous lunch hour. But he strode swiftly and surely back to the entrance of the store, and out onto the Avenue.
He looked eagerly up and down the sidewalk . . . for a dignified old gentleman wearing a derby hat and a smooth brown cane. And the old gentleman was in sight. The Oyster hurried up the Avenue.
Now he was beside the elderly man. He was not yet sure what he should do. He knew the old gentleman would recognize him if he shouldered him again, and here the crowds were too thin for the Oyster to slide the wallet back into a pocket. So the Oyster did the only thing; he tapped the old gentleman on the shoulder. His nimble words were not needed, for the faded eyes saw the wallet, th tight lips quivered for a moment. But only for a moment; then they were drawn firm again by a fine old ■will that had lost nothing of its vigor. “I thank you, sir. It means much to me. You were very honest to pick
it up and return it to me.” The character of a king was in those words. And then the faded blue eyes of the old gentleman clouded. “I should like to show my gratitude in some way.” With two one-dollar bills in that imposing wallet, and how many hungry days ahead! The trembling hands started to open the wallet; and the Oyster had to move quickly. “Nothing at all; glad to do it!” he brushed the wallet back into the pocket before it could be opened. He tipped his hat, this time with real meaning, and walked quickly away. The eyes that the Oyster turned up toward the smoked-out sun were a little misty. He was glad to be in the crowd, and alive.
Introducing
(Continued from Page 16)
ever played against was Duvall, of Northwestern with Gomer Jones of Ohio State a close second. In the Ohio game both Larry and Joe Ruetz hit Jones at the same time and both of them bounced off the All-American center while he remained standing. This was in the last quarter, remember, after Jones had been playing all game long. He deserved All-American.
Last Saturday the fans were worried about Danbom’s condition after he had received the concussion of the brain, but he must be as hard as Gomer Jones because he was out of the infirmary by Monday morning.
Larry’s a Phy Ed Major with an 88 average and hopes to become a coach after college. He’s 21 years old, ‘ 6 feet tall and weighs 192 pounds. Besides football his favorite sports are tennis and golf. Camping, hiking, and fishing in the north woods are an obsession with him and whenever an opportunity comes up to go on a camping trip he’ll be the first to pack up.	.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, OCTOBER 16, 1936.
23
Wisconsin Prewrite
(Continued from Page 14)
Stuhldreher goes into the game tomorrow with a jinx over Layden, for three of the four defeats Layden teams have suffered during his two years at Notre Dame have been handed him -by first year coaches. Jack Chevigny with his Texans, Lieut. Tom Hamilton with his Navy lads, and Lynn Waldorf, whose Northwestern team ended the nine game winning streak .last year, are the coaches who have whipped Layden’s squads on the first try.
The Irish have one man in particular to fear when they meet the Badgers—fullback Eddie Jankowski. Last week when the Badgers lost to the Boilermakers, Jankowski was the main Wisconsin threat and netted a total of 118 yards in 16 attempts. The members of this year’s squad who saw action in last season’s game say that he is the hardest driving back they have ever played against. The Irish will also have trouble with Howie Weiss and Bronko Malesevich, two other shifty Badger backs.
With the possible exception of the fullback position, the starting Notre Dame lineup will remain the same. Larry Danbom suffered a slight concussion in the Washington U. game and Steve Miller received a gash above his eye that required nine stitches. It is still uncertain as to whether or not either of the two will start tomorrow’s game.
Washington Game
(Continued from Page 17)
and Danbom made it a first down by adding three more yards. McCarthy then got loose for 12 yards. Two line plunges netted only three yards, but on the next attempt Danbom crashed over for the initial score. Puplis converted, making it his third consecutive point after touchdown.
Notre Dame scored again in the third period when Bob Wilke tossed a flat pass to O’Neill who took it over his shoulder at top speed and continued on for six more points. Puplis again placed the ball between the uprights and the Irish led 14-0.
Washington’s one and only score came early in the fourth quarter when the referee ruled interference on a pass play on Notre Dame’s three yard line. After two unsuccessful attempts the ball was finally carried over by Bukant. The try for point was wide.
Statistics show that Notre Dame was superior in about every department. The Laydenmen rolled up 19 first downs as compared to Washington’s four. The Irish compiled a total of 356 yards from scrimmage while the visitor’s were able to get only 99. Of the 13 passes attempted by • the Bears only five were completed.
Ellsworth’s is Arrow Headquarters For Men of Notre Dame
Arrow shirts . . . Arrow Ties
Arrow handkerchiefs . . . Arrow Trunks in our Men's section . . . Main Floor.
ElLBHMrtlfa
«IMW LASCL IT IfN’f AM	AN/*?
Read any statement about Chesterfield cigarettes We tell you what they are made of— mild, ripe tobaccos. We tell you that we use on Chesterfield pure cigarette paper.
tell you that Chesterfields are carefully manufactured.
We suggest that you try Chesterfields and find out how mild they are and what a pleasing taste and aroma they have.
A great many cigarette smokers will tell you that Chesterfields satisfy — give them what they want in a cigarette.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
© 1936, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.