
WVFI 1999 Fall Show Schedule Listen in on the web at WVFI.ND.EDU 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
I 
I I I 
I I I
William Lewis ­
Bob Kerr
Claire Pistey
10~NOON. _ •• I Chris Shipley I 
"The Chuck Show" I Dave Garland I Andrew O'Brien I Spanish lnfuenceJam, Modem/ClassicPop, Rock Rock 
Modern/Classic Rock Jon Alvarez Kevin Dalum 
Jon Alvarez 
+
' I Mike Marchand I 12:30 Start 12:30 start I Danny Goodwin
12-1:30• PM 
·rock; pop, alternative electronic, hip-hop, Dominic electronic, hip-hop, Salsa Flavored Folk 
modern rock Guarnaschelli 
modern rock Mike Meszaros _ Steve Martin

1:30~3 PM 1­
Dave Garland Chris KusekMetal/Hardcore Modern/Classic Rock 
Duke Morris · Jim Fitzgerald Dallas HowardTom Dolphin 
Ted Fox
& 
Becky Weisenberger Jenn Gurley

3-5PM I 
Darren Madden "The Boneyard"Chris Key "Mad Radio" Casey Connellycountry, pop, punk Sports TalkMetal/Hardcore "Cracked Horse" 
~-., 
5-7:30 PM Specialty Shows 
7:30-10 PM Specialty Shows 

Brian Travers Paul Stinson . 

10PM-12AM I .
and Kevin Bruce classic rock/pop 
Mike Dillon 12AM-1 :45AM I Mike Gonzalez Techno/Beats 


_ Patrick McKeever INDIE ROCK 
Dominic Biscuso Todd Boylan Rock,Reggae,Punk 
Mike Fotopoulos & Dave Cantos Modern/Classic Rock "A Hard Days Knight" 
Daniel Saracino rap, hip-hop, drum'n'bass 

Frank Nash 
-.-'AutdrQatic Pilot· . ·11-; Aut~m~ti_c _Rilo~ ·;
1 JeffGalagher 
1• ~ -~ance Groo~es.. _;L Danc_e_ ~re.aves.: j 
Jay Smith 
6a..:...:.~~=·=·=1L~---~--~~~~) ~ 1
0­
r-.,..,..,--,..,,..,--~..,..,,~--,.,.,=-,.. ~~1~ 
Jake Teske & Charles Cullen with Al Gembara "A Whole Other Genre" 


OCTOBER 7, \999 

Cover: Stop the Presses 16 
The university has prohibited campus media from publishing ads thatitdeems opposed to Catholic teaching. Scholastic looks atthe Observers independence and university's refusal to talk about the gay issue. by Nathaniel Marx 
Fathoms Below 10 
Thinking that you'll have to spend the summer in the tropics to learn to scuba dive? An alternative a little closer to home exists; some have found the joys of diving in Saint Joe's Lake. 
by Jared C. Jodrey 
From the Bottom· Up 24 
N~w basketball head coach Matt Doherty hopes that his impressive resume will help him to return the basketball program to past glory. by Christopher Hamiltqn 
Flip to the Wild Side 28 
Contrary to popular opinion, it is possible to go out with friends and have a great time without the use of alcohol. Scholastic examines the rise oforganizations promoting non· alcoholic partying. by Kara Zuaro 
www.DollarDesigns.com by Clarissa Zador 8 Of Practical Persuasion by Kristin Kramer 12 Out of the Park by Meredith Salisbury 14 Strike Up the Band by Kathleen Corte 27 
Departments 
From the Editor 2 Editorial 3 Listening In 4 ND Notebook 5 Campus Watch 20 Splinters from the Pressbox 21 Out of Bounds 26 Week in Distortion 30 Calendar· 31 Final Word 32 

Too Much? 

p until last week, I couldn't understand why allowing gay and lesbian 
student and alumni groups to advertise was such a big issue. The two ads 
U

run in the Observer last semester, both purchased by GALA-ND/SMC, were in good taste, and I wonder how anyone could find their contents offensive. I also strongly believe in the need for a student-run support group for gay and lesbian students. For these reasons, as well as my firm belief that students should be able to control the editorial and advertising content of their own publications, I was dismayed to find out that my co-editor and I would lose our positions if we ran an ad from an unrecognized gay and lesbian organization. 
Last week, with the publication ofCommon Sense, I rethought the value ofthese ads. OUTreach ND, Notre Dame's unrecognized, student-run gay and lesbian support group, took out a full-page ad proclaiming to the campus "We Exist ... We are Domers. We will not go away. And we will not be silenced." Even though I am an avid supporter of gay and lesbian rights, I found the ad offensive. It was confrontational and downright militant -certainly not the type of advertising you would expect from a "support group." 
This ad listed four things OUTreach ND 

TilfSEARE THE TIMLS l'HATTRYMEhffS SOUI.S, WOMEN'S TOO. hopes to provide to the campus: biweekly, confi­
COMMON SENSE
dential support meetings, monthly social activities, ·cm,,,..,,. Sm,,, is"/"''<ljl" Hmins-,JG.ul. .mJ:lmrlUJf °'"""""" SmJt i11 t"i'ffflmrnt is" pm:ivw j~l • 
•John Cudin1I O'H~ C.S.C.. l'mlJcn1 ofNom: Dame, 1934-40

education to the ND com­munity and community  VOLUME 14. NUMBER I  OCTODER1?9"J  NOTRE DAME AND SA!N"r MARY'S INDEl'Et-Of.ITTMONTIILY  
service. I wonder which  

of these goals this advertisement hoped to fulfill. How can a group that professes to provide support for students struggling with their sexuality possibly expect to help others with this type of assault on the university? The type of student that deeply needs a support group would likely be discouraged from attending one that puts political motives in the forefront. I am angered that OUTreach ND used its first opportunity to advertise to attack the university rather than an as invitation to its support meetings. 
I am even more angered that OUTreach ND resorted to half-truths in the ad. In their ad, they note that members ofOUTreach ND can't meet on campus. Though the group may not be able to meet officially, the group does in fact hold weekly meetings on campus. 
The ad that ran in Common Sense did more to harm the gay community than help it. IfOUT reach ND truly wanted to advance the cause ofgay rights, it would have proven that it simply wants to offer support with an advertisement inviting gay and lesbian students to one ofits meetings. Notre Dame has had gay student body presidents, gay varsity athletes and even gay editors of this magazine. Homo­sexual students can be an active part of campus life and live in a harassment-free environment. If the people who created this ad would make an effort to join campus life rather than fight what they see to be oppression, I believe they would be welcomed with open arms. 
Even though I think the OUTreach ad was offensive and did more to harm the gay community than help it, I still believe that student media groups like the Observer and Scholastic should have the opportunity to choose whether or not to run this type of advertisement in their pages. As editors, we have complete editorial control, and this control should be.extended to advertising policy. 
~ 
Editor in Chief 
2Scholastic From the Editor 


Vol. 141, N(); 4 e..Dctober 7, 1999 
DiE;ce Qtia~($Jifzp~r Victurus Vive Quasi Crq§Moi•iturus
,.\ 
­

Editors in Chief 
Brian· Christ Meredith W. Salisbury 

Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Zachary W; Kulsrud James J. Pastore, Jr.· 
News Jared P. Marx, editor Staci L. Pangle, assistant Campus Life Kate L Jacques, editor Kimberly A Blackwell, assistant Sports Christopher E. Hamilton, editor Gerard J. Meskill, assistant Entertainment Kara· S.(Zuaro, editor · Kathleen M. Corte, assistant Departments Kara S. Zuaro, editor Matthew J. Cremer, assistant 
Layout Michael P. Griffin, editor HeatherJ. Hogan, assistant Colleen Barrett, Kathleen Brogan, Kelli Kalisik; Rebecca Frazier, Agatha Noble, Stacy Petrowski, DeepakVaid, Susan Varnum, Kristin Zielmanski . . . . 
Photography MichaeU. McNary, editor -Benjamin K. Wojcikiewicz,.assistant Graphic Arts· David B. Leeney, editor· 
Caroline/v'1. Wolf, assistant Copy Sarah E. Childress, editor Distribution Michael J. McNary, manager Web Design Michael J. Gonzales, editor · 

http://www.nd.edu/--scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed· at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholasticis copyright©1999.'AII rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the pubHsher. Scholastic does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material.. All correspondence should be. sent to Scholastic, LaFortune ­Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published in the next issue, letters must be received tiy 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must includethe writer's riame, address and phone number. All leHers must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space.The subscription rate, including the literary special, is $20 per"year. Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and numtier, or date. C9pies of the annual football review are ·available at $5 per copy; ·Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student 
body. . . 
Cover photoby Michael McNary Cover design byMichael Griffin 

EDITORIAL 
Looking for answers? So are we 
So, this ad policy thing," a professor began in class one day. "Is it going to be a big issue?" The Observer's coverage of what it bills as a recent advertising ban against Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae ofNotre DameandSaintMary's (GALA-ND/SMC) has prompted discussions about freedom in advertising, gay rights and university policy. We applaud those who have kept this discussion alive. The only way these issues will be resolved is through reasonable de­bate, open discussion and a willingness to understand other perspectives. We have seen this dialogue take place in the Observer Viewpoint section, in classrooms, even over casual meals in the dining hall. Truly, this is what academic freedom is about. That's why we're so disappointed with some of the key players in this conversa­tion. Observer, we congratulate you for bring­ing this issue to the forefront of campus attention and for finally getting the administration's policy on advertising in writing. But why aren't we getting all the facts? The freedom of advertising debate has been going on, more quietly, for the better part of two decades, beginning when the Observer demanded complete freedom and was denied by the university in 1984. The ban against GALA-ND/SMC has ex­isted explicitly for at least a year, implicitly for many more. Running ads from unrecog­nized groups has been banned for Scholas­tic for, at best estimate, 10 years or more ­and it is said that the Observer received the same injunctions at the same time. 
Editors at the paper argue that only Father Malloy can set policy for them, and that because past injunctions have not been di­rectly from Malloy, they don't count. But the ban has been established by authorized representatives of the president, so this ar­gument doesn't hold. The advertising policy is a crucial issue, central to the debate over editorial freedom in campus media. But this is not a new issue. 
More upsetting by far is the response ­or rather the lack of response -from the administration. After outlining its reason­ing for banning GALA-ND/SMC ads, the university has remained silent. GALA-ND/ SMC officers have challenged the university's policy, saying that its logic is faulty and lacks any truthful foundation. We're still waiting for an answer. 
In case administrators aren't quite well­versed in the etiquette of conversation, we offer one piece of advice: it's your tum to speak. The challenge from GALA-ND/SMC is out there. It's hanging. We want a re­sponse, and, quite frankly, it just doesn't look good when the administration sits on its hands and plays dumb. Give the campus a public debate, a speak-out, a forum for questions, anything. Don't give us silence. 
We also resent that so many pieces ofthis debate are being kept quiet. You can't pub­licize one part of it to stir up crowd sympa­thy and then refuse to let the public in on the rest of it. If you want our support for free advertising, we need to know the specifics of the so-called independence as well as the full history ofthis conflict. By making even part ofthis debate public, campus media has lost its right to keep the rest ofit private. The campus has a right to know the whole story. And the administration needs to stop giving pieces of answers, to stop insisting on the closed-door meeting. 
This ban affects everyone. By banning certain ads, the administration filters the information students receive, and this comes at a very high cost to academic freedom. 0 
--' Bruno's Pizza ONE 18-INCH PIZZA WITH 3 TOPPINGS FOR $12.00 EVERY DAY 119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in 11 :00 to 1 :30 Lunch 4:00 to 10:00 Sunday to Thursday 4:00 to 11 :00 Friday and Saturday 273-3890 "Al/Homemade-100%Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses.  

Editorial Scholastic 3 



"I'm not a theologian, like Pat Buchanan or Sean Vinck..." -one student's defense of his argument in 
a Viewpoint page editorial 
"Son, in 35 years of religious study, I have only come up with two hard, incontrovertible facts: there is a God, and I'm not Him." 
· -Father Cavanaugh to Rudy in the 1993 film 
"Your generation is so reluctant to let love have its day." -overheard professor 

Prof: Viole.nee must end for peace in N. Ireland 
OBSERVER HEADLINE. Now they're investigating whether food is the solution to hunger. 

''It's Arthur Andersen versus Arthur Miller."· 
-English professor on Arts and Leffers students'· job prospects 
"Who's your favorite dead monarch/ sultan?" -question from The Leprechaun Guild staff application 

John Keohone; iunior, international business: 
··,,, know we've had some prob­
lems and som_e rapes on cam;. 
pus, but I feel safe." 
HEADLINE SEEN IN THE DUQUESNE DUKE. Perhaps 
campus rape isn't much of an issue anymore. 
4 Schol_astic Listening In . 

"Biochemistry is sucking my will to live. Save yourselves -it's too late for me!" 
-warning on dry erase board in Nieuwland computer lab by unknown distressed student 
"Sometimes biochem students release fruit flies out of spite. Sometimes they release them in really inappropriate places." _ 
-overheard student on the droves of fruit flies in SDH 
POTTY MOUTH 



American Graffiti 
Grad student works on MFA in the bathroom 
Q&A 

10uestions with Bob Lewis 

The Beer Man 

The Notre Dame beer stein and tankard collection, a gift to the university in 1968 and housed at the University Club, is fairly extensive, with more than 120 pieces from around the world. As you might imagine, cleaning them is a time-consuming and delicate process. The man who has b_een entrusted with the job twice a year for almost 25 years is Bob Lewis. 
What's your official job description? 
Well, I just go out, have the steins taken out, look them over and clean them. 
How long have you worked here? I've been doing this since 1975. 
How did you become ND's beer stein caretaker? The man who ran the University Club heard from a friend in the Army that I collected steins. I know how to take care of them right so you don't take offthe gold leaf, so I got the job. 
Did you have to have previous experi­ence? No. I took care of my own, though. I sure as the dickens know how to clean them! 
Do you have any special technique for cleaning the steins? No. Ijustget clean water, take a damp cloth and wipe them. You have to 
be careful that they don't tip over or break. I call myself the 'janitor ofthe steins' ­my wife usually comes with me and she and I both love the steins. 
Do you have a personal favorite stein of ND's col­lection? The nicest one is ivory, by Tiffany & Co. It weighs about 40 pounds. It's a beauti­
THE IVORY

ful, beautiful stein. 
STEIN 



How did you become interested in steins? 
After the war, when I came home from 
continued on next page -. 

Hog leg, yummy hog leg." Somewhere in a bathroom in Kansas City, Kan sas, these words are still scrawled in a cartoon bubble coming from the mouth of a hastily sketched Indian brave. Not ex­actly an inspirational work of art, but when Brian Sailer saw it, a light bulb went off. "I immediately grabbed a napkin and copi~d it," he recalls. And with that, his collection ofbathroom graffiti 
in the works is a trip to began. 
an Amish community, 
. ~:.d..:c~c, • whole cultural and social discourse that is bathroom graffiti.". " 
Apart from the hog leg incident, Sailer became interested in the idea of graffiti as an uninhibited form of art. "I picked the subject simply because I saw iteverywhere, read it and found it to be pretty profound," explains Sailer. "It interests me because it's an anonymous platform to talk about any­thing -it happens everywhere." 
Sailer's research has taken him to bath­rooms in eight different states and every­where from truck stops to four-star restau­rants. He has friends on the lookout across the country and hopes to visit all 50 states by the time his project is complete. Currently 
Many bathrooms where a theological dis­later, Sailer is now a cussion has appeared on grad student in the walls of a women's Notre Dame's art bathroom. "Itmakes me program, where he rethink the idea of, is is currently working this even vandalism?" on a project that Sailer says. "It had all combines his love of the implications of the ait with his interest forms I've seen, but dis­in bathroom graffiti. cussed theological is­"It's based on a book sues that this commu­I would like to write nity couldn't bring up in collaboration in public." with other writers," Part of this research Sailer says. "The. means that Sailer has be­project is still in re.~ come a bathroom artist search form, gath­himself. "I work more ered with the intent as a catalyst," he ex­
to investigate the 
plains. "I'll start a dia­logue. Like, ifl put a quote by Leonardo da Vinci in a truck stop, how are people going to react?" 
So until his research is complete, Sailer will continue scrawling away in bathrooms. All he asks is that you write back. 
-Kathleen Corte 







t~~li~~~itill!illl~illt.'.l 
IBob Davie's t· Aftera1~3start,deaththreatsforthepoochappeared.on i /D • . the Viewpoint page of th_e O?server. Good thing_ we beat i I og . ·· Olilahoma. We were begin71ting to worry about his fish. I 
[~~~~~t;',~i,jttfi_::!!i-~!~$~:E­
1NCAA ._ . Tenyearsago, noonewouldhavebeli,evedthatNotreDa1'11J! · I j · • _ • I would be delightedjust to be allowed to play in the Insight.com ! !Invest1gat10n + · bowL. -•-• ·· -· · -· · . I 
L_ . .· ---·----~--""'~---~---~­
Notebook Scholastic 5 



Q&A 



office and the Hesburgh Cen­ter for Interna­tional Studies, and his collec­tion of beer steins and tankards from around the world. 
Bob Lewis's favorite stein, pictured on page five, is the FATHER JOYCE centerpiece of AND GORE the 122-piece collection. Made by Tiffany & Company for the United States ambassador to the Vatican during the Franklin Roosevelt ad­ministration, it stands three feet tall. Its trunk is solid ivory, but the base and lid are made of silver plated with 14-karat gold. 
To ensure that the stein arrived safely into the newly built University Club, Gore per­sonally carried the 40-pound treasure from Florida to Notre Dame via airplane. 
-Brian Christ 
6Scholastic Notebook 
EN GARDE 
NCAA champion Penn State 


Everyone remembers the Buffalo Bills' four consecutive Super Bowl defeats. Now imagine if they had lost to the same team all four times, and you will begin to understand how the Notre Dame fencing team feels. For the last four seasons, the Irish fencers have fallen one place short of a national title. Meanwhile, Penn State has enjoyed a five-year dynasty. Coming into the new fencing season, Notre Dame is again in the hunt for the national title. The Irish return three All-Americans from last year's squad: senior Magda Krol, a three-time All American, sophomoreepee­ist Brian Casas and sophomore sabreman Gabor Szelle. In addition to these veterans ofIrish fenc­ing, Notre Dame has acquired talented new athletes. On the men's foil squad, freshman Ozren Debic adds world-class experience. Debic, a native of Zagreb, Croatia, placed -sixth at the Junior World and is a legitimate contender for the NCAA title. Debic believes his background may help the team. "I'm glad to contribute to Notre Dame fencing. With my international expe­rience, I hope to be a positive influence on the team." Forest Walton, a freshman from Londonberry, N.H., complements Debic on the foil team. Walton's resume includes multiple top-10 performances in the Junior 
North American Cup Tournament. 
In the men's epee, the Irish have added freshman Jan Vivianni. At the 1999 Junior World Championships, the Haworth, N.J., native was a member of the bronze-medal winning American team. When paired with Casas, the Notre Dame epee squad is impos­ing. 
The women's team also was strengthedned by admissions this fall. Mishawaka native Anna Carnickhopes to add scoring punch to the epee squad and Natalia Mazur bolsters the women's sabre. 
But the Irish have not only benefited from the addition of new faces, but also the sul?­traction ofold foes. With the Sydney Olym­pics approaching, many of the world's best fencers are training with the aspirations of earning an Oiympic berth. This fact has eliminated some of the NCAA's best fenc­ers from competition. Notre Dame's team did not suffer any such losses, while many of its toughest competitors did. Thus the Irish hold an advantage in this year's NCAA title hunt. 
It's tough to fall short ofa national title by one place for four consecutive years. How­ever, if you ask the 1999 Notre Dame fenc­ing team, they will tell you it is impossible to do it five consecutive times. 
-Gerard Meskill 
DOMELIGHTS 

Counting Trends 
We checked out an after-class crowd of 151 people to see how many people were sporting some o~ the trendiest thing~. 
JANSPORT BACKPACK NOTRE DAME GEAR ABERCROMBIE WEAR 11114 PEOPLE 




This January, Scholastic will publish its first-ever issue devoted entirely to fiction. We are looking for student submissions of short stories, essays, poetry and visual art. They can be placed in the box outside of the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall or submitted via the Internet at http://www.nd.edu/~scholast All entries must be received by Wednesday, December 1, 1999. 
If you have questions, contact Zoe Kulsrud at zkulsrud@nd.edu 
I 
, I 
Announcement Scholastic 7 






www ~ollafVfl$igni. COM 
Dome Designs, a new member ofthe Student Business Board, 
has outgrown everyone's expectations 
BY CLARISSA ZADORThe Student Business Board is a col­laboration of student-run businesses that seek to provide students with real business experience while providing . valuable services to the university and stu­dent body. The latest addition to the SBB is Dome Designs, a business that specializes in producing web pages at Notre Dame. Dome Designs distinguishes itself from Adworks, Irish Gardens and ND Video (the other three businesses of the SBB) by being the first business to be created and main­tained completely by students. Whereas the other three businesses have had a history of barely breaking even financially, Dome Designs has the potential for a profitable future. When Dome Designs was first conceived in 1997, it was a service provided through the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. The first client of the web-page designing business was Ben­gal Bouts Boxing, which gave the new com­pany adequate exposure to begin its career at the university. During an enormous growth 
· Alumni Association. Consequently, Dome Designs officially left the NDCIBD and became the newest member ofthe SBB as of September 3. Joining the SBB has provided Dome Designs with much-needed office space and the administrative support re­quired for further growth. Although the current patronage of Dome Designs contin­ues to be student organizations, academic departments and staff members on campus, they hope to to take up off-campus projects in the future. 
Dome Designs offers a broad range of Internet services. They work directly with organizations to create exceptional web sites at a cheaper rate than services outside of the university. The web designers also help keep old web sites current, which they claim reduces the stress of organizations constantly having to maintain their web sites by them­selves. These Internet services are available at every level and include web program­
. ming, online forms, graphic design, scan­ning and photography. After a web site has been created, many organizations continue to depend on Dome Designs to keep their Internet presence up-to-date. 

WE ARE PROFESSIONAL AND OUR CLIENTS ARE SATISFIED. 
KEVIN CAMPBELL 
surge in the 1998-1999 school year, Dome Designs outgrew the NDCIBD and began to work for clubs and organizations outside of the student union such as the Notre Dame 
8Scholastic News 
Like its fellow businesses in the SBB, Dome Designs is intended to be used as an educational tool for students looking for opportunities to expand their business ex­periences and to develop their skills. How­ever, as far as finances are concerned, Dome Designs has high expectations. Right now, the company is focusing on getting its name out to potential customers and building its clientele, but eventually they expect to make generous profits. They have already noted that much of their new clientele comes from the referrals of pleased customers, and its efforts to expand its name recognition ap­pears successful. Michael Palumbo, vice president of the student body, sees a bright future for Dome Designs once people start becoming more familiar with it. He notes that, at first, Dome Designs will have to face a big cost as they work on building more credibility on campus and invest in more equipment, but· he sees it as financially solvent in the long run. "You can't just start a business and assume to make a profit," Palumbo says. He estimates that it will be two to four years before Dome Designs actually begins to see the fruits of their labor. 
Kevin Campbell, a current manager of Dome Designs, predicts future growth for his company to be exceptional. According to Campbell, the organization, along with the Office oflnformation Technologies and the Office of the Web Administrator, is helping to advance the university techno­logically. "There's definitely a lot of de­mand on campus for web design ... a lot of departments and clubs are feeling the pres­sure to get on the web," says Campbell. The support of the university and the financial backing of Student Senate funds makes Dome Designs a less expensive alternative to other off-campus services for clients to get on the web. As extra incentive to give Dome Designs a try, Campbell adds, "We are professional and our clients are satis­fied." 
As Dome Designs is run entirely by students, its employees are students from diverse academic fields looking to build business experience and advance their web skills. Before the growth surge in the 1998­1999 school year, there were eight employ­ees working for the company, but as of this fall, Dome Designs has had to hire addi­tional students to keep up with the increas­ing demand for de­


signers. They try to TH E P R I MA RY 
hire students diverse 
of serving the Internet needs of the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
Dome Designs has assumed part of the responsibility to further Notre Dame as a technological leader on the Web. Not only does the organization hope to provide inter­ested students with opportunities to learn web-design skills, Dome Designs also-hopes to benefit the university by offering needed services at reasonable rates. As far as prof­its go, it does not seem to be a major concern for the company as everyone seems to as­sume that because ofthe hi h demand for its services, Dome Designs' finances are ex­pected to work out quite well in the future. The SBB is excited to have a new business on board that seems full of promise. How­ever, the Board stresses that the major func­tion of these student businesses is not to make money, but to provide students with done so well, but last year we made a lot of money ...I attribute this to the managers and the increase in SBB communication." Ac­cording to Jesse, all the expenditures and revenues for each of the businesses is gath­ered into one joint account at the end of the fiscal year. Once the numbers are tallied, the 
F O C U S O F T H E S E BU S I N E S S E S I S 
in both age and ma­TO PROVIDE A SOUND EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCE jors, but all are ad­
[THOUGH] WE ARE VERY CONFIDENT THAT
equately equipped to handle the demands T H E y A R E G O I N G T O MA K E MONEY. 
SBB can tell whether or not a profit was made. If the final amount is posi­tive, then this benefits the Student Union. If money was lost or the businesses just break even, then the account is left alone in the 

-JAMES J ES S E hopes that the upcoming 
valuable experience in a working environ­ment and fine-tuning oftheir business skills. As Student Union Treasurer James Jesse says, "The primary focus of these busi­nesses is to provide a sound educational experience ... [though] we are very confi­dent that they are going to make money." 
A major concern in the past has been whether it is logical for the SBB companies to continue to run because they have not al ways been financially profitable. As Jesse ex lains,-"historicall the businesses haven't 
year will bring a profit. Unless a company is in need of extra fund­ing, the Student Union does not give them any money-the businesses have run quite efficiently on their own. Dome Designs already has started to see profits and is expected to see more in the future. There are great expectations for this new business and the benefits that it intends to bring to the university. 0 
The office ofDome Designs is located in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Subscribe to: 

Only $20 a year -13 regular biweekly issues plus the Literature Spec_ial 
. 

You'll find: 
• 
the latest campus news and sports 

• 
national and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
controversial campus issues 

• 
what's happening on weekends • off-the-wall humor 


r.. -~------..--~--~·------'.""---------~--:--------·--.,
I '1 1'. Please put me on your subscription list for 1999-2000. '1 
I I Name: ••I 
1: I I -. Address: ______,--,----,--,------I
a',. -
'1 I '1 I I I :1
I Please send this form, with payment, to:
t' Adve1tising Manager, Scholastic Magazine •I LaFoitune Student Center I Notre Dame, IN 46556 '1 I•.-. t 
( --, • I 
1.-.... ----•-.;....----------·--------­






-----··------.1'1 
News Scholastic 9 







({))Jtll§ 
Scuba-diving students learn to explore the depths ofSaint Joe's Lake and beyond 
· e:~ There is a lecture and discussions of the textbook and BY JARED C. ~ ODREY ., "' .. homework. They go over physics, water conditions, seaIn the dark and cloudy depths of Saint Joseph's Lake, a diver ·>··; . animals and fish, first aid and planning, in order to train safe and can find almost anything: bottles, fish, chairs, wallets, even ifl'f competent divers. All divers must pass a written test to attain a 10-speed bike. However, to see such wonders of our ...• ·~ certification. Archer makes it clear that no one has failed this test lake's closet ( and the ones held in the bodies of water ;;;, since he has been incharge, and thatthe class average on the last few throughout the world), one must hold the keys to get in. years' finals is about 95 percent. The divers are thoroughly These keys -training, knowledge and experience-are prepared for the exam in their classes. made available through a scuba-diving class taught on After dinner, the class convenes in the Rockne Build-campus. ing to venture into the pool area. The pool is much For the last 17 years, during each semester and in the different from diving in the "real world," but there is summer, Notre Dame has held classes for anyone a basic need to be taught in a safe and relatively easy interested in becoming certified to scuba dive. Origi-environment at first. This is their first step toward the nally, the program was run by Diane Tiser, the owner of open and deep waters awaiting them some day. Here, J.R. Aquatic Center Supplies in South Bend, which ·. the 14 adventurers work on water entry and other neces­specializes in and supplies the underwater equipment the sary water skills. Their work here is practice for the university uses. Tiser is also the regional advisor for the YMCA ultimate test to attain certification. That test is the program in the mid west. "check-out dive," a real dive with adverse conditions. Today, Bill Archer teaches the program. Archer is a graduate When they complete their training, they will make of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, and it is there their way to the Saint Joseph's Lake dock on Novem­that he had his first experience with scuba diving. An interest in ber 6 and 7 to 'complete their certification. Each diver marine biology in college led him to take classes in diving. But _,....__0 ·.·u.· must successfully complete four dives there -two on it was at Notre Dame that his interest in diving was sparked each day. -and it is here that this spark continues to bum. They are lucky, says Archer: "Saint Joe's is aheatedlake."The Talking with Archer about diving reveals his great temperature will be, he says from experience, anywhere between passion for the pastime. It's a hobby and a love; some would· ~ 55 and 60 degrees the day they dive. They will dive in their full say it's in his veins. ~ wet suits and gear, just as if they were diving anywhere else in Archer is a biological lab manager of the optical facilities at~ . the world. They go in right from the dock and dive down no Notre Dame. He helps in research and training at the lab .l!'J;~~ farther than 30 feet. Once down, they must perform tasks facilities. He has been at the university for 15 years and has and tests that are vital to a free-water diver. Test-takers been involved in the diving program since 1986, when he was must be able to do flood and clear their masks, retrieve a student in the class. After the class, he was hooked. In the objects, display buoyancy control and go through an out-years since his certification, he has traveled the waters of the of-air scenario using what is called "octopus breathing" world in search of knowledge and adventure. He is the head (one air tank being shared by two divers). They have one instructor for those in the class who are aiming to attain their IO-minute interval between the two dives to discuss what diving certification, which enables those certified to dive any-happened and what is going to happen next. where in the world for life. After the day's work is done, they have fun with dives. The The class this semester contains 14 future divers -four ~ divers explore the depths of our mini-underwater world and women, 10 men. In the past, Archer notes, there have been ~ witness natural (and Notre Dame student-created) wonders. In more women than men. One year, the class was all female. the past, odd objects have been recovered from the heated lake. With the advancement of technology and the upgrading of ~ It's harder, though, to dive in a lake than in the ocean. The body suits and equipment in the industry, this formerly male-'U,' visibility in Saint Joseph's Lake is only about 1 Ofeet dominatedsporthasevolvedintooneenjoyedbybothmenand Before the students' first real plunge into the diving world, women. Archer always recounts to his class his own first diving In total, there are seven sessions on the path to .eventual · experience. It was at Diamond Lake in Michigan and in only certification. The class meets regularly on Sundays and ·one three feet of water. When he went down he couldn't see Saturday and runs from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m. with a break for anything and felt very, very alone. Then he began to dinner. During the first hour, the class is held in a classroom. hyperventilate. He smiles reflectively on the immense fear that struck him that day. Fear, he says, is the basic instinct of a diver: "It is a healthy response." He relates this to his classes tomakeitclearthat they, too, will have this feel­ing. The lake and a pool are two "totally different experiences," says Ar­cher. 

Despite the vast dif­ference, there have not been any problems for divers in the lake. There are four trainers in the lake for each student this semester, because of the range of possible acci­dents that can occur in a sport like diving. 
Once the prospective divers pass both the writ­ten and water tests, they are certified and can dive anywhere in the world. Students also have the option to attain a CMAS license, which is the most respected license in div~ ing. Archer says that with the CMAS certification a diver can get "the red­carpet treatment" any­where in the world:Notre Dame is the only place in the United States where someone can attain this certification, which costs $1000. The regular cost of the scuba class is $90, plus $30 in books and $50 for the "check-out" fee. This cost includes rental of all equipment necessary except a mask and snorkel. Archer says >­~ one "can't find anything ~ cheaper." ~ 
It'sdefinitelyworthit, :li 


. SPLASHDOWN. The diving class practices in the pool at the Rockne Memorial before taking the required test says senior diving stu-dive in Saint Joseph's Lake. dent Tom Cullen. "There . . 
are so many places to scuba dive," says Cullen. "I always ~ age 12 to 69. He loves to help individuals attain their goals: "It's 
~F-fi\1­

t hough t the.idea was neat." When he saw he could take an experience-a thrill to see one ofmy students go down lessons here, he "jumped right on it." Living in Florida, he into the water for the first time." And on November 6, yet knows he will take advantage of the certification once he another class of future divers will make their way down attains it. Like his classmates, Cullen took advantage of the into the waterof Saint Joseph's Lake-only the beginning Rec Sports opportunity and feels the scuba program is a great of a life of diving adventures. But of all the tokens these class. "I recommend it to anyone interested." divers will come upon, they may find the greatest treasure is 
Archer has seen many such enthusiastic divers, ranging from the diving experience itself. 
Campus Life Scholastic 11 




BY KRISTIN KRAMERIt's a Notre Dame tradition that has built ii a reputation of excellence and domi­nance in the course ofits long history of competition. It's a team noted fodts com­
11 
I 
ii mitment, for its passion and for the blood, sweat and tears it sheds during its grueling 
contests and feats of victory. It's ... the

' Notre Dame debate team? As the debate team readies to begin its 100th year of competition this fall, mem­bers also prepare to reclaim the lofty status that Notre Dame once held in the sphere of collegiate debate. "Even when I was com­peting," says debate coach Chris Huck, "people still used to talk about Notre Dame and how dominant they used to be. They 
"After our season last year, if we're not national champs it'll be a disappointment." 
_) -Sophomore Will McDonald 
! 
and challenge the heart and soul of the judge. I have to talk about human dignity." 
The team ofPeate and sophomore Rachel Smith is similarly balanced. Peate says, "The assistant coach told me, 'You 're interesting to listen to and you're funny. Tell at least four jokes every round.'" Smith, on the other hand, says, "I'm better at ripping into people than making my own argument!" 
The debaters do, however, share at least one common trait: the love ofargument. It '·s often the reason that many of them got started in debate. "I argued with my parents a lot when I was younger, and my mom finally suggested that I try out the debate team in high school," says Peate. "Now, a lot of times on a long plane ride or car ride to a tournament we just argue with each other because everyone on the team just has that mentality." 
While most Notre Dame debaters partici­pated in some type ofdebate in high school, few had any experience with parliamentary debate when they arrived in South Bend. 'Parli,' as it is called for short, is a largely extemporaneous,• logic-based type of de­bate that centers on the quality of the argu­ment. Unlike many other forms of debate, parli does not rely on in-depth research, statistics or figures. As McDonald says, "It caters to creativity and spontaneity in speech -it's not evidence-based. In the tradition of Southern preachers and the British Par­liament, it's about who the better speaker is." 
"The impromptu element is good," adds Smith. "It encourages you to tabulate infor­mation or, to use the cliche, think on your feet. It's really an exhilarating feeling." 
am predicting a top 10, ifnot top five, finish 
in nationals." 
Sophomore Will McDonald aims even 
higher. "I think we're going to be national 
champs. Last year there was still a novelty 
to it because it was only Notre Dame's third 
year with the parliamentary format, but 
after our season last year, if we're not na­
tional champs it'll be a disappointment." 

The season that McDonald refers to ended with a stellar record for the Irish and a finish only a few points away from the top 10 teams in the country. The 1998-99 year saw the team come away with several team victories, numerous individual speaker awards and an appearance at nationals in .. San Diego. Returning this past Sunday from their first tournament of the year, members 
i! 
were one ofthe most prominent teams in the 

ii 
nation during the early 1900s." 

n 
The present team, self-described as 

,I11 "weird," "caring," and "clever" individu­
I! als, is ready to regain that prominence.
!: Thanks to Huck's and Assistant Coach Joe 
I l 
Fay's efforts and a team bolstered by eight returning veterans, as well as 12 talented I freshman prospects, debate at Notre Dame 
,I 
within the past three years has transformed . itself from the remnants of a past glory to a dedicated team ready to claim national rec­ognition for its efforts. Team captain Dan Peate, a Knott Hall senior, says, "We have a wonderful opportunity this year. I really 


12 Scholastic Campus Life 
will attend two more tournaments this se­mester in Denver. 
Notre Dame debaters, who are diverse in their outside interests, which range from student government to chorale to Air Force ROTC, are equally diverse in their strengths on the debate floor. Sophomore Joyce Bohnke, McDonald's partner, says, "In gen­eral, I'm good at constructing the details of a case and bringing up the indiyidual points of the argument. Will tends to be the more theoretical half of the team." McDonald agrees, saying, "If people are going to be afraid of me at tournaments, they should be afraid because I'm going to be passionate 


A LOGICAL PAIR. Smith and Peate pose with a trophy they earned for the team last year at 
According to the parli format, two two­person teams are given a topic to debate. One team argues for the topic, while the other argues against it. After 15 minutes of preparation time, the debate begins, with the winner decided at the end of the round by a judge. But wait, isn't debate just about who can tell the best lie? "Ouch, they gave away the secret!" says Smith. "It's true that rhetoric is a large part of debate.... It's almost like telling a story."Yet as Peate is quick to clarify, "It's really about who can tell the truth more convincingly." 
Topics for rounds are often diverse, and may range from the literal, such as "This house would expand NATO," to the more abstract, such as,. "This house would kill all the lawyers." Though it may sound ludi­crous at first to those not familiar with debate, Smith explains, "You could specify 'lawyers' as any kind of evil in society that you'd want to get rid of, and then say, 'I define lawyers as drunk drivers, so this house should enact tougher DUI laws."' 

Definition can make all the difference. Peate recounts a round in which he and his partner were given the topic, "This house believes dogs make better pets than cats." "I think they wanted us to take it more in the direction of political parties or something, but we just took it very literally," he says. "I ended up crying at the end about how cats just leave you and how they're not loyal pets at all." 
Parli is somewhat more agreeable with the schedule of a college student in that it does not require intense preparation time. "I just get the New York Times every day, read Time magazine and then go to practice rounds during the week," says Bohnke. Though 
McDonald admits to these efforts as well, he 
emphasizes that his main preparation involves watching an excerpt from Malice in which Alec Baldwin makes a speech to some doc­tors. "It just fires me up," he says. "He is just so hard-core in that scene." 
While Coach Huck, himself a former collegiate debater currently attending law school at Notre Dame, cautiously projects a national championship for the team within the next five years, the future of debate at ~otre Dame is challenged seriously by two concerns. One is funding. The budget cur­rently provides for six trips, although some of those trips are limited to the Midwest region due to costs. Huck says, "One of the barriers to being national champs is that you have to be able to travel to the bigger tour­naments with the best schools to get better and to allow the team to continue growing." 
Bohnke says, "There are very few good tournaments in the Midwest, as opposed to, like, the 300 in Denver. The World Cham­pionships, which a lot of schools go to, are in Australia. We obviously can't go, and that takes us out of a lot of prestige." 
The other very real threat posed to the team is the possible loss of its most dedi­cated constituent, Huck, who will complete his law degree this year. "We all complain about staying for one practice round when he stays for all of them," said Bohnke. "The time he puts in for us is amazing." 
In fact, "amazing" is an adjective used by virtually every debater interviewed to de­scribe their coach. "Chris Huck is fike a father, is like a friend, is like a brother and is just one of the most beautiful people I've 

~ ~ ~ 
w 
~ ~ 
m 
g 
0 

~ 
o. 
and the inconsistency in coaching until re­cently had contributed largely to the team's demise. Huck is working on extending his stay here, though university cooperation would certainly help. ''I'd like to see it end, in a sense," Huck says. "The debaters just put in a lot of time, they're really enthusias­tic, and it's the best part of my day. The rewards after a tournament aren't really the trophies, it's that they're having fun." 
They're having fun and honing their ar­gument skills to a sharp edge. Just listening to McDonald's seemingly logical analysis of why the United States should take over Canada shows why Notre Dame debaters are a force to be reckoned with at any time, on any topic. 
"Well, after the whole independent Que-
a tournament held in Kansas City, Missouri. 
ever met," says Peate. "We've got a fantas­tic coach." 
Huck says, "There have been some amaz­ing changes. I started three years ago with one returning student, and now there are 20 people on the team. I've always considered it my job to facilitate the existence ofdebate at Notre Dame." 
According to sophomore Michelle Peterson, Huck has done more than just facilitate debate here: "Chris has made us really good in a really short amount of time. I don't know what we're going to do with­out him." McDonald adds, "A lot of debate is how the game is played, and he's there to let us in on that." 
The debate coach was a permanent posi­tion during Notre Dame's debate heyday, 
bee issue from last year, I first of all say that traditionally the United States has helped out those countries fighting for indepen­dence, right? So if we're going to help out the Koso vars and countries in South America struggling for independence, then we need to help out the Quebeckers." He continues, gaining momentum, "But once this hap­pens, Canada is basically only three big cities which will become separate nationali­ties too, so all the prairie provinces like Saskatchewan and the Northwest Territory will just have to become part of the US. They're more American than we are any­way -they eat mayonnaise and they're overweight. So I don't want to take them over, I just want to give Canada a big hug." What will they persuade us to do next?. 
Campus Life Scholastic 13 


Out of the Park 
A Notre Daine aluni draws on painful experience to promote awareness ofmental health 

BY MEREDITH SALISBURYHe remembers the young woman who ran a hot-dog stand in the park; she gave him two hot dogs for lunch whenever she saw him. He remembers stealing food from the candy store so often that eventually he wasn't allowed inside anymore. Heremembers how the driving ·ain was so very cold, even in July. Chesire stops short. That didn't make sense. It wasn't July at all, it must have been May, maybe, or early June. These memories, these sharp, painful and vivid memories, have no context for Chesire. The only way he knows they happened is that there's no other way to explain the three months he lived as a homeless man or the seven months after that he spent in a hospital. He appropriately calls this his "lost year" -a year lost to illness, anger and depression. Most would argue that John Chesire was not destined for homelessness. Father Ted Hesburgh, a friend of his, probably didn't see
''I walked so much 
it coming. Nor did Fa­
ther Malloy, his class­
mate. Like others, they 



my feet bled." 
saw the success-bound side of Chesire -the

-John Cheshire 
side that enabled him to get into Notre Dame when everything else in his life said he wouldn't. They saw the student leader. They saw the academic pulling down nearly straight A's. 

By all accounts, Chesire, a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame, got his success despite somewhat bleak beginnings. When he was very young, his mother lost her battle against cancer. His father drank too much to be able to take care of Chesire and his brother Charlie, so they were sent to Boys Town. Chesire spent nine years in this orphaned environment, separated from his brother, struggling to make something of himself. He became the captain ofhis high school football team, but he pushed for more. Notre Dame offered a scholarship through Boys Town. Chesire passed the tests, won the scholarship and headed for South Bend. 
In college, he was chairman of an honor society called the Blue Circle. He worked closely with Hesburgh, who was also active with the group. 
Chesire continued his education at Columbia University, where he got his Master's of Science and Social Work. A straight-A student, he was chosen by his fellow students to be on the university senate. "In those days," he reflects as he leans back in his chair, "I never had any doubts." 
Nor did those around him. Chesire married a Saint Mary's student in the Sacred Heart Basilica a year after he graduated from Notre Dame. Immediately after he graduated from Columbia in 1973, he was offered a teaching job in Connecticut, which he readily accepted. 
JI But then the illness struck. Chesire had no way to explain the onset ofblurred vision 
] 
and anxiety. He went to a private hospital and was given medication to treat these symptoms. Three weeks later, he recalls, he was in the classroom . 
.WhatChesiredidn'tknow was that these symptoms were the earliest detectable stages of schizophrenia. Ai;med with the medication, he attempted to continue with his life, unaware that the inevitable downward spiral had begun. 
Chesire and his wife moved to Rochester, N.Y., where he began teaching at Nazareth College. "I taught all through the illness," he says. The schizophrenia worsened, and Chesire switched medications frequently, hoping to stay one step ahead of the as-yet­unidentified illness, clinging to the idea that he could maintain a normal life. 
Chesire has what he calls "maturity onset schizophrenia," which means that the illness· 


doesn't become full-blown until, on average, the age of29. At that age, Chesire was already a tenured associate professor at Nazareth. "Sure enough, it hit me right in the prime of my career," he says. 
After 14 years of marriage, Chesire' s wife filed for divorce. "She put up with it," he says. "You've got to give her credit, it was hard." The illness came in ever-increasing cycles. Chesire's wife and his two sons, 10 and eight, left. 
A friend of Chesire's, Robert Kennedy, Jr., went to Nazareth to speak at a youth conference and asked Chesire to help with fundraising for the Kennedy memorial in Washington, D.C. Traveling for the project was a welcome diversion on weekends. But after two years, Chesire had to stop. He stopped teaching, too. Forced to apply for disability when the schizophrenia got too bad, "I was heartbroken," he murmurs, "truly heartbroken." 
Spurred perhaps by his travels for the Kennedy memorial, or maybe just restless as the illness became more dominant, Chesire began to wander. He went to the Mayo Clinic for a withdrawal program to get off all the medication on which he had become so reliant. He worked at a soup kitchen in Bridgeport, Conn. At last, he says, he could sleep, something neither the illness nor the medication had afforded him. 
In 1987, the final stage of schizophrenia hit. Still undiagnosed, Chesire saw things, heard things that no one else could see or hear. The 
voices in his head grew cacophonous. Ex-r,---,-,----~--...,--,_...,-_,...._ _,,...__~....,....----,----,----,--.._,----, 


===:;s:~+::~~~i©ri¥0Ht llt0Ck · 
they couldn't control it." 
"I ended up being arrested in a hotel for walking naked through the lobby," Chesire says. He pauses. "Can you believe that?" He went to a treatment c~nter in Connecticut but left, for reasons he still doesn't understand. Just as inexplicably, he took aplane to Boston. He stayedin a motel until managers locked his door when it became clear that he had no intention or means of paying. 
That's when he went to the park. "I walked so much my feet bled," he says. He sits quietly, perhaps recalling the feeling of the cold rain during those three months of homelessness ii1 the park. "If you found an alcove in the brownstones you huddled in there when it rained 10 hours at a time." He survived by eating food out of garbage cans and drinking out of the pond, but he con­tracted hepatitis from these habits. 
After three months in the park, Chesire felt some type of rebirth. He describes it as a closeness to God, a closeness unparalleled by any feeling he had before or since. "Prayers brought me out of the park," he says. "It was a long time to reflect." A taxi driver gave him afree ride to the Massachusetts General Hospital, where Chesire was immedi­ately strapped onto a gurney, and a nurse scolded him for being "irresponsible." Seven months later, Chesire was released from the hospital. "If I had taken the medication, I would have been out in a month,"_he says. But in his exhausted and confused state, he fought treatment as hard as he could; 
Free again, Chesire moved in with his brother, a manic-depressive, in Omaha and lived there for 10 years. For five of those years he relied on his Columbia degree and practiced social work. He started writing again, and he met awoman who became his second wife. She manages, he says with a grateful smile, to be upbeat all the time. Diagnosed at the Mayo Clinic as chronically depressed, that's just what he needs. 
Getting his life back on track seems to have been Chesire's primary goal. He did more and more social work, realizing that his experiences gave him a background that enabled him to help people whom other social workers couldn't reach. 
And Chesire developed a reputation for success with the impossible cases. He recalls, "One local hospital sent me 173 referrals in one year." He also began writing again, his main project a book called W aterboy, a collection of the personal stories of mentally ill people. It was through this book that he "came out" as a schizophrenic to his colleagues, an act which he refers to as taking his life into his hands. But Chesire is encouraged by the success of the book and the continued stream of patients looking for help. 
Chesire still isn't sure of the full meaning of his time in the park. One thing he's certain of: "I know it was part of the plan to go through what I went through." He cannot pity himself for even the hepatitis or the bleeding feet. "Suffering makes you wiser," he says, "so I'm grateful for the suffering." 
By no means has life been a smooth ride since he got back on his feet, though. Despite his happy remarriage, Chesire still regrets losing touch with his sons, whom he has been able to contact solely through letters 

·•·A···-•-_·.
;.,_:::·:cc:o_r_cµ11g _•to_J9lli1 Che,sir~;scllizoplrreniai~.more prevalent than _mariy. pedple . -... · ' \:realiz:¢\ ''There:are prq~ably[up to]8,000 _scpizop1:tenicsinSoutli Bend;" pe · · :., ' says;And that doesn't mclt19e the student populations of Notre Dame, Samt ,MiiryJi .pr H6ly ·Cross /''Iirriagirie ther~ ar~· several students on campus: suffering very 
riluchthe says> .·· ·.. .: ' . . < . • ·. ' • ' ' .·. ' .•. ' . . • .. ··. .·· . 
. . . Although C:hesfre's own case did no(become_ full~blown: until he was 29," which is . comtnc,ri, he s,ays th:ere_ wer~'w0.!lllng signs. alqng the \yay. :He was aly,,iiys 111C>re parat16id thari most; convinced thatpeople were ta.lkirig about hii:n orworking against him. His first · .syrp.pt<>~s, whi"ch. strucl<\mme~iately after graduate ~cho9l, jnclu~ed l,lurred vision and . . heightened anxiety. Ches ire beiieves tha.t ifhe haci beeirmore aware· ofliis illness and had . gotteh'help sooner' his life might not have disintegrated 't~ th~ point itdid..· .... _· . . ·.• . NotreDiune'sUniv~rsity (:o~nselit1g Centerts.equippecito deal\Vlth peoplewho have, 
orthi_lJ,k:·they may. have; menthl illnes~ .. All.of their.records reinain-·confidential.·Tl).eir · phone number isi~7336; -·· . . . .. . . . . . . . 
•·; ,·... . 
~Meredith Salisbury 

since his homelessness. "If you want to say I'm grieving about anything," he says, "that's what I'm grieving about." 
Because of the medication, Chesire still can't sleep through the night. That's not something he complains about, though. "For a lot of people, it gets worse," he explains, citing brain damage as one of the possible effects of this illness. He counts himself as very lucky to be where he is in life. 
But John Chesire is taking no chances. He takes his medication as religiously as he prays his daily devotion to Mary. He has three rosaries, and he keeps at least one with him at all times. And he tells his story, tells it to anyone who'll listen, tells it to some who won't. He wants to promote understanding of mental illness and to let the ill know they're not alone. With that terribly keen sense of someone who's already been there, Chesire knows that he's not the only person who will wind up in the park. 
Campus Life Scholastic 15 



t Notre Dame, it can be hard to escape tradition. In a March 1995 editorial, the outgoing editor in chief ofthe Observer wrote, "It has become a yearly rite of passage for an editor in chief to meet with key administrators and discuss the advertising policy 
for GLND/SMC." Four years later, the details have changed but the rite apparently remains intact. The subject of discussion is no longer the unrecognized gay and lesbian student group but the independent alumni organization Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GALA-ND/SMC). In a letter dated August 23, 1999, the Office of the President "reiterates the university's position relative to accepting ads from GALA," and the position is nothing less than a complete ban on the publication of GALA-ND/SMC advertisements in the Observer. 
According to current editor in chief Michelle Krupa, this is the first officially documented statement of the university's policy regarding GALA-ND/SMC ads in the Observer. But President Edward Malloy contends in a letter to GALA-ND/SMC, "The current controversy ... is not based upon a new policy but rather a longstanding one." The conflict opens up older and broader debates on a variety of issues including the Observer's relation­ship with the university, the administration's response to issues of sexual orientation and the ways in which a Catholic university should live out its religious tradition. 
Independent? 

"The Observer bills itself as an indepen­dent voice at Notre Dame, but what does that mean?" asks Walt Collins, adjunct as­sistant professor in American Studies and editor in chief of Notre Dame Magazine from 1983 to 1995. "It's really murky," Collins says ofthe relationship between the 
Observer and the administration. 
The confusing relationship may be traced back to February 1, 1984, when the Observer officially joined the university's Budget Unit Control Sys­tem at the demand of then-President Father Theodore Hes burgh, CSC. An 
audit conducted by the university had dis­, covered a deficit of $7 ,000 and several instances offinancial mismanagement dur­ing the 1982-83 operation of the Observer. Threatem;d with the cutoff ofabout $70,000 in student fees if it refused the university's demand of financial oversight, the general board of the Observer presented a signed contract that would allow financial over­sight but ensure, among other things, that 
"the university cannot use its control over the paper's funds to dictate the paper's con­tent, including advertisements, the strength and scope of news coverage, and page allo­cation." Hesburgh would not sign the con­tract, saying, "relationships among organi­zations at the university have been tradi­tionally familial in nature." In a letter to the editor in chief, Hesburgh recognized the powerless. Allowing the university to con­
trol the paper's budget is like letting the 
White House hold the purse-strings of the Washington Post." . Fifteen years later, Krupa still sees the difficulty inherent in this relationship: "The 
university is our publisher, but they are also 
our government." Collins agrees that the 
two roles seem contradictory. "In the com­
mercial world, publishers are God," he ex­plains, but the relationship between a news­
paper and the government is necessarily 
antagonistic. Whereas one would expect an 
independent paper to pull no punches when covering the government, "any editor does 
things to avoid upsetting the publisher," 
says Collins. 
Krupa, for her part, fiercely defends her 

paper's independence and denies catering 
to the wishes of the administration. "I have never broken an ad contract once it was made, and I have never turned down a con­tract at the request of a university official," 
she says. 

WhatAre We Missing? 
Nevertheless, both Krupa and the August 23 letter sent to her by Assistant to the President Chandra Johnson indicate that editors and administrators have been dis­cussing advertisements in the Observer for some time. One such discussion last May resultedinJohnson 's letter. In the Observer's final issue ofthe school year, a half-page ad from GALA-ND/SMC appeared, and it was followed by a full-page ad in the senior edition ofthe Observer. Between the publi­cation of these two ads, Krupa was asked to meet with Johnson and Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. None of the parties involved will comment specifically on what was said at the meet­
"The current controversy ... is not based upon a new policy but rather a longstanding one!' 

-President Edward Malloy 
Observer's "editorial independence to the extent that you are free, except in the event that you do something outrageous." The general board could do little more than accept financial oversight and editorialize. They wrote, "Though the paper's financial and editorial independence might seem dis­tinct in theory; it is impossible to separate the two in practice. If the university chose not to sign checks, the paper would be ing, but according to the letter, Krupa made a "request for written clarification regard­ing the Observer's treatment of future re­quests by GALA to advertise in the Ob­server." 
'fhe actual statement of policy regarding GALA-ND/SMC in the letter is quoted ver­.batim from an e-mail message sent to former editor in chief Heather Cocks in September of 1998. The e-mail informed Cocks that 
Cover Story Scholastic 17 
"GALA is an outside group, closely affili­ated with GLND. As such it does ncit have a right to advertise." It also stated: "Outside groups that, directly or indirectly, espouse positions contrary to the moral teaching of the Catholic Church may not advertise." 
According to the letter, Krupa was "un­aware of this e-mail and therefore had no prior knowledge of past correspondence 

I j; Ii 
IJ 
II II 
!! 
sue at hand."The

"To me it shows a rather childish reaction. They are university's argu­
ments against GALA


choosing really crude actions to shut down discussion.'' 
are simply false," 


-GALA-ND/SMC chairperson John Blanford Blanford says. "They 
relative to this issue." Krupa argues that none of the prior correspondence or discus­sion bore the official weight of Johnson's letter. "This seal from the Office of the President on the letter makes all the differ­ence," because, according to Krupa, "the Office of the President is the only adminis­trative body that can issue an official policy to the Obsei·ver." 
Still, Krupa is aware that various uni~ versity officials have been meetin with editors of the 1 • . _ Observer since at 1 · ~nish~il':i 
1· ·=.--=-.:.-:::.:::::-...:;~-.,.._
least 1995 to dis-; -=--.::e.'='..s-::;·
i. ·•-=~=----:.=:. 
cuss the issue of i 1~;;--=-;.~
G L ND / S M C ,,_ ..,: _:.:~-:::: :::r··-. 
and GALA-ND/ SMC ads in the Observer. The March 1995 edi­torial by former editor in chief Jake Peters claims , thatthishasbeengo-• ing on even longer. "There are special guidelines set forth by key ministrators that are design to keep the appearance GLND/SMC advertisement from looking 'official,"' he said. "The information handed down to me by the outgoing editor was passed down to him by his prede­cessor. This intricate chain of instructions and guide­lines has been extended for a number of years." 
Whether or not this tradition passed from editor to editor con,­tinues today is less clear .. N either the Observer nor the administra­tion is commenting on what was 
18 Scholastic Cover Story 
said in their meetings. Krupa is particularly reticent about the possibility that she and other members of the Observer's editorial board are currently meeting with adminis­trators to discuss the ban on GALA-ND/ SMC ads. "Maybe, maybe not," was her only comment. 
Collins is a bit confused about the Observer's unwillingness to discuss all of talking because ofwhat we've said." In fact, legal action does not seem to be a serious threat at present, but just one of many op­tions that GALA-ND/SMC is exploring. "A legal recourse isn't our first choice," Blanford says. "There is no pending legal 
action." 
GALA-ND/SMC's real desire is to get the administration to speak substan­tively about the is­
its meetings with the administration. "One of the touchstones of journalism is open­ness,"henotes.However,onecannotforget that the relationship between the Observer and the university is in part the more closed relationship of publication to publisher. "Publishers play their cards close to the vest," acknowledges Collins, and the Ob­
server cannot even be sure of what cards administration is holding. ore discouraging to many are the ~c,.,.-,-,-,-closed lips of 
the adminis­tration re­gardingitsad­vertising poli­cies for the 
ment on the is­sue, noting that 
the possibility 
of legal action prevents her 
from making any statement in a public forum. That possibility of legal action was 
raised in the comments ofGALA­ND/SMC chairperson John Blanford to the Observeron Sep­tember 23. 
Putting Up the 

Goods 
Blanford is not impressed 
with the suggestion that talk about legal action is preventing communi­
cation with the university's administra­
tion about issues of homosexuality. at 
Notre Dame. "It's the administration that has shut down the communication. I think it's just blarney to suggest ~hat they're not 

cannot defend their arguments and they are dodging putting up the goods by refusing to talk." As Blanford sees it, the university's ban of GALA-ND/ . SMC rests on two arguments: that the group espouses positions contrary to the teaching of the Catholic Church and that it places ads in the Observer on behalf ofOUTreach ND, fonnerlyGLND/SMC, which is bannedfrom advertising due to its unrecognized status. In response to the first argument, Blanford says, "From GALA's inception, there was an intention not to overstep the bounds of Church teaching" in its mission and activi­ties. In an August 31 letter to Malloy, 
Blanford reproves the administration for 
offering no evidence from the group's mfs­sion or history to show that the organization 
supports positions opposed to Catholic 
teaching. "It is not surprising why such evidence is lacking," the letter reads, "GALA-ND/SMC has not, nor will it es­pouse positions that contravene official ·church teaching." 
ThoughGALA-ND/SMC'smissionstate­
ment does include financial and moral sup­
port ofOUTreach ND, Blanford stresses the 
independence ofthe two organizations from 
one another. His letter claims, "The casual 
assertion that OUTreach ND is the principal beneficiary ofGALA' s advertisements is ... 
spurious." The May 1999 advertisements 
that sparked the current debate contain no reference to OUTreach ND, only a con­
gratulation to graduating gay and lesbian students and an invitation to join GALA­
ND/SMC. OUTreachNDPresidentJeremy Bauer says, "The ads that they [GALA] run 
in the paper don't really help us." 
Seeing no substantive response to his arguments, Blanford concludes, "There is no serious intent for dialogue at the highest levels of administration. They'll try any­thing possible to stifle debate on gay and lesbian issues at Notre Dame." In his opin­

ion, the ban on GALA-ND/SMC ----~~ '\sists that ministering to the ads in the Observer is a clumsy 
a__oisimf·-·. n;::~r~~~::;~~ei:~~::~
move on the part ofthe adminis­
tration that indicates its bias , :::-.::: ...,,._~!!'.!"':...:;;;:.;:::·'.· · tion to Catholic teach-against real dialogue about ' homosexuality at Notre_ ;· 
'Si, 

\!Cf,,' , ~::f:~~:;;:~~!~
Dame. "To me it shows a i 
rather childish reaction. 
They are choosing really 
crude actions to shut 
down discussion," he 
I.' 
says. 
Childish ornot, Blanford finds it worrisome. "There's got to be real concern that an indepen­dent student voice is being shut down," he says. A 1983 graduate of Notre Dame, Blanford points out that he left the university before the 1984 decision to give the university financial over­sight of the Observer. "Clearly there was a price to be paid for this change," he says. "To see an independent voice crushed is disconcerting to us as_ alumni, and not just as gay and les­bian alumni." 
It appears that many faculty mem­bers agree with Blanford' s concern about the independent voice. A peti­tion advocating freedom in advertis­ing, with more than 200faculty sig­natures, is expected to be released by the Observer tomorrow. 

Change Overlooked 
Certainly there are many at Notre Dame who feel that the administration's tone and spirit re­garding the gay issue has not been entirely negative. Father Tom Gaughan, CSC, helps run Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Stu­dents (NDLGS), a recognized support group for homosexuals at Notre Dame sponsored by the Office of Student Affairs. "Prior to the formation ofNDLGS, there was nothing that the university offered in terms of support for gay and lesbian students," Gaughan notes. As a result of the ad hoc committee that set up NDLGS in 1997 and the current Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, a variety ofservices for homosexual students are now in place. These include NDLGS, a Campus Ministry-sponsored support group andN etwork, a system of faculty and staff who make them­selves available to discuss issues of sexual ori­entation with students. 
"We are letting people know that there is a place to turn to speak in a respectful manner about homosexuality," says Gaughan. He in­"People want to fo­
cus on the Church's teaching on sexual ethics. But people dealing 
with homosexual­

ity are dealing with a lot of issues beyond sexual­ity: self-acceptance, fam­ily difficulties, loss of 
dreams, fear of loneliness, rejection and violence. There's a great need for sup­port and encouragement on all these levels." 

At the same time, NDLGS does not participate directly in larger discussions of policy and practice with ad­ministrators, nor do they have a "political" side. "The group is able to talk about anything," Gaughan says, "but it is not about making systemic changes. The purpose is to pro­vide support and welcome." Still, Gaughan insists that "the very existence of NDLGS is an indication of systemic change at the university. Perhaps it is not as fast or extensive as some would like, but to say there's been no change is to ignore what has been 
done to address the needs of students." 

Where the Church 

Does Its Thinking 

Blanford remains unsatisfied. "Father Hes burgh used to like to say that N ot:re Dame is where the Church does its thinking. Yet again the administration has shown that it is not inter­ested in thinking seriously about the issues sur­rounding homosexuality." He worries that the advertising ban extends this distrust ofdialogue to the students of the university. He asks, "Is Notre Dame doing such a bad job that it can't trust its students to know what is good and true from what is pernicious and false?" As members of the Notre Dame family, GALA-ND/SMC now looks to the administrators to give a clear answer to this question. 0 
press photo courtesy ofthe Observer/KevinDalum 





Common. 
. Sense? 
•In the midstofthe controversy over the ban ofGALA-ND/SMC ads in the Observer, this month's issue of Com­mon Sense carries a full-page ad from OUTreach ND, the unrecognized stu­dent group which is not allowed· to advertise in campus media. The ad's headline reads, in large bold print, "We Exist," and runs on the sixth page of the 12-page publication. i 
OUTreach. ND, formerly GLNJ?/ : SMC, is a group that was banned from campus for espousing beliefs on ho­mosexuality contrary to the teachings 
ofthe Catholic church. Jeremy Bauer, one ofthe co-presidents ofOUTreach ND, states that his organization has always had a "positive relationship" with Common Sense, and that now, more than ever, that is valuable. 
Sophie Fortin, editor of Common Sense, echoes these sentiments and notes, "[Common Sense] has always been and is going to be a separate voice on campus." 
Common Sense's liberal indepen­dent voice provides a counterpoint to the current debate over the Obse1yer ad policy. According to Fortin, Com­monSensemustrequestperrnission to 
· distribute on university property, but that is where the administration's in­fluence ends. While Fortin acknowl-_ edges that Common Sense would prob­ably never publish an ad supporting, for instance, abortion, she notes the value of Common Sense's indepen­dence on issues that are not so clear­cut. 
Fortin says that Common Sense's motives in printing the ad were two­fold. First, the publication takes issue with the implied statement that OUTreach ND espouses teachings contrary to the Catholic church. But 
. on a broader level, Common Sense seems to take it as a more basic matter 
· ofcommunication within the commu­nity. Says Portland, "It is an issue on campus, and to stop members of our community from having a voice is : wrong.': · · I 
-Jared Marx 
Cover Story Scholastic 19 

TIP THE 0 I P P . OIPPER. l@ND.EDU 

(_}~\ffiP((s 



41~~ 

'­



a-,c~ 
"Beat him like a goatman!" -another crazy football fan at the Oklahoma game 
reetings and salutations. Before. the 
(]
Gipp gets started with this issue's 
installment, he'd like to remind ev­eryone in the reading public that the Gipp' s column is meant to be taken lightly. Though the Gipp does poke fun at people, his pur­pose is not to hurt anyone's feelings. The Gipp hopes that those featured in this col­umn will not be embarrassed or insulted, but instead find joy in the idea that their actions gave some nice people a chuckle. 

That being said, let's get this party started. ­
Speal~ing of Parties ... 
The Hall Presidents' Council, or HPC for short, recently was notified by the university that there will be no more SYRs. That is, the dances will still take place, but they will go by a different name, such as "all-hall dances" or "hall-wide parties" ... unless somebody can think of something catchier. Word on the street says that the term "SYR," particu­larly the verb that the "S" stands for, is way too sexual for a good Catholic party. Also, the idea that the verb in question refers to one's roommate has a shade of a homo­sexual connotation, and we all know how the administration feels about homosexual­ity. 
Speal~ing of Parties and Urine ... 
A Gipp tipper was standing outside of Heartland when he ,,(, ,, noticed a young / /.-f,_(' man meandering -:-:--· /};~ along the entire -• length of the College 

--··...:c'=:'J:;.:+:J Football Hall ofFame, 
__ j .. •• _,_
}_.-~, . 
marking his entire path ,, .·· with what seemed like an endless stream of urine. The tipper em­phasized that the owner of this gigantic blad­der walked not only the length of the building itself, but also along the half-football field outside and managed to keep a continuous flow for the whole dis­tance. The Gipp also heard that this bladder-
busting youth wasnot even empty attheend of his stroll, but the Gipp isn't sure if that's humanly, heck, even pachydermically, possible. 
Speal~ing of Urine 
In preparation for an upcoming SYR (standing for Super Yeti Riot -nothing offensive there), a fine young Dillonite took a trip to Meijer to get a gift for his date. He passed by a display of hunting parapherna­lia and decided to purchase for his ladylove the best bottle of Red Fox Urine that his money could buy. The tipper explains, "No joke, this stuff is used to cover the human scent of clandestine hunters. It came with countless warning labels, though none about mixing with Captain Morgan to help woo that special someone." The Gipp is now convinced that Meijer really does have ev­erything. 
Oipplettes
Cf)Once upon a time, a Keenan knight was 
set up for an SYR (S&M Yahoo Ruckus... ooh, now that's scandalous), but as the dance approached, the knight decided that he didn't want to go. Meanwhile, a certain squire down the hall was dateless and very depressed about it. Approximately three hours before the festivities began, the melancholy knight traded his date for 20 bucks, a T-shirt and a pack of Corona. The Gipp would like to add the going rate for dates was high that weekend because of the many dances taking place. 
Cf)In another dorm, far across campus, a 
__ gentleman caught his date hooking up with his roommate. In this case, there was no Corona exchanged and the gentleman grew very angry-so angry that he decided to punch out a window with his bare fist. Apparently, he tore up his hand so bad! y that he had to get a skin graft, meaning that skin had to be removed from another part of the gentleman's body to replace the skin on his hand. The Gipp isn't sure if he should men­tion exactly where_ the grafted skin came from, but he guarantees that as long as the gentleman is wearing his bikini briefs, no­body will see the scar. 
(DThe Gipp would also like to tell a 
. tipper concerned with a certain foot­
ball player's sex life to please keep her 
comments to herself. Remember, just be­
cause a player can't perform on the field 
doesn't mean he should be able to perform 
off the field. 
20 Scholastic Campus Watch 


This senior from Glen Ellyn, Ill., recently claimed her third Notre Dame Invitational title in four years, posting a 16:S2 in the SK. Deeter, a women's team co-captain, is Notre Dame's first two-time women's cross-country All-American. Last year, Deeter placed 14th at the NCAA 

.-a;-Championships. ·cp I first started running ·. ,CD when I was: a freshman in 
high school 
The greatest team 

moment I've experi­enced was: winning the Notre Dame Invitational last weekend My greatest personal athletic moment was: when I was chosen to be a team captain 
My favorite course to run on 
is: in Tucson, Ariz., where we ran pre-nationals and nationals last year 
My most memorable Notre Dame moment outside of competition was: in freshman year, when my teammates and I snuck into a pep rally 
Growing up, my favorite athlete was: Nadia Comenici If I could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: soccer The toughest obstacle to success 
that I've had to overcome was: 
anorexia My favorite cross-country workout <· is: 10 x 400 meters My favorite racing distance is: the SK 
The most difficult part of a cross­country race for me is: getting to the starting line 
-Gerard Meskill 




--.,-,~ . . . . . . 

· -·};-fr-om-the~Press-Box..c-_·~----'-----'
_  
·,  ..  A very talented, yet extremely  
~: _~  inconsistent, Arhizo~a f~tate  
; '!"  - squad puts to get  er its  mest  
/  1-,/'­ effort of the season during its  
visit to South Bend. But the Sun  
Devils are still no match for the  
improving Irish, who win 38­ 
30.  Chris Hamilton  

Armed with a rejuvenated 
Jarious Jackson and a 
newfound confidence, the 

Irish will resume the offen­sive dominance that they dis­played in the second half of last Saturday's game, crushing the Sun Devils 35 -13. 

Gemrd Meskill 

The remainder ofthe five-game home stand proves to be a great confidence booster for the Irish. They beat Arizona State this weekend and don't lose another one in the Notre Dame Stadium this year. 
Brian Christ 
Sports Scholastic 21 

Miami was ranked number one; Notre Dame, four. Despite this, Lou Holtz uncharacteristically announced at the pep rally the night before the big game, "We're going to beat the living dog out of them." 
•..;.. The Miami Hurricanes, coached by Jimmy Johnson, had a 20-game · road winning streak and had beaten Notre Dame soundly in their past two meetings. Saturday, October 15, 1988, was the day for revenge. 
Notre Dame started the game by kicking off to Miami. On the fifth play of the game, Irish defensive end Frank Starns knocked the ball loose from Miami quarterback Steve Walsh and Chris Zorich recovered. However, Notre Dame's first possession proved futile and the Irish were soon again on defense. Thanks to a big play by Starns on third down, the HmTicanes were forced Notre Dome 31 to punt. Tony Rice, Notre Dame's quarterback, M" • found Raghib "Rocket" Ismail open in the mml 30 midfield and began what would result in a 12-play, 75-yard scoring drive with Rice running the ball in for the touchdown. Reggi Ho added the 
• extra point and Notre Dame was up 7-0. 
On Miami's next possession, Walsh's pass was intercepted by safety D'Juan Francisco. Notre Dame was now on the Miami 35, but Rice bobbled the snap and the ball was recovered by Miami. The Hurricanes scored on Walsh's eight-yard pass to Andre Brown. 
But the Irish came right back. On fourth and one at the Hurricane 16, fullback Braxton Banks rushed for a two-yard gain. "I felt a lot of points 
, were needed-to win this game," said Holtz. "Three points wasn't a whole lot." The decision paid off. Three plays later, Rice passed to Banks, who ran five yards for the touchdown. 
On Miami's third play of the following possession, Starns tipped Walsh's pass at the line of scrimmage; Pat Terrell intercepted it at the Miami 40 and ran 60 yards for the touchdown. With the extra-point kick, the score was 21-7. 
But Miami wasn't throwing in the towel just yet. On fourth-and-four with 2:33 left in the half, Walsh threw a short pass to Conley, who scrambled into the end zone. Then, Notre Dame took only one minute off the clock and the Hurricanes had a chance to even the score. With 21 seconds left in the half, they did just that. Walsh completed a touchdown pass to Cleveland Gary and the score was tied at halftime. 
Early in the second half, Notre Dame stopped a faked Miami punt and soon found themselves at the two-yard line. Rice then pitched it to Pat Eilers who scored the touchdown, once again putting Notre Dame in the lead. 
After trading field goals, the score was 31-24 heading into the fourth quarter. Miami's seventh turnover came when Walsh was stripped ofthe ball by Starns. With 3:37 left on the clock and the Irish in possession of the football, the game appeared to be over. However, the Irish breathed life back into the Hurricanes one minute and twenty-two seconds later when Rice fumbled the ball. 
On fourth and sevC?n with 45 seconds left, Walsh connected with Brown for a Miami touchdown. The score was now 31-30 and Miami decided to go for two. 
"We always play the game to win," said Johnson, "There was no question what we would do." 
But Walsh's pass was too high and Terrell spiked it to the ground. "I saw the Miami receiver head into the corner of the end zone and just jumped in front of him. I followed Walsh's eyes the whole way. I knew where he was going to throw that football and I don't think he saw me coming," said Terrell. 
"The game my freshman year defeat [58-7 to Miami] was the most embarrassing game J'd ever played in," recalls Starns. "To beat these guys was probably a goal ever since that game. It's always been a bitter pill to swallow, and it just stuck in my throat until this moment right now." -Lies! Marx 
22 Scholastic Sports 




football (2-3)
Key Stat: Against Oklahoma, the Irish did not commit a turnover for the first time this season. Prime Time Performer: Jarious Jackson rushed for 124 yards and one touchdown. Jackson threw for two more touchdowns, and amassed 276 total passing yards. Next Game: This Saturday the Irish host Arizona State at 1:30 p.m. 

Key Stat: The Irish are 4-0 against Big East opponents this year. Prime Time Performer: On Tuesday, junior Anne Makinen netted her fifth and sixth goals of the 1999 season to lift Notre Dame over Michigan 4-1. Next Game: The Irish host Big-East rival West Viriginia on Friday at Alumni Field. 
MeITT{s

Soccer (6-4-1)
Key Stat: The Irish have won three consecutive games. 

. Prime Time Performer: Senior Ryan Cox scored the lone goal in Notre Dame's 1-0 victory over IUPUI on Tuesday. Next Game: Notre Dame battles Providence at Alumni Field on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. 

W en's 
Volley (8-4) 
Key Stat: On Tuesday against Michigan, Notre Dame could not capture game three after rallying from a five-point deficit to tie the score at 9-9. Prime Time Performer: The Irish were led by junior Denise Boylan, who contributed 52 assists and 10 digs in the 4-game loss to the Wolverines. Next Game: Notre Dame travels to play Rutgers University Saturday at 2:00 p.m. 

• 
An Erasmus Institute conference celebrating the reopening of the Main Building at the University ofNotre Dame 
October 13-14, 1999 
McKenna Hall Auditorium University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Wednesday, October 13, 1999 3:45 p.m. NotAll the Nations Furiously Rage Together
8 a.m. Continental Breakfast 
Bruce Russett 

Dean Acheson Professor of Nathan Hatch 
8:30 a.m. Welcome 
International Relations and Provost 
Political Science University ofNotre Qame 
Yale University 

James Turner 6:30p.m. Reception and Dinner Director, Erasmus Institute 
(Lower level ofMcKenna Hall ­University ofNotre Dame 
must have ticket) 

Thursday, October 14, 1999 
9a.m. Catholic Universities; Dangers, Hopes, Choices 
Sa.m, Continental Breakfast 
Alasdair MacIntyre 

Professor ofPhilosophy 8:30 a.m. ''.Art," Literature, Theology: Duke University Learning from Germany 
Nicholas Boyle 

10:45 a.m. Catholicism and Sociology: 
Head of Department ofGerman 
Elective Affinity or 
University ofCambridge
Unholy Alliance? 

Alan Wolfe 10:15 a.m. Catholic Traditions and the 
Professor ofPolitical Science Dilemmas of Universal Rights 
Director, Center for Religion Mary Ann Glendon 
and American Public Life Learned Hand Professor ofLaw Boston College Harvard University 
12:30 p.m. Lunch noon What Have We Learned? (Lower Level ofMcKenna Hall -Jean Bethke Elshcain must have ticket) Laura Spelman Rockefeller 
Professor ofSocial and 

2p.m. Christian Faith in the Academy, 
Policical Ethics 
the Role of Physics 
University ofChicago 

Rev. Dr. John Polkinghorne President Emeritus 1 p.m. Lunch Queens' College (Lower Level ofMcKenna Hall ­Uni;ersity ofCambridge muse have ticket) · 
2:30p.m. Tour of Main Building Meet -McKenna Hall Lobby All arc welcome to attend 
All presentations followed by open discussion 
gher Learning atholic Traditions 

Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of an anonymous donor, The Pew Charitable Trusts, and the 
University of Notre Dame 
Advertisement Scholastic 23 

The Erasmus Institute 124 Flanner Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-5611 Phone: (219) 631-9346 Fax: (219) 631-3585 E-mail: erasmus@nd.edu Web: www.nd.edu/~erasmus 





From the 


With the first practice a little more than a week away, new head basketball coach Matt Doherty has big plans for the team 

BY CHRISTOPHER lIAMrLTONAfter regularly making appearances in the NCAA Tournament through out the '70s and '80s, Irish fans are typically in agreement when labeling this past decade as being a major disappointment for the Notre Dame Men's Basketball program. Outside of qualifying for the Big Dance in 1990, the Irish have only seen postseason action in two years during the '90s, and both instances involved participating in the less­heralded NIT. But based on the ferocious work ethic dis­played by Matt Doherty in his first six months as head coach, not to mention his impressive resume, it may not belong before Notre Dame will again be a legitimate national contender. Doherty, whose credentials include win­ning a national championship while playing at ­North Carolina and helping lead Kansas to five Big Eight/Big 12 Conference titles dur­ing the seven years he spent there as the team's top assistant coach, was hired on March 30 and has worked around the clock since that date in order to help resurrect the ailing Irish program. The first-time head coach has dedi­cated a massive amount ofeffort to customiz­ing the program to his liking, which, among other things, has included hiring four new assistants. Doherty has spent the remainder of his time focusing on recruiting; in fact, he spent almost the entire months of July and September away on recruiting trips. And it's not as if Doherty hasn't had other things on his mind. A little more than three weeks ago he celebrated the birth of his sec-. ond child. "Not only that," says Doherty, the 16th head coach in Irish history, "but we've had some problems in the family as well. My mother-in­. law broke her hip and my father had a tumor 
24 Scholastic Sports 
removed, so there was a lot going on." 
With all these things happening in Doherty' s life, you know it has to hurt this quintessential family man that he has not had as much free time as he would like. But his desire to tum around the Iiish program is so great that he views these personal sacrifices almost as a necessity. And still you don't get the feeling that he regrets his decision to accept the head coaching position of the Irish. In fact, he couldn't be happier with his decision. 
"Itfeels good," reflects Doherty on his new position. "It's exciting ... when you walk into someone's home and say you're the head basketball coach at Notre Dame. It swells your chest up with a lot of pride." 
Some might wonder why one of the bright­est young assistants in all ofcollege basketball chose to take the reins of a program that has been struggling of late, rather than start out with a team that has been a little more success­ful. But Doherty is the first to say that the performance of the basketball team was not his determining factor on where to coach. 
"I think the thing that really attracted me to Notre Dame was its fit with my personality," says Doherty. "Notre Dame represents class, integrity, excellence, and I hope I have those qualities in my life." 
By no means does Doherty view this coach­ing position as a mere stepping-stone in his career; rather his feelings are quite the oppo­site. "Dean Smith said to me about a year and a half ago, take a job where you can see yourself being for the rest of your life," re­marked Doherty at the press conference an­nouncing his hiring. And for Doherty, Notre Dame is the place he hopes to call home for the rest of his career. 
As elated as Doherty is to be new com­mander in chief of the Irish, it should be of little surprise that he will miss many aspects of 
his previous position at Kansas, a perennial 
powerhouse. 
"I'llmiss the people,"reflects Doherty. ''I'll 
miss coach Williams, I'll miss the relation­
ships with the players, I'll miss Allen 
Fieldhouse, 16,000 fans packed in every 
game." 
One thing that Doherty was able to keep 
with him on his journey to South Bend was the 
Kansas playbook, and it wasn'tjust because it 
has sentimental value to him. 
. "I've got the right to a DeanSmith franchise 
andI'mputting itinSouthBend," says Doherty, referring to the system Dean Smith started in N01th Carolina, which has branched out to Kansas, as well as numerous other college and professional towns. "That program, that fran­chise, has been pretty successful not only in -college basketball at North Carolina, Kansas, Tennessee and at Illinois State, but also in the NBA with George Karl and Larry Brown. IfI don't screw it up it will be successful here, 
too." 
Many Notre Dame fans who are anxious to 
get a taste ofthat success are interested in finding 
out how the style ofplayofthis year's Irish squad 
willdifferfromyearspast. Unfortunately,Doherty 
doesn't have an exact answer. 
"I didn't see Notre Dame play a whole lot 
last year," says Doherty. "I've watched two­
and-a-half tapes [from last season], so it would 
be hardfor me to say how different we'll be. 
... [Our style of play] will be 75 to 90 percent 
of what we had done at North Carolina and 
Kansas, with the rest being sprinkled in from 
my personality .... It'll probably look a little 
different, but we'll have to wait and see." 
Doherty will get a better idea of what style 
of play best suits his team on October 16, 
which is the first official day of practice with his team, which is more popularly known as Midnight Madness. 




With little more than one week remaining until· practice starts, Doherty intently looks forward to his first season as head coach. This opportunity has been a long time coming, one for which he has prepared himself throughout his tenure at Kansas. 
"I've kept files on plays and when I am on the road recruiting and I am impressed by another assistant, I write his name down on a sheet and put it in a folder," says Doherty. "I have always been a student, asking why. You know, always asking Coach Williams, 'Why did you do that?"' 
Doherty probably referred to the notes he had accumulated over the years quite fre­quently when selecting his coaching staff. Doug Wojcik, who coached for the past nine years at the Naval Academy, Quartlebaum, who spent last year as an assis­tant at Fairfield, and Bob MacKinnon, who 5i; ;;:: 
m most recently was head coach at the United ;;:: 
0 
z

States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings .
:JJ 

Point, make up the assistant coaching staff. < David Cason, the newly appointed coordina­tor of basketball operations, comes way of 
FIRST YEAR OF STUDIES. In his first six months as head coach, Doherty has worked assiduously to revamp the Irish program, including hiring four new assistant coaches and developing a new offensive playbook. 
Eastern Illinois, where he spent the past three years as an assistant coach. 
Doherty and his staff are making it a point to foster a family atmosphere on the team, which is something that Doherty felt was a big positive from his North Carolina and Kansas days. 
"Well, for example, we went to opening night Mass together," says Doherty about what he has done thus far to create a family atmosphere. "When we played Michigan in football, I had the team over to my house and I cooked hamburgers .... It's just little things like that, on the court, in the weight room, off the court. ... I also like to give players some input into the program." 
Doing everything possible to help out his team, Doherty also has worked to reschedule a few home games so that they would not be played while the student body was on Christ­mas break. 
"Ididn't have a whole lot ofcontrol over the schedule when I got the job," notes Doherty. "I wanted to add a West Coast team, which we did by adding Loyola Marymount. And then we set up a game with Valpo here this year, with games in future years taking place in Chicago.... I wanted to make it more of a national schedule." 
Although he may consider his changes to this year's schedule relatively minor, Irish fans can be assured that Doherty is doing everything possible to add some national pow­ers to future Notre Dame slates. So far, he's 
tentatively scheduled games with Kentucky 
and Cincinnati starting next year and extend­
ing into future years. But of much greater 
interest to Irish fans now is the season-open­
ing game he helped schedule against 1999 
Final Four participant, Ohio State, in the pre­
season NIT. 
Some Irish fans may assume that Doherty 

would like to start off his career by playing 
"confidence-boosting" games. But Doherty' s 
logic is quite the opposite. He welcomes the 
tremendous challenge teams like the Buck­
eyes present. 
"Actually, it doesn't scare me," he says in 

reference to coaching his first game against 
Ohio State. "It's exciting. These are the kind 
ofgames you want to play. I want Notre Dame 
to be playing in prime-time games on a regular 
basis so we might as well play one in my first 
game as head coach." 
As Irish fans become more and more ac­

quainted with Doherty, they will leam ofhis lofty 
aspirations for the program and just how attain­. able he believes these aspirations are. 
"My goals are big goals," says Doherty, 

making no apologies. "Winning champion­
ships at Notre Dame ... I didn't come here so 
we could go .500 every year." 
Perhaps what Dohe1ty least has control 

over is the fans' support ofthe team, and more 
specifically, the students' support. He is try­
ing his hardest to draw the interest ofa student body that, for the most part, has acted apatheti­cally toward the team in recent years. Just like every other activity he engages in as head coach, he knows it will take a little time and a lot of hard work. 
"Obviously, I think the one thing that helps is winning," says Doherty about what needs to be done to attract greater student attention. "But I think ifyou see a team that works hard, plays smart, plays together and gives great effort, that hopefully people will appreciate that." 
"Ijust want to be a part ofthe student body," he continues. "I try to be visible amongst the students, whether it be in Bookstore Basket­ball games, visiting them in their residence halls or just talking to the students, being friends with them. I like being on a college campus because ofthe energy that's present." 
Doherty also believes that increasing stu­dent attendance at games isn't as difficult as some make it out to be. "I don't see why we can't get all the students to come out to games," says Doherty. "Ifwe could get half the student body to come out that would be great." 
"What else is there to do in South Bend in the winter, besides studying, right?" he adds with a smile. "So, come on and let's raise a little Cain in the Joyce Center." 
.Ifeverything goes as it should, students will gladly procrastinate studying for two addi­tional hours on 16 nights this winter. 0 
Sports Scholastic 25 



. Required Reading 

literature of the Lavatory 
Whether you're craving news briefings, a few laughs or spiritual advice, your own bathrooni stall niay hold the key 
.,n McGlinn, we call them "Stall Notes." In Lewis, they're 
entitled "Behind Closed Doors." Keough calls them '"Roos 
News: Your Source for Urinal Propaganda," and in Sorin 
they're the "Otter Weekly." At Cavanaugh they're aptly titled "The Naughty Potty." Call them what you will, they're the weekly chronicles that line your dorm's bathroom stalls, or urinals, which I think is really impractical for those who aren't speed-readers­I imagine it's in bad taste to linger at the urinal. But wherever you happen to find these restroom digests, they keep you informed, they make you laugh, and they keep you company while you 're on the bowl. Unfortunately, most of you kids out there only get the opportunity to experience the joys of your own dorm's stall notes. So, I've been collecting an archive of toilet tabloids since some­time last spring, and I'm finally ready to share my findings. 
I first became interested in these privy periodicals when I realized that the bathroom propaganda at Welsh Family Hall differed from that of my dorm, McGlinn. Last year's stall notes at Welsh actually included prayers. Well, I must admit, I've always considered the throne to be a good place to meditate. Sure, it's quiet and private and all, but blessings on the stall wall? It's almost too much to fathom for somebody like me, a product of the New York public school system. I mean, it was strange to find prayers in a place that seemed more likely to be covered in curse words, but hey, welcome to Notre Dame. 
Sure, our McGlinn stall notes had a section of liturgical an­nouncements, but they would target the boy-crazy crowd and encourage throne-sitters to attend the next rosary walk with O'Neill because all that spirituality was bound to lead to a dance date. Dillon R.A. Mike Bradt took a similar romance-through-· God angle in his first edition section notes this semester. After an advertisement for the freshman and NDE retreats, Bradt added, "Keep in mind that two women apply for these retreats per every one man." 
But stall notes don't stop at luring readers to liturgical events; these lavatory ledgers announce all kinds of activities. "'Roos News" reported on the upcoming "Race for Diabetes Cure" in Chicago and added, "The race is traditionally a footrace, but if we show up with five or six chariots, there isn 'treally much they could do about it." Interestingly enough, this Keough periodical also reads, "Friday is Family Swim night from 7 to 9 at Rolf's. Bring the wife and kids." How cute. Meanwhile, back in Dillon, R.A. Kevin Wietzke announced a section dinner at Lunker's Restau­rant/Bait & Tackle shop in his weekly section notes. After urging his section-mates to skip lunch on the day of the dinner in order to work up hearty appetites, he wrote, "I am ordering the famous one­pound Super Lunkerburger, also known as 'The Burger as Big as Your Head."' And in case that menu selection wasn't enough to entice every member of the section to dinner, he mentioned a certain Lunker's hostess who was sure to lure in even the rare Dillonite who wasn't thrilled by a burger of cranial proportions. 
Besides making announcements, some dorms use their stall notes to inspire. For example, McGlinn's are dotted with quotes derived from ancient philosophers, Jerry Seinfeld, feminist theo­rists and more. Pictures of Rosie the Riveter and Snoopy cartoons provide McGlinn' s Shamrocks with life-affirming bathroom read­ing. Keough' s notes enforce a different brand ofinspiration as they relay the regulations for Roman attire and the SYR after the Chariot Race and include "several ways to follow the rules and still create a provocative toga." Though the togas were required to cover the back and at least one shoulder, the stall notes suggested that all dates could still be encouraged to wear tight, see-through togas that expose everything but the shoulder and back. "Ifyour dates have a problem with these suggestions," the clever and anonymous "'Roos News" writer continued, "remind them that it is OK, because women were treated as objects in those days." Funny how gender issues follow us into the bathroom stall. 
Finally, stall notes can even be used to highlight special people within the dorm. For instance, an old copy of Stanford's "The 'Really Bitter' Minutes" highlighted .noteworthy Griffins in a segment called "Hoes of the Week," whHe Sorin's stall notes included a section entitled, "Otter of the Week." Without going into too many details, the kind of scandals that make one worthy ofstall note notoriety in the "Otter Weekly" include getting caught flogging the dolphin, encountering injuries of intimacy, finding a girlfriend who appreciated porn or getting lost on the way back from the bathroom in a girls' dorm and climbing up into the wrong chick's loft. 
So whether you 're craving spiritual advice, news briefings, inspira­tion or just a few laughs, the satisfaction of your desires could lie as close as your very own bathroom stall_. 





by Kara Zuaro 
26 Scholastic Entertainment 





Strike U 
th Band 
They' re not as polished as the Band ofthe Fighting Irish, but then again, 
that's just how the Siegfried Band wants it 
BY KATHLEEN CORTEKill! Kill!" As drums boom and trum­pets blare, a sea of arms pumps back and forth in the air on the sidelines. But not the sidelines of the stadium. This is Stepan Field, the players slipping around the wet field are the Siegfried Ramblers, and the musical accompaniment is their very own band-maybe not equal in size to the Band ofthe Fighting Irish, but definitely equal in spirit. Siegfried has not always had a band to liven up their games. Last fall, rector Father John Conley approached Adam Witmer, now a senior and the head drum major ofthe Band of the Fighting Irish, and asked if he would be interested in getting together a group ofpeople to march at interhall games. 

"I sat down with a list of all the band members in Siegfried and called around," Witmer recalls. "The following week, the Siegfried Band took the field for the first time." 
Although the band was originally orga­nized by members ofthe Band ofthe Fight­ing Irish, anyone in the dorm is invited to join. Among the 10 or 12 members that tum out each week, there is at least one who is not in the official marching band. But as Witmer says, "Itjust so happens that most of the people with, say, a brass instrument in their room happen to already be in the band." Scott Howard, a freshman member of both bands, adds, "The guys in the band do for­mal marching six out of seven days a week and feel empty on their one off-day." 
Besides the band itself, Siegfried has 
added another takeoff of a 

BULLHEADED. Siegfried's drummers perform their dorm's Notre Dame tradition with 
fight song from the sidelines_ of Stepan _Field...... ~··.... . -·-......... its very own version of the Irish · Guard. The guard, who wears kilts and homed helmets, seems to have come as part and parcel of the band. Keeping with the casual nature of the band, membership in the guard is not exclusive. According to Howard, "The Rambler Guard is usually drafted seconds before halftime and only half the people playing actually have-or know-the music." 
The band, which some­times has marchouts from Siegfried to the game field, performs standard Notre Dame cheers as well as some reminiscent of high school football games. A new addition to their reper­toire is the Siegfried fight song, written by Howard, 

!ii a: 
who came up with the z melody while playing pool. 
:$ 
a: "Ithad a Viking feel, with a 
CD 
driving march tempo," Howard explains. Although Howard intended to work on the song more, the band performed it at the next game. "We played it on every big play, we played it during timeouts, and we played it at our halftime show," says Howard. "We played it so much that people began recog­nizing it as our fight song and it stuck. All we need now are words." 
Although they play throughout the game, halftime is the band's chance to really shine. "We have two types of marching drill," Witmer says. "Follow the leader, where we snake around the field, and free-form, where every member just marches wherever he wants to go." The band always concludes its performance with the Notre Dame Victory March. 
Most people seem to enjoy the band and its halftime show ("The officials really like us," says Witmer), but not everyone is a fan. Dur­ing a game last year, some of Zahm's fans, presumably jealous that they didn't have a band of their own, attacked the band as they marched onto the field. "They tried to knock down our tuba player and steal the homed helmets that we all usually wear when we perform," Witmer recalls. "One of our Siegfried Guard not only came back to the sidelines with a broken pair of horns, but also had some nasty cuts and swelling." Despite all the chaos raging around them, the band played on. 
Fans of the band still outnumber the op­position and the Siegfried Band, which has plans for improvements. "We hope to ex­pand to include non-traditional instruments, such as marching guitars and kazoos, to get more Siegfried guys involved," says Witmer. 
But as much as the fans and the team enjoy the band, it is the members who enjoy it the most. "It is a lot of fun to do this laid­back, almost satirical version of a marching band," says Howard. "Although we may look and sound a little funny, we all are trying our best to help our team earn a win." 
And, he adds, "It gives us something to do on Sunday and a reason to wake up before 2:00p.m." 
Entertainment Scholastic 27 

' -------~~-----------­
-----------\.. --­


The resurgence ofFlip Side and PILLARS proves that students really are having wild weekends without alcohol 
climate to the expectations of the Irish cul­ture and the prevalence of students with high standards for themselves, Notre Dame is a near-perfect setting for heavy drinking. While the parties might be fun, the after­math ofexcessive alcohol consumption has proven to be lethal on several college cam­puses. Two groups on campus, PILLARS and Flip Side, are looking to prevent alco­hol-related dangers without putting a damper on the general campus spirit. 
"A lot of people on campus don't even know what PILLARS is," says junior John Friskel, a member of PILLARS and former president ofFlip Side. For those who do not 


f 
BY KARA ZUARO17 he good drinker is the one who builds up a tolerance," explains junior Heather Phillips. "The over­achievers -people who have to be the best at everything-can sometimes try to be the best at drinking, too." Phillips, a member of PILLARS (Peers Inspiring Listening, Leam­ing and Responsible Socializing), cites some of the reasons for the pressures to drink excessively at Notre Dame: "We're up north, it's cold, there's not much to do, we're Irish Catholics, and then there's the overachiever thing." From the cold weather and the social 
know, PILLARS is in charge of holding the alcohol education lectures in each of the freshman dorms shortly after freshman ori­entation. At these meetings, students in PIL­LARS break up into small groups to talk about the dangers of drinking and give the freshmen their phone numbers to show that they're willing to lend an ear if any of the freshmen need someone to talk to about alcohol-related issues. The idea seems well­intentioned, but according to Friskel, "A lot offreshmen do see these meetings as annoy­ing, pointless, and they're forced to go by their rectors. And of course, we don't get ~ny calls. I've never heard ofanyone getting 
a call." 
But this year, the freshman alco­hol program has been revamped. Senior PILLARS member Michael Bradt says of the orientation lead­ers under the new program, "Now they have structured things to say. It's still very informal, but they hit a lot more topics in a lot less time and it's very informative." 
PILLARS members are now trained to explain to freshman more specific details about practical mat­ters. Sophomore Jeffrey Steedle explains, "We know about all the different topics -legal conse­quence, physiological differences between men and women, drug interference, the effects ofalcohol if you're on medication." 
Also, according to Bradt, "We totally revamped the video that We show to freshmen." The video now features an anti-alcohol message presented by student athletes, such as Grant Irons, and from student body president Micah Murphy. The message, says Bradt, "is about re­sponsible socializing. We tell people not to be crazy and stupid." 



The message is more about drinking responsibly than re­fraining from drinking alto­gether. Steedle says, "Most of the PILLARS do drink, but some of us don't. But if you are a [member] and you aren't being responsible, and it be­comes known, you will be kicked out of PILLARS." 
Officers from both Flip Side and PILLARS will attend a national conference in Or­lando, Fla., this November to meet with similar groups from campuses across the country. Several officers also attended the regional conference in the spring at Western Kentucky University. According to Steedle, they attended "pre­sentations on a female's ex­perience with alcoholism, an­other on rape and another on stress." Current Flip Side 
president, Kyle Demko, says that the con­ference made it possible for "a lot of differ­ent groups from around. the country to talk about their groups and different ideas for generating interest around campus." Other presentations concerned drug issues since these are pressing problems on other cam­puses. According to Steedle, PILLARS and Flip Side focus solely on alcohol-related issues because "sexual issues and drugs aren't as prevalent here as other places." For entertainment, those who attended the conference participated in a "mocktails" you have it you don't drink?' To many people on this campus, hanging out at a coffee shop or getting a Slurpee is just not their idea of a good time." 

Demko is eager to point out, "We don't try to be preachy about the alcohol thing. Some people in our organization do drink. What we do is promote a lot ofactivities that are alternatives to drinking." Although al­cohol is not permitted at Flip Side events, these events are not organized solely for the participation of strict non-drinkers. Demko adds, "I think that's a misconception that a the events, Flip Side does not make any money from these outings. The admission fees are discounted rates and Flip Side's budget is used to pay part of the cost ofeach event. "I liked the fact that we had events every weekend, but the events were small and under-publicized," recalls Friske! of his former Flip Side presidency. "But some events such as bow ling, snow tubing and the Chicago trip to Medieval Times are huge." 
Vice-president Maren Diamante, thrilled by the recent rise in attendance at Flip Side events, says, "The bowling event was the 
uYou,11 neverhear on our trips anypropaganda on how evH it 

is to drink.,, 

contest to make the best non-alcoholic drink and watched a comedian talk about her experience with alcohol. 
While PILLARS provides the education about alcohol, Flip Side provides alcohol­free events as an alternative to the more traditional weekend fare. Unfortunately, the ideals of Flip Side are not always well received by the general student body. "You hear the comments people make about Flip Side and it's kind of disconcerting," says Friske!. "You know, 'How much fun can 
-~--------~------~ ­
lot of people have: 'Oh, I drink, so these people won't like me.' The idea is never to exclude anybody. You '11 never hear on our trips any propaganda on how evil it is to drink." 
Flip Side's outings this semester have included an evening at the bow ling alley, an '80s dance in the LaFortune Ballroom, a hayride and campfire combo, a trip to Michiana Paintball and Games Night at Saint Mary's. Friske! stresses that although there is a small cost to participate in each of 
' --~~~-­

-Kyle Demko 

most successful in the last five years. We had 95 kids on one bus. It was incredible." 
Demko adds that the Flip Side officers are currently looking into ice-skating and snow tubing events, along with at least one trip to Chicago. 
The non-alcoholic alternatives are certainly out there for those looking for an alcohol-free activity or just a change of pace. Steedle sums it up best: "If you choose not to drink, that's good. That's a safe choice. But you do choose to drink, do so in moderation." D 
Entertainment Scholastic 29 


l Vive la Vivari n! 
Little. Yellow. Different. And will bring you closer to your favorite "Saved 
, By the-Bell" characters than you ever dreamed 
BY CAROLYN SWEENEY Ifelt inexplicably guilty as I wandered the Huddle Mart aisles in search ofa yellow box that I knew was hiding there some­where. I practically expected my mother, my family doctor and other various con­cerned adults to emerge from behind the pretzel display and remind me that caffeine pills definitely missed the cut for the list of "Healthiest Substances You Can Ingest." However, I managed to brush off my inner anxiety when I finally spotted the Vivarin box resting alluringly on the edge ofa shelf. "If this grand institution [meaning Notre Dame, not the Huddle Mart] sells this stuff to its trusting sons and daughters, it must be, at the most, only mildly danger­ous," I muttered, attempt­ing to rationalize away my fears ofbecoming immedi­ately addicted to the small yellow tablets in a scene reminiscent of Jessie Spano's downward spiral into caffeine dependency on "Saved By the Bell." How­ever, as I arrived back at my room, my apprehensions were overshadowed by the massive amounts of work still awaiting me that night. So, I forever turned my back on my innocent, naive high school all-nighters, which were never fortified by anything stronger than Jolt, and I gulped down one of the pills. Then I logically proceeded toe­mail numerous friends and play Mine­sweeper multiple times because, after all, if this pill was going to keep me up for hours on end, I had some time to kill before I really needed to start tackling physics prob­lems. These pills were going to be great. I. would, no doubt, eventually feel an expo­nential burst ofenergy like never before __i._ one that would put the.effects ofconsuming 11 Mountain Dews in 28 minutes (not that I have, um, ever done that before) to shame. 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion · 
So I waited for these miraculous effects, and meanwhile entertained myself with some mean games ofsolitaire on my Compaq. All I have to say is that the effects of the pill were, well, disappointing. The reason for my lack of excessive stamina became clear upon closer examination ofthe Vivarin pack­age. One of those stupid capsules was only equivalent to two cups ofcoffee. Not being a big java aficionado myself, I didn't know exactly what effect two cups should have on my mental acuity, butl6 measly ounces seemed less than impressive to my worn­out brain. 
So I eyed the yellow package again, and being the bold, daring person that I am, .. popped two more into my 
, . .--·· mouth, figuring that six cups of coffee should do the trick. 
All I know is that, a few hours later, while sit­ting on my loft, attempting to memorize art history terms, my bed started shaking. "That damn construc­tion," I muttered, cursing the huge concrete ma­chines that call our backyard home. Then I realized that it wasn't 7 a.m. yet, and those machines were sitting idly in their ditches .. The shaking wasn't the result of their digging, but of my trembling self. Then I realized that my arms were already kind ofdamp. Then I realized that I was sweating profusely. Even my elbows --possibly the most arid environ­ment on the vast tundra of the human body -were sweating. I figured a shower was definitely in order at that point. I also wanted · to do something to distract me from the worrisome images of Kelly, Zack, Slater and the rest of gang having to physically 
intervene with Jessie's addiction. The last 
thing I wanted was to end up on the floor, 
desperately scavenging for Vivarin pills that 
my concerned floormates and RA had spilled 
as they wrenched them from my clenched 
hands. 
Soon after my shower, the time had come 
to tackle the art history test. As I sat there in 
the darkened auditorium, I soon realized 
that the effects of the Vivarin had anything 
but worn off. I was writing approximately 
439 words per minute. My mind and my 
hand were both finally experiencing the 
energy surge that would have been slightly 
more useful, oh, SIX HOURS AGO, so I 
could have actually learned something worth 
writing for the essay portion. The poor pro­
fessor who ended up grading that test, after 
wondering where I had been for the last four 
weeks ofclass, most likely marveled at ( and 
hopefully gave me extra credit for) the vast 
amount ofpages I managed to fill in my blue 
test booklet. 
The rest of my Vivarin story goes down­
hill from here. I crashed in my next class ­
we are talking ahead~on-back-of-seat, prob­ably-drooling state of slumber. I managed to stay somewhat conscious during physics, · .and then headed back to my room for a 
desperately-needed nap. 
Although the Vivarin did nothing but a) 
make me sweat, b) make me shake and c) 
give me energy when it was a little too late 
to study, I am still a fan of the product. 
Why, you may understandably ask? Be­
cause, now, when I hear my less-experi­
enced neighbors complaining about a long 
night looming ahead of them, I can casu­
ally suggest picking up some Vivarin, but 
"only if you can handle it." They will, no 
doubt, look at me with awed expressions 
as they realize that I am so dedicated to 
my education, I will ingest strange pills 
on the chance that they will help me study 
longer. (If this wouldn't be your reaction 
to my. advice, I don't want to hear about 
it.) My admiring audience just won't have 
to know that I spent more of my minimal 
Vivarin energy on Minesweeper than on 
physics. Or about the sweating part. 




. / : ,/~·::··-. 


DISTRACTIONS 
• Lecture: "Pririci~le Thlme~ of Ecciesia 
I , I ' \ 
in America," Archqishop Karlie, 7:00 PM, 
i d; . I ' I i
M K Hall A
c enna . p 1ton11im ·, i · 
• Theatre: Hedda Gabler,\2:30 PM, Washing­
: ) , \ : I 
ton Hall i '"--/ / 
'--..-! _____ ,.,-,,. 


SUNDAY 

i •National 
Coming 01itD~y .·. 
: . . .· .,--··-, ... ,--.
. . .
• Lecture: "WomenofValor;women of Pain," 

( • Mass: Cardma\ Francis Ge,o.rgef ..•·
Yaffa Eliach, 12:0Ci" PM; 0'.Sh~tighnessy 
• Hockey: ND vs. MichigaIJ.;' 7:00 PM, Joyce 

'i·.a··.··.r.·.·ch.·b····.1.·s1.iop.·.·.·.·.o...... f. C.l.1iciI ··.g.·o··· '·.··P·.rcsid./ng·,··.·...5:00
. PM, Basilica 1· .· 1 I 
Center . ii/ 
~ Grease, 7:00 PiM :SnH~ j t .
• Theatre:Hedda Gab{ei~ 7:30 PM, Washing­
• Lecture:. "U.S. La 1110 Literatures: The 
· •· ·. ·. · ••· .· 1 ! ·. , .. ·I I · ·
ton Hall . · / · 

. . I . Cuban-American) E1perience/i EHana ·.·.• 
• AcoustiCafe, 9:00'PM, Lafortune 
Rivero, 7:00 PM;·Dhlloway's; SMC 


THURSDAY .MONDAY 

• Seminar: "A-Graph TheoreticApproach to Hybrid Powe~ Cycle Sy11tensis,"-A~hish
• , i-. I . \ I 
Gupta, 3:30 PM/ 140 DeBaitolo -/ f 
I . . -. 
• Lecture: "Corporate Social / ./ Responsibility,"! George A. Frariklin, 7:30 PM, Jordan Auditol'ium, co1fa/ · 
I •. / "-------.... 
• Lecture: "Martydom To_day,'.'...Rey.Jon Sobrino, 8:00 PM, McKenna Hall 


TUESDAY 
. i· 
• Football: Notre Dame vs. Arizona State, / 

1:30 PM, Notre Dame·Stadium I•·Lecture: "Th.-c611t. ~ 
i c-----..d ' . l rovers1al.!R\ote·
• Soccer: ND men vs, Prov1. ence, 7:30 PM, I Diets,"' Jocie Anto~elJ· k-, ·, tn Alumni Field ( ,\ ) '. .i Notre Dame Robmi L F1' .D., 12=~0 PM,
' • / ~ a ortune c.:_../ ' 
• Alcoholics Anonymous: Closed Meeting, 9:30 • International ~ ·01\,· F . i < 
1 -' ,!M ie ·es11vaI·-E t}) · 
.AM, Center for Social Concerns, Room 124 / Afan Woman (Tai I an) S· . a\ -rnk 
, • Blair Witch Project, 7:30~nd 9:45 PM, Snite · Montgomery r11ka&e 1',F -~OP~} / [;:1eatre: Hedda Gabtg,{7:30 PM, Washington ,-L,...I ' a ?~ :1~-~---/ 
i 


J! 

SATURDAY 
. ('NO\A/ sHowlNG .· 
., ·:'bctob~Js--·1i•.· 


··· ..•..·.·1111iyersity.. P~k·-west•···•·•.·.

J.'277-7336 ·• . .. · .··...· .... 
'*r~~oj:;~tereo .·. ·. :1:4s.tJ5i7:10 :9:35~ ·.. 

.Brlhu~fea..•~Sitar\eda'Bkr.id·.:.•.e·•·.•·.••.·•·• ·. . }:!i i:~t ... 
.:. ·• l:30 4:ob ;i:oo 9:20,;, 

.-:<•flJ~iy~fsitrr#R··~i,1$t·:. 

·. c--277-t3'3ii• 
, Allshchvsidstereo ·1•Thri£Kiligs) · ··· .11:90'3:30}6:20.8:50•·· .• .··.. ·. 
t·R~domt1f-·•::•·•.. ····•·· a;i~*i1s··.·•3:45·'·.·bs6:io·· .•·s:15 9:20 11:oof ,i··
c;(:ease c · : iz:oti*> .. . · ­

15inelicru1'Bea11iy <...'.1:454:15.''7.:0o.§3oii:SQ*. StjperSci,( .··•·•·. ··-.·· .. 2:00.·4:45 7:i's ·9;1511:25~ ·6th-~ens(•' ·... ·•.· 'i:i5A:OO 6:45 9:0011:15* 
*si1mvnF1:i. &Sd(o11hi · · · · · 




·Movies·.. 
C254~96ss\···:•······•··•· 

j·.·.M_Sho,vsinStereo.•··· ,Ame1ican Pie·.., J2.\5 3:10 5:25}:4oio:05 


Bq,~rfinget·{•·. ' .. ·. 12:55 3°:15 5:35,_7:55.10:10 ,Dq~t~le:Jeoparg)"'(.·•· 1:05·,·2:10 4:lQ,5:00):15 · ·· ···· · ···.· · ·· ··· · 8:oo 9:4s,10:30 · l 
1'>ii,,e•111;,traji>< .-'i:00.2:104.:10.,5:oo;hs•··. .. . . > , ·.·. ·....·............. ;'.8:00, 9:45 10:30 •ElmoiffGroucl1landI:30'j:30. 5:30 7:30 9°:30 
.; Fortove ofthe G:une 12:50 1:35 3°:50 '4:3~ 7:00 
·. .. ' ... •.......,. .. . <\ ?'40 9·55 \ ... ... . 
,J~6bth{Liat,·'_ ·.· }, f!41r•··ffo·}oo··.•9:50 to Mysteiy Alaska~ 1:45,' 4:30 7:20 "lil:20· stigmata..·· •· 12:45 2:053:35 J45 7:os . 

.. <.· 7:45 9:35 10:15 > .s~of Ech6es_r •.....· ..·.12,45j:OO 5:15<7,:35.10:10 ·.. The13th'Wafrior.• .12:50 3:05 5:30 7:5010:15 

Calendar Scholastic 31 



by Father Bill Wack, CSC 



Mass Gathering 
celebrated on our campus every Sunday?) Unless you live in a rectory, a convent or a religious house, it will probably never be this convenient to find a Mass again. 
The Masses offered at the various sites on campus, while respecting liturgical laws and proper rubrics, reflect the faith and expression of the local commu­nities. Some dorm Masses are popular because of the singing, others for the way the community gets "into" it, and others for the general "feel" of the Mass or for the preaching. I think this is wonderful, for it reflects the diversity we see in the Masses celebrated in various parishes and communities throughout the world. We all need to find a worshiping community that best suits us, and the variety of liturgies in the dorms goes a long way in addressing this need. 
All ofthis is good-very good. We are blessed and graced to have this tremendous gift from God in our midst. But so far I have neglected one of the most important aspects of the Mass -the effect it has on us, individually and as a community. It is wholly appropriate that we (presiders, rectors and students) ask ourselves: What difference does it make? Even if. we had 100 percent attendance from all the Catholics on campus, would our being there make us better Christians? Do we live our lives outside of Mass in such a way that others can see the faith through us? Many non-Catholics (rightly, I think) take issue with the fact that, though a lot of people go to Mass, they seem to forget about God for the other six days ofthe week. Our boast should not necessarily be, "See how many celebrate Mass _each week," but, "See how Christ transforms this community through the Eu­charist." 
How totally fantastic it is to have so many people celebrate Mass here (and that so many people of other denomina,tions and traditions practice their faith regularly, as well). That is what makes this place so special. But if it's not changing us more and more into the Body of Christ, then something is wrong. May the Eucharist, which offers us a "share in . the · divinity of Christ, who humbled himself to sharejn our humanity," truly transform our dorms, our community and ourselves into the presence of Christ for others. D 
We all need to find a worshiping community that best suits us, and thevarietyof liturgies in the dorms goes a long way in addressing this need. 
----------,------:-----students attend in 
Father Bill Wack, CSC, is the associate director ofvocations 
for Holy Cross. 

As a presider and preacher, I am fortunate to be one who leads the community in prayer and worship. I can't tell you how incredible it is to stand up there and speak the ancient prayers in the name ofthe community and lead this solemn celebra­tion. And yet I can tell you how it all looks from my perspective: what we have, what it means and where we need to go. -First of all, the fact that we have so many Masses celebrated daily and weekly in dorm chapels, the Basilica, the Church of Loretto and other places is awesome. Many religious schools have a central chapel or church, but how many have one in every 
droves. They are involved in the liturgies. They sing. They talk about the readings and homilies after­wards. The vast majority ofus worship regularly and often. 
I would also say that most people here go to Mass because they really want to. For us in the Catholic Church, of course, celebrating Mass on Sunday is mandatory. To be sure, that is probably the main reason that some go to Mass regularly. Here at Notre DameandSaintMary's,however, weareonourown. We don't have parents or others making sure we go week after week. There's something about dorm Masses that seems to draw people in. (Where else but here do you experience peer pressure to go to Mass?) In addition, the number of students who celebrate Mass on the weekdays also shows that this is impor­tant to them. . : 
No one can say that they don't go because Mass is unavailable or inconvenient. From the 6:00 a.m. Mass in th«? Basilica Cryptto Sorin 's 11:00 p.m. Mass on Sunday, there are many, many opportunities to go. (Can you believe there are about 40 or 50 Masses dormitory, as well as in many other buildings on campus? Whenever I give talks at high schools or youth groups around the country, I al ways talk about the dorm Masses here, and people are awe­struck by what they hear: 

32 Scholastic Final Word 


Castawau bu Michael McNaru 
I 
l 
i 
1 


Ya, me too b

going to c'h. ut first I'm 
us mg A d"

t o see 11N . u 1torium the SUB ott~ng Hill, .. 
movie ofth 
It should b e week. 
e swell !! 








