
V
V 
the latest campus news and sports 
in-depth coverage of campus issues 
reviews of campus entertainment 
off-the-wall humor 

\Hil ISSUES 

r------:..·--. --.. : ----------·.. -. 7 
· j  PLEASE PLACE ME·ONYOUFtSUBSCRIPTION LIST.  PLEASE SEND THIS FORM AND  1  
$35.00 PAYMENT TO:  
I  NAME:  ------------'--'---'----'-­ SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE  I  
1  303 LAFORTUNE STUDENTCENTER  I  
I  ADDRESS: --------,-------­ NOTRE DAME, IN 46556  .  I  
·I  _  ___;____;._________  I  

I I 
.. , 
l. 
? J ::­

0 C T O B E R 

~ 
tableofcontents 7 
A road map of the players in this· year's presidential and key 1 

Senate races. · 
Bush Profile 
by Aggie Noble 
Gore Profile 
by Lisa Virani 
Nader Profile 
by Liam Brennan. 
Key Senate Races 
by Dave Harman 
-;,>·--~·--· -·---------..-... -.._ ­
( Behind the Screams ­\: by Jacklyn Kiefer 
,, 

...:.:;-"'..•---.,;:.·-:;:;:;;,:::::;.·;:c-..:::::c.:.;:c"..:-..='-..-::::==..:::.:==-_-___-:=;-::;-:;=;:;··~~---===~, 
COVER: Alookatsomefrighten­
ihg activities to keep you enter­
tained th.is Halloween season. 
10 
12 
13 
14 


/'"-l 
( On the Rebound .>--··· i. 2·'Q·\\\. . by David Mt/rray 1 , 
._,_ ~ •. -------------. -------------------·-···----:\ ....-______ .J
ca·ach"BYeytarRs·abOut his hoi:fes~r 
for the upcoming season. i I 
O.~ Thin Ice? 18 
by Brendan Barker 
A Midsummer Night's Dream 
26 

Come True · · 
byCarrie Sweeney 
KARAZUARO 


thedepartments 

From the Editor 2 Out of Bounds 28 ND Notebook 4 Week in Distortion 30 Splinters 23 Calendar 31 Campus Watch 25 Final Word 32 

.. ' '. ,'.;··.' 



Vol. 142, No. 5 • 26 OCTOBER 2000 
.."·.~~--.~·)--\i~~)-\//1 \//) ';. ·--····•·'-"~ ---.. --­scholast1c.::::1 i../ i 1) / Ustaff · 
··~·~--~ L,• ..4-.-.. .,,!._ •.._ ../•• --... 
Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore Jr. 

Managing Editor Associate Editor 
Sarah E. Childress Michael P. Griffin 
News Katie Caspersen, editor 
Agatha Noble, assistant 
Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor 
Jacklyn D. Kiefer, assistant 

Kimberly A. Blackwell, assistant 
Sports Gerard J. Meskill, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 

Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant 
Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor 
Design Matthew B. Barr, editor 

Jessica Chamberlain, Katie Browning, 
Katie Wales, Erin Dowe 
Photography Katherine A. Foster, editor 
Nolan D. Orfield, assistant 
Graphic Arts Caroline M. Wolf, editor 
Michael delaRosa, assistant 
Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jessica L. Daues, assistant 
Jennifer L. Wahoske 
Distribution Angela Polsinelli, manager 
Advertising Kyle Zuaro, manager 
Online Brian Scofield, manager 
su·bscriptions Morgan Anderson, manager 

Published biweekly at the University of Noire Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole orin part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Sarah Childress is the official doorman of Scholastic.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include the writer's name, address and phone number,. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. The subscription rate, including the annual football review, is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please · specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 

Itis a truth universally acknowledged that parents with young children love to scare them. Ghoulish masks, scary faces, strange noises -· parents will use them all to frighten their toddlers. I know this because, like most of you, I was once a child. In my house, especially as Halloween approached, the masks were pulled out ofstorage and donned by my oh-so­loving parents. My mom used a red mask; my dad usually just turned the lights out and made monster noises. Now, to be fair to my parents, my brother, Greg, and I often encouraged their antics, begging them to "play monster" with us. My parents quickly learned how far they could take things before my brother or I would burst into tears. The know ledge would prove to be invaluable. · When my brother was about two, he developed a dangerous habit of climbing into the refrigerator, reaching for the top shelf, and pulling down a glass bottle of Mott's apple juice. My mom realized how easily he could get hurt and tried to put a stop to this behavior. But no matter how often she reprimanded him for climbing into the fridge, he would soon be back at the top shelf, hoisting down the heavy, glass bottle of "appey juice," as he called it. Sure enough, he slipped one day and the bottle chipped his front teeth. Distressed, my mom finally hit on an ingenious solution. My brother was absolutely petrified of the red mask that my mother used to wear when she chased us around the house. He wouldn't even go into a room if the mask was visible. Solution: put the mask on the bottle of apple juice. The next time he went for the juice, Greg was stunned to find the mask waiting for him in the refrigerator. He promptly started crying hysterically. My mom came out to find the fridge door open and my brother on the kitchen floor. My mother is a smart woman, and the apple-juice problem was solved. When it comes down to it, fright can be a healthy emotion. At least, people seem to enjoy being scared out of their wits. Every year, thousands ofthem pay handsomely for the privilege ofriding terrifying roller coasters or jumping off a crane, attached to it by only a bungee cord. And during Halloween season, plenty trek out to haunted houses or gather to listen to ghost stories. This Halloween season, we decided to trek out to some frightening places in Indiana (hold the jokes, please). The ghoulish fun begins on page 14. While Halloween's just around the comer, so are the elections. I'm a firm believer in making a well-informed decision about ournation' s next leader. In that spirit, Scholastic offers a special section that takes a look at the major presidential candidates and their stances on the issues. The extended coverage begins on page 7. 
/~
r 
Jim Pastore 
Editor in Chief 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 



TRY THE TASTE THE WHOLE COUNTRY LOVES. America's all about big, so America loves the delicious WHOPPER:' How could. you not love a big, beefy burger, with gigantic amounts of delicious, flame-broiled taste? So if you're feeling patriotic-and really hungry-come and get one. 


The Huddle LaFortune Student Center 
HAVE IT YOUR WAY! 


cd review ten questions judgment calls news listening in domelights years ago 
Survey Says ... 
Story by Cristin Fenzel 

Dating study uncovers sources ofdonn desirability 
If you're a fan ofBlind Date, consider sign­ing up for SOC 242: "Marriage and the Family." Professor David Klein has spent most of his 25 years in the sociology depart­ment studying dating at Notre Dame. Klein analyzes the results of an annual survey he gives to his class, which asks students to rate the desirability of residents ofdifferent hous­ing locations. In addition to rating dorms and off-cam­pus locations, Klein asks students to de­scribe those who live in their most -and least -favorite places. One respondent offered a particularly charming acronym for Lewis: "Loose Easy Women In Seclu­sion." Dillon boys are described as good­looking and fun. Describing Badin, the low­est-ranked female dorm, one student wrote: "Badin? BAD is in the name." Klein's study was originally inspired by sociologist Williard Waller's research into the role fraternaties and sororities played in dating at Penn State. Waller found that students living in sororities and fraternities of similar social rank tended to date each other more often. Waller concluded the char­acteristics of desirable dating partners were specified by well-defined campus norms. 
Klein has found that these norms exist at Notre Dame although not as clear, and less likely to affect choice of dating partner. 
One reason for the difference is the ran­dom assignment ofstudents to dorms. Klein has found a student's perception of a dorm depends mostly on how centrally located it is, how many residents it has, and whether ornotfriends live in the dorm. The desirability of some women's dorms is affected by how. liberal their rules about parietals are, while opinions of men's dorms differ according to how respectful ofwomen they seem to be and the activities they sponsor. 

Don't put in for dorm transfer quite yet, though. In general, Klein has found that it is highly unlikely tl].at students will choose a dating partner solely based on dorm reputa­tion. "Student experience guides judgment -judgment does not guide experience," Klein says. "Students here are aware of stereotypes, but they do not necessarily act on them." D 
RANKING OF THE MOST DESIRABLE DORMS  
MENS WOMENS  1. Dillon 1. Lewis  2. Keenan 2. McGlinn  3. Alumni 3. Many dorms tied  
RANKING OF THE LEAST DESIRABLE DORMS  
MENS WOMENS  1. Zahm 1. Badin  2. Carroll 2. Lyons  3. Fisher 3. Many dorms tied  

i ,----:::::::::::::::::::::::; I 
_t~ ___Ten_Qu_e_stlans_ ~: 

J 
: 1 
i 
I 


I-. . 4· SCl1j;LAS1]CNC)TEE!OO~ 
>> 
Patrick Gaffney is an anthropology pro­fessor. His class "Religion, Myth and Magic" includes lessons on such things as zambiesandsnakecharmers. Gaffney, how­ever, is firmly grounded in reality: when a camera couldn't be found to take his pic­ture, Gaffney suggested inserting a picture of Leonardo DiCaprio instead. He then admitted that the suspension of disbelief required to pull off.that illusion would re­quire more magic than he could muster. 
A priest teachirtg about witchcraft -how does that work out? 
Witchcraft involves magical and weird behavior, and when you're a priest you're aware that a lot of stuff out there is weird. Also, people often think that priests are magical. 

Does the Vatican know about this? 
I hope not! They're pretty snoopy some­times, though. 
How did you first become inter­ested in this kind of anthropology? 
Well, it's known as symbolic anthropol­ogy. I wondered how the things people believe in -commitments to faith, attach­ments to ideological claims, inexplicable loyalty to brand names, etc. -how all that fits within the constraints of reality. 
}, ':,',  
-­ .  - - - 
•  ,  •  •  •  •  I  ·,  

L~-,.--...,...,.....,.....,--,,,-,...,..,,,..,.,.~...,..-----.,,........,.,--,-,~....,,,...,..,.~-•-1111111111111111111111111111!111111~--­
... 
, Varic,us,Artists ··. 


Kindercore Fifty 

label: Kindercore release date: 7 November 2000 Story by Kara Zuaro 

Attention budget shoppers: get the best value _for your music dollar by pur­chasing Kindercore Fifty, the new three­disc compilation from Kindercore Records. For a mere 15 bones, 
you get 40 tracks that chronicle the past, present and future of this resilient indie la­bel, formed ca. 1996 in Athens, Ga. 

Kindercore Fifty 
marks its 50threlease. The compilation is essential to fans of the label, but it also works as a sampler for those just becoming acquainted with the Kindercore sound. 
Disc One features new and exclusive tracks from current artists. You definitely haven't heard any of these bands on U-93, but Cartoon Network devotees might rec­ognize the sounds ofDressy Bessy and The Apples in Stereo, as they've each provided some background music for the adventures of The Power Puff Girls. Dressy Bessy serves up a tribute to an angelic truckdriver with "In~tead" and "The Apples." "The Oasis" offers a sweet but somber ode to a heartsick rocker, quipping in typical Apples style, "So you threw up at the bar/ That's OK, they know who you are/ Man, you're a star." Another highlight includes Je Suis France's "Coming Out Party," which is sure to stick in your head like taffy to your teeth. 

Disco Two features rarities and out-of­print classics from the early days of Kindercore, including a decidedly eerie version of"What a Wonderful World" from Major Organ and the Adding Machine, Kincaid's melodic "Hill Street Blues" and The Castkills' world-weary cover of "Christ­mas (Baby Please Come Home)." 
Remixes of and by Kindercore artists are featured on Disc Three. Tueday Weld's ''The Days ofYou and Me," punctuated by a steady cymbal and a muted trumpet, flows like vintag~ wine, andJapancakes's "Down TheElementE.P." remix, setto ocean waves and space)' sound effects, could be a step toward the future sound of Kindercore. . 
Bigger and better than the foam cups. This is the DH's best move since panini machines. 
CD av., 40-;~::01 games in a row, and against West Virginia, we didn't even have to rely on Tony Driver to do it. 
Lieberman ..Visit 

ND attracted a major -candidate, and then stuffed him in the smallest venue on campus. 
judgmentcalIs 



2000-2001 Phone . DirectorL It's officially here ­
and it couldn't be uglier. 
~ 
J 
~ 
>> 
What's the creepiest or weirdest experience you've had in your trav­els? 
I once saw President Nixon dedicate a library in a small town in South Dakota, and he actually used the words "pointy-hat in­tellectuals." He said crazy things. It makes me think Bush and Gore aren't so bad. 
So was the Salem witch thing just a hoax? 
My theory is the Salem thing was really about tobacco. 
Do you believe in magic? 
Yes, I do. Ofcourse, "magic" can be used in so many ways ... [but] after the Nebraska game I started having doubts! 

What's the biggest myth in society today? 
I think the biggest myth is that knowing only English· enables you to be a savvy traveler -you really have to know another language to get by in the world. I think another popular myth is that your major in college will get you past your first job! 
Speaking of myths, what's your take ontheWWF? 

I think it's revealed our inner need to get in touch with our primate roots. It's an improvement over cannibalism, but not by much. 
Has Agent Mulder been abducted by aliens? 
I hope so, but either way I expect him to show up on WWF any day now. . 
The squirrels have been giving people spooky looks lately. What should stu­dents do to protect themselves? 
I'd say that student government should or­

. ganize a squirrel SYR so they can release their 
pent-up energy and inhibitions. I recommend . having it in the basement of the library. 
-Kimberly Blackwell 



36YearsAgo 
Ballots and Bunnies 

"To tell. you the truth, I've always been a Yankees fan." -Hi/lary Clinton 
Hip-hip-hop and you don't stop .... 
The March 6, 1964 issue of The Notre 

Dame Scholastic reported 10 percent fewer  "Go to hell."  
ballots cast in the student body elections  - Yassar Arafat, in response to Ehud Barak's decision  
than the previous year. The candidates for  to suspend peace negotiations  
student-body president and secretary ran  
unopposed. Only seven off-campus residents  

cast votes, in contrast to more than 100 who voted the year before. Many of those who did vote had an interesting choice: 
In protest against the administration's proposednew school calendar, which elimi­nates a major vacation at Easter, 350 voters wrote in the "Easter Bunny" as their choice for SBP [Student-Body President]. [Those] who counted the ballots were quick to point out, however, that he was not eligiblefor the office since he did not have the required one­year Student-Senate experience. 
Just one more example of how excluding Independent candidates puts a·damper on politics. · 
-Cristin F enzel 

.: 
"Frank O'Bannon. Bad for fish, bad for Indiana." -TV commercial 
"The other side is ... trying to hold the ball, run out the clock and hide behind the tracking polls." 
-Gore on Bush 
'; // 

domelights
!/ 
COMPILED BY CRISTIN FENZEL: .:
I 

.• ,I 

Wax on, wax off. Basilica employees are constantly restocking the
1: 

I candles that illuminate the Grotto. Here are the number of candles 
r ,•' 
ordered this year so far: 
i ( 
. 
..•> 

,/ ,}·/ {, 
/ 
CANDLES BURNED ON 

. ·•; I 
. . AVERAGE FOOTBALL CANDLES ORDERED GAME DAY ·, . . r·srv,AGL::;::-,;·,;i.;;;:97,SP<iL:.::·.;::,· .···,;_,::. :..::·.\-:MdB:ET8AN;2,o'()O···>:] !IAR~~•_;,;_];:~::.~/'a9)t.00J:Z'..,,'.'.~.•-•:·...::.•i':,\.:.~·:•\'L:i\eoufs;o.oo.~~3;ao.n ,:;;,] 
Source: Brother Dennis Meyers, C.S.C. and Norb Wiskotoni 

SCHOLASTICNEWS 7 


DADDY'S _ -~ 
E) 

~ I...ITIL.E 130Y AL~.~ 
L.J 

GROWN UR ----~ _. L\~ 

I 
' 
I
ii 
I• 
11 
I 
AGGIENOBLE 
n July 6, 1946, George H.W. 
Bush, future president of the 
United States, held his new­born baby, George W. Bush, in his arms for the first time. As most fathers do, the elder Bush hoped that someday his son would follow in his own footsteps. Now, the younger could be only weeks away from making this dream a reality. 
George W. Bush grew up to become the governor ofTexas in 1995. He deliv­ered two of the largest tax cuts in state history, emphasized family values and furthered the development of the GOP. He calls himself a "compassionate con­servative who shapes policy based on the principles of limited government, per­sonal responsibility, strong families and local control." With an emphasis on child education, continued economic prosper­ity, a strong military, and strengthened Social Security and Medicare, Bush says that he has bipartisan aims for the presi­dency. 
Bush's career began at Yale Univer~ sity, followed by Harvard Business school and the Texas Air National Guard, where Bush was an F-102 pilot. It wasn't long, however, before Bush set his sights on the family business: national politics. 
On June 12, 1999 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Bush announced his reasons for running for president. His goals were lofty and spirited, and even after a year and four months, Bush remains deter­mined to fulfill them. 
The election carries some engaging possibilities. ''This is a historically inter­esting election," says government Pro­fessor John Roos. "The last time the Republican Party controlled the House, Senate and presidency was during Eisenhower's term from 1952 to 1954. There will be a great intensity in the n~xt three to four weeks." 
Bush, for his part, emphasizes small government and responsibility as essen­tial to his political policy. His bipartisan­ship has led to the great amount ofwealth 
0 
8 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
in his campaign. 
Despite his successes thus far, Bush has also faced certain challenges. A critical el­ement for Bush is his ability to prove him­self worthy of the presidency despite his lack of national experience. Bush defended himself on this issue in the recent debates. In the first debate, he acknowledged his lack ofhands-on experience in the nation's capi­tal, but he added that he sees his executive work in Texas as analogous. "I fully recog­nize I'm not ofWashington," he says. "I'm from Texas. And [Gore has] a lot ofexperi­ence, but so do I. I've had a proud record of working with both Republicans and Demo­crats, which is what our nation needs. We need somebody who can come up to Wash-
l'VE HAD A PROUD RECORD OFWORKING WITH BOTH REPUBLI­CANS AND DEMO­CRATS, WHICH IS WHAT OUR NATION NEEDS. 
-GEORGE W. BUSH 
ington and say, 'Look, let's forget all the politics and all the finger-pointing and get some positive things done on Medicare and prescription drugs and Social Security."' 
These issues will remain important ones. IfBush wants to be successful in Washing­ton, he must learn to deal with Congress, especially with the major legislative over­hauls. After the second presidential debate, Bush stated, "If you_'re a governor and you don't spend a lot of your adulflife in Wash­ington, there's somebody that's going to say, 'Well, he just doesn't know; he can't possibly know encmgh because he hasn't 

been spending his life in Washington.' 
And I think [the debate] gave me a chance 
to show that you don't need to be a 
Washington person to be knowledgeable 
and conversant on foreign policy." 
Although the need for experience in 
foreign affairs has lessened with the af­
termath of the Cold War, some feel that, 
for now, Bush lacks the knowledge he 
needs to operate in the international arena. 
"Bush will have to face a steep learning 
curve," says economics Professor Tho­
mas Swartz. "Bush is a governor in a 
state that has a 'weak' office of the gov­
ernor. That is, the governor ofTexas has 
limited powers." 
Despite Bush's lack offoreign experi­ence, his running mate, Dick Cheney, brings top-level executive familiarity to the ticket. As White House chief of staff under Gerald Ford, the sole Wyoming congressman and secretary of defense . from March 1989 to January 1993, some say that Cheney compensates for Bush's lack of national experience. As defense secretary, Cheney dealt with two large military campaigns -in Panama and Operation Desert Storm in Kuwait/Iraq -and he improved the military during a time of upheaval at the end of the Cold War. At the end of the Gulf War, Presi­dent George Bush awarded Cheney the Presidential Medal of Freedom for his 
leadership. 
Like Bush, Cheney supports a bal­
anced budget amendment. His former 
opposition to the Equal Rights Amend­
ment, pro-life stance and support ofprayer 
in schools place Cheney as a more con­
servative and right-wing Republican than 
Bush. 
On military issues, Bush supports a 
missile defense system intended to pro­
tect American allies as well as the coun­
try as a whole. "America should rethink 
the requirements for nuclear deterrence 
in a new security environment," Bush 
says. "The_premises ofCold War nuclear 
targeting should no longer dictate the 
size of our arsenal. As president, I will 
ask the secretary ofdefense to conduct an assessment of our nuclear force posture and determine how best to meet our se­curity needs." 
Both Bush and Cheney agree on cut­ting the size of the government and pro­tecting states' rights. Bush criticizes Gore's structural plans, which will, ac­cording to Bush, "explode the role and size of federal government." He also claims that Gore's proposal would bring an influx ofnational delegates, instead of funding states for education and other needs. Although Bush has various struc­tural changes planned for the education systems, his plans are more value-based than programmatic. Bush consistently highlights his commitment to restoring control and raising standards in educa­tion through several locally controlled programs, a zero-tolerance policy in dis­cipline, and the establishment ofcollege merit scholarships for excellent students. 
Families will also benefit from Bush's college plan. With the child tax credit doubling under Bush to $1,000, a total of $25,000 for college will be earned through a savings account with the child tax credit as its base. 
Bush says that his plans for education and his overall campaign show him to be a compassionate centrist aimed at restor­ing the morale and well-being ofAmerica. Bush's desire for small government, how­ever, may cause problems for his goal of broad improvement ofedu~ation, Social Security, and environmental regulation of businesses. Bush recognizes this di­chotomy, and takes a nuanced view of federal organizations. "Government helps best when it empowers individu­als, not when it builds bureaucracies," Bush says on his Web site. But he also says, "The government is not always the enemy. It created Social Security and Medicare, built highways, won wars, helped end segregation .... Some Ameri­cans-peoplechallenged by hardship or tragedy -need a safety net. Without it they have nothing." 
While this sounds like a typical middle­of-the-road view, some question how centrist Bush will prove to be ifelected to office. "Bush is saying that he will have a broad-based tax cut," Roos says. "This is appealing now, but he could certainly revert to conservatism once in office, where a flat tax could emerge. His regu­lation on the environment and business could also change. He sounds centrist, but most Republicans would suggest free trade." 

Bush, however, emphasizes that he has the tools -not the rules or orders -for der the immediate responsibility ofmain­Americans to live prosperously. In Bush's taining the country's prosperity. Also, he statement about Medicare, he holds that will have to reconcile foreign uprisings seniors will have access to prescription drugs and growing problems in Social Security, and all medicine, with more control over education and taxes. their own health care. He also plans to cover The president will likely have the op­all prescription drug expenses for low-in­portunity to appoint new justices to the come seniors, part of the premium cost for Supreme Court as some ofthe older mem­all seniors, and implement a cap on what bers retire. As many controversial issues seniors have to pay. have been decided with a 5-4 vote, the 
Bush i~ also creating a tax cut that he says replacement ofjust one justice could se­will not only lower rates to promote a better riously alter the conservative and liberal standard of living, but also provide insur­composition of the court. ance in case of an economic recession. Dif­Bush's supporters say that he has ad­ferences in tax plans has created some ofthe dressed each of these areas and has re­greatest tension between the Bush and Gore sponded with an openness that shows the camps. According to Bush, his tax cut would honesty and integrity ofhis character, but provide a fair break to all Americans, not whether the American people agree re­just to the "winners" that the Gore plan mains to be seen. . picks and chooses. 
Additionally, Bush wants to partially privatize the Social Security system, em­phasizing the importance ofindividual free­dom and choice. Bush says that a quarter of the nation's surplus will go back to the people, and a large portion of the surplus will also go to Social Security. Gore, on the other hand, wants to create bonds to fill Social Security trust funds. 
On social issues, Bush's platform revolves around the return to morality and values. From economic prosperity to government spending and education, Bush has outlined a promise to promote strong family values. Bush quotes C.S. Lewis in his explanation of his moral platform: "We laugh at honor and are shocked to find traitors in our midst." Bush sees a lack ofmorals among teenagers in America, in part because of what he feels is their compromising lack of accountabil­ity. Bush wants to return a sense ofidealism and truth to schools in order to avoid the pitfalls of moral ambiguity. Bush has not stressed radical educational re-structuring, but his plan to restore moral teachings to schools is an important part of pis overall emphasis on family values. Bush believes the federal government cannot deny a student's faith, and would neither impose nor refute religion in schools. Despite the differences between the two candidates, the polls have shown a very tight race between Bush and Gore. No matter who wins, the future president will enter into one of the greatest economies in history and will shoul­



' 
''I 
' 
LISAVIRANI 
It is election time in America, and 
Democratic presidential candidate Al 
Gore wants your vote. 
Election 2000 has been one ofthe clos­est and most heated presidential races in recent history, with polls showing fre­quent shifts in popularity between the two major candidates, Vice President Al Gore and Texas Governor George W. Bush. 
"The election is approaching and they are still nose to nose," comments govern­ment professor Peri Arnold, director of the Hes burgh Program. "Inkey state after key state, this remains a very tight race." 
Gore hopes that his political experi­ence and detailed executive agenda will allow him to surpass Bush and win the presidency on November 7. 
Marked for a political career at a young 

age, Albert Gore Jr., the youngest son of ·Pauline Gore and former Tennessee Sena­tor Albert Gore Sr., grew up in Washington, D.C., where politics were a part of the family's everyday life. He spent summers working on his family's land in Carthage, Tenn., where his father hoped young Albert would learn to value a hard day's labor and 
to appreciate his hometown roots. 
Gore earned his BA at Harvard Univer­
sity and went on to serve in the Vietnam 
War as a military reporter for an engineer­
ing unit. After returning from the war, Gore 
worked as a reporter for The Tennessean, 
and then attended Vanderbilt where he stud­
ied religion and earned a law degree. 
His political career began in 1976 with a 
successful run for Congress in Tennessee's 
Fourth Congressional District. Gore went 
on to become a member ofthe United States 
Senate in 1984 and made an unsuccessful 
bidfor the Democratic presidential nomina­
tion in 1988. Gore continued as a senator 
until 1992, when he was added to Democrat 
Bill Clinton's presidential ticket. Now, with 
a total of 24 years of political experience 
under his belt, Gore vies for the nation's top 
political office. 
The Gore campaign emphasizes a num­
ber of hot political issues that are focused 
around America's current economic stabil­
ity. The Clinton-Gore administration has 
worked to stop recession, to balance the 
budget, to pay down the national debt and to 
turn record deficits into record surpluses for 
the United States. 
"Not for a long time has there been a 
situation where we are deciding how to 
handle our prosperity," comments Jeff Stuff­
ings, president of the ND College Demo­
crats. "After eight years of prosperity, it's 
time to start helping the families that need 
help the most. Al Gore will strengthen So­
cial Security, .education and Medicare so 
that all families may· share in the prosper­
ity." 
Gore hopes to further the economic suc­
cess of the Clinton administration's recent 
policies and extend the benefits of a grow­
ing economy to all of the nation's families. 
"To those who say prosperity has achieved 

its full reach, I say: justwatch us. We will 
deepen prosperity, and extend it to the 
homes and the hearts of every family ­
from struggling immigrants who seek a 
better life for their children to farmers 
and factory workers who need more 
money to pay the bills and more time 
with their families to the young Internet 
geniuses from every background, hun­
gering to transform our world," Gore 
says in his proposed agenda for the future 
of the economy. · 
The vice president's economic agenda includes a variety of initiatives that are designed to strengthen the nation's grow­ing and prosperous ·economy. If elected, Gore would dedicate the entire Social Security surplus to.reducing the national debt and strengthening Social Security. He would use the resulting interest to strengthen the Social Security Trust Fund in an attempt to protect guaranteed hen­. efits for future retirees and people with disabilities for the next half century. In addition to Social Security's benefits, Gore has proposed Retirement Savings Plus, which would create tax-deferred savings accounts that would enable work­ing Americans to build a retirement nest 
egg. 
Gore proposes to put Medicare payroll 
taxes in the now well-known "Medicare 
lock-box" so that they can be used only to 
strengthen Medicare and pay down the 
national debt. 
Gore also hopes to maintain the fis­
cally disciplined approach to regulating 
the economy followed by the Clinton­
Gore administration in order to eliminate 
the publicly held national debt by the 
year 2012. The vice president believes 
that paying down the debt will keep long­
term interest rates, low, allowing for 
greater investment in the private sector. 
Gore also promises America that as presi­
denthe would produce a balanced budget 
every year. 
Middle-class tax cuts have been at the 
center of the Gore plan in his traditional 
Democratic effort to protect the working 
people from the power of big business and the wealthy. Gore also proposes a tax break of up to $10,000 for families with children in college, an increase in the number of grants and low-interest loans for students and improved job training for people eager to excel in the working world. 
Expanding access to affordable and user friendly health-care coverage is an­other goal ofthe Gore platform, although he does not support a completely nation­alized health-care system. 
"I support a hybrid system of partly public and partly private health care in America," Gore said in the third round of presidential debates, "but I am not in support of government doing it all." 
Gore is also in favor of adopting a universal patients bill ofrights and would like to see the passage of the Dingell­Norwood campaign-finance-reform bill in the next session of Congress. 
Gore believes that the United States must remain actively engaged in foreign affairs while employing a system of"for­wardengagement," a strategy that addresses international problems in the early stages of development with the forces and re­sources necessary to deal with those prob­lems. 
"The U.S. has to be strong so that we can promote peace and stability," Gore says. "That means keeping the military strong." 
Gore supports a pay raise for military personnel and increased modernization of strategic and tactical weaponry. 
Gun control in a Gore administration would include a series of safety mea­sures that would attempt to slow the rising flood of handguns in America. "None of the measures will affect hunt­ers and sportsmen," Gore comments. "All will be aimed at public safety." 
The vice president supports the death penalty in the most heinous ofcases, and believes that capital punishment deters violent crime. Gore adds that it must be administered fairly and with attention to critical types of evidence, especially DNA tests. 
Gore also advocates a system of e­government. Big government services would operate online, because having the government at their fingertips would allow the American people to take an interactive approach to community prob­lem solving. Gore says that such a sys­tem would create a smaller, smarter gov­ernment with online services that are cheaper, better and faster. 
"I'll push for tens of billions of dollars in savings by making all major government purchases on the Internet," Gore says. "We'll create a new online auction site-we'11 call it 'gBay' -to sell of equipment the govern­ment no longer needs. And then we'll invest the savings in even greater efficiency, more innovation, and better services forourpeople." 
Gore also feels that the ever-expanding Internet increases economic opportunity among all groups in our historically unequal nation . ., 
"Our challenge now is to make this tech­nology work for all of our people," Gore remarks. "Black or white, rich or poor, a Ph.D. or a self-taught genius, the Internet reflects back your guts and your gifts, not your complexion or yom gender. The Internet doesn't care as long as you have a 
TO THOSE WHO SAY 
PROSPERITY HAS 
ACHIEVED ITS FULL 
REACH, I SAY: JUST 
WATCH US. 
-AL GORE 
good idea, and this has helped turn our best values into reality by helping to open the gates to a more level playing field." 
Gore wants to achieve the goal of univer­sal computer literacy in the 21st century. "We must finish the job ofconnecting every classroom and library in America to the Internet," he says. "From the poorest inner­city school district to the finest magnet school -every child should have access to the same vast store of knowledge and dis­covery." 
Despite the hours of debate overeduca­tion and Social Security, the final outcome of the election may not even be decided on these issues. 
"This race will probably come down !O issues of character," Arnold says. 


Through out the campaign, Gore has redefined his political image to create a voter-friendly Al. The vice president has shed his traditional suit and tie in favor of casual shirts and khakis in an attempt to discount his reputation as the "Wooden Apollo." 
"Gore is vulnerable to the character debate because he has been set up for it with the Clinton problem," says govern­ment professor John Roos. 
Gore, who has stood as his "own man". at the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, often says, "I have never broken laws" and, "I have always kept my word" in campaign speeches. He speaks of his 30-year union with wife, Tipper, and the strong bond between his children and grandchild to reassure the public that Gore's White House would be free of domestic discord. 
"I feel that Gore has finally settled on an image and message that resonates well with theA'i-nerican people," Stuffings says. "His populistic crusade that pits the people vs. the powerful is a message that people can get behind." 
Further evidence of Gore's desire to separate himself from Clinton's troubled personal history was the addition ofSena­tor Joseph Lieberman to Gore's presiden­tial ticket. The nomination of Lieberman -who was an ardent Clinton critic and advocate for impeachment during the past administration -spoke to voters who might have associated Gore's character with that of the current president. 
With November quickly approaching, Gore is focusing on winning the battle­ground states of Illinois, Michigan, Mis­souri and Pennsylvania. 
"I think that it will come down to 10 days out and we will see a shift to voter mobilization and not persuasion," Arnold says. 
"This is a close enough election that we may be looking at the series ofevents that will decide the race," Roos adds. 
In a political moment that is familiar to an experienced office-holder such as Vice President Gore, both candidates must now make their final push to gain swing-voter support in these last few days before the election. Without doubt, it will be a fight to the finish. D 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 



J ·,, ,, 
' I 
i 
LIAMBRENNAN
As both the media and most ofthe public focus on the attempts of Al Gore and George W. Bush to win the presidency, the grassroots and far less flashy Green Party has once again nominatedRalphNaderas its presi­dential candidate. However, unlike his 1996 campaign, this time Nader is really out to make an impact on the election. What that impact will be remains to be seen. Born in 1934, Ralph Nader was raised by his parents, Lebanese immigrants, in Winsted, Conn. Hegraduatedmagna cum laude from Princeton in 1955, and he graduated from Harvard Law School in 1958. His 1965 attack on the auto industry's lack ofsafety measures led to the passing ofa series oflaws that forced the industry to make safety adjustments to its vehicles. Although he makes more than $1 million per year from book deals and speaking engagements, he reportedly lives on an annual income of $25,000, devoting the rest of his money to the causes in which he believes. 
Nader claims that his candidacy raises issues that would otherwise be ignored. He advocates universal health care for all Ameri­cans, stating that the United States is the only industrialized nation that does not do so. Nader claims that through his single­payer method the government can provide health insurance for the entire population. Furthermore, Nader asserts that this can be done at no more cost than the government already spends on health care. The plan would combine local, personalized care with a choice of doctors and private health-care systems under a public insurance plan. 
Nader places human rights both at home and abroad at the forefront ofhis campaign. He advocates the abolition of the death penalty, something neither Gore nor Bush support. Nader claims that the practice dis­criminates against minorities and the eco­nomically disadvantaged. More importantly, he says, the practice is an abuse of human rights. He also does not readily talk about expanding free trade, as the Democratic and Republican candidates do. Instead, he speaks of re-negotiating trade agreements to en­sure that guidelines are included that pro­mote fair labor practices and environmental protections. 
Nader has a more daunting goal: over­hauHng the Electoral College. He hopes to increase the representation ofa multiplicity of voices in the federal government. He advocates the abolition of winner-take-all constituencies favoring instead proportional representation in Congress. Nader also urges a more radical overhaul of the campaign­financing system than any other candidate, favoring the public financing ofcampaigns. Finally,. he supports the "instant runoff." 

Used for national offices in such rtations 
as Ireland, this system allows citizens to 
rank preferences for candidates in a multi­
party race. If no one wins a majority in 
the first round of votes, the two highest 
vote-getters are put in a runoff immedi­
ately, ensuring whoever'wins has at least 
50 percent of the vote. 
Nevertheless, Nader has almost no 

chance of winning the presidency. With 
an election platform absent from the po­
litical radar of most citizens, it is no 
surprise that Nader is making a dismal 
showing in the polls. According to the 
Gallup poll taken between October 18­
20, Nader is averaging about four per­
cent of the popular vote. The New York 
Times has dubbed him a spoiler, claim­
ing that his once valiarit advocacy of 
liberalism has been misdirected into a · 
campaign that could cost Gore the White 
House. The claim holds some water, with 
Bradley Democrats jumping ship and sup­
porting the Nader campaign. Harvard pro­
fessor Comel West, a long-time friend and 
campaign adviser .to Bill Bradley, has 
thrown his support behind the Nader can­
didacy. Some analysts claim that Wash­
ington, which should be a lock-solid Gore 
constituency, may go to Bush because of 
the Green Party candidate. 
Nonetheless, Nader is undaunted. He 

recently launched his "Don't Waste Your Vote" tour, which emphasizes why people · should cast their ballot for him. Hereminds voters that the Green Party will receive federal funding in 2004 if his campaign nets at least five percent of the vote. Fur­thermore, he claims that in most states the race between Bush and Gore is so locked 
up that a vote for him won't hurt. 
When confronted with the possibility 

that he could hand the election to Bush, 
Nader says that no candidate "deserves" 
votes, and that Gore should not assume that 
he has the support of traditional Demo­
crats. Nader claims that losing power is 
perhaps the "cold shower" that the Demo­
crats need to refocus their vision. 
Drawing crowds up to 12,000 at his 

Super Rallies; Nader is not taking his 
campaign lightly. When the Commis­
sion on Presidential Debates denied 
Nader the chance to go head-to-head 
with Gore and Bush, it galvanized sup­
port for Nader among college students 
and Hollywood celebrities. One thing is 
clear: Ralph Nader will not disappear 
from the public eye quietly. . 
PUTYOUR DUKES UP 

Democrats and Republicans battle it out in key 
Senate races 
DAVIDHARMAN 
While Bush and Gore contend for the presidency, other battles are heating up the bal­lot as well. The 2000 Senate elections are witnessing fierce partisan as the Demo­crats look to establish party dominance. The Republicans come into the elections with a 54-46 majority -a balance the Democrats are seriously threatening to turn in their favor. There are 34 Senate seats at stake: 19 are held by Republicans and 15 by Democrats. Of these, accord­ing to the September 29 Cook Political Report, there are at least nine state Sen­ate races that classify as toss-ups. In order to win majority in the Senate, the Democrats must win five seats unless Gore takes the White House -in which case the Democrats would need only four seats. This is a prospect that looks more and more bleak since the tragic death ofGovernor Mel Carnahan, Demo­cratic challenger for the Missouri Senate seat. His untimely passing puts extreme pressure on all Democratic contenders to win their elections. Delaware is one of t~e key toss-up states. The Republican incumbent Sena­tor William V. Roth Jr. is facing staunch competition from two-term governor and former Democratic congressman Tho­mas R. Carper. Senator Roth, running for his sixth term, beganthe election 10-poll points behind but has since rallied to defend his seat. The crux ofthe Delaware election is definitely a question of youth versus experience. Senator Roth brings a wealth of knowledge to the table. He is chairman of the Finance Committee, one of the most influential committees in Congress, with considerable sway over Medicare, Social Security, foreign trade and tax policy. However, Governor Carper has not lost a campaign in 10 straight statewide elections. Both Delaware candidates are widely popular, weakening Roth's incumbency advantage as the challenger, Carper, must keep the pressure on the Republican in­cumbent and exploit the vulnerability his age presents to win a key victory for the Democrats. According to Jim Soles, a pro­fessor of political science at the University ofDelaware, "The ultimate result will prob­ably depend on the voter turnout." This election is one of the most contentious; as such, it has become a key race. 
Another key race heats up in New York, as spirited debates and Hillary Clinton's presence have kept this Senate race in the national spotlight. As the nation watches, the First Lady and Rick Lazio vie for Daniel Patrick Moynihan's (D) open seat. The Al­manac ofAmerican Politics 2000 proclaims Moynihan as, "The nation's best thinker among politicians since Lincoln, and its best politician among thinkers since Jefferson." This definitely leaves some very big shoes to fill. 
Such precedence does not bode well for Senator Rick Lazio, the Long Island Repub­lican Congressman. According to the Octo­ber 12 CookPoliticalReport, "New Yorkers seem to believe -and history proves ­that their Senators should be somewhat larger than life." If that is true, then New York has a larger-than-life candidate in Clinton. But this alone will not determine the outcome of this highly publicized and brutally competi­tive race. Clinton is being weighed down, as seems to be the custom of the whole Clinton family, by controversy. Reports swirl about whether she traded overnight stays at Camp David and the White House for campaign donations. Recent criticism has focused on the factually false testi­mony she gave concerning her role in Travelgate. Clinton will have to over­come more than just her negative public image to counter Lazio's status gap. 

Because there is no incumbent in the New York election, the seat is considered open. With an open seat, "party affilia­tion, national tides, and presidential coat­tails become a bigger part of the story," Gary Jacobson says in his book, Politics of Congressional Elections. Despite the fact that the presidential coattails happen to be her husband's, Clinton must 'still overcome her own scandalous image, and Lazio must convince New York that he is a big enough man for the job. This race is as hotly c-ompetitive and unpredictable as the Subway Series, and will remain so right up to Election Day. 
As candidates and their workers make their final pushes, no one can predict the end result. With the intensity of the Senate races, there is only one accurate way to know the outcome ofNovember's election: wait and see. . 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 

l'l l  
:1:~t~l· ·  L  
HOW THE MOSERS SCARED UP PROFITS BY TURNING THEIR  

JACKLYNKIEFER 
Ihad driven an hour, winding my way through cornfields before reaching my destination a few miles outside Millersburg, Ind. I realized that the warm October night had many surprises in store soon after entering the haunted maze called "Children in the Corn." As I pull into the parking lot of the Mazemasters, I am greeted by the cheerful light of a camp­fire, a truck with hay piled high waiting to take a group on a ride and a well-lit pump­kin stand. The co-owner of the corn maze, Ed Moser, greets me and volunteers to lead me back to the maze. What awaited me? Sunken pits filled with straw, foggy tunnels and, of course, many ghouls who appear without the slightest warning. Ed's wife, Rita, the other owner and president ofMazemasters, explains how the small, local operation had developed over the past two years into the largest maze complex in the coun­try. When the U.S. hog market fell two years ago, she came up with the idea of developing a corn maze in one of the fields to save the farm, which has been in the Moser family for four generations. In 1999, the Masers decided to give the maze a try and used a Global Positioning Satel­lite to map the design using twine and flags. 
With the help of friend Brad Anderson, the Masers cut six acres of corn into a pig­shaped maze named Meg the Pig. Rita flew over the fields to check the accuracy of the GPS system -and saw Meg looking back at her. After obtaining a special-use permit from Elkhart County, the Masers opened the maze on August 5, 1999. 
Near the end ofthe first season, Anderson and some high-school students who worked on the Masers' farm designed and built the haunted corn maze. These same students populate the maze as the approximately 20 ghouls who lurk about, waiting for unsus­pecting visitors like me. 
As I near the entrance to the corn maze, I hear creepy noises coming from the corn 

accompanied by the screams of other hap­
less visitors. Mr. Moser tells me to follow 
the lights to the door, and then I will be at the 
mercy of the ghouls. The cheery Christmas 
lights change to a darker shade of orange. 
"We must be getting close, the lights are 
getting less happy," one ofmy companions 
comments. After walking into the depths of 
the corn, I finally reach a large door with the 
words "Scared Yet?" painted in a bloody 
shade ofred on it. I open it-and find a head 
dangling from the frame. I laugh; that wasn't 
so bad. Confidently,~ enter, and thehaunt­
ing begins .... 
Scott Mast, 19, has worked for the Masers for four years and is one of the ghouls who haunts the maze. "Last year's maze was pretty much a free-for-all," he says. "You can hear people sneaking up . on you a lot better this year, but last year you would never hear anyone because the paths were more dirt." Mast also helped put the maze together, including finishing touches. "We walk through it at night, and then see things we need to change to make 
SO, YOU'VE VISITED ALL THE ATTRACTIONS INDIANA HAS TO OFFER? NEVER FEAR, CHICAGO_· HAS MANY HAUNTED ACTIVITIES FOR YOU TO ENJOY. 
COMPILED BY LYNN VICHICK 
WHAT: Have fun at the Hancock Observatory with "cool ghoul" caricatures and tarot card readings. Also, enjoy the new Sky Tour and enter a drawing for two round trip tickets to your favorite haunt in the continental United States. WHEN: October 28 and 29: 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. WHERE: Hancock Observatory, 875 North Michigan Avenue. 
PRICE: Free. INFORMATION: (888) 875-VIEW. 
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 


FIELDS INTO THE LARGEST CORN MAZE COMPLEX IN THE WORLD 
WHAT: Tour haunted cemeteries, pubs, and murder sites in Chicago's near Northside via a coach that leaves from Goose Island Brewery. 
WHEN: October 30: 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.  WHEN: October 26: 7 p.m., 7:40 p.m., and 8:20 p.m.  
November 1: 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.  October 28 and 29:11 :35 a.m., 12:15 p.m., 12:55 p.m.,  
WHERE: 1800 N. Clybourn.  ·  and 1 :35 p.m.  
PRICE: $40.  WHERE: Tickets at the Chicago Cultural Center, 77 E.  
INFORMATION: (708) 499-0300.  Randolph.  
PRICE: Free.  
INFORMATION: (312) 744-3370.  
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY  15  

it more scary or realistic," he explains. Rita Moser insists that much more goes into developing the attraction. "We watched countless scary movies over the summer getting ready for the maze," she says. 
Yes, that did include Children ofthe Com. 
The ghouls in the corn are often derived from scary movies, but some of the guys develop their own characters. For example, Tari Miller, 18, has created a somersaulting creature of the corn. Their efforts are obvi­ous as I proceed deeper into the corn and encounter a tunnel filled with fog. I am reluctant to enter, but a Wolfman with giant claws and fangs materializes and chases me into the blackness. I immediately find my­self stuck in a straw-covered pit. After scram­bling to my feet, I exit the tunnel and try to catch my breath, but an easily recognizable Jason from Friday the 13th appears, bran­dishing a buzzing chainsaw. I run forward. 
The last structure I enter is hung with cornstalks swinging wildly after the hurried exit of the group before us. Ghouls are hiding behind the stalks and lying on the ground. They jump up as I enter, giving me one final scare before I flee. The creepy farmer doesn't even stop me as I dash to­wards the exit. 
When I catch my breath and get a chance to talk to Mast, he tells me the final part of 
It's a blast; I love doing it. Just next to the exit door ­everyone sees the door and thinks its over, so I get the biggest reaction there. 
-SCOTTMAST 

the maze is his favorite. "Just next to the exit door -everyone sees the door and thinks it's over, so I get the biggest reaction there," he says. "It's a blast; I love doing it." 
The spooks are paid for their services, out all of them hold tamer day jobs or attend classes. They range in age from 14 to 20 years old. "A couple guys are from 4-H clubs in the area, and others are friends of the Mosers who have worked here before," Mast says. 
Aside from the mazes, the Mosers give hayrides that are occasionally haunted. "If the guys are taking a break or if the maze is slow they will go out and scare the people on the hayrides," Mrs. Moser says. 
The frightening antics are paying off. In 1999, Mazemasters attracted visitors from Fort Wayne, South Bend, Chicago and In­dianapolis. The Mosers hosted two birthday parties, 17 scout troops, 16 schools, 43 churches and 8,136 general admissions. This positive turnout is due in part to the Mosers' marketing efforts. The local media eventu­ally caught on, and news helicopters were 

WHAT: Take an unforgE:lttable tour of the Loop on a special spooky CT A elevated train while ghosts from the Aardvark Theater tell haunting tales of Chicago. 
-. . ' . ~-'---~--~---~--~ ---~--~----~-~ ---~­

I· thought that was 
_part of going into business -hoping to attract enough people to stay in business. 
-RITA MOSER, CO-OWNER OF MAZEMASTERS 
spotted above ~he fields. "Meg" has also 
received considerable national media atten­
tion. Visitors reported seeing the maze on 

I TV in Milwaukee, Virginia and on CNN. 
I 
Some people even claimed they saw news

1 
ii 
clips about it in Germany and Canada. The ! ! success encouraged Ed and Rita to expand for the 2000 season. 

They now operate five mazes in their 1,500 acres of fields. Besides Meg, there is an 18-acre maze in the shape ofthe state of Indiana; it has eight and a half miles of trails. Both Meg and the Indiana mazes have been used as teaching tools. Fourth­graders who visit the maze on class trips are given sheets containing agriculture and history questions; if their answers are correct, they wind up on the right trail. "When [pupils] leave the maze they are not whining about how bored they are, they want to make sure their answers are right," Mrs. Moser says. "The teachers are very impressed with it." There are also two party mazes with a sand volleyball court that can be rented out for such things as 
company picnics, family and class reunions 
and large birthday parties; groups can 
race through the adjacent mazes to see 
who finishes first. And, of course, there is . the haunted maze during the month of 
October. 
Ironically, the popularity of the mazes 
has recently caused trouble for the Mosers. 
The increased size and scope of the project has become a point of contention between 
the Mosers and the Elkhart County zoning 
officials. Mrs. Moser says that she ap­
proached the zoning office in February 
2000 and was told that since all the mazes operate on an 88-acre piece of land, her 
current special-use permit would suffice 
for the 2000 season. As long as the mazes 
did not get any closer to the highway, she 
was told she would not need to make any 
legal changes to stay in business. 
After planting and developing the mazes, 
however, the Mosers say that they re­
ceived a call in July from the zoning 
board. According to them, the board said 
that the new mazes required a Planned Development Permit -the same type of permit used by large amusement parks like Cedar Point and Six Flags. Appar­
ently, the mazes had grown too popular to 
be run under the special-use permit. "I thought that was part of going into busi­ness -hoping to attract enough people to stay in business," Mrs. Moser says. 
The timing ofthe notification also caused 
a problem: in order to obtain the new permit, 

the Mosers would have to attend a hearing in September, well after the mazes were scheduled to open. At the hearing with the zoning board, the Mos_ers were accused of parking cars along State Road 13 and block­ing traffic, charges Mrs. Moser denies. 
Because of the late notification and the Mosers' testimony at the hearing, the board has allowed the couple·to keep all five mazes open with just a special-use permit this season. Now, they are collecting signa­tures from the maze's visitors to present to the board and working with local residents to create a unified front. "The neighbors are all quite supportive," Mrs. Moser says. 
In the meantime, this season has topped even the Mosers' greatest hopes. "Business in August and Septemb~r has tripled last year's numbers, and we-have up to 800 to 1,000 visitors to the haunted maze pernight," Mrs. Moser says, adding that in addition to the hayrides and mazes, people are wel­come to bring hot dogs and marshmallows to roast around the fire. "There are often adults who haven't been around a campfire since they were a kid, and kids who have never seen one because they are from the cities." 
For all the fun I've had, it's time for me to head out ofthe corn and back to South Bend. I make my good-byes to the Mosers and all ·the ghouls and walk to my car. As I drive away down State Road 13, I watch the light of the campfire fade from my rearview mirror. I wonder what the fate of this attrac­tion will be -and whether the Haunted Com Maze will be around to entertain people next Halloween. D 



TINAZURCHER behind curtains, under beds and through walls to scream and grab at me. I never
No spotlights fill the sky above the know what to expect next. As I turn a corner, old Whitley County Jail, but the I see a roasting spit illuminated with red ramshackle building has a horrify-lights. An ash-covered baby is turning on 
ing haunted history. Built in 1875, it was the the metal rod, and shrieks fill the room site of Indiana'&worst hanging. According behind me as I run. to legend, the jail hosts the ghost ofCharles Strips of something thick and green hit Butler, a man who was disastrously hung me as I stumble into the next room. What for murdering his wife. appears to be old Spanish moss hangs from 
After his conviction, Butler was sched­the ceiling, completely obstructing what is uled to be executed but managed to escape. leftofmy vision in the darkened jail. Bushes He fled to Michigan and hid for several days and even some trees line the walls. Nothing before the sheriff tracked him down. Back too scary yet -then a bush beside me rips in Whitley County, Butler was taken di­apart and a humpbacked figure jumps out to rectly to the scaffold. block me. The other bushes start moving. I 
The lever was pulled, but something went wonder if Charles Butler's ghost is exiting terribly wrong. For seven long seconds its hiding place. Butler hung struggling in the noose, gasp­As I move into.the oldjarl section ofthe ing and twitching before he finally gave up building, things only become more fright­and died. Supposedly, his ghost still walks ening. Shadowy figures push me into a the jail halls, playing eerie music on a har­room with bars and clank the gate shut. monica while opening and closing doors. Charles Butler reincarnated stands in Workers claim that the ghost has even been front of me, for a few seconds, at least. caught on videotape. A man with a petrifying laugh pulls a 
Every Halloween, the haunted jail lives lever, and the fated noose yanks Butler up to Butler's legacy under the full-time off his feet. As I watch, the murderer guidance of John "The Nightwalker" dangles in the air, arms and legs jerking Burkett. He works year-round on develop­madly at first but then dying with a few ing the jail's spooky qualities, attending twitches. seminars on haunted-house development An autopsy room is the next stop, where and working with non-profit groups to deco­a blood-spattered mother cuts apart her rate and host thejail. This year's sponsors living son atop a kitchen table. Several include various groups from Columbia City years ago, the jail staff actually filled the High School and a local conservation club. room with fresh meat, including the full The profits from the jail's $7 tickets go to side of a cow, to give it a more realistic the volunteers' organizations. smell. Some glistening red entrails are 
Upon entering the house, I walk up a strewn across a table, but I cannot see if 
long flight of stairs to the second story, they are real or not. where someone promptly jumps from Finally making my_way out of the jail, I around the corner and screams. I nearly take a deep breath. It is over. As I step fall 20 feet. Edging around the hooded outside into the yard behind, a black-walled figure, I back into the next room, a gory maze blocks my path. I edge into it, and a
1 scene from The Matrix, with embryos whirring noise. catches my attention. Then floating in watery cocoons covered with three guys with chainsaws Jeap out and
l 
blood. Stomach lurching, I walkthrough a . begin slashing at my feet, laughing mania­hallway with displays ofskeletons. A torn­cally as I jump back into the side of a wall. apart torso rises from a gutted bed against . Feeling it give slightly, I look down at the the wall and begins to talk to me. I wonder ··blades whirling about my feet, leap over the if it is Charles Butler's murdered wife, figures and dash as fast as I can out of the 
recounting her tale of terror. maze. · Black and bloody figures appear from My car ~as never a more welcome sight.. 
PHOTOS BY TINA ZURCHER 
SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 17 



BRENDANBARKER 
Callege hockey has a difficult time stealing attention from its more prosperous NCAA siblings, foot­
ball and basketball. During the past five years, however, the Irish hockey team, led by Coach Dave Poulin, has made significant strides and now appears ready to break through in both the Central Collegiate Hockey Association and the NCAA. 
After five consecutive outstanding re­cruiting classes and Notre Dame's first trip to the CCHA semifinals since Poulin' s se­nior year, (1981-'82), this year's squad, ranked No. 20 in the preseason, looks more capable than any of its predecessors. The Irish have five NHL draft picks and 10 players who have been a part of assorted USA national hockey teams -solid evi­dence that people are noticing Notre Dame's talent. 
Despite these honors, the team remains focused on winning and securing an NCAA-tournament bid.. "That has been one of our goals, and we'll keep trying to get there," Poulin says. His players agree. "It's one of our goals that we feel is attainable," says sophomore center Connor Dunlop. 

But in order to achieve these hopes, the Irish will have to account for their losses from last season. Several key players are gone, and the team will have to compensate for this loss if the Irish are to be successful this year. The team lost eight players, in­cluding two ofthe team's top three scorers: center Ben Simon and right wing Joe Dusbabek. Several defensemen also gradu­ated last year, including standout Tyson Fraser, leaving more voids on the ice for Notre Dame. Poulin, however, has faith that both the returning upperclassmen and the incoming freshmen can make up for their losses. "We expect that our veterans will elevate their play," he says, pointing spe­cifically to the foursome ofsenior left wing Dan Carlson, senior right wing Ryan Dolder, junior center David Inman and Dunlop. 
"Everybody's.picked up where they left off," Inman says. "We're all making up for those guys." Dunlop adds, ''The forwards are older guys, so the offense should pick it up." 
Still, this is no easy task for the Irish. Only three players on this year's team scored more than six goals last year. Poulin desires "a broader array of scorers" this season, hoping to employ a balanced attack against Notre Dame's foes. 
Those foes should provide plenty ofchal­lenges for the Irish. Already, they have played two top-10 teams in Minnesota and Boston College, and they will have plenty of other challenges later on in the year against such teams as Michigan State, West­em Michigan and Michigan. Some Irish players welcome the challenges of a rigor­ous schedule. Dunlop likes that Notre Dame has "jumped right into it," calling the games 
. SENIOR LEADER 

Senior right wing Ryan Dolder impressed the Irish coaches his freshman year by his uncanny ability to score in practice. This season he looks to lead the Irish on the ice c;tll the way to the NCAA tournament. _ 


against Minnesota and Boston College a "baptism by fire." Poulin knows and under­stands the difficulties posed by the sched­ule, but he wants to perform well both within the CCHA and outside the confer­ence. "We feel that this team is capable of meeting those challenges," he says. 
Notre Dame's offense will play a large part in meeting those challenges. Inman will be at the front of this potent attack, looking to become the dominant goal scorer that the Irish desire. A pick ofthe New York Rangers, Inman became the first-ever Notre Dame hockey player to be taken in the first two rounds of the NHL draft. The W arid Junior Championship interrupted Inman's season last year; later, a bout with mono­nucleosis ended it. This year, however, great things are expected ofhim as he prepares to lead the Irish attack, but no one puts more pressure on him than Inman puts on himself. "I have a strong internal motivation that pushes me," he says. "I expect a lot out of myself." 
Carlson will also play a crucial role on this unproven offense, adding veteran lead­ership and scoring ability from the wings. As the CCHA's sixth-best returning scorer this season, Carlson is also ready to step up his role and lead the team this season. "Danny seems to get things done at important times," says Poulin, a fact borne out in his five game-winning goals last year. As last year's team MVP, this year's alternate captain and a key player on both the power-play and the penalty-killing units, Carlson will undoubt­edly be a major component orany success the Irish have this year. 
Dolder completes his ascension from walk-on to senior captain this year. His leadership has played a large part in Notre Dame's past success and should contribute significantly to the team in this upcoming season. He has shown steady improvement in each of his past four seasons, and Poulin sees no reason why this should stop. "He is a great leader for us," he says. "We'll con­tinue to look to him for important contribu­tions." 
Dunlop is set to be Notre Dame's top face-off man this year, and after an injury­ridden freshman season, he is looking for­ward to a healthy sophomore year. Enjoying a good off-season, Dunlop feels that he is in good shape to become a bigger part of this offense. "Hopefully I'll be a little more healthy this season, and be able to contrib­ute more to the team," he says. Several players will have to step up to make up for the graduated defensemen. Ryan Clark is the only senior back on defense and is ready to be a vital presence. Poulin calls Ryan "our most experienced defensemen," and expects him to set the physical tone for Notre Dame's defend­ers. Clark is noted for his strong physical play and should be one of the main forces onNotreDame's pen­alty-killing unit. On a de­fense that is composed of mostly younger players, the Irish will look to Clark for veteran le~dership and the experience that will be nec­essary to take the Irish deep into the postseason. 

The other returning de­fenders, junior Sam Cornelius and sophomores Paul Harris and Evan Nielsen, will also see their roles increase this year. 
I

L_____________ 
Nielsen was Notre Dame's top-scoring defenseman as a rookie and was an eighth­round draft pick of the Atlanta Thr~shers. Poulin wants to utilize Nielson's strong offensive skills and skating, as he hopes to fill some of the roles the graduated Fraser used to play on defense. 
The talented freshman class should show 

some immediate dividends as well. Center 
Aaron Gill and wing Rob Globke lead the 
offensive class, while defensemen Neil 
Komadoski, Brett Lebda and Tom Galvin 
head the defensive side. "It's important to have a strong, young base for the future," Poulin says. 
Of course, no team could compete with­out excellent goaltending. Coming off the best ever goals-against average in Notre Dame history, plus an outstanding save per­centage, sophomore goalie Tony Zasowski has settled in as the starter this year, a job he won as a rookie due to his outstanding poise and consistency. "We have great faith in our goaltenders," Poulin says. "We think they give us a grea_t chance to win." 
All the pieces are set for the Irish to make a big run at the CCHA title as well as the NC.AA tournament. Poulin and the players believe that they are· ready to take the next step in this program. The foundation has been set, and now it is time for the Irish to reap the benefits of their hard work and perseverance as they-head into this year's . season. . 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 19 


ON THE 

After getting jilted by Doherty, the Irish look to start a new relationship with Head Coach Mike Brey 
DAVIDMURRAY
Last year, the Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team enjoyed a very good season after a long drought, rising to national prominence and regaining the at­tention of the student body. With victories over some of the top teams in the country, Notre Dame came close to qualifying for the NCAA tournament for the first time in a decade. During the off-season, beloved first-year Coach Matt Doherty left South Bend to accept the head coaching position at the University of North Carolina. In his one season of work, Doherty was deservedly given much of the credit for reviving the basketball program. Though the line-up re­mains virtually identical to last year's, many wonder whether the basketball team can continue to improve without him. Enter Mike Brey, the new head coach, who has inherited those questions and looks to assure the Irish faithful that everything is under control. Brey says that the goal of the team, which is now ranked No. 20 in most preseason polls, has remained_ the same throughout the transition. "On Sunday night after the selection show [for the NCAA tournament], it would be nice to talk about travel plans and match-ups and those types of things," he says. "That's how we have to dream. I think that if [our goal] was any­thing short of that, if I didn't put that on the table and say that's what we' re chasing, [ the players] would not respect me." Brey brings excellent credentials to Notre Dame. His first coaching job was at his alma mater, DeMatha High School in Hyattsville, Md. During his tenure there, the basketball program excelled, rising as high as No.I in the nation. He later spent eight years as an assistant coach under Mike Krzyzewski at Duke, where he helped the Blue Devils reach the Final Four six times. Having proven himself worthy of a head-coaching posi­tion, Brey was handed the reins at the Uni­versity of Delaware. He quickly produced results, twice taking the Blue Hens to the NCAA tournament and guiding them to three consecutive 20-win seasons. He be­lieves that he can coach the Irish to similar or better results. "That's the goal, getting 
20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
into the Final Four," Brey says. "It would be interesting to see the passion around the campus and the community ifwe got it back to that point." But Brey is quick to point out that reaching the pinnacle ofcollege basket­ball will take plenty of time, dedication and practice. "We've got a ways to go," he says. "I think that just being a part of [the tourna­ment] is a very tough but realistic goal." 
This summer was not the first time that Brey was considered for the Irish head­coaching position. He interviewed for the position last year but was passed up in favor of Doherty. "I was disappointed because I thought it was a good time for me to go," Brey says. "I didn't know what else we could have done at Delaware. I was ready for another challenge, and I thought this was a good fit." While elated about being selected for the job the following year, Brey admits that he had mixed emotions about leaving his previous post. "As much as it was a no­brainer, it was tough to pull out of there," he says. "We had a lot ofsuccess and we invested emotionally in that community and in that state. We were well thought of there. It was a great quality of life. My kids [Kyle, 13, and Callie, 10] had good friends and you worry abo11t pulling them out of those things." 
Just as Brey grew into the framework of the Delaware community, he feels his back­ground will help him fit comfortably into life at Notre Dame. A product of Catholic education, Brey feels that he can identify with the goals of the university. From his past collegiate experience, he is familiar with the academic rigors imposed on his players. "A lot ofthe same philosophies that we had to use at Duke are certainly here as far as a great academic institution that wants to compete at the highest level," he says. "I think I'm in line with what the mission ofthe university is and I understand the big pic­ture." 
Brey's experiences at Duke have taught 
him a lot about recruiting, the key facet of 
building a long-term successful program. 
He understands that coaching at a high­
powered academic institution sigl)ificantly 
increases the difficulty of recruiting good 
players. "Not every high school All-Ameri­
can is a kid who is going to be a fit for Notre 
Dame," he says. As a result, Brey stresses 

the importance ofrecruiting in the national 
network, as Duke has done. In order for 
Notre Dame to build such a network, Brey 
feels that getting national exposure is al­
most as important as reaching the tourna­
ment. "I think that this year, if handled the 
right way, could really be a springboard 
because this team has potential, and be­
cause of the exposure that this team will get 
through national television," he says. "Ifwe 
take advantage of that, it could really help us 
in the eyes of the nation and in the eyes of 
prospects around the country. That's why we 
got it going at Duke. We were in everybody's 
Iiving room two or three times a week and that 
was better than any recruiting call or letter that 
myself or any coach could make." 
Many people feel that there is a lot of immediate pressure on Brey to pick up where Doherty left off, especially because ofNotre Dame's high ranking in the preseason polls. "I wouldn't call it pressure," says the new coach. "I think you feel on edge a little bit but I think that's good because it makes you · perform on a daily basis and not get into a comfort zone." This is certainly not the first time that Brey has encountered high expec­tations. "Everywhere I've been there have been expectations," he says. "I coached at 

z 
0 
~ 
::;;
cc. 
~ 
~ 
~ 
cc 
0 
a. 
Cf) 
LL 0 >­
Cf) 
w 
ti: 
::::, 0 
u 



Duke [where] we were supposed to win the ACC and go to the Final Four all the time. The last three years at Delaware we were always [picked to be] No. 1 in the confer­ence. I was at DeMatha High School where we were supposed to win all the time." Brey thinks that such expectations are important because they "keep you honest and make you deliver." 
Irish fans shouldn't be concerned that their new head coach will depart for greener pastures any time soon, even if the head~ 

' 
I --~--' -·--~-·-• ~ 
coaching spot were to open up at Duke. Brey is quick to point out that his situation with the Blue Devils is much different than Doherty' s with the Tarheels ofNorth Caro­lina, because he was never a player at Duke. In addition, Brey has already had success at Duke and wants a new challenge. "I felt like [the Notre Dame head coaching position] was a lifetime job," Brey says. "If you handled it right from my end, you didn't have to make another move. I don't want to make another move with my kids. I'm hop-
BREY SETTLES INTO his new position as head coach of the Fighting Irish men's basketball team for the 2000-2001 season (left). Team standout, junior forward Troy Murphy hangs on the rim after dunking during a game last season 
(far left}. 
ing that this is the last coaching stop. Ifwe handle it the right way, it can be." 
Coach Brey and his family want to get involved in the Notre Dame community_ immediately. One ofthe ways he plans to do this is by bringing the Coaches vs. Cancer program to South Bend. Coaches involved in the program present healthy-lifestyle­education programs during summer basket­ball camps and at elementary schools, serve as advocates for anti-tobacco legislation, arrange visits to cancer patients to offer suppQrt and participate in fund-raising events. In the last two years, Brey and his wife Tish h~ve helped to make Delaware one of the top 10 fundraisers for the pro­gram out of275 Division-I schools. "I think it's a neat thing because it gets your guys involved in some community service and they understand that there is a bigger picture here," Brey says. "I think it's a good thing to keep a common touch with what's going on out there." 
The players have grown attached to Brey in his first few months at Notre Dame. Senior guard Martin Ingels by praises Brey' s ability to relate on a personal level with the members of the team. "Brey is a coach that every player dreams of playing for," he says. "He is a players' coach. He is laid­back off the floor, but demanding and hard­working on the court. Coach Brey has had a great impact on this team not only as our coach, but as a friend." Junior forward Ryan Humphrey agrees, saying "I think he's done a great job relating to each individual player." Now Brey's coaching journey has led him to Notre Dame, where he hopes to dedicate the rest of his career to guiding the Irish to the promised land of college basketball. "I believe this team is ready to climb over the hump and get into the NCAA tournament," Ingelsby says. "We have a very talented team and a lot of experience added with a great coach. Coach Brey has been in the NCAA tourney as a coach before, and I know he is ready to lead this team in the tourn·ament." 0 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 
-

-~ 
.•··• lOUR EVENING AND AFTERNOON HOURS ARE: I,:·:·· .. 
Lea:rriin!f· . Mbnday Thimlc:iay 
Resource > ··•-·. : ~Unday(
Center . -..... cJhterfor .. . si~·n:d~~ ~ Tuesday 
.· .· Socia.IConcerns 
. . 
. . :_ . . .'. ·.. :·. ~:,:-.• .-.. 

.•.·: _.· BQ12 DeBartolo rvfonday ,-,,-Thursd~y 
a•,.-,;,,• • • • .•;-••• •• • •• ,•• ','. •, 
:: IOUR MORNING HOURS ~RE: 
'.]-1Qf 


Give away your coat ... and Share the Warmth! 
Center for Social Concerns* Hammes Bookstore* LaFortune Information Desk* RecSports * Alumni Community Service Office * Campus Ministry/Hesburgh Library * All Residence Halls * College of Business Administration * St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center * Bond Hall * Fitzpatrick Engineering * Flanner Hall * Galvin Life Science Center * Grace Hall * Law School * Main Building * O'Shaughnessy * North/South Dining Hall * ND Federal Credit Union (all branch locations), Student Government Office in LaFortune 
Now through. Noveinber 30, 2000 
The Notre Dam~ Writing Center is dedicated to helping all students improve-their writing. Writing tutors,help students with writing projects at any stage during the writing process. From understanding the assignment, to developing arguments, to organizing materials, to critiquing that final draft,.the Writing Center tutors will work.with you through the writing process. 
St. Michael's  
Laundry  
~, f\Ssoc,IM~,::.< ff g  C 'E N T E R F O R SOCIAL CONCERNS  
Student  Hammes  ·  
Activities  Bookstore  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT 




EYES 

ON RYAN·· 
HUMPHREY 
JuniorforwardRyanHumphreytransferredfrom Oklahoma University to Notre Dame last year. NCAA requirements forced Humphrey to sit out last year's Irish campaign. With one year of eligi­bility remaining after this season, Humphrey joins Troy Murphy to form one of the strongest front lines in the NCAA. As a sophomore at Oklahoma, Humphrey averaged 11.1 points per game and was a third-team All-Big 12 selection, finishing fourth on the Sooners in scoring. 

I chose to come to Notre Dame because: we have a good team and I think I'll do well at Notre Dame. 
The hardest class I'm taking at Notre Dame is: Spanish. It takes a lot of effort. Luckily, my professor has done a terrific job teaching it. 
The players who will be most surprising this year are: the freshmen. In practice, they come out and bring the intensity of upperclassmen. They go against the first team, and they do not back down. 
The dining-hall food is better at: 
Oklahoma. The dining halls here cook for quantity, while those in Oklahoma cook for quality. 
The game I am most looking forward to is: the exhibition against the California All-Stars. 
I believe Notre Dame will advance to: the NCAA Championship and win the title. 
My favorite place to play basketball is: anywhere with a 10-foot goal. 
The things that most stand out about Notre Dame are: the Golden Dome and the cold weather. 
The score of the Notre Dame-Air Force football game will be: 35-0, Notre Dame. 
I started playing basketball when: I 
was in the second grade. 

Ifl could play another sport at Notre Dame, it would be: football, because I was an All-American playing in high school, and I miss it every day. 
The biggest game I've played in during college is: the Sweet Sixteen game against Michigan State two years ago. We lost by four points. A bounce here or there and we're in the hunt for a national championship. 
-Gerard Meskill 
Football (5-2) 
Key Stat: The Irish 
won a football game 
on an opponent's 
home field for the first 
time since 1998. 
Prime-Time 
Performer: Tailback 
Terrance Howard 
rushed for 96 yards 
and a touchdown 
Saturday against West 
Virginia. 
Next Game: No. 19 
Notre Dame hosts Air 
Force Saturday at 
1 :30 p.m. 
Women's Soccer (17-0-1) 
Key Stat: The No. 1 Irish finished the regular season as the only undefeated team in the NCAA. Prime-Time Performer: Goalkeeper Liz Wagner has allowed only one goal in her last four games. Next Game: Notre Dame heads to Miami for the Big East Quarterfinals Sunday. Game time TBA. 
Men's Soccer (6-8-1) 
Key Stat: The Irish are 
a mere 3-7 against Big 
East opponents this 
year. 
Prime-Time Performer: Sophomore 
· Erich Braun has scored 
Notre Dame's last three 
goals, dating back to 
the Irish victory over 
Villanova on Friday. 
Next Game: The Irish 
host West Virginia in 
the season finale on 
Friday at 7:30 p.m. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

by Jessica Daues 
FROZEN MOMENTS 
~ 
I 
a. w 
...J 
u: 

Not even a 50-point second half could save St. Louis University as Moose Krause's Irish team and fans proved they were a force to be reckoned with. 
NOTRE DAME: 77 ST. LOUIS UNIVERSITY: 70 

The 1950-51 basketbal.l season was important -at least to Head Coach Moose Krause. With 
the intention of retiring from his position as Irish head coach at the end of the season to become full-time athletic director, Krause 

i looked to improve upon last year's record of 
i 
15-9 and inconsistent play to make his last campaign one to remember. Notre Dame went undefeated in the first four games of the season and seemed to 

, -' . ·_ 
. [ 
I• .­

be on its way to fulfilling Krause's wish. From there, however, the Irish reverted to the on-again, off-again play of their previous season. By the time Notre Dame met fifth-ranked St. Louis University for the second time that season on February 13, the streaky team had compiled a mediocre record of 10-7 but had not yet lost at home. The meeting between the two perennial rivals -this time on Irish turf -had the potential to be a turning point for the struggling Irish. 
St. Louis, aware of the difficulty Irish opponents had experienced at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, did not expect an easy game. Robert Morrison of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch wrote, ''The game [in South Bend] can be expected to be a tough one at any time. The Irish work up a lot of school spirit in that old gymnasium. St. Louis beat Notre Dame 56-47 in their first meeting. This time the Bills may be happy to settle for any victory margin." 
Like their basketball team, the Notre Dame students had something to prove. In the weeks preceding the game, the South Bend Tribune had charged the student body with being apathetic toward its football and basketball teams. With the upcoming match-up against St. Louis possibly being the most important game of the Irish season, Domers prepared to prove to the columnist-and the rest of the sports world -that the Notre Dame spirit was by no means dead. 
That night, 4,000 Irish fans gathered at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse to show their team and the rest of the world just how enthusiastic they were about Notre Dame basketball. The Irish were quick to please, and as the first half opened they jumped to a quick 7-0 lead. By halftime, the Irish team, led by senior forward Dan Bagley and junior forward "Leaping" Leroy Leslie, had taken an enormous 46-20 lead. 
The crowd was euphoric. "Editorials had lashed the campus citizenry for 


. . . .. ; 
, • • , • 
Against Navy, the Notre Dame offense had a long­awaited breakthrough, notching more than 40 points in a game for the first time this season. The Irish offense operates on all cylinders against Air Force, securing a 38-21 victory. -Gerard Meskill 
Sports Editor 
• ' 

ap_athy towards basketball," Morrison wrote. "This is a most serious charge in this headquarters of the athletic world. The students responded. They yelled, chanted, booed, sang and whooped it up." It appeared an upset was in the making for their Irish team. 
This outlook began to change after halftime. As the second half began, St. Louis looked like a completely different team. St. Louis center Bob Koch hit eight baskets on 10 attempts, leading the Billikens to score 14 points in the first six and a half minutes of the second half. St. Louis continued to dominate throughout the rest of the half, reducing Notre Dame's lead to only 10 points with seven minutes remain­ing. By the time the clock ran out, St. Louis had scored more than 50 points in the second half. But it was not enough to upset Notre Dame's home winning streak, and the Irish defeated St. Louis 77-70. 
The crowd, which had enthusiastically supported the team throughout the game, went home happy. "If we were to give credit to those who made the win over St. Louis possible, we'd have to list about every student in the university," wrote Jack Meaney of The Notre Dame Scholas­tic. "The support given the team was the best all year, and it really showed up in 
. their play. The Billikens weren't on the 
floor two minutes when they suddenly 
wished they were back in St. Louis." 
The Irish continued their dominance at home in their next two games, defeating both DePaul and Michigan State. The road, however, was a different story, and Krause's team lost their last four away games. The Irish finished their season 13­11, not the glamorous record the team had envisioned for Krause's farewell tour. Although the season was not one of Notre Dame's best, the Irish left Moose with at least one fond memory of his final season as head coach -one of the biggest upsets in Irish basketball history. 0 
:  .  .  . .  '  - 
.  .  
- '  I  \•  

Although Notre Dame and Air Force both boast the same record, the Falcons have yet to face a ranked team this year. The No. 19 Irish continue their three­game winning streak, defeating the untested Air Force squad 30-21. 
-Jessica Daues 
Assistant Sports Editor . 
After two consecutive 40­point games, the Irish have finally shown they can win convincingly. Back in front of the home crowd, LoVecchio should continue his outstanding play and lead the Irish to a 38-1 0 win. 
-Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 


TIP THE GIPP. OIPPER.l@ND.EDU 
C'offiPUs ~tle~ 
Wa,c\"' 
The Gipp's back from fall break and ready to go. He wants to take this chance to remind everyone to get out and vote in the upcoming elections. And let's face it, since both Gore and Bush are morons, why not write in the Gipp for presi­dent? He'd probably get more votes than Nader and Buchanan combined. All right, enough of the politics, let's get on to the toilet humor. 
How'd You Oct In Here? 
One Keenan resident slipped the Gipp a couple of copies of Keenan's stall notes. The notes are written by some guy who signs his sh ... tuff "SMIG." It's written in a style not unlike the Gipp's, and, even the Gipp's got to admit, this guy ain't half bad. Another similarity to the Gipp: SMIG's gotten himself into some troubJe. Mocking St. Mary's Pride week, SMIG retold a clas­sic joke about Notre Dame girls, St. Mary's girls, sex, trees and the Dome. He closed his notes with a warning to "look for the cam­pus to get a whole lot greener" during Pride Week. A few days later, SMIG got word that an angry SMC chick sent an e-mail to her friends about the stall notes that went some­thing like this: "I was in the fourth-floor guys bathroom when I saw this ..." Now, it's one thing for a girl to discreetly use the men's room. But to start a protest move­ment based on something you saw in there? What, is this girl stupi ... ah, never mind. 
Batter Up 
The Gipp's not sure what the SMC chick was doing, but he does know what one Lyons resident was doing in Dillon Hall's bathroom. In fact, there's pictures of it. Seems one of our freshman baseball stars made a real heads.:up play in the stall. While the girl was doing her own version of the bob-and-weave, one of the ballplayer's friends (the male ballplayer, not the female one) was standing on the toilet in the next stall to capture the Kodak moment. An AR walked in and happened to notice the guy standing on the bowl. Wanting to know what was up, the AR questioned the man on the throne. Once he figured out what was going down, he could hardly spit out a sentence. He decided to break-up this mo­ment of bathroom bliss and banged on the stall door. It wasn't that easy. Although a crowd was gathering outside the stall, the couple kept going until ... well, the Gipp thinks you know the outcome. The Gipp's got to give a special thanks to the tipster who sent in a blow-by-blow account ofthe events as they unfolded. 

Jail Bait 

What's better than a Lyons girl in the bathroom? How about drunk high-school students in the dorm? No, the Gipp doesn't think so, either-especially when the young 'uns are trying to bum beer from you. That's apparently what happened in Keenan Hall. As the high-schoolers stumbled from room to room, they were greeted 
fused) Uh . . . Got any / 
beer? RA: Hang on. (dialing phone) Hi, is this the police? Yeah, we've got a problem here. 
When NDSP showed up, most of the townies took off. Unfortunately, the sopho­more ND students drinking at the end of the hallway didn't. After issuing a stern warn­ing against serving minors, the officers left -presumably to get back to their usual responsibilities of writing parking tickets and making sure no students who actually go to Notre Dame get their cars on campus. 
Everu Breath You TaRe... 

While the couple who put on the bath­room peep show might not mind being watched, most of you probably assume · you're safe from prying eyes. That's appar­ently not the case in some women's dorms. One rectress left a message warning her residents about a Peeping Tom who's been running around campus. The mystery man apparently targets basement-level dorm rooms for his viewing pleasure ... too bad he didn't just go to Dillon Hall. 
The only thing worse than a Peeping Tom is a peeping rector. Tired offinding vomit in the hallways, one rector has apparently in­stalled hidden cameras to monitor the go­ings-on in the corridors. Here's the catch: the tipster didn't know which dorm's rector thinks he (or she) is Mangum P.I. The Gipp suggests you watch your backs and make sure it isn't your dorm before you engage in any hallway shenanigans. The bathroom is, of course, still a safe haven for satisfying your du Lac-violating urges. 
That's it for this week. Have fun, keep those tips coming, and please, remember to flush. 0 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 25 


A 'Midsummer '1fitJfit's --'Dream Come True 
With a successful debut, Notre Dames Shakespeare Festival is set to become an annual tradition 
_ 
CARRIESWEENEY 
When most people hear the name Notre Dame, they immediately 

j. 
bring up football, course. Next, 

i 
they might think ofCatholicism and rigorous 

! 
academics, but ... Shakespeare? Not really. However, ifEnglish Professor Paul Rathbum and the other organizers of the Summer Shakespeare Festival have their way, people will soon envision images ofthe Bard along with ones of the Dome and autumn-after­noon tailgates when they think of Notre Dame. 
For six weeks during last July and Au­gust, students who had successfully audi­tioned for spots in the six-credit course read Shakespeare before lunch and brought his plays to life on the stage in the afternoon. Nine professional actors selected through 
26 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
auditions in Chicago joined the seven stu­dents halfway through the session and helped them produce The Taming ofthe Shrew. , "For the three weeks before the pros got there, the students worked together full­time, from nine-to-five each day," explains Chris Beeley, a theology graduate student who played Hortensia. "We had two classes each day, one on performance and one on literary takes on Shakespeare, and we were on the stage and in the classroom. We also learned our lines on our own at this time. The next three weeks with the professionals were spent rehearsing six days a week, eight hours a day." 
This rigorous schedule culminated in.five performances from August 3-6 in Washing-• ton Hall. The festival also included ShakeFest, a program for high-school stu­dents. Local directors worked with the 24 students during the three-week camp to pro­duce 30-minute and one-hour shows that were performed around campus. The stu­den~s also added to the carnival ambience by wandering the campus in full costume, welcoming audience members and enter­taining younger fans with opportunities to dress up in Elizabethan outfits, joust with foam lances, paint their faces and have their portraits drawn. 

During the performances, dinner pack­ages were available through the Morris Inn and the Inn at St. Mary's, and tents were set up on campus to house post-performance galas that included dinner· and dancing. Last April, actor.Michael York-respected and famous as much for his Shakespearean work as he is for his roles in Austin Powers and Cabaret-performed a one-man reflection on his Shakespearean experiences, Will and I: A Personal Discovery, to build excite­ment for the summer. 
"It's funny, because we knew we had excellent actors, designers, directors and stage managers, but you can never abso­lutely predict that a performance will turn out well," Rathburn says. "It exceeded everyone's expectations, and it's pretty hard to say thaHt could have gone any better." 
Cast members agreed. "First years are usually tricky; but Shrew broke that stereo­
type," says Hollis McCarthy, a professional actress who played Kate. "The quality of the show, the sense of ensemble amongst the cast, the support and guidance of the staff, and especially the response of the audience compared very favorably to my professional experiences around the coun­try." 
McCarthy found the blend ofamateur and professional actors beneficial for several reasons. "It was fascinating to work with the students, and I found that explaining my process to them often caused me to learn things or ask questions I might have over­looked otherwise," she says." It also caused me to go back to the basics, which is always good as an actor." 
The students were similarly delighted with the outcome of the summer, and found the interaction with professionai actors ex­tremely rewarding. 
"We all hoped it would be great, and it really was a rush when it came off so well," Beeley says. "We had great crowds, sold out virtually every night. When it all came together -the costumes, set, lines, every­thing -I think it was definitely more than most of us had ever done before, because the professionals were there. I think, in fact, bring­ing in professionals really had the effect it was meant to -it brought out the best in students and raised the level of the performance." 
Senior Lisa Fabrega, who played a tailor, waiter and courtesan; echoes Beeley' s en­thusiasm. "Initially, I think a lot of the students were intimidated, thinking 'We're just students, and these people are pros,' " she explains. "But they were so open, warm and giving and were really some ofthe most generous and encouraging actors I've ever met. They were patting us on the backs as we left the stage, and they really exposed us to different acting methods." 

These impressive efforts are driven largely by a desire to involve the community with university events. "The trick is to develop a community audience and learn how to break down walls," Rathburn says. 
The community responded well to the friendly overtures from the university. Lo­cal media raved about the performances. The South Bend Tribune called it "an auspi­cious beginning of an event that holds great future promise, both for Notre Dame and school kids," he adds. 
Further improvements include "more din­ner-theater packages and parties for every show -it will really be party time," Rathburn says. "We'll bring in one or two celebrity speakers, and will wrap up the whole program in July, instead of running into August like this summer. We're going to wait till the third year to include more than one main stage performance, and we'll increase to two and then three one step at a 
TAMED Professional and student actors perform The Taming of the Shrew at the first annual 
Shakespeare Festival. 
this community" and remarked that the founders "deserve praise for the cultural enrichment their efforts have brought to this community." The Elkhart Truth called it "the perfect way to receive an introduction to Shakespeare" and praised Houston direc­tor Kate Pogue's "inventive and fast-paced staging, and the actualization of her direc­tion by an ensemble of extremely talented actors," concluding that the performance was "a thing of beauty." · 
Despite these warm reviews, Rathburn is already brainstorming ways to improve next summer's festival. 
"Next year, we want to give more time and space to ShakeFest," he explains. "It's going to be bigger, and we'll give it more attention. The students will get to perform inside as a preliminary show before the actual main stage presentation." 
He also hopes to introduce Shakespeare to even younger students. "We also want to have a group ofsecond-graders do 10-minute presentations interspersed with the high-time." 
Rathbum is hopeful that the program, which has started with such promise, will continue to expand until it is a defining aspect of the university. "It will be four, five, or six years until the festival is extremely well-known, until the time comes when people think of university Shakespeare, they think of Notre Dame, among others," he says. 
However, more immediate responses are already evident. "Students want to come to Notre Dame for theater now who never did before, and we've already heard from profes­sional actors interested in auditioning for next year," Rathbum explains. 
Rathburn is confident that the summer fes­tival, and the Shakespeare Initiative in general, will flourish in years to come, enriching Notre Dame culturally while building invaluable community bonds. "Working on a national image takes time, and that's just what we have," he says. "We're just going to_ build it and build it, and advertise it more." D · 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 27 
. BEATIFIC 
On The Road 

OOB picks up where Kerouac left off by Kara Zuaro 
The four ofus packed into the minivan straight out of class, our shoulders still stiff from midterms, sleepy-eyed but ready to ride, eager to bite the sky like unlit Roman 
candles on the Fourth of July. Our hearts were as light as our wallets, which held what few bits of cash we were able to scrape up for the trip, a tour of the American South that would make Jack Kerouac proud. We set out in the afternoon to drive through the night and the mountains till we hit Orlando. 
"The road is our oyster," Trey said. And it was. 
In the back seat on the first leg ofthe journey, I drifted through thick clouds of sleep, vaguely hearing A.C.'s itchy trigger­finger working the stereo, skipping through CDs after 40-second song clips. I heard Trey's philosophical interrogations ("Does the past and/or future matter?") and rosy declarations ("I hope we all copulate on this trip.") and laughter; Nice Guy Lenny's always the loudest. I lifted my eyelids to see the bridges of Louisville, lit up indigo, and the soft orange glow of jack-o­lanterns on countryside front porches. 
We stopped for gas around midnight in Tennessee. The toothless guy behind the counter told the fellas aboutthe four days he'd just spent partying in Florida and how he drove back so "toasted" that the nine-hour drive took him 14. He informed the boys about the speed and quality of Floridian women, and, 
when I returned from ladies room, he said, 
"Soiheary'allgot a real party scene up in South Bend," 

and we thought that maybe he was still toasted. 
We were supposed to meet up with some other Notre Dame kids upon our arrival in Orlando, but their flight got delayed, so we had a few hours to kill. We followed our maps to the Citrus Tower, but it cost $3 .50, so we left for the winery down the street that 
offered free tours and tastings. Without . much sleep or food in our systems, . the sips of wine hit us quickly and 
we set out our blankets beside the vineyard. 
"We can't sleep here," Lenny said. 
"Hey, Voice of Reason," Trey grumbled, "quiet down over 
there." 

Lenny was right, though. Tourists were staring. So we drove until 
we saw the University of Central Florida flags, some mirrored 
buildings, a sign that said "The Quadrangle" and one ofthose man­
made ponds that litter the Floridian roadsides. We took our sleeping 
bags to its banks and slept for two savory hours, until some laughing 
office ladies woke us. Turns out we were sleeping in an office park. 
No matter, we picked up and went to the movies and afterwards 
watched a boy-band perform in the movie-theater parking lot. We 
finally met up with the other kids and hit the bars. Trey, Lenny and 
I left after a pint apiece to get some solid shut-eye, but at 4 a.m. 
drunk A.C. was sitting on me, shouting "Impostor!" I had trouble 
getting comfortable after that. _ 
'The next day at the Navy game our seats were spread out all over 
the stadium. Trey and I stretched out on the bleachers and napped. 
When we went back to our tailgate, the rest of our guys were 
celebrating the victory with an eight-man wrestling match. 
"That's some straight-up agape," Trey said, before tapping in 
himself. 

That night all the ND kids who were out for the game met up at 
Pleasure Island, a Disney club land, and congregated under strobe 
lights on a spinning dance floor. It was about this time that things 
started to speed up. 

We were asleep, awake, on the road again, taking two cars with 
walkie-talkies to our friend Bradley's house in New Port Richie. 
Eating home-cooked meals, passing out all over the floor and 
couches, watching TV, hitting the beach, swimming in the warm 
Gulf of Mexico, sipping tropical drinks, waiting for more kids to 
show up at Bradley's and piling 15 in the minivan to abarcalledFat 
Charlie's. The boys decided to form a new chapterofSigma Chi and 
christened each other with the fraternity names, like "Brody." Trey, 
A.C. and I smoked some ofthe unfiltered Lucky Strikes that seemed essential to our beatific tour, but a few drags knocked me down into a chair beside Sigma Chi's Bruce, and we talked about rock climbing. 
Fat Charlie's closed before 2, but a local patron directed us to a 
· bowling-alley bar, Hmricane' s. He dedicated a jukebox tune to the boys on our way out, in hopes that "Poison" would help them all get laid. 



28 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 

We stormed the bowling alley and took up all ofthe bar stools around a saucy barmaid named Debra with big black hair, extreme makeup and a referee-striped shirt that laced up like a pirate's to reveal the powers ofher miracle bra. She said she was from the Bronx, and suddenly everyone in our crew was begging for Long Island iced teas in new-found New York accents. Who can explain why Debra licked the faces ofLenny, Bradley and Carlos from chin to cheek? And what would have happened if the third bar we'd been directed to, Critters, had been open tiff7 a.m. as advertised? 
All'these questions, but our hours in Florida were numbered, and we could only answer the call of the road, which sang to us like a siren, a lorelei. The next time we needed gas, we pulled over at Exit 1 in South Carolina, the last exit on the north side of the state. Two 10-foot pink flamingo statues greeted us. A 100-foot, sombrero-wearing Mexican man straddled the road and carried a sign that said "South of the Border." Everything was oversized, decked out in neon and completely bizarre -a silver high-heeled shoe, big enough to sleep in, a putt-putt course called "GolfofMexico" -and the diners and gift shops all sold fireworks. We hurried back to the safety ofour minivan to escape this faux-Latino pyrotechnic wormhole. 
Lenny's been feeling some kind of spiritual pull to Savannah for years now, but we didn'thave a free place to stay there, so we decided to just stop for a meal on the way to Duke. We walked along the river until we found Fiddler's Crab House, where we could each eat a decent meal for under 10 bucks and sit on a balcony, overlooking the water. The center ofeach table was cut out to allow for the rim of a metal bucket. "It must be Southern etiquette to have a spittoon available at all times," Trey observed, though the bucket was probably meant for crab shells and other seafood debris. Our waitress told us that she's repulsed by seafood, but we ordered crab and shrimp anyway, and it was delicious. 
At Duke, we stayed with a friend of ours who had just started law school. She lives in the tobacco district in a factory-turned­apartment building. It's a real swank pad, and the morning air there smells rich and sweet, like a new pack of Luckies. 
We visited a pub called The James Joyce which reminded the boys ofEurope. Itwas dark, and Irish brogues poked through the smoky air. We took seats outside when a Southerner passed by and told Trey, "You remind me of the fifth Beatie." He was on his way back from a "wan" (read: "wine") expo and gave us a bottle ofMerlot before he said, "I'm outta here like Vladamir." 
We left to meet A.C.'s brother at the Hideway, a Bridget's­like.bar located right on Duke's campus. It was empty, save a couple of pint-size Southern belles who claimed to be 27 and vouched for their IDs with such statements as, "Check out the weight -I'm so that person.'' We hit all the other underage establishments around town and packed our bags for the morning. 
A.C. 
was at the wheel, with me at shotgun. He and I hadn't had much contact through the trip since that "Impostor" incident, and, frankly, I was a little bitafraidofhim. But once I found a bestofTom Jones CD in his catalog, we both started singing at the top of our lungs to "It's Not Unusual," channeling the spirit of Mr. Jones himself. I knew it was the beginning of something beautiful. 

Some sorority girls from Vanderbilt lent us couches and floor space for a night and took us out for a tour ofNash ville' s Irish pubs. Toasts were made, songs sung and Irish Car Bombs chugged before we headed to a dance club that boasted free admission for girls but a $10 cover for the guys. Lenny seemed to be on the high road to come copulation so we pushed him inside. Then Trey, 

A.C. 
andltookacabto Wendy's for snacks. 


While we waited in line, a bunch ofguys at tables started singing a Sigma Chi song. "It's our broth­ers," A.C. said, "and they're a pastiche of themselves." 
We gazed upon their shiny hair and polo shirts with the collars turned up. One stood and asked if anyone needed a ride home. 
"No thanks, Lenny," they said. 
"It's Nice Guy Lenny," Trey said. We had entered a parallel universe, and we were ready to exit. 
Back at the club, Dave Hansel, one of the ND kids we'd met up with, attempted a strip tease but was knocked off his platform by the management. Platforms, appar-,, ently, are only for girls. It's kind of sad -the boys had to pay such a hefty cover, and they still weren't granted plat­form-dancing rights. 
The next morning, we piled our stuff in the car one last time and made fun ofLenny for his fail­ure to hook up. There wasn't any copu­lation on the trip after all. We didn't possess that Kerouac charm, but we had a week of weeks and we had each other, Bob Dylan on the radio, A.C. singing along softly, Trey and Lenny sleeping in the back and the sunset beat us to the horizon ~s we sped past churches and nudie bars and the sky grew dark. D 






_Laundry-Day Reflections 
And other things that would probably fetch 1ne a beating fro1n thefootball team 

JOEMUTO 

As a freshman at this school, I feel the need to distinguish myself from the crowd of slack-jawed peons wan­dering the campus. Arts and Letters stu­dents notwithstanding, after half a semester I seem almost to have the hang of it. I have to admit that I had trouble at first. When I started here, I assumed that with my A.C. Slater good looks and jungle-cat-like sexual prowess, I would easily lord over the women of Notre Dame in a Hefner-esque smorgas­
bord oflust. I had no reason to expect any less. Afterall, senior year, as I prowled the halls ofmy high school, admirers would toss their underwear at me. (This soon became awkward, as I went to an all-boys high school.) 
My secret is that I have always projected a certain raw sexuality that men envy and women ad­mire. Lately, though, despite my . testosterone shooting to near­Tony Danza levels, my mojo has been greatly diminished. In talk­ing to many of my Y-chromosomed brethren, I discovered that they have been having similar problems. I think that the problem is that any woman whom you meet here has easy access to the place where you live. It's hard to exude an aura of sexiness and mystery when she finds out that you have been sleep­ing with your head resting on a rolled-up towel because ,, the guy down the hall puked \;:-;,,,._ in your pillowcase. ¢' 
In the summer, as I shopped , for things to bring with me to !)
\:i

campus, I realized that I some-.~ how needed to give myself an ' '--. edge over the other "players" at college. I estimated that in a worst-case scenario, there could be almost a dozen guys more physically desirable than myself. The edge I needed would have to oome from . an overly extravagant display of personal wealth, something that said, "Have trust fund, will marry." 
Initially, I thought to coat myself in pure gold. This turned out to be impractical ­
30 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION 
I've seen the classic James Bond movie Goldfinger, and the woman covered in gold ended up face-down and naked in a bed while Sean Connery contemplated her with a single lifted eyebrow. And God knows that lying naked on my stomach with an elderly Scottish man hovering over me is a situation that I never want to put myself in -at least not a second time. 
Then it hit me: clothing. What better way would there to be to show that I possess not only acres ofcash to burn, but also the innate 
~ ~ 
.:.-..·.·.n 
~)r~,. -~ 
-""IC 
' ·~ 
't _, .. 
[l
,,;,,,. 
desire to look exactly like everyone else on campus? Never having been a good dresser myself, I enlisted some outside help. I con­suited my younger sister. She agreed to help, despite still being mad at me for point­
ing out that Justin from N'Sync looks like, Screech of Saved by the Bell fame. She suggested that I scout out the local preppy depositories, otherwise known as Banana Republic, American Eagle, Structure and Abercrombie & Fitch. 

I began to frequent the aforementioned stores. I was determined to become one of the best-dressed guys on campus -or, at least, one ofthe most debt-riddled. Banana Republic was especially kind to me. I went in and out of that store so many times that the girls working there made up an affec­tionate nickname for me. They called me "that creepy guy who follows us home after work." 
Whatever that means. 
Finally, my wardrobe was as­
/J sembled. The first two weeks of school I dressed like I was trying out for a role on Dawson's Creek. I em­
bodied classic preppy casual. Khaki shorts and Birkenstocks with a long­
sleeved blue Oxford shirt sleeves ­
rolled up, of course. I would strut into 
class, sunglasses perched on my head and 
pen at the ready for all the phone num­
bers sure to be coming my way. 
·It turns out my plan had one 
slight flaw. Women don't like 
guys who are good dressers. 
They like guys who are good-­
dressers and varsity athletes. 
Who knew? 
Now, don't get me wrong, 
rm a semi-athletic guy. I al­
most got recruited here for ice 
hockey, until the coach real­
ized that I wasn't good, and, in 
fact, that I had never played 
ice hockey before. Desperate 
for any connection to a sport, 
I began to stress that I went to 
the same high school as 
RockyBoiman (which is true) 
and that we hung out all the 
time, which is also entirely 
<, true.I swear. (Rock,ifyou're 
reading this, where were you 
two weeks ago? We were supposed to ­
catch the season premiere of Friends to­
gether.) 
Now that I have set myself up to receive 

a sadistic beating from the entire Irish de­fensive backfield, I still find myself no closer to my ultimate goal. Is popularity . with the girls too much to ask? I don't think 
so -and Rocky agrees. 

--. '•. --.. . -. -. \ . . . . . , . . ... . . ' . ·, 
V 
If' 

~ ~-··reetings Cr~ re are plenty ofeerie e oing , . .:t, on in th; upt&~ . :V. e~~-:~ij~tyou into the Halloween spirit. You 
'could go see The Exorcist. Buri.f you're a horror-movie wuss like me, I would suggest making sure you can handle its official Web site first (www.theexorcist.warnerbros:com). I went there to find some interesting facts about the movie to include here, and the graphics were so frightening that I screamed and fell back in my chair like a ton ofbricks. The things (and the chairs) I go through for you people. Ifyou're searching for a somewhat more benign activity, why not go looook into the eyes of hypnotist Tom DeLuca on Friday, October 27? He controls people's minds and stuff, but I'm pretty sure he doesn't do it by wielding the power of Satan. · · On a decidedly un-scary note, the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra has its fall concert on Thursday, November.2. The performance will mark a departure from the group's traditional repetoire, featuring exclusively pieces from the stage and screen. Selections include Prokoffief s Lieuten­ant Kije suite, from the movie of the same name, a cello concerto featuring soloist Karen Buranskas, and the symphonic dances from West Side Story. -Cristin Penzel 
lectures 

• 
Thu 26 "Llamas, Weavings, and Organic Chocolate: Indigenous Grassroots Development from the Andes and Amazon of Bolivia," 4:00 PM, Hesburgh Center, Room C-103. 

• 
Tue 31 "Dante Across the Curriculum: Dante's Queer Nature," 4:30 PM, Room 102, Hesburgh Library. 


cinema 

• Thu 26 Dr. Strangelove, 7:00 PM, Snite. 
• 
Thu 26, Fri 27, and Sat 28 The Exorcist, l 0:30 PM, 155 DeBartolo. 

• 
Thu 26, Fri 27 and Sat 28 The Patriot, 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo. 

• 
Fri 27 and Sat 28 Princess Mononoke, 9:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Mon 30 Mildred Pierce, 7:00 PM, Snite. 

• 
Tue31 Black Cat, White Cat, 7:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. _ 


• Fri 03 and Sat 04 Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai, 7:30 PM, Snite. 
the arts 

• 
Thu26 and Fri27 Glee Club Fall Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Thu 02 Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Fall Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall. 

• 
Wed 08 Schola Musicorum, 9:30 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 


student life 
• 
Fri 27 Tom Deluca, hypnotist, 8:00 PM, Stepan Center. 

• 
Fri 27 112th Sorin College Talent Show, 8:30 PM, Sorin front porch. · 



• Thu 26 NBA Basketball: Chicago Bulls vs. Indiana Pacers, 
7:30 PM, Arena, Joyce. 

• 
Thu 26 Hockey: ND vs. Michigan State, 7:05 PM, Joyce. 

• 
Fri 27 Hockey: ND vs. Michigan State, 7:05 PM, Joyce; 

• 
Fri 27 Soccer: ND men vs. West Virginia, 7:30 PM, Alumni Field. 

• 
Sat 28 Football: ND vs. Air Force, 1 :30 PM. 

• 
Sun 29 Soccer: ND women vs. Miami, 5:00 PM or 7:00 PM, Alumni Field. 


• 
Fri 03 Volleyball: ND women vs. Boston College, 6:00 PM,Joyce. 

• 
Sat 04 Volleyball: ND women ys.North Carolina, 6:00 PM.Joyce. · 

• 
Sun OS Volleyball: ND women vs.Providence, 1:00 PM, Joyce. 

• 
Sun OS Basketball: ND women vs. Ohio All Stars (exhibition game), 7:00 PM, Joyce. 

• 
Tue 07 Volleyball: ND women vs. St. Louis; 6:00 PM, Joyce. 


by Daniel Lipinski, Ph.D. 

Behind the Campaign 

I encountered vexing questions such as, "If a press conference is held and no reporters show up, did the candidate really make a statement?" 
Daniel Lipinski is a visiting assistant professor in the department ofgovern­ment. He has turned down the glamor and prestige ofpolitics for the more rewarding career ofprofessor. 

At about 10:20 p.m. on November 5, 1996, I was called into a hotel room with about nine others. Everyone was quiet except for the man on the phone. I leaned over to someone and whispered, "Who is he talking to?" His reply shocked me: "It's O'Malley. He's conceding." When he hung up, the room erupted in joy. The long campaign was over, and we had done the impossible. We had come back from a 38-point deficit 15 days before the election. We had defeated the popular incumbent and helped elect Dick Devine to the office of state's attorney in Cook County. Each campaign is differ­ent, but most have their share of intense emotions. This is the story of one such campaign. I was looking for a break while working on my Ph.D. in political science at Duke, and I figured this would be the perfect opportunity to get some political experience. I was no stranger to politics. My father was in the Chicago City Council before being elected to the U.S. Congress in 1982. I had done some work on his campaigns and was always ready to offer my advice, solicited and unsolicited. But this campaign gave me the opportunity to be part of the everyday struggle, responsible for success or failure. I never had an official job title. I was called "issues director/coordinator," "assistant to the press secre­tary" and "director of comm1,1;nication research." Since the staff was so small -especially for a campaign being run in a county with over five mil­lion people -the assort­ment of titles fit my hodgepodge of assign­ments. I wrote a few speeches, appeared on a cable-TV call-in show, wrote most ofthe press releases in the last month of the campaign, was photographer for a campaign bro­chure, supervised the making of an "independent" commercial for my candidate, responded to the news media on occasion, coordinated press coriferences, attended focus groups and completed mariy other tasks, along with general strategic advising. I encoun­tered vexing questions such as, "Ifa press conference is held and no reporters show up, did the candidate really make a statement?" This campaign had more than the usual amount of turmoil and turnover. A month after I started I was the third-longest-serving staffer in the office. The campaign manager quit, the press secretary was "eased out" and a few others left. While we were attacking the incumbent for lack of prosecutions against a notorious Chicago gang, we found outthat two volunteers in our office had connec­
tions to it. Less than eight weeks before the election, we had to hire a mostly new staff. It's no wonder we fell so far behind. 
What made the campaign most enjoyable were the people. Every morning, Gene Sullivan, who had been the candidate's high-school basketball coach (before becoming a fairly successful college coach), was the first to arrive at campaign headquarters. "Coach," as everyone called him, brought a refreshing perspec­tive to the campaign. He helped produce one of the most star-studded campaigns ever run in Cook County. He brought in actors Bill Murray and Chris O'Donnell, former Senator Bill Bradley and former DePaul Uni­versity basketball Coach Ray Meyer. Though he never let me forget how much he hated politics, he still did all this out ofa sincere desire to get his former player elected. 
It is said that victory has a thousand fathers, and failure is an orphan. This surp~ising victory was no different. Although I love to joke about my pivotal role in the shocking upset, since my career never hinged on the outcome, I can be a little more objec­tive. The victory was largely the result of a huge straight-ticket Democratic Party vote. Our campaign's big push in the last month with press conferences, other free media publicity and some paid media legitimized our candidacy to the voters and the news media. An endorsement by The Chicago Tribune confirmed the messages we were trying to send. 
Working on a campaign is a unique experience. I definitely recommend it to anyone interested in poli­tics -albeit with a few caveats. Campaigns can be very intense in regard to time and emotions. It's best to do it when you are young and energetic and you have the chance to work for someone you really believe in. Still, with all its challenges, the experience provides unique insights into how campaigns are run and how politics really operate, from the grass-roots activists to the professional politicians. I turned down the other obvious payoff from working on a success­ful campaign. I was offered whatever job I wanted, but I had determined that nothing was going to steer me from my goal of becoming a professor. Not all campaigns have such a dramatic ending, but for me the day-to-day experiences were even more incred­ible. Political campaigns are unique events because they are relatively short, and their outcomes can sharply alter lives. 
Next month, after the presidential elections are over, a lot of people _will know who won, and some wUl be able to explain the turning points. But only a select few will know the pain,joys, struggles, fun and disappointments of everyday life experienced by those behind the campaigns. . 
32 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 

I_ : ... -_. -: . .. -. , . . -.-. . -. . . , . 






