On the Campus—Notre Dame
FIRST
IMPRESSIONS
Do you make a hit ... or miss ... in your first impressions? How would you be sized up today? Do you look your best? You should. Because the day you figure nobody will notice what you wear could be the very day you meet someone important. When you look your best, you do your best . . . you feel confident, sure of yourself. And that’s the stuff success is made of!
bhb mas aona bss ansHsaHEd esc] ssBEEaasa □□eqs aMnnass SaiUSBEISBS SEE! BHsarsJi sbeb ooL'^bq aaae sansa naa ^MjaeEaa sane eim nsasa nnssasnsB hbh ssasHasns ama sraraa heps she

M3WSWT0DM
f...............................................
I	i *
Contents
| At the Theaters —....—	17 Feature of the Week ....14	j
I	Back Page____________ 26	Odds and Ends________ 22	|	”
I	Campus Scene _________ 9	L. David Otte_________11	j
I	Commentary____________ 7	Our Cover_____________19	f
i	Critical Horizons ___ 13	Repercussions ________ 6	|
j	Escape ______________  5	Sports Picture ______ 21	i	,
KODL KROSSWORD	No. 7
ACROSS
DOWN
L The sack
4. The woman you left behind
8. Part of a lake
12.	Yours and mine
13.	Yours and mine and all the rest
15.	Old college
16.	Winnings at tennis?
17.	Short change
19.	Girl in
“Lilac Time”
20.	Era’s cousin
21.	Soak flax
22.	Kind of active
23.	Give in
24.	Fresco’s first name
25.	Bug-in-a-rug-like
28. Soreness
32.	PoUy’s last name
33.	No cigarette 	like a Kool
37. Ever loving
39.	Valedictorian condition
40.	Changes starting in Nevada
42.	New (prefix)
43.	Arranged an evening’s entertainment (3 words)
44.	Blank space
45.	Hollywood VIP
46.	Sparkle
47.	French conjunctions
1.	Boring part of a brother
2.	London, Paris, Rome, etc.
3.	Tree sickness
4.	The Magic of a Kool
5.	Ex-govemor's nickname
6.	Was introduced to
7.	Air Raid Precautions (abbr.)
8.	Nothing's as 	as Kool
9.	When your heart’s_________
10.	Ready for Salome's dance
11.	It’s good for the heir
14. Short year
18. Neck
23. Earthy cleavage
25.	Hivy leagues
26.	A Friday diet
27.	African country, you goose
29.	When it's time for a________, change to Kools
30.	In this place
31.	Calls a halt legally
33.	Maria’s last name
34.	Dodge
35.	Infant’s first position
36.	German city
38. Man on his mark
41. Seventh
Greek letter
KGDl
OF kodl
•IMO, Brown AWlIllamaaaTabKcoCMV.
When your throat tells you its time for a change^ you need a real change
YOU NEED THE
♦
I
4
The Scholastic

by D. JIM AUSUM
the birth of
an essay


THE time has come, Seniors, to start . „ thinking about a topic for a senior i essay. I have already chosen mine, and •	it will be a critical evaluation of the
j	New York telephone directory, with the
( section on North Manhattan to be writ-i. ten in Spanish; but I realize a good y many of you have done nothing at all, 1 and I would like to offer a few suggestions. My first suggestion is this: get a slip-proof coaster and spill-proof glass to set on your typewriter. After you do :	that, then just look around you, and let
i the ideas come to you. Remember the 1 book you have read, and the things that ’ happened during the week. If, for in-| stance, you were to think about the importance of choosing the right word, and | the professor as a comedian, and the | „ world as a stage, then you might remem-| ber the Marriage Institute. It was there 8 that Dr. Robert Christin brought down I ” the house merely by saying “yes.” Well, J people laugh at all sorts of things, even experimental science. Personally, I A thought it was more fun to watch the j house being brought down. I can’t figure I 4 out how they got it up there in the first |	place, but there certainly was	excellence
I	involved somewhere.
।	THE WORLD WE LIVE IN
■ ■	and the people we live with	are	often
interesting too. Now you all know the ft feeling of fraternal love that spreads sickeningly over the men who live together in the wing of any residence hall.
{These men often become so close that they take turns wearing the T-shii-t that one of them has left from the batch his mother bought him four years before. They double-date together (generally in such cases they cut cards for the T-shirt) and they mix one another Alka-Seltzers in the afternoon, when the noise
doesn’t hurt quite as much. They share the same adjustable razor, and except for the occasional friendly prank when one of them will set it for 9 unbeknownst to the others, they are not cutthroats at all.
But even among these, there sometimes comes trouble, and there is unnecessary ill will cast about the group. Foi-example, an entire floor- of Sorin Hall, where once I dwelt and dwelt and dwelt and never did I overcome that speech impediment, although I made a pretty nenny as a dweller, an entire floor of Sorin Hall I say turned in wrath upon a harmless eccentric who wanted some French fried onions and tried to make them by putting them in deep fat after he had put the fat in the only coffee pot on the floor. Well man, you know about espresso, then why not scaliono? Really, I don’t think what he did was so bad. It wasn’t as if he washed out their beer glasses, or took an oath of allegiance, or anything as disgusting as that. Admittedly, he ain’t gonna be elected coffee commissioner, but I hardly think he should have been subjected to anything more than a sound drubbing administered about the head and shoulders.
AGE IS WISDOM
which should set Hooker up pretty well, but often we find some true comic spectacle in the older folk we encounter. There are times when it is downright hilarious to hear a hearty “Hi ya; fellas.” Especially before noon it’s funny, and if it is accompanied by a simulated butterfly stroke, it is boffo (that’s an old trade term, but I can’t remember what trade, or is it an eastern term for flashing?) and four 0. Then again, it’s always fun to go and visit the real king
pins of oui- animal world, if only to see if this time they’ll get even part of your name right. Oftentimes, I wonder what it was that these people studied while in school. I don’t think it could have anything to do with rote, and it certainly wasn’t psychology, so I just can’t imagine, unless maybe it was dialectics.
BUT I DIGRESS
and to return to the original subject, what about that essay? What sort of thoughts are going to entei- your mind, do you suppose? Unless I miss my mark (likely to be a zero if I don’t start figuring out who the hell Troilus was) but unless I miss that baby, you’ll be trying to figure out how to get Al to come through with seven draughts and a braunschweigei- sandwich for one buck. But remember while you’re there, some of the finest writing in the world can be located on the walls of the W.C. (This ain’t NBC, obviously) and this is writing known the world over. It is, perhaps, the true Vox Populi, and certainly equal in value not only to the sort of literature which is usually considered in senior essays, but to the surroundings from and in which it draws its existence. So consider it, please, and write about it too. For who will ever forget the immortal words, “He who writes on. . . .” and who can find a more suitable level for the sort of papers most of us will produce? But you must hurry, linger not. For when the spring time comes, and all the veins and roots are stoned, you will want to have your essay out of the way, because the Aesculapians have finally outdone themselves. This spring they are through messing around with peanuts. For the entire month of May, they are going to show the movie, “The Birth of a Nation.”
March 11, 1960
On Campus JfcfiWnian
(Author of “I Ikas a Teen-age Divarf”, “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
"AN EMBARRASSMENT OF RICHES”
Twinkly, lovable old Dr. Wagstaff Siga-foos, head of chemistry at the Upper Rhode Island College of Science and Palmistry, cares naught for glory and wealth. All he cares about is to work in his laboratory, to play Mozart quartets with a few cronies, to smoke a good Marlboro, and to throw sticks for his faithful dog Trey to fetch.
So when, after years of patient research, Dr. Sigafoos discovered Reverse, a shaving cream which causes whiskers to grow inward instead of outward, thus enabling a man to bite off his beard instead of shaving it, it never even crossed his mind that he had come upon a key to fame and riches: he simply assigned all his royalties from Reverso to the college and went on with his quiet life of working in the laboratory, playing Mozart quartets, smoking good Marlboros and throwing sticks for his faithful dog Trey. (Trey, incidentally, had died some years earlier but habit is a strong thing and Dr. Sigafoos to this day continues to throw sticks.)
As everyone knows, Reverse turned out to be a madly successful shaving cream. Royalties in the first month amounted to S290,000, which came in mighty handy, believe you me, because the college had long been postponing some urgently needed repairs— a lightning rod for the men’s dormitory, new hoops for the basketball court, leather patches for the chess team’s elbows and a penwiper for the Director of Admissions.
In the second month royalties amounted to an even million dollars and the college bought Marlboro cigarettes for all students and faculty members. It is interesting that the college chose Marlboro cigarettes though they could well have afforded more expensive brands. The reason is simply this: you can pay more for a cigarette but you can’t get a
* * *
The sponsors of this column can’t offer you money but they can offer you fine smokiny flavor—with or without filter. If you favor filters try a Marlboro. If non-filters are your pleasure pick a Philip Morris.
better flavor, a better smoke. If you think flavor went out when filters came in, try a Marlboro. The filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste. You, too, can smoke like a millionaire at a cost which does no violence to the slimmest of budgets. Marlboros come in soft pack or flip-top box and can be found at any tobacco counter. Millionaires can be found on yachts.
But I digress. We were speaking of the royalties from Reverso which continue to accrue at an astonishing rate—now in excess of one million dollars per week. The college is doing all it can to spend the money; the student-faculty ratio which used to be thirty students to one teacher is now thirty teachers to one student; the Gulf Stream has been purchased for the Department of Marine Biology; the Dean of Women has been gold-plated.
But money does not buy happiness, especially in the college world. Poverty
and ivy—that is the academic life—not power and pelf. The Upper Rhode Island College of Science and Palmistry is frankly embarrassed by all this wealth, but I am pleased to report that the trustees are not taking their calamity lying down. Last week they earmarked all royalties for a crash research program headed by Dr. Wagstaff Sigafoos to develop a whisker which is resistant to Reverso. Let us all join in wishing the old gentleman success.
© 1960 Max Shulman
COMPLIMENT
Editor:
It is our opinion that Mr. Lawlor did a splendid job of commenting on the semester ski trip. We found the article to be accurate, well-written, and humorous. Also his kind words about St. Mary’s were appreciated. Thanks for a good account of a great time.
Marilin McPheron Noel Coman Mary Anne Pope St. Mary’s
*
*
OPINION
Editor:
With reference to your commentary in the issue of February 26 concerning senior residence in freshmen halls, we praise this plan, but are surprised and disappointed with your naivete as to the present situation. Is not the role of a floor prefect to befriend, guide and counsel — acting as a personal confidant — each student? From our personal experience the prefects have allowed themselves to become policemen and disciplinarians. To whom can the freshmen turn? Would not the presence of experienced, qualified and truly interested seniors surplant the immature advice of the classmate to whom they now must turn?
The combination of the prefects and the seniors would prevent the repitious and needless mistakes now prevalent among freshmen. The practical experience of the senior would compliment the spiritual guidance and advice which only the prefect can offer. These men must work together to encourage and invite the underclassmen to seek what should be rightfully theirs.
W. R. Plunkett, 121 Walsh Allan Griffin, 328 Walsh
$
<
w 1
*l>
4'
THROWNBACK
Editor:
We formally disavow any connection with the recent issue of the Thursday Throwback. The inferior quality of the criticism and humor contained in the publication is immediate verification of our editorial disconnection. It is an insult to our abilities that our names have appeared in conversations regarding the possible source.
South Wing
Third Floor, Badin (Continued on page 24)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23. 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is _ printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors. Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material become* the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic

u .

14.
$

■y
!

The Notre Dame
OoHUMtda^
Vol. 101 No. 18
MARCH 11, 1960
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors E. (TED) THOMPSON CHARLES TAUSCHE
news editor and staff ROY RUBELI Wade Clarke
_ Arthur Graham "• Thomas Weiss ;
features editor and staff CHARLES RIECK Francis Smith . Thomas Sullivan . William Sweeney William Veeder .
sports editor and staff / THOMAS ROSE
. William Cary J . ■ J. (Jay) Kilroy >
copy editor and staff 1 WALTER RUDGE
< George Casey Peter Geniesse -Thomas Marciniak \
arteditor .	.
JERRY FLORENT
photographer .	. ; : J
WALTER DALY, Jr.
business manager and staff : ROBERT HORN
P:;; Thomas Carey \ •’ p ■ . Joseph Finnigan .
circulation manager
LAWRENCE LEACH
moderator r.-J'- '.'J?
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s
^#.fl»m.,jreportere; .Pipp'-ppp;?}
'• pPhiKp.LarrabieePp^^/.^pp ■ P	John Ohala ; Mppp
. Thomas Schlereth
P-	Sparks
sportsreporters John;Bechtold	s.
Jerry Hewitt -George Varis	”
Thomas Walsh
sp*/	t	’y
i'.C

•J


3 fl
■3!


'i

x RichdrdBallof
»* j.
ON CHEATING: After TV scandals and Payola, the nation has been most recently shocked by institutionalized college cheating. A New York newspaperman broke the story by joining a “research agency” with the intention of exposing the commercial essay and term-paper racket. But upon getting into the agency, he learned that the problem went much deeper than simple paper writing. It went as far as examinations and doctoral theses. He wrote the stoiy and the nation was somewhat stunned. Yet how many college students were surprised? In fact, how many Notre Dame students were surprised? Few, would be our guess for they see.it eveiy day. On quiz after quiz, on paper after paper we have all witnessed gross cheating. Regardless of how many proctors watch over an examination and in spite of the University’s rules on the subject, cheating exists and it will continue.
If there be a solution to the problem, we would suggest that it may be not in making the rules stricter but in abandoning them completely. What is needed is an honor system. Now, of course, there will be a vast and cynical cry all over campus saying, “It will never work.” But how do we know? Cei-tainly, cheating exists on a rather grandiose scale at the present and some of the schools which have such a system find it to be quite successful in eliminating dishonesty. Several years ago, student government had a program undeiway in an attempt to get an “honor system” at Notre Dame. It was even tried out on a small scale in the Commerce school. What happened to it? An honoi- system is certainly idealistic but it could be that it would work out to be practical as well. Surely it is worth a try. Student government: how about it?
TWICE SUCCESSFUL: The second issue of the 1959-1960 Juggler rolled off the press Monday, and it appears that number two has even surpassed the initial triumph of this year’s staff. Shaded by a dark blue lining on the inside cover the contents page shows a listing of some of the best of Notre Dame’s writing talent. The winter copy of the Juggler contains an even better sampling of student writing than did its fall counterpart, not to mention the expanded art section in the center of the magazine. All in all, the issue is an overwhelming success. We are certainly in agreement with the editors of the literary and art journal that the publication of contemporary student writing is of great importance to the life of a university. It was for this reason primarily that the idea of a commemorative issue was abandoned, and the decision appears to have bonie fniit. In the winter issue are found contributions from leading seniors and freshmen, biology majors and histoiy students. This year the number of issues will be limited to three, but each issue contains 72 pages which is almost double that of last year’s efforts. The cost involved in the two issues put to press as of this date has been greater than the entirety of last year’s budget, and by special permission of the administration enough funds have been allotted for the final issue. We are certain that if the new Juggler maintains the high standard it has set in its first two issues, that the future investment will be just as cosly but equally rewarding.
RODENTS AND INTELLECTUAL LIFE: A recent article in Time magazine quotes a leading educator as saying that college-bound high school seniors are nothing but “a bundle of nerves in a rat race.” The article goes on to point out the problem of rapidly increasing college enrollment (9 million by 1970) and the consequent stiffening of competition. What the article does not say, however, is the effect of this growth in collegiate population on the academic life as a whole, particularly in regard to the individual student. The tendency towards the depersonilization and mechanization of higher education has become increasingly more evident in recent yars. Huge state universities shovel out “knowledge” to scores of thousands of students. The whole idea of gaining an education is subverted to one of getting a diploma and getting out of the “rat race.” And who can blame the student? No longer identifiable by name, he now answers to an IBM number. His ability and courses are set for him by a series of electrical calculations. He is a mere cog in the giant intellectual machine.
Certainly we cannot and do not desire to prevent the increasing number of college-bound students from attending universities, but we must not let growth get out of hand. Attempts must be made to develop other centers of education rather than concentrating thousands at one spot, and above all, eveiy method possible must be used to prevent loss of the individuality of the learning process, both on the part of the student and the teacher, which has characterized education since the time of the ancient Greek philosophical academies. Without this, there is no true intellectual discovery.
Here at Notre Dame only a few signs of the industrialization of education have appeared, but unless they are recognized for what they are, they could well become harbingers of things to come. Cei-tainly no one would desire to discourage the already successful efforts of the school to raise its academic standing and to provide a better education for its students. On the other hand, these strides toward progress must not be made at the expense of true process of learning. Technical advances can certainly be a great help in the administration of the school, and even in some phases of education itself, but they must be used sparingly and only when no detriment to the student is involved. Life itself is mechanized enough; let us not let the last vestige of man’s freedom form depersonalized mechanization, his intellectual aggrandizement, pass from his control.	—B. T. & T.
7
RON BLUBAUGH LOOKS AT
LIFE
Do you have TIME for LIFE? It’s a corny pun but if you think about it, you might find something there. And that is going to be the purpose of this new column in the last eight issues of the SCHOLASTIC: to get you to take the time to find LIFE. I am going to try to get you to look at some of the things you might have missed before — after all, graduation isn’t that far away.
Take this week’s issue for example. Princess Margaret has finally done it. Just about the time that we had all given up and had decided that she must be as aloof as a St. Mary’s girl, what happens? She gets engaged to a photographer, a most unusual one at that. An impressionist with “gimmicks” is how LIFE characterizes him through a five-page display of his work.
BACK TO HIS CADILLACS
Then there’s Elvis and his pelvis. Not so regal as the Princess but efficient enough to gain three sergeant’s stripes and the 16-year-old daughter of an Air Force captain. Like other dedicated public servants (e.g. Neil McElroy), Elvis leaves his low paying ($145.24 a month) government job to return to private business. Here, in his absence, the American jukebox set has amassed a $1.3 million coming home gift for the brass-throated soldier. Now to the delight of millions, Elvis will be able to regrow the sidebums which put him at the top.
For the campus politicians, there is an interesting spread on how the senators in Washington get the job done. They have all-night lights and they use them —125/2 hours worth, non-stop. The record was broken at 82 and LIFE gives the inside look at how this endurance contest was carried out. Meanwhile, the Southern Negroes are taking up the vigil. In groups, large and small, the colored students of the South are demanding the overthrow of the last vestige of slavery: that the Negro must stand while the white sits. The battlefield is a lunchroom counter which has chairs designed for whites only.
THE PICTURE OF DESTRUCTION
A city of agony is the story of Agadir, Morocco. Walls overturned, buildings reduced to rubble, and the death of thousands heavy on the
earth. Mass burials became the law as the already accounted for the death of 4,000 and expects 6,000 more. Tragedy is the tale of LIFE. But with the misery of so many, there is always the fortune of the few and the wife of an American Air Force lieutenant was the one with luck.
For the fashion minded there is a sight that Notre Darners too seldom see — smart looking girls in even smarter looking clothes. Don’t you wish your date had a dress like that? Uh . . . well, that’s another subject. Flowers for the nature lover; for the band, “Music to Drop Pins By”; a story on the plight of Amish in school; and even the movie that made Nikita raise his brows — it’s all there in this week’s LIFE. On sale now in the caf, the Huddle, Brother Conan’s Crook .. . er . .. Bookstore, and for the more adventuresome, downtown in South Bend.—Adv.
Moroccan government had
The Ten Best Selling Paperbacks at the Notre Dame Bookstore
1984 Orwell
•
Organization Man Whyte
•
Lonely Crowd Riesman
• Dr. Zhivago Pasternak
On the Beach Shute
•
Animal Farm Orwell
•
Popular History of the Catholic Church
Hughes •
Screwtape Letters Lewis
•
All the Kings Men Warren
•
No Man Is An Island Merton
• Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
The Scholastic

DON RICE, CHUCK SCHULER, GEORGE BOTT Brain trust of Junior Parent-Son week end
ANNUAL PARENT WEEK END TO BEGIN TOMORROW MORNING IN MORRIS INN
. Tomorrow morning the Eighth Annual Junior Parent-Son week end will begin I	for members of the Junior Class and
1	their parents with registration in the
’	lobby of the Morris Inn. Approximately
J	1500 people will attend the two-day af-
&.	fair which will close with Mass and
breakfast on Sunday morning.
j » Registration win take place between J the hours of 8 a.m. and 12 noon, and L both luncheon and dinner tickets will be I available at the registration desk.
; Ziggy’s guests. Under the usual stu-( dent conditions, parents will dine with t their sons in the old Student Dining f A Hall from 11:30 until 1:00 p.m. Off-| campus students and their parents may I exercise this privilege also.
Beginning at 1:30 in the afternoon a / reception will be held for the students f	and their guests in each of the four coll	leges. At this time parents will have the
opportunity to meet with the deans and respective faculty members of the vari' ous schools and their different departments. The Army, Air Force and Navy «* ROTC instructors will also hold similar t receptions and the entire “meet-the-teachers” program will conclude at ,	3:30 p.m.
The LaFortune Student Center will be the scene of activity from 3:15 to : 5:15 p.m. where there will be a continuous showing of the movie, “Campus Life” for the upperclassmen and their
The highlight of the two-day affair will be “Dinner- with the President” from 7:00 to 8:45 p.m. The main speaker for the evening will be the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. Chris Lund, the president of the junior class will serve as toastmaster and the Notre Dame Glee Club will close the dinner with a program of collegiate favorites.
The dinner is being held this year in the old South Dining Hall due to the record number of people wanting to attend. In the past few years there have not been sufficient accommodations for those who attended the dinner in the new North Dining Hall; as a result, many were forced to dine in the Morris Inn, apart from the main banquet.
After the dinner Father Hesburgh and other University officials will hold an open house for the parents and their sons in the LaFortune Student Center until 10 p.m.
On Sunday morning, the final day of the week end, 9 o’clock Mass will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church and a special section will be reserved for the juniors and their parents. Breakfast will be served in the East Wing of the South Dining Hall from 9:45 to 10:30.
System revised. In order to be com-(Continued on page 10)
Mata and Hari to Perform Here in Washington Hall
Ruth Mata and Eugene Hari, better known as Mata and Hari, will appear tonight at 8:15 in Washington Hall. Playing the fourth program in this year’s Artist Series, Mata and Hari will provide their entertainment through a program entitled “The World of Pantomime.” An outstanding novelty in the dance entertainment industry, they will bring to Notre Dame high comedy at its best. As famed dancing satirists, Mata and Hari present a program designed for the eyes, the ears, and the imagination.
Swiss born, Mata and Hari have established themselves in the entertainment world through Carnegie Hall, the sports newsreel, the ballet and the circus. The American debut of this talented pair was several years ago in the Brodway musical Straw Hat Review. In addition to their stage appearances, Mata and Hari have done much work in the television medium. At one time they were featured artists on Sid Caesar and Imogene Coca’s Saturday night “Show of Shows,” and the “Ed Sullivan Show.”
The composer and director of the Washington Hall program is Lothar Perl. Mata and Hari will appear at Notre Dame for the first time through arrangements with Columbia Artists Management, Inc. The closing presentation of the year’s Artist Series will be a concert by Rosalind Elias, young mezzo-soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Co., on March 25.	-
March Gras Profits Expected To Net $30,000 for Charities
Still digging his way out from avalanches of bills and stacks of ledgers, Jim Wysocki, general chairman, estimated last week that total Mardi Gras profits would be about $30,000 out of a gross of $54,000.
The largest profit maker was the raffle, which netted about $25,000 on a $36,000 gross. Carnival operations produced about $5,000 from a $10,000 gross. The Dukes of Dixieland concert realized a $600 profit on $3000 in ticket sales, while the Mardi Gras Ball grossed $3750 and broke even.
Assisting General Chairman Wysocki in preparing the final financial report, which will be ready in two or three weeks, are Tom Lauth, John Dorenbusch and George Milton, respective business managers of the carnival, ball and raffle.
Senate action on division of the profits awaits the final report, but according to preliminary plans as much money as is needed will go to maintain the $10,000 Student Center fund, $10,000 will go to upperclass and freshman scholarships, and the remainder will go to the Campus Charity Chest.
March 11, 1960
9
Debaters Take Third in Invitational Tourney; Kentucky Wins Studebaker-Packard Trophy
DEBATE WINNERS
Deno Curris, Tex Fitzgerald
Notre Dame’s debaters took third place in the eighth annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament. Behind Kentucky and Southern Illinois University, the Irish debaters received the William O’Brandenburg, class ’27, trophy.
Kentucky out-talked the rest of the 32 participating teams to carry home the Richard D. Schiller trophy. To accompany this, the Kentuckians have one year possession of the Studebaker-Packard rotating trophy. This same trophy is presented to the winning team each year.
Eddie’s Award. The Eddie’s Restaurant second place award went to Southern Illinois University. Although they bowed to Kentucky in the finals, their showing in the previous rounds won them the honored runner-up position.
Rounding out the four finalists was Bradley University. The Peorians were awarded the Studebaker-Packard trophy for their efforts.
The quarterfinal round saw Loyola University of Chicago, Miami University, the U. S. Air Force Academy and
FAME OFFERED AUTHORS
The JUGGLER, Notre Dame’s quarterly journal of art and literature, is now accepting manuscripts for the third and final issue of the year. All material should be sent to the editor in room 316 Walsh. Deadline for the submission of manuscripts is March 31. Also, any student desiring to submit art work , to the JUGGLER is urged to see the editor in room 348 O’Shaughnessy or at the above address.
Ohio State University bow to the four eventual winners.
Notre Dame, along with Southern Illinois, was the only team to place two men in the top ten debaters. Jay Whitney of the Irish placed second behind Keith Sanders of Southern Illinois. Fred Walker of the Air Force Academy, Alan Rule of Ohio State and Priscilla Thomas of Butler completed the first division of the top debaters. Deno Curris, Kentucky; John Higley, Norwich; Richard Essen, Miami; Kent Brandon, So. Illinois; and Guy Powers of Notre Dame round out the top ten debaters out of the many participants.
Dinner guests. A banquet was held Saturday afternoon for all participating debaters. The Reverend George Bernard, C.S.C., vice president in charge of student affairs, and Jack Martzell addressed the guests, and it was at this time that the quarterfinal victors, along with the top ten speakers, were an
nounced.
Although ten teams were forced to drop out due to inclement weather, under the leadership of Joel Haggard, general chairman of the affair, the Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament was a huge success.
Knights to Celebrate Golden Anniversary
Older and larger than any campus council in the United States, the Knights of Columbus at Notre Dame will celebrate the golden anniversary of their charter April 8 to 10.
As a tribute to Notre Dame Council 1477 on its 50th anniversary, the Supreme Board of Directors of the Catholic fraternal organization will meet on the campus during the three-day celebration.
Heading the group of 22 directors and officers will be Supreme Knight Luke Hart, of New Haven, Conn. Among the directors are two Notre Dame graduates and former members of the campus council, John Rocap of Indianapolis, Ind. and R. Conroy Scoggins, of Houston, Texas.
Thomas Medland, a Notre Dame senior from Logansport, Ind., has been appointed chairman of the golden anniversary observance. Highlight of the celebration will be a banquet in Notre Dame’s South Dining Hall.
Eminent member. The Notre Dame K. of C. unit was chartered on April 10, 1910. Among its charter members was His Eminence John Cardinal O’Hara, C.S.C., Archbishop of Philadelphia and former Notre Dame president.
Through the years the campus council has grown until today it numbers more than eleven hundred members. During this time it has accumulated a building fund of more than $350,000 with which it hopes to establish new quarters.
Parent Week End
(Continued from page 9) pletely fair about the accomodations problem, the week-end committee abandoned the system used in former years of staggering the mails in such a way that the parents all over the country would receive their invitational letters at approximately the same time. This would supposedly give everyone a chance , to secure rooms in the Morris Inn since reservations were made by the Inn in ( order of postmarks.
In place of the old method, this year’s committee placed the names of all those who wanted rooms in the Morris Inn into a big lottery barrel and then drew names until the hotel was filled. All those not securing accomodations at the Inn were referred to the LaSalle, Hoff- ( man or the Oliver hotels in downtown South Bend.
Those responsible for the planning of the week end include: Chuck Schuler, executive co-ordinator; George Bott, presidential dinner; Stan Meihaus, presi- M dential reception; Pat Hickey, luncheon; John May, accomodations; Dick Dorgan, _ tickets; Don Rice, ROTC; Andy Lawlor, A.B. school; Bernie Craig, commerce; Dave Balane, engineering; and Marty Deere, science.
RECRUITING PHILOSOPHERS
The Wranglers, campus philosophical discussion society, is now accepting applications for new members. Reputedly the oldest and most exclusive organization on campus, the group will bring the application period to a close on March 20. Those who are interested in joining the group are asked to write their application letters to Thomas Banchoff, 141 Fisher Hall, president of the organization. The letters should include a listing of activities, scholastic average and interests in extracurricular activities.
Faculty Member Writes Summary for Magazine
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, professor of political science, has accepted an invitation to do an annual article summarizing the work of the Supreme Court for u the Western Political Quarterly. The Quarterly, which will come out in March, ' is one of the foremost journals in the political science field.
Bartholomew has been doing a similar review of the Supreme Court’s terms for Social Science magazine for a number of years. Among his publications he r lists American Government Under the Constitution and Leading Cases on the Constitution, both of which have gone through three editions. Among the journals to which he has contributed are The American Political Science Review, The Midwest Journal of Political Science, Review of Politics, American Bar Association Journal and Encyclopedia Americana.
10
The Scholastic
Marterie to Provide Music for Junior Prom; “ Dance in 'North Ballroom' to Begin Week End
2. Otte
Ralph Marterie’s orchestra and a Carribbean atmosphere will provide the background for dancing couples at 1 “Cari’be,” the Junior Prom, to be held April 29. Scene of the Prom, which will be initiating a fun-filled week end for the Juniors and their dates, is the “North Ballroom” (New Dining Hall).
Anyone who attended “My Fair Lady” last year will remember the dancable stylings of Marterie, “The Man With the Golden Horn.” “Pretend,” “Tenderly,” and, with a change of pace, “Crazy, Man, Crazy” are some of his more renowned renditions.
* Under the direction of Don Chmiel, decoration chairman, the “North Ballroom” will be transformed into a Carribbean paradise for the dance. Tentative plans call for thatched huts, palm trees, hazy blue pools and the sound of breaking surf.
u For a dollar? Complementing this enchanting setting will be tables for four, graced by the flickering light of hurricane lamps. Champagne, of the nontoxic variety, will flow freely.
Scheduled for Saturday is a trip to * the “dunes” of Lake Michigan and a Dinner Dance at the Erskine Park 4 Country Club Saturday night.
Dinner will be served buffet style amidst the rustic surroundings of the Country Club. Soft lights, a terrace and patio off the dance floor, and the piano styling of Wally Jones will provide the setting for dancing.
The week end will be concluded with " a Communion Breakfast following 8 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday t morning. A speaker of national prominence will address the Juniors at the breakfast which will be held in the Old Dining Hall.
Tickets for “Cari’be,” the Dinner
RALPH MARTERIE
Man with the Golden Horn
Dance and accomodations will go on sale Sunday March 20 from 7 to 9:30 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall. A sufficient supply of tickets will be available for “Cari’be,” but tickets for the Dinner Dance and accomodations in the Morris Inn, LaSalle and Pick Oliver hotels will be sold on a first come, first serve basis.
Cruel calendar. The week end of the 29th is the first week end after Easter vacation, and for this reason it is somewhat unfavorable. This is a necessary evil since Easter comes so late in the year, and conflicts with the Senior Ball and Presidential Military Review rule out any later date.
Assisting General Chairman Armando Loizaga with arrangements for the week end are: John Cooney, executive chairman; Don Chmiel, decorations; Bob Brown, tickets; Jack Whitaker, publicity; Dick Lochner, entertainment; Don Veckerelli, refreshments; Tracy Osborne, dinner dance; John Walsh, communion breakfast; Pat Hickey, accomodations.
Tech Review to Feature M. E. Theme This Month
Tom Shishman, editor of this year’s Technical Review, will see another copy of the magazine come off the presses on the 24th of this month. The Review, which has received numerous rewards for quality in the past years, will follow the general theme of “Mechanical Engineering Fields.”
Shishman is a senior Dean’s List student who is prominent in the engineering society, Nu Delta Epsilon and the Joint Engineering Council. He is assisted by associate editors Jim Hayes, also active in Nu Delta Epsilon and Jim Wulf, who is a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
Features for the coming issue include “Conversion of Salt Water into Fresh Water,” “Plastic Steel,” and a supplement on “Nuclear Radiation Counting Devices.”
A third installment of the series of features on the Engineering Graduate Student will also be found in this edition. The new series, inaugurated by Shishman, attempts to illustrate what the Graduate Engineering School has to offer and what it is doing.
DATE CHANGE
Campus politicos will have to step up their plans a bit since the period of nominations has now been set from March 17 until 6 p.m. on March 24. Nomination forms are to be picked up and filed at the student government office in the La-Fortune Student Center. The spring elections will be held on Thursday, March 31.
representation—
BUT OF WHAT
The Senate is supposed to represent the student body. It does, I guess, and that’s too bad. In the process of reflecting student opinions and attitudes, the
non-conscientious.
Senate comes off looking much like the dull, featureless group to which it is responsible. To my thinking, nothing is good about that.
The student body has become noticeably non-m i 1 i ta nt, non-avant’-garde’-ish, and There seems to be a
blanket refusal to get excited about anything. Everything must be neat and clean and easy; nothing can be onerous or messy.
• How does all this affect the Senate? There is no pressure exerted to have bigger and better projects initiated. Constructive criticism is at a minimum. No ideas oi- alternatives are presented for student life betterment. Nothing.
It’s all one big uphill effort, never freewheeling. The most exciting thing so far this year was the Frankie’s business. Big deal. .
The discouraging and stifling effect the University Council has on things cannot be denied, but that is not total, not on everything. Don’t underestimate the power of circumvention and alternatives.
I write this as one as blameworthy as anyone else. Is it too idealistic, too moot, or not even worth considering? Comments are welcome in 123 Sorin.
Despite all this, the Senate did meet on Monday evening of this week. This is what they did: The Infirmary committee has been reactivated in hopes of improving that situation. Louie Armstrong concert tickets will go on sale after the Jazz Festival. Christen told of the pending Nazareth College trip-mixer and the mixer scheduled for the Sunday of the Jazz Festival week end. Ladner announced the coming of seven prominent Latin-American Pax Romana people. Keegan named Chuck Dunphy as chairman of SDS for next year. The YCS discussed their current activities, especially the Leo XIII Lenten Lecture Series.
Participation was renewed in the NS A Foreign Student Leadership Program, the Senate contributing $900, and specifying that the student selected be a Catholic African. Project Guidance was unanimously approved in essence, and will be “suggested” to the University. Talk was also made about the advisability of partially subsidizing some students who want to go to a colloquium at Yale. A straw vote was in favor of it, but before anything happened, the meeting was adjourned. It was odd. •
March 11, 1960
11
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
1'
WATCH YOUR FAVORITE TV PROGRAMS IN YOUR ROOM • RenhA-Television RATES AS LOW AS 50c A DAY
Bradley's
606 N. Michigan CE 2-7211
DIAMONDS - JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Butova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
’ *
See: JOE, THE JEWELER IM N. Main St.	IMS, Bldg.
ftwv UfOUDrfHHH
Take an Esterbrook on j your next flight of fancy!	j
Sure, skywriting’s fun. But—indoors—it’s hard on	|
the furniture. This is where Esterbrook comes in
big! It’s perfect for indoor flights of fancy.
Esterbrook has 32 custom-fitted pen points. One is sure to suit your personality. If you don’t have any personality, the right Esterbrook point will fake	* <
it for you just fine.
Another thing, Esterbrook Fountain Pens tend	4
to cost a lot less than airplanes. Esterbrook fountain pens start at $2.95.	*
And there is one more thing... Esterbrook uses	«.
that amazing new miracle discovery—ink. Pick up your Esterbrook Fountain Pen today. It might help you get off the ground.

THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN *2.95 Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
Sl/nA
•T. If. The Eeterbrook Pen Co.
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OP 33-ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU)

12
The Scholastic
Critical
Leading off Critical Horizons * this week, lawyer Mike Phenner discusses the work of the recent Notre Dame Civil Rights Confer* ence, a pioneer group which asked for firm presidential protection of the Negro and careful t governmental supervision of public funds.
EQUALITY...
TOLERANCE
* IN EARLY 1958, Notre Dame’s President, Reverend Theo-I- dore M. Hesburgh, and five other men entered the office of ■* the President of the United States to formally begin their work as the Federal Commission on Civil Rights.
y The Commission emerged from the Civil Rights Bill of 1957 and, more than anything else, it represented a deadcenter compromise in the Congress. Little of real value was expected of the Commission, and its membership of three Northerners, three Southerners — two of them Republicans, one Independent, and three southern Democrats — was evi*’ dence of the real compromise designed by the Congress.
In early September, 1959, the Commission submitted a six>- hundred-page report to the President and to Congress. That ;	Report has all the earmarks of being the most significant
I	political fact of the current session of Congress. Ceilainly it
! was a very real surprise to the legislators who designed the Commission for it has created the unique situation of a Congress being forced to take up the question of civil rights in * an election year. More important, the proposed legislation will, of necessity, be extremely significant as neither Party can afford the liability of another compromise measure.
The Report itself represents real progress in the area of civil rights because it is a documented study, by an agency of J the Federal Government, which shows unquestioned discrimination toward the Negro in the areas of voting, education and housing. Few doubted that such discrimination existed, but never before has a documented study been produced by an agency of the Federal Government, a study which included * several legislative proposals which have forced the Congress and the President to take vigorous corrective measures.
On Sunday, February 14, the Notre Dame Law School sponsored a Conference on the pending civil rights legislation •	for legislators and law school professors from the six-state
I	area including Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio
; and Kentucky. Among the more than fifty participants were Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois, Governor Mennen Williams * of Michigan, five Congressmen, several legislative assistants, the general counsel of the House Judiciary Committee, the ► Assistant Deputy Attorney General of the United States, two members of the Civil Rights Commission, and several Professors of Law. The Conference, designed as an exploratory session to brief all participants, particularly the legislators, on all sides of the highly complicated questions involved in the 1 legislation before Congress, was particularly timely in view 4 of the fact that the Senate did take up the voting lights legislation on Monday, February 15.
*	Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Notre Dame Law School, the Chairman of the Conference, set the tone of the one-day
I	meeting with these words: “We have our differences as to
I	method and timing, but the central idea, the affirmation of
equal opportunity for all, is not only part of the American dream but a built-in and essential feature of the fundamental * law of the land. That is a postulate of this Conference. We are met to consider how best to bring the promise of the
*	Constitution to fulfillment.”
The entire morning session of the conference was devoted to the legislative proposals on voting. The commission in its report recommended that the President be given authority to appoint federal registrars in those districts where it is extremely difficult and humiliating, if not impossible, for the Negro to register to vote. Attorney General Rogers has recommended that enforcement of the right to vote be accomplished by a judicial process involving the appointment of court ref
March 11, I960
erees by Federal district courts. The relative merits and disadvantages of both plans were discussed in great detail and with no little degree of fervor by the participants.
Harris Wofford, Jr., Associate Professoi- of Law at the Notre Dame Law School and Director of the Civil Rights Conference, summarized the discussion on right-to-vote legislation by noting the following areas of “general agreement.”
1.	There must be a federal body—either a court, administrative agency, or the President — empowered to make a finding as to the existence of a pattern or practice of voting discrimination in particular districts.
2.	There must be some effective federal machinery for the registration of persons in such districts who are denied their right to vote by reason of their race or color.
3.	This federal process of registering disfranchised persons must be nd more cumbersome or onerous than the state’s existing process of registering other voters.
4.	Such federal legislation must be effective for both federal and state elections.	‘
5.	To assure that those registered will be permitted to vote, enforcement must be available through federal court injunctions.
6.	The time for the state to challenge the qualifications of a person thus federally registered should come when the person appears to vote, so that, pending decision on the challenge by the federal courts, his vote can be cast and his ballot impounded and held for subsequent inclusion in the count.
Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Commissioner on the Civil Rights Commission and President of the University of Notre Dame, addressed the Conference at its luncheon session in the Morris Inn. Commissioner Hesburgh’s thesis was
(Continued on page 16)
Pete Herbert, well-known around and for his WSND jazz show, dis tory of this completely American "an uncouth step-child of the ar After his outline of the rise of jc many groups which will be on he 1
by Pet
WITH a sort of a walk she made her way back to center stage. Maybe 5000 times before this night she had voiced her thanks to audiences all over the world, yet, as each day slid into the next, Billie Holiday had to search for the w words once again. Her lips scarcely parted, she breathed onto the microphone. In the stands echoed: “Southern trees bear a strange fruit. . .” If Billie sang it one way, it cut 10,000 different paths.
With a sort of immediacy it struck these ears as “something else”; a beautiful thing, not without qualifications, but < surely without peers. She had taken some musical things like a melody, its chords, a given rhythm, and, with an expressiveness characteristic of the free use of her voice, she had explored. What she had discovered was for her the artist’s tes- u timonial, for us, a revelation of the richness to be found beyond the routine. This was jazz.
What most music tries to complete, jazz uses as a point of departure. It is a separate and distinct art to be judged by separate and distinct standards. Jazz also has an ancient and honorable history, which has spanned continents while , becoming as American as the Hershey bar (second to jazz in the ranks of good will ambassadors).
There are many popular misconceptions concerning jazz. People say it is too loud a music, while this was merely a gradual evolution which ran parallel to clinking glasses, hand- 4 clapping, laughter and shouts. People say you have to be “in i the mood” for jazz, while good music usually obliges with its ; own mood. People say that it is America’s only true art form, J while they have forgotten burlesque. Digressions aside, jazz has played a part in forming the American character, what- L ever that is; jazz is a fact that should be faced and certainly deserves serious study.
THERE’S a story told of a conference of musicologists after which one of the most prominent divulged, “You know I don’t hate jazz, I think it is probably very important and deserving of our examination. The trouble is that all the jazz people treat it as holy, holy, holy.” There was a quick reply, “Well, now, don’t you consider the area of classical music in which you specialize as holy, too?” “Oh,” blurted the ' musicologist, “but it is!” Here we have a not so popular misconception but still a misconception. Music is not consecrated. As an art form in general it has passed through many periods of development, has never ceased to change. It has progressed ! and retreated and has currently come to a point where only the noblest of critics can cope with its mass. Musical main- J streams no longer seem to exist.	;
The essence of jazz is indefinable. The fusing of the West |
The Scholastic
- h
impus both for his interest in jazz c ses the fundamentals and the his' t form. He describes its rise from ; ^.to its present position of esteem, i:, ^Herbert points out a few of the i for this week end’s Jazz Festival. > ►
• 1960
Herbert
African with the European in this country produced “blue tonality,” which is commonly identified with flatting the third and seventh notes in a scale. This “coming together" is associated with the Negro, in work songs of the 19th century, in spirituals employing that most adaptable of all instruments — the human voice. Technically there is no “jazz” or “blues” scale, however, but because of the simplicity of the early folk music the scale can be vaguely employed by the analysts. Early blues, it can be said were a cry not “for” freedom but rather “of” freedom. This freedom was the music that broke existing traditions and came to be known as “jass” or “jazz” when the delicate nuances of the voice were transferred to the woodwind and bass sections of the early marching, then dixieland bands. Of course to all of this must be added the elusiveness of the term “swing,” (you know, “it don’t mean a thing if it ain’t”. . . etc. . .), and countless other qualifications.
THIS process of assimilation, first in the folk idiom and then in the bands, did not necessarily take place in New f Orleans, (and - then - up- the- river- to -Chicago-from-which-it-spread-across-the-nation). It was happening in many a town v ’ to the north, and othei’ various directions, already.
s	Then came the years of stereotyping, from 1915-1934,
when jazz was regarded as the “uncouth stepchild” of the i	arts, “immoral,” “contemptuous,” “the symbol of all that
|	is irresponsible, illegal and sordid,” that old bit, whose sting
j	is unfortunately still felt today. The groups were small and
।	many though their style was essentially of the two-beat va-
|	riety. But change came quickly in jazz because it is such a
demanding art. Musicians, playing night after night, within what was a rather elemental framework, looked for new ways * of expressing their ideas, many were finding it necessary to j seek new vehicles for theii* improvisations. This ushered in the period of the big bands and a somewhat harsher discipline than had been expected. By 1940 musicians were gathering in smaller groups again whenever they had the chance and the music they were to discover was as wild as could have been found anywhere in the 1920’s. Chords were not as heavily accented as they had been before; drummers, exhausted *	by the pace or tempo of the new music, left beats go untouched
t	or “hinted” at the rhythm instead of knocking it through the
musician’s head. When the excesses had burned themselves out, jazz became much more subtle than it had ever’ been before. Soloists displayed more imagination and instrumental technique in their improvisations. New ideas were abundant once again and the fluency was remarkable. Concert musicians who might understandably have thought a solo was “faked” were then amazed to hear the whole ensemble play the notes
in a dazzling unison. “Modern” jazz had been revealed from within. Jazz now had roots. It was no longer “the step-child of the arts.”
The ascendency of modern jazz lies in its ambition. The oldest of human motives has marked its history: curiosity and wonder. It thrives on the individual’s desire to be himself and speak for himself, communicating an experience that one has directly apprehended in the way he’d like to communicate it. Here we have art, the quality of which escapes analysis.
IF IT ALL seems vague and elusive, I apologize but if one thing can be maintained it is the importance of jazz. Further, jazz may actually have more vitality than any other-kind of music today and may very well turn out to be the major musical expression of the 20th century. That it is a separate and distinct as well as difficult and complex art can be easily illustrated by the fact the “serious” composers (does this mean jazz composers are not “serious” creators?) have often tried to incorporate it in their work and have just as often failed. Jazz is far more significant than the concert world is ready to admit. In the words of a great European composer who is a jazz fan as well: “We gave you our music, how happy I am to hear yours.”
The delight the rest of the world derives from “our” music is unequalled in the histoiy of music and is a most revealing study in itself. Literally, Eurasia has countless millions of avid fans.
In the United States jazz has been slow to attract all that it could have attracted. But it must be heard to be appreciated. This simple statement is meant to infer the obvious: jazz is deeper than most people think; schools are flourishing and many colleges offer courses for credit in jazz. It has its aesthetics and qualitative differences. There is good and bad jazz and all shades between. If I might make a suggestion: why not bend your lobes in the direction of this school’s rare Fieldhouse next Friday and Saturday and find out for yourself.
Since its conception not much more than a year ago the Collegiate Jazz Festival at Notre Dame has helped close the gap between talent and recognition; a gap that has forced many a young musician into early retirement. Last year’s festival was more than anyone could have anticipated, hut by Saturday night it had reached a point where it had most everyone involved — musician, critic and fan alike — dumbfounded. It wasn’t until later that the significance of such an event was fully realized. Reports of subsequent success came back to the school with ever-increasing number and thank you’s were to be found on everyone’s desk. Many were like kids with their first ice cream cone.
WELL C. J. F. ’60 is here with its high points and its not so highs, its extraordinary moments and its inevitable imperfections. Many will be given the same break again; Bob Sardo of Purdue, Bob Pierson of Detroit, Gary Berg from Minnesota ; Ohio State Jazz Forum Big Band and Dave Baker’s Band from Indiana — all winners last year. They will compete for an increasing number of prizes with an increasing number of groups in attendance. New groups are coming from all ovei- the nation with both traditional and modern jazz being represented. Ron Blake a pianist, from Band College in New- York; a group called the Jays from Kansas and a band from North Texas State to name only a few. Notre Dame’s own Lettermen led by Wally Jones will be on hand.
There will be 30 groups in all competing for prizes that include professional bookings, a scholarship to the Berklee School of Music, new instruments for the best soloists on their respective horns and a mammoth trophy that -will remain in residence at the -winning school till next year. But stress should be placed on the fact that this is not essentially a contest but rather a festival: if you’ve something to say come here and be heard — this is the lure of C. J. F. It was George Bizet who wrote “Music! What a splendid art, but what a sad profession!” Notre Dame is annually lessening that burden.
The thing to do and the place to go next Friday and Saturday is the festival, C. J. F. ’60.	,
15
March 11, 1960
PROFILE
IN POLITICS
by Bill Hanley
AMONG the leading contenders for the Democratic nomination crown is Senator John Fitzgerald Kennedy of Massachusetts, a man close to the heart of every Irish Catholic voter (or so many political observers would have us believe). Kennedy comes from a politically primed family. On his family tree we find a grandfather who was mayor of Boston, and another who was a strong Boston ward leader as well as a state legislator. His father, aside from his exceedingly profitable business enterprises, was a former U. S. ambassador to Great Britain (1937-1941). In the present generation brother Robert is a political advisor and served as counsel to the Senate Rackets Committee. Brother Ted was his 1958 campaign manager.
UP UNTIL NOW
Kennedy can claim a fine educational background, having studied at the London School of Economics, and graduated cum laude from Harvard in 1940. He also did graduate work at Stanford. He has been awarded honorary Doctor of Law degrees from eighteen universities including Notre Dame. He is also the author of two successful books, Why England Slejd and the 1956 Pulitzer Prize winning Profiles in Courage.
Many years earlier* his father, Joseph P. Kennedy, bestowed a million dollars on each of his nine children so that they would be financially free for public service. In 1952 he defeated the incumbent Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., in a vigorous Senatorial race. At the Democratic Convention in 1956 he came with
in 20% votes of receiving the vice-presidential nomination. In 1958 he was re-elected to the Senate by a 3-1 margin.
Presently Kennedy is a member of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee, the Foreign Relations Committee, the Joint Economic Committee and is chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor. Of all his Congressional activities he is most clearly identified with the interests of labor. The Senate version of the 1959 labor reform bill bore his name, although he was not satisfied with the compromise legislation that resulted. However, despite his efforts, labor remains divided over his candidacy.
ON THE RECORD
His other voting sympathies have been for strong civil-rights legislation, increased public-welfare programs, public housing, federal aid to education, in
creased defense funds and foreign aid. Kennedy has opposed measures to restrict the Supreme Court and voted against high, rigid, fixed farm-supports (which has cost him support in the farm belt).
His youthful appearance may handicap him as many politicians fear that it might give him an air of immaturity to the “observant” American voter. Also his popularity may suffer from being a Roman Catholic although a recent Gallup Poll indicated that 31% of the electorate are unaware of his religious affiliation.
On April 5 the Notre Dame Mock Convention will have decided whether or not John F. Kennedy will be their “favorite son.” But more important to the Kennedy cause is the Wisconsin primary on the same day. This is a crucial contest as he is opposing the Midwestern favorite, Senator Hubert Humphrey. Should he match or top Humphrey his chances of majority strength at the convention are increased. Should he fail, the convention balloting may not give him the majority, then deadlock, and finally seek a compromise candidate.
LOCAL COURAGE
The Senator’s campus campaign is under the efficient leadership of two experienced politicians, Senior Class President Dick Corbett, member of the Blue Circle, 1960 choice for “Who’s Who,” and a dean’s list history major from Rochester, N. ¥., and also Senator Pat Nee (D. Howard), a junior dean’s list English major from Roslindale, Mass.

Equality . . . Tolerance (Continued from page 13) a plea for a simple and direct approach to the problems of civil rights by a personal commitment on the part of all Americans to end every kind of discrimination. He emphasized that the problem cannot and will not be solved by legislative action alone, no matter how broad and all-inclusive that legislation may be. Father Hesburgh said that the United States really believes in democracy. Above all else, the Notre Dame President declared, a final and total solution can only be achieved by a personal commitment to democracy — in its. full meaning — by every American.
The afternoon sessions of the Conference were devoted to the civil rights’
Contributions both financial and material have been received from Kennedy’s national campaign manager, Stephen Smith, with whom Corbett has maintained a working correspondence.
Nee, who is responsible for the energetic Kennedy for President campus organization, has been in constant direct correspondence with Kennedy. Last week arrangements were made to have either the Senator or his brother Robert here for a preconvention rally later this month.
Nee and Corbett are firmly convinced of Kennedy’s leadership abilities and Nee speaks strongly for this White House hopeful: “If the Democrats want to win, there is only one man who can win for them, that’s Kennedy. Instead of fighting the back-room politicians, Kennedy is going to the people and they love it. The so-called ‘controversies’ have made Kennedy more famous than any other first-run Democratic nominee in history. His views, his history, his stands, his personality all have become part of the people themselves.”
As a reminder, anyone who is interested in the Kennedy cause can contact Nee in 313 Howard.
aspects of housing and education. There was general agreement that the Federal Government must take effective measures to ensure that federal funds are not used in a discriminatory manner. Both the Commission Report and the findings of the conference gave evidence that federal funds are being used today in educational institutions and for housing projects that are clearly discriminating against the Negro.
Congressman John Brademas of Indiana hailed the Conference, which ended with a dinner and reception at the Morris Inn and flights to Washington by most of the legislators, as “a pioneering effort in the development of public law.” He urged that “this cooperative experiment” be extended to other legislative issues.
16
The Scholastic
A Critique:
...OR NOT TO BE BEAT
“Beat Generation,” “Beatnics,” “Beat” writers: each came up for discussion Sunday night at the Student Forum, but t the differentiation was obscure at times.
Mr. Ross Brackney (whose calculated modesty was unnecessary) did an admirable job of introducing the problem of the “Beat” in America, including under his crowded banner such “religious „ beatnics” as the preconversion St. Augustine, the unhygienic St. Anthony, and the wandering “Holy Men” of India. Mr. Brackney’s presentation was brisk, entertaining and accurate, though generally scattered and loosely corol-u lated. Unfortunately, his initial characterization of the movement as essentially « “Romantic” (an interesting and defensible theory, I think) was lost with other pregnant thoughts in the crowded prenatal section of the maternity ward of I his presentation. Accurately noting the influence of existentialism in the ideas J of the “Beat” writers, and commenting on the “Angry Young Men” of England, nonconformist groups in American history, and the current “Beat” literary » devices of spontaneous writing and unique idiomatic invention, Mr. Brack> ney provided an excellent “Reader’s - Digest” introduction of all current observation and criticism of the “Beat Generation” and its writers. His three v logical errors of appearance (reaction to “beat” garb, judgment of literature as private life, and difficulty of detecting a “real” from a “phoney” beatnic) by > which Americans misjudge the “movement,” though noteworthy, seem better adapted for the bourgeoise green-house minds of St. Mary’s girls for whom the ' lecture was originally prepared.
Mr. John Logan has often been cha* racterized by the “great washed” of coffee-sippers in the cafeteria (an in> ferior substitute for a genuine coffee house, I might add), as Notre Dame’s “Beatnic Poet.” His denial of the identification was the nucleus of his reply which he began by agreeing with most of the points raised by Mr. Brackney. > Reading from his review of Lawrence Lipton’s “jumpt-on-the-bandwagon-for-• Philistine-profit” book, The Holy Barbarians, Mr. Logan seemed to fall at first into still-warm category of superficial judgment by middle-class appearance; but soon his vigorous, incisive insight into psychological orientation of “beat” writers cast an original and brilliant light in the recesses of this occasionally unlit pad of discussion. Beatnic writers
March 11, 1960
AT THE TEEATEKT
Here it is, a typical “lively” winter week end in good old S. B. So if you’re tired of standing on the corner watching all the cars go by, and you’re sick of watching “Hoosier Hysteria” on TV, you can relax, enjoy life, and go see a movie. And this week is a highly unusual occasion; there are actually a few movies worth seeing in cur local theaters. But first I’ll talk about the Avon.
I’m very sorry I goofed last week, but I got the wrong information. BB is just so “arty” that the Avon had to hold her over another week to see if she could find her bikini. Needless to say, it was useless. Well, this week they’re finally bringing in a couple of gems that are beyond description: Room 43 and The Beatniks.
The Colfax this week offers a little better fare: Sam Goldwyn’s Porgy and Bess, based on DuBose Heyward’s famous novel and containing what is perhaps the best music ever written by George Gershwin. To Gershwin fans, this will prove a delightful experience — with such songs as “Summertime,” “Bess, You Is My Woman Now,” and “It Ain’t Necessarily So.” It stars Sidney Poitier and Dorothy Dandridge and, though they don’t do their own singing, they turn out very good performances. Also starred are Pearl Bailey, Sammy Davis, Jr., and Diahann Can-oil. In parts the movie gets rather morbid, especially during the wake scene, but in general it will prove satisfying to the majority.
At the Granada, after three months of lobby poster advertising, they’re finally showing The Last Angry Man, an excellent motion picture adapted from Gerald Green’s best-selling novel. Paul Muni has been nominated for an Academy Award, and from the looks of it he might just take it. The part of Doctor Sam Abelman has much to offer to an actor, and the redoubtable Mr. Muni makes the best of it. Also starred are David Wayne and Betsy Palmer. This reviewer honestly believes that it deserves the Movie of the Week title. It is a great movie and one of a rare breed: a movie which has received an A-l classification from the Legion of Decency. In these times, that’s an accomplishment.
The Gazebo is an added inducement to visit the Granada this week. It stars Glenn Ford and Debbie Reynolds, and affords a change of pace to its co-feature, but not much else can be said for it. It is a rather mixed-up comedy about a corpse and the best place to hide it, which happens to be Debbie’s gazebo — which is nothing more than a summer house. Trust some authors to find weird synonyms for everyday words.
On the Beach, held over at the State for an indefinite period, offers much material for heated debate. Parts of the movie favor mass suicide openly, while ridiculing religion in the form of the Salvation Army. This example of religion is a rather unfortunate one, since not all religion is clad in such garments and there seems to be a strong bias against the Salvation Army which many times leans toward ridicule. We must bear in mind, that perhaps the main reason this sequence of events were brought in was to heighten the final message of the movie: “There is still time, brother” (to save yourself from self-extermination). But Nevil Shute seems to have gone to extremes. All in all, it is quite well done technically, but there are a few scenes that overdo things a bit. About the worst of these is the heart-rending final scene that shows Ava Gardner watching Gregory Peck’s sub sailing away. For this, Ava gets our Phillies Award. Have a Phillies Blunt, Ava.
—Tony Wang
(he was not concerned with “phonies” who live the life of rejection without artistic creation) suffer their inability to sustain normal human relationships. Psychologically nihilistic and turned in upon themselves in relentless, essentially self-destructive urges of neurotic introspection, the “beat” writers destroy their hard-won ego strength in their rejection of normal sexual and societal relationships. Narcotics, aggravated narcissism, and desultory perversion are the inevitable result. Mr. Logan proposed that the present “beat” writers may write themselves out of their psychological quandry, but this commentary will only apply to the handful of known “beat” writers. What artistic influence their subject matter, language, and style, will exert on their contemporaries will fill PM LA’s for the rest of the century.
The questions ranged from the con
fused, persistent monopolizations of the first questioner (whose point I never did discover) to quick, incisive, worthless reflections of previously introduced material. But there were exception. Mr. Brackney, when criticized for his purely literary evaluation of a “movement” which had moral and sociological dimensions unfortunately answered with more literary quotations. The problem of art and morality was prudently avoided though its absence left holes in the questions and answers. Mr. Logan became disgusted with the persistent reference to high-flying generalizations about “Generations” and announced that he was only interested in individual people and individual artists at that. The question period ended forty-five minutes before the questioners.
James D. Rose
(a Sweeney’s Nightingale emeritus)
17
CLASS OF '60
“Everything in Social Printing” 3 Line Engraved (ROTC) Calling Cards $5.50/100 WEDDING INVITATIONS
Contact: PAUL RADDE
23 Morrissey HUDSON’S 428% N. MAIN
Glee Club to Hon 52-Day Summer in Europe; Group Prepares for Southern Trip at Easter
Although their plans have not yet been completed, the members of the University Glee Club are hopefully packing their bags for a 52-day musical jaunt through the cities of Europe. The proposed European tour now needs only the final consent of the University administration and it will become a reality for the 36-man singing contingent.
Being the first such overseas venture
Get a BETTER GRASP on your COURSES with... Bames & Noble Educational Paperbacks COLLEGE OUTLINES and
EVERYDAY HANDBOOKS
OVER 140 TITLES IN A WIDE RANGE OF SUBJECTS
ANTHROPOLOGY ART BUSINESS DRAMA ECONOMICS EDUCATION ENGINEERING ENGLISH
including ETIQUETTE GOVERNMENT HANDICRAFTS HISTORY LANGUAGES MATHEMATICS MUSIC PHILOSOPHY
POLITICAL SCIENCE PSYCHOLOGY RECREATIONS SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY SPEECH STUDY AIDS
average price $1.50
Start Early —Buy Your College Outlines Now At: THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
for the singers, the tour will last from their New York City departure on June 6, until they return on July 28. The group will do all its traveling by air.
At the present the itinerary of the organization’s appearances has not been 4 determined but the Club is slated to exhibit its musical ability in the famous * old-world cities of Paris, Rome and Zurich. Also, while in Switzerland, they will perform in the city of Basle. Journeying to the Low Countries, the group will perform in Amsterdam, Holland and in Belgium will appear at Brussels. The Irish singers will, appropriately enough, also stop off at the Emerald Isle for a * concert in Dublin.
Diplomacy by music. The ND musical ambassadors will make the majority of their appearances and spend most of the alloted time of the tour in Germany, r There the group will perform at a number of the musical festivals that are so populai* in that country, and will also give concerts of its own. Prominent cities that the club will visit in Germany include Bonn, Cologne, Frankfurt and West Berlin.
The Glee Club has not been idle since its last campus appearance at its annual Christmas Concert last December. Over I the semester break the group journeyed to the twin cities of Dayton and Columbus, Ohio and on its return sweep performed at Winchester, Ind.
Concerts a-plenty. The Washington’s Birthday week end saw the club giving a concert at LaCrosse, Wisconsin. Mil- «. waukee and Chicago are the sites of proposed week-end concerts on April 12.
Aside from the proposed trip to Europe, the climax of the organization’s year of activity has always been the Easter tour. This year, the Glee Club < will travel south to Granville, Miss., Florence, Ala. and possibly to New Or-leans. Cities in the upper part of the Florida peninsula are also being con- , sidered as possible spots for concerts. The group will continue to make weekend tours after the spring trip.
Officers of this year’s Glee Club are President John Adams; Pat Creadon, vice president; Steve Murray, secretary; Frank Loncar, treasurer; and Phil Romig, business manager.	*.
WIIDERNISS
' r '
CANOE TRIPS
We furnish everything for a thrilling vacation in famed	c
Quetico-Superior wil-
derness! Aluminum canoe, complete camping outfit, fine food—all at low daily rate. Write today for canoe trip planning kit, map, lists, rates.
(P.S. Girls make canoe trips, too!)
Border lakes Outfitting
P.O. BOX 569H ELY, MINN.
The Scholastic
<»
4
•r
r
►
'A
>1
1QDI0S
LIBRARY ui BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
OUR COVER: Celebrating the visit this week end of the parents of many of the juniors, for the annual Junior Parent-Son Week End, junior architecture major John Martine has presented us with the first SCHOLASTIC abstract cover of 1960. Martine, whose second cover this is, has previously done many pieces of artwork for both the SCHOLASTIC and the DOME. Our best wishes to all juniors and their parents for a very enjoyable time while at Notre Dame.
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL BEPAIBS GLASSES FITTED
212 S. Michigan
CE 4-4874
Vaseline
SOCIAL DANCING 123-123
Leading Questions
Professor Dip

J
s.
" . 1'
4
Female reaction to dancing partners using ordinary hair tonics (Text: I’m Dancing With Tears in My Eyes). Female reaction to dancing partners using ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic (Text: Waltz Me Around Again, Willie). Universal use of water on hair with drying effects therefrom. Conversely: with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic you can use all the water you want...with neat results. Status of the Male Wallflower at Contemporary Proms discussed in relation to briarpatch hair caused by alcohol tonics. Use of tacky hair creams explored, outlining sticky situations. Emphasis on the one step (the one step necessary to be on the ball at the ball, namely a simple application of ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic.)


Materials: one 4 ox. bottle ‘Vaseline*Hair Tonic
] TON IC
MlklSu.a<
aseline
TON IC
FQHDS INC.
it’s clear, it’s clean,
Vaseline
HAIR TONIC
'VataKaa' is a HtfsM trataak
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
March 11, 1960
19
Holy Cross Brothers TEACHING, YOUTH WORK, farming, clerical work done by Brothers are in great need today in the U.S. and foreign missions.
For information and literature "write: BROTHER EYMARD, C.S.C.
11 Dujarie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana
Shirts Expertly Laundered
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 39 Years!
PLUS 80 ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES
CONTEST
with PEPSOOENT TOOTHPASTE	TOOTHBRUSHES
31* 53* 69< 83* 98*	39c	49c	69c
COME IN FOR DETAILS AND ENTRY BLANKS
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin_ so good for your ego. Brisk as an ocean breeze, Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you're at your best
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO olua to*
by SHULTON
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
20
The Scholastic
Pictufu
Gregory, Reichert Lead Tracksters To IC4A 5th
CAGERS’ NCAA HOPES SMOTHERED
Paced by two IC4A champions from i last week’s Madison Square Garden competition, the Irish spikemen journey west v today and north tomorrow to compete in the Chicago Daily News and Mil-waukee Journal Relays.
The two firsts helped compensate for an otherwise disappointing team showing in New York City a week ago, as Notre Dame finished in a tie for fifth with Maryland at 12-9/10 points. Villa-" nova took the team championship with 27 markers, followed by Yale at 23-1/5. * Manhattan and Army also finished ahead of the Irish.
Junior Ron Gregory added another blue ribbon to his impressive collection
DICK MONJEAU
Improved Irish high jumper
► as he snapped the tape in the mile with a 4:13.1 clocking. Runner-up in this same event last year, the Irish distance star left no doubt this time as he pulled away to win by a full 25 yards as 11,120 people stood to applaud.
i Gregory, who holds the world indoor dirt track record in the 880 in addition * to the Notre Dame mile and two-mile standards, will compete in the college open mile and run on the Irish two-mile relay team tomorrow afternoon.
Co-captain Tom Reichert was the other top man for Coach Wilson’s team last K Saturday as he soared over 14'4" for a first place tie in the IC4A pole vault » competition. This mark, lifetime best for the Irish senior, also equals Jim Harrington’s Notre Dame record set in 1956.
Another vaulter, Glen Cividin, equaled his previous best height as he took a third place for the Irish at 14: ft. Sophomore Tom Dempsey captured fourth in his specialty, the two-mile, and Dick Monjeau tied for fifth in the high jump.
BY UNEXPECTED 74-66 OHIO U. WIN
The 74-66 loss to Ohio University last Tuesday in the opening round of the NCAA playoffs ended the basketball activity for the Jordanmen this year. Their final record of 17-9 was a great improvement over last year’s disappointing 12-13 slate. Coach Johnny Jordan and his team deserve much credit for a season of unpredicted success.
Six-game string. The Irish opened the 1959-60 season with an easy 77-59 win over Western Illinois. Then came a heartbreaking 61-56 loss to Michigan State in overtime on the Spartan court. The Irish then proceeded to run up six straight wins with victories over Wisconsin, Northwestern in a double overtime at Evanston, Air Force Academy, Nebraska, Loyola and Purdue. The streak ended in the final game of the Hoosier Classic when Big Ten runner-up Indiana beat the Irish 71-60.
Next came a 76-65 setback at the hands of tough North Carolina. The Irish broke this brief two-game losing streak with consecutive wins over Butler, Detroit, DePaul and St. Francis (Pa.) The Detroit win was costly, however, as Bob Bradtke was lost for the year.
The Irish then fell victim to Detroit, Bradley and Illinois in that order. Even in the 71-65 win over Canisius the Irish were far from impressive. Then came the Army skirmish and the Irish, after a dismal first half performance, spurted in the second half for a 87-55 lacing of the Cadets. Next came rugged Kentucky and the Wildcats had a little too much for the Irish as they lost by a 68-65 margin.
The squad rebounded nicely to defeat Butler and DePaul in their next two outings. Then came the 92-87 beating at the hands of small college powerhouse Evansville. Closing wins over Louisville in Chicago Stadium and Creighton in the Fieldhouse filled out the schedule for a 17-8 record which merited the fifth NCAA bid in eight years for the Jordanmen. The disappointing loss to Ohio followed.
Remarkable improvement. The season was marked by the scoring revival of Captain Mike Graney, the great improvement of Emmett McCarthy, Bill Crosby’s emergence as a defensive star, and the fine play of the sophomores, notably John Dearie and Eddie Schnurr.
Graney finished the year with 450 points for an average of about 17 a game. The big senior also was tops in rebounds with 336. Graney shot 38% as compared to 30% last year. He became the seventh man in Notre Dame history to score over 400 points in a single season.
JOHN DEARIE
Soph under-the-basket artist
McCarthy was a very pleasant surprise for Coach Jordan and the In’sh fans. He was not counted oh heavily in preseason planning. But once the campaign got under way, the 6-3 graduate of Chicago Mt. Carmel was a very handy man to have around. He averaged 14 points a game and finished second to Graney with a total of 373 on the year.
The other seniors deserve mention for theii‘ efforts. Bob Bradtke was struck down by the knee injury just when he was beginning to come into his own as a scorer. Don McGann and Mickey (Hawk) Bekelja could always be counted on for a steady performance. Bob Skrzycki broke into the scoring column in the Creighton game.
Crosby came along well as a playmaker this year. He was particularly adept at feeding Graney and Dearie for short shots under the basket. John Tully, weakened by flu early in the year, averaged eight points a game and gave his finest perfoi-mance with 15 points against Kentucky.
Dearie showed himself to be possibly the best sophomore to play for Notre Dame since Tom Hawkins. He finished with 325 points for a 13-point average. He used his 6-6 frame to nab 221 rebounds. Schnurr averaged 11 points a contest after becoming a starter in the Kentucky game. Ai-mand Reo and Karl Roesler were other sophomores who saw game action.
As a team, the Irish averaged 38% from the field. They scored 1873 to 1709 points for their opponents. Their offensive average per game was 72.3 while holding the opposition to a 65.3 average.
March 11, 1960
21
ODDS and ENDS
Three of the San Francisco bay area's top basketball coaches resigned within a period of two hours on Monday, February 29. Pete Newell of the California Bears resigned as coach to become the school’s athletic director. Rene Herrerias will assume Newell's post At San Francisco University, Phil Woolpert, who had taken a year's leave of absence due to a nervous condition, announced his permanent retirement. Ross Giudice, his replacement, guided the Dons this past season and is expected to get another try. The third resignation was that of Walt McPherson of San Jose State. Stu Inman will replace McPherson, who held the mentorship for 17 years. Adding some irony to the above changes is the fact that two of the new coaches, Herrerias and Giudice, both played for the 1949 San Francisco NIT champs. And who was San Francisco’s coach at the time? Why, Pete Newell, of course.
Could it be that the Big Ten is finding better shooters somewhere? This year’s group is more than adequate. Sophomore Jerry Lucas of Ohio State is firing the ball through the nets on 64 per cent of his field goal attempts. Walt Bellamy, 6-11 Indiana center, has no reason to be ashamed either. Bellamy has hit on 54 per cent of his shots while receiving plenty of assistance from forward Frank Radovich, shooting a somewhat “cooler” 49 per cent.
Recently a person asked this question: “How did $2 come to be the standard minimum bet in horse racing and the basis for all pay-offs?"’ The question was answered in the following manner: “One dollar, two or five — what's the difference ? The “per” kills you no matter what the standard minimum. Matt Winn introduced the $2 unit of betting at Churchill Downs in 1911. Other tracks followed suit. Today every pay-off is made on the basis of the $2 wager. The mutual odds, of course, are figured on a ?1 basis.”
The Muncie Central basketball team is really off-and-running. Undefeated in 25 straight ball games, the Bearcats recently set a regional tourney record when they trounced Richmond 112-65 in the Indiana state tournament. “Shoot-an’-run” Ron Bonham led the Bearcats with a sizzling 53 points. The closest game for Muncie this season was against Anderson, whom they “edged out” by 16 points. The Bearcat’s number one rating is certainly un-disputable.
Jack McCartan, goalie of the United States Olympic hockey team, is another outstanding performer who is profiting from his Olympic performance. McCartan, on leave from the Army, has been invited to try out for the New York Rangers hockey team. McCartan is allowed to participate in five league games without losing his amateur status. Last Sunday in his debut with the Rangers McCartan held Gordie Howe and the Detroit Red Wings to one goal as the Rangers won, 3-1.
Hall and Club Winners Battle For Campus Intramural Title
The number of teams in contention for the Interhall basketball league crown dwindled to two as a result of last week’s playoff games. Zahm Red advanced into the top bracket with victories over Breen-Phillips Black, Farley Black and Stanford Blue. Joining the Zahm quintet in the final was the Keenan Green force.
Meanwhile, the Interclub league moved into its playoffs with ties for first in three of its six leagues.
Detroit’s 5-0 record was good enough for the first spot in league one. The Metropolitan, Columbus and Buffalo clubs shared top honors in League 2, each compiling 4-1 slates. League 3 also produced a tie for top honors. The four victories and one defeat of both the Philadelphia and Kentucky clubs produced the deadlock.
The Italian Club had the top spot all to itself in League 4 by virtue of its 5-0 record.
Entangled at the summit of League 5 were the Washington-Virginia-Maryland Club and the Cleveland Club. Each triumphed four times while losing once. The Chicago Club, League 6 winners, came up with a neat 5-0 scorecard.
The playoffs in the Interclub League were scheduled thus:
Monday: 7:30, Italian Club vs. Columbus; 8:30, Philadelphia vs. Chicago; 9:30, Buffalo vs. Washington-Maryland-Virginia.
Tuesday: 7:30, Kentucky vs. Game 1 winner; 8:30, Met Club vs. Game 2 winner; 9:30, Detroit vs. Cleveland.
Thursday: 7:00, Game 3 winner vs. Game 4 winner; 8:00, Game 5 winner vs. Game 6 winner.
The Intramural Championship will be decided this Sunday, when the Interhall champs square off against the Club circuit rulers.
Jack Saladino, well-known gourmet, connoisseur, and raconteur of Walsh Hall says: “There’s nothing bourgeois about a Beetle sandwich! Words positively roll from my lips when it comes to extolling the ample virtues of these culinary delicacies. They are soooo full bodied — one might say VOLUPTUOUS. Indulge in one today!!”
Matmen Complete Season With Marquette Victory
i
Last Wednesday, March 2, Notre ’ Dame finished its regular wrestling season by defeating the Marquette War- , riors, 26-8, in Milwaukee. This victory evened Notre Dame’s season record at । 5-5.
Little Jerry Sachsel concluded his remarkable college wrestling career with the distinction of never having been de- , feated in dual meet competition. Sach-sei’s three-year record stands at 27 victories, two ties, and no defeats.
Dick Sapp won his match in the 147-pound division, and Jim Kane and Jim Brunette registered pins in the 177-pound and heavyweight divisions respec- " tively. Marquette’s forfeits in the 130-and 157-pound classes contributed to the A Irish victory.
Today and tomorrow, five of our wrestlers are competing in the Interstate
JIM BRUNETTE
Well-muscled Irish heavyweight ■r
Intercollegiate Individual Invitational Tournament, held annually at the Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland, ' Ohio. Dick Sapp, whose individual record stands at 7-3, will be competing in the 147-pound division. John Churnetski i and Gene McFadden, both 5-5 for the season, will represent us in the 157- A and 167-pound divisions. Jim Kane will be bringing his fine 5-1 record in the 177-pound class to the tourney. Jim Brunette, carrying a 3-3 record, will represent the Irish in the heavyweight division.	•
Senior star Jerry Sachsel was to be entered in the 123-pound class, but upon 4 physical examination, Jerry was found to be overly fatigued — a tribute to the *. intensity of his great will to win.
This 23rd annual tournament should attract many of the country’s best wrestlers. It usually serves as a warm-up meet for the NCAA Tournament which will be held at the University of Maryland this year. Sachsel might compete in the national meet.
22
The Scholastic
Mermen Lose Finale; * Finish With 7-3 Mark
Notre Dame’s swimming team ended its season last Friday on a losing note, bowing to North Central College, 58-37. Coach Dennis Stark’s Irish ended competition with seven victories out of ten meets.
1 The Irish won three events in the eleven-event meet. Dave Witchger established a new varsity record for Notre Dame in the 200-yard breaststroke, swimming the distance in 2:35.8. Senior Paul Chestnut tallied in the one-meter diving and the 400-yard freestyle relay team was victorious. The relay team J consisted of four seniors: Jim Carroll, Dick Dunn, Gene Jordan and Steve
* Sauer.
Next year’s team promises to be one of the best ever assembled at Notre Dame, with a strong nucleus of letter 1 winners returning plus men from this season’s fine freshmen team.
k In a recent home meet, the freshmen squad, ably coached by graduate student Richard Katis, showed unusually fine conditioning and form, and surprised Coach Stark by beating the varsity swimmers in half the events in which they swam. In the process, they unofficially bettered one pool and three Notre Dame
* records.
1 NCAA Tourney Quintets Begin Quest For Crown
' NCAA tourney play got under way this week. From the 16 conference champions and 10 independents entered in the tournament will come the NCAA
» 1960 college king. The finals will be held at San Francisco in the Cow Palace
* March 18 and 19. Who will this winner be? Our guess is Cincinnati. California is the defending champ.
The fireworks started last Tuesday.
’ Duke met Princeton, West Virginia, last year’s runner-up took on Navy, and NYU battled Connecticut in a triple header in New York’s Madison Square
► Garden. The three winners advance to the Eastern regional at Charlotte, N. C. this week end along with St. Joseph.
At Lexington, Ohio University and Notre Dame met in the opening game of a double header; the other game pit* ted Miami (Fla.) against Western Kentucky. The two victors here advance to A Louisville for week-end play where they will be joined by Georgia Tech and Ohio State. This winner will be the Mideast champ.
' In the Midwest regional DePaul and Air Force met for the privilege of facing Cincinnati at Manhattan, Kan., on Friday. Texas plays most probably
• Kansas State in the other game Friday with the winners tangling Saturday.
All the teams for the Far West play were not selected when the SCHOLASTIC went to press. Utah and California are the two outstanding teams in this area. They will most probably meet for the regional title Saturday night.
We pick West Virginia, Ohio State,
KEGLERS' KORNER
CLASSIC LEAGUE
Pabst Blue Ribbons .....   52-20
Brunswick Shop ........... 48-24
Don Dvorak, 202-237-192—631; J. Brazier, 184-199-212—595; Den Panozzo, 215-200; Earl Mossner, 213; Frank Ara-neta, 211; Stan Pecora, 210; Dan Halloran, 207.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 185; Dan Halloran, 185.
Ted Middendorf, 161-161-161—483, triplicate.
KAMPUS KEGLER—RED Beatniks  ............     44-20
Rochester Club ........... 43-21
Ray Stefani, 186-202-192—580; Don Dvorak, 203-170-171—544; D. Cronin, 218; Barry Merrill, 209; D. Calnon, 201.
Averages: Don Dvorak, 179; Dan Halloran, 177.
KAMPUS KEGLER—WHITE Sixty-Niners .............. 52- 8
Offbeats .................. 36-24
Ted Nekic, 197-140-219—556; T. Marchione, 145-180-223 — 548; Mike Bentley, 211; E. Brucks, 204; T. Lynch, 203.
Averages: Ted Nekic, 184; M. Kubiak, 176.
KAMPUS KEGLER—BLUE Detroit Club “A”......     44-20
A.I.Ch.E................   42-22
Burke Reilly, 185-175-183—543; Terry Keating, 181-167-182—530; T. Adamson, 192; Joe Torter, 191.
Averages: Jon Roark, 170; Earl Mossner, 167.
K. of C. team, 1049-938-1015—3002.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—YELLOW
Lucky Strikes .......... 46 -18
Shady Grove ............ 44%-19%
Ron Zlotnik, 191-184-175—550; Jim Flannery, 162-181-202—545; Frank Ara-neta, 201; Lou Romano, 202.
Averages: Frank Araneta 169; Em Sharkey, 168.
KAMPUS KEGLERS—Green Five Jokers ..........   26%-18%
Met Club ............... 25 -20
Bill Pogue, 202-183-119—504; Tom Schroeder, 157-158-190—505; J. Brazier, 196; N. Chester, 172.
Averages: Jim Lewis, 179; J. Akers, 176.
After last week’s highly unsuccessful attempt at playing Tyler, Jr., your reporter has decided against forecasting future bowling matches. For those who weren’t able to witness the battle last Sunday between the Padres and the Barbers, I must report that, contrary to forecasters, the Barbers managed to shave the Padres in a fairly close match.
—Ed Silliman
Cincinnati and California to make the final round of four. In the semi-finals Friday night it looks like Ohio State over West Virginia and Cincinnati avenging last year’s loss to California. In the finals Oscar Robertson and his playmates should have too much for Jerry Lucas and Co. Our pick for Most Valuable Player? The “Big O” gets the nod. Watch for the Pride of Indianapolis to set a new tourney scoring mark.
Sailing Club Begins Seminar To Stimulate Active Interest
The annual series of Sailing Seminars will be held March 10, 17, 24, 31 in Nieuwland Science Hall from 7:30 to 8:30, the Sailing Club has announced. The Seminars will be divided into three sections for those who have different degrees of sailing knowledge. These sessions will be taught by some of the best skippers on the Midwest sailing circuit.
This Spring, as the team again has a heavy schedule, any new members of the club who show they know something about racing in the Seminars and in the club sailing will probably have an opportunity to sail intercollegiately. Those who show interest always get a chance to compete.
In order to better fulfill the Club’s primary purpose of teaching how to sail and offering pleasurable sailing, the Club is converting from Tech dinghy catboats to Flying Dutchman Jr. sloops of the type in the photograph. The new boats are faster and livelier than the old dinghies and offer a bit more of a challenge to sail. If you can sail a sloop, you can sail anything.
Also on the Club agenda this Spring is the return of sailor John Biddle and his popular film show on April 8. This year his movie, “Storm Trysail,” features the famous Nassau Out-Island Regatta, the 1959 Star Class World’s Championship at Newport Beach, Cal. and, finally, the 1959 Chicago-Mackinac Race. This color show is personally narrated by Mr. Riddle.
The team’s racing schedule starts off on March 9 at Purdue and includes six week ends of regattas this spring. The highlight of the season will be the Notre Dame home regatta April 9-10. Other meets include Boston April 23-24, Detroit May 7-8, the Midwest Championships at Detroit on May 21-22 and the National Intercollegiate Championships the week of June 13-18.
NEW FLYING DUTCHMAN SLOOP
March 11, 1960
23
Classified Advertising
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS________________
AC SPARKPLUG—Thursday. March 17.
SERVICES
FOR SALE—1 complete set of drums. Jerry Siebold. 3 Fisher Hall.
ST. PATRICK’S DAY IRISH IMPORTS—Genuine Irish Shillelaghs (1 lb.) $5.00, (2 lbs.) $10.00. These Tipperary rifles never need reloading. Great Wall Decoration—or to moderate debate! Irish gift catalog—25c. IRISH HOUSE. O’Ban-non’s Gieen. Route I, Cozaddale, Ohio.
DUBLIN TAILORED DONEGAL TWEED—Sports Coat and Cap hand tailored to YOUR EXACT MEASUREMENTS from your choice of handuoven “limited edition’" Irish Tweeds. Special Notre Dame price (with clipping of this ad) $52.50 for Sports Coat and Cap (any style). Send $7.50. to be applied on order, for tweed samples and measurement chart. 6 weeks delivery from Ireland. IRISH HOUSE. O'Bannon’s Green. Route I. Cozaddale. Ohio.
All interviews are held at the Placement Office.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
•
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Repercussions
(Continued from page 6)
“CRASS” ANYONE?
Editor:
Tho I’m sure your letter [signed by Nancy Suthern and Ginny Charles] in “Repercussions” of the Scholastic of Feb. 26, was well intentioned, your intentions will be misconstrued by many. You intended to end all the adverse comments made about the “Belles” in the Scholastic, but the tone of your letter, which was more of a whine than a statement of fact, will only invite repercussions.
The subj’ect of the undesirable St. Mary’s girl, trite as it may be, will always be in vogue at Notre Dame. I dare say, if St. Mary’s had a publication such as the Scholastic we would “get ours.” The St. Mary’s girls that I know and have met are charming and personable. The students here, with the exception of my roommate and me (we specialize in crass remarks), are pretty good guys. So what’s the kick? We like you and “most” of you like us. How about it girls? Didn’t your letter show a slight lack, shall we say of — prudence?
Mike Guarnieri 202 Zahm
(ED: The editor of a publication named the Crux informs us that the authors of this letter, in a very reserved manner, used false names. Since the letter was written on St. Mary’s stationery we mistakenly assumed that the signatures were genuine.)
Editor:
Previous to becoming acquainted with the Scholastic, the only knowledge I had of the great Notre Dame University ! was that it was the school of Knute { Rockne and a great football team which somehow didn’t fare too well during the ’ past season. But I now realize in consequence of reading your- informative . magazine, just what is connoted when ' one speaks of a “Notre Dame man.” As j I read in each issue of the varied and splendid opportunities that your distinguished institution is providing to de- . velop leaders and American Catholic in- * tellectuals, I only envy more and more the St. Mary’s girls who are privileged to be neighbors of yours. We in Cleve- : land would be willing to sacrifice West- l. ern Reserve University, Case Institute of Technology, and John Carroll Uni- a versity, if it were possible, for a sampling of those men who you SMC girls ’ [writers of letters to the Scholastic] accuse of making “crass remarks.” Girls,-you don’t know how lucky you are.
Barbara M. Timm	A
Senior—Ursuline College for Women	Ai
Cleveland, Ohio
(ED: We have no Ursuline student directory but we assume that this letter, postmarked Cleveland, is for real.)	4
Editor:
I am a freshman here at N.D. I don’t *” know what “crass” means, but it seems to me that you’ve been making rather malicious remarks about our nice ( neighbors across the way (I mean St. ' Mary’s).	,
Straight-from-the-Shoulder Facts Can Save You Hundreds of Dollars
32-PAGE ECONOMY CAR
Muiatictaraf'* momM factory dtlhrnd price at Kanotha, Wit State and local tazea, S any, optional aijnipiMnt, extra.
• The big news for 60: America’s new line-up of small economy cars ... and here, for the first time, is the comprehensive, fact-filled, side-by-side comparison you’ve been looking for ... a 32-page . illustrated book that can help you save hundreds of dollars on your 1960 car. Every detail based on manufacturers’ published data.
• Additional X-Ray books compare the 1960 standard-size cars... the 1960 medium-priced cars.
_ No obligation. See your Rambler dealer.
1795
Get Free Automotive X-Ray at Your Rambler Dealer's
24
The Scholastic
I don’t think the bit in the “Escape” column about the 12-year-old girl was y very nice. You see, my girl back home is 12 years old. Her name is Maggie.
k I sincerely think that the girls at S.M.C. are very friendly and down to earth. I wish you would not persecute them so.
George Reamer
202 St. Edwards
\ _________________________
► Open House Features High School Projects
Preparations for this year’s Science j Open House, to be held Saturday and Sunday March 26 and 27, are progressing under the aegis of the newly formed ‘ Student Science Council.
The major purpose of the Science Open House, under the chairmanship of Claude Ceccon, is to encourage greater interest in science among high school students. In addition to the exhibits of the individual science clubs on campus and of various industrial concerns, the Open House will feature exhibits of projects of individual high school students. Prizes will be awarded for the best individual exhibits.
One of the biggest attractions of the # Open House will be the physics department’s Van de Graff generator, which produces extremely high voltages for accelerating charged particles in nuclear bombardment. Also shown will be apparatus for generating 75-100,000 volts of current available for novel, crowdpleasing demonstrations.
The Geology club will have a display and aerial photography methods and * demonstrating map-making techniques equipment.
* Animal dissections will be performed by the members of the Aesculapians, and the Corning Glass Co. will have a glassblowing display.
Committeemen assisting chairman .. Ceccon include Joe Beilina and Jerry ‘ ’ Wolf, physics; Ron Herm, chemistry;
Larry Miller, geology; and Dennis Cant* well, Aesculapians.
The Student Science Council, sponsoring the affair, consists of the heads of the individual science clubs and is directed by Greg Walsh, Science Senator.
Anyone interested in working on preparing exhibits for the Open House may k contact the heads of the science clubs.
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS "JUST BRING IN THE PIECES”
CONTACT LENSES INQUIRIES INVITED
COMMERCIAL DECISION
In order to help sophomore commerce students choose their major, the College is sponsoring a Sophomore Orientation Program. A panel of seniors from each department will then explain the major and their particular reasons for choosing the field. Following these talks, there will be a coffee hour to give the sophomores time to ask questions. The meetings will be Monday and Tuesday night at 8:30 p.m. in the Commerce Building.
Touch system or hunt-and-peck—
Results are perfect with
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
Whatever your typing talents, you can turn out neat, clean-looking work the first time, with Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Paper. Reason why: Corrasable has a special surface—it erases without a trace. Just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser and typographical errors disappear. No smears, no smudges. Saves time, temper and money!
Corrasable is available in several weights—from onion-	'
skin to heavy bond. In handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A fine quality paper for all your typed assignments. Only Eaton makes erasable Corrasable.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
LUGGAGE
Trunks and Bags
T A	luggage
JACK 5
327 S. MICHIGAN
AT 7-3009 Free Delivery
"HLWTURBOW \pFTOAMTWST
207 W. Wash. (Pick-Oliver Hotel) Phone CE 4-5777
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
March 11, 1960
Back Pa^e
south of the border
by TONY DeHARO
Tony DeHaro, author of the “Back Page” for this week is a junior marketing major from San Juan, Puerto Rico. He has made several other contributions to the Scholastic in addition to his writing for the Dome.
This week Mr. DeHaro discusses a topic of current interest — U. S. relations with Latin America as seen in relation to President Eisenhower's recent visit to the Southern hemisphere. Seeing this trip from the viewpoint of a resident of Puerto Rico, he conies to some interesting conclusions on the subject.
ON FEBRUARY 22, President Eisenhower started his tour of South America. His stops included Brazil, Argentina, Chile, and other Spanish-speaking countries. This immediately brought to mind wThat happened when Vice-President Nixon visited South America not so long ago. At that time, stonings seemed to be the stylish custom, and many of the President’s advisors were probably afraid the same thing would happen to Eisenhower. The hazard was lessened by having him visit pro-U. S. and neutral countries and having him avoid sore spots like Cuba and Panama.
But this amounts to a bypassing of the real problem, and hints that hardly anybody in Washington has asked what is really the matter between the United States and its Latin neighbors. Nixon’s trip clearly demonstrated that there is a corroding anti-U. S. feeling throughout parts of Latin America, and this evidence was strengthened by the recent troubles in Panama.
“MEANINGLESS MINORITY”
The President was nearly treated to the sort of “hate rally” Nixon endured, but police intervention in Montevideo, Uruguay, left only a trace of tear-gas smell in the air. The press, and perhaps Washington, has a simple answer for these “hate rallies.” First of all, they say, these demonstrators are a meaningless minority. Besides, everybody knows it’s Communist infiltration of “student groups.” Students have traditionally been mob-prone, but the men whom Nixon confronted in South America were a little too old to be still studying. Also, a meaningless minority made things pretty hard for the Nixons, and can do the same to any other North American. The infiltration charge, followed by the same bumbling tactics that created the animosity, is preposterous. If Communists are working feverishly in South America, why isn’t the United States?
Anastas Mikoyan recently visited Cuba and was honored with a wild pis
5K
tol shot. But Cuba’s situation is a peculiar one which will be described later. The fact is that the U. S. lacks popularity in South America. Why?
It can all be traced to an overly-patronizing attitude on the part of the U. S. government which would have been called for some decades ago, but is no longer practical. The Latin Americans are a very proud people, and they do not wish to be treated as inferiors. Yet, this seems to be the backbone of U. S. foreign aid. For example, Washington felt so sorry for war-ravaged Europe 15 years ago that foreign aid started pouring into that continent almost faster than the Europeans could use it up. Now, the U. S. is starting to deplore the strong competition which Europe is giving it. The ability of Europe to compete with the U. S. in the world market to the point where American businessmen are scared of a direct result of excessive, parental foreign aid.	*
Let’s face it — treaties are business propositions. You protect me and I’ll do you some good when you need it. It's give and take, but you give more than money and expect in turn to receive more than that also. It seems highly improbable that the U. S. has given much friendshin to South America and is being repaid badly. If this were so, the President would not have even bothered to consider traveling 15,000 miles around the hemisphere.
The problem of what the U. S. is actually giving and what it expects in return can be illustrated by what happened when Eisenhower arrived in San Juan, Puerto Rico, for an overnight stay before flying on to Brazil. After declaring openly that he had no intention of stopping at San Juan, the President arrived there at noon on February 22. Some 10,000 persons were at the airport to see him, and they saw little of an unsmiling Eisenhower. He was not pleased to be detoured into the capital city of an island on which he was going to spend the night and which has often been called the showcase of American democracy.
When Nixon returned from South America, he stopped at San Juan and was received quite differently. Even though his arrival time was about eight at night, many more people came to the airport to meet him than came to see Eisenhower. Nixon had been subjected to many insults, but in San Juan he found only friends. He spent the night in the Governor’s house. Plainly, Nixon has shown more sense than Eisenhower in the treatment of the geographically closest allies the U.S. has. What Nixon perhaps realized was the great importance of showing genuine appreciation
for the efforts made by Latin America in behalf of friendship.	; tj
Undoubtedly, there are some very [ touchy relations between the U. S. and ( ’ a couple of Latin-American countries. I The present situation in Cuba is well . “ * known throughout this country, but | Cuba’s past is not so apparent. The 1 7 truth is that this island has been plagued by a seemingly endless proces- 4 a sion of dictatorial leaders for nearly two decades. Every time, the man ’ who overthrows the government is hailed as a savior, only to become de- ’ spised within a short time. Batista was ] a national hero when he overthrew Car- / los Prio Socarras. Fidel Castro was also j a savior when he turned the tables on 1 Batista six years later. Now, many Cu- i bans are harboring reservations about 1 , Castro’s purpose. In Cuba’s case, in- J I ternal unrest makes for muddled inter- > national relations. The present govern- j ment is rightly branded as anti-U. S. *’
OPPORTUNITY MISSED	\ ,
V!
Not so in Venezuela, where Nixon was treated very badly. At the time when he arrived, the country was in turmoil i because of the ousting of Dictator Perez ' Jimenez. The present President of Ven- ’ ezuela, Romulo Betancourt, is a close * ; friend of Puerto Rico’s Governor Munoz Marin, who convinced him of the trust * ' the U. S. deserves in Latin America. Yet . Venezuela was bypassed by Eisenhower. ; ’ Even a few hours at Caracas would	,
have made an excellent impression on	a m
both the people and the government of this country in which U. S. businessmen have so much invested capital. The way it stands now, the Venezuelans < / might think the only thing the U. S. wants from them is oil. And that is all T the U. S. is getting.	I
Is there a problem of friendly rela-	▼
tions between the U. S. and Latin Amer-	|
ica? Definitely yes. What can the U.S. 4 ' do about it? It can do very well by cul- | tivating mutual exchange instead of for- M ) eign aid or merely taking care of excess v. South American production. The U. S. * has much to offer to Latin America, but L Latin America also has much to offer in return. Not perhaps money, but true friendship close to national borders, A which has nevei’ hurt any country. Only 1 when the U. S. realizes the full extent of this, and sheds the outdated supersti- J tion that smooth relations with South । America are to be taken for granted, 1 then will there be real peace in the hemisphere. Our only hope is that for the next President the people elect a man who can get along with friendly nations the world over.	’
The Scholastic
r
New Mooks 3tom Notre 'Dante
WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR, edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. The issues of American identity and the world’s image of the United States are the chief concern of the articles in . this volume. The authors’ evaluation of American institutions, ideas, and purposes should eliminate many of the stereotypes that so often becloud the world’s vision of what America stands for. $4.75
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD, edited by 1 Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons. Diplomacy must play an increasing role in the negotiation of the differences of a changing world. The problems and resources of diplomacy in a world characterized by a radical departure from the past are surveyed in this volume, which holds forth the hope that with sacrifice, perseverance, and imagination diplomacy may be flexible enough to tame the furies of the contemporary world. Dag Hammarskjold, George F. - Kennan, Sir Pierson Dixon, and Hans Morganthau are among the distinguished diplomats and scholars who have contributed to the volume.	$7.50
FREEDOM AND REFORM IN LATIN AMERICA, I edited by Frederick B. Pike. Provides an insight into some of the changes that have shaped Latin America’s , recently commenced struggle to erect a society in which the values of individual freedom are safeguarded at the same time that social and economic reforms are achieved. The essays range from a philosophical consideration of the concepts of freedom and reform to an economic study of urbanizing and industrializing Latin America.	$6.00
k SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940, by Edward N. Tarulis. In 1918 Red troops attacked Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania but were repelled and for more than two decades the Baltic peoples consolidated their statehood. This fascinating book tells how these three nations were finally overpowered and annexed to the Soviet Union; it is a story of broken pledges and broken treaty obligations, diplomatic duplicity, connivance between Communism and Nazism, application of force in international relations, and the most naked and brutal imperialism.	$5.50
ETHICS AND THE SOCIAL SCIENCES, edited by * Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. Positivistic social science, standing by itself and denuded of ethics, can contribute ‘ little to the world’s major problems. Scholars who are authorities in both ethics and various social sciences discuss the inter-relationship of the two in this symposium.	$3.25
THE IMAGE OF MAN, edited by M. A. Fitzsimons, Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., and Frank O’Malley.
A selection of some of the best essays to appear in the Review o/ Politics during its first 20 years which show why the Review has become one of the world’s most influential journals.	$6.00
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925, edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczes-niak. This comprehensive collection of documentary material is intended to give an understanding of the historical change inflicted on organized religion by the Communist revolution from 1917 to 1925. The introduction is a concise historical survey that points out the complexity of the problem.	$6.75
THEORETICAL ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, edited by William T. R. Fox. International relations have to be viewed as a subject which is something more than contemporary history if it is to yield results relevant to the major choices which governments and opinion leaders must make in world politics. This collection of essays grew out of an inter-university seminar at Columbia and is a speculative approach to the study of international relations.	$3.25
INTRODUCTION TO MODERN POLITICS, by Ferdinand A. Hermens. The discussion of various patterns of government, both from the historical and functional viewpoint, is useful and even indispensable. Professor Stephen K. Bailey of Princeton states: “The book brings together in brief compass one of the best statements on the historical and philosophical background of democracy that I have ever seen.”	$3.50
THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-1798, by Marshall Smelser. The author traces the acrimonious debate in Congress and throughout the young nation that preceded the birth of the navy. He shows how the Algerian piracies, French privateering, and the flouting of neutral rights in an Atlantic war aroused the nation and finally forced Congress to “provide and maintain a navy.”	$5.00
THE EARLY LITURGY, by Josef A. Jungmann, S.J. This is a fascinating outline of the history of the Church’s worship to 600 A.D. by the foremost litur-gist of our day. This period surpasses all others in importance because it is concerned with the formation of the ground-plan of the present Roman Rite. Rev. Gerald Ellard, S.J., himself a renowned liturgist, has this to say: “The climactic last chapter, a brilliant sketch of the Latin Mass at Rome from about 400 to 600, will be conned most carefully by readers. There are many other matters treated with distinction by the Innsbruck scholar.”	$5.75
Coming in April, 1960:
ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND THE AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE, edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. April selection of the Thomas More Book Club. Distinguished Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish authors assume that Roman Catholicism is an accepted part of the life of the nation and discuss the social problems, Church and State relations, and the Americanization of Roman Catholicism which have resulted from this acceptance.	$4.50
Order from the Notre Dame Bookstore and all leading booksellers.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
AC SPARK PLUG, THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS, has IMMEDIATE openings for permanent positions in MILWAUKEE and FLINT for engineers and designers on Thor and Mace missiles as well as other advanced projects. If you have a BS, MS or Ph.D. degree in EE, Physics, Math, or ME, you may qualify for one of the positions listed below.
You can exploit your talents to the fullest degree at AC. For every AC engineer has access to the finest equipment ... at all AC facilities.
AC and GM gladly assist your career progress through financial assistance for graduate study at first class engineering schools in nearby locations. In addition, you will have the opportunity to take exclusive on-the-job course work on the advanced state of the art.
DIGITAL COMPUTER ENGINEERS—Logic design of special purpose computers . . . Pulse Circuit Design . . . Airborne Digital Computers . . . Memory Design . . . Analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversion. Milwaukee
TRANSISTOR APPLICATION ENGINEERS—Applied development in the field of transistor circuitry. Flint and Milwaukee
GYRO ENGINEERS—Work on floated, integrating gyroscopes and gyro-accelerometers for inertial guidance systems for missiles. Milwaukee
INFRA-RED DEVELOPMENT—Development of the theoretical concepts that will advance the state of the art of infra-red system applications. Flint
SYSTEMS ENGINEERS—Systems design, analysis and instrumentation of inertial guidance. Milwaukee
OPTICS—The development of optics and optical instrumentation. A general knowledge of military optical systems and commonly used optical and mechanical components is required. Flint
PRODUCT DESIGN ENGINEERS—Design, development and test of electronic components, servos and circuits. Flint and Milwaukee
TEST ENGINEERS—Design and development of production test equipment . . . environmental test instrumentation and data reduction . . . ground support equipment. Flint and Milwaukee
FIELD ENGINEERS FOR FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC ASSIGNMENTS— Electronics technicians or recent technical graduates may qualify for top training on inertial guidance, bombing navigational systems, gyro computers, etc.
TECHNICAL WRITERS—Electro-mechanical or electronic writing experience. Must be able to work with engineers in the writing of service manuals. Flint and Milwaukee
SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER	*
TO SCHEDULE	,
GENERAL MOTORS INTERVIEW MARCH 17
AC
Spark Plug the Electronics Division of General Motors
Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin
Flint 2, Michigan