J
This powerhouse for a nylon, plant at Martinsville, Va., was designed by Du Pont engineers. It houses two 135,000 Ib./hr. boilers and two 7,500 KW extraction turbine generators.
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
Varied needs of 71 Do Pont plants pose a host of original power problems
Heart of Du Pont’s manufacturing program is the power plant. To make some 1200 productsand product lines the Company operates 71 plants.
Most require steam and electric generation, water supply and treatment, heat exchangers, piping systems and related services. The designing of these power plants, their erection and operation are all in the handsof engineers, the great majority being mechanical engineers.
But this is not the most interesting thing about power work here. What challenges the highest skills of the engineer at Du Pont is the wealth of original problems constantly arising. Power requirements vary enormously, not only from plant to plant but from time to time.
Process operating pressures may range from over 15,000 psi. to 2 mm of mercury, electrical requirements
George S. Mahaffey, B.S. in M.E., Penn State ’52 {right), B. S. Norling, B.S. in E.E., Washington State '24, and A. S. Nodi, Jr., B.S. in E.E., Duke ’51, discuss the power requirements of a new processing area.
from as low as 7,000 to higher than 1 million KWH/day, and temperatures from —360° to over 3,500°F.
Here are examples of recent "off-the-beaten-path” power problems.
1.	A plant using natural gas as its basic fuel produces a waste oil of variable hydrocarbon composition and a waste gas with only 110 Btu/cu. ft. DuPont M.E.’s designed burners, fans, boilers and combustion controls to permit use of all three fuels for generating steam.
2.	At another plant 20,000 gpm of cooling water were to be drawn from a nearby river. Since the water level fluctuated 40 feet between normal and flood stages, it wasnecessary to evaluate several plans for pump-house constructions against cooling towers. The engineers installed a unique pump house whose submerged vertical pumps operate even when the structure is entirely under water.
Aside from design and construction, Du Pont mechanical engineers concern themselves with such related subjects as economic evaluations, equipment selection, heat balances, load calculations, waste heat boilers.
For example, where various process temperatures from 300° to 600°F. were required, Dowtherm was selected as the supply medium at the rate of 35 million Btu/hr. The engineers installed a central system for primary supply because it calculated to be more economical than separately located vaporizers.
On the operational side, M.E.’s supervise the supply of power and services. They establish performance standards and analyze equipment for results, cost and maintenance.
Edward W. Garrison {right) M.S. in M.E., California Tech ’47, and Byron R. Brown {center), B.S. in M.E., New Hampshire ’49, supervise adjustment of furnace conditions in a study of power-plant efficiency.
Whether viewed from the design and construction side or the operational side, the diversity of Du Pont’s manufacture offers a wealth of opportunities in power work for the mechanical engineer.
OPPORTUNITIES for men and women with many types of technical training are discussed fully in "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” For a copy, write 2521 Nemours, Wilmington, Del.

BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights on NBC—See It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV

The Scholastic
Taste in Tuxedos
Nite-life begins at Gilbert's where years of know-how will make you look at ease, feel at ease and be at ease.
Tailored to fit in regulars, shorts, longs, extra longs and portlys.
$3950
Tuxedos bought before	We have a complete line
3 ready by 6:30 the same day	of formal accessories ■
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan	Open Every Evening Till 9
Take the Michigan Street Bus
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. JJMJ. Bldg.
SHOES NEED FIXING?
Why Go Downtown?
•	BETTER SERVICE
•	BETTER WORK
•	LOWER COST
PAUL'S SHOE SHOP
Behind Main Bldg.
For Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
TYPEWRITERS FOR RENT
All Makes—Large Selection Students Special Rates
3 Months for $8.75— One Month, $3.50
Rental may be applied on Purchase. Sales Service all Machines Michiana’s Largest Dealer SUPER SALES CO.
Phone: 66328	315 W. Monroe
South Bend, Ind.
Aquinas Library and BookShop
YOUR
Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
■
110 E. LASALLE ST.
Oct. 10, 1952
3
HUH Mike Chatter
And here is yet another new column. This particular one falls into what you might call the “news” classification. It is about radio news, the people who make the programs you listen to, the people who bring them to your radio, and the people who perform all the auxiliary services that are required by any radio station. In particular, this column is about radio at Notre Dame, Le. WNDU, but radio in general is such a fascinating business that you are liable to find almost any interesting little tidbit about radio in here. And so, if you’ll flick that little button on the transmitter, we’ll get going.
Amid a big load of hoopla and with many celebrities on hand, WNDU finally gets off to its belated start tonight at 5. The hoopla you can blame on me, the celebrities are picked at random from the many who show up around here for a football game. We are sorry that all of the halls are not in the system for the big opening affairs, but if you want to hear all the excitement you can go to the hall next door. We pushed the opening a little to catch the excitement of the first football weekend. But all the halls will be wired in within the next couple of weeks.
Another new feature that you will notice on the Student Voice this year is a series of news shows and sports-music shows sponsored every day by Lucky Strike cigarettes. This is the first time that a cigarette company has gone extensively into college radio, and it may mean that a new move by national advertisers to this relatively untried medium is on. The reasons are many and varied. Of course, this type of advertising is much cheaper, but it also has a much more stable and intensive audience. You know whom you are reaching and what their response is. Luckies are sponsoring this series on 50 college stations this year and will probably branch out if this is successful.
Until we return next week at the same time and the same place, this is the printed voice of the “Student Voice of Notre Dame” signing off.
—Bryan Coughlin
4
new as tomorrow's assignment
Van Hensen’s new short collar style
Van Heusen’s brand new Van Britain collar is a smart, short button-down style that will help you collar any gal. Comfortable enough to wear to classes .. . the good-looking Van Britain is perfect for those special dates, too. It’s a must in every complete college wardrobe. A new Van Heusen free if yours ever shrinks out of size. In white, colors and stripes ... fine broadcloth.
$3.95
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1. N. Y.
Make GILBERT’S your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
The Scholastic

By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
The thrill of the world series . . .
It Happens Every Fall
This little tale turns up every year with annoying regularity. A certain Kentucky gentleman whom we engaged in aimless conversation the other day, swears on his confederate flag that it happened again just this fall.
It seems one of our brand-new freshmen found occasion to pay a visit to the hallowed caverns of LeMans hall. After wandering about rather wide-eyed for several long moments, he' was perceived by a group of sage seniors who were waiting the eternal wait for their dates.
Suddenly one of the oldsters growled with all the sincerity he could muster, “Come here, son. Let’s see your I.D. card please.”
hero managed to
Despite violent trepidation, o u r excavate his credentials from the inner sanctum of his wal
let. After weighty scrutinization by the main conspirator and his crew, the card was returned to its chattering owner. Then there' was that comforting grumble just like in all those spy movies when
they hand back your forged passport, “Everything seems to be in order. You may proceed.”
“Oh, thank you sir,” tittered the freshman. “Now what do I do.”
This was followed immediately by thundering guffaws and many giggles until the tears cascaded in great quantities down the convulsing chests of the villains. 'The freshman shook his head slowly as this was obviously very rare behavior for such mighty officials.
A true story, we say.
A Crusade
Whistling is a nice little habit. It makes you seem sort of casual and not too terribly interested in things. It keeps you in trim for making lots of
noise at basketball games. And if you can whistle loud enough and have an especially loquacious lass across the road, you can always drown her out with a forcible chorus of On the Road to Mandalay without hurting her feelings.
But every so often we' have a one song epidemic on this campus. The Week’s crusade this week is to dissuade the whistlers from overdoing this You Belong to Me thing. Since school started this fall this popular ditty has been an easy three to one favorite and even seems to be gaining more prestige. If this keeps up You Belong to Me will replace the Victory March.
And we wouldn’t want that. Now would we?
‘DOME’ PHOTOS
Dome photos for Seniors are now being taken in the basement of Walsh Hall. Seniors who have not as yet made an appointment to have their photos taken are urged to do so immediately. No pictures will be taken after Oct. 15.
Pat O’Malley Business Mgr.
1953 Dome
20^ DISCOUNT For Notre Dome Men SAVE on Cleaning and Pressing
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. Jefferson	1st Corner Across the River
--On the Bus Line-
The Thrill is Gone
A little mystery in everybody’s life is a good thing. Some people, like Earle Stanley Gardner, make a living from it. But to most people it is just one' of the things that make life worth living. We are being particularly sad this week for
the people who live’ in what is picture-esquely. called the freshman quadrangle. (Please excuse' the messy teardrops on copy. EDITOR.)
Formerly, residents of this corner of the campus sauntered over to the chow hall chattering about this and that, whistling You Belong to Me or using other devices to conceal their anxiety.
But it was all a big pose. Really their hearts were pounding quite perceptibly, the vein on their brows stood out in bold relief, their entire anatomies trembled, and one thought clattered noisely through their gray matter like the clickety-clack of the South Shore Line. “What’s for chow. . . what’s for chow . . . WHAT’S FOR CHOW. . .”
But now that precious little element of mystery is gone. Somebody went and put menus on the door of the Dining Hall. The excitement is gone. And those much honored sleuths who could somehow guess what wuz for chow have gone out of vogue.
Look Maw, I’m Flying
The Army Air Corps placed a rather engaging little sign in front of the cafeteria last week. It told modestly and briefly of all the glorious opportunities of life with Uncle Sam’s fly boys.
Being an adventurous soul, the Week’s star reporter took those fateful (Continued on page 6)
Oct. 10, 1952
5
I
OCTOBER 10
FIELDHOUSE—Are the Fighting Irish as “up” for Pitt as they were for Texas? The pep rally is a good, way to make sure. Father Hesburgh, Coach Leahy, and Joe Boland will be among those on hand when the rally gets underway at 8 p.m. How about you?
COLFAX (through Oct. 22)—Just for You is on the first leg of a two-week run, though we’re not sure why. Bing Crosby and Jane Wyman help the pic a lot, but it’s still no Going My Way.
GRANADA (through Oct. 13)—The main feature “stars” Carleton Carpenter, but he’s balanced well by Janet Leigh, Keenan Wynn, and an overgrown puddy cat named, as in the movie, Fearless Fagan (A-l). Lion Fagan, in a take-off from Mary Had a Little Lamb, follows his master to army camp, stirring up, to say the least, a bit of a rumpus, not to mention some pretty good yaks. Fagan doesn’t eat anybody, but he still steals the show. Co-pic is Yukon Gold, about a mountie, a salted mine, a murder, etc.
OCTOBER 11
NOTRE DAME STADIUM—Notre Dame and Pittsburgh raise the curtain on the home season in what may be a close game. The weatherman says the Irish won’t need theii- Frank Buck hats, but to subdue the Panthers they’ll need the whip and the victory formula that proved so successful against the Longhorns. Kickoff time: 1:30 p.m.
WASHINGTON HALL—Score a touchdown for the team of Tracy and Hepburn, who team up to everybody’s pleasure in Pat & Mike. Show time: 6:40 and 8:40.
DRILL HALL—To accommodate the expected mob, the Student Senate is moving its victory hop back to the Navy barn. . Dancing for a dollar from 8:30 to 11:30. Freshmen must scurry home by midnight; the uppercrust can saunter in at 12:30.
OCTOBER 12
WASHINGTON HALL—The FBI vs. a Red spy ring in Walk East on Beacon, based on a Reader's Digest story by J. Edgar Hoover. Three performances, at 2, 6:15, and 8:15.
AVON (through Oct. 14)—This one should bring out all the English majors, at least. It’s Encore (A-2), a British film medley of three Somerset Maugham short stories. Well done. '
STATE (two days)—It’s football time again, and with it the inevitable Saturday’s Hero, Hollywood’s version of What’s Wrong With College Football. With it is Valentino, guaranteed to keep your grandmothers in a dither.
OCTOBER 15
PALACE—The Theater Guild’s ever-popular Oklahoma! hits town for a one-night stand. Tickets can be had at the box office the night of the show and the day before. Price: $1.20 to $4.20. Curtain: 8:30.
AVON (through Oct. 24)—What Price Glory? (A-2) falls far short of matching the quality of the stage play or of the original film version, but it’s still fair entertainment. James Cagney is an over-boisterous Captain Flagg, with Dan Dailey as Sergeant Quirt, in this World War I tale of U. S. Marines in France.
The Week
(Continued from page 5) steps down to Ziggy’s cellar for some air-minded investigation.
We got a letter from him this morning. Although we were aghast at the post-mark we managed to wade patiently through the usual journalist-to-journalist chit-chat. Then came his story; a sad story, beginning from his first view of the enlistment officer.
“I went downstairs and there was a kindly little man sitting behind the table. A pair of dimples played gleefully up on his cherubic face and there was a kindly little sparkle in his eyes. He smiled pleasantly and offered me his kindly little hand.
Suddenly I was surrounded by a frieze of master sergeants, nonchalantly waving .45’s at the rear of my crew cut.
‘Got another one,’ somebody laughed heartily.
I mastered the lump in my throat and whispered bravely, ‘I’d like to ask you a few questions, sir.’
‘Of course, son (they aliua/ys call you son). I suppose you’d like to hear of the glorious opportunities we offer you, the distinction of ... ’
‘No, as a matter of fact I was wondering how long an enlistment is required by the Air Corps.’
‘. . . and the honey peachy barracks, and the sugar-cured C.O.’s . . . ’
‘No, not really. How about the reserve? How long will I have to stay in the reserve?”
‘. . . and the yummy victuals, and the zillions of dollars of free education ... ’
I severed his grandiloquent spree with, ‘Suppose I wash out of training school, would I have to remain in the Air Corps as an enlisted (gasp) man?’
At this point I was nudged solidly in the spinal column with a .45 and went sprawling into the waiting aims of the recruiting officer.
‘Son,’ he gurgled, brushing a tear from his eye, ‘I’m sure glad you’ve come to see it our way.’
‘Yah,’ said the one holding the .45 in my back.’ ”
He ended his letter by saying that Korea isn’t really as bad as Mr. Taft would make it sound. But he sure hopes they don’t keep him polishing B-29 propeller blades for the rest of his “enlistment.”
Bottom of the Week
... or did you have afternoon classes?
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 October 10, 1952 No. 3
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ...............News
PETER K. CONNOLLY ....Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ..............Features
JOHN F. SAND ................   Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t, Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ...........Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .............Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
Counsel From Experts
Continuing its orientation program, the Blue Circle now offers the freshmen a series of conferences designed to acquaint them with the academic life of the University. These conferences will be held next Wednesday and Thursday, with their completion slated for the following week.
The Orientation program is annually one of the outstanding activities at Notre Dame, and any and every freshman should find these discussions interesting and informative. Featured will be talks on the advantages and requirements of different courses of study, the aims of education, and the development of study techniques. Well-known professors and outstanding students from each college will participate.
Many students find that their chosen college or major does not live up to expectations. Others discover difficulty in fitting themselves into college life or in studying efficientlyi. The freshman year is the time to resolve such difficulties, thereby doing away with later grief.
The Blue Circle offers expert counsel on these issues, and all it costs is a trip to the hall lounge. This trip might well be really necessary.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: When the rooms in Fisher Hall were put on the block last Spring at pre-registration, seniors-elect were hesitant about signing up for them. They feared a possible lemon in the nev; structure, and many did not trust the contractors to have it ready for occupancy by this September. But it was completed and ready when the troops returned this Fall, and the forward-looking lads who had reserved the Fisher rooms had the last laugh. For it is a beautiful hall, and is the only one on campus in which drapes, bedspreads, and spacious deskchest combinations are provided by the University. This week a Scholastic photographer was detailed to record Fisher’s appealing features for the less fortunate brethren, including us, who shied away from this hall last Spring. See pages 20 and 21 for a lens-eye view of the hall and its rooms.
—Photo By Bill DeCrick
If It's Publicity You Want...	.
Year after year some campus organizations get much more publicity and better news coverage than others. Good examples of this are WNDU and the NFCCS. Why do .these groups get publicity? It is because they have good publicity men, and; they let us know what they are doing.
The Scholastic has a good news staff which is constantly digging for anything which happens on the Notre Dame campus. It tries to investigate every possible source of anything which might be newsworthy. It is impossible, however, to catch everything, even if the news editor and his men could put in a full 40-hour week.
That is where organizational publicity men come in. They supply the things that we miss. This magazine is always interested in campus news, so nobody has difficulty in getting a story printed if it has legitimate news value, and if it fulfills certain requirements.
The first requirement is that the story deals with a future event. Except on rare occasions, past events, especially club functions and the like, have little or no news value. The second requirement is that the story be in our hands by Sunday evening for the following Friday’s edition. We do not go to press till Wednesday, but reception of an article on Sunday night insures a better spot for it in the magazine, and also makes the news editor’s job less difficult.
The point is that the Scholastic wishes to give complete coverage to every Notre Dame activity. In order to insure such coverage, contact news editor Pat Carrico in 331 Sorin or at the magazine’s office in Farley Hall, or write the story yourself, keeping in mind the above requirements. In this way you are guaranteed the publicity you desire.
Oct. 10, 1952
7
Waldemar Gurion
i
°»Sot
/ f
/
Tke
The strong movement th restore the moral foi«” ’ law by a return * pies with ' ’ eade*4
developed ..
- of American .natural Law princi-... began has been spear-otre r*ame Natural Law •' delivered at these   been published
avc
e Natural Law phi- Founding Fathers of the Natural Law \e. .« deals with the Natural
... through th.reek and Roman periods to the present day.Volume III traces the  Natural Law found in thecommon law,   constitutional law, canon law, and international law. Volume -IV shows that the source of man’s inalienable ri”‘ to liberty, property, self-expression	pursuit of
happiness is the Na»-	. Volume
still in press, sh natural Law tion that exists . the great n-tian religions — Jewish, Hi”’ Confucian, and Buddhist.
Bolshevism:
An Introduction to : Soviet Communism
Otre
Professor Gurian’s Bolshevism is an essential guide to the study of the implications of Communism as a secular religion. It is especially valuable because it illuminates so fully the basic factors which drive the Soviet regime to control and direct all aspects of life, and it traces the origins of the messianic mission self-imposed on the Soviet leaders. It is an essential study for understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the Soviet Ideology. — Philip E. Mosely, Professor of International Relations, Russian Institute, Columbia University
. a brief, clear, and cogent analysis of both the theoretical and practical aspects of Leninism-Stalinism. ... It is the best treatment, and the briefest good treatment, of Bolshevism now available to the American Public.—Commonweal.


'4.

PRESS
I * ’
r Ca %
'^7
* to
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy
Ferdinand A. Hermens
The tragic effects of Proportional Representation between 1918 and 1950 is the main theme of this excellent and important volume. Professor Hermens. who has already written a volume in English and one in German on the subject, is a leading authority on P. R. He is thoroughly versed in political science but is no starry-eyed doctrinaire. On the contrary, his convincing conclusions rest on a careful analysis of election figures and on numerous interviews with important political leaders. — Sidney B. Fay in Current History.





^atv '*•'



The Notre Dame
New Campus Station Starts Broadcasts
Transmission Switch Among Improvements
Station WNDU, the new Student Voice of Notre Dame, returns to the air tonight at 5 p.m., bringing along with it many new programming ideas and an improved organizational setup.
Additional major changes have been made in the transmission system, the call letters, and frequency. The new title is WNDU, and its new home on the dial is at 640 kilocycles.
A 15-minute news roundup at 5 p.m. will open the station’s broadcasting for the year. One of two daily presentations by Lucky Strike, “Today’s Sports and Tomorrow’s Hits,” follows at 5:1-5.
Featuring tonight’s opening schedule will be the coverage of the Pittsburgh game pep rally at 7:30. WNDU’s popular “Requestfully Yours” will be heard at its regular time, beginning this evening at 9.
Included in tomorrow’s lineup will be the “Football Scoreboard,” following the game at approximately 4 p.m; The final “Scoreboard” roundup will be aired from 5:15 to 5:30 as a part of the Lucky Strike show. The show will also include some Press box interviews direct from the Notre Dame Stadium.
Sunday morning music begins at 7 and continues until 11. Highlighting the afternoon schedule is the “Grand Opera” which this Sunday will feature “Trovatore.”
The Student Voice has added many new features since it went off the air last May. Some of the more important ones are its affiliation with the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System, the Eastern States Radio Corporation, and all three major music-licensing organizations.
Officials at the station have also reorganized the news department — adding a telephone “beeper” system to bring in late on-the-spot news. A new enlarged selection of records has also been added to the classical library.
PHIL LOPRESTI, JOE ENZLER, TED BYRNE Preparing for Tonight's Debut
Conference Series Designed by Blue Circle
In continuation of its Freshman Orientation Program, the Blue Circle has arranged for a series of conferences designed to acquaint Freshmen with academic life at the university.
A selected assembly of honor students and faculty members of the five colleges will address the Frosh at these meetings, and answer any questions which might arise as a result of the conferences.
The purpose of these discussions is to present clearly the aims of a college education to the class, and to help the men develop a knowledge' of the study techniques necessary for success.
The third purpose of the program is to strengthen student-teacher relationships, and instruct Freshmen on the importance of the credit system.	•
All discussions will be conducted in the hall lounges, while residents of St. Edward’s Hall will assemble in the Main Building.
Meetings will be held in order of floors, the first floor of each Frosh hall convening on Wednesday, Oct. 15, and the second floor assembling on Thursday, Oct. 16. The third and fourth floors of the halls will meet Wednesday, Oct. 22 and Thursday, Oct. 23 respect-tively.
(Continued on page 24)
Oct. 10, 1952
9
Bump and Bruise Diet; Lone St. Mary's Post Makes Cheerleading Racket Rough This Year
By BOB GORMAN
If you’d like to get on the playing field tomorrow, one way might be to do an impersonation of Shannon Mike — another more practical means would be to be a cheerleader, but that method involves nearly as many aching muscles and bones as the actual grid warfare.
As proof, though, that we have a few hardy members in our midst, Senior Neil Vasconcellos will lead Notre Dame’s cheer squad through its paces tomorrow afternoon during the Pittsburgh game. His cohorts include another senior, Dick O’Leary, Junior Ed Hannan, a sophomore, Ed Cruse, and Freshman Bob Keegan.
With Father Norton as moderator, the cheerleaders are organized as an unofficial campus club under the control of the Student Senate’s athletic council. The team only operates for two sports—football and basketball— since the;e two have, by far, the greatest spectator interest.
Besides the home football games, the cheerleaders will travel to the Navy and the Michigan State games, and possibly the Purdue game, if enough students go to the game to constitute a fair-sized cheering section.
The cheering squad has been reduced in size from seven men last year to five this year in an attempt to gain more unity and thus be more effective in leading the cheering. New motions have also been devised for some of the
standard yells, and two new cheers have been added, one of them the “triple-I,” and the other as yet unchristened.
At present, efforts are being made to secure a public address system for use by the cheerleaders in better organizing the cheering section.
Emphasis will again be laid on tumbling acts as part of the cheering program. This year’s team should be well able to handle the bump and bruise routine, for all of them are working out on the gymnastics squad, and Vasconcellos is captain of that organization as well.
Only one man will handle the St. Mary’s section this year, but this is strictly because of the smaller squad and not because the handkerchief-waving ladies are no longer considered valuable.
The possibility of using a flash cardsystem for the Irish home games is being considered, although it is still in the organizing stage, with both the Student Senate and the Blue Circle aiding the cheerleaders in the project. If all goes well, the program might be initiated at the North Carolina game Oct. 25, and then also used the following week at the Navy game in Cleveland.
Before the cards could be used, however, a practice session would have to be held under the guidance of the Student Senate. The project would re
quire a flash card section of between 1000 and 1500 students.
Shannon Mike and Pat, the Notre Dame mascots, also are expected to do their bit for the Irish. The cheerleaders report that as of yet there have been no additions to the Shannon family, although hopes are still high.
In addition to their activities during the football games, the cheerleaders also help direct pep rallies before both home and away games. However, the actual planning of the rallies is handled by the Blue Circle pep rally committee, headed by Mickey Moran.
With the hope of keeping the rallies as lively as possible, more organized cheers will be used. Vasconcellos asks the cooperation of the student body in following its cheerleaders, both at rallies and at the games.
Mimeographed sheets with the Notre Dame cheers and some of the songs will be passed around before the game tomorrow.
Chicago Club Holiday Dance Set for Nov. 26 at Sheraton
The Chicago Club will hold its first dance of the yeai- for club members and their guests on Wednesday, November 26, at the Sheraton Hotel in Chicago. Bids will cost $3.50 if purchased on campus and $4.00 at the door, and will soon be available from club members. This dance is the first in a series of vacation dances to be held under club sponsorship.
Following a discussion of the dance at the club’s last meeting, plans for a club sponsored entry into the Kampus Keglers bowling league were announced. Hours for team try-outs were then set.
CRUSE, HANNAN, VASCONCELLOS, O’LEARY, KEEGAN
To Cheer the Irish on to More Victories
IRISH CHEERLEADERS IN DRESS REHEARSAL
But No Empty Seats Tomorrow
The Scholastic
Student Trip Ticket Sales Open Wednesday; Jaunt Includes Pep Redly, Mass, Game, Dance
Ticket sales for the 1952 student trip to Cleveland on Oct. 31 will be opened on Wednesday and continue until Friday in the lobby of the Dining Hall, Bill Unger, ticket chairman, announced this week.
Highlights of this year’s annual excursion will include a pep rally, group Mass, Notre Dame-Navy game, and victory dance. Tickets for all three events will be offered and they may either be purchased separately or as a package deal.
Train tickets and a ducat for the football game will be sold for a total of $16.09. This figure will include a $1 box lunch served both on the departing train and on the return trip.
Free Game Tickets
Each student who purchases a train ticket will be given a pass to the football game by presenting his Notre Dame I.D. card.
The Cleveland Public Auditorium will house over 800 student trip members for a nominal cost of two dollars a night on both Friday and Saturday.
Victory dance tickets for the Saturday night affair at the Carter Hotel will be priced at $2.50 a couple. Students desiring blind dates can leave their names and other pertinent information with the ticket salesmen. Dance dates will be procured from the three Cleveland girl schools: Ursuline College, Notre Dame College for Women, and St. John’s School of Nursing.
Leave Friday Afternoon
According to present plans, the official train will depart from the St. Mary’s siding Friday, Oct. 31, at 4 p.m., and arrive in Cleveland around 10 p.m.
The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland has issued a special invitation to the students to attend a Friday night pep rally at the Carter Hotel.
A special group Mass will be offered on Saturday morning at St. John’s Cathedral for the student trippers.
Those going to Cleveland by other approved means may procure free game tickets by leaving their name, campus address, and mode of transportation with the ticket sellers in the Dining Hall. These tickets will be distributed to the registered students upon presentation of their I.D. cards at the Sixth St. entrance of the Cleveland Public Auditorium between 9 and 12 the morning of the game.
The committee advises all those travelling by private means to read care
fully the Prefect of Discipline’s bulletin regarding the student trip.
The departing train will leave Cleveland at 4 p.m. Sunday, and arrive in South Bend at 9 p.m. to climax an action-packed three days.
All underclassmen are reminded to check their permission cards for the student trip. If no provision has been made for the trip with the rector, the student is urged to contact his parents immediately.
After the recent survey conducted by the Blue Circle — supervised by Bill Killminister — showed a total of 855 students in favor of the three-day trip and only 94 leaning towards the economy trip, plans for the one day excursion were dropped.
’New Look' Slated as 'Dome' Work Begins
Work on this year’s Dome is already in progress and several changes are to be incorporated, according to Fran Meaney, editor-in-chief of the University annual.
A good turn-out, including 40 new members, was present at the staff meeting last week.
Plans have been made to use a different type of cover, a streamlined style never before used in the more than 45 years of the Dome’s existence. There are still a few minor changes to make, but the style and format of the book will be quite up-to-date, in keeping with the modernistic cover. Included in the layout will be several four-color Kodachromes.
There will also be a difference in the division of the new edition from that of last year’s Dome, which had three sections; University, Sports and Activities. In this year’s book there will be five major divisions, made with the idea of providing better unity and of carrying a theme throughout the entire volume. They will include the University academic, spiritual, religious, sports and the social sections.
“We will try to present Notre Dame,” Meaney said, “according to the thoughts expressed by John Henry Cardinal Newman in an essay in his The Idea of a University. Much greater attention will be paid this year to the academic and spiritual aspects of Notre Dame life.
“This will involve a great deal of work,” Meaney continued, “but with the help of my editors and a large staff, I have every hope that this attempt will be successful.”
Editors this year are Al Suwalski, as-
FRAN MEANEY
Top Man on "The Dome”
sociate editor; Walt Wagner, managing editor; and Pat O’Malley, business manager. Bud Lalonde will handle the hall section with Ed Trusela taking care of the social activities. Ken Murphy is the sports editor and Bob Adams is the photography co-ordinator. New staff positions revived this year, after a two year lapse, include Len Lapinski as art editor and Matt Malison as copy editor.
Engineering Mag Convention Honors 'Technical Review'
Twin honors were bestowed on- the Notre Dame Technical Review at the annual convention of the Engineering College Magazines Associated, held recently. The Review was awarded first place in the association’s yearly competition for illustrations and third place for the best student article, TV Relays, by Francis X. Driscoll, ’52.
Accompanying the illustrations awarded was a citation praising the campus engineering publication for“the excellent quality and utilization of photos” during the past year. Driscoll’s article was likewise praised by the comment: “Considerable detail on a timely subject; a well written article.”
The ECMA convention was held this year- at the State University of Iowa, Iowa City, on Oct. 2, 3, and 4. Representing the publication were Ken Stead, ’53, editor-in-chief; and Thomas Stahl, ’54, art editor. The magazine’s co-managing editors, Jim Harrington, ’54, and Harv Newquist; ’54, also attended the three-day meeting.
Oct. 10, 1952
11
Korean Veterans' Educational Legislation Not Expected to Swell ND Ranks as in War II
The enrollment of Korean veterans at Notre Dame is not expected to match the influx of World War II GI’s, according to Emerit E. Moore, director of student accounts at the University.
“The new Korean GI Bill tends to operate to the disadvantage of the private institution,” Mr. Moore pointed t out, “since the student is paid a fixed ■ monthly sum without regard to the ' fees of the school he chooses. As a result, many veterans are choosing state-support&L colleges or other schools with
1 lower tuition,'” Moore said.
I
“The new law is in many ways an improvement over the World War II legislation from the government’s point of view,” Moore indicated, “since it vir-> tually eliminates the possibility of profiteering of fly-by-night schools. But the law has increased, rather than lessened, the administrative burden on long-established institutions such as Notre Dame,” he said.
At present, thirty-three Korean veterans are attending Notre Dame with slightly more expected in February after the operation of the new law becomes better known. This figure compares with the 223 World War II veterans currently enrolled at the University and the peak of 3,500 veteran students on the campus in 1948.
The Korean GI Bill provides payments of $110 per month to the single student, $135 to the married student, and $160 to those married and with more than one dependent. The student must then pay his tuition, fees, and expenses from this lump sum.
“In the past,” Moore said, “the government paid the veteran’s tuition and, at the option of the GI, stipulated sums for books, supplies, and expenses. Now it’s left up to the student to budget his own educational income.”
Before the student can receive his monthly check, he and the University must complete a joint form certifying his attendance at classes and his satisfactory progress within the school’s regulations. “This monthly report on the student’s progress results in more administrative work for the University,” Moore declared, “but it does guarantee that the student will not waste his time and the taxpayers’ money.”
Under the World War II law, the students’ progress came up for scrutiny by the Veterans Administration only when he changed schools or his course of study. The present law will keep a close check on the student and, in addition, will permit only one change
in his major course of study.
The amount of schooling to which each veteran is entitled will be figured on the basis of one day and a half for each day of service after June, 1950. Veterans will be entitled to a maximum of 36 months of schooling under the new law or 48 months if combined with payments under the World War II legislation.
Payments to Korean veterans have not begun since the law did not become effective until August 20th. Moore stated that information from the Veterans Administration indicates that students should receive their first checks sometime in October.
Fr. O'Neil Assumes New Vocations Post
Rev. Daniel J. O’Neil, C.S.C., has been named rector of the Old College here and Director of Vocations on the Notre Dame campus. He succeeds Father John
REV. DANIEL J. O'NEIL, C.S.C. New Director of Vocations
Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., who assumes Father O’Neil’s former position as Assistant Director of Vocations for the Congregation of Holy Cross.
The new Director’s duties will also include teaching in the Department of Religion.
Father O’Neil will reside in the' Old College, residence for college students studying for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Prior to his new appointment, Father O’Neil had traveled extensively for the past year throughout the' South and
Midwest—visiting high schools and parish churches in behalf of the Congregation as an assistant to Father John Wilson, C.S.C., Director of Vocations for the Congregation of Holy Cross.
A native of Boston, Mass., Fathex-O’Neil first attended Massachusetts State College, later changed to the University of Notre Dame and graduated with the class of 1946. He then pursued his theological studies at Holy Cross College in Washington, D.C., and was ordained in June of 1950.
Father O’Neil may be contacted at his residence in the Old College where he will be available for consultation concerning the religious and priestly vocations.
Special Ticket Necessary To Enter Inn Tomorrow
Special tickets of admittance to the Morx-is Inn tomorrow will be issued in an effort to alleviate congestion fox- the convenience of the guests.
As a result of a plan developed by the University administration, with the cooperation of the Student Senate, the Morris Inn will be closed from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. tomorrow to all except ticket holders. The special cards will be issued to anyone with x-oom or meal reserwa-tions, with sufficient additional tickets fox- theix- guests.
Cards will also be' provided for members of the Lay Board of Tx-ustees, the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, and the Advisory Board fox- the College of Commerce, who hold their fall meetings on home football game week-ends. These members will be' using the Inn priox- to the foootball games. The Board of Directors of the' Alumni Association have theix- fall meeting prior to a home football game also.
Adlai Scheduled to Talk To ND Students Oct. 22
Gov. Adlai Stevenson, Democratic presidential candidate, will address the student body at 9:05 a. m. on Wednesday • October- 22, according to Paul Butler, Democratic national committeeman from Indiana and party chairman of St. Joseph County.
Stevenson’s scheduled South Bend visit has been extended some twenty minutes to allow ample time fox- speeches both downtown and at Notre Dame. He is expected to arrive at Union Station at 8:30, and after- delivering an address there, will move in a parade to the University in much the same manner as Eisenhower did on his Sept. 15 visit.
The speech here will last about 15 minutes and will probably be held in the Navy Drill Hall, Butler believes.
12
The Scholastic
CAST LISTENS TO MR. TUMPANE
Prepare for Oct. 23 Opening
Applaud Student Attendance As October Devotions Begin
Daily devotions for the month of October have begun and are now in full progress on campus and receiving very satisfactory attendance, it is reported. Every afternoon, Monday through Friday, devotions consisting of the Eosary, Benediction and the Litany are held from 4:30 to 5.
During October, the month of the Eosary, there are recitations of the rosary in each of the residence halls, which in some halls are also followed by the Litany and Benediction.
Daily masses are said on campus in every hall, and the number of students receiving daily communion regularly in one week averages 18,000, according to Eev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.
The daily services climax the adoration periods of volunteer students who serve during the day.
During this month, the student chaplain’s office will sell daily missals at greatly reduced prices. The purpose of this sale is to encourage student use of missals at Mass. Members of the Liturgy Club, the Third Order of St. Francis, and the YCS will distribute the missals.
The Third Order of St. Francis will also instruct anyone interested in learning how to serve Mass. Those desiring to enter a servers class should contact Brother Boniface, the sacristan, in Sacred Heart Church.
Eosary services, which are held on the first Sunday of each month, were conducted last Sunday in the main church. These devotions were inaugurated by Eev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., in the early days of the university when he established the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
'Comedy' Rehearsals Proceed Amid Bedlam With Youthful Guys and St. Mary's DaNs
By IRV CARRIG
Many an anguished cry can be heard these days emanating from the depths of Washington Hall, as Comedy of Errors prepares to go into its second week of rehearsals.
The problems of director John Turnpane and his assistant Mr. Michael Casey are numerous. For most of the actors, this is a first experience with Shakespeare, and Tumpane is still “explaining some’ of the jokes to the actors.”
There are 28 persons in the cast, which makes such events as crowd scenes to run smoothly, a considerable
SYLVIA SCHNEIDER, DOUGLAS COLE
Rehearsals Can Be Nice
task. Originally written in 15 scenes, Comedy will be played in one scene by the University Theatre, and the action, as a result, must move’ rapidly.
Mr. Casey and Dick Byrnes are in charge of the hammer and canvas crew. The Byrnes designed set will represent the city of Ephesus, with overhead windows and a market place atmosphere. It will be’ done in just one color, so that elaborately planned costumes will stand out.
In keeping with the new order in the ND theatre, the' costumes will be made by St. Mary’s girls under the direction of Sister Mary Verda. Lynn Fellbrath is the lass in charge, with Ann Murray as wardrobe mistress.
Gay time’s are ahead for the gentlemen of the company as they will be compelled to cross the Dixie for fittings.
The costumes will be Greco-Eoman, togas and such, rather than of Elizabethan or Shakespearean style.
Help from across the way is also to be had in generous portions from Mrs. George Barbaro and Mr. J. Eobert Dietz. Many will remember Mr. Dietz for his fine work in playing the lead in both performances given here by the Catholic University Players last year.
The cast is a young one with a comparatively small amount of experience in university productions.
Several of them, however, played equally difficult roles in high school.
Eehearsals are identified with unceasing noise. At this point, bedlam has a strong foothold with pounding on the’ set for a background to the yelling of the actors.
Mr. Tumpane, who sits back and enjoys it all, believes that this is a good way for the actors “to learn to let the audience in on their lines.” The dialogue is giving the thespians some trouble ‘ and one comment was “Why don’t we do it in English?” But Comedy of Errors appears to have the stuff to make the grade for an enjoyable evening.
Farcical and noisy, this play is expected to fit in well with the big North Carolina -weekend. As one of the comedy leads put it, “I spend so much time on the floor that I feel like a football.”
i
MARY JO BUJARSKI, JERRY GODWIN
Reading and Pleading
Oct. 10, 1952
13
CROWD GATHERS AT CIRCLE
Waiting for Last Saturday's Heroes
GRIDDERS FILE PAST WELCOMERS
The spoils: Ten-gallon Hats and a Major Upset
Pedtke Eyes Bright Future for Glee Club
With a new crop of some 80 new members joining the Glee Club this year, bringing the total to approximately 160 members, prospects for the future look bright, says Director Dan C. Pedtke, despite the loss of many voices through graduation last June.
The current year will see the warblers traveling to Florida via the Southwest during the between semester’s vacation — plus the annual Eastern trip to upper New York state during Easter vacation. In addition to this, the Glee Club will present concerts in the Northern Indiana area during the course of the year.
The first campus concert of the 1952 school year was presented before a capacity crowd in Washington Hall last Thursday night.
Included on the program were such popular selections as the inspiring Cru-cifixus, Hallelujah Chorus, the comical Green Eyed Dragon, and Battle Hymn of the Republic.
This concert also marked the debut of baritone soloist Eugene Gorski, whose superb renditions of Hindu Chant, by Bemberg, and the popular On the Road to Mandalay brought a roar of applause that literally shook the rafters. Other featured soloists were Eugene Fanning, baritone, who sang Invictus, by Hahn, and the evei’ popular Wanting You from the musical New Moon; Irish tenor John Noland, who sang the beautiful Irish
ballads: I’ll Take You Home Again, Kathleen, and Rose of Tralee, and pianist Richard Casper, who gave a well-received rendition of Rigoletto Paraphrase, by Liszt.
Present club officers are as follows: Gene Fanning, president; Joe Conwell, vice-president; Gene Gorski, secretary; John Porta, treasurer; Joe Gorez, publicity manager; Buz Helfrich, assistant publicity manager; Joe Costanzo, business manager, and Bill Dwyer, assistant business manager.
Debate Squad Begins Radio Panel Show
Professor Leonard Sommer announced Thursday that members of his varsity debate squad are staffing a panel discussion show entitled, “Topics of Importance.” The show, aired for the first time last Sunday over WHOT, is being made available to stations throughout Indiana and Southern Michigan.
The first show’s topic, “Should the Electoral College Be Abolished,” was discussed by varsity debaters, Carl Gunderson, Joseph Daley, Donald Dowden and Richard Galehouse.
Next Sunday’s topic, “Presidential Candidates’ Viewpoints on Korea,” will be discussed by Ann Martin and Valerie Faden of Saint Mary’s, and Hugh Braun and John Corrigan of Notre Dame.
The show’s moderator is Al DeCrane, president of the debate team, while the announcing chores will be handled by Bill Hank.
First Home Pep Rally Scheduled for Tonight
The victorious Fighting Irish football squad, fresh from their upset victory at Austin last week, will be urged on to another possible triumph at a gigantic pep rally in the Fieldhouse at 8 o’clock this evening.
Mickey Moran, pep rally committee chairman, announced that a trio of prominent speakers has been invited to address the expected throng.
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., newly elected president of Notre Dame, will extend the University’s official greetings in a brief talk. The sports world will be represented by Joe Boland, former Notre Dame star and sportscaster for WSBT, and Notre Dame’s head coach, Frank Leahy.
Assistants in Moran’s Blue Circle committee are Howard DeLine, Jack Ross-hirt, Carl Eck, Dan Kennedy, Joe Sas-sano, and George Carhart.
Posters have been distributed throughout the halls to generate spirit; and tonight at 7:45 the band will tour the campus prior to the rally.
When the team arrived at the Circle last Sunday afternoon at 2:30 o’clock, they were greeted by an estimated 3,000 enthusiastic supporters. Also sponsored by the Blue Circle, the welcome celebration started with a parade around the campus by the band, which finally arrived at the Circle with cheering students in tow. The Committee arranged for the hall bells to be rung shortly before the team’s arrival.
14
The Scholastic
Riley Appointed os Speaker's Bureau Head; Discussions and Social Mark New Schedule
limited number of tickets for the Oklahoma football game the following day, not everyone buying a dance' bid was able to purchase a ticket for the game.
The Notre Dame Speaker’s Bureau held its first meeting of the school year Sept. 15. An election of officers was held, and the activities schedule for the coming year was approved.
Officials of this year’s organization are: Bill Riley, president; Larry Tarpey, vice-president; Jim Gibbons, secretary; Bob Kosydar, treasurer, and John Mahoney, publicity manager. Joe Conwell, organizer and first president of the Bureau, was chosen to be the club’s unofficial adviser.
A weekly 15-minute program on WNDU will be sponsored by the Bureau. This program will explore various departments of the University, along with academic and social organizations. It will be aimed at orientating new students, and clarifying any vague ideas which may exist in the minds of upperclassmen.
Along -with a workshop, there will be discussions with representatives of neighboring schools; a social, held every six week^, at which members will have an opportunity to practice after-dinner and extemporaneous speaking, and participation in the NFCCS regional tournament next Spring. Plans are also being made to present talks before various high schools and civic groups.
A special meeting will be held Wednesday, Oct. 15, for all students -wishing to join the organization. Because of the obvious difficulties a large group would have in fulfilling the aims of the Speaker’s Bureau, there will be openings for only 16 new members: seven freshmen,
Akron Clubbers Choose Huddleston as New Head
Bob Huddleston, a senior English major, was elected president of the newly organized Akron Club at its initial meeting Monday night.
Reorganized after a three year lapse, the club plans to use the charter drawn up by the previous members.
Besides electing officers, the members planned a dinner at Rosie’s for next Thursday night to launch the club’s seasonal activities. Othei- plans include ticket campaigns for the Akron-Notre Dame formals, held twice a year in Akron; club parties, dinners, sweater dances, and special rates for vacation trips home. In the sports field the club will form basketball, baseball, and golf teams.
Other officers elected at the meeting were: Bob Farnbauch, vice-president; Dan Matz, secretary, and Joe Van Devere, treasurer.
three sophomores, four juniors, and two seniors.
Those students wishing to join will not be judged on present speaking ability, but on potential development and a willingness to devote a minimum amount of time to the organization. Those who have never done any public speaking, but who would like to begin now, are urged to attend this meeting.
Signs announcing the time and place will be posted, and freshmen who signed up at the mixer will be notified.
The Speaker’s Bureau was formed less than a year ago by a group of students who felt that they needed more personal experience in public speaking. Some were majoring in speech, intent on using every available means of gaining experience, but mainly the group was composed of those who had little or no class time free for taking speech courses.
First Commerce Ball Ducats Already Gone
Tickets for the first annual Commerce Ball have' been sold out, Chairman Norb Kraft has announced. Because of a
COMMERCE BALL COMMITTEEMEN DISCUSS PLANS
November 7, Palais Royale, and Johnny Long
The Commerce Activities Council has completed plans for the ball, which is to be held in the Palais Royale Ballroom on November 7. Johnny Long and his “Shanty Town” orchestra will be on hand to supply music for the commercemen from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
Chairman Kraft has obtained 2 o’clock permissions from the Prefect of Discipline for those men attending the dance.
The blind date bureau for students wishing dates has been handled by Dick Harvey, while Bill Unger is in charge of room reservations and decorations. Corsages are banned at this semi-formal affair.
Other members of the' dance committee are Bob Kosydar, wrho will apply his talents to the business end of the affair, and Ernie Bartell, in charge of publicity.	'
The newly organized Commerce Activities Council began planning the ball early last March after a survey showed an overwhelming desire for a dance to be given and attended by Commerce men. The Council hopes that the dance will become an annual affair with the College of Commerce.
Oct. 10, 1952
15
Fallon Announces Hookup of Programs
Mr. Jerome Fallon, longtime director of the Student Voice of Notre Dame, has inaugurated a new series of off-campus radio programs this semester. The programs will not be broadcast by stations WSBT and WHOT of South Bend. His assistant in the venture is Jerry Burlage, a graduate student, who headed last year’s special events programs.
The programs to be carried include two of last year’s productions—“Dateline Notre Dame,” and “Invitation to Discussion.” The new specialities to be transmitted are “Topics of Importance,” a program featuring the Notre Dame debating team discussing historical and political problems pertinent to recent events. The other addition is “The Lives of the Saints,” a dramatic series. These constitute the primary goals.
As circumstances in the future permit, Mr. Fallon hopes to present a series of 15-minute shows dealing with the International Relations symposium on Communism. Besides this, Mr. Fallon stated that there appear to be excellent prospects that the programs will be transmitted over Fort Wayne and Indianapolis stations.
The aim of these shows is not only to give the listener an interesting and educational slant on topics of current interest, but also to bring a behind-the-scenes view of activity at Notre Dame to the attention of the radio listeners in the So. Bend and surrounding areas.
New Student Dramatic Club To Discuss Production Means
On the foundations of last year’s experimental theater an all-student dramatics club is being formed. The new club will work in conjunction with the St. Genesius Society and the University Theater.
Tentative plans are being made for a social club which will acquaint members with the various aspects of the theater. Having its own officers and a board of directors consisting of the officers and interested faculty members, the new organization wall be directed entirely by students. Discussion groups are being planned on such topics as production, settings, lighting, and make-up. Various plays will be read, and parts acted out. This group however, will not stage any plays this semester. The main objective is to prepare students for work in the University Theater.
Dr. Maritain Speaks At Medieval Institute
Doctor Jacques Maritain, one of the world’s most eminent contemporary philosophers, delivered the first in a series of four weekly lectures last Saturday on the general subject of “Art and Poetry” under the auspices of the University of Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute.
Maritain, who has been named “the most important thinker of Europe today” by T. S. Eliot, is visiting lecturer on the faculty of the Mediaeval Institute. His lectures constitute a regular graduate course in the University’s department of philosophy.
The internationally-known scholar, formerly French ambassador to the Vatican, is a member of the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton University. He has served on the faculty of the Catholic Institute of Paris and the Pontifical Institute for Advanced Studies in Toronto.
Dr. Maritain is one of the world’s leading authorities on the philosophy of Saint Thomas Aquinas and has lectured at Notre Dame in past years on a wide variety of philosophical subjects. The author of many books and treatises, Dr. Maritain in 1920 published his Art and Scholasticism which presented to artists in all mediums a philosophical answer to aesthetic problems.
The Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, founded in 1946, constitutes a center for specialized research, historical investigation, and advanced instruction in all that concerns the growth and development of the life, thought, and culture of the Middle Ages. It offers the Master’s degree and the doctorate in mediaeval studies.
Rupp Named Grand Knight in KC Election
Thomas Medland, state deputy of the Knights of Columbus, gave a boost to the renewal of the Knights’ Five Point Program in a brief speech before a council meeting Monday night. Installation of officers for this year also took place at the meeting.
Mr. Medland showed that all K of C activities are carried on through the medium of the Five Point Program. This program is comprised of five com- ! mittees under a committee chairman who is responsible to the' Grand Knight.
The committees and their Notre Dame ! chairmen are: Head Chairman, Tom	|
Nelson; Membership, John Corrigan;	I
Fraternal, Tom Blind; Council Activi- j ties, Ray Durst; Catholic Action, Joe ! Petrillo; and Publicity, Bob Rust.	j
Mr. Medland and State K of C chap- | lain, Father Henry Ward, stressed the | Catholic Action aspect of the program, I laying particular emphasis on the recep- | tion of Communion. Both men said it | was “the Notre Dame Knight’s privilege J and opportunity to frequently receive	|
Communion and thereby set the ex-	।
ample.”	g
Mr. Tony De'Dario, district deputy • from Elkhart, installed the new officers.	(
They are: Paul Rupp, grand knight;
Bill Kilminster, deputy grand knight; Jerry Smith, chancellor; Robert Lally, financial secretary; Lou Basso, recording secretary; Richard Miller, warden; Jerry Kelly, treasurer; Joe. D’Antoni, lecturer; Eli Shaheen, trustee; Joe Shelley, advocate; Walter Bernardi, outside guard; and Bryan Coughlin inside guard.
Other business at the meeting included a report on the K of C smoker held Friday, Oct. 3, at the Mishawaka Council. Chairman Jack Donoghue reported 60 Knights attended.
Plans were also announced to enter a K of C team in this year’s campus bowling league. Grand Knight Rupp asked for nominations for chairman of a K C formal dance in the spring.
Sheehan and Gurian Given
Distinguished Appointments
Two members of the Notre Dame faculty have been recognized in significant appointments made by the Chamber of Commerce of the United States and 'The Encyclopedia Britannica.
Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the' Department of Economics at the University, was recently re-appointed to the Foreign Commerce Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States and to the Joint Subcommittee on International Security.
16
The Scholastic
Sheehan also is a member of a special subcommittee concerned with the economic problems of Southeast Asia. These panels, composed of leaders of industry, commerce, finance, and economic consultants, advise' the national Chamber of Commerce on foreign affairs.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, head of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame’, has been selected to write a 4,000 word article on “Bolshevism” for the next edition of The Encyclopedia Britannica. Dr. Gurian’s latest book, Bolshevism—An Introduction to Soviet Communism, was recently published by the University of Notre Dame Press. Gurian is editor of “The Review of Politics” and serves on the' editorial board of the “Current Digest of the Soviet Press.”
Veteran Debater to Instruct Novices in Team's Tactics
Fifty new members of the debate team will be trained in the art of speaking by William Hank, a varsity squad member for the last two years. According to Coach Leonard Sommer, “Mr. Hank will train these men in the mechanics of speaking and the intricacies of debate tactics used by Notre Dame.”
Starting Monday, Hank will have each man present his reason for either favoring or opposing a Fair Employment Practices Commission. Based upon this test, six men from the new group will be chosen to journey to Chicago on Oct. 23 where they will meet debaters from Loyola, Mundelien, Illinois Navy Pier, and University of Chicago in a total of twelve debates.
The team opens its current season next week when it will'give an exhibition before the Niles Businessman’s Club. At Thursday’s meeting Sommei- named one member from each class to make this appearance. They are Freshman Petei-Loedding, Sophomore Charles Doherty, Junior Bill Fagan, and Senior Al DeCrane.
Form AB Bail Committee
Formation of a dance committee to plan an Arts and Letters Ball has been announced by Tom Field, AB representative on the Student Senate. This dance would complete the schedule of social events sponsored by the various colleges.
The Colleges of Commerce, Science and Engineering already conduct annual dances.
Field requested that all Arts and Letters men who would be interested in working on the dance committee contact him in the near future at 101 Alumni Hall.
Student Senate Cuts Charity Chest Budget; Student Union, Reserve Funds Inspire Move
The Charity Chest was requested to budget the expenditure of its approximated $12,000 for a two-year period, instead of for the usual single year, at the Student Senate meeting Monday night.
The two-year planning setup will be studied by a four-man Chest committee, headed by Arts and Letters Senator Tom Field. Other members of the committee are Edward Raque, Valentine Chun and George Carhart, all of the Blue Circle.
Request for the' new expenditure system was made so that a balance of reserve funds might be left for next year’s Senate. Such a reserve would also make possible a contribution to the Student Union, which could be furnished by student support.
Al Marks, in charge of accepting bids for the photo and other concessions to be granted by the Student Senate, announced that bids will be accepted until 8 p.m., Sunday. Bidders will be allowed a short period to explain their concession plans before the Student Senate at its meeting next Tuesday evening.
The Senate later approved plans for a Fall Blood Donor Drive to be held
You can’t miss it—it’s the one with the Dome.
shortly. The drive will be arranged by Jim Noonan and Bill Unger. More definite plans will be made by the Senate Executive Council, in conjunction with Noonan and Unger.
Senate also approved the budgets for the Sophomore Cotillion and the Commerce Ball, but for lack of time, was forced to postpone approval of its own Senate budget until next week.
Information about the bids , and their acceptance will be handled by Marks, 224 Fisher Hall.
This S a t u r d a y’s Student Senate Dance will feature an extra program of specialty numbers by the Notre Dame' Glee Club Octette, dance chairman Floyd Blair announced. Music for dancing will be furnished by Don Gel’s campus orchestra.
Fair warning was then issued through the dance committee that Saturday, Oct. 18 will be “Girls Pay Night” at the Palais Royale. Money for entrance tickets will be accepted only from the female halves of the attending couples.
Though reticent in later questioning, the dance committee’s representative said that boys’ paying would be definitely frowned upon, and he urged ND men to take advantage of the' rare situation.
Oct. 10, 1952
17
Eight Weeks Below the Mast
By BOB FINNEY Illustrated by BOB SWANSON
second largest in Norway. My chief impressions were good food, friendly people, and cheap (15% alcohol) beer, which was also very good. The standard of living seemed high, with American cars greatly in the' majority, and most of the people were well-dressed.
Eight weeks, 4,000 -Naval Academy and NROTC midshipmen, 21 ships, 12,000 miles, and five European countries—Norway, Scotland, Ireland, England, and France—is the cryptic story-of the 1952 Midshipman Cruise “Albe,” in which Notre Dame' NROTC midshipmen took part. It combined training with sightseeing, and it was sightseeing at its best, for the classes of ’53 and ’55.
The Task Group included battleships (the Missouri and Wisconsin), heavy cruisers (the Macon and the Des Moines), the light carrier Saipan, destroyers, destroyer - minelayers, and APD’s, which are small fast transports slightly larger than destroyers but built along the same lines.
I spent my eight weeks below the' masts of the Missouri, the flagship of the Task Group and the showboat of the American Navy, with its polished bronze' surrender plaque, saying that “Over this spot on 2 September 1945 the instrument of formal surrender of Japan to the Allied Powers was signed,
thus bringing to a close' the second World War. The ship at that time was at anchor in Tokyo Bay, latitude 35 °-21'17" North, longitude 139°45'36" East.”
Each ship visited two ports in Europe, the Task Group splitting up to accomplish this, and then to climax the cruise, the entire' fleet put in at Guantanamo, Cuba, for three days of concentrated gunfiring. The Missouri drew Bergen, Norway, and Portland, England, as its ports of call.
The ‘Missouri’s’ Cruise
This shall be the' story of the Missouri’s cruise. If the reader has been in England or Norway he might not agree with some of my opinions, but they are' just my own impressions gained from short visits. I do not speak as an authority, but only tell what I observed.
We sailed from Norfolk, Va., early on the morning of June 9. That afternoon we' said goodbye to the Virginia coast and one day later- said goodbye to good weather. From then till we hit Norway on June 23 we saw very little sun and very many waves. The seas were officially classified as rough on a number of those days, and the destroyers looked like submarines most of the' time. Being on a battleship I cannot boast of being seasick like the men of the “real Navy,” the destroyer sailors, but you can hear of the tortures of the damned from just about any of them. Even the “Mo” acquired a slow, gentle roll which reached 12° during this period.
Our route to Norway took us above the British Isles, where the Task Group split into units which steamed toward their respective ports. We reached latitude 64° N and, since it was very close to the longest day of the year, it never got dark there’. The same held for Bergen which is about 60° North. I remember writing a letter exactly at midnight without artificial light while in Bergen.
Food, People, And Beer
We spent five days in Bergen, and the arrangement of duty days allowed my watch section an overnight tour through the Norwegian boondocks and also two days of liberty in Bergen. Bergen is a city of 114,000 people, the
Prices were low by our standards. For example, one evening we ate at the best hotel in Bergen, ordering wine, filet mignon with all the trimmings, dessert, and coffee, and the' bill totaled $1.25 per person. From what I could gather, however, this was very high by Norwegian standards, and natives rarely indulged in filet mignon.
The tour which I took led us by train, bus, and boat through the scenery to the Sognefjord and a turisthotel for the night. I asked our guide if the Sogne-fjord were the longest fjord in Norway, and he drew himself up to his full six-feet-four and said, “It is the longest fjord in the world!” It was news to me that any other country had fjords.
The scenery was beautiful, but you find that each mountain and 1,000-foot waterfall is prettier than the next one. They say the Nazis valued Norway chiefly for airfields, but we did not see
even one piece of land flat enough for a plane to land upon. Take the most rugged of the Rockies, multiply by ten, add countless fjords and waterfalls, and you have Norway. The countryside inspired the more creative of the middies to decide that Norway is up the fjord without an ore (one ore' equals 1/100 krona, which equals 14 cents American). Also that the Norwegian Chamber of Commerce should use the slogans, “There’s a fjord in your future,” and “Save your confederate kroner, boys, the fjords will rise again.”
My final remembrance of Bergen was the scene at fleet landing as liberty expired on the last night. Every square
18
The Scholastic
inch of pier was filled with middies saying goodbye to newly-found Scandinavian sweethearts, living up to, in the very best tradition of the U. S. Navy, the old adage of “a girl in every port.” I never have seen middies fail to live up to tradition.
There' were eleven days between Norway and England, so the Task Group reformed (formed again, that is—it never repented or amended) and headed for some warmer weather. Those eleven days were spent cruising the eastern Atlantic, going as far south as Portugal before turning North again to make the second port. There is nothing memorable about this period except some good, sunny weather for a change’, and the hot pilots of the RAF. Every day British Lancasters flew over, and the pilots fiew those four-engine planes as if they were Piper Cubs. A few of them buzzed every ship in the group at an altitude of about 50 feet, and each one acted as though he wanted to be the first pilot to fly a four-engine plane between the stacks of a battleship. We never found out why they were flying around us all the time, but they se’emed to enjoy it.
We reached Portland on July 9 for a seven-day stay, and very luckily my section only drew one duty day again, so we had six days in the country.
Portland is a town of only 10,000 people, but Weymouth, a big resort with a beautiful beach, is only a sixpence bus ride' away, so everybody spent liberty there.
The English must have a little polar bear blood in them, because the beach and the water were full of swimmers every day, and we were very comfortable in our blues. Londoners complained of the heat while we were there, too, and J was still comfortable in my blues. And they talked about the heat wave which they had just had, in which the temperature got as high as 86 in London one day.	'
English Hospitality
English friendliness and hospitality, which was unequaled by anything I have ever heard of or experienced, did-not take long to manifest itself. On our second liberty day a group of midshipmen were invited aboard HMS Triumph, a light carrier, for a cocktail party. When it was over an elderly Englishman offered to drive us into Weymouth. On the way he invited us to his club for supper and, after buying us a Scotch, fed us a steak on par with any Kansas City steak, (french fries), vegetables, tea, and cheese and “biscuits.” Meat and cheese are rationed very severely in England, which enhances his hospitality even more.
Most of the midshipmen had similar stories to tell—of tremendous dinners, parties, businessmen’s club luncheons, etc. I don’t believe there was one instance of trouble between an American and an Englishman. The midshipmen who were in France came back with many stories of unfriendliness, fights, and a few beatings.
It isn’t hard to find evidence of the austerity program in England. The children usually look healthy enough, but many of the older people show the effects of 12 years of rationing. The meat served in restaurants looked as though it had been cut with the aid of a razor, but they made up the deficiency with vegetables, and we usually got enough to eat. Butter was never served, but it could be had, without extra cost, (Continued on Page 31)
Oct. 10, 1952
19

•i*
ABOVE: The other half
of the Neu-
j;


mayr room with Tom at his desk. Note the built-in chest of drawers. The second picture shows another double with modern sink and medicine cabinet. Joe Harrison is the occupant. RIGHT: A single and Nash Navar.
Jack Neumayr smiles his approval, not of the book, but of the lush comfort of the double he shares with his brother, Tom. Evidence of his plush surroundings are beds featuring inner-spring mattresses, foam rubber pillows and matched spreads, a chest of drawers, window drapes and a personalized bulletin board.


v
ABOVE: Closet space galore!
Al
Eilers demonstrates in the double he shares with Joe Harrison. Note the overhead storage space. RIGHT: Fisher Hall chapel, unfinished, but impressive with its modern lines of design.
;i
ew Look
photos by bill de crick
Fisher Hall marks another milestone in Notre Dame’s building program. The §1,000,000 structure, the gift of the late Fred and Sally Fisher, was designed to provide its 150 residents with the latest in modern hall conveniences — many of which are pictured on these pages.
In the rooms are items that St. Ed’s
men dream about — beds with inner-spring mattresses and foam rubber pillows, large closets with overhead cabinets for storage space and desks featuring built-in chest of drawers. Items to be installed in the future include desk lamps and overhead bookshelves.
And what’s vour average?
Bilocation
Last Saturday afternoon, between halves of the ND-Texas game, we hustled out to get a coke and ran into Bob Arrix. This seemed rather odd, as Joe Boland had just reported Arrix to be playing a smashing game against Texas in the first half. We gave Bob a quick once-over and he seemed to be in fine shape, hardly out of breath at all. “Amazing,” we muttered, and rushed back to our radio to hear the second half. The game continued and sure enough, Arrix was in there again, playing like a demon. This lad has possibilities.
Record investment
A day or two ago we stopped to buy some records. “Nan,” we said, “what's the word on those new long-play 45 records?”
“Why, I thought you ND men knew everything.”
We stood aghast. How could she recognize us without our rah-rah jackets? But this breathless blonde-haired lass just claimed the power of feminine intuition ... a rare thing.
The next time she hurried by the counter we tried another question. “If you can spot ND men from the rest of the peasants ... ’er, ah... people, how do they stack up as cash customers?” To our surprise she claimed that about two-thirds are buyers, not browsers. We suspect a bit of last summer’s earnings are still on the loose. In fact, Nancy recalled one real spender. Eighty bucks is a lot of money, fella! What’s your secret?
For those math majors who adore statistics, Nancy says that the average sale is between two and three records. Let them explain how you can sell % of a record. More facts, and another surprise: the choice between classics and pops is about even. After devouring our Huddle-type coffee to the incessant strains of “I Went to Your Wedding,” “Somewhere Along the Way,” and (ugh!) “Sugar Bush,” we were beginning to wonder if anyone had ever heard of Tchaikowski or Debussy. However, we now predict that these boys are going to become better known around here due to Victor’s 45 Ipng-plays. About 50 of the seven-minute-to-a-side discs are on the market, all classical and semi-classical. The perennially popular Boston Pops leads in sales, probably because they’ve made
about 1/3 of the records recorded thus far.
According to Nancy, the top pops just now are Frankie Laine’s “High Noon,” “I Went to Your Wedding,” and “You Belong to Me” by Patti Page which has sold 167 copies. Incidentally, Nan, along with 109 of her customers, prefers Jo Stafford’s recording of “You Belong to Me.”
So now you know — all, except Nan’s place of employment. We decided to withhold that for security reasons.
Fogbound
John Milton, according to Robert Gunning in The 'Technique of Clear Writing, has a Fog Index of 26. Gunning claims to have invented a formula by which the clarity of anyone’s writing can be tested. The degree of fogginess can be determined by averaging the number of words in the sentences of a passage and adding to this the number of words of three syllables or more out of every 100 words. This total is then multiplied by .4 and low score wins for clarity. U nderstand ?
Gunning, whose work was reviewed in the March 23, 1952 issue of the New York Times which we’ found lining the shelves of our locker, also says that Harper’s magazine has a Fog Index of 11, and Lincoln’s Gettysburg address has an index of 10.
Applying this formula to various printed matter around campus, we find that page seven of the Student Manual, a passage concerning absences, has a Fog Index of 22.9 which goes to prove that, theoretically at least, the Student Manual is easier reading than Paradise Lost, though both are probably equal in entertainment value. The lead editorial of last week’s Scholastic had a Fog Index of 12.4 which makes it a bit clearer than the first half of Mr. Luby’s column in the same issue. According to the index, Luby had a rating of 13.7 which is just a mite foggier than Paul
DRAFT TEST FORMS READY
Forms for taking the Selective Service College Qualification Test are now available at the Office of Military Information.
More detailed information will be released in next week’s issue of the SCHOLASTIC.
“Keep the Faith’’ Zalecki’s 12.4 in the same number of the Scholastic. Once Over Lightly with a rating of 7.8 last week is obviously a column for simpletons.—Gerry Voit, Walt Werner, Jack Dilenschneider.
^he Other Side
You hear it every day. On street comers, in newspapers, wherever people congregate or express their opinions. It seems that many persons think the world is in pretty bad shape and that at any moment the lid can blow right off the whole thing.
Why has this attitude come about? I won’t attempt to dispute the fact that the world is in a mess. Yet, can anyone prove that there has ever been a people who did not feel apprehensive about their future? As a matter of fact, each generation has always thought that theirs might be the’ last. Feelings of insecurity and fear of the future have always been characteristic of human nature due to the very incompleteness of life on earth.
U. S.—The Land of Discontent
But strangely enough, these personal fears are probably stronger in the United States than anywhere else. It is evident that we are rapidly becoming a neurotic, high-strung people. Why should this be? After all, this is America, land of freedom, opportunities, and unlimited possibilities for happiness. Shouldn’t this, then, be the land of content?
Yet, when you come right down to it, you must admit that the U. S. is the most discontented country in the world as far as personal satisfaction is concerned. Our exaggerated nation of equal opportunity leads one and all to prove his, her, or their worth regardless of cost. Few Americans are satisfied with mediocrity. Our culture places a tremendous premium on personal success, disregarding the fact that not everyone can achieve it. Thus, no one is ever satisfied, not even those who really are successful, because they are too busy building more castles in the air.
The Era of Cynicism
What does all this prove? Certainly, it is not an evil, but only a by-product of our way of life, an aspect which must be understood if we are to be a more efficient nation.
Some Americans, the self-styled (Continued on page 33)
The Scholastic
Srad SVotes
A reception was held last night in the Rockne! Memorial Building for the foreign graduate students. The purposes of this reception were to make the foreign grads feel at home, to give them an opportunity to meet each other and to give the local boys a chance to meet them and vice versa. Coffee and cookies were served. Father Moore and Father Beichner were present to extend the welcome of the University. This reception originated last year while Father Moore was dean of the grad school.
Last night’s speaker was Dr. Michael Pap. His topic was concerned with the current social problems in Eastern Germany brought about by Communist domination. Dr. Pap received his Ph.D. from the University of Heidelburg. He' came to this country four years ago as a displaced person and went to work in an auto factory in Detroit. 'While there' he came to the notice of Dr. Gurian of the Political Science Dept., who brought him to Notre Dame as an associate to the Rockefeller Finance Committee for International Relations. He’s author of an article which appeared recently in the “Review of Politics.”
Despite the cultural benefits derived from Dr. Pap’s talk, we wish to insist once more that the major purpose of last night’s get-to-gether was to make the foreign grads feel at home. We’re looking forward to the day when they’ll put their feet on the desks when visiting professors’ offices. (We’re looking forward to the day when the local boys can do this, too). Welcome, once again, foreign grads.
Grad engineers interested in joining the Grad Student Association can contact Cliff Barker in metallurgy. Political science students can contact Walt Gray in history. Give ’em a moment’s peiace, boys, but no more than that.
The stag party mentioned last week will take place Thursday, Oct. 16. We plan to have a business meeting, speaker, and refreshments (those short of finance can always finagle a meal). Details are still being ironed out. You’ll get a post card in the next few days. Plan accordingly.
Bob Shaver’s working on the touch football schedule. We hope to have it for you next week. Keep watching those athletic notices. The contests won’t be as tough as last week’s Scholastic implied. Just for the sport, you know. Cheerio.—Joe Kelly
. . . For Election Year Propaganda
Every year the Scholastic receives press releases and filler sheets from many national foundations, notably the March of Dimes and the Tuberculosis League. Also we get an occasional request for a plug from other organizations and individuals, such as, the large poster from the Communist “victims of the Smith Act,” which Jack Powers commented upon editorially last year.
This fall a new feature has been added—political news and propaganda. The mailbag has been brim-full of letters, papers, and pictures treating political subjects. And exactly 100% of the correspondence which we have received has been pro-Republican.
To give you an example of the propaganda which we have received, the most prolific source is the Republican National Committee. These gentlemen publish a weekly four-page newspaper called The Firing Line on the Political Front. In it are news items, editorial comments, and fillers, and the paper is marked “all contents for immediate release.”
Sa Jtelp Me . . .
Don’t bother to buy toothpaste. We have enough to last another week
Typical of its news items is one stating that “Democrat and independent war veterans in ‘amazing numbers’ across the country are switching to Eisenhower. . .” In the same issue is an account of a speech by James F. Byrnes blasting the fair deal and pledging his vote to Eisenhower.
The latest issue contains an editorial blasting Nixon’s attackers, and in “Notes to Editors” the Republican Committee says “Economic storms ahead: Many economists say our so-called prosperity is based on the quicksands of war, preparations of greater wars, government handouts, grants, loans, subsidies, and wasteful spending.
“The Democrat machine is afraid to face the facts. That’s why it uses statistical tricks, loaded figures, halftruths, and untruths to produce a phony picture of' the state of the Union.”
I will finish with a quotation from another weekly feature, “Let’s Face It:” “Once upon a time, when an American said he’d bet you a dollar to a doughnut, he meant he was giving you a hundred-to-one shot. Today he means it’s an even bet.”—Bob Finney
Oct. 10, 1952
23
Hall Elections Tuesday
Elections for the hall councils will be conducted by the Blue Circle elections committee Tuesday. Ballots will be distributed in the halls at 7:15, and collected at 7:30 p.m.
Winner of the election in each hall will be president of the hall council, and simultaneously become a member of the Student Senate. His hall council will be composed of the three contestants who received the next highest number of votes in the election.
Student Musical Studied
ing to complete the required study by June 30, 1953.
Full information and applications may be obtained from the University Placement Office. Applications must be on file with the Commissioner’s Washington office not later than Nov. 13, 1952.
Concert Tickets on Sale Tonight
Season tickets for the South Bend Civic Music Association’s concert series will be sold from 6:30 to 7:15 o’clock in the Dining Hall lobby tonight. Price of th'e tickets is $3.
Circle Conference
(Continued from page 9)
Members of the Blue Circle would like to remind the Freshmen that these discussions will be solely for their benefit, and they hope that the new men will take advantage of this opportunity to become better acquainted with academic life at Notre Dame.
Additional information on the discussions will be distributed to the Freshmen Halls on the night before the scheduled meetings.
Speakers from the different colleges will include Bob McGhee and Ed Conners from the College of Science and Leo Callahan, Dave Burrell and Jim Cannon of Arts and Letters. Also taking the' platform will be Dave Broughton of the College of Engineering, and Ernie Bartell of the College of Commerce.
Groups interested in working on the student musical should see Mr. John Tumpane, of the University Theatre. The musical will be presented in the Spring, but selection of a show will have to be made soon.
Late Daily Mass in Dillon Hall
Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion, recently announced that an 8:30 a.m. Mass has been added to the daily Mass schedule in Dillon Hall. This is in addition to the 7:20 and 8 a.m. Masses.
WNDU Program Schedule
Time Weekdays
11:45 Recorded Music
12:00 World Neus
12:15 Luncheon with Lopez
12:30 Al Wood
1:00 World News
1:05 AI Wood (cont.)
1:30 Afternoon Musicale
2:00 Afternoon Musicale
2:30 Showtime
3:00 World News
3:05 Showtime (cont.)
3:30 Classics
4:00 Classics
4:30 Daily Express
5:00 World News
5:15 Sports Panorama
5:30 Sound Stage
Civil Service Administration Exams
The Civil Service Commission announced recently that the 1952 Junior Management Assistant examination would be scheduled the third week in October.
Applicants must pass two written tests, have had college training or experience in public or business administration or the social sciences. Successful candidates will be interviewed for personal qualifications. Applications will be accepted from students expect-
Time Friday, Oct. 10 6:00 Going to Town 6:15 One Night Stand 6:30 Fran Warren Sings 6:45 Tex Benekc Show 7:00 Lucky Strike News 7:15 Speaker’s Bureau 7:30 Pep Rally 7:30 Pep Rally 8:30 Music by Roth 9:00 Requestfully Yours 9:55 World News
10:00 Music of Manhattan 10:15 Sports Final 10:30 Music in the Night 11:00 Sign Off 12:00
St. Genesius Tryouts
Tryouts for the first round in the theater production of the St. Genesius Society will be held next Tuesday night at 6:30 in Washington Hall.
The title for the new play will be determined; and the cast and a student director will also be picked at this second meeting of the year.
Time Monday, Oct. 13
6:00 Here’s to Vets
6:15 One Night Stand
6:30 Fran Warren Sangs
6:45 Tex Beneke Show
7:00 Lucky Strike News
7:15 Al DeCrane Commentary
7:39 An Invitation to Music
8:00 Story of Storyville
8:30 Music by Roth
9:00 Requestfully Yours
9-55 World News
10:00 Music of Manhattan
10:15 Sports Final
10:30 Music in the Night
11:00 Sign Off
Time Thursday, Oct. 16
6:00 Guest Star
6:15 Date in Hollywood
6:30 Here’s June Christy
6:45 Tex Beneke Show
7:00 Lucky Strike News
DAYTIME
Saturday, Oct. 11 Recorded Music World News March Time AI Wood World News Al Wood (cont.) Sign Off for game
Musical Scoreboard Musical Scoreboard World News Sports Panorama Music Hall Varieties
EVENING
Saturday, Oct. 11 Holland Calling Sammy Kaye On the Town On the Town Lucky Strike News Festival of Waltzes Pari, Star Time Sat. Night Record Party Sat. Night Record Party 661 Club World News
Music of Manhattan Sports Final We’re at the Palais Music ’Til Midnight Sign Off
EVENING
Tuesday, Oct. 14 Serenade in Blue Date in Hollywood Here’s June Christy Tex Beneke Show-Lucky Strike News Student Senate on the Air An Invitation to Music Talent Hunt Fred Waring Requestfully Yours World News Music of Manhattan Sports Final Music in the Night Sign Off
EVENING
Time Thursday, Oct. 16 /:15 NROTC Show 7:30 An Invitation to Music 8:00 Rodin’s Top Ten 8:30 What Tape Show is This? 8:45 Spotlitc Club
Tims 8:00 9:00 9:05
11:00 11:15 11:30 12:00 12:15 12:30
1:00 1:05 1:30 2:00 3:00 3:05
Sunday, Oct. 12 Obnoxious
World News
Musical Scrapbook Sizing Up Sports Hour of St. Francis Concert Hall of the Air Week in Review-Singing Americans Music by Castle World News
Music by Castle (cont.) Political Science This Is Broadway World News
Grand Opera T rovatore
Sunday, Oct. 12
Dance Parade Dance Parade Freddy Martin Show Freddy Martin Show-Fighting Charlie McCarthy Fighting Charlie McCarthy Masterworks from France Ave Maria Hour Netherlands Composers Night Watchman World News Music of Manhattan Sports Final Flights of the Mind Sign Off
Wednesday, Oct. 15 United Nations One Night Stand Fran Warren Sings Tex Beneke Show Lucky Strike News Masterpieces in Literature An Invitation to Music Big Band Jazz Music by Roth Requestfully Yours World News Music of Manhattan Sports Final Music in the Night Sign Off
9:00 Requestfully Yours
9:55 World News
10:00 Music of Manhattan
10:15 Sports Final
10:30 Music in the Night
11:00 Sign Off
24
The Scholastic
Panthers Invade Notre Dame Stadium
Irish Hope to Continue Their Winning Ways Against Pittsburgh in First Home Appearance
By JACK HEALY
Frank Leahy’s Fighting Irish make the first appearance of the ’52 season in their own back-yard tomorrow, against the University of Pittsburgh. Notre Dame, fresh from its upset victory over Texas last week is eager to continue its winning ways, while the Panthers arrive in South Bend with high hope's of rebounding from the 49 to 20 shellacking handed to them by Oklahoma last Saturday.
Tomorrow’s contest will make it an even twenty times that these two schools have met. It all started back in 1909, when the Irish edged Pitt 6 to 0. The overall record between these' intersectional rivals stands at 13 wins, 5 loses, ' and 1 tie in favor of Notre Dame.
Panthers Play Rough Slate
The Smoky City team is potentially a good club but in typical Pitt fashion, their schedule is one of the nation’s toughest. Thus far, they’ve had one
RALPH GUGLIELMI (3) FLIPS JUMP PASS TO JOHN LATTNER (14)
First Quarter Play Against Steers Covered 15 Yards For Irish
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NOTRE DAME PITTSBURGH Penza ...........LE......... Adams
Murphy ..........LT... Palatella Seaman ...............LG.. DeLuca
Schrader .......C.... Gembarosky
Alessandrini	c.-.RG....... Smalara
Bush ............RT....... Kraemer
Hunter .........RE....... Deitrick
Guglielmi ......QB....... Mattioli
Heap ..........LHB....... Hoffman Lattner .................RHB.............. Reynolds Worden ..................FB.„. Epps
KICKOFF TIME: 1:30 CST
up and one down. The Panthers opened against Iowa and outpassed the Hawkeyes to the tune of 26 to 14. Then they met with the already mentioned disaster in Oklahoma.
During the preseason drills Pitt coach
PAUL BLANDA
Outstanding Pitt Punter
Red Dawson was bemoaning the fact that he had lost in the process of graduation his star quarterback Bob Bestwick, who in the course' of two years of varsity ball posted ten all-time Pitt records. Since then, however, with the arrival on the scene of sophomore Rudy Mattioli, Mr. Dawson has changed his tune. In his first varsity game for the Panthers against Iowa, Mattioli passed 11 times and connected on eight of these tries. Included in the eight was a 54-yard touchdown pass. If and when Mattioli should be injured, Henry Ford, last season’s defensive safety man will be the probable replacement. Ford will also operate at his’ old safety position again this year.
Reynolds Only Vet Halfback
The halfback situation is dominated for the most part by sophomores. The one veteran is right halfback Billy Reynolds, a 180 pound senior who offers his talents both defensively and as a ball carrier. On the' opposite side is Bill Hoffman, who adds another passing threat to the Pitt backfield. Hoffman is a sophomore and makes the Panther single wing an even more effective weapon when they switch from their usual straight T attack.
Junior Bobby Epps, who tips the scales at 195, is the regular starter for
Oct. 10, 1952
25
BOBBY EPPS
Faces ND for Second Time
Pittsburgh at fullback. He' was the top man in this position when he was a sophomore, gaining 316 yards in 116 carries, and scoring one touchdown.
Ends In Good Shape
Another loss felt sharply by Pitt was the graduation of offensive end, Chris Warriner, who like Bestwick, had a natural talent for breaking records and then setting new ones. Nevertheless, the' outlook in the end department is a bright one. There is Dick Deitrick at right end, a 215 pound receiver who grabbed 24 passes last year. He' also doubles as defensive tackle. On the other end of the forward wall is Bill Adams who played both offensive and defensive last year but has been used solely with the attacking team this year. Defensively Pitt is strong in this position with the return of Joe Zombek and Joe Bozek, two of last year’s lettermen.
Again, it is the sophomores who seem to be carrying all the weight at the tackle spots. Eldred Kraemer and Lou Palatella, both holdovers from last season’s defensive unit, are the starting tackles. These two, weighing 210 and 235 respectively, are expected to put int the full sixty minutes for the simple reason that Dawson has found no one as yet who can replace them.
Pitt Uses Five Man line
The middle of the line is made up of practically all seniors. The offensive guards are Tony Romantino, a senior with two years of varsity experience* behind him, and Bill Priatko another senior, who was shifted from the tackle position during the spring practice sessions. As Pitt uses the five man line basically, the middle guard slot will be manned by a 190 pound senior by the
name of Pete DeLuca. DeLuca has been an offensive starter for the last two seasons. At center Pittsburgh has two more seniors with an abundance of experience behind them. They are Gabe Genbarosky and Stu Kline, both are 200 pounders, and it is a toss-up as to which one will start tomorrow.
Joe Schmidt, captain of the Panthers, is the' middle linebacker and according to advance notices is supposed to be one of the top men in the nation.
The other two linebackers in the five man defense are George Glagola, a senior, and Paul Blanda, a sophomore who was hurt in the Iowa game and couldn’t make the trip to Oklahoma. If Blanda fails to start it will be Ray Ferguson, a junior who won his letter as defensive halfback last season.
Irish Upset Longhorns, 14-3
Down Texas way they’re still talking about last week’s 14-3 upset of the Longhorns by the Irish.
After a very quiet first half in which Notre Dame failed to move past midfield, Leahy’s lads struck with vengeance on the first series of downs in the second half. Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi, mixing his plays nicely, field-generaled the Irish into the lead in only 12 plays. Johnny Lattner bucked over from the one for the score and Minnie Mavraides’ extra point made it 7-3.
RUDY MATTIOLI
Directs Panther Attack
Gib Dawson, held in check most of the contest by ND’s hard-charging defensive unit, had booted a 10-yard field goal in the second period to give the Texans their only lead of the game.
The other Notre Dame score came in the final quarter after an ND drive
BILLY REYNOLDS
Vet Seatback Ready to Scat
stalled deep in Longhorn territory. Paul Reynolds line-drove a punt at safety man Bob Raley, who let the ball bounce off his chest. Dan Shannon, a great player all day recovered on the Texas two-yard stripe from where Joe Heap supplied the clincher by cracking off tackle for the tally.
Throughout the whole last half, the short sleeve jerseyed Irish dominated the play except for a short lived burst by Texas in the fourth period. After the game was wrapped up, this threat was broken up when Jack Whelan intercepted a T. Jones pass on the Irish 24.
Campus Tennis Tournament Reaches Semi-Final Round
The campus tennis tournament is going into its third week. Due to the difficulty of contestants finding playing time the tourney is moving slowly. By the end of the week this semi-final round of play should have been finished.
Of the eight pre-toumament favorites only four remain. They are Wally Clarke, Don Kennedy, Dave Cohen, and Tom Prendergast. Tim Murphy of Seattle, and a transfer student, is the first man to reach the semi-final round. To get there he beat Jim Schmitt and Ron Mazzolli. Murphy is expected to face Wally Clarke, the defending champion, in- the semi-final round. Don Kennedy and Tom Prendergast will battle it out for a semi-final berth. Either Kennedy or Prendergast will face one of three players in the semi-finals. The three are Dave Cohen, sophomore Ed Hogan, and John Stuhldreher, a son of one of the Four Horsemen. Of the three players Cohen is a slight favorite.
26
The Scholastic
i I
Oklahoma, Navy, So. Cal. Gain Easy Wins; State, Purdue Have Close Calls as Iowa Bows
By BILL NOONAN
While Notre Dame was gaining its 400th football victory at Austin, Texas, last Saturday, the future opponents of the Irish were busy adding to their own win columns. Only two of the teams remaining on the schedule went down to defeat and one of these was beaten by another ND foe.
The Pitt Panthers who oppose the Irish in the home opener tomorrow had the misfortune to catch a University of Oklahoma eleven on the rebound. The Sooners, smarting from their tie with underdog Colorado the previous week, put on a second half power display to bury the Panthers, 49-20.
Sooners Score Three In First Half
Oklahoma started fast with three early touchdowns only to have Pittsburgh get two of them back before the half ended at 21-13. The Smokey City lads didn’t tally again until late in the final period when Bill Reynolds bucked over from the one.
Buddy Leake scored two touchdowns for Oklahoma, passed for a third and booted seven conversions, but Buck McPhail, the nation’s leading ground gainer last year was the Sooner star. He rocked the Pitt defense for 158 yards in 20 carries. Oklahoma tackles the Irish Nov. 8.
Purdue’s Boilermakers took advantage of the breaks at Columbus, Ohio, to down Ohio State, 21-14. Ace fullback, Max Schmaling scored two six pointers for Purdue while a blocked punt gave them their other tally with Tom Bettis carrying it over. The Buckeyes scored in the second and final stanzas, but never seriously threatened Purdue’s domination of the battle.
Navy Captures No. 2.
The Naval Academy’s rejuvenated Middies, who meet the Irish Nov. 1, unleashed another savage attack to defeat Cornell, 31-7. It’s the second week in a row that Navy has tallied 31 points. Last week, Yale fell, 31-0.
End and captain John Gurski sparked the midshipmen’s offense which utilized the legs, arm and foot to their best advantage; Gurski snared two T.D. passes from Bob Cameron who also threw one to Frank Adorney for a score in the first period which produced 17 points for the future admirals. Dean Smith scored the other touchdown while Ned Snyder, the middies’ great place kicking specialist, kicked a field goal
and converted the four extra points, one of which he was forced to run over.
Passing, Field Goal Win For State
A second try for a field goal in the waning seconds of play gave the toprated Spartans of Michigan State a 17-14 victory over a stubborn Oregon State team at Portland. Spartan end Gene Lekenta, given another chance by an offside penalty after missing his first attempt, toed the ball through the uprights and the Green and White remained undefeated.
Ted Yewcic passed for both MSC scores, one in the first period to Paul Dekkar, the other in the second to Ellis Duckett. The valiant Beavers held the powerful Staters completely in check while they tied the count only to lose on that heart-breaking field goal.
Iowa blew a third period 13-7 lead and dropped a 20-13 decision to Indiana’s Hoosiers. It was the second loss in succession for the Hawkeyes. Iowa’s Bernie Bennett scored the game’s first touchdown on a 13-yard pass play. After Indiana had gone ahead 7-6, Dusty Rice gave the Hawks their last lead in the third period on an end sweep. From there on in it was all Hoosier.
Out in Los Angeles, the Trojans of USC pounded out a 22-0 victory over a fighting but outmanned Anny team. The Cadets, still in the process of rebuilding, held the power laden Trojans to a standstill in the first half except for a safety. Southern Cal started to roll the second half, scoring once in the third and twice in the fourth quarter. For the Trojans it was their third straight one-sided triumph.
Carolina Polio Victim
North Carolina, the Irish opponent on Oct. 25 was forced to cancel its contest with Georgia as well as the North Carolina State game this week due to a polio epidemic on the Chapel Hill campus.
Tomorrow sees ND’s two Big Ten opponents, Purdue and Iowa, get together, while Navy looks for its third straight 1952 win against William and Mary. Oklahoma and Texas clash head on at Dallas as Michigan State plays host to Texas A. & M. Southern California tackles San Diego Naval in a game tonight.
Former Irish Cager Named Basketball Aid
By TOM WELLY
Last spring, basketball coach Johnny Jordan was faced with the dilemma of picking a new assistant coach for the job vacated by Johnny Dee who accepted the head coaching position at the University of Alabama. However his problem was solved during the summer months by Athletic Director Ed Krause’s appointment of former Irish cager, Marty O’Connor to succeed Dee.
Marty starred for the fighting Irish on the post-war teams of former head coach Moose Krause. He served as co-
MARTY O’CONNOR
Succeeds Dee as Jordan’s Assistant
captain of the 1950-51 Irish five with Dan Bagley and has since gone on to Notre Dame law school. This has enabled him to become familiar with the young players on the squad since he has seen them in action many times. In addition many of this year’s varsity played with Marty on the ’50-51 team, so that he has a fine, overall background of the entire squad. He will also serve as head scout for Coach Jordan. While awaiting practice to begin Marty is continuing with his studies at the College of Law. During the past year Marty was married and the O’Connors have settled in South Bend.
In a recent interview with the Scholastic, Marty stated that he “was happy and pleased at the opportunity to coach here at Notre Dame.” He also prophesied that the 1952-53 basketball team would be “a good one, as they have profited by a year of experience and maturity.” The newest member of the Notre Dame coaching staff also praised Captain “Gooch” Lewinski and labeled him as a “fine leader.”
Oct. 10, 1952
27
By Jack Sand
Lattner Tallies Twice To Pace Irish Offense
Irish Stoke Texas Furnace
“If the heat bothered the Irish, look out this winter,” was one of the headlines found in the Sunday edition of the Austin American-Statesman, after Notre Dame had melted the Longhorns in their own corral, with a special heat treatment commonly known as “Fighting Irish Spirit.”
Probably the best opinion of the Notre Dame team last Saturday
was given by Texas Head Coach Ed Price, when he said, “Notre
DAN SHANNON
Dame had a much better ball club than generally rated. They got moving and got stronger as they went along.”
Veteran Arch Ward, the Chicago Tribune sports editor, who picked the Steers to beat the Irish, said: “There were two games here today; Texas’s first half and Notre Dame’s second half. I don’t know what happened during the intermission, but when the Irish came back at the half the offensive line began to click, giving John Lattner and Joe Heap a chance to start the ball moving.” He also praised Dan Shannon’s effectiveness on defense,
Statistics for the first two games against Pennsylvania and Texas show that right halfback Johnny Lattner continues to pace the Irish offense in nearly all departments. Lattner raised his rushing average to 5.6 yards per carry by gaining 88 yards in 13 attempts against the Longhorns. The Chicago junior now has 176 yards gained in 31 tries.
Lattner also leads the Notre Dame scorers with two touchdowns for 12 points. Joe Heap has the other Irish touchdown while Menil Mavraides has made good on all three of his extra points. Ralph Guglielmi heads the passers with 13 completions in 28 attempts for 111 yards and a .464 average. Tom Carey, the other Irish quarterback, has hit on three of his seven pitches.
Notre Dame’s statistics for two games are as follows:
and stated that Texas looked good, ex-
RUSHING
Times
Carried
Lattner ................. 31
Worden ................... 22
Guglielmi ................ 17
Heap ..................... 16
Carey ...................   6
Reynolds .................. 3
Yds. 176 96 65 48 14
4
Avg.
5.6
4.4
3.8
3.0
2.3
1.3
cept that they just ran Notre Dame football.
into a Notre Dame team that was playing
PASSING
Answering Mr. Ward’s question on what happened to the Irish at Intermission . . . well, hardly anything—just a few choice words from Coach Frank Leahy: “You’re not playing like Notre Dame men. Go out there now and play like Notre Dame men.”
On one Notre Darner named Ralph Guglielmi those few words made a strong impression, since the Irish field general seemed to ooze with confidence in the second half, commented Assistant Coach Johnny Lujack. “That really meant a lot to the boys,” Lujack said. “We don’t have a lot of weight . . . but we’re quick. ... I think we might have a different ball club from now on.”
Att.
Guglielmi .......... 28
Carey ............... 7
Heap ................ 3
Lattner ............. 1
Comp.	Yds.	Avg.
13	111	.464
3	26	.428
1	30	.333
0	0	.000
Pitt Rates Irish Second Toughest
A recent article in the Pittsburgh Press revealed that the Panthers are almost looking forward to their joust with the Irish, since they are convinced they won’t play a better club this season than the Oklahoma juggernaut that swamped them last week, 49-20., The feeling is that it should seem easy by comparison, even though Notre Dame never represents an easy afternoon on the gridiron.
The Pitt footballers, who are generally considered to have their best squad in the past several years, don’t mean to under-rate Notre Dame; it’s just that they classify the Irish as their second toughest assignment, since Oklahoma’s Sooners dazzled them as few teams ever had.
PASS RECEIVING No. Caught Yds. TD
Heap ........................ 5	47	0
Lattner ..................... 4	71	0
Worden ................_..... 4	5	0
Penza ....................... 2	23	0
O’Neil ...................... 1	9	0
Hunter ____________________   1	9	0
PUNTING No. Yds. Avg.
Lattner _________________ 16	583	36.4
Reynolds ________________ 1	28	28.0
SCORING TD PAT Pts.
Lattner ....................  2	0	12
Heap ........................ 1	0	6
Mavraides ................... 0	3	3
Prediction of the Week
A good defense is the best offense, so the saying goes, as was proven by the Irish so far this season. Pitt has racked up seven touchdowns in two games to date, but tomorrow’s contest should see them getting only one. Notre Dame 27, Pitt 7.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
All students must have ID pictures in their ticket holders in order to be admitted to tomorrow’s football game and all succeeding games. To all those who have not as yet picked up their ID cards, Father Charles McCarragher, Prefect of Discipline, has announced that he will open his office between 1010:30 tomorrow morning in order to fill the needs of the tardy students.
28
The Scholastic
Hall Teams Set to Go; Dillon Belts Prisoners
After three weeks of intensive practice, the first round of Interhall football competition has begun. Eight teams have been organized and placed in two leagues. The Eastern League is composed of Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, and Zahm, while the Western division includes Dillon, Morrissey, St. Edward’s and Off-Campus.
Conflicting class schedules and various other difficulties have made the actual date and time of the games tentative, but each game must be played within the week assigned. Coaches meet prior to the games to determine suitable time.
During the week of October 6-11, the Eastern league schedule finds Breen-Phillips, coached by Ralph Weiss, pitted against Tom Parsley’s Cavanaugh squad, and Farley, coached by Angelo Turco, facing Joe Sassano’s Zahm eleven. In the Western division Richard Woeppel leads his Morrissey squad against Dillon Hall, coached by Tom Powers. Dillon, incidentally was the first interhall team to face the Michigan prison team to date. They easily took the measure of the prisoners by a 33-7 margin. St. Edward’s, coached by Jim Wilson, tangles with Marty Vieth’s squad of Off-Campus students.
The remainder of the schedule is as follows :
Interhall Baseball
The' fall baseball round-robin tournament started with Lyons’ Sophomores defeating Farley’s Freshmen by a forfeit. Farley was unable to field a full nine-man team.
Dillon was nosed out by Morrissey by a 2-1 count. Because of the ruling that no inning shall be started after 5 p.m., Dillon did not get a chance to overcome the one run deficit.
The other four teams, Sorin, Howard, Cavanaugh, and a second Dillon team also saw action this week.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
OCTOBER 13-18 EASTERN Breen-Phillips vs. Zahm Cavanaugh vs. Farley WESTERN Dillon vs. Off-Campus Morrissey vs. St. Edward’s OCTOBER 20-25 EASTERN Breen-Phillips vs. Farley-Cavanaugh vs. Zahm WESTERN Dillon vs. St. Edward’s Morrissey vs. Off-Campus
Cindermen Lose to Wheaton In '52 Cross-Country Debut
Notre Dame’s cross country opener was an unsuccessful one as the Irish fell before the Wheaton runners, 21-38, at Wheaton. Kikuo My, Wheaton’s Japanese star runner, completed the three-mile course in 16:01.5. Wilson’s ace cross country man, Jack Alexander, crossed the finish line closely behind with a time of 16:07.
Bill Lenihan and John O’Connor were the only other Irish runners to
JACK ALEXANDER
Places Second in Wheaton Meet
finish in the top ten. Kikuo My ran the first of the three miles in 4:58 and finished up with a 10:33 for the remaining two miles.
The way they finished: Kikuo My, Wheaton, 16:01.5; Alexander, ND, 16:07; Wright, Wheaton, 16:10; Taylor, Wheaton, 16:20; Lenihan, ND, 16:21; Stienkrause, Wheaton, 16:23; Cousins, Wheaton, 16:51; O’Connor, ND, 16:57; Smith, Wheaton, 17:07; Hawkinson, Wheaton, 17:20; Helfen-stein, ND, 17:27; DeSchriver, ND, 17:39; Schoenig, ND, 17:39; Snyder, ND, 18:30. Times: mile, 4:58; two miles, 10:33.
Score:
Notre Dame 2, 5, 8, 11, 12 ......38
Wheaton 1, 3, 4, 6, 7............21
ND Sailors Win Opener; Cop Team Trophy Rom NU
Another victory was recorded by a Notre Dame team last weekend when the University Sailing team bested Northwestern in three out of four
races to cop top honors and the winning trophy.
The two-team regatta was held at the Columbia Yacht Club on Lake Michigan, where the Irish sailors maneuvered three dinghies over a two-mile triangular course inside the breakwater to gain the trophy which the Wildcats had previously won in 1950.
Ed Rodgers, Don Street, and John Joyce were the leading skippers for the Irish, with Bob Swindman, Bob Gervais, and Bob Sargent also aiding in the triumph.
The remaining schedule of the Sailing Club is as follows:
Oct. 18-19—Chicago Invitational.
Oct. 25-26—Area Championships at Chicago.
Nov. 1-2—Mich. State Invitationals.
Nov. 15-16—Ohio State Invitational.
Nov. 28-30—Timme Angsten Memorial Trophy at Chicago.
Fifty Man Fancy Drill Team Trims Uniforms With White
A group of fifty men has been recruited as volunteers for the Air Force ROTC’s 1952 fancy drill team. For the second year, the team will be under the direction of Mr. Murphy, a junior student in the Air Force program.
Distinctive dress for the team’s performances this year will consist of white cap covers, loose white scarfs, white gloves and white ski spats, all worn in combination with the official Air Force blue uniform.
Appearances are scheduled for the Oklahoma and Southern California games. Plans call for eight-minute performances preceding the kick-off periods of the games. Other shows are tentatively scheduled for the home basketball contests, military social functions, and special shows.
All but six members of this year’s team have had previous drill experience. Practice sessions are held five nights each week from 6:45 to 7:35.
Campus Chessmen Gang Up On Indiana State Champion
Dan Brooks, Indiana State Chess champion, opposed several members of the Notre Dame Chess Club in an exhibition match at the club’s meeting yesterday.
Bill Teoli, president of the club, conducted the meeting, at which plans were discussed for the formation of instruction class in the rudiments of chess for advanced and beginning students. Other proposals included sponsorship of a round-robin tournament among ND students, and an intercollegiate chess tour.
Oct. 10, 1952
29
Hike Song
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again.
Oh, it’s the hike, hike, hike of victory, The call, to rise and strike.
For Notre Dame men are winning
When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike.
Hark to the cheering song rising high, Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Bum high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.
When Irish Backs Go Marching By
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry, Gathering foemen fling to the sky.
Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
(chorus)
And when the Irish backs go marching by
The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game, Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through, They’ll sweep the foemen’s ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
Victory March
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true:
Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
(chorus)
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
Notre Dame, Our Mother
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue, Glory’s mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
30
The Scholastic
Eight Weeks
(Continued from Page 19)
for the asking. In fact, if one asked for butter he received more than he could possibly use.
Duty days were arranged in England so that every midshipman could take a three-day tour of London. My watch section was down for the second tour, and we left for London Saturday, returning Tuesday.
Three Days in London
It seems that on every streetcorner in London there is a statue or monument to a king, statesman, soldier, or admiral. Prince Albert’s tomb is the most striking. It is approximately the size and shape of the Huddle, completely covered by carved gold and gems.
The statue of Franklin D. Roosevelt in Grosvenor Square, just across from the American embassy, was pointed out to us five times, and each time the’ pointer’s tone of voice indicated that we should be very, very happy to see it. Not being much of a connoisseur of monuments, besides being a Republican from way back, all I could muster was a polite, “Oh, yes.”
The principal buildings weren’t as impressive as expected, probably for two reasons: they are very old (Westminster Abbey dates back about 800 years) and they were so smoke-blackened during the war that the English seem to have given up getting them white again. (One still sees evidence of bombing in all parts of London, although, of course, the worst wreckage’ was cleared away long ago. One-story shops have sprung up in many places where tall buildings stood before, giving the downtown skyline a crazy-quilt effect.)
Buckingham Palace is still smoke-blackened, but the gold on the fence around it and the brilliantly-garbed palace guards and horse guards make up for what the building lacks in color. One can’t imagine an American making a career of standing at attention or sitting astride a horse, which is all these guards do, but they are highly honored in England.
It would take many pages to describe London, so I’ll leave that to the travel bureaus. One thing regarding Westminster Abbey is worthy of note, however.
Westminster Abbey is a monument to the past. Buried in the floor for the! people to walk over are the greatest of England’s statesmen, soldiers, poets, and scientists, and there is a special chapel where all the kings are buried, if you can call being placed in vaults along the wall being buried. And placed in among the Bacons, the Shakespeares and the Disraelies, is the! grave of a
commoner who lived to be 162 years old, and who had a child when he was in his 120’s. What price fame!
In our week’s stay this love of royalty, ceremony, and the past was the only real difference I could find between English and Americans. Otherwise, except for the money, the left-side driving, and the fact that they drink Scotch instead of bourbon, we could have still been in the States. Three out of four movies in London were American. South Pacific is enjoying huge success there at the present time, and South Pacific songs were definitely at the top of the English hit parade.
Toward Heat and Gun Firing *
We sailed from England on the afternoon of July 16, away from liberty and sightseeing and toward training and heat. There were' no more good ports to look forward to, so all thoughts turned to August 5, debarkation date. The last three weeks were a routine of training except for about five days of gunfiring, most of which was done in the Guantanamo Bay area off Cuba, and a couple of days anchored in Guantanamo Bay. We got only base liberty in Guantanamo, but our first iced cokes, milkshakes, and American beer in seven weeks made it enjoyable.
The midshipmen really did themselves proud in the gunfiring, which was one of the most important parts of the cruise. Each midshipman was given a permanent gunfiring station at the beginning of the cruise in a setup in which midshipmen manned all the stations concerned with firing, and drills were conducted four days a week for six weeks before actual firing. Ship’s company officers and men were present at all stations to instruct and to insure' safety, but midshipmen did all the work, from top down.
RENT A NEW ROYAL or SMITH-CORONA
PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
$E00 Jr Month
Rental Can Be Applied Toward Purchase Price
OFFICE ENGINEERS, Inc. 116 South Michigan St. Phone 3-3118
Actual results of any Navy firing cannot be disclosed because of security reasons, but I think I can safely say that the middies fired better than ship’s company. In fact, the gunnery officer, a gentleman who is very chary of compliments, said he would like to shanghai the middie five-inch batteries and take them to Korea with him.
We left Guantanamo Friday, Aug. 1, and tied up at Norfolk Monday afternoon, Aug. 4, but were not detached until the next morning. On the whole it was a very enjoyable and instructive cruise, and most of the memories I carried from the ship were pleasant ones. But, just in case the above sentence leads you to believe that I would have enjoyed a few more weeks of it, suffice it to say that, out of almost 800 midshipmen, I was the fourth one off the Missouri, and, I am reasonably sure, one of the first to get into civilian clothes, open a can of Miller’s, relax in an easy chair, and be soothed by soft music instead of a bos’n’s pipe.
yCS Book Exchange Transacts Sales Totalling Over $5,000
Dave McBride, manager of the Notre Dame book exchange, reported that sales totalling ovr $5,000 were transacted this year, though changes in textbooks reduced the number of saleable books.
He said the receipts from the books turned in last year for resale have been redeemed, excluding the “mail me” type, which are quite numerous this year.
The B-X, a non-profit venture, is operated by the Young Christian Students organization with excess funds being used for the support of the club.
With things back to normal on the campus, the B-X will be open only on Wednesdays and Thursdays from 2:30 to 4:30 p. m.
Oct. 10; 1952
31
Illinois Trip Slated by A.I.A. For Study of Church Design
Guy Prisco, president of the American Institute of Architects here at the University has announced that members of the A.I.A. are planning a trip to Aurora, Ill., on Nov. 21, to study the architectural design of the St. Augustine Abbey — a Benedictine Monastery. The architecture students will also view some of the famous homes designed by Bruce Goff and the Farnsworth House by Mies Vander Rohe.
The trip and the study of these buildings will aid the A.I.A. members in their research and preparation of their material, which will be entered in the contest between Notre Dame and Catholic University. The annual contest is sponsored by the Church Administration Property Magazine. The competition will be centered around “The Problems of Churck Architecture.”
Additional information will be passed on to the members of the A.I.A. on Oct. 29, when Jan Riener will deliver a lecture on “Boston Architecture.”
DANCE LESSONS COST LESS AT
BECAUSE YOU LEARN FASTER!
tt
for your ' appointment 10 A.M. to 10 P.M.
Studio* Air-Conditioned
Cort. 1952-Arthw Mtemv!»«.
MURRAY
ABOVE COPP MUSIC

ARTHUR MURRAY'S
39 years of teaching experience!
Over a million delighted pupils! No other studio can match this record!
No wonder The Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is recognized as the finest, most thorough, and inexpensive method in the country. The whole secret is in Arthur Murray’s basic discovery, "The Magic Step To Popularity.” This is the key step to all dances, and even a beginner can learn it in one lesson. And, because there is only this one master step to learn, you need fewer lessons and thus save time and money. Come in now and have a free trial lesson while 2 for 1 rates are in effect.
Call 2-3339 Now
ARTHUR
120 E. WAYNE
NROTC Lists Communion Breakfasts, Radio Programs
Plans are being made by the NROTC Student Activities Council to hold a series of monthly Communion breakfasts throughout the school year, the first one tentatively scheduled for Sunday, October 19. The entire unit will participate in each of these breakfasts. In the past it has been the custom for individual classes to hold their Communion breakfasts separately.
It is also expected that the NROTC radio program will return to the air waves over station WNDU, when the “Student Voice” resumes its broadcasting operations later this fall.
Students are reminded that the Navy College Aptitude Test for NROTC “regular” scholarships will be given at Notre Dame on Saturday, December 13. Application forms to take this test must be received by the Naval Examining Section, Educational Testing Service, P. 0. Box 709, Princeton, New Jersey, not later than midnight November 22, in order that a candidate may qualify to take this competitive scholarship exam. Forms are now available at the office of the De-
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, Oct. 13—Feast of St. Edward, King, Confessor.
Tuesday, Oct. 14—Feast of St. Callistus, Pope, Martyr.
Wednesday, Oct. 15—Feast of St. Teresa, Virgin.
Thursday, Oct. 16—Feast of St. Hedwige, Widow.
Friday, Oct. 17—Feast of St. Margaret Mary Alacoque, Virgin.
Saturday, Oct. 18—Feast of St. Luke, Evangelist.
partment of Naval Science, located in the Drill Hall. Further information may be obtained at the Office of Military Information or at the Naval Science office.
Traditional Irish Band Show Planned for Tomorrow’s Tilt
A traditional Irish pre-game show is planned by the Notre Dame Marching Band for the Pitt game tomorrow, featuring an Irish War March by the bagpipers, two letter formations, and one depicting the Pitt Panther.
Festivities of the half-time will include the following series of formations: Clay Pipe, Harp, Shamrock, and Four Leaf Clover. While in these formations the band will play the Irish Washer Woman, The Harp That Once Through Tara’s Halls, Wearing of the Green, and It’s a Great Day for the Irish.
Appearances of the marching band will consist of four home games, and the Navy game at Cleveland.
New Office Changes Made In Main Building Switch
Several changes have been made this year’ in the location of administrative offices in the Main Building. The same office sections of the building, the East wing, basement and room 232, are still being utilized, but several offices within these sections have been changed to new locations.
The Office of Student Accounts and the Office of Military Information have been moved from the East wing to the basement. Also formerly located in the East wing, the Prefect of Discipline’s Office is now in room 232.
Last year’s occupant of room 232, the Dean of Graduate School’s Office, is now situated in room 142 of the East wing. The Office of Academic Affairs has been switched from the basement to room 141 in the East wing, while the Office of Student Welfare is now in room 143, East wing, instead of room 141.
32
The Scholastic
International Relations Plans Discussion of World Affairs
“The United States in World Affairs” will be the theme of a series of discussions to be sponsored soon by the Committee on International Relations. These discussions will be held in room 103 of the Law Building, and commence at 8 p. m.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian will deliver the opening address on Oct. 29, his topic being “Contemporary America — Foreign Problems; Idealism and National Interest.”
The second talk of the series will be given by Professor M. A. Fitzsimons on Nov. 19. The topic on this occasion will be “Pearl Harbor; Pro and Con.”
On Dec. 3, Professor W. O. Shanahan will speak on “Command Decision of the Second World War.”
“Yalta and Teheran; Diplomacy in a Quandry” will be the subject of Dr. S. Kertesz’ address on Jan. 7, while a discussion on “The Far East; Prelude to Disaster” will be given by Dr. F. A. Her-mens on Feb. 11.
A discussion by Drs. Gurian and Kertesz on “Peacemaking and the Cold War; 1945-52” will complete the series on March 11. The committee has announced that everyone is cordially invited to attend this series.
Voting Registration Laws For Remaining States Listed
Though the Scholastic published most of the state voting laws in a previous issue, three were omitted. They are printed below. Registration of Indiana residents was conducted on campus Oct. 3, 4, and 6, in the Fieldhouse.
Iowa residents must register with city clerk before Oct. 15. Request must be made for an official application for ballot from county auditor, city or town clerk.
Kansas voters must request an official application for ballot from the county clerk before Oct. 20.
Voting laws in Montana require that an official application for ballot be obtained from county, city or town clerk after Oct. 2.
Students Advised to Submit SSCQT Applications Now
Applications for- the Dec. 4, 1952 and the April 23, 1953 administrations of the College Qualification Tests are now available at Selective Service System local boards throughout the country.
Eligible students who intend to take this test on either date should apply at once to the nearest Selective Service
local board for an application and a bulletin of information.
Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out his application and mail it immediately in the envelope provided. Applications for the Dec. 4 test must be postmarked no later than midnight, Nov. 1, 1952.
According to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test for the Selective Service System, it will be greatly to the student’s advantage to file his application at once, regardless of the testing date he selects. The results will be reported to the student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student.
Glider Club Seeks Members; 64 Flights Sets New Record
The Glider Club is now accepting a limited number of new members to fill the vacancies created by last June’s graduation.
Freshmen, sophomores and juniors— both engineering and non-engineering students—will be accepted as applicants. Applicants need not have any previous flying time.
Purpose of the organization is to teach students the basic principles of flight and how to operate a glider. On the first day of operation this year, a record total of 64 flights was made.
The MEN'S Corner"
Home of Nationally Accepted Merchandise.
• Campus Togs
• Kuppenheimer
• Botanv “500”
• Clipper-Craft
• Arrow Shirts
• Lee Hats
• Stetson Hats
• Florsheim Shoes
• Roblee Shoes
Rvsc s Katz
1 V FOR MEN AND 1 ^.YOUNG MEN
The club operates at the Chain of Lakes Airport about eight miles southwest of the Notre Dame campus. A Schweizer SGU 1-19 glider is used for all flying. The glider is launched by means of a tow car for basic flight training, and by a powerful winch for advance training.
Notre Dame is one of the few schools in the country that offers glider flying to its students. For application blanks, as well as any additional information, interested students may contact Charles Stalzer, 306 Dillon.
The Other Side
(Continued from page 22)
critics of our way of life, do not understand it. They can’t see why they must drive a Chevy when the fellow across the street has a Cadillac or why they haven’t become rich and famous like some of their schoolboy classmates. Frustrated, they begin to hate themselves, then others, then the whole society. No wonder then that they consider their generation the worst and most corrupt that ever existed. Thus, it seems that optimism is being replaced by pessimism, and cynicism. It is with the latter that we shall concern ourselves next week. For a better understanding of it, the topic will be “The Notre Dame Cynic” since more than likely a touch of it exists in all of us. —Tani Foote
Oct. 10, 1952
35
By Paul Zalecki
The few issues of the Scholastic which have appeared thus far this year have contained more than the usual amount of material on student government. Already two members of the Senate have written rather thorough articles outlining the government’s organization, function, and finances.
Quite obviously these two students are interested in making this a successful year for student government at Notre Dame, for they realize' that it is a critical one. In recent years, the school has had two radically different constitutions. The latter one, now in operation, was developed after a year of careful planning and deliberation.
If this new constitution is to correct the' weaknesses of the old—as it was drawn up to do—it necessarily will have to show some marked improvements. If no changes take place, however, there is not much use- in talking about student government, for that is all it would be, talk.
Test for Senate, Cabinet
It appears as if the new senate and cabinet realize that they face a crucial test. They have striven to impress upon the student body its responsibilities and importance in student government. Inasmuch as the senate has already presented their views, this might be a good time to offer to the senate the opinions of some of the students. .
One junior to whom I talked, Ron Mealey, had quite a bit to say about the present government. Though interested in what it is doing, he felt that it had not displayed any increased effectiveness in getting things done. The senate is supposed to legislate and has done so. The cabinet is supposed to carry out this legislation, but in two very important activities this fall it has not done so.
When this article was being written, there still was no announcement of either car permissions for the Commerce Dance week-end or accommodations for the Student Trip. Ron felt that both of these things should have been cleared up by the beginning of October.
There is not much use in talking of increased efficiency, if little gets done on time. On paper, the breakdown of executive and legislative functions looks good, but where are the results? Where
has it helped the student to know if he will have a car for the dance week-end or a place to stay for the Navy game?
Underwriting of Dances
Another student, Ron Lagamarsino, a senior, also had something to say about the Commerce Dance but along a different line: “It’s a good policy for dances to be underwritten, but it should not prevent the sponsoring club or organization from using the' profits of the dance. The committee in charge of the Commerce Dance had wanted to divide the profits among the Commerce clubs, so that they could sponsor some activities of their own.
“Under the present regulations they could not do so. The senate takes all the profit from dances that it underwrites, and all dances have to be underwritten. This would seem to kill the initiative of those in charge. Why bother to make a profit, or, for that matter, even break even?”
Since both of these students had mentioned the Commerce' Ball, I asked its chairman, Norb Kraft, for his opinion. Norb has had quite a bit of contact with the senate and was more' than willing to offer some comment.
He felt that the senate was trying to do too much and, like the' federal government, was making it difficult for the students to do anything on their own.
Red Tape and Regulation
“In its efforts to create a good government overnight,” he' said, “a profusion of offices has been created, and many rules have been issued. Already we have a degree of red tape which may prove to be a stifling blanket on student activities. Spontaneity should not be allowed to run rampant, but let’s be careful lest we kill it completely.”
I think a practical illustration of what Norb meant can be seen in the following regulation which appeared in a student government bulletin:
“All activities held by campus organizations. and clubs—meetings, banquets, dances, smokers, picnics, Communion breakfasts, etc.—must be registered and approved by the Student Senate. Fail-wre to do so mil result in club suspension."
And so the comments ran. True, they were critical, but at least they show that the students are interested in what the cabinet and senate are doing. All their suggestions and comments are good and well thought out. I do not think that the senate should ignore them, for they are the expression of student sentiment. Along with intelligent voting, it is only by constant criticism that conditions are to be improved.
In case I might be misunderstood, some of the things which the senate has done received praise, like the reduction of victory dance prices to one dollar. This change is a definite improvement, and it offers the hope that there will be' more.
Power of Student Government
In conclusion, a number of students had this observation to make. It is fairly obvious that the senate is not all-powerful; it is equally obvious that it is not intended to be'. Its primary concern is extracurricular activities, which, after all, are but a secondary phase of university life.
One' thing, however, which the student government should do is represent the students to the administration. In many ways, the senate' and cabinet can serve as intermediaries for the students.
Conversely, student government is not the medium for the administration to present their policies to the students, for that is the function of the' Student Affairs Office. If the senate becomes no more than the spokesman for the administration, then its true function has been perverted.
I admit that it is tempting for the Senate to ape, as it were', some university regulations, and so make it look like the Senate initiated the program. To do so, however, is not their purpose. Rather than convincing the student body of the Senate’s power, it just loses support for student government.
Keep the faith.
34
The Scholastic


NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Welcome to
’’Represents education that continues, "
says GEORGE GALLUP
Founder of the American Institute of Public Opinion; formerly Professor, Pulitzer School of Journalism, Columbia U«
"A serious weakness of the American educational system is the missing link between what we are taught in school and what we learn after leaving school. The Reader’s Digest represents education that continues. It arouses and satisfies keen interest in the vital issues of the day and in varied fields of lasting knowledge.”
Look at the wide range of subjects in any issue—The Reader’s Digest is designed for the well-rounded individual who cultivates interests far wider than the confines of any particular field.
From the wealth of material that is published each month, the editors select those outstanding articles no thoughtful person would want to miss. Each article is condensed to present the essentials clearly, yet preserve the full content and flavor of the original.
The Reader’s Digest offers a continuing liberal education for millions of men and women with alert, open minds.
★ ★ ★
In October Reader’s Digest, you’ll be interested in Cobalt 60— how an offshoot of A-bomb research is being used to fight cancer; Watch Out for the Weather—how its changes affect your physical and mental behavior; 29-page book condensation: Windows for the Crown Prince—an American woman’s precedent-shattering experience as tutor to Japan’s future Emperor.
128 W. WASHINGTON
SOPHOMORE COTILLION
Special Student Hates ;
Over 600 suits to choose from in
all styles and sizes. Boys’ 3 to
Men’s 56.	'
;i
11
Alterations included for personal • J	I
satisfaction. Please place your order early.
J
! LOGAN'S ;
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main. South Beiid | (in the Oliver Hotel Bldg.) '
Oct. 10, 1952
35
CHESTERFIELD
FIRST PREMIUM
QUALITY CIGARETH
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
5»I;5
kWg-size
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
ASK YOUR DEALER
FOR CHESTERFIELD
EITHER WAY YOU
LIKE ’EM
JO |N
:o
CONTAINS TOBACCOS
OTHER KING-SIZE
CIGARETTE
OF BETTER QUALITY &
HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY
BOTH regular and king-size Chesterfields are premium quality cigarettes and come in the smart white pack.
BOTH contain only those proven ingredients that make Chesterfield the best possible smoke: the world’s best tobaccos, pure, more costly moistening agents (to keep them tasty and fresh), the best cigarette paper that money can buy—nothing else.
BOTH are much milder with an extraordinarily good taste and, from the report of a well-known research organization — no unpleasant after-taste.
BOTH are exactly the same in all respects. There is absolutely no difference except that king-size Chesterfield is larger—contains considerably more of the same tobaccos—enough more to give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs very little more.


Buy CH ESTE R FI ELD_/^4/r^ Milder
Copyricht 1952, Tjgceti & Mnis Toiacco Co.