Volume 73	December 8, 1939	Number 11
THIS ISSUE marks Special Issue the 20th annual footMarks Banquet ball banquet to be held
Monday evening, at 8 o’clock, in the University Dining Halls. In conjunction with the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph’s Valley, sponsors of the banquet, The Scholastic presents —in addition to current campus events— a special review of the 1939iJfootball season.	(See page 15)
THE OFFICIAL No-AII Opponents tre Dame all opponent Team Selected team of 1939 — picked by 20 varsity monogram men, aided and abetted by Coaches Elmer Layden and Joe Benda, sports publicity director Joe Petritz,. South Bend Tribune sports editor Jack Ledden, and Neil Geary, head football manager.
(See page 16)
LET US remember, as Reserve Squad we sit in the stadium Is Introduced or by the radio, there -	is a “B” squad that is
an integral part of Notre Dame football. Unlike the “A” squad men their enjoyment on the gridiron is unsupplemented by newspaper clippings, pictures, and autograph hunters. (See page 18)
NOTRE DAME’S 1939 Review Season foothall team has just Game by Game completed a typically colorful season, filled with thrilling runs and shoestring tackles. A game-by-game resume of the season’s highlights appears in this issue. ' , '	•	(See page 18)
Toastmaster—Bin Corum, erudite sports cetaamdst of the New York “Journal Amerieun,’* who < will preside at the 2Wa annual football banquet, Monday. [See page 7]
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by jack wui™nn
Our Wings Get Quipped
With the genial smile that personifies him as a Schoolman, J. Augustus Cannon gives us a hearty five and praises glowingly, “Let me be the first to congratulate you on that column.” All this after No. 10 came off the press.
And, to scoop “The Week,” there’s this prank as perpetrated by a Missouri pre-med. Maybe the sight of a friend’s wooden sandal was too much for our web-footed friend, but he, cunningly and with puckishness aforethought, hid a sandal in an out-going laundry bag. When the laundry was promptly returned three weeks later, the sandal was in the bundle and with this message scrawled in pencil, “We don’t wash these. Ha, Ha, Ha!”
The March of Wisconsin
“If they only had a place like this when I was in school!” declared Fredric March, who trod across the foot-lights of Wisconsin to the Kliegs of Hollywood. It was the Badger’s foremost alumnus of the stage and screen back to the alma mater to approve the new wing on the Union building. Under no aura of homecoming glamor did.March return to Wisconsin, but rather as a surprise visitor with the intention of spending several hours touring the new wing in detail. The famous star averred that the new college theater is one of the finest in the country, and that only the one in Radio City is better equipped. The axiomatic greener grass was given new life when Freddie of the Flickers mused nostalgically, “O, to be back again....”
Study in Black and White
“There’s only one thing wrong with me, biondie. I’m color-blind.”
“You’all sho’ must be, mistah!”
—Caveman.
That’s Right, They’re Wrong
Culled from some recent examinations at Marquette were these inspirations for professorial delirium tremens:
Drums—“instruments of concussion.” William P. Hitler—“a Notre Dame football player.”
Doggerel—“an Oriental coach hound.” Palestrina—“a mouth wash.” Sarajevo—“a Mexican dish.”
Robert Zuppke—“connected with sabotage.”
Parnell—“an Irish deserter who became a famous Italian painter.”
Blow Line to . . .
The Navy Log. Consistently readable for its zesty features, novel approach, meaty columns, and laughable jokes, the latest Log outdid itself in the current issue dedicated to the Army-Navy game. It was better than most of the souvenir programs for that classic, but in its picture section was omitted a shot of Dick Shafer—the unknown who proved himself to be a mudder of the first water.
1/c: “How did you like my drag last night?”
4/c: “Confidentially, sir, she was so homely that if she played Lady Godiva, the horse would steal the scene.”
Only a Mother Could Love . . .
The professor who came late to one of his classes and found a most uncomplimentary caricature of himself on the blackboard. Turning to the student nearest him, he angrily inquired, “Who is responsible for that atrocity?”
“I’m not sure, sir,” replied the student, “but I strongly suspect its parents.”—Varieties
Headlines in the ...
Ohio State Lantern for the signing of Glenn Miller for the Theta dance this month. It was also noted that the campus is only now recovering from the rocking rhythms recently sent out by Charlie Barnet on the Columbus campus. ... Down Clemson way lately was Larry Clinton.... Minnesota has signed Russ Morgan for a pre-Christmas dance.
“I Know a Secret”
Now We Know
The question, “What is a coed?” was answered in the Cornell Widow with statistics and pictures to prove all points. The survey revealed that Cornell co-eds like Princeton men best.... 45% • of the co-eds are in love now.... 95.5% favor saddle shoes.... 4.7 % have their own cars (N.B. 4.7 % are never at a loss for dates.).... they rate G. Miller, T. Dorsey, A Shaw, B. Goodman, and Jan Savitt in that order.... And, a co-ed is a female student in a coeducational college or university (see Webster, Noah).
❖
Out of the Bag
Two kittens were watching a tennis match and turning their heads pivot-like as they followed the ball back and forth. One got tired and said, “Let’s go.”
But the other replied, “No, I’m going to stick around—my old man’s in that racket.”—The Pointer
♦>
Bull Dog Bites
At least the Yale undergraduates showed their dental work to Earl Browder who spoke on the campus under the auspices of the Yale Peace Council. During his speech there were frequent shouts of “go back to Moscow” and “vive Hitler.” After the address students and “townies” united in an attempt to overturn the Browder automobile. A quick getaway saved the speaker from any physical harm, but the incident served to prove that Communism holds no allure for even those universities branded as “pinks.” It was a radical element that secured Browder’s appearance, but a popular effrontery bade him “Good-bye, and fare you badly.”
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame Campus Growth Marked by Steady Progress
University Now Boasts Many Modern Buildings
Ninety-seven years of progress! Such has been .the history of Notre Dame and its far-famed campus. Slowly but incessantly six hundred acres of virgin brush and forest and field has grown into seventeen hundred acres of soft green lawns and shaded walks and vine-veiled Gothic walls; a roughhewn log hut has risen to the majestic beauty of a towering Gothic church. And behind these ninety-seven years of campus expansion lies an heroic story. It is a story of utter forgetfulness of self; it is a story of almost incredible pluck; it is a story of extraordinary faith in God.
On a cold November evening in 1842, a young priest, the Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., stood at the door of his solitary log cabin and gazed across the frozen lake and snow-covered slopes that were Ste. Marie des Lacs. He dreamed, but not long. He and his seven companions, brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, laid plans for the construction of a college in the spring. But the winter of 1842-43 was unusually severe and the spring was late. Some of the building contractors defaulted on their agreements and the architect failed to arrive. These adversities, coupled with a lack of Sufficient funds, forced the little group to forego its plans temporarily, but with July came good fortune as seven recruits from France brought the little band to fourteen, and the architect arrived, from Vincennes with workmen. On August 28th the cornerstone of the first college building was laid and by the following June the building was complete. That August Notre Dame held its first commencement.
First Post Office
And then, in 1849, misfortune struck. Fire broke out in the little shops, and the community watched the wTork of months destroyed. But new brick buildings quickly sprang from the ashes of the old ones, and in 1851 Notre Dame built its first post office. Two years later wings were added to the main college building.
In 1865 Father Sorin decided to enlarge the Main Building, by this time too small foi* the increasing students. By September of that year Notre Dame had a Main Building six stories high, surmounted by a golden dome and a statue of Our Lady. The 31st of May, 1866, saw the dedication of that statue.
Main Building Destroyed
Just thirteen years later tragedy hit hard. For in April of 1879 fire completely destroyed the big Main Building, the Infirmary, the Music Hall, and several smaller buildings. But again Father Sorin and his brave little band rose to the occasion. With the same determination that marked their beginning thirty-three years before, they erected an even greater Main Building —a building that has been a focal point of University activity for the last half century. As the century dwindled to a close more structures appeared: Sorin Hall and St. Edward’s Hall; gymnasiums for the seniors, juniors, and minims; Science Hall, Mechanical Hall, the College of Music, Sacred Heart Church, and the Observatory. Notre Dame was growing. The vision of a young priest in the winter twilight was brighter, clearer, less misty.
Ten Years of Progress
With the twentieth century, Notre Dame experienced even greater changes. Badin Hall, named for the heroic priest who preceded Fathei- Sorin to the wilderness of Notre Dame as a missionary, went up. The years flew by. Came 1917 and Notre Dame’s seventy-fifth anniversary. Student and priest alike exchanged civilian clothes for khaki, and textbook for manual of arms. And still Notre Dame grew. A modern library took its place on the west side of the campus, while a new Chemistry Building filled a long-felt need. Students in St. Edward’s rose one morning to see Freshman and Sophomore Halls in their back yard. Walsh Hall, trim and tall, became the residence of the smart set. Notre Dame was on the threshold of the greatest period of expansion in its history.
The roaring twenties came and found
Notre Dame still moving forward — a little slower, perhaps, than was consistent with the spirit of a boisterous, impetuous decade, but laying a firm foundation as it progressed. Over on the west side of the campus the original Gold Coast was dedicated as lucky undergrads moved into luxurious Morrissey, Lyons, and Howard Halls. It was the late twenties that saw crowds of students trooping over to the new Dining Halls three times a day instead of to the old Refectory in the basement of the Main Building. And then—1929. a memorable year for the world and for Notre Dame. For most of the outside world 1929 was the beginning of a great decline; for Notre Dame it was the beginning of the greatest ten years of building in the University’s existence. In ’29 construction was begun on the Law Building, the second of a series of beautiful Gothic structures on the south quadrangle. On a brisk Saturday afternoon of the following fall thousands watched Rock’s last Fighting Irish eleven dedicate the Notre Dame Stadium with a 26-2 win over Navy. Across the quadrangle from the Law Building, in 1931, embryonic industrial tycoons went to classes in the Commerce Building, the gift of the late Edward N. Hurley, of Chicago. Dillon and Alumni Halls, the new Gold Coast, took their place on the quadrangle, to be followed by the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering and the new Post Office. Four years later Cavanaugh Hall, Zahm Hall, and the Biology Building appeared on the northeast end of the campus. Breen-Phillips was built there in 1939. This year was also the first year of activity for the Rockne Memorial, new intramural athletic center.
Present Campus Modern
Today the campus of the University of Notre Dame is one pf the most modern and most beautiful in the United States. The history of its development from a lonely log cabin and one student to forty-five up-to-date buildings and 3,000 students is the history of a group of humble and heroic men — men who had no millions in endowments with which to build. Here and there over the last ninety-seven years gifts of generous friends have made the task lighter; universal Notre Dame subscription brought the Rockne Memorial into being; football revenues have contributed their small share. But by far the greatest endowments granted to the builders of Notre Dame were a purpose and the unwavering faith in God necessary for the fulfillment of that purpose. That is the story of Notre Dame. That is the Spirit of Notre Dame.—Don Foskett
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
OPINION
Top of the Week
The Yankees set the precedent and the Finns are just carrying on.
Lost—one brain
Last week Cy Garvey took a container over to the caf and asked to have it filled with four cups of coffee. The little miss behind the counter somehow lost count and feared that she had given Cy more than four cups. So she called over one of those serge floorwalkers and asked what she should do. He pondered over this grave problem for a full minute and then took the container over to the sink, poured out about half, returned the container to the astonished Cy, and said, “That should be about four cups, I guess.”
Bits from the week-end
At “Jamaica Inn”: Raiders were dashing across the plains to the clatter of hoofs and wheels.... suddenly there was a lull in the noise and a radio back of the screen blared out, “Attention Car 23, go to 125 Western Avenue”.... Charles Laughton was standing on the top yardarm of the ship looking down on the gaping crowd.... j'ust as he was readying himself to j’ump, a wag from the balcony hollered, “Timmmmberrrrr” and down toppled Elsa’s Charlie.... The psychiatry class took a trip to the you know institution at Logansport recently .. .the group came back unexpectedly intact.... rumored that some of the buys got dates for the Prom.... and a small minority were reported homesick.... In Rosie’s—a vision in bifocals and buck teeth.
Short stride
At the Monogram Ball a winsome little miss named Trimble was introduced to Joe DeFranco. She looked up into Joe’s eyes, (if you can imagine anyone that short) and asked him if he played football. Li’l Joe said that he had toyed around with the game on Saturdays. The winsome miss said that she had a cousin also named Trimble who played tackle on Navy. But Joe had had enough, “Trimble, huh? Yeh, I remember now—pushed him all over the field.” It is rumored that this same little miss later asked the orchestra leader to play “My Man” and was squelched with, “It looks like yours is all played out.”
Spooks
The boys went to a seance last week. They gave the spirits two bits apiece and found out the astonishing revelation that one of them would be richer than the others. The payoff came when the medium refused to turn out the lights because she was afraid of the dark.... this week the boys have dug up a new sheet-wearer.... this one can float a trumpet in the air, predict the 1950 Army-Notre Dame score within ten touchdowns, and boasts a psychic cat.
Dividends
Last week the radio club got its fan letter. A young S.B.S. wanted to know who the announcer (Whizzer White) was with the beeyooteeful liquid voice. Not that she was hinting or anything like that but she did have her address in three very conspicuous places on the letter.... and then there was the freshman who walked into the campus studios and seeing Li’l Orson Witkowski for the first time, asked, “Say, who’s da guy wid da fur hat?”
Finesse
High spot of the Glee Club’s concert at St. Mary’s was Bill Mooney whistling across the stage to Don Tiedeman to come out for an encore. The Tiedl came out lugging a briefcase full of music. The pair fussed away in the middle of the stage trying to find Don’s selection, “Ah, Sweet Mystery of Life.” About the time the floor was half covered with composers somebody tossed out another brief-case full of music which everyone mistook for a towel. After attending to a few details such as finding the right key and forgetting part of the words Don finished up an excellent bit of solo work without the further accompaniment of girlish laughter.
Thumbnail sketch
Ray Sadlier—Leslie Howard goes to college.
Sports notice
The student managers announce that tryouts for the kayak team will be held as soon as they find some stationary.
Bottom of the Week
On Friday night the Radio Club exhumed Socrates and rolled him round and round in his grave.
The question of the week—“What did you think of the ‘Fighting Irish,’ 1939?” —is answered by those who should knoiv best, the opposing coaches.
Purdue—Mal Elward: “I think it was a little too early in the season for a game such as Notre Dame and Purdue. Both teams were built up by the newspapers, magazines and radio for this game with the result that I thought it was a fine ball game for an opener, but that it would be hard on both teams later in the season.
“I think the Notre Dame team September 30th performed as all Notre Dame teams have in the past — that means with traditional Notre Dame spirit and every man doing his best.”
Georgia Tech—W. A. Alexander: “We found the Notre Dame team this year to be a typical Notre Dame team: good blockers, hard clean tacklers, and great on following the ball and playing heads up, alert football.”
Southern Methodist — Matty Bell: “The occasion of our football game this past fall with the Notre Dame team was one of the outstanding events on the schedule of the Southern Methodist team. Every member of our squad and all the coaches enj’oyed competing against the Notre Dame team, and although we were unable to defeat them, we have never had a finer reception of cordiality and sportsmanship than was tendered us by your fine coach, Elmer Layden, and his football squad.”
Navy — Maj'or E. E. Larson: “The Notre Dame team which faced the Navy on October 21 in the Cleveland Municipal Stadium was by all odds the finest football machine that the Navy has played. The splendid running and blocking carried out with such precision by the fine array of backs was even to me, who didn’t want to see it, a splendid performance to witness.”
Carnegie Tech — Bill Kern: “Of the three Notre Dame teams we have faced since I have been coaching at Carnegie Tech, I thought this one was the best. It was more resourceful and more alert than either the 1938 or the 1937 teams. Despite the fact that we were able to gain considerable ground against this year’s team, I was greatly impressed by Notre Dame’s defensive strength. The linemen were individually strong and
—See Page 20—
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
December 8, 1939
No. 11.
LAYDEN — McNUTT — FARLEY — STERN — FAMILIAR FACES AT PAST BANQUETS
Valley Alumni Honor Grid Squad at Annual Banquet
Corum Will Toastmaster
Throng of 1,200, Monday
Closing the lid on the football season for another year, the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley will play host to the 1939 Notre Dame football team in the University Dining Halls on Monday evening. The occasion is the twentieth annual Civic Testimonial banquet to the Fighting Irish. With a typically fine array of prominent speakers to entertain and inform those in attendance, the 1939 affair will be one of the best in the long series of banquets. Coaches who sparred with Layden strategy on the gridiron this fall will spar with Layden wit at the head table; University officials will speak; and big names in journalism will give one and all the views of the press.
Bill Corum, erudite and widely read
columnist of the New York Journal American, will serve as toastmaster. Fellow members of the Fourth Estate rank Corum not only an accomplished and witty after-dinner speaker, but also the only sports writer now extant who can roll out of an upper berth ten minutes before station - time, bathe and shave, breakfast heartily, and still tip the porter leisurely ten seconds before the train pulls away from the station.
Supreme Knight Francis P. Matthews, will stay over from the Knights of Columbus banquet, Sunday night, to address the gridiron guests. With him will be many prominent coaches from the ranks of Fighting Irish opponents— Capt. William Wood of West Point, W. A. (Bill) Alexander of Georgia Tech, Mal Elward of Purdue, and Matty Bell of Southern Methodist. Fordham’s Sleepy Jim Crowley, of Four Horsemen fame, will come on from New York to criticize Layden’s blocking.
Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune and former director of athletic publicity under the late Knute Rockne, will go three fast rounds with Warren Brown, famous sports columnist of the Chicago Herald - American, who has been cast in the role of toastmaster and “clean up” speaker at previous banquets.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, will speak, as will Mayor Jesse I. Pavey of South Bend, and President Frank Miles of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph’s Valley.
Captain Paul Fogarty, prominent in Chicago radio, will attend. Captain Fogarty is well known for his impersonations of the late Knute Rockne.
Names of monogram winners of the past season and announcement of the football captain-elect for 1940 will be made by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics and head coach of football. Coach Layden will again officiate at the mass introduction, wherein each squad member rises in turn to answer the roll call.
Traditional Notre Dame songs and additional music will be furnished by a group picked from the famous Notre Dame Band, and directed by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta.—Harry Penrose
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Dillon J. Patterson, ’20..........
George L. O’Brien, ’91............
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., ’23
Frank Miles, ’22....................
Gerald Hoar, ’21, Vice-President
Clarence W. Harding, ’25, Secretary James R. Meehan, ’24, Ass’t. Treas.
Aaron Huguenard, ’22, General Chairman of Banquet
Presiding Officer Frank Miles, ’22, President of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley
Invocation
Toastmaster
Bill Corum
New York Journal American
Civic Welcome Jesse I. Pavey Mayor of the City of South Bend
W. A. Alexander Football Coach, Georgia Tech.
Capt. William Wood
Football Coach, U. S. Military Acad.
Allen H. Elwakd, ’16 Football Coach, Purdue University
Paul Fogarty, ’17
Hon. Francis P. Matthews Supreme Knight, K. of C.
B.
Music for the banquet by the University Concert Band Directed by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta
Dec. 11, 1939
Fruit Cocktail — Maraschino Cream of Chicken — Martha
Celery—Mixed Olives—Burr Pickles Salted Nuts .
Broiled Whitefish — Doria Parsley Potatoes -Filet Mignon Asparagus Hollandaise Iceberg Lettuce—Thousand Island
Stadium Ice Cream Petit Fours Coffee
.Chairman of Board Honorary President ..........Chaplain ..........President
R. Floyd Searer, ’28, Treasurer
Madison Bell Football Coach, South. Methodist U.
Edgar Miller, ’25 Line Coach, U. S. Naval Academy Jack Ledden
Sports Editor, South Bend Tribune James Crowley, ’25 Football Coach, Fordham University Introduction of Team Elmer F. Layden, ’25 Football Coach, U. of Notre Dame Introduction of Guests Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., T6 Vice President, U. of Notre Dame Chairman, Faculty Board of Athletics Warren Brown
Sport columnist, Herald-American Drawing of Autographed Football “The Victory March”
“Wake” Writer Unmasked!
“T.E.B.” Is Fr. Tom Burke
After 20 years of anonymity the founder of the campus school of burlesque poetry, the paraphraser of Hamlet and the creater of “Kokomo Sue,” has been prevailed upon to reveal his identity.
“T.E.B.,” whose signature is one of the best known “by-lines” of the Chicago Tribune and whose rewrite of “Romeo and Juliet” is used as a text by advanced teachers of verse, will be revealed next Wednesday—to those who don’t already know—as the Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C.
A 64 page collection of Father Burke’s poems, both serious and comic, is being published by the Students Activities Council under the title of T.E.B. It will be distributed through the Loop office -of the Tribune, at the Campus Bookstore and at the Bookshop in South Bend. The cost will be 25 cents—autographs extra.
Father Tom Burke, for the benefit of those not personally acquainted with the Bard of the Presbytery, has been both prefect of discipline and professor of English at Notre Dame. In addition, he served for a time as assistant secretary of the University, taught for many years at Columbia (now Portland) University, and has been a member of the Ave Maria staff since 1932.
“Brother Orchid” Opens
Theatre Season, Thursday
The first University Theater production of the year—“Brother Orchid”— will be presented next Thursday and Friday evenings in Washington Hall, at 8 p.m. The play is set in the Chicago of the prohibition era, and depicts the adventures of Little John Sarto as he changes from a gangster to a religious. Jerry Flynn, cheerleader deluxe, takes the leading role of Little John Sarto, alias Brother Orchid.
The co-operative efforts of the three campus organizations, the University Theater, the University orchestra, and the Linnets have been put into the production of the play, which is under the direction of the Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C. Father Coyle has directed two previous productions at Notre Dame, as well as others at the University of Portland.
B
Cornell University has a freshman student who represents the fourth generation of her family to enroll at that institution.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Knights Declare. Sunday
Will Be “Greatest Day”
Hon. Francis P. Matthews, K.S.G., supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus, will be the principal speaker at a banquet Sunday which will climax a full day of ritualistic ceremonies by Notre Dame council and adjoining councils of the second Indiana district. This gathering will climax the greatest day in the history of the Knights of Columbus in this state.
Past state deputy, Harry G. Kitchin, of Richmond, Ind., will be in charge of the rituals. Mr. Matthews was elected supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus at the order’s supreme convention at Seattle last August. He succeeded Hon. Martin Carmody, K.S.G., of Grand Rapids, Mich.
Addresses of welcome to the supreme knight will be i given by Gilbert E. Powell of New Albany, Ind., state deputy of the Indiana jurisdiction, and by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University. Supreme directors Galvin, Miller and Craig together with State Deputies King of Ohio, Babcock of Michigan, and Bolton of Illinois, have been invited to participate.
After the degree work the banquet will be held in the East dining hall where 800 guests are expected to hear the supreme knight welcome the new men into the order. .This is the first invitation that has been accepted by the new supreme knight, who is also a Knight of St. Gregory, and it is expected that he will make important announcements concerning his administration. A one-half hour broadcast over WSBT will include the supreme knight’s speech. Mr. Eli M. Abraham, state chairman of Columbia Squires, will be toastmaster.
Men of importance in public life will attend, including: Lieut. Gov. Schricker, representing Governor Townsend of Indiana; Hon. Michael Fansler, chief justice of the Indiana Supreme Court; and Hon. Jesse Pavey, mayor of South Bend.
The district council of the second Indiana district is composed of Otto P. Geier, district deputy, and the following grand knights: Richard Molia, South Bend; Fred A. Holts, Jr., Elkhart; Timothy R. King, Notre Dame; Francis M. Sloan, LaPorte; David E. David, Mishawaka; and James Fox, Plymouth. All are assisting with arrangements.
The student committee, headed by Joseph J. Gerwe, consists of C. Edward Jacobs, Robert J. Beaudine, John R. Gordon, Thomas Gillespie and Thomas J. Hammond. Music and songs will be furnished by the University orchestra
and Glee Club during the banquet. Soloists from the Glee Club will sing selected numbers.
This great day for the Notre Dame ■Council is a climax of their thirty years of existence. Since its founding in 1910 the Notre Dame council has trans-fered 4,000 men, at least 20% of which, by conservative estimate, have held council, district, state, and national offices in the organization. At the present time there are three Notre Dame men on the supreme board of directors: Leo F. Craig, Sioux Falls, S. Dak., Raymond Miller, and Tim Galvin, both former presidents of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the Univer-
Hon. Francis P. Matthews, K.S.G.
sity, was the first treasurer of Notre Dame Council, which is the oldest and largest, and first in numbers of additions in membership of all student councils. It is four times larger than its nearest competitor.
An interesting program of events is offered by the Council including a general sports program for all members. In the more serious vein there is a study club and a speech club to prepare members for public speaking. Last year it was the knights who made possible the appearance of Paul McGuire on this campus for his lecture on Catholic Action. One of the objectives of the organization is to fit Catholic college men for a prominent part in the field of Catholic Action, so needed in the world today. Last but not least the knights do not neglect the social side of life, which they brighten with three dances a year.
Student Peace Pamphlet
Ready For Publication
The 16-page pamphlet prepared by the Notre Dame Commission for Peace —Snuffed Out—is now in the hands of the Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., prefect of religion. Dr. Francis E. McMahon of the department of philosophy will review the pamphlet before publication, planned for early January.
Hairry Boisvert, chairman of the commission for Peace, collected the reports and recommendation of other members of the committee and has assembled the work. The pamphlet is being prepared with hopes of reaching a greater number of people interested in maintaining a Christian peace. It endeavors to bring before the Catholic world the Christian conception of war and peace and attempts to show the light with which the Catholic student views the war question.
In preparing the work, the Notre Dame committee has had splendid cooperation from the Catholic Association for International Peace.
Appoint Richard Reid
“Catholic News” Editor
The appointment of Richard Reid, K.S.G., of Augusta, Ga., as editor of the Catholic Neivs, official organ of the Archdiocese of New York, was announced recently by Charles H. Ridder, publisher of the Catholic Neivs. Mr. Reid is editor of the Bulletin, offiicial paper of the diocese of Savannah-Atlanta and of the Catholic Laymen’s League of that diocese.
The new editor, a native of Winchester, Mass., and graduate of Holy Cross College has won many honors and college degrees for his devotion to Catholic apologetics. He is now recognized as one of the most scholarly Catholic journalists in the country.
Announcement of Mr. Reid’s appointment will be especially interesting and pleasing to his many friends here at Notre Dame. In 1936 Mr. Reid received the coveted Laetare Medal and since that time has been a frequent lecturer on the campus.
The Catholic News in a recent issue carried the following comment on his appointment: “In announcing the selection of Richard Reid, K.S.G., as the new editor of The Catholic News we are proud to place the future editorial policy of the Catholic News in the hands of one who both in training and qualifications represents the highest type of Catholic journalist. We feel confident he will perpetuate the record of serving the Church set by his predecessors.”
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Student Forum
Final Interhall Debate
To Be Held Next Week
The Value Of Journalism
By William L. Piedmont, Jr.
Modestly tucked away near Old Col
lege and Badin Chapel, are the quarters
of Notre Dame’s department of Journal
Wm. Piedmont
ism. To reach this department, young men go west — library building, northernmost and westernmost corner, ground floor. Overhead, conveniently, is the periodical room; convenient, too, the Log Chapel which attracts wedding parties, and these in turn start careers. Scattered
about the country are oncoming newspapermen who did their first assignment reporting one or another of these weddings.
The course in journalism is an Arts and Letters course, liberal and cultural. Its practical aspect may be recognized in certain instruction strictly journalistic and in the practical application of this instruction by the students.
“Journalese,” it may relieve readers to know, is neither imparted nor desired in the department of journalism at Notre Dame. Good English is desired, and scholarly students from the department of English or elsewhere, are welcome as elective students in journalism. Such elective students increase considerably the probability of their becoming writers.
The Notre Dame Press Club offers these significant findings on “practical journalism as a training school for writers”:
The Press Club, which functions under the auspices of the department of journalism, recently gained a modest amount of recognition in the newspaper field when the club released the results of a nation-wide survey, which had been conducted to determine the value of a journalistic training as a preparation for a “purely” literary career.
The survey polled representative groups of American authors, magazine writers, and newspaper editors to discover the opinion of these men and women as to the value of newspaper work as a training ground for author
ship. To supplement this data, a thorough analysis of Who’s Who was made to determine the number of authors and writers listed with previous journalistic experience.
The results of the survey were sent to several of the more prominent newspapers. The Chicago Daily News utilized the material by basing an advertisement of their newspaper upon the fact, revealed by the survey, that the Daily News had more authors on its staff than any other newspaper which had replied to the survey. The Press Club received credit for this material in the advertisement which appeared on the front cover of the Editor and Publisher magazine.
The results of the survey showed definitely that journalism and authorship, in the sense of newspaper work and writing books, have a close relationship, and that newspaper work is undoubtedly helpful to those who want to make writing a career.
As to some definite figures on the survey, one hundred and forty - nine prominent authors and popular magazine writers were asked three questions:
1.	Have you done newspaper work of any kind?
2.	Has this experience had anything to do with your becoming an author?
3.	Has journalism led many into the literary field?
The results revealed that 54.7 per cent of the authors and writers replying to the questionnaire reported previous journalistic training, and 73.9 per cent of this group attributed to this training a certain measure of their success. All agreed that journalism has led many into the literary field. The opinion was general among those men and women that newspaper training is of great value to the writer in teaching order, arrangement, observation, condensation, and terseness.
•Questionnaires were also sent to the managing editors of 87 leading newspapers in the United States. They were asked to list the members of their staffs who were recognizd authors, and to express an opinion as to the value of newspaper training as a background for a writing career. These men, quite naturally, were enthusiastic in their apprais-
—See Page 35—
The final debate in the interhall series will be held next Wednesday or Friday evening. The exact date will be announced Monday by bulletin. The Junior division winner will match words with the top ranking team in the Senior division. Tentative plans have been made to have Prof. William Coyne, head of the Speech Department and varsity debate coach, judge the debate. The winning team will receive a trophy which will become the property of its hall for a year. The trophy is donated by the Wranglers Club, supervisors of the debates. Morrissey has the trophy at present. The question of the final debate is: Resolved that the United States should maintain a policy of strict isolation in regard to all nations outside the Western Hemisphere engaged in civil or international conflict.
—Robert LeMense
$100 Prize For Best
Essay On Fr. Cavanaugh
The Father Cavanaugh Prize of SI00, donated by an alumnus of the University, will, be awarded this year to the student who writes the best biographical sketch of a person who has contributed to the upbuilding of Notre Dame. The subject of the essay is the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University from 1905 to 1919.
Heretofore, students have been permitted to take as subject for the essay any person who had contributed to the development of the University, but this year a specific subject has been prescribed.
The length of the essay is to be not fewer than 3,000 words nor more than 10,000 words. Three copies of each essay are to be submitted to the Director of Studies or to the head of the Department of English not later than March 16th.
, The Prize committee is composed of Mr. Norbert Engels, chairman; the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and the Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C. Through the courtesy of Mr. Paul Byrne, librarian, a bibliography on the subject of the essay has been placed on reference at the University library.
Special Law Lectures
Judge Malcolm Hatfield, probate judge of Berrien County, St. Joseph, Mich., gave the first of his series of special law lectures last Wednesday. His next lecture is scheduled for 4:30 Tuesday afternoon in the Law auditorium.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Irish Renaissance
by Lawrence Vincent Broughal, C.S.C.
Last week I wrote some hurried comment upon the subject delivered in Washington Hall by Doctor Oliver Gog-arty of Dublin, Ireland. In view of the interest aroused, the Editor of The Scholastic has kindly asked me to supplement those remarks for an All-Irish number he has in preparation. Perforce the demands of time, space and deadline cramp execution. References and exact quotations must give place to long range memory.
Doctor Gogarty, in his discussion of the Role of Ireland in the Present Crisis, referred slightingly, perhaps it was wit, to certain aspects of the so-called Irish Renaissance. He said in effect that the net result observable in Dublin was that not ten persons could speak the Irish language, that is, the Gaelic.
My concern is not with statistics. The heart of the problem is this thing called Renaissance. In its genesis it was called the Gaelic Movement, and had for its purpose the revival of the Gaelic as a living language. There were two trends of thought in Ireland. Wearied of the failure to secure justice for Ireland by constitutional methods, some declared that, if Ireland was a country worth living in, it was a country worth dying for; others thought it would serve no purpose to save the body of Ireland and lose its soul. Hence the Gaelic revival on the one hand and the Easter Rising of 1916 on the other. In the latter some of the brightest spirits of the former were snuffed out.
There is no point in saying that either movement was the sole cause of later developments in Ireland and its final separation from English rule. Both had their share in that happy result.
A further consideration is of deeper significance and greater import. The word ‘Renaissance’ is a borrow from the Middle Ages. Then ‘Renaissance’ and its spurious offspring ‘Humanism,’ were characterized by revolt. The one in the intellectual order, the other in the spiritual. Both vaulted over Aristotle and landed in the lap of Plato. The aim of both was to create the superman. Before the revival of Scholasticism as an offset, many evils had come and those even in the realm of the Church. In these movements most Christian writers discover the seeds of
the Reformation and its consequences, the turmoil of the world today.
It is significant that the chiefly rated protagonists of this Irish ‘Renaissance’ belonged to this last, that is, the Protestant tradition. It is important to note the direction it took, and that was away from the ideal of the original Gaelic movement. As writers, the word ‘mystic’ is often applied to them. But ‘mys-
Rev. L. V. Broughal, C.S.C.
tic’ in the literary sense is something quite different from ‘mystic’ in the religious sense. In consequence, their search for themes for poem, prose or play took them, not to the Irish illumined by the light of Faith, but to the Irish of pre-Christian times shrouded in the mist of myth and superstition.
There is some relevance between mist and mystic and myth. They all merge in German Romanticism. Then it is only a step to Hitler’s racism. At least there is a logical sequence of events culminating today in the echoes of Finland’s heroic stand against the onslaught of godlessness. What does it profit one to lose the God of Beauty for the beauty of literature?
Joyce Kilmer, himself a convert and one of the gallant 69th regiment, “The
Fighting Irish,” wrote from the trenches in France to his wife Aline in New York, “Whatever you write let the light of the Catholic Faith shine through it all. You and I know what the Catholic Faith has done for us. It is such a wonderful thing that I would rather write moderately well about it than magnificently well about anything else.”
Another spectre that arose from the Renaissance was anticlericalism. In its broadest sense it means opposition to religion in any form. Even the pagans had it. For brevity let us identify it as follows:—1) Intellectual, reason versus faith or the denial of the supernatural. 2) Political, the conflict of two ideologies with regard to human governance. 3) Personal, as obtains between individuals because of real or imaginary wrongs.	•
For the first, we shall take the three men pedestaled by Doctor Gogarty as the heart of the Irish ‘Renaissance.’ Swift: Dean of St. Patrick’s, Dublin, a church the English took from the Catholics in the despoilment. The ‘living* was conferred upon him by the English for services rendered. It is doubtful if he believed in God. He made no disguise of his hatred for the Catholic religion. Whatever love he may have had for Ireland, his birthplace, in the abstract, seems to be deduced only from his hatred for England. Yates: He apparently belonged to no formal religious body. His last fling was into Spiritualism. Certainly his friends in their late eulogies have been hard put to make a case for him in the matter of any definite religious belief at all. Shaw: Believes only in himself and at times is in doubt about that.
We may pass over the second form of anticlericalism as having no abiding place in Ireland, that is in relation to its government. The third is nothing that a modicum of common sense on both sides can not erase. Paul Vincent Carroll is an instance. His two plays, “Shadow and Substance” and “The White Steed,” have clerical dominance for their theme. Despite a fine display of parish wrangling, the apparent desire to even scores, in a word to crusade, his principal characters emerge as dominant in the sense that their chief concern is the care of souls. “The Blindness .of
—See page 33— ' ‘
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic

A Scrub at Notre Dame
by R. Emmet Kane
St. Louis University, '96
I don’t want a crown of glory Won on field of battle gory, I think anyone who wants one is insane, But I’ll tell each saint and sinner I’ve a son a big time winner, So I plan to enter him at Notre Dame.
Tiptoe in while he is sleeping, I won’t charge you just for peeping At a sure shot starting out on Victory Lane.
He’s just in this world one minute Still there’s nothing bigger in it And he’ll prove it when he goes to Notre Dame.
Watch his hand with its long fingers, Sammy Baugh and other slingers Never brought a mitt like his into a game.
Pipe the muscles in his kickers, There’s a pair of goal post lickers That will score a million points for Notre Dame.
Stripped he weighs eight pounds, two ounces: I can tell the way he bounces
That he’ll smash his way to everlasting fame. Won’t folks’ eyes pop out in wonder When he tears those lines asunder
That attempt to halt his runs for Notre Dame.
Bands will blare and stands start rocking When my boy is out there blocking, Making countless thousands happy that they came.
Alcatraz has ne’er had shackles
Hard to break as are his tackles
As he mows opponents down for Notre Dame.
He’s a certain first string starter,
Good at full or half or quarter, What he’ll do to Southern Cal will be a shame:
Minnesota, Army, Navy, Camegie—they’ll all be gravy For the team that he directs at Notre Dame.
“All American”—that’s certain,
Long before they drop the curtain,
With the words, “Cum Laude,” added to his name:
And no secret I am broaching,
When I say he’ll do the coaching, A five letter man on leaving Notre Dame.
What’s that, Nurse? You say my towhead
Is no boy—she’s just a coed?
That my dream of football glory’s on the wane?
Well, I vow in life I’ll tarry
To be certain that she’ll marry
Some fine lad who’s won a game for Notre Dame.
“Oh, you gorgeous little creature, You’re your Dad in every feature.
‘Miss America,’ you’ll set the world aflame; — And I tell you—just between us— You’re more beautiful than Venus,
Just because your Dad was ‘Scrub’ at Notre Dame.”

The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
Ode To A Dining Hall <
Me molars is nicked; me bicuspids is bent,	’
Me jaw bone is lame to de ears;
But dem chops wot you gives us shows never a dent, Dat sheep must a lived eighty years.
Ode To A Residence Hall
Dem bunks ain’t a place where a turtle would flop,
If a comfortable stump was in sight; If you want to be nice to me, warden, ole top,
Lemme sleep on de rock pile tonight.
Local Boy Makes Good
How the home town papers should be read:
“Al Goofus, who has been a member of the sophomore class (for three years) at the University of Notre Dame, has left that institution (by request of the Dean) to accept a position (if he can find one) with a large concern in the East, according to word (telegram, collect) received by his parents here. While at Notre Dame, Goofus was prominent (or rather, notorious) in extra curricular activities (including dances, brawls and sprees) and was well known (especially to the Prefect of Discipline) as a man about the campus. He expects to meet with great success (anything would be success after his college career) in his new undertaking (looking for a job) and will probably be heard of (as a vagrant) in the future.”
This week The Scholastic continues “In The Juggler Vein,” a column in the tradition of the late and lamented Juggler. The future of the column depends entirely on campus contributions. Address contributions to Frank Wemhoff, 349 Dillon Hall.
The only man who ever really got his money’s worth out of Broadway is Thomas A. Edison.
That 8:00 Class
Freshman—in class, note books in hand, pencil posed.
Sophomore—running to class.
Junior—eating breakfast.
Senior—just turning alarm clock off.
—Medley.
Takes Time
Monday he told her, “Dear, you know that I love you. That I have always admired you even in summer and winter. Why should we wait any longer when you know that I love you? Say that you will be mine!”
Tuesday he told her, “Honey, I love you as much as I ever did. Can’t you remember all of the good times that we have had together, the Cotillion, the Prom and all? I’ll always love you. Won’t you marry me?”
Wednesday he told her, “Sweetheart I will always think of you. We can’t go along without one another. Say that you will be mine!”
Thursday he told her, “Just as long as the stars shine overhead, I will care for you. Dearest, I can’t wait another week, say that you will.”
Friday he told her, “All last night I could not sleep, you were constantly in my mind. I must have you for my wife. Tell me that you love me and I will be the happiest man alive.”
But it wasn’t any use, every one of the five girls turned him down.
As Chaucer Would Say It
A place there ben in this fair land of ours
Wher belles do wake the sonne at erly hours.
Ful long before his wonted tyme to ryse And cok does quit his dremes in grete surpryse
At szvich an erly mom; anon he crowes His morwe-tyde; thanne sleepily he goes, Takes up his perche and soone sleeps withal.
But an N. Dame, in everich halle
The college boys are yanken out of bed, Som by ther fet and some eek by ther hed.
❖
“Why did Joe get sore at his blind date?”
“She forgot and asked him for a ticket after each dance.”
❖
A.	“Wanna take my sister to a house party?”
B.	“What does she look like?”
A. “I’ll pay half your expenses.”
B. “No, thanks, I gotta date.”
“I just »aw 'South Bend Sue*.”
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1 S 6 7
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, Nezes Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
•William Kelleher, Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Inquiry Into Tradition
SOMETIMES we can live so close to a tradition that we lose sight of its origin. We forget the traditional name of Notre Dame athletic teams was not born casually on the football field — “Fighting Irish” came from the spirit of the age in which the University was founded.
The preponderance of immigrants in the early nineteenth century were Irish. They settled among people of English descent, in a land where Irish and Catholics were unwelcome. Prejudice was everywhere. In South Bend, for instance, there is still a College Street, named for the institution—now a warehouse—that was raised up in hurried opposition to Father Sorin’s school by the lake.
The prejudice did not grow weaker as Notre Dame grew stronger. It was carried over into the nickname “Fighting Irish,” which was applied contemptuously to Notre Dame teams from the very beginning of athletic competition with outside schools. At early football games, “hod-carrying” parades took the place of band maneuvers; doggerel chanted from the stands indicated the spectators knew enough French to translate the name of the University.
. The resentment of the players—many of them neither Irish nor Catholic—was evident in the fierceness of their play. They began to win. Rockne and'Dorais,
Donald Foskett,
, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
a Norwegian and a Frenchman, a Protestant and a Catholic, led a squad of “Fighting Irish” to the plains above West Point, and there they gave new meaning to a phrase—an insult had become a tradition.
But the war period and its accompanying hysteria brought about a reaction against identifying groups of nationals. Critical sports writers — not knowing the background of the tradition —examined Rockne’s squad lists and began to discredit “Fighting Irish.” Headline writers picked up the taglines, “Ramblers” and “Nomads.”
Only aggressive action from the campus saved “Fighting Irish.” Many of the veterans who. will attend the annual football banquet, Monday evening, will ’ remember an earlier banquet when the late Father John Cavanaugh, then President Emeritus, arose to address “some special remarks to the gentlemen of the press.” As usual, many of the prominent sports writers of the country were present. To them, Father Cavanaugh explained that Notre Dame was tenacious of her time honored name, and that any pretext to discredit “Fighting Irish”— the minority of Irish names on the football roster, for instance—showed only an ignorance of underlying tradition. He reminded them that Eichenlaub and Gipp, Dorais and Rockne—none of them Irish, Gipp and Rockne not even Catholic—had played their part in the building of a tradition. When the white
haired priest, one of the great orators of his time, finished speaking, “Fighting Irish” was on the way back into the American vocabulary.
But the victory was- not complete, Father Patrick Carroll, now editor of the Ave Maria and faculty adviser to The Scholastic in 1925, wrote editorials that are still tacked onto our office walls. Father Lawrence Broughal succeeded him and kept up the fight. He posted bulletins and blue-penciled copy. We firs^ heard the story of “Fighting Irish ” from him at a Scholastic staff meeting, the second week of our Freshman year. Jim Kearns, the Chicago Daily Nezes columnist who edited the Scholastic in 1934, still tells the story of the unfortunate S. A. C. president who incurred “Father Larry’s” wrath by hanging a “Rambler” banner across the main quad on Homecoming Day. The banner remained aloft just nine minutes.
Today most newspaper editors—even if they do not understand the tradition —have gone back to “Fighting Irish” out of deference to periodic requests sent out by the athletic publicity office. The spirit that first gave rise to “Fighting Irish” has nearly vanished from the midlands. We recall but one unpleasant flareup in the past four years—and we expect a lesson in good football and good manners to remedy that situation come next harvest.
Traditions are too elusive for words and are not to be tapped out on a typewriter, but there is a greater thrill to the march of the backs when you understand the tradition inherent in the words written across the following page — “Fighting Irish, 1939.”—William C. Fay
Peace Movement
SENIOR Class President Harry Boisvert and his Peace Committee will have accomplished something really concrete when their pamphlet Snuffed Out rolls from the presses early in January.
Collegiate journals have made full use of the present war situation. Every mail brings additional surveys and questionnaires to be answered. Later these appear as polls, shouting the news that so many thousand college students are “Against War,” or “Favor Preparedness.”
But the Senior class pamphlet-will be the first real definition of “Peace.” Not only will it say war is wrong, but it will speak the language of ethical Christian principles.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
“Scholastic” Photo by Giedeman
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Monogram Winners, Coaches Select All Opponent Team
The Foot in ]
Haman, Lansdell are Unanimous Choices
Never does December roll around without a deluge of “all” football elevens. Everybody picks one—sports editors, radio commentators, high school kids, and yes, even football players. They say no one knows mouse traps like the man who builds them. And we maintain that football players know each other far better than anyone else knows them. After all, you can’t see from a box seat whether a guard is falling on his face or being driven to the ground with a merciless forearm shiver; you can’t see from the pressbox if an end is really worth his weight in newspaper clippings. With this in mind The Scholastic presents its All-opponent team of 1939, picked by twenty members of this year’s Notre Dame varsity, Head Coach Elmer Layden, Manager Neil Geary, Publicity Director Joe Petritz, Jack Led-den of the South Bend Tribune, and End Coach Joe Benda.
Ends
Notre Dame opened the season against a Purdue team that played hard, smashing defensive football. In a line that refused to let the Irish go anywhere in particular all afternoon, Dave Rankin stood out. He broke up passes; he nabbed plunging fullbacks, while protecting his own territory. Bob Winslow, of Southern California, was no stranger to Johnny Kelly and his boys when the Trojans appeared here last month, for last year he played brilliant defensive and offensive football against the Irish. Winslow picked right up where he left off; only an injury at the close of the first half prevented him from shining even brighter than he did.
Tackles
Ask any Notre Dame back what opposing player he met most often on the wrong side of the scrimmage line and he’ll name Harry Stella, Army’s great tackle. Great as he is in other games, Stella seems to be at his best when he plays against Notre Dame. Mike Enicb, of Iowa, was one of the Hawkeyes’ 60-minute men this year. He dished out 60 minutes of bruising football to the Irish this fall, and was a big factor in holding Stevenson, Sitko, and company in check.	' •
Guards
Well, Harry Smith, of Southern Cal, lived up to the press clippings all right. A couple of hundred pounds of dynamite is bound to cause a disturbance in anybody’s backyard on Saturday afternoon. Yes, Mr. Smith, you’ll do. Carnegie Tech’s Bill Reith didn’t weigh as much as friend Smith, but he was just as tough. Bored with life in the middle of the line, Reith spent the afternoon covering the whole field, for everywhere the Notre Dame backs went, there was Mr. Reith.
Center
There’s no doubt about this one. John Haman, Northwestern’s finest center in years, was a unanimous choice. In the^ line or out of the line he was equally effective.
Backs
The Irish lettermen picked five backs. Put these boys on the same team and they’ll give any all-star team a run for its money. Grenny Lansdell, of Southern Cal, had plenty of holes opened for him, but it really didn’t make much difference, for time after time he ran over players and through players and even carried them on his back. Merlyn Condit, great Carnegie Tech halfback, averaged four yards a try against the Irish, carrying the ball on nearly every play. Pres Johnston, of S'.M.U., scored twice against Notre Dame. He picked up the yards when the Mustangs needed them. Don Clawson, Northwestern fullback, impressed the Irish as few sophomores ever do. The hardest driving back Notre Dame faced all year, he will bear watching in the future. Well, the Irish couldn’t forget Nile Kinnick and his coffin-corner kicking, the big reason they couldn’t get started against the Hawkeyes.
Lesser Lights
Other opponents who earned the respect of the Irish were: Ends—Bob Ison, Georgia Tech, and Bill Fisk, U.S.C.; Tackles—Al Bergner, Navy, and Pete Dobrus, Carnegie Tech; Guards—Frank Bykowski, Purdue, Hal Method, Northwestern, and Neil Cavette, Georgia Tech; Backs — Bob Hoffman, U.S.C., Johnny Bosch, Georgia Tech, Art Front-czak, Army, Ray Mallouf, S.M.U., Mike Byelene, Purdue, Lou Mayo, Navy, George Muha, Carnegie Tech, and Jim Dubuisson, Army.—Eddie Huff
Nosed Out—John McIntyre Breaks Through Conversion as Ctrr
POSITION	NAME
Left End			Dave Rankin
Left Tackle			Harry Stella
Left Guard			Harry Smith
Center.			John Haman
Right Guard			Bill	Reith
Right Tackle				Mike	Enich
Right End			Bob Winslow
Quarterback		.. Grenny Lansdell
Left Halfback.....		....Nile Kinnick
Left Halfback		..Preston Johnston
Right Halfback..		Merlyn Condit
Fullback			Don Clawson
4
SS'
Fieldgoal—John Kelleher Place Kicks From tlx £ To Defeat^

The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
i Irish Football
Splinters From The Pressbox
by Frank Aubrey
■gh Tech Defenders to Block. Muha’s Attempted ,s Ctrnegie Falls, 7-6

TEAM	VOTES
11	Purdue University ............19
a	Army .........................25
h	U. Southern California........21
1	Northwestern U................26
h	Carnegie Tech ................12
h	Iowa University ..............16
y	U. Southern California .......10
U	U. Southern California .......26
k ' Iowa University ............... 9
“	Southern Methodist U.......... 9
t	Carnegie Tech ................21
11 Northwestern U............-.....19
Years from now many of us will gather round the wassail howl and bend the elbow to the good old days of ’39.
Practically everybody will have etched into his mind those breathless few seconds of the Purdue game while Mike Byelene was travelling loose. Mike was one step away from clear-sailing for a Purdue victory when Piepul’s desperate clutch dragged him down—after twenty yards of agony for the Irish stands. Johnny Kelleher had. emerged from the nondescript ranks of the bench to kick the field-goal that gave Notre Dame the lead; it also served to spur an Irish laissez-faire policy for the rest of the game. Anyway, here’s to the Purdue game. Bottom’s up!
And of course there was that boy Bosch from Georgia. We didn’t know from one moment to the other what he was going to do—or how to stop him. He’d pass—like a bullet to Ison or Gibson—then he’d run, or he’d fake both and do the opposite. Best bet was to keep the ball ourselves. Bob Hargrave was the second of our quarterbacks to bloom suddenly. It was Bob who master-minded those two touchdown sweeps in quick succession in the second quarter—and how he laid out those blocks too! How about another round? Sure c’mon—make it a toast—to the march through Georgia!
No use pickin’ out the high points of the S.M.U. game, fellers. It was one continuous roar from where we sat. Expected the Mustangs to pass and they ran us ragged early in the game while we did the passing. Those two shots from Stevie to Kerr and then to Lou put us in the money. It was anybody’s dice all the way through, but we made our point once too often for the southerners to take the pot. How about one on the house, garcon?
The snappiest bit of that 400 yards gained through the Navy was the 27 picked up by a little jack-rabbit, Sheridan, when he whisked over untouched for the first six markers. But the way the Moose was blasting through that line he piled up enough yards and Navy tacklers to win four games. You’ve got to hand it to the Midshipmen though— outclassed throughout, they passed beautifully in the last period to score. Well, we sunk the Navy, now let’s down a few more. Hey, boy!
We say it’s a fine thing on a Catholic
campus like this which advocates the ten commandments and the tenets of J. Edgar Hoover when one of our athletes has to resort to common thievery to win a football game. Well then, we demand that Bill Kerr return immediately the ball he took from Merlyn Condit at Pittsburgh on October 28, 1939. It’s beside the point that Bill won the game with this theft, for we won’t give up the game—will we, boys? Let’s have one to bigger and better crimes.
On the field where Army’s Light-horse Harry Wilson turned in some great performances we saw another Light-horse Harry hold the spotlight. With his passing and hard-running Stevie turned the Yankee Stadium into another Irish bedlam this year. While Harry was riding rough-shod over the soldiers’ first line of defense, our 1940 right-half hope, Steve Bagarus, grabbed an Army pass and frisked down the chalk-line for the 6-point clincher. A week later another Steve grabbed an Iowa pass but before he got far he was frisked, Iowa falling on the ball near our goal. Sitko saved one threat with this play, but cost a lot of us some gasping moments. Toward the end though Milt Piepul was costing Iowa some gasping moments with his powerful charges. Fill ’em up, Mr., we’re a little low right now.
It took seven attacks to capture the Northwestern gonfalon, but how we did it! That guy Hargrave started things with a 50-yard return of a Wildcat punt. Before that, lil’ Benny scampered 50, but didn’t hit the pay-dirt, and then later sprinted 50 yards across the field to nail Chicago’s own DeCorrevont who was away for a touchdown. All three of these plays, however, were but samples of what was yet to come against the Trojans. During that first quarter John D. himself wouldn’t have risked a dime on Notre Dame—it was all U.S.C. But after the session in the locker-room the old Irish fight began to crop out and it was hell-for-leather the rest of the way. Zipping passes, driving tackles, and solid blocks got us into the ball game. Two perfect plays were run off, one with Sheridan carrying for 60 yards and another by U.S.C. with Schindler carrying. .. . Despite the Trojans relentless attack, the final gun found us within 10 yards of another score — Just wouldn’t give up. That calls for another one . . . More cokes all around, Mister.
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing By Pete Sheehan
Irish Gridmen Finish
Season With 7 Wins
Varsity football men are before the public eye from September to December. Witness a neighborhood gridiron fracas and you will hear the kids calling one another, “Zontini,” “Sheridan,” “McIntyre,” “Riffle,” etc. Pick up the newspapers and you’ll read about their pigskin achievements. Go to the mo-vies and see them in action on the screen. Turn on your radio and hear about their favorite cereal.
What about the “B” team
men? Their only claim to fame lies in that worn out campus wise crack, “I was plenty good in high school.”
Prior to the Southern Cal game the papers publicized the sixteen seniors who would be making their last appearance under the Fighting Irish banner. There wasn’t a word about nineteen other seniors who were going to sit on the varsity bench for their first and last time. When the battle was over they ran out with the squad and nobody cheered. No one thought of singing “Auld Lang Syne.”
Yet these boys have never missed a practice in four years. They have played against the varsity — one of the nation’s best — not one Saturday a season, but whenever their coach decided to scrimmage them. Some of them were chosen to emulate Schindler, Kinnick, Condit, Stella, and other opposing stars. This was not a mere
honor but a chance to teach the varsity how these men could be stopped.
Some of them are too small for the varsity. Others haven’t the speed of Saggau. A few have fumblitis, and the coaches are unable to prescribe a cure. But everyone of them is out there trying to make the varsity all the tougher.
They don’t learn the Notre Dame system, alone. Frequently the- reserves are called on to aid the freshmen and learn the formations of the next opponent. Therefore they cannot employ any system in a smooth, polished, manner.
Bill Cerney, “B” team coach, works .with-them during the week but scouting duties force him to turn them over to “Jake” Kline whenever they are scheduled to play. However, Coach Kline
had an easy season as only one game, from an original schedule of five, was played. This was against St. Francis, of Loretto, Pa., and the “B” team won, 13 to 0.
The “B” squad, however, is not a burying ground for mediocre gridmen. Every man is given his chance to show in practice and when he arrives, he is immediately elevated to an “A” squad berth. “Bunny” McCormick, Paul Mor
'for All' SQUAD DAAN tT LoaKs A BiT suspicious PqiUDEXTER
rison, Bill Hofer, and Mario Tonelli are stars of recent years who spent their early days with Bill Cerney’s team. Frank Biagi, “Boody” Albert, Johnny Kelleher, Pete Arboit, and Chuck Riffle are all graduates of the reserve squad.
Let us remember, as we sit in the stadium or by the radio, that there is a “B” squad and that they are an integral part of Notre Dame football. Unlike the “A” squad men their enjoyment on the gridiron is unsupplemented by newspaper clippings, pictures, and autograph hunters.
Senior honor-roll: Adamonis, Archer, Aubrey, Blake, Bond, Baddour, Burns, Curran, Hrachovec, Kelly, Karr, Kuhlman, .Liston, Mizerski, Pieri, Saffa, Saitta, Sullivan, Windheim.
As Elmer Layden sauntered into the athletic storeroom last week and hung his canvas pants and his cleated shoes on a peg until next spring, he must have been a pretty satisfied gentleman. For Elmer Layden had just seen his sixth season as head man of Notre Dame football come to a close. Looking back to 1934, he pondered on the record books of six seasons—in 54 games played, his teams had won 40 games, lost 11, and tied three against the most gruelling opposition available. And 1939 was as good a year as any of them, with the possible exception of 1938. In the following paragraphs appears a resume of the high spots of that fine season of 1939.
Notre Dame 3; Purdue 0
The Boilermakers pitted Brock and Byelene against Saggau and Zontini in a rugged defensive battle which, produced no offensive threats through three quarters. Early in the fourth quarter Thesing turned Rankin’s end for 20 yards to carry the Irish attack inside the ten yard line for the first time. On fourth down Layden sent in Johnny Kelleher, a third string senior quarterback, who lifted himself from anonymity by splitting the uprights from the 17 yard line for the winning field goal.
Notre Dame 17; Georgia Tech 14
In the first quarter little Johnny Gu-banich covered a fumble on Tech’s 23. On fourth down Harry Stevenson place kicked what ultimately were the decisive points from the 27 yard line. The Engineers retaliated, recovering Sag-gau’s blocked kick on the Irish 14, then scoring in three slashes at the line. Ector scored the touchdown.
The Irish then put on their finest offensive display of the season. Six plays, Saggau’s flat pass to Zontini, and alternate spinners by Thesing, Saggau and finally Zontini, produced the touchdown. Zontini added his seventh point from placement. Four more offensive thrusts —one a 24 yard pass from Saggau to Kerr — brought the second touchdown. Zontini place-kicked the seventeenth point.
In the third quarter Tech recovered a fumble on the Irish 34. Bosch hit Ison with a long pass in the end zone. Tech trailed by only three points, but the Irish staved off a late aerial attack and were on the march when the game ended.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
NOTRE DAME VARSITY SQUAD — 100 MEN — AND A COACH
Notre Dame 20; Southern Methodist 19
Presto Johnston rammed home the first Methodist touchdown four minutes after the kickoff—Thesing’s fumble on the Irish 15 setting up the play. The Irish erased the seven point deficit three plays later, when Stevenson pitched from midfield to Zontini unmolested on the two yard line. Zontini’s placement tied the score.
In the second quarter the Methodists marched 50 yards behind Mallouf’s accurate passes. The touchdown came from the five yard line when Belville faked a plunge, then lateralled to Mallouf who ran wide around right end to score. Again the Irish evened matters immediately, as Saggau, Zontini and Piepul hammered the Mustang tackles; with Piepul bulling the ball across to end the .march from midfield.
Sheridan and Bagarus, pony halves, ran the Mustang ends to set the stage for Piepul’s second touchdown—a ten yard smash through center. Kelleher added the important twentieth point. In the final seconds the Mustangs blocked and recovered Stevenson’s punt on the Notre Dame three yard line. Johnston rode over tackle to score standing up.... but Sanders’ conversion flew wide and the Irish continued undefeated.
Notre Dame 14; Navy 7
A powerful Irish attack battered Navy’s forward wall for 419 yards from scrimmage and 21 first downs. The first touchdown came on the first play of the second half when Sheridan swep't right end for 27 yards. Kelleher added
another extra point. Late in the third period, Piepul stepped across from the one-yard line to terminate a 64 yard march—featured by Zontini’s slashes at tackle.
Navy scored half way through the final quarter. Leonard passed high and long straight down the center to White-head who had worked behind the Notre Dame safety man. The pass was good for 62 yards. Whitehead also scored the seventh Navy point from placement.
Notre Dame 7; Carnegie Tech 6
The Irish nosed out the Scots. In the - last two minutes McIntyre placed his face between Muha’s tying conversion and the goal posts. The soggy ball bounced nearly to midfield before Kerr recovered to insure the 7-6 victory. Earlier in the third quarter Kerr ripped the ball from Condit’s arms on the Tech 20 and ran for the touchdown. Zontini booted home the placement which proved the margin of victory.
Tech scored in the closing moments, crashing downfield from its own 11 yard line. Condit swept right end and reached midfield before Crimmins knifed through two Carnegie blockers to make the tackle. The Irish first team returned and seemingly had the Tartans halted at the 20 yard line when Kerr deflected Condit’s fourth down pass. But White came from nowhere to field the loose ball, then twisted to the six yard line. Three plays later Condit plunged across.
Notre Dame 14; Army 0
The first quarter was ho-hum; then early in the second period Finneran
picked up a fumble on the Army 30. Crimmins and Thesing made it first down on the 20. Stevenson passed to Arboit on the seven, then swept right end on the following play to score. Army reached the Notre Dame five-yard line in the third quarter, but Brosey stopped a fourth down play at tackle. Long punts moved Army back, to its 19, where a desperate pass by Hatch was intercepted by Bagarus on the Army 40, and run back for the second touchdown. Stevenson added his second conversion to make the final score, 14-0.
Iowa 7; Notre Dame 6
And the miracle that was Iowa began to happen. Sitko intercepted Kinnick’s pass in the end zone, was trapped and hit hard on the three-yard line. His attempted lateral to Zontini bounced into a swarm of Iowa players. Twice the Irish line held, but Kinnick lunged into the end zone on his third effort, then dropkicked the conversion which eventually defeated the Irish. The half ended a minute later.
The Irish always threatened after that, but scored only once, late in the third quarter, when Piepul plunged four yards to culminate a 49-yard drive. Zontini’s place kick spun wide. The game ended in a wild flurry of Irish passes— address unknown.
Notre Dame 7; Northwestern 0
Eight times during the first three quarters Notre Dame drove down inside the Northwestern 30-yard line, but each time the Purple defense stiffened. Sec
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
onds before the half ended, Bill De Cor-revont, making his first start against Notre Dame, frustrated one touchdown gallop from his safety position by slowing the interference until reinforcements came up from the rear to knock down Sheridan on the Wildcat 25.
In the fourth quarter Northwestern hopes rose when DeCorrevont punted to Hargrave, who was trapped along the sideline on the Notre Dame nine-yard line. But the Irish quarter shook off two tacklers, then ran the sideline 50 yards to the Wildcat 41. Juzwik ran wide around left end to the nine-yard line. Two plays later Piepul carried the Northwestern line into the end zone. Zontini picked up a low pass from center, sprinted diagonally to the left, slid into the end zone corner to score the seventh point from scrimmage.
Southern California 20; Notre Dame 12 .
Just like that the Trojans marched 67 yards to score the opening touchdown. It was Lansdell who led the march and Lansdell who scored the touchdown. Then In the second quarter the Trojans, with Nave up in the quarterback post, were on the Irish two-yard line, but Kerr’s vicious tackle from the side jarred the ball from Nave’s grasp. Stevenson recovered in the end zone for a touchback. The timer’s watch halted the Irish counter-attack on the Trojan five-yard line as the half ended.
Piepul scored on the first play of a mad fourth quarter, bumping off left tackle on a reverse. Sheridan threw four perfect passes to set up the touchdown. But the Trojans struck back. Lansdell and Robertson slashed 42 yards off the tackles in a sustained drive that
culminated in Lansdell’s second touchdown. Jones added the conversion which ultimately swung the game to Troy.
Sheridan matched Lansdell’s touchdown 20 seconds later when he sprinted 60 yards through left tackle on a reverse. The brisk crosswind caught Kelleher’s attempt to convert. Desperate, the Irish failed to complete a fourth down pass on their 40. The Trojans took over and Schindler cut back off left guard to sprint 35 yards for the final touchdown. Jones added a superfluous conversion.—Tom Powers
Twenty-One Seniors End
Careers Against U.S.C.
When the mighty Trojans of Southern California with their outstanding “power-house” play handed the Irish their second defeat of the season two weeks ago, twenty-one Irish regulars witnessed the finale to their college football careers and the final entry of their names into the grand history of Notre Dame.
As the last minutes of game ticked off and the Irish squad fought unsuccessfully to stave off the herculean drives of the Californians, Coach Layden, sent the retiring seniors, one by one, to the showers and shoved in armies of substitutions of new men who will carry the brunt of the battle for next year. Unwillingly, these men trotted down the sidelines while a grateful student body loudly applauded.
Off the Notre Dame gridiron for the last time went one-fourth of Notre Dame’s 1939 varsity—the first and second string quarterbacks, Steve Sitko and John Kelleher; four great halfbacks,
Sheridan, Zontini, Stevenson, and Corgan; first team fullback, Joe Thesing; four dependable ends, All-American Bud Kerr, Captain John Kelly, Frank Biagi, and Bob Barber; three centers, first, second and third string, respectively, McIntyre, Finneran, and Mooney; four guards, DeFranco, Riffle, Ames, and Sullivan; and three tackles, Harvey, Albert, and O’Neill.
Opinion
(Continued from page 6) exceptionally fast, and it was most difficult to put effective blocks on them. In pure offensive drive, I thought the 1937 and 1938 teams might have had an edge on this one, but defensively and in all-around efficiency and balance, the 1939 team ranks ahead of them.”
Army—Captain William Wood: “The Notre Dame team was far more efficient in all departments of play than any other team we have met on the schedule to date. The squad itself showed evidence of fine coaching and smart handling as regards physical condition, as the players did not at any time seem to let up or to need substitution due to injuries or exhaustion. The team was well equipped offensively and defensively, and at all times seemed to possess the ability to bounce back under difficulty, time and time again. The most characteristic feature of its play to my mind was the fact that they never failed to take advantage of any opening or op' portunity that we presented them with. It is a team of which you may well be proud, and has a hard punch both offensively and- defensively.”
Iowa — Eddie Anderson: “I thought
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
Notre Dame had a very excellent football team. It was a team with a great deal of poise and I believe the best defensive team we met all year. It was also a very good offensive team and one that sold itself completely to the crowd.”
Northwestern — Lynn Waldorf: “At Northwestern we felt that your 1939 team was an exceptionally steady team, which played consistent football throughout the season. They were alert and made good use of the scoring opportunity in the fourth quarter in our game in the series of plays starting with Hargrave’s punt return for 50 yards.”
Southern California — Howard Jones: “Notre Dame is the strongest team we have faced this year. ’ When that club gets the ball, anything can happen. We were always worrying about the time when some of your backs would break away. Sheridan did. I’m certainly glad it didn’t happen again. It must have been a great game to watch.”
Fencers Strong In Foil
And Saber, Weak in Epee
The swords have been ‘buttoned,” the masks are mended, and the Irish fencers are ready to lunge out into their fifth winter season. With practice sessions already begun in the apparatus room of the fieldhouse, Coach Walter M. Langford is preparing the Notre Dame fencing team for the coming competition. Working with the nucleus of seven experienced men and the replacement ma-
Congratulations
TO THE 1939 Football Team!
GILBERTS
813 S. Michigan So. Bend, Ind.
South Bend’s LARGEST Store for Men
terial from a promising group of last year’s freshman squad, Coach Langford hopes to rally a body of sword-wielders that can continue the winning ways of the past.
The foil seems to be well taken care of, since Captain Bob Sayia, John Gaither, Russ Harris, and Hubert Schlafly have proved their worth last year with the light sword. The saber division will have Joe Smalley, John Gavin and Jerry Donovan fighting for those points. However, in the epee, the only experienced man is versatile Smalley. Around this group Coach Langford plans to build the team with various sophomores having an opportunity to prove their worth in competition and gain experience for next year.
A tentative schedule has been arranged. Detroit will open here Jan. 13. Other matches are planned with Northwestern, Michigan State, Ohio State, Marquette, Wisconsin, Washington (St. Louis), and Chicago.
This is Professor Langford’s first
“The Traditional Christmas Store”
GIFTS of GLAMOUR
for the women in your life
Perfumes
To prove you're scent-imental ...$1.00	up
Compacts
She never has too many! ........ $1.00	up
Costume Jewelry
Dazzle her with a gift that glitters_$1.00 up
Smart Handbags
Distinctive bags for every type.........$2.00 up
From. Our Street Floor
year as the fencing coach; he replaces former Professor Pedro de Landero, who was instigator of fencing here and under whose coaching the team had two undefeated seasons. AU of the rest were winning years.
More than 50 freshman aspirants have answered the caU for practice. Preliminary training and instruction has been started with a freshman elimination tournament to be held this winter as the season’s climax.—John Quinn
Keoganites Seek Revenge
Here Against Wisconsin
Wisconsin, with four veterans of last year’s quintet again on the scene, wfll invade the Notre Dame gym next Tuesday night for a basketbaU battle with -Coach George Keogan’s Irish.
DuPui and Smith at the forwards, England at center, and Rondell, a guard, all played on the Badger club which defeated the Irish last year.
Kislav Gloves
Glorified kids for her glove life__$3.00 pair
Gold Stripe Hosiery
The hose she prefers— Gold Stripe!____$1.00 pair
Handkerchiefs
Dainty, feminine . .. . ideal for anyone......25c up
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Commenting on the work of his team to date, Keogan said: “We are still experimenting, trying to find a combination that will work to best advantage together. Basketball is a team game. A man must fit into his group, be able to work with four other men.
“We were ragged in the opener; we can’t afford to be slipshod against an experienced opponent such as Wisconsin.”
There is no doubt that the game with the Badgers will be filled with moments of good basketball. Two years ago, Paul Nowak scored a field goal to beat Wisconsin by one point. Last year the game was close all the way.
On paper the Badgers appear* * to have the stronger team. But there is plenty of ability to be found in the Irish ranks. It’s a toss-up.—John Patterson
DISC - CUSSION
Hal Kemp, on his recording of “Last Night” and “Many Dreams Ago,” makes plausible the statement of the George-
• town Hoya’s record
reviewer that Kemp is N. D.’s favorite band. More records like this and he would be America’s favorite. Bob Allen is pleasant on “Last Night” and Nan
Wynn is terrific on a swell song— “Many Dreams Ago.” Kemp is rapidly returning to the style that made him o.k., Georgetown. (Victor)
This same reviewer reports that Glenn Miller, despite the inevitable Eberle, is tops at the great Jesuit university. His record of “My Prayer” and “Blue Moonlight” makes that logical too. Both are beautiful songs, though of the two I prefer Dana Suesse’s “Blue Moonlight” which is more than just another melody. Even Eberle seems less annoying than usual and leader Glenn put his heart in his songs. (Bluebird)
Who but Raymond Scott, of the six man quintet fame, would compose and record “New Years Eve in a Haunted House” and “The Girl with the Light Blue Hair?” The first is about what you would expect but what could you expect from the second? While not quite as good as some of Scott’s other numbers, both of these are very worthwhile, if you like your music on the satirical side. (Columbia)
The University of Illinois whose football team so soundly whipped “Glamour Boy” Harmon and company, is, I hear,
still infatuated with Artie Shaw and particularly his pairing of “A Table in the Corner” and “Without a Dream to My Name.” Miss Helen Forrest, who needs her excellent voice, does the vocals soothingly without any histrionics. If it’s true that Shaw is about to retire, young America will really suffer a loss. (Bluebird)
Record Distance Trio
Head Frosh Prospects
Bill Mahoney looks mighty happy these days. Some observers lay it to one cause, others to different reasons. Confidentially, we can tell you it is because of this year’s freshman track team.
Mahoney, track coach of the yearlings, reports that prospects this year are unusually good. This is not limited to any one event, either. When the first call is issued, about two weeks before Christmas, it will be evident that these good tidings are true.
In the distances, Maloney, Hunter and Conforti stand out. These three recently broke the local freshman record in the cross-country run. In the shot put, Delaney has been impressive; Wood and Gibson have done well in the sprints; and Dillon, and Nicholson (son of the Notre Dame varsity track coach) have showed best in the hurdles. The outstanding man in the quarter-mile thus far has been Tupta.
Though these men have looked best
“The old have forgotten and the young have never learned,” writes Prof. Manion, “that relationship and responsibility of man to his Creator is the root and stem of our American democracy.”
Every American should read this book. We all need—
"Lessons in Liberty"
A study of God in Government, by Prof. Clarence Manion $1.50
A Lasting Christmas Gift!
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan Street
in practice, there are others who will play just as important roles, once things get under way. Several outstanding contenders are expected from the freshman football team, in particular for the weight events.
When Coach Mahoney thinks his men are ready, there will be a series of telegraphic meets with Big Ten schools.
—Joe Palmer
YOUR RELIGION
The philosophers tell us that it is the function of the soul in the human composite to give existence and specific existence to man. In less philosophical language, it is the soul which makes us to be and to be precisely what we are. Consequently, it is by the soul that we are distinguished essentially from everything else. It is at once the principle of life in man and of the unity of this composite being. It is the radical source of all the activities that go on within us and that we exercise externally. Though composite and made up of many systems and organs, each having its own particular end and function, order and harmony and final unity of action is insured in man by the over-lordship of the rational soul. So long as this internal
Buy your
GIFTS
FOR MEN
at the
Men's Shop
Renfranz-Rasmussen
106-108 South Main Street (Opposite Court House)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
unity is maintained, so long as there is maintained the due subordination of lower to higher part, and the coordination of one power or system or organ with the others, order reigns, the condition called health is preserved. But when for whatever cause, this order is disturbed, the whole organism is affected, and unless it is soon restored, it will soon cease to live.
Similarly, it may be said that as the soul is the source of the natural life of the body, so the living presence of God is the source of the supernatural life of the soul. It gives existence and specific existence to that inner life which is called spiritual and supernatural. It not only makes us to be spiritual men, but to be that specific kind of a spiritual man who is called Christian, a man with whose soul the Divine Being has really and truly and substantially united Himself, so as to be the source of a new life. He is made one with Christ as truly as the branch grafted on to the vine is made one with the vine and lives by the life of the vine. But this principle of new life does not take possession by force or violence. The ways of God are gentle. None respects our liberty more than He who made us and gave us liberty. “Behold,” He says, “I stand at the door and knock. If any man shall hear my voice, and open to me the door, I will come into him, and will sup with him, and he with me.” (Apolpse. 3, 20) As He once knocked at the door of the Inn at Nazareth and asked for lodging, so He knocks at the doors of our hearts, nor will He enter unless bidden to do so. - But those who have found room for Him and invited Him in, will surely make their own the words of Archbishop Goodier: “God loved me after He entered into me, therefore He made me one with Himself, a member of His own body ‘which is the Church’.”
To be one with all men in Christ is the social ideal of your religion. It is the highest and most perfect ideal, because in it is found the bond of the most perfect union conceivable among men on earth, their union as members of the one living mystical body of Christ, which is His Church. True, He is not united to us as the soul is to the body; the union is not substantial; it is one in which the component elements lose either their identity or their own proper mode of action. There is no fusion of the divinity with humanity, no third thing resulting from the union which is neither divine nor human, but an organic composite of the two. The principle of union is not purely intrinsic, as it is in the created organism. Yet neither is it purely extrinsic as it is in the
natural social body. The unity of our civil societies is merely a unity of end, the common end for whose attainment all join in the use of common means. The union of men in the Mystical Body of Christ, if less perfect than the substantial union of body and ^oul in man, is more perfect than the union of any social group united merely by the bonds of external authority. In it unity results, to be sure, from the external bond of authority, which is the Divine Will expressed in the great commandment of universal charity, but it results also from an internal principle which is God’s real immanence, without loss of transcendence, in the souls of men born again unto Him through the waters of Baptism. In the Incarnation, His union with human nature was both personal and exclusive. In the Mystical Body, it is social and all-inclusive.
This is not human opinion; it is Divine Revelation. Possibly this is what the renowned Professor Gilson meant when he said recently in a public address that “the answer to the social problems of the woNd lies in revealed religion,” and that “since the Middle Ages men have persistently refused to accept the answer.” Does it not seem strange that men should stubbornly cherish the delusion of independence, when the basic law of their social life is interdependence; that they should prefer to be anemic, 'withered branches cut off from the vine rather than vigorous branches pulsating with the inexhaustible vitality of the vine itself?
—Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
La Cross SETS
$5.00
In handsome leather cases, Talon closing. Other models in attractive leather cases at $2.00. A sure HIT item for the modern MISS!

TMVR EIMS TAeJEATT/E^ Shop.
121 West Washington Ave.
TAILOR
CLOTHIER
THIS MARK OF FASHION MEANS CLOTHES OF GOOD TASTE.
OUR LATEST TESTIMONIAL . . . FROM A FOOTBALL SQUAD FAR-FAMED FOR THEIR JUDGMENT .	.	.
&bler=&O£l)£0ter clothes are widely chosen by THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TEAM.
PARKER-WINTERROWD
NORTH MAIN (UPSTAIRS)
WE INVITE YOU TO CALL AT OUR UPSTAIRS SHOP . . . OR CONSULT OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES:
GEORGE L. HA1THCOCK—MAIN BLDG.	HARRY STEPHENSON-109 SORIN
"TAD" HARVEY-11 MORRISSEY	JACK DEMOSS-309 SORIN

24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The Liturgy is the ceaseless renewal of the work of Christ. In its festivals the continuous framework within which it operates is called the Liturgical Year. This is no arbitrary design executed by any one person. In the Church of the Apostles “they were all persevering . . . in the communication of the breaking of bread, and in prayers.” (Acts 2, 42) Every day was the Feast of the Lord.
So it was until the fourth century. The custom of celebrating the feasts of the martyrs led to the assigning of special days for other feasts. These they adapted to the chronological order of the seasons. The seasons exhibit an organic structure analogous to the organic nature of man. Each has three phases, germination, development, and fruition. The same principle prevails in the supernatural life which has its beginning in Baptism, and its fruition in the Beatific Vision. Around the cycles of the seasons the Church, like Christ, leads men by visible signs to invisible realities. “. . . the invisible things of him, from the creation of the world, are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made.” (Romans 1, 20)
The Liturgical Year is the pattern of heavenly things. To order one’s life thereto is to adopt a method of holiness, to lay hold of the special graces poured out in its course.
Mass Calendar: December 10-16
Sunday, 10—Second in Advent. 2d prayer, Octave. 3d St. Melchiades. Pope. Martyr. Preface of Trinity.
Monday, 11—St. Damasus 1, Pope, Confessor. 2d prayer, Octave. 3d, the Feria (from Sunday). Credo. Preface Blessed Virgin. Votive or Requiem.
Tuesday, 12—5th Day in Octave. Mass of feast. 2d prayer, the Feria. 3d, Holy Ghost. Credo. Preface Blessed Virgin. Votive or Requiem.
Wednesday, 13 — St. Lucy, Virgin, Martyr. 2d prayer, Octave. 3d, the Feria. Credo. Preface Blessed Virgin.
Thursday, 14—7th Day in Octave. Everything as on Tuesday.
Friday, 15—Octave Day. Mass of feast. 2d prayer, the Feria. Credo. Preface Blessed Virgin.
Saturday, 16—St. Eusebius, Bishop, Martyr. Mass: Sacerdotes (in Common) 2d prayer, the Feria. 3d Blessed Virgin (1st in Common) Votive or Requiem.
Rockne Memorial News
Interhall Basketball
Definite date for the opening of this tournament in which a total of 96 games will be played has been set for Monday, Jan. 8.
Skate for Health ... and Enjoyment...
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
(Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every Night Except Monday — Matinee Sunday and Thursday Students olwoys 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your Club”
Give yourself a Christmas present — and save!
WYMAN SPECIAL NOW!
s1895 RCA RADIO
Men! Here's.your chance to get a new 1940 RCA Nipper radio and and electric record player— for the price you'd expect to pay for the radio alone. It has a more brilliant tone than seems possible for such a small radio.
The player plugs into the radio, and with it you can play the latest hits on Victor or Bluebird records.
YOUR OWN VOICE on a 6-inch record, while you wait. Send them for Christmas Greetings. 25c each.
Victor Record Dept. Daylight Basement, Main Store
GEORGE WYMAN and CO.
Campus representative, Edward Clark McHugh, Jr., Dillon Hall
Leagues in both the heavyweight and lightweight divisions have been organized as follows: Heavy Division, League I, Howard, Carroll, Sorin, Zahm; League II, Walsh, Dillon, St. Edward’s, Cavanaugh; League III, Lyons, Breen-Phillips, Brownson, Off-Campus; League IV,
and $5.95 Record Player “ s-|895
$24.90 value
WYMAN’S FOR VICTOR AND BLUEBIRD RECORDS
Johnson Rag-and-Down Home Rag — Larry Clinton — Victor, 75c.
Indian Summer — and — Farewell Blues — Glenn Miller — Bluebird, 35c.
All in Fun — and — All the Things You Are — Artie Shaw — Bluebird, 35c.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
25
The
Friendly Atmosphere
•
The
Excellent
Food
•
The
Fine
Service
at
The OLIVER COFFEE
SHOP
will convince your week-end "date" that you know your way around .	•
For many years "The Oliver" has been the "place to go" for Notre Dame men and their guests.
We invite you' to try our really excellent Sea Food Dinner — the best to be found any place.
Alumni, Morrissey, Badin, Freshman; Lightweight, League I, Dillon, Walsh, Lyons, Alumni; League II, Sorin, Zahm, Breen-Phillips, Morrissey; League III, Carroll, St. Edward’s, Brownson, Badin; League IV, Howard, Cavanaugh, Freshman, Off-Campus.
In the heavy division each team will meet every other team in its league twice. There will be 24 games in the lightweight division, each team meeting every other team in its league once. The series will end with a playoff of 12 games.
The team that finishes first in its league in the regular schedule will enter into a playoff with the first teams of the other three leagues. The second, third, and fourth place winners will participate in similar playoffs.
The hall managers are: Hal Barres, Howard; Al Del Zoppo, Carroll; Hank Collins, Sorin; Joe Whitford, Walsh; Charles Dillon, Dillon; Bob Demoss, St. Edward’s; Mel Kummel, Lyons; Ray Roy, Badin; Ed Hannan, Alumni; George Sobek, Carroll; Dick Albert, Off-Campus. Managers of the freshman halls will be elected. Coaches are to be selected in the near future.
Every candidate for the hall teams must undergo a physical examination. The maximum weight of the light division is 150 pounds. An effort is being made for all games in both divisions to be played on the Memorial courts. Halves will be 15 minutes in length, ■with 10 minutes rest. Ten medals will be awarded the winning teams, eight to the players, one to the manager, and one to the coach.
Swimming
Preliminaries were held this week in the all-campus swimming tournament. Finals will be held next Tuesday night. Tournament officials are: Elmer Layden, referee; Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., judge of the finish; John Nicholson, Captain E. A. Schlender and George Keogan, timers; George Cooper, starter; Norv Hunthausen, announcer; Ray Hoyer, Gill Burdick and Ed Slezak, judges of diving; and George Bartuska, clerk of course. The field of 49 is exceptionally fast, as it includes the best swimmers on the campus — all former winners, and this year’s freshman champions.
Handball
Semifinals have been held in the handball tournament. Matches have been very close, and a number of potential champions are now uncovered. The defending champion, William Kelleher, was defeated in the first round, 2-0, by
Congratulations!
Here's to —
The "Fighting Irish," a great team that plays the best from coast to coast.
May her loyal sons perpetuate the spirit and fight that characterizes this, great school in victory or defeat.
No better can be said.
26
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our orvn laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
William Meyer of Walsh Hall. A field of 62 is entered in the meet.
Squash
Director Thomas Mills has announced that a squash tournament will be held soon after Christmas vacation, and he urges all players to come to the Memorial and “tune up” on their game. The tournament will be open only to students—John E. Lewis.
CLUBS
HAMBURGERS
Junior Law
The first meeting of the new Junior Law Club was held Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the Law building. This was solely an organization meeting to elect officers and draw up a constitution.
William J. McNamara of the Law Club is organizing this new club. It is to be open for membership to undergraduate students who plan to make the law course in the future.
The purpose of the Junior Law Club is to acquaint prospective law students with the things that will be required of them as lawyers, and to give them a practical foundation for entering law school. An incidental purpose is to interest prospective students in taking law at Notre Dame.
317 N. Michigan St.
216 W. Colfax 109 E. Wayne
years of experience at your command.
years of reliable, competent service.
Iowa
The Iowa club held its first smoker of the semester in Badin recreation room, Nov. 28. The feature of the evening was a newsreel of the Iowa-Notre Dame, game. Refreshments followed the movies.
36
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St. ■ ' South Bend, Ind.
Montana
The Montana club met last Friday, with President Jack Murphy presiding. Attendance in the club, which already is the largest state club per capita, has been rapidly increasing. Plans were made for a club dinner, which was held last night at the Oldenberg Inn. The Rev. Norbert Hoff was the guest speaker and all members were there.
Show appreciation of ours advertisers by your patronage.
Fort Wayne
A meeting of the Fort Wayne club last week decided a Christmas dance will be held Dec. 27 at a site to be announced later.
Bob Centlivre of Walsh Hall is the general chairman of the ball, and promises it will be a gala affair. Music will be provided by John Devine and his Indiana University orchestra.
“Our best wishes to the
1939
Notre Dame football squad"
HowelKs Cafe for
Finest Quality Steaks - Chops Fried Chicken Sea Foods Spaghetti Dinners
•
COMPLETE SODA FOUNTAIN SERVICE
211-213 N. Main Street
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Anthracite
The Anthracite club, which draws its members from all the coal mining regions, met last Tuesday in room 117 of the Main building. President Frank Pieri presided over an election which named the Eagle clubrooms in Hazleton, Pa., as the town where the club’s annual Christmas dance will be held.
Realists
When the Realists, newly formed sociological forum of the University, meets in the Faculty Lounge next Wednesday evening at 8 p.m., John J. Reddy, vicechancellor of the Realists and fourthyear man from Brooklyn, will read a paper on “The Hobo.”
Mr. Reddy will be allowed at least 30 minutes by “round table” rules, and the Realists may each give a two-minute rebuttal. The speaker will then be allowed a five-minute concluding defense.
Mr. Reddy will be presented by Chancellor Frank A. Schmied, senior sociologist from Columbus, Wis. Expected to be present are Mr. Frank. T. Flynn, faculty counsellor of the forum and director of graduate social work at the University, and Mr. Louis Radelet, faculty student adviser.
The committee on memberships will consider the admission of sociology majors in the junior class at the half year.
Round Table
At the Nov. 28 meeting of the Economics Round Table two Juniors were selected to fill memberships left vacant during the first semester. The new men are Don Kralovec and Bernard Lien-hard. Secretary Ted Bush inducted the new members at the Dec. 4 meeting. Senior Pat Goff led the weekly session with a paper entitled: “A Survey of American Tax Problems.” Following his speech the members held a general discussion of American tax policies. The bi-weekly “Foreign Affairs Reports” of the Carnegie Foundation for Peace were also distributed at the meeting.
Erie
Plans for the Christmas Dance, to be held Dec. 28 in the Hotel Lawrence, in Erie, have been completed, it was announced by Secretary John Wilson.
Spanish
It has long been a tradition for the Notre Dame Spanish Club to sponsor a Communion Breakfast each year in honor of the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe. Plans were completed at a meeting of the club, Monday, to hold this year’s breakfast Sunday.
One of the biggest days of the year
for the Spanish Club will begin with Mass, to be said at 8:00 a.m. in Sorin chapel by the club chaplain, Father Forrestal. Breakfast will be served in the Bronzewood Room of the La Salle Hotel at 9:30.
Following the breakfast, the master of ceremonies, Mr. Langford, will introduce numerous speakers. Father Forrestal, the main speaker, will be followed by John Ward, and Miss Anne Guerrini, of St. Mary’s.
Anyone interested in attending this year’s breakfast may get their tickets from Bill Foley, Bill McJunkin and Bill Malaney, of Dillon, or Mike Humphries, of Lyons. The St. Mary’s Santa Theresa Club will attend.
THEATRE
Well, sir, it was what you might call an Alfred Hitchcock holiday on the South Bend screens this last week-end. That ingenious little round man who does so much excellent directing for Gaumont-British took over the spotlight,
Learn AVIATION at an AVIATION School
We have the United States Civil Aeronautical Authoritys approval.
COMPLETE FLIGHT AND GROUND SCHOOL COURSES FOR ALL LICENSES.
See your Hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall. INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Phone 3-2455	(Incorporated)	Bendix Field
—
When you come back after
U X“ - colUCES1>ECl4f
U** advantage rf
roudd Trip
These special school and college rail tickets, with their liberal extended return limits, are immensely popular with and a great saving to students and teachers. When you’re ready to come back after Christmas, buy one and save money. When Spring Holidays come you can use
Be 7/rrfty end Safe—Trave/ by Train ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
i ATTENTION
* NOTRE DAME MEN!
There is yet time : g	for you to order
£	CHRISTMAS
: i	PORTRAITS
s j	from your "Dome"
: i	negatives.
i	•	.
I	c
5	See
*	RALPH GERRA
£ Walsh Hall Basement
| Between I and 3 o'clock daily.
! . r
* Bagby Studio
| PHOTOGRAPHERS
S IIO W. Colfax Avenue
the return coupon to travel home again or use it at close of school.
The ticket agent in your own home town or any railroad passenger representative will gladly give you full details regarding return limits, stopover privileges, prices, etc.
28
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMERA FILM
SPECIAL OFFER
TO STUDENTS ONLY
6 ROLLS^Ml
SIZE—m-116 & m-616-5 ROUS-
This offer made by one of the world's -oldest film manufacturers, cooperating with us to encourage amateur photography and better pictures. Order at once and make this 75c saving.
also
SPECIAL STUDENTS FINISHING SERVICE
Mail your roll film (any make) to us for developing and printing and receive
8 DOUBLE SIZE
PRINTS for only
(16 Exposure Rolls -45c)
Send Coin with Film
MAIL PHOTO SERVICE PRINCETON. INO.
Get Your Hair Cut RIGHT!
Go Where Notre Dame Men Go!
Hotel Hoffman Barber Shop
120 West LaSalle Street
EXCELLENT FOOD
and .
PERFECT SERVICE in the newly decorated Bavarian Room Luncheon and Dinner at the HOTEL LaSALLE Comer LaSalle and Michigan
NOTRE DAME MEN!
Try Us—It Costs No More
Four registered baiters, sanitary shop; lathering machine; steri- . lized individual combs used for each customer; compressed air cleans hair after cutting.
Cyr's Barber Shop
100-102 S. Main Across from Court House
with a slight exception that we’ll look at eventually. Seems a shame that his latest, “Jamaica Inn,” had to close so early in the week. There must have been many Laughton fans that missed it. Too bad; it was really vigorous entertainment.
The other Hitchcock productions, somewhat more dated than “Jamaica Inn,” were recalled by two lesser houses in South Bend for second and third runs: “39 Steps” and “The Lady Vanishes.” Quite a pleasant coincidence, these three ace Hitchcock offsprings meeting here at the same time. The only drawback though was the necessity of seeing another picture with each of the three.
Even this obstacle could have been overcome by a quick study of the movie timetables, which study would have gauged one’s travelling from theater to theater without seeing the “other” picture. Of course this may sound cold and calculating, and might even be termed scientific moviegoing by those firmly of the mind that motion pictures are no more than necessary mental diversions; we agree that a systematic study of movie timetables certainly is not a mental diversion.... In a sense though, should we look at the thing more deeply, the study in itself may be a mental diversion to some.... Well, sir, we can’t afford to become entangled in the more trivial aspects of moviegoing; let’s get back to “Jamaica Inn.”
Charles Laughton again.... and for our price of admission it can be Laughton again and again. Going out on a shaky limb, (some strange force seems to drive us this time) we’ll nominate Mr. Laughton as the greatest screen actor today, even though, as some seem to think, he is somewhat “ego-laden.” Ego doesn’t detract from his excellent toying with Sir Humphrey Pengallan... .. for the Laughton genius doesn’t content itself with the mere playing of a role; it plays with the role. This may be confusing, but nevertheless there is a distinction. Seeing Mr. Laughton as Sir Humphrey Pengallan, we received the impression that he not only executed his particular function as an integral part of the tale of “Jamaica Inn,” but that he also laughed, and rather loudly sometimes, at anyone else who thought himself capable of duplicating Laughton’s superb characterization. The minute he was flashed on the screen, amid the fearful surroundings of the lordly Pen-gallan dinner table, he took indisputable command of audience attention. Here was Charles Laughton in his glory, the combined Henry VIII, Ginger Ted, Rembrandt and Captain Bligh. Something about that first sight of him made us
The products of the famous
Manhattan Shirt Company
are exclusive in South Bend at
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
Shirt and Pajama prices start at $2
Formal Shirts, $2.50
Mansco Shirts or Shorts, 50c
Handkerchiefs, 35c
The Notre Dame Scholastic
29
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY, N.Y.C.
*
If any Manhattan Shirt ever shrinks below the indicated size, we will give you a new shirt. Tested and approved by the American Institute of laundering.
^ron.^
The most popular collar on the American campus is the button-down. And the Button-Down, as interpreted by Manhattan, is favored by the country's best-dressed college men.
It takes a heap of skill to fashion ; Manhattan's Button-Down Collar-attached Shirt... to tailor it with such detailed and precise perfection that the neckline falls easily and casually, with that smart informality that is the very essence of the button-down idea.
Manhattan is the outstanding Button-Down for class and campus = wear. See if ... in rugged oxfords and other appropriate fabrics, at your local store for men.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BOSTONIANS
FIT RIGHT ... FEEL RIGHT
They're Walk-fitted
Add to smart style the exclusive foot-formed insoles built to fit your foot in' action, and you have about the most luxurious shoe result a man could possibly expect.
DELUXE BOSTONIANS
$8.7) to $11
Selby Sboes
130 W. Washington Street
feel not only that Sir Humphrey Pen-gallan was absolute lord of his estate, but that Charles Laughton was absolute lord of Sir Humphrey Pengallan. No one could have approached the master character in that role.
Seeing again the clever Emlyn Williams, (whistling knave called Harry) writer of “The Corn is Green” and “Night Must Fall” in which he did Danny, was a treat in itself... Exquisite Maureen O’Hara fitted well into this more dashing type of movie.... Seeing Robert Newton as Mr. Traherne, 19th-century special agent, was another reminder that the English don’t pick their heroes for handsomeness alone... If you missed “Jamaica Inn” last week-end, don’t fail to see it its next trip around .... and, as we’ve a habit of saying, see it from the beginning.—Vern Witkowski
MUSIC NOTES
HERE AND NOW Right on the Campus
DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING
▼
Complete selection of religious articles.
N. D. Laprobes
Books:
“Lessons in Liberty” by Clarence Manion
“God in An Irish Kitchen,” by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. .
Christmas Cards
— in enough variety to please every taste.
Free! Christmas Wrapping!
N. D. BOOKSTORE Badin Hall
It may be of interest to the lovers of classical music to know what radio programs are devoted to the presentation of the classics.
The following is a schedule of programs to be heard each week.
Each Sunday morning at 11 o’clock The Radio City Music Hall Symphony presents a program over NBC. Emo Rappe is the regular conductor, and each week noted soloists appear.
At 1 p.m. every Sunday afternoon, Frank Black presents a string symphony concert. NBC.
At 1:30 each Sunday afternoon CBS presents a musical quiz program known as, “So You Think You Know Music?”
The New York Philharmonic orchestra, may be heard each Sunday afternoon at 2 o’clock. John Barbirolli is the conductor. Deems Taylor, is the intermission commentator. CBS.
At 4:30 on Sunday afternoon the “Metropolitan Auditions of the Air,” program may be heard. NBC.
Alfred Wallenstein conducts the Bach Cantata Series over Mutual at 6 p.m. each Sunday night.
The Ford Sunday Evening Hour is aired on Sunday evening at 8 o’clock. CBS.
At 9:30 on Sunday nights, the American Art Quartet is offering a series of Beethoven quartets. NBC.
The Curtiss Institute of Music presents a classical concert each Monday afternoon at 3 o’clock. CBS.
Richard Crooks, tenor, is heard each Monday night at 7:30 with the Voice of Firestone Symphony conducted by Alfred Wallenstein. NBC.
A program of modem composition
■ f MANY HAPPY THOUGHTS FOR GIFTS
: i	— IN FANCY GIFT BOXES.
■ f	Come in — or see
■ I	BENNY SHERIDAN, 2 Lyons Hall
U	Our Campus Representative
; 5 TWO LEGS — 118 S. Michigan St
• ‘_____________________________
Wjn*
For that extra nice
Gift
take home a Notre
Dame souvenir
A Musical Powder Box
It plays the "Notre Dame Victory March"
Lovely pastel colors— silver and gold trim—
$2.95 and up
Compacts _____ $1.00
with N. D. Monogram or Seal
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN ^WASHINGTON
Shipments made AU Over the World
The Notre Dame Scholastic
31
। written by commissioned American com-। posers under the title of “The American ;	School of the Air,” is heard each Tues-
|	day afternoon at 2:30. CBS.
|	The Mozart concerto series is now be-
• ing presented each Tuesday night at I	8:30. Alfred Wallenstein is the conduct-
|	or. MBS.
J
I	The Indianapolis Symphony orchestra,
'	conducted by Fabien Sevitzky, may be
heard each Wednesday night at 9:30.
,	CBS.
Dr. Walter Damrosch, has resumed his music appreciation hour over NBC. This program may be heard every Friday afternoon at 1 o’clock.
Each Friday night at 7:30 Alfred Wallenstein conducts the “Sinfonietta.” MBS.	*
At 11 a.m. on Saturdays, the Eastman School jof Music presents its symphony orchestra. NBC.
The weekly opera may again be heard this year from the Metropolitan Opera House each Saturday afternoon beginning at 12:30. This is an NBC presentation.
Arturo Toscanini, conducts the NBC Symphony orchestra in a program which may be heard each Saturday night at 9 o’clock.—William, B. Mooney
RADIO
At nearly every meeting of the Radio Club this same scene takes place. One of the new fellows who probably is attending his first meeting, asks whether he can announce a program the following week. He has had no experience. The reason he asks for an announcer’s spot is that he can read English intelligibly, but mostly someone told him announcing is the easiest job in radio.
Now the purpose of the campus radio studio is to develop talent and to encourage those interested in radio. So it is with the hope that those interested in announcing will be stimulated to activity rather than discouraged, that we
outline briefly the course a young man takes to become a professional announcer. First, he is stuck before a microphone and asked to read a list of musical numbers including; The fifth Mass, by Brescia Bazzini; I Pagliacci, by Ruggiero Leoncavallo; Lucia di Lammer-moor, by Gaetano Donizetti; The Overture to Cola di Rienza, by Giovanni Sgmabati; selections from Die Walkure, by Richard Wagner; and Claude DeBussy’s Claire de Lune. The applicant reads two pages of commercial continuity, three or four news bulletins, gives an extemporaneous announcement of a musical number, and closes his audition with a five minute ad lib description of the studio from which he is broadcasting.
To merit the slightest consideration
ARROW SHIRTS
with Monograms
Arrows are superb shirts, sold everywhere at established price of $2 and upwards. With monograms they’re marvelous values.
MAX
ADLER
Michigan at Washington
Follow Arrow And You Follow The Style
Lord Kent	Walton
DATING TONIGHT?
\ A/HEN you want to look your best for an ’ ’ important date, no other article of apparel creates more the impression of immaculate attire than an Arrow white starched collar worn with a solid colored or striped Arrow neckband shirt.
With any one neckband shirt you can vary the style of the collar to suit your mood or your girl friend. You'll like the smart appearance and economy of Arrow starched collars.
See your dealer today regarding this high style 1940 fashion.
ARROW COLLARS
SHIRTS . . . TIES . . . HANDKERCHIEFS . . . UNDERWEAR
32
The Notre Dame Scholastic
the applicant must have a college degree, at least two years’ experience on a small station, and a voice free from all provincial accents. He must know musical history and composers; he must be able to read and interpret poetry; and he must be a master of ad lib. Fluency in at least one foreign tongue is an invaluable asset.
These qualifications seem far beyond us. We never expect to join Andre Baruch, Don Ross and the other big-timers, but radio work during college should add
GOING HOME TO
California Washington Texas
Any point in the
U.S. A. or Canada
See the South Shore agent. He can help you plan your complete itinerary to and from home.
Ask about routing, fares, stopovers, travel time . . . Arrange every detail in an unhurried conversation.
Get all die facts. No obligation, of course. Inquire of
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
to our poise and self-confidence, and improve our diction.
Radio Log
Tuesday........4:00 Periscope.
7:15 Music of the Masters.
Wednesday.....7:45 Faculty Talk.
9:00 Commerce Forum.
Thursday.......4:00	Academy of Politics.
7:30 Sportscast.
Friday.........9:30	Radio Stage.
Saturday.......7:30	Little Jamboree.
—Ray Kelly
Notre Dame Is First
Among K. C. Councils
An interesting bit of information about the Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus has been published, after a checkup on all the collegiate councils in this country. On the basis of comparative figures, Notre Dame is by far the largest college coun
cil in the United States. Notre Dame Council..............250*	107
St. Mary’s California	Council..	60	6
Ulini Council .................   80	12
St. Mary’s Maryland Council....l80	24
Crusader Council ...............  90	12
(Holy Cross College, Mass.)
St. Edward’s Texas Council .... 90	15
In addition, Notre Dame was the first college council, and the only college council to attain membership in the Century Club, that is, that 100 or more members were inducted into the Order during the school year.
Oratorical Contest
The preliminaries for the Breen Oratorical Medal will be held in the Law auditorium at 4:15 on December 11, 12, and 13. The Rev. John R. O’Neil, C.S.C., chairman of the contest, has announced the following schedule for participants:— Monday, Messrs. A. Callan, H. Malone, J. Walior, C. Murphy, D. Canale, J. Smalley, and J. Reagan. Tuesday: Messrs. P. Canale, Young, J. Payne, P. Scullion, W. Evans, T. Cosgrove, P. Bailey, and C. Waechter. Wednesday: Messrs. J. Poinsatte, J. Specht, J. Tracey, T. O’Donnell, J. Milano, J. Ryan, and V. Pischke.
Out of each group will be selected two speakers who will participate in the finals scheduled next Thursday at 4:15 in the auditorium of the Law Building.
Academy of Politics
The Academy of Politics held its annual banquet at the Morningside Hotel on Nov. 29. Professor Maurice Pettit of the department of politics was the speaker of the evening. His subject was, “Paradoxes of a democratic form of government.” Prof. Paul Bartholomew, also of the Notre Dame faculty, was present at the banquet.
WIDENER'S
SHOE STORE
•	123 W. Washington Street
New Brushed-Finish
Stetsons, $5
Smooth, easy lines. The new luxurious Brushed finishes are perfect with the new overcoats. A distinctive style feature is the underwelt.
M‘X ADLER
Michigan at Washington
The Notre Dame Scholastic
33

GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Irish Renaissance
(Continued from page 11) Doctor Gray” by Canon Sheehan, may well have influenced Carroll. At least in certain respects there is much in common between Dr. Gray and the Canon Skerrity of “Shadow and Substance.”
On this note I must end. Canon Sheehan of Doneraile, Ireland, is the author of many books. Longmans have recently brought out a new edition of his “My New Curate.” This is evidence of survival. In 1903 he put out a book called “Under the Cedars and Stars.” The date is important in view of what I have written, so I quote some extracts as from a witness of the “sod”:
“The Man of Letters will always set
XMAS GIFTS
in
Sports Line
N. D. Monogram Bill Folds Spalding Ice Skates Golf Bags, Balls, Clubs (Complete 1940 models) Tennis, Squash and Badminton Racquets
One-third off on all Jackets and Sweaters '
TOP HONORS
When formality is the order of the evening, the Stetson topper takes its place at the head of the class. Exact, poised lines and graceful proportions make this Stetson the fitting partner to your white tie and tails.
swat)
STETSON
Sonnebom’s Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue (Formerly Mike Kelly's)
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
South Bend's Most Complete Hat Department
Features
America's Famous
STETSON HATS
$5 to 7.50
34
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BRING YOUR
Gift Problems to
HANS - RINTZSCH
FOR LOVELY, PRACTICAL GIFTS OF LEATHER
GLOVES LUGGAGE HANDBAGS TOILET SETS ZIPPER BAGS BILLFOLD SETS MANICURE SETS DRESSING CASES
HANS - RINTZSCH
LUGGAGE SHOP
138 N. MICHIGAN STREET
GOING HOME?
SEND THAT LUGGAGE
by fast RAILWAY EXPRESS!
Just phone the Railway Express agent when your trunk or bags are packed and off they will speed, direct to your home,
cipal towns. You
can send "collect” too, same as your laundry goes. Use this complete, low-cost service both coming and going, and enjoy your train trip full of the proper Holiday spirit. When you phone, by the way, be sure to tell our agent when to call.
’RAJIMAX EXPRESS AGENCY
506 W. South St., So. Bend, Ind. Phone 3-6121
Railmay
NATION-WIDE NAIL-AIR SERVICE
himself in opposition to what he is pleased to designate as sacerdotalism. Literature and dogma have never been taught to go hand in hand . . . the Man of Letters will come to Ireland, as he has come to France, to England, to Germany, and with him the seven other-spirits, Zeitgeist, Weltschmerz &c. . . . And all the spirits have one enemy, and but one—the spirit of religion. . . .
“And I can forecast the time when this people of destiny... will have to face and examine the dogma of this modern literature. Nay, I can even see certain vacillations and soul-tremblings under the magic of the sweet and delicious music of language, attuned and attenuated in accordance with the canons of modern, perfect taste. But I know the sturdy character of the people, stubborn after their eight hundred years of fight, and their religious instincts which nothing can uproot, and their power of adapting all that is best in life with all that is useful for eternity, and, above all, their sense of humor, will help them, after the first shock, to vibrate back towards their traditions and historical ideals, and finally settle down into the perfect poise of reason and religion combined. They will never accept literature as dogma: but they may turn the tables, and make their dogmatic beliefs expand into a world-wide literature.”
THE HUDDLE
"Pipe Headquarters" 5	for the Campus J
Is	el
FLAME-GRAIN BRIAR
MEERSCHAUM *12*0
Well, there’s quite a buzz about this one in the clubs and tap-rooms—fellows who like their Kaywoodies plain want to know what the Meerschaum does to this pipe— we certainly wouldn’t go to the trouble of putting the meerschaum in there, having to go all the way to Anatolia (Turkey to you) to get it, what with the War and everything, if it weren’t the finest material in the world in which to smoke tobacco. Protects the flavor. Keeps it mellow. The smooth mild smoke of this top-flight Kaywoodiewill boost anybody’s LQ. And for looks—well, the smart crowd’s all gone for it. Shown above, No. 14.
KAY WOOD IE COMPANY
Rockefeller Center, New Yorkaw^London
The Notre Dame Scholastic
35
■j
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT PHONE 3-1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
Dr. 0. Qrundy
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
Drs. Drokst and Singler DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254
3
J
I	SOUTH BEND	’
I X-RAY LABORATORY |
1	825 SHERLAND BUILDING 1
1 L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON. I
| M.O.	M.O.	|
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES bldg., south bend ----- ----------= —	—*
Student Forum
(Continued from page 10)
J al of this training. One hundred and . forty-seven authors were listed by the editors as being actively employed on ■ the editorial staffs of their papers. 95.4 | per cent of the editors expressed an ; opinion that journalism serves as an excellent training ground for authorship. And most of them held the point of view that good newspaper writing is the sort of writing which is adequate as literature whether it is published only on news print, or whether it appears between hard covers. They were almost unanimous in their belief that newspaper work gives the prospective author varied experience, and affords him the opportunity of expressing himself simply, forcibly, and clearly. These elements are valuable characteristics of any kind of writing.
There was some objection on the parts of the newspaper editors to what they considered “an implication which the survey made that journalism was on a lower plane than authorship.” One reporter asked her editor if she could add a postscript to his reply, and she, indignantly and somewhat heatedly, inquired of the Press Club, “Why should a school of journalism stress newspaper work as a ‘training’ field? What this country needs,” she continued, “is a greater number of crack-writing, fearless-thinking journalists to prod people into action in our present bizarre world situation—not more authors. The markets are already glutted with second and third rate books.”
The supplementary section of the survey, the analysis of Who’s Who (193738), provided the most conclusive data to the study. This book listed 1,764 men and women as being either authors or writers. Of this number, 815 were listed as having had newspaper training. No mention was made of previous journalistic experience in 949 of the entries. In other words, 48.2 per cent of all the authors and writers listed in Who’s Who, a list representing the most prominent men and women in the literary field, are known definitely to have had newspaper training.
Henry Seidel Canby, editor of the Saturday Review of Literature, which is “purely literary,” once remarked that some of the best writing being done today in America is being done by newspaper reporters describing the daily drama of human events. This opinion could possibly be taken as an evaluation and a recognition of the value of news- -paper work as a training ground for authorship.
Latest Victor and Bluebird Recordings at
RODIN’S
Victor Albums
M599—Lily Pons Album--------------$6.50
M499—Borodin Prince Igor—Dances of the Polevitzka Maidens $4.50
This Week’s Victor Releases
26416—“The Little Red Fox” (N’ya, N’ya Ya Can’t Catch Me) “It’s My Turn Now”
Hal Kemp and his Orchestra
26417—“My Silent Mood” (Based upon recollections of music by Chopin) "Toselli’s Serenade”
Larry Clinton and his Orchestra
26418—“After All”
"Blue Rain” Tommy Dorsey and his Orchestra
26419—“Vagabond Dreams”
“Two Little Doodle Bugs” Swing and Sicay with Sammy Kaye
26420—"Fit to Be Tied” “Peach Tree Street” Bob Zurke.and his Delta Rhythm Band
New Bluebird Releases—35c
B10498—“It Was Written in the Stars” “Johnson Rag”
Glenn Miller and his Orchestra
B10499—“Leanin’ on the Ole Top Rail” ■ “Three Foot Skipper Jones”
Ozzie Nelson and his Orchestra
B10500—“Your Feet’s Too Big” “Suitcase Susie”
“Fats” Waller'and his Rhythm
B10501—“Goody Goodbye”—Vocadance “No Mama No”—Vocadance The Smoothies with Orchestra
B10502—“Shadows”
“I Didn’t Know What Time It Was” Artie Shaw and his Orchestra
B10503—“Hello, Mister Kringle” (You’re Just as) "Cute as Christmas”
Vincent Lopez and his Orchestra
B10504—“More Than You Know” “Uptown Shuffle”
Erskine Hawkins and his Orchestra
B10505—“Rainbows Over Paradise” “Makalapua O Kamakaeha”
Manny Klein’s Hawaiians
B10506—“Dipper Mouth Blues” (I Wish I Could Shimmy Like My) “Sister Kate”
Muggsy Spanier and Ragtime Band
RODIN’S
Michiana’s Most Complete Record Department 132 N. Michigan St. Phone 4-1184 Open -Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday __ evenings until 9 p. m.
It was
IWM/n-
in Grandfathers Day
^ihen your grandfather needed tobacco he probably went to the tobacconist in his conununity and had a lot of fun blending different types of tobacco together and trying out the different mixtures.
He MAY HAVE FINALLY HIT on a combination of tobaccos that was pretty much to his fancy . . . that tasted all right to him and wasn’t too strong. So the tobacconist, with an eye to future business, would make up this private blend and keep some of it on hand for him.
This HIT OR MISS METHOD of tobacco blending was never very satisfactory. But it proved one thing to both smokers and manufacturers, that you must have a blend of tobaccos to get better smoking results, because no one tobacco by itself has all the qualities necessary to a good smoke.
'The CHESTERFIELD tobacco buyers select and bid in at the auction sales the tobacco types that best fit the Chesterfield blend, which is the right combination of exactly the right amounts of Maryland, Burley and Bright with just enough Turkish. These tobaccos and the Chesterfield way of blending them make Chesterfield different from any other cigarette.	-
That IS WHY there are millions of enthusiastic Chesterfield smokers clear across the country, They find Chesterfield COOLER, BETTER-TASTING and definitely milder . . . just what they want for real smoking pleasure. You can't buy a better cigarette. Chesterfield
Copyright 1939,1IGGBTT & Mnu Tobacco Co. '