® The Notre Dame
KSMSSmCD
£
says TOM WEITHERS
SKIPPER
SPORTSWEAR
FOR
Skipper Sportshirts are trimfitting, comfortable! Come in and look over a wide variety of styles from $3.95 to $15.00.
WHEN YOU'RE IN A HURRY, there’s nothing easier to dive into than a Skipper T-Shirt. Looks like a million bucks, too. Priced from $1.00 to $3.95.
"You can wear it everywhere
MAX. ADLER COMPANY Michigan at Washington
HECK & AKER 111 W. Jefferson Blvd.
RASMUSSEN MEN’S SHOP 106 so. Mam st.
ROSE & KATZ, INC. MamatColfax
WYMAN’S 103 No. Michigan
A STUDY IN COMFORT, Skipper Sweaters are warm and handsome without bulkiness. Crew or V-neck models, many patterns. $3.95 to $19.50.
You get up-to-the-minute style with Skipper Sportswear—patterns and colors that really sing! Better still, you can’t beat the casual comfort of Skipper Sportswear for campus activities.

YOUR SPARE TIME, these
2
The Scholastic
Letters
W.'.WA
Scholastic Statisticians
“Scholastic statisticians” indeed!! You haven’t had a statistician to your name since the season started and you know it!
Your most recent issue (November 18) has just arrived at our office and we noted an article headed “BULLET' BOB APPROACHES BERTELLI’S PASSING MARK.” May I quote?
“Scholastic statisticians have discovered that Williams, in five games, has already surpassed Lujack in yards gained on passing in a single season, and is pushing Bertelli.”
I would like to have it made clear that this was brought to your feeble attention by our sterling helper, Mr. Harry Monahan, who labors over the statistics with a fiendish glint in his eye for hours every Monday so he can have them ready for your deadline.
All we ask is that you where credit is due. And do credit!
And, beyond all that it
give credit we deserve
was seven
games and not five. You didn’t even get our story straight.
Maura Mills
Dept, of Sports Publicity
Yes, ice have no statistician.—Editor
More on Sherlock
Editor:
Members of the Amateur Mendicants Society of the Baker Street Irregulars will probably be interested in your piece entitled “The Bungling Detective.”
If you have on hand some extra copies of the Nov. 4 Scholastic, I would probably be able to find 15 or 20 happy readers for same.
Even though there are some errata in the parody, the item has considerable merit. One, of course, finds the reference to a cold, wet morning in London more than slightly inaccurate. It was obviously foggy. As all good Sherlockians know, the Jezail bullet was not lodged between Watson’s ribs. It is time the good doctor once mentioned that as the site of his wound, but he also placed it, in another adventure, as in his legs. . . .
• “That’ll go over big,” is, of course, a phrase that could never have passed the lips of the master. There is no record of a revolving door at 221 B Baker St., but your Mr. Stock has Roscoe, an obvious impostor, opening the door and then Van Slobber opens the coor. Ob-
(Continued on Page 4)
Comfortable Formality!
Kirk" $6.50
'Shoreham" $6.50
See your Arrow dealer now for your Christmas and New Year's formal wear needs.
"Nassau"—The new spread collar style $6.50
ARROW DRESS SHIRTS
Whether you’re prom chairman, glee club man, or stag at eve, you will be correct and comfortable in Arrow's formal shirts, dress ties and collars.
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs ADLERS for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Dec. 2,1949
3
viously the reference is to a revolving door. Tch! Tch!
. . . The Hound, you must certainly remember, was killed much earlier than would be indicated as the setting of this story. Also, there is no mention of his blazing mouth, obviously another impostor.
I also suspect that your author is an impostor since he first mentions size 14 overshoes, then has Holmes deduce the solution from the blood on the murderer’s shoes. Among Holmes’ many powers there is no record of X-ray vision, and even fuddle-brained Watson never made a mistake like that in a single story. He makes a feeble mistake to cover up by bringing in the ketchup.
Even the italicized note is in grave error, and I assume it was made by the same blithering idiot who wrote the story, since the editors are obviously a bit more accurate. . . .
W. T'. Rabe
Author Stock may be a blithering idiot, but if he is, we suspect it’s because he lost a certain coat a couple of years ago. As for his inaccuracies—we have outlined an outside reading course in A. C. Doyle for Mr. Stock. We shall test him again before the end of the semester. After that, his fate is in the hands of the I.B.M. machines and various Baker Street Irregulars.
We’re sorry we haven’t got 15 or 20 copies of the story, since the issue is out of print..—Editor.
Lecture Hall Informality’
Editor :
Our gratitude to the heads of the History Departanent for their efforts to secure lecturers of note to augment the cultural growth of the department.
But the address on International Relations in the Engineering Auditorium on the 17th of last month was marred by a flagrant violation of our traditions. I refer to the regulation which prohibits smoking at certain times and places. •
Following the main address the lecturer lit a cigarette, seemingly to help pass the time while awaiting the questions from the floor which followed. One of the two faculty members on the stage did likewise, no doubt with the intention of alleviating any embarrassment which the speaker might later on experience for having taken this liberty.
Many ladies were present.
May I express the hope that we do not go “modern” to the extent of besmirching our cultural programs with the informalities of the hiring hall oi* tavern!
Thomas E. Mitchell Zahm Hall
As far as we know, there is no tradi- £ tion at Notre Dame concerning smoking on the lecture program. But we do knoiv that a cigarette can be mighty relaxing after a long speech and that it probably quieted his nerves so that he could better answer the questions from the floor. Smoking ceased to be an “informality of the hiring hall or tavern” soon after the Puritans went out of vogue. And you’d be surprised at the number of really cul- -tured people who court Lady Nicotine. W Maybe when someone starts spitting tobacco juice on the stage, you’ll have a legitimate gripe.—Editor.
An MSC Rebuttal
Editor:
As a graduate of Michigan State College, I would like to take this opportuni- -ty to thank Mr. Thoren for his Nov. 11 O article (Roughly Speaking) on my alma mater. However, in all fairness, I would like to point out to Mr. Thoren that M.S.C. is not a “cold” college in spite of its size. If one should doubt this, he need only to look into the exquisite and spacious lounge in the Union Building to see that the tone of the atmosphere is very friendly as witnessed by the guys and gals who come there to sip coffee
(Continued on Page 30)
For comfort on the coldest days • • •
SHRADMOOR STORM COATS
With Genuine Mouton Collar .
.. 49”’
The perfect coat for cold, stormy weather. Tailored of fine wind and water repellent gabardine and fully lined (body and sleeves) with 100% pure wool Alpaca . . . topped with a big, roomy genuine Mouton collar. Here’s a coat you can wear everywhere. It’s smart, it’s practical, it’s priced right! Get yours tomorrow!
MeGREGOR GREY GABARDINE STORM COAT . . . 59.05
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
The Scholastic
‘the week
by Sack McGoldrick... - -
as easy as it sounds, since the player must put up with stem professorial looks, and must avoid looking out the window, or falling asleep. The record is held by Freddy Fox, accounting major, who stared for twelve straight hours, equivalent to 14 class periods, without batting an eye.
Bottom of the Week
T
Top of the Week
White Christmas. . . .
You can’t have your turkey and eat it too
Eager Scholastic readers have been calling the office all week regarding the absence of the magazine from in front of their doors last Friday. Some of them were amazingly persistent, and demanded to know why. Some wondered if e Scholastic had been permanently disbanded. And there was the rumor that the linotype machines were being used to dress the turkeys for last Thursday’s dinner. This has been denied by the editors, in spite of the fact that this week’s issue does resemble a lot of Thanksgiving leftovers, and the fact that the turkey did have a slightly inky, newsprintish taste.
In order to clear up the situation, we’d like to point out that the real reason for the rag’s not appearing was that the edi-. tors wanted you to have the experience of living on the Juggler for two weeks.
Incidentally, the Juggler peddler came through the halls last week selling his wares at two bits per, plus the services of an interpreter at fifty cents an hour. The two of them carried a large sign reading: “Understand the Juggler—pull up an English major and sit down.”
But this last issue of the Juggler sold better—and read better than any of its — recent predecessors. There was a sur-w prising lack of the 1946-48 model of pseudo-psycos, working off war neuroses by contributing prose and poetry. There was more a display of the literary talent repi’esentative of a Catholic university.
Dress Blues
Kalban & Batz Theaters, Chicago 99, Illinois, November 30, 1949
Director of Music
Notre Dame University	•
Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Sir:
We watched the last Notre Dame football game, and were duly impressed, not only by the prowess of the team, but also by that of the University marching band.
However; one question: How far can commercialism go?
We refer to the uniforms worn by your band. The drum major in his outlandish parody on a Salvation Army offi
Dec. 2, 1949
cer’s whites was all right, but the rest of the band was attired in outfits exactly the same as those worn by the ushers and ticket takers in our chain of movie theaters.
We have spent years in developing a unique uniform, perfectly adaptable to the technics of ushering, and are sorely distressed by this base plagiarism on the work of our specialists.
Unless this situation is remedied immediately, our Northern Indiana district employees will be advised to offer standing room only to Notre Dame students at our theaters in that region.
Sincerely yours, Herman Fortesque Director of Guest Relations.
Campus Life
Now that the fly-swatting season is over, there’s a new game in vogue over in the School of Commerce. Designed to keep students awake during lectures in Practical English 42, and Economic Geography I, it’s called “staring.” In order to play, one (only in Commerce they say ‘you’) must stare at a spot on the ceiling for as long as possible. It’s not
GET SET FOR
HOLIDAY FUN
George and Alice Davis
Phone 3-8229
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
TITIOS
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
LEARN TO DANCE THE GEORGE DAVIS WAY.
NEW 2 FOR 1 RATES NOW IN EFFECT. TWO CAN LEARN TO DANCE AND SAVE 50%.
FREE TRIAL LESSON — Phone or Come In.
Indiana version of White Christmas— snow from Thanksgiving till Easter.
Student Ice Skating Rink To Open Soon on Campus
The new ice skating rink which is being constructed east of the Student Infirmary, should be ready for use by ND men in the near future. The location of the rink was decided upon because that particular field is the most level spot on the entire campus.
The rink is to be supplied with water from a near-by hydrant. It will be approximately 200 feet long and 85 feet wide, making it well over the minimum size for regulation hockey games and sufficiently large to accommodate all those who like to skate more leisurely.
The success of this new project will depend entirely upon the students’ willingness to help keep the ice smooth and free of snow, and generally to help with the maintenance of the rink. If the new skating rink proves successful, such things as lights for night skating will be considered. There is even a possibility of a Notre Dame varsity hockey team coming into existence.
Entertainment
DECEMBER 2
COLFAX (through Dec. 7)—Another fine picture which investigates the deplorable Negro problem is Pinky (Legion of Decency Rating A2). Starring Jeanne Crain as the nurse who has passed for white, the drama is excellent. It boasts a strong supporting cast: Ethel Barrymore, Ethel Waters, William Lundigan, Evalyn Varden and Frederick O’Neill.
PALACE (through Dec. 7)—The queen of all St. Vitus dancers, Betty Hutton, shouts her hilarious way through Red, Hot and Pine (A2). It's a fair comedy with music about the publicity stunts an unknown goes through in order to reach stardom. Victor Mature and William Demarest offer adequate support. The co-feature is Savage Splendor (A2). Don’t let the title fool you. It is not the story of Jombo-Jombo, the Kangaroo-boy, but rather a top notch travelogue of Africa. It was filmed in technicolor and contains some terrific shots, both beautiful and exciting.
STATE (through Dec. 3)—Two mediocre reissues return. The only thing they have to offer is the humorous juxtaposition of their titles: The Housekeeper’s Daughter, Young and Willing.
DECEMBER 3
DALLAS—The you-allers of Southern Methodist, suh, will learn a lesson in midwestern style football. Then the National Champs will return home.
WASHINGTON HALL—One of the greatest comedians of all time returns to the campus tomorrow night. It is AV. C. Fields in the Rank Dick. He has been seen to better advantage, but, nonetheless, here’s a flicker you don’t want to :niss.
AVON (through Dec. 13)—Bruce Marshall’s Vespers in Vienna was a very enjoyable book. The screen version, The Red Danube (Al), however, loses much of the novel’s political impact. Walter Pidgeon, Peter Lawford and Ethel Barrymore head the cast.
DECEMBER 4
STATE (through Dec. 7)—All those who missed A Letter to Three IFires (A2) on its first run through town, should try to see it this time. It is one of the most entertaining films of the year. The second feature is More Than a Secretary.
DECEMBER 7
AV ASHINGTON HALL—A touring company from Catholic University stop at Notre Dame to give three performances of Shakespeare’s Much Ado About Nothing.
DECEMBER 8
COLFAX (through Dec. 15)—Humphrey Bogart puts aside his panda-battles long enough to emote in Tokyo Joe (B). It’s just a rehash of all his preceding thrillers.
FIELD HOUSE—The basketball squad makes its debut of the season against Creighton. The Irish are favored to win. Get there early if you want a good seat.
DECEMBER 9
PALACE (through Dec. 12)—Paul Douglas, Hollywood’s newest comedian, stars in Everybody Does It (A2). It’s a fun-fest from start to finish. Linda Darnell, Celeste Holm and Charles Coburn lend support to the merry-doings.
Scholastic—The annual football issue comes out with a flashy four-color cover and an exhaustive recap of the ’49 season.
DECEMBER 15
GRANADA (one day)—The Citizen Saint is the story of Mother Cabrini.
The famous yellow package
V.7
Bee ch-Nut Gums have the uniformly high quality and fine flavor that have given them such outstanding popularity throughout the nation.
Its "Always
PEPPER MI NT
BEECHIES
T/ie Candy Coated Gum - Also in Spearmint and Pepsin
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Vol. 91 December 2, 1949 No. 10
From the Editor’s Desk..
Over the Weekend
Last weekend was probably the most exciting one we’ll see all year. The return of the Four Horsemen, hall decorations, the big game and final home appearance of the senior members of the football team and various victory celebrations combined to make it what it was.
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 191S.
All the various aspects were well-handled. The pep rally which started it off was the biggest we've seen in four years. And the affair went smoothly all the way. There were no long, rambling s'peeches, no feeble attempts at humour, no vaudville aspect at all. Blue Circle members could well remember this rally and use it as a measuring stick for the ones to be put on next year.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS____________________News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI___________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA_______________ Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT______________.......Sports
WILLIAM RILEY............ Assistant	Sports
RICHARD CULLEN_________________Photography
LEON GARDNER...__________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_________________....Advertising 0 LOUIS P. LOURO...._______________Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY.__________________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE___________________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS..................Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Winter arrived early and with fury last week at Notre Dame. The snow added beauty to the stark campus for all visitors to appreciate. Those students from such hilly regions as New England and the far West could only wish that pancake-flat Indiana had some hills peppered about. Then the snow could be put to real use. Skiing is one sport that can’t be realized at Notre Dame.
Ice skating, however, will really come into its own this year. A nod of thanks should be extended to the Student Council for the work they have done in getting that new ice skating rink built. A good portion of the merci’s, we are told, should also be given to Father Kehoe. Regardless who is responsible for this latest addition to sports life of the ND students, it will be good to skim across some ice at last without worrying about plunging through to the icy depths.— Photo by Hal Munger.
Dec. 2, 1949
It was nice having the 1924 team at the rally and at the game. The famous backfield and the equally famous team is a fine example of a group of Notre Dame men twenty-five' years after graduation. Standing on the fieldhouse balcony, they made a strange contrast to what a football plaver is often considered to be. Instead of hulking, moronic brutes, they looked just like what they are: heads of their families, successful businessmen and leaders in their communities. It was only right that they should serve as an inspiration to the 1949 team.
H. Lee Hope and the marching band put on its usual fine show at half-time. The bandsmen always manage to come through with something novel, and though all parts of the show may not appeal to the students, they seem to be very entertaining to the crowd. Some ROTC bands mav be better at marching, and other outfits may play equally as well. But we’ve never seen a band which so consistently comes up with good half-time entertainment. It’s too bad their travelling this vear was limited to the student trip, when such near-home games as Purdue and Michigan State were on the schedule.
The various hall decorations seemed a little better than usual this vear. We think that can be traced to a large degree to the hall councils. Under the hall council system, there are responsible leaders in every hall. When things like plans for decorations come up, there is no pointing back and forth—the council members know that that is their de-partment. They can immediately lay plans themselves or appoint a committee to take care of the situation. This new plan will, we believe, become increasingly effective, if the members of the various councils don’t forget their responsibility.
A New Publication
On the same day as the last issue of the Scholastic came out, Notre Dame’s newest publication, The Technical Reviezv, made its first appearance. Although most of you haven’t seen it, since it’s only distributed to engineers, it is a beautiful job. The magazine is only a quarterly, but the staff deserves compliments because of the little time they have for such things with such an already loaded schedule.
This university’s College of Engineering has long been noted as one of the finest in the country. The Review will not only add to that prestige, since it will reach many leaders in the field, but it will also give the undergraduate students an opportunity for the publication of their theses.
7
"What a miracle you hide
in a Christmas watch I"
said ELIZABETH TAYLOR
when she learned
of the DuraPower Mainspring
in ELGINS that
are so beautiful they won
the Fashion Academy Award!
&
♦Made ol “Elciloy" metal. Patent pending
$37.50
Lord and Lady Elgins are priced from $67.50 to $5,000. Elgin De Luxe from $47.50 to $67.50. Other Elgins from $29.75. All prices include Federal Tax.
Selected by the Fashion Academy ojNew York as “All-American Best-Dressed Woman’’...
ELIZABETH TAYLOR is co-starred in Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s “CONSPIRATOR”

$55.00

hat Christmas gift watch . . . Elgin is the one that will make you most happy. For Elgin style won the Gold Medal Award of the Fashion Academy. And only Elgin has the miracle DuraPower Mainspring. No other watch in the world has such dependable power for accurate timekeeping! Just pass the word around with the family that jewelers are - now featuring Elgins in a wide range of prices.
EKIN
TIMED TO THE STARS!
The genius of America to wear on your wrist
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 10  -
DECEMBER 2, 1949
World Politics Group Presents 2 Lectures
The Committee on International Relations will present two guest lectures during the next two weeks. Next Friday night, Dec. 9, Professor J. K. Galbraith, of Harvard University, will speak on “The Consequences of the Marshall Plan.” The lecture will begin at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The following week, on Dec. 15, Professor William Yendail Elliott of Harvard University, will talk on “The United States and the World Community.” This lecture is scheduled for 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
J. K. Galbraith
Professor Galbraith is a noted economist and a former member of the editorial board of Fortune magazine. During 1940 and ’41 he was economic advisor to the National Defense Advisory Commission in Washington. During 1941 and ’42, he was assistant administrator in charge of the price division of the Office of Price Administration.
Professor Galbraith was connected with the State Department during 1945 and ’46. He is the author of several books, including Modern Competition and Business Policy, which was published in 1937. He is recognized as
NFCCS Plans Formation of Local Commissions Composed of Various Campus Organizations
By CHARLEY DULLEA
In line with its aim to represent all students in Catholic colleges, NFCCS is moving along with its program of establishing local commissions at Notre Dame. At a meeting held recently, the basic principles of the organization and, in particular, of the local commissions were set forth to a gathering of representatives from the various campus clubs.
Present were members of the Debate, Inter-American Affairs, La Raza, Sociology, and Radio Club, as well as agents from the Student Council and the Scholastic. Regional Vice-President Bill Kirchner, aided by Jim Garvin and Ed Farrell, senior and junior delegates, respectively, conducted the plan’s exposition.
Last year, it was explained, few students at Notre Dame knew of NFCCS activities, other than the Student Relief Drive. At the same time, they were be
the foremost American authority on the Marshall Plan.
Professor Elliott has been a member of the Harvard University staff in the Department of Government since 1925. In 1940, he was named a member of the National Advisory Defense Commission, associated with the Office of Defense Production. During the war years, he served as vice-chairman of the division of Civil Requirements of the War Production Board. He was a member of the Senator Tydings Philippines Commission in 1945. His most recent book is entitled The Western Heritage.
These two lectures complete an initial series of three sponsored by the newly-organized Notre Dame Committee on International Relations. The Committee was established early this year with the support of the Rockefeller Foundation. The first of these three lectures on American Foreign Policy was presented in the middle of last month by Professor Bernard Brodie of Yale University.
ing asked to contribute money to the organization, a request complied with somewhat reluctantly.
Two alternatives presented themselves.* either to drop NFCCS from campus activities or put its control in the hands of campus. officers. To the lattei* end, Jim Garvin and Ed Farrell were appointed by the Student Council, acting in the position of NFCCS Local Council.
Subsequently, the formation of local commissions has been undertaken. A local commission may be defined simply as an organized group of students with a special interest in some problem confronting Catholic youth and carrying on activities aimed at working out a solution to that problem.
Thus, the various campus clubs are already potential commissions. Such organizations become local commissions in the NFCCS when they, on their own request or at the Local Council’s suggestion, accept the obligations of Commissions in their fields of co-curricular activities. The individual commission pledges' itself to work for the establishment of similar bodies in institutions with no student’ organizations in this field and for their improvement throughout the entire Federation. A local commission is in line to be named regional commission if its activities hold promise of giving leadership to the development of these activities in the member institutions of the region.
Regional commissions already existing in the Chicago Region, (to which Notre Dame belongs) are in the following fields: forensic, international relations, inter-racial justice, liturgy, mariology, and press. Notre Dame already holds the chairmanship of the Regional Commission on Liturgy.
The proposed founding of local commissions at Notre Dame in the nowexisting form of campus clubs will remedy the situation to date in which the influence of NFCCS has not reached the average student.
Dec. 2, 1949
9
Natural Law Library To Be Founded Here
A library for Natural Law, believed to be the first of its kind in the world, will be founded at Notre Dame during the third annual Natural Law Institute Dec. 9 and 10, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, University president, announced last week.
The library will be known as the ' Alvin A. Gould collection. It is named in honor of Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, 0., businessman who is the sponsor of • both the 1948 and 1949 Natural Law Institute programs and founder of the library.
The collection will consist of a complete and representative group of books and materials on the natural law doctrine, and will be accessible to scholars and students of the natural law. A plaque commemorating the founding of the library will be placed on the door to the section of the Notre Dame law library where the books will be housed.
For the institute itself, the principal speakers will be Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo, who will speak on “The Natural Law and International Law,” and Dr. Edward S. Corwin, who will discuss the natural law and constitutional law. Dr. Stephen Kuttner, of Catholic University, will lecture on canon law and an address will be delivered by the Honorable Richard O’Sullivan, former King’s Counsel of Great Britain.
Plans for the Third Natural Law Institute are being discussed by, left to right, John Noonan, Francis Peluso, Dean Manion, Prof. Edward Barrett and Daniel Long.
Holy Year Novena Is Begun for Pope Pius XII
A campus-wide novena for Pope Pius XII began here Wednesday. Students, faculty, theii* families, and everyone connected with the University are asked to keep a record of their Masses, Communions, visits to the Blessed Sacrament and to the Grotto, rosaries, periods of adoration, and acts of selfdenial through Dec. 8.
These will be collected, totaled, and sent to the Pope as a spiritual bouquet in time for the holy year of 1950.
Fr. Pey+on to Preach At All Sunday Masses
“The Apostle of the Family Rosary,” Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., will preach at all the Masses in Sacred Heart church this Sunday. Father Peyton, internationally famous for his efforts to promote family prayer, will speak in connection with the University’s current novena for the Immaculate Conception and the drive for greater devotion to the rosary.
Father Peyton’s love of family life and family prayer is inherent, for he was one of nine children of a poor but faithful couple in Ireland, where the family rosary is a daily practice. Coming to the United States at the age of 19, he entered Moreau Seminary at
Notre Dame in 1929. However, in 1940, a year before his ordination, he was stricken with tuberculosis.	I
Though helpless for a year, his intense devotion to the Blessed Virgin resulted in his cure. “I owe a great debt to Our Lady. I will spend myself till death,” he vowed, “to bring the daily family rosary to ten million homes in America and to not one less than that.”
That was in 1942. Today, Father Peyton, founder and director of the Family Rosary Apostolate, has launched a world-wide crusade for family prayer.
Chief medium for this crusade is radio. “Our Lady’s Salesman,” as radio executives call him, has managed to procure not only free radio time — valued at $10,000 per week — for a half-hour drama, but also top Hollywood stars who have volunteered their talents.	'
“More things are wrought by prayer than the world dreams of” is the curtain-raiser on the weekly, non-sectarian Family Theater program, carried through the Mutual Network to more than 700 stations throughout the world. Twice yearly, in The Joyful Hour at Christmas and The Triumphant Hour at Easter, the rosary is recited and dramatized. These programs have become tremendously popular with people of every faith.	I
Huge rosary rallies throughout this continent attest to the success of \ Father Peyton’s crusade, which bears as its motto: “The family that prays , together stays together.”—Doti Carbone
Chicagoan Elected Head Of ND Advisory Council
Edward J. Quinn, of Chicago, was & elected Chairman of the Advisory Council at the University of Notre Dame at the opening session of the two-day Fall meeting of the council, Friday, Nov. 18.
Mr. Quinn, a partner in the Murphy, Lanier and Quinn accounting firm of Chicago, will succeed Charles H. Reagan of New York City, Special Representative of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures.
At the same session, William R. Daly of Otis and Company, Cleveland, O., -was elected Vice-Chairman of the Advisory Council. Mr. Daly succeeds Judson S. Sayre, of South Bend, Ind., President of Bendix Home Appliances, Inc., as Council Vice-Chairman.
The Council is composed of 32 leading business executives of the United States. Members of the Council advise on courses in the College of Commerce and seek to enlarge the relationship between the College and industry.
The Scholastic
10
January 26-31 Set For Annual D.C. Trip
The annual between-semesters tour of Washington, D. C., for Notre Dame students, sponsored by Professor Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science, will be held from Jan. 26-31.
Professor Bartholomew has been conducting these tours for a number of years, personally escorting ND students as they observe the Supreme Court, Congress and other governmental agencies in action. The tour-takers also visit historic sites in the Capital area, meet prominent government officials, and take part in official receptions.
This yeai*’s tour will cost $88. This covers round trip coach rail fare on the B. & 0. Columbian, dining car meals en route, hotel accommodations, all meals in Washington, and all bus fares and admission charges to grounds and buildings.
The student sight-seers will leave LaPaz, Ind., at 5:53 p.m. Jan. 26, after traveling on special busses from the University. Upon arrival in the Capital the next morning, they will begin their activity-packed schedule, visiting the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the Department of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Senate, and the House of Representatives. A special Embassy reception may also be included in this list of visits fox* the first day.
Highlights of the Jan. 28 and 29 plans for the trip are a visit to the Smithsonian Institute, Mass and breakfast at the Franciscan Monastery, and a tour of the Washington area in special sight-seeing busses. The trippers will leave Washington on Jan. 30 at 5:40 p.m. and arrive on campus early in the morning, Jan. 31.
The complete itinerary of the trip can be had by seeing Dr. Bartholomew in Room 230, Social Science Building. Professor Bartholomew also has all the information regarding reservations for the trip.
Three Performances Set for 'Much Ado'
Three performances of Shakespeare’s Mitch Ado About Nothing, due at Notre Dame next Wednesday and Thursday, have been scheduled to facilitate the expected crowds. The first performance will be at 8:15 Wednesday evening. Two Thursday showings, at 2:15 and 8:15, will complete the two-day run. The performances will be given in Washington Hall.
The University Players of Catholic University of America will present the
Shakespearean comedy and the leading roles will be portrayed by Miss Teddy Marie Kinsey and Bill Callahan, both experienced actors.
The University Players are made up of a group of recent graduates of the School of Drama at Catholic University. The group is now on a 7000-mile tour of 15 states during which they will visit leading colleges and universities. Much Ado About Nothing is the first road trip for the Players since before the war and is under the direction of Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O.P., head of CU’s Department of Speech and Drama.
The student body will be admitted to the production upon presentation of ID cards. For others, tickets are on sale at 60 cents.
Bells, Bells, Bells Cause Science Hall Evacuation
One-fifteen classes started as usual in the Science Hall last Friday afternoon. The students involved settled down to the drone of the prof’s voice in their comfortable easy chairs. At ten minutes of two, bells began to ring. Someone said, “That’s the fire bell.” Cries of “fire” went up. The profs resignedly dismissed classes and the students filed out calmly and orderly. A disaster was averted.
Only there wasn’t any fire.
The bells weren’t even fire bells.
The whole story came out later.
A touring company of Catholic University Speech and Drama graduates will play three performances of Shakespeare's "Much Ado About Nothing" here on Dec. 7, 8.
Some workmen were fixing the wiring on the class bells in the Science building. One of them touched two wires together, testing the circuit. The class bells rang. He tested again. The bells rang again. A pyrophobiac, somewhere, decided it was a fire and yelled to that effect.
Anyway, it’s consoling to know that if there had been a fire, things would have gone off calmly and orderly.
Businessman Is Elected President at Lay Beard
I. A. O’Shaughnessy, of St. Paul, Minn., President of the Globe Oil and Refining Company, was elected president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre
Dame on Nov. 25. Mr. O’Shaughnessy, who was previously vice-president of the Board, will succeed Ernest M. Morris of South Bend as president.
The Honorable Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster General of the United States, was elected vice-president of the Board. Thomas H. Beacom, Vice-President of the First National Bank of Chicago, was reelected Treasurer of the Board.
The Associate, Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame, composed of 22 business and industrial leaders of the United States, is charged with the responsibility of holding, investing and administering endowment funds of the University.
9 Dec. 2,1949
n
Notre Dome Symphonette Wins Plaudits for First Concert
The concert given by the Notre Dame orchestra the night of Nov. 21 received wide acclaim. Mr. Biondo said he was quite encouraged by the performance of his 56-piece aggregation. “The Barber had just the right atmosphere; the symphony as a whole sounded fine; the stirring brass passages in the Marche Slav were well-received; and Hank Ketterer
showed a professional talent in his rendition of the concerto,” he stated.
About 600 persons were present in Washington Hall to register enthusiastic applause for each number. They heard Mozart’s Symphony No. 35, the overture to Rossini’s Barber of Seville, the first movement of Grieg’s Piano Concerto with Henry Ketterer as soloist, and Tschaikovsky’s Marche Slav. Comments
on the concert were favorable, but the rendition of the Marche Slav appealed most to the audience.
Mr. Biondo announced that the group will now begin work on the Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 by Liszt; Beethoven’s Egmont Overture; Mozart’s overture to Magic Flute; Beethoven’s Symphony No. 2; Haydn’s Celia Concerto, and Mozart’s 39th Symphony.
Council Plans Dances For Second Semester
A thin ray of hope may be seen lighting the horizons of the local socialites. Tentative plans have been made by the Student Council to secure the Palais Royale ballroom for a series of Saturday night dances, beginning early next year, comparable to the recent Victory dances.
Plans for the dances, which have been approved, pending finality, by Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., vice-president in •charge of student welfare, call for ten •or more Saturday night dances, to be run by the Student Council. The management of the Palais has agreed to the proposed dances, according to Ray Yan-ics, Junior class president, who is in charge of the committee to investigate the possibilities of the dances.
Still in the balance is a notice of cooperation from St. Mary’s College. Since most of the girls at Notre Dame dances in recent times have been students of St. Mary’s, cooperation from that quarter is deemed vital.
If this endeavor goes through, the admission price and hours of the dances would be about the same as at the Victory dances, Yanics thought. The same type of bands would probably be procured, and the dress would be informal.
12
MARRIAGE FORUM
The last session of the Notre Dame Institute on Christian Marriage, sponsored by the Department of Religion, will be held Monday at 8 p. m. in the Law Auditorium. Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., will speak on the “Purpose and Conduct of Courtship” and Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., will discuss “Engagement as Preparation for Marriage.”
The Institute is open to men only and is being sponsored especially for graduate students, January graduates, and married students of Notre Dame.
Student's Poem Is Included In Annual College Anthology
The National Poetry Association, Los Angeles, Cal., has announced that The Touch of an Old Sweet Sadness, a poem by James Dennis O’Neil has been accepted for publication in the Annual Anthology of College Poetry.
O’Neil is a native of Columbus, Ohio, and a sophomore in the College of Engineering.
The Anthology is a compilation of the finest poetry written by the college men and women of America and represents every section of the country.
LOBUND Exhibition *
Wins Praise in D.C.
Three weeks ago Notre Dame’s work in germ-free animal life was introduced | to the country’s most prominent Army | and Navy surgeons. The Laboratories of y Bacteriology of the University of Notre | Dame (LOBUND) had an exhibit booth | at the national convention of the As- | sociation of Military Surgeons, held at | the Hotel Statler in Washington.	* I
Dr. Robert F. Ervin, and Dr. Thomas	|
D. Luckey, chief biological chemist at	a
Notre Dame, went to Washington for the	I
exhibit. The booth showed LOBUND’s	|
work to the nation’s medical military by	11
using small scale models of the appara-	n
tus used in the Laboratory. By means of	!l
graphs many of LOBUND’s recent sci-	|
entific findings were illustrated.	h
Through the courtesy of Life maga- ' zine, some of the photos used in their	I
recent article on LOBUND and taken	i
by W. Eugene Smith were used at the | exhibit. The entire show centered around a metal plaque done by graduate student I Don Birren which showed artistically the various phases of the Laboratory’s work.
The achievements of LOBUND in	i
fighting bacteria won high acclaim at the	|
convention. In recognition of the exhibit’s excellence, a certificate of merit was awarded to LOBUND.	j
The Scholastic —
Fr. Moreau Miracle Investigated in South
Papal representatives are currently conducting an investigation in Lafayette, La., to determine the validity of a miracle ascribed to Rev. Pere Antoine Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
The Apostolic Process is studying the facts in the case of a dying man who put himself under the protection of Father Moreau and was “miraculously” cured after the doctors had pronounced his gangrene medically incurable.
The man who experienced the “miracle” is Herbert Theriot. He was given a relic, which included a piece of Father Moreau’s bone, by Sister Frances, superior of St. John’s Academy in Lafayette. He kissed the relic, placed it on the infected incision and held a picture of Father Moreau in his hands. His condition was reported to improve immediately and shortly thereafter doctors said he was out of danger.
Neophyte Lawyers Cavort at Annual Bal
Mortimer Adler to Speak In Washington Hall Tonight
A highlight of this year’s Concert and Lecture Series will be tonight’s appearance of Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, nationally-known author and Professor of the Philosophy of Law at the University of Chicago.
Dr. Adler’s lecture, entitled “The Liberal Arts,” will be presented in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Dr. Adler’s last appearance on campus was at the ceremonies following the 1949 Summer Session when he presented the Commencement Address.
Dr. Adler is the author of Art and Prudence, St. Thomas and the Gentiles, What Man Has Made of Man, and other books. He is recognized as a leading American lecturer. There will be no admission charge to tonight’s talk.
Formali'y-garbed, and attempting to show their maturity, the neophyte barristers of the Notre Dame Law School dance and make merry at their annual Law Ball. The lawyers danced to the music of Herb Germann's orchestra in the main ballroom of the Indiana Club. Almost 200 couples were summoned to appear at the Law Ball.
Dr. Gurian to Lead Talks
Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science will be discussion leader of the round table on Soviet problems at the New York meeting of the American Political Science Association, Dec. 29. He will give two W lectures on Soviet problems at a similar meeting at Harvard University next January.
Dr. Gurian will also begin writing the articles on Nazism, Bolshevism and Communism for the new edition of the Catholic Encyclopedia. The October-November issue of Politique Etranger, a publication of the Center for the Study of Foreign Policies, contains an article by Dr. Gurian on “The United States and the U.S.S.R.”
® Dec. 2,1949
Thomas Nelson, president of the Law Club, has the enviable honor of crowning the co-queens of the Law Ball; left, Mrs. Vincent Scully, and right, Miss Marilyn Luyckx. The girls were the dates of the two chairmen, Gene Mathews and Vince Scully.
13
Rudolph Goepfrich
“In this, the Machine Age,” says Mr. Goepfrich, “incustry is tending to become more and more 'mechanized, to produce better, faster and cheaper than ever before. Today we are doing a lot more through mechanization than by manual labor. Tomorrow we shall do even more and next year still more. Thus, the role of the mechanical engineer, always an important one, is rapidly becoming an indispensable one. The field today seems almost limitless, and this is reflected in the fact that today, by far, the majority of the consultative and advisory posts in industry are held by men with engineering experience.
“I cannot state emphatically enough just how important it is that a young engineer master gitl the fundamentals of his field. Subjects like math, physics, and the technological sciences must be thoroughly understood, but it is not at all necessary to know from memory every formula in the book. Rather, an engineer should possess, or at least develop, an analytical mind. He is not always exp :ct-ed to know the answer to every question, but he must at least know what he is looking for. If he knows that much, the rest is easy.
“Besides having a sound knowledge of fundamentals, that engineer will go farthest who shows lot of patience and initiative. Of the two, patience is perhaps more important, especially in your early days on the job. You will probably be assigned first to work on the drafting board, where patience and persistence, rather than initiative, reign supreme. Then, according to your own merits and the company’s policy, you will be promoted to layout work and finally to design. Thus, though it is partially true that the more initiative you have the farther you’ll go, it is absolutely and ir-
14
Your Future
6: As a Mechanical Engineer
By JACK BRADSHAW
revocably true that the farther you go, the more initiative you’ll need.
“Now, how to get started? This, of course, depends on the individual’s'own preferences. Don’t neglect your home town. Every contact you make is a potential job. Naturally, you should consider the big companies which often maintain large staffs of junior engineers. The smaller firms, though usually having smaller engineering staffs, often offer a much better chance for advancement than the bigger firms. An engineer’s problem, at least lately, has been not so much in getting a job as in proving himself once he gets it.”
Rudolph A. Goepfrich was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1926 with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering. He has been with Bendix Aviation Corporation almost continuously for the past twenty-six years and is now Chief Engineer of the Automotive Brake Department.
“It may be well to try to get into a company where you can pick up some laboratory experience. This may not be the nicest job in the world and you will surely get your hands dirty, but the experience will prove invaluable to you later on, especially since it’s something you don’t ordinarly learn in college. Laboratory experience of this sort always pays off in better, keener-minded engineers, and it is indispensable in developing what we call field engineers — the well paid men who work outside the company, calling on customers and other companies, etc.
“In general, you can expect to start out at about $250-$300 per month. Many firms now have regular advancement programs, many of which provide a 10% pay increase every six months for the first two or three years. Thus, if you started out at $250 a month you could, with reasonably good luck, expect to be
making $400 a month two and one-half years later.
“You’ve got to keep awake to get ahead in engineering. The more you can learn while you’re on the job, the faster you’ll go up. Industry has settled down from the War and is poised for the plunge into a new era. It wants to know the basic causes of its own problems and is not so much interested in finding temporary solutions. Consequently, it is willing to pay good salaries to engineers who are equal to the challenge.
“Remember that after you get your technical education and your degree, your greatest asset is common ordinary horse sense. Remember also that though you’re a college grad, you don’t know it all yet. Your education is like a doctor; he never stops learning. When you graduate respect your own lack of practical laboratory experience, and try to make up for it by getting in some lab work if you get the chance.
“The field is open, the opportunities are about as good as can be found in most other professions, and the work is interesting, diversified and worthwhile. So good luck, and go to it!”
Catholic Mission Crusade To Convene Here in August
The fourteenth national convention of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade will be held next Summer, from August 24 to 27, on the campus of the University of Notre Dame, it was announced by the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Edward A. Freking, national secretary of the Crusade.
Theme of the 1950 convention will be “The Christian mid-Century Task,” to be interpreted in terms of development of spiritual power to combat the forces of secularism and atheism in the world today. The 1950 convention will mark the second time in three years that the convention has been held at Notre Dame; the 1948 meeting also took place at Notre Dame.
The Scholastic
Adam Walsh, captain of the 1924 Notre Dame football squad, introduces his teammates at the Southern California pep rally.
Following the last home football game of the season, Notre Dame rooters jam the Drill Hall for the Victory Dance.
The Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules huddle in their sideline seats as they remember how it used to be, 25 years ago.
1949 Home Season Ends
The final home football game of the year brought the season to a close in a memorable way. Those who have been at Notre Dame for four years have a hard time remembering a weekend that equalled it, save, perhaps, for the Army game weekend in 1947.
The thing which made it extra special was the return of the 1924 football squad: the Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules. They inspired this year’s team to play a mighty game against the Trojans of Southern California, and inspired the student body to cheer the Irish all the way.
On the whole it has been a wonderful season to remember. The Indiana, Tulane and Iowa weekends were all great. Everyone at Notre Dame agrees that there is nothing like them and grads will tell you that their like cannot be found on any other campus in the country. It is not the “Scholastic’s” intention to get verbose, but it believes that home football weekends, such as this last one, is but one of the things that make living at Notre Dame such a privilege.
Dillon Hall's clever display copped'the campus hall decoration contest prize. Runners-up were 'Morrissey' and Walsh Halls.
Dec. 2, 1949
15
Heavy Snowfall Cloqs ND Stadium
Workmen recruited from South Bend shovel out the snow-clogged Stadium prior to the Trojans' game. Halftime student section snowballs also helped clear it.
Dillon Hall Display Cops Best Decoration Honors
“Leahy’s School of Hard Blocks,” set up by Dillon Hall, won first prize in the hall decoration contest for the Southern California game last Saturday. Morrissey’s sophomores took second prize and Walsh came in third in the judgings of three prominent South Bend businessmen.
The Dillon display featured Coach Frank Leahy at the teacher’s desk, and various members of the team voicing sentiments such as Sitko’s “No matter how I figure it out, it still comes out six yards,” and Williams’ “I hope I can pass.” The school was complete with blackboard, on which some student had written “I must block hard” fifty times, and a playground with more scenes, such as a group of officials standing in Puget Sound, watching Notre Dame movies of 1948.
Morrissey took second prize with “Grin and Barrett, Sophs Beat Trojans,” featuring a small figure of Billy Barrett, the Morrissey flash, on runners.
Walsh completed the list of prizewinners with a Li’l Abner scene in which each Irish opponent was represented as a “kigmy,” the little animal in the popular Al Capp comic strip which loves to be kicked. By means of a pulley device, anyone could help Li’l Abner kick the
16
Trojan kigmy, and SMU was next in line. Each kigmy had something to say, such as Tulane’s “I’ll try it just once more,” and North Carolina’s “The kick was good and strong, but why did they wait so long?”
Judges for the contest were George Davis, Earll S. Winterrowd and Harold Kazmierzak.
CONDUCT PRAISED
The following are excerpts from letters sent to Rev Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., by the managers of the New York hotels which housed those who went on the Student Trip. The remarks were unsolicited.
“The other hotels where your men were quartered have asked us to convey to you their admiration for the manner in which the men conducted themselves, and we too wish to repeat that it was a pleasure to have them with us.”—Gera/rd Schiff, Mgr., Hotel Embassy.
We wish to take this opportunity to tell you that we enjoyed having your group with us and wish to compliment them on their fine behavior. We hope that we can be of service again in the near future.—Gerard Schiff, Mgr., Hotel Embassy.
“They were a well conducted group and we were very pleased to have them as guests of the hotel. There was no confusion on their arrival and I hope that the fellows were satisfied with both the service and accommodations.— J. C. Stratman, Mgr., Sherman Square Hotel.
“We wish to thank you again for having the boys stop at the hotel, and wish to state they were as orderly a group of boys as I have ever had the pleasure to have as guests.”—George Gross, Mgr., Hotel Greystone.
Composer-Pianist to Give All-Chopin Concert Tuesday
“An Hour With Chopin” will be the title of an informal lecture-recital to be given by Carl Mathes, distinguished composer and pianist, next Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Washington hall. This program is being presented to the students and faculty by the Slavonic Club. There have been many special concerts £ and programs of Chopin’s works this year, since 1949 marks the centenary of the Polish patriot-composer’s death.
Mr. Mathes has had an enviable career both as a concert artist and as a teacher. He studied theory, piano, and organ in the Royal Academy in Budapest, Hungary, which is also the alma mater of such famous names in the world of music as Ormandy, Sigeti, and Dohnanyi. Outstanding on a long list of artistic achievements was Mr. Mathes’ appointment as court pianist and instructor by the late Queen Marie of Romania.
Since he has become a resident of the United States Mr. Mathes has continued to give concerts and teach composition. He has been a member of the faculty of the music department at Notre Dame for over a year.
North Dakota Club Formed
Twenty Notre Dame students from North Dakota met last week to form the North Dakota Club of Notre Dame. They voted to. accept a proposed constitution and elected the following officers: President, Francis Webb, of Bismarck; Vice-President, Ben Jaskoski, of Velva; Secretary, Lee Travis, of Bismarck; Treasurer, Bob Lakken, of Jamestown.
The Scholastic
'Holiday' Comedy to Open Here Dec. 12; Rehearsals Go Smoothly Despite Hazards
By FRANK HAENDLER
The University Theater’s second production of the semester, Philip Barry’s light comedy, Holiday, now being molded for four performances in Washington Hall, will be presented Dec. 12, 13, 14 and 15, the week before Christmas vacation.
Following on the heels of Whistling in the Dark, last month’s Theater hit, Holiday is shaping up already as another production to please the tastes of campus theater-goers. But despite its bright outlook two weeks before first curtain, Holiday has been beset by a series of hazards that have made the play no vacation for its cast, or its director, Frank J. Hanley.
When rehearsals first began, the coal strike forced curtailment in Washington Hall heating. Radiators turned stone cold and the cast had to wear overcoats to help them work up heated emotion.
But that wasn’t all.
Soon a new crisis appeared—a little one. What could be done with the Vet-ville buggy crowd? Five Vetville wives —the largest female population to grace the boards of Washington Hall—are in the cast, and some of them are mothers. Solution here was the Moscow Art Theater system — communal baby sitting. When the ladies perform, the hapless males in the cast foster-mother in Vet
ville at no charge; and with complete ice-box-raiding privileges. According to Director Hanley the system works out quite well.
In rehearsal, however, Holiday disregards all troubles and gets quickly down to business. The romance, ignoring preliminaries, immediately swings into the plot. This significant line in Scene I is ample proof: “Please kiss me several times.” (That line is in the book) As the play unfolds, a moral conflict garbed in sharp, quick repartee grows along with it. The social problem emerges clearly: money vs. living.
James Maher, a journalism senior will play the lead in this comedy of manners. He will enact the role of Johnny Case who decides he would rather live his own life than to marry money. Jo Ann Smith and Mary Roach will play the top feminine roles of the Seton sisters, Linda and Julia, who vie for Johnny’s attention.
Jim Beymer, ex-University Theater stage manager, is to try his talent in an actor’s role in Holiday. He will be Ned
Dec. 2, 1949
Seton, the girls’ brother. Eleanor Thompson will play Susan Potter, Larry McDermott and Leo Blaber will enact the roles of Nick Potter and Edward Seton.
Other members of the cast include Frank Malzone, playing Seton Cram, Jane Marqueling as Laura Seton, Charles McCauley as Henry, and Avalon Vogan as Delia. Walter Weimer will essay the part of Charles, a young manservant.
Ted Stelten will be stage manager for the production, with Lou Garippo assisting him. Phoebe Stapleton will be properties manager.
Students will be admitted free to Holiday. Faculty, administration staff and the general public may purchase tickets for 60 cents, including tax. All seats will be reserved. Tickets may be obtained at the Dining Hall, Dec. 7 to 11 from 11:30 a. m. to 1 p. m. and at Washington Hall Dec. 12 to 15 from 7:15 to 8 p. m.
Mass List for Coming Week
Saturday, Dec. 3—Greater Double—White—St. Francis Xavier, Confessor; Gloria; 2nd Coll, of the Sunday: Common Pref.
Sunday, Dec. 4—Semi-double—Violet—II Sunday of Advent; 2nd Coll. St. Peter Chrysologus, Bishop, Confessor and Doctor of the Church, 3rd St. Barbara, Virgin and Martyr; Creed: Preface of Trinity.
Monday, Dec. 5—Simple—Violet—Mass of the previous Sunday; 2nd Coll. St. Sabbas, Abbot and Confessor, 3rd Faithful Departed, 4th Blessed Virgin; Common Preface.
Tuesday, Dec. 6—Double—White—St. Nicholas, Bishop and Confessor; Gloria; 2nd Coll, of the Sunday; Common Preface.
Wednesday, Dec. 7—Double—White—St. Ambrose, Bishop, Confessor, and Doctor of the Church; Gloria; 2nd Coll, of the Sunday; 3rd Vigil of the Immaculate Conception; Creed; Common Pref. Last Gospel of the Vigil. Or Mass of Vigil of Immaculate Conception; Violet; 2nd Coll. St. Ambrose; 3rd of the Sunday; Common Preface.
Thursday, Dec. 8—Double of I Class—White—Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary; Gloria; 2nd Coll, of the Sunday: Creed; Preface of Blessed Virgin.
Friday, Dec. 9—Semi-double—White—Second Day of Octave of Immaculate Conception; Gloria; 2nd Coll, of the Sunday, 3rd St. Melchiades, Pope and Martyr; Creed; Preface of Blessed Virgin.
NOTE—
Missa Recitata in Our Lady Chapel every Saturday 6:40 a. m.
Compline and Vespers—Dillon Hall daily 5:20 p. m.
Vespers—Howard daily 5:30 p. m.
Compline—Sorin five days a week 6:45 p. m .
Compline—Walsh 11: p. m.
(Everyone is invited to attend these devotions)
Famous Aviatrix to Speak at ND Air Group Banquet
Jacqueline Cochran, famous aviatrix, will be the principal speaker at a banquet to be held next Wednesday in South Bend under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame student branch of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences.
Miss Cochran, winner of the Bendix Trophy Race and wartime leader of the W.A.S.P.S., has been in Europe for the past three months and will dock at New-York Monday. She plans to fly to South Bend in her private plane to reach the banquet. The woman flyer will talk on her experiences in air-racing and the contributions air-racing makes to the aviation field.
Dick Keady, chairman of the banquet committee, has announced that Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., and Professor W. D. Drinkwater, faculty advisor of the aviation group will also deliver short addresses.
The officers _ of the ND Aeronautical Sciences branch are: Walt Geudtner, chairman; Bob Kraemer, vice-chairman; Tim Hanrahan, treasurer; and Pete Skerrett, secretary.
17
ND-Rosary Singers To Give Joint Concert
Forty members of the Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, will join members of the Glee Club of Rosary College to present a joint concert Dec. 10 at 8:15 p.m. in the Rosary College Social Hall, River Forest, Ill.
The concert will be sponsored by the Rosary College Guild and proceeds will go to the Guild’s benefit drive. The joint concert also marks the first out-of-town appearance by the ND singers this school year.
Each Glee Club will present a series of songs individually and then will combine their talents to sing mixed choral numbers that include Fum Fum, a Catalinian Christmas Carol; Adeste Fideles; a special arrangement of Silent Niff kt; and the Slumber Song of the Virgin by Max Reger.
Anyone wishing to purchase tickets for this concert may do so by contacting Glee Club president, Alan Gavan in Room 265, Dillon Hall. Tickets are S1.20, tax included.
In addition to the evening concei-t at Rosary College, the two singing groups will record a half-hour program of Christmas songs at radio station WMAQ, in the Merchandise Mart, Chicago.
The recorded show will be rebroadcast on Christmas Eve over the nationwide facilities of the National Broadcasting Company.
Dr. Rossini to Conclude
Reilly Chemistry Lectures
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, Chief, Sec-• tion on Thermochemistry and Hydrocarbons, National Bureau of Standards, will present his final three Peter C. Reilly Chemistry Lectures next week in room 213, Chemistry Hall.
Dr. Rossini presented the first three talks of the lecture series this past week. The topics are: Monday, 8 p.m., Evaluation of Purity From Liquid-Solid Equilibria; Wednesday, 8 p.m., Fractionation, Analysis, and Purification of Hydrocarbons; Thursday, 4 p.m., Hydrocarbons in Petroleum.
ND Law Group to Hold Annual Meeting Dec. 9
Members of the Notre Dame Law Association will hold their annual meeting and election of officers in conjunction with the third annual Natural Law Institute to be held Dec. 9 and 10 in the College of Law.
This association, organized last year, is composed of former Notre Dame
18
iSS?
students who are now practicing law. Nearly 300 Notre Dame trained members of the legal profession from all parts of the United States are members of the group.
Present officers of the Association include: Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the
College of Law, Honorary President; Francis Jones, South Bend, Ind., President; Charles Vaughn, Lafayette, Ind., Vice-President; Professor Robert Sullivan, of the College of Law, Executive Secretary, and Hugh E. Wall, Dayton, 0., Secretary-Treasurer.
s
Two things every college man should know!
This is a psychology professor.
Plays with mental blocks. Thought life teas bed of neu-roses until he switched to smooth-fitting "Manhattan' pajamas.
These are "Manhattan" Manlounge pajamas. Right for sweet dreaming or loafing. Durable cotton, >-uyon, and cotton and rayon prints.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
.....	Copr. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.

i
€

The
Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish, Mustangs Meet in Season Finale
Creighton lettermen and Coach Duce Belford. Left to right: Don Knowles, Bob Gra-doville, Francis Miller, Belford, Frank Gilchrist, Earl McClelland and Bill Boedeker.
Great Backs Bolster SMU Victory Hopes
By JACK VARLEY
Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame invade the Cotton Bowl at Dallas for a battle royal with the Mustangs of Southern Methodist University. Coach Matty Bell’s Southerners will be out to bring about another Bull Run at the expense of their Northern visitors. How successful the Ponies will be is very dubious for they are attempting to do what the last 37 opponents of Frank Leahy’s green-clad army have been unable to do—push Notre Dame into the loss column. The Mustangs, on the other hand, enter the combat with a five, three, one record for the season.
STARTING I,INE-UPS
Irish Cagers Open Home Season Thursday « Against Creighton University Bluejays
NOTRE DAME	SMU
Wightkin ..........E_______?.__Waliace
Martin_____________T_____________Perry
Johnson ...........G--------- Halliday
Grothaus ----------C_....... Hightower
Lally .............G------- I. D. Russel
McGeehee ..........T_________ Franklin
Hart...............E........... Knight
Williams ..........O----------- Walker
Spaniel ...........H............. Rote
Coutre.............H___________ Folsom
Sitko _____________.F________ Sullivan
Game time—2:00 p. m., C.S.T.
By JACK ECONOMOU
The 1949-1950 edition of Notre Dame basketball will make its debut against Creighton University of Omaha next Thursday, Dec. 8, in the local fieldhouse. Led by lettermen Captain Kevin O’Shea, John Foley and Marty O’Connor, the Irish will attempt to right last year’s opening game loss to Illinois.
Creighton’s Bluejays have recently embarked on a rebuilding process. Years ago, under the guidance of Eddie Hickey, now head man at St. Louis, the Blue and White squad was one of the powers of intercollegiate basketball. The war and Hickey’s transfer practically eliminated the small Jesuit school from big-time basketball; now, with the coming of peace and Coach Duce Belford, the hardwood sport is once again being emphasized.
From last year’s squad which copped nine and lost 14, six lettermen return. Of these, Don “Pinky” Knowles is Creighton’s best advertisement. A cocky scrapper, a fancy dribbler and a smart playmaker, Knowles is a crowd-pleaser. He was inactive last winter because of a heavy law schedule. Holdovers from last year’s team include forwards Frank Gilchrist and Earl McClelland who tallied 261 points between them. Francis Miller and Bill Boedeker will probably start with Knowles, Gilchrist and McClelland.
ND and Creighton have not met on the court since the 1926-27 season when the Irish trounced the Bluejays twice, 32-20 and 31-17. However, Creighton still holds a 6-5 edge in the series. Whereas Coach (Continued on Page 23)
The Mustangs’ chief hopes for victory lie in their great backfield led by All-American Doak Walker. The Doaker led his team in the ’48 season in scoring, rushing and punting. He scored a total of 88 points, including 22 conversions. He gained 532 yards rushing and possessed a 42.1 punting average at the conclusion of the last season. He will also be a threat in the passing department. Last year he completed 26 out of 4G aerials.
Good Backfield Strength
Walker has three good cohorts in the backfield. Hero of this year’s Kentucky game, Kyle Rote is a five-foot, eleven pack of dynamite who can be a very dangerous runner. The other halfback will ba Frank Payne who opponents have found a difficult man to stop because he is a
9 Dec. 2, 1949
19
Doak Walker
very hard runner. The fullback slot will be held down by a six-foot two, 190-pound lad by the name of Dick McKis-sack, who is at his best when he is running interference for one of the other backs.
The Mustangs’ main weakness is the line. The center and wing positions are relatively strong, but tackle is very weak. Fred Goodwin will probably start at the pivot spot while co-captain Bobby Folsom, Raleigh Blakely, Carl Wallace and John Milan will alternate at the wing positions.
SMU will again operate offensively off variations of the single and double wing formations. The Ponies will also use the Rusty Russell “Y” which allows Rote or Payne to take over the ball-carrying chores without losing the effectiveness of Walker as a threat.
The Dallas lads have had a hard time keeping their record unblemished this season. They squeezed out a 28-27 victory over Missouri, but in their next game they were trounced by the Rice Owls, 41-27. Three weeks later Texas A. & M. tied them, 27-27 and two weeks after that Baylor upset them, 35-26. Then last week, insult was added to injury as Texas Christian scored a 21-13 upset and Doak Walker hurt his leg. The possible loss of the Doaker tomorrow could very easily turn this week’s battle into a rout.
But, as the injured Walker sat out part of the game watching the agony that befell his teammates, a quarterback was piloting his team to another victory and more than filling the shoes of his All-American predecessors. For, at the snow-covered Notre Dame stadium, Baltimore Bob Williams was calling the assault that led to a Notre Dame 32-0 victory over the University of Southern California.
20
The freezing cold called off ths expected passing duel between two of the country’s best, Williams and the Trojans’ Jimmy Powers. It was the ground power of the Irish that stunned the spectators as even end Leon Hart switched to fullback and did a good job.
The first Irish score came in the first period on a 26 yard pass from Williams to Hart. The big end caught the ball on the ten, shook off a would-be tackler and scored. Steve Oracko made the conversion and the South Bend boys were on their way.
Then, a few seconds later, Powers faded and passed. The pass, intended for Pat Duff, was intercepted by John Petit-bon who ran 43 yards for the second Irish score.
Just a few minutes before the half ended USC’s Jay Roundy fumbled a Williams punt and Billy Barrett recovered for the Irish on the Trojan 24. Barrett gained 11, Hart picked up six and Emil Sitko scored from the five.
The fourth Notre Dame score came on a sustained 60 yard drive which saw Larry Coutre, Bill Wightkin, Frank Spaniel and Hart, running from the fullback spot, driving to the Trojan two where Spaniel smashed over for the score.
Coach Leahy pulled out his first stringers, with the exception of Williams, but even this couldn’t stop the Fighting Irish. Notre Dame took the ball on their own 47 and in a long sustained march John Landry, Ernie Zalejski and Barrett drove to the one from which Barrett scored. Oracko converted and the Irish won 32-0.
It was a great victory over a stouthearted Trojan team. The majority of the spectators were willing to agree with “Red” Grange, Illinois all-time AllAmerican, that this Notre Dame team is the greatest collegiate team ever seen on a gridiron.
Coach Melton Sounds Call For Frosh Fencing Season
Mr. Herb Melton, Notre Dame fencing coach, has announced that this year’s freshman fencing season will be inaugurated Monday, Dec. 5, in the fencing room under the north stands in the Old Gym. All frosh interested in the sport should report there at 3:30 p.m.
For the third year, major monograms will be awarded to varsity fencers while the frosh swordsmen will be given freshmen numerals depending on their standing in the annual Freshman Tournament held in April.
Coach Melton stresses that while experience is valuable, it is not a prerequisite.
ND Cogers Trounce Frosh
Unleashing a second-half barrage of baskets, the Varsity trounced the Frosh in an intra-squad scrimmage last Tuesday night, 67-38. The 2500 fans who comfortably filled the old gym saw the upperclassmen start slowly, gradually increase their tempo, and eventually win going away.
Jerry McClusky’s opening set-shot gave the first-year men a short lived advantage, but six minutes later the varsity was on the long end of a 16-7 count. The soph sensations, Leroy Leslie and Don Strasser, were the offensive guns of the evening. The fleet-footed forward poured 14 points through the hoop, while the set-shooting Strasser hit for eleven. Kevin O’Shea, held scoreless the first half, bounced back after intermission for nine markers.
Defensively, the varsity employed a well co-ordinated switching man-to-man setup which stymied all frosh efforts to penetrate into the bucket area. Shooting from far out, the freshmen were able to hit on only a small per cent of attempts. Leslie and Dan Bagley took over rebounding duties, while big John Foley, from his pivot post, served as playmaker.
The frosh were somewhat befuddled by the speed and trickery of the varsity; the east campus men were unable to work as a unit. However, McClusky tallied ten markers, while “Cooch” Lewinski added nine more.
The box score:
<11
Varsity
Leslie, rf ___ Wilcox, rf .... Bagley, If ___ O’Connor, If
Foley, c _____ Wray, c ______ O’Shea, rg____ Kenny, rg .... Strasser, 1g .. Newmayer, 1g
FG FT T Frosh FG FT T
6	2	14	Eatcen, rf ....	2	15
1	0	2	Coudon, If ....	1	0	2
2	15	Lewinski, c ..	3	3	9
13 5 Osterman, c	1	0 2
2	2	6	McClusky, rg	4	2	10
3	0	6	Hawley, rg _	1	0	2
4 19 Gibbons, 1g _ 3	1	7
28 11 67
15 7 37
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
by Kalph Wright
Show-off Ridicules Hart
Some kind St. Bonaventure students called our attention to a story written by a person named Dave Camerer. The gist of Mr. Camerer’s story is that Leon Hart may have been quite a football player a year ago, but now he’s definitely not All-America stuff. Speaking of the North Carolina game, he says Hart was “mouse-trapped, bear-A trapped, elephant-trapped and just plain ridden to hell outa there.” He said Hart “went for more rides than the Volga Boatman.” Of Hart’s pass catching, Mr. Camerer says Leon “fights the ball.” This person concludes his little piece by laughing at the stories of Hart’s running from the fullback spot in Irish scrimmages. Says Mr. Camerer, if Hart was such a good fullback, he’d be running from there.
His show-off journalism doesn’t de-0 serve attention, but we get so irked at such people, we’d like to make a few comments on the subject. To us, the whole story smells of someone who’s trying to attract attention by attacking a public favorite.
It’s notable that Mr. Camerer only refers to the first half of the North Carolina game (in which he claims he blueprinted all of Hart’s actions). We’ll admit Leon was below par in those A first two periods, but most people thought he was the best lineman on the field in the second half.
As for* pass-receiving, if Hart “fights the ball,” a few other football players ought to employ the same method. To our knowledge, Leon has muffed only one pass all fall. Statistics prove he’s quite a pass-receiver and a good ball-toter on that end-around too. There are two reasons why Leon doesn’t play fullback more. One is Emil Sitko (an _ All-American himself). The other is 9 the fact that’s so obvious to everyone but Mr. Camerer. Leon’s too good an end to be playing fullback. Leon’s fine running from fullback against USC makes Mr. Camerer eat his words (which are certainly not very tasty).
• In its All-America release, Associated Press said of Hart: “If ever there was a unanimous All-America, the Irish cocaptain is it.” If Mr. Camerer thinks Leon Hart is a bum, how does he account for all this praise from opposing
players? From coaches? From sportswriters? Why did the well informed pro scouts tab Hart as the man to sign to a contract?
The by-line of Mr. Camerer’s story reads: “Dave Camerer, Former Dartmouth Tackle.” Mr. Camerer is probably jealous that he has to inform everyone that he played football; everyone knows about Leon Hart. Why don’t you try doing hand-stands atop the Empire State Building, Dave?' You’d get attention that way too.
A Real All-American
Congratulations to Associated Press for its fine All-America selections. There's one group of football experts who didn’t fail to see that Jim Martin is one whale of a ballplayer. In the days of the platoon system, Jungle Jim plays most of the time on both offense and defense. And he’s terrific either way. Jim is the real sparkplug of this great Notre Dame team and surely one of the most praiseworthy of all ND captains.
Cagers Rated High
We noticed where some of the basketball experts have picked Notre Dame’s five to rate as high as sixth in the whole country this winter. This seems a little high for a squad that lost ballplayers like Leo Bamhorst, Paul Gordon, John Brennan and Jimmy O’Halloran ; Coach Moose Krause has to depend an awful lot on newcomers like Don Strasser, Leroy Leslie and Dan Bagley. However, all three of these boys look good enough to play in the big time.
Prediction of the Week
We thought Notre Dame was getting bogged down from the extended schedule, but last week convinced us we were wrong there. The Irish want to win this one too much to not be “up” for SMU. Doak Walker will worry any defense and Kyle Rote is a tremendous running threat. Yet the Mustangs haven’t been especially brilliant all season long. Before the game is too far gone, the greatest of all Notre Dame teams will be well on the way to its tenth straight win. Notre Dame 35, Southern Methodist 7.
For Christmas
CHEAPER THAN TRAIN COACH
Round Trip
New Jersey ] Sky Coach.... $55.00 New York f Train Coach.. 58.00
Old train fare and tax (43.41) 12/o% increase (5.83), gov’t, tax increased fare ($0.81), reservation fee (2.30) meals, drinks, and tips during round trip (6.10) TOTAL $58.00.
All Skycoach fares include transportation tax, snacks enroute, and Stewardess sendee.
Non-Stop
All departures from South Bend Airport. Eastern Flights take-off at 2:00 and 7:00 P.M. Dec. 20th. Also 2:00 p. m. Dec. 16th and 19th. Landing at Newark, N. J.
Los Angeles or Oakland
Round Trip $140.00 ) SAVE One Way $80.00 f 2% DAYS
Other frequent flights to Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Miami, Florida.
Skycoach Air-Travel has maintained a perfect safety record in over 250,000,000 Passenger-miles during their 3%> years of continuous operation.
Address inquiries to:
RUSS FAHEY P. O. Box 174 NOTRE DAME.
INDIANA
DICK READY 349 Sorin Hall EXT. 455
Dec. 2,1949
21
HEROES OF PAST
What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
By RAY FITZGERALD
A framed photograph hangs above the elbow-benders in one of South Bend’s better known refreshment stands. The photo is captioned “football’s perfect play,” and shows an athlete named Wilke, all dressed up in a Notre Dame uniform, running to a touchdown behind wonderful blocking. The man throwing the key block which made this play “perfect” is Lai*ry Danbom, probably the top fullback in the country in 1936.
The anecdote above isn’t intended as encouragement to young fullbacks to throw key blocks so that their pictures will hang above bars for all to admire. It merely shows the almost indispensable kind of guy Larry Danbom was, on a team that included men like Andy Pilney, Wayne Milner, Mike Layden, Steve Miller, Bob Wilke and Andy Puplis. Danbom played football for three years at ND and by 1936 had become quite proficient at the game. Eastern sportswriters, in fact, thought he was the best fullback they had seen all that year. They thought this despite the fact that he shared the fullback post with Steve Miller, another fine ballplayer. The two of them did the bulk of the scoring for ND in 1936.
Larry played in the memorable 18-13 game with Ohio State in 1935, and came up with the freak play of the year. Mike Layden tossed a pass to Andy Pilney, but as Pilney came down with the ball, an Ohio State man plucked it out of his hands and started for the sidelines. He had gone a couple of yards, when a pair of greedy ND paws belonging to Mr. Danbom reached out and filched the ball from him. The whole affair took maybe four seconds, and ND ended up with a gain of ten yards.
Danbom took part in another freak play the next year in the Southern Cal game. A Trojan back took off on a touchdown run. Danbom, the closest ND man to the runner, gave chase, and the referee, right on top of the play, hustled right along with him. Danbom kept gaining on the runner and was forcing him to the sidelines. But Mr. Referee, running like crazy - alongside Danbom, had gotten between Larry and the ball carrier. Danbom couldn’t get at the runner because of the ref.
Leon Hart, Emil Sitko and Jim Martin posing for the cameramen before one of their biggest games. All three were selected for the Associated Press All-America team.
Finally, in exasperation, he let fly with a rolling block, trying to knock both men off their pins. He got the official but the Trojan back went all the way for a TD.
Larry quit knocking down referees when he graduated in 1937 and took a job as football coach at Cathedral Prep in Erie, Pa. He gave up coaching after two years to become sales representative for the Standard Oil Co. His favorite uncle invited him into the U. S. Navy in 1943, and Larry spent more than three, years serving first as an officer in the Tom Hamilton athletic program and, later, ten months aboard a Navy escort carrier.
Larry is now a sales representative for Claeys Wholesale Co., makers of fountain equipment and supplies, right here in South Bend. He’s an active member of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley, and right npw is serving as secretary of that organization. '
Twice a week he comes out to ND and knocks himself out playing handball with that past master of many arts, Father Brennan. Larry, from the same Calumet district in upper Michigan that produced George Gipp, would be the first to admit that there was only one “Gipper.” Just the same, Larry Danbom took a back seat to nobody when it came to whacking the line back in ’34, ’35 and ’36. .
AP Writers Choose । Hart, Martin, Sitko
Leon Hart, Jim Martin and Emil’ Sitko are on the first team of the AllAmerica selections chosen by the Associated Press and released yesterday. Bob Williams made the second team and honorable mention went to both Bob Toneff and Larry. Coutre.
With three men picked on the first eleven this year, Notre Dame has had at least one man on the AP first team every year since 1945.
Some ND opponents honored were: Charlie Justice of North Carolina and Doak Walker of Southern Methodist on the first team; Don Mason of Michigan State on the second team, and Bob Zastrow of Navy and Eddie Price of Tulane on the third team.
The first eleven:
Ends—Leon Hart, Notre Dame, and Jim Williams, Bice.
Tackles—Jim Martin, Notre Dame, and Wade Walker, Oklahoma.
Guards—Rod Franz, California, and
John Schweder, Penn.
Center—Clayton Tonnemaker, Minnesota.
Backs—Emil Sitko, Notre Dame; Arnold Galiffa, Army; Doak Walker, SMU; Charlie Justice, North Carolina.
22
The Scholastic
The Four Horsemen of 1924 mount up again, 25 years after their playing days. Left to right, they are Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley, Harry Stuhldreher and Don Miller.
SMU, Lone Irish Opponent, Loses to Texas Christian
Notre Dame’s lone remaining opponent, Southern Methodist, cured itself of any chance of going into the Irish game overconfident anyway. The Mustangs lost for the second straight week, this time to Texas Christian, 21-13.
Doak Walker was injured again and, as usual, Kyle Rote took over in excellent fashion. The big halfback ran for 102 yards and scored once on a 37-yard gallop.
One past opponent clinched a bowl bid and another one blew its big chance. North Carolina ’ received and accepted the Cotton Bowl invitation after toppling Virginia, 14-7. Tulane, ready to accept one of several expected bids, took a 21-0 beating from Louisiana State. Another ND foe in action, Navy, got absolutely nowhere in the big game with Army. They lost, 38-0.
Opponents’ records:
W. L. T.
Indiana  .................... 18	0
Washington ............. 3	7	0
Purdue ................. 4	5	0
Tulane ................. 7	2	1
Navy ................... 3	5	1
Michigan State ......... 6	3	0
North Carolina ......... 7	3	0
Iowa ................... 4	5	0
Southern California .... 5	3	1
Southern Methodist ......... 5-3	1
Totals ................ 45	44' ~ 4
W Dec. 2, 1949
Basketball
(Continued from Page 19)
Moose Krause’s men will be opening their season on Thursday, the Nebraskans will have played two games of their 26-game sked. Irish fans can get an idea of what to expect when Creighton meets Colorado on Dec. 2 and Kansas U. at Boys Town on Dec. 5.
The present Notre Dame squad resembles last year’s in name only. That veteran outfit won 17 and lost but seven. The current Irish are not so polished and much more erratic. Still, employing their* fast break and semi-racehorse type of play, they’re good when they’re “on.”
The questionmarks include Kevin O’Shea’s knee, the under-fire abilities of newcomers Dan Bagley, Leroy Leslie and Don Strasser and the endurance of John Foley. Big John is the only tall man on the first squad and ND will need him for 40 minutes on those rebounds. Sophs Hughes, Wilcox and Bob Wray play behind Foley.
Leslie is a deadly one-hand shot when he’s hot and the southpaw forward can really jump. Bagley, bigger and older than Leslie, is potentially the team’s best scorer becuse of his tap-in abilities. Slender Marty O’Connor has more experience than either of these two and may get a starting berth.
O’Shea is an All-American of three years standing and Don Strasser will make a good backcourt mate for the San
Franciscan. Don’s specialities are playmaking and set-shooting.
A possible starting line-up would be Leslie and Bagley at the forwards, Foley at center and O’Shea and Strasser at the guards.
After the Creighton tilt, ND runs into a real tartar at Madison. There the high-powered Wisconsin five will be ready to avenge last year’s loss to the Irish. And they’ll probably be favored to do it. They have seven returning lettermen including six-foot, six-inch All Conference Don Rehfeldt, scoring champ of the Big Ten. Veterans Rehfeldt, Marshall Markham, Fred Schneider and Bob Mader will probably start with sophomore Al Nicholas.
GAMES AT HOME
Dec. 8—Creighton
Dec. 19—Iowa
Jan. 4—Butler
Jan. 11—De Paul
Jan. 18—Michigan State
Jan. 23—Kentucky
Feb. -1—Marquette
Feb. 14—Loyola
Feb. 23—St.. Louis
GAMES AWAY
Dec. 13—Wisconsin at Madison
Dec. 17—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium
Dec. 29—Indiana at Indianapolis
Dec- 30—Purdue at Indianapolis
Jan. 7—Michigan State at East Lansing
Jan. 13—John Carroll at Cleveland
Jan. 14—Ganisius at Buffalo
Jan. 28—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium
Jan. 31—Butler at Indianapolis
Feb. 7—Loyola at Chicago Stadium
Feb. II—St. Louis at St. Louis
Feb. 18—De Paul at Chicago Stadium
Feb. 25—U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis Feb. 27—New York University at New York Mar. 4—Marquette at Milwaukee
Campus Bowlers to Enter Intercollegiate Competition
President of the Kampus Keglers, Jim Jennewein, announced earlier this week that the university has given its sanction for a Notre Dame bowling team which will compete on an intercollegiate level. Tryouts are being held at the moment, but the Scholastic will be unable to give any definite information until after the next meeting of the Keglers. This sanction development represents the fulfillment of the Keglers’ dreams.
It will be remembered that the Keglers scheduled matches with opponents from othei* colleges in previous years, but this marks their first year of operating with official sanction.
As for campus bowling, the Keglers will stick to the same pattern that has been used in previous years. Thirty-six teams, representing various campus clubs and organizations, will be equally divided into two leagues — the Blue and the Gold. Competition for university championship honors will begin this Sunday, Dec. 4.
23

Fr. Lange’s Ironmen In Succesful Debut
Father Lange’s Ironmen cut their “muscular” teeth in a very successful debut in the Windy City, on Nov. 27. The Notre Dame weightlifters entered (on a guest basis) the Central Illinois A.A.U. Novice Weightlifting Championships held at Chicago’s Central Y.M.C.A. The four lifters participating in the .event were Bob Raymond, heavy-- weight; Charlie Meyer, lightheavyweight, and Jerry Adler and George Otott, both middleweights.
The Notre Dame barbell men, although relatively inexperienced, made a good showing, and upheld the winning tradition of Notre Dame. They took first place in the lightheavyweight class, and drew a third place in the middleweight class.
Charlie Meyer, the team’s strongest lifter, with his 195 pound press, 255 pound clean and jerk and record 210 pound snatch, compiled a total of 660 pounds to win the lightheavyweight class. Jerry Adler, the team’s squat five-foot six-inch middleweight, copped a third place in his class with a total of 570 pounds.
Particularly outstanding was the smooth and graceful form exhibited by ND lifters who executed their various lifts in the unorthodox squat style of lifting. This necessitates an extraordinary amount of balance and coordination. The Irish were the only ones of the 45 participating lifters who used this style, and drew much applause from the audience for their skillful lifts.
The team’s success in their first meet is a fitting tribute to Father Lange whose invaluable coaching and encouragement has been the major contributing factor.
The Irish Ironmen have scheduled a dual meet with the University of Chicago to take place here within the next few weeks. After that, meet, Father Lange’s boys wall be pointing for the Midwest Collegiate Meet, to be held in Chicago, on Jan. 19.
Notre Dame Sailors Run Sixth in Regatta
The Notre Dame sailing team placed sixth in a field of 14 schools at the third annual Timme Angsten Memorial Regatta sponsored by Northwestern University. The regatta was held at the Chicago Yacht Club on Nov. 25, 26 and 27.
Schools present represented the best in intercollegiate sailboat racing in the midwest area. Those competing, in the order of the finish, were Ohio State,
Georgetown, Northwestern, Dartmouth, Dennison, Notre Dame, Illinois Tech, Michigan, Bowling Green, Purdue, Cincinnati, Michigan State, Wisconsin and Minnesota.
Notre Dame’s team was selected from the Notre Dame Sailing Club. The squad at Chicago had Jim Crowe, Bill Jonak and Tom Amy, the top skippers, and Fred Joyce, Joe Schrank, Dick Reynolds and Bob Edmondson. Crowe won three races in a row late in the series and, at that time, ND was only four points out of first place.
All 28 races were run in cold, windy weather over a one-mile triangular course. Several boats capsized in the icy waters Saturday afternoon.
Boats used were of the dinghy type and were loaned for the event by members of the Chicago Yacht Club.
Irish Statistics
RUSHING
	Carries	Yards Average	
Sitko 			 106	628	5.9
Coutre ...		 90	593	6 6
Spaniel .		 71	467	6.6
Barrett .		 63	298	4.7
Landry .		 36	145	4.0
Zalejski .		 24	140	5.8
	PASSING		
	Att. Com. Yards		Aver.
Williams		 129	72	1209	.558
Mazur —.			5	2	36	.400
Barrett ..			 1 1	24	1.000
Whiteside			1	0	0	.000
	PASS-RECEIVING		
	Caught Yards TD Passes		
Wightkin		 14	246	1
Coutre ...		 11	244	0
Hart 			 17	242	5
Spaniel —		 14	194	3
Notre Dame B Squad Ends			
Season; Whips Purdue,			13-7
Two weeks ago today, the Notre Dame B football squad defeated the Purdue Bees 13-7 at Lafayette, to finish their two-game “season” undefeated. The B gridders had previously beaten the Purdue reserves 27-20.
The alert Boilermakers caught the Irish napping on a sleeper pass to score on the first play from scrimmage. They added the point to lead 7-0. In the second period George Dickson passed to end Dave Koch for the first Irish score, and Joe Caprara’s boot tied it, seven all. It was not until the final quarter that ND broke the tie. Another Dickson-to-Koch pass did the trick.
George Dickson, using his head as well as his arm, led the way. Jim Dailer at guard and Jim Mahoney. at tackle led the strong Irish line. As a whole, the unpublicized B team played good football.
Harriers Close Year e 10+h in NCAA Meet
The cross country men closed out a fair season last Monday when they took tenth place in the NCAA championship meet. The week before they grabbed second place in the Central Collegiate Championships while a team made up largely of freshmen brought home a sec- -r ond place from the Chicago CYO meet w on Thanksgiving Day.
Jim Kittell, slender junior from Greg Rice’s home town of Missoula, Montana, paced the squad in all of these contests. In the Nationals, Jim led the field for the first mile, but had to settle for thirtieth place in the final placings. He took sixth place in the Central Collegiates and deliberately tied for first with freshman Fred Dwyer in the CYO meet.
The freshmen, restricted from inter-collegiate competition, made the most of their chance to run in the AAU sponsored CYO meet. They lost—by only four points—to the varsity team of Wheaton College. In addition to Dwyer, the other frosh on the squad were John O’Connor, George Helfenstein, Harry Snyder and Tim Kett. Kittell was the only varsity man who competed in this race.
Final season’s summary for the varsity shows victories in one dual and two triangular meets. Against open competi-tion, the Irishmen did no worse than a second place tie in any meet other than the National.
The only graduating member of this year’s team will be Jim Kelly. Back next year will be Kittell, plus sophomores Benny Almaguer, Con Tetrault, George Ross, Bob Fieler and John Mohor—not to mention this year’s freshmen.
—Ted, Prahinski
Blue Circle Opens Doors
Seven new members will be accepted into the Blue Circle before Dec. 12, Ed Farrell, chairman of the honorary society, has announced. All students desiring membership must apply by today at the latest to Tom Carroll, head of the membership committee, in Alumni Hall. Applicants must boast an 80 average, a clean record, a semester completed at the University, and a desire to promote school spirit.
Preliminary selections will begin Monday by the Student Council, and the final selections will be made before the following Monday. Applicants will be voted upon by the Council on their records and abilities.
The Blue Circle has a quota of 36 members. This includes three officers, twelve seniors, nine juniors, six sophomores, and six freshmen. The seven new members will fill the quota.
24
The Scholastic '
Walsh Takes Football Title
On Nov. 20 a cold Indiana wind swept over campus and the mercury hovered near 20, but Walsh was as hot as a midJuly day while rolling over Farley to cop the interhall football championship. Even the 27-0 score is not indicative of Walsh’s supremacy as Farley was totally outclassed in all departments throughout the game. A big, tough, experienced Walsh line was the largest thorn in Farley’s side, but the Walsh backs had that extra drive too and their aerial work was vastly superior to that of Farley.
Walsh scored in every period but the fourth, and the game ended with the ball in their possession on the Farley five. Halfback Charlie Mauch was the offensive star of the afternoon scoring twice —once on a 70 yard jaunt.
It was Mauch who opened the scoring, going over on a five yard smash off tackle early in the first period. Jean Kreuz missed the conversion attempt. Walsh got another two points before the quarter ended when Jim Drennan and Jack Ferry pulled down a Farley back in the end zone for a safety.
Walsh scored twice in the second period. The first came on a pass from quarterback Augie Gentilucci to right end Bucky O’Keefe. Kreuz made the sole conversion of the game. Near the end of the period Jack Courtney went over on fourth
down from two yards out to give Walsh a 21-0 halftime lead.
The final score of the game came on the aforementioned run by Mauch midway through the third quarter. It was one of the finest runs seen during this interhall season. With a second and eight on his own thirty, Mauch smashed off left tackle, jigged by two would-be tacklers, then cut for the sidelines and outdistanced all pursuers to the goal line.
The Walshites might have scored once more in the final period, but were content to run straight power plays as time ran out with the ball on the Farley five.
—Jim Brislin
The weather has been giving the touch footballers and volleyballers a hard time, but interhall supervisors Ernie Szekely and Frank Maxwell haven’t given up.
According to Maxwell, the volleyball tourney will continue its schedule inside at the Rockne Memorial. So far, Dillon has set the pace, winning in all four rounds.
The touch football league will finish up outside if the weather approaches decency. Howard Hall’s gridders finally beat stubborn Sorin Hall after two tie games with them, and now have four victories. They should meet Walsh Hall, also a four-game winner, for the championship.
Hart Gets Heisman As 'Player of Year'
Leon Hart, already just about the most celebrated lineman in football history, won the highly-regarded Heisman Memorial Trophy last Tuesday. Hart was picked by the sports writers and broadcasters who make the selection for the Downtown Athletic Club of New York City.
In the poll to decide “the outstanding college football player of 1949,” Hart received 975 votes, far more than second-place Charlie Justice. The North Carolina star got 272 votes to come out ahead of Southern Methodist’s Doak Walker.
Two other Notre Dame men finished high in the balloting. Bob Williams got fifth-place behind Arnold Galiffa of Army and Emil Sitko came in eighth.
Hart is only the second lineman to ever win the Heisman award. Larry Kelley, Yale’s great and colorful end, won it in 1936. Two other Notre Dame men have received the Heisman Trophy and both were quarterbacks. Angelo Bertelli made it in 1943 and Johnny Lu jack in 1947. In all three years that the award went to a Notre Dame man, the Irish won the national championship.
Hai-t’s selection for the Heisman adds to the many honors he has already received this year. He has been on every All-American including both the offensive and defensive teams of the International News Service. Last week it was announced that he would receive the Maxwell Trophy and an award to be given by the Touchdown Club of Cleveland.
Hart will actually get the award on December 7 at the Downtown Athletic Club in New York City where he will be guest of honor at the big banquet.
Notre Dame's fast left halfback, Frank Spaniel (28) eludes a Trojan tackler in Saturday's win. Frank scored one touchdown.
Dec. 2, 1949
Jimmy Powers just gets away a pass before being run over by Leon Hart, who bothered Southern Cal passers all afternoon.
25
A.I.Ch.E. Conducts Panel
An open discussion on the nature and scope of Chemical Engineering conducted by the Chemical Engineering faculty was the main event of the third meeting of the student chapter of the A.LCh.E. held Nov. 16. Mr. Ronald E. Rich, head of the department, Mr. Ernest Wilhelm, Mr. Allen Smith and Mr. Merlyn Howerton pointed out the advantages of chemical engineering as a preparation for life.
The meeting was held in the Audio-
SfflIUP MORRIS
: PROVE
tTO YOURSELF 4
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
HERE'S J ALL YOU L DO!
when you smoke Philip
Morris! /
In just a few Seconds you can prove PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking!
1.. light up a PHILIP MORRIS
THEN, just take a puff—DON’T INHALE— and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come" through your nose. Easy, isn’t it? And NOW...
2.. light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE Notice that bite, that sting? Now you know why you should be smoking PHILIP MORRIS!
Visual Room. Preceding the panel discussion, a short business meeting was held at which Mr. Rich presented the A.I.Ch.E. award for the highest average maintained by a chemical engineer in his freshman and sophomore years to Lee Brown. Plans were announced for a Communion breakfast on Dec. 4 following Mass at 8:30 in Dillon Hall chapel. Father Nealy will be the guest speaker. Bill Gordon was appointed to handle arrangements for the semiannual chemical engineers’ banquet to be held in mid-December.

ND Commerce Forum Visits Gerity-Michigan Corporation
Thirty members of the Commerce Forum of the University of Notre Dame were guests of the Gerity-Michigan Corporation of Adrian, Mich., during a two-day tour of automotive plants in the Detroit area Nov. 15 and 16. This year’s trip marked the third time that Mr. James Gerity, president of " Gerity-Michigan, has been host to the Forum. The Notre Dame men were joined by twenty students from Case Institute of Technology.
The group was conducted on an extensive tour of the Gerity-Michigan plant, one of the nation’s leaders in the chrome-plating industry. Through special arrangement with the U. S. Air Force, the students were then permitted to inspect an experimental atomic en- £ ergy plant also located in Adrian. '
Tuesday afternoon the Forum members arrived in Dearborn, Mich., for a visit to the Ford Institute, a museum dedicated to American industrial progress. That evening a banquet was held for the group at the Dearborn Inn hotel. Mr. Ralph Wilcox, a Gerity-Michigan executive on loan to the ECA, was the principal speaker. He delivered a description of the objects and methods of ECA. Mr. Gerity also addressed the group and conducted an f open discussion on the current economic situation.
The trip next led to Lansing, Mich., for a toui- of the Oldsmobile automotive factories, including a guided inspection of the Oldsmobile engine construction unit and assembly line.
Mr. Edmund A. Smith, assistant dean of the College of Commerce, and Mr. Thomas Bergin, faculty moderator of the Commerce Forum, accompanied the M members on the trip.	~
Jan. 27 Set as Date for Mid-Year Graduates1 Ball
The January Graduates’ Ball will be held on Friday evening, Jan. 27. The Palais Royale Ballroom has been set as the tentative site for the dance. John Connor and Thomas Farley have been named co-chairmen of the affair.
The dance, which has been approved by Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.C., vice- W president in charge of Student Welfare, will be similar to the one held last year. Details of the dance, which is still in the planning stage, will be announced later.
January graduates will receive four invitations and ten announcements for their graduation. Those graduates wishing more than ten announcements will be able to purchase them before Christmas.
26
The Scholastic
Prof. Caponigri Wins Fulbright Study Grant
Professor A. R. Caponigri, of the Department of Philosophy, has been granted a scholarship for research in Italy under the Fulbright Act. The grant is for nine months to a year and is administered by the State Depart-'v ment. It was awarded in nationwide [ w competition.
Mr. Caponigri will be affiliated with the University of Naples, Italy, under the terms of the grant. His major project is research work in the Vico Library at Naples, which contains the only complete collection of the works of Gian Battista Vico.
As a secondary project, Mr. Caponigri will compose a general picture of _ contemporary philosophy in Italy. His W work will center at the University of Naples, but he will spend periods of study at Padua and Genoa as well.
Professor Caponigri received his BA and MA degrees from Loyola University in Chicago and took his doctorate degree in philosophy under Richard McKeon at the University of Chicago. He has been a member of the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame since 1946. He will sail for Italy, with his wife and daughter, in February.
SPAGHETTI HOUSE
415 North Michigan
Phone 3-0903
St. Joe County TB Unit Schedules X-Rays at ND
STOP WISHING
START DANCING
The St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League has announced that a portable unit is to be brought to ND again this year to make chest X-rays of all students, employees, and faculty members who are interested. The X-rays will be taken in the basement of the Dining Hall Dec. 13-16. The films will be examined by specialists and a confidential report will be mailed to those taking advantage of the opportunity within about four weeks.
The schedule for students is as follows :
Dec. 13—11:30 to 3:30 p.m.: Alumni, Badin, B-P; 5 to 7:30 p.m.: Dillon.
Dec. 14—11:30 to 3:30 p.m.: Farley, Howard, Lyons; 5 to 7:30 p.m.: Cavanaugh.
Dec. 15—11:30 to 3:30 p.m.: Sorin, Walsh, Zahm, Moreau; 5 to 7:30 p.m.: Morrissey.
Dec. 16—11:30 to 3:30 p.m.: St. Ed’s, Holy Cross Seminary, Sacred Heart Novitiate, Dujarie Seminary; 5 to 7:30 p.m.: Vetville (wives and children, too).
Religious and lay faculty, off-campus students, employees, and other residents of the campus may report at any of the above times.
Dec. 2, 1949
•	Are you having as much fun as you would like to have when you go dancing?
•	Are you as popular as a dancing partner as you would like to be?
•	Do you have self-confidence and social poise at dances?
• Would you prefer getting out on the floor and enjoying yourself instead of watching others?
NOW
is the best time to do something about it. Take the first step.
PHONE 2-3339
For FREE TRIAL LESSON and details	.
Arthur Murray 120 E. Wayne	Phone 2-3339
27
Names Make Neats
Compiled by DAN BRENNAN
Note: This column is intended to be an enumeration of men connected with the University of Notre Dame whose doings have been chronicled in some manner. It is impossible, however for this department to keep up xvith the activities the country over. Therefore if any of our readers know of anything newsivorthy connected with Notre Dame men, please write a note to NAMES MAKE NEWS, cjo the Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind., or leave the information in the Scholastic office.
JOE BENDA, one-time Notre Dame end and now assistant football coach at St. John’s College in Minnesota has been stricken with Hodgkin’s disease. All season, even when he was too weak to stand,
he kept at the task of training his boys at St. John’s. Now in a hospital in St. Cloud, Minn., he has received blood transfusions from his players who are standing by him much as he stood by them. . . .
Col. FRANK FEHR, of Louisville, Ky., who says he is one of two living members of Notre Dame’s first football team, came through a Mayo Clinic checkup "very satisfactorily.” Fehr said he played center on the original Notre Dame team in 1887. He said GENE ME-LADY, who now lives in Omaha, Neb., is the other survivor of the squad. . . .
Dr. BERNARD WALDMAN, associate professor of physics, was chairman of a technical session on “The Apparatus of Nuclear Physics” at a recent meeting of
the American Physical Society of the • University of Chicago. He collaborated with Prof. WALTER C. MILLER, J. C. NOYES, and J. E. VAN HOOMISEN in presenting a paper on “Voltages Stabilizer for an Electrostatic Generator.” Dr. EDWARD A. COOMES addressed the assembly on “Activity Studies on Pulsed Oxide Cathodes.” . . .
Four Notre Dame football players, i ERNIE ZALEJSKI, STEVE ORACKO, 9 AL ZMIJEWSKI and ED HUDAK were guests at a dinner honoring St. Adalbert’s inter-city Catholic champions recently. BENNY SHERIDAN, frosh football coach and JIM LEARY, ’49, coach, of South Bend Catholic High School, were speakers at the event. . . .
In the second of a three lecture series on mentally retarded children held recently in the Bendix Union Hall Rev. JAMES SMYTH charged that Indiana is doing too little for too few mentally handicapped persons, and doing it too late. . . .
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
YOU'D never guess to see him now, but just two weeks ago there was a sad, forlom look in Sheedy’s beady eyes. People picked on him because his hair looked like he was moulting. Not a gal on campus would even carrion a conversation with him. Then he bought a bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic and he’s been a gay old bird ever since. Non-alcoholic Wildroot containing Lanolin keeps hair neat and well-groomed all day long. Relieves annoying dryness, removes the loose ugly dandruff that can make you a social outcast. So if your hair is giving you trouble, set your corpse for the nearest drug or toilet goods counter and get a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. And ask your barber for professional applications. It’s the best treatment your hair cadaver get.
o/327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Brother NILUS, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame farm took part recently in the proclamation of a “CROP Week” in St. Joseph County. . . .
A galaxy of prominent leaders from the country’s businesses and professions met on the campus last week. The group, the associate board of lay trustees, was organized by the late Rev. JAMES A. BURNS, C.S.C., in 1920. Among those present for the meeting were its officers, ERNEST M. MORRIS, president; I. A. O’SHAUGHNESSY, vice-president; and THOMAS M. BEACOM, treasurer. . . .
LOU RUKAVINA, ’50, has been appointed associate director of the South W
Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and
Jews, it was announced by LOUIS A. RADELET, who is executive director of the organization. . . .
tMMf M Mfl
OIL

Federal Judge Harold Medina’s handling of the recent communist conspiracy trial in New York City was praised by Prof. ALFRED L. SCANLAN, of the Law faculty in a speech on “The State _ and Federal Judiciary” at a meeting of the Mishawaka Lions Club recently. . . .
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Irene Dolan of Schenectady, N. Y., and formerly of St. Mary’s College to THOMAS McALLISTER, journalism senior from Albany, N. Y., and Sorin'Hall. . . .
Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University, has author-
28
The Scholastic
ized publication by the Depai-tment of Philosophy of an annual volume of studies in philosophy. Professor ELIE DEN-ISSOFF will edit the publication under the direction of Rev. GERALD B. PHELAN, head of the department.
Prof. WILLIAM J. ELSEN, Head of the Department of Speech, and Prof. LEONARD F. SOMMER, Director of Forensics, served as judges in the first round of debate sponsored by the Michigan High School Forensics Association on Nov. 22 in Niles, Mich. Niles High School won both decisions over Berrien Springs high school.
JIM REDDINGTON, Science graduate of August, ’49, has been elected to the national honorary medical society, Alpha Omega Alpha. He is now a senior at the St. Louis Medical School.
International Relations Group to Hold Symposium
The newly-formed Committee on International Relations will sponsor a symposium on Ethics, Law and Power Politics at 3:30 p.m. Dec. 7, in Room 101 of the Law Building. Professor H. Morgenthau of the University of Chicago will speak on “Ethics and Power Politics.” Professor H. Rommen of St. Thomas will lecture on “Authority, Power, Politics.”
At 8 p.m., Professor Coing of the Universities of Chicago and Frankfurt will give an address on “Power, Law, Security” and Professor Waldemar Gu-rian of Notre Dame will speak on Soviet Power Politics. Professor Fitzsimons of the Department of History will act as chairman.
ND Aviation Unit Plans Field Trip Next Week
The Volunteer Aviation Unit (Guided Missies) 9-13, connected with the Notre Dame Naval Reserve Unit, will take a field trip to Minnesota next week. Some 16 men in the Naval and Marine Corps reserve unit headed by W. D. Drinkwater, of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering, will leave the campus by air next Thursday .evening for Minneapolis. They will conduct a two-day inspection tour of Aero Engineering centers in that area.
Prominent among the tours the group will take is an inspection of the Rosemont Aeronautical Research Center, where they will view supersonic tunnel installations and allied projects. Also ranking high on the two-day agenda will be an inspection of the Aero Engineering labs of the University of Minnesota^ The group, under the leadership of Professor Drinkwater, will
fly back to the campus, via NAS Glenview naval aircraft, on Friday.
Volunteer Aviation Unit (Guided Missies) 9-13 is an organization started last year under the sponsorship of the Navy. The group meets once a month for drill and discussion of technical and non-technical aspects of Aeronautical engineering. It is composed of graduate and undergraduate Engineers, Physicists, and Mathematicians. This field trip will be the first the group
BE THRIFTY .	.	. SHOP AT BREEN'S
AND SAVE $ $ $
•	Nationally Advertised Watches
•	Diamonds
•	Birthstone Rings
•	Men's and Women's Costume Jewelry
•	Rogers Silverware	.
•	Electric Appliances — — USE OUR LAYAWAY PLAN — —
EREEN’S JEWELRY EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
406 SO. MICHIGAN ST..................- - - PHONE: 2-0400
Do You have a GIFT Problem?
YOU SHOULD MEET
Joan Navarre
SHE’S YOUR PERSONAL SHOPPER
at
’Everybody’s Santa Claus"/^^
Joan Navarre's office is located on our Third Floor. Her telephone number is 3-5101.
Why not call, write, or visit her. MISS NAVARRE will help you select the perfect gift—have it giftwrapped — and sent to the given address. There is no charge for her services, o
has undertaken, but more , are scheduled for next spring.
The function of the organization is to train anyone who is interested in the fundamentals and fine points of Aero-Engineering. Anyone is invited to join the unit, the only prerequisites being an interest in the subject and membership in, or a willingness to join, the Naval or Marine Corps Reserve. No technical training or background is necessary.
W Dec. 2,1949
29
MKMHHWMKSMaHaBBMaaMMimMaMHMMBaMaHaMB
College Men! Here's Your Chance To Get All The Facts About A Career As A
U. S. AIR FORCE OFFICER!
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
or coke and to visit with their fellow students.
I believe if Mr. Thoren were to survey the campus at almost any time during the week except after a football game, when the scene is anything but normal, he would then get an idea of what M.S.C. college life is really lilke.
I realize that Notre Dame is not financially in a position to carry on the extensive improvements and innovations which characterize M.S.C., since ND does not receive state subsidies, but I do not deem this sufficient excuse for Mr. Thoren, in his attempt to minimize the many assets of M.S.C., to make use of the “sour grapes” type of rationalizing which was so profuse in his recent article.
Victor Matous South Bend
Columnist Thoren replies as follows: “Mr. Matous’ objections to our impressions of M.S.C. are received with interest. I only wish I could take him up on that mid-toeek invitation to see the campus. I deny, however, that the column he ivrites of was written in a “sour grapes” attitude. To be sour graped you must want something that you don’t have. Outside of its external luxuries M.S.C. has nothing that I want.”—Editor.
30
NOW ON CAMPUS
2, 5, 6 December
If You Can Qualify for Aviation Cadet Training...
You'll Be on Your Way Toward a Future as an Aviation Executive. • •
* “■» *” ,MCI MfflB*«W»6 TERM M HERE TO CiVE YOU FUU DlraiK
for	requirement!
Cadet. Also aS^ “ an Aviation for a non-flying careeT’ many opportunities
u- s. air force
Only The Best Can Be Aviation Cadets!
A Cheerleader’s Retort
Editor:
Hats off to Mr. John Cleary for so gallantly fighting his roommate’s (Dick Herrel) battles. May I suggest that in your next call to arms, you gather a few facts before going off half-cocked. I’ll explain your unfounded charges in the £ order in which you listed them so that you will have no difficulty in matching an answer with,its corresponding criticism.
(1)	The head cheerleader does not arrange the pep rallies. The Michigan State send-off, like all others, was conducted by the Blue Circle. Mr. Herrle had appointed himself M.C. for that rally long before my departure for East Lansing and if he were not capable of handling the arrangements which go £ along with the glory of such a task, he should not have pushed himself onto it. There were no such difficulties at the Washington sendoff which I handled. As for the spirit of the rally, I’m sure it was inspired by the calibre of the opponent—not by Mr. Herrle’s masterful performance.
(2)	I agree that the cheering in New f York stunk. However, it was not the 1 fault of the cheerleaders but rather of _.v
' .
The Scholastic
"	the students themselves. If the cheer'	leaders didn’t stay together it was prob-
।	ably because we could hear nothing from
F	the stands. If you had made as much
•;	noise in New York as you did in your
£	letter, I’m sure our volume would have
been increased. My voice was completely ?	gone Saturday evening. I can give no
j	more.
Furthermore, the student body made two efforts to cheer which were not led ; by the squad. Once when a Tarheel lay ? injured on the field and again during [ an announcement over* the P.A. system: • where are your manners? Obviously you :	are not aware that we are instructed to
,	cheer only during a time out. We ful-
■.	filled that obligation on every occasion
; with the two above mentioned exceptions. I The job of cheer leader1 is extremely dif-| ficult since the team always wins (thank • God) so all we can do is lead cheers, not drag them out of you.
The absence of one cheer leader was I due to circumstances beyond our control. [ Somehow, in the confusion Saturday , morning he became separated from his suit case containing his uniform. In a futile effort to recover the bag, he was :	late for the game. Still, he paid an un-
announced sum to a scalper to gain admittance and made an effort to be admitted to the field anyway. Request denied, what more can one do? The inciA dent is certainly excusable.
Don’t hide behind your roommate’s feeble pen, Dick. Your whimperings have caused him to compose an uncalled for letter. I’m not aware of any aroma in Denmark but nothing smells on our squad. Since your charges were unfounded, Mr. Cleary, we feel that an apology is in order.
Jim Marheine Head Cheerleader £ 264 Dillon Hall
Sophomore Cotillion
Editor:
Now that the Sophomore Cotillion is over, we at last have time to thank the many who helped make the affair so memorable.
Our thanks to Father Kehoe for his prophetic pre-Cotillion advice; to the able committeemen, who gave their time and effort since early September; to the members of the Scholastic, the Dome, and WND for the fine Cotillion coverage; to the Student Council who stood behind us come asset or liability; and finally, to all of you who by your presence made the weekend what it was.
James Garvin, Edward Noonan, Cotillion co-Chairmen
P.S. Our hats go off to Lennie Simmons, who went all out for his class to lead the anti-sacroiliac conga line.
Dec. 2,1949
Hart in Both Backfields
Editor:
Notre Dame ws definitely superior to our Trojans in every way but it seems to me we do have reason for complaint. It does not seem ethical to me to have a man officially listed as an end and then to allow him to play in both the Notre Dame and Trojan backfields.
Calvin Sothem
CHAMPS COME HOME
A welcome-home celebration has been planned for Monday afternoon when the football team returns from its final game of the season against Southern Methodist. The team is scheduled to arrive at the South Shore station late Monday afternoon with the National Championship in its back pocket.
AULT'S SHUTTER BUGS
"DON'T T6LL ANYONE BUT I’VE BEEN OUT OF FILM FOR AN HOUR/"
Don’t be caught short on film. We have a complete line for all cameras and constructive advice on how to use it.
SEE US FOR YOUR PHOTO NEEDS
AULT Camera Shop, Inc.
212 So. Main St., Phone 3-5401
£llr>nun-th’s
Wear. . .
Arrow Formal Shirts
Shirts . . . 6.50
Arrow Formal Ties . . . 1.00
Whether you’re going in tux or in tails ... we have the correct Arrow formal shirt for YOU! Impeccably tailored! Designed for your comfort! Crisp white ... a pleasure to wear! See them today.
Aten's Shop . . . Main Floor
Formal Favorites
for
Saturday
Knights!
Step out in style with Van Hensen’s famous dress-up shirts! With black tie, it’s Van Tux with French cuffs ... white pique front... and attached collar in two low-setting collar models— popular new wide-spread and regular. And with white tie, it’s Van Dress— with neckband and stiff bosom. As perfectly tailored as they are handsome. S5.95 each.

Absorbent filters in Medico pipes and holders have 66 baffles that stop flakes and slugs... absorb juices ... reduce tongue bite ... give you the utmost in smoking pleasure.
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY F/NE QUALITY) Specially selected imported briar Pipes. MJ Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... L Alto Frank Medico “Standard"...
America's Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pip*
Frank Madlco Cigarette Holders I] & $2
MEDICO
FILTERED SMOKING
Van Hensen* i-.
"the world’s smartest” OUxjL I/O
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N . Y .
M. Freak & Co.* Jnc. • Fifth Avenue* New York
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
COURTRSY BARBER SHOP
112 E Washington Ave
Under Max Adler Co.
"3 BARBERS TO SERVE YOU"
32
The Scholastic
I
Radio Club Expands
The newly formed Radio Club of Notre Dame has begun to teach prospective “hams” and to open radio facilities for more experienced club members. Meetings have been tentatively scheduled for every Tuesday at 413 in Room 219 of the Social Science Building. A constitution has been approved by the Student Council and officers have been elected for the club.
Club members now number 50. Plans have been made for forming small sections within the organization to facilitate action. Thousands of dollars worth of war surplus radio equipment is at the disposal of the club members. Transmitting hours have been restricted to between 6 a. m. and 11:45 p. m.
Hope of getting new “Mars” equipment promises still greater expansion of the club’s facilities in the near future. Membership is still open to all students.
Heading Soph Cotillion
A "lovely" soph leads Cotillion conga.
ND, SMC Affairs Clubs Meet
In its latest meeting of the semester a comprehensive survey of Britain was considered by the International Affairs Club in conjunction with the International Relations Club of Saint Mary’s. John W. Gallagher presided as the chairman of the discussion.
Four papers were presented to the combined group concerning the most important aspects of Britain’s role in the world today. Jeanne Welsh spoke concerning the internal conditions of the country and the rise of the Labor Party. Gerald Kavanaugh explained about the loosening of the bonds of the Commonwealth and the territorial losses by the Empire to the Commonwealth.
The decrease of British influence in Europe was covered by Mary Kay O’Malley; and finally the British-U. S. foreign policy was discussed by John Gallagher.
E
Capital’s Sensational Travel Bargain!
THE
NIGHTHAWK
Rircoach
LOW-COST 4-ENGINE SERVICE
NEW YORK
Leave 1:00 a.m. Only 4 hrs. 5 min.
WASHINGTON .*24**
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 4 hrs. 5 min. (Rail Coach: $23.03, 15 hrs. 40 min.)
CLEVELAND . . *12’5
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 2 hrs. 16 min. (Rail Coach: $10.28, 5 hrs. 35 min.)
$29*o
(Rail Coach: $27.30, 16 hrs. 25 min.)
PITTSBURGH
’16“
Leave 1:00 a.m. Only 2 hrs. 10 min. (Rail Coach: $14.10, 8 hours)
DETROIT .... *8*
Leave 12:15 a.m. Only 1 hr. 17 min. (Rail Coach: $8.34, 5 hours)
This is the Original "Nighthawk" Aircoach ... UNEXCEILED in Experience, Reliability, Popularity Capital carries MORE Aircoach passengers than any other airline in the U. S. A. (All fares plus federal tax}	_	IB
In CHICAGO:
FOR RESERVED SEAT TICKETS: 144 S. Clark St. & Stevens Hotel & The Palmer House. PHONE: DEarbom 2-5711 ar your travel agent.
Dec. 2, 1949
33
Printed at AVE MARLA PRESS