in crush-proof box, too!
E R
Or
available
**R
P 1 N E / 0 R
Fl

WINSTON
TASTES GOOD!
LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!
K 1 N G ...
*

WINSTON is the big brand on this range, ma'am-for filter and for flavor!
Once folks discover Winston, they just can’t keep the news under their Stetsons’ They go for the flavor because it’s so clean and fresh — from a bright, clear blend of superb tobaccos. They like Winston’s exclusive pure-white filter, with the smart cork-smooth tip. And, they like to share a good thing when they find it! You try ’em. Then you’ll know why Winston is now way out ahead of the other filter cigarettes.
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.

Smoke WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tasting -filter cigarette!
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
J Vol. 99 March 21, 1958 No. 18
muim LBRlUud BNK SHOP
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moritanis
Founded 1867
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel
Phone CE 4-5777
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorised June 23. 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS.................News	Editor
HARRY McKEE ___________________ Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY.................. Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK.............. Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS............_Photography LORAN SHEFFER...........Business Manager
MIKE KURAS_______________Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN .......... Circulation	Manager
WALT RUDGE .................Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH.................Assistant Copy
BILL CONWAY.................Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS _____________Assistant Features TOM LAMONT_______________Assistant Features
BOB SEDLACK ............ Assistant	Features
ED ROHRBACH .............. Assistant	Sports
TED THOMPSON ............. Assistant	Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob Maruyama. Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
APPLICATIONS MUST BE RENDERED AS OF
APRIL 3, 1958
TO BE SUBJECT TO OUR EMPLOYMENT PLACEMENT AS STATED IN OUR PREVIOUS ANNOUNCEMENT
THE COLLEGE SURVEY
BOX 625, Charlottesville, Va.
GOT THE TIME?
A few minutes of thought and writing may win you a brand new 17 JEWEL BULOVA SENATOR wrist watch so you will always have the time.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Just tell us in twenty-five words or less why you buy and use SHEAFFER pens and products.
The quality of SHEAFFER products makes this an easy task. Do it NOW!
Contest closes March 31
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6, Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9, Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17; No. 12, Feb. 7; No. 13, Feb. 14; No. 14, Feb. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17, March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23. May 16; No. 24, May 23.
Send your entries to
Notre Dame Bookstore
March 21, 1958
THAT TOP-OF-THE
Nothing gives a man that top-of-the-world feeling—or look—like the right clothes at the right time . . . and the Campus Shop has those clothes for you—by America’s finest makers, Hickey-Freeman, GGG, Society Brand, Eagle, Burberry, Alpagora—they’re all here from which to make your . selection. Right now, see one of America’s finest selections of Ivy League models—in suits, sportcoats and topcoats—plus all of the popular Ivy League accessories. Get yours now for spring and Easter at the Campus Shop.
the bulletin
the myth
( _
after spending four years here, one'wonders how and 2X then if the so-called Spirit of Notre Dame has any *" meaning or is just something synthetic. If it depends upon consistency, then it has no meaning at all. The only place that it is always evident is when it concerns the football team. It gets pushed to the rear frequently in other phases of University life but last Sunday it was completely lost.
About mid-afternoon, loud sirens down Angela announced the return of the greatest basketball team in Notre Dame history. They had just been knocked out of the NCAA the previous night. At the Circle, there were some 30 people, many of them St. Mary’s girls.
If it had been the football team, the band would have * been there and the halls would have been empty.
Well, Noter Doters, you are hypocrites! Unless your picture is plastered across the front pages, you would not waste your time. Notre Dame football is nation-wide and you figure you can grab a little of that limelight with your false spirit
Maybe it is not your fault The Student Government (who else) probably is at fault They spent more time i” publicizing the Football Highlights in the Engineering Auditorium or maybe they were still concerned with whether the St Mary’s girls would be allowed to come over to the boat house on campus. With the Irish losing die night before, it probably takes more than 24 hours to get something like this through all die bureaucracy.
' This is not to make a plea for emphasis of spirit in sports alone. It should stretch farther than that But we should not attach it to football alone.
Captains Bob Devine and John McCarthy must have been impressed. They will always have that lasting memory of returning to the campus. The 250 students who were in Lexington have to be excused because they had not returned. There were about 200 people at the airport but most of these were people from South Bend.
It might be a different story if Notre Dame was in Louisville this week end. Everyone would be down there and everyone would be backslappers if they won. But, since they had a bad ball game, we should forget them. ,
It is not too late to make up for our shortcomings, that . is if anyone still cares. Tuesday night, the annual basketball
The purpose of die Religious Bulletin should be ai j ~ positive, religious treatment of the peculiar failingsof the Notre Dame student. It is obvious that the Bnlletn cannot and, indeed, should not offer complete courses. in : moral and dogmatic theology. However, because this is an educational community, every attempt possible should be made to use a sophisticated, frank, and intelligent approach. r This approach, moreover, should be overtly aimed at the student body—at their problems, difficulties, and level of intelligence.
Unfortunately the.Bulletin does not always fillfill these functions. Often it spreads itself thin by handling several different topics in one effort. It jumps from one problemto another, frequendy leaving the reader unsatisfied or doubtful , as to what the author is trying to da The fhd/etmalso seems at times to underestimate die intelligence cd its audi-j ence. It is satisfied with “shaming” the students or with emotional appeal, rather than with educating. (Sarcasmis sometimes necessary but positive and constructive advice is .R usually more helpful in the long run.) finally the Bulletin nearly always seems to be consciously aware of an audience wider than die student body. As a result it neglects its real ■ audience and either aims itself at those outside die University community or fails to be frank because of this peripheral audience. The end result of these failures is that -some; students quit reading die Bulletin and for them it becomes ' only a scrap of wastepaper. Thus all die positive influence die Bulletin does offer is completely lost at least to this portion of die student body.	‘
In many cases these failures could easily be eliminated. First of all die author should select a particular problem and develop it. Ulis would help avoid emotionalism and weak arguments and make possible a more sophisticatedand intelligent approach. To avoid the same difficukiesfirom another aspect, it might be wise to make the Bulletin a weekly. (No one knows better than an editor how difficult it is to constandy present cogent material.) finally the&dfrfnrr should be distributed only to members of the UniveisityR community. This would make die audience eaduHve^a^O
it should be—and allow die author to conduct intelligent

a
having it where space is limited.But then again, they are tivie improvements which would better.eriabte only expecting a few. ;	' R.R —J.G. J faffiWitsfundit^ J..?.-'..
March 21,1958 R-RR.. .... '	\7 7 -	' .	.	RRR-- ...
- 7-7- ‘	' - '4	. • • •	• ’. . - _	..	•_* ~ " 7:	.i.-.;7i777777
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP
*
•p
JUNE
No Carrying Charge
At the Campus Shop you will find a complete selection of nationally famous suits, topcoats, sport coats and furnishings . . . and a convenient charge account with which to buy. If you’re on a budget—like most college men are—why not charge what you need the Campus Shop way. Simply get what you need now and pay one-third in May, one-third in June and one-third in July. It’s that simple—and, of course, there is no carrying charge. Use your Campus charge account tomorrow!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
The Scholastic
’ by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
something borrowed
sort of
4
k
. That thing in the middle of the page is my picture no kidding. I’d like to thank Ivan for doing it and all. I mean some guys say things about this magazine and * stuff that makes me sick. It depresses me pretty bad. Like they expect us to be oracles; real, stupid, genuine, twentieth century oracles. Sometimes I get so depressed I’d like to join the Eskimo . Army. Boy the things some people say.
Sometimes I get all muckled up inside | and say a lot of crazy stuff and all. Just when I’m depressed. Then I get more depressed. For instance when I first i handed in this week’s article. The edI itor really got on my back. He wouldn’t ' accept it and all. Like I had all the time r in the world to play games at this type-| writer, and it isn’t even mine. I bor-I rowed it from down the hall. Boy did i he make me sick. I got all muckled up then and said a whole mess of stuff. It | wasn’t real bad and all, but I shouldn’t i have said it. He had about two dozen hemorrhages. It was a lousy article and > all, but I was pretty sensitive at the time. No kidding sometimes I’m kind of touchy. I mean I got a sense of humor because I don’t mind some rib-| bing and things, but not when I’m I muckled up.	'
Anyway, since I can’t think of any-~ thing else to say, I’ll just tell you about I myself and why I write this column । maybe. Actually I don’t know what I’ll say because I’m always digressing. Besides I’m just an Abraham Lincoln sincere liar. Sometimes—most of the time I —I like to make things up. I’m a reg-L ular Walter Mitty, no kidding. I was I a champion boxer during the week. It I almost drove my roommate nuts. As if I he wasn’t already. Once I was an artist, I Bohemian and all. I even started to I grow a beard.- Of course I don’t happen I to have much of a beard, I mean it I didn’t look like much. But I didn’t care. I Actually I hate artists like poison. Most I of them are genuine bronze plated I phonies. Boy do they depress me. They I almost make me sick, but I get a bang I imitating them. I’m an exhibitionist. I Maybe next week I’ll be a philosopher, I or maybe a mercenary. I don’t know. I March 21, 1958
Sometimes I’m just a genuine bronze plated phony myself.
I can’t even remember who I used to be anymore. That’s the way it is when I do this column. Sometimes I’m three or five different people before I like myself. Sometimes I just give up. I was going to be a gold fish today, but they have a lousy point of view. One of my old roommates had a gold fish. I killed him when I was a deep sea fisher—the
gold fish that is. Boy did he stack. My roommate, that is.
blow his He liked
fish better than girls. Girls
kill me.
They really do. I don’t mean I’m always thinking of them or anything like that —although I do sometimes. I just like them, I mean. They’re always doing some unexpected thing.
Boy it’s the last thing I want to do is mock St. Mary’s. No kidding. They’re not like practically everybody talks about them. Maybe a guy will write something in this thing and everyone will take it for gospel truth. That’s what I mean about real,: stupid, genuine, twentieth century oracles." Boy that’s the last thing we are, really. I’ve dated a couple of them. One of them really knocked me out. I wouldn’t describe her as pretty though. Her eyes were sort of too close together. I mean they always looked like they were pinching her nose. She kept trying to stand like a model. Once she almost fell on her face getting into the position. I could have split three dozen ribs laughing, but I like her a lot and all. I mean I almost choked holding it back. No kidding, I’m the same way I guess. It’s fun pretending.
But gads I wouldn’t mock St. Mary’s just because she almost fell on her face. Sometimes I like to think of them when
I should be doing something else, like studying or maybe writing this article. Sometimes I get so frustrated thinking about this article, I'll just balance a coke bottle on my nose for poise. I mean it sort of soothes me. Once I was so depressed that I called every girl I knew and told them I was the Ghost of Christmas Past. Some of them just laughed or did nothing, and one said she was the Ghost of Christmas Future. It was real witty and all because she said it right away. Then we talked for awhile. Sometimes I get a big kick out of talking with a girl. I like it as much as walking. No kidding that’s what I really like. Jane was the best of all. We could walk for hours when we felt like it. No kidding. Hours. That doesn’t sound like much, I realize, but she was a terrific walker. Some girls feel like they always have to say things about the sky and grass and trees and stuff, like they were poets, real rose-budding poets, or else they keep touching their hair like I had a camera or something. That really depresses me, no kidding. I almost get sick. Others just seem like they should . be outside; like soft animals and natural. I mean their eyes sort of laugh and all. Jane’s face laughed crinkly all over. That’s why I liked her.
That’s the kind of guy I am, no kidding, at least right now. That’s about what we’re all like, I guess. If we feel someway, then people think that’s what we are. I mean if I felt like being a French novelist or maybe even a Russian one, maybe I’d have kissed the editor on the cheeks when he rejected my first copy. Then I’d have screamed that he was a literary genius, a genuine gold literary genius. I’d have been emotional and grateful as hell, no kidding. You can do that if you’re French or Russian. Look it up in a book. You’ll see. Or I might have challenged him to a dud if I felt like a German student. . That’s the way I am. I change like mad. Some-; times I stand on my head until it hurts just to be doing something. Whenever I read a book I change, practically. Nobody ever knows what I am. It drives them nuts. Maybe I wifi be a gold fish next time. Maybe their point of view isn’t so lousy.	I	: :
OtoCanyus
MxShahan
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.**)
THE STUDENT COUNCIL AND HOW IT GREW
Today let us investigate a phenomenon of American college life laughingly called the student council.
What actually goes on at student council meetings? To answer this burning question, let us reproduce here the minutes of a typical meeting of a typical student council.
Meeting scheduled for 8:30 p.m. at Students Union. Called to order at 10:63 p.m. by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding. Motion to adjourn made by Louis Bicuspid, freshman representative. Motion ruled out of order by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding. Hunrath Sigafoos called “old poop” by Louis Bicuspid, freshman representative. Seconded by Delores Wheatgerm, sophomore representative. Tabled by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding.
Minutes of last meeting read by Zelda Pope-Toledo, secretary. Motion to accept minutes made by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding. Motion defeated.
Treasurer’s report not read because Rex Mercredi, treasurer, not present at meeting. Rex Mercredi, treasurer impeached and executed in absentia.
Motion made by Louis Bicuspid, freshman representative, to allow sale of hard liquor in school cafeteria. Seconded by Delores Wheatgerm, sophomore representative. Motion tabled by Hunrath Sigafoos, old poop.
Motion made by Booth Fishery, fraternity representative, to permit parking in libraiy. Motion referred to committee.
Motion made by Dun Rovin, athletics representative, to conduct French conversation classes in English. Motion referred to committee.
Motion made by Esme Plankton, sorority representative, to allow hypnosis dur
The makers of Marlboro, who bring you this column, herewith move that Marlboro is the finest cigarette ever. We know gou’ll second the motion,
8
ing Rush Week. Motion referred to committee.
Motion made by Pierre Clemenceau, foreign exchange student, to conduct Spanish conversation classes in French. Motion referred to committee.
Observation made by Martha Involute, senior representative, that in her four years on student council every motion referred to committee was never heard of again. Miss Involute was tabled.
Motion made by Louis Bicuspid, freshman representative, to allow sale of hard liquor in Sociology I and II. Seconded by Delores Wheatgerm, sophomore representative. Motion tabled by Hunrath Sigafoos, presiding crossly.
Refreshments served—coffee, cake, Marlboro Cigarettes. The following resolution adopted by acclamation:
“WHEREAS Marlboro is milder, tastier, and more pleasing to smokers of all ages and conditions; and WHEREAS Marlboro is contained in the crushproof flip-top box which is the slickest, quickest, neatest container yet devised for cigarettes; and WHEREAS Marlboro, that most commendable of smokes in the most
admirable wrappings, is graced with the exclusive Selectrate filter; therefore BE IT RESOLVED that it is the sense of this meeting, that Marlboro is far and away the best cigarette on this or any other campus.”
Meeting adjourned with many a laugh and cheer at 11:74 p.m.
© 1958, MaxShuIxnu
INTEREST
Editor:
The other night I was listening to WSND and heard someone connected with the Scholastic comment on the fact that after the articles on the very important national problem of Civil Rights had been published, only four letters had been received from the students of the University. It was suggested that this seeming lack of interest questioned whether, as students of Notre Dame, we are interested in problems and situations which do not affect us personally.
I am sure this question and others of general importance do affect students and we are interested in them.
I am a freshman living in Cavanaugh and in the past few weeks have been reading avidly the articles on Civil Rights. Also, many of my hallmates have done the same. We have discussed these articles and benefited from them.
If the failure to write and encourage further inquiry into the problem gives you the idea we are uninterested, we are sorry and will do our best not to let it happen again.
Joseph J. Hutton, Jr.
357 Cavanaugh.
IVAN
Editor:
I am a 16 year old girl going to one of the local high schools in town. For the last three years my cousin has brought home a copy of the Scholastic ; almost every week. Since last year I have been following Ivan Osorio’s car- J toons very closely. I sincerely think that he is great. Just great. I have saved j everyone of his drawings and pinned them on the walls of my room. Four P
more of my girl friends think in the same way.........? How does Ivan look? If it is possible would you publish a snapshot of him in one of the coming issues.
Betty Lou (Last name withheld on request) South Bend, Ind.
ON THE COVER: Ivan Osorio’s latest contribution to this magazine does honor to the forthcoming Bengal Bouts. An example of Ivan's large following is to be found in the letter printed in this issue. We are sorry that at present we cannot publish a picture of Ivan. However, the answer to the question, which unfortunately we had to delete, is NO.
The Scholastic
SctMt
FRANK M. FOLSOM
Awarded Laetare Medal
AB Sophs to Attend Departmental Talks
In addition to the general meeting of the “Choose Your Major” program held last night, the various departments of the Liberal Arts College will hold informal question and answer sessions for interested sophomores in the LaFortune Student Center throughout next week.
* On Monday the Economics department will hold its conference at 4 pan. in the South Lounge. At the same time in the North Lounge of the Rathskeller the Communications department meeting will be held.
The History and Sociology depart-- ments will hold their meetings at 4 p.m. on Tuesday in the South and North Lounges respectively. At 7:45 pan. the Philosophy department will meet in the South Lounge.
On Wednesday the English and Classics departments will be in the South and North Lounges, respectively, at 4 pan.
Those interested in the AB-Law Combination will meet at 4 p.m. in the South Lounge on Thursday while the Political Science department will meet at 7:45 pan. in the same place.
Sophomores intending to major in art should see Prof. Stanley Sessler in Room 133 O’Shaughnessy Monday through Friday afternoons. Those interested in Modern Languages should contact Prof. Walter Langford in 304 O’Shaughnessy from 2 to 4 pan. Monday through Friday. Music majors should see The Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., in Lyons Hall.
FRANK M. FOLSOM IS NAMED RECIPIENT OF LAETARE MEDAL
Former RCA President Cited for Industrial Achievement; University Marks Diamond Jubilee of Annual Award
Frank M. Folsom, executive committee chairman and former president of the Radio Corporation of America, last Sunday was named the diamond jubilee recipient of the University of Notre Dame’s Laetare Medal.
Selection of the famous industrialist marks the 75th anniversary of the award which has been presented annually since 1883 to an outstanding Catholic layman. Folsom is currently serving as permanent Vatican City representative to the new International Atomic Energy Agency.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., . Notre Dame president, in announcing the selection of the 63-year-old RCA executive said: “Frank Folsom has long been recognized as one of the great leaders of American business and industry. Among the first industrialists to enter government service during World War II, he now serves the Church and humanity in helping to advance the worldwide peacetime use of atomic energy. Because of his distinguished public record and his exemplary private life, the University of Notre Dame is proud to award Mr. Folsom the Laetare Medal, highest honor within its power to bestow.”
The Laetare Medal winner is named each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy in the liturgy of the Church. The formal presentation of the award takes place at a later date.
Folsom has been associated with RCA since 1944 and became fourth president of the giant communications firm in 1949. A veteran of more than 40 years in the field of merchandising, he is credited by many with the phenomenal growth of the American television industry in the last decade. In earlier years, Folsom served as executive vice president of Goldblatt Bros., Inc., a Chicago department store, and vice president of Montgomery Ward, Inc., Chicago.
President Truman awarded Folsom the Medal of Merit for his outstanding wartime service and the Navy conferred on him its highest civilian honor, the Distinguished Civilian Service Award. Folsom served for nearly two years as Chief of the Procurement Branch of the U.S. Navy Department. Earlier he was associated with the Office of Production Management.
Among former winners of the Laetare Medal are Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther, former NATO commander and president of the American Red Cross; Alfred E. Smith, governor of New York and Democratic presidential candidate; Edward Douglas White, chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court; last year’s winner Clare Boothe Luce, former U.S. ambassador to Italy; and Albert F. Zahm, pioneer aeronautical scientist.
Others were Carlton J. H. Hayes, historian and former U.S. ambassador to Spain; actress Irene Dunne; John GiL mary Shea, historian and first winner of the Laetare Medal in 1883; AFL-CIO president George Meany; and tenor John McCormick.
In addition to his many business affiliations, Folsom has held a number of responsible posts in the world of public affairs, religion and education. He was a member of the Citizens Panel of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy and the Hoover Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government.
He is presently a director of the Alfred E. Smith Foundation, a trustee of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York and a member of the Board of Governors of the Extension Society of the United States.
In June 1956, Folsom received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Notre Dame. He also holds honorary degrees from Fordham University, Manhattan College, the University of San Francisco and St Joseph’s College of Philadelphia.
March 21, 1958
June Grads to Arrange For Robes Next Week
Seniors and all other students who expect to receive degrees in June will be measured for their caps and gowns on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday, at the Vetville recreation hall. The hall is located between the Navy Drill Hall and the WNDU building.
The hours for measuring will be 3 to 6 p.m. It is absolutely essential that all who intend to take pai-t in the commencement exercises arrange at this time to rent a cap and gown, for there will be no other opportunity to do so.
Any student who cannot appear in person to be measured should arrange for someone else to make the rental arrangements for him. This can be done by furnishing a delegate with the following: the student’s full name and major; his height, chest measurement, and hat size; and the rental fee which will be approximately $3.30 for a bachelor’s cap and gown.
The fee for gowns and hoods for advanced degrees will be higher. Graduate students must also know the full name of the degree they are to receive. All students must pay the rental fee in cash and in advance.
Fourth Annual Drive Breaks Student Participation Record
Results of the fourth annual student drive for the Notre Dame Foundation were released recently by Chairman Bob Toland. Of the 4,480 students living on campus, 4,460 contributed.
The percentage of students contributing was 99.56%, compared with last year’s 99.5%. The freshmen halls led with 100% participation. Off-campus collections are still incomplete.
97 lbs. of bobbing, weaving dynamite out for the Bengals, Coach.
10
Freshmen Scheduled to Buy 'Formal’ Tickets: Buddy Laine's Band to Play at May 2 Dance
Tickets for the annual “Freshman Formal,” scheduled for May 2, will be sold Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday in the La Fortune Student Center Rathskeller.
The hours of ticket sales will be 7 to 9 p.m. on Sunday and Tuesday and from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. on Monday.
Buddy Laine and his orchestra will provide the music for the dance which will be held in the Center.
Accomodations for the dates for the affair may also be arranged at the ticket center on these days. A limited number of rooms in the Morris Inn are available on a first come, first served basis.
The bids for the May 2 dance are $6 per couple. Communion breakfast tickets can be purchased for $2.50 while accomodations for dates will be $5-$7 a night.
Only 500 tickets for the dance will be sold. Because of this limited number, the freshman formal committee urges all interested freshmen to buy their tickets early, preferably on Sunday.
Laine’s music, marked by “sweet” style, has been popular at many colleges as well as such clubs as Chevy Chase, Aragon and Oh Henry in Chicago. Miss Mickey Carroll is the featured vocalist with the group, which records for Decca.
“Moonglow” has been selected as the theme for the setting of the Freshman Formal. White dinner jackets will be worn to the dance, and arrangements are being made for low rental tux. In keeping with tradition, no flowers will be worn by dates.
Continuing the week-end activities will be a picnic on Saturday, May 3, provided sufficient attendance is assured. A dance is scheduled that night in the Student Center.
A 8 a.m. on Sunday, a High Mass will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church, followed by a Communion breakfast in the new dining hall. Speakers have not yet been named.
Jim Kaval is heading the Formal committee, assisted by Bruno Trimboli, pub-
ALL-CAMPUS PARTY
An all-campus party will be held in the La Fortune Student Center this evening from 8:30 to 11:30. Girls will be present from St. Mary’s College and Holy Cross Central School of Nursing although the function will be open to “stags” or “drags.” Tickets will cost $ .50 and will be sold at the door.
BUDDY LAINE
To play at Freshman Formal
licity, Dick Nielson, Communion breakfast, John Cooney, tickets, Armando Loizage, business manager, Don Chmiel, decorations and William Galvin, chairman in charge of accomodations and refreshments.
Seniors to Attend Talk
On 'Marriage Success*
Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd of Chicago, Ill., will conduct Wednesday night’s Marriage Institute lecture at Washington Hall starting at 7:30. This is the sixth and last in the series of Marriage Institute instructions for seniors.
In a talk entitled “Success in Marriage,” the O’Dowd’s will indicate how parents develop their responsibilities through having children.
A Notre Dame graduate of 1942, O’Dowd is presently in a lumber business in Chicago. He met his wife while they were both in the Navy as officers. They are parents of six children. This is their third appearance at the Marriage Institute.
Following the conference, the O’Dowds will be in the La Fortune Student Center for informal talks with seniors. Refreshments will be served in the La Fortune Student Center’s Rathskeller.
Certificates of attendance at the 1958 Marriage Institute will be available after the Wednesday night’s lecture. Books on marriage will be displayed for sale or inspection in the Student Center.

New Program Begins In Commerce School
o A new program of courses leading to !i a master’s degree in business adminis-' tration and specifically designed for > members of religious communities will be inaugurated by the College of Commerce at this year’s summer session, June 20 to August 5.
> According to Dean James W. Culliton, the summer business administration program will provide advanced professional training for the competent teaching of business subjects and for effective leadership in institutions.
Priests, Brothers, and Sisters engaged ♦ in high school and college teaching or in the management of hospitals and other institutions will find the program “especially attractive,” he said, “because of the emphasis placed upon the knowledge and skills needed in such work.”
( Notre Dame’s departments of accounting, business administration, finance, and marketing will offer five summer courses especially designed “to provide a broad understanding of the complex array of modern business principles and procedures rather than upon narrow specialization,” Culliton explained. They are “Managerial Accounting,” “Social Control of Industry,” “Portfolio Management,” “Problems in Public Relations,” and “Procurement Policy.”
Students may earn the degree of master of business administration in five summer sessions upon completion of 30 hours of credit in the new graduate program.
Applications for enrollment in the program may be obtained by writing the Dean of the Graduate School at Notre Dame. Additional information on the program and its courses may be obtained from Dr. William F. Eagan, Co-t ordinator, Summer Graduate Program in Commerce, Box 86, Notre Dame, Ind.
Moot Court Contest Planned For First Year Law Students
The Moot Court Association will sponsor a contest among the first year law students this Thursday and Friday night at 8 in the Law Building.
Participation in the event, which concerns legal matters in an imaginary state called “Hoynes,” enables the students to gain ability in the procedure for bringing a case before an appellate court. Spectators are welcome to attend these contests.
The co-chancellors in charge are Kosma Glavas and Jerome Lynes. The faculty advisor is Prof. Edward F. Barrett.
March 21, 1958
l_
Air Force Seniors Taking Hight Instruction; Training Program to Lead to PBofs License
Lt. Col. Matthew H. Merkle recently announced that the AFROTC detachment here at Notre Dame has instituted the flight instruction program for those senior cadets who will enter flight training on active duty.
Under a new provision of the Air Force, all seniors who wish to fly must agree to serve a minimum active duty time of five years. Those cadets who
DR. CHARLES BIONDO
Conducts combined orchestras Monday
Dr. Biondo to Conduct ND-SMC Orchestras
The combined orchestras of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College, augmented by members of the South Bend and Elkhart symphonies, will present a concert in Washington Hall Monday night at 7:30.
Dr. Charles Biondo will conduct the program which is open to the public without charge.
Orchestral numbers will include Cim-arosa’s To the Secret Marriage and selections from My Fair Lady. Robert Jones, senior Notre Dame music major from South Bend, will perform Mozart’s Clarinet Concerto, K 622. Paul Ciocnon, a grad student from Chicago, will be the soloist for Liszt’s A Major Piano Concerto.
Dr. Biondo, conductor of the Notre Dame Symphonette and associate professor of music, has been a faculty member since 1947. A specialist in music education and string music, he is the author* of Starting the Instrumental Program.
signed the agreement prior to the turn of the semester were eligible for the program. Eleven cadets signed the agreement before the deadline and are now ' taking flight instruction.
The course consist of three basic parts: ground school, dual instruction, and solo instruction. The ground school consists of five hours of instruction which trains the cadets in principles of flight, air navigation, air safety and preparation for the CAA examination. The dual instruction takes between seven ■ and twelve hours and in this phase, the student is actually flying the plane with the instructor directing him through the maneuvers from the back seat.
These basic maneuvers consist in ground checks, take-offs, climbs, stalls, turns, and recovery from unusual attitudes such as diving spirals. Sometime in this period, at the instructor’s discretion, the student will be required to solo the plane. From this point on, the student will be -flying the plane entirely on his own with periodic checks by civilian and military instructors.
The program will be completed by an extensive written examination in combination with a long cross-country flight which serves as a practical examination of the student’s ability to fly.
The program differs slightly from the regular civilian program for gaining a private pilot’s license in that .the program is more extensive by military requirement. For the cadets, the primary purpose is not the acquisition of a private pilot’s license. The program is designed to test certain pilot aptitudes and possibly to eliminate the cadet from the flying program. This could happen if the cadet showed an inherent fear of flying, complete lack of pilot aptitude, or a high instance of air sickness.
Although no cadets have yet soloed, it is expected that within two weeks the majority will have done so. The plane that the cadets are flying for this first part of the program is a Piper Cub PA-11 with a Lycoming, 65 hp engine and cruises at 80 mph.
All flight training is being held under the auspices of Stockert Flying Service at St. Joseph County Airport. The group is known as the “Flying Fledglings.”" For the solo phase of the training the-cadets will be flying a Piper Aeronca, which is slightly larger and faster, but still a very basic aircraft.
The cadets upon graduation will report to Lackland Air.Force.Base, San Antonio, Tex., for processing and from there to the numerous Air Force train-ing bases around the country.
it
Absence of Members Again Prevents Senate From Legislating on Proposed Amendments
The Student Senate, for the second time in three weeks, was unable to legislate last Tuesday night because not enough senators were present to constitute a quorum. Examinations and the-measles were the principal factors for the absences.
Four constitutional amendments were scheduled to be read and discussed. Two of these affect the eligibility of senators in the forthcoming election of the student body president for next year. The
Ft. Gartland to Appear On Radio Show Sunday
The Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., editor of The Catholic Boy, will be the featured speaker on the “Church of the Air” over the CBS Radio Network Sunday at 10:30 a.m. EST. A veteran editor of youth publications and a former director of the Catholic Press Association, Father Gartland will discuss the Mass in a sermon entitled “Life-Blood of the World.”
The Moreau Seminary Choir of the University of Notre Dame, directed by The Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., will sing five hymns during the program. Accompanied by John Oliver at the organ, the choir will sing “The Lord's Prayer by Malotte, and Cesar Franck’s Panis Angelicas. The a cappella selections will include O Vos Omnes by Vittoria, Walczynski’s Cor Amoris Victima, and Jesu Salvator Mundi by Scharbach.
Father Gartland has been editor of The Catholic Boy since 1948 when the Holy Cross Fathers, who operate Notre Dame, became publishers of the youth magazine. A native of Boston, Mass., Father Gartland was graduated from Notre Dame in 1933 and was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross four years later. From 1938 to 1940 he was Notre Dame’s prefect of religion. He was contributing editor of the youth section of Our Sunday Visitor, national Catholic weekly newspaper, from 1940 to 1946.
COLUMNISTS! !
Students are reminded that manuscripts are being accepted for next year’s SCHOLASTIC “Back Page” and “Escape.” Any undergraduate who is interested may apply by sending manuscripts of about 1,000 words to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind. It is very important that they be sent in as soon as possible to facilitate selection before final exams.
12
other two propose a drastic cut in the voting membership of the Senate. All four will be brought up at the next regular Senate meeting.
Other motions introduced at the meeting before it was adjourned concerned late permissions for the Saturday night after class dances and for the upper class formals at St. Mary’s.
Student Senate Vice-President Harry Wasoff proposed that the administration extend permissions to 1:30 a.m. for those attending the Junior Prom and Senior Ball at St. Mary’s. As it stands now, the Prom and the Ball must end at midnight to allow the Notre Dame men to get back on time.
What probably was to have been the most controversial of the proposed amendments was the one allowing students in the three-year program to run for student body president. This directly affects three sophomore senators who are slated to graduate after their third year, Bruce Babbitt, Jim Rose, and Denny Shaul.
The two amendments affecting the structure ef the Senate would change the status of the class presidents from voting to non-voting representatives and would completely eliminate the four college senators. The class presidents would not be required to attend the meetings of the Senate and it was argued that the colleges and classes could be represented by the members already in the Senate. These amendments are principally aimed at reducing the membership of the Senate to a more practical and workable size.
Rose’s motion that 1 a.m. permissions be requested from the administration for the Saturday evening following a class dance was tabled until next week and a committee appointed to look into the matter.
Martzell Takes Third Place In Debate Tourney Recently
With Jack Martzell taking third place in the individual speaker rating, Notre Dame posted a 9-5 record in a debate tournament at Georgetown University in Washington, D. C., last week end. Holy Cross won the tournament.
Stating the affirmative case for Notre Dame were Tom Banchoff and Jack Dempsey, while Jerry Goudreau and Jack Martzell presented the negative.
This week end John Whitney and Martzell travel,to Western Reserve in Cleveland, O., to compete in the regional eliminations for the National Championship. Teams from Illinois, Indiana,
FATHER JOHN WALSH
Concludes Leo XIII Lecture Series
Fr. Walsh to Deliver Final Leo XIII Talk
The concluding lecture of the 1958 Leo XIII Series will be delivered on Thursday by The Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., head of the department of education. The talk is to be held at 8 p.m. in the Law Auditorium, and is open to the public.
Father Walsh’s address will be on “The Position of the Catholic in the Education Controversy.” Admission is free, and the talk will be followed by a question and answer period open to the floor.
Father Walsh was appointed to his present position in September, 1957. Previous to this he had been a member of the faculty of the department since 1953. Born in Jackson, Neb., Father Walsh entered Holy Cross Seminary in 1940, and received his AB degree from Notre Dame in 1945.
After completing his theological studies in Washington, D. C., he returned to Notre Dame and was ordained in 1949.
He then began his post-graduate studies, receiving an MA degree from Notre Dame in 1950, and a Ph.D. degree from Yale in 1953. Father Walsh is a member of the Comparative Education Society and president of the Chicago Region of the Philosophy of Education Society.
Frank Fiegel is chairman of the committee which has made all the arrangements for the five lectures.
Michigan, and Ohio are entering the tournament. The five top teams selected at Western Reserve will proceed to the National Championship rounds to be held at West Point April 25 to 28.
The Scholastic
“Let’s go to the Grotto.” For more than fifty years, Notre Dame men have been saying this, and dropping in to say a prayer to Our Lady in a spare minute. This is the visible expression of Notre Dame’s lasting devotion to the Mother of God.
It all started over a hundred years ago, in 1845, when Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founded the Archconfraternity of Our Blessed Mother here at Notre Dame. The University itself was still struggling to stay on its feet at this time, but the Archconfratemity grew and developed, and soon caused Notre Dame to be recognized as the center of devotion to Our Lady in North America.
Soon it became evident that this Notre Dame confraternity was very similar to the Confraternity of Our Lady of Lourdes, whose headquarters was at
the shrine in France. So, in 1874, our campus confraternity became officially affiliated with the one at Lourdes, and the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes came to Notre Dame, canonically erected by Bishop Dwenger of Fort Wayne.
The confraternity was centered in the seminary at this time, and its work and devotions were carried on without much publicity — Notre Dame was still building itself into a university — but devotion to Our Lady strengthened and grew on the campus. Then in 1895, Father John Carroll, of Oil City, Pa., gave the University a donation for the purpose of building a grotto. And in 1896, on the feast of Our Lady of the Snows, the Grotto was dedicated. From that day on, the most common expression of Notre Dame men’s devotion to Mary has been in their regular visits to the Grotto.
The similarity of our own Grotto to that of Lourdes is striking indeed. The beauty of the Lourdes grotto has been
The stone from Lourdes
The Confraternity Of Our Lady of Lourdes
by Mike Mathews
captured in fine detail here at Notre Dame. In fact, there is even a stone from the Lourdes shrine in our own Grotto; it was brought back to Notre Dame by Father McGuire, who had visited Lourdes.
Just last year the confraternity became more active and more public. At this time, Father Phillip H. Schaerf, C.S.C., took upon himself the duties of director of the Confraternity. He had recovered from a near-fatal disease by turning to Our Lady for help, and by the use of devotional Lourdes water. He moved the Confraternity Oifices out of the seminary and into a building just behind the Grotto, and resolved to publicize the Confraternity and its work. A full-time staff is now needed to handle all the requests for enrollment in the confraternity. This staff also handles the many requests for Lourdes water, which is shipped to Notre Dame directly from the shrine at Lourdes, and then is redistributed from here all over North America.
Father Schaerf stressed the fraternal nature of this organization built on devotion to Mary. Membership in the Confraternity is a personal thing, he points out, in that there are no formal meetings or the like. The chief works of the Confraternity members are prayer and penance. More specifically, members take upon themselves the duty of putting into practice the lessons given by Our Lady in her various apparitions. Also, they must wear the Medal of Lourdes, or the blue scapular, and must say at least a decade of the Rosary each day. It is also recommended that they practice some small mortification on Wednesday and Saturday of each week. For these duties, the members partake of special privileges, which now include the recently reapproved indulgences of St. Pius X, which enable members to gain plenary indulgences on 15 days throughout the year by performing the practices of the Confraternity.
February 11 of .this year marked the official opening of the centennial year of the Lourdes apparition. In a recent letter to Father Schaerf, Bishop Theas of Lourdes stated that the re
cent centennial afforded “a providential occasion to give new life to the activities of the Confraternity.” Bishop Theas also extended his paternal blessing to all the members of the Confraternity and to all those who work for the glory of Our Lady of Lourdes.
The Holy Father also commended the Confraternity and its work this summer. Father Schaerf had an audience with him in Rome. Father Schaerf said that the Holy Father was very impressed with the devotion to Our Lady which characterizes Notre Dame, and which its thousands of students and alumni are now spreading throughout the world.
While in Europe, Father Schaerf also visited the motherhouse of the Sisters of Charity and Christian Instruction at Nevers, France. There he received a first-class relic of St. Bernadette, to whom Our Lady appeared eighteen times at Lourdes. This relic is now in the altar of the Bernadette chapel in Sacred Heart Church.
Another centennial note is that all those individuals who visit the Grotto in 1958 may receive partial indulgences. A plenary indulgence may be obtained by members of a group who visit the Grotto.
Father Schaerf plans a membership drive to further highlight the centennial
March 21, 1958
13
Charlie
The Disciplinarian
by JAMES NAUGHTON
The desperately plaintive voice rang out. “Please can’t I stay. . .”
“No, definitely not!” broke in the deeply resonant assertion of The Disciplinarian. He was a figure demanding respect, a kindly but stern manipulator of the fortunes of men. “You know full well the reactions that could result from our being the least bit lenient with you,” lectured the black-clad Disciplinarian.
“I ... I suppose you’re right,” stammered the student. He was visibly shaken by the forces now altering his life. Seated in the hard, iron folding chair before the modest desk of The Disciplinarian, the student presented a striking contrast to his immediate environment. He shivered slightly, as might a side of freshly slaughtered beef hung from the rack of a packing plant freezer. His Irish jaw was stubbled
Just as The Disciplinarian was pleasant-. 16
V
to the argument of the
interrupted the blowing blurt, “I guess I should
ly neat, he was unpleasantly slovenly. The student was dressed in wrinkled gray corduroy pants that had obviously been slept—or at least lain—in, a dirty white tee shirt that sagged noticeably
as he listened student.
The student of his nose to
have come to you sooner about this.” “Certainly you should have,” agreed The Disciplinarian. “But your failure
The Scholastic
at the neckline, and the usual white buck shoes over graying sweatsocks. Around his broad shoulders was a blue jacket, the name of the school emblazoned across its back in huge yellow block letters.
The Disciplinarian stood over the figure slumped in the chair before his desk. What The Disciplinarian lacked in physical stature he made up for in his power to control the lives of many men. He wore a dark suit as those of his profession customarily did. The only variation from the norm was in the heavily padded shoulders that ultimately failed in making him appear muscular. His black leather shoes shone brilliantly in the light emitted from the one ceiling fixture in the small private room. Many times during the 12 years he had held his present position at the University he had glanced at the one adornment on the wall and thought of the Oath taken in connection with it. He did this now
to do so is a natural one. You boys always are a bit squeamish about admitting your defeat by a thing like this.”
“Yes, sir. May I go now?”
. “All right. Go to your room and get your things. Then come immediately back here.”	•
♦ * *
As he slowly walked back to his room, his head lowered to his chest, the student tried picturing in his mind the sequence of events which had led to his interview with The Disciplinarian. Then, disgruntled, he rebuked himself for allowing his mind to dwell on such unpleasantries.
Crossing the main quadrangle, he again settled his thoughts on his mis-V fortune: “Wouldn’t have caught me if I hadn’t become so overheated and tired. . . . Never hope to get hit so hard by a thing like this again. . . . God. . . . It’s awful. . . . Hope Mom doesn’t worry too much. . .”
He paused to look at the notices in '■ the glass enclosed bulletin board, changed his mind and passed them off as unimportant, but halted to examine more Closely the cluttered Bulletin Board of the Common Man, that used by the students. He calmly thought of not being able to see the lyric opera that ■ night, jauntily informed himself he should not be allowed to attend the coming mixer, irritably remembered he would not be in the stands at the football game, and stalked angrily up the three flights of stairs to his room.
He had been sharing a triple with two boys from Houston. They were home town friends, naturally closer to each a other than to him. He felt somewhat apart from them. Not finding them in the room, he immediately became indignant. “Probably out raising hell while I suffer. . .” Then, shamefaced, “Aw ... Not their fault... Cest la vie. ... Better let ’em know what’s what...” . The student tore a piece of paper from a folder he found in the pile of books on his sloppy desk top and wrote:
Mike and Bob,
I Afraid they won’t let me stay here. Be careful and stay out of trouble. You know where to forward mail. Thanks for everything.
TIGER
Thoughtfully he put the note where they would be sure to find it—in the crotch of Mike’s pajama bottoms. He chuckled inwardly at the thought of them wondering where he was until late that night. Even in his present. state of mind'he lived up to his reputation as a practical joker.
About to leave the room, the student
March 21, 1958
remembered his toothbrush. He dropped to the desk the armload of books he was carrying, got his nearly-forgotten implement and started off for The Disciplinarian’s office.
♦ ♦ ♦
Now, seated once more on the steel folding chair before his antagonist, he decided on a final try at swaying the will of The Disciplinarian. He asked, listlessly, and without allowing his moist
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Brothers Karamazov: (March 21-28). A sprawling, brawling, lusty and yet sensitive and sophisticated motion picture. Adapted from Dostoievsky’s classic novel of sin and retribution, the film is studded with excellent performances, best of all by Yul Brynner as the central character, Dmitri, and by Maria Schell as the tantalizing and utterly feminine Grushenka, the part which Marilyn Monroe set the whole country talking about when she walked off the Fox lot because she couldn't do it. Metrocolor.
GRANADA
Cotvboy: (March 21-24). Contains more than a fair share of the action elements. Yet this picture, which also boasts some handsome outdoor photography, in Technicolor, is by no means to be placed in the category of just another Western. Features Glenn Ford and Jack Lemmon.
Robinson-Basilio Fight: (March 25). Will be shown at 10 pan. only. Prior to the fight is another sports event, The Harlem Globe Trotters.
PALACE
Saddle The Wind: (March 21-26).
Co-Hit: Plunder Road. Not too bad . . . considering. Known names include Gene Raymond and Wayne Morris. We follow Raymond, a would-be millionaire, who master-minds an almost foolproof robbery, this one from a special U. S. Mint gold train. Engrossing, albeit standard.
RIVER PARK .
The Ten Commandments: (March 21-26). Pass the grenades, please.
STATE
Miracle of Marcelino: (March 21-22). Grand prize winner in the International Film Festivals at Cannes and Berlin. A really excellent film. Matinee and evening performances. .
Oregon Passage: March 23-27). Stars John Erickson and Lola Albright. Color and CinemaScope.
Co-Hit: Sabu and the Magic Ring. Once upon a time there was a gnu named Sabu. And Sabu was a blue gnu. And he was married to a gnu named Sue. And everytime Sue would call Sabu, she would coo—“Yoo hoo, Sabu, you blue gnu you. Yoo hoo, Sabu, yoo hoo.” And Sabu would answer, “Yoo hoo, Sue you cute gnu you. Yoo hoo, Sue, yoo hoo.” Moral: excellent movie for all happily married blue gnus.
WASHINGTON HAU.
The Happy Road: (March 22). Gene Kelly-Barbara Laage.
—Steve Sailer.
eyes to meet those of The Disciplinarian, “Please may I be allowed to stay in my room.”
“I’m sorry,” was the apathetic reply. “You must be taken care of.” Rising, he walked to the door of the office, opened it, and called to a subordinate dressed spotlessly in white: “Miss Dunne. Take this young man to Ward Four. Another bad case of flu.”
“Yes, Doctor,” she replied and led the student off to Ward Four.
Campus Employment
by MIKE MATHEWS
“Way back when” at Notre Dame, the administration felt that some jobs should be provided for students who needed to work in order to attend the University. Of course, scholarships could solve this problem for a few, but there were many others who could ease their finances considerably if they could obtain part-time jobs. So the University established a student employment program.
Today, that program has mushroomed into a full-scale personnel operation here on campus. Mr. Joseph F. O’Brien, who is head of the University Personnel Department, has stated that his office records show that 850 students are working this year at different jobs around the campus. These jobs vary tremendously, of course. Many students work in the dining halls, which are the largest single employers on campus. Others work in the library, which is another large employer. There are many students who work as correctors for professors, or who are assistants and typists in the offices of the various departments and colleges.
Then, too, there are a number of student jobs which require some special knowledge or skill—such as being an assistant technician in one of the University laboratories.
Mr. O’Brien outlined the average job, and listed some of its requirements: the student normally puts in a twelvehour week for each of the sixteen weeks in a semester. Most of the students are paid through a service-credit system, which means that, assuming a normal pay-rate, $180.00 is credited to their tuition expenses each semester. On the
Checking supplies
basis of these figures, the standard student wage comes to about 95 cents an hour.
There are exceptions to this pattern. Most notably, the dining halls operate on a payroll basis—rather than on servicecredit—so that the worker actually takes home his pay each week. Also, wages are naturally scaled to the particular type of job which the student is performing, so that jobs which require more knowledge, longer hours, or some other extra effort are more rewarding. A student lab assistant, for instance, because
Pumping milk
of the advanced knowledge which he must have and apply, receives a servicecredit of $210.00 per semester. Other such “special” jobs may pay as much, or even more, depending on the qualifications which the student must have, and the importance of his job.
The general requirements for any student, applying for any job, still conform to the original purpose of the program: jobs are given primarily on the basis of financial need. This is the essential consideration of the Personnel Department when it makes its selections. The Department goes so far as to send a questionnaire to the applicant’s parents in an attempt to ascertain his need. Also, this questionnaire is the Personnel Department’s means of making sure that the student’s parents have no objection to his working.
With this basic consideration in mind, the Personnel Office must demand certain other qualifications: they must be certain that the student’s employment will not
Delivering mail
interfere with his academic progress; in this regard, Mr. O’Brien pointed out that the University usually discourages freshmen from working, since they feel that freshmen need this first year to acclimate themselves, and also to give some indication that they will be able to successfully combine a part-time job with their study curriculum. For upperclassmen, a 77 average usually suffices to make the student eligible for employment. Above and beyond this, he must also have a good disciplinary record.
If the applicant is to be a corrector, he must have taken the courses necessary for him to know his work, and must meet with the approval of the professor for whom he is to work.
But in all cases, Mr. O’Brien said, need is the first determining factor, and may counterbalance a certain deficiency in one of the other qualifications.
Frying hamburgers
18
The Scholastic
Fr. Mathis Lectures
On Grad Liturgy Study
The Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., *3 spoke to a group of fifth year architects on March 13. Father Mathis’ topic was post graduate study in Liturgy.
p Including two years study here at , Notre Dame for the Master’s degree, followed by two more years study in France, the program culminates in an instructor’s certificate in liturgy.
This program would give practicing | architects a closer appreciation of the I problems of church building. It would also set up a system by which teachers instructing liturgy would have a basis in architecture.
Prof. Sessler Wins Prize In Hammond Art Exhibition
B Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, head of the Bt department of art, was awarded first B prize in oil painting at the 15th Annual B Art Salon of Northern Indiana, current-■ ly being held in Hammond. The entry, H a still life called “The Iron Kettle,” was B painted in a demonstration for last year’s art students.
M, Another work of his, “Selfportrait,” w was also exhibited in the show.
University Sponsors History Workshops
Two workshops to be held during the summer session will formulate syllabi for high school courses in American and world history, according to a recent announcement by The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the history department.
An American History workshop will be held from June 23 to July 11, Father McAvoy said, while the World History workshop will be conducted from July 14 to August 1. Teachers participating in the sessions will divide course material into units to be covered daily in the high school classroom and also will prepare supplementary reading lists. Academic credit will be awarded for participation in the sessions.
The two workshops will be sponsored by the Notre Dame history department and the History Teachers club, an organization of approximately 100 teachers many of whom have received advanced degrees from Notre Dame or are currently engaged in graduate work at the University. Sister M. Amata Cannon, H.H.M., of Magnificat High School, Rocky River, O., will be chairman of the workshop sessions.
During- the past decade, Father McAvoy said, the History Teachers club, in conjunction with the history department, has prepared high school history syllabi which have been adopted by a number of religious communities and diocesan school systems.
Further- infoi-mation about this year’s workshops may be obtained by writing1 The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Department of History, Notre Dame, Ind.
Prof. Cornish to Spook To Psychology Majors
Professor John H. Cornish of the Psychology department will deliver a lecture Monday night on “Individual Conformism to the Over-all Social Structure of Human Existence Within Our Society” in room 3 D of the LaFortune Student Center.
His talk, open to the public, is sponsored by the Social Relations Council, an organization composed of psychology majors interested in the political aspects of social conformism.
The professor’s talk will deal with the inability of a person to adjust socially to the complex demands made upon him by an individualistic society.
Left: Ribtide - polished cotton cardigan. Elegant, lustrous and washable.
$10
WuntUHS
The Fashion
For ’58
Cardigans ... The Fashion For ’58! The “HE” Fashion! Ultra smart for casual wear! Distinctively tailored with deep-down button front, neatly framed with constrasting trim. Lustrous fabrics___sensational new colors.
CARDIGANS
by
Right: Drizzler - water-repellent cardigan in rayon-cotton blend. Washable, of course.
$1295
Wyman’s ... a man’s world of fashions! Men’s Shop, Street Floor, North
March 21, 1958
19
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
HaveaiNRlItofFUN! Travel with fITA
Unbelievable Low Cost Europe
SL fr~$585 Orient
Uarti tours induce toilogo credit
Also low-cost trips to Moxieo $149 up. South America $699 sip, Hawaii Study Tour $498 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
mc. Chicago 4, HA 7-2557
Air Force Drill Team Acts As Honor Guard in Chicago
The Air Force ROTC drill team traveled to Chicago last Sunday to perform in the sixth annual Saint Patrick’s Day Parade.
Following the parade, the drill team had the special privilege and honor of being chosen as the Honor Guard for Samuel Cardinal Stritch in Benediction services held at St. Sabina’s Church. This was one of the Cardinal’s last public appearances prior to his leaving for a new post in Rome early next month.
That evening, the 18 members of the drill team were invited to a private dinner at McKown’s Restaurant where they were visited by the movie actress, Erin O’Brien.
Interhall Teams to Vie In Bridge Tournament
The annual interhall team-of-four campus bridge championships will be held on March 29 and 30 at 1:30 pjn. in the Fiesta Lounge of the LaFortune
Student Center. Last year’s champions from Lyons Hall, Bob Vondrasek, Burke Carley, Louie Stettler, and Brian Moran, now representing Sorin Hall, will attempt to win the Garity trophy for the f, second time.
This Sunday afternoon there will be ' an informal team-of-four practice at 1:30 in room ID of the Student Center. j This practice session will be open to all j teams and not just hall teams.
All teams interested in entering the j tournament are requested to get in touch i with Prof. John P. Turley this Sunday I at the informal practice session.	j
LECTURE	I
Professor Edouard Morot-Sir, the	i
representative of the French Universities in America and cultural at-	||
tache to the French embassy, will deliver a lecture on “Contemporary French Philosophy" in the Rockne Memorial Lounge Tuesday at 8 p.m. His talk is sponsored by the Graduate Philosophy Club.	'
------------------------------------
Old Spice Shampoo conditions your scalp as it deans your hair. Removes dandruff without removing natural oils. Gives you rich, man-sized lather that leaves your hair jnore manageable, better-looking ...with a healthy sheen! So much better for your hair than drying soaps...so much easier to use than shampoos in glass bottles. Try it!

A MAN’S SHAMPOO in Shower-Safe Plastic!
SHAMPOO by SHULTON

The Scholastic
JIM RUSSOMANO
fl Fencers Smash Record; I Undefeated In Nineteen
fl Jim Russomano, Dick Fagon, and Ron fl Farrow of the Notre Dame fencing team fl. will be competing in the NCAA Fencing fl tournament at Texas Tech in Lubbock, fl Texas, today and tomorrow. NCAA fl imles only allow one entry in each difl vision from a school.
fl Fagon, captain of the team, will be fl competing in the sabre division. He has M a season's record of 31 wins, 11 losses, fl Russomano, with a season’s record of fl, 33-7, is entered in the foil, while Far-fl row, with a 32-7 record is fencing in the fl epee division.
fl Last Saturday the fencers finished fl the season with a triangular meet fl against Case of Cleveland and Indiana fl Tech of Fort Wayne, in the Fieldhouse, flz Case gave the Irish an unexpectedly fl tough fight to begin with, but eventually fl succumbed by a 16-11 score. In the epee fl division the Case fencers managed to ■ pull an upset by defeating the Irish 6-3, fl a feat which only five other teams have fl managed to do over the course of the fl past six seasons.
■ Indiana Tech, as anticipated, didn’t fl prove too tough an opponent for Notre fl Dame, losing to the Irish 22-5. In this ■ match Coach Walter Langford used 25 fl fencers in 27 bouts, a feat which goes fl far in illustrating the depth and balance ifl of the Notre Dame squad. This reserve fl strength has been one of the most im-fl portant factors contributing to the suc-fl cess of the Irish fencers over the past fl season. The victory string of 19 wins fl extending over the past two seasons sets fl an all-time record for the Notre Dame fl fencing team.
Irish Lose In Regionals to Kentucky; Jordanmen Close Season With 24-5 Slate
After their finest showing of the season the night before, a decisive 94-87 victory over Big Ten champion Indiana, Notre Dame’s basketball team found the roles completely reversed last Saturday evening as they were eliminated in the Mideast Regional play-off of the NCAA tournament by Kentucky, 89-56. In beating the Hoosiers, the Irish matched the advancement of the 1953-54 Notre Dame team that also needed only one more victory to reach the final four bracket of the nation’s best basketball teams. The win and loss at Lexington gave the Irish an excellent season’s record of 24-5.
Kentucky’s Wildcats had the potent Notre Dame offense that had been averaging 90 points per game hamstrung. While the Irish were futilely trying to shake-off the Wildcat’s sticky defense, the Kentuckians found the Notre Dame basket an easy mark, rolling to a 43-31 halftime lead and increasing it from there on. Kentucky coach Adolph Rupp called his team’s performance the finest of the year. He especially praised squad captain Vern Hatton who directed the Kentucky offense from his guard position and sparked the Wildcat scoring with 26 points. Under the boards, KU center Ed Beck and forward Johnny Cox out-maneuvered the taller and heavier Irish front line, giving the host team a decided edge in rebounding. From the free throw line, the Irish were also below par, connecting at well under their usual proficiency.
For Notre Dame, co-captain John McCarthy led the scoring with 17 points, enough to place him third on the alltime Notre Dame season scoring list. Forward Tom Hawkins, who set the single season scoring record this winter with 730 points, finished the night with 15. Bob Devine, one of Notre Dame’s all-time great guards added another* laurel to the 1957-58 team performance by starting his 81st consecutive game.
Against Indiana, the Irish repeated their earlier victory over the Hoosiers by out-playing a vastly improved team both defensively and offensively. Though ND got off to a slow start, trailing 12-6 in the early moments, their shooting picked up and the Jordanmen had a commanding 48-37 halftime advantage. When Indiana, two-time national champions, started double-teaming Hawkins, John McCarthy picked up the scoring tempo for Notre Dame. Hawkins paced
the Irish scoring with 31 points, including eleven free throws, and McCarthy added 29. The ND defensive strategy allowed Hoosier scoring ace Archie Dees pretty much of a free reign under the basket but a pressing defense bottled up the Indiana guards, who had been the key to the Big Ten champions late season winning surge.
BASKETBALL BANQUET
The annual Basketball Banquet will be held Tuesday night, March 25, at the Knights of Columbus Hall in South Bend. Tickets may be obtained in the Breen-Phillips ticket office and at the Knights of Columbus. Price of the dinner is $3 for students and $4 for the general public.
Interhall Basketball Closes; Name All-Campus Team
The Interhall Basketball League ended its winter season Monday night with the completion of the Interhall Tournament and the Campus Invitational.
The Chicago Club, led by Ron DeNardo’s 21 points, took a crushing, 5437, victory over the Milwaukee Club for the Interhall championship. Tim Sullivan and Phil Prassas had ten and eight points, respectively, for the winners, while Jim Just and Fred Vida each hit ten for the losers.
In the semi-finals, Chicago defeated Cincinnati and Milwaukee won over the Minnesota Club.
The Campus Invitational Tournament was won by the Minnesota Club as they beat the Army ROTC, 33-32 in a thriller. Jim Colosimo and Bob Wetoska paced the victors to the championship.
ALL-CAMPUS TEAM Forward----------Ron DeNardo
Forward__________Mike Hanrahan
Center..............Fred Vida Guard............John Fry
Guard............Steve Powers
Second Team
Dick Mootz, Don Costa, George Rishalski, Tim Sullivan, Bill Whaley. Honorable Mention: Colosimo, O’Laughlin, Bekelja, Owens, Rogers, McAdams, Prassas, Wilke and Mack.
21
March 21, 1958
The Bengal Bouts
by GREG RODGERS
The twenty-seventh annual Bengal Mission Bouts will be staged next week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in the Fieldhouse. The bouts are staged annually for the benefit of the Holy Cross Bengal Missions in East Pakistan. The bouts are presented by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus.
This year’s tourney could be the best that has ever been staged. There are numerous returnees from last year’s bouts. Heading the list of returning fighters is Ed Ricciuti. Ricciuti was the 142-pound champion last year in addition to being named the outstanding boxer in the bouts. This year, Ricciuti will fight in the 147-pound class. Another top performer from last year, Pat Healy, is back to defend his heavyweight crown. Healy beat Dick Shulsen last year for the title. Shulsen is also back for another shot at the crown that he held the year* before last. Also returning to fight in the heavyweight division is Don Lawrence. Lawrence was named the most improved boxer in last year’s bouts.
Bill Brelsford, last year’s 160-pound champ, is back again to defend his crown as is the 157-pound champion
Bill Moore. Moore won the crown last year by a split decision over Hugh Ball. Moore beat the ’56 champ in one of the most thrilling bouts in last year’s final round. Denny Landry, the former 127-pound Novice champ is back to try to gain the championship for the second year in a row. The 127-pound division is also the lightest weight division in the bouts. Ross Franco is back again to try for his second 137-pound championship. Franco whipped Leighton Young last year in the finals. Young is also back for his third shot at the crown.
Among other returnees this year is Frank Nacozy who was the runner-up to champ Dick Murphy in the 167-pound class. Murphy is assisting the Bengal Bouts instructor “Nappy” Napolitano this year. Also returning this year are John Steinberg, the runner-up in the 147-pound class; and John Donovan, who lost to Landry in the 127-pound final last year. Others in the bouts this year are Vince Vistasio, Bob Fitzsimmons, Bob Weingart and footballers Norm Odyniec, Bob Nicolazzi, Mickey Gorman, Jim Brunnell, and George Gorgialo.
The boxing matches started at Notre Dame in 1850. In March of that year,
the Student Activities Council sponsored an informal intramural contest which drew only 20 candidates. The Scholastic took over the sponsorship of the bouts in 1932 and named them the Bengal Bouts. For 14 years the Scholastic handled the event as a sideline, but in 1946 the Knights of Columbus became the Bengal Bout promoters.
Many prominent sports figures have been honorary referees for the Bengal Bouts. Fighters Barney Ross, Billy Conn and Tony Zale; the late Arch Ward, former spoils editor of the Chicago Tribune, and Notre Dame coaches Elmer Layden and Frank Leahy are among some of those who have served. Zale was the first to receive the Bengal Bout Recognition Award in 1949. Last year, the honor went to Carmen Basilio, then the welterweight champion of the world and presently the world’s middleweight champion. This year’s award will be presented to Joe Boland who is a Notre Dame graduate.
Boland, the popular broadcaster of WSBT and a former line star of the Knute Rockne era, was voted the award for his outstanding service to the Ben-gals over a long period of time. Boland
Continued on page 24
BENGAL BOUTERS PREPARE FOR ACTION
Annual event to be held March 24, 26, 28
22
The Scholastic
TIME OUT
Little can be said about a ball game when a team beats you by 30 plus. They were simply better on the night that we played them, and there is small reason for any kind of alibi.
It is tough to lose but the Irish were defeated by a team that can go all the way if they play that kind of ball. After the game Coach Bupp of Kentucky stated that his ball club played their best game of the year, and possibly the best defensive of any of his teams. This includes many good ones, as the Baron has been around for a long time.
But this is a team that Irish fans can be proud of, even though the students didn’t show much enthusiasm when the team came back Sunday. Fifteen students plus as many St. Mary’s girls isn’t a very representative showing out of 5,400. It should make some of the front running leaders around here stop and think. These players gave Notre Dame the best teams in the history of the school, and the so-called Student Government didn’t think enough of the whole deal to even try to get a crowd out there. It’s either thoughtlessness or ingratitude to a great coach and a great team.
Though the Basketball Review won’t be out until next week, we would like to offer our congratulations to Coach Jordan and his team.
BASKETBALL BANQUET
This year’s basketball banquet will be held at the South Bend Knights of Columbus Hall on Tuesday, March 25. In the past this even has been supported by South Benders, but the student support has left something to be desired. This is noteworthy in that often the townspeople can’t even get tickets for the games. Tickets are on sale in the B-P ticket office and also downtown. This will be your last chance to salute what may be the best team in the history of the University.
FENCERS, TOO
The fencers, too, came through in their usual fine style, winning every match this season and extending their winning streak to 19, a new Notre Dame record. Today and tomorrow the swordsmen are in Texas competing in the NCAA finals. Look for them to be right up there when it’s all over.
THE BENGALS
This year’s Bengal Mission Bouts should be as good as we’ve had around here in a long time. There are many good boxers coming back including last year’s top boxer, Ed Ricciuti. I am informed that the ticket sales are better than last year’s with every indication that student response will be tremendous. The student seats are good ones, the bleachers next to the basketball floor, so if you haven’t gotten yours, better do it. You’ll be missing something.	•
BASEBALL
This year’s major league pennant races should be terrific. Almost without exception, all clubs will be stronger, and with the addition of San Francisco and Los Angeles, baseball should generate more interest than it has in the last five or six years.
We look for tight races in both leagues with the Braves and the Yankees repeating in the World Series. The runner-ups will be Detroit and Chicago in the American League and the Dodgers and Cardinals in the National.
Wrestlers End Season; Do Well in Case Meet
Notre Dame’s wrestling squad finished its season last Saturday by* competing in the 41 Tournament at Case Tech in Cleveland. The tournament, which draws the top wrestling squads from the Midwest, is based on individual performances rather than team strength. -
For the Irish, Jerry Sachsel and Bronko Nagurski both picked up third places in the meet.
Sachsel won his first match by a decision over Ed Bredbeck of Bolling Green, but then lost to Jerry Wager of Toledo on a pin. Wager was an alternate on the U. S. Olympic team last year.
In the match for third place Sachsel decisioned Joe Ridall of Akron.
SACHSEL THIRD
Nagurski drew the defending heavyweight champion Lee Nader, of Kent University, in his first match but lost a referee’s decision in two overtime periods. Nagurski then went on to capture third by decisioning Tom Graff of Ohio University and Chuck Stehno of Toledo.
The other two Irish grapplers entered in the meet were beaten in their early matches.
Buddy Day, at 123 pounds, was pinned in his first match by Jim Baksi of Akron.
Team Captain Bob Pivonka, a 130-pounder, won his first match in an overtime from Don Rossitano of Baldwin Wallace, but was decisioned by Bob Vega of Cincinnati in another overtime match.
Coach Tom Fallon said he was well pleased with the showing of the Irish in the tournament and said the performances capped a highly successful season.
Next year’s prospects are bright. Coach Fallon has five returning lettermen, some standout reserves, and two top freshmen prospects.
LETTERMEN
Returning lettermen include Sachsel, 117, Jim Rankin, 123, Bill Moore, 155, Bucky O’Connor, 177, and Nagurski, in the heavyweight division.
Other prospects are Ed Findlay, Mick Sundstrom, Dick Sapp, all reserves on this year’s squad, Jim Dickson and AI Salvino, both frosh.
Coach Fallon said that next year should be very successful “if the returning men run true to form and if we can get some of the men out who have high school experience but who didn’t cone out this season.”
March 21, 1958
21
TOURIST KITCHENETTES
4 miles North of Notre Dame. 200 feet East of Gulf Station on U.S. 31 -
—J6 mile North of State Line.
BMpiR Rates -Day or Hight
Bengal Bouts Start Monday in FiekUiouse; Semi-Finals on Wednesday, finals Friday
b I

amends Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
JM.S. Bldg.
WILBUR JUST WOKE UPTO THE FACT THAT HE'S (N CLASS!

ktpaiiatfoaa Kim MINT AVUMU
Don't let that "drowsy feeling” camp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide rwke... alert! Yout doctor will tdl you—NoDoz
Continued from page 22
was born in Philadelphia, Pa., September 7, 1904, one of six children. He entered Notre Dame in 1923 and gained a varsity letter in football as a sophomore. In the 1925 Rose Bowl game, Boland started at left tackle and played most of the game, helping the Irish gain a 27-10 decision over Stanford. After graduating, Boland was named assistant coach at Santa Clara College before becoming the Director of Athletics at St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. In the spring of 1934, Boland joined Elmer Layden’s coaching staff at Notre Dame and remained until 1941 when he became line coach at Purdue. In 1942, he returned to WSBT for whom he had worked while coaching at Notre Dame. In 1950, he was responsible for initiating the Notre Dame football network. The network has increased to the point where, now, many areas of the country can hear Irish football every ■ Saturday during the season.
In 1953 Boland was voted the Notre Dame Man of the Year award by the St. Joseph Alumni Association. He received the award for “outstanding serv- ’
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
15 TABLETS, 35e
1 to 24-Hour Sanrice
EUROPE
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
wopoz
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
IN
zona
TRAVEL
ice in keeping with the highest tradition M and spirit of Notre Dame.”	I
The coach and instructor of the fight- I ers this year is again Mr. Dominick w “Nappy” Napolitano. Ever since the be- I ginning of the Bengals, as one-night I smokers in what is now the fencing I room of the Fieldhouse, “Nappy” has 4 had some connection with them, either directly or indirectly. When “Nappy” joined the Athletic Department at Notre Dame upon graduation in 1932, one of his assignments was to give boxing classes in preparation for the Bengals. A two-month period of supervising was introduced as “Nappy” applied his threefold plan to get his boys “. . . in good shape, teach ’em the fundamentals, and then see to it that they are as evenly H matched as possible.”	' H
NOVICE BOUTS
. “Nappy” also introduced the system of Novice bouts which are held for those who are just learning how to box. The Novice bouts are held annually in the boxing room of the Fieldhouse in November. They are geared for the newcomers, and they stress the fundamentals more than actual combat. The
Novice bouts are primarily set up as a period of training for the Bengals that occur the following spring. They give the individuals concerned a background so that they will be able to hold their own in the Bengals.
The referee for all the bouts this year will be George Van Der Hayden while the judges will be Bernie Witucki and Albert Doyle. Doyle is the present Mayor of Mishawaka and was formerly a boxer at Notre Dame. The timekeepers will be Roy Biondell and Frank Maxwell while the University physician, Dr. Jerome Crowley, will be on hand for all the bouts. The fights will consist of three two-minute rounds and there will be ten weight divisions from 127-pounds to heavyweight.
$1880
BOAT
ROOM
BOARD
TUITION
BIG ATTRACTION
‘ The Bengals have been one of the biggest attractions at Notre Dame for the past few years, and an added attraction will be a trophy awarded by the Scholastic to the hall amassing the highest total of points in the intramural competition of the Bengals. A certain number of points will be given to all the halls with first round winners, semi-■ final winners and champions in the respective weight divisions. The award . was initiated last year and this year will be presented to the President of the '/winning hall.
The Sckolastk
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Stan Smith (left) discusses characteristics and color coding of polyethylene insulated cable with A. A. Little, Nebraska Area Transmission Engineer.
“Growth makes opportunities in
the telephone company”
In October, 1957, only four years after graduation, Stanley W. Smith was appointed District Plant Engineer in Northwestern Bell Telephone Company. Here ' Stan tells what his responsibilities are and how his promotion came about
“I’m responsible for outside plant engineering in a district which includes about one-third of all Bell telephones in Nebraska outside of Omaha,” Stan says. “That’s about 35,000 phones, and the number is growing every day.
“The most important part of my job is to plan for growth and have facilities ready when needed. This means planning for pole lines, aerial and underground cable, and conduit lines to the central office. I also make cost estimates for all
planned construction so that money can be budgeted for it
“This is the kind of job I really like-one which combines engineering and management. And it was the continuing growth of the business,” Stan points out, “that opened up this new assignment for me. My predecessor was appointed to a newly created position and I was selected to replace him.
“What the future holds for me depends on a lot of things. But I can see from my present job that growth will keep opening opportunities for myself and other engineers like me. I’m more convinced than ever that the telephone company is the place to get ahead in an interesting and challenging career.”
Stan Smith graduated from the University of Nebraska in 1953 with a B.S. in E.E. degree. He is me ot many young men who are finding rewarding careers in the Bril Telephone Companies. Find out about opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus, and read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
TBLBPHONB COMPANHM
March 21, 1958
Bacn PatfS
the child
by JERRY BRADY
in us
It was not so long ago that we were children, full of nonsense, irrationality and tears in a world simpler and smaller then our present one. In those days the world was black and white, full of good and bad guys, yes and no-no things as unreal as the stories which pleased us. We lived by intuition, imagination and emotion, in a candy cane fantasy lacking such things as embarrassment or shame. We possessed a sensitivity to the character of others both cruelly honest and direct for we had not yet learned the art of mollifying with politeness. It was a world which filled us to capacity with escape, fear and joy.
Now there are no blacks and whites but only dapples and greys. Human goods are salted with the bad, heroes have been shot down or qualified by de-bunkery (the full truth about a man). Wholes have vanished, simplicity is gone with truth and common sense the better for it. We do not cry, run away to hide, think of fathers as ogres or bury dead birds. Intellect has gained the upper hand, emotions are under control; the world has flattened out as we have grown taller. The low and high spots in us have rolled out level to leave us sensibly consistent. We have gained something stable, but not without cost.
Long ago we loved things desperately and vengefully in wonderful innocence and trust. Any noble cause bigger than ourselves could win our dedication, be it football team or nation. The “Pledge of Allegiance” was part of us and so was ■“America” (God shed His grace on thee) and “Come Holy Ghost.” We could be carried out of ourselves and swept away ■with the fates of men at war or horses roaming alone in the hills. Utility meant
26
little, perfect sense was not for us but nonsense was valued as a friend. No amount of qualification could destroy our belief in absolutes; we were surprised that parents could not believe the best of our good guys. Thinking was done more by the heart than the head but truth was there and so was faith in the irrational.
A very deep and full world it was, bursting with experiences of terror and immense joy genuinely ours. Could we not believe that Hell was just under the crust and Heaven a mere grasp away?
Today, in an adult world, the child in us has but taken flight. We have lost our tears with our toys. The panorama or experience has grown wider but more thin. The world grew faster than we did. In fact we became comparatively smaller as it expanded before us. It seems as though the power to feel ourselves fully alive has drained, taking with it a sense of the noble, the courageous and the patriotic. The adult cosmos touches more than the surface of a soul only in those times of stress which, stripped of pretention, return us to the fullness of childhood. How seldom it is that we can hold sadness and joy long enough to sit in them and enjoy it.
It is true, as you may say, that sensory, reasoned reality is more as we see it now than as we saw it years ago. This is the world for real and the child was wrong about the goods being all good and the bads all bad. But the child saw dimly the reality of a world only half our own; he glimpsed some things as they should be but are not. He thought he knew truths absolutely even though they do not exist that way here.
For all his failings the child felt de
votion, dedication and nobility and believed they actually exist, while we must be confined to believing them to be ideals too distant from us to be real. What we lack is the power of imagination to see beyond surface reality to the Good that lies below.
i I
With the full use of intuition, imagi- 'i nation and emotions now abated, we must ; recover with our reasoning power what the child knew in his heart. We must reason to the Good, the True and the Noble. But even then we cannot distrust imagination and emotion or fill our heads so much with facts and abstrac- ' tions and our ears with the mutterings of our mouth that we do not hear the child in us. Though the voice of the child may be smothered in busyness and cynicism, it is still there. In some apparently simple people the joys of childishness have been recovered so completely that they are ruled eccentric or insane by shallow-souled adults who have “measured out their life in coffee spoons.” These people are trusting, innocent, devoted and simple objects of sly scorn, to be forever used for another’s advantage.
These people need not be imitated but their happiness should be recognized. To i be immersed in life as these people are —and we once were many years ago— i we must have the audacity to stretch imagination, the freedom to permit our- i selves a moment of fantasy and the I candor to speak as we feel.	)
(If I knew the thought as my own I ( would remind you that it is the child in us which holds the key to salvation.)
Not to be childlike is to be urbane and dignified, to be satisfied with grave, half truths and flatness, to be an old man at ' twenty-one.	i
The Scholastic
Viceroy
Gives You More Of What
You Change To a Filter For
@1958. Brown 4 Williamson Tobacco Corp.
More filters? Yes—more than 20,000 filter traps in every tip. Thousands and thousands more than any other leading cigarette. More taste? You’ll never know hozv much more ’til you light a Viceroy. The greatest tohacco. The greatest filter. That’s all!
NEW CRUSH-PROOF FLIP-OPEN BOX or FAMOUS FAMILIAR PACK
You'll be siftin' on top of the world when you change to EM
Light into that
LIGGETT ft MYERS TOBACCO CO.
Live Modern flavor
eft/fur/ffy aiyatf/Xr
c/K 67/
Only hM gives you this filter fact— the patent number on every pack... your guarantee of a more effective filter on today’s L*M.
Free up...freshen up your taste! Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. The patented Miracle Tip is pure white inside, pure white outside. L&M smokes cleaner. Tastes best. So Live Modern... change to L&M today!
