"V 2?
Notre Dame Scholastic.
i
Disce quasi semper victurxis; vive quasi eras moritui’iis.
Volume XV.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 26, 1881.
Number 12.,
Our Staff.
W. B. McGorrisk.	J. P. O’Neill.
G. E. Clarke.	R. E. Fleming.
W. H. Arnold.	E. C. Orrick.
T. F. Clarke.	M. F. Healy.
Man’s Mortality.
[The following poem is justly considered a poetical gem of the highest order. The original was found in an Irish MS. in Trinity College, Dublin. There is a reason to think that the poem was written by one of those primitive Christian bards in the reign of King Diarmid, about the year 554, and was sung and chanted at the last grand assembly of kings, chieftains and bards, held in the famous halls of Tara. The translation is by Dr. O’Donovan. A manuscript copy of the poem was sent by Professor Stewart, of Trinity College, to the person who furnished it for publication in the Buffalo Commercial Advertiser.'}
Like a damask rose you see Or like a blossom on a tree, Or like the dainty flower in May, Or like the morning to the day, Or like the sun, or like the shade, Or like the gourd which Jonah made; Even such is man, whose thread is spun, Drawn out and out, and so is done.
The rose withers, the blossom blasteth, The flower fades, the morning hasteth, The sun sets, the shadow flies, The gourd consumes, the man—he dies.
Like the grass that’s newly sprung, Or like the tale that’s new begun, Or like the bird that’s here to day, Or like the pearled dew in May, Or like an hour, or like a span, Or like the singing of the swan; Even such is man, who lives by breath, Is here, now there, in life and death.
The grass withers, the tale is ended, The bird is flown, the dew’s ascended, The hour is short, the span not long, The swan’s near death, man’s life is done.
Like the bubble in the brook, Or in a glass much like a look, Or like the shuttle In weaver’s hand, Or like the writing on the sand, Or like a thought, or like a dream, Or like the gilding of a stream;
Even such is man, who lives by breath, Is here, now there, in life and death.
The bubble’s burst, the look forgot, The shuttle’s flung, the writing’s blot, The thought is past, the dream is gone, » The waters glide, man’s life is done.
Like an arrow from a bow, Or like a swift course of water flow, Or like the time ’tixt flood and ebb, Or like the spider’s tender web, Or like a race, or like the goal, Or like the dealing of a dole;
Even such is man, whose brittle state Is always subject unto fate.
The arrow shot, the flood soon spent, The time no time, the web scon rent, The race soon run, the goal soon won, The dole soon dealt, man’s life soon done.
Like to the lightning from the sky, Or like a post that quick doth hie, Or like a quaver in a song. Or like a journey three days long, Or like snow when summer’s come, Or like a pear, or like a plum;
Even such is man who heaps up sorrow, Lives but this day, and dies to-morrow.
The lightning’s past, the post must go, The song is short, the journey so, The pear doth rot, the plum doth fall, The snow dissolves, and so must all.
Three Words of Schiller’s.
“ There are three words of faith ” Schiller says, “ harder than diamond and stronger than death, which, though pronounced by the mouth of every man, are yet fully felt and understood by the heart only. Never is man deprived of his worth and value, as long as he believes in these beautiful words, viz.: God, virtue and liberty.”
As the idea of an Almighty, infinitely good and living God is the highest and greatest of all ideas, so also does virtue appear to man, a free being, to be the most sublime of all traits, and, as it were, a golden bridge over which liberty leads both our minds and hearts from earth to heaven. We might, accordingly, define virtue to be “a constant and generous effort of the free-will, guided by reason and supported by love, which aims at the Supreme Good,” or more simply, according to St. Thomas, “ a good habit of the soul by which we freely conform ourselves to the moral law, in order to live righteously.”
It follows therefrom that virtue consists essentially in the efforts we make to rise to' the Infinite Being, which must be of necessity our last end and perfect happiness. But as “ practice makes the master,” so it dees not suffice
168
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
that we should perform a few good works; we are bound, absolutely, to acquire a real facility of doing good by overcoming all the evil inclinations of a corrupted nature, and realizing in our moral life “ that order of Divine love” spoken of by St. Augustine.
How powerful the influence of habit is, either to improve or to debase man, soul and body, let us briefly consider.
Habit is a law of our being, a kind of “ second nature,” which grows up within us by the frequent repetition of the same acts. Far from being a mere instinct, which is universal and constitutes nature itself, habit is something personal and depends upon the free-will of each one of us; therefore, whilst we can never destroy any instinct, it is a fact that even the most inveterate habits can be rooted out, with the assistance of divine grace, by means of an energetic will.
It is, then, our own will that determines bur destiny. Everybody knows the difference between the features of our face and our countenance. God made our features, but we ourselves make our own countenances. Some men have a lofty countenance, others have a lowering one; this one has a worldly or ostentatious, the other a scornful, or a cunning and dissembling countenance. We know men by their look. We read men by looking at their faces—not at their features, their eyes, or their lips, because God made them all of one type; but by a certain cast, motion, shape, and expression, which their features have acquired. This it is that we call the countenance.
But what makes the countenance? The inward and mental habits, the constant pressure of the mind, and the perpetual repetition of its acts. You can detect at once a vain-glorious, conceited, or foolish person; it is stamped on their countenance; and you can see on their faces, certain corresponding lines as legibly to be traced as though they were chiselled in. As it is with the countenance, so it is with habit or character, because character is but “ the distinctive mark impressed upon our countenance by our good or evil habits.”
God gave us intellect, a heart, and a will, but our character is something different from the will, the heart, or the intellect The character is that intellectual and moral texture into which all our life long we have been weaving up the inward spiritual force that is in us; it is the result of the habitual or prevailing use we have been making of our intellect, our heart, and our will. We are always at work, like the weaver at a loom:
The shuttle Is always going,
'	And the woof is always growing.
So, likewise, are we always forming a character of ourselves, by means of habits freely contracted, and we are ever making use of our instincts and passions, like moral springs, either to yearn after the good, or to long for evil; and in proportion as we freely multiply the same acts, we engrave more deeply, and, as it were, stamp upon souls and bodies, the glorious mark of virtue or the shameful brand of vice.
It is a plain matter of fact, that everybody grows up in a certain character, some are good, some bad, some excellent, and some are unbearable. Every character is formed by habits. If, for instance," a young man is habitually proud and vain-glorious, or false and the like, he forms for himself a character like in kind. Vice, therefore, or virtue, is but the permanent bias impressed upon each person by continually acting in a particular way; and this comes
from the continual indulgence of thoughts, wishes, and resolutions of a particular tendency.
The loom is invisible within, and the shuttle is ever going in the heart, but it is the free-will that throws it to and fro. The character shows itself outwardly, although being wrought within, and every habit, whether good or bad, forms a chain of acts, and every action is a free act of the will, for which each of us is respon sible before God.
There is a time in the life of every man when he is innocent and thinks not of comitting the faults which, later on, become habitual, and then form his abiding character. We sometimes meet with persons whose word we	’
can never take, and for this reason: the distinction between truth and falsehood is effaced from their minds.
The habit of paltering, concealing, and putting forward the edge of a truth, instead of boldly showing the full face . of it, finally leads them into so habitual a state of insincerity that they really do not know when they speak the truth or when they speak falsely. There was a time in	,
life when these same persons had never told a lie; the first	I
one they told was, perhaps, with only half an act of the	•
will; but gradually they grew to do it deliberately;	|
they added lie to lie as plenteously “ as fish drink in water ”;	।
from frequency it became habitual to them, and finally it became an almost unconscious failing.
This is likewise the case with regard to the habit of drunkenness, stealth, and all the other coarse passions, the victims of which vices have gone on little by little, until a bondage has been created, from which, unless God, by an almost miraculous grace, shall set them free, they can never break off. Wherefore, St. Augustine says, speaking	H
of himself in his youth, when he was yet in the habits of sin: that they bound him like a fetter. “ I was bound by a chain which I had made for myself; I was bound by the chain of my own iron will.” Let us take one more example, the sin of sloth. There is, perhaps, nothing which grows so insensibly on souls in their spiritual life, and it is fatal as the death chill which in northern regions comes upon the traveller imperceptibly and unawares.
We are told that the fatal .cold creeps on almost with a sense of pleasure, until it benumbs the whole tide of life, and death takes possession of the body. So it is with spiritual sloth; it begins by small omissions, little neglects, and slight slackness, until at last the careless man gets bolder; his conscience grows easy even in making great omissions of duty, first in one way, then in another, and at length more frequently, until at last these omissions knit	.
themselves into a habit; and the sinner whose eyes are	,
bound with the bandage of wilful blindness, no longer	,
feels all his powers restrained with the iron fetters of his own deliberate will, and those “ ropes of darkness” which	i
are spoken of by the Apostle St. Peter.
How different appears the state of those who endeavor continually to conform themselves to the moral good, that is, to the will of God; and who strive to copy, according to .the best of their abilities, that inimitable Original who made man according to His own image and likeness! They realize, indeed, the sublime ideal dreamt by Plato, saying: “ Virtue is but God’s resemblance ” ; or they rather follow . in the footsteps of the God-Man teaching us “ To be perfect, as our heavenly Father is perfect.”
Far from ever debasing their intellects and hearts by any vice, or unworthy habit, they raise on high all their faculties, they gradually adorn their souls with all the highest qualities and virtues; far from ever losing the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
169
noble dignity of man, the nearer they approach that Divine Ideal the less do they feel attracted towards evil. Nay more, when a man, when.a saint, after unceasing efforts and victorious struggles, has attained to a superior degree of perfection, his whole being is made, as it were, a voluntary slave of duty; this is what we properly call a state of sanctity, because such a man, having become a friend and son of the Most High, resembles more or less the “Saint of saints,” or God Himself, and, when transformed by Divine grace, he feels almost incapable of breaking the happy bonds of supernatural virtue which he has freely imposed upon himself for God’s sake and his own sanctification.
Blessed slavery, by which the human intellect receives a wonderful light through faith iu the Word Made Flesh, the human heart is more and more closely united to God through the charity of the Holy Ghost! Unspeakable happiness and glory, in which the human soul begins here below the life of angels in heaven, and the human body itself breathes forth a celestial perfume, pledge and foreboding of resurrection, as visibly appears in such attractive saints as St. Louis of Gonzaga, St. Rose of Lima, or St. Stanislaus Kotska.
Let us, then, repeat again, and impress upon our minds, these lines written by Schiller: “ There are three words of faith, harder than diamond and stronger than death, which, though pronounced by the mouth of every man, are yet fully felt and understood by the heart only. Never is man deprived of his worth and value as long as he believes iu these beautiful words, viz., God, virtue, and liberty.”	Philalethes.
College Gossip.
—A Kinkinnati editor has just written a kolumn about the pronunciation of Kickero.
—The first national college for the education of females in France has been opened by M. Ferry in person at Montpellier.
—Harvard University has 1,382 students in its several departments, which is 94 less than the number at the University of Michigan. There are now 164 elective studies open to undergraduates at Harvard, and more than 40 arranged with special reference to the wants of graduates.
—The football contest between Yale and Harvard on the 12lh inst. was brilliantly played in a heavy rain, with a wet and slippery ball, and on a muddy field. About two thousand persons, of whom more than three hundred were from Boston, stood through it under their umbrellas. It was the most exciting contest ever played between any colleges, and resulted, after a hard fought field, in a victory for Yale. The ground was contested inch by inch for most of the game. Harvard was great in tackling, having made four safety touch downs, which, under the new rule, counted a goal against her, and lost the game.
—The Cornell Sun advocates the establishment of a law school at the University.—Campus.
A propos, the Herald Chronicle, of Laporte, Ind.,—and, by the way, one of the best papers iu the State,—has the following editorial item:
“ Not long ago Chief Justice Waite, in a letter to a friend, put forward the opinion that there are more law schools in this country than are necessary. There is no doubt of the truth of this assertion. Being more law schools than are necessary, there is consequently a surplus of lawyers. Every male child who manifests a. disposition to argue and wrangle with all with whom he comes in contact, and expands with years into the powerful debater of a college literary society, is believed by his misguided parents to possess qualifications which peculiarly fit him for the legal profession. The natural result of this policy has been to flood the country with a horde of blatant young men who secure a precarious and not
altogether creditable subsistence from the petty litigation into which the members of certain classes are continually being drawn. If the lawyers of this country were reduced in numbers one half, and in self-importance nine-tenths, life on the western continent would be fully as agreeable as at present.”
It is said there is “ plenty of room at the top ”—well, perhaps there is, but if we wished to go into the law business we would like to go to the top first, and assure ourselves of the truth of the assertion.	-
Art, Music, and Literature.
—M. Francois Coppee, the well-known French poet and dramatist, is writing a satirical play on the subject of 2Bs-theticism.”
—The coming sensation of the comic opera season in Paris is Faublas,” an operetta in three acts, by Messrs. Cadol and Duval. The suggestive libretto is by an abbe, a favorite preacher in a fashionable church in Paris.
—A London house will soon publish Balfe’s posthumous opera “Pittore e Duca,” produced at-Trieste, in 1854, but which has hitherto remained in manuscript. An English adaptation, under the title of “ The Painter at Antwerp,” has been made by Mr. W. A. Barrett. •
—M. Mei-sonier intends, while still at the height of his talent, to collect for exhibition in Paris during the coming winter all or nearly all his works. Queen Victoria has promised to send “ La Rixe," and the artist himself will lend his fine sketch of the Siege de Paris, known only to a few visitors to his studio.
—Pdre Didon, one of whose books is now running through the press of a large non-Catholic publisher in this country, is about to publish a work to refute the arguments Renan, Strauss, and other German exegetical writers. For this purpose he intends to visit Palestine, and will make a lengthened stay at Jerusalem. He has’declined to preach during his present visit to Paris.-
—Mr. Whittier’s days at home in Amesbury are devoted to his books, with the exception of one hour in the forenoon and an hour in the afternoon. During these intervals he is always to be found at the post-office or reading the Boston papers in a book-store, the townspeople watching with real reverence the tall, slender, white-haired poet. He occupies two furnished rooms in a pleasant home on Friend street, Amesbury, and his life therein is that of a student, simple and hard-working.
—On Thursday, Oct. 6, there was celebrated, at the Madeleine, in Paris, a memorial Mass in honor of Jacques Offenbach. A correspondent writes that among the “assistants ’’ were Mme. Theo, the original Rose Michon in “La Jolie Parfumeuse;” Mme. Zulina Bauffar, another famous Offenbachienne; Meilhac and Halevy, who prepared the books of the most successful of Offenbach’s operettas; Massenet, the composer; Jules Prevel, the journalist; Koning, the manager, and Talazac, the tenor, who has made such a sensation in Offenbach’s last work “Les Contes d’Hoffman.” The Mass was conducted by the Abbe Collot, vicar of the Madeleine, and the musical selections included a Kyrie by Haydn, an Offertory by De Sordne, a Sandus and Libera me by Dubois, and a Pie Jesu by Niedermeyer.
—The sketch models for the Meade memorial statue in Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, were placed upon exhibition Friday. There were displayed models from Alexander M. Calder, J. A. Bailly, A. L. Lansing, Charles Owens, Frank Stevens, Waldo Story, Charles Ellicott, George Starkey, Theodore Willis, and Messrs. Ezekiel, Boyle, and Mflller. The model to which the first prize of $1,000 was awarded was that of Mr.. Calder. It represents the hero of Gettysburg mounted, one hand grasping the bridle, and the other a field glass, while the modelling of the horse is excellent. Joseph A. Bailly, who received the second, sent two models, the one awarded the prize being especially fine. Face, figure, and attitude are faithful and eloquent, while the horse stands with neck outstretched, and the disposition of every line showing that the animal half realizes the terrible strife in progress. Mr. Lansing was the recipient of the third prize.	'
170	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Exchanges,
—The Beacon, Boston University again puts in an ap. pearance and seems lively and hearty notwithstanding its fear of approaching dissolution last year. As usual, the poetry in The Beacon is excellent.
—The College Mercury, of the College of the City of New York, seems to have the field all to itself this year. The Free Press has not made its appearence, so we suppose all’s serene on Manhattan Island.
—The Cornell Sun is a welcome visitor and keeps us posted daily on the doings at Cornell and on interesting news outside of Cornell. Long may the Sun shine! One of the latter items states that “ Prof. Swift knows how to com-et over the heavens. He did it the other evening with his little telescope. This is only the seventh comet discovered this year.”
—A splendid full-page portrait of the late learned and patriotic “John of Tuam,”—the oldest Archbishop in the world at the date of his death, graces the first page of The Illustrated Catholic American for November the 26th. The publishers of this paper supply it with excellent illustrations. Subscription price, $3 a year. Address, 11 Barclay Street, New York.
—Each succeeding number of The Niagara Index makes us better and better pleased with that paper. The Index's exchange editor doesn’t like the Scholastic, but our paper seems none the worse for his poor opinion of it. We congratulate him on the ability with which he manages his department, which has decidedly improved upon former years. Meantime we are prepared for his fire, whenever he chooses to let us have it.
—McGee's Illustrated Weeldy seems to be improving both in reading matter and illustrations. A fine double-page engraving in the issue for November the 19th represents Dr. Franklin's Presentation at the Court of Versailles. There is also a tolerable half-page representation of the Atlanta Cotton Exposition buildings and grounds. The subscription price of the Weekly is §3 a year. Address, McGee's Illustrated Weekly, Box 2120, New York.
—Taking up, successively, the Corndl Era, The Bruno-nian, The Williams Athenaeum, The Chronicle, and The University, we found so much that was interesting in each of these papers that we laid them aside lor perusal when we have a little leisure. The Vassar Miscellany, although not especially interesting this month, goes with them. The Berlcdeyan has improved wonderfully of late. Removing the ads. from the first page gives the paper a more presentable appearance. If the editors will transplant those in the middle of the paper to some more congenial clime, they will have a handsomly gotten up paper. We have only time to give The University a cordial greeting. We considered it, all in all, the very best college paper on our exchange list last year, although Lr news we believe The Chronicle surpassed it.
—Mr. Labouchere, M. P., the editor of London Truth, hits off the Irish situation in his brief and pointed manner. He says .-
“Let us suppose that the Imperial Parliament satin Dublin, and that we English were always outvoted in it by an Irish majority ; that Mr. Parnell resided in London as English secretary, and Mr. Biggar as English viceroy, both driving up and down the street with an armed escort; that almost all our land was held by Irish landlords; that the magistrates were appointed by Mr. Parnell and Mr. Biggar; that an armed constabulary were at their command in each English county; and that an army of 50,000 Irishmen were distributed in our great towns; that Mr. Gladstone, Mr. Bright and Mr. Chamberlain were in prison on ‘ reasonable snspicion ’ of being opposed to this state of things, and that all meetings to protest against it, and to claim the right of deciding some purely English question according to our views were broken up by the police and military. Most assuredly we should be ungrateful for these manifold blessings, and although we might believe that Mr. Biggar, Mr. Parnell and the Irish majority in the Dublin Parliament were actuated by the best of intentions towards us, we should not fall down on our knees and thank them. Yet, mutatis mu-tantis, we are surprised at the Irish not doing this.
—The editor of the K. M. I. News, devotes nearly two columns to—we were about to say an answer to the Scholastic, but is it an answer? He assures us that he is ip
the habit of being “ moderate ” in his expressions on every subject—we are glad to hear this important piece of news —and says that the report published concerning secret societies at Harvard is doubtless a slander; and that the Boston Transcript has been deceived. We should like to know whether the Boston Transcript—supposed to be one of the most reliable papers in the United States—or the Farmdale, Ky., luminary is the better informed about matters at Harvard ? -
“The Transcript has been deceived. The report is silly and we are astonished that a man of your evident ability should have been deceived. Did the Transcript have the item which you have clipped from the Chicago Tribune?”
We do not say that we have not been deceived, but if there is a deception a great many wiser than we keep us company. His last question we are not prepared, nor do we think it necessary to answer. The Chicago Tribune could answer it better, and we refer the Kentucky editor to that paper. As to the assertion that he has answered the Sunbeam's strictures: he has answered but not refuted them; no more refuted them than he has refuted ours. Meanwhile we will remark that it is a bad sign for the strength of a man’s position to see him fall back upon such a weak stratagem as saying that his opponent is not yet out of bibs. The expression, too, is a borrowed one, as he very well knows, from the Niagara Index's exchange editor of last year, unless he wishes us to admit the possibility of two great minds bringing forth and making, spontaneously the same assertion. All through this controversy, the K. M. I. editor has seriously damaged the cause he advocates, and such a shallow anil childish argument (?) as that of the bibs does not mend it a bit.
Scientific Notes.
—Professor Palmieri, of Naples, has constructed an apparatus by which the purity of oils may be determined by the resistance they offer to the passage of electricity. Olive oil, the poorest conductor, is taken as the standard for comparison. The apparatus may also serve to reveal the presence of cotton in silk fabrics.
—In Brazil, some experiments have been tried by M. de Lacerda, showing that permanganate of potash is an almost certain antidote in the bite of snakes. M. de Lacerda has not as yet tried its efficiency on himself, but in the case of thirty dogs on which he experimented only two died under exceptional circumstances, and all those he did not treat with the injection of permanganate of potash died in the usual way.
—The printers of Leipsic have just celebrated the fourhundredth anniversary of the introduction of printing into that town. In 1481 Rev. Andreas Preisner, a professor of theology, set up the first printing-press in Leipsic. He made a present of it to a monastery on condition that the monks would pray for his soul. Now, Leipsic has 82 printing establishments, with 451 steam-presses, and 971 hand-presses, employing over 12,000 people.
—From the investigations of Profs. Kedzie, Nessler, Bartb, Fleck, and Schmitz, it appears that potato sugar contains as impurities sulphuric acid, iron sulphate, and lime. Its most dangerous ingredient, however, is a bitter matter which remains after the sugar has passed into fermentation, and which occasions cold sweats, oppression of the chest, headache, and other dangerous or annoying symptoms. Wines treated with potato sugar are conse-. quently pro tanto poisonous, and the authorities given above question whether it should be permitted to be employed in brewing.
—The blurring of india ink in working drawings of machinery, has been the source of much trouble and annoyance, and can be easily remedied by making use of the following process to fix india ink on paper, first mentioned in the W. D. V. Ingenieure: It is a fact well known to photographers that animal glue when treated with bichromate of potash and exposed to the sunlight for some time, is insoluble in water. It has been found by analysis that india ink contained such animal glue, and consequently, if a small quantity of bichromate of potash be used with
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
171
it, the lines drawn with such prepared ink will not be affected by water, provided that they have been exposed to the sunlight for about an hour.
—At the late meeting of the Iron and Steel Institute, England, Dr. Siemens showed how steel could be economically melted by the electric arc. An ordinary plumbago crucible is placed in a metallic jacket or case, and the intervening space is filled up with charcoal or some other bad conductor, with heat. Through the bottom of the crucible a rod of platinum or dense carbon passes. A hole in the cover of the crucible admits the negative electrode, which is suspended at one end of a beam by means of a strip of copper. The other end of the beam is attached to < r	a hollow cylinder of soft iron, free to move up and down
in a coif of wire, one end of which is connected with the positive and the other with the negative pole of the arc.
|Five pounds of steel were melted in 25 minutes.
F	—On May 31st, a sealed packet was deposited in the
’ ,	case of the secretary of the Academy of Sciences, Paris, by
‘	M. Mercadier, who said it contained a description of an
application of radiophony to telegraphy. The enclosed paper was read on Oct. 3d. The following is the ab--	stract: A continuous current traverses a series of radio.	phonic selenum receivers at station A, then the line, then
another series at station B. Before each receiver, a wheel with a circle of holes rotates regularly, and the passage of ■	the light rays is blocked at will with a Morse key, giving
interruptions of the musical notes in the	telephones, cor-
1	responding to the Morse signals.	The	wheels are arC	ranged to give different notes, and	each	listener with a
■	telephone concentrates his attention	on a	particular note.
.	It is said that this system of Mercadier’s is capable of be-
|	ing applied to lines of great length.
—The main feature of Mr. D’Oyley Carte’s new theatre :	in London, the Savoy, is that it is lit by the electric light.
The peculiar steely blue color, and the flicker, which are inevitable in all systems of arc lights, make them uusuita-"	ble for use in any but very large buildings, but the inven-
tion of the incandescent lamp has now paved the way for the application of electricity to lighting houses. The arc light is simply a continuous electric spark, and is nearly the color of lightning, whereas the incandescent light is produced by heating a filament of carbon to white heat, and is much the color of gas; the current is easily controllable, and the lights can be raised or lowered at will. The new light is not only used in the audience part of the theatre, but on the stage, and even in the dressing-rooms. To provide against contingency gas is laid on.
—The Engineering says that, after introducing his system of absolute units, Weber determined the electro-chemical equivalent of water—that is, the weight of water decomposed in a second by a current of electro-magnetic intensity equal to unity. Taking as units the Millimeter for length and the milligramme for mass, he found it 009376 1	milligrammes. Joule, Bunsen and Kohirausen re-deter-
mined this value, but as there was a variation of one per cent, on either side of Weber’s result, M. Mascent made ,.	a fresh measurement of the quantity. He employed a vol-
tameter with electrodes of very fine-plantinum wire, and '	water rendered more conductive by dissolved phospho-
ric acid. This was placed in a vacuum, and the gas evolved was drawn off by a mercurial pump and measured in a dry state. There was thus no formation of ozone or • condensation of gas on the electrodes, nor any loss by
1	diffusion in the liquid. This result was checked by the
plan of weighing the deposit of copper in a solution of copper sulphate, and that of silver in a solution of silver nitrate. To measure the current he used an electro-dynamometer in preference to the magnetic tangent galvanometers. He was thus able to get rid of the earth’s magnetic force as an element of the problem, and the effect of heating up the bobbins of the instrument by the passage of the current was carefully eliminated. By these means M. Mascent finds that the electro-chemical equivalent of water is. 009373, a result which is almost identical with that of Weber, and which he considers correct within onetenth of 1 per cent.
/	—Aluminum sulphate combined with a little phenol is
I	recommended by Prof. Beilstem as the most economical
and effectual agent for rendering organic substances undergoing decay both odorless and innocuous to health. He has made comparative experiments with disinfectants, to determine their relative value as such. He arrives at the conclusion that aluminum sulphate is aneffective and, at the same time, the cheapest substance arresting putrefaction. If sufficient time is given for its action (two to three days), a 4 per cent, solution will effect more than a 15 per cent, solution of ferrous sulphate, thereby counterbalancing any difference in price in favor of the latter. Besides, a very crude article might be manufactured from clay and sulphuric acid, which would be very cheap indeed. A 4 per cent, solution of aluminum sulphate will kill all infusorial life, no matter how tenacious. This substance, however, has no power of destroying putrid odors. For this, carbolic acid has, until lately, been held by many to be the best available article, but the result of the experiments mentioned below does not favor it. The author inclines to the belief that the disinfectant does not merely supplant foul odors by its own, but that the phenol enters into actual combination with the skatol of the fseeal effluvia. He therefore recommends aluminum sulphate, combined with a little phenol, as most effectual as well as economical for rendering decaying organic substances both odorless and innocuous. Bad smells indicate the presence of decomposition somewhere and in some form or other, and this is the sure harbinger of zymotic diseases. Wherever bad smells are found it may be assumed that the generation of bacteria is going on, and these subtle and various forms of the life, which proceed from decay, have been proved by modern science to be always more or less associated with the causation of preventable diseases. Good disinfectants, if used in abundance, will always destroy these bacteria, and when this is effected we know that the causes of disease are destroyed with them. Hence, it is important to know what sort of disinfectants are good. With a view to ascertain this, Dr. George M. Sternberg, surgeon in the United States Army, has been making some valuable experiments, under the auspices of the National Board of Health. In the latest bulletins, issued by that body, he reports his observation in connection with carbolic acid and other disinfectants. The result of his experiments was not favorable to the employment of carbolic acid. The crude acid, such as manufactured and sold in New Orleans, expressly for disinfecting purposes, utterly failed to prevent the formation of bacteria. Test tubes in which the acid was used in connection with bacteria all failed to prevent the substance from spreading and propagating itself by inoculation, except when the pure acid, in its crystalline form, was used to the extent of ten grains. This amount, Dr. Sternberg says, is equivalent to seventeen pounds of pure acid for a room twelve feet square and twelve feet high, (1,728 cubic feet,) “ and,” he adds, “ to fulfil the conditions of the experiment in disin-recting on a large scale, it would be necessary to scatter this amount over the floor of a room having these dimensions, and to suspend articles to be disinfected near the floor for at least six hours, care being taken that all apertures were closed so that the fumes of the acid might not escape." It would require sixty-eight pounds of the crude acid to disinfect the same room under the same conditions. Forty six fluid ounces of the crude acid in a room of this size failed to destroy the potency of vaccine virus, and consequently would fail to destroy the yellow fever germ or the poison of small-pox. In conclusion, Dr. Sternberg says of his interesting and valuable experiments that they show “ that the popular idea, shared perhaps by some physicians, that an odor of carbolic acid in the sick-room, or in a foul privy, is evidence that the place is disinfected is entirely fallacious, and in fact, that the use of this agent as a volatile disinfectant is impracticable, because of the expense of the pure acid and the enormous quantity required to produce the desired result.” Sulphurous and nitrous acid gases, however, and chlorine, he found to destroy bacteria at once and effectively. The general result of his experiment is to show that chloride of lime is a more trustworthy disinfectant than carbolic acid. It is probable that a strong solution of copperas, (sulphate of iron,) liberally used, is the best wash for promoting the purity of drains and sinks. But it must be used liberally an<i regularly in order to secure good results,	•	'
172	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 26, 1881.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Fifteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical and Literary Gossip of the day. §
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above al),
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum, Postpaid,
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the complete volume for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In aU such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usuaUy, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
—A statement was made in the Scholastic some years ago that the latitude of the University of Notre Dame is 41° 43' 27" North, but recent observations prove this to be a mistake. As the later observations have been meridianal observations of the sun, taken upon the spot, by means of an artifical horizon, by one of the attaches of the University, there can be no error. The result of several observations, and by different instruments, give 41° 33' 33'', instead of 41° 42' 27''. The older statement is said to have been made upon the authority of the U. S. topographical engineers, but there must have been a screw loose somewhere when the observations were taken. It is thought by some that the result of obseivations of the sun taken upon land are not as accurate as those taken on the sea, but this is a mistake; navigators themselves test their chronometers by double-altitude observations taken on land, that is, with an artificial horizon. The difference in the observations with the quadrant by our college observer, and that of the U. S. Topographical Engineers (with the azimuth compass, probably), is 8X miles, 88 yards, south—not a very small figure, by the way. When true chronometer time can be had, we are promised another series of observations for the exact longitude of the University.
—Habits are oftentimes acquired which retard or promote our moral and intellectual growth, according to the good or bad principles which they represent. They are not formed in a day, nor is their formation always perceptible;
they grow by degrees, and become stronger by such indulgence until, finally, they gain such an influence over their possessor as to form a part of his daily life.
Reading, for instance, is a habit that may be acquired by practice, and will be beneficial or injurious according to the authors and subjects we read.
If we delight in low, trashy, or atheistical literature our minds will become imbued with evil principles; we cannot appreciate the writings of standard and classical authors, and we lose all taste for moral productions.
On the other hand, if we have acquired a taste for the works of the best authors we have formed a habit which will strengthen our moral and intellectual nature. Young persons, as a rule, their acquaintance with literary celebrities being somewhat limited, cannot, without guidance, choose their oWn reading, and where they do so, it will be of a desultory character. •
They should rely on, and be guided by those in whom they have confidence and who are capable of selecting the best works and of choosing the most beneficial subjects for them. Only in this way can they hope to avoid temptation and escape the snares laid for the unwary by unworthy and sophistical writers.
—The programme of the St. Cecilia and Euglossian Associations was carried out in a manner most creditable to the participants and their worthy instructor, Prof. J. A. Lyons. The selections by the Band were very well rendered ; although smaller in numbers than for some time past, we do not hesitate to say that the music was far superior to any that has been given by the members for the past two years. Prof. Paul is certainly deserving of credit, as are also the amateur musicians, for the excellent manner in which they acquitted themselves.
It is to be regretted that a greater number have not developed a taste for the musical art. What they lack in numbers, however, they well atone for in harmony and conception.
If the Band continues in its present mood for the remainder of the year we would be well pleased to hear from them a little oftener in public. They are certainly deserving of all the assistance and encouragement that can be given. .	•
Mr. E. C. Orrick, as the “ Dying Alchemist,” sustained his usual reputation for care and ability in the fulfilment of his part. J. Solon’s rendition of “ David’s Lament over Absalom” was a most pleasing and dignified effort. “ Over the Mountains,” by B. Eaton, had a most pleasing effect. M. F. Healy’s “Aliens” was admirably well done. Mr. Healy promises to make his mark in this line. A. F. Zahm’s “Personation Extraordinaire” was simply immense. It could not have been better. G. F. Tracy made a very good impression in “ Cataline’s Harangue to his Army.”	-	.
In the second part, the singing, by L. F. Florman and G. Schaefer, was superb. Both of these young men are possessed of excellent voices of rare power and sweetness. Mr. J. P. O’Neill, as “The Stalwart Lawyer,” retained his accustomed hold over his hearers, and was well appreciated; as also C. A. R. Tinley, in “ The Christian Victor.” Tinley is always up to the mark and never fails to win a warm welcome. “ The Battle of Life,” by D. Danahy, was a most excellent hit off, and stirred the risibles of all in a decided manner. The Oration on St. Cecilia, by George
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
173
E. Clarke, was the effort of the occasion and was delivered in a masterly manner. We will produce it in our next number.
The Orchestra is deserving of special mention for the very excellent manner in which they performed the selections—La Chasse du Jeune Henri, especially, being rendered in a style altogether pleasing and unexpected.
The closing remarks were made by Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C. He spoke feelingly' and at length on the grandeur and nobility of the life of St. Cecilia, and urged all present in purity of life, and in the practice of all those traits that ennoble human nature, to imitate the heroic sanctity of the day’s great patron. The Very Rev. gentleman a fine description of the Church of St. Cecilia, also of the spot on which this queenly soul offered up her life in defence of her honor and faith. Having travelled extensively in Europe and on the Continent, he is thoroughly competent to give those pleasing little lessons and reminiscences which, from time to time, are made so apt and opportune.
Personal.
—L. Clements is at hi r home in Uniontown, Ky.
—George Monahan is also at his home in Chicago, Ill.
—Mr. J. Beucer, of Archibald, Ohio, called at the University last week and placed his son in the Junior department.
—Rev. W. F. Hayes, of Columbus, Ohio, paid the College a short visit last week. Rev. Father Hayes is a man of fine literary culture and taste, and a pleasant gentleman to fall in with. He was for some years engaged in literary work as editor of a weekly paper. We hope he will call often, and manage to stay longer.
Local Items.
—Cairo against the world!	'
—“ Did you see the cat?”
—“ Rec.” Tuesday afternoon.
—“ Thing uth a thong, Mack.”
—“ Good-morning, neighbor 1 ”
—Guss, old chicken, yours truly.
—Joe was disappointed this week.
—" Molly ” wonders where his locals go.
—" O say, can’t you introduce a fellow ? ”
—“ Who stole the Minims’ bell ? hey, J. P. ?
—“ Dough, where do you bury your dead ? ”
—The dog missed the rat but saved his bacon.
—“ What will you take for half of it, C. F. R.?
—“Marshal” is marshalling the football games.
—The “ Siamese Twins ” cleaned off their chins.
—“ Del ” was badly left a week ago last Sunday.
—Alas, poor chinners! the first frost killed them.
—The "Washington man ” denies he is from Swampoo-dle.
—“Our Corner ’’has the neatest desks in the studyhall.
—“Mollie” is the “crack shot” of the Senior department.
—“ ‘ Marshal,’ why didn’t you speak last Sunday evening ?”
—“Algebra and pie” is a luxury enjoyed only by
—The gentleman from Iowa still has the “spring” attached.	-
—Gallagher had his football team out for practice on Tuesday.
—Prof. Devoto, assisted by Bro. Paul, did the levelling for the rink.
—The spring of the “lo^a man” has been transferred. “Eh, Dan?”
We saw a Noble young man catch a Lark-in his arms the other day.
—The Church at the Academy is progressing rapidly toward completion.
—The young man from the country will speak—four weeks from to night.	-
—K--------found that, in punning, the tables might be turned pun himself.
—“Stuffy” was awfully taken in last week. Ask the “ trio ” for particulars. *	.
—The Junior football team had a great amount of practice, Tuesday afternoon.
—“ That Speech of Dan’s,” at the Thespians’ last meeting, created quite a stir.
—Are the Columbians in the shade since the Thespians started out? They are very quiet.
—The defender of the would-be town of Aurora was “sat-down-upon” the other evening.
—J. Flynn is doing deadly work among the little quad-rupeds^ He kills them six at a time.
—Dancing in the play-hall on “ rec ” days would be a source of great pleasure to the Seniors.
—“Zeke, have you got your grammar lesson for this morning ? ” “ Certainly, I always have.”
—Rev. F. Zahm’s electric light shines more brilliantly than that of our friend Dennis of the Junior department.
—Mr. B ’s very much excited: “Mr. Pres., have I the floor?” Mr. Pres.: “Yes. Hurry up, and sit down.”	’
—Wednesday, the 30th, will be the thirty-ninth anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s first Mass at Notre Dame.
—The first attempt at flooding the rink was made Tuesday, but was not a success. The weather is hardly cold enough yet.
—“ Aurora and Cairo ” compared to Des Moines! The idea! What presumption! almost bordering on audacity. “ Eh, Iowa?”
—Information will be thankfully received by the secretary of the Thespians on all matters pertaining to the slavery question.
—“Aurora versus Cairo,” is the title of a new lecture to be delivered by Aurora’s stalwart representative, some time next, month.	’
—There is a strong prospect of some of those Minim Seniors being sat down on pretty hard if they don’t look out for themselves.
—A party of Indianapolis people, en route for Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, took dinner at the Oliver to-day. —South Bend Tribune.
—The Minims are in great delight over the new skating rink which Very Rev. Father General is giving them. It is to be 200 by 100 feet.
—Let us have a Glee Blub that wili enliven the place. There is plenty of good material outside the Singing Class to effect an organization.
—A very interesting and instructive speech was delivered before the Second Book-Keeping Class last Saturday, by Mr. Jas. Kindle, of Ohio.
—The Sorins will bring out “ The New Arts ” on the 30th. The play will be complimentary to Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General.
—The South-Bend Register asks: “ Why are the South Bend girls like a boiled potato ? ” It gives no answer. I? it because they are ready for a “ mash ” ?
174
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The “Buckeyes” “had not a word to say” at the meeting, on Sunday the 13th. Are they conspiring to get control of the Society? Keep an eye on them.
—The students who had the best notes in the Minim department for the week ending Nov. 23d were D. L. Mc-Cawley, E. P. Nash, Otto Dillon. Aloysius Kelly, Edwin Thomas.	-
—The South Bend Tribune states that the people of that thriving city are “ indulging in the delights of a coal famine.” We hope they will not be compelled to take to the woods.
—“ Mr. President: You are supposed to be conversant in parliamentary rules! ” Prof: “ It being a long time since I read the book, I will ask Mr.--to enlighten us on the subject.” Mr.--------------------, of course, proceeds.
—The College parlor, with its excellent settees, is a nice place to while away an hour in company with a friend. Self-invitations are not just the thing though, as little M. will testify. But then he used to go “boat-riding on Fox Lake.”
—It is laughable to seethe position some of the ex-Juniors and small Seniors take in ranks. Last Sunday, in particular, in passing the front of the College, when going to church, a certain “ baby ” Senior was immediately behind the “ Iowa giant.” Go forward, small “ men.”
—Mrs. A Gall and Mrs. M. Sells, of Indianapolis, who have been visiting their sons at Notre Dame, are enjoying a holiday with them in the city at the Oliver to-day. Besides the ladies, the party is composed of Ed. and A. Gall, H. G. Sells, H. A. Kitz, and George J. Bhodius.—South-Bend Register.
—One of the great South Bend firms that have favored the Scholastic with an advertisement, the Studebaker Bro’s Manufacturing Company, received an order last week from San Francisco for fifty-six of their finest phaetons. If many of their orders are like this one we don’t wonder at their prosperity.	.
—For the benefit of those who help themselves to their neighbors’ goods we will state that there will shortly be a patent pneumatic hose attached to our office door, which will gently seize such persons by the waistband, enfold them in its coiling embrace, and mop the floor with them for two minutes and a half, after which it will bring them to a sitting posture and plane the floor with them for two and a half minutes more; the pneumatic power will then display its efficiency in firing the individual out through the keyhole.
* —The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Mr. J. 0. Fenlon, of Leavenworth, Kansas, for a very.valuable and complete collection of minerals from Colorado, Mexico, California, and other places. Among the collection are some unusually rare specimens of silver, gold, and copper ores. The collection consists of specimens selected with great care during the course of many years by one of the most skilful mineralogists in the Rocky Mountains. It is needless to say the Curator of the Museum feels quite proud of this very valuable addition to the Cabinet.
—The 7th regular meeting of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association was held Sunday evening, Nov. 20th. The question, “Was George Washington a Greater Man than Napoleon Bonaparte ? ” was warmly debated by Rene Papin, W. Welch, J. Chaves, on the affirmative side, and J. J. McGrath, Ryan Devereux and P. P. Johnson, on the negative. Decided in favor of the negative. Declamations were delivered, and the President then made a speech, which was heartily applauded, after which the meeting adjourned.
—If the chap who helped himself to the Scholastic’s copy of the Chicago Tribune, on Saturday last, will call at our office and explain his terribly desperate literary wants, we will endeavor to place his name on the exchange list in lieu of our own, and he may thereafter satisfy the insatiable longing of his literary soul for its necessary pap. We wouldn’t object, however, to giving to one so perfectly willing to help himself to his neighbor’s news a first-class seat on the edge of a No. 10 propeller (home made) between Notre Dame and Nebraska. We.have been kicking football; lately,	'
—At the Euglossian and St. Cecilian Entertainment on Wednesday evening, the College rotunda, where it was given, was brilliantly illuminated by the electric light—the sharpness of the light itself being relieved by a groundglass globe. Altogether, the evening was one of the most enjoyable we have had for years. The music, both vocal and instrumental, was unexceptionally good, and the speeches given with a verve, and at the same time such a perfect command of gesture as to make them highly pleasing. Mr. George Clarke, of the “ Staff,” did admirably, and D. Danahey, J. P. O’Neill, of the “Staff,” and A. Zihm, repeatedly brought down the house in roars of laughter. It is not unusual to find one or more detracting features in college entertainments, and we are glad to be able to say this one is an honorable exception.
—The following names appeared on the visitors register of the past week: Mrs. D. and Nellie L Coglin, Toledo, O.; Ed. G. Popp, Henry Cair, A. Carr, Fred Frillman, Jr.. E. W. Bickatein, Ed. Schaeffers, of Chicago, III.; Frank Kusswers. and Geo. Wagner, South Bend; Mr. J. W. and Eddie Price, Fairmount, Neb.; Misses Maud L. and Mary Price, and Estelle Todd, St. Mary’s Academy; J. D. Reid, Ogdensburg, N. Y.; U. L. Starkweather, Redwood, N. Y.; M. Rumely, Laporte, Ind.; L. Graniman, St. Louis, Mo.; F. Marie de Carto, Genoa, Italy.; J. G. Reynolds, Chicago, Ill.; M. A. Reynolds, and Eugene B. Reynolds, Oakland, Md.; James Cavanagh, Coldwater, Mich.; Saul Adler, South Bend, Ind.; ,Z. Bing, Cincinnati, O.; Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Coad, Cheyenne, Dakota Ter.; Miss Kate Snoddy, Siu'h Bend. Ind.; Mr. Ohmer Adams, and Mrs. S. S. Adams, Kendalville.
—The Annual Celebration of the Festival of St. Cecilia, under the auspices of the St. Cecilia and Euglossian Associations, took place in the University building on Wednesday, the 22d inst., at 7 30 p. m. We herewith give the programme :
The Good, the Beautiful, and the True.
PART FIRST.
Potpourri.—Gems del’Opera (B Brooks)..................Band The Anvil Chorus (Verdi).......................Choral Union
Soliloquy of the Dying Alchemist...............E.	C. Orrick
David’s Lament over his Son Absalom...............J. Solon
Over the Mountains................................B. Eaton -
La Chasse du Jeune Henri...............University Orchestra
Aliens.........................................M.	E. Healy
Cataline's Harangue to his Army.................Geo. Tracy
Personation Extraordinaire.....................A. F. Zahm
PART SECOND.
Song, “Parva Primula Pulchra”..................L. Florman
The Stalwart Lawyer............................J.	P. O’Neill
Speech.—The Christian Victor................C. A. R. Tinley
Song, “Anetumnalia Folio”......................G.	Schaefer
Battle of Life (a Rhetorical Effusion)..........D. Danahy
Oration of the Day.........................George	E. Clarke
Closing Remarks........................Very Rev. E. Sorin
Now the Swallows are Returning, (Abt.)..................Band
Roll of Honor.
[The names of those students who appear in the following list are those whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty. They are placed in alphabetical order.]
'	SSNIOE DEPARTMENT.
R. Anderson, W. Arnold, J. C. Armijo, E. Blackman, F. W. Barron, E. J. Bryant, W. J. Browne, J. F. Browne, F. Baker, W. B. Berry, F. M. Bell, W. S. Bolton, R. Becerra, M. T. Burns, D. Corry, 8. G. Clements, M. J. Carroll, L. F. Calligari, J. J. Conway, T. F. Clarke, W. A. Connor, C. Coughanowr, W. Cleary, C. E. Cripe, G. Clarke, N. Commerford, A. D. Dorsey, J. Drury, J. P. Delaney. D. Danahy, A. Dehner, B. Eaton, E. J. Eager, F. Ewing, R. E. Fleming, J. Farrell,T. F. Flynn, A. Graves, W. E. Grout, H. A. Grambling, F. W. Gallagher, W. W. Gray, A. J. Golonski, F. Greyer, T. D. Healey, M. F. Healey, A. T. Jackson, W. Johnson. F. E. Kuhn, J. Kendel, M. Livingston, H. Letterhos, J. C. Larkin, G. E. McErIain,F. X. -Murphy, W. McCarthy, P. McGinnis, C. J. McDermott, J. A. McIntyre, H. W. Morse, J. F. Martin, W. B. McGorrisk, E. McGorrisk, W. McEniry, J. Nash, H. Noble( J. B. O’Reilly,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
175
J. P. O’Neill, W. J. O’Connor, F. O’Rourke, E. C. Orrick, J. N. Osher, E. A. Otis, F. Paquette, C. L. Pierson, 8. Pillars, L. Proctor, F. Quinn, P. Rasche, A.P. Schindler, J. E. Schalk, W. Schofield, B. Schofield, J. Solon, W. Smith, E. Smith, P. Shickey, H. Steis, C. A. Tinley, E. J. Taggart, G. S. Tracy, I. Treon, 8. B. Terry, C. B. Van Dozen, W. H. Vander Hayden, F. Ward, F. 8. Weber, J. A. White, E. D. Yrisarri, J. V. Zettler, A. F. Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. A. Browne, M. Byrne, W. Bacon, W. Barron, A. Brewster, J. 8. Courtney, W. L. Coghlin, W. J. Cavanaugh, J. L. Castillo, A. M. Chirhart, J. A. Devine, B. B. Baca, G. L. Deschamp, M. Dolan, H. F. Devitt, C. Devoto, J. E. Drendel, F. M. Danielson, W. Dare, C. C. Echlin, N. H. Ewing, W. A. Ellis, Ed Fischel, Fred Fischel, J. H. Fendrick, R. French, F. C Felix, J. Friedman, L. F. Florman, H. G. Foote, L. G. Gibert, W. M. Graham, M. S. Gooley, J. G. Grever, E. B. Gerlach, G. M. Guthrie, E. F. Gall, A. A. Gall, P. G. Hoffman, H. N. Hess, H. D. Hibbeler, T. J. Hurley, G. J. Haslam, W. F. Hanavin, J. L. Heffernan, J. Halligan, W. E. Jeannot, J. P. Jones, W. H. Johnston, J. M. Kelly, C. 0. Kolars, O. Kempf, J. F. Kahman, W. D. Keenan, F. H. Kengel, H. A. Kitz, S. Katz, 8. Lipman, 0. L. Ludlow, J. T. McGordon, F. X. McPhillips, C. M. Murdock, 8. Murdock, C. J. Messenger, M. E. Murphy, J. T. Neeson, N. J. Nelson, J. E. Orchard, J. P. O’Donnell, F. Orsinger, J. V. O’Donnell, W. O. Pinkstaff. J. M. Powell, H. P. Porter, C. F. Porter, A. L. Richmond, C. F. Rose, W. J. Ruprecht, G. J. Rhodius, J. Ruppe, L. Rivaud, D. Smith, C. D. Saviers, G. Schaeffer, H. Sells, E. J. Schmitt, D. G. Taylor, G. E. Tourtillotte, A. T. Tag-fart, D. Thomas, A. J. Vernier, T. Williams, J. E. Warner, . J. Wendell, J. W. Whelan, M. J. Wilbur, P. J. Yrisarri, J. E.
Zaehnle, C. Zeigler.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
D. L. McCawley, E. P. Nash, 0. P. Dillon, A. J. Kelly, E. Thomas, W. T. Berthelet, D. A. Piatt D. A. O’Connor, F. P. Nester, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, W. J. Miller, W. Welch, C. H. McGordon, 0. Metz, W. P. Devine, R. V. Papin, A. J. Otis, F. I. Otis, B. B. Powell, F. 8. Whitney, W. Walsh, Ryan Devereux, -T. E. Curran, W. Masi, G. Price, J. S. Beall, H. J. Ackerman, P. S. Gibson, P. P. Johnson, T. Ellis, P. E. Campau, C. Campau, J. L. Rose, J. F. Coad, E. S. Chirhart, J. Kelly, A. P. Roberts, H. C. Dirksmeyer, L. P. Graham, C. Quinlan, V. A, Rebori, F. 8. Scott, T. Norfolk.
Class Honors.
[In the following list are given the names of those who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
C. C. Echlin, J. Courtney, O. Kempf, L. Giberts, P. Yrisarri, A. Campau, 0. Campau, T. Williams, E. Fenlon, T. Ryan, D. Taylor, G. Schaefer, F. Lund, J. Livingston. M. Healy, F. Baker, W. Bolton, F. Dever, E. Taggart, A. Jackson, J. McIntyre, F. Martin. H. Gramling, A. Kuntsman, W. J. McCarthy, F. Kinsella, W. O’Connor, W. Bailey, J. Walsh, H. Steis, G. Metz, W. Ruger, F. Wheatly, F. Fischel, E. Fischel, H. Porter, D. Saviers, G^ Tourtillotte, J. Grever, H. Devitt, 8. Murdock, C. Murdock, W. McCarthy, C. Zeigler. E. Gerlach, H. Kitz, C. Rose, J. Fendrick, G. Rhodius, F. Felix, J. Ruppe, A. Chirhart, E. Gall, J. Friedman, W. Barron, S. Katz, E. Schmitt, N. Nelson, M. Wilbur, V. Rivaud, L. Rivaud. J. Gallagher, J. O’Don-nell, H. Foote, J. O’Reilly, E. Eager, E. Yrisarri, L. Calligari, E. Otis, E. Orrick, E. Cripe, W. Connors, J. Kindle, J. Marlett, W. Gray, F. Bell, A. Schim', I. Treon, B. Noble, E. Smith, M-Henoch, F. Grever, T. Hurly, J. Flynn, C. Kolars, F. Kuhn, D. Corry, J. Heffernan, H. Morse, W. McEniry, F. Ward, J. White.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. r. Berthelet, D. A. Piatt, E. P. Nash, J. H. Dwenger, D. A. O’Connor. J. F. Nester, W. Walsh, C. H. McGordon, F. P. Nester, W. P. Devine, R. V. Papin, M. E. Devitt, F. I. Otis. B. Prindiville, J. J. McGrath, C. D. Brandom, J. 3. Bell, H. J. Ackerman, G. V. Gibson, P. P. Johnson, T. Ellis, J. L. Rose, G. Price, P. Campau, C. Campau, E. Chirhart, J. A. Kelly, V. A. Rebori, J. F. Coad, H. C. Dirksmeyer, H. Hynes, L. P. Graham, A. J. Otis, P. 8. Gibson, L. Young, O. P. Dillon, A J Kelly, J. T. Kelly, A. P. Roberts, F. 8. Scott T. Norfolk, F. 8. Whitney, G. King, T. E. Curran.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named—according to the
competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.] COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS, AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.
German—H. P. Porter, E.Eager, G.Tourtillotte, J. Ruppe, F. Lund, 8. Katz, W. Prindiville, W. Berthelet, J. E. Drendel, J. 8. Courtney, G. Deschamps, F. Murphy, M. Healy; French—L. Gibert, J. O’Donnell, E. Fischel; Spanish—C. Echlin, R. Becerra; Instrumental Music—F. Felix, J. McIntyre, D. Saviers, G. Haslam, C. Murdock, F. Wheatly, F. Fischel; Telegraphy—J. Guthrie, A. Jackson, G. Metz, J. Schalk, J. Drury, J. Barry, H. Sells; Phonography—J. J. Flynn, C. Kolars; Elocution—G. Clarke, J. Solon U. Tinley, E. Orrick. A. Zahm, J. O’Neill, D. Danahey, B. Eaton, M. Healy, G. Tracy.
^aiiit Jarir’s JwUmg.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
(Selections from “ Rosa Mystica,” and “ St. Mary’s Chimes,” Monthly Papers, Edited by the Young Ladies of the Senior Department.)
—A Hard Answer.—What word of five letters if you take two away one will remain ? St-one.
—By oversight the name of Miss Mary Campbell was omitted in the Tablet of Honor, par excellence.
—From the regular weekly parlor-receptions, great benefit is derived by the young ladies in acquiring graceful and easy manners.
—The vases and flower beds, dismantled and shorn of their beauty, must calmly await the tempests of winter, with the patient trust that spring will come iu due time and restore their lost loveliness.
—Egotistical Enigma.—A word of three syllables. The first is a pronoun, the second is an interjection, and the third is what every one is accustomed to do daily. The whole is one of the chemical elements. I o-dine.
—A Chemical Conundrum.—If Alice owned a cat, and a kitten were playing beside this cat what would be the difference between this kitten and Black Oxyd of Manganese, in the preparation of Oxygen gas.—Answer. One acts by Alice’s cat, and the other acts by cat-al ysis.
—Botanical Enigma.—A. word of three syllables. The first is a condition in which no one wishes to find himself, the second is an article, and the third is the name of an illustrious person who lived in England in the reign of Henry VIII. The whole is the name of a tree on the grounds of St. Mary’s ? Syc-a more.
—It is currently reported, and upon good authority, that the corner-stone of the new chapel is to be laid on the feast of Sr. Andrew. Scarcely could a more appropriate day be selected, as it will be the anniversary of Very Rev. Father General’s first Mass at Notre Dame. His beautiful play, “New Arts,” adapted to young ladies, will be performed on that occasion.
—The various societies, re’igious, literary, and artistic, are in full operation, and doing their share in bringing out the latent powers of the members. They are as follows: The Archconfraternity of Perpetual Adoration and Work for Poor Churches. The Rosary. The Children of Maty. The Children of the Holy Angels—(for Catholic pupils only). St. Teresa’s, St. Catherine’s, St. Angela’s and St. Agnes’s Literary Societies. The Christian Art Society, in the Studio, and St. Cecilia’s Society and the Gregorian Society in the Conservatory of Music. The object of the last mmed is to perfect the young singers in that sublime and soul-inspiring chant known as Gregorian, the use of which in Church singing is so wisely insisted upon by the Holy See. Its dignity and richness, when well performed, at once commend it to the cultivated ear,—to die cultivated heart, we might add—and are in striking contrast with the trifling solos and figured music once SQ popular.
176
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—On the Feast of the Presentation fourteen young ladies were received as Aspirants and three as Members of the Society of the Children of Mary, by Very Rev. Father General in the House of Loreto, after Mass. It was a fitting place and at a fitting time, directly after Holy Communion, to enter upon the life of Children of Mary. In his instruction, Very Rev.Father said: “My dear children, you seem to understand perfectly the duty of the festival we are now celebrating; it is one to which you desire to pay a special attention, for it will be a memorial to you as long as you live, of the step you are about to take. . Visibly you will follow in the footprints of your Blessed Mother, although you are, in comparison to her, already advanced in years. She was but three years of age when she offered herself in the temple, and then, and there, as the historian has it, she made forever the vow of virginity.” He then proceeded to speak of the virtues which Children of Mary should bear with them, wherever they go, and in whatever state of life they embrace. The instruction, though brief, was full of wholesome and practical suggestions.
—The recent anniversary of the death of Rev. Father Gillespie, the late chaplain of St. Mary’s, brings to mind many touching recollections. In the beautiful Chapel of Loreto are the following inscriptions in letters of gold. High over the right side of the altar we read: “ Clement VIII accorded to all who visit the Church of Loreto a Plenary ‘Indulgence.” “ Clement IX, by an Apostolic Brief, Sept. 26,1707, confirmed the Indulgence and made it applicable to the souls in purgatory.” On the opposite side is the following: “At the prayer of Very Rev. Father Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Nov. 20,1861, our Holy Father, Pope Pius IX, accorded to this chapel the Indulgence granted to the Santa Casa, by Clement VIII.” Ou the east end, opposite these inscriptions, are the following words in gold: “ The plan of the Santa Casa was brought from Loreto by Rev. Father Gillespie, 1856. This chapel was built according to that plan, and solemnly blessed in 1859. Rev. Father Gillespie died at St. Mary’s Nov. 12.1874 Requiescat in pace! ” In the pastoral residence, under the shadow of his “ Santa Casa,” he died, and the remains of this zealous client of Mary were laid out in her own chapel, whence he was carried to his grave at Notre Dame.
—At the Academic reunion of the Senior department on Tuesday, the 15th, the reading was from St. Marys Chimes (Vol. VI, No. I), edited by the Misses Lillie Lancaster, and Catharine Wall, of the Second Senior Class, and Estelle Todd, Sophia Papin, and Anna Waters, of the Third Senior Class. The following is the table of contents: I, Editorial; II, Anniversary Requiem Mass; III, Alphabetic List; IV, Double Valuation; V, The Second Senior Class-Room; VI, A Slight Mistake; Vil, Cau ion; VIII, Wants; IX, An Humble Posture; X, Toe Advantage of System (Poem); XI, The Mission of the Dew-Drop; XII,Botanical Enigma; XIII, Repeated Appeals; XIV, Art Notes; XV, Egotistical Enigma; XVI, Bovine Eiigma; XVII, A Hard Answer ; XVIII, An Intruder; XIX, The Attitude of Liquids; XX, Advertisment; XXI, Addendum; XXII, The Grandeur of Silence; XXIII, Cloistered; XXIV, Gathering Autumn Leaves; XXV, Intellectual Culture; XXVI, Philosophy; XXVII, A. Rare Treat; XXVIII, The Broken Pump-Handle; XXIX. Hydraulics ; XXX, Defence of Courteous Manners; XXXI, A Chemical Question;XXXII, The Upright Table; XXXIII, Wall Flowers; XXXIV, An Irresistible Proof; XXXV, Father Gillespie’s Memorial.
Father Gillespie’s Memorial.
DEDICATED WITH SENTIMENTS OF PROFOUND AFFECTION
TO HIS VENERABLE MOTHER, MBS. M. M PHELAN.
I.
No marble shaft, with carvings cold, Ascending from the crumbling mould;
No ostentatious show of pride, Announcing where he lived and died, Stands as the monument of him
Whose memory dear shall ne’er grow dim . While fair Loreto’s chapel calls
The faithful to its storied walls, We kneel for him: for him we pray “ 0 Requiescat in pace! ”
n.
His grand memorial—not his own— Is to make .Mary’s splendors known! The sacred cottage where her worth Brought God Himself to dwell on earth, The model of the very place Where she was hailed as full of grace, Than this, what nobler monument Could thought, or skill, or love invent ? While kneeling here, how sweet to pray, “ 0 Requiescat in pace!" hl
Here, oft the Holy Sacrifice Ascends to greet the bending skies, And guileless children from their play Come in their innocence to pray;
Here to recall the mystery blest That round its portals calmly rest; Here to renew the scene profound That renders Syria holy ground. How touching from lips fresh and gay, Their ‘'Requiescat in pace!’
IV.
Where myriad lights so mild and sweet, Fall at the comely statue’s feet, From votive lamps, subdued and soft, * From amber sky-light, far aloft, Sweet memories glow; they live, they burn, And we behold at every turn, Father Gillespie kneeling there, As he was wont to do in prayer;
And here our steps we fondly stay, With “Requiescat in pace!'’ v.
We see him in his coffin laid When death his onward course had staid, The chalice clasped in fingers white; The mourners there, by day, by night. Forth from that place his heart loved best We see him borne to fiaal rest.
Devotion’s seif, Faith doth transcend, In this rare life's most precious end, And hope precludes the need to pray, “ 0 Requiescat in pace!"
VI.
O dear memorial that hath given So many a glad foretaste of heaven To souls who while they knelt herein, Have owned the ransom made for sin By Him who here to save the race Came to impart His life of grace, We bless thee, and we bless the hand, That bore thy model to this land ; For him all loving hearts must pray, With “ Requiescat in pace! ”
From the Editorial.
The instructions of Very Rev. Father General in the Chapel of Loreto on Mondays at Mass, have been of absorbing interest. That of the 12th inst. was on “ Devotion to the Souls in Purgatory. Every word was eloquent with the force of truth, and deep affection for the faithful departed. That of Monday last, on the “Patronage of the Blessed Virgin,” was of exceptional value, since it contained much important information, not readily found in books.
TfiE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	177
Academic reunion, Senior department, Readings: Miss M. Reutlinger, “ Maidenhood,” H.W. Longfellow; “ Strata-gime d’un Gadi,” by E. Collots; Miss Ellen Galen, “ Sodding” ; Miss Laura Pool, “ Unserer Sieben." y.Miss Annie Cavenor, “ The Presentation,” Original.
Junior department, Monday. Sarah Campau, “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star,” from an old book; Josephine Spangler, “ Das TropfleinMargarita Otero, “The Vision of the Wounds,” by E. C. Donnelly; Marie Paquette, “ Sage remonstrance de Pie VII," par Gollotts; Cora Patterson, “ The Baby’s Complaint,” by Mrs. Parton.
Rosa Mystica has welcomed the new periodical issued by the Juniors, and the Chimes, also, has performed the same act of courtesy as follows: If, in a spot so secluded and unworldly there could be jealousy, Rosa Mystica and The Chimes might wither in the one case, and cease chiming in the other, beneath the glare of the “ green-eyed monster,” because The Lily of the Valley has shed a fresher perfume than the first, and with its little snow-white bells has rung out a sweeter chime than the latter. But we are in a place where jealousy is never admitted, and therefo re rejoice to welcome our young sister of the Junior department, and feel assured she is well deserving of the distinguished praises lavished upon her by lips revered.
How Far are we Responsible for our Influence over Others ?
Supper is over; the bell strikes the signal for the pupils to arise from the table; grace is said; we make our courtesies before the crucifix and silently enter the recreation room. Here we await the distribution of letters; this completed, recreation is opened. At this moment, let us suppose an invisible being passing to and fro with a vase of the most delicate, salutary, and penetrating perfume. The odor is rapidly diffused through the atmosphere. All are equally at liberty to enjoy its fragrance, yet all do not, for appreciation differs widely.
Similar to this delicate odor, but stronger and deeper, is the influence which a beautiful character exerts in society. By such an influence the good will be led to higher virtue. We have heard of those who hated the scent of roses, therefore we may not wonder if some do not admire good example; it does not agree with their taste. May their number daily diminish!
The Latest Cure for Headache.
We heard the other day of a striking cure for this malady. The story runs as follows: A. lacly, suffering from severe headache and neuralgia, retired at twilight. Artificial light added to the intensity of her pain, therefore she remained in the dark. She had strong faith in “ Pain Killer,” and as she pressed her pillow, she said: “ I will bathe my head and face well with the precious liquid and then I shall be relieved. She took from her dressing table a bottle which she supposed to contain the article in question, and completely saturated her head, face, chin, throat, and the back of her neck. She reclined upon her pillow for a moment, to enjoy the soporific effect of the remedy. She felt an unmistakable relief, made a second application, and then fell asleep.
In the morning as the rays of aurora penetrated her apartment, she awoke refreshed, and quite recovered, but a glance at herself in the mirror, gave her a shock that quite unsettled her nerves. The mottled and strange ap
pearance of her face' she could not account for. Her hands too! Her pillow! What could it all mean? She turned to the place where she had put the “Pain Killer,” and what washer chagrin to find she had deposited the contents of an ink bottle upon her devoted head, the night before.— The lady was late at breakfast that morning.
Moral.—Have a place for everything, .and keep everything in its place.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, AMIABILITY, AND CORRECT DEPORTMENT.
.	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	-
Par excellence—Misses A. Cavenor, C. Claffey, E. Galen, S. Hanbury, L. Pool, 8. Walsh, M. Clark, A. Dillon, M. Feehan, C. Bland, E. Call, Chrischellis, M. Campbell, R. Fishburne, L. Fendrick, A. Glennon, J. Heneberry, L. Lancaster, 8. McKenna, A. Nash, A. Price, A. Rasehe, M. Simms, E. Slattery, E. Bhickey, M. Tanner, E. Vander Hayden, H. Van Patten, L. Black, L. Coryell E. Call, M. Fishburne, H. Hackett, N. Mc-Gordon, 8. McGordon, E. McCoy, A. Mowry C. Pease, J. Owens, Margaret Price, A. Rulison, A. Richardson, M. Richardson, V. Reilly, G. Taylor, E. Thompson, I. Wolfe, M. Wolfe, L. English, C. Fenlon, M. Flemming, C. Gitchel, K. Mulligan, M. Metzger, M. Newton, M. A. Ryan, M. Reutlinger, L. Williams, L. Wagner, M. Behler, B. English, Eldridge, A. Gavan, M Ives, M. Mulvey, N. Hicks, I. Smith, 2d Tablet—Misses C. Donnelly, M. Ryan, K. Wall, J. Butts. M. Beal, L. Fox, M. Casey, M. Call, N. Keenan, J. Reilly, C. Rosing, M. Price, M. Garrity, H. Hicks, J. Pampell, M. Wiley, A. Waters.
junior department. •
Par excellence—Misses C. Ginz, C. Lancaster, H. Ramsey, 8. Semmes, J. Spangler, A. Clark, M. Chirhart, M. Dillon, T, Heneberry, M. Morgan, M. Mosher, G. O’Neil, M. Paquette, C. Patterson, F. Robertson, A. Watrous, P. Ewing. M. Chaves, C. Richmond, M. Smith, D. Best, Mary Otis. 2d Tablet—C. Ducey, M. Rodgers, V. Lewis, E. Con’idine, M. Ducey, A. Eager, B. Hackett, A. Martin, E. Papin, E. Mattis, A. Wright, A. Welch, L. Robinson, M. Thomman, M. Casey, J. Krick.
minim department.
Misses M. Barry, T. Haney, M. Otis, M. Paul, E. Rigney, A. Sawyer, S. McKennon.
List of Excellence.
[The following young ladies mentioned are those who have been the best in the classes of the course named according to the competitions held during the month.]
German—Misses J. Butts, C. Claffey, E. Chrischellis, M. Casey, M. Chirhart, A. Dillon, M. Flemming, C. Ginz, N. Keenan, M. Reutlinger, E. Todd, H. Van Patten; French-; Latin----;
Geology—Misses C. Claffey, E. Galen, S. Hanbury, L. Pool, 8. Walsh; Logic—Misses M. Clark, A. Dillon, L. Fox, M. Feehan, Hanbury, L. Lancaster, M. Wiley; Geometry—M. Clark, L. Fox, M. Feehan, M. Wiley; Rhetoric—J. Barlow, E. Call.M. Call, L. Coryell, M. Fishburne, C. Ginz, K. Lancaster, 8. Papin, Mary Price, B. Semmes, E. Todd; History—Misses M. Clark, A. Dillon, M. Feehan, L. Fox, M. Wiley, J. Barlow, J. Butts, Etta Call, M. Call, L. Coryell, Maud Casey, C. Ginz, M. Keenan, K. Lancaster, B. Legnard, 8. Papin, A. Mowry, A. Rulison, L. L. Shickey, B. Semmes, A. Waters; Philosophpy—Misses J. Barlow, Etta Call, M. Fishburne, B. Legnard, J. Owens, Sophia Papin, M. Richardson, A. Richardson, Sabina Semmes; Chemistry----; English Grammar—Misses L. English, M. Flemming, M. Garrity, M. Greble, K. Fenlon, M. Reutlinger, K. Mulligan, A. Watson, P. Ewing, B. Hackett, F. Hibbins, J. Krick, E. Papin, M. Wilkins, A. Welch; Orthography—Misses M. Bealer, M. Chirhart, E. Considine, M. Coogan, A. Clark, Mary Casey, K. Ducey, M. Dillon, M. Fisk, Green, N._ Hicks, M. Paquette, Robertson, I. Smith, M. Mulvey, A. Martin, M. Morgan, W. Mosher, F. Castanedo. P. Ewing, B. Hackett, F. Hibbins, J. Krick, E. Papin, A. Welch, M. Wilkins, M. Chaves, 8. Campau, M. Coyne; M. Castanedo, T. Haney, E. Mattis, M Otero, C. Richmond, L. Robertson. J. Rigney, M. Schmidt.
178
TSE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
JR D. JI. CALVERT, Dentist,	She >uu.
Office, 69 Washington St. (over Alf. Klingel’s Shoe Store,)  
South Bend, Ind. '	NEW YORK, 1882.	*
(Removed to Boston, Mass.)
SHORT-HAND
TAUGHT BY MAIL IN 12 LESSONS, FOR §1.50.
The growing interest in Phonography has created a demand for a Periodical to teach the Art, in a series of Lessons comprehensive, detailed and thorough. The
AMERICAN SHORT-HAND WRITER,
taking the initiative, is the only Magazine in the World that teaches Phonography. A full course given every year, one complete Lesson each month, and the Exercises of all Learners
CORRECTED THROUGH THE MAIL
free of charge. Those who prefer to learn in a briefer time than one year, may join our Correspondence Class and go through an entire course in either 10 or 20 weeks.
Single copy, containing First Lesson, mailed to any address for 15 cents.
Anyone wishing to learn this fascinating and valuable science are solicited to write at once for Free Descriptive Circuiar.
ROWELL & HICKCOX,
409 Washington Street.	BOSTON, MASS.
Please mention the paper in which yon saw this advertisement.
O’Connor & Co., CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS Royal Pharmacy, PRINCE ARTHUR'S LANDING, LIKE SUPERIOR, ONTARIO, CANADA, Dealers in Amethysts, Agates, Chlorastrolites, Catseyes, Thompsonites, Native Silver, and Copper Specimens, Quartz, Dog-tooth Spar, Indian Bark Work, etc.
Persons ordering any of the above from a distance will have their orders carefully attended to.
EDWARD BUYSSE DEALER IN Watches, Clocks, -A-ITZD JEWS LK, Y~. All Kinds of Engraving Done SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
The Sun for 1882 will make its fifteenth annual revolution under the present management, shining, as always, for all, big and little, mean and gracious, contented and unhappy, Republican and Democratic, depraved and virtuous, intelligent and obtuse. The Sun’s light is for mankind and womankind of every sort; but its genial warmth is for the good, while it pours hot discomfort on the blistering backs of the presistently wicked.
The SUN of 1868 was a newspaper of a new kind. It discarded many of the forms, aud a multitude of the superfluous words and phrases of ancient journalism. It undertook to report in a fresh, succinct, unconventional way all the news of the world, omitting no event of human interest, and commenting upon affairs with the fearlessness of absolute independence. Thesuccess of this experiment was the success of The Sun. It effected a permanent change in the style of American newspapers. Every important journal established in this country in the dozen years past has been modelled after The Sun Every important journal already existing has been modified and bettered by the force of The Sun’s example.
The Sun of 1882 will be the same outspoken, truthtelling, and interesting newspaper.
By a liberal use of the means which an abundant prosperity affords, we shall make it better than ever before.
We shall print all the news, putting it into readable shape, and measuring its importance, not by the traditional yardstick, but by its real interest to the people. Distance from Printing House Squaie is not the first consideration with The Sun. When ever anything happens worth reporting we get the particulars, whether it happens in Brooklyn or in Bokhara.
In politics we have decided opinions; and are accustomed to express them in language that can be understood. We say what we tnink about men and events. That habit is the only secret of The Sun’s polictical course.
The Weekly Sun gathers into eight pages the best matter of the seven daily issues. An Agricultural Department of unequalled merit, full market reports, and a liberal proportion of literary, scientific, and domestic intelligence complete The Weekly Sun, and make it the best newpapesr for the farmer’s household that was ever printed.
Who does not know and read and like The Sunday Sun, each number of which is a Golconda cf interesting literature, with the best poetry of the day, prose every line worth reading, news, humor—matter enough to fill a good-sized book, and infinitely more varied and entertaining than any book, big or little ?
If our idea of what a newspaper should be pleases you, send for The Sun.
Our terms are as follows:
For the daily Sun, a four-page sheet of twenty-eight columns, the price by mail, postpaid, Is 55 cents a mouth, or $6.50 a year; or, including the Sunday paper, an eight-page sheet of fifty-six columns, the price is 65 cents per month, or $7.70 a year, postage paid. •
The Sunday edition of The Sun is also furnished seperately at $1.20 a year, postage paid.
The pnce of the Weekly Sun, eight pages, fifty-six columns, is $1 a year, postage paid. For clubs of ten sending $10 we will send an extra copy free.
Address I. W. ENGLAND, novl9-6t	Publisher of The Sun, New York City.
W. W. Kimball,
MANUFACTURER OF
Pianos and Organs.
OFFICE AND WAREROOMS :
Cor. State and Adams Streets,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
Agent, S. D. ROBERSON, Old Post-Office Building, nov5’81-ly	South Bend, Indiana.
The Minim Department.
This is a separate Department in the Institution of Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in Reading, Writing. Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—8125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, tree in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.