THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
VOL. 79
AUGUST 6, 1943
NO. 5
I-
'' —
i
( •
I
OiAue.:
S War Dead Mourned
S Commander Black Leaves
0 Service Center Entertains 3,000
Summer Baseball Begins
2
HE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized-June 25, 1918.
F. J. Pequigney, Editor
Robert O’Toole...
Dick Ames........
James Schaeffer.. Bill Carey....... John Mattmiller. Charles Renaud... Rev. C. M. Carey..
....Managing Editor ...Campus Editor ...Admin. Editor ...Sports Editor ...Circulation .Staff Photographer ...Faculty Advisor
NOW UNDER ONE ROOF!
Mail j Ootweiuei'ti Stored. I | BRUGGNER'S I I NEWS CENTER q CIGAR STORE I I 127 W. Washington (X J 10 North Main St. | In the J. M. S. Building	|
Pay Qfa a	|
Features
The Week..........fWm.	Talbot and
(Janies Cunningham On The Campus...........Bud Ohman
Pressbox Splinters...Bill Waddington The Ears Have If.....Vail Pischke
v 7	(J. A. Flanagan, H. D. Hart, J.
.....(D. Schwendeman, J. E. Taylor
V-12 ..................Joseph Plante
N.R.O.T.C....'.H. Gilligan, J. D. Usina Marines .....Don	Wilson
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR
TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $!.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
NOTRE DAME JACKETS and BLANKETS
Sonneborn's Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue South Bend, Ind.
FROM HERE AND THERE AND WHY NOT
The most perplexed party on the campus last week was a local yokel hi 387 Dillon. It seems that the mailman left a draft board notice which granted him a six months deferment. . . . Riddle: What is it that you can’t see and can’t hear but know is happening?—Hullabaloo!._What the Navy loves to see: Marine drilling exhibitions in front of Dillon at each noon chow.... The local tailor shop, where shirts are sewed on the buttons the laundry sends back, is getting very, very particular about its customers.... The ROTC and their new uniforms. . . . An optimistic sociology prof trying to convince a Marine private that his life span should reach 63 years.
OUR UNSEEN AUDIENCE
Recently we received a little anonymous note which simply stated that we should not try being so funny as Jack Woelfle (our predecessor). Of course, we knew of the terrific audience that Woelfle enjoyed, but we couldn’t figure out which half of it sent us the sour note. The note was so full of praise of Jack that we didn’t know what to make •of it. But then Augustus Gump, our ghost-writer (who is employed in chasing away publicity hounds), claimed he recognized what hand the note was typed in. When he finished demonstrating, there wasn’t a doubt left in our mind as to who it was. It sure had us worried for a while, though. And, say, by the way, Jack, let us hear from you again soon.
FIRE-BUGS
Not all false alarms happen to be blind dates in South Bend. In fact, very few of those numbers will ever have to worry about setting the world on fire. But over in Dillon there’s a different story. Three times during the. past two weeks some wiseacre has stood out on the deck, at about 2150, and warned all hands not to get undressed because there was going to be an emergency fire drill. We all waited patiently, but nothing happened — except that the lights went out. But we’re used to the lights going out, especially on Saturday night when they go out about an hour earlier than in other halls.
DINING HALL
The dining hall certainly tries to outdo itself every Friday morning with those hot hardboiled eggs. And the salads we get—The oil that drips off them may come from Afghanistan, but the lettuce tastes like stuff from the now-forgotten Sorin Victory Garden. Oh, well, so long as the chefs can still bring their own lunch to work, why should they care?
CULTURE
Complaints from some of the intelli-gentia on campus that few cultural opportunities were open to them at N. D. recently resulted in the beginning of a series of Sunday afternoon entertainments. The first of these was held Sunday, and in spite of the superb program, not enough people attended to fill out a fight card. On August 8 a second program will begin in the Rockne at 4 o’clock featuring a well known teacherauthor. The entertainments are open to everybody on the campus, including the civilians.
HOW TO KEEP FROM
GROWING OLD
Try and get a public telephone between 7 and 7:30 p.m.... Ask a Navy man why he’s fooling with a rifle on Saturday afternoon. . . . Wink at one of the pretty gals who comes into the caf late in the afternoon.... Take some dry cleaning in and ask to have it back the next day—. Hide some of the roomie’s mail for a couple of days.... Ask one of the newly outfitted marines where his number is.... Two breks and a milkshake, just for laughs.
To Mr. James Renner:
We offer our apologies for the article concerning you which appeared in these columns two weeks ago. We sincerely regret that our intended humor placed you in an unfavorable light, and take this occasion to assure you that no malice was intended.
The V-7 Reporters
The MARINES
By Don Wilson
“Next man! Unbutton your shirt and take off your belt!” the officer bellows. No, this time it isn’t a physical exam or innoculations. In this long line there are no shaking knees or gritting teeth. Instead, there are smiles and a general desire to prolong the procedure. The wisecracks are not the “whistling past the graveyard” sort that one hears while waiting for shots.
“Hey, end of the line, bud!” yells a Marine O.C. (this can’t be the line-up for shots.)
“You’ve lost a little weight around the middle,” says a man with a cloth tape around his neck. “Look, I can put my whole fist in, your pants have so much slack.”
“My belt fits,” replies the O.C. “Also my necktie—I can’t understand it!”
“Well, we’ll fix you up all right. Hold still, now,” the tailor says as he reaches for his tape.
A burly Marine private shouts laughingly, “Hey, Jeeves, I want my formal back not later than Saturday morning, know what I. mean?—And that’s an order! I don’t want to have to wear that . green zoot-suit in town.”
Yes, you’ve guessed it—the Marines soon null be wearing their two-toned tan .summer uniforms. The pants and shirts were being altered early this week and the overseas caps were issued one size too large to allow for laundering. The Notre Dame laundry must uphold its reputation for shrinkage, or the Marines will land on the shores of South Bend tomorrow with pillow-case headgear.
N. R. O. T. C. to Hold
a "Juke Box Hop"
The Unit Athletic Association of the NROTC will open its current social season with a “Juke Box Hop” to be held in the Rotary Ballroom of the Oliver Hotel. Only ROTC men will be able to attend, and entrance will be free to all those who are members of the Association, while ■ those .who have not paid their membership fee will be charged one dollar.
There’ll be no shortage of dancing partners for the dance because more than 50 U S 0 hostesses will be present, each, one guaranteed to be a queen. A soft drink bar will be located in the Blue Room for the convenience of the dancers. . If this first venture is a success the Association will sponsor more and bigger things .for the future, so all hands are urged to turn out for the festivities.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.
VOL. 79
AUGUST 6, 1943
NO. 5
3n 4|Demoriam
Last Sunday a flag was unfurled in the Sacred Heart Chapel, on it hung fifty-six gold stars. Each stood for the life which a Notre Dame man had given for his country. Fifty-six dead is not a new number to Notre Dame. That was the total amount of its World War I dead. Needless to say, every man sincerely hopes that the toll from the present conflict will be no more lengthy.	-
The Scholastic is inaugurating a column to be set aside for Notre Dame men who are in the service. It hopes that the sadness of reporting death may be varied with a few of the brighter aspects of Army and Navy life.
However, this week there is little to smile about in the news that we have. We print here a list of Notre Dame men who have been killed, captured, or are missing in action. Their ranks have not been given, for we did not feel that it was important to note these now. To us here on the campus and to their old professors and friends, the best memories of them are as students, and they will always remain just that.
Charles F. Bebeau, ex. ’43 Edward J. Brockman, ex. ’43 Matthew A. Byrne, 42 James L. Carroll, ex. ’40 John G. Casey, ’41 Harry B. Caudill, ex. ’41 Francis X. Clark, ’39 James T. Connell, ’40 Milton E. Connelly, ex. ’43 Pierre R. de la Vergne, ’38 Allem H. Elward, ex. ’44 Daniel P. Farley, ex. ’38 John P. French, ’34 John V. Flyn, ’36 Joseph C. Foley, ’37 Robert E. Fordyce, ’42 Richard S. Freeman, ’29 Oliver P. Helland, ’39 Hershel G. Horton, ex. ’43 Fergus F. Kelly, ’37 William P. Marsh, ’41 Newton L. Mathews, ’36 Vincent J. Jasinski, ex. ’34 Hugh F. McCaffery, ’37 William J. McJunkin, ’41 Richard L. Novak, ‘29 Joseph A. O’Brien, ex. ’40 Patrick Flaherty, ’34 Charles H. O’Donnell, ex. ’40 Edward H. Phelan, ex. ’40 Eugene A. Polette, ’40 Joseph P. Prendergast, ’36 Francis V. Quackenbush, ex. ’38 James J. Quinn, ’36 Ambrose I. Rice, ex. ’38
Joseph F. Riley, ex. ’37 Edward J. Schreiber, ’41 James O. Schultheis, ex. ’41 Anthony J. Seaman, ex. ’40 Arthur C. Smith, ’33
Memorial Chapel Door
Lionel V. Smith, ’33 Daniel J. Sullivan, ex. ’36 John T. Von Harz, ’40 George C. Wassell, ’31 Douglas C. Weaver, ’40 George W. Weber, ex. ’40 Thomas J. Webster, ’40 John J. Whelan, ex. ’43 John R. Wiechman, ex. ’43 Ralph G. Wingfield, ’40 George A. Wolf, ex. ’39 Floyd Grazier, ex. ’39 Thomas F. Durkin, ’37
Paul E. Purcell, ’40 Joseph E. Leising, ’39 Lawrence A. Barrett, ’40
MISSING IN ACTION
William C. Adama, ex. ’42 Robert D. Bijur, ex. ’43 John L. Crane, ’40
Henry J. McConnell, ex. ’37 Howard K. Petchel, ex. ’42 Joseph J. Reardon, ex. ’22 Edward F. Rorke, ex. ’39 Otto J. Seifert, ex. ’41 Raymond J. Eichenlaub, ’42
CAPTURED
Charles M. Butterworth, ’42 Richard J. Carroll, ’37, (Italians) Thomas P. Foy, 38, (Japs) Mario G. Tonelli, ’39, (Japs) George K. Petritz, ex. ’38
5
-sc-	-ae-
ADMINISTRATION .3K	-3g.	3C1~	:^g-.3g. SLg. ' -ZZZ
Four Alumni Killed; N. D.
Men in Thick of Battles
A Notre Dame graduate, Colonel Charles D. Jones, ’32, is in charge of a unique air combat training school now being conducted in the North African area.
Colonel Jones was wounded in action shortly before being placed in charge of the school, and his methods are credited with much of the success that our fliers have enjoyed in battle. All the instruct tors are fresh from actual combat. Jones’ methods of instruction are well-liked and suited foi- the young trainees. Posters stressing his flying Ten Commandments, which are placed throughout the camp, are among the various methods used.
Capt. Joseph D. Barry, a Catholic Chaplain and a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1935, was in the midst of the hottest fighting going on in Sicily during the past few weeks.
Among the adventures that Capt. Barry and his regiment experienced was the fighting of their way out of a well-planned and huge trap that the Italians and Germans had prepared at a bridge. The regiment barely escaped the trap, being forewarned by advance scouts. The lead battalion was subjected to heavy machine-gun and mortar fire.
Father Barry has often had to take care of his duties under heavy fire and strafing by enemy planes.
Notre Dame’s gold service stars now number 56 for'World War II, the total altogether of those who gave their lives in World War I from Notre Dame. The latest stars to be added to the flag are those of Chaplain Patrick X. Flaherty, ’34, Major Joseph E. Leising, ’39, Paul Purcell, ’40, and Larry Barrett, ’40.
Lt. Flaherty, Catholic Chaplain of the Eleventh Armored Division, was killed in a swimming accident at Camp Polk, La., where he was stationed. -	.
Major Leising, Marine Corps, died in a plane collision off the North Carolina coast. While at Notre Dame he was a member of the fencing and the crosscountry teams and was : graduated in 1939 with a Ph.B. in Commerce.
The ninth Notre Dame man missing in action is Lt. Haymond J. Eichenlaub, ex. ’42. Lt. Eichenlaub, whose father was a noted Irish football player, was with the Army Air Force in the North African area. He has been missing since
July ninth. He enlisted in the Air Force in November, 1941, and was commissioned August fifth, at Fostoria, Texas.
There are also five men from Notre Dame who are prisoners of war. .
Capt. (Chaplain) Joseph D. Barry
Pedtke Continues Series;
Prof. Richard Sullivan Next
A series of entertainments has been worked out in the past few weeks for the students of Notre Dame" and especially for those who recently came to this
Prof. Richard Sullivan
Prof. Daniel Podtke —>
Henry Scott, the piano satirist, and continued last week by Professor Daniel Pedtke. The purpose of the entertainments is to provide for the trainees and
students recreation that is educational and enjoyable. But they are presented principally to show, to some small degree at least, the intellectual side of Notre Dame, so that men who will be here for but a short time will carry away some memories other than those of the obstacle course and the early morning risings. The features have been well chosen, with an eye toward current interest and fields which will have a general campus interest.
Last Sunday afternoon a small and informal group, composed mostly of students, listened with a great deal of pleasure to the recital and discussion given by Mr. Pedtke in the Rockne Lounge. The talk, appropriately called “Murder by Swinging,” was clear* and informative. Mr. Pedtke showed the fundamental differences between popular swing and classical music, illustrating the points he made by playing the same theme in the two different forms. It was not hard for the students to see the “murdering” of the original classical themes by “swinging” tliem, and thus changing them from their previous beauty of expression to the simple, repetitious form in which all modern dance music must be arranged. In some cases the contrast was so acute that the student audience could not help but smile, and the verdict reached at the end of the program was that Mr. Pedtke had won his point.
The third in this series of entertainments ■will be held this Sunday, August 8, at four o’clock in the Rockne Lounge. Professor Richard Sullivan, noted short story writer and author of the novel Summer After Summer, - will discuss modern, literature, with an emphasis on service men’s reading.
The gathering will be strictly informal, of course, and everyone is invited to attend. •
Sunday, August 8, 4 p.m.: Prof. Richard Sullivan, “Wartime Reading,” Prof. Frank O’Malley, chairman, the Rockne Memorial Lounge,.
Tuesday, August' 17, 8 pan.: The Weicher- Trio, recital; Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., chairman; Washington Hall.	,	.
Sunday, August 22, 4 pan.: Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C., art exhibit; Mr. Paul. Byrne, chairman; University Galleries.
Sunday, August 29, 4 p.m.: Prof; T. Bowyer Campbell, “The Orient”; Prof. Frank O’Malley, chairman; the Lounge, Rockne Memorial.
Sunday, Sept. 5, 4 pan.: Prof. Frank Montana “Mediterranean Views”; Mr. Paul Byrne, chairman; Lounge, Rockne Memorial. .
Sunday, Sept. 12, 4 p.m.: Musical Program; Prof. Cecil Birder, chairman; Sacred Heart Church.
6
Commander Black Leaves Notre Dame
Assigned to Army-Navy Staff School in Kansas
Lieut. Commander Thompson Black, Jr., assistant professor of Naval Science of The Reserve Officers Training Corps, . has been detached from this station and will report to his new duty at the joint Army-Navy Staff School in Kansas. He reported to Notre Dame in September of 1941, and was one of the first officers on Captain Burnett’s staff of instructors.
Lt. Comm. Thompson Black
Mr. Black, bom in England, came to America in 1913; attended high school in East Aurora, in New York; and received his appointment to the Academy in 1929. He was graduated and commissioned in four years and went to sea. He has served on the IT. S. S. Oklahoma, for three years, the U.S.S. Henderson and
Attends Metallurgy Meeting
Professor E. G. Mahin of the Depart
Prof. E. G. Mahin
ment of Metallurgy attended the meetr; j of the publicity committee of the American Society for Metals at Cleveland Friday and Saturday, July 30 and 31.
This committee reviews papers of scientific interest to be offered for presentation at the annual meeting of the Soci
ety, and arranges the program for that meeting, which is to be held this year at Chicago in October.
Economic Round Table
Seeks New Members
The Economic Round Table, an informal group of students which meets once,a week to discuss topics of current interest, held a meeting recently at ’which plans were laid for operations during this semester. Jim Clark was elected president and Charles Urruela is secretary-treasurer of the Table, while
the U. S. S. Ramapo. While shipping on the latter he was promoted to lieutenant (jg). Mr. Black was then transferred to destroyer duty as engineering officer and sailed on the U. S. S. Bone, the U. S. S. J. Fred Talbott and the U. S. S. Si-goumey.
Assigned to this post Commander Black took up his duties as an instructor, teaching Seamanship, Navigation, and Marine Engineering. In October of 1941 he was promoted to a lieutenant, (sg) and in January of 1943 to the rank of lieutenant commander.
While acting in the capacity of instructor, Mr. Black organized the Irish Pennant, and has served as the faculty adviser to this unit publication until the time of" his transfer. .He also was the officer in charge of the first crvise this May aboard the U. S. S. Wilmette.
Commander Black was one of the most popular officers on the post; and all in the unit as well as people associated with him were sorry to see him leave. But everyone and especially members of the NROTC wish him all the success in his new duty and continued smooth sailings.
Mr. Downey, professor of economics in the University, continues to act as faculty moderator.
In past years the group met once a week, at a dinner which was held at some restaurant in downtown South Bend. However, because of the war, this practice has been discontinued until suitable arrangements can be made, and so the next few meetings will be held in the library. The time for these meetings has not yet been set, but Wednesday night has been usual up to now.
The procedure of the meetings isa simple one. A paper is read by one of the members of the Table and after the reading a discussion and criticism of the . paper, is entered into by all the others. The subjects for these-, papers are not bound by any laws, and can be anything which the individual thinks will be of timely interest, such as a discussion of -post war peace plans, or an aspect of the war. The Table could be called an International Relations Club, for it covers, in its talks, topics which embrace all countries, and their economic, social and political problems.
The Table is now composed almost exclusively of second semester seniors, and since these men dislike to see it disintegrate with their graduation, they are
welcoming new members at this time. There is room for about .12 new men, and the entrance is not too difficult.
Anyone who is interested should either contact George Hegner in 351 Sorin, or drop a card to P.O. box no. 38, Notre Dame. They will then be contacted by one of the members, and interviewed. At this interview they will be asked several questions on some popular subject. If they seem sufficiently interested and willing to coooperate in furthering the ends of the club, they will be invited to the next meeting. During the discussion which will take place they will be observed and drawn out by the members, and then voted on.
The Table is an old and well established campus organization, and well worth joining. Any student or trainee may, and is invited to do so.
Father Charles Sheedy
Edits '‘Chaplains' Digest"
The Notre Dame “Chaplains’ Digest,” founded by Father John Lynch, C. S. C., is starting its second year of publication, now under the editorship of the‘Assistant Prefect of Religion, Father Charles Sheedy. .
The aim of the Chaplains’ Digest is to provide chaplains, busy men without much time to read, with material which they can give their men in sermon, talk, or bulletin form.
The digest is circulated to all Catholic chaplains in the army and navy, over 1900 at the present, and also a few Protestant chaplains at their request. Its mailing privilege carries it all over, the world. The Digest has the approval of and secures its mailing list from Bishop O’Hara, military ordinate.
The material .is partly original, partly clipped from other secular and Catholic publications. Many chaplains send their own bulletins to the Digest.
Celebrates Jubilee
Rev. Joseph Alan Heiser, C.S.C., former teacher at the University, celebrates his silver jubilee mass at 8 a.m. Monday in St. Patrick's church in South Bend.
Father Heiser was ordained in 1918 in Sacred Heart church, and was assigned to St. Edward's university at ‘ Austin, Texas. Later he was recalled . to teach at Notre Dame. He taught here until three years ago when he was made chaplain for the Sisters of - Loretto at Loretto, Ky.
After the mass Father will enjoy a breakfast with immediate relatives, and eight close friends.
7
Campus News
done, decorations of many types to be put in place, and a general fulfillment of the plans drawn up to be effected, the men are asked to bear with the little
New Service Men's Center Opens at Palais
inconveniences of the first few weeks. Work on the Center will continue until it is ready for its formal Gala Openingin the middle of September.
Military Feet Swing
BY AL
A near capacity crowd of Service Men jammed the Palais Royale in its initial week-end as South Bend’s Service Center. V-7, Marine, V-12, and R.O.T.C. trainees as well as many regular service men who were either on furlough or just passing through South Bend, joined in on last Saturday’s house warming.
The tempo of marching feet was changed completely in this lighter military exercise, and the stomp and tramp that prevails on the campus through the week gave way to a smooth glide, with a dip now and then. The Army and Navy didn’t really plan their brogues for dancing pumps, however, and it was interesting to watch the men making the conversion. Even more interesting, when a conversion was impossible, as was the case with one Paratrooper. He lost his dignity, his jovial air of happiness, and his girl—all at the same time—because af a step that should never have been made. A simple case of American armed might making itself felt—but there’s a time and place for everything.	-
The V-7 band, assisted by their own quartet, provided the music for the dance. They did a fine job of giving everyone everything they wanted, sometimes playing fast and loud, and at others calming down to the sweet and nostalgic notes.
There was such a rush at this first tea dance, that all ready, supplies of cookies, smokes, and pop were exhausted. It was a fox-tunate thing that couples did not begin arriving for the evening dance session before a squad of volunteers had had ample time to restock in these essential items.
Because each of the men had to bring his own date for the night party there were not quite so many on the floor as in the afternoon, but there were enough to enjoy the large floor and the music, sup-, plied this time by the juke-box. The Center boasts a brand new one, by the way; the one that was in use at the old Center was in rather poor condition and so it has been replaced. .
. Throughout the whole week, . when moving and closing details had to be worked out, the old Center kept right on
at Teas and Dances
LESMEZ
operating. When it did close, it was only because the Palais was ready to take up its part in the war effort. This seeming coincidental synchronizing of opening and closing was not easy to plan, and it required many hours of extra work. But in order that service men might not be turned away on the weekend, the several committees in charge found this time and the work was done.
South Bend is beginning to feel, and justly so, even more proud of its work at the Center. All the labor is donated free (nearly 6000 girl-hours were donated on this first weekend), and the boys are given cookies, stationery, books, theatre tickets, and services of various types more profusely than ever before. The record of the Center up to now has been enviable.
Since there are still many things to be
Former "Dome" Editor Now Chaplain
An appreciation of Capt. Paul J. Hallinan , of the class of ’32, Editor of the ’31 Dome, and now chaplain with the army in ‘the southwest Pacific area, by Corp. Norman Rayburn Bergman has been received by friends here from Rabbi Leo Bergman of Rockford, Ill., brother of Norman. Norman’s parents,- Mr. and Mrs. Max Bergman, live at 2330 Euclid Heights Boulevard, Cleveland Heights.
. Corp. Bergman’s letter referring to Chaplain Hallinan appeared in the Cleveland Plain Dealert	.
“About five, feet nine, a continuous smile from ear to ear, curly black hair, and a pair of eyes that are as Irish as Paddy’s pig, that’s the best way of characterizing our chaplain, Father Hallinan. He is the best friend any man in the service could have. We have all agreed on this point. The men in our regiment got together and built him a beautiful chapel here at our camp. He helped supervise the construction of it. Men of all faiths and from all walks of life can be seen stepping in and out of our chapel for a
Plans for this coming weekend include a Saturday tea dance for which dancingpartners will be provided. It will last from 2:30 to 5:30, and an evening session to which, as last week, dates must be brought. There will be another tea dance on Sunday from 1:30 to 4:30.
One of the first things the Committee plans to do is to provide a little more privacy for the men. They are going to hang curtains on the glass exit doors, so that the hostesses will not see them primping up before the mirrors that line the halls. They think this will have to be necessary, because the hostesses are too willing to be influenced by the good judgments which the Service Men are willing to pass on their general appearance. The other day one sailor stood in front of a mirror, and softly sighed, “Take a peek at that good-looking sailor. Why did God give all this to me?” The poor hostess standing by was swept off her feet by that.
short prayer all during the day. Catholic, Jew and Protestant, we all love and respect Father Hallinan.
“As a Jew, I want all Cleveland Jewry to know that Father Hallinan, who is from Cleveland, made it possible for us to hold our traditional Passover services here in this area under the most trying-conditions. We held the official Seder for two nights, and it was beautiful. This is only one of the things Father Hallinan has done for our small group.' He organized Jewish services on our transport coming across.
“AH Cleveland should look forward to the day that Father Hallinan returns to his parish on E. 109th Street, between Superior and St. Clair. I am writing these few lines on behalf of the men of the regiment. We want all Cleveland to know how we feel about Capt. Paul J. Hallinan, a Catholic priest, who is God’s messenger to us.”	'
Before entering the, chaplaincy, Capt. Hallinan was assistant, at St.. Aloysius’ Church, 10932 St. Clair Avenue, N. E.
8
Barrister's Ball a Success
People.
On Saturday evening, July 31, the Notre Dame Barrister’s Ball was held at the Indiana Club. Lawyers, Navy and Marine reservists and their dates danced to the smooth rhythms of Marty Ross and his orchestra.
Miss Loretta Kowalski, the guest of Chairman Tom Mitchell was Ball Queen.
| The guest of honor was Mrs. Hal Hunt! er, wife of the president of the Law Club. .
r	-
;	Committee members under head man
i Mitchell were Don Hummer, music;
■ Charley Boynton, tickets; Vail Pischke, publicity; Graham McGowan, refresh-
’ ments; Jack Barry, house; Bill Lawless,
•	patrons; Peter Nemeth, invitations;
!	John DiGirolamo, arrangements; Jim
Kane, decorations and Nowal Trimborn, program. 5 I
5	The Ball, placed for the first time in
s a wartime setting, saw many of the
. dancers in Navy and Marine uniforms.
For many members of the Law Club it ■ was their last social gathering for the duration.. Only last week Jack Barry left for Navy Midshipmen’s school at Columbia, and Chairman Tom Mitchell will be inducted into the Army on about August 12.
On The Campus
BY A. J. OHMAN
Interviews for SV-7 Program
During the past week Lt. Evans of the Chicago Office of Naval Officer Procurement has been at Notre Dame interviewing prospective candidates for the Naval SV-7 program. Lt. Evans is planning to return to Notre Dame in the near future, the exact date of which will be announced later. .
The Navy SV-7 program provides an opportunity for college junior and senior engineers, physics, math, or chemistry majors to complete their studies and to be commissioned in the Navy Reserve.
Those fulfilling the requireemnts as to age, physical condition, citizenship and non-marriage provisions, and scholastically acceptable to the Navy, will have arrangements made for them to be voluntarily inducted through Selective Service. They will be assigned to the Navy as apprentice seamen, and then placed on inactive duty and allowed to complete their degree requirements, if in their last semester. Otherwise they will be called to active duty and assigned to a school to complete their studies. Upon graduating, the student will be assigned to a Reserve Midshipmen’s or similar school.
Lyons Hall, not to be outdone by other battalions, also boasts of several men who were outstanding athletes in their undergraduate days at College. This week meet Midshipman George Ceithaml, Battalion 1A Commander, who played a little football for Michigan, and captained the 1942 team.
George Ceithaml
Ceithaml (pronounced Si-hamal) hails from Chicago, Illinois. Upon graduation from high school in the Windy City, he won an alumni scholarship which took him across the lake to study economics at the University of Michigan. It was there he met Fritz Crisler, the Wolverine coach, and played with Michigan’s great All-Amer-
ican, Tommy Harmon.
“I played quarterback during my entire three years of varsity competition,” he says. “Tommy Harmon deserved every bit of publicity that he received, for he was a truly great player to work with.”
Ceithaml, a six foot, 190 pounder, says that his toughest backfield opponent was Otto Graham, Northwestern back. The strongest lineman was beyond a doubt Dick Wildung, Minnesota’s AllAmerican tackle, he added.
“Our best-played game was our surprise 32 to 20 defeat of Notre Dame last season. That occasion, incidentally, was my first acquaintance with this nice campus.”
While Ceithaml wasn’t made an official All-American quarterback, he was mentioned by several prominent judges, ‘ notably Grantland Rice, whose All-American selections appear annually in Collier’s magazine. He was picked as Big-Ten quarterback, and also w’as chosen to represent the east in the annual EastWest Shrine game played last New Years Day at San Francisco.
He has seen quite a bit of the United States in his four years at Michigan. He-played twice in California, once in Boston, and in New York as well as against most of the teams in the midwest.
“The funniest incident I ever saw happen during a fooball game occured in Seutember of 1940 when we defeated California 42-0. One local home-town spectator ran out onto the field and attempted to tackle Harmon as he was heading for a touchdown. Needless to say, Harmon scored—even with the twelfth man on the field.”
Last May he was invited to compete in the annual All-Star game which is to be played in Chicago next month. ”1 don”t expect to appear in this one, however,” he declares, “for I’ve got a tougher and more important job right here.”
Robert “Scoop” Hallein firmly believes that the airplane is here to stay, and plans on revolutionizing the aircraft industry. This was no doubt the cause for his entering Notre Dame as an aero-engineering student in September of ’39. But the theoretical side of aeronautics was not enough to satisfy Bob, so he quit school in
"Scoop" Hallein the spring of ’41 to work for the' Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Corp. But he returned in the fall of ’42 with a brain full of knowledge and a pocketful of dough, and started hitting the books again.
Bob was bom in- Springfield, Mass., May 7, 1921. West Springfield High was gifted with his presence for four years, during which time he made quite a name for himself as a columnist and as editor of the school year book. He put his feet to work as vrell as his brains, though, and managed to become something of a star in hockey.
During his Junior year here Bob was appointed recording secretary of the Knights of Columbus, and at present is the Grand Knight.
Scoop has been offered several jobs by airplane fabricators, but as yet hasn’t decided which he prefers. He has a brain child, he says, a plane of the 400 m/hr. class, which should be put on the market, and he’s considering giving Boeing a crack at it. ~
9
Notre Dame Sports
Four Notre Dame Men With All Stars;
Leahy, Lonergan, are Arch Ward Aids
tory in the 1941 undefeated season. Wally was recently given leave from his work in the Marine Corps to recuperate from an operation on a bad knee which he received playing ball. Creighton Miller, of the famous Miller family of Notre Dame, has another year of collegiate competition in which to climax his brilliant career. His hard running teammate Cammille Piccone, also played this past year.
BY ROLAND J. STEINLE
'Not a small part of the destiny of the 1943 All-Star football game will be in the hands of Notre Dame men. When the College All - Stars take the field against the Washington Redskins August 25th, in the 10th annual gridiron classic sponsored by the Chicago Trib un e Charities, Inc., at least four former
Notre Dame players will represent “The Fighting Irish.” To date Wally Ziemba, Steve Juzwik, Cammille Piccone, and Creighton Miller have accepted invitations to join the All-Star squad. They report to Northwestern University August 7th to prepare for the annual charity game with the National Professional League champions. On the strategical side, it will be Head Coach Harry Stuhl-dreher, one of the Four Horsemen, with Frank Leahy as his aid. Arch Ward, Notre Dame Graduate, and his new assistant, Robert “Red” Lonergan, ’43, will handle the promotion and publicity for the game.
Though the general public has had no hand in choosing either the All-Star coaching staff or the squad itself, a very representative group has been invited to take part in the game, which this year will be played in Dyche Stadium, Evanston. While the personnel of the squad is far from complete, the roster already includes such names as Paul Governali of Columbia; Steve Filipowicz of Fordham; Pat Harder of Wisconsin; Otto Graham, Northwestern; Bob Steuber, Missouri; Frank Maznicki, Boston College; Al Wistert, Michigan; Dick Wild-ung, Minnesota; Tommy James, Ohio State; Steve Dach, Duke.
Flashy, barrel-chested Steve Juzwik, who two years ago climaxed his college career during which he repeatedly brought the crowd to their feet by his expert open field running, has the distinction of being the first Notre Dame player to compete in two All-Star games. In last year’s contest against the Chicago Bears he made a sensational 84 yard run.
Wally Ziemba, giant center of the last three Notre Dame teams, will be long
remembered for his stellar lineplay, especially his fine defensive play when the chips were down. It was Ziemba who blocked two Southern Cal tries for extra points to give Notre Dame a 20-18 vic-
Irish Nine Meets Camp Custer Tomorrow
Veterans Jim Carlin and Tom Sheehan will lead the Notre Dame baseball team against Camp Custer on Cartier Field tomorrow afternoon. It will be the second contest of the summer season.
Victors over the Bunker Hill Navy at Peru, Indiana, the team will be gunning for its second victory. Last week the Naval Station was sunk 8-6. Home runs by Tom Sheehan, hard hitting catcher, and Bob Klein, Buffalo, N. Y. shortstop, featured a 12 hit assault against two opposing pitchers. Andy Phillip, basketball star from Illinois and at present a Marine reservist on campus, scattered eight hits over the nine inning route. Irish errors let in six unearned navy tallies.
Coach Kline’s starting team consisted of five veterans and four newcomers
Cartier Field is Host to the Soldiers Tomorrow
And so Notre Dame lends a hand in the making of another All-Star game. When the opening whistle blows August 25 in Chicago, a little of the Cartier field technique will manifest itself out on the field, down on the bench, and high up in the pressbox.
who found themselves on Cartier’s sod via the service training programs. Jim Carlin, last spring’s captain and third sacker, is back at the hot corner. Bob Klein, who gave evidence in the first game that he will continue his strong hitting, is still holding down the fifth spot in the batting order. Tom Carlin, always a fine fielder, started at second base against Bunker Hill. Angelo Ber-telli is back at his old spot in center field. Behind the platter, of course will be Tom Sheehan, leading swatter in the spring. Other starters are Kranda, Sca-pella and Ellsperman, Marine and Navy V-12 trainees, who have impressed Jake Kline in the early workouts. Andy Phillip who handled his first assignment with ease, should win plenty of games for the Irish.
10
-------------------------------------------At Maa. Attlee Co-.---------------------------
--------------------------------------—South Bend’s Quality Store since 1913--------
FOR NAVY MEN — Store Open Saturday 'til 9 P. M.; Sunday all day
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50
RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50
NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SEE THE NEW SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP Premier Quality with. 3 covers $1850
£.£7num
M*X MILER
l,	ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtovm bus terminal.
I I
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Bill Daley, Minnesota’s backfield suc-
cessor to George tote the pigskin
Will Waddington
ana’s well-known
Franck, will help to for Fritz Crisler’s Michigan squad when they open with Camp Grant, Sept. 18... Wisconsin has sent six letter winners in all to the Wolverine cause, they being Wink, Hirsch, Seelinger, Negus, Boyle, and H a n z 1 i k. . . Ball State, one of Inditeachers’ college, has
dropped football for the duration—they also are waiting till September to decide whether they’ll put a cage team on the court or not.... Although Lloyd Brazil, athletic director successor to Gus Dorais at Detroit, says that the university will have to drop football in view of the lack of man power—He continues, however, that the grid sport will probably become an international affair after the war...
Only two Big Nine conference rules concerning eligibility are now league standards due to wartime measures......... (1) Candidates for teams must be regularly enrolled students and, (2) No compensation for participation as a member of a team will be permitted.
Jack Brickhouse, Chicago sports-announcer, optimistically figures that the Chicago Cubs will have the whole month of August to get into second place, and then settle down to work in September to grab off the. pennant...... The new contingent of radiomen sent to Auburn for training like everything swell, but they’d like “more girls.” .... “We’re sailors, not wolves,” declared one of the tars.— Uh huh!!! The man-power is really on the legit—both the Marquette Tribune and Ball State News have ushered in females as sports editors.... You think this ain’t a woman’s world???.______ Frankie Sinkwich, now carrying the ball for the marines at Parris Island, hopes, to return to a career in pro-ball at the conclusion of • the war.... The Detroit Lions grabbed him in the last draft but the marines had first call.
Lou Saban, Indiana’s football captain of last season and also the man who made the N. D. shot-putters put a little extra “umph” in their work, is now . in . the army.... The NROTC feels the light breath of pay-day, if it .isn't already
passed by the time this reaches you, but they’d like to know how much they’ll owe the government this month, with uniforms, laundry, insurance, bonds, and special savings making up their account ____With a billing such as above rumored they may have a pack of smokes in the offing. — Dizzy Dean participated in a semi-pro game recently and the local catcher casually approached him and queried, “just how -will you signal me when you pitch your fast ball?” “You’re asking me,” replied the former mound ace.... The Texas League which closed its door to baseball this year because of transportation difficulties and a possibility of. heavy financial losses, plan to reopen next year providing there are no reversals on the fighting front.... With the Pacific Coast league expanding their receipts this year, the Texans are probably trying to calculate how much of a financial beating they took by closing up.... Alvin (Bo) McMillin starts his tenth year of coaching at Indiana this fall.	.	-
Only three V-12 candidates reported for summer practice at Illinois.... Most of Ray Eliot’s would be material will be facing him this fall instead of plugging away for him.____Many grid fans are wondering if the transferred trainees who play against their old alma mater during the coming season won’t run the wrong way out of sympathy.... Purdue has beaten Indiana 24. times in the “Old Oaken Bucket” game.______Indiana has only 16 to their credit, five ties also having resulted.... Chuck Fenske, co-holder of the world’s competitive in- . door mile mark of 4:07:4, is now a lieutenant in the Army Air Forces.
N.R.O.T.C Receives Khaki Palm Beaches
The NROTC received its Palm Beach khaki uniforms recently. The suits inelude trousers, blouse, and gold buttons.
The price of the suit vail be taken out of the pay in three monthly installments. Although the shipment of official NROTC insignia has not been received, students may wear the khaki without it.
The prescribed uniform, for those who wear their khaki on leave or liberty, consists, of khaki trousers, blouse, shirt, and. overseas cap; black shoes, socks, and tie. Billed caps with khaki cap covers may not be worn. .
Interhall Tennis Tourney
Will Soon be Under Way
By Dan Reardon
Interhall tennis will soon be under
way. If the turnout this year is anything like that of 1942, over 100 racket swingers will parti
cipate in the tournament. It has been suggested that there be a class “A” and a class “B” league for m e d. This will depend entirely on the number of players that turns out for the event.
Any student on the campus may enter the matches —
V-12, Marines, N.R.O.T.C. and civilians. The midshipmen have a team of their own and hence will not compete in the tournament. The schedule will be made up by next week, and play will begin by the middle of August at the very latest, continuing as long as the weather permits.	.
Medals will be awarded to the mem
bers of the winning hall team. A captain will be appointed for each hall and his duty will be to arrange the team members according to their individual skill.
. This year’s varsity tennis depends almost entirely on the possibility Of securing competition. It is very doubtful that matches can be scheduled with other colleges and universities. Probably the only games will be with teams from South Bend or with the midshiprhen. Whether varsity tennis develops this year or not, those, on the school team will be eligible to participate in the interhall matches.
Bill Boss and Tony Earley
To Air Sportscast on WSBT
For the second year the Notre Dame Sportscast will be aired at 4:30 every Tuesday afternoon over Station WSBT, South Bend. With Bill Boss, senior football manager and ex Scholastic sport’s editor, and Tony Earley at the microphone, the program will feature Notre Dame sports, N. D. athletic personalities and news and views on the current national sport’s scene.
This semester Jerry Hargraves, Marine reservist from Marquette and a .veteran of Milwaukee’s radio voice W.TMJ, will act as announcer for the show. Over in the corner engineer’s booth will be George Charters.
The program will be broadcast from the studios of the Notre Dame Radio Club on the third floor of the Engineering Building. '	:	.	'
12
Province Announces Changes
The Congregation of Holy Cross, United States Province, on Monday evening, announced 664 obediences through the provincial, Rev. Thomas A. Steiner. There were relatively few changes in personnel in the widespread program of the Congregation.
Notre Dame’s president, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, and vice-president, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, were reappointed to their respective offices.
Rev. William M. Robinson, who has been teaching at Notre Dame, becomes president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas.
Rev. John M. Ryan, veteran Notre Dame, teacher and rector of Walsh Hall, goes to New Orleans as assistant pastor at Sacred Heart Church and chaplain of the prison.
Rev. Leo W. Gorman, rector of St. Edward’s Hall, was assigned to Holy Cross Seminary.
The Congregation has pursued an intensive program of advanced studies for its members. Fourteen priests have been assigned to continuing work in Notre Dame and other leading universities, including Columbia, Harvard, Yale and Laval universities. War has prevented the usual graduate work in universities in Europe. Rev. John A. Molter, receiving his. Ph.D. from the University of
Pennsylvania, rejoins the Notre Dame faculty. In addition, 11 new priests have been assigned to do further graduate work in the universities best suited to their fields.
Bill Lawless Elected
Wranglers' President
The Wranglers, oldest campus organization at Notre Dame, held their first meeting of the year last Thursday, July 29. Bill Lawless was elected president, and tentative plans’were made for the club’s coming activities. Yesterday another meeting was held at which final votes were taken on the new applicants for membership, the results of which will be printed in next week’s Scholastic. Mr. Frank O’Malley, English professor here at the University, is the faculty moderator for the group.
The Wranglers is a discussion club, and at each .of the meetings, which are held every Thursday night in the Law Building, a paper is read by one of the members on any subject of common interest to all, and this is followed by informal debate.
Mr. William Coyne, former teacher at Notre Dame, organized the club in 1925, and placed emphasis at that time on oratory. Since then it has become less rigid in its requirements, and this year, due to the troubled times, it has relaxed
to an even greater degree. Anyone on the campus may join, after first having an interview by three of the current members, reading a paper before the whole group, and then being voted upon. Those who are interested should contact Jim O’Dea in 243 Zahm Hall as soon as possible.
Want Reading Matter for German War Prisoners
German prisoners of war at Camp Phillips, Kansas, are in need of German prayer books, German-English dictionaries, German-English student textbooks, books on philosophy and science magazines such as National Geographic and Fortune, bld and new, it was announced by the Religious Bulletin.
All books and magazines should be mailed to Norb F. Skelly, 109 North Santa Fe Ave., Salina, Kans. Mr. Skel-ley is cooperating with Bishop Thill of Concordia, Kansas, who is acting under instructions from the Papal representative in Washington.
There are about 1500 German prisoners at Camp Phillips, all of whom have seen action on the Russian and African fronts. Many speak English and they are all anxious to learn more. This is a chance to convert some of them from their present idiologies. Already many of them have returned to their Faith.
NAVAL UNIFORM STORE
CUSTOM-TAILORED OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
raut
117 West LaSalle Ave. Phone 4-0220
Our 50 years experience as custom tailors is your guarantee of an exact fit and finer workmanship. MADE-TO-MEASURE. Personal attention.
Appointed SHIP’S TAILOR 155 Morrissey Hall
13
THE EARS HAVE IT
By Vail W. Pischke
---- ------- IPJ.
A radio star is only as good as his script writers. This has been, thoroughly d time again via the big and small networks. Stars rise and fall, depending upon the p o p u 1 a r i ty of their scripts— and it does not take long for the public’s axe to fall one way or another, regardless of the star’s
previous prestige or standing. For example, Jack Benny’s scripts have been on the decline for the past year .and in spite of the fact that he’s been the No. 1 comedian on all .polls for four years, the public pounced upon him, reversed the decision giving him the Kingship of the Comedians, and condemned him as a second rank performer—not because of what he had personally done, for his style arid delivery remained the same, but principally because of his writer’s gag cramps (particularly Ed Morrow’s). Then again, things jump to the vice versa, as is well illustrated by the case of Bums and Allen. They’d been working for NBC for years and never gotten past the second class stage, but last year they suddenly switched to CBS, changed writers, took on excellent material, and overnight became No. 1 spotters.
There’s no doubt that all stars fear this sudden decision on the part of Mr. and Mrs. Public, for they all realize only too well that tomorrow they may be just another “ex-vaudevillian.”-To some stars the immediate future looks swell, to others pathetic. Jack Carson of CBS Wednesday night is riding high at the present time and his popularity is scheduled to grow, if anything. His spurt in the comedian’s ranks can • possibly be credited to one particular idea on the part of his ace. script writer: the idea of satirizing the Soap Box shows (those gruesome daily serials that housewives gobble up). This type of satire took immediately, but the show’s managers wisely rationed their new idea. .They switched to a different idea after using the “Soap Box” scheme for only two or three broadcasts, .undoubtedly planning to come back to it in the near future. Thus they offered variety to. Mr. and Mrs. Public and didn’t fag an idea out. On the other hand, Red Skelton has . 14	'	' . -•	'.v	<.
been doing just the opposite thing, with the result that his popularity has shrunk noticeably in recent national polls. Skelton’s show is much the same at it was the first day that it was introduced arid the public has shown its reaction—it’s simply tired of a good thing done so much that it becomes monotonous and almost boring. Solution: Burns and Allen will be back next Fall, while Skelton will be drafted!
Shades of Sinatra: Newest success story along the Main Stem these days is Dick Haymes, favorite crooner who’s doing a Sinatra into the big time.... watch him! Within the past three months Haymes has opened at a New York nitery and broken all records, seen two of his recordings now pushing the million mark in sales, and this week is dickering with film companies.
Corniest Radio-Laff of the Week: Garry Moore recently announced that he had been out with Siamese twins. “Have a good time?” inquired Jimmy Durante. “Well,” said Garry, “Yes and no.”
TTE SONG ENDED 16 YEARS AGO BUT THE melody lingers ON: It’s 16 years since they last sang the song, but they still remember the words. One is a little balder, one’s a little fatter and one’s a little hoarser. Who are they? Why the Rhythm Boys, of course— .Al Rinker, Harry Barris, and Harry Crosby. Sixteen years ago they sang as a trio with Paul Whiteman and his orchestra. Their recording of Barris’ song “Mississippi Mud” skyrocketed them to fame. Today Al Rinker is a radio executive with the William Esty Advertising Agency, Barris is a top notch song-writer and appears frequently in musical films, and Harry Crosby is no doubt well known as Bing.	.
Al remembers way back to his college days in Spokane when he and Bing had . a band. “Pops” Whiteman saw a good thing in the boys and took them on with his band. He added Harry Barris to the group, and the trio stayed with him for two years. In 1929 they broke up and went their separate ways.
When they got together a couple of weeks ago as guests on “Paul Whiteman Presents” via (CBS) they were able to sing “Mississippi Mud” right through— . after sixteen years without even one rehearsal.	.
SERVICE MEN
You are always
at the Navy Canteen
Make your Canteen your Club
Regulation Haberdashery Candy Cigarettes Coca-Cola Gum Cigars
Three Dances Tomorrow;
One for Civilians
The C.A.S. .will remember the legion of forgotten civilians as well as service men in their dances tomorrow night. At Our Lady of Hungary hall—at 25 cents . per head—the plain-clothes men will be provided with both girls and soft drinks. J
-The.V42 dance, coming, off regularly
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
at St. Pat’s hall on Saturday nights, will be restricted to the navy. The Holy Cross parish girls will be host to the marines tomorrow.	* 1
All dances will begin promptly at 8 p.m. Tickets are available as follows: Civilian Ticket from Chuck Russ of Car-roll, Dick Huck of Sorin, Bob Reynolds of St. Ed’s, and Jim Cunningham, off-campus. Signs in the marine and navy halls will inform trainees where to purchase tickets.
Last week, in addition to the V-12’s, the freshmen of Brownson and Carroll attended, a special dance at Christ the King parish in Roseland. The girls who staged the affair picked the boys up and drove them back.
Seaman Dan Meaney of Dillon is in charge of tomorrow night’s dance at St. Pat’s, with Brock Lynch of Sorin running the Holy Cross, and Chuck Russ and Dan Reardon of the dorms, the civilian affairs. Anyone who cares to work on these projects may report to Room B, basement of the Law Building, at 11 a.m. Sunday.
Brothers' Nine Takes on All Diamond Teams Successfully
By Alex Bisbee
Drop around to Cartier Field some Saturday or Sunday afternoon, and you will very likely see a bang-up baseball game between the Holy Cross Brothers from Breen-Phillips and some other campus team. Most of these religious are either coaches or athletic directors at high schools and colleges throughout the country, and it can’t be said they don’t practice what they preach..
All Notre Dame grads, these men are from Dujarie Hall over by the Dixie highway. They return here every summer from the high schools and colleges where they teach to brush up on their studies, and incidentally, to play a little baseball.
Besides his coaching work at St. Edward’s U. in Austin, Texas, Brother Alexander, their fast-stepping shortstop, has had semi-pro experience. The mound position is held by a Benedictine priest, Fr. Florian, 0. S. B. And when he’s out there catching the long ones, Brother . Ludwig is. pitching them across. This genial,. nice-looking chap is the team’s organizer and unofficial captain. He’s a threat behind the plate as well as on the mound.	.
During the week they bat a few balls. around the field behind Zahm with the Marines. But on Sundays the “Mission. Brothers Nine” plays real ball. Their record of five wins and three losses isn’t
bad considering the fact that they seldom have a chance for any organized practice together. Here’s the way the scores stack up:
Breen-Phillips 6, Dujarie 7; Breen-Phillips 4, Dujarie 2; Breen-Phillips 10, NRO TC 4; Breen-Phillips 1, Marines 7; Breen-Phillips 9, Marines 5; Breen-Phillips 10, Civilians 2; Breen-Phillips 9 Moreau Seminary 5; Breen-Phillips 2, Varsity 6.
Their first game against the Marines was their toughest, says Brother Ludwig. Maybe that was because the opposing hurler was none other than Andy Phillip, Illinois Whiz Kid. He’s as good at tossing ’em across the plate as he is at dropping ’em through the hoop. But the fighting Brothers bounced back after their defeat, and in their next game those big, husky Marines, practically an all-Illinois team, were whipped. Maybe it was the day after they had had their shots.
IT IS NOT TOO LATE—MEET THE GANG AT THE
SUNHY ITALY
for
ITALIAN STYLE SPAGHETTI
Under Management of Josie and Jim
Sunny Italy Cafe
601 N. Niles Avenue
Phone 3-0678
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
-Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians -
228 S. MICHIGAN ST.
Evenings by Appointment
Notre Dame
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS
GYM PANTS SUPPORTERS SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY , Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
~ GENERAL DENTISTRY :	; .
X-Rays and. Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS •
- 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana.
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building "~
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton^ -MJ)- - -
.	"	-	*	'	- L' * ' , ,L-