ft p A R
fl (it!^
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St
SOUTH BEND, IND.
♦ x,	«
•4
CELTIC JACKET
AND SLACKS
IN FABRICS BY
EVERFflST
They’re smart, cool, and light... jacket and slacks tailored with traditional McGregor skill! The fabric is Everfast’s
Celtic, a fine linen-like spun rayon that sheds wrinkles and packs easier! And the colors are clear and vibrant, guaranteed by Everfast to last through the life of the garment!
Celtic Jackets $20 Celtic Slacks $9.50
2
LETTERS
Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society, Brookland Station, Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
The Bengal Bouts were a success after the best of Notre Dame traditions. They manifested once again the willingness of Notre Dame men to do for other- Notre 4 Dame men who are giving their all that souls might know of Christ in the diocese of Dacca, Bengal, India. Just watching the finals made me realize more than ever before all that was behind the question of one of the boxers: “Are you sure that all the returns from these bouts V go to the missions? I don't mind taking a beating if it’s to help the missions; otherwise I'd just as soon sit and watch.”
Those who fought: they deserve much creait, more than words of mine can ever fully give. Those who watched did nobly in making the fighting of the others so worthwhile. The Scholastic, with that way it has of doing things ■ well, did a wonderful job of advertising; and your doing meant much for the success that was evident, and the pride of all the students in the success of “their-” bouts.
You know that I am grateful. The missioners of Holy Cross have already thanked you and the student body through their Bishop, His Excellency, Lawrence Graner, C.S.C., who will be consecrated at Notre Dame on April 23. All that is left for me now is to say: Thanks, once again.
Rev. Thomas M. Fitzpatrick, C.S.C. *	Provincial Mission Procurator
NAME YOUR SPORT ...
SONNEBORN'S
has what it takes!
121 W. Colfax Avenue	Phone 3-3702
Qgg£ Place to
— and traditionally a good place to meet the gang for delicious Italian and American Food.
Phone 3-0678 for Reservations
Sir:
It was with no small surprise that we, here at Canisius, read an article in the column of Lou Almasi and Tom Higgins which appeared in the Scholastic . . . in it we are put on the pan on the grounds of being anti-Semetic and racial conscious to the extent of starting a brawl on the floor of Memorial Auditorium during the already much discussed LIU game. We are asked to practice what we preach and get in step with the rest of the Catholic Church by being more liberal in racial matters.
It’s a sad affair. These two aspiring young editors are not only completely wrong and illogical in their conclusions and statements of facts, but even going on the fallacious assumption that they were right, still what justification in the world did they have for such an open and imprudent attack on such a matter against a Catholic College because at a public game fans called racial insults at
(Continued on Page 5)
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
3
Room with a view
-of 11,000,000 miles!
In this room, telephone circuit specialists maintain accurate and instant control over some 11,400,000 miles of long distance lines.
Merely by referring to this huge diagram they can tell at a glance the exact status of telephone circuits from Montreal to Mexico City and from Havana to Seattle. For, as quickly as new lines are added or extended, or as quickly as circuits
reach capacity or again become available, the change is recorded on this master chart.
Simple, yet effective methods like this are important to the smooth and efficient operation of the telephone industry.
Men who can produce such ideas, who can inject enthusiasm and ingenuity into their work, find telephony a fascinating and rewarding career.
Therels Opportunity and Adventure in Telephony
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
4
a visiting team? Again I say this did not happen.
All at that game (and it would seem very strange indeed that Lou and Tom have such definite facts about the event they did not witness) will admit that the cause of the fight had nothing to do with racial insults. You may ask Buffalo sportswriters who were present at that game and you will find that the cause of the trouble was the completely unorthodox type of filthy basketball being played by LIU. This statement is backed up by the facts, LIU had over 35 fouls at the end with four men sent out of the game, a record, if I am not mistaken. It was a clear case of a big team going to pieces and fouling all ovei’ the court with intent not only to prevent shots but as in the case of Hank O’Keefe to injure a man. The crowd was furious and rightly so and they were not complimentary to the LIU boys but still there was no predominance of racial insults, some may have been thrown but certainly not by Canisius men and they were so slight as not to be heard by any present. If anyone caused that fight it was the members of the LIU team.
Such a report as that in our friends column might be expected in the LIU paper or from some NY sportswriters . . . but we hardly expected such a stab in the back as that given by Notre Dame who should be defending us oi' at least seeking our story before accepting that of LIU as apparently Almasi and Higgins did. The complete illogicallity of their conclusion lies in this, that they conclude that such insults came from Canisius men in a crowd of almost 12.000 people. The statement that “we Catholics ought to get together and practice what we preach” is the crowning of the whole affair. We can hardlv believe that Catholic College men could be capable of such a statement.
I hardly know what else to say. The evidence to prove them wrong is overwhelmingly in our favor by those who saw the game. Canisius was even severely criticized by the sportswriters for their courteous letter to LIU in which they say they regret that the incident
French Dry Cleaners
Main Office 22-7-209 Smith Street
SPECIAL BRANCH OFFICE FOR CONVENIENCE OF NOTRE DAME STUDENTS at
822 SOUTH BEND AVENUE facing Notre Dame Avenue
Pockets, zippers and all repairs reasonably done.
Your Transportation One Way, Boys!
Open Friday evenings, 7:30 to 9:30
occurred. The sportswriters said that we were too compromising.
As for LIU taking a vote to see whether or not they would play us, you can be sure that if we knew such action was taken before we arrived in New York, we never would have left Buffalo . . .
DICK MURPHY
The facts given by Dick Murphy, Canisius' basketball team manager, are correct and are verified by reports of the game in Buffalo and New York City neivspapers. College Parader Lou Almasi, in leveling a charge of unsportsmanlike conduct at Canisius in the March 14 issue, obtained his information from the Long Island University newspaper. The Scholastic regrets the unjustified attack and offers its red-faced apology.—Editor.
March 24, 1947, Box 117, Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:
Now rugged individualist Edwards claims Tribunism (the kind of “free enterprise” practiced by men like the late George McNear, and Senator Joe Ball) won the war. What could be farther from the truth? Look at a few of the MAJOR changes necessary in “Good old Americanism” before we were able to fight that war:
1.	War plants had to be built by the government.
2.	Housing had to be constructed by the government.
3.	Unlimited amounts of U. S. cash had to be doled out to industry. All expansion was government financed.
4.	Business couldn’t be trusted * so price ceilings were necessary.
5.	Rationing was necessary.
The war was won by the people of this nation acting through their government. The capitalists did the one thing they knew how. They produced. But they refused to produce one item without a profit. Grabbing as usual, was the theme.
(Continued on Page 41)
CAMERA SHOP. Inc.
Opposite the Courthouse 122 So. Main St. Phone 3-5041
FOR BETTER P R I N J S

NEW CONTACT PRINTING PAPEN Permits working in any room Airing the day, or at night under electric light. Produces prints of fine tonal quality, rich blacks, better contrasts. Processes the same as any other paper.
PLENTY OF ROLL FILM IN FIVE POPULAR SIZES Ault Photo Service also in Cafeteria
Ellsworth's
LIGHTERS!
RONSON
Yes, Ellsworth's has the one and only Ronson Lighter. The pocket lighter or the smart table model — silver plated.
Pocket Lighter
5.50 and 6.00
Whirlwind_________7.50
Table Lighter
10.00 plus tax
Men’s Department... Main Floor
5
Student ....
Bill Lyman
PRINTS OF THE PAST 1915
Jan. 16: After beating Northwestern 24 to 21 last week, the Varsity basketball team dropped a 34 to 24 decision to little Lake Forest College in the gym Friday . . . Jan. 23: The team bounced back to whip the South Bend Y.M.C.A. 59 to 30 . . . Jan. 30: Our winning streak rose to two straight as the Irish beat the Indiana Dental College 70 to 13. It was a tough pull . . . Michigan Agricultural broke our streak in the gym Monday night in a close 14 to 13 game . . . Apr. 24: The basketball team revenged a defeat handed the basketball team earlier in the year by downing Lake Forest 13 to 1 .. . Oct. 9: Said the Scholastic: “The 1915 football curtain was raised at Notre Dame last Saturday when Alma College sprung a surprise on the Varsity by holding them to the lowest score that a Notre Dame team has ever made against the Michigan boys. The final score was 32 to 0” ... Oct. 16: In preparation for the Army game our team trounced the Haskell Indians 34 to 0— were their* faces red ... Nov. 13: Eastern sports writers were searching for excuses this week as the Irish beat Army for the second time in three years, 7 to 0.
❖
PRINTS OF THE PRESENT Signs of Spring
The signs of Spring on campus gleam As we begin to see
New bruises on the football team Where old scars used to be.
—Attentive Abie ❖
In the N. D. Botany Dictionary
Snapdragon—An irritated alligator.
Sagebrush—A philosopher’s whiskbroom.
Daffodil—A slap-happy pickle.
Orchid—A very silly investment which usually results in financial difficulty.
—The Broken-Hearted Russian, Cav.
♦
Aye, There's the Grub
Seems ye Student Council is again discussing the possibilities of having the dining hall menu published in the Scholastic a week in advance. This sad lad would like to know why. Anyone
who patronizes said beanery with any degree of consistency already has the menu memorized.—Wee Willie
❖
Our Heavenly Champs
Give credit where credit is due. Why refer to ND’s athletic representatives as the “Fighting Irish?” A quick survey of the sports rostrums would indicate 1
the folly of the name. Why not the “The Fighting Toplitskys” or, going one better in that direction, “The Angels!” Yes, even Senator Ziggy could be included! Oh, those big burly heavenly National Champs.
—Vladislav of County Cork
♦
Local Pet Peeve
The hall moocher who “borrows” your South Bend Tribune from beneath your door and forgets to return it until the next day.—Sack-In Sammy, Lyons
♦
They Sure Would
Doc Handy’s eyes would pop if he ever got a load of some of those late break- > fast dashers sprinting across the Badin Bog at ten to eight in the morning.
—Long John of Cav. Heights
Discourse
Son: “Say, Dad, I got a 96 the other a day.”
Dad: “What course?”	4
Son: “Golf course.”
Dad: “Of course!”
—The Zahm Pro '
6
—	—	— By John A. O'Connor
Widely acclaimed as the greatest technicolor film ever produced, Henry V is camping on the edge of town next week. It dares not to venture into downtown South Bend. The Laurence Olivier technicolor masterpiece of celluloid poetry is bivouacking at the River Park theatre, in the hinterlands, between here and Mishawaka. We can’t understand why Henry doesn’t boldly march into town, lay siege to the Colfax or the Palace, like he did to Agincourt, and stay for a while. Now no misunderstanding please: the River Park theatre, managed by Mr. Jerome Vogel, a Notre Dame man, is a fine, modern little theatre. But why must movie art shy away from South Bend? Admittedly Henry V is pretty meaty; ' like a savory steak after you’ve been used to mystery-balls. Although we’ve been doused with Monogram monstrosities, Cudahy-cured chillers, and even sad cartoons, maybe we could snap out of it long enough to appreciate something grand, and rich, and truly artistic. The ladies’ clubs of South Bend should have . seen to it that Henry V was given a royal welcome at one of the downtown theatres. In fact, we should have had it in Washington Hall!
The Vets Club got a homing pigeon through to Ted Weems during the phone strike and now it looks as though he’ll be pouring out the lush stuff for the semi-formal dance May 9th. The old Vets have decided to keep the bids down to Gl-purse stature, at around two bucks. For riVo bucks: Weems, magnolias, and May moonlight, if the the band has an open date.
That’s a good question (as the professor said staggering under the blow of a sharp one). We mean the one about art in politics. But we thought we ironed all that out during this latest war. We didn’t ban German music, like they did
(Continued from Page 6)
Worst Joke of the Year
My father is a tailor, so I guess I’ll go to the Press Club tonight.
—The Poor Scribe, Alumni
Send or deliver contributions to THE STUDENT PRINTS, 124 Lyons Hall.
in ’17. We let Maestro Toscanini play anything he liked. In the field of science we called in Italian-born Enrico Fermi to help lead the way in atomic-fission research. We overlooked a man’s nationality, creed, or political affiliations if he had something good to offer. One of the biggest trumpeters of this open-mindness was Walter Winchell. But recently Kirsten Flagstad, in prewar days the world’s leading Wagnerian soprano and a leading lung at the Met, returned to the U. S. The Norwegian nightingale had been accused of Nazi sympathies, but before touring Europe last winter she received an official testimonial of wartime patriotism by Emil Stang, Chief Justice of the Norwegian Supreme Court. Her war-time concerts included only appearances in neutral Switzerland and Sweden. But Walter Winchell holds his grudges. The Sunday-night magpie almost spit into the mike a few weeks back in an effort to put the smear on Madame Flagstad. Too bad about Walter. We thought maybe he was as American as he tried to sound. Too bad he can’t see that her beautiful God-given voice is for the world. Muffling such a voice with the hand of hate is just as bad as burning books. Too bad Walter can’t see that.
Just before the vacation they were decking the altars with lilies in preparation for Easter Sunday. The spirit of the great feast of the Resurrection was in the air. We were soon to celebrate the commemoration of the Saviour’s miracle upon which all Christianity is based. And what message does authoress Pearl Buck herald to the Easter-expecting world? The novelist announces that the world must look to two men if it is to be saved from impending doom. These two modern saviors are Norwegian Try-vge Lie and our own wild-haired Iowa boy Henry Wallace. What happened to Christ? Would Miss Buck supplant the Gospels -with Henry’s seed-catalogs, or Christ’s curing-of-the-lepers with Henry’s killing-of-the-hogs? People have put their faith in bigger and better-groomed heroes than Henry Wallace before. Funny how a world-wise authoress like Miss Buck could have the Easter season and its message staring her right in the face and still hail a savior the stature of Henry the Tooth.
DEMUTH and other leading Pipe brands visit
RUNNER’S
7
Ute	• • •
M HOW DANE SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Kibe Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
MMitiiimiiMiiiimmiiaumiiaaiiiaimiiiiitiiiiMimtitiiHiiiaiMitaiMti
John Defant, Editor ASSOCIATE EDITORS H. Smith Keel Frank Keenan
Bob Stock
REWRITE
Ed Snyder
Joe Doyle
NEWS STAFF Jim Clemens, Editor Shaun McDermott. Associate Editor
Bill Bradley Pete Reiner Vern Kelley George McCarthy
John Noonan Steve Valetich
Joe Herrington Lou Horning John Sullivan
Tom Murray Phil Shea John Waters
SPORTS STAFF
Joe Cheney, Editor Pete Brown. Associate Editor
Dave Warner Jim Howard
Buzz Wright
Bob Leander John Krueger Bill Slavik
FEATURE STAFF
Joe Wilcox, Editor Charles Carrol Carter Gerald Heberlein Bill Leavey John A. O’Connor Jerry Olwell Bob Vierhile Nicodemus
PHOTO STAFF
John Brogan, Editor Joe Haller John Koewler Gene Reynolds Gene Lorence Bob Gawne
COVER By Pat WeishapI
Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.
_______________________Faculty	Advisor
Bob Kopf _______________Business	Manager
Tom Gargan Circulation	Manager
M. E. Varga__________Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenne, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vet Housing
Despite the aggrieved shouting of landlords that the housing situation is ailing from nothing that a good dose of old-fashioned American free enterprise couldn’t cure, it would take a lot of talking to convince a country full of homeless and ill-housed veterans that the trouble is not more basic. Student vets, limited to ninety per, are among the foremost victims in this crisis. Long at the mercy of unethical, mercenary, infantophobe landlords, their growing families are feeling the pinch more and more as prices soar to new heights, and the ever present threat of rent increase hangs over them like the sword of Damocles.
Notre Dame’s five hundred married veterans are no exception. Notre Dame has a veteran’s housing project, but it is pitifully inadequate in view of the coming marriage of a hundred veterans. The 113 housing units are already full, and they will stay full. Only seven families will vacate in June, six more in August. In the next two years, only sixty families will leave; of these, twenty-nine will depart in 1949. The others, who have been waiting to move in, will have to stay in South Bend.
Vetville’s three-room, bath-and-closet units are head and shoulders above many of South Bend’s crowded, meager apartments, on which the main load of student veterans has been thrown. Many of South Bend’s apartments, run by cynical, commercial landlords agitating for rent raises, are far from being what they should be. Some landlords are walking the chalk line of legality, but are slipping badly on the ethical side of it. Only a meager few are outstanding exceptions.
A reasonably-priced, first-class apartment is a vara avis. Notre Dame’s Veterans Club, in an attempt to bring unsavory instances to light with a view to bettering conditions and guiding veterans to decent places, has begun a commendinvestigation. It hopes soon to be able to go to the OPA with concrete cases of violation. Only legal technicalities prevent the Scholastic from naming names this week.
The Vet Club is discovering places with a drawer-sized closet made over into a kitchen with the addition of a hot plate and euphemistically called kitchen apartments, where children are banned and where prospective mothers are in
vited to take the earliest train home. While it is true that there are no legal obstacles in the way of these rent-leeches upon the body politic, the Veterans Club hopes to steer prospective tenants to homes where landlords observe a higher standard of American decency and fair play.—Joe Wilcox
NSO Election
Next Tuesday Notre Dame students will decide whether delegates representing this university null attend the constitutional convention of the National Student Organization at the end of the summer. Their decision will have a profound influence on those who will take their places on this campus. It is imperative, then, that they vote; more important still, that they vote wisely. Careful examination of issues is the concomitant duty of the right to vote.
Tuesday’s election does not obligate Notre Dame to anything. An affirmative vote will not mean we must join the NSO. The vote is simply to determine whether Notre Dame students will join students from all over the country in designing a constitution for the NSO. After its formulation, the student body will have the opportunity to approve or reject that instrument, and thus make the final decision on Notre Dame participation in the organization.	*
During the past three months, discussion of this question has been carried on in student-wide forums and in the various clubs on the campus. Arguments pro and con have been plentiful. Now the time for decision has arrived.
Many a student will ask, “What difference will my vote make? I won’t gain anything either way.” If he will examine this proposed organization, he will find his vote may carry serious weight in many directions. It may be an important factor for or against Com- u munist control of the organization. It may affect the welfare of American students struggling to academic liberty for decades to come. This does not take into consideration individual civic and religious obligations which should be sufficient to induce every student to cast 4 a vote.
The majority of those who vote will decide Notre Dame’s course of action. It is conceivable, however, that in de-(Continued on page 36)
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
VOL. 88, NO. 21	APRIL 18, 1947	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
New Bishop for Bengal Diocese
Fr. Cavanaugh Talks on Notre Dame Night
The steaks and orchestras failed to put in an appearance Monday night, but nevertheless, the student body heartily joined in the celebration of Universal '' Notre Dame Night for the first time in the 24-year history of the event.
Out in Denver, focal point of the celebration, the university’s “first team” of speakers was in action, while other leading orators from the campus were speaking at large alumni affairs throughout the nation. Here on the campus three “fat” men did most of the speaking, and together with a group of talented musicians and comedians made the evening a pleasant one for upwards of 1,000 students that attended the celebration in the Drill Hall.
In the principal address of the evening, delivered in Denver and aired over the Mutual Broadcasting System, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the university, warned that modern civilization faces annihilation unless more universities exercise their responsibility of producing morally trained leaders “who can be trusted to handle the products of science for the benefit of mankind.”
While institutions of higher learning have contributed much to the material welfare of mankind, Father Cavanaugh , said, many university scholars also have sowed “seeds of mischief in the minds and hearts of men” by ignoring spiritual values. These universities must either fulfill their responsibility of emphasizing God and the Moral Law or mankind will perish, he asserted.
Since its founding in 1842, Father Cavanaugh continued, Notre Dame has taken seriously the basic truths found in the Declaration of Independence, namely: “the existence of God, a nice balancing of rights and duties, and the
K. C. Formal Tonight Starts Spring Season
The spring social season gets underway tonight when the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus stages its 19th annual spring formal at the Palais Royale from 9 to 1.
Jimmy Day’s orchestra will provide the music for tonight’s festivities and 2 o’clock permissions will be the order of the night. Special busses will leave from St. Mary’s College to the Palais at times to be posted on the campus bulletin boards.
Mary Patricia Haney of Indianapolis, and Alice Tiernan of Wagner, S. D., will be the honor guests of the affair. Miss Haney, a senior at St. Mary’s College, will be the date of Larry Turner, dance co-chairman. Miss Tieman, a former navy nurse, will be escorted by Tom Teamey, the other co-chairman.
According to the co-chairmen, a candlelight theme will prevail at the dance.
The following committee chairmen are responsible for the dance: Tom Bro-den, tickets; Art McGrath, patrons; Joe Dillon, publicity; Pat Trixler, music; Bill Soos, decorations; and Paul Abrams, special arrangements. The following served on the committees: Bill Bradley, Dan Norander, Joe Rozier, Joe Sobek, Jack Galloway, Frank Keenan, Joe Mengden, John Prihoda, George Frazier, Bill Miller, and Jerry Fisch.
—Ed. Snyder
conviction that governments exist only to secure the rights of the governed.”
“Today when the supreme crisis of the world lies not in the further production of scientific instruments but in the management of the devices that we already possess; today when the world is struggling to find some just and lasting order (Continued on page 32)
Father Graner to Be Consecrated Wed.
Historic Sacred Heart church on the Notre Dame campus will again be the scene of impressive ceremonies on Wednesday, April 23 when Bishop-elect Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., will be elevated to the episcopate as the Ordinary of Dacca, India.
The Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S. C., D.D., Bishop of Buffalo, New York, and former president of the University of Notre Dame will be the consecrating prelate. Bishop O’Hara was consecrated as auxiliary to Archbishop Spellman for the Army and Navy diocese at Notre Dame on Jan. 15, 1940. The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, Indiana, and the Most Rev.
NO CLASSES APRIL 23
There will be no classes on Wednesday, April 23, the day of the consecration of Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., as Bishop of Dacca, India. However, the office of Students Accounts has announced that all students, scheduled to pre-register on that day, must do so for pre-registra-tion will be held.
John Mark Gannon, D.D., of Erie, Pa., will act as co-consecrators. The Rev. Leo L. Flood, C.S.C., noted mission preacher and pastor of Sacred Heart church, New Orleans, La., will deliver the sermon.
In preparation for his consecration, Bishop-elect Graner has completed a retreat of eight days in private spiritual exercises and contemplation, as prescribed by age-old tradition for newly created bishops. This is considered necessary for the new duties of state which he will assume in the missionary diocese of Dacca, Eastern Bengal which like the rest of India is agitated by re-
(Continued on page 16)
9
Political Scientists Meet Here, May 2-4
Into South Bend on May 2 will come professors of political science from the Midwest’s leading colleges and universities. Purpose: the fifth Conference of Midwest Political Scientists, which will be held at the University of Notre Dame on May 2-3-4. Sessions of the conference will be open to faculty, students and the public. This marks the first time that the conference has been conducted on a college campus.
The meetings will get under way on Friday evening at 8:00 p.m. in the auditorium of the Law Building, with Paul C. Bartholomew of Notre Dame presiding at a discussion of “The Future of American Federalism.” Speaking at this session will be Arthur W. MacMahon of Columbia University, President of the American Political Science Association,
Prof. Bartholomew
and William P. Maddox, Director, Foreign Service Institute, U. S. Department of State.
Saturday morning, in various meeting rooms throughout the campus, informal discussions will be held on “Significant Developments in the Midwest.” In the afternoon there will be a joint meeting with representative midwestern social studies teachers, with a general session at 2:00 p.m. in the Law auditorium, the topic being “Citizenship Education for Today and Tomorrow.” Following that, roundtable discussions of special problems will be held in the Law and Commerce buildings. At 8:00 p.m. a session will be held on “The Government, Labor and Business.” with a talk by Kermit Eby of the CIO.
Sunday morning at 8:30 the annual business meeting will be held and at 10 a.m. there will be a session on “Foreign Policy and International Relations.” At this time talks will be given on the occupation policies of the United States, and the promotion of peace with regard to both Japan and Germany. United States-Russian relations in the Far East and Europe will also be discussed at this
10
meeting, which will conclude the conference.
Chairman of the Conference Committees are: Howard White, Miami University, managerial; Llewellyn Pfankuchen, University of Wisconsin, program; Paul C. Bartholomew, University of Notre Dame, local arrangements.
—Shaun McDermott
Science Committee Visits Notre Dame Laboratories
Important research being conducted at the University of Notre Dame in nuclear energy, germ-free life, biology, engineering and in other fields are being reviewed by some of the nation’s leading scientists and industrialists at meetings of the Notre Dame Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, today and tomorrow.
In making this announcement Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, President of Notre Dame, said that plans also would be discussed by university officials and the committee for expanding still further Notre Dame’s constantly increasing research program. Harold S. Vance, chairman of the board of the Studebaker Corporation, is chairman of the Advisory Committee, which also has as members thirteen other well-known scientists and industrialists.
The Advisory Committee inspected Notre Dame’s Physics Laboratories and the electro-static geiferator (atomsmasher) at the University today. The Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department, explained nuclear energy program being conducted at Notre Dame by a staff of young physicists. Dean Karl Schoenherr of the Notre Dame College of Engineering, this evening will review recent developments in engineering at Notre Dame tomorrow.
Loyola Doctor Gives Views on Marriage
Artificial birth control robs marriage of its greatest riches—children, Doctor Herbert Ratner of the Loyola University (Chicago) Medical School said here on March 26 in an address to the faculty and student body of the University of Notre Dame.
Speaking on the subject of “A Doctor Looks at Marriage,” Dr. Ratner assailed the Planned Parenthood Federation for what he described as using alleged arguments based on mistaken or false medical notions. For instance, he said, the
Federation’s claims that spacing children is necessary to maintain the mother’s health are based on false and antiquated medical theories that have been repudiated by recent studies at Johns Hopkins Medical School.
One of the greatest factors in child- ” bearing is the age of the mother, he added. The longer married people delay in having children, the more difficult biologically speaking, it is for them to conceive children, and the greater the probability that they might never be able to have children.	*
The human being is surprisingly stupid, he remarked, stressing that “the same people who flock to the birth control clinics in their twenties flock to the sterility clinics in their thirties.”
Dr. Ratner was introduced by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., who teaches a course in Christian Marriage at Notre Dame.
Monday Last Chance for Senior Ball Bids
Monday, April 21, is the last day for seniors to reserve a bid to the Senior Ball, Friday, May 16. Only 400 bids will be sold for the number one social affair of the school year.
Although tickets to the first post-war extravaganza have been swallowed up in wholesale fashion since they went on sale just before the Easter vacation, there are still some left which may be obtained from any of the five ticket agents: Jack Galloway, 220 Alumni; Jack Noonan, 104 Walsh; Hal Walters, 352 Cavanaugh; , Bernard Duclos, 204 Sorin; and Gabby Hartnett, 110 Lyons.
A down payment of §5.00 by 11:00 p. m. Monday night will reserve a bid for you with the balance of §3.50 due anytime on or before Tuesday, May 6. The entire price of the bid, §8.50, may be • paid before Monday, however.
The weekend of activities included in the purchase price of §8.50 are the Senior Ball on Friday night from 10:00 p. m. till 2:00 a. m. with the masterful Frankie Masters and his orchestra sup- x plying the music; the Oldtimers’ football game in the Stadium Saturday afternoon; and a Candlelight dance Saturday night, tentatively set for the South Bend Country Club. A buffet supper may also be added to Saturday night’s festivities at the Country Club.	<
Those eligible to attend the Ball are June grads, January ’47 grads, August ’47 grads, January ’48 grads and Graduate students in attendance at the University.
Brother Boniface, C.S.C., sacristan of Sacred Heart Church, makes preparations for the intricate ceremonies which will attend the consecration of Rev. Lawrence Graner, C.S.C.. as bishop of Dacca, India, next Wednesday morning in the church. Brother Boniface is holding a small golden tray on which is a gold vessel holding the holy oils with which Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C., D.D., of Buffalo. N. Y., will anoint the new bishop.
At his right elbow is a golden pitcher for water with a basin to be used in the washing-of-the-hands ceremonial. On the table are the bishop's bougia, which is a candlestick having a handle attached, used only by bishops, and a bishop's mitre.
Hanging in the background are a few of the rich vestments to be worn during the ceremonies. On the left are two copes. At the extreme right is the chasuble which will be worn by Bishop O'Hara when he celebrates the Mass. During the Mass the bishop-elect also will wear a chasuble. Leaning against the vestments is a crozier or the shepherd's staff, symbol of the bishop's authority.
The vestments on the table are known as dalmatics and are worn by the deacon and subdeacon of the Mass and the deacon and subdeacon to the bishop. All the vestments including those for the personal use of the new bishop have been made under the direct supervision of Brother Boniface, an expert on ceremonial.
BROTHER PREPARES BISHOP'S VESTMENTS
In the midst of the splendor evoked by the rich symbolism of Roman Catholic ritual, a Holy Cross priest will become a Bishop, Wednesday, April 23. A conse-crator and two co-consecrators will impose their hands on the priest’s head, intone the solemn words “Receive ye the Holy Ghost,” and the priest who has been a missionary ever since his ordination in 1928 will become the Most Reverend Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Dacca, India. The long ceremony will begin at 10:00 o’clock in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus.
Since his election to the episcopacy was announced, the curiosity of the students has been aroused as to the nature of the consecration rites, and the various
ceremonial vestments that will be worn by the new bishop. To answer the inquiries, the aid of Brother Boniface, C. S'.C., Sacristan of the campus church, was sought. For years Brother Boniface has been closely associated with all the university’s functions and has become an expert on liturgical ceremonies.
While many of the details of a bishop’s dress differ from those of a priest, the three chief symbols of a bishop are the pectoral cross, the crozier, and the episcopal ring.
The pectoral cross, now a part of the ordinary episcopal insignia, is of quite modern origin, having come into general use only about the year 1600. It is worn by all bishops at solemn functions and also forms part of their ordinary walk
ing dress. It is usually a plain cross of gold suspended around the neck by a gold chain or a cord of silken gold.
Conferred on bishops at. their consecration and on mitred abbots at their investiture, the crozier is a symbol of authority and jurisdiction. According to Brother Boniface, the origin of the pastoral staff is associated with the shepherd’s crook. It was in common use in the fifth century. At first it was a rod of wood, bent or crooked at the top, and pointed at the lower end. The original material was generally cypress wood, and in some instances, inlaid -with gold or silver. Today, the staffs are usually made of gold, silver, and enameled metal.
The episcopal ring which Bishop Graner will wear is a large amethyst, the favorite jewel for a bishop’s ring. The ring is strictly an episcopal ornament, dating from the-seventh century, and is regarded as emblematic of the betrothal of the bishop to his diocese. Custom pre-scribes that a layman or a cleric, on being presented to a bishop, kiss the episcopal ring.
Another item of episcopal wear about which the layman rarely hears are the buskins worn by a bishop at Pontifical Mass. These are ceremonial stockings of silk which, since the eighth century, have been reserved exclusively to bishops. Their color is the same as the color of the vestments of the Mass, with .the exception of black. Over these stockings the bishop wears special silk slippers, the color of which must also correspond with the liturgical color of the day.
Brother Boniface, who is responsible for the preparation of the various appurtenances necessary to the consecration including even the manufacture of the vestments and mitres of the new bishop, had another interesting bit of information to supply relative to the use of the bougia. This is a ceremonial candlestick with a long handle which, during episcopal functions, is held by a special minister whose place is at the left of the bishop. All bishops have a right to the hand candlestick at all functions throughout the year except Good Friday. When the bishop celebrates Mass solemnly in his own diocese, seven candles are lighted and placed upon the altar. If the bishop be not in his own diocese, or if he be an auxiliary bishop, only six candles are lighted. Brother Boniface was careful to point out that there are two principal classes of bishops: residential or diocesan, and titular bishops. The latter are appointed by the Holy See to a diocese now defunct. A diocesan bishop, such as Bishop Graner, in his own territory has full power of order and jurisdiction over the diocese committed to his care.
11
Students to Vote Tuesday on Sending Delegates to NSO Convention This Summer
Climaxing three months of spirited discussion, Notre Dame’s students will vote Tuesday, April 22, on whether Notre Dame will send delegates to the constitutional convention of the National Student Organization this summer. Votes will be cast in the lobby of the dining hall from 11-1 and 5-7 o’clock Tuesday.
Since the Christmas holidays studentwide forums in Washington Hall, discussions within campus clubs, and mimeographed circulars have created keen interest in this issue among students. Through these media, and the Scholastic, most students are aware of the nature of the organization and of the arguments for and against Notre Dame participation.
The NSO, according to plans drawn up last winter, is to be an organization of students intended to promote student welfare in this country. Its counterpart already exists in many European and South American countries; it is strictly non-political, devoted solely to student interests. Among its aims are these: improvement of faculty-student relationships; better medical, dental, and hospital facilities; increase in the number and pay of student jobs; the elimination of religious and racial discrimination; promotion of student government. These are but a few of the organization’s purposes.
During discussions, critics of the organization have pointed out the danger of communist domination of the organization, because of their experience in organizational techniques. Further, they contend the short time an individual is a student will prevent sufficient continuity of membership and permit “professional students” to gain control. Finally, the charge has been made that some of the organization’s aims are antagonistic to Catholic principles of education.
Supporters of the organization contend that Catholics, if they but equip themselves properly, can easily best the Communist element, and that if Catholics don’t participate, the organization will sui-ely become a front movement. Catholic students, they say, have too long isolated themselves from fellow students; only by effective participation in such organizations as the NSO can Christian principles find their way to other campuses. They believe intelligent Catholic membership can make the NSO a force for good, free from domi
nation by either “professional” or “Communist” students.
• The election Tuesday is solely to determine whether delegates from this school will attend the constitutional convention; an affirmative vote 'will not commit Notre Dame to membership. If the students decide to send delegates, these men will be elected early in May. The Committee on Nominations and Elections for the NSO, which is conducting the elections, have invited any interested parties to be present for the casting and counting of ballots. To prevent machinestyle voting, it will be necessary for the student to present his AA book at the polls.
If the vote is affirmative Tuesday, a forum will be held in Washington Hall, Thursday, April 24, to prepare proposals for incorporation in the contemplated constitution.
Fr. Duffy’s New Book Asks Increase In Vocation Quality
Addressing himself chiefly to vocational counselors, Rev. Felix Duffey, C.S.C., imparts the fruit of his experience as Master of Novices in his new book, Testing the Spirit, published by the B. Herder Book Co. of St. Louis. In this book, now on sale at the Aquinas Library in South Bend, he expresses a desire for the growth of religious communities not as one for a mere increase in numbers, but rather for promising quality.
Father Duffey, a native of Detroit, is now Master of Novices at the Sacred Heart Novitiate of the Priest’s Province of the Holy Cross Congregation on Miami Road in South Bend. Graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1932, he taught and was a prefect here before his ordination in 1937. After ordination he served as assistant superior at Moreau Seminary, and was later Master of Novices at the eastern Novitiate of the Holy Cross Fathers in North Dartmouth, Mass.
NOTICE TO VETERANS
In order to have accounts for this semester completed before May 28th it becomes necessary to make April 30th the last day on which veterans may charge items at the Bookstore under Public Law No. 16 and Public Law No. 346.
10 NFCCS Delegates Leave for Toledo
At 12:56 this afternoon ten official delegates and three observers boarded the train for Toledo at South Bend’s Union Station. In addition, delegates representing more than 200,000 Catholic college students will attend the annual National Congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students being held in Toledo, O., from April 1820, according to an announcement made last week by Patrick M. O’Meara, a student at Notre Dame, who is president of the Federation.
O’Meara, a native of University City, Mo., said students from more than 120 Catholic colleges and universities from all over the United States will convene to draft action and form policy on matters pertaining to international relations, inter-racial justice, inter-American action, veterans affairs, student government and similar activities. The Congress then will be “Solidarity in the Catholic Student Community.”
The congress will be the first of its kind since the end of the war. It will draw delegates representing students from the areas of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Baltimore, Pittsburgh, Scranton, Buffalo, Cincinnati, Detroit, Ft. Wayne, Chicago, St. Louis, St. Paul, New Orleans, Los Angeles, and San Francisco.
President O’Meara will preside over the general sessions of the congress which will be under the patronage of the Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, Bishop of Toledo. Thomas J. McCaffrey, of Vallejo, Calif., a Notre Dame student who is National Chairman for Veterans Affairs of the Federation, also will attend.
The 13-man Notre Dame delegation was headed by Frank Keenan, Senior Delegate, and chairman of the local council of N.F.C.C.S. Also making the trip were: Bill Walsh, Junior Delegate; Marty McLaughlin, Fred Veit, Bob Mosier, Tom Murray and Joe Bauer, official delegates, and Dick Kopf, Bill Braun and Bob Brzezinski, observers.
The local delegation intends to concentrate its efforts on three principal problems; Universal Military Training, Student Veteran’s Housing, and Catholic student participation in the National Student Organization. Notre Dame will also be represented at Commission meetings devoted to Catholic Action, Inter-American Affairs, the Press and International Relations.
12
Notre Dame Student Sent By NFCCS to Conference of United Nations Group
Army Board to Interview Students At Notre Dame
Vincent P. Hogan, Graduate School, University of Notre Dame, was a delegate of the National Federation of Catholic College and University Students at the first National Conference of the United Nations Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization on March 2426 at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Among other Catholic organizations represented were the National Catholic Welfare Conference and National Catholic Educational Association.
The organization of UNESCO exists to contribute to the peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science, and culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law, and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world, without distinction of race, sex, language, or religion, by the Charter of the United Nations.
The purpose of the conference was to help the United Nations seek a lasting peace through (1) acquainting representatives of interested national organizations with the aims, objectives and program of UNESCO and of the United States National Commission for UNESCO; and (2) propose ways by which these organizations can- take part in carrying out the aims and program of UNESCO. One thousand delegates representing five hundred organizations, farm, labor unions, press, radio, teachers and educators, scientists, women’s clubs, religious and civic associations attended.
The conference was divided into general sessions and section meetings. Among the fourteen topics discussed at the panel meetings were: Problems of Educational Reconstruction; Community Participation in UNESCO; How Do We Teach for- International Understanding; Revision of Textbooks and Other Teaching Materials; International Exchange of Persons; Press and Radio in UNESCO; Films and UNESCO; Study of Social Tensions; Humanities and Philosophy; UNESCO’s Program of Fundamental Education; Contribution of the Creative Arts to UNESCO; Natural Sciences in UNESCO; Books and Libraries in UNESCO’s Program; and Museums in UNESCO’s Program.
The theme throughout the general sessions was for the most part a recognition of the role that UNESCO must play in furthering peace throughout the world. There was fundamental agreement that UNESCO exists as a powerful instrument for the achievement of peace and international understanding. One last
ing impression was the extraordinary faith shown by the delegates in the idea and ideals of UNESCO
Briefly, the three major enterprises of UNESCO for 1947 are: first, rehabilitation and reconstruction. While it was recognized from the beginning that UNESCO would never be a relief organization it was agreed that it would assume some responsibilities in that field. The long-range program had to consider the psychological effects of devastation upon the schools and universities, and the lack of basic equipment such as pencils, paper, and scientific instruments. Secondly, fostering of international understanding through exchange of persons, information and material, as well as a frontal' on suspicion, distrust, and social tension; thirdly, assist in establishing a minimum fundamental education for all persons throughout the world.
Most Bev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., who will consecrate Father Graner.
To create interest in the Regular Army as a career for officers, the War Department will send speakers to colleges and universities, beginning on April 18, for the purpose of presenting to students the program to integrate officers who left the service to complete their education, Second Army Headquarters in Baltimore announced.
Four Boards of Officers, known as Traveling College Boards, also will be established in the Second Army Area to interveiw former officers who will be graduated from colleges during the spring and summer of 1947 and who desire Regular commissions. Interviews will be completed between April 24 and June 7, 1947.
Exact date of the arrival of the speakers and Boards at Notre Dame will be announced in the near future.
13
More Snow
For the last hour the column of men had huddled in the snow by the side of the muddy, twisted, broken streak of brown that passed for a road and also passed over the hill ahead. Weber looked at his hands—big-veined, knobby, rough hands that had formerly been small-veined, smooth hands.
“Hands,” he muttered softly to himself.
Hfy, picking up the thread of conversation, said, “The Japs are right on the other side of that hill just waitin’ for us to show our noses, ready to shoot us down like flies. And do you think we’re going over that hill? Sure we are, and we’re going to be shot down like flies. They’re over there waitin’! Waitin’! Waitin’!”
“Can that nonsense,” shouted Weber hitting him across the face with the butt of his Ml. “And don’t drop your g’s when you talk.”
Weber picked up the four g’s and handed them back to Hfy.
The snow continued to fall and began to cover the dead who were sprawled grotesquely over the area. Weber and his friends had stacked six of the bodies
Mr. Layden, from MacAllister, Oklahoma, writes knowingly about practically everything. Here he presents a penetrating and sensitive war story, as only he can.
to form a wind-break and so were protected slightly from the cold. Silence. Twenty-three sharp explosions broke the still air and disturbed the peaceful snow-covered ground.
“Eighty-eights,” said Fothergill-Wel-lesy.
“No,” said Jason, “Eighty-threes.” “Seventy-eights,” contributed Hfy. “---------” said Burke.
Somewhere ahead a machine gun coughed.
“I wish,” said Fothergill-Wellesy flippantly, “That machine gun would turn its head to cough.”
He giggled at his humor and the other men joined in, but the laughter quickly subsided for the horrors they had known washed comedy from them like a raging, purifying fire.
A lone Japanese soldier trod down the road.
“Where are you going?” asked the Sergeant.
14 ,
—ROBERT A. LAYDEN
“To Washington, to dictate peace terms in the White .House,” he hissed wickedly.
They shot him.
Weber stared at the dead man. A moment ago, he thought, he was alive and happy, thinking of his loved ones in far away Japan; he was a rational, sentient, corporeal, animate substance, even as I. Now, thought Weber, he is nothing but a rapidly-stiffening, lifeless shape, as I too will be ’ere this day is o’er.
“—!” said Weber aloud. “—! —! —! __! __t”
“--------,” said Burke.
Weber huddled in the snow, sobbing; tears rolled crazily down his cheeks. His buddies averted their eyes—they understood. It was a tragic sight, this breaking and crumbling of what had been a good man.	•
“When is it going to end?” asked Weber in a darkly circled voice. “This is the sixth accursed island -we’ve taken and there are millions in this accursed Pacific.”
Fothergill-Wellesy lit a fresh cigarette from the one he was smoking. He chain-smoked. That was the way he fought the terror of time, the corrosion of War, the fear and dread of the enemy; rather ineptly, too, he frankly admitted.
“Why’s it snowing here in the South Pacific?” asked a rookie -whom the men wittily called “Rookie.”
“I don’t know,” replied the Sergeant. “In the Army don’t be surprised at anything.” ‘
Most of the men were old veterans, as Fothergill-Wellesy had so aptly put it a few days before: “We’re old veterans,” he had said. Weber thought: “Rookie” is older than Hfy. Hfy looks old. His cheeks aren’t rosy. He’s tough. His eyes are cold.
He said, “Hfy, your eyes are cold.” “All ice is cold,” answered Hfy.
He snickered. Weber knocked him down. He put the heel of his shoe in Hfy’s mouth and spun on it. Hfy groaned.
“I’m sorry,” muttered Weber.
“Sure,” said Hfy—he understood.
“Pick up your guns,” shouted the Sergeant.
They picked up their guns.
“Let’s go,” whispered the Sergeant.
They began marching towards the top of the hill.
“--------” said Burke.
Parole Officer Heads r New Penal Course
A
Hugh P. O’Brien, of Dannemora, N.
Y., Administrative Assistant in the Albany headquarters of the New York State Division of Parole, has been ap- A pointed director of the new curriculum in Correctional Administration at the University of Notre Dame, it was an- , nounced last Monday by Rev. Philip S.
Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate t School at Notre Dame.
A
Mr. O’Brien, who will assume his new post in September, has been engaged in correctional work in New York State for the past ten years. He served first at Clinton Prison in Dannemora and x later as senior parole officer. In his present post he serves as assistant to the state executive director of parole. Mr. O’Brien was graduated from St. Michael’s College, Winooski Park, Vt., in j 1930 and received his Master’s degree at Notre Dame in 1933.
The Notre Dame curriculum in Correctional Administration, which is unique in that it will train students only for. the crime field rather than general social work, will prepare college graduates * for probation, parole, and correctional institution service, and also for positions in the field of crime prevention. Students who complete this training will qualify, in addition, as criminologists on boards < set up to determine the treatment of convicted offenders under the provisions of the Youth Correction Authority Act , proposed by the American Law Institute.
The curriculum provides for one year of training at Notre Dame to be followed 4 by a six month’s internship in an approved correctional agency or institution.
Father Arnault Addresses Meeting of Graduates	'
“Scholars and scientists must find salvation in the sanctification of their own intellectual pursuits,” Rev. Leo Arnault, O.P., professor of theology at >. St. Mary’s college told members of the Graduate Students association of the f University of Notre Dame on March 24 in the Law auditorium.
“The statement that men can be mor- ' ally good without having acquired any arts or sciences,” he added, “is true only of those men who are not supposed to be scientists or masters of some practical -art. An engineer has a moral obligation to have the art of bridge building and all the metallurgy and science it implies.” '
Henry V Opens in South Bend
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Shakespeare comes to town next week, in glorious technicolor. In Laurence Olivier’s magnificent production of Henry V moviegoers will get a double treat: Shakespearean drama in all its poetic xichness as it has never been done before, and the art of the motion picture as few have ever dreamed it could be. Most stock Hollywood adjectives are too shopworn to describe this grand production. Time magazine’s usually acid-penned cinema critic says of it: “The movies have pro- • duced one of their rare great works of art.”
So that Notre Dame men may more thoroughly appreciate the film, we herewith submit a toned-down review, hastily scribbled on a napkin down at Wal-green’s while we were still under the en-chantingly kaleidoscopic spell of the preview.
The Prince of Wales is known to be quite a notorious playboy. On the death
-of his father, he ascends the English throne as Henry the Fifth, disowns his old rum-buddies such as Sir John Fal-staff, and takes on the job of proring himself every inch a King.
The film begins in London, in the year 1600. Here in the Globe Theatre (faintly reminiscent of our own dear Washington Hall) the playgoers are flocking in for the afternoon matinee. A girl is selling sunny oranges. Another hawker dispenses Mikelob. The nobles take their
Laurence Oliver and Renee Asherson in the charming love scene in Shakespeare's "Henry V" opening a four day engagement at River Park Theatre, Monday, April 21st. The film was awarded a special Academy Award for Olivier's acting, production and direction.
seats on the stage. The house-lights go down, the curtain goes up and the play begins.
Leslie Banks in the part of Chorus helps the audience along with his narration.
The play opens with a couple of high churchmen debating the possibilities of English occupation of Salique-land (in France) and Henry’s title to the French throne as well.
When the French Dauphin sends Henry a mocking gift of tennis balls (a wincing dig at Henry’s play-boy past) the English King is ready to listen to his advisors and make war on the French. At first reluctant, he warns them “take heed how you awake our sleeping sword of war,” but finally, stung by the Dauphin’s jest he resolves to prove himself a king, and “God before, we’ll chide this Dauphin at his father’s door.”
Goldbricks.Nym and Bardolph
Next the camera picks up a couple of goldbricks, Corporal Nym and Lieutenant Bardolph. They are soon joined by the Sad Sack of the play, Ancient Pistol. All are ready to leave for France with the invasion forces. Their dear friend, Sir John Falstaff, lies dying in a room above the Boar’s Head, an Elizabethan Sweeny’s. Throughout the picture Pistol is shooting off his mouth; he is a
sort of character, and provides most of the film’s comedy.
Meanwhile, in the French court, the French King is shaking in his slippers. The French are a cocky, arrogant, overconfident crowd, and the Dauphin is strictly a heel.
The French princess however is real sweet. She learns English from her duenna, and shows up at the end of the film in the clinch scene with Olivier.
By now the picture is rolling. Before Harfleur King Henry makes as rousing a battle spleen aj itocKne ever concocted. His troops take the town, but tired and sick, withdraw* towards Calais.
Introduced now are some supporting actors who do magnificent jobs. Officers in the English army, Captains Jamy (a Scot), Fluellen (a Welshman), and Mac-Morris (an Irishman), they came together at a lull in the battle before Harfleur, with the Irishman complaining because there are no more heads to crack. He moans, “it’s a shame to stand still . . . there are throats to be cut and work to be done___'tis no time for discoursin.”
The story rolls on. The French stir. They send a herald to ask Henry’s sur- . render. Doesn’t do any good; Henry says he’s ready for a fight, they can come and get him now, when his men are sick and exhausted and outnumbered, or they can wait. Naturally the French seek a battle now.
Battle of Agincourt Breathtaking
The Battle of Agincourt, and the scenes leading up to it are the best of a superior lot. The quiet, crawling night in the French camp, where all is nervous disunity, sophistication, and bravado; the windy fires of the English camp, where gather round the soldiers, talking of war and the king. And Henry himself, moving amongst his men, disguised in another officer’s robe, hearing their problems, cheering them on. The soldiers say, “. . . if the cause be not good, the king^ himself hath a heavy reckoning to make . . .” And Henry thinks to himself ". . . and what have kings that privates have not too?”
The Great Battle was filmed in Ireland. The coloring is gorgeous. The French in their blazing armor charge out to meet the English bowmen, waiting. A hail of arrows twangs the air. The French are routed; their leaders wreak vengeance by burning the English camp and murdering the boys left behind. Hen-
(Continued on Page 29)
15
To Consecrate Father Graner Wednesday
(Continued from page 9)
volt against English rule, famine and the restless aftermath of World Wai- II.
Bishop-elect Graner’s mission field was entrasted as a vicariate to the Holy Cross Fathers by Pope Pius IX in 1852. In 1860 the Rev. Peter Dufal, C.S.C., was named Vicar Apostolic of Eastern Bengal. To facilitate the administration of such a large territory, the vicariate was later divided into the Dioceses of Dacca and Chittagong, the latter being entrusted to the spiritual care of the Canadian Province of the Holy Cross Congregation. At present, the Diocese of Dacca comprises 15,000 square miles with a population approximately of 13,-000,000 people of which only 50,000 are Catholics. Laboring in an atmosphere rendered difficult by the traditions of caste and superstition are 40 Holy Cross priests, 14 Holy Cross Brothers, 22 native priests and about 100 sisters. Among the physical assets of the Diocese are
Most Bev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C.. Bishop-elect of Dacca, India..
five high schools, 115 primary schools, managed principally by native teachers and catechists, • several dispensaries, orphanages, a leper asylum and a small hospital staffed by the Medical Missionary Sisters of Philadelphia, Pa.
A native of Franklin, Pa., Bishopelect Graner was a Holy Cross missionary in India for more than fifteen years. Prior to his return to the United States to serve as a delegate to the General Chapter of the Congregation in the summer of 1945, he was the Vicar General of Dacca. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1924 and was ordained to the priesthood in 1928. At Dacca he will succeed the Most Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., who died on October 2, 1945.
Due to the large number of the hierarchy and members of the clergy, relatives and personal friends of the Bishopelect who will be in attendance, and to the limited facilities of Sacred Heart
Church, the number of the students who may wish to be present will necessarily be restricted. According to present plans, after those guests who have been invited to the ceremony have been accommodated the doors will be open to the public.
The Consecration ceremonies will be attended by a number of ranking Catholic hierarchy of the United States, monsignori, representatives of various religious orders, as well as by many laity interested in the missions. Some of the hierarchy who will honor the occasion are the following: Most Rev. John F. Noll, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Most Rev. John Mark Gannon, Erie, Pa.; Most Rev. Edward F. Hoban, Cleveland, Ohio; Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Buffalo, N. Y.; Most Rev. Joseph H. Albers, Lansing, Mich.; Most Rev. Michael J. Ready, Columbus, Ohio; and Most Rev. Stephen S. Woznicki, auxiliary of Detroit, Mich.
Sculptures Stations for Boys Town Church
Fourteen Stations of the Cross, engraved from castings of pure aluminum, have been sculptured for the Rev. Edward J. Flanagan’s Boys Town Church near Omaha, Neb., by Mrs. Eugene Kor-mendi, well-known sculptress and wife of Dr. Eugene Kormendi, Professor of Sculpture at the University of Notre Dame.
Mrs. Kormendi, a native of Budapest, Hungary, was commissioned several months ago by Father Flanagan to carve the liturgical pieces and complete them for installation by Good Friday. The talented wife of the Notre Dame professor believes she is the first in the country to fashion a major sculpture work from pure aluminum.
Dr. Kormendi, himself a distinguished sculptor, supervised the mountings of the Stations, which are circular and twenty-two inches in diameter, in niches on the walls of Father Flanagan’s Boys Town Church. Work on the sculptures was performed in the art studio on the University of Notre Dame campus.
Among Mrs. Kormendi’s other numerous works is a set of Stations of the Cross of ceramics executed last year and now adorning the Immaculate Conception Church in East Chicago, Ind.
At a northern university, a professor .4 apologizing for not knowing how long the class had run, said, “My watch has stopped and the hall clock is not running.”
A voice in the back quipped, “There’s a calendar right behind you.”
16
, NOTRE DAME SAVOYARDS TO PRESENT SEVEN PERFORMANCES OF IOLANTHE
The announcement that the Notre Dame Savoyards will soon present the seventh in their series of Gilbert and Sullivan operettas in Washington Hall on the University campus, is good news to all music lovers, not merely at Notre Dame, but in South Bend and the vicinity. Since 1940 Gilbert and Sullivan has * regularly coincided with spring at Notre Dame. During that time the University campus has echoed to the strains of such favorites as Pinafore, The Gondoliers, The Mikado, and several others, but of the whole charming and tuneful series one may hazard the opinion that * none is more charming and tuneful than this years’ choice, lolanthe, or The Peer ‘ and The Peri.
Will Open May 4
The production will open in Washington Hall on May 4th, and will run for seven performances. An innovation this year is a special performance, at a nominal sum, for people of South Bend and locality. This has been found necessary, in view of the great demand in former years of outside friends who wished to be present, in view of the limited capacity of Washington Hall, and the unprecedented number of students now reg-*■ istered at Notre Dame.
lolanthe, or The Peer And The Peri, was first presented at the Savoy Theatre in London, November 25, 1882. It was the seventh in the series written by the greatest team of collaborators in musical and dramatic history, William S. Gilbert F and Arthur S. Sullivan, being preceded by such favorites as Trial By Jury, Pina-afore, Pirates of Penzance. It was the first of their productions written jointly and originally for D’Oyly Carte’s handsome new Savoy Theatre in the Strand.
lolanthe has been called the fairy of operettas. It is all of sixty-five years old, yet it retains, both in libretto and music, an April-like freshness that maintains ' it well in the forefront of English musical stage productions. It would be difficult to find in the whole series of four-teen Gilbert and Sullivan operettas another that shows the collaborators playing so neatly and deftly into each other’s hands—responding so closely to the conscious and unconscious demands of words and music.
The story is simplicity itself. lolanthe, ► a fairy, has been banished by the Queen of the Fairies to the bottom of a stream, for having married a mortal, an obscure lawyer. Her action had involved the penalty of death, which was commuted to penal servitude for life, with the proviso
that she should never communicate with her husband again. As the opera opens, she is still working out her penance, with a stream flowing over her head, as no doubt, befits the topsy-turvy fairy.
In compliance with the pleas of her melancholy subjects, however, the Queen pardons lolanthe. No sooner does she arise from her damp domain, than it appears that she had had, by her mortal husband, a son, Strephon; and he, as a result of his peculiar parentage, is a fairy down to the waist, while from there to his toes he is mortal. Strephon had fallen in love with Phyllis, a country maid; his rivals for her affections include almost the entire House of Peel’s and the Lord Chancellor, her own guardian. With the malicious jealousy of the peers to aid her, Phyllis is estranged from Strephon, since she has seen him talking with a young girl, no more than seventeen, whom he declares to be his mother. In revenge for Phyllis’ engagement to one of two nobles—she doesn’t much care which—Strephon calls on the fairy kingdom for aid. They arrive and the Fairy Queen decides that Strephon shall enter Parliament, where he shall sponsor a program fit to give the whole House of Peers goose-flesh.
Has Lucid Libretto
The mystery of Strephon’s mother is finally disclosed when she comes to her lawyer-husband, now the Lord Chancellor, and reveals herself—as his missing wife. So doing, she incurs again the penalty of death. The quarrel with Strephon is now beautifully adjusted, lolanthe is saved from the Queen’s drastic sentence by a strangely mortal affliction of all her fairy sisters; they have all yielded to the adoration of the peers; even the Fairy Queen, for all her outward show of strictness, has fallen a victim to .the charms of Private Willis, Company B, Her Majesty’s Grenadiers, a sentry outside the Houses of Parliament. By the simple insertion of a negative, the Lord Chancellor so alters, the fairy law that not to marry a mortal is punishable by death. Finally all the peers, the Lord Chancellor, Private Willis, Phyllis, etc. sprout wings and fly off with the fairies to Fairyland, whence, to be sure they had all come.
The libretto is extraordinarily lucid, clear of aim and direct in effect. Sullivan ever quick to catch the overtones of Gilbert’s intention, matched him in lolanthe, at almost every turn. The entrance of the Peers in Act I is among the peaks of
(Continued on page 37)
CO-HOP DANCE
Suspended during the Lenten season, the series oi dances sponsored by the Co-Hop organization of South Bend will be resumed this Saturday night at the Progress Club, with the music being furnished by Bud Simpson. For the rest of the present semester dances have also been scheduled for every other week, to be held in the Indiana Club.
Father Moore Proposes Revision In Education
A proposal to reduce the time given to primary education, make the transition to secondary education at an earlier age and coordinate more thoroughly the high school and college as integral parts of secondary education was made by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, at the annual meeting of the National Catholic Education association in Boston on April 9.
Father Moore, speaking before the college and university department of the association, stated that “in doing these things we should be able to turn out generally educated students between the ages of 18 and 20, and this would allow them plenty of time before marriage for specialization in the graduate or professional school or in other schools which we may have to establish to meet tne demands of this complex age.”
“It is the function of the college as part of secondary education,” he added, “to give a liberal or general education. Its job is to give the basic general education which produces the educated man. If this job were done thoroughly, then the college graduate would be ready for specialization, even intensive specialization.”
“We have lost sight of the function of the college and we have done violence to youth by introducing specialization into this phase of education” he continued. “For many of our students, we make no attempt at all to give a general education.”
The development of top ranking scholars in science, literature and the arts was declared to be the most urgent problem confronting Catholic educators today, by the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion here in his paper also presented at the Boston meeting.
Father O’Brien observed that “Catholic education has now passed the peak in the brick and mortar stage and our concentration from now on must be on the means of turning out first-class scientists, writers and scholars in all fields.” His paper was read by the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C.
1?
To Discuss "Notion of State" Tuesday
“The Notion of the State in American History” will be the topic for the April History Department Discussion to be held Tuesday evening, April 22, at 8 P. M., in the Auditorium of the Law Building. The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S. C. and Dr. Aaron I. Abell will be the leaders of the discussion and Professor John Sheehan of the Department of Economics will be the chairman. The theme for this discussion will be the changing notion of the role of the State in American life that has been brought about by changed economic and social conditions.
Father McAvoy will take for his theme “The Role of Government in the Expanding United States.” He will endeavor to point out the notions of government as inherited from England and modified by American experiences in the New World, and will indicate certain modifications in that notion in Jeffersonian, Jacksonian and Lincolnian Democracy. Dr. Abell will take as his theme “Changing Notions of the Role of Government during the Progressive Movement and the New Deal.” He will endeavor to show how the agrarian revolt, the populist movement, the Progressive Movement and the New Deal have affected the traditional notion of American government. The discussion will be open to faculty and students.
Father McAvoy made his doctoral studies at Columbia University and is a managing editor of the Review of Politics. Dr. Abell received his doctorate at Harvard University and is an authority on the social and cultural history of the period he will discuss. Inasmuch as other members of the history faculty have decided opinions on these topics, a lively discussion will probably take place.
"Ave" Names MacArthur, Pius XII for Peace Award
Pope Pius XII and General Douglas MacArthur are suggested as candidates for 1947 Nobel Peace Prizes by “The Ave Maria,” national Catholic weekly published at the University of Notre Dame, in an editorial appearing in its April 5, 1947 issue.
Asserting that the award of Nobel Prizes to both men for their efforts to promote world peace “would bestow added nobility upon the awards,” “The Ave Maria” editorial said, in part:
“Pope Pius XII has projected a peace program which would restore Europe to Christian living were U N. delegates to take it over instead of multiplying con
ferences which have not added any tangible contribution to world settlements.
“General MacArthur, by a special mercy of Almighty God, has not been interfered with in the remaking of Japan. He has shown in his peace settlements the Christian fortitude and mercy suggested by the Holy Father. As a consequence Japan is at the moment where Europe could be were there cooperative decency in some of the consultants who sit around tables conniving to take whole peoples into massed slavery.”
Concert Band Makes Two-Day Illinois Tour
Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of the Notre Dame Concert Band, leads the band on a two-day concert tour over this weekend. The towns to be visited are Olney and Effingham, Illinois. Almost 55 musicians will be included in the group which left the campus this morning to return Sunday. Highlights of the program are to be Prelude and Chorus from “Mefistofele” by Boito, “Phedre Overture” by Massenet, Rachmaninoff’s “Italian Polka,” “Larghetto” from Williams Symphony in C Minor, and “American Plantation Dances” by Arnold. In the second half of the concert selections varying from “March Opus ” by Prokofieff to “My Hero” by Oscar Strauss will be played, along with the ever popular marches written especially for band.
Besides the concert news, another interesting item has come from the band. The election of officers for the coming year has been accomplished with the usual argumentation and the winners are as follows: President, Francis N. Rott (second term); Vice-President, Duane C. Hull; Secretary-Treasurer, Victor De Simon; Band Manager, James Kress; Librarian, Louis Zumbahlen; Student Director, Ralph Thorsen; Secretary to the Director, Joseph Casasanta, Jr.; and Social Chariman, John F. Guion.
—Verne Francis Kelly
Civil Service Commission
Announces Job Openings
The United States Civil Service Commission has announced the opening of positions for aeronautical research scientists, filing chemists, physicists, and engineers. These positions are open to graduating seniors fulfilling the commission’s requirements.
For the aeronautical research division, applicants must have a bachelor’s degree
with a major in engineering, physical science, mathematics, or other related field of science, plus one to three years of progressive scientific or engineering experience. Most of the jobs are at the NACA laboratories in Hampton, Virginia; Moffett Field, California; and Cleveland, Ohio. Full information and application forms may be obtained at most post offices, from regional offices of the commission, or direct from the central office in Washington, D.C. Application should be made no later than May 1.
Applicants for the chemist, physicist, and engineer positions are required to pass a written test. 24 semestei- hours in physics or 30 hours in chemistry are also necessary for the first two, and a standard engineering degree for the third. Information may be secured at post offices, from the Board of. U. S. Civil Service Examiners of the Potomac River Command, from regional civil service offices, or from Washington. The positions to me filled are in Washington, Virginia, and Maryland.
Toledo Club Plans Dance
The Toledo Club, at its bi-weekly meeting held last evening in the Law building, completed plans for the forthcoming summer semi-formal dance. It will be held in Toledo, June 7, in the Grand Ballroom of the Commodore Perry hotel. Tom -K Francis, club president announced. Jimmy Rohr’s orchestra will play.
A roast, attended by 45 couples,- was given by the club during the Easter vacation at Side Cut Park. Mike Hoe- ' flinger, Dick Tillman and Ray Lammers were in charge of the affair.
4 New Members Accepted By Wranglers At Meeting
Four newly elected members were formally accepted by Wranglers Wednes- "" day night in their weekly meeting in the Law building. The meeting was highlighted by presentation of a controversial paper dealing with “The Next 100 Years” by James Byrne, senior English major.
Those attending their first meeting as v’ranglers were Lou Burns, Foreign Commerce sophomore, Jack Kelly, Arts and Letters freshman, Bob Reynolds, junior majoring in English and Dave Slattery, senior English major.
President Charles Patterson, Gretna, Nebraska, announced that the club’s semester banquet will be held in a downtown hotel on May 14. Professor Frank O’Malley, club moderator, will deliver the paper on that evening.
18
JOSEPH BAUER FINDS APARTMENTS FOR MANY MARRIED N.D. VETERANS
Hitherto unnoticed by most of the students on the campus, Joseph Bauer, Chairman of the Housing Committee of the Veteran’s Club, has been a real friend and godsend to some forty-five veterans and their wives. In October of last year the Veteran’s Club decided to 4 do their best to aid those married vets who couldn’t find a place to live in South - Bend. Since that time Joe’s room has served as a clearing house for information regarding available apartments and homes. By establishing contacts with real estate and rental agencies, he was able to procure the addresses of empty dwellings and managed to secure apart-. ments that were to be vacated in the near future.
Although his work has taken a great deal of his time, Joe maintains that every minute he has spent in tracking down apartments has been well spent. He says one just can’t refuse to help a »■ veteran and his wife who are at their wit’s end after appealing to every landlord without success. Those who can’t find a home have no alternative but to leave the University. A few have already suffered that fate.
The big stumblingblock thus far in the path of Bauer has been the lack of avail-. able apartments in the war boom town of South Bend. With new corporations constantly making their appearance, there is a real battle for empty dwellings. This month, for example, the , Oliver Corporation moved three hundred new families into South Bend. You can ► imagine how that cut into Joe’s plans.
However, the housing committee hasn’t given up the fight. Questionnaires are , constantly being sent out to graduate students and others leaving the University in an attempt to capture their homes. When Vetville was opened many * of those who moved into the project turned their apartments over to married vets who did not have a place in the new village. But this didn’t relieve the pressure much. Over one hundred veterans 4 and their wives still need a place to live. That figure will be doubled after the new x semester begins next fall.
( The difficulty is not just limited to the Notre Dame campus. Married stu-* dents all over the country are having the same troubles. That is the main reason ► why Bauer is planning to accompany the campus delegation that is leaving for the
* I NSO meeting in Toledo on the 18th of >	' this month. By showing his methods to
1 interested delegates, Joe hopes to carry ' ' his work even further.
Although he is working constantly at his job, Bauer’s interest will be heightened even more next semester. Househunting will really become personal when he marries this coming June. Joe, who comes from Port Huron. Michigan, is a Junior in the College of Commerce. During the war he served as a technical sergeant with the 14th Air Force in China. After thirty-three months in the service, he has returned to the campus to finish his course in Marketing.
The housing situation has reached a head. Only through the interest of all the students and friends of Notre Dame will Joe’s work be carried out. Five thousand people on the alert for available apartments can measurably ease the situation where a single detective has only begun to succeed. Of course, he has had the unestimable assistance of the Reverend Theodore Hesburg, C. S. C., Chaplain of the Veteran’s Club, and of the Reverend Bernard Furstoss, C.S.C., Director of the Housing Project—but still that is not enough. Bauer insists that everyone on campus must be on the . lookout for empty apartments in order to assure the married G.I.’s of an uninterrupted stay at Notre Dame.
The goal of the veteran and his wife is a modest three rooms, including a kitchen, bath, and private entrance. If, however, someone is willing to fix over a spare room, it would be easily occupied. Anything is better than the conditions most of the married students are living under. Some unfortunates are forced to live in hotels. With $3.50 for a room each day and the expense of meals, it
Joseph Bauer
is easy to see how the veteran’s $90 government allotment would disappmt in no time.
If help isn’t soon in coming, many veterans will follow the footsteps of a student that was married before going overseas. After returning home, he planned to come to Notre Dame. He took his wife and child with him to look for an apartment. After a month of searching, he gave it up as a fruitless cause. The result was an end to his college education.
What can friends of Notre Dame do to help those married veterans? They should be on the alert for leads to any kind of dwelling that would suit the G.I.’s needs. When they have any information, they should call Notre Dame 356, or drop a postal card to Joseph Bauer, 334 Badin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. Sometimes Joe doesn’t have a chance to thank each one personally, but you may be sure that every lead is acted upon. Even if the apartment is in the outlying district of South Bend, it can still be used, for many veterans have their own cars.
Joe states, “With the great number of married students on the campus and with those coming in, I can definitely assure those who supply leads or offer apartments, the occupancy of the dwelling within twenty-four hours.
There is the problem. Only the persistent interest of students will solve the dilemma that may continue for another three or four years. —Joe Herrington
Fr. Simonitsch Appointed Head of Religion Dept.
The Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C., Acting Head of the Department of Religion at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed to be Head of the department, it was announced last week by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
A native of Moorhead, Minn., Father Simonitsch joined the Department of Religion at Notre Dame in 1941 and has been Acting Head for about one year. He is a former resident of Jamestown, North Dakota, and of Kansas City, Mo.
Father Simonitsch attended the University of Minnesota for several years before transferring to Notre Dame when he entered the Novitiate of the Holy Cross Fathers. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1936, and was ordained in 1940. After receiving a Master’s degree in Education from the Catholic University of America, he returned to Notre Dame in September, 1941.
19
The Dillon Boys on the St. Joe
OR UP THE CREEK TO NILES
New York may have its animal Poughkeepsie regatta, but the mid-west had its own spring water festival when a raft manned by three Notre Dame sea-faring students sailed up the St. Joe River to Niles on Palm Sunday. The three would-be admirals were Tom Devanny, Dick Malay and Jack Halloway, all residents of 3rd floor Dillon.
The sea wolves conceived the idea of building a raft and sailing down the St. Joe during a previous hiking expedition along the shores of Indiana’s counterpart of the Mississippi. Upon returning to the campus the students voiced their plan about the hall. Immediately the pessimistic set wagered that the raft would never be built. The crew of three took all bets and the sum of $31 was covered. Now that there was a monetary incentive to urge them on, the shipbuilders started operations the next day. Halloway, a sophomore Engineering student, was placed in charge of production. Malay, a former navigator in the Eighth Air Force, was selected to chart the course of the river, and Devanny, with previous executive experience, was named skipper of the crew.
First on the agenda was the gathering of materials for the raft. The local telephone company was visited and two telephone poles provided a base for the raft. A long telephone pike made an excellent steering device. A discarded wooden roof found in the town junk yard made a seaworthy deck.
The raft was built in record time and by the following Saturday it was ready to be launched. A trial run from the drydock to St. Mary’s was planned for Saturday afternoon to make sure it would be ready for the long voyage the following day. A large gathering from Dillon attended the launching and maiden voyage. A bottle of-------provided the necessary “poor man’s champagne” and the raft wras duly christened the “Vulgar Boatman.” The crew and five wellwishers climbed aboard and the trip to St. Mary’s wras made without incident. On Sunday more w'ell-wishers had gathered at the shores of the river in front of the forbidding walls that mark St. Mary’s. A final inspection was made on the raft,, provisions provided by Ziggy of the dining hall were put aboard, wratches were checked. It was exactly 9 a. m. wiien the three boatmen climbed aboard. No passengers were to be carried; the inland sailors would make the trip to Niles alone.
20
By BILL LEAVEY
A welcoming committee wrent up to Michigan by the land route later on in the afternoon. They waited anxiously for two hours for the first signs of the voyagers. But the raft was nowdiere in sight. A number of the group speculated that either one of the crewr fell in the river and the survivors had to go ashore or that the raft went over the treacherous falls just outside of Niles, spelling doom for the little vessel and her gallant crew\ Those w’ho had bet against the raft builders wTere beginning to wonder how they wrere going to collect their bets.
Just when everyone wras ready to adjourn back to the campus and call it a day, a shout went up—“There she is!” Sure enough about a quarter mile up the river, moving very slowly, w’as the raft with all three men still aboard. But the severest test remained ahead. How were they going to navigate the raft over the falls? Here superioi- seamanshin saved the day. As the raft approached closer, signs of activity wrere observed on deck. Skipper Devanny w-as seen ordering his crew7 to tie a long rope around the raft. Now their plan wras obvious, a low railroad bridge 500 feet from the falls stretched across the river. As the raft
passed under the bridge, the seamen wrould climb up on it, wralk to the shore and by means of the rope guide the raft over the falls, then pull the raft to shore and climb aboard again. The first part of the plan wras surmounted successfully, but then disaster overtook the mission. As the raft went over the falls, the rope broke and the small raft wras left alone to the mercy of the river. For a moment it looked as if all wrould be lost, including the $31. But no, there wyas still a chance, another bridge lay 200 yards beyond the falls. With Skipper Devanny leading his shipmates, they rushed to the bridge and as the raft passed under the bridge, jumped aboard and completed the remaining distance to Niles.
Following the successful and highly profitable trip Devanny, Malay and Halloway, Inc., are planning to go commercial. Better and bigger rafts are to be built, weekly passenger trips are being planned from South Bend to Lake Michigan. It has also been reported that Mr. Ford, of the University Dining Hall, and Mr. Clark, restauranter from town are nowr vying to obtain the food concessions on the rafts. Senior Ball Committeemen take notice. Instead of a tea dance, why not a romantic moonlight cruise on a raft. Call in the Raft Builders executive offices on third floor Dillon for further details.
A
Ai
SPRING PRACTICE BRINGS OUT A CHAMPION TEAM FOR NEXT FALL
r Over a hundred football candidates are running, blacking, tackling, passing and moaning every afternoon behind the green fence which surrounds Cartier Field. Coach Frank Leahy has thirty monogram winners back to carry the pigskin for the Fighting Irish come next i fall.
Included in the 15 monogram men who were lost at the end of the 1946 season are: Mastrangelo, Zilly, Mello, Cowhig, Higgins, Agnone, Limont, McBride, McGurk, Meter, Potter, Rovai, Scott, Skoglund, and Slovak. They’ll all be missed next fall, at least until Coach Leahy and his staff develop their replacements.
Let’s take a quick gander at next season’s possibilities. At end, Jim Martin, Frank Kosikowski, and Leon ” Hart are back. When Kosikowski makes up his mind to play the kind of ball that he played on the coast during the war years, he’ll give both Martin and Hart a run for their money. On last year’s record, we’ll have to string along with Martin. Bill Michaels, Al Lesko, and Zeke O’Connor may see more action this _ fall. Wightkin, Traney, Flanagan, and Espenan have all had experience and
„	Photo by Jim Ferstel
Quarterback John Lujack (center) hands the ball to fullback John Panelli (second from left). Others in the picture are (left to right) Emil Sitko. Panelli. Lujack, Bob Livingstone and Center Bill Vangen.
will give the rest of the ends plenty of competition. Other candidates who may develop include Don Begley, Ray Dougherty, Bob Hathaway, Jim Lamere, Bill Maloney, Gene Faskiet, Jim Reis, and Doug Waybright. Among the newcomers are Joe Helwig and Phil Cantwell, both big and rangy, but relatively inexperienced.
At tackle, Captain George Connor heads the list with “Behoover” Czarob-ski, Jack Fallon, Gus Cifelli, Will Russell, and George Sullivan ready to take over at any time. Sullivan could easily secure a starting berth next fall if his knee holds out. He’s as good as any of the others right now but Coach Leahy has his fingers crossed in hopes that his knee stays fit. Ted Budynkiewicz and Ralph McGehee are showing signs of giving the opposition trouble before the opening game. Harp Dougherty has been switched from center and may score in this new role. Ed Hudak, an outstanding freshman prospect last season, has joined the varsity. Other candidates include Ken Schuster, Al Zmijew-ski, Jim Mahoney, Jack Nusskern, and Bill Kirchner, a 6'-6" prospect.
At guard, Coach Leahy has to find someone to take John Mastrangelo’s
Sid Luckman, famed Chicago Bear quarterback, and Coach Frank Leahy
place along with Fred Rovai and Bernie Meter. Moose Fischer and Joe Sig-naigo are still with us. So is Marty Brutz, Bucky O’Connor, George Tobin, Frank Gaul, Jack Connor, Tom Harrington, Bob Lally, Jim Sweeney. Big Marty Wendell has been switched from center to guard this spring. Two other potentially good prospects are Leo Couch and Joe Fallon while Joe Yonto has been converted from fullback.
At center, All-American George Strohmeyer is the number one candidate here. The competition for this position was so great though that George decided to give up baseball to insure his first-string berth. Behind the Longhorn are Bill Walsh, Art Statute, Bill Vangen, and Austin McNichols. Among the newcomers we find Walt Grothaus, John Jeffers, Don Carter, Dom Lopano, Mike Lyden, Joe McGill, John Ray ana Phil Yanoschik. Looks like the center position will be mighty deep this year.
At quarterback, another All-American, Johnny Lujack, is slated to call the Irish signals again this fall. He’ll get plenty of help from Frank Tripucka, a nifty ball-handler and versatile kicker. Pete Ashbaugh, probably the greatest pass defense man in college football ranks today, will be ready to do his share come October. Pete was born with a silver- football in his mouth and is probably the smartest player on any college gridiron today. Bill Heywood, Gerry Begley, Robert Brown and Dick Leous are all inexperienced but show signs of developing into good replacements. The new candidates include Tom Carter, Claude Mazzocco, Rudy Schaffen and Russ Skall. George Ratterman will see plenty of action if his planned return to school materializes.
At halfback, the Irish are again loaded, with practically all of last season’s yard gainers back. Bob Livingstone has been looking like the Livingstone of 1942 when he was one of the (Continued on Page 40)
21
OUTDOOR SEASON OPENS AT KANSAS WITH IRISH FAVORED IN MILE RELAY
By UM HOWARD
Hampered by lack of practice due to bad weather, Notre Dame trackmen will open their outdoor season tomorrow by sending ten men to the Kansas Relays. The mile relay team composed of Ernie McCullough, Ray Sobota, Bill Leonard, Dave Murphy, and Steve Provost is a definite entry. The other Irish entry will either be a four mile relay or an 880 sprint squad.
Competition in the meet will be difficult, with tough Texas schools like Baylor and Texas University entered. Oklahoma A. & M. will also be wielding a strong squad. All Big Six schools have teams competing, but Nebraska and Missouri are the most powerful squads. Missouri is defending Big Six track title holder, and should prove a strong bidder for the relay crown.
The Irish mile relay team will be in the thick of a battle, but on the basis of their splendid performance at the Chicago Relays will be a favorite in their event. Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy will enter a four mile team if he can find a group of four distance runners able to run their respective miles in less than four minutes, thirty seconds. If a suitable distance relay team cannot be found, N.D. will be represented by a half-mile group. There is a slight possibility that George Sullivan may be a contestant in the shotput, but all other individual performers will be inactive until the Drake Relays a week later.
Tomorrow’s meet will be the first activity for the local cindermen since the Chicago Relays on March 29. The Irish ended their indoor* season by participation in the Purdue and Chicago Relays. On a comparative basis they made a superior showing in the Boilermaker affair, but this fact is tempered by the stronger competition of the Chicago Daily News meet. At Lafayette, N.D. took points in the University two-mile relay, distance medley relay, and the shotput. The Irish finished third behind Michigan and Drake in the two-mile event, and fifth in the distance medley, following Illinois, Indiana, Purdue, and Michigan to the tape. In the shotput, George Sullivan took third, and Luke Higgins fifth.
In Chicago, the mile-relay team gave their best performance of the indoor schedule. The squad composed of McCullough, Leonard, Sobota, and Dave Murphy toured the 11 laps at the Chicago Stadium in 3:21.1. Bill Tully captured
third place in the Harry Gill 1000 yard run. John Smith, captain of the spike-sters, was eliminated in the hurdles by Harrison Dilliard, Ed Dugger, Bob Wright, and Taylor. Smith hit the first barrier in his qualifying race which threw him out of stride, and caused him to relinquish the lead to the others.
The schedule for the remainder of the season after the Kansas Relays is as follows:
April 25-26—Drake Relays
May 3—Notre Dame at Michigan State
10—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame (pending)
17—Northwestern, Purdue, Notre Dame at Purdue
24—Indiana State Meet at Notre Dame
31—Marquette, Bradley Tech, Notre Dame at Bradley Tech
June 7—CCG Meet at Marquette
New Vet Officers Project Campus-Wide Golf Tourney
Plans are now being made by the Vets Club for a handicap golf tournament to begin late in April. This will give all the campus Nelsons, Hogans and Sneads a chance to get out on the links to get their woods and irons loosened up.
Play in the tournament is open to all students with the exception of members of the golf team. All that is required is the capability of plodding through 18 holes. The first week will be devoted to turning in qualifying scores from which each player’s handicap will be formulated. After all the qualifying scores are turned in and the handicaps set up, the holders of the 32 best scores will be put in the championship flight. All the remaining entrants will be placed in flights of 16 each according to the handicap. Match play will determine the winner of each flight.
For each flight there will be a trophy awarded. There will be no markings on the trophies as to the winner’s score or what flight he was in. So a man with a 160 average could with the aid of his handicap take his flight championship and no one would need know that he shot a 160 to take the championship.
The Vets club wishes to make it clear that the tournament is open to all students. If the event is successfully received by the student body, they hope to make it an annual affair. There will be a slight entrance fee, but it will be dependent on the number of entrants..
—Pete Brown
Bob Livingstone, halfback, breaks aiAfor 21 scrimmage Saturday at Cartier Field, lie Kc fallen blocker. Others in the picture ara Brei
Notre Dame Meefsbd to Play Wildcjp!
By DAlfAM
Notre Dame opened its home base->nTor ball schedule foi* 1947 today by playing ;side host to the Wisconsin Badgers in the ion first of a two game series. Tuesday the' i“Re Northwestern Wildcats come here for Mbvici single game and St. Thomas breezes into 1 wh< Cartier a week from today.	jpat
Very impressed at the showing of the. F-ho: entire squad on the St. Louis trip dur- jresc ing the Easter vacation, where it wo£ jjre four of five games, Coach Jake Kline was J Ma somewhat non-committal about his start-N jabl; ing nine today so good is his material, i Ste For one tiling he has on hand a well • | riff!
fortified mound corps in John Creevey, ,fcen
Walt Mahannah, Dick Kluck, Bill Sher- twi man, Jack Campbell, Pat Mulvihill an& df -Dick Smullen who rejoined the squad I
following an Easter vacation operation/ ;sch Kline announced that his starting I Api
flinger this afternoon will be either Cree- |
vey, who bagged two wins down Missouri 4 way, or Mahannah. For tomorrow’s windup of the series it’ll be Kluck oA Campbell. Co-captain “Wicks” Sheehan, who came out of the first five games A 1 with a .421 B.A., will don the catching paraphernalia. At first base “Seeds’” f\ Petrzelka, a right hand swinger, and Jy
Maj
22
•4JPhoto by Jim Ferstel breaks arifor 20 yards as the varsity squad holds ier Field. Ik Kosikowski, end, (right) hurdles a picture arg Brennan, Leon Hart and Joe Signaigo.
deefsedger Nine Today;
VildcL St. Thomas
A
By DAWARNER
me base-J<Tom McHale, who hits from the left f playing ; side, will probably divide time. Wheeling :s in the ion the keystone sack it will be either isday the1 j“Red” Carlin or Gene Lavery. In the ere for Mbvicinity of the hot corner “Huck” Klein, eezes into | who hit .348 down in St. Lou, will be the jpatroller. Georgie Schneider will start at ng of the^r chort with Andy Lipnosky likely to see trip dur- ] reserve duty. Out where the grass grows e it wo£ | greener dependable hitting “Jumbo” Kline was J Mayo will be in left with Neil Kelly prob-his start-N rably seeing action in the same spot. Either material, j Steve Pavela, left-handed hitter, or id a well ’I right-handed Chuck Wolf will start in
■center depending upon the opposing twirler. In right will be Buster Hiller (S? Dan Kriszcziakeitis.
Following is the remainder of the 'schedule:	-
Creevey, 3ill Sher-rihill an£ < he squad jperation> ’ starting her Cree-i Missouri 4 unorrow’s Kluck oA Sheehan, ve games A catching “Seeds!” /
April
May
iger, arid Jy
19—Wisconsin, here
22—Northwestern here
25—St. Thomas, here
26—Michigan State, there
29—Purdue, there
30—Iowa, here
1—Iowa, here
3—Western Michigan, there
6—Northwestern, there
9—Indiana, there
10—Indiana there
13—Michigan, here
16—Ohio State, there
17—Ohio State, there
20—Purdue, here
24—Michigan State, here
31—Western Michigan, here
MANY GOOD PROSPECTS FOR BOXING AND WRESTLING AT NOTRE DAME
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
Probably the most neglected major sport at Notre Dame is the time-old game of wrestling, and surprisingly so, for a goodly number of the student body take an active interest in this, the oldest form of athletics next to running. Especially during the "winter months you’ll find the wrestling room of the Rockne Memorial crawling with serpentine grap-plers. Puma-sinewed youths, locked in various forms of clamps and holds, twisting and levering, straining to flatten the other guy. It’s a manly sport. It’s a bodybuilder and fine conditioner. It takes speed, agility, strength, and a lot of work. Maybe that’s why it’s not so popular any more. It is probably coincidental that the decline in popularity of such manly sports as wrestling and boxing has par-ailed the decline in national morals. In the old days a fellow used to stick up for his family name when some joker let loose "with a vituperative blast. Now in our age of appeasement and expediency a fellow usually lets insult and calumny ride and winds up himself a talker instead of a doer. But what’s that got to do with Notre Dame?
The Watching Irish
“The Fighting Irish” applies largely to the one-hundred-some football players who yearly give their blood, sweat and tears out on cruel Cartier. Of course ND fields a track and baseball team, but our basketeers do all right. But when it comes to wrestling, and boxing too, we set back and become the “Watching Irish.” We let the Oklahomans or the students from Wheaton College take on national competition. Notre Dame confines herself to interhall stuff.
A look behind the scenes over at the Rock should convince one that ND could field a wrestling team. The interhall champions as crowned last fall include some promising talent. Take the heavyweight division for example. Here massive Will Russell bested Jack Nusskem for the school title. One look at either of these gargantuan grapplers would convince you that both can go far in the mat game. Russell hails from Omaha, Nebraska, long the Olympus of American wrestlers. From in and near Omaha’s packing plants have come such great luminaries of the mat world as Farmer Burns, Frank Gotch, Earl Caddock, Stecher, Ray Steele, Walt O’Connor, Pat McGill, and numerous others. With the
propel- coaching Bill Russell could follow right along. Likewise for Nusskern.
They aren’t the only ones. We’ve got Moose Fischer. Everybody was touting the ability of Alex Agase, the Illinois All-American guard until ND tangled with the Orange and Blue. Then Fischer, and Strohmeyer and just about everybody in the Irish line shoved the Big Ten wrestling champ all over the turf. We could do it on the mat too.
Many Prospects
Other powerful prospects include Leo Couch and Ray lannuccillo, both strong as oxen. Any seeding out of this heavyweight division would net a real champion.
The lightheavies too look good. Bill Connor, with considerable high school experience back of him, won the school title from Paul Boulus, after both had battled to a draw twice previously. Then there’s a lean shanked, steel-sinewed Irishman named Pat Cunningham, from the coal mining district in southern Illinois who can really handle himself. Ask anybody who’s ever tangled biceps with this ex-Marine.
But wrestling is not confined to the big boys. Ever since Jacob snapped a hammer-lock on an angel, men of all sizes and shapes have been trying to raise callouses between the other fellow’s shoulder blades.
Winners of the school interhall titles in the 165, 155, and 140 pound classes are respectively Bob Hayden of Zahm Hall, Ed Resler of Howard, and Mike Conley of Howard. This latter- boy you’ll remember from the recent Bengal Bouts. He’s 140 pound boxing champ too. So don’t try to nudge in front of him in the coffee line.
However there’s one middle-sized man who can hold his own with monsters, and that’s Loren Bullock, ND’s 145-pound king. He doesn’t impress one hustling around campus, lugging books between classes, all-bespectacled and business-like. But strip this bird down to wrestling tights and he looks like a hungry Atlas. More than one beefy strong boy has tussled with him on the mat only to find himself head-over-teakettle in the corner looking like the Lao-coon.
The interhall tournaments dropped no lower than the 135-pound division; here • (Continued on Page 29)
23
STOUT HITTING, TIGHT PITCHING GIVE ND FOUR VICTORIES IN ST. LOUIS
By JOHN KRUEGER
The Notre Dame baseball team invaded the territory of the Cardinals and Browns during the Easter holidays. Irish hitters and pitchers showed off in major league style as they captured four out of five games. St. Louis University dealt the local boys their sole loss, but paid dearly for this victory when they were blasted in a second meeting. Other-victims were Washington University, Parks Air College, and the Concordia Seminary.
While it was really the time for rolling eggs, South Bend batsmen were having their own brand of fun by pounding baseballs to the far corners of the outfield. Tom Sheehan led the attack with a .421 average, followed by Pavela, Klein, Lavery, and Mayo, who all came out in the .300 class.
The trip was also highly successful from a pitching point of view. John Creevey showed mid-season form in chalking up two victories. Dick Kluck and Pat Mulvihill were the other -winners, while equally creditable hill performances were turned in by Walt Ma-hannah, Jack Campbell, and Bill Sherman. Sherman and Campbell shown in relief chores, allowing but two hits between them in nine innings.
Hitters and hurlers were particularly potent in the first game of the road trip against Washington University. The lads of Washington could gamer only a meager four hits off the Irish hurling, while the local aggregation was collecting an even dozen. Both teams made their safeties count. Notre Dame tallied thirteen runs and Washington four. Creevey and Mulvihill divided the pitching assignment in this abbreviated six-inning contest, with Creevey receiving credit for the win.
On Easter Sunday the boys from Indiana dropped a close decision to St. Louis University, 4-3. Mahannah was trying for his initial conquest of the young season but bowed out for a pinch hitter in the eighth inning with the score deadlocked at three all. Kluck relieved him and was the victim of a last inning Billiken rally. Lavery, Sheehan, and Petrzelka led Notre Dame at the plate.
Pitchers took over the spotlight in the third game. Kluck started against Parks Air College and allowed but four hits in seven innings. Sherman finished on the mound. The Air College could solve his
offerings for only one hit. Six hits produced four runs for Notre Dame; Parks got two on five.
Big John Creevey notched victory number two in the return engagement with St. Louis University. The Irish tore into Mound City hurling for eleven runs and eleven hits, while Creevey and Sherman
LEW POLK, BADIN HALL CALIFORNIAN, CAPTURES SECOND HANDBALL TITLE
By JOHN A. O'CONNOR
In Philadelphia nearly everybody reads the Inquirer. At Notre Dame nearly everybody plays handball. The pits over at the Bockne Memorial echo with the thump of jumping shoes, the shout and holler of cat-quick players, and the whack of the hard little ball that gets slapped against the boards from every angle. Students play it. Priests and Brothers play it. Coaches play it. It’s a fast game, calling for feline footwork, a keen eye, and boundless energy. When tournament time comes around the pits steam like a pressure-cooker, and only the best can stand the white-hot pace. Finally a champion emerges, lathered and fagged, but cracking the big grin of victory.
This year, for the second straight year, that champion is Lew Polk, of Badin Hall and Montebello, California. Just before the Easter vacation Lew Polk polished off Frank Debitetto in the singles finals, 21-6, 21-15, after copping the doubles crown with partner Jim Mitchell from Paul Schaeffer and the same Frank Debitetto. Last spring Polk bested Dave Lloyd in the final round.
Polk is no one-sport man. At South Pasadena High school he hoofed the half-mile and lettered in track. He’s right handy with a tennis racquet and burned up a few Beverley Hills lawns last summer with his badminton agility.
ATHLETIC BOOKS
Students are requested to present their Athletic Books for admission to all athletic contests scheduled at home this spring. No other form of identification will be honored.
The Athletic Association
were holding the opposition to eight hits and four runs.
Notre Dame scoring again ran up into two figures in their last vacation encounter. The losing team was the Concordia Seminary of St. Louis. At the end of the nine innings, the scoreboard read Notre Dame 10, Concordia 2. Mulvihill went the first five innings and was the winning hurler. Campbell shut out the Seminarians for the remaining four innings.
Waltzing through their Missouri opponents, the Irish nine left the St. Louis fans singing the blues.
Polk’s room at 217 Badin is the culture center of the west side of the campus. He’s got a record library there that’s the envy of all campus musiclovers. It’s mostly longhair stuff, with some of the best of Artie Shaw thrown in. Leisure hours will usually find the room sprawled with visiting loungers, drinking in Enesco’s Rumanian Rhapsody or Brahmn’s Second. Lewie has that stuff down so pat that he can whistle through an entirS symphony.
Next to handball, classical music is probably Polk’s forte. Summer evenings find him ensconced in the 90 cent seats high up on the purple mountain-side of Hollywood Bowl, taking in all that maestro Stokowski sends in that direction.
No tournament athlete, this Mr. Polk. He keeps in top trim the year round. His athletic activities around the calendar include, besides whipping the little ball in the pits, surf-riding and swimming in the blue Pacific, and glasslifting. All summer long he splashes in the brine off Santa Monica and rides those rollers in about four o’clock when the tide starts to boom. Perennially suntanned, he takes his ease playing bridge with the UCLA queens on the beach.
An engineer, Lewie Polk meets his only stiff competition from physics and chem professors. He often wishes he had them on the ' handball court; he’d have no trouble there.
With his second straight championship under his belt Polk will pack up his record collection come Maytime and head back for a summer’s delight at Montebello and the beach near Sorrento. But he’ll be back again next fall, so handball aspirants may well brush up on their game. He has his eye set on another school championship.
24
By UM HOW ABD
A natural quarter-miler is the phrase that best describes George David Murphy of Wilmette, Illinois, one of the strong point collectors for the Irish again this season. Known as Dave or “Murph” to all his friends, he is one of the sturdy supports of the squad, running not only the 440, but also the dashes, and anchoring the mile relay team.
Seersucker
Sport Coats
You’ll like these seersucker Sports Coats because they’re so cool and comfortable, yet so. well tailored and perfectly fitting! Best of all seersucker coats wash beautifully . . . will not lose their shape.
ON THE CORNER... MICHIGAN & WASHINGTON
The beginning of Dave’s track success is a matter of question. Being third of ten boys, he developed early in life that last minute sprint for the dinner table. Then there’s another theory that the handsome giant was involved in a private Sadie Hawkins Day, and expanded his running proficiency to keep from being caught too early in life.	.
Actually “Murph” started running at New Trier High School in Winnetka, Illinois. Because of a knee injury suffered in his freshman year, he was able to compete only during his senior year. In that year, he made up for lost time by winning every quarter he ran except the state final. During that season he set a record of 50.2 seconds in the 440 in the tough Suburban League. This time was also the best of his high school career. Dave won a gymnastics monogram, and placed in the Central A.A.U. gymnastic meet in his senior eyar.
Immediately after graduation in 1943, Dave was sent to Notre Dame for V-12 training. In March of 1944, he was transferred to the NBOTC unit here. His first collegiate competition was at the Millrose Games in New York, and he was so nervous that he couldn’t enjoy the trip. “Murph” also took part in the Chi-(Continued on page 36)
25
Du Pont Digest
Items of Interest to Students of Science ond Engineering
Research Problems in the Manufacture of Nylon
Last month in this space the development of nylon was traced from a fundamental research study on linear polymers to the first synthetic organic fibers, the superpolyamides. This installment deals with the complex manufacturing research problems that followed.
From the start there were obstacles to the production on a commercial scale of the "66” polymer—so named because the adipic acid and hexamethylenediamine from which it is made have six carbon atoms each.
Although adipic acid was being produced in Germany, it was necessary to develop a new process to meet conditions at Du Pont’s Belle,W.Va., plant, where, because of the catalytic technique involved, it was decided to make this intermediate. Hexamethylenediamine was only a laboratory curiosity, and a process for its commercial production had likewise to be worked out. Fortunately it was found that the diamine could be made from adipic acid by new catalytic processes. The results of these investigations may be summarized as follows:
Canying out expurimental autoclave polymerizations of condensation polymers. J. H. Blomquist, Ph.D. Chemistry, Ohio State University *41; O. A. Bredeson, Ph.D. Chemistry, M. I. T. '41; J. E. Waltz, Ph.D. Chemistry, University of Indiana '41.
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays,? P.M. CST, on NBC
Studying the distillation of new intermediates for condensation polymers: T. J. Dickerson, B. S. Mechanical Engineering, Virginia '43 and E. E.
Magat, Ph.D. Organic Chemistry, M.l.T. '45.
C6HS —> C6H-2 —> (CH2)4(COOH)2
Benzene Cyclohexane Adipic Acid
+NH3
(CH2)4 (CN)2 Adiponitrile
H2
(CH2)6(NH2)2
Hexamethylenediamine
(CH2)4(COOH)2 + (CH2)6(NH2)2 ---->
Adipic Acid	Hexamethylenediamine
lHOOC(CH2)4COOH... ,NH2 (CH2)6NH2]x
Nylon Salt
[... .CO(CH2) 4CONH(CH2) sNH. .. .]x A Nylon Polymer
The synthesis of intermediates was only part of the problem. Nylon polymer was an entirely new material with properties different from any previous synthetic product. It provided the first example of spinning fiber from a molten polymer (m.p.263°C) and required entirely different techniques from rayon spinning. Information was acquired only by painstaking experimentation at each step.
Manufacturing Process Outlined
The process as finally developed for the manufacture of nylon and its fabrication into yarn may be briefly outlined as follows:
Nylon salt is heated in an autoclave with addition of stabilizers to control
molecular weight and viscosity. A long-chain linear polymer is formed with a molecular weight of 10,000 or higher.
The melt is converted to solid chips that are later re-melted and extruded through a spinneret to form filaments at a speed of 2,500 feet a minute. The filaments are then drawn out to about four times their original length in order to develop the desired textile qualities characteristic of nylon.
These operations sound simple enough, but some of the problems encountered were extraordinarily difficult. For example, a specially designed grid for melting the polymer was necessary because of the poor thermal conductivity of the polymer; pumps had to operate at 285°C with only polymer as a lubricant; special abrasion-resistant steels that did not soften or warp at 285°C were necessary; the spinning assembling required radically new engineering developments to produce the necessary fiber qualities.
All of these chemical, physical and mechanical engineering problems had to be solved and dove-tailed into a unified process before manufacture of nylon could be undertaken. In all, about 230 technical men and eight manufacturing and staff departments share the credit for making nylon the important part of American life it is today.
Questions College Men ask about working with Du Pont
WHAT ARE THE OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGINEERS?
Most openings at Du Pont are for chemical and mechanical engineers, but opportunities are also available for industrial, civil, electrical, metallurgical, textile, petroleum and other engineers. Practically all types of engineering are required in the work of the ten manufacturing departments as well as in some of the staff departments. Write for the booklet, "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate.” 2521 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 93, Delaware.
«E6. u.s. pat. off.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
26
, Senior Engineers Interviewed By G-E
i With the advent of Spring, June graduates are beginning to look for job locations, many of which will become perp manent. Here at Notre Dame job-hunting groundwork already has been laid by the engineering department. Represent- atives of some of the country’s biggest i industries have arrived on the campus |* to interview departmental students as J prospective employees. Notable among p- these companies is the General Electric | Company of Schenectady, New York.
/ A few weeks ago three representatives of G-E spent the entire day interviewing engineering seniors for employment with their company. The first order in procedure was a thirty minute discourse on , opportunities with the G-E organization. ! To better acquaint the student with 1 interview procedure, about a month ago ; preliminary work on this same topic was presented in a skit depicting the interviewers planning their talks to the students. This same dramatization was presented and the procedure concluded with the interview itself.
So that the interviewer may better understand the student’s abilities, likes and dislikes, the conversation of the typical interview often wanders far from the details of the student’s technical background. In fact, the experienced interviewer, by leading questions, draws from the student information by which he can judge his character, interests and abilities. This is important because then the company can help the student find his exact place in the organization.
Graduates taken by G-E will begin working for the company by taking the Test Course. This involves testing important apparatus shipped from G-E. (Most of G-E machinery is tested by responsible men enrolled in this course.) In addition, other courses as the sales course, factory management course, design course, laboratory procedures, etc., are available to those who show special aptitude and interest. The usual time spent on one test averages 8 weeks. In one year each man tested has had experience in perhaps 6 different departments, has learned about their application and, more important, has had the opportunity to find where he would like to continue
his work. Ordinarily, 400 young engineers are employed yearly by the G-E Company. As in the past the General Electric Company hopes to open doors of opportunity to many Notre Dame students through its testing program.
—Steve Valetich
Student Wins Membership In Civil Engineer Society
Daniel D. Meaney, Box 122, Shell Rd., Coi-pus Christi, Tex., a student in the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has received an award consisting of a year’s membership in the American Society of Civil Engineers, according to an announcement by Professor Walter Shilts, Head of the Department of Civil Engineering at Notre Dame.
The award, which was announced last weekend at a joint meeting of the Society and representing contestants from the three engineering universities in Indiana held at Purdue University, is made annually by the Indiana section of the Society to students who are rated highest in scholastic and personal attributes.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyers Avenue
27
SplutteJiA, fyiatn the P^eAA> feoa.
By JOE CHENEY—Scholastic Sports Editor
We have been dusting off the crystal ball, flipping coins, and consulting the stars in the heavens in order to give you first-hand information as to how the major league teams will finish in both leagues come next October.
NATIONAL LEAGUE.
St Louis—San Musial and Enos Slaughter plus a strong ptiching staff spell a Cardinal pennant.
Brooklyn—The Dodgers have variety this season with plenty of youngsters, enough veterans, and with Durocher getting the heave-ho by Chandler they’re mad enough to win if their pitching amounts to anything at all.
Boston—If Billy Southworth can develop those rookie pitchers, the Braves will give the senior circuit plenty of headaches.
Chicago—The Cubs are already hampered with injuries and too many question marks hang over their starting line up.
Pittsburgh—The Pirates have signed
In Technicolor
Beautiful and stirring and mov
Robert E. Sherwood
m<
RELEASED THRU
UNITED ARTISTS
An unforgettable experience.
Clifton Fadiman
The finest picture I have ever
Emm 0 Neill
nificent achievement
Alfred Lunt
A rare treat.
Gertrude Lawrence
BIVER PARK THEATRE
99
The THEATRE GUILD presents
Laurence Olivier
in JPtlliam Shakespeare s_
Henry V
4 days beginning Monday. April 21—twice daily
All seats reserved. Matinees $1.20-51.80; Evenings, Sl.80-S2.40.
Student tickets $1.00, matinees only. Get exchange slips from
Blue Circle representatives after meals all this week. Must be
exchanged at Copp’s Music Store in advance for reserved seats.
too many (10) free agents during the winter months instead of building a young ball club. Hank Greenberg still carries a big stick but the Pirates lost too many games last season by big scores. Hank’s bat isn’t strong enough to drive in that many runs every day.
Philadelphia—The Phillies looked stronger last spring than they did this year. Not much pitching and weak at the plate.
New York—The Giants have a mediocre team but they need more young blood than a kid by the name of Hartung. Mr. Stoneham is paying for letting his farm system go to pot when Terry was his manager.
Cincinnati—The fans of “Red Town” are hoping for another Walters-Turner combination but this isn’t the year.
AMERICAN LEAGUE.
Boston—Joe Cronins’ Red Sox could lose three starting pitchers and still have the best mound corps in the majors. With Doerr, Pesky, Dom DiMag-
A truly great picture.. .a mag
gio, and Ted Williams swinging on their side every afternoon, the Red Sox are a ’ shoo-in again this year.
Cleveland—Don’t sell the Indians short this year. With Joe Gordon at second the Indians have the best infield in the majors this season. Feller won’t be hot until after- June 1st but then watch out!
Neiv York—The Yankees need some pitching help and a couple of .300 hitters before they’re a threat. Joe DiMaggio may mean the difference of a x first division ball club both in the standings and at the gate.
Detroit—The Tigers have good pitchers and plenty of-long-ball hitters and could easily upset the apple cart.
Chicago—Ted Lyons will find his first full season as manager a headache un- -#< less he can round up a few rookie sensations.	'
Washington—The Senators look like lost Democrats in Washington this year.
St. Louis—The Browns are just another team wondering where their next hit is coming from.
Philadelphia—Everyone would like to see Connie Mack have a winning season but it looks as if this isn’t going to be it. The Athletics have neither the pitching nor hitting to scare any of the other teams.
SLIVERS FROM THE SPLINTERS—
Wonder if Jake Kline’s baseball team ever- gets scared that the roof on their dugout may crash in on them. Must be a few odd pieces of wood around the campus to fix up two new dugouts . . . Coach Leahy gave the squad a long scrimmage last Saturday. From where we were standing it looked like the Irish * might have a game coming up in a week or two. OK, so they’re getting into shape! ... Ten track men left for the Kansas Relays which come off tomorrow . . . Lew Polk of Montebello, California, won the University Handball Championship for the second straight year, beating Frank Debitetto in the singles finals, 21-6, 2-15. He teamed up with Jim Mitchell to win the doubles crown from Paul Schaeffer and Frank Debitetto.
Tennis Rejoins Ball Games on l-H Sked
Mr. John A. Scannell, Head of the Department of Physical Education, has announced plans for all interhall sports for the remainder of the spring semester. Interhall activity will be centered around softball, baseball, and tennis.	;
League play in softball and baseball ; will get underway next Monday after- .
28
noon with four softball games and one ' baseball game to be played on the diamonds along Notre Dame avenue. Complete schedules will be released this 1 week; play will be divided into two divisions in softball, and one league in ** baseball. Mr. Napolitano will be in charge of the Eastern Division, and Mr.
’ Maxwell will handle the Western Division of the softball leagues. Mr. Szekely will again handle all baseball play.
I Prof. Walter Langford, varsity tennis coach, will take time off from his varsity duties to direct interhall tennis play. Tennis will be making its come-
I back as an interhall sport after being discontinued for a few years. Indica-/ tions are that there will be a lot of interest in tennis this year and all halls are urged to enter teams in this competition.
—Joe Doyle.-
I-	______________
Great Breen-Phillips Team Win Interhall Cage Title
Once upon a time when basketball was still in season and prior to the vacation r dutifully and yet joyfully imposed upon the interhall reporters, the finals in the Interhall Basketball League were played. In this farewell to the cage game, Breen-Phillips Hall, winner of the Eastern Division, toppled Howard Hall in the finale of a three game series, 31-28. Previously B-P had won the opener 40-30 and Howard, champs of the West, had rallied to • " win the second game, 37-29. This gave Breen-Phillips undisputed claim to the Interhall Championship of the Univer-sity.
In the Club Division, the KC’s defeated • the Rebels and thus closed their season undefeated. All of the championship w games were played in the Fieldhouse. A Interhall basketball was’ ably supervised 1 by Mr. Ernest Szekely of the Physical J Education Department. Officials for all j games were Phy-Ed majors.
| -
r Catholic Forum, April 21, Features Father Keller
Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S-.C., director of the bureau of economic research i at the University of Notre Dame, will speak on “Wage, Profits and Prices” at t1 - the Catholic Forum on April 21 in the LaSalle Hotel.
Father Keller, an authority on eco-। nomics, was awarded a citation by Pope Pius XII in 1939 for economic research i and his book, A Study of the Physdal Assets of the United States. Since its * j establishment in 1936 he has directed the I bureau, which coordinates governmental < * and private data, making them useful to y the general public.
Jack Mayo, left fielder and a Kline star, takes practice swing.
Wrestling
(Continued from Page 23)
John Kramer of Lyons earned the laurels.
There are many more names that could be added to the list. Names like Leon Traney, Bernie Powers, Al Furman. These have shown their liking for the game by frequent workouts, and displayed genuine ability as well.
But there is no incentive given; no letters awarded; no public performances; no competition in the intercollegiate field. And until such a time comes when wrestling, (and boxing and swimming too,) is given a pat on the head as a major sport, then a lot of good men will stay under wraps.
We may have a national champion on the campus. But we may never know it.
EVERY NIGHT IS NOTRE DAME NIGHT of CLEMENTS GRILL 514 East LaSalle STEAKS—CHOPS
Spaghetti Dinner with meat sauce .. • 65c
Henry V
(Continued from page 15) ry rides out to do battle with the Constable of France. For color, grandeur, and action it makes Custer’s Last Stand look like an interhall pie-throw.
By this time the French are whipped. The Dauphin heads for the high weeds and Olivier moves in to beg the hand of the Princess with some fancy lines.
The whole thing ends happily with the marriage of the two nations.
It’s advisable to read the play before taking in the show, although not absolutely necessary. Some of the lines are spoken in Cockney or Welsh dialects, and are difficult to catch. Otherwise it’s thoroughly entertaining.
Robert Newton as Ancient Pistol, Edmond Knight as Fluellen, Leo Genn as the Constable of France, and Ralph Truman as Mountjoy, are outstanding. But on the whole it’s Olivier’s picture, and a great one.
UMN HOW TO DRIVE
INDIANA AUTO DRIVING SCHOOL 229 South St. Joseph St. 3-9333
29
Indiana Broadcasters to Award $100 Prizes
Announcement of the first annual radio scholarship awards to Junior students enrolled in Indiana colleges and universities is being made this week by the Association of Indiana Broadcasters. Announcements have gone out to all Indiana institutions of higher learning from George C. Biggar, WIBC general manager and Chairman of the IAB Scholarship Committee.
The awards will be made to the three students displaying evidence of greatest proficiency in radio announcing and newscasting, specialty program writing and broadcasting, or original script and continuity writing. The awards will be one hundred dollars each to the top contenders in each of the foregoing categories.
Competitors in the announcing and newscasting competition will record a manuscript which the scholarship committee has prepared as a test of versatility, division contestants will both write and record an original script in the field of women’s programs, children’s program’s, farm programs or sports programs. Those wishing to compete in the writing category will be required to submit two 30-second, and two one-minute spot commercials and two original ten to fifteen minute radio scripts and short i-adio interviews of approximately eight minutes in length. Subject matter for the writing categories is optional.
The judges committee will be chosen from the executive stab's of Indiana radio stations. Finalists may be asked to meet with the judges for personal interviews and further proficiency tests as necessary.
The announcement of the awards will be made on or before Saturday, June 7, 1947. The scholarship committee in charge of this first annual competition in addition to Mr. Biggar, the chairman, are G. F. Albright of WKBV, Richmond, Carl Vandagrift of WOWO, Ft. Wayne and John Carl Jeffery former manager of WKMO, Kokomo.
To Celebrate Missa Cantata
Under the auspices of the Liturgy Club, a Missa Cantata (Sung High Mass) will be celebrated in Morrissey Hall Chapel next Sunday at 8:00 a. m. The Club’s moderator, Rev. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., will be the celebrant. All students have been invited to attend and participate.
30
Look To
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
for
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
APRIL FOULARD!
MAX ADLER CO.
ON THE CORNER . . . MICHIGAN a WASHINGTON
==AXX0W T!ES=
Actually you can buy yourself 100 of these delicious
Arrow foulards for 100 dollars.
And whether you’re a man who likes a neat figure or a bold one you will find soul satisfying patterns among these Arrow exclusives in April-fresh colors.
The best tie buy we’ve seen in years are these neatknotting April foulards by Arrow.
Just $1. Pay no more.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORJS SHIRTS
If s Adler’s for ARROWS
ON 1* (MNEK... MKW6NI ( WOMMM
Bridge Tournament Reaches Final Round
The campus bridge tournament advanced into the final round over the past week-end with the semi-final matches being played off in two fast contests. In the first match Tom Look and Bob Shaw defeated a pair of heavy favorites, Bill Fitzharris and Fred Shadley, in a one-sided series of rubbers. After the battle, the Look-Shaw combination admitted that they could have beaten Culbertson-Goren if they had gotten the same cards.
In the other contest, Bruce Harlan and Bill Riley sprung a mild upset in ousting one of the pre-tourney favorites, Frank Paxton and Jim Regan. The winners got off to a quick lead in the first two rubbers, but Paxton-Regan rallied to make it a close struggle. With both sides vulnerable in the final rubber, it was evident a game bid would win for either team, and Harlan-Riley promptly supplied the winning contract. Regan had an opportunity to pull the match out of the fire by fulfilling a three no-trump bid in the final rubber, but guessed wrong on a finesse.
It is difficult to establish a favorite in the finals, but the concensus seems to give a slight edge to Look-Shaw. However, Harlan-Riley have had a little stiffer competition in their first five bridge games, while Look-Shaw have coasted on their good cards so far.
Trip to Washington Cancelled By Sponsor
The annual trip to Washington, D. C., which was to be revived this year for the first time since 1941, had to be cancelled because of various unforseen difficulties.
The high cost of the trip and the fact that it was scheduled during the Easter vacation probably accounted for the lack of interest in the tour. Only eight students signed up for the trip, while a minimum of 25 was required.
Professor Paul Bartholomew, who is the sponsor of the tour, fully intends to revive the trip next year, provided a sufficient number of students are interested. The trip is open to the entire student body, and it is hoped that the cost will be lower next year.
Highly successful before the war, groups as large as 45 students made the tour, attending sessions of Congress, observed the Supreme Court and the workings of other governmental departments.
On past trips such notables as J. Edgar Hoover greeted the students on their arrival, and Eleanor Roosevelt gave a White House reception to one group.
—Jack Lowe
31
UNIVERSAL N.D. NIGHT
(Continued from page 9)
that may bring confidence back into the lives of thinking men, religious, moral, and human values are receiving special attention from oui- educational agencies. The very scientists who once exiled God from society have by their awful productions forced God’s return; they have made the science and art of moral living the most modern necessity of the age,” Father Cavanaugh concluded.
In another speech broadcast from Denver over Mutual, Frank Leahy, Director of Athletics paid tribute to the priests and professors of the University “who have never deviated from the spiritual or the academic objectives of the university.”
The campus celebration was sponsored by the Philadelphia Club, whose founder the late John H. Neeson, also established Universal Notre Dame Night.
• Replaceable filter in new Frank Medico Cigarette Holden, filters the smoke.
• Cuts down nicotine.
• Cuts down irritating tan.
• In zephyrweight aluminum.
• Special styles for men and women.
• $2 with 10 filters, handy pouch and gift box.
S M FRANK * CO.. INC . NtW YORK Q2
FEATURED IN UNIVERSAL N.D. NIGHT RALLY—James E. Armstrong, national alumni secretary, and Rev. C. L. Laskowski, C.S.C., speakers, and Zig Czarobski, master of ceremonies.
A report in Monday evening’s South Bend Tribune informed the student body that steaks would be served in the dining halls, and dinner music would be provided in both wings by two orchestras. Thus the usual' evening advance on the dining hall was made in almost nothing flat, but all was in vain. Since it was impossible to get pianos into the two wings, the orchestras were unable to perform, and the absence of the
A GARDEN IN THE RAIN WANG-WANG BLUES FREIGHT TOWN BOGGIE APRIL SHOWERS MAM'SELLE
Copp's Music Shop
122-124 E. Wayne St.
IATECT ITUNES
steaks, at press time, was still a No. 1 mystery.
Perhaps the failure of the dinner plans kept some of the student body away from the Drill Hall proceedings, for only about 1,000 were in the audience when the evening festivities got underway. As mentioned before, three “fat” men made the show, namely: the Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C. S. C., Scholastic moderator; Mr. James Armstrong, national secretary of the alumni association; and Zygmont (It Behooves Me Greatly) Czarobski, who was the master of ceremonies.
Mr. Armstrong, in a short address, told the student body that beginning in 1949 the major observance of Universal Notre Dame Night would be held on the campus. Next year, on the 25th anniversary of the celebration, it will be held in Philadelphia, the city of its founder, he reported.
Father Laskowski pulled the top applause of the evening with a half dozen jokes, including one about himself, in which he claimed the only reason he was asked to speak was that someone was required to typify the Dome and the fact that the University was a big place. His massive stature and balding head filled the bill. In a stirring address, he
32
called for a return, not to the prewar’ world, but to a point “back far enough in time to restore Christ to the political consciousness of the world.”
“It is no longer a question whether we should attempt to go back to the prewar world. We tried it once before and succeeded only in losing the peace and reaping a second whirlwind of wrath. The issue at hand is not whether we shall go back to 1939, but whether we shall succeed in going back far enough in time to restore Christ to the political consciousness of the world. The world of tomorrow will be won or lost not by whether we have decided to bring back Christ, but whether we have decided soon enough,” Father Laskowski said.
The entertainment for the gathering was provided by the Glee Club, the What Four barbershop quartet, Nolan Sheehan and Pat Sullivan, a pair of Irish tenors, and Charles Perrin, impersonating leading radio personalities.
Throughout the United States and several foreign countries more than 20,-000 Notre Dame alumni in nearly 100 communities joined in the celebration which paid tribute to the spiritual, patriotic, and academic ideals of Notre Dame.
NFCCS Commission Meets at River Park
“Cultural Phases of the Good Neighbor Policy” was the theme when the Bi-regional Commission on Inter-American Action, NFCCS, held its third annual Pan American Day Congress last Sunday at Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois. At the first general session Ralph Fenderson, a law student at Notre Dame who has done much traveling in Latin America, delivered an address entitled “Inter-American Cultural Commissions,” one of the six topics which were discussed as part of the theme.
At the second general session Dr. Eduardo Neale-Silva of Chile, head of the Department of Iberian Languages at the University of Wisconsin and chairman of the congress, gave an extraordinarily fine lecture on “Psychological Factors in Inter-American Relations.” Dr. Neale-Silva has a very exceptional understanding of this problem, being a native of Latin America but having completely absorbed the American culture in the years he has spent in this country.
The business of the meeting included the election of officerships for the coming year and the announcement of the locations of the next two congresses. Marquette University received the chairmanship, St. Joseph’s of Indiana the vice-chairmanship, and Rosary College the secretariat. The next congress which will be held in December near the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe, will be held at Marquette University in Milwaukee, and the following one will be held next April near Pan American Day at Notre Dame.
—TOM MURRAY
SPRING GAMBOL
The Notre Dame Cavaliers will play at the St. James Episcopal Church Spring Gambol, to be held ' from 8 to 11 p. m. on Tuesday, April 22. Tickets are 75c per person and are available at Walgreen's now, and at the door' on the evening of the dance. The church is located at 117 N. Lafayette Blvd.
Raleigh “903” Cigarettes today.
?3

recognizer -.
ties as being to the - "Ce!
when you smoke
PHILIP MORRIS
Of all the leading cigarettes, ».
Morris is the only cigarette with an difference in manufacture— - -i aythori
CLEAN, FRESH, PURE
America’s FINEST Cigarette!
There’s an important difference in Philip Morris manufacture that lets the FULL FLAVOR of the world’s finest tobaccos come through for your complete enjoyment—clean, fresh, jsure!
That’s why the flavor’s ALL yours when you smoke Philip Morris! That’s why Philip Morris taste better —smoke better—all day long!
No wonder that with millions of smokers everywhere, Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
PHIUPMO
ALWAYS BETTER-BETTER ALL WAYS
34
By JACK FRAIER and BILL PFAFF
Mermod-Jaccard-King, jewelers of St. Louis, advertise in the Nezv Yorker occasionally. We would like to quote a bit of fiery persuasity from the March fifteenth issue: “Return to the Victorian, Sterling silver bracelet—a reproduction of great grandmother’s napkin ring . . . Circa 1860. Heavily chased with heirloom richness. You will want a pair— one for each wrist, but if your wrist is large, do not send for them . . .” Disregarding that anti-climax that slaps the feet from underneath the eager reader (our wrists are awfully large) we are a little wary about ‘returning to the Victorian.’ We look at Washington Hall —uh, uh! It’s not that we don’t admire the effort and spirit that went into its construction. In fact we don’t doubt that the architect was following a legitimate design trend. What we do object to vigorously, violently, vociferously, is the addition of the smooth, suave, Rockefeller Center front doors. They mix with the antideluvian facade like Gertrude Stein and Edgar Guest.
The English Department hath labored and behold rhe brain-child—The Juggler. We honestly enjoyed it. '£he writing was always good and sometimes excellent. The poetry was sincere, although it just didn’t strike us as the burning stuff that rips and tears its way from the guts of the great poet; the stuff that’s got to be heard! We couldn’t help being reminded of Max Schulman’s “butter knife slashing through Eternity.” The only feature we particularly felt needed improvement was the physical make-up. Gold isn’t very attractive on a washed-out Review of Politics blue cover. The design in gold on a navy cover would be much better. The frontispiece, painstakingly done by Mr. Duggan, was simply too small and light to be anything but insignificant. It should be elaborated upon or enlarged with greater use of red and gold to make proper use of the color process. There then, Messrs. Johnston, Patterson and Duggan, are our suggestions for improving your otherwise more than healthy offspring.
❖
Over the vacation we had the experience of riding with a carload of University of Iowa students. We regretted ever
having questioned the mental age of some Notre Dame men when we saw the Iowa scholars purloin comic-books from children to spend laborious, frowning hours over them. We returned to ND rather proud of our university. Then we walked into the Bookstore, someone turned to us, smiled, popped bubble gum into our face, and scraped it off his nose with his tongue. Alas, into each life some rain must fall.
❖
Number two of the minor mysteries of collegiate life: How is it that the Scholastic, in its 80th year, is publishing volume 88? Did this vigorous octogenarian lap itself eight times since Father Sorin? (The late war upset even the venerable Scholastic, with the result that volumes poured out at the rate of one a semester instead of yearly.—Ed.).
❖
The rarity of clean sheets in Cavanaugh Hall (three weeks last time before a change) and wooden beds ganged up on us the other night for a rather startling experience. We had our own little Aurora Borealis you might say. We slid into bed (generating static electricity, the EE next door tells us) and flipped the blanket back. A gorgeous arc of fireworks shot across the sheet scaring the very life out of us. A number of people have suggested that we ground our bed with an oil truck chain. Some fool, though, wanted to know if it was ‘That Oxydol Sparkle.’ We slugged him with the record player.
Law Club to Review Frosh for May Exams
• A series of examination reviews for freshman law students has been planned for the early part of May as a project of the Law Club of the university of Notre Dame, it was announced on Saturday, April 12, by Thomas Mitchell of Springfield, Mass, club president.
According to Mitchell, the reviews are arranged to aid freshman law students prepare the important topics of each course prior to examinations that will be conducted in the latter part of May. The reviews, which will consist of the presentation of an outline of the course, will be conducted by upperclassmen in
the Law School, who have been chosen by the freshmen lawyers.
The following upperclassmen have been assigned to the four review sections: John Merryman of Portland, Ore., and James D. Sullivan of Helena, Mont., Torts; John Buczkowski and William Prekowitz of South Bend, Agency; Gerald Kamm of Mishawaka, and George Bariscillo of Bradley Beach, N. J., Personal Property; and Martin Rock of Roberts, Ill.: and Leonard Boykin of Camden, So. Car., Pleading and Practice.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes
Dr. L J. Can
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan Sheet Phone 4*8251
RADIOS $19.95
Good Reception
-> N. D. Medals. $2.25
Gifts
Stationery -* Toilet Articles '
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall	-
35
Introducing
(Continued from page 25)
cago Relays that year. The first season Dave confined his efforts to the 440 and mile relay. In 1945, his teammates paid him the highest honor possible by elect-• ing him captain. In his second year, Dave ran the 100 and 220 yard dashes and the mile relay. Since the team was weak in the dashes, he had to forsake his spe
FIELD COURSES IN SPANISH
June 26 - September 1 (68 days)
Sponsored by University of Colombia, Bogota
Student tour by air, with long stops in Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama. Via Magdalena River Boat in Colombia, 32 days in Bogota. Live in private home. Credits granted by University of Colombia, may be transferred. Return via Caribbean Islands and Miami with stopovers.
Ask for
Prof. Jose Sanchez, Dept, of Romance Languages, Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois
DANCING every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday
at the
COMING: April 26 — JOHNNY LONG
 i
ciality, the quarter-mile. He captured third in the National Collegiate 220, and was anchor- man on the mile relay team which took the Central Collegiate title at Great Lakes. His best time in the 220 was 21.5 seconds, and in the century was 9.9 proving his versatility as a trackster. That year was a big one for Dave in other ways too. He was a member of the Student Council, chairman of his graduation ball, and an ensign after No
vember commissioning exercises.
He left for famous Frisco, and from there started searching for his ship which was somewhere in the Pacific. He hit Marcus, Midway, and Japan in pursuit of his ship. In Japan he spent three and a half weeks touring while engaged in finding his elusive vessel. After locating the ship, a net tender, he returned to the states and went to Brooklyn Navy Yard where he aided in the decommissioning of a coastal patrol yacht. He developed a liking for New York while there, and hopes to return there someday. “Murph” doffed his uniform five days before school began last Fall, barely making it back in time.
He lives in a luxurious suite on the fourth floor of Badin with trackmate Ernie McCullough. So far this season, Dave has been a heavy point contributor for the Irish thinclads. He has won all except one 440, and has placed in the dashes and served on the mile relay team. His quarter-mile performances, are improving each week. Dave’s best time this year is 50.4 seconds, run in the Michigan State meet.
The senior- in Business Administration says he is a lover of semi-classical music, as well as just a lover. Arriving at the topic of girls in such an easy manner, it was easy to find that a girl whose last name is also Murphy outdistances all others. Dave is like all of his brothers in one respect, he is handsome too. Two of his brothers, Don and Bob, are likewise at Notre Dame. The secretary of the Monogram Club claims his ambition is working, getting married (her name may stay the same), making a million dollars, and having 24 children (she just decided to become an old maid). With ambitions like that his pastimes of swimming, golf, and bridge seem trivial.
NSO Election
(Continued from page 8) fault of representative voting even one man might make the choice for you. Don’t let a minority of the student body determine the policy of your school.
The election will be held Tuesday noon and evening in the lobby of the dining hall. To prevent any illegal voting it will be necessary to present your AA book. You can cast a vote in ten seconds. Examine the issues—then vote on your honest convictions.
—Al Sommer, Jr.
VINCE HOGAN'S STORY NEXT WEEK
The "Scholastic" wishes to advise its readers that the story of Vince Hogan's six-month stay in post-war Europe, which was to be continued from the last issue, will appear in next week's magazine.
36
IOLANTHE
(Continued from page 17) Sullivan’s music. The robust sentiments of Private Willis are wedded to a sinewy masculine music in his opening song in Act II, as in Lord Tolloller’s “When Britain really ruled the waves in good Queen Bess’s time.” The Fairy Queen’s song “0 foolish fay” has a wistfulness that takes it out of the region of pure comedy, while in the plea of lolanthe for * her son “My Lord, a suppliant at your feet I kneel” the whole comic opera threatens for an instant to turn into tragedy. The orchestral commentary to the Lord Chancellor’s nightmare, and the changes in the accompaniment as the vi
sion unravels, are exceedingly deft in their simplicity. So, too, are the offstage wails of the fairies, when lolanthe intercedes with the Lord Chancellor for her son. The whole scene is one of the highest moments in all Gilbert and Sullivan.
When first performed, lolanthe was not an unqualified success. Punch thought the new opera “not within a mile of Pinafore or Patience.” It girded at the notion of half-mortals and half-fairies. Gilbert’s revenge might be taken today by other writers of other editors. Gilbert once inquired whether the periodical ever received any good jokes. And, on being assured that it did, asked “Well, why don’t you print them?” Bead today, the opinion of Punch on lolanthe looks like
one of the jokes the editor printed.
The Notre Dame lolanthe is being staged under the direction of Professor Cecil Birder, Head of the Department of Speech, who already has to his credit one successful Gilbert and Sullivan production for each year of his presence as Professor here. The production is presented by the University Theatre, of which the Beverend Matthew A. Coyl^ C.S.C., is Director of Dramatics. Many of the young actors and actresses have appeared in several earlier Gilbert and Sullivan productions at the University, but this is the first appearance on the Notre Dame stage of the St. Mary’s Savoyards, playing the feminine leads and chorus as a group.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
INSTRUMENT SPECIALIST
The Story of JIM GOSS ARKANSAS '30
WHEN James H. Goss was granted the Coffin Award recently, he received the highest honor the General Electric Company bestows upon its employees. The story behind the award went back to the days before Pearl Harbor.
Then, drawing upon his nine years of special studies in meters and instruments with General Electric, Jim was able to develop a glass Vee jewel as a substitute for the hard-to-get sapphires used as instrument bearings. Mass production of the jewel cracked the bottleneck in bearings and enabled us to meet the wartime need for instruments.
Jim began his specialization in meter and instrument problems when he was first assigned to the Works Laboratory of G.E.’s West Lynn, Mass, plant in 1931. His work with instrument magnets, bearings and lubricants made him a leader in the field. In 1936, at the age of 28, he became the Engineer in Charge of the Laboratory, and was later named Technical Assistant to the Works Engineer.
Next to schools and the U.S. Government, General Electric employs more college engineering graduates than any other organization.
Jim Goss became a registered pharmacist at sixteen. By working as a relief pharmacist, he helped pay his college expenses.
In his work today as Engineer in Charge of a G-E Works Laboratory, Jim directs research on meters and instrument problems.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
37
Before fracturing a finger on the old campus clubhouse or bruising the tender hide of some up-and-coming club prexy with a ricochetting steel-jacketed adjective, we want to clean up a few odds and ends that have been cluttering up the premises. After that we shall trade this liberated German typewriter in for a shawl, sombrero and copy of Guffy’s Spanish Primer, then galavant down to Mexico City as a Notre Dame tourist, holding a pair of freshly-honed lend lease sneakers in one hand and a recommendation from Coach Kline addressed to Jorge Pasquel in the other.
First of all, there’s this letter that was
WANT TO EARN $9000 A YEAR?
maternity WARD
A career in life insurance selling can be both profitable and satisfying . . . with your . income limited only by your own efforts. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! We invite you to send for our scientific Aptitude Test, which measures your qualifications for this interesting work.
If you qualify, you may become eligible for our 3-year on-the-job training course, with a guaranteed income for the first two years. After that, the Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan offers liberal commissions, and substantial retirement income at age 65. Write today to Room 1104
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK
34 Nassau Street
New York 5, N.Y.
received over the Easter interim. It reads, “Please use your influence in getting more refreshments served at club meetings, as 99 per cent of the members only go to the meetings for—you guessed it—refreshments.” We joyfully accept suggestions, but, to the unhappy club-ster, we must admit that we don’t “exert influence.” If there are any more distressed club members on the campus, we can only advise them to come out of hiding, go to their respective meetings and when the president asks for suggestions, sound off with all the gusto of a persecuted Commie on Union Square. Please don’t come around crying to us in your Kleenex, for our cup already runneth over.
Then there is the perplexing problem of housing facing the Veterans Club. It seems that a local landlord has been baling up the treasury turnips in the lush housing harvest so fast that some of the campus veterans feel he has a tape worn that feeds only upon their $90 government checks. For the past two weeks Vet Club President H. Smith Keel has had a couple of dozen hand-picked sleuths checking upon complaints received from dissatisfied veterans who have had to live in squalid shacks while paying drawing room rental fees. The information collected more than proved that at least one South Bender has a cash register for a heart. Frank Keenan, Ed Snyder, Joe Bauer, Pete Reiner, Bob Tarver, Bob Uhl, Joe Wilcox, Pat Haggerty as well as Father Hesburg deserve a big hand from all the campus veterans for uncovering this housing rat’s nest. ’
We have received several complaints during the last few weeks that this col-
Excellence in glasses is a matter of precision every step of the way — from examination to the final adjustment of the RX to your eyes.
234 S. Mich. St Ph. 2-4405
umn is becoming the property of but one or two clubs. If this be true, it is the fault of the respective club presidents who do not take the time to jot off their news to use or to appoint a man to do the job. This column is to be a bulletin board of not one, but of every club on the campus if you make it that. We will print all news that is in our hands at least five days prior to the publication date of the Scholastic. Club publicity chiefs should mail their items to Campus Clubs, 245 Zahm Hall.
We intended to forget all about those Easter headaches, that evening down at the Liederkranz Club, those brightly plumaged damsels ambling along Main Street all dressed up in their tailored suits splashed from head to toe with fire engine red accessories. In fact, we decided to break out the old straw hat for Memorial Day when in popped Bob Slocum of the Pittsburgh Club and Jack Shine of the Buffalo Club clamoring for a rehash on the Easter parade.
“You’re right,” whined Bob, “I have , not seen so much red in Pittsburgh since the last Communist rally in ’38.”
Jack Shine trumped in with his ace: “The wind was blowing the be-decked bonnets around downtown Buffalo in such quantities on Easter Sunday that it looked as though the Junior Chamber of Commerce was holding a kite flying convention.”
When the conversation finally dribbled back to club news, Jack said that the Buffalo Club had a rollicking time at their Easter dance at the Klienhan’s Music Hall, with over 60 couples attending. During the vacation, Jack sent a ' posse down to the New York Central terminal, got the offices to tack a coach on the tail of The Pacemaker for the April 9th westward ho.
Down at Pittsburgh, there are other things brewing besides the summer outing of Crosby’s helpless Pirates. According to Bob Slocum, the Pitt Club has plans on the fire fox* a real plush social splash come June and the summer recess. The occasion will be a combination Old Home Day for the Alumni and a summer reunion for the students, to take place under the roof of the Churchill Valley Country Club. In the course of the social scramble, a scroll will be awarded to the foremost Notre Dame alumnus in the Pittsburgh area. /1 the next club meeting, John Ducato, club president, will appoint the necessary committees.
PERSONAL NOTE:
Bernie Ell, who is doing a bang-up job as Publicity Director of the Anthra- । cite Club, will be parading up the middle j
38
S6r^499
IN THE HAND OF ARTUR RUBINSTEIN
ul...the world’s
World-famous concert flultt tdiose Chopin Sonata Alban fir RCA Victor Records is nintdhg wide sccUbttn
most wanted pen

THE fame of the Parker “51” has broad dimensions. Every language, every continent knows this fine pen. Pride in its ownership is shared in every walk of life.
Surveys both here and abroad substantiate these facts. American pen dealers, for example, recently named Parker the most-wanted pen—rating it ahead of all other well-knownmakescombined. (Score: 72.7% for Parker; 27.3% for all others.)
Fortunately, more 51’s are now being
shipped. So see your dealer soon.
Here is a pen of simple beauty. Every detail reflects unhurried craftsmanship— working to highest precision standards.
Its unique point has no moving parts to clog or fail. It starts promptly. Writes smoothly and with pressureless touch.
The precision-fit cap slips on—locks without twisting. Within the tapered shaft, the 51’s filler is safely concealed.
This pen alone is designed-for satisfactory use with Parker “51” Ink that dries as it writes! (It can also use ordinary ink.)
See the “51” today. Colors: Black, Blue Cedar, Dove Gray. $12.50; $15.00. Pen*
cils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to S80.0Q Vacumatic Pens, $8.75. Pencils, $4.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin and Toronto, Canada.
“INFORMATION, PLEASE”
Listen in every Wednesday night M 10:30 EST^BS, coasMo-coast
eora. ■» vwt FABHin Ma COMM*
39
aisle in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., with L home town girl this summer.
Cartier Field. Looks like another* “representative” season for the Fighting Irish.
The Philly Club deserves a rousing ND. They’re-a-something-or-other for whipping together the successful social cocktail which was poured out quite freely last Monday evening over in the Drill Hall as a toast to Notre Darners the world over. It’s only random thought, but perhaps there could have been some female entertainers. Nevertheless, the Philly Club, the Rebels, the Anthraciters, the Washington (D.C.) Club and the New Jersey Club scrambled together as fine an evening’s entertainment as has hit the campus in many a leap year. Foxy Art Coughlan almost got caught with his entertainment down when the committee he had nominated to tool the deal threw in the towel because the pink slips were being showered on their parents like confetti at a wedding. But Art is no dodo, and proved it by putting the program on a campus-wide scale. The new committee headed by Jack Dempsey, Jim Masterson, and Joe Simons soon had the show on the road. You all know the results.
SPRING PRACTICE
(Continued from Page 21)
most spectacular runners of the country. Terry Brennan and Red Sitko have been breaking away for long gains in spring scrimmages along with Bill Gonipers, Red Coutre, Lancaster Smith, Mike Swistowicz, and the Texas Tornado, Coy McGe. Ed Kenefick may find himself in the headlines if his fail running is as good as it has been for the past two weeks. Ernie Zalejski’s knee puts a big question mark over his head but he’s not to be counted out. Other candidates include Jim Brennan, Frank Spaniel, Fred Bruno, Len Gajewski, Frank Harrison, Charles Klise, Walt McGuire, John McMahon, Jim Mortell, Lyle Pearson, Don Queuks, Don Romano, Tom Saggau, Jim Sullivan, Cliff Wilke, and Dick Cordasco.
At fullback, John Panelli and Floyd Simmons will fight it out for the starting spot. Keep your eye on Len Le-Cluyse next fall. He’s a powerful lad. Corny Clatt is another powerhouse to watch. Among the newcomers are Ted Sajdak, John O’Neil, Tom McCarty, Ray Kenney and Paul Boulus. And last but not the weakest is Ray lannuccillo who packs a lot of power in his 225 pounds of human dynamite.
That’s the story every afternoon behind the green fence which surrounds
40
South Bend Symphony Finale May 2 In N.D. Drill Hall
The final concert of the season by the South Bend Symphony orchestra, which will feature outstanding tenor Charles Kullman, will be held in the Notre Dame drill hall on May 2.
Presented jointly by the orchestra and the University, Kullman studied at the American conservatory in Fontainebleu, France and was a member of the music faculty at Smith College in Massachusetts.
Touring Europe, he made his debut there in Berlin in 1931 and later sang at the Vienna State Opera and at the Salzburg summer festival. He was also a success at the Florentine May music festival and at London’s Covent Garden (pre-war opera house, better known to ex-GI’s as a famed dance hall). Upon his return to the United States he made his debut at the Metropolitan in 1935 and has sung in many operas there. Since then he has entered the fields of radio, movies and recording. In recent summers he has appeared in South America.
Foreign Affairs Group to Study World Events
The International Affairs Club, an organization composed of both graduate and undergraduate students at Notre Dame, has been formed on the campus for the purpose of studying international events in the light of ethical and moral principles, it was announced by the club’s president, John J. Fallon, a senior from New Rochelle, New York.
At a meeting held on March 24 at the Notre Dame College of Law, the group discussed the allied treatment of postwar Germany and the problems which have arisen as a result of the policies followed thus far.
Besides its president, Mr. Fallon, the club’s officers include Joseph Q. Reninger, vice-president, a senior from Benton Harbor, Mich.; Arthur B. Curran, Jr., secretary, sophomore from Rochester, N. Y.; and John G. Sweeney, treasurer, a junior from Jamaica, N. Y.
Moderator of the club is Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., Associate Professor of Religion at Notre Dame. Father Putz, who has been active in international student club circles, attended the World Student Conference at Prague, Czechoslovakia, during the past summer.
Headquarters
for
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
e *
IK'SHAVES a YOU hr
3 months f



/
6UUITHBBY
TIE miUN FIIEMMS CIMPANY fiw 6m Sim Itn
Toure the man most >
likely to
Succeed
First prize goes to the Best-Dressed College Man. He owes that trim, athletic look to famous Van Heusen collar styling and figure-fit tailoring. His Van Heusen necktie adds extra swank to his appearance. Van Heusen style-savvy goes together with hard-to-get quality. Magic sewmanship and Sanforized, laboratory-tested shirt fabrics mean many semesters of wearing satisfaction. Graduate to Van Heusen today! Phillips-Jones Corp., New York 1, N. Y.
...in Van Heusen Shirts and ties
Made by the makers of Van Heusen Shirts, Ties, Pajamas, Collars, Sport Sturts
r
r
h
I
I
|F r I i
ffs Adler's for VAN HEUSEN
MIK OMSK... MOI6M ( WSMSVB
LETTERS
(Continued from Page 5)
The war ended and xhe xrtoune ana its ilk raised their whining voices. Give us free economy, they said, and everybody will have everything at a iow price. So otf went controls, result: na houses out plenty of fancy oars and brand new (empty) auto show rooms, tiny 10c candy uars, and 45c boxes of soap flakes.
We see a people in conflict because greed replaces harmony. We no longer have the single great cause of war to unite us. Rather than seek another cause to unite us (Housing could be one) the American newspapers (Tribune in particular) go about shouting for special interest groups, and the common good be damned. We learned a lesson in corporate action in the early forties and now rhese selfish editors would’ tear it from us.
As every man who rides a train into Chicago’s loop well knows, Chicago is a filthy, rotten city in its central sections. The Tribtme and Chicago businessmen have long been aware of this, but rather than risk a penny for the city’s people these men have run to the suburbs. They have left Chicago’s suffering millions to rot in their substandard homes. Mr. Edwards, the “system” you defend fails when called upon to do a good for society in any situation when the chance for big profits is absent. When Chicago’s slums are cleaned up it will be done by the people themselves acting through their government.
The Chicago Tribune would take us back to the rugged capitalism which left us jobless in 1931. Fortunately blunders like the Root fiasco are fast depleting it of what little influence it has. The people of Chicago will soon have a vigorous new mayor under whose leadership it is hoped that citizens will organize to solve their own problems.
For Bill Gwinn I will eat dirt. The Tribune printed a straw vote in early March, immediately dropped it when Root was losing, kept it out for two weeks, suddenly put it back the day after my letter appeared.
Jim Cunningham
Sir:
Today I picked up an old copy of Pic. Browsing through it, I came across an article entitled, “I’m Fed Up With Career Girls,” by Bill Pearsall. It reminded me of something I had once read in the Scholastic.
A search through a stack of magazines uncovered the February 14 issue which contains, on Page 16, an article
41
FACTORY AUTHORIZED
BUSINESS SYSTEMS 126 S. Main
Glasses CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE
W. G. Bogardus—M. Mittennayer OPTOMETRISTS AND MFG. OPTICIANS
228 South Michigan Street Closed Wednesday afternoons
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-rays and Consultation
Diseases and Sorcery of Month and Jaws Telephone 4-5661
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building Phone 3-1254	South Bend, Indiana
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M. D. M. J. Thornton, M. D.
•
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2574
by Jerry Olwell with the title “Career Girls—Phooey.”
The Pic article from the October, 1946 issue, is enclosed. I think you must agree with me that Mr. dwell's opening remark that he is taking a “cue from Pic’s Bill Pearsall,” is about as remarkable an understatement as it is possible to encounter . . .
Don Holenhorst 143 Lyons Hall Annex
Dear Editor:
I was pleasantly surprised when on a recent Friday the Juggler, instead of your esteemed publication came sailing over my transom and skidded under the sack.
After digesting some very fine articles I turned to the poetry—that was poetry, wasn’t it? To say the least, I was confused, and even reading it backwards didn’t help. Of course I realize that the English Majors shiver with delight when they read such stuff. The rest of us all wonder.
So I sez' to myself, I sez, “If the English Majors can do it, so can the Commerce men.” So I went out and contemplated some old snow in back of the Main Building and presently, came an inspiration, a transcription of which follows:
PARABOLIC VIOLETS
Firefly —
Oht augmented refraction
Descending like a bike into Introspective abstraction!
Puddles —
Electric, intrepid, lurking;
Then pausing on muddy feet, to rise.
Yet to gambol, and gamboling to disintegrate Into ectoplasmic apparition.
Quackgrass —
Filigree of nothingness.
Swaying in dymaxion confusion.
Wouldst to orate, wouldst to ejaculate.
One esoteric, introvertic, exhortation, “Babe?”
Name Withheld
17 March, 1947 Dear Sir:
Until this week’s edition of the Scholastic came out, I had thought that John A. O’Connor was the only pop-off on that revered publication. But now I find that Almasi and Higgins are far and away the blatherskites of the week.
During the Canisius-Long Island game in Buffalo on January 25, the fans and players did rush onto the floor, there was a riot, and the police did break up the riot. But there the similarity of the Almasi-Higgins story to the facts ends.
Canisius was some 28 or 30 points ahead of L.I.U. and was playing Rhode Island style basketball with Hank O’Keefe at half court ready for the
break. O’Keefe had been scoring heavily all night and L.I.U. had become determined to stop him. They stopped him— with as nasty a bit of football clipping as ever was enacted on the hardwood. O’Keefe’s legs were knocked from under him while he was in the air, and he crashed into the uprights supporting the basket.
Tim O’Keefe, Hank’s kid brother, rushed onto the court and beltea the L.I.U. stalwart. The L.I.U. team, bent on mayhem, then rushed the young O’Keefe. It was then and not until then that “the Canisius squad rushed onto the floor,” as the Almasi-Higgins story said. After Buffalo’s Finest had cleared the court, O’Keefe made his two foul shots, bringing his free throw record for the evening to 14 for 21.
There was no racial bigotry involved in the many times O’Keefe was fouled, and I am sure that the clout delivered by the younger O’Keefe was not inspired by anti-Semitism, but rather by a sense of family unity and of outraged sportsmanship. Undoubtedly, the riotous result would have been the same under the same circumstances had Canisius been playing St. Bonaventure, Niagara, Scranton, Holy Cross or Notre Dame.
L. J. Halpin
Dear Sir:
In the pre-Easter issuse of the Scho-LAsnc, “College Parade” went into length to tell the story of one Max Palmer, currently performing in sport circles for the Walnut Grove High School team, I believe.
Messrs. Almasi and Higgins say, quote: “. . . shoes cannot be found to fit him.” End quote. Quote: “Only once this season has his team been defeated . . .” End quote.
(1)	Something like five or six weeks ago, the University of Arkansas, already virtual owners of this 7'-7" high school freshman, provided Mr. Palmer with a beautiful new pair of size 16 basketball shoes. How early was your deadline for the basketball issue?
(2)	Three times prior to the Mississippi district regional, and state basketball tournaments, in which Walnut went only a short distance, Max Palmer and his four teammates went down to defeat. Although I can’t remember the score (it has been over a month), Jackson (Tennessee) High beat the Mississippians by over 20 points—something near 50-29— in the Ellis Auditorium at Memphis, Tennessee. Within a week, Palmer & Co. lost again, this time something like 103 to 60! Check your sources, Messrs. Almasi and Higgins!
W. H. Slavick 115 Cavanaugh
42
I
r

Ajfci a 10 $^ot
for a Crazy Shot
Franchised Pepsi-Cola Bottlers from coast to coast.

HERE’S WHAT YOU DO—Send us a crazy shot featuring PepsiCola. We’ll select what we think are the three or four best “shots” every month. If yours is one of these, you get ten bucks. If it isn’t, you get a super-deluxe rejection slip for your files.
AND—if you just sort of happen to send in a Pepsi-bottlecap with your “shot,” you get twenty bucks instead of ten, if we think your “shot” is one of the best.
Address: College Dept.,Pepsi-Cola Company,Long Island City,N.Y.
43