— Che^‘	' ' ?
Dotre Dame Scholastic
■Dl5Ce q)VASl-SCmPGi2-Vl^ vive -qvasi-.cras-imo^itvr\/s-
Vol. L.	NOTRE ; DAME, INDIANA, February 3, 1917..	No. 17.
The Fields of France.
BY JAMBS H. MCDONALD, ’19.
OFT have I raised my blossoming face to thee With joy, O lofty sky, oft have I read
In thine expressive mien the grace that,shed From God Almighty seeking love from me.
But now I sink beneath this scourge and plea. And raise my blood-shot eyes to Mercy fled. The lash is raised o’er me in conflict dread,
The pride I nourished blinds my power to see.
O what a plight is mine, and what the shame That that which was my own I should betray!
Is this a monster curse that o’er me burns
Driving me to despair? Ah, no, the blame
Is all mine own. The eve of sinful day Must come that peace may dawn when returns.
light
The' Successful Play: Some of Its Requirements.
BY HOWARD R. PARKER, T7.
’HEN a play is spoken of as successful the question arises: By what stand-
ard - is it
so
pronounced: the
standard of the art critic, who* is
concerned merely with the the production; or that
technical form of. of the theatrical
manager, who asks whether the play will be favorably received by the public? The first is the test of the dramatic theorist, who dissects the play to learn how it fulfills the requirements of technique. The other test comes when
■ the work is given-to the public, often when it is handed to the producer for consideration. -The question then is hvhether the play has enough vitality: to withstand the demands of
Although fidelity to the-rules of dramatic . art is found in most plays that win popular ,; approval, there are exceptions. Often a playA_ is faultless in technique and ingenious in con- A struction; it passes the laboratory -test of the reviewer and is pronounced a “good play” in every respect. Yet it never reaches the .
. stage; or given a trial, it fails ingloriously as a theatrical attraction.	P.
Again, it often happens that the play>which .. o’erleaps accepted rules of construction, is- ? instantly welcomed by the theatre-going public, whose applause effectively, drowns the complaining voices of the critics. Such a play covers A'-' up its artistic defects by supplying some element that- appeals strongly to the average patron. / The carefully constructed play, oh the other hand, is attuned to the more cultured , ear, and hence it passes over the heads of . the' majority of those who take their drama from the theatre, rather than from the printed V volume.
For the purposes of this study we shall assume; the second interpretation of the word “successful,” the box-office interpretation.' The-‘ drama that attracts the crowds offers the more interesting study, for there is more psychology in an appeal to the multitude than to a deliberative assembly of learned critics. ? ■	: - ?
In asking the question, “What are some■ of the requirements of a successful play,” swe are taking up a subtle problem. It "is certain,. , ’ however, that logical arrangement is an essentia! element. The play that leads the audience . to expect-one line of action and then supplies something entirely different is doomed to early . -.-A '“death. An example of chaos in structure was seen in a recent dramatic fiasco, “Where the A: Rooster Crows,” a play which lasted only a week. -A after being selected as ’the opening attraction. * : for the re-organized Playhouse in: Chicago.-

popular taste/, to become a stage reality; or Whether it is to -remain the subject-matter, for the reviewer and the.study-club.	' . _
i
The play was produced in South Bendthe night before its opening in Chicago..: From the5 , beginning of the second act it was apparent
£
266	' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
that “Where the Rooster Crows'’ would be a sorry failure before. a metropolitan audience. The production carried a very capable cast and was well staged, but the play itself was a hodge-podge of threads and minor episodes
that were entirety irrelevant to the main, and well-adapted to the popular taste. It has
action. In the second act there occurs the fata! blunder. A man and his sister, suspected of spying on the fortifications of the United States government, are to meet after dark in a deserted barn for a parley with a Filipino whom they have engaged for espionage. Another .man, young, handsome, and slangy, and enamored of the woman in the case, learns of the intended meeting and goes to the barn with his colored valet. They hide in the hayloft, prepared to protect their country from harm.	’ ,
The curtain rises on the interior of the barn, which is staged with absolute fidelity to reality, giving perfect atmosphere for -the expected action. The two men climb the narrow ladder into the. hayloft. With all the breathlessness of small boys, .we follow them, psychically, and become “all set” to listen to the proceedings. But instead of providing. the action that would be perfectly logical, the play wright ushers into the barn a quartette of villagers drinking whiskey and laughing at the blindness of their, wives, who imagine them to be ardent temperance advocates. The whole act is consumed by the antics, of . these bucolic hypocrites and 'the sudden entry of their hitherto unsuspecting helpmates, while the audience waits in vain for the resumption of the main action. Even the
name of the piece is taken from this episode, 'family are reading a telegram announcing that
- the countersign of the rural revelers being an imitation of a crowing rooster, a feat which is easy enough for these barnyard conspirators.. This is an extreme example, but it shows clearly the folly; of neglecting the requirements of unity and logical sequence.	'
’ The plot of “Under Cover,” a very successful detective drama by Roi Cooper Megrue, is J worked, out in Jogical and climacteric order, ? so that the. audience is absorbed throughout. Z In this, play every step of the action follows naturally upon the preceding, and the audience is given the same general run of action that- the .premises .lead them to" expect. ' ?	‘	; -
; ~ The final “punch” in “.Under Cover” is .’greatly, responsible for its success,- but throughout the play;:there is/close..attention to the details of dramatic: construction.T'lie.; expo
sition is supplied largely through itnplication and in the shortest time possible. The growth is adroitly managed, so that when the climax is reached' the audience is in a fever of expectancy. The play is technically correct
enjoyed- a .flourishing career, having served as . a vehicle for -five companies simultaneously.
Another ingredient in the composition of the successful play is the human interest element. This is responsible for the popular acceptance of plays of the type of “Peg o’ My Heart.” This drama is the story of a young Irish girl sent., to live with some aristocratic relatives whose flattened finances impel them to accept her in return for_ the annuity which an uncle’s will has provided for. her care. Peg is an uncultured little miss who carries her huge pet dog in her arms; her hitherto rich relatives are typical English snobs. There is a clash that furnishes comedy of the most genuine character. The audience, quite naturally, is firmly entrenched on the side of Peg. It is the old story of human sympathy, upon which foundation the author, J. Hartley Manners, built a highly successful stage drama. ~
A play that offers a similar human interest appeal is “Come Out of the Kitchen.” It has been running for’several months in New York, having received its premiere at San Francisco last summer under the capable direction of Henry Miller. The- play" has for its central motive the impoverishment of a proud family in the South, the Beaconsfields. At the opening the two' daughters and the three sons of the
• their father is to. undergo a serious operation in-. London.. From the dialogue we jearn that the young people have decided to lease the BeaconsfieMs’ country place to a rich bachelor from the North; in this way- they hope to defray part of the expense of their, father’s, sickness. The lease provides that the owners shall provide a full corps of servants, from butler to cook. Unable to secure- these, and fearful’’ of breaking the lease, the sons and daughters ' decide,.. against strong opposition '-from two of the more proud among their number, to take -the places of the - servants, until a. retinue. can • be engaged.	.. . • '.	.	..	. , .
The five; Beaconsfields assume ;the garb . of. servants; just in time to greet the lessee of the . property. The oldest girl takes the position of cook, and it is: around her That the action cen-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Lers. . There are many amusing situations in the story, which ends with the engagement, of the new head of the house and the temporary cook; hehce the name of the play. Although born to the happy heritage of having Henry Miller as a. producer with Ruth Chatterton and Bruce McRae as “leads,” the play i$ itself a clever piece of work. The main situation, a Southern familv, accustomed to luxurv, acting as household servants to a rich unmarried gentleman from the North, is one that would hold the attention of any. audience.
The successful play, we have seen, requires among-- other things logical sequence and close attention to the trend of the collective mind of the audience, together with a motive that is distinctly human and intimately related to the ordinary playgoer. From other, examples it might be shown that tragic endings are seldom acceptable to an audience, except they be done in a masterful way. The ending of “To-day,” by George Broadhurst, who had scored a success with “Bought and Paid For” is too violently repulsive to please the average audience, .which does not care to see a play end with a man’s murdering- his wife, no matter how depraved she may have become. '
To produce a successful play a writer must study the psychology of the great mass of playgoers and adapt his production to this subtle index. He should study other plays that have failed and try to steer clear of the defects that have Jed to their rejection. Then if he is lucky his play may be accepted ’ after its fourth or fifth revision. ----------------------------------
Little Katharine. -.
267
Her Career. :	.
BY JOHN URBAN RILEY, ’17.
(II7zo died on her First Communion Day.) .-O Katharine mine! In child’s estate .
Your guarded soul was sweetly great, Your lips were ruddy as that wine, / 'For which the hearts of mortals pine. '
Until your soul in childhood’s state,	4
-Passed through the King’s eternal gate;
Ah, there in thought, disconsolate,	-
s Only to God you could incline, .	. O Katharine mine.
- To eat life’s food, you scarce could wait;
- . God’s Blood you drank, God’s Flesh you ate,
* • That day,—as by aikangel’s sigh, You flew to Him whose Heart Divine .
. Is your true home. Ah, happy fate, .	'
,	. O Katharine mine!	. B. G.
’	Dramatis Personae.	-	. .
Ann, maid to Neva Graham.	' .
Neva Graham, an American prima donna, retiring • star of the London Grand Opera Company. .	. .
’ Captain Gerald Sydney, in love with Neva. _ ' . Red Cross Nurse.	.	. '
Place.—Living room in the suite occupied by Neva .	.
Graham in the Hotel King Edward, London.	•
Time.—Scene I. occurs in the fall of 1914; Scene II. * jn September, 1916.	-	.	”	.
_ Between Scene I. and Scene II. the curtain is lowered for a period of five seconds to denote the lapse of two . years and to allow for the placing of wheel chairs,	.
a cot bed, etc., and for other minor changes to give -the living room a hospital atmosphere.-	-
At the rise of the curtain Neva is seated at the .	.
piano, softly singing the closing bars of “A Dream,7	.	>
by Bartlett, and playing her own accompaniment.
As the last note dies away Ann .enters with a large -box containing flowers.	. ' _	. -
Ann. Some flowers, Miss Graham.	.	- .
Neva. Thank you, Ann. I wonder who-'' -sent them? Fill that large vase while I open ’ , them. [Exit Ann.] {After opening the box she -	•
reads the card.) From Tony: why the dear .	\
child, he shouldn’t have spent his money so. .	<
lavishly. He should have-saved it for his * voice lessons. (As she arranges the flowers.) ~ • I wonder who will take care of him when I am -gone? I do hope someone will help and encourage - . him, for he has a beautiful voice and must make ~	.
a success of it. {Telephone rings.) Yes, this is - . Miss Graham speaking. - Oh, I have nothing ,	..
to say, nothing except that London has been . . very kind to me, and most appreciative,, and for that I shall always love the English. Am I . engaged to Captain Sydney? No, I am* not. y . < Yes, I.am to sing in New York week after next?. - ’ ~ Yes, my contract is for two years. Thank you. .	- J
You’re very welcome. Good-bye. _	-	* J
Enter Ann. Two more' boxes of flowers,	-
Miss Graham.	.. ..
Neva". Where on earth shall we put them, J. . f J y Ann? Let me see the cards; {reading them.) </;. “ From one whom you have made love music. Uv.-yiA? and appreciate opera.—Sir John Morehouse.” -■	, < T)
-Isn’t it wonderful to have friends so kind, Ann?
’ Ann. Byt you deserve it, Miss Graham...
Neva. • Why. even you_-flatter me, Ann. And the other is from B ently - Young; he’s the
critic of rihe"London Mail. -He’s -been 'very -fTLSN nice to me, and all he says is “Bon. voyage.” .
Ai rt}
268	' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
'	Ann. Shall I arrange them, Miss Graham?
{Holding up flowers.)
Neva. Yes, please. {Clock strikes eight.)
.	Neva. Oh, Ann, it’s eight o’clock so soon,
and Captain Sydney is coming at quarter after. I must hurry and look presentable. If he comes you may tell him I’ll be here presently. [Exit.] Ann. {Watching Neva exit). Oh, if I could - only be like her. She’s as wonderful as these flowers. {Bell rings o$ right.) I wonder if that’s ' Captain Sydney. She loves him, I know she - does, but the people in America want her and she’s going back to-morrow to sing to them.
{Runs to answer bell and returns immediately with huge box containing roses; opens and takes out Howers and note; is arranging flowers when
v Neva enters and sees roses. Ann gives her the _ note.)	‘
Neva. Oh, Ann, who sent them?
- Ann. Captain Sydney, Miss. [Exit.]
■ Neva. {Reads note; tears come to her eyes and she shows the emotion it causes; tucks note -	inside her gown; goes to roses and puts her
arms about them, burying her j ace in the.blossoms, then to piano, plays a jew bars and is about to sing when bell rings off right; she dries her eyes.) - Ann {ushers in .Captain Sydney and takes ‘' his coat and hat.)	*
' ' .	Neva {advancing to meet fliim) Gerald, how
are you?	_
Sydney., I scarcely know ‘how I feel, Neva.
.	_ I .know I should be happy -for you, because
to-morrow you’re sailing to meet the greatest triumph of your career, byt I can’t forget that .	every time-the clock ticks all that I hold dearest
. in this world is going farther away from me.
NEva. Oh, please Gerald, don’t be unhappy;
. you know I can’t feel that. I am going to a , triumph, when I am leaving you. Oui' friendship has been my greatest treasure since I’ve been ; away from home, and years cannot take away \	- the memories of the hours we’ve spent together.
■ I shall be in America only two years at the ..	.. most, and during that time you’ll come to visit
- with me, won’t you?	'
v . Sydney. Yes, I’ll try, Neva, but you know ..an army man cannot plan very far ahead. I
• ' ’ may be in India by that time.,	"
. Neva. And .you’ll answer iny letters, won’t ', you," Gerald? :	;	. .
■ ■ • • -Sydney. Yes, Neva, but my dear, you’don’t , understand what it means, to have you always ' near. I’ve told-you so many times that I love
; you, Neva, and have since that eventful day
over a year ago. Won’t you marry me, Neva, won’t you give my love another thought?
Neva. Please, Gerald, don’t make it any harder for me to say good-bye. I do' care very much, you know I do, more so than for any other man I’ve ever known, but my love seems so tiny when compared to your devotion that I cannot be sure; I don’t dare say “yes ” to you. Won’t you be patient and wait just a little while longer, till I return to London, Gerald? Let me do something big, something worth while; something to make me worthy of a man like you, and then, if you still love me, and two years away from you do not-find me changed, I shall say,—“yes.’’	. .
Sydney. Neva, you mustn’t talk like that; it makes me feel so small when you talk of not being worthy. What have I ever done to deserve even the regard you’ve shown for me? but at least you know me to be a man, and I do love you, Neva, and know I could make you happy.
Neva. You may think me selfish, Gerald; it isn’t that I think more of my career than of your love, but I want to make myself big enough and great enough to always claim your love..	-
Sydney. I know you are sincere in what you say, Neva, and I shall wait and -pray for your success, for that will mean your return and my happiness. If nothing unforeseen happens I will come to America, where everyone loves you, for that will make the time that separates us less hard to bear. I shall write just as often as you will let me, and hope to hear from you when the public is not demanding .too much _ of your time. I must gonow.
Neva. - I’m sorry you’re leaving so early, ' Gerald.
J	_
Sydney. -I know you must be. tired after the reception to-day, and you’ll have to be up early -to catch the boat train. But I’m not going to say good-bye now, Neva, for I shall-go r down with you oh the train and stand on the dock with' all your other admirers to bid you"” bon voyage. “	'
Neva.' Perhaps it’s just as well you are going, for if yoWwere to stay I scarcely know what I could talk about, Gerald. You know there are times when things that come very near the heart;rob one of speech. -Take my hand. {As he does so she places her other hand over h£s-) I want to thank ..you for the- beautiful roses. -{Picture: -She..bows 'her head; he is. obliged to turn away.) -1	.
"-'I’ y	. SN '■ z ' - ' ' • --	A ’•	■ -	_
'	- -w -»	—- ■	- -	>
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
269
Sydney. Will you give me one of the blossoms, to keep till you'return?
Neva. Yes (she breaks off blossom, presses it to her lips and places it in his hand}. And now, good-night, Gerald.
Sydney. Good-night—Neva. [EHL]
(She turns to watch him exit and listens till the door closes, then buries her jace in her hands and sobs. Throws herself on divan and sobs.}
'Enter Ann (seeing Neva she expresses her sympathy by pantomime, dims the lights and Exits.} ' (Silence for a Jew seconds to denote lapse of time. Suddenly a great clamor is heard in the streets below. Neva raises her head and listens eagerly. She rises as the clamor and shouting increase and goes to window. Opens window and shcutingis plainly heard by audience. A bugle sounds; newsboys shout, “TFar is
■ Declared.”}	•
. Neva. Ann, Ann, come quick, hurry, hurry.
(enters running} Yes, miss'.
Neva. Hurry downstairs and find out if it’s true. They’re crying "War,” down there; I must know; hurry, hurry. (After Ann‘has gone, as Neva sees the people running to and fro in the streets she'realizes the truth.} War, War! Gerald must go; I may never see him again; he may be killed, and I love him so. -Oh why did I say no? I love him, I love him, (as she falls to her knees}.'0 God, send him back to me, let me tell him I love him before he goes; \ ■ I love him, I love him!
Enter Ann breathlessly. Yes, Miss, it’s true; the manager says so. The excitement’s terrific downstairs. The clerks are gone and the waiters are rushing out with their aprons on.
What shall we do! What shall we do?
e
■ (Help5 Neva to rise and assists her to divan; bell rings off right.}
Neva. Quick, Ann, and answer it, it may be from him. /	<	.	•
■’ . (Ann runs out and returns quickly with note. Ann turns tip lights. • Neva tears note open and reads.} "Have you heard the news?. War is declared. I have been ordered to High Heath at once and cannot be with you in the morning to say good-bye. Try not to forget me, for I shall always have you before me. Perhaps now I can do something big and great too. You are all my world, and I love you. Gerald.” (Neva crosses unsteadily to roses, places note
in center, buries her face, in the blossoms and from New York was torpedoed ■ day-^before presses them to her as'she sobs. Ann. turns away yesterday, Miss.	:
with-handkerchief to her eyes. Outside the crowd Neva; (going Go Sydney’s side as he stirs,
cheers as troops pass by and band plays ,‘God - A Save the King.' Shouting, sound of marching - ' men and artillery passing.}	-
Curtain falls for five seconds to denote the lapse . of two years and to allow a change of furniture, etc. At rise of curtain scene is the . same, but is fitted out as a' lounging room for P convalescent soldiers, as the hotel has been made ; < ■ into a hospital for wounded. Sydney discovered sitting in wheel-chair with eyes swathed :in -bandages.	’ '
(Enter Red Cross Nurse, looks at Sydney and shakes her head sadly.)	_
Sydney! Do you believe it is true—what the . \ doctor said just now?	■
Nurse. Yes,—I’m afraid it is true. '
Sydney. It doesn’t seem possible I shall . never see again. The trees and flowers, and all my friends—(dreamily}—and Neva,1—but I am. . thankful I have mv hearing. T can still hear
her sing. (To nurse realizing that she is still there}. . .. Have any papers come from America to-day? ,
Nurse. I’ll see. (She goes to pile of mail . ' and selects two papers.}	.
Sydney. Will you read me the opera criticisms?	. ;
Nurse (reads two criticisms which, give glowing \ accounts of Neva Graham. Sydney grips .arms of chair and shakes his head sadly. Sinks into reverie as the Nurse continues to read.}	_
Sydney (as nurse finishes reading.} But ' those are old papers, aren’t they?	-	.
Nurse. Yes, but the last mail boat,was torpedoed.	.	.
(Bell rings off right. Nurse exits to answer it. . ■ When she has gone Sydney reaches inside his -blouse and draws out a small gold case which he opens and presses to his lips. He makes it known	’
to the audience that it is the rose Neva gave him.	:
He puts back his head and goes to sleep with ■ rose between his hands. Re-enter Nurse with Neva. Neva wants to rush to him but -nurse ■ /
' signals for silence.}	- r	A
Nurse (softly}. The .doctor said he must c not be excited or disturbed suddenly, Miss; - -he’s still very weak. ' -	_
Neva^ But hasn’t he received my letter?
I couldn’t cable. The office in New York-said P; it was impossible.	-	,	.. : ‘
Nurse. The last boat that was .to bring-mail ’. y A;
'■K


2-jQ
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
kneeling and taking his hands in hers.) Gerald, I’m here; it’s Neva. Are you glad?
Exit Nurse (with knowing look).
Sydney (placing his hand on her shoulder and feeling her face). Neva, is it really you? I’ve been dreaming you were here beside me.
Neva. It’s true, Gerald. I come back.
. Sydney. You’ve come back sing? Thank God I still have
am
here; I’ve
to mv
London to ' ears, for-I
can hear your beauty, though the doctor says I shall never look upon it again.
Neva. No,- Gerald, I’ve not come back to. sing, except for you; I’ve come back to take care of you, to be your wife, if you still love me. ' ■ (He cannot realize it'is true; she folds his hands over the rose in his lap, presses her lips to the medal on his blouse and lays her cheek against the bandage over his eyes.) *	.
, Sydney. Neva, do you love me that much? . I am crippled and blind for life.
Neva. Yes, dear, I love you even more than that,* and when I heard of your braver}7-, I was so'thankful you were alive, and. so happy that God had not taken you from me I realized that at last my chance ; had come to do something really big; really great and worth while,—the ’ chance to love with all my heart!	’
curtain.
Varsity Verse.
L'
1
I Shall be Jealous, Love!
' _ When-slumber hath folded thee into his arms And made himself master of all thy dear charms, When darkness shall close thee about with caress, And make for himself a crowri’of each tress—
.	11 shall be jealous, Love!
Dawn shall come girt with gold worshipping there, Slurhber shalKyield up his mistress so fair, Sunbeams shall kiss thee back to the day'-And all the wild breezes shall with thee play,— ’
. Seducing the scents of the amorous, roses, \ Waving and swaying in languorous poses, -
1 If but a rose you were, and I but the’leaf,
. Then the sharp shears of Time -were common grief.
. . Sweet is the mating that knows no regret,
J Fairer than dreams that beguile slumber yet, ■ Union of souls in one sweet singing joy -
-?• That shall last forever; nor suffer alloy,—.	/
; t yff SHalll be jealous, Love?	......
- * ;	< ' - - .	. George D. Haller,’rg.
MELANCHOLY.
O’er desert sands one trod whose spirit lay In Melancholjr, solitude’s grim bower, No wind,—’twas as a timeless day, and hour By hour the wanderer hoped and yearned, "O may I see some bloom perchance of yesterday.” He prayed; and in his footsteps grew a flower, But yielding to perversity of power,	..
He plucked it, and it withered quite away.
Oft when in wandering over sorrow’s waste, We have moved ’mid fragrant fields of happiness, Whose blossoms, nurtured would have multiplied. Alas, we plucked them with impulsive haste, Their very roots with cruel ruthlessness We tore away, but quick they drooped and died.
.	Joseph E. Gallagher, ’ig.
The Lad of Dreams.
Like a young bird he came,—with dark hair tossing, ■ Upon the winds of May and brought to me The breath of "’distant hills with dawn-lights burning. Hills that stand above a summer sea.
. For there great waters stretch till sky and ocean Clasp hands, the while their cheeks with morning glow,	.
Nearby the gulls are circling where the tides run, Casting their silver on the rocks below.
Silver, like Aguilar and his lords together, Brought on bold galleons from ancient Spain, Treasure, long-lost in seas in stormy weather, And now cast here "upon the rocks again.
Quick he came like a spring-bird, and I-thought me How in those olden days a lad as tall, 1
Had gathered there his hosts of Irish bravery In the far-'dream-girt hills of Donegal.
Speer Strahan, ’ 17.
'	■	- Sunday Afternoon.
On Sunday afternoon this time of year,	-
I try to stud\r at a rapid pace, And as I take-my old accustomed jflace,	r
Beside the window, thoughts arise so queer, . That concentrated efforts disappear.	.
A hankering to-roam comes.on apace, ~ As I look out and see some radiant face, . The ^English and Psychology look drear.
. My room-mate starts to play his new guitar And sing the Upraises of bis lady fair;
, With gestures' and gesticulations fine He sings the songs of Italy afar, Of France, and Romanybeyond compare;—
- Time’s up!-I guess I’ll go to Mike’s and dine.
’ ,	/ - - f 1'! McAuliffe, ’ 19

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
J:
Stephen Theodore Badin: An Oration.
BY B. .GILBERT
As a cluster of gems set in' a brooch, there lie in the valley of the St. Joseph River the buildings of the largest Catholic boarding school in America, the University of Notre Dame. Behind her, beyond the beautiful lakes of which she is so proud, are several small hills, some of which are still covered with massive forests, while others manifest the skill of industrious farmers who have made productive fields and-pasture lands out of hills once covered with a dense forest; before her is a broad avenue,
which leads to a nearby-city. Within the walls days was enough to exhaust the hardiest man of of this hallowed institution are to be found to-day. It was on muddy roads, down rivers
relics and works of art unparalleled in America: down to the west, on a little hillock by the shore of St. Mary’s Lake, stands a little log cabin.
' To tell the story of this sacred spot—and that of the log cabin—would be to recite the history of one of the foremost Indian missions of North America for wellnigh three hundred years. It is ' of the heroic missionaries of this district that I intend to speak; great, self-sacrificing, spotless men, who left their native lands to come and. evangelize the red men of America, to do a great service to humanity while alive, and, when permitted to enjoy the vision of God, to be the intercessors for the great American nation. -Of such a type was Stephen-Theodore Badin, the man who donated the land on which Notre i
•Dame was erected by Father Edward Sorin.
The time of Father Badin’s coming to Notre Dame was a time of great national prosperity. It. is known in‘history, as “The era of good feeling.’’ • The Union numbered twenty-four states. Indiana had. already been in the fold for thirteen years, and it could boast of many growing villages, towns, and cities where the comforts of civilization were replacing the rigors -of pioneer lifL? (But whilethe whites were making rapid progress,- the poor ‘ helpless red men— , especially those of this region—were suffering - from the need of a “Black Robe”, to instruct their children in the Christian-religion.
. Into this wilderness of the middle west, came
. the young, strong, and devoted priest, Father to him: “Do not insult the red men; we cannot Badin—a Francis Xavier to the natives of win them that way. Strip the feathers;from the
, Indiana. . It was in July of 1768 that there ' legs and .you will find them eatable.” ’	\
was born at Orleans in France an infant , who . Father Badin continued his;work; among the was afterwards,y by his expulsion -from his" Indians of this district for six years. He then
native land, to be the first within the borders' of the United. States whose hands should be anointed in ordination to the priesthood. After his ordination, in Baltimore, May- 25th,. 1793, he was sent with one companion to care- for the missions of Kentucky. The two priests were on the mission but two years when,foy the sake of the shepherdless flock of Louisiana, Father Badin sacrificed his only helper,’ and took entire charge of the Kentucky missionary field. Although Father Badin did not feel called to the mission labors of this section, he never complained, because, as he said, “Nothing that is done for God is done in vain.” .	. ; -
Father Badin suffered much on this mission. Even the journey to Kentucky in those early
on flat-bottomed boats; the passengers slept in the open air; and all this during the month, of November. Father Badin bravely endured ? it all. Upon his arrival, he began his work at once. His first altar was a hewn slab, y His-delight wras to say Mass and preach to a small band of Catholics. But in spite of the fact that y he liked to preach, he trusted more toprayerv for success, as we see by his calling the Trappists to Kentucky at the same time that he -called , other priests, that they might be active among, the people. When he had accomplished .his,’ task in Kentucky he left the missions there-and took up a work more to his fancy.	y
It was after this trial of his missionary .career, that Father Badin came to the St; Joseph valley , and settled at what was later to be known as ? Notre Dame, where hewevived the faith among the Pottawatomies. On the little hillock at the,, southeastern end of St.. Alary’s Lake, he-.built a substantial log chapel, and made it his central > mission, station; That he . used all legitimate means in his power to gain the good will of the*. Indians is clearly shown by one of our foremost local historians, who relates that one time when w Father Badin and a Air. Colerick of Ft. Wayne were visiting a tribe of Ottawas in 1830, a mess . of pigeons was boiled, feathers and all,and portions were set before the strangers.' Father Badin began to eat his portion as if he relished A it. His friend, hesitated and; Father Badin rsaid A








THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
returned to Cincinnati, where much of his time was devoted to literary work. The most prominent of his writings are his “Letters to an Episcopalian Friend,” which were published in the Catholic Telegraph in the same year, 1836. In 1S37 he went to Bardstown, where he acted as vicar-general, at the same time attending several missions. This was no small task for a man in his seventies, but Father Badin performed his work cheerfully,-knowing that he was not working for men but for God.
The sufferings of Father Badin are indescrib-' able. As a young man he had been driven out of France by the Revolution. As a young priest he was sent to a mission he not only disliked, but which was so extensive and in. convenient that humanly speaking it was enough to discourage an angel. ” As a man venerable with age, he found his companions ■	to be men of another generation, men whose
:	views, though often more enlightened, were
:	contrary to those of the aged and experienced
; * missionary priest. . Father Badin would never i ‘	quarrel, but he would change his residence
.	when he met with any difficulty with his fellow
:	priests or his superiors in the hierarchy.
.	Looking back, we are startled at the noble
|	works and years of this glorious apostle. There
\	is and can be only, one explanation of it all.
|	He was a chosen friend of God. God used him
|	as an instrument for the spread of Christianity
I	and for the destruction of the reign of Satan
|	among the chosen children of America. God
J	" loved him and,He gave him length of days in
. this life that he might. merit a higher place in
. Heaven. The life of Father Badin was saintly, and although he never was a religious in the {	- sense that we - use the word, whenever he
■	visited Notre Dame and taught .catechism
..during the early days of Father-Sorin he never
, ‘ ‘missed, a-community exercise.: He.was the first-to be found.at meditation and at spiritual . reading. He woukLsometimes .be so lost in his -	spiritual, reading; that he would. forget> about
, his.meals. :	•	:•••
- .Though he died in Cincinnati, and. was. buried ' in., the. Cathedral • there, his body‘was moved. ? . .fifty-years later to Notre Dame, dhatyit: might . fest.in-the spot where he offered-so’.many holy ; . . - 'Masses, <where he baptized so -many children A . and converts, where he united so many happy .	. young- people in the bond, of holy:wedlock,
- ? T. ? and .where he spent -so many hours; in silent .. . ; prayer; and reading. And here rests his* body
awaiting the hour of a glorious resurrection, or perhaps a golden shrine after canonization by Mother Church.
Over fourscore years have passed since Father Badin first visited this spot. Great changes have been going on in the meantime. A bloody civil war has passed over the States; the war of wars is (devastating Europe; but Notre Dame, where Father Badin dwelt and is buried, is at peace. The Blessed Virgin watches, from on high, the grave of her loyal son beside the beautiful little lake, under the shadow of the great institution named in her honor. St. Joseph beside, as of old, is ever watching the body of his second foster son. No costly monument marks his resting-place. A simple slab of marble covers his grave. A crude log chapel, an exact facsimile of the one built by the heroic man, marks, the spot. But while this restingplace is so simple, what greater or more fitting monument could be erected to the* memory of one whose life was spent doing the work of his Creator, serving the lonely and the-weak? Yea, what greater monument for one who, to use the words of the Apostle, “Became all to all men-that He might gain all?” x
The Legend of the Sycamore. -
BY WILLIAM E. FARRELL.
’ The death last week of Brother Frederick of this community, will be learned with sincere regret and kindly memory by those-who en-
-■ joyed an intimate acquaintance with him and who understood and appreciated his rare per--sonality. For years, he' was a familiar figure on : obr campus, where he could be seen frequently :m animated conversation with one or another .of those who found him congenial. Few men about Notre Dame possessed such a store of ^'historical incident and legend associated with ythe grounds and environs of’the. University. He had read much and had talked frequently, with :the brave pioneers who had preceded him in the-community, about the interesting places for miles around. He was equally familiar with the written sources and the oral Indian legends pertaining to these places’. Before age and ill health had made inroads on-body and mind, he was remarkably gifted with clear memory and pdetic insight. It was my privilege to know
- Brother Frederick well and T recall with ‘ ‘ fra-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	273 -
grant retrospection” the incidents and legends related by him several years ago in our occasional talks or on long walks through pleasant places. One legend with which, so far as I have been able to learn, he alone was familiar, I shall endeavor, as he often requested, to tell.
A little to the west and to the rear of Corbv Hall, stands an old, impressive-looking sycamore tree. If one is at all observant of nature’s manifold beauties, those that appeal to the sense of grandeur, as well as to the sense of delicacy, this noble tree, especially in the season of foliage, cannot but arrest attention. Its majestic proportions are in themselves enough to command admiration: it towers above its fellows, and gazing calmly down upon them, seems like a tall, white-haired seer, who quietly regards the youthful lives about him and gravely . recalls the memories and associations of his own springtime of life; from its trunk huge limbs shoot at symmetrical angles in every direction, ever widening as the}'- rear higher. The grandeur and symmetry of it all is truly striking. '
The physical beauty of the tree is, however, incidental..only to the chief interest that is attached to it. If you examine the outlines carefully, you will detect an almost exact formation of the human hand projecting from the ground and lifted as if in appeal, the trunk forming the wristband the five limbs into which-the trunk divides, forming the fingers. '
- For some years after- the"founding of Notre ' Dame, it was not uncommon to see an Indian moving about the grounds, revisiting old haunts and enjoying .the natural beauty which then, as .now, was very great. One old chief, in particular, was observed coming here several times. He seemed most interested in two places: one was along the shore of the lake, where, usually at evening, he would stand with arms folded, silently contemplating the waters with - their peace and beauty at sunset; the other was near the sycam'ore, then in its youth. He would linger at this spot for a long time with head bowed or with eyes raised to heaven, as if in silent prayer. One .of the brothers who had observed this several times became interested and inquired from, the Indian why he spent so much ■ time near this tree. The Indian'did not speak for a few seconds. - His- face was calmj yet revealed his suppressed grief. Then he lifted his hand impatiently as if to wave the matter aside, ■ . but-when, the .brother spoke, again in^a tone of sympathy, the old chief told- his:story.
In the earlier days, when raids between the ’	.
white men and the Indians were frequent, one white settler who had lost a friend whom he	.
cherished greatly, swore eternal enmity against a ' every red-skin. On one occasion this man, ’ \ while hunting, was passing through what are ■ > now the grounds of Notre Dame, when he . caught sight of an old Indian fishing peacefully \ on the shore of the lake. The Indian was un- ’	.
armed and suspected nothing. He was a ' -. ■ Christian convert, a man of peace and had always sought friendship with the white man. At. the sight of the Indian, however, the Indian- . hater could not restrain his feelings. He crept up softly toward the shore of the lake and, springing suddenly from the-bushes, drove his hunting-knife into the back of the fisherman. The Indian, with a yell, started up and ran eastward from the lake, but when he reached-the „ ‘spot where now stands the great sycamore, he x fell exhausted. Here his assaulter reached him ' again and, in spite of the Indian’s supplications . and protestations of innocence, attacked him a second time.	;
The Iridian in agony cried out: “What have . ; I done that you should kill me in this way?” ;	. • -
The white man answered: “You are an In- . A. dian and Indians have killed my dearest -	- .
friend.”	~
The Indian, then on the point of death ex- .: claimed: “I am innocent of the blood of any . '	.
man. I shall appeal to God for vengeance.”-With these words on his lips, the Indian died. .
Some time after this occurrence, a little tree ' of strange shape sprang up where .the Indian’s'	’
blood had trickled into the earth. Later the	-...
chief, who knew the circumstances of the-In-	' ty.
dian’s death, on passing that way was struck by .	.
the peculiar shape of the tree, a miniature of ' its present form. Its signification then dawned ; upon him. Here was the hand and wrist of his ; 5 dear friend extended toward heaven. As the .sapling grew, it still retained its strange, shape .	. ' .
and the hand remains to this day lifted in appeal ; to God as a warning to all who might put to . death an innocent man.	-
, No one will doubt, probably, the wholly Is ' legendary character of this story*, yet.it is not . . -j lacking in naive creation. It. resembles in some . . - . respects a Grecian myth—the story of Apollo	‘
and Hyacinthus, or of Daphni. As with most-stories of this kind, it may have had its origin < f ty . in some fact and was then embellished by the Indian, imagination; ,	--	:	y
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Book Review.
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
L.	FEBRUARY	3, 1917	No. 17. *
BOARD OF	EDITORS	
Howard R. Parker, ’17	Speer 1	Strahan, ’17
Edward J. McOsker, ’17	Harry	E. Scott, ’17
Michael J. Early, ’17	John A.	Eemmer, ’18
Stuart H. Carroll, T7	Charles	W. Call, ’18
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’ 18 .,	Thomas	F. Healy, ’19
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’iS
Anthology of Magazine Verse for . 1916. By William Stanley Braithwaite. New York. Laurence J. Gomme. Octavo, pp. 266. Si.50. .
It was a keen maker of anthologies who wrote that ‘ ‘ an anthology that shall have any’. value must be made on the responsibility of one but on the authority of many.” The writer was looking over a past of multiple accomplishment creatively, and of established discernment critically. With only one year to review, a somewhat different problem is presented. The “many” and- their “authority” are less of a support to the ".one” and his “responsibility.” Few poems on their
—The scrimmage of the second quarter finds some of us still in prime condition, others a bit
bruised and short of wind. For
those whose
*	.	. showing has not been satis-
- Second Down, factor}’- there is still oppor-■ tunity in the half that is left to repair the defects of- the past and to finish with colors flying. Now is the time to do the “.grinding” and to get the burden of the work ' behind, ere “spring trips north again this year.”
That safe feeling which comes’ about the first . of June to .those who. have done- their duty is easily worth a' few weeks of real application' now. February and March are the banner months for students. The weather is generally , unfavorable to outdoor inducements, 'and consequently it is easier to seek the seclusion of the room and to work away heedless of the call of out-of-doors. Those who do their hard work "now will find satisfaction in knowing, that they/..
publication at once set the world ringing. It is time which tests song, as it does everything else. Authority slowly takes shape, and as it grows, inversely responsibility diminishes. In a. word, the anthology maker runs no risk if he includes "Lucasta, on Going to the Wars” in his collection: there is immense authority for the choice; on the other hand, if, on the opposite page he sets forth “A Thrush in the Moonlight,” he - assumes a responsibility. Obviously, it is tojiis higher praise if hex anticipates the favoring voice of time; . still more if he helps to determine that judgment.
Mr. Braithwaite is such a pioneer. With him, the authority and >the responsibility are single. The “many,”, in the nature of things, are only such magazine editors as have published a poem in question, the critics who have praised it, the newspapers that have copied it,—an . insufficient body’ to interpret time’s decision. So the decision'is largely’ Mr. Braithwaite’s own, authority and responsibility being conterminous. Inclusiveness, father than exclusiveness, is apt to mark such a critic’s judgments. It will be better to have offered ten poems which will be forgotten, than to .have missed one which after time shall keep.
Now that is exactly what happens in the present collection. There are one- hundred and eighty-four octavo pages, of the.’ best poems from the American magazines of last year. It is almost .sufficient space for the printing of.Palgrave’s “Golden Treasury’” or Alice Meynell’s /'Flower of the. Mind,”, anthologies which cover practically, the whole," of .English poetry for several centuries. It is an allotment of importance - which would have made “ The Oxford Book of English Verse” an issue in"at least three volumes of its present .	.	_	_	_ size. There is room for: a ready distinction" -here,' of,
; have done.their best; - others will find happiness course.: It may be alleged that even- Mr. Braithwaite ' in the thought that no sword of Damocles - would increase these famous, collections by only one Will be dangling above .their heads; during the P^ge fromthe poetry ofnineteen hundred and sixteen. .
, ■ j r Zu	t> Y x- i.	The-replv isAhat authority, then,’ and not responsi-
last weeks oi the year. Procrastination, besides a ~£	.	,, J .
.;;	-	.	'	. . bihty. gives value to such a-collection. And the. query’
"being the thief oftime,, is the thief of ambition,- js inevitabl^^orced/whyhave such an-anthology at all?
■ ; and; eyerjrone who .has tried ydoing the work of;. . . There isj however,; another point of view. Without a jquarter'in one week knows the difficulty of doubt,, thereris a.strong-present; interest in poetry, ' " < the' p^6rmance?x Let us mot throw our books ’ s0 much i11 poetry as. established as in—at its "j ;’ broadest—the: possibilities'of. poetryr . To "represent
. on the. shelf, and-take a rest because the exami-	c . - ,	/ i.,-' -
. this 'interest as it-is. expressed-in-.its vehicle of; pubh-.-^nations are. oy^	is finished.	cationAthe/magazines? may/well be a legitimate aim \
. now is the time to get.a.handicap on the second;	of/the^anthology ; maker,'as/also tb/encourage it. On
2:

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I	this ground, the bulk of the present volume has its
I	allowable defense.
For ourselves, we make no doubt that the “New Poetry,” as it is called, will die young; it will never reach old years and hoary respectability. It will contribute, nothing permanent to our poetic tradition. .The much advertised freedom of' form which it is emphasizing was always in our tradition; 'it is the verj’ * life of the verse of such ancients as Shakespeare and Milton, and such moderns as Coventry' Patmore and Francis Thompson. It was overtly discussed by’ Patmore, in a critique from which the “new” poets might learn much, wherein it was stated how the beauty of verse is dependent on the “inflection” as against i	the “infraction” of _the laws of verse-making. The
>	distinction is capital: the “new” poets infract, and
[ - their freedom is license. In art, as in wider relations, it is by obeying that we conquer. The law of liberty’ is not the suppression of all other law; it is only7 obligation’s most inclusive statement.
Absolute values-aside, then, Mr. Braithwaite’s -Anthology presents an interesting array of verse. There is ■	good verse in all the time-honored forms, and ’there is
i	one new form offered, the "cinquain.” It is significant'
that the quest for something original in subject-matter should have taken several of the poets, back to-the saints. Thus in the past year there have been two notable ballads written about Saint John Nepomucene, the martyr of the confessional’s inviolability’. This is a departure indeed. The Poor Man of Assisi has long had his laureates, but the court confessor of Prague ' is new to modern song. One of these ballads is here reprinted, and, by the way, it would make a splendid “reading” for our elocutionists, as also would “Revelation,’’ byr the same author, Ruth Comfort Mitchell. Much of this verse might be made to serve.the same practical purpose: 'it is high time-to bury' “Laska,” and to give a respite to “ Gunga Din.”
Aside from the actual poems -included in this ample volume, there is much to interest the poetry’ reader. There is an index of all the poems contributed to the magazines for the year, a complete catalogue of the book of verse - published, a review of fifteen notable, volumes, a list of articles on the’ subject of poetry and poets, and a brief general bibliography’ of the criticism . of poetry. The volume itself is well made, and worth the dollar and a half for,which it sells.
- - * ' Notices.
-The first preliminaries for the college debate will be held on the evening of February 12th.
.'Juniors, Seniors: -Attention.
Portraits of Juniors and Seniors fpr the 1917 Dome will'be taken at the new ^rrot-Studio, in the Union. Trust Building, at Michigan and Jefferson, South Bend, beginning next Wednes-' day morning, February 7 th. Members of the two classes are asked to sit as soon as possible, for .. A all .portraits must be in, by /March 1 st.
/ ' The' Aero . Club of America, ’> through' its
president, Air. Alan’ R-. Hawley, has presented ' the University with two medals, to be awarded to the two students of Notre Dame writing — - the best essays on aeronautics. Forty-nine ’ other leading universities of the country will I. . n ' hold similar'contests. Air. Hawley states that • <’. ? ; he hopes, to make the offer annually in the -future.	~
Father Cavanaugh has received from Air. " ' / . • Adolph Lewisohn, president of the national ' / . 'committee on prisons, the offer of three prizes - / / of S50, $25, and $15, to be given to the .three ' .. -college students writing the best essays -on prison reform. The judges will be Prof. James C. Egbert, of Columbia University, Dr. Hastings H. Hart, of the Russell Sage Foundation, and Judge William H. Wadhams, of New York City.
The American Association of Engineers *	~
will hold a national promotional conventibn at the LaSalle Hotel, Chicago,-beginning February -8th, 1917. There will be papers and addresses^ -on subjects of business imperative to the pro- -fession.- All who are associated with the engineer- ; r ing profession are urged to attend.	- 7 .
Varsity News.
—The work of moving the books from the .	'
old library to the new has already begun. .	. /
—The literal pedants and fresh-air fiends : / are rejoicing over the fact that a new. cinder L .. /? =-path is being made around St. Joseph Lake. .	,;
—The January thaw has interfered somewhat ; ~ with the skating on our lakes—in support of the -//A Ai
hypothesis that Indiana climate is femininely - ' fickle.	.	', Av
-—Father Alichael Ouinlan and Father Walsh NlH attended the Chicago Alumni banquet, that
was given at the Hotel LaSalle last Saturday ^••‘//■A evening.	- . _	. ■	r .'L.- f?.
—“Alike” Alurphy, Spanish fistic expert
of Sorin Hall, has left . Notre Dame and will aA A; continue his search for knowledge at-Christian , N’N-
Brothers’ College,, in St. Louis.	-.’I V
. —Officers of the junior-law class are pleased; aJA with the manner in which the tickets for their- ..JiAA annual dance are selling. February Seyenth is .
the time.* Place Hall .is the place. -	; ■ ’ .. A
—A number of sketches and models in clay,': done by students in Professor Worden’s dass ' Ay y in free-hand • drawing, are on display on • the-AA/AA second floor of the Main Building.^ - 7 •’•'aAAAA'A
THE NOTRE 'DAME SCHOLASTIC-
276
—The six-reel comedy, “Business Is Business,” featuring the Blue Beard of the stage, Nat Goodwin, was shown at Washington Hall last Saturday evening.	■
—David Griffin, the noted Philadelphia baritone, will probably be secured for entertainment on Washington’s Birthday. According to present plans he will sing at both the morning and evening exercises. •
—The University’s two-story brick garage is about completed. On account of the crowded condition in the boarding halls, room is being made on the second floor to take care of twelve students. We hear that the new domicile is to be styled Cadillac Hall.
—Wednesday evening, February 14th, has been set as the date for the interstate banquet. The entertainment committee promises abundance of fun for all who participate as well as severa1 big surprises. Three hundred tickets will be sold to those who first apply. If you-want one, do not wait till they will all have been sold.
—William Sterling Battis returned to Washington Hall last Wednesday evening, delighting a large audience with his character readings from Dickens’ novel, “ Nicholas Nickleby.” Last year Mr. Battis gave impersonations of several of the Dickens’ characters, not-confining himself to any one novel, and the same might very well have been done this year. The readings became a trifle monotonous and one
•or two of the characters were a bit overdone.
—An article entitled “American Priests and Foreign Missions” by Rev. Arthur Barry O’Neill, C. S.. C., which originally appeared in the Ecclesiastical Review, is nowyreprinted in pamphlet form by the Mission Press, Techny,. BL. This is another evidence of the zeal shown by the Society'of the Divine Word for the progress of the Foreign Missions. h. E. S.
the president of . the club, acted as toastmaster and made good as the official starter of the evening. Rt. Rev. Mgr. Davies Kelley had an interesting talk ready'' for the boys. Rev. Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., told what was being done at the University- in preparation for the Jubilee Year. The athletic situation was discussed by Fred Steers and the plans of the Glee Club were outlined by Charles Hughes. The singing was led by Jimmie Wasson, famed -as a tenor and track man. It was pleasing to • note the increased attendance on the part of x the real old-timers and out-of-town grads. As usual Jim Conway of Ottawa' was there. Before the meeting broke up it .was decided to get together before long and make preparation ■ for a big turn-out at the University next June.
■ John O’Connell, Sec’y.”
. Freshman Lawyers Organize. -
Members of the Freshman Law Class met , -recently', perfected an organization and-made plans for a banquet" to be held at Mishawaka about the middle.of this month. The following officers were chosen: president, Walter Miller, of Defiance, O.; vice-president, -Frank Coughlin, of Chicago; secretary, “Larry” Morgan, of Chicago; treasurer,- Richard Leslie, of Iowa; historian, Delmar Smith, of Chicago; sergeant-at-arms, Hugh Gibbons, of Iowa. Judge Vur-pillat was named honorary president of the organization. .	- -
Correspondents to Banquet.
Plans, for a banquet to be-held .February 6th were made by the Notre Dame Press Club at its weekly meeting last Saturday afternoon. .
. Secretary/Stuart H. Carroll was appointed to make arrangements for the affair.	.
" Detroit Alumni Dance.
Arrangements have been completed for the annual ball to be given by the Notre Dame. Club off Detroit, which will be held in the ballroom of the Knights of Columbus, Monday evening, February 12th. The. committee incharge ? consists., of • -James B- Sanford, chairman;. Ernest P. Lajoie, William A. O’Brien,
Mum.
The Club Column..	,
.	•'We have'first-hand^ this report concerning.
f;, the festive doings in Chicago last Saturday:
’ “The Notre Dame Club of . Chicago - held Raymond J. Kelly, Edward N. Marcus, Wilmer ' ; its annual dinner last Saturday evening, January 0. Finch,/James-E..O’Brien, Howard= J. Ellis, :j . ;	. 28th, atthe-Hamilton Club- Despite the fact Forrest McNally . and . William J. Redden.
Atyty- that the Notre Dame track team was.performing The patrons and patronesses for the dance
!in Chicago on the same evening, a'large number are some of the older alumni of the University■ -tyity of old students gathered for the yearly “feed” and. their wives: <Mr. and Mrs. F.. H. Wurzer, . AL/W-/ fand/story swapping/ -''Judge'-Michael Girten, „ Mr.andjM^	Jewett, Mr. .and .Mrs.
0-fC''	. ■ - -- iL' ✓ * 'A-f	- N '.-A '"'1 -y	- A a -'L . -y -' ’ / - _ „ - - y - ; , . '■ > . ,	-
y -	- J-s •	.	, S - * s	--L - ,	. J - -	. y -, - -	-	• >	ty - -	' -J i	-v ' -	’
C -A	.ty •*; '^**'	-	i T -	/ *	, * fl	■*.4—*	f v	> -' .ty-	A" Ay. > -/fy 7	\	'	—-	- '
--^A-N	A	- AC ' J J	* ty'-N
rr	-f* A	>.'-v N.- L ' A '	N/* tyTh-•-’-ty.-v	/A "K •' /	- / *.* z
3.	-I	— -4-	Z - "r-	' ■r	~	-ZrV*	-I—	.	-	, -	.	,	„ • .	.
v	’''''I	~ A.'-tyAX''	* *•/	A ■* -	' '* > ■ ** \	YAATjATrL/df/'	*1* -J - * *- ,\-i " •» • ” . '	/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC


J ohn G. Ewing, Air. and Airs. Thomas Donnelly, Air. and Airs. Russell G. Finn, Air. and Airs. Edward P. Esher, Air. and Mrs. Stuart Hanley, Mr. and Airs. W. 0. Finch, and Mr. and Airs. Forrest AIcNally. The Detroit Club, always - one of the most active of the jnany Notre Dame organizations, is planning to make the present event one of the most elaborate social functions of the season.	.
■ New England Officers Chosen.
At a meeting last week, the New England * Club was organized under the'following officers: president, John U. Riley, of Boston; vicepresident, Jerry Alurphy, of Bridgeport, Conn.; secretary, Harry Denny, of Bridgeport, Conn.; .treasurer, Charles Grimes, of Pawtucket, R. I.
Banquet Plans Progress.
February the 14th has been officially fixed as-the date of the first annual banquet of the state, sectional and city clubs of Notre Dame, and plans for the affair are maturing rapidly. An important meeting of the several committees was held Thursday, at which .many of the details were determined. The committees are doing their level best in the way of elaborate preparations and there is every promise that the banquet will be a big success.	■.
-	.	? --------~~—,------ _
Obituaries.	w
■	Francis-’ Cointet. Ewing.
The sympathy of the faculty and of the students of the University is extended to Air " John GkEwing, former professor of History and Economics at Notre Dame, in the loss of his brother, Francis Cointet Ewing, who died at Los Angeles, California, January. 23rd; 1917. • * The deceased was born at Lancaster, Ohio, the son of Philemon 'Beecher Ewing arid. Alary Rebecca Gillespie, on November 12th, 1859. He attended-Notre Dame from 1S72 to 1S78. He was a noble Catholic gentleman, and in his .death the Church is -deprived of a staunch defender of western Catholicism. ,
Brother Frederick, C. ,S.- C..
• On January 24, 1917, there died at the Community House, Brother. Frederick, C. -S. C., for many years head of the paint shops here at ’. Notre Dame. . His _death marks the passing .of" ' 'another of- those humble brothers so 'fondly
familiar .to .a^Whqle generation-, of students.	_	_	................. .
His Toss is felt’greatly by the college and by enthusiastic, account of 'his remarkable., aclueye-? . the commnnityF'lR; T. Pl:	“ meats- in -Ahe. productions; of
f ,
Personals.

—Capt. W. L. Luhn, Tenth Calvary (Coni: ’87) is now stationed on the border at Columbus, New Alex.	•	. •
—Myles H. Sinnott (Ph.-B., To) visited they University for a few. hours, last Saturday.: Myles is now in business with his father at Indianapolis.	-	y
—Frank T. Taffe, formerly a student of journalism at Notre Dame, has been re-elected secretary-treasurer • and member of the board. of directors of . the Cohoes Republican- published at Cohoes, N. Y.:	' '
\	7	-	-y.	,
. - —The marriage is anounced of Miss Marian ( Estora Birkenbuel to Mr. James Dee Cahill: at Joliet, Ill., on January 30th. Air. .and; Airs? Cahill will be at home after March 1st at 109 Roanoke Avenue, Peoria, Illinois.
—Russell C. Hardy (LL. B., ’r6) recently : connected with the Hartford Insurance.- Co. y is now with the Zurich General Accident and. \ Liability Company in Chicago. His home-, address is 501 Diyesey Parkway, Chicago Ill.
—Mr. John F. O’Connell (LL. B., ’13) and. Miss Adeline Abbie Krippene of Oshkosh, Wjs.y - ; were married in that city January 27th. After; June 1 st, John’s home address will be 2224 Clifton Ave., Chicago. Heartiest congratulations.. from Alma Mater to the happy couple. .	: ,
—William J. Montavbn (A. B., ’93) now in -the U. S. Dept, of Commerce, Lima, Peru, J South America, writes that he intends to/CaU ;,' together the old Notre Dame boys in Lima and ; nearby cities in order to form -a Notre Dame.: Club. Such spirit and loyalty ’to Alma Mater? ? is certainly worthy of commendation. -	' /:
—Hugh J. Boyle,- formerly of Darlington, _y Wisconsin, and member of the Varsity baseball T and track teams in the "spring of 1907, is . now J county attorney for Holt County, at O’Neill, \ Nebraska. Hugh was a. pole-vaulter on the" track teams, and played second base-on the diamond.. He still takes a deep interest in the..; work of the men of the Gold and Blue. . y ' —Under the heading “Noted Director Joins Goldwin, Allan Dwan, - one of Filmland’s Powerful Creators Signs,” Moiography a magay; zine devoted to film work, publishes, a-picture J ; of our old friend, Joseph Aloysius Dwan, and an ~ f




.yL^*-*^V**
X-
•278
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
pictures. In the picture Allie is represented as directing a hundred players through a megaphone during a rehearsal.
—Ernest F. DuBrul,, who qualified for five degrees at the University in the early nineties, besides being a regular member of the football teams of 1S92 and 1S93, is now the father • of a family of nine children, and is president of the Miller, DuBrul & Peters Mfg.( Co., of Cincinnati, manufacturers of cigar and cigarette machinery. In addition Mr. DuBrul is president of the Pyro Clay Products Co., manufacturers of fire-bricks at Oak Hill, Ohio, and lecturer at St. Xavier’s College, Cincinnati, Ohio. This busy alumnus of Notre'Dame, will attend the monogram meeting next June. ‘
Athletics.
; winner. At the forty-yard, distance Mahl, Loomis and Bergman were running even. Each gave a final lunge as he approached the
. tape in the last ten yards. As to who was winner was a question for the judges to”decide; the spectator couldn't. .	,
. The officials consulted with each other and ■ . finally awarded the feature event to Mahl, : with Bergman second, and Loomis third.
, They next announced that- the world’s record had been tied in :o5, 2-5. Except for the penalty due to a false start Bergman must surely have gathered the laurels that went to Mahl in the biggest attraction in an evening of many features.
Frank Kirkland ran-a splendid race in the - .forty-yard high hurdles and' finished third.
Douglas scored a fourth in the high jump. , Our one mile relay team found the ‘ square” track a great hindrance and finished behind the I. A. C. and C. A. A. squads.	'
The Reds and Blues To-Day.
Coach Rockne ■ will stage his 'annual Red and Blue Meet, this afternoon. Captain Miller and ex-Captain Bachman will be the leaders of the teams bearing-the rival hues. This will
Second Regiment Meet.
If for no other reason than the remarkable performance of Alfred (“Little Dutch”) Bergman, Notre Dame’s participation in the opening event of the winter season’s” activities in the West at the Second Regiment games in Chi- , r , ,	,. -. ,	, . r	-
.	&	.6	. be the final hard work-out before the opening
cago last Saturday night was well worth while. <• ,,	,	.	•	,
0	j	of the heaw program. Commencing next
No Notre Dame enthusiast ever-doubted the	"
speed of the “Pride of Peru”, and if any foreigners were sceptical about'it previous to Januarj’ 27th, they certainly must have been sufficiently, assured, on that date. ”
When the clerk of the'course cleared the track for the special-invitatidn-fifty-yard sprint the greatest' array of human speedsters ever
Saturday, Illinois, ' Michigan and Wisconsin will be faced at intervals of only , seven days. Wisconsin is the - only home attraction of the' indoor season. Ihe Badgers will be here .on Saturday, February 24th. .
' -. \ ’ .. M. A. C., 31; Notre Dame, 2*5.	'
. Minus “Dick”-Daley and “Chet”- Grant— one. a mainspring' on offense and the .other a
- 'stone wall.of defense--Coach Harper’s basket- ’ ball -shooters were'defeated-by the Michigan
. brought together for a single race made ready to take their marks. Besides Bergman there
.was the dusk}7-wonder, Butler, there were- Ward
and Loomis, the redoubtable flyers of the- << .	• ” •	<< » • ,>
-	?	Aggies in-the gymnasium 01 the Aggies
Chicago Athletic Association just back from a Sati,rday efiening. Used to a spacious court
. triumphant visit to/ Sweden, , and there was tht gold and blue quintet-, found the M. A. C.
■ the marvelous Mahl of-the Columbian Athletic r. ,c i-'	W , '
.	...	.3	... -floor of cigar-box proportions a heavy handicap.
- . Club, of St. . oiiis. .	. .	, _	.	Only the night before the .supposedly invincible,
’ When Starter Cayou raised his gun to send the team of .the Illinois Athletic Club also" found
. men away, ' Bergman broke. The .'sprinters : unlimbered a few moments while Cayou placed Bergman’s, starting .blocks a half-yard'behind
. .. the . others. Again ; the men took their marks.
. This 'time everybody was steady. Bergman sprang with the sound of the: gun,.2 and at the: ■ twenty-yard mark' was on* even terms with the'. ’ rest: of - the field. . The momentum- he. gained by ; ; his..whirlwind^'start\made.him look:.like assure.
the compact playing. space a big disadvantage., and lost .the first game of their long schedule1 by a. score of: 39 to 27. On their home floor,' at least, the ‘ ‘ Aggies ’ ’ are practically unbeatable. ‘ It was a rejuvenated line-up that Coach Harper presented at the beginning^of the game. • King, was elected to fill the; center position;; Captain ... McKenh	the '
. guards,Ronchetti Jas

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
• 279
' orwards. Baujan and the referee could not agree as to just what constituted a personal foul and as a result the big football end was 'unfortunately required to quit the contest '
Scents 0’ Humor.
A Word to the Wise.
before the completion of the first half. Fitz-patrick took his place. Between the halves
_ the score stood 15 to 8 in favor”of M. A. C.
As has come to be the rule of late, Notre Dame played a much better game in the latter half than in the first. Having become more familiar with the floor, they played their opponents to a standstill, and actually scored . more points in the second half than the Michiganders. They could not, however, overcome the big lead gained by the home team during the first half, and when the game ended Notre Dame was six points-behind.	-
McDermott held his'usual “scoring bee,” -and during the final half particularly he made the baskets “in swarms.” “Pete” Ronchetti was a capable partner for McDermott when it came to passing and he also achieved a couple cf baskets. King controlled the tip off with remarkable precision for such a short man. Captain McKenna fought like an Irish Brigade at left guard; Baujan and Fitzpatrick, who
Examinations being over we may again bury, our books in an obscure corner and devote our time to the more serious things of life, such as the I. S. banquet,, the Press-Club feed, the Jr.-Law dance, and the military ball. A. man who has corns and dyspepsia is quite' de trap.	' .
Exams have departed—we’re gay and lighthearted, Once more we’re becoming ourselves; _
With nothing to do for a quarter or two,	‘
Let’s sling the old books bn the shelves. _	.
■ . * -. ’ * * .
“.Where did R. C. go with F. on Sat. night?”
Captain Jim Schock; the poet-policeman of the South Bend force, recently called our attention to the following in the South Bend Tribune.	' J
“WANTED—Reliable woman to clean Friday.
H; p. 1071.”—	. •	.
We called 1071, but the man who answered the ■ phone was not Robinson Crusoe.	•
s s	- -
- * - * *
And Echo Answers “Rest”’	'
* * * *
*
*
*
succeeded him at right guard, were not behind their Celtic leader.
All those who wish to see a battle remembered should not fail to be in the
much
to be Notre
*
*
*
This poor fellow’s how at rest— Tried to pass a Logic test.
*
*
Dame Gymnasium about eight o’clock on the evening of February 17th, when Ma A. C. is to play the return game.	-
Filling In.
“You
artist.
give me a pain,” he shouted at the dentist. ' Well, you have a lot o' nerve.” replied the molar
' .- St. Ignatius, 13; Carroll Hall, 31.
„ While the Varsity -team was in Lansing ’ last Saturday night ’Carroll ’Hall -was having an interesting basketball game here with
_ a . team from St.- Ignatius ' Academy, Chicago. - Father Quinlan’s “men” played like veterans; the.pass work they exhibited at times
' was phenomenal, and their basket-shooting was of. a 'kind to make any team of their age hustle. Joe Wood, Wolf, and Bailey, each scored
. four field goals. When the game was. cinched, as one of the Carrollites explained it, several substitutions were made. Besides the regulars,
Oh, Eye See. ■.
“That man surely has an eye. for business.
“Zatso? Who is he?”	~
“An oculist.”	’
His Mirth.
He flunked in every single class, But still he worries not;
He’s happy, for he' pulled a skive To town and wasn’t caught.
- ' *** •

An Appreciation. .	:
. Some men are born boobs, some develop into filberts , while others try to rattle a visiting basketball - player.
Brady,./Smart,' Nigro, Malley, and Williams got a chance to show their quality. Besides the	.	,
first team of 'Carroll a league of eight picked	to tow a free basket. .,
teams is flourishing in the junior hall.* Two games “	-	***	'	’	-
are played each. evening, and nowhere in the ”	We Prefer Red Star, (adv.) ,r < .
. University is basket ball enthusiasm at alligher ~You may bake, you may batter our yeast if you wiR pitch. .	. .. - - .	.	c./W. C. . But the cent that you paid us remains with us still.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
a / -
—There is a call from the South for a commercial teacher for Pitman Shorthand, Typewriting, and Palmer PenmansTip. The teacher must be a single man, salary not stated. Address the Secretary to the President. ,
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to February 3,1917.
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee:	■ .	.
•	$2000.00
’ Samuel T. Murdock, ’86. (	,	*
.	$1000.00
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, P. T. O'Sullivan, ’6S; Right Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, '75; M. F. Healy, ’Sa: John C. Shea, ’9S; Clement C. Mitchell,’02; Byron V. Kanaley, '04; Daniel I’. Murphy,'95; John P. Lauth, '6S.	•	,
$500.00	~	t
Robert Sweeny,’03; C. A. Paquette,’90; Rev. John Dinnen,’65: Warren A. Cartier, 'S7; Stephen B. Fleming, ’90; Thomas Hoban, ’99; Angus D. McDonald, '00; William A. Mclnerny. 'or: Joseph M. Byrne, ’79; Cassius McDonald, ’04; William P. Breen, ’77.; Student from Far West; Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09; C. C. Craig, ’S5; Frank E. Hering, '98; Peter P. McElligott, ’02; James J. Conway,’ 'S5; George Cooke, ’90, John Dowd, ’99.
$300.00
Frank N. Maas, ’77.	'
-	$250.00
Fred E- Murphy, ’93; John M. Flahnigan, ’94; John H. Neeson, ’03; Joseph B. Naughton, ’97; Peter Kuntz. ’9S; John H. Fendrich, '84; John Eggeman, ’00; A. A. McDonell, ’00; Eugene A. Delaney, ’99; R. A. O’Hara, '89.	'	,
$200.00
W. G. Uffendell, 'or; John O’Shea, ’xx; ’James F. Kennedy, ’94; Louis C. M. Reed, '9S; Francis O'Shaughnessy, '00; Joseph J. Sullivan, 02: G. A. Faiabaugh,’04; Robert Anderson,’83; Joseph Lantry, ’07; Rev. F. J. VanAntwerp, ’14; L. J. Keach, 'oS; Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94: F. A.
• Kaul, ’97; William Hoynes, ’77; Edwin J. Lynch, ’xo; T. D„Mott, ’95; F. Henry Wurzer, ’98; Paul R. Martin',- ’13; Timothy V. Ansberry, ’93; John M. Quinlan, ’04; Daniel Madden, ’06;. Fred " J. Kasper, ’04; J. S. Corby, ’98; Thomas Steiner, ’99; John F.
. Gushing, ’06.	.	*■	x
’	$150.00
Rev. Michael Shea,’04; Ambrose O'Connell, ’07; William Byrne, ’95J- James L- Tong,’ ’94; W. A. Draper, ’06; James E. Deery, '09. ' -	.	5 $I2o'.OO '	,
Maximilian St. George, ’08.	.
-	$100.00	,
Oliver J. Tong, ’73; Hermann C. R. Piper, 'r 1; Rev.Edniund OCon-•	nor, ’94; J.L.Lamprey,’03; Walter Joyce/07; GeorgeN. Johnson;.’95;
William H. Boland, '88; William-J. Granfield,'13; M. O. Burns,'86; Rev. Michael Ryan,'95; William P. Higgins, ’03; James Frederick Coll, '89; George J. Hanhauser, ’01; James P. Fogarty,'00; Rev. John B. McGrath,’80; John F.'Fehnessey,’99; Cyril J. Curran,’12; Ernest. E. L'. Hammer,''04; Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97; Edwin’Wile, ’74;
■ Francis C. Schwab, .’02; Rupert F. Mills,.'^4; .William H. McCarty, ’99; -Edwaxd J. Glynn, 'xx; Frank P. Crowley, ’09; Thomas B.
' Curry, ’14; James A. Curry, '14; ’Harry V. Crumley, ’03; Harry S. Cahill,’08; Walter V. Heekin,’05; William McKenzie, '88; Rev.
.. Bernard P. Murray; Mark M.-Foote;’73; Patrick J. Houlihan ’92; E.’J. Maurus, .'93; -Thomas J. Swantz, ’04; H. G. Hogan, ’04;
, Harold P. Fisher, .’06; John B. Kanaley,.’09; James F. Hines, ’09; ‘. John B. McMahon, ’09; Rev. John M.- Byrne, ’00; - J. H. Gormley, ’03; ..Thomas O'Neill, '13; Robert E. Pxoctor, '04; John F. O’Con, '.nelL'.’xs; Frank. C.'fWalker..’09; Rev. Gilbert Jennings,.’oS; George . O’Brien, *90/.Vitus Jones, *02; ,W." A.' Duffy,- ’08/ Rev. J. H. Guend-.
Iing, ’i4; Fred C. McQueen, *00; ' Charles J.' Stubbs, '88; Rupert Donovan,’ ’o8;---Rev.. Francis H.; Gavisk,- .’14'; '.Rt. Rev. Frank -O’Brien, .’95;' Frank-L- McO'sker, ’72;? Charles'E., Ruffing, ’85;
B jarnes.F. Foley. ’13/Rt. Rev. T. . C.-' O'Reilly, ’09; Thomas, J. ; - Welch;- ’05William*-E, Cotter,’ ’13; /John.pf-Xplly,' ’rrp John F: O’Connor, ;.’72 ; . -T. P. O’Sullivan, .’02; G. M; Kerndt. ’Sz; Dr. .FrankJ.Powers, ’9'4; 'Revl'John-Talbot-Smith,-’07/ Daniel C.
Dillon, ’04;- Thomas C.’ Butler, ’08; Edward M. Kennedy, 'oSl John J. Kennedy, '09; Peter M. Ragan,.’92; James D. Barry, ’97; Fred L. Steers, '11; Walter .Clements, ’14; Edward J. Callton, ’16; Leonard M. Carroll, ’16; Luke L- Kelly, ’16; Frank E. Swift. ’16; C. P. Mottz, ’16; Samuel Ward Perrott, ’i6‘ Edward C. Ryan, *16; James Francis Odem, ’16; Emmett P. Muiholland, '16; Thomas A. Hayes,’16; Frank J. Hiss,’16; Joseph J. McCaffery,’16; Walter P.’McCourt, ’16; M. J. McEniry, 'Si; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, ’15; James F. O’Brien, ’13; Michael L. Fansler, ’04;-A. C. Fortin, '01; ’ ■Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05; M. H. Miller, *io‘ William D. Jamieson, '05;
Grover F. Miller, ’16; ■ Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16; Edwin H. Sommerer, ’16; Joseph O’Sullivan, ’16; Jacob E. Eckel, ’16; Vincent-Mooney, '16; John T. Shea, ’06; Edward M. Schaack, '93; Anton C. Stephan, ’04; Dr. F. B. McCarty, ’07; Harry F. McDonagh, 'xo; Charles W. Lahey, ’13; Adam J. Kasper, ’95:. George W. Kasper,' ’95; Robert A. Kasper, '07; Charles Girsch, ’94; Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07; John B. Fruechtl, ’04; Hugh J. Daly, '12; Edward K. Delana, '13; Harry Curtis, 'oS; Charles Cullinan, '07; Daniel Cullinan, ‘07; Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99; Edgar Crilly, ’90; George S. Crilly, '8S.; James V. Cuningham, ’07; M. H. Miller, ’10; Frank X. Cull, ’oS; Jesse E. Vera, ’10; Walter Duncan, ’12; James W. O’Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, 'xx; Dr. H. G. McCarty, '12; James Dubbs, ’06; Raymond E. Skelly, ’11; William R. Ryau, '11; William A. McKearney, ’oS; Maurice J. Breen, ’09; Raymond C. . Langan, ’93; Charles A. Grossait, ’96; Edward J. Rauch, ’95; William J. Mooney, Jr., '14; John J. McShane, '14; Henry A. Wim-. berg, ’96; Gerald S. Clements, '14; John G. Wimberg, ’96.
-	$75-0°
John W. Costello, ’12.'	...
’	. $50.00
Rev. J. E. Scullin, ’09; Louis P. Chute, ’92; William Fish, ’12;
J. Clovis Smith, ’14; Frank B. Cornell, ’00; Rev. John Schopp, '94; A. J. Major, '86; Charles Vaughan, ’14; Stephen H. Herr, '10; J. ,N. Antoine, ’70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09; Fred Stewart, ’12; Jay Lee, ’12; Albert F. Gushurst, ’09; Edward P. Cleary, ’09; Rev. John J. Burk<$ ’83; Rev. M. L. Moriarty,. ’10; Rev. John P. Quinri, ’83; Simon E. Twining, '13; J. V.. Birder, ’13; Cecil E. Birdex, ’14; M. Emmett Walter, ’15'; Ralph Eberhart,.’02; .. Rev. John M. Gerenda, ’09; Timothy P. Galvin, ’16; Ray M. Humphreys,.’16; Hugh E. Carroll, ’x6; Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O’Neill, ’14; Louis P. Hari, ’16;’Jo’seph D. Kovacs, ’16; Patrick Maloney, ’16; J. F. Delph, ’16; Hugh O’Donnell, ’x6; James Sanford, ’14;- Ira W. Hurley, ’14; Emmett G. Lenihan, '15; Francis H. Hayes, ’14; Raymond J. Kelly, '16; Ernest P. Lajoie, ’15; Rev. P--J. Crawley, ’95; Arthur Pino, ’06; William Milroy, '13; Dr. Robert Frost, ’02; Eustace Berry, '03; A Fxiend from the South; Daniel Shouvlin, ’14; R. B., McConlogue, '09; Thomas J. Jones, ’03; Twomey M. Clifford, ’13; Cletus H. Kruyer, ’12;
Dalton B. Shoui’ds. ’09; Albert B. Oberst, ’06.	1
$40.00	’
V. E.,Morrison, ’89; Gerard N. Krost, '04. ■	.	$25.00
John M. Culligan, ’15; Joseph M. DeLone, ’02; Simeon- T. Flanagan, ’14; W. B. McLain, ’04; Lawrence Janszen. ’09; Rev. A.. A. Lambing, ’S3; .James M. Riddle, ’13; Henry Hess; ’82; Dr. E- M'. McKee, '06; Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13; Rev. John H. Mullin, 'xx; I. N. Mitchell, Sr., ’92/Frederick Williams, ’13; Rev. Joseph Toth, ’xx;’ Joseph M. Walslx, ’14; Max-Adler, ’89; John G.' Mott, ’95;’.Rev. T. Q. Maguire, ’09; Paul J. Smith, ’16; C. I. Krajewski, ’16; Joseph P. Flynn, ’16; John P. Conboy, ’16; W. W. Turner; ’16; ’ Alfred Fries, ’16; J. A. McCarthy, ’16; J. Hairy ’ , Sylvestre,.’i6; Harold P. Burke, ’16; Peter-C. Yearns, ’16; Fred.
M. Pralatowski, ’16; Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12'; Edward L. Figel, ’xx; Thomas J.'Dooley, ’97; Mark A. Devine, 'xo;-Daniel E. Cooney, 'xo;- Fremont Arnfield, ’12; W. W. Harless, ’86; Edward J..Walsh,' -’00; Thomas' Curran, ’16; D.'D. Myers, Jr., ’00; Dennis Moran,-’14; Leo F. Welch, ’12 /‘Ralph A’. Reitz, ’14.	,	-
• -	'	.	. -	$20.00- .	.	-
- Gabriel Davezac, ’94; James R. Devitt,’13; Albert A. Glockner, '16; JuliusM.' Hack, '92.	'.	-
■	$15-00	_	.	.	.	"
Bernard Durclx,'’i3. .	;	-	' < '	.
$io;bo -	’	..	- - .
, P. J. Q’Connell,’73;, PaulT.Markey, ’08; Edward J. Markey, ’c6;
' Alfred Vignos, '95; - Andrew L.' Shimp', \>i; Frank Niedecken, ’09;
' Har'ry Kirk, ’i3; Louis Chute, ’92/J.J.Deasey, ’06; H. Kirig, ’16;
James E; Roach^'i6; J. ESHogan, ’x6; 'Frank Maher. ’02; Frank . W. Bloom, .’84.	. v..x!; ,	.	’ " -‘	■
f ' - - .	-	.. $5-00. ’ . - .	‘	: '.
Robert ’D. Murphy, 'ox;- Mark Duncan, -’15; Hiram Halliday, '06; ’ Claude S.-Mdss, '95; -John Bell,_’o8;. P. M. O’Meara, ’09.'	> -
• ’.<■ --.	r- .'	-. .	. •