~--~---'----~/............ '.-)•······--······--;IUN I V E R sI T Y oF N oT R E DA NI E • 0 C T . }} , } 9 9 6 . 

The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development presents 

JPIf(0)ffce§ § n(0)illl21Il 
ill)ewceIl ([])ITD mmcermft §cernrnnllll21If §~Itne§ 
Each seminar is designed to help you, the student, develop the skills needed today in class · presentations and the professionalism demanded in your future occupation. 
11/6 -Business Principles for 
Nonbusiness Majors 11/13 -Market Research 11/20 -Public Speaking 12/4 -Business 
Communication and 
Etiquette 
All seminars will begin at 7 p.m. in 136 DeBartolo 

Cinema at the Snite 
THE-BEST REVIEWED MOVIE-OF THE YEAR "THE SUMMER'S BIGGEST BLAST!" 
Da•~ Kehr. NEW YORI\ DAIL~ NEWli 
"A GREAT FILM! UNFORGETTABLE!" 
Jool &1•111•1. GOOD MORNING AMERICA 
"TWO THUMBS UP!'-' 
. SISKE1. • EBERT 

"HIP...·CLEVER... AND WILLFULLY OUTRAGEOUS!'' 
Janet Maslln, THE. NEW YO!tl< TIMES 


SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 138, NUMBER 6 FOUNDED 1867 OCTOBER 31, 1996 

What's Wrong With This Picture? 
by Chris Myers 

Professor Jill Godmilow knows how tough life in Hollywood can be for female producers. But that hasn't stopped several Notre Dame film majors from hoping to make it in the business. 
......................................16 
They've Got 
the Look compiled by Kristin ~!worth Scholastic set out to find the student with the most uncanny resemblance to a celebrity. The results are amusing, amazing and, at times, absurd. Here are the winners . 
...................................10 
Kickfug Back 
by Alyssa Peterson 
This year's men's soccer team is led by a core of five strong seniors. Un­der their leadership, the team hopes to challenge for the Big East crown. 
~ ..................................22 


FEATURES Passing the Bllcks .................................... 4 
by Steve Myers 
Lugs or Leaders .......................................... 8 
by Heather Schomann 
No Holds Barred ........................................ 14 
by Bridget Bradburn 
Repeat-A-B ull. .......................................... 25 
by Jeremy Dixon 
DEPARTMENTS 
From the Editor .................................................... 2 Dull Thoughts .................................................. :·······6 Campus Watch ..................................................... 13 Out of Bounds ............... : .................................... 21 Splinters From the Press Box ............................. 26 Calendar ................................................................ 27 Week in Distortion ............................................. 28 On Other Campuses ........................................... 30 Life In Hell ......................................................... 31 Final Word .............. : ... _ ....................................... 32 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 3, 1996 
, ----~ 




Knocking on the Door 

Ask me to name my favorite actors, and I'll respond quickly: Robert DeNiro, Dustin Hoffman, Harrison Ford. Favorite actresses? Winona Ryder, Susan Sarandon. Favorite directors? Stanley Kubrick, Francis Ford Coppola, Terry Gilliam. 
See a pattern? So do I. Not only do I have to think hard to name actresses whose work I admire, I can't even name one female director, let alone a producer or executive. 
There does seem to be a shortage of women behind the camera, and the fault doesn't lie with moviegoers, but with the studios. No industry is so openly sexist as the film industry. It is pretty much assumed that a successful actress will do at least one nude scene in her career. On the other hand, I've never seen DeNiro naked -nor do I expect to. Female success in Hollywood is usually tied to one's measurements; male success, to a combina­tion of attractiveness, mass appeal and talent. 
As Jill Godmilow says in the cover story that starts on page 16, "It doesn't matter how many women get in ... , it depends on with what kind of freedom they get in." As long as females are limited in their ways of entering the film industry, their subsequent influence and power will be likewise limited. The film industry will not change if females first become successful on screen and then start producing movies. Rather, theymust fight their way through the studio door as directors and producers. Read the cover story for profiles of some Notre Dame women who are considering the film industry, and wondering how securely that door will be locked. 
Giving Credit Where Credit is Due 
We have received some compliments on the layouts in our recent issues. I'dlike to thank those who have noticed, but more importantly, those who are responsible. Without our layout staff, the articles on these pages wouldn'tenjoy the readership they do. Brian Christ, our layout editor, has done an outstanding job supervising Gene Brtalik, Carlyn Gray, Nie Ismert, Helga Schaffrin, Emily Schmidt and Julie Vodicka. 
Guess What? No Issue Next Week! 
The staff at Scholastic Magazine is too excited about dressing up and Trick-or-Treating_ tonight to think about another issue. So, the next issue will appear on November 14. Happy Halloween. 
Steve Myers 
Editor in Chief 

~4 Years Ago: McGovern For President 
In the November 3, 1972, issue of Scholastic Magazine, the editors endorsed their favorite presidential candidate: 
We believe that George McGovern will have a salutary effect on the political life ofthis country. He is indeed a political realist, and he is actively seeking votes from all types of people. Yet, George McGovern has a spark of integrity within him. When he makes a mistake, he admits it. This honesty is a refreshing change from a president for whom candor is an anomaly. We would rather have a president who admits his mistakes than one who hides the crimes ofhis administration behind a Justice Department investigation. 
We strongly urge all Notre Dame students,faculty and administrators to vote for George McGovern on November 7. 
Although this year's staff has decided not to endorse a candidate, we urge everyone to vote early and vote often. 
-ESB 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Volume 138, Number 6 October 31, 1996 http://www.nd.edu/~scholast/ 
Editor in Chief: Steven J. Myers Managing Editor: Bridget S. Bradburn 
News: 
Kristin M. Alworth; editor Meredith W. Salisbury, assistant Campus Life: · Kristin M. Alworth, editor 
Sports: 
Jeremy R. Dixon, editor Brian P. Hiro, editor 
Entertainment: 


Christopher E. Myers, editor 
Departments: 
Christian M. Dalla vis, editor . Cop}'Editor: · . 
W. Patrick Dowries 
Layout: 
Brian H; Christ, editor Carlyn Gray Helga Schaffrin 
Photography: 
Stanley P. Evans, editor 
Graphic Arts: 
Paul Bohensky, director ·Business Manager: Colin P. Smith 
Distribution.Manager: 
Thomas M. Benco · Systems Manager: Sean P. Hynes 
Advertising Manager: 
Jennifer L Stachowiak 
Cover photos by Stan Evans .. 


J 

Disce QuasiSemperVicturits Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 

Published 20 times per school year at the University of Notre Dame, and ·printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556;. The entire contents· of Scholastic Magazine are . copyright ©1996. All rights reserved. ·No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any m.anner ,without written conse~t of the ·publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability tor.unsolicited manuscripts oi .material.. All correspondence· should be sent to ScholasticMagazine, 303 LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. AU letters must include the wiiter's name, address and phone number. All letters must. be 
· signed. Names will be withheld· uponrequest in certain · instances.· The subscription rate, including .the annual football review, is $30 per year. Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number; or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rntes sent on request. 
2 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
Scholastic 
is looking for a few good writers 
... and photographers . . . and editors ... and lay-outers 
Applications are currently being accepted for Campus Life Editor and Assista'nt Photo Editor, as well as for the writing, layout and photography staffs. 
Stop by 303 LaFortune to pick up an ~pplication. Applications are due ­November 9. 
Call 1-7569 with a~y questions. 
SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPETITE 
..-r..-r:~~::.!/'· ..,.., ~r::~~-.;:;:_1_~~?~~-~--'.:I).,,_•:~;;~ 
I ~, -~ .. •-'l', 

... AND BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Lane 277-7744 52577 US Route 31 2'77-1024 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
3 

. ----~--­~ ~ ---------~----------~----~-----­


Pa$$ing the Buck$ 
New control procedures aim to control spending in student government 
BY STEVE MYERSRumors ofdeep pockets and irrespon­sible spending at student govern­ment have not been uncommon among students in recent years. Due to changes made in student government, though, some of these problems are a thing of the past. But a gray area remains concerning some expenses; while students have expressed concern that some ex­penses are unnecessary, members of student gov­ernment defend theiruse of student government funds. According to Brendan Kelly, chief of staff of student government, last year's Patrick­McCarthy administra­tion had a tendency to sperid money freely. Because student government account num­bers were haphazardly distributed among staff members, accounts were often charged without a system of approval. "It turns out that a lot of money was spent on pizza in.the student government office," Kelly says. "[Spending] was inapppropriate at times. The system was widely abused." To deal with these problems, Student 
Body President Seth Miller expanded the responsibilities of the controller. Chris Trenta, the current controller, is responsible for internal record-keeping and approving all charges. 
Actually, the reigns have been tightened with all financial matters in student govern-· ment, a significant change from last year. 
For example, the Patrick-McCarthy admin­istration submitted a one-page requestto the Student Senate budget committee; the Miller-Murray request consisted of 36 de­tailed pages of proposed budgets and con­trol procedures. 
Joe Cassidy, director of the Office of Student Activities, also approves all charges made with student activities fees, which include the student government budget. The $55 student activity fee is allocated to stu­dent government, SUB, and various clubs and class offices. These fees total about $405,00. He only looks for illegal charges and violations of university policy, though -such as alcohol purchases. He, too, notes that a lot of money has been spent on food, 
not only for student gov­ernment but for clubs and other organizations, as well. 
According to Cassidy, some of student government's expenses are necessary to maintain a professional appearance. He cites the report to the Board of Trustees, which cost about $536 for over 100 professionally printed copies, as an expense that is probably necessary be­cause of the audience. Other charges, he says, 
"could be seen as extravagant," he says, and he admits, "some expenditures fall into an area of gray." 
A $265 charge for two banners for the student government office, for instance, seems to fall into this gray area. The two plastic banners, which read "Team Connec­tion" and "Connecting You," were hung in the student government office as a motiva-

The Patrick-McCarthy administration submitted a one-page request to the Student Senate budget committee; the Miller-Murray request consisted of 36 detailed pages of proposed budgets and control procedures. 
4 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 31, 1996 

tional tool, according to Kelly. "That might nothing wrong with student government Steve Marshall, director of Information be a little much," says senior Jamie subsidizing other groups." Technologiesinstudentgovernment,thinks Matthews. Cassidy says the only area in which he has it was necessary to pay the students because 
Seth Miller, however, defends this pur-seen a problem has been in paying students ofthe time spent and the skills necessary. "It chase. "One ofthe most important things for for services, such as last year's The Guide was only fair to pay them. It wasn't a volun­
an organization to do is ere-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ teer-type job." he says. ate a new environment," he Cassidy, however, ques­says. He says the banner "It turns out that a lot of tions the need to pay any stu­
helped do this, and itis also money [during the Patrick-dentforsuchservices."Should displayed at different stu-we pay students for labor like dent government functions. Mccarth y term1 was spent On this?" he asks, suggesting that 
Likewise, two-color sta-students would be willing to tionerycoststudentgovern-pizza in the student government dothesetasksforfree. mentabout$490. "That's ex-Senior Pete Kittleson says cessive," says senior Eileen office. [Spending] was it is necessary to look at the Garcia. "It doesn't accom-results of student government plishanythingmorethanone inapppropriate at times ... the expenditures, not just at the color could." t .d l b d ,, amounts. Expenses are justi-
Millerdisagrees. "Itmight sys em WaS Wl e Y a USe • fied "as long as student gov-seem excessive on the sur--Brendan Kelly ernmentisservingthestudents face to spend that much first. Do the charges take away money on letterhead, but ... from their purpose, which is it's important to communicate in a first-. workers and database designers for the cur-serving the students? They should keep ev­class way." rent student government Web page. Last erything in perspective and mantain a bal-Miller and Kelly cite the water cooler in year, ten students were paid $100 each to ance between the goal of professionalism their office, which was introduced last year, enter data for The Guide. This year, two and the fact that they are just student gov-as something that benefits many students. students were paid a total of $600 to design ernment." 0 "Everyone uses it," says Kelly. "And there's the database to support the Web book fair. 
HOM 
THEGORCH 
-arcade, pool hall ­
Mon -Thurs 11:00 a,m, -midnight Fri -Sat 11:00 a,m, -1:00 a,m, Sunday noon -midnight 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
5 

_.. ~ r :-,, • °! • .• , '• -• • • ----~ ; • , •, ~ 
finance reform 

ii J! ii ]i 'i :I  BY MATTHEW DULLLast week Bob Dole stood before a Texas crowd and, with a wandering desperation to which he seems uniquely fitted, he snapped, "So, where's  
~ I; 1\ ,I ii  the outrage? Where's the outrage? When will the voters start to focus?"  
Dole's frustration is understandable. His  
key to victory in this year's election is the  
angry, insecure middle class  - the  one  
great truth of contemporary politics. That  
middle class, for reasons Dole cannot deci­ 
pher, has succumbed to Bill Clinton's fuzzy  
embrace. Dole and his own angry insecurity  
have been left out in the cold. He is doomed  
to defeat.  
So where is it? "Where's the outrage?"  
RossPerot,Newt Gingrich and Pat Buchanan  
are held up for their ability to tap into the  
outrage with issues like term limits, NAFT A  
and the balanced budget amendment. Both  
the issues and the candidates, however, have  
a limited shelf-life. Neither candidate would  
benefit significantly from raising term lim­ 
its this year. Term limits are old. They're  
stale. In effect, what Dole really asked that  
Texas crowd was, "What do you care about  
now?"  
Actually, afewdaysearlierinNew Hamp­ 
shire, Dole came as close to answering that  
question as he's been all year. There, fueled  
by desperation and news of a scandal in­ 
volving "soft money" contributions to the  
Democratic National  Committee, Dole  
momentarily transformed himself into the  


newest champion of campaign finance re­form. He triumphantly announced a new, though short-lived, program for meaningful campaign finance reform. The proposal sub­stantively, but inadequately, addressed for the first time one of the most neglected, most important issues of this campaign ­and the key to the "outrage" that Dole finds so elusive. 
From the early stages at $10,000-per­plate fund-raisers, campaign finance reform has been the most important non-issue in a campaign otherwise filled with stale ideas and phantom issues (15 percent, 100,000 police, bridges in each direction). Indeed, until Dole's short stint, neither campaign 

Cash and Carry 
Despite debates on issues like a 15 percent tax cut, the real issue on November 5 will be campaign 
undesirable trial lawyers, organized labor and "Hollywood." Characteristically, Clinton used a touching story about a child killed in a school bus accident. Dole told a joke about lawyers. In short, like the cam­paign to that point, the exchange offe1ed nothing new or interesting; as Dole would say, "You get zippo." 
When Dole did address the issue, his transformation was doomed from the start. Dole's record on campaign finance reform is miserable. Soon after he raised the issue, the Clinton campaign began airing a com­mercial quoting an "independent watch­dog" who called Dole the senator "most responsible for blocking any serious cam-

Can there be relative political equality in a system where candidates are so dependant on money from corporations Jor their elections? 
would address it. During the first presiden­tial debate, for example, moderator Jim Lehrer asked the candidates how they avoid being influenced by people who contribute money to their campaigns. It's a great ques­tion. Each candidate's response, however, was predictably meaningless. Clinton at­tacked Dole's dependence on money from undesirables like the NRA, tobacco inter­ests and amorphous "polluters." Dole went after supporters of Clinton, the similarly paign finance reform." Clinton's record isn't much better, although he has spent more effort pretending otherwise. The "indepen­dent watchdog" in question, Fred Wertheimer of Common Cause, responded to the use of his quote in the commercial by saying that while Dole's record is pretty bad, Clinton was also responsible for killing reform. Common Cause also recently re­ported that both campaigns have engaged in "massive, knowing and willing" violations 

6 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
of spending limits set in law. In short, both sides are knowingly to blam~. By the time he hit Texas, Dole had understandably for­gotten about the issue. Clinton also gra­ciously let the issue slide. 
So where is the outrage? Is an issue an "issue" if neither candidate can credibly address it? In the "outraged nineties" that is often the definition of an issue. Bob Dole and Bill Clinton approach election day sit­ting atop a campaign finance system that by almost every account is a complete mess. In this way, perhaps more than others, they represent the much-resented Washington establishment. And the establishment is worthy of outrage. 
The language ofthe candidates only hints at the size and capacity of the campaign finance beast, particularly as it relates to so­called "soft money." Soft money allows corporations and individuals to funnel un­limited cash contributions through the party rather than directly to the individual cam­lates many of the fundamental principles on which we base our democracy. Can there be relative political equality in a system where candidates are so dependent on money from corporations for their election? Almost cer­tainly, the answer is no. The CEO of a corporation who donated $100,000 to the President's campaign will likely have greater access to him than, say, I will. Also, as we complain about the quality of the presiden­tial candidates, remember that Colin Powell, Bill Bradley, Bill Bennett and even Indiana's own Dan Quayle can point to one good reason for not running: fundraising. 
The issue undeniably carries on a danger­ously close relationship with the voter cyni­cism and disaffection that Dole has been looking for so desperately. The present cam­paign finance system has corrupted the en­tire American political system. As much as any other issue we face today, campaign finance pits democracy against a corrupted .establishment. It reaches so deep into the 
paign. While the dona­
··. _.::. . . ,. . : :. :_ :, . 
tion limit per candidate from a corporation is set by law at $5,000, 
Th~··Crystal Ball Philip Morris has man­aged, using soft money, to give over $1.6 mil­
. Electoral College:·. Popular Vote: · 
lion to Republicans and $350,000 to Demo­
.Clinton ·396 53% 
crats. And these con­
D.ole 142 37% 
tributions come in a 
Perot 0 8% 
year when tobacco money is supposed to be out of style. 
• Clinton wilt be the firstDemocrat to win Indiana since 1964 -helping
The problem has 

Dem6cratFrankO'Bannon daim .fodiana's governorship. ..·. ·..
worsened considerably over the last several 
• Themillions 'spent in Dole's effort to take California will help the House elections. By one esti­
candidates in that state, but Dole will lose the state bY 15 points. mate each campaign 
•Jn a last-ditch.effort to.attract younger voters, Dole will announce he has 
will raise as much as 
offered to father Madonna's next baby, . . . 
$120 million in soft 
. • One reliable source predicts that inan election day shocker, millions of 
money this year, a 173 
write~Jn votes. will d.eliverNew Hm;npshfre to Pat Buchanan, who will 
percent jump from 
. •then· announce New Hampshire's secession from the unibn. Live free 


1992. Additionally, 
or die, Pat. · · · 
each party continues to 
expand the loopholes they use in a frantic effort to raise more cash. For example, a "host committee" es­tablish~d for each party's convention raised roughly $25 million to help (with the addi­tional $12 million in federal funds) pay for the convention. Much of this money was made up of donations from corporations. That's quite a party. 
But the issue is bigger than the numbers. The present campaign finance system vio­core of American politics that the self-de­scribed anti-establishment designers of the Contract With America would not touch it. 
The "throw the rascals out" Perot-ite is peculiarly quiet this year, though he did rear his influential head in Pat Buchanan's short lived "lock and load" coalition. The economy is OK and Perot is now hopelessly tied to the establishment like all the rest ofthose crooks in Washington. But the Perot-ite will rise again, and when he does my money says he's going to go after the singlemost glaring example of our failing democratic experi­ment. 
In a way, the politics ofcampaign finance can be compared to the budget deficit. For more than a decade, the budget deficit was something that voters occasionally worried about, political leaders pretended to address and everyone ultimately worked to forget. Because neither the president nor Congress had an immediate interest in correcting the problem, action was often symbolic and for the most part continued to perpetuate the status quo. The result: The forces of institu­tional resistance are reasoned to be too strong and the issue is unimaginatively diagnosed as too complex to rally supporters. 
Certainly, with issues like a balanced budget amendment and term limits, which are both relatively cut-and-dried, it is much easier to inspire a Perot-style revolt. Every­one can understand that Strom Thurmond 
has been in office too long. But, when you start to talk about soft money and loopholes, people's eyes glaze over. 
So people will com­plain about the status quo, but they believe nothing will change. Numbers from polls reflect this trend. A USA Today poll showed that while 83 percent of voters be­lieve major changes need to be made in the campaign finance sys­tem, only 30 percent believe any change will occur. 
But, as with the defi­cit, the candidates who continue to happily deny the issue could easily find themselves 

in a panicked struggle to remake theirrecord. In this case, Dole not only tries to remake his record but proposes to champion the cause. His effort is a little late. But he might take comfort in the fact that, though he will lose on Tuesday, the issue will live on in the mind of an image-sensitive, insecure and temperamental public, and will eventually happily wreak havoc on provincial Wash­ington. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
lllil•ii-t•il=¦-------------------------­

Even in an election year, politically active students are few andfar between at Notre Dame 
BY HEATHER ScHOMANN A question being asked at many col­
lege campuses this fall is, "Who are 

you going to vote for?" College students across the nation are debating the issues and choosing sides -Democrat or Republican, Independent or Libertarian? Bill, Bob or Ross? At Notre Dame, how­ever, many find that such questions are not heard as frequently as on other campuses. Some students wonder whether Notre Dame students are active in the political process or just plain apathetic. 
Some students feel that Notre Dame's geographic isolation leads to political iso­lation, since it .is far removed from major cities and centers of government. Sopho­more J.P. Cooney says, "I'm from Alex­andria, Va. [a suburb of Washington, D.C.]. You can't help but pay attention to politics there because it'severywhere­on the local news, in the paper. Here you don't get that." 
Sophomore Allison Dobson agrees; "It's easy to get caught up in Notre Dame and ignore everything beyond the Dome when you 're here," she says. 
Others feel that the lack ofdiversity 
Some students still find ways to be politi­cally active at Notre Dame, though. The College Democrats and the College Repub­licans are working hard to raise awareness and_ get students talking this election year. "The Great Debate" on October 15 was one way the two clubs tried to raise interest. Hipp, secretary of the College Republicans, says, "We had a debate last year that was very unorganized. This year we worked with the faculty and administration to put together a well-run de­bate that · w a s much 

more infor­mative." The two clubs have also tried to raise awareness through a weekly column in 
The Observer. They take turns writing about 
issues from their different viewpoints. Cooney, the debate chairperson for the Col­
in the student body oreeds apathy. 

lege Democrats, thinks such activities could be 
"Most people here are pretty conser­

a starting point for sponsoring more events in vative," comments sophomore Brian 
.the future. "It's important to see things like the Hipp. "There's not much of a clash 
debate and to read the weekly column, butthey're of ideas or a lot of political tension 
just a first step," he says. "Peerinvolvementi!i the because it is such a homogenous best way to get other students thinking." group." One way Cooney sees awareness growing is through campus media. "I'd like to see The Observerand Scholastic take a larger role in educating students on the issues," he says. "The Observer needs to move beyond Asso­ciated Press briefs and explore the issues further. I'd like to see articles on national and international affairs researched and written by students. We as clubs also need to be more active in getting the message out." 
Students with a strong interest in politics often find that internships and other oppor­tunities to work with political parties are a great way to become more involved in the political process. Dobson, for one, spent this past summer working for Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y. She applied to the senator's office because she respected his record on children's issues. "My re­search project for my senior year of high school was on children in poverty, and I became very interested in how government can affect people," she says. 
Her job as an intern for Moynihan en­tailed working primarily in the press office, where she did research and wrote press statements. Although she has decided that she doesn't want to ruri for office in the future, her experience confirmed that she wants to continue her involvement in children's issues. "It's something that I feel very strongly about. I want to work on 

_ behalf ofchildren, possibly with an organi­zation l_ike the Children;s Defense Fund." 
Dobson was extremely impressed by Senator Moynihan during the debate over welfare reform. "He remembered that the 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 

"It's easy to get caught up in Notre Dame and ignore everything beyond the Dome when you are here." -Allison Dobson 
debate was about people," she says. "He kept ideology in perspective and abstained from playing political games. Few people in either party did that during the debates. To me, he embodied the phrase, 'responsible government."' 
This summer's political conventions also offered Notre Dame students a chance to take part in the political process. Cooney traveled to the Democratic National Con­vention in Chicago to work in the press office. He was drawn to the convention because he believes this is a "pivotal elec­tion." He says, "The Democrats and the Republicans have two different visions for America. I believe that the Democrats have really made strides in the last four years and their work will be reversed if the Republi­cans win the election." 
Cooney worked in the Democratic -· -· --·· ···. • ··· ······•· National Committee's press office the week before the convention, and 
. he produced and coordinated satel­lite interviews for the Democratic·· News Service the week of th_e con­vention. The expe­. rience taught him a lot about the party system. "I leai:ned a1qt about how the party 
runs," he says. "I 
things and some main active in politics and my party." 
Hipp was treated to a different perspec­tive of the conventions. He received a mail­ing from the Young Voters Program run by the Republican National Committee. He was accepted into the program and traveled to the Republican Convention in San Diego as part of a group of 300 Young Republi­cans. The group was treated to speakers from the party in an effort to educate them on the party platform. "It was kind of like a pep talk to get us to go back home and back to school and spread the party message," 
says Hipp. "The convention defi­nitelyopenedmy eyes to the possi­bilities out there 
after graduation." 
Hipp says that, compared to other schools, 
Notre Dame 
seems to be at the lowendofpoliti­cal activity. "Other people 
talked about all They affect all of 
the activities they ------------------us." 
had done at school and the deba,te that went on at their campuses. We have to search for people to become involved here," he says. As November's election draws closer, "We are going to have a policy it will be a mistake," he says. major influence on the Hipp hopes that 
world, and iifwe remain the activity raised 
by the election will anathetic aboutpublic continue after­'.t' wards. "Politics policy, it will be a areeasyforsome­one to get into," he mistake." says. "It's easy to feel passionate -J.P. Cooney about the issues. 
political activity on campus will be on the rise. The College Democrats and Republi­cans, along with the student government office, encourage students to explore the issues and vote. "It's important to get all the information you can on the issues," says Cooney. "Information doesn't just come fromthepapersoryourparents. Youneedto investigate for yourself." 
Cooney believes that students can influ­ence politics and policy, so they need to keep abreast of events. "We are going to have a major influence on the world and if we remain apa­thetic about public 
Whatever the 'party affiliation, the mes­sage from both sides is cl~ar: Don't ignore the issues. Your vote can make a difference, so make sure you cast it on election day. D 
--------·--· •-.----t'·r-~---1 

;iiiiiiii g 
2. 

things I didn't like. But they are 
changeable. I defi-LEADING THE WAY. Sophomore Brian Hipp walks with Speaker of tt;;; House Newt Gingrich atthis year's Republican nitely plan to re-National convention in San Diego. · · 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 




' 




udt 
Se uJ be loo 
e, 


MAGAZINE. ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 



Which ofthese is Conan O'Brien and which is sophomore Jermiah Long? The results o/Scholastic's celebrity lookalike contest are in. Here are the Notre Dame students most likely to be _mistaken for celebrities 

11 



Is senior Mike 
Baldinger the Rudy 
ofthe '90's. He 
certainly looks like it. 
Draus could fa,, .. 
'~-~::\.' ·'.;
have easily · 

doubledfor Scott Bakula on 
Quantum Leap. 
~ ~

Di 11 ~m m 

The sole dishonorable mention goes , to senior Mark Teaken, who only dreams of passingfor the White Power Ranger. 
S CH O LAS T I C M A G AZ I NE ¦ 0 C T O B E R 3 1 , 1 9 9 6 

CAlv1Pus Co:MI\1ENTARY · 
gipper.1@nd.edu 

CamRus Watch 
BY THE GIPPER . Attitude, Allegations, and Innuendo 
As a young child, the Gipp asked his nanny, "Nanny, what's it like to be wrong?" She replied, "Well, boy, it throws you off for the whole day. Things aren't what they seem. It's really a problem if you blame someone for something and later find out that, for instance, the gardener didn't steal your mother's pearl necklace. But I already said he did, to cover myself, so they wouldn't make me sleep on that metal cot without a mattress again ... But that's another story. Go play with your Erector set." The Gipp didn't quite understand, but as he fingered his newfound beaded necklace, he was glad he didn't know what it was like to be wrong. UNTIL NOW. 
TWO WORDS: ROAD TRIP 

That sports circus known as the Sham­rock Classic is set to begin Saturday morn­ing, and news hounds from The Observer are there to catch every bit. They sent the managing editor, sports editor and two pho­tographers to cover the action. Saint Mary's paid for a Saint Mary's editor to go, too. Gotta cover the Saint Mary's angle, right? In fact, they all left last Friday so they wouldn't miss anything. All in the name of journalism. 
Of course, the best business trips have a little pleasure mixed in -the sports editor and the managing editor are dating. With that in mind, the Gipp thinks The Observer should take advantage of this as much as possible. Who ·cares about 
REASON NUMBER 6663 THE GIPP LOVES NOTRE DAME: Word has. }t S~cµrity is sending students_ .around Cl, ticketing cars without Ci decals. Hey, Chief, the Gipp hasa tip for. you fora change: rio one parks in Cl voluntarily. Eveii.D'..2000 is closer. Instead, Security should post students along I3uila to spot 
football players shouting racist remarks to other students. . 
Navy, what's it like to get it on in Blarney Castle? 
THE GIPP PLAYS 
HE WAS WRONG 

OK, the Gipp was wrong. Those of you who are often wrongmay not be bothered by this, but this is new to the Gipp. The item in question? The Keoughs didn't invite 150 
. guests to their dedication: That was the O'Neills who had the big bash. And the dorm photo was rained out, though it was planned. See the confusion those mass-pro­duced dorms.lead to? When Welsh Hall is built, no judge in the landwill decide a libel suit against the Gipp when he mixes it up with Walsh. 
See, the Gipp is concerned with accuracy. Keep that in mind, those ofyou who depend on small inaccuracies like the one above to discredit all the other items. Christ was wrong once, too -remember Judas? 
CHUCK WOOLERY 

Okay, ladies, you asked, so here's the information: The two guys on the cover of the September 19, 1996, issue are Matt Meichtry and Mark Fennell. Matt's from Zahm; Mark's a Stanford Stud. Now that the Gipp gave you this hot tip, anyone who gets lucky with these guys has to tell the Gipp all about it. Actually, Matt and Mark -if they know what's good for them ­will thank the Gipper for his help. When the. February freeze sets in, guys, you know who to thank for keeping you warm. 
That's right, kids, it's been a light week, and we all know who to blame: you. All of you. OK, you'vebeen busy; the Gipp knows what it's like to study all the time (because his roommates tell him about it). But take 
WHO IS THIS GIRL AND .WHAT IS SHE DOING? 
10. Korean girl taking· care of Kathie Lee Gifford's garden. · 
9. Future Domer starting her work-study early so she can afford Notre Dame. · 
8. She's Rudy, but with. a rake. Get it? 
7. The· new· student government mascot. Slogan: "Stt1dent Government: Raking You." 
6. The first participant mStudent Affairs' preven_tative community service pro-•. gram.. 
5. Another freshman injured at Bridget's while table dancing (note sling\ 
4. One of the new employees of Notre 
. Dame Security, ticketing garden. tools withoutCl decals. 
3. A gardener. Nothing else, just a gar­dener. · · 
2. The one Saint Mary's freshman wll~ didn't make it over to campus last week-· end. She didn't have a quarter for the · shuttle bus. 
1. NotreDame female COTH major who didn't find a job in Hollywood. 
~ . -· . . .-. . . . ~ 

some time out of your day and brighten the Gipp's. By the way, if you see Bill Kirk around, wish him happy anniversary. He celebrated his fifth anniversary of passing the bar exam last Friday. You'd think that with his extensive legal knowledge he wouldn't blatantly violate du Lac by pre­venting the College Democrats from having a Coming Out Rally, but maybe the bar was graded on a curve. Happy Anniversary, Mr. Kirk! 0 

¦ Review 


HOLDS BARRED 
The university's attempts to make Senior Bar more user-friendly have 

BY BRIDGET BRADBURN very morning I make the long trek
E
from the Cl parking lot to my first 
class in the CSC auditorium. Last Thursday, however, I just couldn't do it. I hadn't slept in days, I was tired and cranky and I was dreading the midterm exam I was about to take. I knew I couldn't just go back to bed, and that I would have to wait until later in the day to enjoy the sunshine. 
Just as I was about to surrender to the vacuum of despair and gloom, a vision appeared on the horizon. Senior Bar arose before me like an oasis in an asphalt desert. I remembered that the nighttime watering hole had been converted to a daytime mecca of alcohol-free, conducive-to-studying so­cial space. And while I knew that there was no chance of getting the stiff drink I really needed that early in the day, I thought that a shot of espresso might do. 
As I entered the bar with my friend Sarah early that morning, we were both immedi­ately overcome by the stench ofCoors Light-
fall en flat. 

A DIFFERENT KIND OF SHOT. From the corner of the Alumni-Senior 
Club emerges a different kind of bar every day. This one serves 
cappuccino and bagels instead of Coors and vodka. 
steeped carpeting and stale cigarette smoke. Funny how that smell lingers in a suppos­edly smoke-free campus building. As we made our way to the food counter, the smell of coffee began to mingle with the remain­ing evidence ofthe Wednesday night crowd. Sarah commented that the combination pro-
ALUMNI-SENIOR 
CLUB 
Open 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

duced an aroma similar to one found in a barnyard. 
Not to be dissuaded from our quest for caffeine, though, I ordered a large cappuccino with hazelnut syrup and Sarah ordered a cafe mocha. 
While the breakfast I was really craving was an order of Moons Over My Hammy, I chose from the pastries displayed in the glass case next to the coffee counter. The danishes and muffins were identical to those served in North and South Dining Halls, but it seemed that the folks at Notre Dame Food Services, which runs the daytime operation, were trying to fool unsuspecting customers through the presentation of the food. They were placed in wicker baskets lined with napkins, and I was almost convinced that I was in areal coffee shop. But then I saw the sign for $1 rum and Cokes, and my illusions were shattered. 
After paying $5.50 (that's $1 for each of the bagels with packets of Philadelphia cream cheese, $2 for my large cappuccino and $1.50 for Sarah's cafe mocha) Sarah and I took .our breakfast to a table near the big-screen TV -not that we had to search long for a place to sit because we were the only people there. While we ate, we were entertained by the high-volume reruns of MacGyver and Murder, She Wrote that were 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
:,' ' , • • -I • • -,.• I ,• ' •') • ' • 
showing on the USA channel. Sarah and I noticed that the bagels were larger and softer than the variety served in the dining halls, but they were neither sliced nor toasted, two factors that always add to the enjoyment of bagels Gust ask the Accent crew at The Observer). 
After throwing out our trash, Sarah and I wandered around and checked out the decor in the daylight. We were particularly im­pressed by the three-tiered carpeted bench structure in the corner, reminiscent of the children's section of a public library. The backdrop for the structure was a retro-esque painting ofthe Golden Dome with the words "Alumni Senior Club" painted next to it­complete with a sparkle radiating from the "C." I felt like we should be donning our Sergio Valente jeans and striped leg warm­ers for a spin around the roller rink. 
Unfortunately, though, it was time for me to make my way to my history exam. As we were leaving, the NDFS employee who works at the counter every day begged us to come back soon. Little did she know how soon we would. 
Three hours later, exam completed and fall break officially begun, Sarah and I re­turned to Senior Bar to celebrate. It would have been nice to throw some darts or shoot some pool with our fellow students, but once again, Sarah and I were the only two 
., "'C: 
!Ii 
.,C: 
customers. As we were entering, a herd of construction workers was leaving the bar and heading back to the stadium. We couldn't help but wonder who was going to keep the place in business once the renovation was complete. 
Apparently, the workers do a good job of keeping the place busy 
odd, since we were staying there to eat. 
The bill for lunch came to $8.50-$3.25 for each sandwich and $1 for each Snapple. Luckily, we didn't have to tip a server-it would have broken our off-campus bud­gets. The other lunch offerings included a soup of the day, a daily sandwich special (it 
during their lunch break, becausetheyhadrunout "We have food, but it's the 

of almost everything by the time Sarah and I ar-th t t • th 
rived at 12:30. Or maybe Same ll YOU ge zn e Notre Dame Food Ser-d • • h ll lt' t fi 
viceshasalreadycometo llllng a ••• S 00 ar expect no additional busi-d h , ness from the students. away an t ere S no Sarah and I each or­dered a sandwich on 
alcohol." 
wheat bread and a Snapple. The sandwiches 
-Brian Bender 

were made with generous 
servings of deli meat and cheese, as well as fresh tomatoes and let­tuce. The bread was fresh and the sand­wiches were pretty tasty, but not signifi­cantly different from those made at the dining halls or other sandwich shops on campus. Whatdidmakeourmealsomewhat unique was that our sandwiches were served with fresh fruit salad in a Styrofoam carry­out container-which we thought was a bit was Italian chicken breast the day we vis­ited, although they had run out of this, as well), stuffed mushroom caps, mozzarella sticks, French fries, hot dogs, packaged fruit salads and tossed salads, yogurt, chips, candy bars, flavored teas and coffees, soda 
--and milk. The student employee who works during the lunchtime "rush" every day confirmed my suspicions as to why Senior Bar hasn't caught on as a place to eat, study and socialize. "We have food, but it's the same that you get in the dining hall ... It's too far away and there's no alcohol," senior Brian Bender told me. "A lot of students are disappointed.... But that's the university's policy. I think it sucks, but what can we do?" 
Bender says that even on football Fridays, business does not improve. "We might get a few straggling people," he says, but for the most part, there seem to be more hard hats and tool belts than baseball caps and kha­kis on any given day. · 
Sarah and I enjoyed our two meals at Senior Bar, but it is unlikely that we will return anytime soon, Ifwe want to eat on campus, we will probably pa­tronize a more convenient establish­
-ment or charge the meals to our stu­dent accounts at the dining halls. We get all we need from the Senior Bar social scene on Thursday cup nights, anyway. 0 



SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE  a  OCTOBER  31,  1996  15  
--~  -------­---­ . -·  '.._  .  - .  '  .  '  .  i.  

I 
N LAST YEAR'S SATIRICAL SWIMMING WITH SHARKS, A FEMALE 
\ . 

PRODUCER GETS SHOT BY AN AMSITIOUS YOUNG MALE WORKING AS A 
STUDIO ASS I ST ANT . THE ASS I S-T ANT GETS PROMOTED . 1\ IN ROBERT ALTMAN ' S SAVAGE TAKE ON HOLLYWOOD, 1991's THE PLAYER, THE YOUNG, FRAGILE FEMALE SCRIPT ADVISOR GETS TO LIVE_ -BUT ONLY AFTER SHE' S BEEN FIRED BY HER NOW EX -BOYFRIEND WHO HAS JUST BECOME THE NEW STUDIO CEO (AFTER GETTING AWAY WITH MURDER, OF COURSE). ,i THE MORAL OF THESE STORIES rs TWOFOLD -YOU HAVE TO KILL TO MAKE IT IN HOLLYWOOD AND YOU HAVE TO BE A MAN. ,I THAT'S NOT ENTIRELY TRUE. THERE ARE PLENTY OF STUDIO HEADS THAT HAVE NEVER DRAWN BLOOD. BUT THE LATTER HALF OF THE STATEMENT REMAINS ALMOST FRIGHTENINGLY TRUE, ACTRESSES ASIDE, HOLLYWOOD RESPECT FOR WOMEN IS A CONTRADICTION IN TERMS. THE RATIO OF MALE­T O -F EM A L E D I R E C T O R S I S S T I L L HEA V I LY LO P S I D ED . DE S P I T E-B. I G NAM E S L I K E J O D I E FOSTER AND PENNY MARSHALL WORKING BEHIND THE CAMERA, MOST MOVIEGOERS WOULD STRUGGLE TO NAME MANY MORE, FROM THE BUSINESS ANGLE OF THE BIZ, THE RATIO EVEN FURTHER DIMINISHES. WITH A FEW NOTABLE EXCE~TIONS, MALES ARE THE BIG­BUCKS PRODUCERS AND RUN THE SHOW AT THE STUDIOS. 1\ NONETHELESS, AS THE HOLLYWOOD GENDER WAR PLAYS OUT, SCHOLASTIC TALKS TO FEMALE FILM MAJORS AT NOTRE DAME WHO HOPE TO TAKE TO THE BATTLEGROUNDS, 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 31, 1996 


WOMEN AT WORK 
Though Hollywood ac­tresses may finally be getting the respect they deserve, it may be some time before the females behind the scenes do. A brief list of fe­male players who hope to someday join the ranks of 

------.------.--.-.-----~--------...------------·----------------,.------,------·-·----Spielberg and Scorsese: 
BY CHRIS MYERS hristine Criscuolo is a senior Arts and
C

Letters pre-professional major who "hopes . to combine medicine and film" by making documentaries. Aside from some involvement with video work in high school, Criscuolo didn't , come to Notre Dame with the intention of major­ing in film, but now she's not ruling out the entertainment field. When asked how she feels 
· about the subjectofwomen in the business, she concedes that women are not equal to their male counterparts, and suggests that the problem stems from a patriarchal society. "Women haven't been involved in the past," she says. "I think that society didn't allow us to be." 
Criscuolo does, however, feel the trend is chang­ing and notes the increasing role ofwomen behind the scenes in many independent films. "Most women directors are independent," she says. "The independent industry has helped." She urges women like herself to "stick to [their] principles," noting that the typical Hollywood philosophy is "whether [or not] the movie is going to make money ... have a big opening weekend." 
Her philosophy is echoed by Jill Godmilow, independent filmmaker, Notre Dame film profes­sor and resident expert on the trade. Godmilow worked within the Hollywood structure in the '70s and '80s as an editor under Francis Ford Coppola and Robert Redford. She hated it. "When you're in Hollywood, you're just part of a company ... and they 're just out to make money." Though Criscuolo's ideal ofsticking to one's principles sounds great, Godmilow asserts that it's extremely tough since studios are aiming for the core audi­ence of "18-year-old high school boys." She explains that this is one reason why Hollywood produces "garbage" and women are often relegated to roles as doting house­wives, strippers and prostitutes. 
Godmilow finds that the world of inde­pendent filmmaking is a "more creative, more exciting" venue for a filmmaker to work in, particularly for females. "If you want a job with Disney, go to L.A.," says Godmilow. "If you want to make movies, hang out with people who are doing it for laughs and who are very smart about how to do that. ...The more interesting films are in New York City." Godmilow notes there is more space for women in 
. such a market, citing I Shot Andy Warhol as a good example ofthe work a female director can She is Woman: ..· Allison Anders; Gen-X camera woman Hear Her Roar: . Indie-girl director burst onto scene with 199l's Gas Food Lodging. Went on to direct controver­sial.Priestand the current criti­cal hit Grace ofMy Heart. 
But It's Still a Jungle Out There: Credits also include last year's Mad Love-_Four Roomsdoublewhammy. Some say she had torideTarantino's coattails to get_recognized. · · 

She is Woman: Kathryn Bigelow (above); adrena[ine­hungryproducer!directOr 
Hear Her Roar: Co~produced Terminator 2: and directed PointBreak~dStrangeDays. 
Flair for·. rock-em, socl,<:-em action/sci-fi stuff proves ~ she can sit with the big boys in a typically male-dominated geme. 



But It's Still a Jungle Out There: Just because the premise is commercial doesn't mean the film will be. Both Point Break and Strange Days underachieved at the box-of­fice-where performance mat­ters the most. 
She is Woman: Jane Campion; 
oreign director, screenwriter 
Hear Her Roar: Has proven her worth with three well-re­spected films under her belt, includingThe Piano, which got her an Oscar for best screen­play and a best director nomi­nation-'--only the second for a woman. Will bring Nicole Kidman in The Portrait of a Lady to screens this fall. But It's Still a Jungle Out There: The New Zealander works outside ofthe Tinseltown studio system and isn't really a part of the Hollywood struc­ture. She can make waves · in the arthouses, but commer­cially her work is a long shot. 
She is .Woman: ·Jodie· Foster (above); actress, director,pm­ducer, Yale grad · Hear Her Roar: Directed and starred in her impressive pet project Little Man Tate. Head of her own production com­pany, Egg Pictures, which re­cently brought the French film La Haine (Hate) to the U.S. But It's Still A Jungle Out There: .Last year's dread-.--+­


accomplish outside the Hollywood structure. "It's about a lot of ideas and feelings that I, as a woman, can relate to." While Godmilow doesn't want to characterize herself as a S.C.U.M.-loving ultra­feminist, she expresses the need for stronger fe­male characters on and off the screen -something that Hollywood rarely pulls off. Thelma & Louise, she says, is a good example of a strong female film because it's about "a female experience. Not the female experience of a house­wife or a call girl or a strip­tease artist, but of two women who ... find themselves out­side society. There are mo­ments there of freedom and of experience that have not been there in the Hollywood cin­ema for women." 
Godmilow's lack ofrespect for Hollywood hasn't stopped one of her students from hoping to someday be­come the head of Universal Studios. Senior Karen LeMire says that while she doesn't plan on getting into the film world directly after graduation, the Universal idea is a long-term dream. "I want to start working in advertising and TV and hopefully 
· work my way up from there," she says. A good route, perhaps, since that's how Godmilow got her start. 
Addressing the women in Hollywood issue, LeMire doesn't look at the issue in terms of gender. "I look at it more in terms of good filmmakers," she says, "not whether a film is good because it was directed by a man or woman." LeMire thinks the inequality issue should not be a factor, especially in filmmak­ing. "I'm not one for something that would equal affirmative action," she says. "I don't want to be given some notice just because I'm female." 
LeMire admits there are."a couple strong 
"I, MNOT ONE THING THAT 
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, SAYS LEMIRE " I DON'T WANT TO BE
I 

GIVEN SOME NOTICE JUST 
,,

BECAUSE I , M FEMALE. 
females" in Hollywood, citing Penny Marshall as an inspiration -but admits that it's easier for women to get exposure in the independent mar­ket. In that regard, she sees Godmilow as a role model. "She's proven females can do this." 
Though Godmilow may seem optimistic to her 
students, she is certainly pes­simistic about the future -in particular, the ambiguous "in­dependent film market" that seems to be a haven for film­fancying females. "The word has been so garbaged now," Godmilow says of the inde­pendent trend. What was once a respectable venue has changed drastically over the past ten years, according to Godmilow, and not for the better. "It's like a hollowed-out canta­loupe ­there's nothing inside," she says. "It's like an advertis­ing word ... the lines are so blurred now." 
For Godmilow, what fe­male success boils down to is having strong ideas and characters to carry themout.Unfortunately, 1 society doesn't seem to be willing to listen to them, at least the key demographic audi­ences, and thus women are pushed to the realm of indie flicks. Another problem lies in the genre's increasing commercializa­tion. "Multiplexes 

FOR SOME­'WOULD EQUAL 
,, 
18 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER·31, 1996 

"IT'·s IMPORTANT FOR WOMEN TO WORK AT BREAKING INTO THE MAINSTREAM." RENEE DAFFRON 
were supposed to solve that problem," Godmilow says. But instead of showing the art films along­side of the blockbusters, retailers opt for four screens ofIndependence Day. And as Hollywood wraps its claws around the independent market, options for women get choked out. 
Godmilow's level ofpessimism is subtlely ech­oed in the ideas of Criscuolo and LeMire. While both are film majors with hopes ofmaking it after· college, they remain somewhatsubdued. Criscuolo admits that while someday winning an Academy Award would be great, "the entertainment indus­try is more competitive" than making documenta­ries. LeMire hopes to go straight into an-advertis­ingjob. Neitherplan on going to film school. Beth Zumbach, another senior in the film program, says that, for her, film is just ahobby, not acareer. There seems. to be a latent level of uncertainty, and while it may just be senior-itis of the real world, itmay also be more than that. Mike Kogge, ajunior in the film department, already has hopes of going to USC's film school after Notre Dame and becoming "the next George Lucas." 
That'seasyforamantosay, but awoman has considerable 
She is. Woman: Sherry Lan­sing; power producer at Para­mount 

Hear Her Roar: One of the ,filmmajorRenee Daffron says 
the inside," Godmilow says. 
obstacles to overcome. Senior : G· Ap esting life on the outside than 
most visible female studio ex­that one way of helping level She likes what women have 
ecs working today. Won back­outthe playingfield is for more , done on the outside and urges 
to-back. Oscars for producing
ERE S 

Forrest Gump andBraveheart. ·women to take rolesofleader:. . interested women tolook there 
Top female in Premiere's an­power positions as a possible real art-has always been on 
ship. She cites more women in I:,·,LY W.0 O D for real opportunities. "Art­
nual "Hollywood's Most Pow-catalyst for eventually gain­l S T , the outside anyway." D 
erful" list. · ·ing some sort ofgender equal­
But It's Still a Jungle. Out ity. According to Daffron, the lroMAN. 
There: Only ranked 15th on ED IN. 
that list, showing where the

independentmarket deals with 
bulk ofHollywood power lies. 

'.'more inter:esting films and I! 40· · 
(Actually, she's the only fe­

topics, but it's important for 
male in the top 40.) into the mainstream as well." Such a trend can currently be seen with more 
women to work at breaking 
She is Woman: Penny

ACTION! actresses assuming roles in the studio system. LeMire, 
Marshall; actress, director, Penny Marshall has gone on to become a success­Daffron and 
Laverne 
Criscuolo

ful director and Jodie Foster, Diane Keaton and Hear Her ~oar: Most .suc­
(right) call the

Barbara Streisand have developed talents behind 
cessful female director in· the 
shots. 
biz, proving she. can · · ~

the camera as well, with Fostereven operating her 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E ¦ 0 CT OBER 3 1, 1 
19 


own produc­tion company. 

But Godmilow doesn't see this as a positive road for women to take. "If you 're a woman and you get up there [in a power position] you're there because somehow you've made a set of pictures that follow the formula," she says. Godmilow feels that women high-up in the Hol­lywood ranks have to get there by selling out. "You have to stay on the outside," she warns. "I'm always ready for the exception, but I think it's very hard to lie down with dogs every day and remember who you are." 
So where exactly does this leave the women in the film program now? Godmilow expresses a bleak view -"I think we're in a retracting mo­ment. We're getting dumb and dumber as a cul­ture and as a country." Citing political and cul­tural trends as negative influences, Godmilow sees a narrowing independent market and dumbed­down audiences unwilling to open their minds ­two influences that will negativly affect aspiring female filmmakers. But outside of Hollywood, 
Godmilow sees some faint ful Homefor the Holidays was a sophomore slip. Has yet to direct a commercial success. 
She is Woman: Pauline Kael; 
critic extrordinaire 
Hear Her Roar: Her 30-plus years ofNew Yorker film criti­cism are legendary-even her peers admire her. Penned nu­merous books on film and re­leased several collections ofher reviews. For Keeps, a recent anthology of her reviews, just released in paperback. 
But It's Still a Jungle Out There: Now retired. And with few exceptions, there aren't many female critics in the busi­ness. 
.JPauline](ael

I 


please crowds and critics alike with hits like Big, Awakenings and A League of Their Own. Upcoming The Preacher's Wife with Whitney Houston and Denzel Washington is a predestined blockbuster. But It's Still a Jungle Out There: For the most part her films are too light to be consid­ered anything more than crowd pleasers. Renaissance Man proved she isn't perfect. Got into the Hollywood system via producer/director Garry Marshall, her father. 
She is. Woman: Barbra Streisand (above); actress, singer, director, Democrat 
Hear Her Roar: Best Actress Oscar winner for Funny Girl, she went on to direct the criti­cally acclaimed The Prince of Tides and The Mirror Has Two Faces, due this fall, in which she also stars. But It's Still a Jungle Out There: Despite Tides' numer­ous Oscar nominations in 1992 -including Best-Picture ­Streisand was overlooked for her directorial duties. And word aroundtheMirror set says Babs was ... um ... difficult to work with. 
-'-T. Steve D'Avria and Chris Myers 

For-one-time Hollywood director, n . 
dependent filmmaker Jill Godmilow (right), "itdoesn'tmatterhowmanywomen get in ... , it depends on with what kind of freedom women get in." Here are her thoughts on three high-profile Hollywood females: 
LILI TAYLOR 

"There's a difference between Sigourney . Weaver [in Aliens], who's great, and Lili Taylor [in I Shot Andy Warhol], who's great too, but in a cinema where some female you've never met before [is] on her own trip which ... has to do with 

something feministic -wildly feministic -but feministic." 
PENNY MARSHALL 
"She's an interesting case. I think she's someone 
who does have a mind and does have an idea ofthe kind_of cinema she could make -that nobody else would make -and that she can control. And. she made herself powerful enough to go through that event now and then .... I think she has an independent mind [but] her films don't offer a radical experience; it's not a radical experience seeing one of her films." 
JODIE FOSTER 
"I think that by the time you've gotten some­where in that business -enough that somebody in that business says 'Here's 10 million, Jodie. Make your nice little film about the nice little farm girl,' you've been in it too long. You have to stay on the outside. 
I think [Jodie Foster] is smart, I like the way she handles herself, I don't ever feel that anyone 
·owns her. She's been in some films that a lot of women wouldn't have made. [In The Accused] she gave an extraordinary performance in a very tough f1.lm about rape. She wasn't a pretty char­. acter. [The movie] was about a bad girl getting raped and the film took ori the chances of that. ... But when she goes and does The Silence ofthe Lambs, where she's a nice little CIA trainee, she just gives it all away. She wants to be a good CIA agent because her daddy was one. Oh, come on -it's like we're going back20 years. That's the problem -there's Jodie on the inside and the outside." -CM 
MAGAZINE• OCTOBER 31, 1996 

. E L ECl O R A L C O L L E C E 
That's The Ticket! 
Holtz for President and other options for '96 
t's already Halloween, and that means in just a few short days America will have reelected a scandal-ridden president back into office -and her husband too. Since not voting for Clinton is merely tossing away your vote for nostalgic purposes, Republicans might as well put that wasted vote to use for more creative purposes. That doesn't mean voting for Dole (who has the tenacity of the Buffalo Bills in a Super Bowl, and, come to think of it, the physical appearance of a buffalo) or even Perot (who looks to have a lucrative future in Popiel infomercials). No, this year is the year to put those write-in candidate spaces to use. Clinton supporters aside, the rest of you registered voters should consider some possible candidates that reside in your own backyard. OOB proudly endorses the fol­lowing ND names for your consideration ... 
¦ Seth Miller & Megan Murray 
Student body leaders have that impressive 


"government experience" that v.oters look for. Taking the "Connecting You" slogan to national level could make it the next "I Like Ike!" Once in office, their brilliance at form­ing ad-hoc committees would come in handy for organizing useless House committees. And who knows, if they can get control of Congress, maybe they can finally put through a bill to get that Mod Quad ATM the country so desperately needs. 
¦ Lou Holtz and Ron Powlus Irresistible Notre Dame football/"Win one for the Gipper" association wins over Reagan-ites, while Holtz's friendship with Clinton wins him a Democratic endorse­ment. Playing of "1812 Overture" with ''Lou" cheer is a spin doctor's dream come true. Despite opposition in · the polls, the ticket remains optimistic and, unlike most politicians, both sharerespcinsibility forinis­takes. Growing respect for U.S. Service Academies can only help patriotic image. 
II Monk Malloy and Ellerbe Architects 
Run under the motto "Rebuilding America" and literally carry it through in office. Do nothing to help out the country economi­cally, but manage to expand the nation's capital 200 miles, priding his administra­tion as "four years ofconstruction." Trivial achievements include getting NBC to tele­vise Bookstore Basketball highlights, cam­paign to make Coca Cola "the national beverage" and remasoning the White House with beige brick. 
II Doug Gottlieb and Mike Miller 
Smart, slick economic policies make them the envy ofevery savings and loan consult­ant in the country. Campaign tag line "TVs and blue jeans for all!" becomes the big­gest rallying cry since Huey Long muttered "Every man's a king." They run up the national debt like there's no tomorrow, engaging this country in the biggest presi­dential scandal since Watergate, but retire in style anyway after selling the movie rights to Oliver Stone. 
.s
o exercise that right. to vote onTuesday. Become democracy's worst nightmare when you take your pen to the ballot 
· and scrawl the name "Paul Reubens" under the "Auditor General" space. After all, if it wasn't for inept politicians and. govern­ment gridlock, what the hell would we as voting American citizens have to complain about every four years? 

.. R O A D T R I P P I N C 
He'lp the Homeless 
Missing Mac spurs Chicago star search 
Oh sure, you could be going to that Notre Dame-Navy game in Ireland this weekend, or you could establish yourself as the next Hollywood hotshot. Forget the game, slap on that aftershave and road trip to. the State of Illinois Building in Chicago. This Saturday, between· 1:30 and 4:30 p.m., Twentieth Century Fox is holding open casting calls for Home Alone 3 (working subtitle: "Milking this series for all it's worth"). Though getting over Macaulay Culkin 's absence may take some time, OOBis glad to see the studio is searching for a"talented, intelligent and likable youngster to star in the comedy." Which begs the question: are they sure it's a sequel? 
. FINAL BLURB 
ere's OOB's open invitation to all for 

H
this Tuesday's screening ofHzde and 

Seek, a film by lesbian filmmaker Su Freidrich about ... lesbians. The movie (a premiere) is part of Cinema at the Snite's stellar year, which has included arthouse hits I Shot AndyWarhol and this weekend's Trainspotting. With a program _like this, 
· who dares to call Notre Dame a close­minded campus? We'll be there Tuesday, saving two front-row seats for Seth and 
Monk: 
BY CHRIS MYERS 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 




1 
I 
sidelines stood sophomore Ryan Turner, ConsistencyConsistency. Focus. Energy. Profes­sionalism. Confidence. As the Notre Dame men's soccer team has proven, these are the materials necessary to build a winning-program. The Irish have found all of these qualities embodied in their strong senior class, a perfect combination that re­su1ts in leadership and success. This year's roster boasts five starting seniors, quite a contrast from last season's team which struggled to find leadership. "We only had two seniors last year, who weren't starters, and our other senior and scoring power, Bill Lanza, was out most of the season due to an injury," says Head Coach Mike Berticelli. Next to Lanza on the another top scorer who missed the 1995 season because of an injury. 
"Last year was a rebuilding year due to injuries and the graduation of our first re­cruiting class," continues Berticelli. "Many people had too many expectations of the young squad." But this year is different­the expectations are even higher, but the team is fulfilling them all. 
''The big difference is the experience," 
explains Berticelli. "We're a completely 
different team with a different chemistry 
and different attitude." This team has al­ready been tested by tough competition, difficult losses and cntical injuries. In each case, they have overcome the adversity. 

On September 22, during a Big East con­
ference game against Seton Hall, the Irish watched as Brian Engesser, one of the se­nior captains and defensive anchor, was carried off the field with a broken leg. The team later discovered that the multiple frac­-tures would bring a sudden end to his season and to his career on Notre Dame's soccer 
field: 

"I knew it was broken before I hit the 
ground," recalls Engesser. "I tried to get up, 
but I couldn't move my leg." 

"Obvipusly, it is difficult to lose Brian for 
the season," says Berticelli of his ,starting 
sweeper. "His leadership, consistent play 
and,.most importantly, his experience are 
22 


• ' I • • 
difficult to replace." Engesser, who was voted by his teammates as the Notre Dame National Monogram MVP for 1995, had started in all 71 games of his college career. 
-Unwilling to let the injury keep them down for long, the Irish, inspired by Engesser's presence on the sidelines, have not lost sight of their goal to win the Big East tournament and represent Notre Dame at the NCAA tournament. 
"What I miss most is being on the field with [the seniors]," says Engesser. "I won't get to finish playing our last year together." 
Although his season was cut short, Engesser had already set a great example for the younger players. "His quiet and focused commitment were an important contribu­tion and his dependability and consistency are a good model for the other players," says Berticelli. 
Focus 

Senior Tony Capasso has also made quite an impact this year. Capasso, who served as solo captain for last year's squad, returned to that position this year along with fellow seniors Engesser and Peter Gansler. 
"Being captain last year was difficult be­cause I wasn_'t prepared to bring the team out of a slump, especially by myself," Capasso recalls. "But this year is much better because I have two quality guys [as captains] with me, plus two other seniors sharing the· leadership roles." 
Though absent for the spring season of 1996, Capasso, a native of Winnipeg, Manitoba, returns to Notre Dame with in­ternational playing experience. In January, he was selected to play for the Canadian National Team in the Olympic qualifying rounds. After five months of tough training, 
, the Canadians suffered a difficult loss to Australia, missing their bid for Atlanta by one game. 
Regardless, Capasso still considers the experience "the best six months of [his] life" and rell worth the sacrifice of an academic semester. · 
\ 

"It was probably the hardest I've ever worked, but I think it's made me a tougher person, physically and mentally," says the 20-year-old, who earned the starting full­back position for his country's team. 
Berticelli agrees that playing for Canada improved more than just Capasso's physi­cal game. "He gained a great deal of confi­dence while playing with Canada. He is more sure of his own abilities and what our team can accomplish, which is a great plus." Capasso starts in the midfield for the Irish, 
, l •• •' • • • ' ~ , • 

Berticelli also commends Capasso' s achievements, citing his focused personal­ity as the key to his success. "Tony is totally committed to being the best soccer player he can be," the coach says. "He has tremen­dous motivation and works hard to maxi­mize his talents. All of Tony's success is a reflection of his commitment." 
Energy 

Teammate Chris Mathis believes that the team's new faith in themselves and depen­dency on each other has been a significant 

• ' • • / 
where everyone is involved," he explains. "The most important part about it is that the team grows together, both on and off the field." 
Mathis, who hails from Kaiserslautern, Germany, has been involved in creating this 
· unity over the past four seasons. "We've always had the talent, but we haven't really come together as a unified team until this year," he says. "Now everything is clicking into place." While the solid play ofthe defense carried 
continuing his role as a leading scorer. · factor in their success. "Soccer is a game the team for much of the season's first half, SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a OCTOBER 31, 1996 



the offense has kicked into high gear during the past few weeks. The balanced squad is now a threat from both sides of the field. 
"Our unity starts off with the seniors ­we're all best friends," Mathis continues. "I think the freshmen especially see that close­ness. It's something we want to pass on to make an impact on the team in the future." 
The starting midfielder not only works at keeping the "family" together, but is also a workhorse in games and practices. "Chris' athletic abilities are perfectly suited for his position, which requires a tremendous amount of running," Berticelli says. "For. four years he has contributed a great deal by scoring offensively and attacking defen­
sively." Professionalism 

Helping out Mathis and Capasso in the midfield is the third member ofthe "foreign trio," Konstantin Koloskov. The native of Moscow, Russia, came to the United States to attend St. Stanislaus High School in Mis­sissippi. He decided to remain in the United States to continue his education and soccer career. Luckily for the Irish, he chose Notre 
Dame. 

As center midfielder, Koloskov's main job is to assist others in scoring goals. "Konstantin is the quarterback ofour team," Berticelli says. "He is responsible for dic­tating the tempo of the game, especially in attack, and to create goal-scoring opportu­nities. It's a role he handles excellently." Berticelli also believes his professional atti­tude helps him maintain his leadership role on the field. 
But Koloskov is not all business. "We're having a lot of fun playing this year," he says. "Ihave a good feeling about the rest of our games and our chances in the post­season. We have been dedicated to working hard all season and it is paying off." 
Confidence 

The final member of Notre Dame's ver­sion of the Fab Five is Peter Gansler, Engesser's roommate and fellow defender. While a permanent starting position is-new to Gansler this year, his play and leadership in the backfield have proven him worthy of the call. 
"Peter improved dramatically in the spring to earn the starting position," Berticelli says, calling the captain the "unsung hero" of the team. "He is a confident player who leads quietly by example." 
At 6'5", Gansler's size creates an auto­matic presence defensively; and his sound technical skills fit perfectly into the style of Notre Dame's zone defense. 
But his presence is also felt offthe field as a player who Berticelli claims is "comfort­able with all his teammates," an important quality for a captain. Although he recently received that honor, Gansler claims his po­sition on the team has not changed much this season. 
"Last spring the team looked to the se­niors as leaders," Gansler says. "This year, we just had to continue to set an example for the freshman and help them adjust to Notre Dame." 
After the loss of Engesser, Gansler feels the team has adjusted well, becoming a powerful threat in just their second season in the Big East Con­ference. 
As for the five seniors, the future after Notre Dame soccer and graduation will lead to many different places. Capasso and Gansler wish to continue their soccer ca­reers, either in the U.S., Canadaoroverseas. Mathis will continue playing soccer while working in the German business market, while Koloskov will concentrate solely on a professional career in corporate finance in his native land. Engesser, now nursing his leg back to playing condition, hopes to return to the soccer field soon. 
But for now, their plans focus only on the weeks ahead as the five seniors join their talented, dedicated and rebuilt team on the road to the national championship. 0 
"Our goal since the beginning of the season was to win the conference and the Big East tourna­ment to go to the NCAAs. Now, we know we can defi­nitely reach that goal," he predicts. 
Before embarking on a challenging road . trip over fall break, the Irish held the top sp~t in Big · East standings as the only undefeated team. They have been nationally ranked in the top 25 for all but one week during the season. After facing confer-· eiice foes Rutgers, Villanova and Geor­getown last week, the Irish return for their final home match tonight against regional op­ponent Wisconsin. The final game ofthe season on· Novem­ber 3 against Boston College is crucial for Big East tournament seeding. From there, the team plans to fol­

THE RUNNING MAN. Chris Mathis brings tremendous speed and low the map to the .quickness to the midfield. next stop -the 
NCAA Finals. 


24 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 


Repeat-A­Bull 
A superhero in the backcourt. 
Confucius calling the plays. A 
;;; 
:,

cross-dresser clearing the boards. en m 
:,

Who will beat these guys? "' oi 
TONGUE-LASHING. The Sonics know that Jordan will not relinquish the 

title without a fight. 

So, (drum roll, please) here are the top 10 reasons to expect a repeat. 
10. Experience. The Bulls have every­one who contributed last year back for an­other run. Four championships and count­less playoff games have made Chicago aware of what it takes to win. Add Robert Parish's three titles to this group and you have a strong veteran club. 
9. Desire. Last year was the quest to be the best ever. Mission accomplished. This year, som,e fear a letdown from the Bulls, but this team wants to prove that last year was not merely a fluke. They probably 
won't win 72 games this year, but look for something in the ballpark. 
8. Robert Parish. With the Chiefin the lineup now, the Bulls have a center ala Bill Cartwright, who helped shut down opposing centers for years. He brings a wide array of experiences to the team and some of his stories could probably rival Dennis Rodman's. 
7. Talent. Do I even have to talk about this? Chicago boasts two perennial All-Stars, a strong starting lineup and one of the deepest benches in the NBA. Can you say the best team ever? 
6. Character. The Bulls are always up for a little excitement. You never know if Dennis Rod­


BY JEREMY DIXONWhen Michael Jordan announced his retirement in 1993, I wore blackforanentire week, mourn­ing the loss of the greatest basketball player ever. When the rumors began to swirl that he would return to the Bulls 18 months later, I was so happy I ... well, let's just leave it at the fact that I was happy. Now I realize the reason behind his departure-hejust wanted some other teams to win for a change. But now that His Airness has returned, the Bulls have proven themselves the team to beat. 
man will come out wearing a sports bra and high heel pumps. Maybe he'll dye his hair fuchsia or get a tattoo of Madonna's new child. There's never a dull moment with him on the team. 

5. The Mad Bombers. Steve Kerr and Jud Buechler are following in Johnny Paxson' s footsteps, putting up the long ones when Michael and Scottie drive the lane. They may not be able to do much else, but these scrappy players can make it count when the game is on the line. 
4. Coaching. Is there a better coach than the Zen Master himself? Phil Jackson's record with the Bulls has been remarkable, even when Jordan was in quasi-retirement. He always has the team prepared for games and keeps the often-divergent team together, even finding a role for Dickey Simpkins. 
3. Who else is there? Orlando lost the heart of its team when Shaq headed for Hollywood. Without his inside domination, the Magic are impotent. The Knicks and the Rockets bettered themselves in the off-sea­son, but whether the teams will gel is still a question. Look for the Sonics to be back in the finals, but once again George Karl's team will fall short of the crown. 
2. The Foreign Connection.Luc Longley hails from Australia, Toni Kukoc is from Croatia, Bill Wennington is Canadian and Steve Kerr was born in Lebanon. Add this to the fact that Jordan is from Krypton and Rodman is from Mars and you realize the team is out of this world. 
1. Michael Jordan. The greatest player ever to lace up hightops has proven to the world that he is worth the $25 million he is being paid for this season. Probably his last 
·. year, Michael does not want to go out any way but as a champion. He's had a great career and doesn't want anything to taint his reputation. As long as he s_tays off of the disabled list, Jordan will be celebrating with his teammates again in Chicago's warm June son. 0 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
25 




Splinters from the Press Box 
A roundup of recent sports October 16 to October 29 edited by Jeremy Dixon 
MEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Oct. 18  at Rutgers  L  1-0  Oct. 20  vs. Rutgers  W  6-0  
Oct. 20  at Villanova  L  2-1  Oct. 25  vs. West Virginia  W  11-0  
Oct. 23  at Georgetown  w  2-1  Oct. 27  vs. Seton Hall  W  10-0  


Matt Eisler 

The junior goaltender 'was named CCHA defensive player ofthe week, -­playing over five fuH periods with­out allowing ·a goal. He posted 47 saves in his shutout over _Ohio State. 
-an:d leads the league in goals-against._ 
average and save per~entage. · · · 
. _. Athl,eteJ of the _ .Week 
-CindyDaws 
.Theper('.lnnial All:American became. 

.-•-· the first player iri."Nofre Dame.his~-_.· __ tory. to score ~ack~to-back hat tric:ks, ._. -. -a feat accomplished against Rutgers an_d West Virginia. She al~o became --; the all-time leading Irish scorer, by-. . passing;Michelle :[\1cCarthy. 
···----. . ~----•---­


Key Player: Senior Tony Capasso scored the game-winning goal in OT to end the team's longest losing streak of the season. Key Stat: The Irish have only allowed three goals at Alumni Field, where the men have a 6-0-2 record. Up Next: Defending national champion Wisconsin pays a visit tonight and the sea­
-son wraps up at Boston College on Sunday. 
VOLLEYBALL  
Oct. 19  at West Virginia  w  3-0  
Oct. 22  at Cal State Northridge  L  3-1  
Oct. 24  at#l Hawaii  L  3-0  
Oct. 25  at#l Hawaii  L  3-0  

Key Player: Holly Manthei had seven as­sists in the romps last week to add to her nation-leading total of 28. Key Stat: Can you get much better than scoring 27 goals in three games? This speaks for itself. · Up Next: Ohio State comes to town tomor­row to try to stop a seven-year losing streak 
for the Big Ten against the Irish.  
HOCKEY  
Oct. 18 Oct. 25 Oct. 26  vs. Western Michigan at Ohio State at Miami, Ohio  T w .L  3-3 3-0 2-1  

Key Player: Senior Carey May returned to Key Player: Junior Steve N able scored two the starting lineup to give the Irish a needed goals to lead the hockey team in their first boost in hitting percentage. full week of action. Key Stat: Despite an undefeated _Big East Key Stat: The team's 2-1-1 record is Notre record, the Irish have yet to knock off a Dame's best start since the fall ofthe Berlin ranked opponent. Wall in 1989. Up Next: A weekend road trip to Pitt and Up Next: CCHA action picks up as the Syracuse begins the final stretch run as six always lovable Michigan Wolverines come of the last seven games are in the Big East. to the Joyce Center tomorrow. 
What They Said: "One guy in baseball SO years told me [Andruw] Jones is the best player he's ever seen. One guy in our organization, Paul Snyder, says he's the best player we've 
had since Hank Aaron. Those are the early returns." -Atlanta Braves General Manager 
John Schuerholz on the team's 19-year-old phenom. What We Read: "Golfused to be four white guys sitting around a pinochle table talking about their shaft flexes and deciding whether to have the wilted lettuce soup. Now golfis Cindy Crawford sending [Tiger] Woods a letter." -Rick Reilly, Sports Illustrated. Dix's Pick: After a pathetic performance against Air Force, Holtz and the offense wake up as Autry Denson runs for over 100 yards and two TDs. It's not a laugher, as turnovers give Navy a break, but the defense rises to the occasion to preserve the 27-17 win.· Hiro's Hunch: Navy beat Air Force. Air Force (gulp) beat Notre Dame. So Navy will beattheIrish for the firsttime since 1963, right? Wrong. The ground game, spurred by Marc Edwards, returns and the Irish front seven solves the wishbone in a 34-20 win. 
26 SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 


111:w111111i-iJIII--....;..__--------------------­

: THURSDAY -October 31 
• Happy Halloween! Soccer, ND men vs. Wisconsin, Alumni Field. 7:30 p.m. Film, Independence Day, Cushing. 10:30 p.m. 
FRIDAY -November 1 
Hockey, vs. Michigan, Hockey Arena, JACC. 7 p.m. Film, Trainspotting, Snite. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. . Film, Independence Day, Cushing. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Comedy Show featuring Taylor Mason, ventriloquist, 
Hesburgh ·Auditorium. 8 p.m. Glee Club, Fall Concert, Washington Hall. 8 p.m. 
SATURDAY -November 2· 
Film, Trainspotting, Snite. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Film, Independence Day, Cushing. 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY -November 3 
Soccer, ND women vs. Villanova, Alumni Field. 1 p.m. 
MONDAY -November 4 
Film, Hide andSeek, Snite. 7 p.m. 
TUESDAY -November 5 
Film, Meet Me in St. Louis, Snite. 7 p.m. 
Useless lnform.atlon 
ofthe_ Week: 
f 

Do you know how many ridges _are-on the side of a quarterTWhatabout a dime? Did you ever wonder ·which presidenfWf;iS drunk at his inauguration, or 
whowas the Only person present at three ,.. 
presidential assassin_ations? Or what is thE! only 
country to officially change the pronunciation of its 
name? Turn this page upside down (or stand on 
y()tir head)' for the answers; 
_ ... _ _ _. ("aUIJI atJJ jo-japoaz SJ] 'OJOlua)J OUJ.Ofjo.aUIOU ISV/ at[1 ifJ!M atu[1J.l OJ i[V.[0UlftJ)J JU;J;(.lrt:J.;J7JJ OJ ZfV[-uaa)/ UIO.tjpa~UOl{:J SVM. J!) l)[Ua')J puv '(uos s,U[O:JU!7) iqo':Jun JJaqoN '{IOlf S SOM ujojunll{fi!ll f)lfl ,nOpassvd pz~o JfUn.ip spM. aq) 7!-0suqof Ma.,puv '£I[ 'fr[ l :-s.1ai1i1A"UV 
T H E 
-5 
.1 
L 
y E R 
s 
C· 
R E E 
N 

Movies 10: -a-254-9685. 
• 
Larger Than Life, PG, 1:OD, 3:15, 5:30, 7:45, 10:00: 

• 
High School High, PG-13, 1 :10, 2:00, 3:10, 4:15, 5:10, 7:30, 7:50, 9:30, 9:50. 

• 
Michael Collins, R, 1 :05, 2:30, 4:05, 5:45, 7:15, 10:15. 

• 
Romeo and Juliet, PG-13, 1 :20, 4:00, 7:05, 9:45. 

• 
Sleepers, R, 12:40, 1 :30, 3:50, 5:00, 7:00, 8:10, 10:10. 

• 
Fly Away Home, PG, 12:55, 3:40, 7:10, 9:40. 

• 
Might Ducks 3, 12:35, 2:55, 5:25, 7:45, 9:55. 


* No Passes 
University Park West: 
"a" 277-7336. • Thinner, R, 2:30, 4:45, 7:15, 9:30. 
• 
To Gillian on Her37th Birthday, PG-13, 2:15, 4:30, 7:00, 9:20. 

• 
Big Night, R, 2:00, 4:20, 6:45, 9:10. 


University Park East: 
"a" 277-7336. 
• 
Dear God, PG, 2:20, 4:50, 7:20, 9:55, 12:15. 

• 
The Associate, PG-13, 2:00, 4:20, 6:45, 9:10, 11:30. 

• 
The Chamber, R, 2:05, 4:45, 7:15, 9:40, 12:00. 

• 
Get On The Bus, R, 2:30, 7:10, 10:15. 

• 
The Glimmer Man, R, 5:00, 9:45, 11 :45. 

• 
First Wive's Club, PG, 2:13, 4:35, 7:00, 9:25, 11 :45. 

• 
Bad Moon, R, 2:40, 5:10, 7:35, 9:35, 11 :30. 


•.Late 
Shows on Friday and Saturday only! 

• 
New .Student Rate: $4, Monday-Thursday with a student ID! 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996 
27 


This Is: The Funniest 
··.1
l
i\,, 
Thing You'll Read Today
i 
d 
Ii 

BY ZAC KULSRUDThis was my roommate's reaction when I told him I was going to write an article for Scholastic: "I didn't know a dull, listless individual with no journalistic experience could write for the school magazine." This is the number oftimes I have written anything to be read by thousands ofpeople, -had anything published orreceived an A on a philosophy paper: 0. This is what you might be 
A freshman reflects on the facts behind the myths ofNotre Dame 
made about freshman: most of them are 
invalid. 

This is valid: freshmen have a lot to learn. 
This is evidence that I have already been brainwashed by the upperclassmen in my section: B.P. stands for Bay of Pigs, Zahm sucks, and Natural Light is a freshman's only true best friend. 
This is what I think has happened to the class of 2000: We have quickly become a group of homogeneous kids who study all week and roam from one crowded, sweaty, in line between a Ford Mustang and a Nissan truck, where I ordered two Whoppers with cheese, while my friend, whose name I wish to remain anonymous, announced that he was going to buy cigarettes at Speedway, but when I told Clarence that I didn't have any money to buy the burgers, he loaned me five dollars and went to get the nicotine, whereupon I had a lengthy discussion with the drive-thru lady suggesting that they get straws that bend near the top because it might help BK grab more of the local mar­
! .. -. . -. -.. .-. -_; . , _-_-_ . --: -· _, --_ -·• -.-·_ -.:· _l
asking yourself about this ---------------------------• 
article: Isn't this article 

pretty similar to that cover This is what you niightbe asking story aboutRonPowlus pub­
yourself about this article: Isn't tl!is .
lished in Sports Illustrated a few weeks ago? 
i 

article pretty s_imilar to that cov~r ~tory
This is the answer to that [ 

question: No. Not really. : ··about Ron Powlus published in Sports
Honest. This is an individual that I 

:. Illustrated a few weeks ago?· .. 
respect and am not writing 

about: The Can't Miss Kid. .· This is the answer to th(!,t question: No. 
This is the what this ar­

: ~otreally~ Honest. · 
ticle is about: The first month 

of the fall semester for a --------------------,_.----------------­
naive, worthless, innocent freshman from 
some small town in Indiana situated be­
tween two ears of com and an interstate. 

This is how every freshman is supposed to feel about his first month at Notre Dame: Shocked and dismayed by the overwhelm­ing workload, dumbfounded that the TAs don't speak English, and disturbed that we are nothing but a number when we attend 450-person classes at DeBartolo. 
These are two words that are supposed to 
strike fear into the hearts offreshmen: time 
management. 

This is the truth about the assumptions pungent dorm room to another in a flurry of· non-Catholic behavior on the weeke11µs, rapidly intoxicating ourselves. 
This is the reality ofthis situation: We are a bunch of blind 18-year-olds with high SAT scores caught in a wheel ofmonotony that bears the name University of Notre Dame. 
This, I believe, is the secret to breaking the monotony: Off-campus. 
This is how I became three dollars richer Friday night: I walked through the drive­thru at Burger King with a newfound, in­ebriated friend who suggested that we stand 
, 

· i and then he asked me how much the Whop­pers cost, and I claimed they were about five bucks, and he pulled out three crumpled $1 bills and ket, then paid for the two flame broiled pat­ties, reunited with Clarence who offered me a smoke, which I was about to take un­til I read the Surgeon General's warning, 
gave them to me, say­ing, "Sorry, Zac, this is all I have," so I offered to payfor the cigarettes but Clarence said, "That's all right, you paid for the burgers." -This is what I was told that I did when I came back on campus around 2 a.m.: ate five quarter dogs. 
This is how ,much I paid for the five quarter dogs: One quarter. 
This is a sign that the apocalypse is upon us: No more parties at College Park and Campus View, and the campus.might go dry. 
This is the sign I have above my desk that 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ OCTOBER 31, 1996
28 


. 

. . . 
' ' ~ ' -_. '-. . ~ 
" 
epitomizes the attitude of Notre Dame stu­dents, an attitude that will prevent this cam­pus from ever becoming dry: "Ifyou're not wasted the day is. Get wasted. Get bombed. Get tanked. Get crazy. Get floored. Get ripped. Get hammered. Get hammered at sunrise and get hammered at sunset. Get hammered when there is a full moon and get hammed when you can see the Big Dipper. Get hammered when the saints come march­ing in. Just get hammered." 
Speaking ofhammered, this is how many times I have been to an SYR: 2. This is how many times in my life I have tossed my cookies due to alcohol: 2. These are the only places where I have thrown up because of alcohol: SYRs. 
This is the moral of this story: Instead of a Dr. Seuss book or a slinky, every freshman should give his or her date a doggy bag. 
This is what happens when 300 guys with access to Resnet are not allowed to visit with the opposite sex after 2 a.m.: Frequent visits to the 256 pictures at http://www­2.nijenrode.nl/~kees/adp/. · 
This is how many pictures ofPamela Lee Anderson my desperate friend thinks there are at this web site: Not enough. 
This is what these last few statements 

could facilitate: My dismissal from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. This is what I must remember when I write each of these statements: du Lac. 
This is another Internet-related question tha~ every freshman is dying to ask: Who is Susan Goode and how did she get my e-mail address? 
Although I have figured e-mail out, this is what still has me baffled: What exactly does a PLS major do with his or her degree? 
This is what someone told me about PLS: "Itstands for Program ofLaziness and Sloth. The whol~program is a joke, PLS is nothing 
butaprogramforpeoplewho couldn'thandle 
a more rigorous program like engineering." This is the major of the guy who told me about PLS: Business. This is what this article might have done: 
Ruined my chances for ever writing again, 
wasted your time, expedited my dishonor­able dismissal from Notre Dame. This is true: I love being a Domer. D 
This is a disclaimer: This is a humor column .These views are not necessarily the views of the editorial staff of Scholastic Magazine. 

Open for carryout, delivery & dine-in from 4 -2 a.m. weekdays, **1 18-INCH PIZZAS WITH 3 TOPPINGS f_Q_R $14.00 EVERY DAY** 119 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 
273-3890 
Bruno's Pizza 


' i \ --,•__,: ,,. :, • .~. 
BrQno's.-South 
Accepting reservations on weekends. Available for private parties & banquets. **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** 2610 Prairie Ave. 
288-3320 
"All Homemade-100% Real CheeseH 
We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
29 



Drop That Beer, Mister! 

BY CHRISTIAN DALLAVIS AND MARK GIRZADAS 
. Faculty, Beware 

A professor at Pima Community College in Tuscon, Ariz., was recently fired for drinking a beer in his office before class. When he was arrested during class for drinking -in public he claimed he was unaware of the college's dry campus policy. He was quoted as saying, "Someplace, I got off on the wrong planet ... This is ridiculous." So fac­ulty, watch out: if the rumors are true and this campus does go dry, you may have to curb those pre-seminar shots of Jaeger. 
. Dress To Get What? --­

Administrators at Bennington College in Vermont have canceled a favorite fall tradi­tion -the ever-popular "Dress-To-Get Laid-Party." Officials claim the suggestive clothing, excessive drinking, pornographic promotional posters and the downright of­fensive theme of the party send the wrong message about the school. One senior claimed the administration was "imposing their morality on us." Hmin, wonder what that's like. 
. The Really Nutty Professor 
A professor at Long Island University pfans to deliver a lecture on Halloween discussing the stereotypes of women in vampire lit­erature. In the Dracula stories, the portrayal ofthe vampire is always interesting, but the women are all interchangeable, she argues, so she wants students to pay more attention to how those women are portrayed. To that extent, she will wear a black cape and costume while speaking, although she will leave her fangs at home. She didn't know if anyone would take her seriously ifshe wore the fangs, saying they "distract people." We think that should be the least ofher worries. 
. Another Manipulative Administration 

Administrators at Creighton University are considering-shortening the school's week­long fall break. Officials are concerned that the long break can "spark decisions" in students who are considering dropping out of school. The apparent logic here is that if the students can only go home for a few days, they won't have time to make such important decisions. While they're at it, they should shorten the summer break to just a few days, and require incoming stu­dents to come to school within hour_~ of deciding to go to Creighton, before they get a chance to reconsider. If you can't enroll 'em, fool 'em. 
. Horny Toad Smoothies 

At Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, 
all the kids are crazy about "Frog Chill," a 
new frozen grape-flavored dessert which is being sold to celebrate the school's-lO0th 
yearoffootball. More than 3,000 cups ofthe purple treat, named afterthe school's mascot, 
the Horned Toads, have been sold at home football games. Here in South Bend, Bonnie Doon has recently started selling officially­licensed Notre Dame ice cream, in four flavors: Golden Dome Vanilla, Double Domer Chocolate, Leprechaun Lemon Cheesecake, and Football Fudge Crunch. What really makes it "Notre Dame" ice pream is that the bottom of each cup tastes like warm Natural Light. 
.YouThoughtduLac Was Bad? 
The Citadel recently issued its new, female­
inclusive du Lac equivalent. The new 
rulebook is modified to regulate gender 
relations and prevent the inevitable sexual 
issues that arise in co-ed situations. For 
instance, it states, "A female [must] an­
nounce her presence before entering by 
sounding off with 'FEMALE ENTERING' 
and requiring the response of 'ALL 
DRESSED' from within the room before 
she enters." Also; "Cadets may not engage 
in any form of sexual activity on The Cita­
del campus. Such activity includes kissing, 
hand-holding, laying [sic] together, grop­
ing, and fondling. Cadets cannot occupy the _same piece of furniture." 
Rumor has it that Bill Kirk is so impressed 
with these rules that he has hired The 
Citadel's policy-writers as consultants for 
next year's edition of du Lac. New regula­
tions include "Students of the opposite sex 
may not impede the progress of the march­
ing band while sharing a sofa" and "Mem­
bers of the opposite sex may not grope or 
fondle or do Jell-O shots." 

30 




ftillliiiiiiillt-----------------­
TIC\(LEO PINK SASS~ 


Should We Be 
by J. Patrick Coolican 

Surprised? 
J. Patrick Coolican is 
a PLS major from Connecticut. 

Friday night of fall break, I headed to Corby's for a cocktail after a rough day. Not knowing anyone there, I sat at the comer of the bar and observed. After about a half-hour a couple walked into the bar and sat next to me. They seemed like good representatives ofAmerica's working class, the segment of America we often forget about that forms a large portion of the so-called "silent major­ity." Their labor gives us the vast majority of our aggregate supply, and their buying gives us the vast majority of our aggregate demand. And they elect presidents. These particular people looked to be in their mid­30s. They were a bit overweight from too much beef and Cokes, and the gentleman told me that his outfit cost no more than $20, including the shoes. At this point I was ready for a little conversation, so I asked if they would be voting in the upcoming election. Surprisingly, they were quite adamant about their apathy. They both spoke at the same time. "No. Hell, no I'm not voting in no election. What the hell is it worth?" I must say I empathized with them, and my proletarian blood began to warrri. Without these good folks, I thought, America would be nothing but a bunch of bean-counting accountants and economists who tgink the Wall Street Journal is good reading. The woman then began elucidating their political philosophy. "With all ofthese advertisements, I don't know who to believe. It all don't make no sense." I asked ifthere was anyone who would gamer her trust. "Yeah, maybe Ross Perot," she responded. "I like him. He don't know nuthin', but I think that's good; 'Cuzhe's for the people, ya' know." She hungers for someone who has not eaten of the Tree of Knowl­edge, and is thus pure and of the people. An interest­ing theopolitical insight, but absurd nonetheless. Should we be surprised, based on these types ·of conversations with John and Jane Doe, that our gov­erning institutions are as they are? Should we be surprised when our political discourse is not the elegant transmission of important political concepts, but, rather, the grunting of conventional falsities? Should we be surprised when a presidential candidate tries to convince the voters that he is the better man by saying, "And when I'm elected, [my wife] will not be in charge of health care. Don't worry about it. Or in charge ofanything else. I didn't say that. It did sort of go through my mind. But she may have a little blood bank in the White House .... These days, it's not all you give at the White House -yourblood. You have to give your file. I keep wondering if mine's down there. Or my dog. I got a dog named Leader. ... "? What better way to convince people who regularly say absurd things than with absurdities like these? 
Should we be surprised with a President of the United States who has spent the better part of his political life cultivating important ties to the Arkan­sas political "community," comprised of chicken farmers, white shoe lawyers and snake-oil salesmen? This is a man who surrendered whatever intellectual integrity he may have once had in favor of a juvenile desire to be "the popular kid who gets all the girls." Should we be surprised by our public schools? Our dirty streets? Our permanent underclass? 
Based on our culture, should we be surprised? Should we be surprised that a culture ofMcDonald's, Budweiser and Entertainment Weekly gives us a government ofJesse Helms, Howell Heflin and Ross Perot? 
The American political system seems to have re­gressed into whoever can appeal to the basest, dirtiest instincts of the public. How inuch money do you have? How much money did you have four years ago? Is Must See TV better than it was four years ago? 
What is perhaps most absurd is the shameless manner in which they try to get John and Jane Doe to "rock the vote." You can register to vote at the welfare office or through an MTV phone number. Why not the liquor store, I say. "A bottle of Jack Daniels and my voter registration card, please." 
Let's finally confront and deal with the reality that most people are uneducated and unintelligent. They barely know what's good for themselves, let alone this ailing republic. Ninety percent of the German people voted in the election that brought the National Socialist Workers Party to power. Only by limiting participation in the political system.to the well-bred elite can we restore some intelligence to our politics. Whether that includes me or not, I don't care, but at least reading the newspaper will not contribute to my migraines. So when voting on Tuesday, write-in your favorite elitist intellectual. 
32 



I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I i I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I 
Tell your parents to subscribe to Scholastic and cut your phone bill in half! 
scr~ 0 l1AS~JfJKC 
MAGAZINE 
You'll find: 

• The latest campus news and sports 
ONLY$30
• 
National and campus entertainment coverage 

• 
Controversial campus issues 


A YEAR 
• 
Weekend happenings 


• 
Humor, commentary and the Gipper 



Name: 
Address: __________ I want a year-long subscription to Scholastic Magazine so I can 
keep tabs on my child. Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager, Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EJtCrtnNG rEVlENTS TH~S WrElEK f~OM 
Friday: Comedian Taylor Mason, Library Auditorium, 8 pm, $3 at door. Saturday: Division St. concert, 10:30-1 :00, LaFun Ballroom, $3 at door. Piano Man Ryan O'Neill opening. ~ ~ ~aturday: "As You Like It," play at Washington Hall, 8:00 pm, i.~.,-; 
tickets $6 at LaFun Info Desk.  ~~,  
Tuesday: Election Night Party, Huddle, 8 pm, sponsored by  r  ..  
SUB and Classes of '99, '98 and '97. Free food, free TV, free  
political commentary by SUB commentators.  




