PUBLISHED WEEKLY - FOUNDED 1867
.2
THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Sacred Heart Church.___where, during this month of October, thousands of Notre Dame students kneel in Adoration before the Blessed Sacrament.... where N. D. men learn that the spiritual life is by far the most important.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
= RAYMOND J. KELLY ।	—
Great Ideas Dept.
St. Edward’s, the little edition of Notre Dame in Austin, Texas, has a tradition with which we, being Seniors and perpetually impoverished, think borders on the brlliant. Every freshman is assessed a certain fee in order that a dance may be held for the entire school. The whole party is on the frosh and the ..upperclassmen have only to bring coke money and a date.
In the realms of art
The Temple University News devoted an entire column in a recent issue to a description of the decorations that have lately blossomed out on the walls of their Grille and Cafeteria. The Fine Arts Department here had a fine start three years ago when the “rec” halls in Zahm and Cavanaugh were fixed up. The old Parade would like to offer the suggestion, for what it is worth, to whoever will take it, that our Caf allow its walls to be attacked by the painters who usually just waste their time sitting on the grass in front of the Main Building “doing the Dome” and catching cold. Put them inside where they can beautify the Caf. Perhaps, a snappy set of murals would take our minds off the king’s ransom that was just paid out for the meal and we would enjoy it that much more.
Lo, the poor English major
“Are you free?” a lady asked a taxi driver at the curb. He raised his calm grey eyes and replied: “Madam, as Plato said, ‘No man is free.’ ”
—Xavier University News
Biting the hand that fed them
A philosophy professor at Lehigh holds an evening class in Contemporary Philosophy at his home. More than the average attraction is afforded his pupils by that the fact that he dispenses coffee and cake with his lectures. One evening he started things off by telling his students a method of staying awake in class that he had used and found very successful. He lifted one foot from the . floor and concentrated on keeping it in the air. The mental activity this entailed was sufficient to keep him from
napping. Later on in the evening, as he wandered through his notes on Modern Idealism he noticed that the class, drinking in his every word, solemnly began to lift their feet into the air.
Progressive Education
For many years, Notre Dame has been burdened with clubs. For the most part, they are small groups that follow a yearly cycle of one big, ambitious meeting at which great plans are made and dues are collected, three or four dull, uninspiring gatherings and, finally, another big meeting at which politics is the dominant note. This is especially true of the language clubs, those esoteric organizations whose headquarters are in the Badin Hall. What they ever do except collect dues is beyond us. However, a happy note for the future of such organizations was sounded recently in the Brown Daily Herald:
Rhumba, Cony a are SjHinish Club Study.
“There’s O’Rourke, getting out of the wrong side of bed again.”
3
Concerning Cuts
The University of Wisconsin has held to a rale prohibiting students from cutting classes either before or after vacation periods. However, basing their findings on an experimental suspension of that rule last semester, the faculty board has stated that only 11% of the students cut at such times. Accordingly, the rule was abolished and no restrictions are now placed on the time when cuts may be used.
Notes
Minnesota recently opened the Coffman Memorial Union, a huge two million dollar structure, containing offices of various • student organizations, bowling alleys, billiard rooms, a ballroom, game rooms and various other recrear tional facilities.... Students at the University of Kansas have organized an “I Wanna Be A Captain” Club.... Roger Babson, the economist, is running for president on the Prohibition Party ticket ___Oregon State College is one of the many progressive schools who have gone so far in the interest of student welfare that they have banned corsages at all formal dances.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
FRANK WEMHOFF—
OPINION
Top of the Week
. . . From Scotch to “Champaign.” . . .
body used to go down to the station and greet the team on their return from the Army game . . . yes, they sure did. . . .
Confidentially, and purely in the realm of fancy, here's what certain men-about-thc-campus would consider as ideal student trips.
Dear Dad,
Do you want me to be one of the fellows? Would you like people to say of me “There goes one of nature’s nobleman?” Dad, I’m giving you an opportunity to make that come true for me. I don’t want you to think that I write only when I need money. Money, bah! I shrink from the sight of it. Common usage has made it what it is. I’ve tried the barter system, Dad, just like you advised. That wasn’t such a good idea, Dad. I’ll let you in on that. But a lot of these fellows are from New York. New York must be a great place to be from. Our football team plays there next week. Most of the fellows are going to the game. But I don’t mind being all alone in this big room with only one window, a broken radio, and a leaky radiator. I’m too big to complain about that crack in the mirror over my lopsided washstand. Of course, the bridge to the dining hall has been washed away but there are plenty of herbs in the woods behind the hall. The Indians lived that way. I have absorbed the spirit of sacrifice to the hilt. I’m not afraid of discipline and self-sacrifice. I always have contemplation to keep me company. The realm of higher being; that’s the McCoy. I think I could make it on fifty bucks.
Studiously,
Menelaus.
P.S. Picked up a hairshirt dirt cheap.
Rambling
. . . The sophomores played it plenty cagey this year ... it used to be that the students were held in suspense until the day before the Cotillion wondering whose band would play . . . this year they announced the band well in advance but the suspense is still there . . . bordering on terror. . . . The Commerce Forum does an original job of spelling on their posters . . . anagrams with every special notice and no key to the solution. ... In case you freshmen didn’t know, it’s tradition to go to the Army game . . . tradition prices range from thirty bucks up . . . the student
Carnegie was teched
. . . The Tartans: An offensive offensive. . . . Some of the carnage Tech living were convalescing in the Oliver on Saturday night. . . . The best cheer of the day: “Throw him out! Leave him alone!” . . . The inter-squad game: “Wisconsin 0— Wisconsin 0.” . . . When the last Irish eleven had been sent in with more fuel for the fire, Al Perrine, the head cheer leader, ran over to Elmer and asked if he could go in next. . . . Elmer came back with “Managers first.” . . . What a substitution! Jackie Ryan for “The Moose.” . . . Carnegie didn’t play on the gridiron . . . they were cooked over it. . . .
Da social whirl
. . . Last week some sought the quiet and solitude of the Law Ball . . . others wanted to see people . . . the Victory Dance was taken out of its former Turkish bath atmosphere and gave perfume a chance to run unopposed . . . three old maids in the Oliver were looking for a fourth for bridge ... so rigor mortis set in . . . and as for us common people . . . the dining hall was host . . . but appointments in silver and white were set for three thousand. . . .
Blow of the Week
... As usual, someone managed to do something noteworthy ... or should we be facetious and drop the “e” from noteworthy? . . . The Radio Club gets the air in accepted fashion on Thursday at 3:30 . . . Bill Mulvey and Duke Murphy are the campus commentators. . . . Mulvey is talkative, apes Jimmy Fidler, and blasts “the rock” . . . Murphy is Irish. . . .
❖
Bottom of the Week
. . . The uninformed soph in Sunday’s interhall free-for-all who picked on Bengal champ Jerry Ryan. . . .
Walsh Hall, Bernard Jaeger: “A trip to the Southern Cal game in Los Angeles would be tops in my estimation. Most of the fellows have never seen the West, and besides, I think we really ought to return the movie stars’ visit.” By airplane, perhaps, so that we'd be back for those Monday classes?
Brownson Hall, Jack Byrne: “New York and our traditional battle with Army are all anyone could hope for. Both have color hard to find anywhere else, and New York has practically a monopoly on the nation’s big time dance bands. It won’t seem too far when you’re with a group of fellows you know.” Who’s going to win that Army game, anyhow, Jack?
Morrissey Hall, Howard Marlow: “If it’s true what they say about Georgia, a trip to the Georgia Tech game next fall couldn’t be beaten. Traveling into the South would be something new for almost everyone, and Tech usually has a scrappy outfit that puts up a good fight.” Margaret Mitchell must write more convincingly than we had realized.
St. Edward’s Hall, Dick Ruppe: “I think New York is the best place we could go to. A trip there gives everyone from the Midwest a chance to see our country’s largest city, and all the fellows in the Metropolitan Club a chance to go home. Then, too, it’s a reasonable distance and doesn’t cost too much.” Bill folds have a habit of being aivfully flat for several weeks afterwards, though.
Zahm Hall, Alan Thometz: “I’d like a one day or overnight student trip—to the Northwestern game, for instance. Such a game, being nearer, would cost less and more of Notre Dame could afford to go. There are probably just as many good games played near here as far away, anyhow.” That’s right, you’re right!	.
Howard Hall, Bob Breska: “Going out to a Southern Cal game would be my ideal. There’s a swell climate out on the Coast. And then besides having a good time, we’d see the Rockies and such places as we might never get to see the rest of our lives.” Is there a Florida man in the house?
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered aa second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorised June 25. 1918.
Volume 74
OCTOBER 25, 1940
Number 6
N. D. Students( 650 Strong, Leave For Army Game Thursday Afternoon
The Scholastic will not be published Friday, Nov. 1. Scrip, the campus literary quarterly will .make its debut Tuesday, Nov. 5, according to Editor Felix Pogliano.
Band to Lead Parade to Hotel McAlpin
Next Thursday afternoon, Oct. 31, at 5:15 o’clock, 650 Notre Dame students and band members will depart for New York City and the 22nd annual Notre Dame-Army football game. A special ten-car train has been provided on the Pennsylvania Railroad, with luxury, speed, and economy as keynotes for the 1940 student trip. Free bus service from the circle at the University main entrance will be furnished, beginning at 4:00 p.m., to all students armed with an Army game ticket and baggage enough for three days of travel and life in New York. The last bus will leave the campus at 4:45 Thursday afternoon. Train departure is from the Pennsylvania station in South Bend, not at Plymouth as previously announced.
S.A.C. student trip committee and chairman Jake Bower announced that tickets for the Army game will be sold on next Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 28 and 29. Place and time of sale are the treasurer’s office in the Main Building from 8:00 a.m. until noon, and from 12:30 to 6:00 p.m. on those two days. No tickets will be sold after these dates. Only 550 tickets are available to students, so a first come, first served rule will be in force. Cost to the student will be $23.60 or $20.60, depending on whether or not room accommodation fob the two nights in New York is desired. The $23.60 price includes round trip rail fare, ticket to the' game, and a room on Friday and Saturday nights at the Hotel McAlpin. The $20.60 price includes all but the hotel room. The McAlpin is to be official Notre Dame headquarters for the weekend. Anyone buying this special student trip ticket is to present his A.A. book, and he should have permission from his parents to make the trip. Passes on all railroads will be honored on the student train.
Students leaving for New York will travel on a special train made up of the Pennsylvania’s “Trail-blazer” coach
es. Comfort and speed for those going-will be furnished in the form of individual reclining seats, two-car dining service, card tables for the bridge players, coach sandwich service, and a time schedule seven hours faster than last year’s. The student train will stop at Villanova College, 12 miles west of Philadelphia,- on Friday morning, so students may attend a specially arranged All Saints Day mass in the Villanova chapel. Scheduled arrival of the train at the Pennsylvania station in New York is for 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Joe Casa-santa’s Notre Dame band will lead the usual march from the station to the Hotel McAlpin.
On Friday night, all students have been invited to attend a pep rally at the
Yankee Stadium ... while 80,000 watch
Hotel Commodore. Notre Dame alumni in Manhattan have made arrangements for the rally.
The departure from New York, after Saturday afternoon’s game and that evening’s victory celebrations, will be from the Pennsylvania station at 3:35 p.m. on Sunday. The special train is scheduled to arrive in South Bend on Monday morning at 6:30 o’clock.
—John Casey
Professors Work on New
"History of Notre Dame"
Professors James A. Corbett and William M. Farrell of the history department are working on a History of Notre Dame which will be published during the Centennial period, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the Centennial committee, announced this week.
Father Cavanaugh stated that various suggestions have been made for the Centennial period. Among them are a pageant depicting the life at the University; a colorful football schedule which already includes new opponents, Stanford and Michigan; and spring events featuring the fine arts—music, drama and painting.	—Bill Scanlan
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Proper Education of Engineer Includes Religion, Writes Dean Dugald Jackson
The education of an engineering student while in college may be considered as falling into three channels, writes Dugald C. Jackson,jr., dean of the College of Engineering, in the Oct. 11 issue of the journal, Science. The article entitled, “Engineering and Religion,” strongly emphasizes the need of religious faith and religious conviction as one of the three most important channels in the development of the engineer’s personali-
Dean Dugald Jackson
ty. An acquisition of scientific knowledge plus the ability to apply it, and a broadening education of humanistic subjects (cultural subjects) comprise the other two channels necessary for the development of the well rounded engineer.
Humanistic and scientific studies have long been coordinated in the engineering curricula of all schools, both state and denominational. However, in the denominational school alone do we find the coordination of all three channels: 1) the scientific; 2) the cultural, and 3) the religious. According to Dean Jackson, most engineering educators have failed to appreciate the influence of religion upon the personality and consequently have never been able to explain the desirable effect that the humanistic studies have upon the engineer.
“Religious faith and religious conviction,” says Dean Jackson, “are an integral and essential part to each and all of us. They have been a stimulating force in the forwarding and developing of civilization through the ages. They ; must not, therefore, be forgotten or omitted in considering how best to develop, the engineering student-into full
bloom in the engineering profession as a well rounded and competent individual and a desirable member of society.”
It is necessary, as well as natural, for an engineering student to have an understanding of religious convictions, for without it he would be unable to take his place in society. How then, should religious training be determined and measured with respect to the engineering curricula. This, says Dean Jackson is the charge placed upon the engineering educators and they should determine how far religious training should be brought into engineering. All engineers should find themselves handicapped in their profession if they were unable to extend their knowledge any further than their own field.
In this article, Dean Jackson has successfully shown why any scientist is in need of religious faith and certitude, and at the same time he advances a real philosophical problem—that of knowing reality. The weakness of the human intellect is the cause for the logical division in being, and since being is knowing it is no wonder that the intellect makes so many distinctions in knowable reality. Knowledge should be coordinated in order that the common sense might have a keener perception of nature. For this same reason an engineer who remains strictly within his own field will perhaps have superstitions about religion and an imperfect idea of his own profession.—Joseph Callahan
Propeller Club Plans
Activities for Year
The Propeller Club of the United States is a nationally chartered institution for the purpose of furthering an interest in, and developing an American merchant marine.
The Club was founded in New York City in 1923 by a group of men vitally concerned with the development of an interest in the American merchant marine. It wasn’t until 1927 that the organization was nationally chartered. Since 1927 the Club has expanded until it now consists of more than 70 “ports,” or smaller units.
Since its inception at the University the Propeller Club has had rather hard sledding for the rather naive reason that each new group of starry-eyed freshmen sees the word, “propeller” and immediately decides that the organ
ization is one which devotes its efforts to flying paper airplanes and studying the effects of the wind currents in the Commerce Building on aforementioned planes. The faculty advisor of the club, Professor Herbert Bott, is quite willing to give his word that neither he, nor any other member of the club has ever indulged in that sport—at least during the club meetings.
The first meeting of the 1940-41 year was called to order by the President, Bill Malaney.
Plans for the coming year were discussed after Fred Paulmann, Jr., had been elected vice-president, and Tom Trueman, secretary - treasurer. It was announced that Professor Walter Langford of the Spanish Department had expressed his 'willingness to again address the club this year. Everyone who was present for Professor Langford’s most interesting address on Mexico last year is looking forward to another talk from him.
In line with the plans of the club for an active year, it was announced that membership would no longer be confined to foreign commerce men, but that everyone interested would be welcome at the next meeting.
Third Term Topic
Of Politics Debate
The current political campaign will hit the campus in full force at 8 o’clock Tuesday when the Academy of Politics takes over Washington Hall for the evening.
The occasion will be a debate on the third term question. Milton Williams and Louis Radelet will speak for a third term, while Stanley Litizzeti and Raymond Kelly will stump for Willkie.
In sponsoring this debate, the Academy of Politics is cooperating with the plan proposed by Gene Tunney, retired heavyweight champion of the world and present youth leader. Tunney, in a letter addressed to the presidents of American colleges, stated that he believed college students should take an active part in discussions of the issues of the campaign because the business of electing the next president of the United States is the most important at hand.
The debate, under the chairmanship of Thomas F. Carty,* will be on the question, “Resolved: That’ the reelection of Franklin D. Roosevelt for a third term would not be contrary to American Political Philosophy.” All are invited to attend the debate.—Edward Drinkard
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Boyd Raeburn and Orchestra Will
Play at Soph Cotillion on Nov. 15
Attention Sophs!
The Dome will cover the Cotillion. A sequence of pictures show-all aspects of the week-end activities will have an important spot in this year’s book. Are you and your guest a typical Sophomore couple? This Dome contest is open to all Sophomores. Please submit pictures of yourself and your guest immediately to:
Matty Byrne, 388 Dillon Hall.
“Rhythm by Raeburn” is the catch phrase of Boyd Raeburn’s musical band scheduled to play at the Sophomore Cotillion, Friday, Nov. 15 at the Palais Royale. General Chairman Hans O. Holland and Music Chairman Charles Miller promise that Boyd and his boys will provide music that is smooth and danceable. The band is very entertaining; comedy features are the “Feather Merchants,” a five piece hill-billy band, and Hopeless Homer Hokum, singer and mimic.
Three Men and a Maid, a swingy quartet, furnishes harmonious arrangements of popular songs. Boyd organized his orchestra while in his sophomore year at the University of Chicago; he decided to concentrate on music after injuring a finger playing varsity baseball. Attractive commercial offers lured him to continue his music career after graduation. Since then “Rhythm by Raeburn” has become familiar in big hotels and ball
rooms throughout the Middle West.
The Cotillion will start the festivities of the big Iowa game week-end. Chairman Helland and his committees are working hard to insure the complete success of the week-end. The special §6.25 ticket includes the Cotillion bid, two tickets to the Iowa game, and a ticket to the Victory dance after the game. The Iowa game is the final home performance this year with the team grimly determined to avenge last year’s defeat.—Robert LeMense
Display Summer Theatre Designs and Costumes
A display of vital importance to those interested in the collegiate theatre is to be found in the Art Gallery of the Wightman Library in the sketches and costumes designed by Raymond F. Wilmer, a sophomore in the Department of Fine Arts and executed by a group of summer school students. The exhibition will be open daily from 2 to 5 p.m. through October 28. At the close of the current show the sketches will be forwarded to Orson Welles in Hollywood at the suggestion of Robert Speaight, director of the summer theatre.
Due to the difficulty in displaying the extravagant gowns and doublets only six of the twenty costumes can be shown. However, twenty designs are on the walls and give vivid color impressions of the cast.
Upon being interviewed about the problems confronting a designer with his first stage production, Ray Wilmer offered a few hints on the historical perspective and use of modern materials:
“Many elements are brought to bear in the designing of the costumes,” he said. “It was necessary where possible to try to indicate the character’s personality in his costume. The first costume of Malvolio must have an almost Puritanical feeling about it so that the change in his person as the pray progresses can be noticeable in his costume. Ribbons, color reverses, bows—all these are necessary to bring out the foppishness of Sir Andrew’s character. But most important of all is the grouping that the costumes will have on the stage. And here the use of color complements, triads, warm colors, cold colors, become important.
“The costumes for ‘Twelfth Night’ to be in harmony with the play had to be as extravagant as is the plot. The spirit of the costumes is mainly High Elizabethan. The High Elizabethan man borrowed his silhouette from Francis I of France. He wore a high pointed collar or ruff, full pantaloons and was proud of his narrow waist. The women’s costumes were significant for the high ruff and also the boned stomacher which was very often bejeweled.
“The scarlet red costumes of the Duke Orsino in the last act of ‘Twelfth Night’ is decadent Elizabethan, and is based on the fashions set by Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, and a favorite of Elizabeth. The ice blue satin wedding gown of the Countess Olivia is also influenced by
(Continued on page 25)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Russell L. Harris
If you happen to see a heavy-bearded, blue-eyed, tragic-looking Irishman in the vicinity of Alumni Hall, it is probably Pat O’Neill. If this Irishman suddenly smiles reminiscently and for no obvious reason begins to sing a vociferous version of “Down by the O-hi-o,” you can be sure that it is Pat O’Neill. Actually Pat is not thinking of Ohio or anything remotely connected with Ohio. The geography of his thought range is indeed very limited; it always centers on New York, and more particularly on Manhattan Island. I could even be more specific, but I am afraid of becoming too personal.
One of the most interesting things about Pat is that he is a hermit. But unlike most hermits, he doesn’t like her-miting, nor does he even approve of the idea. With him it is just a question of the lesser of two evils. Pat thinks that the complications of life are too intricate to bother with, so he solves his problem by retiring to his little bare room where, in a state of suspended animation, he pursues the course of higher learning.
Pat by nature is an ardent scholar, but perhaps a bit too conscientious. Once I went to his room and found him in despair. On the desk before him was an outline map of the United States. He had been dotting the blank states with red ink. Each dot represented the thousands of barrels of concrete per capita used in construction work. The immediate cause of his despair was Rhode Island — it would not hold its allotted number!
True to his Irish heritage Pat is a rebel, but of a different type than the ordinary Irishman. He is a passive rebel. Pat has diluted his natural Celtic antipathies with a sort of Christian stoicism, and the result is a rebellious mind in a reluctant body. Naturally at times there is a conflict between the two. When Pat finds his secluded life too unbearable, he threatens revolutionary things. The most dramatic, perhaps, is his perennial threat to go to Chicago. He has never done it, but he still threatens.
Incidentally Pat is now a vital cog in the.national defense. Last summer he .joined the naval reserve and went on a cruise to the Caribbean — New York, Cuba, Panama, and all points between.
It is unprecedented for a New Yorker to wander so far from home, but upon closer examination Pat’s case is not so startling as it might seem. It was not a complete break with that great nucleus of the universe. Pat’s ship was the U.S.S. New York!
Although at present Pat is only an apprentice seaman, he likes to be metaphysical about the whole thing, for isn’t it true that each officer is an admiral potentially if not actually? The next step in the process of actualization will come in February when Pat goes to Annapolis as a reserve midshipman. The gold dome of Notre Dame will be traded for the gold braid of the Navy.
Harry W. Flannery
Notre Dame Graduate
Joins CBS in Berlin
Harry W. Flannery, who obtained his degree in Journalism at Notre Dame in 1923, has been appointed a member of the Columbia Broadcasting System’s foreign news staff. He has been assigned to work in Berlin with William L. Shirer, who is in charge of the C.B.S. office there. Within a few days he will wing his way to his new job, via the trans-Atlantic clipper.
During his undergraduate days at Notre Dame, Flannery was editor of the Dome, founder and editor of the short lived Notre Dame Daily, was art-editor of the Scholastic, then a literary weekly, a member of the staff of the Juggler, as well as president of the Scribblers. After graduation he returned to the University for one year. He was a professor of English and continued postgraduate studies.
Originally from Maryland, Flannery
now makes his home in St. Louis where he was director of the news department of Radio Station, KMOX. Before entering radio he had wide experience in the newspaper field, having served as reporter, feature writer and a member of the editorial staff on newspapers in Baltimore, Md., Albany, N. Y., and Fort Wayne, Ind. Many will remember him for his work over WSBT-WFAM, South Bend Tribune station in South Bend.
Flannery covered the Ohio Valley flood in 1937 for CBS and was on the networks staff at the recent Democratic convention in Chicago. Within the past few years he has worked with Gilbert Seldes and William Allen White on the CBS “Americans at Work” program. Flannery, who is married and has a daughter, is an active member of the St. Louis Alumni Club.—Thomas F. Carty
Student Pilots Prepare For Army Air Corps
During the past two weeks 50 aspirant aviators have received their first thrills as the men behind the controls. These C.A.A. fledgelings with already three hours of flying to their credit are learning the control of a ship, practicing turns while climbing and gliding, and the art of keeping the ship on a straight course; the last feat is regarded as the most difficult for beginners have a tendency to wallow the ship. The more aloof secondary men are devoting their atttention to stalls out of climbing, 720 degree turns, figure eights, and shooting landings.
The Civil Aeronautics Administration is providing courses which will be equivalent to an introductory course in the Army Air Corps. Between now and Jan. 15, 1941 the enrolled students will receive 40 hours of actual flight training and six hours per week of ground work. The Rev. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., direct-of studies, has announced that the preliminary students will receive three semester hours of credit, and the secondary men four semester hours.
Classes in ground work are conducted on Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings from 7:15 till 9:15, while flight classes are scheduled in accordance with the student’s curriculum. The prelims will receive training in navigation, meteorology, aerodynamics, and airplane structure under Prof. F. N. M. Brown, M.S.E., a member of the aeronautical engineering faculty, and assistants. Prof. R. S. Eikenberry, M.S.E., also of the faculty, will instruct the secondary students in civil aeronautical regulations, aircraft engines, maintenance, and airplane structure.
Although it was originally planned that 40 of the preliminary students (Continued on page 21)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Campbell and the
Father Hoever Comments On Affairs of Europe
Two of the most prominent of Notre Dame’s faculty, Professor T. Bowyer tev. H. H. Hoever, O.Cist., were the main speakers at a meeting of the Northern Indiana High School Principals’ Association held at Notre Dame on Oct. 19.
Before a gathering of the principals in the Law building, Professor Campbell discussed recent develop
ments in the Far East and their relation to the western world.
Father Hoever
Concerns Nazi Ideology
Father Hoever’s address was concerned with the effects of Nazi ideology on the German educational system. Father Hoever told the principals that German education would become utterly valueless if Hitler continues his present program. Said Father Hoever, who taught in Germany for many years:
"In order to understand the influence of national socialism in Germany on schools and education, it is necessary to look at schools as they were at the end of the Kaiserreich and during the time of the German republic.
“Since Hitler came to power the ideology of national socialism dominates everywhere; public and private life and even the schools give a political and military coloring. The theories that the state and the nation mean everything and the individual nothing, the superiority of the Aryan race and that the highest expression of the good community is found in the Feuhrer of the Reich predominate.”
Continuing, Father Hoever stated: “All this means a complete change of the Christian Weltanschauung as found before in Germany.
“Teachers, of course, have to cooperate with the government and bring teaching into conformity with the ideas of the third reich. Freedom of teachers is gone and the devotion to military training has had such a bad influence on the schools that they are losing their prestige and cannot be compared with the high standard they had enjoyed before.
Those attending the meeting were the guests of the University at a luncheon in the dining room in Corby Hall following the program. They were likewise invited to the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech football game.—Edward Drinkard
THE CAMPUS
BX GEORGE MILES
We have heard many stories and many comments about the football game last week (the one in which the University team “unleashed a devastating attack,” the University fullbacks “were veritable berserkers” and the linemen “played hob” with the enemy running attack), but the best one, we think, concerns the fellow who stayed in his room, and listened to another game by radio. Things like that are certain indications of internal decay and disintegration. Who knows whether or not the absence of that fellow cost the team five or six more touchdowns? You know what happened to Rome when the Romans grew lax and lost interest. We can see nothing but dark days ahead.
* * *
It’s gratifying to know that some of our weekend guests go in for the higher things, pleasing to see them investigate not only our athletic, but also our intellectual side. We watched visitors inspecting the Library last Sunday, and we know, for a fact, that they were really impressed. One woman who became very chummy, said to us, in her best library whisper: “Mercy, it’s a big place, ain’t it?”
* * *
We note, with surprise and no little dismay, the increase in the number of those knee-length coats on the campus these days. They are called, in case you hardn’t heard, “shorties,” and they are simply taking the school by storm! We anticipate the appearance of an off-the-face hat soon. What will come after that we cannot and will not attempt to imagine. But we can just see the expression of unfeigned disgust and scathing contempt on the faces of those hardy old grads from the corduroy pants and hobnail boots era.
* * *
The citizens of South Bend are soon to celebrate Anti-Noise Week. We feel that we speak for the University when we say that our hearts and our minds are with the citizens in this venture. Every student, every member of the faculty will put his shoulder (no matter how small it may be) to the wheel, and work to make this the antiest-noise week in South Bend history. As a matter of fact, there are not many things that could cause us to become noisy these days. For already this year we have seen things. We have seen things!
There is at least one class on the campus which is overlooked, and, at times, ignored in the great hustle and bustle of University life. The class we have in mind goes on its way quietly but earnestly developing the musical consciousness of its members and instilling in them a love for rhythm and harmony. Only the other day one of the students put forth with his conception of music. “Music,” he said, “is the emotional outpouring of the artist’s soul.” And you must admit that there is something in what he says.
♦ * *
After reading Mr Frank D. Price’s letter several times we must admit that we are dumbfounded. Mr. Price is the c gentleman who wrote to the Scholastic and told them he wished to correspond with students interested in the “publishing, mechanical, administrative, and editorial phases of newspaper work,” and many, many other things. Mr. Price is also “fond of travel, golf, tennis, and mountaineering.” It seems to us that Mr. Price would do much better to get in touch with the Encyclopaedia Brittanica. The encyclopaedists could use a man like Mr. Price.
* * *
Now that Fall is here, we are filled with sadness. It is not that we dislike Fadi, but we just cant* stand the sight of those campus workers raking the scattered autumnal leaves. Whenever we see them, we think of the story that all mission and retreat priests tell about the little bird that took aU the sand from a large beach, carrying it away one grain at a time, yet never making even the slightest dent in eternity. And there is something futile in the work of the campus gardeners; the wind scatters as fast as they rake. They are, in fact, the modem male Danaides, and we feel for them.
The contemporary movement in music is something which has a very deep effect on us. We are pleased no end, by the change from the romantic to the realist treatment, and we look for many masterpieces in the future. There are two numbers being played now that should be models for all composers: “Beat Me Daddy Eight to the Bar” and “Your Feet’s Too Big.”
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
The Increase of Youth in Crime
By James G. Newland
Criminal activity today is definitely and predominately concerned with persons ranging between the ages of 18 and
James Newland
23 inclusive. This is brought out more and more each year with averages of the various age groups showing an increase in the frequencies of arrests for persons 19, 20, and 21 years old. According to Uniform Crime Reports, a quarterly bulletin issued by the Federal Bureau o f Investigation, there were more arrests in 1939 for
age 19 than for any single age group. The estimated number of serious crimes in this country during 1939 was nearly a million and a half, an increase of more than 50,000 over the estimated total in 1938. From the standpoint of frequency of arrests, age 19 was followed by ages 18, 22, 21 and 23 in the order mentioned. The percentage of total persons arrested who were less than 21 years old was 17.4 in 1936. This grew to 18.9 per cent in 1939.
The seriousness of these statistics is apparent. They reveal in accurate words and numbers the tremendous extent of a youthful criminal problem in the United States that overshadows by far the misbehavior of any age group in any country in the world. These figures are not concerned merely with first offenders.
Crime in a community of any size is directly influenced by many factors. Criminologists, sociologists, psychologists and social workers and all who deal with unlawful offenders cannot point to one single, individual factor and say “this man is a criminal because of this act or that act” and let it go at that. There are many reasons for a man being a criminal and until both the direct and indirect causes are known and studied, we cannot say definitely that incarcera-. tion is or is not the best thing for rehabilitating him for the same environment in which the act was committed.
For young persons, environmental factors may prove to be the predominating element. And yet, if other young boys and girls can be raised successfully in
spite of a substandard area it necessarily follows that those who wander from the so-called straight and narrow could also live in peace with the law—if there was something to counteract the various problems, notwithstanding the fact that the problem of environment in the United States is far more complicated today than in any other country in the world. The question of misbehavior on the part of an individual in relation to a bad environment represents an indirect relation and a sharing in a total situation of which housing, desertion etc., are only single factors among many. The maladjustment of a young boy or girl is not something entirely foreign to those with whom he lives or with whom he associates—nor is it something new. In more cases than not his associates have noticed at one time or another the potential delinquent activities of the adolescent. In consequence of this fact, the problem lies not in punishing the child for the act he or she has committed. On the contrary, the real problem is correcting the early maladjusted activity of the individual.
A program of education treating the elements of criminology and sociology not only in colleges and universities—for a large percentage of offenders never attend such institutions of higher learning —but also in grade schools, may prove helpful. For here the average person partakes in his first outside-the family group activities and it is in and from this group the individual gets his conception of the role he plays in life. On the other hand, courses in crime which are supposed to impress youth with the futility of lawlessness and dishonesty will not result in permanently inspiring ideals — for youth is a gambler. He knows cases where crime has paid and he reads of dishonesty that has profited its perpetrators. Sunday supplements acquaint him with those who achieve notoriety through their immoralities.
The figures quoted above are most significant in revealing to the public the obvious seriousness of youth in crime. Nevertheless, if a program of education and treatment cannot be successfully organized, thereby making known the tremendous anti-social significance of criminal activity; if teachers and social workers cannot get to the potential offender and help correct his maladjusted makeup before it is too late—the strain of the crime problem cannot even be partially relieved.
Final Checkup Shows
841 Registered for Draft
National Registration Day, observed on the campus Oct. 16, saw 841 men between the ages of 21 and 35 conform with measures of this country’s first peace-time draft bill. This figure includes members of the Holy Cross Congregation and the resident student body; no off-campus faculty members or students were registered in any of the temporary headquarters set up on the campus. The Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., was in charge of the local registration.
The largest group of potential draftees was signed in the library basement. There 192 members of the Congregation filled blanks and answered questions for Uncle Sam, though a section of the law excludes members of religious orders or theological students from active duty.
Alumni Hall registered the next largest number, 154. Walsh, with 84, was the third largest hall or campus group to sign the dotted line. No figures could be kept on the division of those registering per class group, but from these returns it is evident that the senior class includes the largest number of Notre Dame’s eligible military material.
—John Casey
Spanish Clubs Consider
Trips to South America
Nearly 70 members of the Notre Dame Spanish Club, most of whom are studying Spanish at the University, held an informal convocation last week at St. Mary’s with a group of similarly minded young ladies representing the St. Teresa Club.
The Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., noted educator, mentioned in a short speech that followed remarks made by Mr. Clarence Finlayson and Mr. Walter Langford, both instructors at Notre Dame, that possibilities were favorable for the fulfillment of a much rumored plan for a mass journey of the two Spanish clubs to partake in a Pan-American Catholic Student Council to be held next summer at Bogota. Colombia.
The trip is to include an entire two months journey through the other countries of South America. As the stopovers will be made in the homes of friends sympathetic to the encouragement of Pan-Americanism, and the Grace Line is offering special rates to the students, expenses have been largely curtailed and the plan has every indication of materializing.—Mark G. McGrath
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Notre Dame Represented at Fifth Midwest Catholic Peace Conference
Peace, the nectar for which all Europe thirsts, was the theme of the Fifth Midwest Regional Conference of the Student Peace Federation of the Catholic Association for International Peace held at St. Xavier’s College, Chicago, Ill., Oct.
Thomas McGee John MacCauley
20, 1940. Barat, Clarke, College of St. Francis, De Paul, St. Joseph, Loyola, Marquette, Mount Mary, Mundelein, Rosary, and Notre Dame were represented.
John MacCauley and Thomas McGee, two senior philosophers, delivered papers, the former on “The Moral Aspects of Neutrality”; the latter, “Anti-conscription.” Bother were given generous applause, not only for the content, but also for the vigorous exposition of their papers.
It was the first time Notre Dame was represented at the Conference. And it was accomplished by the amiable Dr. Francis McMahon, former vice-president of the C.A.I.P., who insisted that Notre Dame be represented.
Political "Boss11 Rule is On Decline Says Hermens in "Review of Politics"
“Machine-rule politics in the United States is on the way out,” says Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, professor of political science at Notre Dame, in his article, “Exit the Boss,” appearing in the latest issue of Revietv of Politics, which went on sale last week.
He prefaces the conclusion with a speech by Thomas E. Dewey, in which the New York district attorney, says: “America ... is cleaning house.”
In a summary of reasons for the disappearing “boss”, Dr. Hermens gives the following: 1. Gradual elimination of spoils system; 2. Restriction of immigration; 3. Revival of civic interest and the development of city pride by residents of urban communities.
Also in this issue is an article on English politics by Robert Salamon; a timely piece by Taylor Cole is entitled “Cor-
The program was divided into two parts: (1) Military Defense as the Safeguard of Peace; and (2) Spiritual Defense as the Safeguard Against Totalitarianism. McGee appeared in the first group. To prevent a misunderstanding, it is necessary to state that he was the “Devil’s Advocate,” taking the role upon request of the committee, since he favors conscription.
MacCauley spoke in the second group. Basing his paper upon the principle that the great physical evil engendered by war was man-made, he declared that no war could be unmoral. He distinguished between political and moral neutrality, vehemently denying that anyone could remain morally neutral in the present conflict. He distinguished between efficient and final causes, stating the efficient causes of the war were the Versailles Treaty and the invasion of Poland; the final end of England is the restoration of the subjugated countries and destruction of Hitlerism; of Hitler, the destruction of Christianity and other vicious plans set forth in Mein Kampf, and also in Rauschning’s Revolution of Nihilism. Some men gain distinction by their distinctions — and MacCauley did, for one philosophically minded clergyman was overheard to say “Magnificent distinctions, magnificent.”
The cordial reception and success, both academic and social, of our men indicate that when the sixth regional conference is held, Notre Dame will be among those present.
porative Organization of the Third Reich;” N. W. Alexeiev writes on “Evolution of Soviet Constitutional Law.” Reviews of the new political books are also included.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of the Review of Politics, came to Notre Dame in 1937 from Zurich, Switzerland. He was for many years a lecturer in Germany, and is the author of numerous books dealing with the theories and practices of fascism and communism. He is now teaching politics at Notre Dame.
Other editors of the two-year-old publication are Dr. Hermens and Prof. Francis J. O’Malley of Notre Dame, managing editors; Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., and Prof. Willis D. Nutting, editorial consultants.
—James V. Cunningham
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The commingling of the wine and water at the Offertory in the mass rests on natural and historical grounds. . . . Wine is the common beverage of eastern peoples. . . . Their custom is to add a little water before drinking it. . . . Most authorities agree that it was such a mixed cup that our Lord consecrated at the Last Supper. . . . Thus antiquity and authenticity mark the ceremony.
The human mind necessarily makes use of concrete realities to arrive at abstract truth. . . . The ordinary gateway to the supernatural is by signs and symbols. ... It was through the medium of figures and parables that Christ explained divine truths to his disciples.
The word ‘mystical,’ which is akin to ‘mystery,’ is often used to express this transference of thought from one order of reality to another. ... It is in this mystical sense that St. Cyprian (d. 258), Bishop of Carthage and the first Christian Latin writer, interprets the concrete fact of the mingling of the wine and water. . . . He sees in it the union of Christ and the faithful.
The wine represents Christ, the water, the faithful. . . . The few drops of water are indistinguishable from the wine. . . . Later both become the Christ of the Eucharist. . . . The end of the Sacrifice is to make Christ and the faithful one. . . . “He that eateth my flesh, and drink-eth my blood, abideth in me, and I in him.” (John 6, 57)
The prayer which accompanies the ceremony was written later.... The sec- -ond part of it amplifies the first which, as we have seen, tells of the incomparable glory wrought in human nature by the Incarnation and the Redemption.... Christ did not disdain to become partaker, particeps, of our humanity. . . . If we are worthy, we may become sharers, consortes, of his divinity.
Share means an inheritance, coheirship. . . . We have our share in all that is Christ.... This Sunday, the feast of Christ the King, we should especially dwell on the words of St. Peter in his first epistle, 2, 9, “You are a chosen gen- ‘ eration, ,a kingly priesthood, a holy people.”
(Mass Calendar on Page 22)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr.. Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Propaganda—Good and Bad
Today people are quick to brand any writing that conflicts with their own personal convictions as “propaganda.” The word propaganda has come into vicious misuse because of an injection of wrong meaning by those who employ it. Webster defines propaganda as “a concerted effort of a group or individual to spread certain doctrines, ideas, or information.” People nowadays place anything with which they do not agree under the heading of propaganda. A writer may set facts before the public with no thought in mind other than just the presentation of the facts. If these facts by their nature tend to favor or play up a certain side of the issue, they are branded as propaganda, and people refuse to accept them for their intrinsic value. People in the United States who have the opportunity to read both sides of every issue should not assume this unwarranted attitude. They should learn to weed out malicious propaganda from that which is merely intended for information.
Father John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., who recently joined the faculty, received a letter sometime ago from an English friend, the young son of a Methodist minister, who studied with Father O’Brien at Oxford University a few years ago and is still an undergraduate there. His letter clearly reflects what might well be the attitude of the English people toward the war which has come to their homeland. It could be classified as propaganda, but it should not be. It is merely the expression of the personal feelings of an individual. Its value lies in its sincerity which is not a charactesis-
tic of subversive propaganda. Following is the text of the letter:
“Willow Grove” 36 Lorne Street Chester.
September 15, 1940
Dear Father O’Brien:
I have just been wondering whether my letter ever arrived in America, or whether it is that your reply did not reach England.
I have so much to tell you, that indeed I don’t know where to begin, but as the King told Alice in Wonderland, “begin at the beginning and go on until you reach the end.”
Since you left Europe much has happened. The War has come much nearer to us, and there has arisen a new enthusiasm which has replaced the old doggedness. The imagination of our people have been fired by the exploits of our Hurricanes and Spitfires. The bombing of our towns has merely put iron in the souls of our people, who now care nothing for ruined homes, so long as our factories are missed.
The University term ended with an appeal for us to do work of national importance, and so some of us spent a part of our vacation in Forestry Camps, felling timber and sawing logs. Since then I have spent some little time in Bristol, but although the nights were broken little harm was done that I could see, and I made a fairly extensive tour. We here have also had disturbed sleep, but up to now our nearest bomb was about 300-400 yards away.
Last week-end Dad and Mom and I went to our former home in Derbyshire. Here in the little town of Matlock, which nestles among the hills, we had a most glorious time. The people were as friendly as ever, my father preached two inspired sermons, and everything was perfect. How I would have liked to have you with us, for you would have enjoyed, I feel sure, the rugged cliffs and the deep valleys, the exhilaration which comes from climbing nearly 2,000 feet, and being rewarded with those views which only England can give.
Tomorrow is my birthday, and Autumn is here again, the wind has stripped the trees of many of their leaves, the red berries are on the hawthorn, the farmer has already brought home his harvest, and we are making preparations for the winter.
We are in many ways, cut off from the World, for we hear little, and see less in our diminished papers, of the U.S.A. At times we have big “splashes” when some politician makes a speech, but of your plays and Books, and of your plans and projects we must hear less, for our papers have not the space to tell us. But you seem to be getting almost as little about us, and much of this seems tainted with the germ of Nazidom. We in England are fighting, fighting, fighting, every week we lose more of the fat we gained in our lethargy. Our enemy would have you believe we are cowed— starving, oppressed—we are not, life is little changed since you were here, and apart from the little more sternness due to raids just as calm.
I hope this finds you well, and may I conclude with an old Gaelic blessing -—“Deep peace from the Son of Peace, to you, and in the name of the Three Who are One—Peace.”
Yours as ever,
JACK GARDNER.
Many people would take particular delight in reading such a letter and contemptuously branding it as propaganda. The vivid picture of England’s determination as seen and felt by a sensitive, intelligent young man would be entirely lost. This young Englishman was merely writing to a friend; he had no particular desire to force his convictions on anyone. Writing which is called malicious propaganda should at least have subversive intent. In the United States we have freedom of the press which gives us the opportunity to see all sides of a subject. We should not defeat this envied opportunity by ignorant misuse of the word propaganda.—Robert D. LeMense
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
SCREWBALL
By RICHARD EVERROAD
Harry was expelled from school in his Junior year, hut there weren’t many of us who were surprised. We simply wondered how he had lasted so long. He didn’t make much fuss about the thing as we had expected; he just came into Otto’s that afternoon rather quietly and acknowledged the half-bashful remarks that many of us made to him. It was strange to see him silent; it was even stranger that he paid for his soda at the counter and didn’t try to sneak past Otto in the street where he ordinarily would have thumbed his nose at the front window of the confectionery.
We always called him a screwball while he was in the Prep and Harry never seemed to be particularly annoyed, by it. He was certainly never abashed. Nothing could stop him in his constant, tireless searching for laughs—not the prefect of discipline, not the Headmaster, not the teachers — and Harry saw humor in things that often never occurred to the rest of us. There wasn’t a day that he failed to find something that amused him and he had no scruple about the methods he used. He would break off a Latin recitation with a heart attack that was real enough to baffle the most discerning teacher, and he would go home with one of his particularly daring friends to plague the neighbors with his ingenuity. He loved to spit out of the windows of his apartment onto the pedestrians passing below and he had developed an accuracy that was frequently distressing and mystifying to the passersby. He would often harangue a man who sunned himself on a nearby roof, telling him that he was old enough to work and that he was a lazy loafer to sit in the sun when his wife was downtown. He knew that the man was an invalid, but that added flavor to the thing for Harry.
He had no concern for his surroundings at any time; he would as soon have lit a firecracker in church as he would shout out loud in the movies, and he did . both. He would sit in a theater and wait until a very melodramatic thriller had approached its climax and then shout to the audience, “Pop, I didn’t know you were here. Pop, Ma said to bring home a pound of hamburger.” Inevitably an usher would begin to search him out and
he would peer through the dim smoke haze of the balcony until Harry chose to guide him with a few personal comments about the actors. Then Harry would single out the most inoffensive man nearby and harangue the usher, saying that the man had been annoying him all during the movie. Usually Harry had to shout for the second time before the usher finally realized that he was the offender and then there was sure to be an argument about refunding the price of the theater ticket.
Even at the Ice Palace Harry was known for his unusual talents. He would skate to the end of the rink and then come back, increasing his speed, contorting his face and body finally to slide
Pieta
So like a gutted candle
Lay His dead, white Body
Against your heart....
Mary, I wonder
What darkness possessed you
That ancient afternoon
When the Light of the world went out?
limply into a sprawling, twisted fall. Then we would gather around him and carry him to the first aid booth in the back of the rink. There he would wait until the attendant had begun to remove his clothes to look for wounds before he sat up and laughed in shrill, grating squeaks at the attendant, the walls, and more shrilly it seemed, at some great hidden joke that only he knew. That particular prank was only effective once or twice but Harry was at least versatile; he managed to run the scale of humor from tying knots in the hockey team’s shoe laces to slapping pieces of adhesive tape over our bare legs while we dressed for practice, and he would always wait around the locker room until we had to rip them off.
Harry was never very friendly with anyone in the school, although he did
have one or two collaborators in some of his more difficult scene-stealing. He preferred to do his own creative work most of the time, however, for he had a genius that was peculiar to himself and he usually found that he got more hilarious results when he was alone. He originated a number of new names for places and people around the school, calling the Headmaster’s office “Captain Bligh’s Cabin” and Jug “The Brig.” Harry was always in Jug and was always skipping it too, so that he became more or less permanently occupied until four o’clock every afternoon. He seldom missed an opportunity, even during these sessions, and some one of us was sure to find a match burning in his shoe sole, or that Harry had lit a cigarette and put it on the edge of a nearby desk. At first he was never caught, but soon from force of habit, the disciplinary authorities would question Harry about everything that went wrong before they proceeded with an ordinary investigation.
The last time he appeared before any sizable group of students was during a class “social,” when each one of us was supposed to contribute to our own amusement. Harry delivered parts of “Hamlet” and of “Julius Caesar” in his usual tongue-in-cheek manner and was mildly amusing. But later he delivered an impromptu parody on the same passages that brought the whole group together into one crowding, quavering mass around the stage of the auditorium. And our laughter was no less real when Harry suddenly returned to the original passage as he saw a teacher come through the door.
Most of us will remember him for a crazy kid who was a little more daring and less repressible than a number of unstable students in adolescence. But a few of us will probably think of him with a little more feeling or sympathy and be sorry for the great waste of talent that he was. We will see the devilish exactness of his mimicry and the smile that was behind his eyes as he sat in class and whittled carelessly on a desk or dropped dry ice from the cafeteria into someone’s ink bottle. And we will remember his walking quietly and dully out of the confectionery that afternoon with a strange indifference that we will not be able to completely understand.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Travels to Champaign To Climax Illinois Homecoming
Irish May Continue Unbeaten Winning Streak
Three major types of football tactics have been tried to no avail against tins years’ Fighting Irish. Pacific’s trickery, Georgia Tech’s deception and aerial attack, and Carnegie’s power system all made rather feeble showings against Notre Dame’s coordination of brain and power. Tomorrow the Irish, on their season’s first road trip, will face a combination of all three of these styles on the field of the Ulini, a team which has a reputation for pointing for one game above all others. This season Notre Dame has good reason to believe that it is that team.
The Illini have had a hard time so far in the 1940 season. They easily took Bradley Tech, lost a tough one to a Southern Cal team that is only now finding itself, and last last Saturday bowed low to the Michigan organization which was seeking vengeance for the major sports upset of the 1939 season.
What kind of a team the Illini field against the Blue and Gold? They have suffered heavy losses in the line, including Jim Reeder, all-American tackle, and Bill Lenich, center and last year’s most valuable Illinois player. However Bob Zuppke, now in his 28th season of coaching at Champaign, has developed a good offensive and defensive line and the whole team is improved by additional speed. Members of the Fighting mini who may cause the Irish some dif-
Cavanaugh, Lyons Lead Campus Football
Sweeping into the third week of their tournament, the Inter - Hall gridders served notice that from now on its full steam ahead, and judging from last Sunday’s results they’re not kidding!
The sectional leaders after two weeks of competition are, Cavanaugh in League 1, and Lyons in League 2, both of whom are undefeated in their two starts to date.
Last Sunday’s results and the games in detail, are as follows:
League 1
Brownson 7; Breen-Phillips 0
Bounding back into winning form after being shaded by Cavanaugh last week, Brownson dealt Breen-Phillips its first defeat of the season, downing the Freshmen by a 7-0 score. Late in the
ficulty are: Capt. Tom Riggs, who has a year at Annapolis behind him, at tackle; George Bernhardt at fullback; Rettinger at right half; Milosevich, left half; and Ehni, quarterback. All will do their best to topple the Irish from the heights of the undefeated. There do not seem to be any “stars” on the 1940 Ulini squad such as Michigan’s Harmon, Penn’s Reagan, and Notre Dame’s Piepul.
The game will highlight the Illinois homecoming festivities. Notre Dame is the first non-conference team to play for such an event in Illini history. A number of high school acquaintances will be renewed in this contest. Dick Good, mini halfback, and Owen Evans, Irish left half, former teammates at South Bend’s Riley high, are now on their respective second strings. A number of stars on both teams are from the Chicago area winch will offer a number of players opportunity to re-live old memories.
Mr. Layden spoke highly of the fine team spirit on the Irish squad. “The boys realize their abilities and weaknesses and are willing to work to improve the weaknesses.” In commenting on individual performances, out of the 60-odd individuals who took part in the Carnegie game, Mr. Layden had kind words for fullback Al Lee and center John Lana-han among several others.
The squad numbering 36 men left Notre Dame this morning and will spend the night at Danville, Hl.
—John F. Dinges
second half, Joe Newton, fleet Brownson back, returned a punt 70 yards but an offside nullified the play. On the next play, Don Trottier duplicated the run for the winning score.
Cavanaugh 18; Carroll 6
In routing a gallant Carroll Hall eleven to the tune of 18-6, Coach Nowicki’s Cavanaugh powerhouse rolled up the biggest score of the season so far. thus establishing itself as the team to be reckoned with in its section of the campus. It was the second victory in as many starts for Cavanaugh with Fritz Funk, right end, tallying two touchdowns on forward passes.
St. Edward’s 0; Badin 0
In the feature contest of the morning program, an underrated Badin team bat-
GEORGE RETTINGER
Illinois Fullback
tied a highly favored St. Ed’s eleven to a scoreless tie. St. Ed’s line, with their star center Bill Hartman once more stealing the limelight with his great all-around play, showed itself to good advantage during the entire game, while their backfield aces, Jesse DeLois and Harry Erd, played Badin’s powerful quartet on even terms throughout.
League 2
Lyons 7; Howard 0
The “Fighting Sophs” from Lyons Hall, with the irrepressible Bill Johnson once again leading the attack, notched their second triumph of the season by downing a hard-fighting Howard eleven, by a score of 7-0. The teams waged an even battle for three periods, each missing a scoring opportunity on an attempted field goal. Finally, in the closing minutes of the game Johnson returned a Howard punt 60 yards to the latter’s 20-yard line. Here two line plays failed, but I a flat pass, from Joe Kremer to Bill Brady, netted a score, and with Johnson plunging over his own blocked placement for the extra point, Lyons went home the victor.
Morrissey 6; Alumni 0
In another game with a whirlwind finish, Fritz Christman scored on a quarterback sneak from the one-yard line, with scarcely less than two minutes to play, to help Morrissey eke out a 6-0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
' RALPH EHNI
Illinois Quarterback
victory over a highly touted Alumni eleven. Joe Campagna of Morrissey, and Tommy Miles of Alumni, rival left halfbacks, proved themselves to be clever, shifty backs who would have been away time and again on long runs, had they received more effective blocking from their teammates.
Dillon 7 ; Walsh 6
In the Walsh vs. Dillon battle, the latter gained some measure of revenge for the 3-0 defeat it sustained at the hands of Lyons last week by shading a stubborn Walsh eleven, 7-6. A forward pass, Moran to Asmuth late in the third period, with Bellinger converting the extra point, gave Dillon its touchdown, and its margin of victory. Walsh scored in the second period on a pass intercepted by Fraelich, which set the stage for a sustained drive and a touchdown later recorded by Connolly, on a one-yard buck. The attempted conversion failed.
This week’s schedule is as follows:
League 1 (9:30 a.m.)—Cavanaugh vs. Breen-Phillips; Brownson vs. Zahm; Carroll vs. Badin; St. Edward’s draws a bye-
League 2 (1:30 p.m.)—Howard vs. Dillon; Walsh vs. Sorin; Lyons vs. Alumni; Morrissey drws a bye.
—Jim Clemens
(assisted by Bill Rogers and Floyd Richards.)
Splinters From the Press Box
■ ■„ ■	JAMES NEWLAND" ■■ ■
The .nearest example of a perfect backfield that ever lugged a football over any turf—according to writers and experts who have watched football grow from a mere infant—was the once small, but mighty, four horsemen. This statement has been generally accepted by those boys “in the know.” When Piepul, Saggau, Hargrave, Juzwik, et al, tore through that tired, injured Carnegie Tech team for three touchdowns before you could say Jack Spratt, no writer on this good green earth could have doubted their All-American potentialities. There was snap, alertness and precision in every play and the awe-struck audience that banked the stadium 35,000 strong was treated to one of the greatest football shows presented here in almost a decade.
True, one must take into consideration the fact that Tech was not at its best. As a matter of fact, it was far from this—especially after an ambulance drove off the sidelines with two badly injured Tartan aces,' George Muha and Joe Pash. At the same time, we must give credit where credit is due. The Irish played smart football. They were heads up for 60 minutes—all 67 of them. They made few mistakes. Jack Ryan, of the Chicago Daily Nezus, wasn’t just kidding when he wrote, “Here was power and force, speed and deception used on such a lavish scale that Notre Dame, for this afternoon at least,' was a composite All-American squad.”
No coach can accomplish more than he intends. Consequently, there was one gentleman for whom we felt a bit sorry at last Saturday’s massacre. When Dr. Eddie Baker, Skibo pilot, took control of football destinies at Carnegie, he took charge of one of the sickliest freshman squads Tech has had in years. He was 100% correct a few days ago when he said he would be lucky to field a decent first string. Minus a compact starting eleven — and completely lost when it came time for reserves to be shoved in, imagine how he felt when his ace back George Muha was carried off the field with a crushed shoulder, an injury that may keep him on the bench for several weeks.
Poetry al la Moose
The Moose is astride Tomorrow for to ride The Irish and he together;
Through thick and through thin, Now out and then in,
Though ne’er so foul be the weather.
Tonight Milt Piepul — the rolling stone that gathers no moss — and his mates will bunk on the campus of the University of Illinois. Coach Elmer Layden undoubtedly has reminded the team they have a small score to settle with Bob Zuppke’s lllini. For it was exactly three years ago about this time, and on the same turf, Illinois battled the Irish to a scoreless tie. Prior to that engagement the two schools were hardly acquainted, since they had met only once — back in 1898 when Notre Dame wrapped up and delivered to Illinois a 5 to 0 setback.
Illinois naturally wanted to defeat mighty Michigan — pardon me, mighty Harmon — last Saturday. But “the” team they really want to down is Notre Dame. Every school feels that way about the Irish. They can play mediocre ball all season — but if they shoot the works against Notre Dame to win or even tie, their season has been a success. At the same time, we can’t exactly see the present lllini aggregation, whose reserve power isn’t a whole lot to brag about, come through to knock off Piepul and company tomorrow. Coach Robert C. Zuppke, who has meddled in the football trade long enough to know which end is which, and a little more, will be forced to send a team short of tried performers on the field tomorrow, while Elmer Layden will have players two and three deep in every spot.
Local reserve strength proved itself against the Skibos. And it was especially interesting to watch such talented sophomores as Murphy, Evans, Earley, Prokop, McHale, Bereolos and Ziemba give out with all their power and speed. One thing is certain. Coach Layden definitely won’t be lacking in speed so long as the draft doesn’t catch up with Earley and Evans.
Picking Splinters:
Notre Dame over Illinois Cornell over Ohio State Dartmouth over Harvard Fordham over St. Mary’s Northwestern over Indiana Minnesota over Iowa Michigan over Penn Navy over Yale
Purdue over Wisconsin .
Southern California over Stanford
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
= DY ALBERT DEL ZOPPO — —
That little fellow that you see line up between Osterman and Lillis every Saturday afternoon on the football field is John Aloysius Gubanich. Five feet nine, and weighing 161 pounds, this Notre Dame man will graduate next June with the distinction of having been the smallest guard in Notre Dame football history to win three monograms. Bert Metzger, Knute Rockne’s “watch charm” guard on the famed 1930 team, was a bit leaner and better known than our Johnny. But Bert did not earn his N.D. monogram till his final year.
John Gubanich is a Pennsylvania boy whose home is in Phoenixville, a suburb of Philadelphia. And it was at Phoenix High that Gubanich made his reputation as a football player. He originally intended to play in the backfield when he tried out for a position on his high school eleven. But there were so many candidates seeking the glory which comes with touchdowns that Guby turned to a lineman’s job. How well John played guard for Phoenix High is attested by the fact that he was twice picked on the All - County team, and twice honored with the most valuable player award — very worthy honors when one remembers that some of the toughest high school football in the country is
played in the Pennsylvania coal-mining regions.
Gubanich was a real welterweight when he played high school football, weighing only 145 pounds. But he developed into a lightweight by the time he had completed his freshman year at Notre Dame. In the fall of 1938, Gubanich was playing guard on the sixth team. But he didn’t stay there very long. For when “Chuck” Riffle fractured his ankle just prior to the opening game, Coach Layden boosted the sixth-stringer to the second team. That break was all that Johnny needed. Before the season
ended he had proved to Layden, to Notre Dame opponents, and to the fans, taht size is not the essence of a football player.
Gubanich understudied Riffle at right guard last year, but he stepped up to the number one spot this September. And from his showing so far, it’s safe to predict that he will be playing first string guard when the season comes to a close.
John Gubanich is very serious when he tells you that he prefers to play against big linemen. “I don’t know much about that ‘bigger they are, the harder they fall’ maxim,” says Guby, “but I do find from experience that the bigger they are, the easier they can be out-maneuvered. It’s the little fellows, fellows about my size, who seem to give me the most trouble in a ball game.”
Johnny doesn’t come right out and say so, but we inferred from his talk taht he plays most of his football from the neck up. His brain makes up for what he lacks in brawn.
Fencing Squad Depleted By Graduation of Stars
“The outlook for this season is not as bright as was that for last year. We were hit hard by graduation and must undergo a vast program of rebuilding. If our foil men develop well, however, our record might approach the one of last year’s squad.” This was the comment of Coach Walter Langford when asked about the prospects for the approaching fencing season.
A glance at the records of last year’s graduating fencers will serve to bear out Coach Langford’s viewpoint, since the backbone of the squad was graduated in June. Those lost by graduation include Captain Bob Sayia, foil; John Gavan and Jerry Donovan, sabre; and Joe Smalley, sabre and epee. This quartet won 68% of the team’s 102% victories last season, while losing only 39% of 95% bouts lost by the Irish. All of which means that the remainder of the squad, the returning veterans of this year’s team, won only 34 while losing 53 bouts. Particularly missed will be Gavin, who established the best three year record last year of 28% won and 7% lost gives him the most imposing individual record yet compiled in the sport at Notre Dame.
This year’s squad, built around lettermen Captain Jack Gaither and Russell Harris, foil; and veterans Jim Corbett, epee, and Mike Humphreys, sabre, needs much improvement between now and the opening match in order to measure up to the record of last year. Unlike fencing teams of other years, whose exceptional success has been due principally to unusually talented sabre men, this year’s group must depend more heavily on the other two weapons, particularly foil.
Although a definite schedule is not yet available, matches will be held with such old rivals as Chicago, Ohio State, Wisconsin, Michigan State, Detroit and Marquette. Daily practice will continue until the opening of the season, which will be shortly after the Christmas holidays, with candidates for the freshman squad being called out about midNovember.—Ray Donovan
Rice Starts Training
For Winter A.A.U. Meets
The dark shades of early evening were slowly falling over the cinder track of Cartier field, and the sky was staring down at a solitary figure silently jogging along at a brisk pace, when suddenly, wheeling abruptly around a bend in the track, the short, stumpy figure revealed itself as Greg Rice.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Five pounds heavier, but apparently unchanged otherwise, he is the same modest, retiring, little Irishman who annexed two world’s indoor titles last winter in New York’s Madison Square Garden.
Let it be emphasized that Greg does not pound around the oval six times a week after dark in the interests of astronomy but rather from necessity. Employment in the Indiana-Michigan electric company consumes most of his time during the day making it necessary for him to work out at a time when most respectable citizens are sitting down to supper.
With an eye to carrying on intensive indoor operations this winter, Greg has adopted the following training routine: a six mile jaunt twice a week, four four-forties twice a week, and a three mile grind at seven-eighths speed twice a week.
The first of these pine board tests will come on Nov. 28, at the National A.A.U. meet in Detroit, when the South Bend streamliner engages in a six-and-one-quarter mile race for the national crosscountry title.
Irish Harriers Prepare
For State Meet Nov. 9
In preparation for the Indiana State Intercollegiate Cross Country tournament to be held at Lafayette, Ind. on Nov. 9, the Notre Dame distance runners have been going through extensive preliminary workouts under the head track coach, Bill Mahoney. The tournament will be a four mile run laid out on Purdue University’s new golf course. A great battle and fast race is anticipated with Notre Dame, Purdue, Indiana and Butler renewing old marathon rivalry.
Five or possibly six men who will carry the colors of Notre Dame will be chosen from among the following varsity runners: Tony Maloney, Capt. Joe 01-brys, Frank Conforti, Oliver Hunter, Paul Scully, John Crimmins and Mike Kiely.
Other cross country meets have been tentatively scheduled for the Notre Dame marathon runners but the names of the opponents have not yet been released. Sprinters, hurdlers and field men probably will not taste intercollegiate competition for some time.
When asked to comment on track pros-: pects for the coming year, Mahoney stated that, “We have good material,” but reserved further statements until he has had an opportunity to study the performances of his men in actual competition.—Francis Carver
Coach Kline Develops Potential Varsity
While the eyes of the public are on Notre Dame’s, so-far and hoped-to-be-continued, unbeaten march across the country’s gridirons, a spirited Freshman squad works out night after night on Cartier field. Members of the Freshman squad all hope to make the varsity within the next three years, and be in the public eye themselves. But first comes the year in which they must learn the fundamentals and get themselves into good physical condition—this under the able coaching of “Jake” Kline.
Now that the season is well under way, some of the boys are beginning to show their superiority in the race for first string positions, but in every position there is a constant fight for top honors. At present the first string ends are two big and fast boys, Matt Bolger and Tom Smythe, but pressing them hard are Homing, Kyle, Metzgar, and McKelvey.
This year’s tackle prospects make up in determination what they lack in size in comparison with the varsity men. Hinkson and Butler rank first at tackle now with their laurels constantly being threatened by Brown, Schmid, and Tully.
Pat Folley of South Bend and Norb Ellrot are still out in front at guards followed closely by Kudlacz and Rotz. Behind the latter two are Kerrigan, McLaughlin, DelVecchio, and Honda.
At the pivot post McDonnell has replaced the injured Cunningham. Not to be counted out of the picture at center are Metzler, and Leahy.
Familiar names feature the men ranking one, two and three for the signal calling post. Tom Creevy, brother of Dick on this year’s varsity, is number one, followed by Tom Dorais and Allen Elward who fathers are now coaching
After you have seen the fabric and fit of our TOWN & COUNTRY clothes you will appreci-ate their quality and correctness.
Once you have worn ADLER - ROCHESTER made-to-measure suits and overcoats you will be convinced of their superiority. Flannels, tweeds, worsted materials in a great variety of colors and styles.
P A R K E R-WI N T E R RO W D 115y2 - I I7y2 N. Main Street
Call at our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives.
JOHN SIEVERT	CART. MILT “Moose” PIEPUL JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	107 Alumni	237 Walsh
at Detroit and Purdue universities respectively. The fight for this position is not entirely three-way with Wienholver and Burke still to be counted on for plenty of action.
Halfback position is, as usual, loaded with talent. The left halves at present line up in this order, Miller, Ashbaugh, Bertelli, McConnell, Dickson, and Curran. Miller, top man at present, is a triple threat back; Ashbaugh is small but fast. First at right half is Clark; coming up fast is Wroblewski, followed by Yoklavich and Bill Murphy.
And finally striving to live up to the precedent which is being set for them by the “Moose” are the fullbacks. Neither of the top men at this position have Piepul’s weight but they have plenty of drive and speed; they are Bob McBride and Neil Williams. Still aspiring for honors as line crashers are Tessaro, Smith, and Daly.
This week the freshmen have been working on the Illinois offense to test the varsity in preparation for their encounter with the Illini tomorrow.
—Robert LeMense
Irish Unleash Power
In Crushing Tartans
Sweeping aside a woefully weak Carnegie Tech defense for nine touchdowns Saturday, Notre Dame established itself as one of the most potent powerhouses the West has seen in recent years.
35,000 fans sat in on Notre Dame’s victory number 14 in the 18 game rivalry between the two schools. The 61-0 score was the most decisive in the series, Carnegie only once being able to carry the ball out of their own territory. In the course of the game four Tartans were carried from the field. Long before the
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
completion of the last quarter the first three Irish teams had completed their days work.
Early in the first quarter Johnny O’Brien converted a blocked punt on the Carnegie 26-yard line for Notre Dame’s first score. Then, with six minutes remaining in the quarter Bob Saggau heaved a 53 yard pass to Steve Juzwik on the five yard line and the elusive back scored standing.
It was a field day for Notre Dame’s three fullbacks, Captain Milt Piepul accounting for two touchdowns, Crimmins, three, and Lee two, for a total of seven.
The Irish led the Scots in first downs by a margin of 15 to 5 and in yards gained from scrimmage by 349 to 82. Four out of nine Notre Dame passes were complete and three out of eleven for the Skibos.
In pounding out their victory over the boys from Pittsburgh, the Irish displayed all the marks of a championship squad. They blocked and tackled with uncanny accuracy and ran and passed with devastating fury.
With Illinois, Army, Navy, Iowa, Northwestern and Southern California looming on the football horizon, Notre Dame has already definitely proven in its games with Pacific, Georgia Tech and Carnegie that it has a formidable array of talent and reserve strength capable of coping with any team in the country.
—Francis Carver
"B" Team 7, St. Benedicts 0;
As Bees Make First Trip
Last Saturday 39,500 people saw Notre Dame’s “Fighting Irish” in action. 35,000 of them witnessed their onslaught in the stadium, and the other 4,500 saw 23 representatives of Notre Dame football power in action.
Down in St. Joseph, Mo., the “B” team met and conquered, in true Irish fashion (minus the Rockne System, and Bill Cemey, their regular coach) St. Benedict’s College eleven in a hard-fought tussle. After the first 20 seconds or so there was no scoring done; however, these opening seconds proved ample time for Coach Jake Kline’s charges to rake up seven decisive points for a 7 to 0 victory.
Nick Pepelnjack, left half, took the opening kickoff on his own 18-yard line and raced 82 yards through the Raven defense to pay-off territory. The day’s scoring was completed when Roy Cestary picked up the blocked try for extra point and skirted the Kansan’s end to cross the goal line.
It was a somewhat costly trip to the “B” squad as the two players received injuries. Guard Ed Stelmaszek’s ankle was badly dislocated and torn and Bill
Stewart, sub-quarterback, tore ligaments in his knee.
The team as a whole played a fine game and outstanding players were few. However, in the backfield Coach Kline especially complimented the play of Joe Postupack, Bill Lukoskie, Pepelnjak and Cestary. Standouts in the line were: End, Tom Perko; tackle, Joe McGovern; and three guards, Vince Commisa, Owen McGoldrick, and Ed Kopshever. Much credit is due the stocky Kopshever who in the last 30 seconds of play intercepted a Raven pass in lais own end zone for a touchback thereby prevnting a possible tie score.
A force of 27 men left here at three o’clock Friday afternoon and reached the Missouri town early Saturday morning. The boys received a fine reception from the St. Joseph Junior* Chamber of Commerce who sponsored the event. The “Bees” had to miss a dance in order to get the train back to Chicago where the team spent Sunday. Others making the trip, besides coach and players were: managers Ed Walsh and Jim Murray, and Father Regis O’Neill, who served as chaplain for the group.
Director of Athletics, Elmer Layden, is trying to line up other “B” team games with Valparaiso and St. Joseph’s colleges.
For the SOPHOMORE COTILLION Nov. 16
and the other ‘Formats”
Our Campus Representatives
Charles Dillon
Joe Callahan
Bernie Osterman
will aid you in selecting your
Formal Attire
JOE CALLAHAN 117 Walsh Hall
Full Dress Suits
•25
M*X ADLER
ON THE CORNER” ... Michigan at Washington
Rockne Memorial News
Last Tuesday, Oct. 22, a ladder handball tournament opened the second phase of the 1940-41 Rockne Memorial sports program, the freshman swimming meet having opened activities on Thursday, Oct. 10. There are fifty entries in the tourney which will introduce a novel form of play. There are two “ladders,” composed of 25 men each, with each of the contestants challenging a man above him, in order to increase his standing in the ladder. This will continue for six weeks, at the end of which time the four highest men in each ladder will stage a play-off for the school championship.
Next week a novice squash tourney will begin with all “non-players” invited to enter. It is strictly a contest to acquaint those students with the game who have never indulged in the sport before. An open squash tourney will follow soon after, which will be open to all students including all “veterans” of the sport.
According to Mr. Thomas Mills, athletic director of the Memorial, interhall basketball teams will engage in a few warm-up contests in December. However, the actual tournament will not begin untiL after the Christmas holidays.
—Al Clark
CHARLES DILLON 121 Walsh Hall
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
THE
Exhibition at Library
A collection of rare children’s books is due for exhibit in the library starting next week and continuing through November, Librarian Paul Byrne has announced. The collection features old and rare types in the books which are from England, France, and America. The collection is a private one and will be here on loan.
SHOE DEN FOR MEN
Distinction Plus
These handsome PRE-FLEX Shoes offer you a unique combination: approval-winning fashion authenticity, plus healthful "first-step comfort.” True flexibility, belying the rugged appearance of these reproductions of custom-made shoes. Try on a pair today.
Special Process Shoes
120 So. Michigan St.
’’Catalyzer’' Coming Soon
The October issue of The Catalyzer is scheduled for release within the next two weeks, James A. Champley, editor this year, announced. He is assisted by Thomas P. Grady, Walter J. Cordes, and David P. Moncries.
The magazine in its 18th year is a publication of the Department of Chemistry and the Department of Chemical Engineerng; its purpose is to bring a closer union between the graduates and the undergraduates. The magazine contains news of students and student group activities in the two departments. Each issue also contains a feature article by a graduate and an editorial by one of the staff members. The Catalyzer was one of the first and still is one of the few chemistry publications in the country.—William Herzog
BOSTONS
124 S. Michigan Street
For Your Smartest Attire
■
Dean McCarthy Named
James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed by Gov. M. Clifford Townsend of Indiana as a member of the advisory council on unemployment compensation.
The board of 17 members was called together by the governor to advise in formulating administration policies, to insure impartiality, neutrality, and freedom from political influence in administration of the division, and to assist in developing standards for administration and selection of personnel.
$5.50
They're a hit with young men -—our broguish,Modern Aristocrat shoes with the exclusive, mellow-rich CORDWAIN ER Hand Finish. See them today.
it
Varsity vs. Conscription
What effect will the new selective service law have on the Fighting Irish of 1941? According to provisions in the law, college students will be subject to call after July, 1940. It is presumed that engineering and medical students will probably be deferred.
A glance at the Irish football roster for this year shows that there are at least 17 young men eligible for competition next year who had reached their 21st birthday at the time the list was compiled. A few more may have since reached their majority and now meet the draft requirements.
Backfield men who may be ensnared in the conscription net include: Right halves, Juzwik and Bagarus; Fullbacks, Chlebeck, Crimmins, McNeill and Wright. Linemen who might not return are: Right guards, Bereolos and Owen McGoldrick; Right tackles, Ziemba and Cliff Brosey who is an engineer; Left tackles, Jim Brutz, Rively, Lou Rymkus and Lawrence Sullivan; Left end, Ray Ebli, and Center, Jim Ford.
BOSTON does it again ! ! Shoes of Solid Leather by
Guy McGregor
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Excavation Begins This Week for New $65,000 Heat-Power Lab for Engineers
Excavation began this week for the new $65,000 Heat-Power Laboratory of the College of Engineering, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced. The new laboratory will be built 75 feet north of the Ave Maria printing offices now under construction on the northeastern spur of the University campus.
Maginnis and Walsh of Boston, the University architects, and Thomas L. Hickey, Inc., of South Bend, contractor, are in charge of the building which, according to present plans will be 122 feet long and 82 feet wide. The building will consist of a ground floor and a main or machinery floor.
Dean Dugald C. Jackson of the College of Engineering announced that the new laboratory will be built of simple brick style with a flat roof having a monitor for additional light on the main floor. The south side of the building on both floors will be used by the department of mechanical engineering, principally for its steam laboratory work, although equipment in hydraulic machinery and air-conditioning will be installed. The north half of the main floor will be the internal combustion engine laboratory of the department of aeronautical engineering.
On the ground floor at the east-end
Kour
with a new
LEE Water-®®** ®at
The LEE TEL 35.00
Will not onlyimprove your Hat-i-tude but your appearance as well. It's not the same old hat. The mirror tells the story.
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat... $3^0.
LEE
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REG, U. S. PATENT OFFICE
AT OUR NEW MEN’S SHOP
GEO. WYMAN & CO.
Junior Pictures
Any off-campus Junior who desires to have his picture taken for the 1940 Dome, has been invited to visit the basement of Walsh Hall any afternoon next week, Oct. 28» Nov. 1, from 1:30 to 5:00. The price is fifty cents.
C. A. B. STUDENTS FLY IN STYLE
and on the north side will be two classrooms, a reading room, and several small research rooms. A combination tool room and machine shop will be located in the middle of the main floor. Two small offices, locker rooms, lavatories, and shower rooms will be provided.
The internal combustion engine equipment will be moved from its present location in Cushing Hall, releasing space for the aerodynamics and aeroplane structures laboratories of the department of aeronautical engineering.
—Bill Scanlan
Stage Victory Dance
A Victory Dance will be held at the Indiana Club tomorrow night, from 8:30 to 11:30, featuring the music of the Notre Dame Modernaires. The dance will be under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Marching Band.

AVIATION JACKETS $7.95
Slash pockets, double breasted cape model with zipper front.
Others $6.95 to $17.95
HATS
They can’t wrinkle!
DONEGAL POPLIN TIES
$1.00
HICKOK “TOOLED” STEERHIDE BELTS
$1.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Irish and Army Carry On
Gathering momentum and power with every game played, Notre Dame comes to the game that means everything to them, the game they cannot drop, the one with the Cadets of West Point. This is a game steeped in tradition and color, where neither team can be classed as the underdog because the fight and spirit that each team possesses cannot be measured in such feeble terms as favorite and underdog. The greatest loss suffered by the Army was in the line when graduation took Capt. Harry Stella who played a lot of tackle for one man. The returning regulars include Capt. Elect Bill Gillis at center; Bob Evans, fullback, who is regarded as the best blocker on the squad; Ray Murphy fast charging guard; and John Hatch, half-■ back, a hard runner, good passer and the only sophomore in this group.
The Army-Notre Dame series is one of the oldest and hardest fought in existence, dating from 1913. Although the winning side of the ledger is a trifle one sided, Notre Dame having won 19 out of 26 games played and two games going the deadlocked route. The last Army team to defeat Notre Dame was in 1931 when they blanked the Irish 12 to 0 and the Cadets have been trying hard to duplicate this feat ever since.
A look at the records does not show the intense rivalry between the two schools, for when the Irish and the Cadets meet all past records can be
Select your MEDICO PIPES from the largest pipe stock 'in South Bend.
MANY FORMER SMOKERS OF EXPENSIVE PIPES NOW PREFER
^fMBDICO
filter accomplishes
■hat m other pipe
lanK

tossed in the wastebasket for they mean very little.
Three opponents have already felt the power and precision of the Notre Dame grid machine. From all sides praise and acclaim has been given to them by rival coaches, and with the passing of each game the visions of another national championship become stronger and clearer. Still the coming game with Army can not be looked on too lightly, the Cadets will be fighting for every inch of ground but it looks like another victory march for the Irish.—Joseph Lafferty
STUDENT PILOTS
(Continued from Page 8) should receive their initial flight training on the field adjoining the campus, it has been definitely decided that all shall use the facilities of the Bendix airport, with the cooperation of both the Stock-ert Air Service and the Indiana Air Service. The students are granted free transportation to and from the field; buses leave the campus on the hour. Instructors Stockert, Kelly, and Myers of the S.A.S. and Kelly and Myers of the I.A.S. will conduct the flights.
Ralph Martini, a secondary from Howard Hall, expressed his enthusiasm for the program when I interviewed him Sunday. Ralph believes that the whole set-up is absolutely perfect. Murray O’Toole, also of Howard Hall but a preliminary likewise expressed his enthusiasm in stating that the courses give a great opportunity for those desirous of,
Bruggner’s
Cigar Store
110 N. MAIN STREET
IN THE J. M. S. BUILDING
The Natural N. D. Hang-Out
CEMINE FILTHS FHMMCFNKS
7
' absorbent filters!
medjgq
but hitherto unable to receive aviation training.	’
When the prelims complete their course in January they shall receive a private pilot’s license and are eligible, pending upon a further medical exam, to continue secondary training. The secondary men will receive a letter of certification in January and the privilege to use government ships if they are unable otherwise to fly 15 hours per year, the minimum number of hours required to hold their license.—Ed Drake
CHICAGO STATIONS
Three South Shore stations in downtown Chicago, and three on the south side. You can get off or on at 115th St., 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St.
The South Shore takes you to the heart of things in Chicago, is near museums, Soldier’s Field, and other famous attractions. Van Buren and Randolph Street stations are only a step away from Michigan Boulevard.
Fast service, frequent schedules. Ride the South Shore. For complete information phone the ticket agent 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Mass Calender: Oct. 27 to Nov. 2
Sunday, 27 — Twenty Fourth after Pentecost. (Epiphany) Feast of Christ the King. 2d prayer and last Gospel (3d after Epiphany) of the Sunday.
Monday, 28 — Saints Simon and Jude, Apostles. Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Tuesday, 29 — Feria. Mass of the preceding Sunday (Third after Epiphany), 2d prayer, of the Saints (a. cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 30 — Feria. Everything as yesterday. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 31 — Vigil of All Saints. (Fast and Abstinence) 2d prayer, the Holy Ghost, 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, Nov. 1 — Feast of All the Saints. (Holy Day of Obligation).
Saturday, 2 — Commemoration of All the Faithful Departed. Three masses as given in the Missal.
Sam* I Spiro & Company
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
"Beau Geste" to Appear on
Campus Movie Program
The Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., director of the motion picture programs at Washington Hall, announced that tomorrow night the feature presentation will he “Beau Geste,” starring Gary Cooper and Ray Milland; it will be preceded by a Walt Disney cartoon and an R.K.O. newsreel.
The “Middle-Weight” Jacket Champion
Wholly new idea in indoor-outdoor coats. Originated by Manhattan, and selected in a poll by upper classmen: "We like it, weight, colors, saddle stitching and all.” Wool suede, $8.95. At your favorite store, along with those other Manhattan hits, the wool-and-rayon gabardine shirt ($5), and the plaid cotton flannel high-tone Hillbilly shirt ($2).
SNAPPY SPORT JACKETS REDUCED UP TO 50%
RECO Sporting Goods 113 N. Main Phone 4-6731 “Look for the Log Front?’
The Manhattan Shirt Company, 444 Madison Ave., N. Y. G
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
Prof. MacLean Resigns To Join Bendix Corp.
Professor J. A. MacLean of the Aeronautics department has resigned to accept an offer from the Bendix Corporation in South Bend. Professor Jay A. Bolt, a graduate of Michigan State College, will succeed him. Mr. Bolt is well fitted for the position; after his graduation from Michigan State he completed graduate studies at Purdue University.
He received his master’s degree from Chrysler Institute of Engineering. From there he proceeded to the University of Michigan, where he taught mechanical engineering in 1937 and 1938. His name next appeared on the faculty list of the University of Illinois. To add to his knowledge Mr. Bolt has been connected with the Chrysler Corporation and the Ethyl Gasoline Company. In both positions he worked at automotive and aircraft research. Mr. Bolt is to teach a course in internal-combustion engines in the department of aeronautical engineering.—Bill Herzog
Sessler Honored
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, head of the department of art, and for 12 years a professor in that department, was elected vice president of the Midwest College Art conference at their annual meeting which came to an end Saturday in Madison, Wis.
Norman Rice, dean of the Chicago Art Institute, was elected president and Gordon E. Paxson of Rockford, Ill., College, secretary and treasurer. The conference, which was attended by representatives of 30 universities, colleges and academies of the Mississippi valley region, decided upon Chicago as the scene of its 1941 meeting.—Mark G. McGrath
Eggs and Votes
Once every four years the great American public does its best to make of itself a collective fool. The occasion is the campaign period before each presidential election.
Surprisingly, in 1932 and 1936 there wasn’t much of the asinine ballyhoo of other election years. There isn’t anything to explain that lapse in giddy tactics. But as if to deplore the inertness of ’32 and ’36, Americans in general are again turning to childish, inane ways of showing allegiance, or the lack of it, to particular candidates.
Important considerations are overlooked by some-voters. They want a vaudeville skit from Willkie in place of
a sensible speech; they want Roosevelt to put on a juggling act instead of a talk on foreign affairs.
The candidates are seriously concerned with America’s future and, are trying to present their solutions to national and international problems. The “peepul” are throwing tomatoes, eggs, and boos.
There is a vital issue in this election. Willkie believes private business can go along by itself and straighten out unemployment and the depression; New Dealers think private capitalism needs public spending as a supplement, and may even be a waning influence in American life. But some women voters like Willkie’s curl; some men are in favor of Roosevelt’s voice—that’s as far as they delve into the situation.
“Don’t you think Mrs. Willkie would be a darling first lady?”
“The President has such a charming voice.”
The CROMWELL $3.95
$3-95 - $5
Custom and Normal-Trod series $7 00
Quality Host., 4 pairs $1.00
for style/
. . That’s what well-dressed men on every campus are now saying about the Douglas Cromwell and those other swagger brogues in new-tone "antiqued” finishes and rich grained leathers. For comfort and appearance they’re the season’s buy.
^Doruqlai Shod
210 South Michigan Street
“Aw, Roosevelt is gettin ’old; he’ll never be able to stand the grind.”
“Look at the nice smile on Wendell.”
Whats’ the difference? Who cares? The voters in this country are supposed to know what their presidential choice stands for, what his past experience and
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C. BERRY. O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
successes recommend, what kind of men are behind him.
This kind of intelligent action just isn’t what some of the goofy girls and batty boys who vote want to go through. They don’t have time to seriously consider the merits and deficiencies of each candidate.
There should be a drastic change of attitude. Those who can read ought to look into this election and see what the meat of the situation is. Those who can use correct grammar might well discuss the question with some other such talented person.
The pitchers should stop throwing tomatoes. In the first place they are showing themselves to be like five-year-old brats, and secondly they haven’t thrown any strikes, so the big league scouts won’t be able to use them.
—John Patterson
Notre Dame Alumni
To Meet in New York
On Nov. 1 at 8 o’clock, the eve of the traditional pigskin struggle between Notre Dame and Army in the Yankee Stadium, the Notre Dame Club of New York will sponsor a reunion and rally in the Hotel Commodore on Lexington Avenue and 42nd street, New York. Mr. Richard Donahue will act as chairman.
The various classes of alumni will each have their own reunions in separate dining rooms, the arrangements being as follows: in Parlor B all alumni up to 1920 •will gather, in Parlor C graduates from 1921-26, in Parlor D those from the classes ’27-’32, in Parlor E ’33-36, in Parlor F ’37-’39 and in Parlor G the ’40 alumni and undergraduates.
Tickets for the affair are priced at $1.50 per person and include entertainment, refreshments and dancing. Reservations are to be made in advance by those wishing to attend. Mr. Joseph G. Friel, ’29, is in charge of applications which are to be sent with remittances to the Hotel Commodore.—Richard Powers
Headquarters for COCA - COLA
“The Huddle”
PIPE TOBACCO and CANDY

Sail For Orient
Seven priests and brothers, members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, are scheduled to sail for the Orient on Nov. 17 to take up missionary work in Bengal, India.
Three priests, the Rev. Paul Shea, C.S.C., the Rev. Raymond Massart, C.S.C., and the Rev. Edward H. Wetzel, C.S.C., are returning after spending a year in the United States.
The Rev. Francis J. Burton, C.S.C., and the Rev. Alfred J. Neff, C.S.C., are entering the foreign mission field for the first time, as are Brother Alonzo, C.S.C., and Brother James, C.S.C.
Booled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
i.f
Everybody knows what happens when thirst meets ice-cold Coca-Cola. That thirsty feeling leaves and a refreshed feeling comes. Pure, wholesome, delicious,—ice-cold Coca-Cola satisfies completely.
Drink
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COSTUME DISPLAY
(Continued from page 7)
this period. At the height of Elizabethan fashion a corruptive element was creeping in which later came to flower during the reign of the Stuarts. To a more or less degree the styles in France, Italy, Spain, and even Russia had an important influence on the costumes for the production. In the long hell, sleeves of the black velvet costume of the Courtier Curio there is the Russian stamp. The Spanish element is noticeable in the bombast sleeves. Women’s fashion revolved around Elizabeth herself. The queen’s favorites from Leicester to Essex dictated the male styles. Absolute reproduction of an historical costume was not attempted. The spirit of any age in the theatre is conveyed by the highlighting of a few features of dress.
“The sketches are merely the first step, although the most important. Next there is the choice of materials to be made. In the costumes of ‘Twelfth Night’ about twenty different materials were used: velvets, velveteens, satins, sateens, crepes, nets, brocades, Egyptian Repp, terry cloth, lace, and even fur cloth.”
MAX ADLER
"ON THE CORNER" .. . Michigan at Washington
New Styles . . . New Patterns for National Arrow Week
Today, during National Arrow Week come in. pick out some handsome Arrow fancy shirts . . some perfectly tailored Arrow whites. They’re $2 and up.
ft's Adler's for Arrows!
collar-blind?
Do YOU know what collar style looks best on you? Well, we have Arrow shirts in any number of collar styles. Come in and we’ll help you choose which style is most becoming to you. New Arrow patterned shirts,
$2, «P
Do you know what week this is?
This is the week every self-respecting college man should look over his shirt drawer and his tie rack . . . see what he needs . . . and then
- hustle to his Arrow dealer. For it’s National
Arrow Week!	-
This is the week all the new patterns arrive . .. this is the week stocks of Arrow Shirts, Shorts, Ties, and Handkerchiefs arc at their peak. Get your semester’s supply of Arrows now.

ARROW SHIRTS
COLLARS ... TIES ... HANDKERCHIEFS ... UNDERWEAR
26
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
Sergei Rachmaninoff is busy finishing up the orchestration of “Symphonic Dances,” his first composition since the Third Symphonic which appeared four years ago. The work is a long tone poem in three movements, and Rachmaninoff has promised its first performance to the Philadelphia Orchestra for some time early in January, 1941. “Symphonic Dances” was written this summer while the composer was visiting at an estate on Long Island. He has a summer home at Lake Lucerne, in Switzerland, but of course it was impossible for him to go there. The new composition gave him time to do little else than eat, sleep and write music, for he is reported to have spent from ten to twelve hours a day on it. Rachmaninoff was the soloist with the Chicago Orchestra on Tuesday last.
❖
The annual fall opera season in Chicago’s Civic Opera House will open Saturday night, November 2, with a special performance of Verdi’s Aida. The performance will commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the establishment of a resident opera company in Chicago. Soloists in this opening presentation will include Giovanni Martinelli and John Charles Thomas.
The New York Philharmonic broadcast for Sunday, October 27, will present the orchestra playing Mozart’s Overture to The Marriage of Figaro, the Fifth Symphony of Tschaikowski, tnd the two-piano concerto in E flat of Mozart. Vitya Vronsky and Victor Babin will appear as the soloists in this last work.
Sftdtlilhig «■ the ex-•	•/ the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Freme repair service in onr own loboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
The transcription craze, brought to brilliant prominence by Leopold Stokowski who devitalized all of the old Bach organ works which he ever transcribed into a vague heap of insipid romanticism, is evidently being carried on to still even greater heights by his conducting successor, Eugene Ormandy. Mr. Or-mandy has introduced his own transcription for orchestra of a Handel organ concerto in D major. He does not consider the organ part essential to the
Get Mote Fun (W«’ f Sports, Work, Social We-
Chew Delicious DOUBLEMINT GUM Daily , overvwhere '
Mert college men	flavor . - -the	. j
“joy the rrfr^. ’'of healthful. delicious ....
velvety smoothness •'	<
DOUBLEM1NT gum-	ioytag this refresh-	j
]ustseetayouxs^h^B^ou do	Che«-	.
tag treat adds fun-toe	relieve you- ;
ino	DOUBtEMD”	GU“„flel^ sweeten your	,
- i breath, and keep y
- ^Xr^^GUM *taexpenswe' ."'J . 0146
-........... ..  ..................  ...................... .......... .-.V	...wX'A aw.Ao
work, and so he has omitted it. More over, to relieve some of the classica austerity of this 18th century music, he has made use of the resources of moderr orchestration . . . this probably means he has given parts to harps and bells and wind-making machines.
* ❖ *
E. Power Biggs, who is organist foi the Boston Symphony Orchestra, is pres ently playing a series of twelve recitals devoted to the organ music of J. S. Bad
THE
Office phone 3-4822 Home Phone 3-2534
OFFICE HOURS 9-12 AND 1:30-5 TUES. ANDTHURS. . 7-9
EDWARD F. SCANLON, D.D.S. DENTIST
ROOM 1. MAIN COLFAX BLDG. SOUTH BEND. 129 W. COLFAX AVE.	INDIANA
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE, EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
J. M. S. BUILDING
on the new baroque organ in St. Paul’s Chapel at Columbia University. Biggs some few years ago played the complete organ works of Bach in a series of ten recitals on the baroque organ in the Germanic Museum at Harvard University. He has done numerous recordings on this particular organ, but the critics have been meagre in their praise of either Biggs’ playing or the classical organ. Would that we had a baroque (or any organ at all) at Notre Dame so that Mr. Biggs could come and play some Bach for us.
ROP/Hf FOR
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTl STRY—X - RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON.
M.	D.	M. D.
r ■	■
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose, d. d. s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d. s. Peter J. Rose. d. d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BENO
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND, IND.
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
What is the theatre fare for Notre Dame this season? Many of us have been wondering, surmising, suggesting. None of us seem to know. So let’s try tabulating the rumors, and set a very tentative schedule of drama activity for the year.
At the opening of the school year “Twelfth Night,” Mr. Robert Speaight’s successful production of the past summer, was considered the logical opener. It was to be revived at Washington Hall. After long silence on the matter, tongues are again wagging the news of the “Twelfth Night” revival. But the wagging tongues are wrong.
This is merely half the rumor. Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., is seriously considering the production of Sutton Vane’s brilliant play, “Outward Bound.” And the tongues, as they have a habit of doing, reverse their wagging to tell us this show will be done in early December. They are saving “Twelfth Night” for a date far into the second semester. We wonder again at the tongues.
* * *
Concerning a possible production of “Outward Bound” we can say only that this number, if ever a play needed it, needs careful and precise staging. Its dialogue throughout is delicate, and extremely pliable, providing a picnic-place for any actor with imagination. But a picnic lasts just so long and then it rains. An actor in “Outward Bound” must pierce the personality of the character he portrays, and he must do it with his mind first and then with his emotions. Each of Sutton Vane’s persons are sharply drawn, clearly implied in his dialogue. Pure technique, or “formula treatment,” in dealing with Mr. Prior, Mrs. Midget, Henry, or Scrubby will destroy the character and ultimately sterilize the play. Actors given this assignment will have to dig in by sharpening their dramatic instincts and thinking.
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
VICTOR Musical Masterpieces
Tschaikowsky—“Aurora’s Wedding” Ballet Music—London Philharmonic under Efrem Kurtz. $3.50.
Gershwin — “Rhapsody in Blue” — Paul Whiteman’s orchestra with the composer at the piano—12 inch Black Label. Only 75c.
Strauss — “Chocolate Soldier Selection” — recorded in Europe by Marek Weber and orchestra. 75c.
Wagner—“Lohengrin (Prelude to Act 3)” and “Gotterdammerung (Dawn and Siegfried’s Rhine Journey)”—New York Philharmonic Symphony orchestra with Arturo Toscannini conducting. $1.00.
Sweet mm Swing
Popular VICTOR Records — 50c
“Two Dreams Meet” and “When You Awake”—T. Dorsey and orchestra.
“Down Argentina Way” and “You’re Nearer”—Leo Reisman and orchestra.
“Dancing on a Dime” and “I Hear Music” —Larry Clinton and orchestra.
Popular BLUEBIRD Records — 35c
“A Handful of Stars” and “Yesterthoughts” —Glenn Miller and orchestra.
“When the Mush Begins to Rush Down Father’s Vest” and “I Surrender, Dear”— Shep Fields and his Rippling Rhythm.
“I Give You My Word” and “There Was a Little Girl”—Mitchell Ayres and his Fashions in Music.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrdlas Well-Informed Clerks
HODinS
/ ; * *	T ar \ -	. j v
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
Copyright 1940,llGGETT & MVEBS TOBACCO Co.