SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:	।
A d d r ess:___________________________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
I
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
NEWS
3	Balance of Power
5	Years in the Making CAMPUS LIFE
8	The Guard
10	Thrill-Seeking Students SPORTS
14	One Tough Team
16	To Aim Higher ENTERTAINMENT
19	Out Of Bounds
20	They Might Be Giants DEPARTMENTS
2	Editor’s Notes
7	CampusWatch
22	On Other Campuses
23	Week In Distortion
Cover photo by Nick Spangler
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
SCHOLASTIC
NOpDAMEMSWENtMAGAZINE
l;.yoi^34;/N^^
^ptembeiHl.^
bisceau^
P Vive ■duas/ Cras Moriturus I
:‘N ■ =■ ■
z PlfeP Funded |1867pPpB
EDITORS
MANAGING EDITOR
Margaret S. Kenny

EDITOR'S NOTES
Join Scholastic
" Scholastic is always looking for new faces and ideas. If you are interested in writing, editing or photography, Scholastic is for you. If you missed us on Activities Night, stop by our office in 303 LaFortune. You can also give, us a call at 239-7569. ?
If you have a little more experience than
In This Issue
Have you ever wondered about the Irish Guard? Who are those kilt-clad men? Why don’t they ever smile? In this week’s cover story, Kristen Lefere and Elisa Klosterman search for the answers to these questions among others. At the same time, we all learn . a little bit more, about the tradition of the
most, Scholastic is still accepting appllca- Guard as well as who the Guards really are. tions for News Editor, Departments Editor	Also in Campus Life, editor Mollie Mudd
aiid Systems Manager.. These are paid po- takes a look at some of Notre Dame’s ' sitions. All of the editors on our editorial daredevils — bungee jumpers, sky-diver's, board will be choosing assistants in the near rock-climbers. In the News department, future as well. If you are interested, pick up former Scholastic editor Ian Mitchell inter-
EXECUnVEEDITOR
David U: Holsi ngerpl $
CAMPUS LI FE M!?
: Editor:^!li^
ill
...SPORTS.',. P
J ?Editor: Jim Kuser
111
pENTER^
Editon.Ken Osgood '
•Editor
gSENIORW^	. . .
>yWnar$a.^
PI
fe1
;HeidtLayra^bo^


GRAPHICAR^ :ManageG-JakeFrost
£Manager: Chin Wang.?....
. ;■
.p

an application; they are. due tomorrow by 5
p.m.	:	J
Attention all Artists
Scholastic is looking.for cartoonists! If you are interested in having your artwork published each week, please bring three samples of your work to our office in LaFortune by Friday, September 18. 'Your samples will be judged by. the editorial board.
Correction
Last week .-the Gipp made a slip. : In CampusWatch it was reported that the LaFortune information .desk and the Bookstore were responsible for the disparity in the prices for “The Shirt.” Actually SUB. set the different prices in order to give the students a discount. Scholastic regrets the error.
views board of trustees chairman, Andrew J. McKenna. He also shares the insights he gained over the two year interviewing process.
Managing editor Margaret Kenny switches gears this week with a preview of tonight’s They Might Be Giants concert. Sports editor Jim Kuser prepares us for our home football opener against Michigan, and Jeff Weghorst highlights the women’s volleyball team.
You can also find our regular departments and features: CampusWatch, On Other Campuses, Week in Distortion, Out of Bounds and this week’s Coming Distractions Calendar.
Margaret S. Kenny
Managing Editor
ADVERTISING :< . . .? .
? Manager: KarenRiley-'
l^siN^^IOSiSfi
Manager: Eileen Shelley?
r	? Pm P I 'P ;; M ■'
^DISTRIBUTION MANAGER //Bill-Rhbmbeig:?^??-;.:?-..?;?
P




Scholar ic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and' vacation periods al the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 and printed al The Papers, Inc., Milford,IN 46542. The subscription rateis $25.00fyear and backissuesare available at $125 /copy.. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the .authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the ' entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, ’ its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic ^represent the’opinion of the majority of the executive editorial band. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicilied materials become the property of Scholastic.
.^Copyright 1992 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited’/.
Letterslo Scholasticmusl be typed andincludethewriler's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college.Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances,
Scholastic reserves theright to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws o/ the United States. Scholastic also.will slit for copy fitting, grammaiicalar spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of spare, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Addre^ all correspondence to :	'
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556
2
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
Balance of Power
Andrew J. McKenna ascends to the chaiman's seat of the board of trustees
by Ian Mitchell'
Father Edward “Monk” Malloy is nothing more than a powerless figurehead.
Well, of course, not really. But technically even the president of the university has to report to superiors — since 1967 Notre Dame has been governed by a board of trustees. -
The names of some trustees are familiar to most Notre Dame students. Malloy and University Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp serve on the board in addition to their work in the administration. Many other trustees also have jobs on campus, including Provost Timothy O’Meara, University Counsel Phillip Faccenda and Father Thomas Blaritz, who teaches in the history department.
A listing of some of the other trustee’s names , might sound like more a campus map: Arthur J. Decio, Frank J. Pasquerilla, Ray H. Siegfried, Jr. and Alfred Stepan all serve on the board.
But over the past few years, the most recognizable trustee has probably been the chairman of the board, Donald R. Keough. Keough, president and chief operating officer of Coca-Cola, has appeared in the advertisements for Notre Dame that are broadcast during half time of football
games.
But Keough’s term as chairman ended this year. Since June 1, Monk Malloy has had a new “boss.”
Andrew J. McKenna is the fourth chairman of the trustees. Unlike his predecessor
7.<■;-: 7; ? 7; ?■	7<	V7?77.
Keough, McKenna attended Notre Dame, graduating with a degree in business administration and marketing in 1951. He has been a trustee since 1980 and was named vice chairman of the board when that position was created in 1986.
In a telephone interview with Scholastic, conducted before he officially took over as chairman, McKenna praised Keough’s service to Notre Dame singling out his leadership during the “Strategic Moment” fundraising campaign, which raised record amounts for the university.
McKenna also credited. Keough for his role in Notre Dame’s 1987 transfer of power. The board of trustees was created during Father Hesburgh’s tenure as president, so when Hesburgh stepped down, it was the first, and to date only, time the trustees had to select a new leader for the university.
“I think that the smooth transition that occurred during Don’s stewardship ... was executed very well,” McKenna said. . “I think it carried the university very well into the decade of the‘90s.”
McKenna said he did not foresee any major changes in the operation of the board during his leadership.
“I would think that while the faces on the board might change ... the fact is that the basic role of the board would remain pretty much as it has,” he said. McKenna also said he was pleased with Notre Dame’s balance between academics and athletics and the university’s management
“Certainly we’re very confident in the administration: the president, executive vice
BS
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
3
Donald R. Keough, the third chairman of the trustees, serves as president and chief operating officer of Coca-Cola and appeared in the Notre Dame commercials that are aired during football games. Yet on June 1,1992, Keough was replaced...
presidentand the provost,” he said. “We feel very, very, very good about the future of the university, recognizing that all schools and colleges and universities will have issues to deal with during the decade of the ‘90s, and I think Notre Dame is very well positioned to deal with those.”
McKenna declined to comment on some specific issues, explaining that some were management matters for the administration to decide, while others were trustee-level decisions, but that he could not speak for the board.
The chairman of the trustees complimented last year’s student government report on undergraduate education, which dealt with concerns that the university was strengthening graduate programs and research at the expense of Notre Dame’s traditional emphasis on undergraduate teaching.
“I think the report was very well done.,” McKenna said. “I think there will be ample discussion of that issue, and, frankly, it’s an issue of prime concern to the board.... Certainly it’s something which theboard will be very closely observing.”
McKenna said he could not speculate on
whether the university would be making changes and did not want to voice his own opinions. “In a board leadership role it’s important to hear the views of everyone else, so that you don’t unduly influence others, and I’m anxious to hear the views and hear the discussion and then let’s see where we go.”
McKenna also declined to comment on the board’s decision to re-elect Provost Timothy O’Meara. Last spring, some faculty members objected to O’Meara’s reelection, arguing that there had been no faculty input into the provost’s selection, contrary toNotre Dame’s academic articles.
On other matters, McKenna said the
trustees would defer to the judgement of the though quiet,McKenna’sroleasachairman
university’s administration. McKenna said questions about Notre Dame’s alcohol policy or recognition of gay and lesbian groups were “management issues” where “the board would be supportive of the administration, whatever their view might be.”
The issue of co-residential housing has recently put in the spotlight again with this year’s conversion of Pangbom Hall from male to female housing and the lifting of the cap on female admissions. Previous student government reports to the trustees have called for co-ed housing. McKenna said he had not yet formed an opinion on the subject “I would certainly be neutral on that [co-ed housing] because I don’t have any real view until we hear [from] the advocates as well as those who are opposed to it”
McKenna explained that the job of the board is to supply governance, not management	g
“I think the role of the trustees is very $ important: to provide governance for the | university. It’s important that the university ? continue to strive for the excellence that J Father Hesburgh brought, and that Father g Malloy helped maintain, and must not lose § that focus,” he said. “We must deal with the issues, we must evaluate the graduate versus our undergraduate constituencies. I think the overall goals of the university which were so well established back in the founding in 1842 need to be reinforced.”'
While Andrew McKenna often defers to the board’s judgement and the administration’s decision’s, it is clear that he has considerable influence.
A profile of McKenna in Crain's Chicago
Business quoted Tom Monahan, a Notre Dame alumnus, as saying, “McKenna’s job [as chairman] is much stronger, much more important than it was 20 years ago.”
McKenna has extensive business and sporting ties in the Chicago area: In addition to his position as president and chief executive officer of Schwarz Paper Company (in which he owns a controlling share), McKenna also serves on the boards of the McDonald’s Corporation, the Tribune Company, the Chicago Bears and the Chicago Cubs, among others.
The Crain’s article terms McKenna “enigmatic” and“theZelig of Chicago business” for his quiet style of management But
of the trustees is still powerful, and his loyalty to the university is unquestionable.
McKenna “has missed only one Aon Corp, board meeting in 22 years,” Crain's reports. His excuse for skipping the 1987 gathering? He had to attend the press conference announcing that Father Malloy would be the next university president. McKenna was chairman of the selection
□
committee,
... Andrew J. McKenna, a 1951 graduate of the university, Is a director of Aon Corporation, the Chicago Bears, the Chicago Cubs, McDonald's Corporation, Skyline Corporation, Lake Shore Bancorp Inc., Lake Shore National Bank and the Tribune Company.
4
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS COMMENTARY _________ ;
i
Years in the
,	I
.	■	•	I
Making
Former Scholastic Editor learns the ins and outs	J
of Notre Dame bureaucracy
by Ian Mitchell
The article on the proceeding pages— an interview with the chairman of Notre Dame’s board of trustees — was literally years in the making.
Magicians never reveal their secrets, and reporters rarely explain how an idea becomes an article. But in this case the story behind the story reveals more about Notre Dame than anything said in the interview,.
To begin with, the story wasn’t originally going to be an interview at all. When I first got the idea for the article—in fall 1989— I meant for it to include the opinions of the entire board of trustees. As a naive sophomore, I thought surveying the trustees on a number of campus issues would be a simple, good story. Since the trustees meet on campus only a few times a year, the easiest way to conduct the survey would be to send out questionnaires. All I needed were their addresses.
The trustee’s addresses, I soon learned, were on file at the university relations office, which periodically sends board members packets of information. University Relations wouldn’t give me the addresses, but they would include the questionnaire in the packet they sent to the trustees. But first they wanted to see a copy of the questions I
wanted to ask.
My questions were for the trustees, not university relations, and I refused to show them a copy. As I left the office, one of the secretaries mentioned that the trustee’s names and hometowns wete publicly available, and that if I was really interested, I could probably find their addresses using that information.
I was really interested, and, in fact, I had. already started searching through phone books, corporate guides, alumni listings and professional directories. Eventually I found 47 home and work addresses covering (I thought) all the trustees.
In January 1990 I mailed the questionnaires. The cover letter I sent out.began:
“Dear Notre Dame Trustee,
“As Notre Dame’s student magazine, Scholastic covers many issues on campus. Unfortunately, often the final answer to our questions is ‘that’s up to the board of trustees.’ Since the board meets on campus only three times a year, it’s not possible for us to interview individual trustees. This situation is roughly analogous to White House reporters who never see the president and can speak only with the chief of staff.
“As a member of Notre Dame’s board of trustees, your opinion on campus issues is very important to the ultimate decision,
since the board sets and approves much of school policy. S tudents at the university are naturally concerned with what direction the school takes and, while Notre Dame is not a democracy, we. at Scholastic believe that decisions need not be made in secrecy.”
Andy Hilger, then Editor in Chief of Scholastic, explains what happened next: “Joe Cassiday [director of student activities] called me into his office suddenly one af-. temoon. He told me thatFather Tyson [then-vice-president of student affairs] heard about a survey that Ian sent to board members. Apparently he was outraged and faxed a letter requesting that they don’t respond.” In merrily going about my way trying to report a story, I had run smack into DuLac. Without anyone at the magazine realizing it, we had violated the well-known rule against sending out unauthorized surveys. (Yes, I’m serious. Check your own copy, page 75)
Andy apologized to Father Tyson, and as a result of his fax we got only two responses from the trustees. One sent back his completed survey form, and a second sent a note suggesting we interview the chairman of the board. A single survey response wasn’t enough to base a story on, so I figured the idea was dead and gone. Then, in March I received a letter from the vice president of university relations.
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
5
“I would be happy to meet with you in respect to the survey that you sent our Trustees this past month,” wrote William P. Sexton. “It is possible that I could be of assistance to you in obtaining the responses to the questions you posed. It was discussed at our Trustees meeting [in February] and I would like to share with you the reactions and responses.”
I met with Dr. Sexton, who initially suggested that the executive committee (the leadership of the trustees) could answer the ques-• tions. The committee didn’t get time to address the survey at its meetings in 1990, however. In 1991 Sexton suggested that an i interview with the then-chairman of the board, Donald R. Keough, I might answer some of the same questions.
Keough lives in Atlanta, however, and scheduling problems precluded setting up an interview. Finally, in 1992, after Andrew McKenna was chosen as the next chairman, I was able to set up an interview, which was ultimately conducted by phone in May.
As I said at the beginning of this explanation, I think the story of how the interview was arranged reveals quite a lot about how Notre Dame works. It works with a lot of rules (se&DuLac) enforced from above by authorities (like Fr. Tyson). It works very slowly (It took about three years from idea to article) and you never quite get exactly what you wanted. And the only Way Notre Dame can work ;	at all is when two groups of people—persistent students and caring
administrators and faculty —join forces. (My sincere thanks to the i. two trustees who responded to the forbidden survey and to Dr. j Sexton and Mr. McKenna for the interview.) i I learned a lot from chasing down this story idea. I learned the difference between “governance” and “management,” and I now i know that while the trustees have a lot of power in theory, most i	decisions affecting students are actually made by administrators. I
| also learned that in my four years at Notre Dame I had made one j _ lasting contribution. For you see, Notre Dame learned something I' from all this as well.
t In the 1990-’91 edition of DuLac, the “Requests and Proposals” .clause required that “Any student or group of students, including ; any branch of Student Government or any student organization or :	club, wishing to submit an official request or proposal other that
L	[sic] a purely personal communication to the President or a vice
president, must first submit the request or proposal in writing to the |	Vice President for Student Affairs, who will, in turn submit it to the
I President or the vice president concerned.”
;:	In the 1991-’93 edition of the rulebook, with no explanation or
debate, the clause was changed slightly. Now it says (on page 76) i	you have to submit the request or proposal to the Vice President of
Student Affairs if you’re writing “to thePresident, a vice president, ;	a member of the Board of Trustees, or a member of any University
Advisory Council.” Try to talk to the trustees, and you’ll deal with j the administration. They’re making sure there won’t be any more surveys.	□
। Ian Mitchell was 1991-92 editor in chief of Scholastic.
j i Editor's Note: The opinions expressed in this article do not p	necessarily reflect those of Scholastic.
t	6	SCHOLASTIC
iSsjt year the library received a low ranking,by a national association;and-triis year's;US.Newsand WorldReportp\acQ^ Dame’sphysicalreSources(includingthelibrary)at l22nd. Doyou felfffie’IiB^	P&eO^
Notre Dame community?	. k; ■■ B AY2 Yj- %■ I	:
StudentgroupsatNotreDamehavecalledfordivestmentpf univer-|it|f|pi&ngi|jKSp^
divested (heir own funds. Doyou feel the university should di vest?
B/B eBv YBB
NotrBDameBs one. of the few schools in trie country not to offer coeducation^ housing as an o^^^^ toils students.Doyoufeelthatthc time has come for co-ed housing? Would you approve it on an expert mentalbasisincertaindorrns?^^
() Yes, I am in favor of campus-wide co-ed housing.
( ) Yes, I amin favor oflimited and/or experimen tai'co-ed housing.
() No, I donot supportco-edhousing.	^	'
Students have criticized Notre Pame’s alcohol policy as unfair, while the aOinistra® is necessary. What do you tliirilc of thSiaicphqiij&IicyyBBBiiBBbBd^
() The cmfentpoicy istoostfictand shouldbe revised.
() The current alcohol policy does not need revision. WjN ()The current alcohol policy is tbo lenient arid shbiild be’revised. () lam notfamiliar with 'the current policy . ■	B
V.”	J ’■ j j	‘	: f.:	H %	'
: :	A i7-.: i	■ a:	;; :• J.::: y;; J;■ / ■	■ ?	<p■:	= ■ 7 :;2	? B:	:f 7 ‘:	:	: ■; .;-w?■■ ?.■ S.
OfeFacuj$gSena®cj^
mentionedfacultyunionizationas:pnepossiblesolutiohtothe problem. Wfhat; do you. think?BBfBB 'BB BY/W >
yB/S-' B:BBBBB'i:i:B y B•:"4B	< a■ BB"
Do you feel that athletics have become over-emphasized at Notre
Dame? ■	2O2.. 72 .-ri5/ Y
' : ■' %	-fl ■ > - : ..... .■ • • • —	. ■	■' "J ■	: ” S \
■	■.	:	\ C :■ V"	< J-
Lastyear twb Nobe Dame professors proposed thefbrmationofa |nMionaj(Iyy:Li^^e"p^
institutions. Wouldyou support Notre Dame joining such a league?
ThcunivcrsityrcfuscstdrecognizeGayandLesbiangroupsalNotrc Dame; do you agree with that policy? B
V/ha|isi|®|^ari^
today/andwhere wouldyouliketC)seetheschdolintenyears?Are ffie^anBOOlicri®
years? Are there any ideas by whieh you are especially pleased?
.S-f..... ■	:	f—r.	'
7 ;27...■■ -. ■	i.B:: ■:=:;r;■; --i:B ■ • ■ Y	:	■ ■ ? 7:	?>.	■■? y ;: > '=<	? -i::	■::B:	1:=• ■
Arethereariyotherissuesaffectingtheuniversityonwhichyou wouldliketo comment? .
____NEWS COMMENTARY______
Campus Watch
BY THE GIPPER_
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
QUIET, PLEASE!
Hey ho, kiddies, summer’s here, and that means people are out on the quads sunning themselves, playing frisbee and just generally goofing off a lot more. Of course, this increase of activity on the quads also means a general increase in the noise level around campus. Budding DJs in all the dorms find it necessary to prove their testosterone levels by blasting their favorite tunes onto the quads. Of course, not all of us have the same music tastes, but there do seem to be some tunes which get played no matter where you are. The Gipper, after days and days of observation, has compiled a Notre Dame Quads Top Ten List for your enjoyment Don’t get the Gipp wrong, though, this is not by any means an endorsement of either loud music or of the songs on this list. In fact, the Gipp would prefer that some new songs go into the quad’s rotation, or maybe just some peace and quiet.
THE ND QUAD TOP TEN
10. The Red Hot Chili Peppers, “Under the Bridge”
9. Van Halen, “Panama” (Zahm Hall only)
8. Anything by Guns and Roses, especially “November Rain” 7. Nirvana, “Smells Like Teen Spirit” (the song that refuses to die) 6. Matthew Sweet (Mod Quad womens’ dorms only)
5. Unidentified band practicing in Zahm Hall
4. Temple of the Dog, “Hunger Strike”
3. Anything by Led Zeppelin or the Eagles (Morrissey Hall only) 2. Various random R.E.M. songs
1. Pearl Jam, Ten (the whole album, the whole campus, 24 hours a day)
THIS NEVER WAS MY PLAYGROUND
The.Gipper received an interesting note in his mailbox this week. It was kind of old, but the Gipp is lazy and doesn’t clean house very often. A concerned student, Ms. Linda Raven, wrote to the Gipper to express her deep dismay about Notre Dame’s lack of playground facilities. Indeed, our lovely campus does seem to be lacking in playground equipment Hoops we have a-plenty, and we even have a few volleyball pits, but there just aren’t any swings or slides or sandboxes. The closest things we have to a playground are those “non-public recreation areas” over by Stepan Center. (Any student
who can explain this term adequately wins a cookie.) Ms. Raven suggests that the university designate Holy Cross Hill as a playground and purchase, “a straight slide, a spiral slide, monkey bars, a teeter-totter, those springs with the animal on top that you ride, swings and finally a little castle-like thing with a bunch of entrances and poles to slide down and a shaky bridge.” Students interested in founding a playground can try to get themselves organized through the Gipper, himself a big fan of the teeter-totters. Write to: Playground Drive, c/o THE GIPPER, 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail. The Gipp also hopes that the installation of a playground would make it safe to walk down the quad on a sunny day without having to fear being struck by a stray frisbee/football/rollerblader/etc.
NORTHWESTERN FAILS ENGLISH
The Gipp was among you roadtrippers at the Northwestem-N.D. game last Saturday. Maybe the rest of you Domers were too busy celebrating the Irish victory over the Wildcats to notice, but the Gipp’s ever-watchful eye caught the following sign on the big electronic scoreboard at Soldier Field:
The Northwestern Wildcats thank you for comming [sic] Please drive safely.
The Gipp has to wonder about the typical Northwestern argument that, “At least our academics are better.” It seems that the English department hasn’t quite done it’s job.
BOOKSTORE CHALLENGE
So far, the response to the Gipp’s Bookstore Challenge hasn’t exactly been overwhelming: only one respondent has reported a total cost of $373.32 for books. Come on, guys, it must be worse than this. Far be it from the Gipp to actually give credit to “that other publication,” but the Gipp gives his approval to Professor Vasta’s editorial suggesting that book sales at the beginning of the semester should take place in some large, well-ventilated area.
As always, if you have a hot tip for the Gipp, send it to Scholastic at 303 LaFortune or call our office at 239-7569. We’d be happy to hear from you and even happier that you thought of us before that other publication on the third floor of LaFortune. The Gipper even promises to check his mail more often.
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
7
CAMPUSLIFE
THE GUARD
The Secrets of the Irish Guard and their grueling tryouts
By Elisa Klosterman and Kristen Lefere . 1 thought Mary ----:------------------------------ Beth was excellent
The Irish Guard. Who are they? What do they, stand for? Most importantly, what exactly is, or is not, under those plaid kilts?
A tradition now forty-three years strong on the Notre Dame, campus, the Irish Guard is a society shrouded in mystery and secret rituals.
Each Guardsman is clothed in a $2,000
in toughness." However, most of the members are not sure that the Guard is ready to include women in its group.
The idea of
outfit imported from Ireland. The kilt itself, is made from a plaid that is patented by Notre Dame.
The Irish Guard raises the flag at every home game and marches with the band during the halftime performance.
Patrick Bednarz, senior, is the 1992-1993
captain of the Guard. Patrick has been a ’ Boone.
women in the Guard is "an odd thing because it's a fraternity, a brotherhood more than anything," said Guardsman Chris
member of the Guard for three years now, and	Bednarz said that
his colleagues from last year’s Irish Guard the Irish Guard has
appointed him captain for this year.
One benefit Bednarz received as captain
been around for a long time and that it
was job security. Thecaptain didnothaveto will continue to bea participate in the grueling tryout process, part of Notre Dame Returning members as well as rookies had to • traditions for a long
march and dance for hours on end. Everyone agrees that despite the hard work, being on the Guard makes up for the pain.
The members encourage anyone interested to try out. They especially commend Mary Beth Wilkinson, the first female to try out since the Irish Guard was founded.
time. There will eventually be a place for women, it will just take some time.
After telling us a bit about the Irish
At first the men did not take her seriously Guard and their tra- I but "she really proved herself in the end," ditions, Patrick re-Bednarz said.	vealed some inter-
Nick Spangler
Guardsman Mike Maier is returning to his second year with the Irish Guard.
Guardsman Chris Bouffard said, "This • esting tidbits about year we had 43 try out, and we lost at least 20. himself.
SCHOLASTIC
!
Contrary to popular belief, Bednarz did not spend his childhood mastering the Victory Clog, although he did come to Notre Dame with aspirations of joining the Guard. An avid metalhead, Bednarz is determined
to convert the entire group to his musical tastes.
When it comes to the football season, Bednarz is already placing bets on the Notre Dame-Penn State game. “I’ll give anyone ten points to Penn State — no question about it.” Asked about his position on the Willie Clark controversy (for those of you who haven’t been following, Clark has been seen playing in both the offen
sive and defensive backfields for the Irish during practice), Bednarz agrees with Coach Lou Holtz’s latest decision to run Clark at tailback. “He’s a slasher. We need him
. Nick Spangler
The Irish Guard will be performing with the band at the Michigan game.
there.”
Besides Bednarz, there are nine other members of the Guard: four returning and five new members.
Lou Blaum, a 6-foot-2 M inch senior from Pennsylvania, is returning for his second and final year on the Guard.
Blaum also is looking forward to the Penn State game, mainly because he grew up an Irish fan in Lion’s territory. Asked about Willie Clark, Blaum exclaimed, “He’s awesome! I’d have him go both ways. But if I had to decide, I’d put him on offense."
Chris Boorie, a 6-foot-4-inch second year guardsman, is a senior from Washington.
One of the few men oh campus who has fulfilled, the dream of going out with a USC cheerleader, Boone is sorry the Guard will notbe able to travel to California this year. A national championship and the sight of Willie Clark on offense would help compensate for the missed trip, though.
Chris Bouffard, a 6-foot-3-inch Guardsman bom in Indianapolis, is also returning for his second year with the Guard.
As he looks forward to the “season-making games” against Michigan and Penn
State, Bouffard trusts Coach Holtz to make the best decision concerning Willie Clark’s role on the field. .
Mike Maier, a junior returning to the Irish Guard, could not be reached for comments
about his personal life or opinions concerning the Willie Clark issue.
The other half of the Irish Guard is composed of five rookies, or “rooks," as they are
commonly called. Every member interviewed commented on the extremely grueling selection process and although all the rooks have survived the tryouts, they still have to withstand a year of “social humiliation,” as Blaum terms it. Senior Vinnie Romeo, juniors Bill Kempf and Greg Scherle, sophomore Dan Thuente, and freshman Brad Metz compose this group of the newly initiated.	; .
A bit more serious about their Irish Guard experiences so far, the rooks are looking forward to the Michigan game, where they will undergo their first inspection and dance their first Victory Clog on the field. The rooks may be a bit anxious about inspection, ’ but the veterans agree that inspections are one of the best parts of being on the Guard.
For an hour before each home game outside the band building, members of the Irish Guard must undergo the often humiliating antics of the Captain and Irish Guard alumni, who will try anything from telling jokes to pulling nosehairs to shaving eyebrows to get a member to break face, a cardinal sin for a guardsman. Bednarz calls inspections “the fun part” of being a guardsman, and he
cannot wait until the first game after graduation when he will come back to tauilt his former colleagues.
The majority of the Guardsmen vehemently deny ever even thinking of breaking
face, but we did confront one member, who wishes to remain anonymous, who admits to twitching his mouth into a small and brief smile during inspection before a USC game. “It was a gang effort by the alumni. They all surrounded me so the crowd didn’t see. It was enough to make you want to die. “ The member vows he will never commit such an atrocity again.
Despite the
weekly tests of endurance, members speak highly of the previous Guardsmen and of the Irish Guard community. “It’s been a closeknit group. We’re one for all and all for one.
When I met the old guys, I felt like I had known them for a hundred years,” recalls Blaum, arid Boone agrees, considering the Irish Guard one of his best experiences at NotreDame. .
Of course we were touched by this strong feeling of community, but we could not • resist inquiring about the one and only real question on our minds: What do the Irish Guard wear under their kilts? We tried to trick the rooks into revealing something — anything — but to no avail. Several rooks claimed that with all the layers of the uniform, they are not even fully sure what their uniform is, and are waiting until Saturday, when the captain dresses them.
Each member has been trained in the art of “no comment,” as we soon found out when we started to get a little too close to the greatest secret of the Guard. Bednarz invited us to find out for ourselves, and Blaum suggested we watch especially close on windy days. He confided, “That’s how I found out, before I made the Guard. They made a right turn, and the skirts went up to their ears.”	□
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
By Mollie Mudd
4"
4/ '
Thrill-seeking students try
Rock Climbing, Skydiving and
Bungee Jumping g







Notre Dame students, guys,and girls alike, returned from their vacations with stories of themselves seeking thrills: rock climbing, skydiving and bungee jumping.
When asked about his thrill-seeking activities, Brian Magee, junior, cannot think which of his many escapades, including skydiving and bungee jumping, was the most exciting and fun. Magee decided that the time he spent his time rock climbing, peak climbing and rappelling this summer were his most interesting feats.
Magee went hiking out with the Outward
same rock face 20 times and make it totally Bound program in the Cascade Mountains differentandhardereachtime,”Mageesaid.
of Oregon. He climbed rock faces. “The
Magee had two instuctors, one. who mountain’s surface looked basically smooth looked “like a full-fledged mountain man.” but it definitely was not. It’s amazing what “They taught us everything, we learned footholds aand niches I used to hold on,"
Magee said.
“It was an interesting experience, unlike anything I’ve ever done,” Magee said. “You totally have to concentrate on what you are
leamingcoursefortherapids—asitwasfor doing. It’s so scary that your mind doesn’t most things,” Magee said.
have time to wander.”	“A really fun thing we did, that no one
“Once, when I was 20 feet up, my knees thought they could do, was rappelling/— were shaking so much I could barely move.” coming down a rock face,” Magee said, “It
They climbed on a two-person system. The instructor would take the rope up and over the mountain, and
Magee climbed while a friend would gradually take up the slack.
Rock climbing takes a lot of lower body strength because your legs are supporting a lot of your weight while your hands gi ve you asensedfbalance. One has a tendency to lay flat against the rock but if you do your feet will slip right out from under you.
“It’s really exciting, you can climb the
more and more each day and we learned mostly by experience.”
Magee even endured 100 miles of white water rafting one week. “It was a hands-on
Brian Magee
Brian Magee spent three weeks hiking over, climbing and exploring the Cascade Mountains.
looks scary as hell.” When rappelling, if a rock dips in a climber must dangle for a few feet until hereaches another foothold to push off of.
“You must trust the system,” Magee said, “Just like in skydiving when you just know your parachute is going to open, yet you are still scared. You had to believe that the knots you had tied were tight enough and that none of the ropes were going to break.”
Carrying 75 lb. backpacks for three weeks in the wilderness, Magee hiked 20 or more miles a day.
Climbing mountain peaks was also an adventure. Climbers walk up a mountain’s rocky spine and then slide down the icy . mountain faces covered with glaciers that make the very steep faces even more dangerous.
To go down the mountains, they were in teams of six. “If someone were to fall, they would quickly dig their ice picks into the glacier to brace themselves and the rest of

10
an
SCHOLASTIC
the team, until the fallen guy can regain his position,” Magee said. “You have to react ■ quickly because down below are 30-40 feet deep crevices that would kill you.”
Magee is anxious to go rock climbing again. “It was an incredible experience,” . Magee said.
Matt Rossano; senior, also had a thrillseeking experience— skydiving. Rossano and IS.friends from the Notre Dame Glee Club went skydiving together. .
“I’ve always wanted to,” said Matt, “I was nervous, but the six hour class they give you beforehand tells you all about the landings and what could happen to your parachute.”	/
The plane took them up four at a time. “I was the first of my friends to go,” Rossano' said. The diver sits on the edge of the plane and then moves to where his feet are on the wheels of ’the plane, he reaches out and grabs the strut, the bar connecting the wing and plane, and lets his feet flop in the wind.
“I was really scared when the jumpmaster. first opened the door: I could see farmhouses and cornfields below,” Rossano said.
“Once out, you justarch your back and let go. There is a cord that connects you to the plane so that you are free falling for a bit while the cord unravels and then at the end it yanks out your chute. “You have total control; it’s the greatest thing in the world. It was totally exciting, totally quiet, totally sunny and I could see for miles,” he said.
“It was awesome, it took like a half hour to get the smile off of my face,” Rossano said. “It was such a thrill, a natural high.”
“I would absolutely do it again if I ever get the chance. I’m not usually daring — I was scared of rollercoasters until I was 13, but this was like flying,” Rossano said. “It was quite an adventure.. Of all my friends who went, not one person chickened out, and everyone loved it.”
Jen Foss, junior, has another skydiving experience. Foss is a resident of a quad in
• PW, a quad, in which each member has at ■least attempted to do some free-falling craziness'. Foss, the skydiver of the group, went with her sister and a friend this summer.	. '
“Ilie first thing I saw when I walked in was a big sign that said ‘This is dangerous. Youmay die,’ and they made us sign a lot of
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
liability release sheets,” Foss said. “There was even a videotaped lawyer explaining the contracts,”	•	J
This instructional video also said that 30 people die each year from skydiving. “My friend thought they meant 30 people died” there each year and she was ready to get up
. and-walk out,” Foss said.'	*
I got really scared when the guy opened the door; I thought I was really going to die,” she said.
“It was so windy I thought! was going-to blow out of the door. I had a hard time getting out, but once I let go I was fine,” Foss said. “My parachute was twisted when it opened but not badly, so I just kicked it out.”
“I made such a gentle landing. You have to jump back up and grab your chute so it doesn’t drag you,” Foss said.
“I loved it and really want to go back.”
Kristen “Peanut” Lefere went out to watch one of her friends bungee jump in the parking lot of Basix while in South Bend this summer.
“After watching, I wanted to go, so I got my $60 and signed up,” Lefere said. Once again; .the. daredevil had to sign liability releases which made her a little nervous.
“There was a very large woman that jumped before me. She was so'heavy that everyone thought she would hit the pavement. “I was worried that she might have strained the rope,” she said.
“I was being videotaped and as they were taking me up to the top of the crane I said ‘HL Mom, sorry I might die,’ into the camera.”
Instructions were given to the jumper on the way up. “I was told that they would say 3-24-Bungee and I was supposed to spread my arms and jump out away from the crane,” Lefere said.
. “It was so scary. I was looking straight. down at the. pavement. After the first bounce, all I could think was that I was alive. (
“It was definitely worth the money, it was the biggest rush I ever had. On my videotape ' I look like Raggeddy Ann on a string,” Lefere said.
“I think An Tostal should-get, bungee jumping,” she said. '	... ■
Jenny Marten, the third thrill-seeker of the PW qbad also bungee jumped this.summer also. While working for Lisle Park, near ' Chicago, she decided to take a chance on the bungee jump they had set up. for their 25th
Anniversary celebration. Marten was convinced by her hairdresser to jump because neither her family nor co-workers would encourage her. “I didn’t know if I wanted to jump off of a crane supported only by a rubber band,” Marten said.
“My mom wanted to kill me; she was just freaked out all morning?,.! had to sign the liability release sheets ten times for the Ultimate Leap of Faith Company.
They weigh you and put on all of the straps. The cord was connected to my waist, because ankle jumps are more advanced. The crane was over rocks and a lake that was only about three feet deep.
“Once I got to the top of the crane it stopped and started swinging. There was. a sign on the platform that said ‘Shut up and just jump’ — so I did. I flipped over and started bouncing and getting jeked around,” Marten said.
“It was an incredible feeling but it was over so quickly,” she said.	■ < ;
“Getting down was neat too. The crane i lowered and I came down like a spider,” | Martensaid. “The blood only came back into	]
my face when I hit the ground. They	j
• unstrapped me and my knees just buckled,”	i
she said. ■	■!
.“It was totally something I just had to try i once.” “By the way, my mom is still mad!” i Marten said.	• i;
' Elisa klosterman, the fourth member of	;
the thrill-seeking quad, planned not to be	i
outdone by her three roommates this summer when she scheduled herselif to bungee jump.
Unfortunatly, she was unable to fulfill her dream to jump. While in Las Vegas this summer she was given her bungee jumping opportunity. But, the morning of her jump began with an earthquake at 5 a.m. She was ; on the 27th floor of ahotel when the building began rolling back and forth. Big buildings are built on rollers so that they can survive earthquake shakes. '	’
After the second set of tremors at 8 a.m., Elisa’s mom decided that the family was returning home to Los Angeles and that Elisa would not be bungee jumping that day .
? Having just lived- through an adventure, Elisa was still disappointed that her thrill-seeking tendencies were put on hold. The ' daring quad is planning to “go rock climbing and skydiving together very soon,” Klosterman said. •	□	■
11
■
Coming Distal cites
Send information for your event to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.
Thursday 10
Friday
11
Saturday
12

Movie: "I Love You to Death," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Concert: They Might Be Giants, 8:00 p.m., Stepan Center, $8.
Movie: "White Men Can't Jump," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "Madame Bovary," 7:15 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Folk Dancing: 7:30 p.m., Club House, Saint Mary's College.
Forum: "Aging and Ethics: A Business and Economic Perspective," 12:15 p.m., 124 Center for Social Concerns. Volleyball: MCC-MAC Conference Challenge, 5:30 & 8:00 pjn., JACC. Soccer: Notre Dame Men vs University of Illinois, Chicago, 7:30 p.m., Alumni Field.
Pep Rally: 7:00 p.m., JACC.
Presentation: Democratic Presidential Candidate Bill Clinton, T.B A.
Movie: "White Men Can't Jump," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing, Auditorium, $2. Film: "Madame Bovary," 7:15 & 9:45 p,m., Snite, $2.
Volleyball: MCC-MAC Conference Challenge, 5:30 & 8:00 pjn., JACC. Football: Notre Dame vs. University of Michigan, 12:35 p.m., Notre Dame Stadium.
Meeting: Alcoholics Anonymous, 9:30 a.m., Multipurpose Room, CSC.
F
P F

l.aFonur.e InformationDesk: c'Sdplibmore Class:239-5225
Senior Gass: 239-5136	JACC Ticket Information:
:Stadent;Uhi6ri®&d^^
Suite Film SeriesFIbtLine:
Notre Dame MemiUne: 283-FOOD
■;	'■	.• =- :"';V	■-'	<*V	V: ■■■
Weekend Wheels Schedule: ? :?
ThhcMBoarW 'piO2|9-|||01^^ x21 dlformovie info. x 2114 for the music line x2112 for concert info. x2117 for theatre info, x 2525 for college events
X1600 for localweather x 1603fornationalweather x 1903 for movie reviews H x 1300 for local sports info, x 1301 for TV sports events^^ <; X 1303 for national sports report x 1213 for world news WO
H
Sunday
13
Tuesday
15
Conference: James F. Andrews
Conference on Community Service hrough Alumni Networks (through September 15), CCE.
Film: "Jezebel," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Shoot the Piano Player," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2
TOUCH
FOUR
COMING SOON
Monday
14
'ilm: "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari," 7:00 .m., Snite, $2.
‘ilm: "Cat People," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Wednesday 16
Meeting: Fall Critical Care Symposium, CCE.
Roadtrip to Michigan State!
Movie Theatres
vs
<• W-d 2594)414	?
Town & Country Theatre :	259-9090U;:?;
Scottsdale Theatre i-ft 291-4583
is st
' M g 4 g: S Sit


SUB presents they might be giants tonight at 8:00 p.m. at Stepan Center.
Foruml&IlCinema:


¥


ONE TOUGH
TEAM
Unfortunately for the Irish, many formidable faces return for the Michigan Wolverines.
ByJimKuser
; • raduatioh hit Ann Arbor—the home j vT of the University of Michigan Wol-!	verines — hard. Gone are Heisman Trophy
| winner Desmond Howard at receiver/re-। . turner, Butkus Award winner Erick Ander-[ son at linebacker,, and Lombardi/Outland ! . finalist Greg Skrepenak at offensive tackle, i '''. Also gone are offensive guard Matt Elliott, C tight end Dave Diebolt, placekicker J.D.
Carlson, defensive tackle Mike Vans, line- . backer Brian Townsend and defensive backs Lance Dottin and Otis Williams.
“You don’t replace a Howard, an-Anderson or a Skrepenak,” said Wolverine Head . Coach Gary Moeller. “You just have to have a solid tradition to allow other players to step J . their games up a notch and play bigger ’ roles.”	•	■
Although Desmond Howard and his; All-Star Band have bolted to the Sunday circuit, spectacular football?filled Saturdays still . will be bountiful for fans in Ann Arbor this fall. Michigan has plenty of players primed ;	. “to step their; games up a notch and play
bigger roles.” And there are no roles bigger than those on the Wolverine offensive line.
... —	_	Paul Webb '
: Desmond Howard now plays his football on Sundays, but Michigan Head Coach Gary Moeller still has the personnel to make many memorable

Back is; the blocking combination of All-	•	‘ Saturdays for Wolverine faithful.
; . American offensive guard candidates Steve	inches, 269 somehow seems small. . .	Notre Dame Fighting Irish.
: Everitt (6’5”, 275) and Joe Qqcozzo (6’4”,	And so graduation hit Ann Arbor hard,	• “We have our work cut out for us when we
■	289),.offensive tackles Doug Skene (6’6”,..	but 1992 Michigan opponents will wish	compete against Michigan,” said Irish Head
294) and Rob. Doherty (6’6”, 298), and	that jthad hitmuch,much harder.-Among	Coach Lou Holtz, after comfortably coasting
center Shawn Miller, who'at.6-fodt-4- ■ Wolverine opponents are the University of by Northwestern with a 42-7 win last
14
SCHOLASTIC
weekend. “We are a long way from being a good team, and Michigan is one tough team.”
Returning are record-setting quarterback Elvis Grbac, record-setting running back
Ricky Powers, and re-ceiver/returner Derrick Alexander, who was actually Michigan’s “go-to guy” with 115 all-purpose yards against Boston College last season before being sidelined by a knee injury. Subsequently, Desmond Howard stole the spotlight. In 1990, Alexander was Michigan’s second leading receiver with 31 catches for 450 yards, he averaged 27.8 yards on kickoff returns, and he finished 17th in the Big Ten in all-purpose yards with an. average of 70.7 yards per game.
Holtz has to wonder how well Notre Dame’s defense will hold Michigan’s offense.
“Against Northwestern, weplayeda ‘bendbutdon’t break’ defense,” said Holtz. “Against Michigan, we can’t do that. It is not our intention to do that, and we won’t do that”
Grbac was the NCAA’s most efficient quarterback last season. He led the Big Ten in touchdown passes (25) and completion percentage (.618). He has a 23-5 record as a starter and
holds Wolverine records for touchdown
passes (53) and completions (393).
Powers rushed for 1,197 last season and scored nine touchdowns. Michigan is un
beaten in the ten games that Powers has rushed for over 100 yards. Joining Powers in the backfield are Jesse Johnson and Tyrone
Wheatley, both of whom have won Big Ten Walker at inside linebacker. The Sporting player of the week honors before.	News has already rated the Wolverine de-
Alexander has the help in the flanks of fensive line as the nation’s best.
freshmen standouts Amani Toomer and “Defense is always important, and this Mercury Hayes. Tony McGee, who at 6- year will be no exception. Michigan’s de-foot-5-inches,241 is a bear to bring down, is fense is known for its ‘fly around style’ and at tight end.	it will stay that way,” Moeller admitted.
“There is tons of talent available on offense, but the parts have to fit together into a unit before you can talk them up,” Moeller modestly said. “The line is made up of veterans, but they must come together and
Paul Webb
Record-setting runningback Ricky Powers will be the "main man" on the Michigan offense. He will be handed the ball by recordsetting quarterback Elvis Grbac.
allow the running game to work while the
passing attack develops.”
The Michigan defense, which will operate out of a “3-4” formation with “swarming
cornerbacks”, features demolitionists Chris helps motivate them to excel. The fans and Hutchinson at tackle, Corwin Brown at their support are an essential element in the safety, and Steve Morrison and Marcus success of the Michigan football program."
“We have depth on the line and plenty of experience in most segments of the defense. Last season our defensive backfield gained plenty of experience, and this season it should pay off. We used plenty of special
teams situation defenses, and we have added some new wrinkles.”
Moeller starts his third season at the Michigan helm with two Big Ten titles under his belt and an outstanding cast of veteran and freshmen players. It is Moeller’s goal to make it five straight seasons that Michigan has championed or co-cham-pioned the Big Ten. The Wolverines won back-to-back conference championships in 1988 and 1989, won a share of it in 1989, and won it again in 1991. Nonetheless, regarding nostalgia and na- • tional recognition, there is nothing bigger or better than beating Notre Dame.
As Michigan and Notre Dame set themselves for Saturday’s showdown, there is the sense that somehow these two teams are on the brink of a blood bath. Moeller summarized such sentiments saying, “In order to be the best, you must compete against the best. We will have our hands full on Saturday. It doesn’t get any tougher
than this.”
"Record crowds are a tradition at Michigan. These loyal Michigan fans give our young men a feeling of imortance, which
Moeller is testing his team by taking it to a place that has as much passion and as much pride: Notre Dame. Here the Wolverines will be welcomed by 59,075 fanatical Fighting Irishmen who are anxious to bring the national championship back to beneath the Golden Dome.	□
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
15
To
Aim
By winning the Big Four Classic, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team took a leap toward the national limelight.
By Jeff Weghorst
T n 1990, the Notre Dame volleyball team finished the season with a record of 9 wins and 27 losses. The squad finished 26-10 in 1991. This year, the team's goal is to aim higher, much higher. It is shooting for the NCAA tournament and just an appearance there is . not in the playbook. Apparently this squad does not know how to take steps forward It knows only how to leap.
Ken Osgood
Big Four Tournament Most Valuable Player Christy Peters gets as low as she can go for this dig. Although the greatest strength of the Notre Dame women's volleyball team is that it does not have a "go to" player, Peters did all that she could to garner such a title after gaining 36 digs against Kentucky.
schedule like Long Beach State, which is ranked second in the nation.
The Irish just finished off a couple a strong opponents last weekend in winning the Big Four Classic. Both Louisville and the 17th-ranked Kentucky Wildcats fell in five games. The Notre Dame squad was especially ready for Kentucky, a team which took the National Invitational Volleyball Championship away from the Irish a year ago in the final.
“I didn’t have to fire them up,” explained Head Coach Debbie
Today, the volleyball team stands on the brink ofa season which Brown.
promises the opportunity tojointhenation’selite.Theroadwillnot This team, like most good teams’has great strength both offen-be easy. It is filled with the obstacles of eight Top 25 teams on the
sively and defensively. Coach Brown was extremely impressed with
schedule. The Notre Dame squad, however, is ready to spike its way the squad’s defensive showing in the Big Four Classic. The blocking through them.
was excellent.
- 1 The weapons are there. All six starters return from last year’s Traditionally, the squad has been stronger on offense, especially ' edition: Cynthia May, Jessica Fiebelkom, Marilyn Cragin, Janelle	with its outside attack, but surprisingly the Big Four Classic was
' Karlan, Christy Peters and captain Alicia Turner. The talents and	won on defense. Brown would like to see the offensive efficiency
great experience of these players, along with a deep bench, will pose	improve in the future. She said that the percentages were below her
problems for every opponent the Irish face, even teams on the target goals. Butfearnot, the attack will be back.
16
SCHOLASTIC
However, the Irish do not want to be a good team. They want to be one of the elite, and it takes more than physical skills to move to the highest level. At the top, every team has weapons. It takes more. This is where the differences between 1991 and . 1992 become apparent
The confidence level of this team is soaring. Last year, the Irish were coming off a losing season, and they were unsure of just how well they could play. The situation is completely different now. After a 26-10 year, the Irish have no ... doubts about which they are capable. They never give up because last year taught them that they can come back from any deficit
The experience is definitely there this season, and it has already shown.
“Ball State was young and more nervous than we were,” explained Brown. “We’ve been in a lot of close matches. There’s no way to duplicate that experience.”
Team depth is also a strength this year. Brown has ■ the confidence that anyone can come off the bench and get the job done. Two freshmen, Brett Hensel and Shannon Tuttle, have joined the Irish, and have pushed the upperclassmen. ■ ?	•
It is logical to think that team depth can also work against a squad. Does the competition ever get too intense for the starting positions?
“No, it gets intense on the court,” said junior Janelle Karlan,’’but what goes on off • the court and on the court are two totally different things.”
“It’s a healthy competition,” claimed sophomore Christy Peters.
Brown believes that it can be frustrating for those trying to break into the starting lineup, but that it is a good attitude. In fact, she feels the pressure as much as anybody.
“It’s hard on me,” she joked, citing the difficulty she has in choosing her starters. It
Ken Osgood
Notre Dame is on the brink of joining the nation's elite women’s volleyball teams. The squad is ready to spike its way trough the competition, which includes eight Top 25 teams.
is a stress that coaches welcome.
Indeed, the team chemistry is excellent. This is a carryover from last year. Chemistry is a central asset for all great teams. When teamates do not get along, teams self-destruct. There are a variety of personalities on the squad, but every one is accepting of these differences.
In the leadership department, the Irish are anything but lacking. Senior captain Alicia Turner supplies vocal support and leads by example. Brown cites her work ethic as a key.
“I try to make sure that the team remains cohesive and focused and motivated,” Turner explained.
However, all does not rest on Turner’s shoulders.
“A lot of the the players are very outspoken and have leadership capabilities,” said Karlan.
Indeed, Brown has seen considerable change in Karlan herself. She is much more encouraging, and this is a valuable trait for someone playing the setter position.
If the Irish do have a weakness, itis that they have been having trouble closing out matches. Both of the matches against Louisville and Kentucky went five games after the Irish had won the first two. Brown plans to work on that killer instinct this week.
Brown also wants to continue stressing communication on the court The squad already does an excellent job in this facet but this is a skill which is vital to a team’s success.
“When teams lose points, they get quiet, and that’s when you need communication the most,” said Brown.
Perhaps the greatest strength of this squad is that it doesn’t have a “go to”
player when the pressure cooker is turned on high. In crunch time, everyone on the team is capable of an
swering the call. The opponent will not be able to key in on any single individual.
So the Irish have it all. Their opponents, however, will not be so quick to believe it. Again, the squad faces off against eight teams which are currently ranked in the Top 25, including number two Long Beach State and number three Hawaii. It is going to be a long, difficult road. The Irish hope to win the MCC conference and thus gain the auto- . matic birth into the NCAA’s.
“We want to play in the NCAA’s not because we won an automatic birth,” Brown declares, “but because we are one of the top teams.”
All it takes is another leap.	.	□
SEPTEMBER 10,1992
17
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite 111
^UBLUAV.
• SR 23 At Ironwood
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall)
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Mario Tricoci: Tricoci, a senior captain from Palatine, IL, lead the Notre Dame men's soccer team with an all tournament team performance at the Adidas Metlife Classic last weekend in Bloomington, IN. Despite two losses to Duke and UCLA, Tricoci helped the Irish defense hold both opponents to only one goal each.
Christy Peters: Peters, a sophomore from Solano Beach, CA, lead the Notre Dame women's volleyball team to victory at the Big Four Classic last weekend in the JACC. After 36 digs against Kentucky, Peters went on to win tournament MVP. By beating Kentucky and Louisville, the Irish took a large leap toward national recognition.
18
SCHOLASTIC
REVIEW & PREVIEW
by J. Bradley Keck
rri he final home opener of my stay under X the Golden Dome looms on the horizon. I cannot wait to don “The Shirt” ($4 for R.A.S, $10 from your R.A.s and $12 in the bookstore) and head down to the stadium to see the game. O.K., so that is not the whole story. Actually, I can’t wait to see all my old friends who are coming out for the game, tailgate my shorts off, and hope that if I do actually buy the shirt and end up on my back that I won’t be mistaken for the turf of Red Field and trampled by the mob rushing into the stadium ten minutes before the game starts. That, my faithful reader, would be a travesty of the highest magnitude. After watching Desmond “Magic” Howard beat us last year on a miracle grab up at Michigan, I’m really ready to see the Irish go ballistic on the Wolverines. In what looks to be the best weekend of the year, Michigan can only go home on the short end of a 34-28 Notre Dame victory. (Once a sports writer always a sports writer.)
Elvis, Elvis Everywhere
Honeymoon in Vegas starring Nicholas Cage is the number one movie in the land for the second week in a row. The Honeymoon in Vegas Soundtrack featuring remakes of Elvis songs has also climbed to the number 40 spot on the album chart. The time is right for the King to stop fooling around hiding in Kalamazoo and in his skybox in the Georgia Dome and stage his predicted second coming. The stars are aligned, and yes, MTV has played a country video for the first time in its history: “Wear My Ring Around Your Neck,” off the Honeymoon soundtrack by Ricky Van Shelton. I thought that after Billy Ray Cyrus MTV could survive any storm. But the same fury that has lifted this song to number 29 has also jprompted many country stations and The Nashville Network
to play songs by Bono and Billy Joel that are also found on the album. I just have an spooky feeling that one of the 34 impersonators in that movie was really the King himself.
Purple and Filthy (Rich)
Yes, I must mean Prince. Last week the heir of modem day music ‘ s royal title signed a record deal with Warner Brothers that not only guarantees the little guy a $10 million advance on his next six albums but a vice presidency with Warner and artistic license over a few of his own record labels. On October 20 his new album, entitled not with words but with a symbol of sexual union, hits stores. As V.P. and under limited supervision, most see Prince going head to head with Madonna to vie for the most erotic superstar in rock. The jury is out on whether or not his royal badness will release a nude coffee table book to pick up on the market that Madonna might miss.
Family Values
Last week it was the Democrats, this week it is the Republicans who find themselves in the O.O.B. hot seat Where politics and entertainment are entwined one cannot help but laugh. While George, Dan and Ron (I bet the Gipper was a Democrat) were cavorting around popping balloons filled with hot air and championing family values the presence of some strange characters were requested at the convention: 1) Arnold
Schwarzenegger — after years of killing, cussing and crushing heads on the silver screen Arnold was asked to speak at the convention. I guess they liked the fact that : he represented Bush’s “educational President” platform well in Kindergarten Cop when he enlightened all America that one • can have a headache that is “not a tumor.” 2) Along this same line Bruce Willis and ; Chuck Norris were also at the convention • promoting their Republican values as they always do in theirlivesahdintheirart. Look for Barbara Bush to follow Willis’ wife to the cover of Vanity Fair in nothing but body paint All the Republicans wives are doing it! 3) The headlining performer at the convention was Wynona Judd. Safe, moderate choice. Reflects the party well, right? Nope, Ms. Judd was bom to an unwed mother. Go,	2
Dan, Go.	-
Shannen Doherty, of Beverly Hills 90210 fame, also made an appearance at the Republican National Convention. Earlier in	'
the week she created quite a stir when she 2 failed to show up at the Emmy awards as a presenter. Rumor has it that the two events -may have been related. Possibly Dan Quayle	-
did want anyone to present an award to -Murphy Brown one day and then show her face at the convention the next. By skipping out on the Emmys, I wonder if she almost got her friends in Slaughter a gig at the convention.	-
Up and Coming
Zoo T.V. Outside Broadcast tour — U2 -with Public Enemy: September 15,16,18 at the World Music Theater... Morrissey this Sunday at the Poplar Creek Music Theater, 8 p.m... . Lost in Yonkers, Neil Simons’ 1991 Tony and Pulitzer award winning best play, opens September 16 at the Royal George Theater. . . Tesla and Firehouse September 16 at the JoyceACC.
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
19
A Small Group Takes On This Big Campus
by Margaret Kenny
Prepare yourself for what has been deemed a “trip through nature, evil, death and delirium,” as They Might Be Giants takes the stage this evening in Stepan Center. Presented by the Student Union Board, the duo comprised of John Linnell and John Flansburgh is currently touring to
promote its latest release, Apollo 18.
Apollo 18 raises the band’s highly acclaimed song-writing to a new peak, providing the audience with a wide variety of song arrangements and musical styles. They Might Be Giants recorded the vocals of the first track, “Dig My Grave,” through a guitar fuzz-box. Another single, “Space Suit,” spotlights a Moog synthesizer. According to Flansburgh, this release employs more Hammond organ and horns than previous albums, and the guitar is quite distorted in many of the songs.
They Might Be Giants puts out a bold, full sound that is incomparable to any other band. Their music provides a one-of-a-kind mixture of jazz, folk, pop,, blues, soul and every other musical element imaginable.
This is the first album that the duo has produced completely by themself. Recorded in New York City, Apollo 18 is also richly stocked with special guests. Laura Cantrell and Julie Cohen provide additional vocals on “The Guitar” and “Hall of Heads” respectively.
One track, “Fingertips,” is composed of a 20
series of 21 separate refrains and features a string of cameo appearances. The guest artists include Peter Stampfel, founder of the Holy Modal Rounders, and Brian Dewan. Dewan is the musician and artist who built the shrine structures on the cover of the duo’s Lincoln album.
“Fingertips” is also unique because it takes advantage of the technology available in contemporary stereo equipment. The song’s 21 refrains can be picked up by the shuffle mode on many CD players. Therefore, by playing Apollo 18 in shuffle mode, the CD player mixes up the songs as well as the different refrains, producing an ever-changing musical collage.
The South Bend Tribune quoted Linnell on the kaleidoscope of musical elements evident in the duo’s releases: “It’s nice if everything we do throws off a whole shower of suggestions and possible interpretations. ... Although we also do songs that obviously mean one thing only — like ‘Your Racist Friend.’”
This single from the group’s third album, Flood, questions one’s willingness to overlook blatant prejudice when voiced by a friend. Yet many of the songs on TMBG’s current album have more subtle messages.
“The Statue Got Me High” intimates, through its title, intoxication by an illegal substance. Yet the intoxication present in this song is actually by art form.
Apollo 18’s new single “I Palindrome I” is titled after words of phrases that read the same backward and forward, for example, “bob”, “mom” or “A man, a plan, a canal, Panama.”
They Might Be Giants, due to their album’s title, have agreed with NAS A to be Musical Spokespeople for International Space Year. Congress has dedicated 1992 to the celebration of space as an-international frontier. TMBG borrowed their album name from the Apollo lunar space missions, the last mission (Apollo 17) having landed in 1972. The group has dedicated the tour to the International SpaceYear and will promote the message of peaceful discovery in all of its Apollo 18.related activities.
Linnell said of the band’s name: “It’s the
SCHOLASTIC
ENTERTAINMENT
name ofa movie made in the early seventies. We wanted a name that was outward-looking and paranoid.”
Linnell and Flansburgh met in grade school and became friends while in high school in Sudbury, Massachusetts. They two attended college in different states, but both moved to Brooklyn in 1981. They began working together on home-recordings; they pooled their instruments, ideas and equipment and played each other’s songs.
By the mid-1980s the club scene was beginning to gain popularity, but its focus was on avant-garde musicians and performance artists, “which was challenging and exciting,” said Flansburgh. He said this had a great influence on the duo.
Yet many people discovered They Might Be Giants through means other than their club bills. Years before the rage surrounding the 1-900 hotlines began, the duo started its own Dial-a-Song service. This service offers songs recorded especially for the phone line. The cost? Only the price of a long distance telephone call to Brooklyn. Linnell said, “It’s a different medium of expression. A lot of sounds just can’t be heard over the phone, and of course if you hit thatsustained note which sounds like abeep, the machine ends the song right there.”
In 1985, the band’s demo tape was reviewed in People magazine, and Hoboken’s BarNone label approched the duo about releasing an album. They Might Be Giants’ self-titled first album sold over 100,000 copies during its first year. Creative videos made the group a regular on MTV, which is a rare feat for an independent label.
The band gained popularity and recognition with a national tour, and after they released their second album, Lincoln, Linnell and Flansburgh signed a recording contract with Elektra Records.
In 1990 TMBG released their highly-successful FVood LP, and the single “Birdhouse in Your Soul” rose to number six on English radio. Since their success. with Flood, TMBG have had several television appearances, including The Tonight Show, Today and Late Night with David Letterman.
Their success has not gone to their heads, though. Linnell and Flansburgh still rehearse in Flarisburgh’s apartment in BrooQ lyn.
John Flansburgh and John Linnell of They Might Be Giants
WVFI Top Ten Albums of the Week
1.	Helmet—Meantime
2.	Sonic Youth — Dirty
3.	Various — After Noon Delight (Love songs from Sub Pop)
4.	Sugar — Copper Blue
5.	Vaselines — The Way of the Vaselines
6.	Velocity Girl — CD 5
7.	They Might Be Giants — Guitar EJP.
8.	Kill Rock Stars — Compilation
9.	Jawbreaker — Chesterfield King
10.	Erectus Monotone — All Electric
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
21
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
News of the bizarre from the nation's universities
MASCOT VISITS MIAMI’S CAMPUS
The University of Miami has had all kinds of trouble after Hurricane Andrew swept pastits campus two weeks ago. Power and telephone service were completely knocked out. Classes were suspended until September 14, and students were reimbursed by the university for their travel expenses to go back home. One small problem, while all of this was occurring, was that the storm had destroyed the cages that housed 400 monkeys. In the chaos, about 300 of these monkeys were found running free throughout the . campus. Thenumberofmonkeysmistakenasstudentsandsentback home was not reported. One also has to wonder whether we would have classes suspended for almost three weeks if a Fighting Irishman was found on Notre Dame’s campus?
BIGGER LIBRARY PROBLEMS THAN A CAN OF SODA
An outbreak of mold has spread through Oregon State University library collection affecting some 85,000 books. The university must spend $1.00 to $1.50 on each volume to remove the mold or the entire collection could convert into a “rank, black mass.” Let this be a lesson to the unwise who continue to bring foodstuffs into the Hesburgh Library against the regulations of the Food and Drink Policy. One moldy candy bar placed on the wrong book and zap, the whole place might become a mountain of stinking mildew and decay. Worse things could happen: a leprechaun could drop by.
FLOUR CHILDREN
While the University of Miami may have it's share of trained monkeys running loose, students at the North Dakota State College of Science have learned to deal with an even tougher sort of primate: children. Well, not really. Those students who opt to take Child Psychology learn to care for children by monitoring the behavior of five pound sack of flour over a 72-hour period. At the end of the experience, students write a journal and then give up their little bundles of joy (more like bundles of starch) to a local food pantry. Couldn't they have just advertised for other students willing to act infantile for a few days?
NO MORE CHOPPING
An incensed Native American community at the University of Kansas has succeeded in eding the use of the popular "tomahawk chop" cheer at Kansas City Chiefs' football games. Students complained that the cheer was a mockery of Native American traditions and that the team's name was a misrepresentation of Indian cultures. Word has not yet come down on whether Notre Dame will disallow future useof the "Lou" cheeron the grounds that it may indeed be promoting the worship of a false idol.
EMILY POST WOULD BE PROUD
Michigan S tate U. football players will be taking classes in Japanese culture before they travel to Tokyo to play the University of Wisconsin this December, according to the National On:Campus Report. Not to be outdone in etiquette, however, the Wisconsin badgers will also be attending similar classes to ensure that they hold their chopsticks properly.
1 .	..	• ;	■ •	'
22	SCHOLASTIC
WEEK I N D I S T O RTIO N
Z	J
Return to Normalcy
by Beth Casanova
R eturning to the Notre Dame/St.
Mary’s community after a year abroad is as much of a challenge as adjusting to a new culture.. While I was abroad, I <fell into the popular trap of idealizing the people I had left under the Dome. Sharing a room with someone who didn’t shower but still managed to drive het boyfriend ^canine with lust every night would make anyone homesick. Luckily, the Notre -Dame office in Innsbruck, was well-stocked , With Scholastics and Observers. ■ Keeping ■ 'up with campus life required more effort than my sixteen Euro-credit hours did, but
I was confident that my return to South . Bend would go smoothly with the extra time I put into it. My first week back with the Belles has proven that effort futile.
Family values are thriving at St Mary’s. The first week of school was marked by the arrival of the infamous genitalia on the lawn. Eavesdropping became worthwhile .again. People seemed to have outgrown the form letter conversations that had plagued . both campuses freshman year. They were suddenly talking about subjects other than the carpets they had gotten great deals on ..and the best prospects on the party grapevine. The topic of “the balls on the lawn”
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
was as inescapable, as'the sculptures themselves. Some women Understandably objected to the fact that the arrivals lined the path to the dining hall. Others criticized the administration for not easing the students into their enco'unterwith art by holding an unveiling. In any case, people wrote petitions and went’ beyond the safe claim of loving art. Then ’ the impressive verbal bashing turned physical. One of the pieces was smashed and removed, leaving the remaining two like a dysfunctional family on
the LeMans lawn... Interestingly enough, it The changes in my campus have just re-was a 65-year-old grandmother who land-	vealed more aspects of the people I left, Ms. -
scaped the gobserinfested lawn with sexual Kaplan slyly pulled out views of art outside
forms. ■ ,	.
Smaller changes had added to the thrill of transition. Due to. declining enrollment, illnesses at Saint Mary’s must now be confined to business hours. This means no more
evening outings with friends to theinfirmary
for orange juice and throat cultures. Those ’ spired to recreate obvious male and female
who come home after throwing up more than . body parts from Tater Tots for friends at
once on the last Friday, night shuttle no .longer have the option of sleeping it off in the infirmary. A resident assistant will accompany the unfortunate girl to the emergency room if the case calls for such measures. '
Food services have improved’ perhaps in response to thelimitedinfirmary hours. The .
food is now. worth smuggling put, and Saint Mary’s has glasses large enough for more than three ice cubes and a few swallows of Five Alive. But still no one smiles at the poor girls in Tray Vey. * 1
Other things have stayed die same. There’S still a Mike or Jennifer on every floor. The Mikes continue to lift during the week and party on the weekends while the Jennifers aerobicize and watch out for each other. Basically I’ve found that these are the same people I knew from freshman year,
of the classroom.. She did hot necessarily change anyone: people still get sick and stack glasses at the dining hall. Instead, she manipulated what they discussed over dinner. Of course, some studentswere affected more than others. Not everyone was in-
□
dinner.
Beth Casanova is a junior at St. Mary's College. She is currently trying to get used to the lack of wiener schnitzel and apple strudel in the St. Mary's dining hall.
23
If you signed up to write for Scholastic at
Activities Night, or you are interested and missed us, please come to our informational meeting on Sunday, September 13,1992 at 7:00 p.m. It will be held in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune.
Do you want your VOICE to be heard?

Call 239-7569, and let us know.
SCHOLASTIC
-ioki fad ke ujgs y*
$o TUd^ X'm SwitchW6
FkoH EX6i*/££Ki^ "To
DorfTCARC r
Ydu	Vou^ MA)^7^
$&{{* Ha^styu»4^ as
ir’s Your.
Daas/tf^ JACK. $0 WHAT J5
4S ^q 3&U6 UP You^
J>AKiJ 6CAP6S
(Srapuate !
/CTuAll^I PjD $£■£
Ho.
py Y^u bOMTl~0 ATT&Jb LAlO ScMQOlJ
ALlY^ CAU
7M WlT^
&U. uA^r TO AaJ
Alcoh^UC Ll#£ 'Po£jM* fAduK^J^ FifZS&^AUO^
Tn& uSr *5 too 2x?W4
Ta C^MTiMuE.
Het X gaH 6CT
A 4^3 UiTW Ahl
£.A&t*SH &&&££*
YEAU^dHT. LfOKjZ'LL Tut You TaJL0U6« SCM^t^ ^ur UJH£U I S££ ^tdO^/ A ^Xeet i >j te#4 Yg^es C?4AA-T€^S PRoH fasseksby^Il Kic^-Yud ^rrt&OFHi&m'^Ai^ outoF Y(?uR WA4PS AhIP
UUW KY Ass fl) <?FF \
Tha^c
'Tfe Su^kt;
Pi9t>.
If you are interested in being a Scholastic cartoonist, please submit three (3) samples of your work to 303 LaFortune by Friday, September 18 at 5 p.m.
MICHIBAN STATE LOTTERY TICKETS
When: Tuesday, September 15 from 3-6
Where: Stepan Center
Available to all Notre Dame Students only
Each student may present 2 student ID’s for 2 lottery tickets.
100 winners may each purchase 2 tickets
Wednesday, September 16 from 3-6 p.m. in Stepan Center.
Brought to you by the Student Union Board.
THIS WEEK AT THE MOVIES:
I Love You to Death
* on Thursday September 10
White Men Can’t Jump
on Friday, September 11
and Saturday, September 12
Movies are shown at 8:00 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at Cushing Auditorium. Price of admission is $2.00.
Special Offer: A discount, 10-viewing movie pass is available for $15.00 at the ticket booth
non-profit organization
U.S. POSTAGE
PAID
Notre Dame, IN Permit No. 10
STUDENT UNION BOARD
I