The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.-1
Volume LXVIII
November 2, 1934
No. 7
SENIOR CLASS TO HOLD SMOKER IN DECEMBER
MARITAIN SPEAKS ON HISTORICAL IDEAL OF A NEW CHRISTENDOM
The “New Deal” year in campus activities will receive an innovation from the senior class when the upper classmen hold their combined class meeting and smoker just before the Christmas holiday.
Thomas G. Proctor, senior class president, announced the appointment of Franklyn C. Hochreiter as general chairman of the affair. Hochreiter will be assisted by the following com-
Thomas G. Proctor
'	A splendid idea.
mittee: Publicity — William Tourney, Robert Monahan and Phil Jacobs; Program—John Breen, Walter Brown and William Schmidt; Arrangements —Mitchell Saleh, Walter Sheahan, Varnum Parish and Eugene O’Brien; Honorary Committee—Norbert Hart, Frank Shay, Joseph Argus, Thomas K. LaLonde and John D. Carbine.
The purpose of the Senior Class meeting and smoker is to provide an occasion for the promotion of better fellowship among the members of the class and to permit the open discussion of senior class policies for the remainder of the year. The chief item of business will be consideration of plans for the Senior Ball to be held late next spring. The senior officers feel that there should be more voicing of class opinion on the subject of the final meeting of the men at the ball. They feel that it is a class affair and should be according to the reasonable suggestions of the class members.
The program will be informal and will consist of a variety of numbers by talented students in the class. The place of meeting has not as yet been selected nor has the date been set.
Wranglers Make Plans
For Promotion of I.C.O.;
Prizes Are Announced
Added impetus was given to the progress of the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest for high schools, announcement of which was made in last week’s issue of The Scholastic, when, this week, the Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, stated that he would give his personal support to the event. Bishop Noll expressed himself in the following terms: “The I.C.O., sponsored by the Wranglers of Notre Dame, meets with my whole-hearted approval, and I trust that the principals of every Catholic high school in Fort Wayne diocese will encourage it.” The enthusiastic support of such a notable personage as the Bishop will, no doubt, aid materially in securing the success of the contest.
Plans of the Wranglers concerning the I.C.O. are at present moving along at a rapid pace. Invitations have been extended by the forensic society to the principals of all the Catholic secondary schools in Indiana, where boys attend, requesting each one of them to enter the leading male orator of his institution in the contest.
At the last meeting of the Wranglers, the members of the organization decided that it would be a good policy to enlist the aid of prominent Notre Dame alumni in each of the towns where a Catholic high school is situated, in order that every one of the institutions might receive all the help possible in getting started.
The society also made its final decision regarding the prizes and awards which will be presented to the winners of the contest. Each of the boys who survives the eliminations and comes to Notre Dame to compete in the finals will be given a medal, indicative of the order in which he finishes. To the school whose entrant wins first prize will be presented the I.C.O. trophy cup. The institution which manages to win the award three years in succession will secure permanent possession.
CAPACITY ATTENDANCE
Jacques Maritain, noted scholastic philosopher, spoke Sunday night, October 28, to a large audience in Washington Hall on the subject,-“The Historical Ideal of a New Christendom.” Reverend Charles C.
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. He introduced Maritain.
Miltner, C.S.C., head of Notre Dame’s philosophy department and Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, introduced the distinguished Frenchman by giving a brief account of his achievements.
After requesting the audience to excuse his accent which might prove disturbing, Professor Maritain launched into the depth of his profound treatise which covered thoroughly every aspect of his topic. The lecture, lasting somewhat more than an hour, contained two divisions, the first consisting in the background of medieval civilization and the second describing a new Christian civilization with the same fundamental principles slightly altered.
Professor Maritain stated the question at issue thus: “Must a new Christendom in the conditions of the historical age we are entering, while
(Continued on Page 2)
November 2, 1934
One
Ticket Sale for Student Trip Will Begin Next Wednesday
PROFESSOR ENGLES WINS RECOGNITION WITH POEM
N. D. BAND TO MAKE TRIP
By Paul Foley
Final arrangements for the student trip to the Navy game at Cleveland have been completed during the week, according to an announcement from John F. Holahan, Chairman of the Ticket Committee.
The price of the game tickets will be 50 cents. These tickets will permit the holder to occupy a seat in the regular $3.00 section. The tickets will be sold in the Main Building ticket office from 1 to 5 o’clock on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoon. A.A. books must be presented both at the time the ticket is purchased and at the gate of the Cleveland stadium. It is expected that a large number will take advantage of this liberal offer.
The train tickets, which will be on sale at the same time, will be $5.50 for the round trip. <
The original itinerary has been adopted with few changes. Starting with a special Mass on the campus at 5:00 o’clock Saturday morning, the schedule provides for breakfast in the Dining Hall at 5:25. The train is due to leave Dorr Road siding at 6:00 and to arrive in Cleveland at 12:30, Eastern Standard Time, allowing an hour and a half before game time. The return trip is to start from Cleveland at 1:00 o’clock, Sunday morning to return to the campus about 7:00 in time for Mass and breakfast.
It was also announced through the S.A.C. this week that the University Band will accompany the team to Cleveland and entertain between halves of the game.
While plans for the trip proper have been taking definite form it is understood that the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland has also been active in arranging a series of social events for the week-end. Their tentative schedule includes a smoker at the Cleveland Athletic Club on Friday night, Nov. 9, a buffet luncheon at the Hotel Cleveland Saturday noon, and a Victory Ball and banquet at the Lake Shore Hotel following the game.
Reports from the stadium in Cleveland show the advance sale of tickets far in advance of the 1932 figure and it is expected that more than 70,000 people will be in Municipal Stadium for the game.
Statistics
Reports from different colleges are to the effect that an important discovery is imminent, namely: Not every boy of 19 who weighs more than 200 pounds is a good football player.
Collegians Play For Wisconsin Grid Dance; Capacity Crowd Attends
One hundred and eighty couples thronged the floor of the Progress club Saturday night, at the Wisconsin football dance, sponsored by the Senior Class. Included in this unexpectedly large group were numerous St. Mary’s students , many Sophomore Cotillion dates, and a majority of the football squad.
The dance was one of the most successful held tliis year, and a large share of the credit goes to the excellent playing of the Collegians orchestra. It was the only football dance held this year.
MARITAIN LECTURE
(Continued from Page 1)
embodying the same principles, be conceived according to a type specifically distinct from that of the mediaeval world?” In his view the question must be answered affirmatively.
In the development of his thought, the lecturer declared that the characteristic notes of the Middle Age civilization were the following:
1)	An advance toward an organic unity, of the temporal order under an Emperor, and of the spiritual under the Pope.
2)	The temporal played a ministerial role with regard to the spiritual, that is, it was regarded as a means to a higher end.
3)	The use of the institutional apparatus of the state for the spiritual good and the spiritual unity of the social body itself.
4)	The family conception of authority.
That civilization no longer’ exists. It is neither possible to return to it nor yet to reproduce it completely in our times. Then pointing out that though the Catholic Church is one, the forms of Christendom, that is, a Christian temporal order, many be manifold, Professor Maritain proceeded to draw the characteristics of a new Christendom. Briefly, it would be founded on the same fundamental principles, but these principles would be applied in a manner only analogous to their application during the Middle Ages. The new Christendom “would include a profane Christian, and not a sacred Christian conception of the temporal order.” Its outstanding notes would be these:
1)	An organic structure implying a certain pluralism, but yet inimical
Norbert Engels, professor of English at the University, has received a request from The Paebar Company, New York publishers, for permission to include his sonnet, “Shakespeare-Cervantes,” in the 1934 Anthology of Magazine Verse.
This poem, published in the fall issue of Scrip, the Notre Dame quar-
Pkofessor Norbert Engels He discovered a coincidence
terly, last year, records Prof. Engel’s discovery of the amazing coincidence of the birth of Shakespeare and Cervantes on the same day, April 23, 1616.
Prof. Engels has been reprinted in The Literary Digest, the Catholic Anthology, and the American Book of Verse. He has had poems, short stories, and critical articles published in the Commonweal, America, The Grail, Ave Maria and others, including Srip, to which he has contributed extensively.
to the totalitarian conception of the state in vogue at present. It would be a kind of “integral theocentric humanism.” Its principles would be Christian, its aim would be the common temporal good, its spirit would be tolerant; it would not have a mix-imum of unity, as in the Middle Ages, but that minimum only consistent with the heterogenous elements grouped within it.
2)	The autonomy of the temporal by virtue of the conception of the intermediate end or aim of action. The temporal would be supreme in its own order, as would also the spiritual in its order. It would be a Christian lay state.
3)	Insistence on the natural liberty of the individual; freedom of conscience, the right not only to private property, but the distribution of it; the development of the idea of “co-property” in the relations between employer and employee instead of the salary system; laborers to be allowed to exercise their intelligence in the direction and management of human enterprises.
4)	Homogeneity in the conception (Continued on Page 16)
Two
The Scholastic
LAST GAME ATTRACTS CELEBRITIES TO CAMPUS
“Scrip,” Edited by G. A. Lawton, To Make First Appearance Friday
Clouds, chilling winds, intermittent hail, all were offset last Saturday by the atmosphere of cheer prevailing among the spectators who witnessed the last home game of the football season. Many celebrities were present to speed the Fighting Irish on a much hoped-for successful journey through distant stadia.
Rt. Rev. Bishop Noll, Bishop B. J. Sheil, Mayor Kelly of Chicago, States Attorney Thomas Courtney, and J. B. McCahey, superintendent of public schools in Chicago were among the celebrated guests. Doctor Dean O’Connor, who accompanied George Melinkovich to Europe in his quest for good health during the past year, was present to observe, with pleasure, the performance of his star patient.
Nor was the alumni body outdone by these visitors, for it was well represented by such loyal supporters as: Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, Dr. D. M. Nigro, ’14, of Kansas City, a personal friend of the late Knute Rockne, Joseph B. McGlynn, ’12, of East St. Louis, John C. Cochrane, ’23, of Toledo, Fred Steers, ’ll, a former’ track luminary and at present officially connected with the A.A.U.
Vincent Harraban, ’22, recently returned from commercial work in Central America, Francis Wallace, ’23, writer of national repute, Charles Grimes, ’20, and Judge Vincent Giblin, ’18, of Miami, were also present.
On the Wisconsin side of the stadium the Cardinal and White was submerged by the profusion of color in the. section reserved for the gaily-attired Cotillion guests.
James Madison Elected President of Servers
In a meeting held on October 22 the Servers Club elected James Madison, of Racine, Wisconsin, a senior in the School of Commerce, as its president. The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was unanimously chosen as honorary president, and Brother Boniface, C.S.C., as adviser to the organization.
A committee to pass on the club’s constitution was also formed. The following men were chosen as representatives from the different classes: James Hamilton, senior, William Walsh, junior, Arthur Hoffman, sophomore, and James Murphy, freshman.
The club inaugurated its program “of giving honor to God by unified and regular service at the altar” last Sunday on the Feast of - Christ The King.
The next meeting of the club will be held on November 5.
Colorful Couples Dance To Music Of Mark Fisher At Sophomore Cotillion
According to an unofficial estimate, approximately 375 sophomores, upperclassmen, and their guests danced last Friday evening to the Sophomore Cotillion music of Mark Fisher’s Edgewater Beach Hotel orchestra, and enjoyed themselves in the rose, blue, and green light cast by the Palais Royale’s new lighting effects. Conspicuous in the Palais lobby Friday night was a portrait of Mark Fisher, done in pastels by Bill Ellis, whose handiwork was evident also in the other hall decorations. Postdance consensus of opinion had it that the Class of ’37’s social debut was a success.
No-less successful were the other Cotillion week-end functions — the Notre Dame-Wisconsin football game and the Senior’ Class’s football dance Saturday night. Week-enders had for the former a brisk, windy autumn afternoon, a special section on the Wisconsin side of the stadium, and a Notre Dame victory; for the latter the music of the Notre Dame Collegians, the Progress Club on La Salle Street, and 150 couples in attendance. Proceeds from the Cotillion, after expenses have been paid, will go to charity.
Metropolitan Club Becomes
Athletic at Recent Meeting
At a meeting of the Metropolitan Club, held last week in Walsh basement, final plans were made for the launching of the club’s athletic program for the winter season. The intraclub singles handball tournament began Tuesday night, and will continue for several weeks. Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden set aside the handball courts and apparatus room for this purpose.
There will also be two basketball teams, a lightweight and heavyweight. Bill Schmidt was selected to replace a retiring member of the athletic committee. Othei' business announced included the Army trip, which still remains unsettled. Tickets f or students making the trip, however, will be reserved by the Athletic Office.
The Christmas dance will be held December 27, at the Roosevelt Hotel. No orchestra has been selected as yet. Members are asked to hand in the names of other clubs in New York in which they hold membership, so that they might be notified of the dance.
A membership drive was announced, and dues collected. Bill Kennedy was appointed director of publicity for the club.
THREE ESSAYS INCLUDED
By Andrew Hufnagel
The campus has a literary treat in store on Nov. 6 when Scrip, Notre Dame’s quarterly magazine, makes its long awaited debut for the school year- of 1934-35. Editor Albert Law-
Albekt Lawton He chased hares.
ton, is at present organizing the variety of material submitted to him for publication in the literary quarterly.
Among the wealth of articles which will be included within the covers of the magazine are book reviews by James A. Byrne and Edward J. Kil-murry; poems by Howard D. J. Murdock, Matthew J. Bruccoli, Sigmund J. Sluszka, Margaret Engels, and Fred J. Meyers; short stories by James A. Byrne, and Maurice F. Tombragel; a column of dramatic criticism by Mitchell C. Tackley; and a number of essays, one of which was written by William A. Kennedy, and another, which comes from the pen of editor Lawton himself.
William Kennedy’s essay on South Bend, a bit written in a light, humorous vein, will most certainly be appreciated by its readers among the student body. Another essay, one written by a mysterious unknown, who calls himself “Gugliemo,” is a satire on—well you’ll find out—and ought to inspire much controversy among all Notre Dame men from seniors down to freshmen.
Of special interest are Lawton’s essay on tapestries and Bryne’s story “The Bell,” a tale of the prize ring by an author who has had considerable experience in the prize fighting game. Several other articles complete the November issue of Scrip.
Cracow Club
There will be a meeting of the Charles Phillips’ Cracow club in the basement of the Law Building at 6:30 o’clock, Wednesday November 7. All members are urged to attend, and any new men who have not as yet come in contact with the club are requested to be present.
Three
November 2, 1934
WALLACE ADDRESSES
JOURNALISM CLASSES
Mr. Francis Wallace, well known author of such books as O’Reilly of Notre Dame, Huddle, S tadium. dragged himself out of bed last Saturday morning “with difficulty,” as he put it, to come out to the Notre Dame campus and speak before a class of journalists in the basement of the University library.
Mr. Wallace, a graduate of Notre Dame, opened his informal talk by saying that 9:00 in the morning might not be too early for students, but that for a sports writer who works all afternoon and a good part of the evening it really is a terrible hour.
This light beginning, however, was not a measure of the rest of Mr. Wallace’s talk, for his introductory remarks were soon followed by a very practical' discussion of the business of sports writing.
Pegler is Different
In attempting to lay down some rules of conduct for his prospective journalist listeners, he said: “Develop the thing in you that nobody else has ... To be a success in the newspaper game today you have to do things and say things differently.”
Holding up Westbrook Pegler as his idea of this “different” type of writer who has those “screwy ideas,” Wallace continued: “The secret of Pegler’s success is that you never know what he’s going to write next, and the odd thing about that is that Pegler never knows what he’s going to write next either.”
Mr. Wallace, a little later, emphasized the necessity of a newspaperman being a square shooter, saying, “Above everything else be fair. Don’t let the temptation to be flashy, to be talked about make you put a fellow on the pan. . . The outside people, the people you write about, appreciate your being fair. And, after all, it’s those same people who determine the contacts you’ll make and the news you’ll get as a reporter.”
In speaking, of newspaper work as a profession, Wallace advised, “If you’re not sure that you want to be a newspaper man, if you’re only being led on by the so called glamor surrounding the business, then don’t fool around with it. . . However, if you really want to write, why stick in there and you’ll come through, for after all there’s a. thrill out of writing and getting away with it, that isn’t surpassed anywhere else, except possibly in the professions of clergy and medicine.”
(Continued on Page 7)
Four
FORTY-SEVEN STATES ARE REPRESENTED AT NOTRE DAME
Despite the after effects of the depression, the University of Notre Dame continues to rank as one of the truly cosmopolitan schools in the United States, if current enrollment figures can be taken as an index.
Fobert B. Riordan
His literature got results.
Classification of students according to geographical sources has just been completed by Robert B. Riordan, registrar, and the report shows undergraduate students from forty-seven states and eleven foreign countries, including the Philippine Islands.
Nevada is the only state in the Union which does not have a representative studying beneath the Golden Dome, or on the sidelines when the Fighting Irish meet their gridiron opponents this fall.
In the foreign language group, the Spanish speaking countries are . particularly well represented. Spain has 1 student; Mexico, 5; Cuba, 1; and the Philippine Islands, 6. From Central and South America, Colombia sends 3; and Panama, 1. Ireland has two students on the campus and Palestine one, while Alaska, Canada and Nova Scotia are also represented.
Credit for the increase in enrollment this year is given by Mr. Riordan “to the improved conditions throughout this country and to the Federal Educational Relief Administration.” He adds:
“Of the 300 receiving such aid, a very few might have borrowed money but it is more probable that none of them would have been in school this year without the government funds. On the face of it, this accounts for more than the difference in enrollment between this year and last.”
MRS. NASIE WARD SHEED SPEAKS HERE NOV. 24
Another of the unusual lectures • arranged for the school year at the University will be given on November 22, when Mrs. Maisie Ward Sheed, leader of England’s Catholic Evidence Guild, will speak in Washington Hall.
Mrs. Sheed is a member of a family which has been actively engaged in literary and lecture work for generations. She is the daughter of Wilfred Ward, biographer of Cardinal Newman. Her husband, Francis J. Sheed, spoke at the University on Oc-tobei-14 this year.
Spoke At London
In addition, Mrs. Sheed’s mother was an authoress of note and finished her best known work, “Tudor Sunset,” shortly before her death two years ago.
The subject of Mrs. Sheed’s talk will be “Writing My Parents’ Biography.” Tins topic was chosen by a faculty group to which the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., chairman of the program committee submitted her series of lecture subjects for a decision.
Among the other subjects on which she is prepared to speak are “The Life of St. John Bosco,” “The Catholic Ideal of Marriage,” and “Matt Talbot, the Irish Dock Laborer.”
During her years of service as a member of the Catholic Evidence Guild, Mrs. Sheed spoke regularly at the daily open air meetings in Hyde Park, London, where debates on doctrinal and religious matters are held for the benefit of the general public.
In the United States, Indiana again heads the list with 522 Hoosiers registered for the 1934-35 school year. The home state also shows the largest increase, with 62 more this year than last.
Illinois and New York changed places this year in the race for second honors, with the former having a total of 412 as compared with 410 for the Empire state.
Other states which sent more than a hundred representatives include Ohio with 164, the same as in 193334; Pennsylvania with 161, an increase of 24 over last year; Michigan showed a gain of 10 for a total of 132, and New Jersey droped 16 for a total of 107.
The Modern Coed
The modern coed wants a man just like the man that married dear old grandma, a survey made at the University of Oklahoma discloses.
They want stalwart men—men of character—robust in the manly virtues, at whose side they can toil to financial and social heights.
The Scholastic
MEMBERS OF I.L.A. VISIT NOTRE DANE LIBRARY
Several hundred members of the Indiana Library Association visited the Notre Dame campus last Thursday afternoon while on a tour of South Bend and vicinity. The librarian group, which held its annual convention in South Bend the past week, was shown through the Notre Dame library and art galleries by Mr. Paul R. Byrne, University librarian.
During the tour of the galleries, the visitors evinced real surprise at the excellence and completeness of the University’s art collection. The Dante library, consisting of 2,800 volumes in forty languages, also attracted considerable attention.
A number of prominent people were included in the sightseeing group. Mrs. Laura Adams Armer, nationally known novelist and recipient of the Newberry Prize of 1933 for her juvenile book, Waterless Mountain, was one of the visitors as was Miss M. L. Hunt, authoress of “Lucinda.”
Following the visit to Notre Dame, the Library Association’s members drove to St. Mary’s for refreshments and further sightseeing.
Blindness
Blindness is not a barrier to one girl and five boys who have entered New England colleges.
M. MARITAIN DELIVERS A TALK IN FRENCH BEFORE CLUB
The Catholic Renaissance in French Letters was the subject of an informal talk delivered in French by Jacques Maritain, world famous philosopher, before the members of the Cercle Francais of the University of Notre Dame on Sunday morning, Oct. 28, in the University Parlors.
“The Catholic movement is not a sudden outburst of religious activity,” said Mr. Maritain, “but rather one which has its roots in the writings of men of the preceding generation. To go back no farther than half a century, I should like to mention Ernest Hello, the man who was the first in France to call the attention of the lettered public to the mystics. This literature has persisted in the writings of Abbe Bremond, whose monumental work, Literary History of Religious Sentiment in France, since the End of the Civil TFars to Our Days, is the history of mysticism in France.
Then came Leon Bloy, a most striking personality, who during his life was misunderstood and, therefore, ignored, but whose influence is becoming more important in French letters day by day. Inspired by a deep and abiding faith, Bloy castigated his contemporaries in First Remarks of an Overthrower. His published diaries reveal his sincerity.
Among the present generation of well known writers, Mr. Maritain
PATRICIANS BEAR PAPER ON ARISTOTELIAN ECON.
“The Aristotelian Phase of Greek Economics” was the title of a paper delivered by Louis J. Grosso, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, before the Patricians last Wednesday evening. It was the first of two papers dealing with the economic principles of the Grecian state, the second of which treats of the Platonic system.
Introducing his subject with a picture of Greek life, the speaked demonstrated clearly how the economics of Athens was subjugated to the religion of the people. This central idea of religion in life necessarily caused all secondary systems to be based on ethical or religious principles.
It was further shown that the system of Grecian economics was a secondary one by the fact that slaves performed the greater part of the work for their masters. “This,” said Grosso, “caused the Grecian conception of work to become abased.”
Aristotle, he stated, advocated the self-sufficiency of the state in the principles of economics which he laid down. He was concerned, in the main, with agricultural economics, but, it must be noted, that he made economics, as did all Greece, secondary to religion. Hence, trade in business was frowned upon as fostering dishonesty, for, in that time a man was considered wealthy only insofar as he made use of his wealth.
PHILOSOPHERS MEET
Jacques Maritain — Reverend Philip S. Moore, C.S.C.
analyzed the spirit of Paul Claudel, whom he considers a superlative genius, but an enigma to his countrymen, unaccustomed as they are to find a philosopher writing poetry. “Although to a man who thinks at all,” said Mr. Maritain, “Claudel’s latest work, The Satin Slipper, is . quite comprehensible.”
Francois Mauriac, whose keen powers of observation, animated by a complete understanding of the purpose of life, has given us such a powerful novel as The Viper’s Tangle, and Charles du Bos, perhaps the greatest living critic in France today, who continues in the tradition of Sainte-Beuve, were also mentioned by the speaker.
In music, Mr. Maritain cited Eric Satie, Stravinsky, and Arthur Laurier; in art, he spoke of Gino Severini, M. Szwarc, and Jean Hugo, the grandson of Victor Hugo, the novelist and poet.
Mr. Louis Grosso, president of the Cercle Francais, welcomed the distinguished speaker, and presided over the meeting, which was attended by a large number of students and faculty members. The next meeting of the Cercle will be held Thursday.
November 2, 193 4
Five
INTERHALL DEBATING
SCHEDULE IS ISSUED
Robert Schmelzle, chairman of Interhall debating, announced the schedule for this season’s debates at the Wranglers meeting last Tuesday evening.
The schedule is as follows.
First Round—Fresh.-Scph.
Carroll-affirmative, Brownson-negative, Monday, Nov. 5, Law Recreation room; Lyons-affirmative, Dillon-negative, Tuesday, Nov. 6. Law Recreation room; Morrissey-affirmative, Freshman-negative, Wednesday, Nov. 7, Law Court room.
Second Round
Carroll-affirmative, Dillon-negative, Monday, Nov. 12, Law Recreation room; Lyons-affirmative, Brownson-negative, Tuesday, Nov. 13, Law Court room; Morrissey-affirmative, St. Edward's-negative, Wednesday, Nov. 14, Law Court room.
First Round—Upperclassmen
Sorin-affirmative, Alumni-negative, Monday, Nov. 5, Law Court room; Howard-affirmative, Walsh-negative. Tuesday, Nov. 5, Law Court room; Corby-affirmative, Badin-negative, Wednesday, Nov. 7, Law Recreation room.
Second Round
Sorin-affirmative, Badin-negative, Monday, Nov. 12, Law Court room; Corby-affirmative, Walsh-negative, Tuesday, Nov. 13, Law Recreation room; Howard-affirmative, Alumni-negative, Wednesday, Nov. 14, Law Recreation room.
The constructed speeches will be six minutes in duration, the rebuttals will be three minutes. All debates will begin promptly at 8 o’clock in the evening.
The speech of the evening was delivered by John Heywood who submitted for the consideration of the society the “Epic Plan” of Upton Sinclair. In the course of his talk Heywood outlined the proposed “utopia” of the California gubernatorial candidate and pointed out the salient features that might receive opposition should the plan be attempted. Among these were the following provisions: 1, the establishment of a public body authorized to acquire factories and production plants where the unemployed may produce the basic necessities required for themselves; 2, the creation of a public body to handle the financing of the above named commission; 3, a legislative act providing for a State income tax beginning with incomes of $5,000 and steeply graduated until incomes of $50,000 would pay 30 percent.
The discussion that followed Heywood’s presentation was the longest this year running over an hour and a half. The speaker next week will be James Boyle.
Six
’^^about the ccimPus
</ \y
Three students were strolling back to school for supper, when out of the dusk came a woman guiding a mouselike lap dog which was trotting at the end of a leash. Impulsively one of the students bent over and bellowed into the inoffensive muzzle of the little dog. With a yip of consternation the
pup spun back in three complete flips —the woman being less agile only got over twice. The student then straightened up and fell in with his companions, remarking casually that he always acted that way when he saw a meek-looking dog. And that is as good an insight as any into the urges which drive a fellow to go out for the editorship of Scrip. For this genius at dumbfounding the animal kingdom was none otther than the editor of Scrip, George Albert Lawton.
Some two decades ago this Elmo— as his friends are wont to call him—was born in the humble village of Lakewood which nestles on the wild shores of Lake Erie. At an early age he was sent to St. James grammar school where in eight years he successfully completed the elementary course. Exhausting the scholastic facilities in Lakewood and showing such great promise, this precocious youth was sent by the townspeople to the city.
In Cleveland at Cathedral Latin it was no coincidence that his room won the “effort and punctuality” banner four straight years, for Elmo was a dynamic leader. The teachers at Cleveland were not without appreciation of his latent powers and advised sending him to a university. So thus it was that we find Elmo alighting from the train one September morning back in ’31, all set to tackle Notre (Continued on Page 8)
LEGENDARY TREE STANDS IN REAR OF CORBY HALL
To the west and rear of Corby Hall, near the grotto, stands a tree, an old sycamore, whose trunk and five branches are an almost duplication of a human hand, on a large scale, reaching toward the sky. This strangely shaped tree has been the subject of legend and story ever since the University was founded on the shores of old St. Joseph’s Lake. Early Scholastics and Domes mentioned the tree so much that it practically became a campus tradition in itself.
The story of how the tree happened to assume its remarkable shape is a very romantic one. It appears that the early Brothers, who figured so much in the founding of Notre Dame, became very curious about an old ' Indian chief who used to visit the grounds of the campus, now and then, and who seemed to spend much of his time near this particular tree. One of the Brothers, becoming friendly with the red-skin, asked him what interest he had in the tree, and received the following tale as an answer:
A certain white man had been killed by an Indian, and, as a result, his closest friend had sworn eternal hatred for all members of the red race. It came about, when, sometime later, this man was passing through the grounds where Notre Dame now stands, that he saw an old Indian peacefully fishing by the lake. The Indian, a Christian convert, and a friend of the white people, suspecting no danger, was unarmed. •
The Indian hater stealthily crept up behind the old man and drove his hunting knife into the red man’s back. The latter let out a horrible yell, and stumbled to his feet only to fall exhausted at the spot where the sycamore is now situated. Catching up with him there, his assailant mercilessly renewed the attack. The defenseless victim cried out for mercy and begged to know what he had ever done that he should merit such treatment at the hands of a stranger.
“A member of your race killed my dearest friend, and I have sworn to kill every Indian that I ever meet,” replied the white man as he plunged his knife once again into the old man’s bleeding body. With his dying gasp, the Indian swore that he was innocent of the death of any man, and that he would appeal to God foi' vengeance.
Shortly afterward, the Indian chief found the body of his friend where the white man had left it, and buried it at that spot. On one of his frequent visits to the grave thereafter, the chief noticed a small tree growing where the blood of his friend had
(Continued on Page 7)
The S c h o I a s t i c
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
DEBATE ELECTION SYSTEM
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
COMMERCE FORUM TO SURVEY COLLEGE TASTES
The Knights of Columbus were addressed last Monday night by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who spoke of the talent which is to be found among the students of Notre Dame. Father Burke related many interesting stories of student entertainment
Grand Knight Sexton
His men questioned elections.
at Notre Dame in former years. He stated that there is real talent among the students, but it is difficult to induce them to make their abilities known. Father Burke’s talk followed a tentative announcement that the Knights of Columbus would offer $50 in prizes to the students who can put on the most entertaining acts in connection with the University Theatre projects.
The question of whether or not to reinstall the system of election of officers abandoned two years ago was rather hotly debated until it was decided to postpone further discussion until the next meeting. This question is of paramount interest to the council, and all members will be expected to be present at the next meeting to express their views. A football team was organized by Mike Santulli, and the council displayed great interest in this sport which is new to the council. A game will be played next Sunday against the Notre Dame students who are employed at St. Mary’s.
SYCAMORE TREE
(Continued from Page 6)
seeped into the earth. What was his amazement when he perceived that the little sycamore, a miniature of its present size, was assuming the shape of a hand with its fingers extended toward heaven as if in supplication for mercy and aid.
Whether this story was founded in legend or in fact is not certain, but the sycamore still stands to this day for every Notre Dame man on his way to the grotto to see and to admire.	.
November 2, 1934
Aftermath?
“What is this ghastly silence? What happened to all those running noses, to all those screaming fanatics who last week rent the air with horrid shrieks? What of the scorching invectives, the half-finished lunches which were left but one short week ago? What of the motley crowd of corduroyed hoodlums tvho last week drummed the pavement with flying feet? Well, what of them? They’re gone, all gone. Gone to the Valhalla of forgotten crusades — gone to the dust of the fathers — evidently and conclusively gone. But where?”
—The DePaulia
Try It
“There is only one way to get a professor out of the room. Tell him he is overpaid and he will go through the roof.”—Bucknellian
A Consideration
“The University of Missouri is really the best one in the world; but be a bright boy or girl or person and don’t find it out till you’ve graduated. Then think of the fun you can have mourning over the fun you could have had . . . This school has everything but it doesn’t display it in Neon signs; you have to take a little initiative and find it out.”
—The Missouri Student
Advice
“Psychology is the study of the brain; be sure and bring yours to class.”—Boston University News
From the Michigan Daily we learn: How to Act Like a Senior
1.	Use the word “prol.” in a sentence at least three times a day.
2.	Remain cynically disinterested in the face of all enthusiasm.
3.	Call all women of all ages by their first names......
4.	Pretend to see an economic . . . reasons for everything including wars, movies, colleges, churches and football games.
5.	Never cease chiseling and never relax in your efforts to get as much glory, money, keys and good grades as you can without doing any work.
We suggest:
6.	Always inquire, when a favor is requested, “What’s in it for me?”
7.	Should an underclassman greet you, stare at him and raise your chin another notch.
'The Women of It!
“I can eat almost anything,” declared --------, “but some things I
do not especially care for. Now that pie, for instance—”
A questionnaire on the personal tastes of 500 upperclassmen will be conducted by the Commerce Forum sometime next month. It will cover the preferences of the average college man concerning clothes, shows, tooth paste, and other commercial articles.
President Frank Shay Clothes—Shoivs—Tooth Paste.
The first 100 questionnaires will be tabulated probably before Christmas, according to Frank Shay, president of the club.
A series of smokers will be given this year by the Forum, at which outstanding figures in the commercial world will address the students. The first smoker will be held sometime before Christmas. President Shay hopes to have Mr. Merle Thorpe, editor of Nation’s Business, Mr. Stacey Baumann, advertising manager of the South Bend Tribune, and Mr. Barnhill, manager of Sears, Roebucks Co., speak at the various gatherings. The club also plans to take its members on group visits to the more important commercial houses in South Bend.
The board of directors of the Forum, hitherto an inactive group in the club, will meet regularly this year to determine all policies of the organization and to plan the different meetings. In addition to these functions, it will work closely with Dean McCarthy in academic matters which directly affect the Forum.
FRANCIS WALLACE
(Continued from Page 4)
Hints on the technique of writing were sifted indiscriminately through his speech; for instance he remarked, “Don’t try for a style; let that come of itself as something typical of you. And don’t try to imitate others. . . . Scorn no advice, write all you can, criticize yourself always. . . Remember that writing is feeling for others. Develop that faculty and you’ll have mastered the most difficult part of creative writing.”
Seven
€
STUDENTS GIVE TEAM ENTHUSIASTIC SENDOFF
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
UNIVERSITY THEATRE TO PRESENT VAUDEVILLE
Coaches Elmer Layden and Joe Boland, along with Capt. Dominic Vairo struck an optimistic note when they addressed the student body from the porch of Badin Hall during the Pep meeting held Wednesday noon.
Through the facilities of a newly installed public address system Coach Layden expressed his satisfaction with the team’s progress since their defeat by Texas. He said that he was confident of the squad turning in a good account of itself against Pittsburgh Saturday.
Captain Vairo promised the continued efforts of the team, expressed his thanks and those of the players for the support the student body has given the team and the interest displayed at the pep meetings.
Although the team left for the East yesterday the Pep Meeting was held a day in advance owing to the holiday Thursday. The squad is scheduled to return to South Bend about 7:00 Sunday morning.
William Miller, chairman of the Blue Circle was in charge of arrangements for the meeting and Tom LaLonde, president of the S.A.C. introduced the various speakers.	.
MAN ABOUT
(Continued from Pane 6)
Dame. Elmo studied very hard and -motivated himself as they advised in freshman orientation. He set as his goal the coveted Sullivan scholarship and it looked after three tough years that he was certain to win it. But alas! As luck would have it the basis was changed upon which it was awarded and Elmo saw his ambition crumble and go up in smoke, if we may use the metaphor. Never daunted he consoled himself with a moral victory and turned with renewed vigor to his tried and trusted friends, his books.	.
But there is another side to Elmo little • known beyond his circle of friends. He is not all grind, this Elmo. Anyone who has seen him trip with abandon on a tennis net, or as a joyously mad cheer-leader exhort the Sorin team to victory, can see that he is a real guy. It is true, though seemingly incredible, that this quiet bookworm can with ease throw his strapping roommate, Ed Skeehan (all time all-interhall tackle).
“Even the great Homer nods,” and so Elmo has been known to fall asleep in class, but, characteristically, when awakened by the professor’s queries his answers are at once so ambiguous and rhetorical that the professor is immediately put on the defensive. -
Need we mention that it looks like a great year for Scrip.
Eight	.
We didn’t see it happen, but we know it did. We know how those things look when they’re through; and we were able to identify the aftermath when we saw it.
We were standing just inside the ■ main door of Dillon when the victim returned home. He was dripping wet and escorted by three of his friends who seemed to be enjoying the whole affair a lot more than he was. One of them had just lighted a cigarette for him when he fumbled for his dooi' key as we moved nearer to inquire for the details; but he found his key then, and quickly opened the door with a determination to remove himself from public gaze in the shortest time possible.
The door slammed shut and we were- left with a trail of wet footsteps glistening on the red tiles of the freshman hall. And even as we looked the moisture evaporated and dried up from the outer rims inwardly, and then not even a tangible trace was left.
The first lake party of the year was over and done with, and we hadn’t even the name of the victim. Shades of Fran Dunn!
University of Notre Dame o
Laundry and Dry Cleaning Dept.
Notre Dame, Ind. -
October 23, 1934
Mr. A. Lawton
125 Sorin Hall
University
Dear Sir:
* u
Last Semester you had a collar washed and as yet you have not called ;for it. If you do not claim it’ within’ ten days, we are going to dispose of it.
Very truly,
„	F. Amison (signed)
Manager
“How,” we are wondering, “How does one dispose of a collar.”
Thoughts while cutting: What Gertrude Stein could do to one of Sorin’s cheers. Mr. Madden’s candle wax bed spread. The Week’s challenge to a touch tackle contest. It arouses our departmental pride. Jim Corrigan’s phone call regarding last Saturday’s weather. The war tom campus. Notre Dame boys may call for and return the ladies in a taxi cab. The editor of Scrip goes cheerleading with his ‘power dance.’ Take a number.
The newly formed University Theatre will present its first performance, a musical review made up of vaudeville skits written and acted by the students, sometime about the middle of December.
Students are asked to write original short skits and musicals which they are to submit to a member of the University Theatre board. Portrayals of campus life and traditions are particularly encouraged. The members of the board are: Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, Professor John Kelly and the Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C.	‘
In order to stimulate interest in this new production the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus is offering two prizes for the best skits; $35 for the first, and $15 for the second prize. The knights will appoint a committee which will judge the performances and award the prizes.
Because of the shortness of time it is urgent that the plans be formulated as soon as possible. Students who have written any musical scores are urged to get in touch with the Collegians who will furnish the music for the show. The University will stand all expenses of the scenery and costumes, the student contributing only his time and effort.
Bulletins will be posted in the halls from time to time to keep the student body informed of the progress of the show and to supply further information.
<
Dujarie Superior is Author of Story, “The King’s Steward”
The King's Steward, a true story of George Schuman, by George N. Lyons has recently been placed on sale by the University Book Store. Tom LaLonde, of Walsh Hall, will have charge of the sale, under the direction of the book store, with the proceeds going to Dujarie Institute here at Notre Dame.
The King’s Steward was written by Brother Agatho, C.S.C., Superior of Dujarie Institute, under the pen name of George N. Lyons. It is attractively bound in brown leather and will make an excellent Christmas gift.
The story deals with the life of a Catholic business man that is almost incredible. It;presents to the reader a strong, virile, upstanding gentleman in the light of a keen business executive, a dutiful husband, and in the light of a ^practical Catholic who evaluated the Things of time from the perspective of eternity. The King’s Steward should be of particular interest to every Notre Dame student interested in j the moral aspect of present day business.
The Scholastic

«

Calendar
Friday, November 2
Scholastic staff meeting, editorial 6:30; general staff 7:00 p.m., Ave Maria building.
Saturday, November 3
Football game, Varsity vs. Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Movie, 6:45 and 8:15 p.m, “The Crime of Helen Stanley,” with Ralph Bellamy and Shirley Grey.
Sunday, November 4
Masses, Sacred Heart Church; 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00. Interhall foot. ball, 9:15 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, November 5
Villagers’ Club Banquet.
Tuesday, November
Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
H. V. Kaltenborn to Speak in South Bend Lecture Series
H. V. Kaltenborn, known as the dean of America’s radio speakers, will deliver the first of a series of lectures sponsored by the South Bend Chapter of the American Association of Univerity Women. This distinguished lecturer, who has just returned from an extensive tour of Germany and Russia, will speak at 8:15 p. m., November 14, in the Auditorium of Central Senior High School.
Mr. Kaltenborn is well known to the radio public for his keen interpretation and terse statements regarding the events of national and international significance. Tickets for this presentation may be purchased for one dollar the evening of the lecture, . or season tickets are available at the South Bend Book Shop and Room 506 J. M., S. building. Prices foi- these season tickets are $3.00 for the reserved section and $2.00 general admission. In all, five lectures mil be given in the series.
October Devotions
Wednesday, October 31, marked the closing of the October devotions, and the vigil of the Feast of All Saints. Thursday, November 1 was All Saints’ Day.
From Thursday noon until Friday night there are the Toties Quoties indulgences : each time a student in the state of grace visits the church and recites six Our Fathers and six Hail Marys, for the Holy Father’s intentions, he gains a plenary indulgence applicable to the souls in Purgatory.
A novena of Masses and Communions for the souls in Purgatory will begin on Saturday, November 3. The month of November is dedicated to the souls in Purgatory.
November 2, 1934	'
THE Hill
By William A. Kennedy
No Maris Land
It’s getting so that you can’t stand in one spot on the campus for any length of time without having a trench dug around you. This happened to us recently while we were waiting on the corner for the trolley. Before it arrived, someone had burrowed under the tracks and left us, feeling rather alone and deserted, cut off from transportation and the outside world. That’s the way those things affect us.
These trenches and shell holes that they’re digging around here, have two aims. They are being sponsored for two separate and very distinct purposes, or so the engineers in charge hope. One is for wires and the other for water. That is, rain-water—the puddles that linger for days after there is a precipitation.
What’s troubling us in regard to . the latter system of pipes, is how they’re going to entice the puddles underground. They can’t have a sewer . plate for every puddle on the campus, because there can’t possibly be enough sewer plates in the world. Maybe there’ll be a tremendous main outlet, a great open pipe to which all loitering moisture will be irresistably attracted. Or, if this seems too fantastic, what think you of the idea to grade the whole campus, to have it run on an incline from the stadium to the lake, in the style of the orchestra floor of a theatre?
Personally, we ourselves don’t think much of the idea, because of the effect such an arrangement would have on the student body. Half of them would be constantly struggling uphill, with grim, set faces; while the other half would be jouncing downhill, looking exceedingly foolish. We defy anyone to look important while jouncing downhill. And don’t tell us you don’t jounce. You do.
. But whatever means is employed to drain the campus, we fervently hope that it will not overlook the marshes in front of the old post office. Some day—you’ll see—we’ll have alligators in that sector. Snakes, alligators, and lizards.	’
Readers’ Aid Society
Now and then, some of you look for a book in the library and you find that it isn’t there. We don’t mean that it has been loaned out—the book just hasn’t ever been in the place. At other times, a book will be published and escape the librarian’s attention, so that it never will be put in stock unless someone else speaks up.
Well, here’s the idea. If you have
any book in mind, that you are sure is not on the shelves already, let us know, and we’ll let the library know, and they’ll do the purchasing. It’s a very simple procedure, and a card to this column in Howard Hall will do the trick. You can skip the funny ones — Alice in Wonderland and Grimm’s Fairy Tales are well under control. •
Readers’ Complaint Dep’t.
' Today’s tantrum concerns the boys who take library books and pencil their opinions and reactions in the margin. This is a trick that requires an extravagant amount of brains on the part of the critic, and is especially interesting in the case of novels. There is nothing like being deeply engrossed in a story, and upon com. ing to a particularly striking piece of writing, finding it labeled “Good stuff,” or something of the sort. We expect to see one of these artists at work some of these days, and without ado we shall slip up behind him and, as Comrade Stice has so neatly put it, cut his throat from ear to ear.
Excitement
We don’t know what it is, but there’s something about us that is peculiarly attractive to fires. Whenever there is a conflagration, we always seem to be passing by at that moment. And we’re not carrying a can of kerosene, either.
Last week, there were two fires. One was a curtain in Badin, and the other a pair of pants in Howard. There was no one in them at the time.
- •
Fight
During the course of the Wisconsin affair it was apparent, from where we stood ,that the wind-swept spectators differed sharply among themselves on several points. An acquaintance of ours happened to be close to one of the imbroglios, and he tells this.
There was a slight skirmish, a flur-. ry of blows, and suddenly there was a man sitting unhappily on the concrete steps, holding his chin. An usher—one of the nastier type, with which the stadium abounds — rushed up into the stands and commenced to exhibit his authority. He collared a man looking on.
“Who hit him?” he asked excitedly. “Did you see it?”
- “No sir, I didn’t,” said the man, simply. “I just closed my eyes and swung.”
^ine
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
two very wise innovations—a class smoker and a class discussion of Ball plans. The Scholastic wishes to point out to the officers of the other classes, however, that a discussion of plans for a dance is, by no means, a requisite for holding a class smoker, supper or, if you will, banquet. Such things are, in themselves, the most laudable form of class activity. The Scholastic sincerely hopes that the example of the seniors will be followed by the other classes.
John D. Carbine.________________________Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling_____________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI______________________Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN_________________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY___________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr_______________________CoUege Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, II_________________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY.____________________Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN______________________________News Editor
CLTFFO'RD F. BROWN__________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL__________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN____________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER--------------------.HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS________________________FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY________________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONL__________________CHARLES A. LANDMESSER
PHILIP F. WELSH.__________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
FREDERICK SHANLEY
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER_________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER-----------------ROBERT J. DONAHUE
GERARD SCHAEFER------------------JAMES McMULLEN
JOHN L FLANAGAN._________________JAMES A. WALDRON
Business Management
JOHN F. STOEGKLEY___________________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated (SbUegiate ftrtss R*ushw or	r
"=•934 (uOcddeHuiCBt 1935=-
MADISOW	WISCONSIN
November 2, 1934
SENIOR SMOKER
The most noteworthy student activity innovation of the year is, no doubt, the proposed Senior Class smoker for which President Thomas G. Proctor and Chairman Franklyn C. Hochreiter this week announced plans. The smoker will do much to cement a class solidarity which has been growing for four years and to bring out the final senior precipitation of good-fellowship and friendliness.
According to the announcement of the smoker, one of its primary purposes is to provide a medium for the discussion of the Senior Ball. The discussion, in itself, is a very commendable policy. The Senior Ball is, in a sense, more than a dance. There is something significant and symbolical about it. The members of the Senior Class should, therefore, be given the privilege to meet and discuss plans for the Ball with the men whom they have honored with offices in their senior year.
The Scholastic congratulates the senior officials on
Ten
RADIO AUDITIONS
For several weeks now student musicians, singers, comedians, actors, and announcers have been treking over to the Engineering Building. There tney took part in auditions ■which were designed to test their qualifications as radio entertainers over the station WSBT has established on the campus.
These men, ■who worked hard and long before a microphone with no outlet, may be pioneers in a new field of intercollegiate activity. For years orchestra leaders have been staging “College Programs” over the radio. These programs invariably consist of the playing of the football songs, and a few remarks about the football team. While there is nothing wrong with these programs in themselves, they can hardly be called representative of college life. If, however, there are establishd on the campi of America, direct radio outlets from which students and faculty members may accurately portray college life, much will have been done to nd the American people of the adamantic idea that college consists of a few football games and a raccoon coat.
Notre Dame is well on her way of becoming a leader in this field, and those men who now speak or sing before empty microphones, may well be pioneers in a movement which will present the more serious side of university life to America.
A great deal of campus talent has been discovered during the trial auditions. But somewhere on the campus, lurking in a fourth floor garret or hiding under a Freshman Hall bunk, there must be more embryonic Ted Hus-ings and Morton Downeys. These men owe it to themselves and to Notre Dame to make their talent known. The time of the auditions has officially elapsed, but if any talented individual who, either because of modesty or some other reason, failed to appear at the auditions he may be assured that if he hands in his name to the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., in Dillon Hall, he will be given a fair trial.
SCRIP
Next week Editor G. Albert Lawton will bring out his first issue of Scrip. This publication, embodying as it does, the finest literary achievements of Notre Dame men, deserves the enthusiastic support of the student body. Editor Lawton has worked long and hard on his first issue. The Scholastic is sure it will be a notable one.
There still remains two days to submit material for Scrip. While it is practically impossible to compose a piece worthy of Scrip’s attention in this length of time, it is, nevertheless, very probable that some students have in their possession short stories and essays written for previous occasions which could well be included in Notre Dame’s literary quarterly. These may be submitted to Editor Lawton in 125 Sorin Hall up to Monday noon.
The Scholastic
SPCKTS
IdNTEPS
FROM THE
i-PRESS BOX
IRISH INVADE LAIR OF PITT PANTHER TO PLAY FIRST OF FIVE ROAD GAMES
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
FINALLY
It took foui- years to get this column, but only six weeks to get this front line trench. Why we wanted this position is simply explained. Warren Brown occupies a similar spot in his sheet and since we feel that he’s the cleverest scribe that ever missed the space bar on a Hearst-owned typewriter, apeing him doesn’t seem such a ridiculous idea. Yeah, we’re going to show him this when he refuses us a job next June. But as J. Dugan would say, “enough of this jitter.”
WHAT A SCHEDULE!
There’s been comment galore on this Princeton Tiger that is clawing everything in its path, but we haven’t seen any remarks such as we are going to make here. The eastern sports writers are loud in their acclaim of the victorious Princes. We question such applause by pointing a reminding finger at Crisler’s schedule. What a schedule! We can’t give anything but bird calls to a major football eleven that takes as its opponents such weak and incapable teams as Amherst, Williams, Washington and Lee, Cornell, and Lehigh. This is the setup at Princeton. If the Tigers make a clean sweep in their eight game “survival schedule” there shouldn’t be much surprise evident, but if anyone considers them for national, or even sectional, honors, most intelligent people will be amazed. The practice of warming up on a weak team or two is the acceptable thing to do, but when you spread the warm up period over seven of eight games, things take an off color.
Yale’s Bulldogs appear to be the only obstacle in the path of a questionable Princeton machine. Dartmouth is a possible heartache, but the other setups haven’t and probably won’t in the future cause upsets. With such a schedule, Princeton’s success depends upon the Yale and Dartmouth games. If they take the count in either or both of these tussles, no consolation is available on the (Continued on Page 15)
Elmer F. Layden Back on familiar ground.
La Raza Soccer Eleven To Open Season Sunday
Although not definitely having outlined a schedule as yet, the LaRaza soccer team is planning to play a number of games with different clubs throughout the middle west. They are planning to play an aggregation of Latin Americans from Gary, Indiana, in the near future.
Challenges have also been received from the Universities of Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin. At the next meeting of the club it will be decided upon as to the possibility of meeting these teams before the weather gets too cold. Either the Blue-Jays or Hibernians will be encountered next Sunday on the local field.
The La Raza lineup will be as follows: C. DeLandero, goal-keeper; E. Creel, R.F.; A. Bayot, L.F.; V. Sing-son (c), C.H.B.; S. Bonet, R.H.B.; T. DeLandero, L.H.B.; R. Roces, R. 0.; E. Hoyos, R.I.; J. Roces, C.; G. Valdes, L.I.; J. Creel, L.O.
Staff Notice
All members of The Scholastic news and sports staffs are requested to attend the regular Friday evening meeting tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the Ave Maria offices.
WILL BROADCAST GAME
By James A. Waldron
Way back in the days of long ago, a doughty Irishman called Tom of Enniscorthy did battle with a panther which had been terrorizing the countryside. This brave son of Erin so thoroughly tamed the fierce beast that it followed him around like a pet. Even in this modern day, a powerful horde of “Panthers” has been putting fear into the hearts of all its foes throughout the football world. A band of Fighting Irishmen have prepared themselves for battle and entered the lair of the “Panthers.”
History may or may not repeat itself tomorrow afternoon when the Pittsburgh “Panthers” and the Notre Dame “Irish” meet in their annual gridiron classic. Coach Dr. John Bain (Jock) Sutherland has again developed the usual powerhouse ball club that has made the Panthers one of the most feared teams in the country. Out on the University campus they are calling this year’s team an offensive one. The present edition of the Panthers is in contrast to former teams. The squad is smaller in number—49 players—but has at least double the scoring power of past Pitt teams.
In 1932 and 1933, the Green were defeated .by the Panthers and each time it was a fast, shifty back named Sebastian who led the attack. This year Coach Sutherland was faced with the problem of filling the place left by the graduation of Sebastian. Into this spot stepped the “explosion” back, Heine Weisenbaugh, one of the greatest money players of the day. The “flying Dutchman,” playing either left half or fullback, has made one or more long runs in every game he has played.
The mainstay of the Pittsburgh attack, however, is in the person of “Izzy” Weinstock, an All-American selection of last year at the fullback post. This 191 pound battering ram from the Smoky City has averaged four yards a crack for the past two years. The right half position will be capably filled by the veteran Mike Nicksick, while at the other half back post is Bob LaRue, a hard running, speedy ball carrier, who blocks with (Continued on Page 13)
November 2, 1934
Eleven
Brownson, Carroll, and Sorin Set Pace in Interhall Games
STRONG MIDDY ELEVEN MEETS IRISH ON NOV. 10
SORIN DOWNS MORRISSEY
The Standings
Group 1.	W	L
Sorin ------------------- 4	0
Alumni___._______________ 2	1
Lyons ------------------- 1	1
Morrissey  1	2
St. Edwards _____________ 0	2
Corby  1	3
Group 2.	W	L
Brownson  4	0
Carroll  4	0
Dillon __________________ 2	2
Howard 1	2
Freshman  1	3
Off Campus 0	4
T Pts.
0 S 1	5
2	4
1	3
2	2
0	2
T Pts.
0	8
0	8
1	5
1	3
0	2
0	0
The Sorin Tigers swept to their fourth consecutive victory in the Interhall league by beating the Morrissey Cubs, 12-0 last Sunday.
Captain Art Carey was the mainstay as the Tigers cinched the pennant in Group 1 and kept their record of being undefeated and unscored upon so far this season. Because of the presence of Corby scouts the Tigers did not use their highly touted passing attack but relied upon running plays for their two touchdowns.
Brownson Wins, 6-0
The color of the game was greatly enhanced by the presence of the loyal band of Sorin rooters who entertained the spectators between the halves with their marching tactics. Two of their best formations were a big S and an equally large M, the latter being for their opponents. Led by Jerry Foley, the Memphis flash who is varsity cheerleader, the crowd cheered the Tigers on to great heights.
Corby finally showed its team to the public last Sunday when they appeared for their scheduled game with St. Edwards; The unexpected presence of the seniors apparently unnerved the sophomores and after dazedly playing for 60 minutes they awoke to find themselves on the short end of a 13-6 score.
In the third game of Group 1 Alumni saw their last chance for a possible tie for the title vanish when Lyons rose to unexpected heights to battle the juniors to a scoreless tie and a great moral victory. The Gold Coasters seemed to be suffering from the effects of the Sorin Steamroller. The Lyons lads were determined and cut off every attempt of their opponents to rally.
In Group 2 Brownson and Carroll are still tied for the league championship. Brownson evidently under wraps for next week’s big game beat Freshman 6-0. The dormitory boys sensing a championship were loathe to show their strength when they did not need (Continued on Page 16)
Writers Concede Irish Place In The Sun After Recent Wisconsin Victory
“Notre Dame today gave a rising salute to Pittsburgh and other foes lurking beyond by overpowering Wisconsin, 19-0. It was the team’s third straight victory and the second of the season over Western Conference opposition.
Notre Dame’s audacity played an important part in its triumph. Facing an adversary that carried a marked advantage in weight, the Irish surged mass upon mass, thundering forth a might even their most loyal supporters did not think was in them. Wisconsin rushed a stream of substitutes into the game in an endeavor to patch the breaks in her battle line, but all the kings horses and all the king’s men couldn’t have stemmed the Blue and Gold tide this gray October afternoon.”
—Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune.
“Showing every indication of being a great football team, Notre Dame scored a decisive 19-0 victory over an outclassed Wisconsin eleven here Saturday afternoon. It was the- self same score by which the Irish defeated Wisconsin in their last previous meeting at Soldiers’ Field, Chicago in 1929.
Notre Dame outmatched Wisconsin in power, speed, and reserve strength. The Irish outpassed Wisconsin by an even more decisive margin than the score would indicate. Wisconsin was inside jVotre Dame’s 20 yard line only once during the entire game.”—H. J. McCormack, Wisconsin State Journal
“Notre Dame’s recovery program received the full indorsement of a stubborn bunch of Badgers in the local stadium Saturday afternoon, as Elmer Layden brought his home stand to a close with a 19-0 victory over the house of Spears. It took a full battery of six guns and a regiment or two of cavalry to put across the program but with Big Don Elser and Handy-Andy Pilney hitting their stride for the first time this season, the Irish found yards easy to pick up and touchdowns plentiful.
All season long Layden has been exhorting his players to discard their gentle ways and take up hard tough football as a regular occupation. He saw his plea answered Saturday.” —Jack Ledden, South Bend Tribune (Continued on Page 15)
After an exchange of punts Navy was in possession of the pigskin on Notre Dame’s 37 yard line. Bill Clark, colorful kicker for the Sailors, dropped a well placed kick out of bounds on the Notre Dame 5 yard marker. Immediately Banas kicked. The ball was downed on the 15 yard line. Clark tried a center plunge and gained one yard. A pass to Borries placed the pill two yards from the goal. One yard netted by a line buck. Borries skirted the end and crossed the goal but fumbled and The Fighting Irish recovered. Banas managed to boot to the 17 against the strong wind. Borries was brought down on the two yard line after he caught a pass from Baumberg. An end run by Borries registered 6 points for the Navy. Midshipman Bull converted the placement. Thus Navy defeated Notre Dame 7-0, last year, before a crowd of 50,000 in Baltimore.
Navy Has Light Line
This was the first defeat The Fighting Irish received from hands of the Gobs. Notre Dame whipped the Sailors in every game since the series started in 1927 but last year the Navy bombarded its way to victory. Statistical records show that the Blue and Gold were superior in every department of the game. 58 running plays and 24 passes gained 412 yards and 22 first downs for Notre Dame while Navy totaled only 62 yards in 28 plays, passes included, and 4 first downs.
On Nov. 10 the Irish tangle with the Middies. The Navy has sailed through five battles without a scratch on its records. The gobs mopped up William and Mary 20-7. A 21-6 victory over Virginia followed by a 16-13 defeat handed to Maryland set the stage for a real battle with Lou Little’s Lions. The Middies decisively defeated Columbia 18-7. Last week Pennsylvania became Navy’s fifth victim when the Quakers lost 17-0.
Coach Tom Hamilton was somewhat worried about his forward wall at the beginning of the season. The center of the line caused the worry. Captain Burns, at left guard, weighs only 162 while Zabriskie is but 10 pounds heavier. Lou Robertson is very light for a center. The tackles are bigger however. Cutter tips the scales at 195 and left tackle Lambert weighs 185. Dormin and Mini, two worthy and able men, balance the line.
The backfield, composed of Clark at full, Borries and King at halves, and Pratt at quarter, is one of the finest in the East. Bill Clark is famous for his coffin corner kicks while Buzz Borries is an excellent ball carrier.
Twelve
The Scholastic
OTTEY LEADS SPARTANS TO VICTORY OVER IRISH
Irish Shout Warning to Pitt
With Impressive Badger Victory
No one would suspect Coach Nicholson of being a prophet by looking at him, but that is just what he turned out to be last week when he announced that he expected the Michigan State cross-country team to win the first five places in the meet with Notre Dame’s harriers last Saturday. The Spartans copped the meet by a 44-15 score, by taking the first five places.
Captain Tom Ottey led the field in the three and a half mile grind over the Notre Dame course, making the unusually fast time of 18 minutes, 11 seconds. McKenna was the first Irish runner to finish, his time being 19:07. The complete list of runners in the order of finishing was: Ottey (MS) 18:11, Bechtol (MS) 18:26, Gardner (MS) 18:35, Hammer (MS) 18:36, Dennis (MS) 18:56, McKenna (ND) 19:07, Holten (MS) 19:30, Kenyon (MS) 19:34, McDevitt (ND) 20:00, McGrath (ND) 20:11, Lee 20:35, Gott 20:36, Donovan 20:50, Karl 20:58, Hoyt 21:21, Smith 21:21, and Costa 21:44.
Professor Raymond Hoyer was the starter.
PITT GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
terrific force despite his 168 pounds.
Tomorrow’s game will also provide a personal battle of brains between two Bellaire, Ohio boys, Munjas, of Pitt, and Bonar, of Notre Dame. McClure, Leo Malarkey and Leon Shedlosky will give Jock all the reserve power he will need. Pittsburgh’s line this year is lighter than usual, but makes up for this loss by speed and aggressiveness. The spearhead of the fast charging forward wall is Captain Doc. Hartwig, a great defensive player. Teamed with him at the guard positions is Ken Ormiston. He is of the fast, mobile type, a keen diagnostician and has few superiors in open field blocking. The pivot post is well taken care of by George Shotwell, Pitt’s 164 pound center.
At the end posts are the veteran Harvey “Fireman” Rooker, a fine pass receiver and blocker, and Verne Baxter who is making the Pitt rooters forget the great Joe Skladany. Art Detzel, 180 pound wrestling captain for 1935, and Bob Hoel, who has the drive and speed of a halfback, make life miserable for opposing backs from their tackle positions.
Inspired by their great victory over Wisconsin, Notre Dame is invading the smoky city to resurrect the deed of Tom of Enniscorthy and tame the Pittsburgh Panther. Even the most optimistic of Irish rooters must concede the odds to Pitt. But what are odds to Fighting Irishmen?
November 2, 1934
Pitt and Notre Dame Renew Relations With Eighth Game of Series
Pittsburgh, facing its toughest schedule in recent years, will meet the rejuvenated Notre Dame team Saturday in the eighth meeting of the two schools. The Panthers’ ship of victory riding the crest of a successful season and including among its victims Washington and Jefferson, West Virginia, Southern California, and Westminster, is seeking its third successive victory over the Blue and Gold. Both teams have suffered one defeat, Pitt at the hands of the strong Minnesota eleven and the Irish at the hands of the Texas steers. Victory will assure the winner a place in the football sun at the end of the current season.
First Game Was a Tie
In 1911 Pitt was held to a tie by a weak Notre Dame team in a game played on a wet, soggy field. The Panthers were the heavy favorites to win and outweighed the Irish ten pounds per man. Yet the Gold and Blue returned with a scoreless tie and a moral victory. The two teams resumed relationships in 1930, when Pitt in 1929 claimed that they, and not Notre Dame, should be entitled to the role of National Champions. That year, before a crowd of 72,000 fans who were anxious to see the outcome of the grudge match, another great Irish team decisively trounced the Panthers to the tune of 35-19. Schwartz and Savoldi collaborated to make four of the Irish five touchdowns while holding the Panthers to 19 points garnered when the reserves were playing.
The Irish suffered their first defeat in 1932 when Mike Sebastian led the Pennsylvanians in a drive which upset all the dope and returned the Blue and Gold on the short end of a 12-0 score.
The Panthers, by repeating last year, did what several teams have attempted but very few succeeded, and that was beating the Irish two years running. Mike Sebastian, with the aid of Weisenbaugh and Weinstock, topped the Irish in one of then-numerous setbacks by the score of 14-0.
This year the Blue and Gold is out for revenge. Pitt once defeated so far and with high hopes of a successful season may find that Layden’s boys are in a none too receptive mood for a third trimming, while Notre Dame, improving with evei-y game, will be facing its acid test. The game will be of national importance, and will prove whether- Notre Dame is a really great team or whether they have been over-rated.
“MINK” GOES OVER TWICE
By Joe Prendergast
For the second time this season, Elmer Layden’s “new deal” aggregation set back a Big Ten football combine—this time the Wisconsin Badgers were on the receiving end of the ill treatment.
George Melinkovich:
His No. 30; His feat—30 points.
The score of the fracas was 19 to 0 but to the 20,000 on-lookers it might just as well have been 30 to 0 so clearly and decisively did Notre Dame outplay its adversaries. The contest had no sooner opened than did the Irish youths turn on the pressure. With Wally Fromhart masterminding the club, a 64 yard drive resulted. All three Irish backfield stars: Elser, Shakespeare, and Melinkovich, played a large part in the drive down the field. With the ball on the Wisconsin’s two-yard line and the whole Badger eleven bunched to stop a line plunge Wally Fromhart called a spot pass play that had old Doctor Spears, himself, bafflled. Wayne Millner, the would have been receiver of the pass, was wide open but Bill Shakespeare had to hurry the throw and it fell short in the end zone.
At the start of the second quarter Coach Layden sent his second pent-up herd into the fray. After an exchange of punts, Notre Dame got possession of the pigskin on the visitors’ 48-yard marker and started the downfall of the hopeful Badgers.
Andy Pilney tossed a 30 yard pass to “Footes” Davis who was subdued on the twenty yard line. Pilney picked up five more, Hanley four, Pilney again three to make it first and goal to go on the Wisconsin 10. Fred Carideo needed only one try to carry it over. His hard drive and powerful running made up the neces-(Continued on Page 16)
Thirteen
INTRO DUC ING
By Joe Prendergast
GRIDMEN TAKE TO ROAD FOR REMAINING GAMES
Tomorrow’s contest in the Pitt Stadium between Notre Dame and Pittsburgh could just as well be termed the battle of the Bellaire, Ohio quarterbacks; for both Miller Mun-gas, Pitt’s star signal caller, and Reyman Bud Bonar, Notre Dame’s quarterback, hail from this town of 13,-000 population in southeastern Ohio.
Rey is a senior in the Physical Education school of the University. He is 22 years old, five feet eight inches
in height, and weighs 165 pounds soaking wet.
“Bud” was a three letter man at Bellaire High School and later at Hun Preparatory School in New Jersey. Basketball found him ringing up the two-pointers as a forward, in baseball he caught and in football he always was a quarterback and still is quite a success at this position.
Frank Wallace, Notre Dame alumnus and well known novelist, sent Rey- to partake of his fortunes at Notre Dame. His predecessors from the home town at the school of the “Fighting Irish” in recent years were Johnny Niemic and Jim Harris.
In the fall of ’31, Ray was barking signals for the number one freshman eleven at Notre Dame. The next fall,
his sophomore year, he failed to see action: “Hunk” having three sterling quarterbacks in Jaskwhich, Murphy, and Vejar. In the Kansas game last fall Rey played for more than 30 minutes. The only two engagements in the course of the ’33 campaign which found him on the sidelines for the entire 60 minutes of each fray were the Indiana and Carnegie Tech games.
All last season Bud Bonar flashed
glimpses of his true worth but it was not until the last game on the schedule against the Army that he showed his real ability.
The Irish were worse than underdogs. They had experienced their poorest season since the turn of the century and then some. The hard riding cadets were galloping down the 'Hudson with colors flying high, not once had their guidons been lowered in defeat. At the end of the half the score read 12 to 0 for the Army, just as had been expected. With resumption of play in the third period marked changes were noticed in the Notre Dame team’s manoeuvers. They had the dash, the zip of Rock’s old elevens. Something had happened in (Continued on Page 15) ’
Their final home game of the year being successfully completed, the Irish now turn their faces to foreign fields for further conquests.
Directly ahead of them looms the very powerful Pittsburgh football machine. Pitt has an impressive record thus far this year. They have victories over Washington and Jefferson, West Virginia, Southern California, and Westminster. Their only defeat was suffered at the hands of the strong Minnesota team.
Coach Layden and his team are determined to win this game for more reasons than one. Last year the Panthers were the only team to defeat Coach Layden’s Duquesne eleven, and he has been pointing for this game, desirous of retaliation. The team, burning from two successive defeats at Pitt’s hands, will be fighting mad in their attempt to break the Panther’s string of victories over them.
After the Pitt fracas the boys will attempt to sail through the Naval Academy’s surprising team. Navy is reported to have the best team since 1928. Their record up to this stage of the season seem to carry out the fact with double force. Their defeat of Columbia’s Rose Bowl championship team caused Navy stock to soar high.
Northwestern has not met with much success this year, but the Evanston team will be keyed up for the encounter with Notre Dame. In years past Northwestern has always managed to make the afternoon more than interesting for Irish teams.
New York will be the next setting for the Notre Dame teams. Here will take place the tradition covered battle between the Irish and the Army. The records of the two teams for the season does not mean a thing when they clash in the Yankee Stadium. Witness last year’s game. The Army was a one-sided favorite for this game. But who will ever forget the stirring last quarter rally of the Irish cohorts to bring through a victory against seemingly insurmountable odds.
After then* Metropolitan appearance the long trek across the country to Los Angeles will take place. The Trojans are not doing so well this year. Their line is not strong, and Cotton Warburton, their All-American, has been stopped in nearly every game.
This array of games will carry the team well into December. Because of the recent showing of the Irish, it is not folly to suppose that they might walk through the remaining tilts on their card. Tomorrow’s Pitt game, however, is a big stumbling block in Layden’s path. A Panther victory would add prestige and confidence to the improved Irish.
The Scholastic ’
€
4
Fourteen
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 12)
SPLINTERS
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 14)
“N o tr e Dame’s football teams, Numbers 1 to 4 respectively, but none too respectfully, brushed aside Wisconsin here today, 19-0, and completed their home engagement in a style that must have seemed satisfactory to some 20,000 patrons... The Badgers didn’t get within scoring distance and didn’t do any great amount of ground gaining during the whole struggle. . . It was not until the end of the second quarter that the Badgers gained a first down, and they had but a half dozen of these at the finish, gaining but 127 yards to Notre Dame’s 290.”—Warren Brown, Chicago Herald and Examiner
“A slashing, dashing, hard running Notre Dame team that at times looked like Notre Dame teams of old, scored a brilliant decisive victory over the University of Wisconsin eleven in the final home game of the season.
It was by far the best exhibition • the Notre Dame players have put up this season. They worked as a well oiled machine throughout the major part of the afternoon and held the upper hand over their rugged opponents from whistle to whistle.”—Bill Costin, South Bend Neivs Times
Press Box Teems With Scribes As The Irish Win
While a large crowd of ordinary spectators took the opportunity to witness the Irish in their final home appearance of the year last Saturday, there were also an extra large number of newspaper men in attendance in the press box. Those present were.
James S. Kearns, Chicago Daily News, former Editor-in-Chief of The Scholastic; Warren Brown, Chicago Herald-Examiner; Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune; Jim Gallagher, Chicago American; Paul Mickelson, Associated Press, Chicago; Ronald McIntyre, Milwaukee Sentinel; Oliver Kuechele, Milwaukee Journal; Frank Wallace, New York World-Telegram; Joe Huhn, Pittsburgh Press; Frank Curtis, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; Or-ien Fifer, Indianapolis News; Hank Casserly, Capitol Times of Madison, Wis.; Roundy Coughlin and Hank McCormick, Wisconsin State Journal of Madison; Howard Purser, Wisconsin News of Milwaukee; Jimmie Donahue, Newspaper Enterprise Association Cleveland; and many otthers.
Villagers Club
The Villagers Club will’ hold its second banquet and business session of the year next Monday evening, November 5. Arrangements as to the place of the meeting will be an-| nounced later.
November 2, 1934
(Continued from Page 11) basis of other victories scored earlier in the season for no one finds solace in shoving around incapable opponents such as dot the Tiger program.
Yes, we mean to doubt the greatness of the Crisler troupe. We mean to question it even as an average team. Surely no victories accomplished thus far should draw banner heads and none of their future tilts deserve front page position unless one of these weak opponents steps up and spills the Tiger. We’ve never seen a Princeton eleven in action .and don’t feel as though we’ve missed anything. That brings out another point. There are hordes of football enthusiasts who are in the same frame of mind. Even some of the Tigers’ most loyal backers are not frequenting the bowl this year because there is nothing to see but Princeton. The result is that the front offices in New Jersey are wailing over skimpy crowds. We’d suggest that the Princes engage some first class opposition if the books are to stay out of the red. Sports fans don’t enjoy a massacre. They enjoy a • fight down the stretch---the last minute attack that pulls the ball game out of the fire. Why not try a schedule like Pitt and Fordham are wading through, Princeton?
WE PICK
Last week the books show 31 wins, seven defeats, and two ties. For the season we have rung up 146 on our side, 32 losses, and ten deadlocks. Discounting the ties we have a percentage of .820. Including the ties the figure reads .777. This week we drew most of them out of a hat because they promise to be real scraps. Here they are — 45 of them. WE PICK:
NOTRE DAME OVER PITTSBURGH.
Amherst over Mass. State
Brown over Springfield
Carnegie Tech over N. Y. U.
Colombia over Cornell
Yale over Dartmouth
Fordham over Tennessee
Princeton over Harvard
Holy Cross over Temple Pennsylvania over Lafayette Navy over Washington and Lee Syracuse over Penn State Villanova over Boston College Chicago over Purdue Army over Illinois
Detroit over Oklahoma A and M
Drake over- Haskell
the gloomy, liniment-smelling dressing rooms beneath the Yankee Stadium during the short intermission that had transferred a downtrodden team into an eager, optimistic band of playing fools. The cause was Rey Bonar. Taking this from his teammates who played alongside him in that game they said, “Ray’s talk to us between the halves of that ball game was more responsible for the victory than any other thing.”
The climax of this renovation came early in the last quarter when Nick Lukats scored a touchdown and Ray kicked the extra point. “All I thought of when standing back there to kick was to make it good.”
Extra Point Wins Game
His boot was the margin that gave Notre Dame its victory, for a few minutes later a blocked punt was pounced upon by Wayne Millner to give the Irish a 13 to 12 win.
This season Bud has seen plenty of action. With four games gone by the boards he has enough time in his possession, right now, for a monogram. His one great ambition is to beat Father Brennan in handball. The hardest and best team he ever played against was the Pittsburgh outfit of last year. He likes to play golf and swim in his spare time. Ray’s personal property includes a picture of Tillie from Bellaire. He thinks Guy Lombardo is the last word in dance bands and the response the boys gave him to the above mentioned talk between halves of the Army game was his greatest thrill in football. Never has been injured during his three years on the varsity and lives in a small single in Sorin— 106.
Grinnell over Creighton Iowa over Indiana Iowa State over Kansas Kansas State over Washburn Minnesota over Michigan Northwestern over Wisconsin Ohio State over Western Reserve West Virginia over Ohio Michigan State over Marquette Alabama over Kentucky Duke over Auburn Georgia over Florida Georgia Tech over North Carolina Maryland over Virginia Louisiana State over Mississippi State Tulane over Mississippi North Carolina State over Clemson Rice over Texas A. and I. Southern Methodist over Texas Vanderbilt over George Washington Arkansas over Texas Aggies California over Santa Clara Colorado over Colorado Mines Idaho over Idaho College Oklahoma over Missouri Oregon over Montana Washington over Oregon State Stanford over U. C. L. A.
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By James McMullen
We Irish are missing ’em. GEORGE WASHINGTON University is featuring a couple of gridiron stars named BEN PLOTNICKI and BERNIE WITUCKI from South Bend . . . DIZZY DEAN has already announced he will not pitch for less than §18,500 next season . . . That’s the first blast. . . . EDDIE FORBES, veteran New York boxing refferee, once officiated in 35 bouts in one night at the Crescent Athletic club . . . FRANCIS OUIMET has been playing in amateur golf tournaments for 21 years. . . . And here’s a lion hunter that’s a bit out of the way . . . CHARLEY ORDISH recently bagged his three hundred and twenty-second mountain lion . . . and this one with a .22 . . . How about it, Mallett? ROLAND MACKENZIE, former Walker Cup star, is now playing the old Scotch pastime with one hand . . . Torn ligaments in his chest caused doctors to prohibit use of two. . . .
e
ED STRANGLER LEWIS, former heavyweight wrestling champion, has been known to lose more than 20 pounds during a one hour contest. . . . HANK GREENBERG must play a minimum of 15 minute according to the Tiger first baseman’s contract with the BROOKLYN JEWELS in the American Professional Basketball league . . . CLOUDYCROFT, NEW MEXICO claims the highest golf course in the world. At one place it is 9,000 feet above sea level . . . SLADE CUTTER and BEPPO LAMBERT, Navy’s regular tackles, are heavyweight boxers ... A red circle around those names Irish! . . . ST. MARY’S GAELS were given a cash bonus of $400 for beating Fordham. . . . Donated by fans making the trip. . . . Wee WILLIE SHERDEL, former CARDINAL hurler, is now a prosperous tavern-keeper in PENNSYLVANIA . . . TONY ZALE, Gary Middleweight, doesn’t like the Misko family ... for didn’t he knock MISKO out for one week? ...	.
The fistic rise of BUDDY BAER, brother of MAXIE, is being overlooked ... He won his first two fights by first round knockouts, with MAX sitting in the press row . . . He screens Max entirely when he stands in front of him, and tosses the champion around like a sack of flour . . . the beginning of a brother act for boxing? . . . Harvard’s center, GEORGE COMFORT, is said to be the East’s best pivot man since Ben Ticknor wore the CRIMSON . . . PAT MALONE, of the Chicago Cubs, picked up a black cat in the streets for a mascot, but Manager CHARLIE GRIMM ordered him from the club house . . . Harness racing has become a world wide sport . . . Shanghai,
Sixteen
China recently established a track for trotters . . . Here’s a piece of luck— SAUL MIELZINER, scouting Lowell Textile Institute for BENNY FRIEDMAN arrived in Lowell, Mass, only to find the game was being played in Maine. . . .
O
England is no place for a boxer. . . . They are paying as low as one dollar for an eight round main go there . . . There is no number five on the N. Y. U. football jerseys this year . . . Five VIOLET regulars in the past six years, wearing that number were laid out by injuries for the season . . . SLIP MADIGAN, of St. Mary’s, uses a dictaphone to record his impressions while scouting . . . ARTHUR CLARKSON, MINNESOTA halfback, is a resident of MINNESOTA, a citizen of Great Britain, and was born in China to a Swedish. mother and an English father . . . DAN FRAAD, of Brown, has played every position on the Bear team except end . . . DIZZY DEAN rates BILL TERRY, Giant manager, as the easiest man in the National league to pitch to . . . MARTIN (Bear Tracks) ROSSINI, of St. Louis U., is so big he has to have his shoes and pants custom built . . . MICHIGAN STATE gained only 750 yards from scrimmage against Manhattan. . . .
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 2)
it, and avoided any chance of an injury to their stars.
Off Campus showed great improvement Sunday, yet they are still trying for their first victory. They met defeat at the hands of Dillon, who by virtue of their win, are now in third place. Both teams played good ball, but the Dillon aggregation was apparently too strong for the Villagers and won the fray 12-6.
In the final game of Group 2, Carroll polished up for their big game by trouncing Howard 19-0. The game was too one-sided to be of any interest the freshmen being the complete masters of the situation throughout the fracas.	.
Sorin and Corby met yesterday afternoon. The results, in addition to next Sunday’s games, will appear in the next issue of The Scholastic.
In Group 2 Howard is pitted against Off Campus, Dillon meets Freshman, and Brownson engages Carroll. The last game is a battle for the league title. Neither team has been defeated in four starts. Comparative scores, while they mean nothing, give Carroll the advantage as they have outpointed their mates in all four games, by scores of from one to 18 points.
The winner of the Brownson-Carroll encounter will play Sorin for the Interhall championship Sunday afternoon Nov. 11 at 2:30.
WISCONSIN GAME
(Continued from Page 13) '
sary 10 yards to put the visitors six points in the red.
Pilney tried for the extra point with a place kick but the ball failed to leave the ground.
Wisconsin reached Notre Dame’s 27 yard line near the end of the period but the gun sounded to stop the spurt.
The first team started the second half for the Laydenmen and went to town immediately. Don Elser, who by the way has definitely arrived, lugged the kickoff back 25 yards to his own 30. From punt formation Elser raced around his own right end, down the sidelines like a runaway locomotive finally turning off the steam on the 37 yard stripe of the invaders. George Melinkovich then took command of the situation and pulled one of his tantalizing runs good for 37 yards and gave Notre Dame a six point more advantage. This run by big Mink was as nice a piece of sidestepping and changing of pace as has been seen in the Stadium for some time. Fromhart’s boot after the score was blocked by the Wisconsin linemen.	'
The final tally of the day came a few plays later. Wayne Millner blocked Null’s punt and recovered the ball on their 18 yard line. Two plays thereafter the boys from Madison were penalized 15 long yards for unnecessary roughness, thus resting the oval three yards from the tell-tale territory. Shakespeare collected two at right guard, he failed to gain on the next attempt at the same spot. Don Elser lost a yard at left guard but Wally Fromhart played the “old fox” again sending Melinkovich around his left end to score without trouble. The Badgers were bunched closely behind the scrimmage line expecting another shot at the guard slots so Mink had things all his own way on this touchdown jaunt.
With a kicking average of none out of one staring him in the face, quarterback Fromhart stepped back and sent the ball soaring through the uprights to make certain of the Irish win.
I
0
MARITAIN LECTURE
(Continued from Page 1)
of authority. The ruler is to be looked upon as a companion who has the right to lead others. Ruler and ruled are to be like collaborators in the same work.
5) The motive for this common work will not be the mediaeval idea of an empire of God, but the Gospel idea of the dignity of the human person, the idea of evangelical charity or love. ■
The present order will not last. Meantime we must strive to overcome the disrupting influence of nationalism and to substitute in its place the spirit of unity which is characteristic of the Church of Christ.
The Scholastic
S
“BEST-DRESSED” MEN AT BIG COLLEGES COMMEND KOVER-ZIP
N UNFAILING SENSE OF STYLE HAS LONG BEEN EVIDENCED IN THE CLOTHES OF PRINCETON UNDERGRADUATES AND ALUMNI, AND
HAS MADE ITSELF A NATIONAL FACTOR IN FASHIONS FOR MEN.
American college men have a sure instinct for improvements in apparel that add to the smartness of the things they wear. A typical instance of this style-sense was the nationwide approval of the Kover-Zip fly by “best-dressed” seniors at the great universities from coast to coast. Here are some of many comments on this invisible seamline closure by college men who were selected as “best-dressed”:
APPAREL ARTS, men's style authority, says: "Every forward-looking men’s store merchant ought to take a trip to the Princeton campus. The point of this would be ... something of an intangible nature that goes by the name of fashion.
Princeton men have never approved the bizarre or the extreme in apparel. Therefore the statement of Gommy, Incorporated, famous Princeton tailor and specialist in men’s wear, is important.
• • • • .	..... says:"The difference between
fine tailoring and commonplace work is all in the attention given to what some people call little things. Every detail of a man’s clothes is important • to us, that is why we equip the trousers made in our shop with the Kover-Zip fly. In both style and fit, it is superior to the buttoned fly and is a big improvement over the ordinary uncovered zipper because the metal is hidden."
Princeton men have endorsed Kover-Zip, the invisible seamline closure for trousers, as an essential of correct apparel.
Ou.tstaruluuj college- tailots, athtets eulotse l^ovet—^Lp as the only slide Id /at /me custom. clothes
e,
net
WALDES KOH-I-NOOR, INC., LONG ISLAND CITY, N.Y.
PARIS PRAGUE DRESDEN WARSAW BARCELONA LONDON
T. R. Bassett Princeton, 1934 “The covered zipper fly is neatness and perfection for trousers and slacks — quite an improvement over the ordinary zipper with its unsightly strip of raw hardware.”
Jack W. Boerner
Stanford, 1934
“The new covered zip with the invisible fastener has the finished appearance which is so necessary. I am in favor of this new fastener for campus, sport and dress wear.”
Albert E. Newman
Michigan, 1934
“The flashy metal of the uncovered slide fastener did make you flinch, but this new covered zipper is neat as a seamline. Write me down as voting for the covered zip.”
John A. Hooley
Yale, 1934
“I’ve never seen a fly-fastening device of any kind that compares with the Kover-Zip— good taste would rule out the uncovered slide fastener with its strip of exposed metal.”
So. Bend Symphony Group
Plans Four Concerts
«
Of special interest to Notre Dame . . • students interested in music is the announcement of the season concert schedule of the South Bend Symphony orchestra. The complete list of dates and soloists is as follows :
First concert—Nov. 18, 4 p.m., at the Progress Club; soloist, Louis Elbe}, pianist. • playing the Liszt E-flat piano concerto.
November 2, 1934
Second concert—Jan. 20, 4 p.m., at the Progress Club; soloist, Josephine D. Carter, contralto. (Solo to be announced later.)
Third concert—March 20, 4 p.m. at the Progress Club; soloist, Capt. Edward Payson, ’cellist of the Culver Military Academy, playing the Mozart A-Major ’Cello concerto.
Fourth concert—April 28, 4 p.m. at the Progress Club; soloist, Mathilda Christmas McKinney, pianist, playing the Rachminoff C-Minor piano concerto.
The St. Joseph Valley Symphony orchestra will also give a concert in South Bend, the date of which will be given at a later date. The soloist
will be Helen Guilfoyle Roe, pianist, in Mendelssohn’s G-Minor concerto.
Italian Club '
The Italian Club adopted its new constitution at the meeting of Tuesday, October 30, held in Walsh basement. Plans were announced for a dinner, and several officers were appointed.
Complete, plans were drawn up for an Italian spaghetti dinner to be held next week in South Bend for the members of the club and their friends.
5 eventeen
de Landero To Divide
Fencing Squad Monday
Th<- daily fencing i» still in vogue, and the Notre Dann- squad is rapidly rounding into condition. The high caliber of the men this year will make the Iri.'h a tough opponent for any team.
Coach de Landero wi.-hes to remind
The Ideal Gift!
That human story of a true Catholic and his adventures in the realm of business. Follow George Schumann in the fascinating novel, “The King’s Steward," as he evaluates the things of time from the perspective of eternity.
The King’s Steward
By George N. Lyons
( Brother Agatho, C.S.C.)
Now On Special Sale
75c
For a limited time a brown leather fabricoid covered edition of this true story will be sold for seventy-five cents instead of the regular price of $1.10.
Proceeds of this edition will go towards redecorating and refurnishing the Brothers Chapel at Dujarie Institute at Notre Dame.
▼
Notre Dame Book Store
Tom Lalonde, 229 Walsh Hall Special Representative
All The Good Magazines Rolled Into One
As many stories as a magazine devoted to stories
As many cartoons as any cartoon magazine
As many articles as any leading journal of opinion
As much humor as any humor magazine
More full color pages than any other magazine ONL? magazine making a feature of latest men's fashions
NOVEMBER ISSUE ON SALE NOW
Subscribe thru your bookstore at special college men's rate of $3,75 for nine months
Eighteen
all those who signed for fencing, both upperclassmen and freshmen, to report to the practice room in the gym at 3:15 Monday. The purpose of the meeting will be to assign all candidates to a definite group for practice.
The participants in the exhibition next week at the charity affair at Holy Cross parish in South Bend have not been chosen. Coach de Landero is keeping a vigilant eye on all squad members and will choose six of them to fence for the occasion.
Johnny Caresio, Louis Grosso, and Telmo de Landero, leading candidates for foils, have begun work on duelling swords to fill the vacancies left by Captain Dave Hyun and Paul Martersteck. Bill Mulhall, a freshman, has shown much promise in saber.
Skidmore College Adopts
Novel Plan of Grading
Skidmore College, at Saratoga Springs, New York, has gone off the letters and figures rating standard.
Henceforth, students will not receive grades, but comments on their work will be given to the dean. If the comments are adverse, the student will be called into conference. At the end of the semester, the student will merely be told whether she has passed or not.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Good s
“It’s >te<
Your throat Protection—cirrita
You’ll find every Lucky firmly round and fully packed with long golden strands of fine tobacco — only the clean center leaves—these are the mildest irritation—against cough	leaves—they cost more—they taste better.
St. Vincent de Paul Holds
Regular Meeting in Walsh
In the baseemnt of Walsh Hall Tuesday evening, October 30, the St. Vincent de Paul Society held its weekly meeting.
The president of the society, August Petrillo, urged the members to secure as many old clothes and magazines as possible. With the increasing coldness of the weather, Petrillo explained, the demand for those articles increases.
After it had been proposed, a vote was taken in which the members unanimously decided to join the Council of Social Agencies in South Bend. By this move the local society will be affiliated in social work with
the existing agencies in the city.
A report was made by Vincent MacAloon in behalf of absent members. Included in this report were the cases handled during the past week in South Bend.
Hibernian Soccer Team
Battles With Blue Jays
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
The Hibernian Soccer team, who boast of a .666 average, after losing their initial contest to the strong South Bend Blue-Jays and defeating the Tumvereins twice, are scheduled for a return battle with the Blue-Jays Sunday.
Captained by Frank Maxwell, the Hibernians lost only one game during the 1933 season, and although losing the nucleus of experienced men, they again loomed as a potentially strong opponent for any outfit encountering them.
It is hoped that in the near future a game can be played with the La Raza Club, to determine the outstand-
ing soccer team on the campus. The last time these two squads met, the Hibernians managed to eke out a victory over their friendly rivals but the two teams have not met since 1932.
The Sportman’s Club of Fort Wayne, one of the best soccer teams in Indiana, will, in all probability, be added to the Hibernian’s schedule. Incidenally, this aggregation happened to be the only one to paste a black mark against Maxwell’s outfit in 1933.
If there is still anyone who would like to try out for the regular lineup please get in touch with Frank Maxwell at 331 Corby.
The Rochester Club Hears
Father Eugene P. Burke
BLUEPRINTS PHOTOSTAT COPIES
SCHILLINGS, Inc. 329 South Lafayette St.
At a banquet held by the Rochester club at the Morningside hotel on Wednesday, Oct. 24, Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., spoke on the subject of life at Notre Dame when he was a . student here. Father Burke also played and sang songs of his own composition which interpreted different phases of campus life.
President John Francis Gillooly announced that a meeting will be held in the near future for the discussion of plans of the club’s activities during the remainder of the year.
1 prefer Old Golds...and so does mq throat'saqs LOaVitM W^ilLicvnt
See Warren William in his latest Wamer Bros. Picture,“THE DRAGON MURDER CASE” 'Twenty	.	•	. The Scholastic