The Notre Dame Scholastic
909
NOTES ON LIVING
Chicago, the Loop, at five-thirty in the evening. Rush houi', with all kinds of people going all kinds of ways, newsboys shouting, scraps of music floating out from loud speakers in the doorways of radio shops, ads in windows and on automobiles dashing by, the elevated overhead—and a lone great white cloud swimming up the blue lake above us.
Coming to a corner- we backed up against a building; in spite of the noise and confusion, the melody of an old hymn by Bach and the memory of “The Tower Beyond Tragedy,” a poem by an American writer, ran through our mind.
That cloud, quiet and far and untouched, was The Tower beyond Tragedy; it was easy to see SING,’ YOU SINNERS ! that it was oblivious of all this rush, unaware of all this confusion.
Why not say goodbye to all this, TURN ON THE HEAT forsake people, and, even if we were with them,
ROOT HURLS CUBS TO WIN OVER GIANTS be above them?
But a young girl and a young man and an old, ragged cripple went by just then; the music of that hymn, “We all worship but one God,”
(And Ghandi was marching ■ to the- sea)
rushed over us like a flood of black light, ’
HAVE YOU SEEN THIS SEN-
SATIONAL SUPER-PLAY?
and we saw all those people as part of the melody; their faces
Please mister, kin I have a dime for a cui) of coffee?
seemed to melt into quivering music and that music leapt up above the elevated
GENNA GANGSTER TAKEN FOR RIDE
and arrowed into the air beside the white cloud.
And then tve knew that the people and the newsboys and the elevated and the radios were as much a part of the quiet mighty scheme of time as was the lone white cloud. But which to choose? Which to fasten our lives upon?	—M. H. L.
' the
No^re Dame Scholas^ ic
Disee- Quasi-Semper Wic$urusWive>Quasj-CTa5-MoriluTM
•	Founded in 1872	•
	Murray Hickey Ley	■_	 Editor-in-Chief	s
=	EDITORIAL STAFF T. Vincent McIntire	Managing	Editor Emil L. Telfel	Assistant	Managing Editor Joseph B. Reedy	Assistant	Managing Editor J. Archer Hurley	The	Week	=
=	WkatEB. Langford	The College Parade William Knapp			.....Music and Drama Ramon G. Smith	Campus	Clubs Paul J. Hallinan	Features Editor -	Edward E. Brennan	Script	Editor	
z	'	NEWS STAFF .	John Bergan, News Editor James Collins	Neil Hubley	Lawrence Dunda Howard Webster	George Allan	William Karl Austin Boyle	Richard J. O’Donnell	James Carmody John Motz	John Pick	Leslie Raddatz James Kearney	1
i	SPORTS STAFF .	John A. Kiener, Sports Editor William J. Magarral	Cleve Carey	F. Granger Weil Harry A. Sylvester, Jr.	Henry B. Asman	James E. McFeely, Jr.	=
s	BUSINESS STAFF Harrington J. Noon	Local	Circulation Manager Chester M. Ashman....Foreign Circulation Manager Frederick N. Davis	Local	Advertising Manager James L. Rizer	Foreign	Advertising Manager James H. Rorke	"William Sherman	John Blanda Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan Merle V. Baldwin	Norman E. Duke	z i i a
i Vol. LXIII	MAY 23, 1930	No. 29
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—J. Archer Httrley------------------------------ 910
Coming Events___________________________________________ 9H
A Man You Know—James J. Kearney------------------------- 912
Varied Program Planned for Week-end—Austin' Boyle------- 913
A Man About the Campus—Richard J. O’Donnell------------- 916
The Wink________________________________________________ 917
Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith---------------------------— 918
Editor’s Page-----------------------------------------   919
Morrissey Hall and Its Heraldry—Patrick McLaughlin------ 920
College Parade__________________________________________ 922
Diamond Nine Pounds Out 13-6 Win Over Bradley—J. E. McFeely 923
Notre Dame Regains State Title—Henry B. Asman----------- 923
Golfers Nip Detroit’s Undefeated Record—John A. Kiener-- 928
Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester--------- 933
On Down the Line—John A. Kiener------------------------- 936
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office. Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of	j
OaMPUS Clubs having had the last battle of the year, political factions have stored the party machine for the summer. Seniors showed no interest in the elections as they know by now that regardless of who is elected or what is done, nobody will be satisfied. Government and law were instituted for the disorderly minority in the first instance, and since then that minority has come into its own by managing government. Andy Gump, who once ran for President, and whom I should like to see elected, was of the opinion that the political machine is lubricated with banana oil, and generates applesauce.
OOG” DART with his hair in his eyes, his corduroys dragging, and his tortoise-rimmed glasses patched with court-plaster was the butt of Howard Hall at the time when Father Margraf was threatening to send me back to Brownson. “Woog” had one retreat—the room of Bob Mulhall—where he was safe from annoyance. Mulhall was his safety deposit keeper, his tutor, and almost, his guardian angel. And though “Woog” left school long ago, Mulhall has always been doing favors, and doing them well, for many of us ever since freshman days. Formal affiliations, with societies literary and illusory, with girls, collegiate or disconsolate, or with any other disturbing element have ever been avoided by Bob. This year he is awarded the Meehan Medal, and more than a few feel that in the instance of at least this honor, the judges did not select one who came trailing in clouds of tinseled heralds, or shielded behind the breastplate of a sovereign power, but rather one who chose his own weapons, and used them with the keen-cutting strokes of individualism.
INGS rather than pins are henceforth established as the official class insignia. Either the law that some state has against non-members wearing the emblems of any organization, or else the unpopularity of the open coat and bejeweled vest have probably been influential in the change. The committee that decided on this revolutionary policy reached their verdict, according to the last Scholastic, only “after four hours of viewing displays exhibited by six leading jewelry manufacturers.” During this tedious foui-hours we trust that the jewelers were not so atavistic as to neglect relieving the flagging members with refreshments of one sort or another. A really considerate jeweler would provide smoked glasses for committeemen, as the strain on their eyes must be intense. Something should be done by the student body to show our appreciation for the zeal and self sacrifice of those conscientious souls who prostrate themselves as martyrs for our good beneath the relentless guillotine of jewelry manufacturers.
| HIS is the last page I write for you, and in parting, a few words of explanation have been advised by both Emily Post and the Rules Committee. Last year at this time, when I was enjoying an imaginary injustice, Murray Ley, God bless him, offered me what I would on his staff. I clung to this page, tooth and nail. Since then I have developed toothache, and I never have believed in the masculine manicure. The degradation may be charged to lack of objective during the last year, or to a change in my means of livelihood. Last year I pursued hairpins about a girl’s dormitory, and there is no better school for cynicism than employment in a college for women. Should literature ever cloud my future I deny anyone the right to hold what has appeared in these columns against me. The Bible is irreproachable in speaking of the sins of a man’s youth. For a finale, then—let us go forth and make the world a better place to shave in, and check your roller skates at the off-campus as you leave.
I*
The Notre Dame Scholastic
911
LOUIS BUCKLEY ELECTED GRAND KNIGHT OF K. OF C.
Last Friday evening the officers of - the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus for the coming -» year were elected by some two hundred or more members assembled in the council chambers, Walsh Hall. Louis Buckley of Galesburg, Illinois, a graduate student and instructor in ” economics at the University, was elected Grand Knight of the local ‘J- council for next year. This election, which promised to be closely contested, did not come up to predictions, - with the result that Mr. Buckley won easily over his nearest opponent. Immediately preceding the election of officers, Grand Knight Jack Chevigny delivered the most stirring speech of his career, in which he stressed the ■	importance of selecting able men to
* guide the destinies of the council, and the necessity of perfect harmony and '* unity in the order during their regime, b > Immediately upon his election, Grand Knight Buckley took the chair and continued with the balloting for the other officers. Following- is a list of those elected: Vincent Ponic was unanimously chosen Deputy Grand Knight; Neil Hurley nosed out Robert .	Streb in the race for Chancellor;
Malcolm “Red” McVean polled double 7	the vote of his opponent, Joseph
Munnizo, and was elected Warden; John Keefe won over Henry O’Connell .	in a closely contested race for Advo-
cate; Joseph Hughes and Frank Flan-• u nery were both unanimously elected, for Recording Secretary and for gf/	Treasurer respectively. In the vote
!' ’	for Inside Guards, David Rusk and
Thomas Gorman won over Joseph Lauerman on a technicality; Edward O’Brien was unanimously elected - Outside Guard. The Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., and the Reverend Thomas Kelley, C.S.C., were chosen as trustees of the council along with Professor Raymond Hoyer.
,•	Grand Knight Buckley announces
that those to be appointed to the positions of lecturer, financial secre-; tary, chaplain, and editor of the Santa, •. Maria will be announced just as soon as he is able to call a meeting of the trustees of the council.
NOTICE!
Caps and gowns may be secured from Dan Sullivan in Sorin Hall, next Friday afternoon, between two and five.
ALLANAND WILLIAMS WIN ORATORY PRIZES
This week the winners in the class oratory contests were selected. Mr. George Allan was chosen as the freshman winner and Mr. Daniel Williams as the junior orator. There was no sophomore contestant.
Mr. W. J. Coyne, Mr. Buckley, and Mr. Thomas Keegan acted as judges. The awards will be distributed at the Commencement program Sunday evening, June 1.
SPECTATORS CONCLUDE , YEAR WITH BANQUET .
Last Monday evening the Spectators held a banquet, to conclude the year, at the Rose-Marie tea room in South Bend. Alfred Stepan, the newly-elected President, presided over the meeting. Louis Leonard Hasley, the retiring President, discussed the work which the Spectators have been doing this year and outlined the aims of the club. Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, spoke about the necessity of being a spectator of life in the true sense of the term. Each one of the graduating members was called upon for a short speech.
ZUDECK ELECTED PRESIDENT OF GLEE CLUB
Ronald Zudeck of Buffalo, New York, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected President of the University Glee Club for next year, at a meeting of the members of the traveling club, held Monday noon. Zudeck has been an outstanding member of the organization for the past two years. During this year, Zudeck was also a member of the varsity trio. He has held offices in the Buffalo club, and has contributed to Scrip.
Donald O’Toole, of Chicago, also an Arts and Letters student, was elected vice-president for the coming year. Zudeck and O’Toole were opposed in the voting by William McAleer, of Altoona, Pennsylvania, and Francis O’Neil, of Fall River, Massachusetts. The newly elected officers will take office at the beginning of the next scholastic year in September.
[a]iiuittiiiintniltiiiittuiiiiiiitititiiiniiiiiitmill mum Q
SENIORS! 1
E All senior invitations must be = | called for on or before Sunday, e i May 25. They may be obtained e E from the men with whom the E E orders were placed.	=
Qimimimmmmmiimmmmiiimmmmmmmmmmi[5]
“JOURNEY’S END” TO BE STAGED SUNDAY
NIGHT
“Jouimey’s End,” Robert C. Shei-iff’s great war drama, which has been acclaimed by a majority of the critics as the best of all war plays, is to be staged by the University Theatre Sunday.evening, commencing at eight o’clock, in Washington Hall. This final announcement, given out by Professor Frank Kelly, director of the University Theatre, is cheering to all skeptics, who put little faith in the previous announcements to the effect that the Notre Dame students were to put on a current “Broadway favorite,” for Mr. Sherriff’s drama has recently closed a successful run of sixty-six weeks at Henry Miller’s Theatre, New York City. This fact, in addition to the news that the play’s stage run was rather prematurely cut short by the recent release of the identical play as a talking picture, proves conclusively to the doubting students that they will witness a new and extremely popular play in Washington Hall this Sunday evening. To those interested in acting, the production of this play also gives encouragement, for it is their opportunity to take part in something decidedly contemporary.
The version of the drama that will be produced next Sunday night is precisely the same as that rendered by the New York cast, with only a few minor changes made to cut down the running time of what is an unusually lengthy play. The scenery, and other-effects, however, will be identical with those used in the original production, as Mr. Kelly recently made a special trip to New York to obtain first-hand information necessary for the play’s production.
The cast as announced by Mr. Kelly includes: Al Doyle, Norman Hartzer, Walter Stanton, John Nowery, William Sherman, Vigilius Phillips, Carl Christianson, and Roger Beirne. Most of these men are already familiar to Notre Dame audiences, arid it is safe to predict, if we are to judge present rehearsals, that they will excel even their past efforts in this, the greatest of war plays.
The performance Sunday evening is being given especially for the students, as many of them will not be here for the second showing on Friday evening, May 30, when it will be enacted as the annual Commencement play for the graduates and the alumni.
912
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man You Know j i	i
---------------------------
When the Reverend Raymond Murray, C.S.C., can carry on the work of the Department of Sociology with only one assistant it certainly speaks well for the assistant. Even in fear of overemphasizing the obvious, we shall presently name the man who from his patent capabilities is perhaps the one man at Notre Dame
Reverend Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
who can assist in the work of the rapidly expanding field of sociology with the greatest measure of success. We say we fear that we will be laying too much stress upon the evident if we mention his name, for those who are not familiar with the Reverend Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Ph.D., are few and far between. Although Father Cavanaugh has been at Notre Dame as a professor only these last two years, he has in this short time become extremely popular with all connected with the University.
Perhaps his sudden popularity is due to the fact that he was horn in Owosso, Michigan, in the year 1900, but we doubt it, for it is giving too much credit to a town listed as having a population of 8,000. Anyhow, a town of such population could not be the cause of the sudden rise of two great men within the same century, for Father* Cavanaugh informs us that the novelist, James Oliver Cur-wood, also hails from Owosso. Perish the thought, however, that there can be a comparison between the sociologist, Father Cavanaugh, and the novelist, Curwood.
Father Cavanaugh was graduated frdln Notre Dame in 1923; and when he received his Bachelor of Arts de
gree at that time he left behind him a well-deserved reputation for success in extra-curricular activities. He was a sterling member of the varsity debating team when it was coached by Father Bolger* and had a reputation for victories which would make even our present forensic conquerors envious. He was also an athlete of considerable renown.
Following his graduation and his subsequent ordination the following summer, Father Cavanaugh resumed his studies at Catholic University at Washington, District of Columbia, from which school he was graduated in 1928 with the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, specializing in sociology.
In the fall of 1928 Father Cavanaugh returned to Notre Dame and took up his duties of teaching in the University’s sociology department. At present he teaches classes in Social Pathology, The Family, History of Social Thought, and Politics. The last mentioned, however, he intends to drop next year, and he will then specialize entirely in Sociology.
When not in class Father Cavanaugh may be seen in his room in Sophomore Hall, where he is assisting Father Margraf as prefect. About his prefecting: the rector, Father John Margraf reports that it is “charming,” but this is not news to Notre Dame students, for the residents of the second floor of Sophomore Hall, which is under Father Cavanaugh’s supervision, will not hesitate to sing loud and long the praises of their prefect. Because of his close association with Father Margraf, Father Cavanaugh is often to- be seen on the links endeavoring to beat his rector. The ancient and honorable game, however, is not his chief hobby, for he prefers above all else a good game of bridge, the radio turned to “Amos and Andy,” with the possible exception (if we are to believe Father Margraf) of telling and retelling stories which grow better and better with each telling. In fact, his stories have been likened to the “Twice Told Tales” of Hawthorne, only he prefers to have them called the “Retold Tales.” Speaking of his likes, he has often said that he will not reach for a Lucky if there is a La Palina to be had, that is, if one hand is tied. It might be well for Junior Sociology classes to note this, and by the same token McDevitt may as well collect for the above advertisement.
J. Edtvard Phelan
PHELAN NAMED MANAGER OF GLEE CLUB
J. Edward Phelan, a junior in the college of Arts and Letters, has been chosen by Director Joseph J. Casasanta as the business manager of the Uni-v e r s i t y Glee Club for next year. Phelan, whose home is in Paterson, N. J., has been a member of the club for three years and has made m any trips with the organization. He is the new president of the Wranglers and a member of the University debating team. This year he was Junior manager of the Club.
Phelan has named James Collins, publicity manager of the Glee Club during the past year, as his assistant for 1930-31.

EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY ELECTS.
OFFICERS
Carroll B. Murphy, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Chicopee Falls, Massachusetts, was elected president of the newly organized Educational Confraternity at the final meeting of the club for the year, held in the Journalism Room of the University Library, Monday evening. James J. Walsh presided over the meeting prior to the election.
Other officers named were: vice-president, Joseph Addison Wilk, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters from Adams, Massachusetts, and John Gallagher, a junior in the same college from Canton, Ohio. The office of honorary president was conferred on Doctor Leo Kuntz, head of the Department of Education at the University, and that of Faculty Adviser on Professor Bernard Kohlbrenner. .The latter officers were unanimously elected.
The constitution for the organization, drawn up by Victor Martzell, was formally adopted by the Club, and plans were made for a very active year when the school reopens. Graduating seniors were heard in short talks. Alfred Artz of Marquette, Michigan, was introduced at the meeting.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
913
Varied Programs Planned for Week-End
On Friday, Saturday, and Sunday of next week, from May 30 to June 1, the University will hold its eightysixth annual Commencement. The Commencement exercises this yeai-will he the most ambitious Notre Dame has yet undertaken. A class of 439 seniors will receive degrees. Plans are being made to house and feed one thousand alumni on the campus during the three days. Nationally prominent speakers, a Memorial Day Field Mass, golf tournaments, and class reunions are oustanding features on the crowded week-end program.
Claude G. Bowers, famous author, editor, and orator, will deliver the Commencement address on the afternoon of Sunday, June 1, in the University gymnasium. He attained national fame in 1928 when he gave the keynote speech at the Democratic national convention in Houston. He is now with the New York World.
Mr. Bowers is an Indiana man and was prominent in politics and journalism in this state. He was for a time editor of the Fort Wayne JournalGazette. Among his books are, “The Party Battles of the Jackson Period.” “Jefferson and Hamilton—Struggle for Democracy,” and “The Tragic Era,” a recent best-seller.
The baccalaureate sermon will be preached at the solemn pontifical mass on Sunday morning by the Very Reverend John J. Burke, C. S. P., general . secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference in Washington. Father Burke was editor of the Catholic World from 1904 to 1922, and was at one time chairman of the executive board of the Catholic Press Association. He has written several books, and in 1919 received the Distinguished Service Medal for his war activities.
Memorial Day exercises will receive special attention in Notre Dame’s Commencement this year, as the Weekend program opens on that day. Also most of the reunion classes of 1930 are those grouped about the times of either the Spanish-American War or the World War. A military field mass will be celebrated at 9:30 by the Reverend Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., for the deceased alumni and war dead. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will give an address. Both Father Walsh and Father O’Donnell are former war chaplains.
Colonel William Hoynes, Civil War veteran, will be marshal of the parade
to the Community Cemetery, which will follow the mass. Col. Hoynes is a member of the G. A. R. and Dean Emeritus of the College of Law. Major’ Benjamin DuBois, A. G. D., and Capt. Clarence Manion, 325th F. A., will be aides to Col. Hoynes.
First Lieutenant Robert Riordan, 27th F. A., a Color Guard from Company “D,” and a Firing Squad from Company “I” of the 152nd Infantry, South Bend, will make up the military detail. The Notre Dame Band will lead the procession, which will consist of chaplains and visiting veterans, alumni of tire War Classes, Boy Scouts, students, and visitors. Ceremonies will be held at the graves of deceased members of the Notre Dame Post of the G. A. R. Lieutenant Robert Riordan of the University faculty is in charge of the program.
Friday’s activities continue with a baseball game between Notre Dame and Wisconsin on Cartier Field in the afternoon. In the evening various reunion dinners will be held. The University Band will give its annual concert at 6:30 p. m.
The day’s program ends with the presentation of “Journey’s End” by the University Theatre in Washington Hall. The internationally famous wrar play by R. C. Sheriff will no doubt attract a capacity audience anxious to witness its performance by campus players.
On Saturday morning the senior class will' make the traditional last visit to Sacred Heart Church. The Senior Class Day exercises will be held afterwards at 10:00 o’clock in Washington Hall. At this time the awarding of honors will be made by the University to those graduates w*ho have earned them.
The five-year Reunion Memorial Mass will be celebrated in Sorin chapel on Sunday morning by the Reverend Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., for the class of 1925. At 8:30 this year’s graduates will form the Academic Procession from the Administration Building to Sacred Heart Church for the solemn pontifical mass. The Right Reverend John F. Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, will be the celebrant. At this mass the Reverend John J. Burke, C. S. P., will give his baccalaureate sermon. The Moreau Seminary choir will sing the mass. It will be followed by the blessing of the Senior Flag, and' the senior flag raising exercises will then take place.
At 4:30 on Sunday afternoon comes the climax of the Commencement week-end with the awarding of degrees in the gymnasium. It is expected that 439 men will receive diplomas from the deans of their colleges. The Honorable Claude G. Bowers wull deliver his Commencement address and the class of 1930 will pass into Notre Dame history.
During the week-end golfing and tournaments will occupy the attention of most of the alumni. Old grads have all been advised to bring their clubs. The class of 1925 will have its first chance to test the new- William J. Burke-University Golf Course in its five-year reunion tournament on Saturday morning.
In the afternoon the N. D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley is sponsoring a tournament for the sixty local alumni clubs of the national association after their first annual luncheon in the lay faculty dining room. Immediately afterwards the Notre Dame varsity golf team will play a match with the University of Detroit golfers.
Alumni activities include a banquet Saturday evening in the East Hall of the University dining halls, with the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., as speaker. New officers of the Alumni Association will take office at the annual business meeting in Washington Hall on Sunday, June 1. Former athletes will dine at the Monogram luncheon in the lay faculty dining room. Rooms are available on the campus for old grads during the Commencement week-end without charge.
Visitors will especially enjoy the musical treats of the week-end. The University Glee Club will give its annual concert in Washington Hall on Saturday night. It will also sing several selections at the alumni banquet.
The University Band, under the direction of Professor Casasanta, will play on Friday morning for the Memorial Day parade. The annual concert will be given on Friday evening on the main quadrangle. On Saturday night it will play for the alumni banquet. It will lead the senior class to the flag-raising exercises on Sunday, and will play for the Commencement exercises Sunday afternoon.
The Studebaker Band will give its annual Commencement concert on Saturday evening on- the main quadrangle.
914
The Notre Dame Scholastic
University Mourns Father De Wulf
Death claimed an outstanding University official, a valued member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and a faculty member in the person of the Reverend Emi el DeWulf,
LS.C., director of studies at the University, Wednesday evening in Saint Joseph’s Hospital. Father DeWulf was ill but five days, his sudden death coming as a shock to faculty and students.
When Father DeWulf entered the hospital his condition was not regarded as serious, his stay there being more for a rest than for anything else. Tuesday evening his condition became grave and on Wednesday morning he was administered the Last Sacraments of the Church. Members of his family and members of the faculty of the University were present at the bedside when the end came at 7:30 p. m.
Father DeWulf was born in South Bend, Indiana, on March 26, 1883. He attended the parochial schools of
Reverend Eniiel DeWulf, C.S.C.
South Bend, entered the University in 1899, and was graduated in 1903. He pursued his education at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., and was ordained to the priesthood on June 28, 1908. He made a graduate study of mathematics at Catholic University and began his teaching career at Saint Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, where he also served as prefect of discipline and director of studies. In 1914 he succeeded the Reverend John Boland, C.S.C., as president of the University.
Recalled to Notre Dame
Being recalled to the University of Notre Dame in 1917, Father DeWulf taught in the College of Science, teaching astronomy and physics. He remained a member of the faculty until he was appointed director of studies in 1927, a position he has held for the past three years.
As director of studies Father DeWulf was responsible for many improvements in the system of registration and choice of studies by the students. Though his duties as director of studies were arduous and time-consuming, Father DeWulf, courteous and quiet of voice, was always ready to help the student whether he was senior or freshman, and whether he wanted advice on a course of studies or merely a copy of the University catalogue. Father DeWulf was an inspiration to all who came in contact with him. His place will be hard to fill. —R. I. P.
PHARMACY CLUB HOLDS
BANQUET
The activities of the Pharmacy Club were closed for the year with a banquet held at the Rose-Marie tea room, last Tuesday evening. Mr. Balding-er, instructor in Pharmacy, acted as toastmaster for the occasion. Talks on the past and future activities of the club were given by Mr. Meyer, past president, Mr. R. Jordan, newly elected vice-president, and Mr. Carl Spencer Scherer, the president for next year.
CHEVIGNY HONORED AT
CONVENTION
John E. Chevigny, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, was signally honored at the state convention of the order held in Indianapolis last Sunday, by being elected state delegate to the supreme convention which will be held in Boston, Massachusetts, August 18.
This marks the second consecutive year that a Grand Knight of Notre Dame council has been elected delegate to the supreme convention. Francis McGreal, lecturer of the local council, attended the state convention in company with Mr. Chevigny.
ANNOUNCE WINNER OF
MITCHELL AWARD
The Department of English has announced this week the winner • of the Mitchell award. This award is given every yeai- to the student who writes the best play for the year. This year the award is given to Richard Thomas Sullivan, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, from Kenosha, Wisconsin. The plays entered in the contest was written under the direction of Professor Charles Phillips, in connection with English 25, The Technique of the Drama. The judges of the contest for this year were the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., Professor John Brennan, and Mr. Rufus Rauch.
“The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,’ ’by Sullivan, won first place. “Lonely,” by L. C. Heitger, and “Where There’s Women There’s Trouble,” by C. P. O’Malley, tied for second place. “Semper Fidelis,” another play by C. P. O’Malley, secured third place, and “The Fiddling "Scorcerer,” by L. C. Heitger, was given fourth place. By both the lowest-number-of-points and the middle-judge method of determining the final rank, the first place was won by “The Ghost of Thomas Sloop,” submitted by Sullivan.
“DOME” OUT TOMORROW, SAYS PENDERGAST
Robert L. Pendergast, editor of the 1930 Dome, announced that the book will be distributed to Seniors beginning at 10:30 o’clock tomorrow morning in the old refectory in the Main Building. Undergraduates can secure their copy of the book on Sunday and Monday of next week.
Joseph Wilk, circulation manager, said this week that all students who have signed up for the book but who have not paid for it, must settle their account with the secretary before they can receive their copy. A limited number of copies have not been signed for and these will be sold at the distribution desk. Anyone desiring one of these should get in touch with Joe Wilk during distribution.
[iliiiiiiiiiitiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniifi] j EXHIBIT SOON! | | There will be an exhibit in i | the lobby of the Notre Dame = f Library of the work done in all i = the departments of fine arts, | | from Saturday, May 24, until E | June 2.	=
fSlHtttututtttttttitttttititnuiittiiftiiiiiftitmiitfmwiuiiiuiISl
The Notre Dame Scholastic	915
1930 Dome One of Best In Publications History
>>i»)nmii>iHiiimii»niii>HnnniiniiitiiiitH>niiiiitttniiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiniiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiniiininniiiitiniiiti 
LAST ISSUE OF “SCRIP” HAS	. ,
SEVERAL STRIKING FEATURES
Last Wednesday the final number of Scrip for the scholastic year appeared. Editors Heitger, Mullen, Nanovic, and Brennan are to be congratulated upon the excellent judgment which they have shown in the selection of material for this issue. Each issue of Scrip has been a little better than the preceding one. It is to be hoped that Editor Brennan will be able to continue this program of constant improvement next year, and to establish Scrip even more firmly as the literary magazine of Notre Dame.
The four short stories in this number are of singularly excellent quality. “For a Few Pennies,” by Victor J. Boisvert, C.S.C., the story of a woman forced to drudge her life away in order to make a living, is a powerful tale of frustration and depression. “I Don’t Know,” by Louis A. Brennan, a tale which centers about an automobile wreck, comes up to the high standard of this writer’s previous work. “Going to Aunt Hilda’s,” by John Gibbons, the whimsical account of a boy’s experiences while travelling, will amuse many students, because they can remember somewhat similar experiences of their own. “Black Narcissus,” by Charles Carey, C.S.C., is an exceptionally good study of character. Although the story centers about the odor of a certain kind of perfume, it is in no way effeminate, and the odor- of perfume is only an essential stage-property.	'
“Conrad and Crane—Their Treatment of Fear,” the long essay by Cyril Mullen appearing in this number, is a painstaking exposition of the way in which these two authors show
lllltltllllltlllllllUUIIMIItlllMIIHIIItltlinilttltllllinMttimUUHtltlH'IIHIIHItlHIIIlilltlttMllllHIIIlltllllltlllllHIItllllUtMllltlllllllllllli
NEW MEMBERS INITIATED AT MONOGRAM CLUB BANQUET
Twenty-seven men who have won their monograms in track, basketball, and baseball, were admitted to the Monogram Club at a banquet given for them by the Club last Sunday evening at 6:30 in the Lay Faculty dining hall.
During the affair the election of officers for the coming year was held. The balloting made Art McManmon president, Roy Bailie, vice-president,
their characters in the clutch of fear. Mullen is also the authoi* of “Impulse,” a poem in free verse appearing in this number.
“Aftermath,” the poem by Charles Carey, C.S.C., which won first place in the Scribbler poetry contest, appears in this number. “Caedmon,” a poem by Richard Thomas Sullivan which was accorded honorable mention in the Scribbler contest, also is included. The frontispiece for this issue is a pen-and-ink study by George O’Connor.
Louis A. Brennan has been appointed editor- of Scrip for the year 193031. Brennan is a member of the Scribblers. He is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters and comes from Portsmouth, Ohio. He has already written several excellent short stories. “Respect,” the short story which he entered in the Scribbler short-story contest, received honorable mention. Besides being an assistant editor of Scrip this year, he has also been a constant contributor.
Scrip is still the infant of the University publications. The first year of its existence is best described by the term “thriving.” With L. C. Heitger as editor the new magazine has weathered the misfortunes and vicissitudes which are always the lot of new magazines. Because of the talent of the editor and his associates, the inauguration of a literary magazine has proved to be an eminently successful experiment.
Next year Brennan is to carry on the work of Heitger. During his editorship we both hope and expect that Scrip will become, as a modern promoter would say, “bigger and better than ever.”
and Nordy Hoffman, secretary-treasurer.
Heading the list of speakers was K. K. Rockne, the guest of honor, who congratulated the new members and welcomed them into the Club. Roger Kiley and Hartley Anderson also spoke to the members.
Paul O’Connor, with the assistance of Dinny Shea, made the arrangements for the affair, and succeeded in providing excellent food and entertainment. It is rumored that a delicious cake served to the guests was baked by Larry Mullins.
PENDERGAST TO RELEASE BOOKS TO SENIORS TOMORROW
By Murray Hickey Ley
Bob Pendergast, editor-in-chief of the 1930 Dome, has just given me an advance copy of his book. Now Tom Keegan, editor of last year’s book, is a friend of mine and I’ve always thought he put out about the finest Dome I’ve ever seen. And in doing that he set some mighty high standards. So when Bob gave me the result of his year’s work, I said to myself that he’d have to go some to get my approval.
But he gets it and gets it in a rather unqualified way. I think Tom’s standards have been kept in mind by Bob—and he’s done more than keep them in mind. He’s lived up to them.
To be more specific. The covers are in red levant, with the insignia of the Dome on the front. The book is dedicated to K. K. Rockne, director of athletics. The theme may be summed up in two words, “Spanish Gypsy.”
In the book, there are four books, University, Athletics, Activities and Features; not to speak of a dumb book, known as The Dumb Dome, in the back, all by itself.
The senior- section is quite well done, the cuts showing up very clearly.
Bob has done an excellent job in the Athletics section. I think his work here will arouse considerable comment, because of its striking and eye-arresting quality.
The Activities department is a big job and it has been well handled. I can only say “look at it for yourself.”
The usual ever-welcome ads finish out the pages, and tri-colored end sheets finish out the book.
Bob’s job is done: I congratulate him.- He’s done it well; and I know what it is to do a publishing job well!
COMMERCE FORUM HOLDS
' . FINAL MEETING
Holding its final meeting last evening, the Commerce Forum brought to a close a year of successful activity. In reviewing the meetings of the past year President William Sherman pointed out the progress which had been made by the young organization during its first year of existence, emphasizing in particulai- the fine speakers who have addressed the club at its various meetings.
916
The Notre Dame Scholastic
*------------------------------*
A Man A bout the Campus
------------------------------$
“Who’s the boy with the Rudy Vallee hair and the Doug Fairbanks smile, leading the orchestra?”
“That, little girl, is Jack Folks, musician, composer, promoter, student, and well known man about the campus.”
The above dialogue is taken from our private files which contain the reports of questions asked by the un-
T. John Folks
paying guests (girls) at almost all of the local dances. Our purpose in gathering these reports is the compiling of a complete list of answers which are essential for every well educated Notre Dame man. It has been found that all girls who go to dances in or about South Bend always say the same thing and always ask the same questions. Thus, if you have studied our question and answer list, you may easily become a facile conversationalist, and your social success is assured.
We choose the above example from our wealth of research material because it has been the one most frequently reported during the past season. Now, if you were one of our subscribers you would prepare a complete reply to the above query by turning to page 428, Volume 18, of our newly published, aluminum bound set of Answers for the Notre -Dame Man. You would find enough dope there on Jack Folks to keep your part
ner for the evening interested until it was time for her to climb into the taxicab.
You would read that, “Mr. Folks has been director of the ‘Jugglers’ for the past year, and has led that group of campus musicians to a position of real prominence among the orchestras of this section of Hoosierland. He plays the violin when he gets tired directing and directs when he tires of playing the violin. His system seems to be very effective, for Mr. Folks and his band have a reputation for producing dance melodies that make the floor seem smoother, the girl seem lighter, and the hours seem shorter.”
“When Jack finds directing and violining monotonous, he turns to composing. He and Walt Philipp got together before the Senior Ball and turned out ‘Reminisce,’ a musical number dedicated to the last formal dance of the Class of ’30. Walt wrote the music and Jack wrote the words. This piece has been featured by such nationally famous orchestras as Coon-Sanders, Isham Jones, Ben Bernie, and others of less repute. If you haven’t heard it yet any music store in town will be glad to have it played for you. (adv.)
“Folks admits that his record since he has been at Notre Dame has included four years’ service with the University band, the writing of musical scores for the ‘Absurdities,’ and the assisting of Joe Casasanta in the production of the Monogram show.
“Jack counterbalances his intellectual pursuits, musical and academic, by indulging in exercise on the tennis courts. He can wield a racquet quite as adeptly as he can a violin bow, the proof lying in the fact that he is a member of the varsity squad.
“He was chairman of the Favors Committee for the Senior Ball, has been a Knight of Columbus for three years, and has been one of the well known ‘active’ members of- the New Jersey Club since he has been at Notre Dame, because he lives in Paterson. Another famous resident of that town is Ed Phelan, the president of the Wranglers.
“Jack is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. His campus residence is Sorin Hall, the inmates of which he keeps satisfied by playing the mouth organ. His favorite musical pieces are: (1) 'Reminisce*; (2) ‘St. Louis Blues.’ ”—Answers For the Notre Dame Man, Vol. 18, page 428.
VILLAGERS TO HOLD SPRING PARTY NEXT
WEDNESDAY
The annual Spring party of the Villagers Club will be held at Spanish Terrace, Christiana Lake, Michigan, next Wednesday evening, May 28, instead of at the South Bend Country Club as was previously announced
Charlie Herbert and his Club Mildorf orchestra from the Cooper-Carlton Hotel in Chicago will play the program of dances which will follow dinner. Herbert’s orchestra, one of the more recent and popular bands of the Middle West, have become popular through their radio broadcasting over Station WCFL, Chicago. The band is also noted for its entertaining qualities.
The affair will begin at 6:30( Central Standard Time) and a few reservations are still open to any student of the University who may care to attend. They may procure tickets from Louis Chapleau, Jack Shively or Robert Holmes.
The party, this year, will be the final party of the year sponsored by the organization and bids to surpass any Spring affair yet sponsored by the Club.
SEVEN SCHOOLS COMPETE FOR WRANGLER AWARD;
SMELTZER WINS
One of the outstanding successes of the forensic year was the Northern Indiana Oratorical Contest, conducted by the Wranglers Club, honorary forensic society, held last Friday evening in Washington Hall. Seven prep orators, representing the best high schools within a radius of a hundred miles, spoke before a fairly large gathering. Keith Smeltzer, South Bend High School’s representative, was awarded a gold medal for first place, and also the Wrangler trophy for the winning school. Egan Lacey, Cathedral High of Indianapolis, finished second. The medals for the winners were donated by Joseph McNamara, former president of the Wranglers and editor-in-chief of the Juggler last year. Mr. McNamara was among those present at the contest, journeying from Indianapolis to be present at this activity of his former mates.
John Houlihan was chairman of the event and acted as master of ceremonies. Frank Noll, John Wilson, and Neil Hurley comprised the remainder of the committee. The presentation awards was made by James Walsh, president of the Club.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
917
We really don’t know what to call this issue of The Wink; we have called it a couple of names but I fear that we would be severely reprimanded if we were to print either of them.
And then there’s the Scotchman who put some scales ‘ in his deposit box in the bank so that he would always , have a balance there. Bear with me, fellows, there’s only one more issue.
SIC SEMPER SCIVERS '
The campus was all in stillness Despite the rustling trees.
The clouds on high remind one Of highly troubled seas.
y	The darkness ’round was scarey;
”	It faced one like a wall.
But the seining lads came creeping, Creeping, creeping.
The seining lads came creeping Up to the back of the hall.
-	They spake no word to each other;
They silently prayed instead,
V	And longed with a terrible longing
For a comfy two-decked bed. They softly crept to the window With hearts that beat for fair; And the window started rising,
1 •	Rising, rising.
The window started rising;
i|,.	There was danger in the air.
,	Tlot-tlot; tlot-tlot; they heard it;
The prefect’s step was clear.
Tlot-tlot; tlot-tlot; in the distance, The dreaded step was near.
\	,	Down the darkened hallway
Into the silent room
The prefect’s step came trodding,
’ Trodding, trodding.
.	The prefect’s step came trodding,
Telling of proximate doom.
And noio in the silent evening
L	When the wind is in the trees;
And the clouds above remind one Of highly troubled seas, No more do lads come creeping As in the days of yore;
*	For two such lads are weeping,
Weeping, weeping, Who vowed to scive no more.
*	Q
And by the way, we humbly beg the pardon of Mr. Noyes.
—Sans Gene.
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES
Cameo seems to be somewhat interested in pathology for here he has given us a very beautiful picture of a fine sanitarium. From the rather domestic look of the place, a mere passerby would never imagine that within its walls dwell some of the most violent characters that psychology has yet come in contact with. One will notice the four silos on the four corners of the building. These are used to give the place a rustic or barnyard aspect so that the boys from Iowa, Ohio, Louisiana, and various other points will feel at home. It makes us feel as if our modern society has really done something when we see such places as this erected for our anti-social creatures.
We read the other day that Rudy Vallee is a Bachelor of Philosophy from Yale. At last we have found something for our commerce men to do. We really were worried about them, but now we feel sure that they will succeed. As a suggestion to the first to venture in this field, why not entitle the first productions, “The Scholastic Blues.”
The University Theatre is playing “Journey’s End” just before the closing of school. We are wondering if the title of that play was chosen with the long journey that we have been traveling in Anew.
Dear Sans Gene:
In case all of the other aides forget, let me remind you —this is your swan song! Please don’t allow anyone to think that you are a duck just because your column is kept going by quacks.
—Illini Pat.
And that’s what happens when a feller tries to be nice
to people.
Scholastic
The Notre Dame
918
Like so many other things, this last page of the Club year will come and go and be forgotten. This, then, must be a goodbye to all that. “All that” in this case meaning dozens of caustic phrases (or what were meant to be caustic), hints, entreaties, lifeless notices (majority) and simply the club page. To you who have endured it each week through all this year, searching through each paragraph in search of your club,—for did you but notice it, we made you search more that would read more.
The Campus Club Editor is grateful to have known you this year, for he has known most of you through compiling this poor bit of words each week. He has come to know campus clubs not only because he is a caretaker of one himself, but because he has watched over’ each one since September, and knows the faults and trials each has encountered since then.
That, possibly, is why the Club Page growls under its breath when its greatest friend, Mr. Murray Ley thanks it for having, at some time or another, rendered him a service. Certainly it has been a pleasure—possibly not all the time—but much of the year, to delve into club life and be able to freely indulge in a bit of sarcasm or praise on a club. Ordinary notices have been at times hard to make ' anything but notices when they appeared here,—but the friends we have made, the page and I, will not be forgotten.
Now it comes times to thank,—for we feel thankful for many things. We thank Murray Hickey Ley, as we mentioned before, for his willing and helpful correction of some atrocious grammar. We thank from “way down deep” even as the Editor-in-Chief has put it—Mr. Emil L. Telfel, for a thousand tilings he has done to help us exist, for without him we certainly would not have existed as we do. We thank the whole Scholastic staff for enduring our eccentricities for a whole year, and for our tedious reiteration of instructions, suggestions and scrawled copy the Scholastic set-up staff,—for they have endured much at our hands. And now—we must thank you—who have so conscientiously read this page all year—searching, searching, (and possibly just about to give up your search), for notice of your club. To reward you after a whole year of searching, we might mention that in the following writeups of various clubs, only the WABASH VALLEY, THE ROCHESTER, THE GRAND RAPIDS, THE BOSTON, LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI, and THE TEXAS CLUBS appear.
Our good friend the “Judge” informs us that President Bob Massey of the NEW JERSEY CLUB has finally succeeded in securing a place to hold the Club’s annual Spring Dance. Those in charge of the Crestmont Golf Club in West Orange finally weakened. The dance will be held there on Friday, June 13. Ed Yorke of Carteret is general chairman. Considering the day on which the dance is to be held, we wish him luck.
The WABASH VALLEY CLUB elected John H. Tuberty President for the coming year. Jerry Ball was selected Vice-President, Martin Torborg, Secretary, and Paul Bott, Treasurer. A summer dance at Lake Manitaw will be held very likely in late July.
The GRAND RAPIDS CLUB elected Joe Deeb, President; Gilbert Gaudie, Vice-President; Jerome Roach, Secretary, and Paul Flanagan, Treasurer. Joe Boyland was appointed Chairman of the summer dance, with Harry Merdzinski, that excellent Baptista, as his assistant.
—o—
The ROCHESTER CLUB held a banquet Tuesday, the 12th, at the Rose-Marie Tea Room in honor of the graduating members of the club. The Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., Honorary President of the Club, spoke on “Sacrifice,” and Professor John Connolly, of the Department of Philosophy, who takes a fine interest in all clubs, was introduced as the principal speaker of the evening by the toastmaster, President Maloney.
The LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB held another banquet the evening following, at the Tea Room. Paul Enright of Texarkana was elected President for the coming year. John Bradley of Hammond, Louisiana was chosen Vice-President with Angelo Luckett as Secretary and Jules de la Vergne, Treasurer. Each one of the retiring seniors spoke to the Club. -
—o—
The TEXAS CLUB elected Joe Dunne of El Paso, President for next year. James Simmons of Dallas is VicePresident, John Bitter of San Antonio will be Secretary, and Earl Brieger of Taylor was re-elected Treasurer.
—o—
We have just another bill from the Dome which says that Dome pictures must be paid by tomorrow. So saying with a touch of our old style, we say goodbye to Campus Clubs.	.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	919
I	FATHER EMIEL EE WULF
3	A useful light went out Wednesday evening when Father DeWulf died at St. Joseph’s hospi-
p	tai, South Bend. Not a	conspicuous light, because Father DeWulf obscured himself in his work.
|	He retreated behind the	pressing duties of a position which called for endless check and recheck,
S	count and recount, adjustment and readjustment. He was a doer, not a talker. He did not parade
1	his tasks in speech. He	enacted them in service. He was the martyr to duty Father Charles O’Don-
S nell said he was in the announcement previous to his May sermon Wednesday evening.
Father DeWulf had his small kingdom down in the office of studies; and he ruled it quietly, S benignly, and in the highest measure effectively. He was at everybody’s call; and no urgency, impatience or offensiveness could ruffle the outer calm within which he lived. He kept order in I the household of his own office and quietly helped to keep order in the household of each class-|	room. He lived in hiddenness—the hiddenness of his work room. He was detached from all else
|	except his religious duties and his daily pursuit of credits, class periods, statistics and records.
T	He was beautifully human. Always spoke the gentle word. Always turned away harshness,
belligerency, unreasonableness with quiet speech. He rarely spoke about what he was going to do.
C	He simply-did it. And when he acted he acted firmly and with finality. Father DeWulf will be
|	missed at the University. Less for his visible presence than for the unforgettable presence which
r	he has left us in organization and accomplishment during his stewardship as Director of Studies.
I	He died at his post. Died quietly, even as he lived. Died-well, you may be sure, because he was
|	a man of method in the whole course of his life. And he carried his method with him when the
r time came for him to die.	’
Graduates will listen to much Commencement advice in spoken speech these closing days. They should not overlook that richer eloquence of Father DeWulf’s life which came to sudden halt last Wednesday evening. Let them keep in mind the lesson of the man who died at his post. Quietly, hopefully. The watcher who went out in his watch. And it was faithful watch he kept
I too. God rest him!	—P. J. C.
eCCEEYE ANE EEELE
-	In publishing the last issue of the Scholastic to be placed in the hands of the entire student
body, we realize that it is time to say goodbye to to college (a goodbye that is final for many of us) and hello to a quite different kind of life.
In view of this we feel that two things may be in order; a restatement of the editorial position we have taken during the year, and, based on this, the formulation of what seems to us to be a sound attitude towards the future.
•ft
We have repeatedly laid stress on the idea of the cultured person; we have pointed out that the truly cultured man or woman may never have seen the inside of any classroom, but we have also emphasized the fact that education, more particularly college education, is a factor of incalculable value in the forming of those mental attitudes which seem to us to be the essence of true culture.
*	A love of thinking, implicit in which is the desire to go beneath surfaces and confront things
as they are; a love of beauty, that expresses itself in a terrific eagerness to see what others have ' forged in the name of beauty; flowing out of this a constant awareness of the storms of mystery that tremble through the grass and turn the wheels of wings that bar the air over our heads with brightly burnished spokes of music; a love of people, all of them, whether or not they live here or on the other side of the earth, that makes itself plain in toleration: as we see it these four ingredients of a viciously alive consciousness are, at the same time, the ingredients of culture.
>	Taken by themselves they form a definite attitude toward the future; taken practically, they
guarantee that the hello to a different kind of life will be enthusiastic, sincere, and significant 1
—M. H. L.
Page 920—The Notre Dame Scholastic
HIIIIHIY HALL
A Feature Story
Morrissey Hall can rightfully claim national attention. The entrance hall of this building houses a collection of artistic work that is only rivalled in this country by a similar collection now being placed in the Congressional Library at Washington, D. C. The work we speak of is the reproduction of the arms of the principal colleges and universities of the world, displayed on the walls of this hall. The Reverend Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C., the sponsor of this work, deserves much praise for his effort in pushing along the reproducing of the arms, and he is justly proud of the walls which are being covered with these reproductions.
When asked what the purpose of this work was, Father' Haggerty replied that he wanted this done to remind the students of Notre Dame and the visitors to the University of the educational heritage embodied in these colorful arms of the leading and oldest universities in the world. The educative value of these emblazoned shields is realized by but a few. The arms of many schools date back to the eleventh and twelfth centuries. From these institutions many centuries old, have come our own American colleges and universities. These reproductions show the arms of many of the world’s greatest families and clans, given to some college or university when the latter was endowed by these families. Every one of these shields have seen the vicissitudes of their owner’s lives. The romance, tragedy, and drama of life
that surround these arms would make many an interesting novel or history. The very type of art that these gave rise to and from which art the later arms have evolved, is itself worthy of a brief consideration.
The actual work of making the reproductions of these arms has been done by architectural students and by those in decorative design classes. The designing of these arms is now in its second year with another year needed for the completion of the project. The universities which have been asked to furnish their seals have cooperated by sending the models, but it has taken time and will take more time before the one hundred and twenty schools are heard from and the reproductions are finished. The older colleges of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Europe have been asked to cooperate, as have all the state and foreign universities. Some of these seals sent to Mr. Sessler, who has charge of the designing, have proved interesting, but not all, of course, have arms which can be used in this work.
The Work Involved in the Construction
Morrissey Hall, because of its Gothic architecture, is ideal for -this display. The panelled walls hark back to feudal days with the arms fitting into the surroundings and harmonizing with them. The lighting in this entrance hall will stand the brilliant colors which these designs demand. The arms shown above run the gamut of the true heraldic colors, red, blue, green, purple, black, gold, and silver. The colors used are oils of intense quality no matter what the shade of the principal color. Designs such as these follow the principle of good decoration for they blend into the tone of the whole interior.
The finished product cannot tell of the labor-connected with this work.
As Morrissey Hall was <
Cam
Each one of the many oils
I
< ___________________________ T7m Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 921
Hr nr heraldry
I by the architects.
By Patric^ McLaughlin
.rms
now in position has taken over twenty-five hours of hard work. The first students to work on this project devised the oak leaf and the acorn background after trying many types of grounds. -The acorn and the oak leaf were chosen as the set form upon which to place the arms because of the simplicity of this style of design. The colors and the figures used in the background are not obtrusive, helping to give the boldness wanted in the shield and its charging. One hundred years from now these designs will still be intact. Each shield is drawn with its charging and the background on tracing paper, to allow changes and to secure balance and harmony. Once approved, the design is transferred from the tracing paper to the canvas. This done, the work is painted in with the oils. After “setting,” the finished canvas is cemented onto the walls, to stay there until Morrissey Hall itself is no more.
The Plan of Arrangement , The plan being followed by Mr. Sessler in the mounting or placing of the canvasses is simple and easy. The fireplace centers the work. In the large square panel directly above the fireplace a decorative illustration from the quest for the Holy Grail will be placed. Immediately below this center square in the oblong panelling will be placed a horizontal canvas on which will be lettered the oath of Knighthood, which is:
“To speak the truth and maintain the risht: to protect the poor, the distressed, and all women : to practice courtesy and kindness with all : to maintain honor and the cause of God.”
Around this group on the central section of the wall will be grouped the arms of the principal universities of Europe and the arms of Notre Dame. The arms of Oxford, Cambridge, and Notre Dame are all finished and placed. Cemented on the top row of panelling, to the left of this
central section, are the arms of the colleges of Oxford, twenty in number. To the right of the fireplace panel are found the arms of the seventeen colleges of Cambridge. The cut shown below reproduces a group of the Cambridge arms. On the left, as has been stated, will be found all of the best arms from the most important colleges and universities of America. In the panels to the right European schools will find theii- arms. When the task is completed in June, 1931, the entire north wall facing the entrance door of the hall will be covered, and the section of wall illustrated, that Jo the east, will be also, as will the similar section of the west wall.
Technical Description
The designs pictured are what are known as arms, the shield and its contents. These are but a part of the seal or coat of arms of the schools. The figures or motifs found on the shield are called chargings. The arms of the University of Notre Dame consist of the shield, bearing the Cross, and the two anchors. The entire seal of the University consists of the arms, the crown, the halo of fine dots which are stars, the mantling, of which the cord above the shield and under the crown is-a part, the two griffons placed on each side of the shield, and the furled ribbon bearing the motto of the school, “Crux spes unica.”	•
922
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Dean Mendell of Yale must surely be the idol of the students there as a result of his recent statement that no one, save perhaps a fanatical dry, would deny that the return of the old beer garden would be a fine thing. The dean recalls that they used to be pleasant, friendly places for the students to congregate. He also mourns the passing of the good group singing which was a feature of the gardens. Encouraged by this attitude on the part of their dean, the students have petitioned the president that a “Hof-Brau” be set up in place of the college cafeteria. For the benefit of our Irish constituency, we beg to report that after- but a slight investigation we learned that “Hof-Brau” is just the good old Dutch name for the good old beer garden. Only the most rabid of the optimists, however, entertain the last hope that anything will come of the petition. American students who have travelled and studied abroad and, not incidentally either, achieved contact with the European beer gardens, assure us that nothing could be finer than the establishment of beer gardens on our campuses. It is said there is no better medium than the beer garden for fostering congeniality among the students or for increasing the spirit of camaderie.
Statistics indicate that they wouldn’t be a bit loath to have a beer garden or two at the University of Cincinnati, either. A secret poll a la Literary Digest has revealed that of the 3025 students voting a total of 1011 ask for repeal of the prohibition law. Modification is craved by 1226, and 788 die-hards demand enforcement. Getting a little more personal, the poll further disclosed that 52 percent of the students in the university drink at least occasionally. As many as 1430 teetotallers blushingly admit that they do not drink at all. Those who indulge occasionally number 1360, while the “frequent” group totals 222. Judging from some of the reports from other colleges, we would say that the drys should gloat over the showing they made in the University of Cincinnati poll. Perhaps one explanation of the figures is that the price of good stuff around there is prohibitive in itself, although we have always labored under the belief that beer—and good beer, too—flowed as freely there as in the old country.
The Student Tribunal of Penn State doesn’t fool in handing out penalties for violations of customs and such offenses. At a recent meeting it reached out and placed a corrective hand on ten freshmen and eight sophomores. Some of the law-breakers will carry huge white signs both fore and aft, said signs to be suggestive of the crimes committed by the carriers. Of course the co-eds always have great sport giggling at the poor devils as they tote the signs around. Some of the sophomores are humiliated by having to appear in plebe attire. Another favorite penalty is the prison haircut, which is the symbol of some rather serious crime. It’s a good thing the S. A. C. doesn’t have the privilege of handing out penalties for violations of “traditions” around here. They would be working overtime all the time.
Co-eds of Boston University have formulated certain guaranteed ways of securing a bid for the Junior Prom. We feel it imperative that we present herewith the various methods, in order that our followers may be on their guard if ever subjected to any or all of the methods, which are, to wit and respectively, these:
“Invite a man to your sorority dance or to the Panhellenic tea dance. He should (but very often doesn’t) reciprocate.	'
“Tell him how well he dresses, talks, sings, etc., and that you ‘could just die dancing with him’.”
“Very subtly let the young man in whom you are interested know that you have already had three bids to the prom but that you are waiting for the right man to ask you. (This must be accompanied by a coy look.)
“Have a girl friend tell you, in the presence of the young man, how simply divine you look in your new evening dress.”
—o—
Down- in Oklahoma it seems to pay to walk, ride, fly, or anything else besides try to hitch-hike. Several students have now been beaten up by filling station employees and others in a war instigated by Oklahoma City business men against hitch-hiking between that city and the University at Norman. Well, Playboy Alley’s two commuters between here and Chicago cannot recall ever having been beaten up, though they have more than once been about ready to admit that they were beaten in the effort to obtain transportation. Incidentally, they wish to submit their best time of two hours flat from here to the Stevens Hotel as the record hitch-hiking time over- that particulardistance.
—o—
Pie-eating seems to be the big sport out at Denver University right now. A number of fraternities and sororities have challenged their particular rivals. The challenges and acceptances are couched in the most endearing and respectful terms imaginable. So well do they portray the spirit of brotherly love that we feel constrained to reproduce at least one of them here, the challenge of Sigma Alpha Epsilon to Sigma Phi Epsilon:
“To the Sisterhood of Sigma Phi Epsilon:
Be it known that we, the manly, vivacious, virile, masterful, brave, fearless, muscular, noble members of that ancient and honorable order of Sigma Alpha Epsilon do so humble and lower ourselves as to come forth and leave our more masculine activities to challenge you weak, effeminate, emaciated, apathetic, fearful, spineless, insipid, foolish, smooth-skinned members of that little known order of Sigma Phi Epsilon to leave your pink tea parties, your bridge games, your crocheting and knitting, your sewing, your cooking, your toe-dancing, and your hemstitching, and to send your biggest and best pie-eaters against our champions in a contest to be waged at the All-School Picnic under the established rules and regulations governing such affairs.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
923
5 PORTS
Diamond Nine Pounds Out
13-6 Victory
GETTING off to a tine start in the first inning of the game with Bradley Tech of Peoria Tuesday afternoon, the Notre Dame baseball nine garnered five runs, and behind the hurling of Charley Mannix counted again in the fifth and eighth innings to smother the boys from Tech, 13-6.
Two long home runs featured the game, the first coming in the second inning when Steiner, clean-up man for Bradley, took a liking to one of Mannix’s pitches and lifted it over* the left field fence for a home run. In order that the Fighting Irish might not be outdone, Billy Sullivan smashed a low inside pitch into deep right field in the eighth and scampered around the lot for four bases. Two were on ahead of the Notre Dame first baseman when he uncorked his circuit blow.	-
After a bad fourth frame, in which the opposition scored four times by virtue of two passes to first base and three hits, Mannix settled down and pitched effective ball. He found himself in trouble several times, but brilliant team play saved him.
The Notre Dame baseballers hammered the Bradley chucker at will, collecting 18 hits to chalk up the tenth
QuiuiiuiuiuiiuiiuiuuuiiiiiuuuiuiiiuuuinuuiiuiuuiiiQ
1930 BASEBALL SCHEDULE i
Qll 11 ..It....I...........  I
April 14—N. D. 12, Armour Tech 4 z April 21—N. D. 5-0, Florida 4-1	z
April 23—N. D. 3, Georgia Tech	1	:
April 24—N. D. 5, Georgia Tech	3	E
April 25—Fort Benning 6, N. D.	5	E
April 26—Fort Benning 9, N. D.	5	z
April 30—N. D. 5, Wisconsin 3	:
May 3—Michigan State 3, N. D. 2 z May 10—Iowa 4, N. D. 5	E
May 13—N. D. 10, Northwestern 6	E
May 16—Notre Dame 7, Illinois 5.	E
May 17—N. D. 7, Northwestern 6. z May 20—Notre Dame 13, Bradley 6. z May 23—Luther at Decorah, Iowa j May 24—Iowa at Iowa City	:
May 26—Michigan State at N. D. E May 30—Wisconsin at Notre Dame : May 31—Navy at Notre Dame	:
win for the home guards this season.
Bradley passed up an excellent chance for a triple play in the third inning, when with two Notre Dame men on the paths, one on second and another on third, the batter hammered the ball directly into the hands of Bertilino, Bradley third baseman, who caught the ball, tagged the runner off third but threw a bit wild to second, allowing the runner to reach the base safely. But for the fact that the peg to second was a trifle awry, the Bradley boys would have completed one of those plays that are seen so infrequently.
This afternoon Notre Dame crosses bats with the Luther College nine at Decorah, Iowa, and Iowa University will be met tomorrow at Iowa City.
The box score:
NOTRE DAME	ab	r	h	po	a	e
Francis, If ................4	1	2	0	0	0
Palermo, ss ................5	2	2	1	2	0
Moran, cf ..................5	2	3	2	0	0
Moran, cf ..................5	2	3	2	0	0
Feehery, rf ................4	1	3	1	0	0
Sullivan, lb -..............5	3	3	10	0	1
O’Keefe. 2b ................4	1	1	5	2	0
Mahoney. 3b.................4	1	2	1	1	1
Askew, 2b ..................1	0	1	0	0	0
Lordi, c ...................4	1	1	7	0	0
Mannix, p ..................3	0	0	0	5	0
Totals ....................39	12	18	27	10	2
BRADLEY TECH.	ab	r	h	po	a	e
Becker, cf .................4	1	0	1	0	0
Meyer, If ..................4	1	1	1	0	0
Bertolino, 3b ..............5	2	3	3	1	0
Steiner, c ___i.............5	1	3	10	1	0
McQueen, ss ................4	0	1	3	0	1
Coulter, lb ................4	0	1	5	0	0
Smith, rf ..................4	0	0	0	0	0
Mason, 2b ..................4	0	1	1	3	0
Furrey, p...................4	1	2	0	3	0
Totals ....................38	6 12 24 8 1
Score by innings:	rhe
Bradley ............014 000 100— 6 12 1
Notre Dame..........501 040 03x—13 18 2
Two-base hit—Bertolino. Home runs—Sulli-van, Steiner. Sacrifice hit—Bertolino. Double plays—O’Keefe to Palermo; McQueen (unassisted) . Left on bases—Notre Dame, 6: Bradley Tech., 8. Bases on balls—off Mannix, 3 ; off Furrey, 4. Struck out—by Mannix, 6: by Furrey, 5. Hit by pitcher—by Mannix (McQueen). First base on error—Notre Dame 1; Bradley 1. Umpires—Stahr, Nanny.
Notre Dame Regains State Track Title
HAIL to Coach John P. Nicholson, Captain Joe Abbott, and the new State Champions!
Placing at least one man in every event, with one exception, and taking as many as three places in several of them, the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame swept through to a one-sided victory in the 1930 state track meet at Cartier Field last Saturday. In the meet, which saw four state marks as well as four field records lowered, Notre Dame ran up 62 points to 32% for Indiana, 18% for DePauw, and 13% for Purdue, who finished in that order. The remainder of the points were distributed among five of the other .eight teams represented.
Meet and field records were bettered in the half-mile, mile, and two-mile runs, while Alex Wilson topped the track mark in the 440, and the Notre Dame relay team cut the State record for the mile by slightly more than a second. Hatfield tied both records in the high hurdles and Ramsey equalled the meet record in the century on two occasions. Thus were the old records assaulted on a day that was more fitting for a football game than for a test of thinly-clads.
Roy Bailie was the outstanding per-
[■JilllllliiiiiiiiiiittiiiniiiHiiitttitiiHtffitttiiiifctHiitifdciiMtsQ | SUMMARY OF TEAM j I SCORING 1
E	Notre Dame .....................62	E
E	Indiana ........................3214	E
E	DePauw .........................18%	E
E	Purdue .........................13%	E
z	Earlham ........................7%	z
z	Bali State ..................... 7	z
E	Butler ......................... 6	=
E	Manchester ..................... 6	E
E	Indiana Central ................ 6	E
E Franklin College. Indiana State Teach- E E ers College, and Rose Polytechnic In- E z stitute failed to score.	z
(■Jiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiitiuiiiimuiiiiimiiuiiiiiniiiiiiifaj
924	The Notre Dame Scholastic
former of the day. He annexed high-point honors by virtue of first in both the low hurdles and the broad-jump, and a third in the high hurdles. A “missed-stride” soon after the start in the finals of the lows almost cost Roy his victory, but a great burst of speed near the end gave him the decision over Hatfield of Indiana by nearly a yard. In the broad jump, two leaps were sufficient to give him a first, none of those competing being able to come up to his 22 feet, 6 inches. His third in the high hurdles represents a close decision over Johnny O’Brien, who took fourth place but was later disqualified.
Ramsey of DePauw came within two points of equalling Bailie’s total when he triumphed in both the ICO and 200-yard dash. A coincidence in connection with the dashes is that the four men scoring in the century placed in exactly the same order in the 220.

fo'^NunnBush
KLINGEL’S MEN’S SHOES
112 N. Main St. - Oliver Theatre
Ramsey and Brumbaugh of Manchester, Gordon of Indiana, and McCormick of Notre Dame, finished in that order in each event.
Perhaps the most thrilling race of the afternoon from the spectator’s point of view was the mile run, with Sivak of Butler nipping Clapham, Indiana’s ace, by a scant foot. Rounding the last turn in" the stretch, Clapham took the lead only to have the Butler Olympic star come up by a supreme effort and defeat him at the tape.
The two-mile run offered another thrill, but with an entirely different aspect. Orval Martin, running this race instead of the half-mile, broke the tape so far ahead of the others that the event might have been mistaken for two separate races. The great Purdue captain clipped twelve seconds from the existing state record and finished as fresh as when he
started, and some fifty yards in the lead.
The much-talked-of duel between Martin and Brant Little in the half-mile failed to materialize when Martin chose to run the two-mile event, but this did not prevent the 880 from being a great race. Little won the event rather easily and Joe Quigley made it one-two for Notre Dame by a great sprint down the stretch in which he passed Laws of Indiana and Ur-bain of Butler, and had enough left to stave off the Hoosier’s efforts to regain his position. Little was clocked in 1:56.2, two-tenths of a second better than the old state mark and one second faster than the track record, with Quigley only three yards back.
The expected strength of Indiana in the field events was not apparent Saturday. The Crimson counted only 4% points in the six events coming under that class. Notre Dame, on the other hand, scored more than half of their total in these same six. Purdue also showed well in the field.
Outside of the Blue and Gold squad, the firsts were quite evenly divided. DePauw scored three to make up fifteen of their 18% points. Purdue was first in two events, while Indiana, Ball State, and Butler took "one apiece. Notre Dame, needless to say, won the lion’s share with seven.
Summaries:
POLE VAULT—Won by Johnson (ND) ; Kilgore (DePauw), Brown (Ind.), Stanton ' (Earlham), and Slattery (ND), tied for second. Height, 12 feet.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Jones (Ball State) ; Smith (Ind. Central), second: Darling (ND), and Reynolds (Purdue), tied for third. Height, 6 feet, 2 3-8 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Button (DePauw) ; Brill (ND), second; Yunevick (Purdue), third; Hoffman (ND), fourth. Distance, 43 feet, 6 inches.
DISCUS THROW—Won by Hoffman (ND) ; Patrick (Ind.), second; Schaeffer (ND), third; Rigney (ND), fourth. Distance, 138 feet, 10 inches.
MILE RUN—Won by Sivak (Butler) ; Clapham (Ind.), second; Brocksmith (Ind.), third; Howery (ND), fourth. Time 4:19.8.
440-YARD DASH—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Smock (Ind.), second; Abbott (ND), third: Pierre (Ind.), fourth. Time :49.1.
100-YARD DASH—Won by Ramsey (DePauw) ; Brumbaugh (Manchester), second; Gordon (Ind.), third; McCormick (ND), fourth. Time :09.8.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES —Won by Hatfield (Ind.) ; Wall (Earlham), second; Baoilie (ND), third; Ransburg (DePauw), fourth. Time :15.1.
BROAD JUMP—Won by Bailie (ND) ; Smith (Ind. Central), second; McDonald (ND). third; Rigney (ND), fourth. Distance, 22 feet, 6 inches.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
925
JAVELIN THROW—Won by Curry (Purdue) ; McDonald (ND), second; Felix (Earlham) , third ; Cronin (ND), fourth. Distance, 185 feet, 9 inches.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Little (ND) ; Quigley (ND), second; Laws (Ind.), third; Urbain (Butler), fourth. Time 1:56.2.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Ramsey (De-Pauw) ; Brumbaugh (Manchester), second; — Gordon (Ind.), third; McCormick (ND), fourth. Time :22.0.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Martin (Purdue) ; Leas (Ind.), second; Brocksmith (Ind.), third ; Julian (DePauw), fourth. Time 9:33.8.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Bailie (ND) ; Hatfield (Ind.), second; Graham (Ball State), third ; Wall (Earlham), fourth. Time :25.1.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Notre Dame (Abbott, Kuhn, Little, Wilson) : Indiana, second; DePauw, third ; Purdue, fourth. Time 3:21.3.
TWO WINS OVER BIG TEN
TEAMS RECORDED BY
BALL CLUB
The week-end trip through Illinois proved quite profitable for Captain Joe Lordi’s baseball team, as they won games with Illinois and Northwestern, last Friday and Saturday respectively. Illinois went down under a 7 to 5 decision, while Northwestern battled through to the eleventh inning, Notre Dame finally winning out, 7 to 6.
A home run by Billy Sullivan, Notre Dame first sacker, was the deciding point in the win over the Illini, two men being on the paths at the time Sullivan completed the circuit. All this was part of a seventh inning
rally that totalled six runs for Notre Dame.
Illinois had previously gone into the lead, after both teams had scored one in the first, by rolling up three runs in the third and one in the fourth. Lefty Lisicki, Jim Wise, and Lefty Palt were used by Coach George Keo-gan in an attempt to stop the early heavy hitting of the Illini.
In addition to Sullivan, Feehery, Askew, and Lordi were the hitting stars for the Fighting Irish, the latter trio getting two hits apiece, one of Feehery’s being a triple and one of Lordi’s a two-bagger. Tyrban and Williams starred for Illinois, collecting three bingles apiece in five appearances at the plate.
Northwestern gave the Keoganites
iituniittti.......iiiiitttini...................................................................................................................        a......iiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitii......
Now here’s a cereal that can talk!
FOR a fact, Kellogg's Rice Krispies actually crackle out loud in milk or cream. That's how crisp they are. And what a taste! Golden-toasted, delicious rice. The cheer a	leader of any breakfast!
Ask that Rice Krispies be served at your fraternity eat* ing house. Call for them at the campus restaurant. An ideal treat for a late bed-time snack. Easy to digest. Extra delicious with fruits or honey added.
RICE KRISPIES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Com Flakes, All-Bran, Pep Bran Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
926
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“It Pays to Play”
TENNIS RACKETS
GOLF GOODS
FISHING TACKLE
BASEBALL EQUIPMENT
SWEATERS, ETC.
Complete Stocks
Reasonably Priced
RECREATION EQUIPMENT CO., Inc.
The “RECO” Store
113 N. Main Street
‘‘It Pays to Play’’
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St. -
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop.
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS
SERVICE
❖
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL
Phone 3-7171
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
GOLF TOGS
Half Price
TOM WYE SWEATERS, coat style or pull-over.. $2.95	to $4.85
KNICKERS, linen or wool .$1.95 to $4 MEN’S DRESS OXFORDS..$2.95 to $6

The Notre Dame Scholastic
927
one of the biggest ninth-inning scares they have had all year, in the 7-6 contest which Notre Dame finally took in the eleventh inning.
Notre Dame went into the last of the ninth with a 6-3 lead. Lefty Palt, on the mound for the Fighting Irish, started the final inning by hitting the first batter. A double and a single in quick order put two runs across the plate. A sacrifice placed a runner on second with only one down and the Notre Dame lead was cut to a narrow one-run margin. Jim Dilley, who had been called into the breach when Charley Mannix weakened in the Notre Dame-Northwestern game here a week ago, was called to take the rubber.
Dilley was greeted with a base hit, but the runner was held to third. A grounder down third resulted in a forceout, O’Keefe to Askew, but first and third remained occupied. The Purple then worked the squeeze play, scoring one runner and advancing the other to second. With two out and the winning runs on the sacks, Dilley fanned Schwartz, Northwestern second sacker, and the score was knotted at 6-6.
Both teams were unable to score in the 10th, but Notre Dame came back in their half of the 11th to score the winning run. Askew was safe when his grounder was messed up by Oliphant, Purple first baseman, and Lordi sacrificed him on to second. Jim Dilley struck, but Harry Francis sent a terrific blow to left center, Askew tallying with the winning run.
Summaries:
NOTRE	DAME			ILLINOIS			
	B	R	H		B	R	H
Francis, If	5	0	1	Lumpy, 3b	5	1	1
Palermo, ss	4	1	1	Fuzak, If	4	1	1
Moran, cf	5	2	1	Tryban, ss	5	2	n
Feehery, If	5	1	2	Mills, rf	4	0	1
Sullivan, lb	5	1	1	Williams, lb 5		0	3
O’Keefe, 3b	4	0	0	Brown, 2b	5	0	2
Askew, 2b	3	1	2	Fence, cf	3	0	0
Lordi, c	4	1	2	Nusspickel,	c 4	1	1
Lisicki, p	1	0	0	Wiese, p	2	0	0
Wise, p	3	0	1	Labahn, p	0	0	0
Palt, p	0	0	0	Flagg, cf	0	0	0
				Bisbee	1	0	0
				Friend, p	0	0	0
	—				—		—
Totals	39	7	11	Totals	38	5	12
Bisbee batted for Labahn in eighth.
Score by innings:
1 855 • SE V E NT Y- F I F T H ANNIVERSARY • 1930
The oven...
the cook...
and the cake
“Only fine ovens produce cakes of fine texture.” This rule applies as surely to the most complicated “cake-baking” process in modern • industry . . . making steel castings for high pressures... as it does to the simplest domestic cookery. In basic-lined Heroult electric furnaces that apply the heat directly and cleanly to the metal and permit exact control of temperatures at every stage, the steel for Crane cast steel valves and fittings is prepared. Every casting is annealed under temperatures held at i6oo° F. for hours, then slowly shaded off to cooling. Interesting as is the Vulcan-like foundry equipment in Crane foundries, complete as are the manufacturing resources that give exactness and uniformity in production, the vital secret back of quality in Crane electric steel materials is not the “oven” but the skill of the “cooks”... the chemists, the superintendents, the workmen who watch and control each step and process. Through 75 years, this skill has been developed and refined. Back of it is an exhaustive scientific library of laboratory studies and test charts. Much of the data that has enabled Crane Co; to produce dependable valves for the enormous pressures and temperatures now used in industry is collected in a book, “Pioneering- in Science.” It is a valuable reference book for students Let us send
you a copy.
i C R A N E
Fillings
Illinois .......................
Notre Dame .....................
103 100 000—5
100 000 600—7
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM. LIQUIDS, OIL, GAS. CHEMICALS
Errors—Askew, Lordi, Lumpy, Wiese. Home run—Sullivan. Three base hits—Feehery. Two base hit—Lordi. Hit by pitcher—Askew.
Struck out—by Wiese, 7; Lisicki, 1; Palt, 1.
Bases on balls—off Wiese, 2; Lisicki, 2; Palt, 1. Umpires—Mattoon and Rife. '	-
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVENUE. CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 WEST 44TH STREET
Branches and Sala Offices in One Hundred and Ninety-four Cities
^28
The Notre Dame Scholastic
NOTRE DAME NORTHWESTERN
	B	R H	B	R H
Francis. If	5	0 2	Rojan, c	5	2 2
Palermo, ss	5	0 0	Dempsey, ss 4	0 1
Moran, cf	5	1 3	Harley, rf 4	0 1
Feehery, rf	2	1 0	Crizevsky, rf 5	0 1
Sullivan, lb	3	0 1	Oliphant, lb 5	0 1
O’Keefe, 3b	3	2 0	Schwartz, 2b 5	1 2
Askew, 2b	4	3 1	Prange, cf 5	0 0
lordi, c	4	0 2	Schuett, 3b 5	1 1
Palt, p	4	0 0	Fyfe, p	4	1 1
Dilley, p	1	0 0	Kadison	1	1 1
Totals	36	7 9	Totals	43	6 11
Two base hits—Schuett, Kadison, Francis, Lordi. Umpires—Farrell and St. John. Time of game—2 hours and 30 minutes.
NOTRE DAME TO DEFEND
C. I. C. CROWN
TOMORROW
Headed by Coach John P. Nicholson and Manager Anthony J. Kegowicz, nearly thirty members of the Notre Dame track squad left yesterday for Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where they will defend their Central Intercollegiate Conference outdoor title tonight, running under arc lights. Marquette has been host at this meet for the past several years and until this year the Hilltoppers apparently concentrated their efforts on being host rather than on getting points. They are infinitely stronger this year, how
ever, as was shown by their acquisition of second place In the indoor meet here last March, arid they may be counted upon to give any team some stiff opposition.
Notre Dame is the prime favorite to retain her crown by virtue of her victory in the Conference meet last spring, and as a result of her overwhelming victory in the Indiana State meet last Saturday.
The outstanding performers will be the Walter brothers of Marquette, Little and Quigley of Notre Dame, Mcllrath 1 of Grinnell, and Gaines of Western State, in the middle distances; O’Brien and Bailie of Notre Dame, Ponderbarac of Drake, Thompson of Marquette, and Loving of Western State, in the hurdles; Abbott and Wilson of Notre Dame, Lewis of Detroit, Gordon of Miami, and Sisk of Marquette, in the 440; Treps of Marquette, Lambacher of Ohio Wesleyan, Francisco of Loyola, Russow of Michigan State, and McCormick, Nichols, and Boagni of Notre Dame, in the sprints. The strength of the various teams in the field events is rather an unknown quantity. Notre Dame should be able to keep up with the best of them in this department, however.
BYRUM IS C. I. C. SINGLES CHAMPION
Fifteen of the best colleges in the midwest, including the greatest collection of individual stars ever brought together’ for a meet of this nature, were entered last week in the Central Intercollegiate Conference Tourney, sponsored by the University of Notre Dame. Among these were: Warren Bryum of - Western State Teachers College, Frank Brodie of Drake, Bruce Brayton of Northwestern, Paul Kane of Michigan State, and Richard Bailey and William Reaume of Notre Dame. The tourney was held at the Chicago Town and Tennis Club, co-sponsors of the meet.
Warren Byrum snared the singles title, despite the handicap of an injured thumb. Northwestern, with Reil and Bergherm, easily cinched the doubles crown. The winners’ trophy was the much coveted Knute K. Rockne cup.
Tomorrow, at Leeper Park in South Bend, the Notre Dame racqueters will clash with Northwestern. In this meet will be seen in action the winning doubles combination of the Central Intercollegiate Tournament. This team of Reil and Bergherm (NW) will oppose John O’Brien and Dick Bailey (ND).
Th
Notre Dame Scholastic
929
&
*
HOWARD HOLDS LEAD IN INTERHALL GOLFING
Howard Hall took undisputed possession of the head position in the golf league when Captain Joe Switzer led his Howardites to a hard fought 4 to 3 victory over the Badinites, captained by Larry Kral. Switzer contributed to the cause with an 81, the lowest score to be recorded by the interhall golfers last week. Switzer has taken low scoring honors for the past
three weeks, ever since the interhall league was begun.
The results:
Howard defeated Badin, 4 to 3.
Off-Campus defeated Morrissey, 5 to 2. Sorin defeated Freshman, 1 to 0 (default). Carroll defeated St. Edward’s. 5 to 2. Corby defeated Lyons, 4 to 3.
SCHEDULE FOR TOMORROW 12:40—Off-Campus vs. Howard. 12:50—Walsh vs. Badin.
1:00—Sophomore vs. Corby.
1:10—Lyons vs. Freshman.
1:20—Morrissey vs. Carroll.
1:30—Sorin vs. St. Edward’s.
STANDINGS

Howard ..., Off-Campus Walsh ...... Badin ......
Carroll .... Corby ......
Sophomore .
Morrissey ..
• Sorin ...... St. Edward’s Lyons ........ Freshman ..
2
2
.i
.0
.0
0
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
3
PCT.
1.000
.667 .667 .667 .667 .667 .667 .333 .333 .333 .000 .000

Blow
the Whistle
Delicious and Refreshing
Drink
rill
Grantland Rice—«—*—Famous Sports Champions-^-Coca-Cola Orchestra Every Wednesday 10:30 to 11 pm. Eastern Daylight Saving Time Coast to Coast NBC Network
for,he Pause
that refreshes
When you suffer from large and undiluted doses of your fellows. When the milk of human kindness seems to sour. Blow the whistle for a minute’s "time out” on your own account, to pause and refresh yourself. Tn other words, go into a huddle with a glass or bottle of refreshing, delicious Coca-Cola. It will make you captain of your soul again, ready to live—or die— for the dear old alma mater.
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
9 Million A Day~ it
'	6W-7
HAD TO BE GOOD TO GET WHERE IT IS
930
The Notre Dame Scholastic
GOLFERS NIP DETROIT’S WINNING STREAK
The University of Detroit’s undefeated record of three years’ standing was lost somewhere in a hunker last Saturday when Capt. Larry Moller and his five Notre Dame divot diggers walked away with a decisive 22% to 4% win over the lads from Michigan. The contest was played over the Oakland Hills Country Club course in Detroit. The Notre Dame golfers won every match in the singles except one and made a clean sweep in the doubles.
Larry Moller turned in the best card of the day, a 73, one stroke over par. The best ball in the doubles was between Moller and Fran Beaupre, their card being a 68. The low medal in the singles went to Moller with his 73, O’Shea being runner-up with a remarkable 77.
The results are as follows:
SINGLES
Moller (ND) defeated Breault (D), 6 and 5.
F. Beaupre (ND) defeated MeFawn (D), 3 and 2 .
R. Beaupre (ND) defeated B. Smith (D), 2 and 1.
Redmond (ND) defeated G. Smith (D), 5 and 4.
O’Shea (ND) defeated Mooney (D), 6 and 5. Britt (D) defeated Halligan (ND), 6 and 4.
DOUBLES
Moller and F. Beaupre (ND) defeated Breault and MeFawn (D), 4 and 3.
R. Beaupre and Redmond (ND) defeated B.
Smith and G. Smith (D), 5 and 4.
O’Shea and Halligan (ND) defeated Britt and Mooney (D), 4 and 3.
BEST SCORE
Par out ...............453	444	443—35
Moller ..............543	444	354—36
Par in ................445	354	435—37—72
Moller...............345	345	454—37-73
NOTRE DAME GOLFERS ENTER TWO BIG
MEETS
Led by Captain Larry Moller, the Notre Dame golf team, composed of Moller, F. Beaupre, R. Beaupre, Redmond, O’Shea and Bradley, is striving for the Indiana Intercollegiate Championship matches which began today. The meet is sponsored by DePauw University and is being held at the Greencastle Country Club, Greencastle, Indiana.
Notre Dame’s chances in this meet will determine to a great extent the outcome of the National Intercolle-giates to be held at the Oakmont Country Club, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. A sextet of golfers will represent Notre Dame in this annual affair and the players, the same as the above
group with the addition of Totten instead of Bradley, are determined to win.
The Oakmont Country Club course is known to be very tricky and will offer the local golfers no end of difficulty. The Notre Dame representatives plan to play over the course several times before the qualifying rounds begin on June 23. The meet will last until June 27, at which time the national intercollegiate champion will be crowned and the team honors will be decided.
TRY FOR GOLF TITLES THIS WEEK-END
L. O’Shea and Art Bradley will play off this week-end their match postponed from last Monday because of rain, for the individual championship of the varsity team. O’Shea and Bradley will tread the course Saturday and Sunday, with the starting time set for 3:00 p. m.
The semi-finals for the interhall individual championship found Switzer of Howard meeting O’Donnell of Freshman, and Meyer of Off-Campus matching shots with Burke of Howard.
				
Ride the
South Shore Line
to
Chicago
and
If you’re going beyond, see our campus agent about through tickets.
Note, Chicagoans! Baggage checked direct to your homes by Special Delivery.
Agent in Book Store CHARLES WOODS
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
o
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE.
TELEPHONE 3-5149

The Notre Dame Scholastic	931
Are You Coming Back To Summer School?
Those hot July afternoons . . . Sophomore Hall like a furnace . . . the lake, a bowl of tepid soup . . . Michigan Avenue deserted . . . get up in the air and keep cool, the exhilaration of racing through space.
Learn To Fly
When the gang comes back in September, wear a pair of gold wings on a manly chest. Doesn’t cost much more than a Ball week-end and you have something more than a cancelled receipt from the Oliver. Write home tonight, break it gently to father . Tell him he might have another Lindbergh right under his own roof.
Enjoy a summer of double accomplishment. Have a pilot’s license and be six credit hours to the good by September. Just spend a couple of afternoons a week at the airport with competent instructors who really take a personal interest in you.
You will be trained in the latest and most up-to-the-minute ships, and fly from the largest and best equipped field in Indiana. Instructions by Chief Pilot, Homer* Stockert.
HELLO MEN!
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
Ill East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
10-Hour Primary Flying Course $225
How would you like to fly a motorless craft? Gliding is fast becoming one of the most popular sports. A primary glider course, ground school, theory of flight and actual glider flights under the direction of Pilot Doc Doolittle.
THE SOUTH BEND
CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
Glider Course $35
Are You in a Hurry to Get Home?
Would You Like to Fly to the Races?
We are equipped with new, speedy cabin ships for cross-country flights to any part of the United States and Canada. Our rates are exceedingly low.
St. Joseph County Savings Bank
RAINBOW
Flying Service
Downtown Office: 323 South Main St., Phone 2-2285. Field Office: Municipal Airport, Phone 3-9180.
CHARLES R. BOWERS, Manager-
Campus Representative John F. Olson, 401 Lyons Hall
—0—
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
—o—
122 W. Washington, J. M. S. Bldg.
932
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PALACE
3 DAYS ONLY COMMENCING SUNDAY
cm^x
• PARAMOUNT-PUBLIX THEATRE
Laughs AU The Way Thru!
When you meet her you’ll love her. She’ll win your heart and wreck your funnybone. She’s everybody’s sweetheart, but nobody’s gal. She’s
“The
Flirting Widow”
With
Dorothy Mackaill
Basil Rathbone—Leila Hyams
Excellent Bill of RKO Stage Stars
Sunday Thru Tuesday
HEY, HEY!
HE’S HERE—AND HOW!
MAURICE
CHEVALIER
in Paramount’s
“The Big Pond”
With
CLAUDETTE COLBERT
Publix Presentations
VITAPHONE VODVIL PARAMOUNT NEWS
4 Days Only Commencing Wednesday
Hailing The New Type
Screen Comedy—Fresh— Sparkling—Vibrant!
He Knew Women
With
Lowell Sherman Alice Joyce
With a Scintillating Cast of Notable Players
AND ANOTHER BILL OF DELIGHTFUL RKO VAUDEVILLE
Wednesday Thru Saturday
WARNER
OHLAND
in His Latest Sensation
Publix Presentations
VITAPHONE VODVIL PARAMOUNT NEWS
“The Return of
Dr. Fu Manchu”
CUBX
v HOME OF GOOD SOUND
The Notre Dame Scholastic
933
♦-----------------------------$
Splinters from the Press Box ♦-----------------------------❖
There is yet another one of these to write, but this is the last one that most of you will read this year.
And so it is that we wish: to Alex Wilson—a rest ... to Roy Bailie— the same ... to Joe Lordi—a major league contract and a reducing machine ... to John P. Nicholson—the recognition that is his due ... to Bob McDonald—a break ... to Messrs. Harris, Terlaak, Green, Pierce and Zoss—a book on how to sprint, and a set of Nicholson starting blocks ... to Mr. Harris—in addition—a rubber belt ... to Roger Bierne—form and finesse ... to Joe Abbott—a son who will break 1:55 . . . to Westbrook Pegler—a mental cathartic, and a book on “How to Develop a Sense of Humor” ... to Frank Dailey—recompense ... to John Preece—the same ... to Larry Mullins—a room-mate whose suits will fit him ... to Joe Palermo,
Harry Francis and Bart Cronin— step-ladders ... to Hooley Smith and Dan Cannon—tall step-ladders . . . to Butch DeVault—some of the spirit he deft on the oil fields of Oklahoma . . . to Grantland Rice—a new fence to sit on ... to Haskell Askew—a body as big as his spirit—if it were possible ... to Nordie Hoffman— 150 feet—he’ll need it against Navy . . . and then also to Emmett Murphy—fire ... to Norbert Christman —the same ... to John Law and Tom Kennealy—success on the heights above Van Cortlandt Park ... to Joe Savoldi—a book on Memory Training ... to Gene Howery—some illusions ... to Jim Biggins—a first . . . to Dick Shiels—a job in a lumber camp ... to Marshall McAveny —a job ditch digging ... to Martin Brill — “Good Hunting” on Nov. 8 ... to Ken Fishleigh—the same, in the Wisconsin meet next winter . . . to Dutch Johnson—fourteen feet sometime within the next year or so . . . to Billy Sullivan—some bats—not crossed ... to Frank Leahy—more than anyone else—a break ... to John O’Brien—eventually—the Olympic Championship his coach barely missed some eighteen years ago . . . to Brant Little—a vacation in the
North Woods far from any disturbing influence ... to Rock and Tom Conley—a third leg on the Rissman Trophy ... to Marchy Schwartz— a sense of humor, and a Book on How to Play Football—the latter because he needs it less than anyone we can think of ... to his room-mate—a bicycle and an alarm clock ... to George Shay—a poor memory . . . to Jack Cannon—almost anything . . . to Bill Newbold—some weight . . . to Norb Crowe—some confidence, which is about all he needs ... to the linemen who play against Mike Koken—some sandpaper- ... to Stanford—the retention of The Axe . . . to W. 0. McGeehan—a speedy and complete recovery of his health . . . to John Hoyt—a fire the first day he gets home, so that he can ride with the engines ... to Bucky O’Connor —eventually—an M. D.—also a guard against a left hook ... to ourselves —a job ... to the Brooklyn Daily Eagle—good luck—because said job is liable to be with it ... to the freshmen—the gift of silence ... to the sophomores—the retention of some illusions ... to the juniors—staidness and unsophistication ... to the seniors—jobs ... to you all—God Speed!
tiiimitiitiiiimtiiiitiiiiiitiitimmiiiitiHiiittiiiiiiiitinMiiiiiiiitiiiiiHiiiiiiitiititiiiiiiititiiijmitiitiiiiiiHiiiiiiitiMiiiiiiiuiiiiiitiiiiinmiiiHiiiiininiimtm
STARTS SATURDAY
EDMUND LOWE
of “Cock-Eyed World” Fame
in
Watch for these Sensational Hits
“Song of The Flame”
“The Cuckoos”
One of the most unusual pictures made to date—in a class by itself.
WILL ROGERS
in “So This Is London”
934
The Notre Dame Scholastic
r	.
SCRIBBLERS END YEAR WITH BANQUET
The Scribblers, Literary Club of the University, held a banquet, last Tuesday night in the Gold Room of the Oliver Hotel, to conclude the year.
Professor Charles Phillips, of the Department of English, and the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., were the principal speakers of the evening. Mr. Phillips spoke on the literary promise displayed by the graduating Scribblers, and the future of the Club —a future, he declared, as rich in promise as it is in significance. Father Ward emphasized the value of sympathy in the writing of literature.
The new President, Mr. Emil L. Telfel, bade farewell to the retiring members, and spoke briefly on the achievements of each one.
LAW CLUB NAMES OFFICERS
The annual election of officers of the Law Club resulted in the election of Joseph Yoch as president; Joseph Robinson, vice-president; Daniel Barton, secretary; and Harry Busscher, treasurer. The elections for all of the offices were closely contested throughout.
Yoch succeeds Robert Eggeman, a graduate in June, as president of the organization. Eggeman led the Club through one of its most successful years, being responsible for one- of the most enthusiastic dances held under the auspices of the Club, and for the maintenance of the Lawyer for eight issues during the year.
The faculty of the College of Law will name the editor for next year’s Lawyer next week. Tire magazine this year, under the editorship of Francis B. Ready, has enjoyed one of its most successful years as to numbers of issues, contributions and general makeup.
MULHALL WINS MEEHAN MEDAL
The judges of the Meehan Medal Contest announced their decision this week. The Meehan Medal, awarded annually to the senior who writes the best essay in English, is awarded this year to Robert Austin Mulhall, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. “Tragedy in Sophocles, Shakespeare, and Jeffers” was the title of his winning essay. “Galsworthy as Critic and Reformer of Society,” by Walter McCarthy Langford, won second place, and “In the City of Poets,”
by John Joseph Hooyboer, C.S.C., won third.
The judges of the contest this year were the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; the Reverend Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., and Professor John Cooney. All of the judges agreed that the essays submitted in the contest this year—seven in number—were, without exception, of excellent quality.
*
ROCKNE APPOINTS HALPIN
AS FOOTBALL MANAGER
Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics, announced the managerial appointments for the coming season at the managers’ banquet held last Friday night. Daniel D. Halpin was named manager of football, with Joseph Lauerman and John F. Saunders as his associates.
The post of track manager was awarded to C. Bourke Motsett, baseball to Robert C. Balfe, basketball to John M. Hughes, and Thomas R. Ashe was placed in charge of minor sports.

.'4
NOTICE!
All Senior accounts must be settled by this evening in order to assure graduation.
Dodge	Dodge
The Green Front
751-3 South Michigan Street
Phone 3-1724
Dependable transportation at the lowest prices. See us before buying your ticket home. We will save you money and furnish you with a much pleasanter way of getting where you are going.
Operated by
DeRhodes-Yerrick Motor Co.
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
935
*
b
Wa Ik-Over
Air-Cooled Oxfords
Baseball News—
For a complete report of all games, at home or abroad, follow the sports section of
THE
NEWS - TIMES
Breeze through warm weather in these WalkOvers that let the breeze through. Unlined and ventilated by “clear-through” perforations. No counter (nothing stiff around your ankle.) Soft toe. Cross-woven forepart. Fibre spring heel. Flexible sole. Brown-and beige calf or black calf and white Elko. As advertised in Collier’s and Country Gentleman. $8.50.	■
WALK-OVER
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN
ASK ABOUT MAIN SPRING ARCH SHOES
Where Notre Dame Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 North Michigan Street
936
The Notre Dame Scholastic
is to find your pipe and tobacco
YOU will discover the full pleasure of pipe-smoking when you hit on the tobacco that really suits you in the pipe that really fits you. Then you can light up and lean back and cross your feet on the mantel or wherever, and purr and smoke—how you can smoke!
The trick is to find your pipe and your tobacco. Nobody can find them for you, and until you find them you must go on groping in outer darkness —but have you tried Edgeworth?
Edgeworth may be just the tobacco you’re looking for. It has a certain distinctive flavor that men like; it is slow-burning, cool—it will not bite your tongue; and it is rich with the savor, fragrant with the aroma, of fine old burley blended exactly right.
Check us up—try Edgeworth in a good pipe. We’ll send you some helpful hints on pipes, and we’ll even send you some Edgeworth, a generous free packet of it to try, for nothing but the coupon. That’s meeting you more than halfway, isn’t it? We know our Edgeworth!
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavomever change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready-Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15d pocket package to pound humidor tin.—Larus &Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
LARUS & BRO. CO.
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
Street--------------------------
Town and State_^_
Now let the Edgeworth come! yjg
❖------------------❖
On Down the Line	|
*------------------e
. . . This SHARKEY SCHMELING fiasco is being ballyhooed as a real boxoffice card . . . Once a sucker, always a sucker . . . and The Boston Gob will get the receipts while HERR MAXIE gets the gate . . . ROGER J. KILEY, All-American football star of the 1921 Notre Dame team, will assist CHET WYNNE, at A.P.I. next fall . . . thus robbing Chicago Loyola of a mighty competent coach . . .
SC
. . .Here we are . . . thundering down the home stretch . . , and only a few more days to go . . . ON DOWN THE LINE has enjoyed its “last page” outlook on the field of sports very much . . . sometimes moody . . . sometimes happy . . . sometimes jovial . . . but always ready and anxious to please the customers . . . we’re indebted to JOE CASASANTA and W. O. McGEE-HAN for our encroachment upon their prior rights to the title “ON DOWN THE LINE” . . .
LONG
. . . As we come thundering down this last lap, there’s a wealth of gratitude due those loyals who labored so diligently on the sports staff . . . Our two faithfuls—HENRY ASMAN and JIM McFEELY—are going away but coming back next year with the same consistently good “copy,” we hope ... To DAN HALPIN—thanks loads Dannie for your fine help with Interhall Items . . . and all the luck in the world to you as Head Manager for next year . . . We respect ROCK’S choice . . . It’s a good one . . .
FELLOW J !
. . . Splinters from the Press-Box will have a new “whittler” next year . . . HARRY SYLVESTER, donning cap and' gown, is leaving us . . . with regret too, Harry, and thanks again . . . BILLY MAGAR-RAL will greet us again, we know, with that bright, happy smile . . . dependable and a “right smart” sport . . . And to the rest of our group, muchas gracias ... So long, MURRAY, VINCE, ARCH, and all who are being “blacked out” by the sheepskins . . . We have had a wonderful year . . . Your humble scrivener, JOHN A. KIENER, has a tear in each eye (to outdo Nanny) as he bids you all goodbye and good luck . . . adios and Auf Wiedersehen . ..
Excellent opportunity for man with sales ability to organize and direct a congenial group for profitable summer sales work.
Write or-call at once.
Superior Metal Weather Strip Company,
1201 New City Trust Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind.
Riley 1841.
Fordham Law School
Woolworth Building, New York Co-Educational Case System, Three-Year Course Two Years of College Work Required for Admission Morning, Afternoon and Evening Classes
Write for Catalogue CHARLES P. DAVIS, Registrar Room 2870
DR. J. M. SINGLER
DR. E. A. PROBST
Dentists
405 Associates Building Phone 3-1254
Office 3-6978
Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
DENTIST
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND, IND.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
937
The Pen Is Mightier Than the Sword”
-—Moon Mullins.”
So if any of you Notre Dame men get off the beaten path on your summer vacations, and you’re miles removed from the one and only Doubl’ Rich Malted Milk—Please don’t draw a blade on the local townfolk.
Just write us a letter and we’ll be glad to tell you where you may find the nearest Walgreen Drug Store. And that won’t be hard because you know, Walgreen’s are every wherefrom coast to coast, no matter where you are.
Here’s luck to every Notre Dame man; whether you’re going out to find a ‘grub stake’ — or just for a pleasant vacation, or staying thru the summer term. We’ll be back with you next fall when the ‘bone crushing’ season opens.
(O)alqreeilQ>
DRUGS WITH A REPUTATION fhT
938 •
The Notre Dame Scholastic
the home trip
SENNETS LEGHORNS MILANS PANAMAS

Here's Your Hat
When you go back home you will want to look your very best and one of our University Straws will make this possible. Here you will see the world’s most popular 1930 styles . .. high grade straws of distinction . . . different weaves and shapes that are ultra smart for the University man.
25 per cent Discount
Rings Pins Memory Books Buckles Compacts Pennants
Blankets Banners
ADLER BROTHERS
