— Cbc-
Dotrc Dame Scholastic
Disce^vAsi-s^mpee-victveus- • vivg ^vasi-cras-moritvrvs*
Vol. XL.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 9, 1907.	No. IS.
I
294
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC*
Festal Greetings.*
The Feast Day of Father Generat..
THOMAS E. BURKE. '07
^^ITHIN the throbbing’ bosom of fair France In by-gone years you’ve seen this dawn arise
Nor knew that in its splendor exile’s lance
Was hid, to pierce your heart ’neath other skies.
And though those pa,st days are forever fled,
And gone the sunny hours of golden years, Methinks that time is -never wholly dead, In which strong youth, casting aside all fears, Builds up a mighty name that through long ages wears.
1 feel that when the bells pealed forth the dawn Of this glad dat', there fell upon your ears
Sweet sounds, like echoes of the days now gone— The fruitful, happy days of other years.
Like visions seen in dreamland, one by one
The thoughts of fragrant hours came back to you:
Once more vou stood beneath the glowing sun Of happy France, and saw your children true Seek council at your knee when adverse breezes blew.
The budding rose of boyhood full of youth Came with his pure young heart unto, your side To cull the blossoms of eternal truth, His footsteps in the after-years to guide;
How swelled his heart when from a father’s lips He learned the peace, the joy, the calm serene, The glory of the world could ne’er eclipse, And saw behind the brightness of day’s sheen The bursting of a dawn fairer than what hath been.
Another silvered with the fading years
Who had attained the height of worldly fame, Came to vour knee and begged of vou in tears	'	.
To light for him love’s sunken smothered flame;	■
And by your words the hot reviving breath
Flashed through his limbs and glowed within his breast, And where before , was strife and war and death, A calm serenity and peaceful rest ’ .	..
of eve, from out the troubled west.
May we your children, ’neath our flag, the Cross, Fight with you clothed in virgin chastity-, . Our shield obedience, metal without dross, Our helmets wrought of solid poverty;
And maj- we : war and overcome the world, Each, proving worthy to be called your son, Following you with duty’s flag unfurled,
. Feeling, the strength and might of work well done Up, up the. narrow path until the day is won.
* Read at Holy Cross Seminary on the morning of February 4.	.	.	"	■
.	Soared like the shades
And though to day beneath another sky '
You woke from slumber on this happy feast, ‘ You are no exile—no, your heart beats high— . There is no exile for the strong, true priest. ’Tis but another army you must guide, Another-battle of your Sires to fight;
Who knows but that behind our clouds now hide The greatest sunbursts of celestial light That e’er will crown your toils before the fall of night.
I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
•Father General’s Day at Notre Dame.
The Feast-Day of the Very Reverend Gilbert Francais, Superior-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, was celebrated with great solemnity this year at Notre Dame. Father Francais came to this country last summer to take up his residence here, and during his few months’ abode at Notre Dame has gained the admiration and love of all who have had the pleasure to know him.
He was born in Brittanv on February 4-, 1849. Having completed his college course at Saint Charles’ College, Saint Brieux, he entered the Community of Holy Cross in the year 1867, being then only eighteen years of age. Two years after he made his profession, and in 1872 was ordained priest at St. Charles’ College. He was appointed professor in the same year, and his many years’ experience in teaching puts him among the foremost teachers of our day and makes his services at Notre Dame especially useful as ,an educator. In 1892, He was appointed coadjutor-general, and upon the death of Father Sorin, C. S. C., in 1S93, he became General, which position he has had ever since, proving himself a worthy successor of the founder.
At eight o’clock Father General, assisted by Fathers French and Quinlan, celebrated Mass at which the students attended. The Very Reverend Dr. McGarry, after a brief reference to the feast commemorated, preached, on the lessons suggested by the epistle appointed for the Mass of Sexagesima Sunday. The Seventeenth Gregorian Afass, the Credo - of which is probably the ■ most wonderful production in the entire repertory of Solesmes Chant, was fittingly rendered by the University choir.
At noon, Father General dined with the faculty and students; and during the service the University orchestra furnished a variety of pieces. When dinner was oyer, Mr. Matthew J. Kenefick, of the class of ’07, spoke impressively on behalf of the students the following words of greeting: *	o	o	o
Very Reverend Superior-General:—For all of us, but for you especially, the -bells of Notre Dame have sounded more significant and clear this morning. They pealed forth the, glad tidings of your Feast-Day and called you to the altar where you
295
offered prayers-for those under your direction and gave thanks for the success -that has crowned your labors.
One need not be very intimate with you, Very Rev. Father, to guess quite accurately your disposition towards evervthing that borders on the feigned or formal. But this occasion, your Feast-Day, should be one of gladness and rejoicing, and the students of Notre Dame would indeed be singularly incapable of any grateful feeling if they did not appreciate the ideal opportunities that are being provided for them in consequence of your designing and administration. It is precisely owing to your masterly guidance that so manv ideals have ceased to be such, being realized in the best and most efficient manner of useful activity. We would be unmindful of all these opportunities were we to allow this occasion to slip by without showing our respect for you and giving public testimony to the debt of gratitude -which we owe you.
Well may you rejoice as you look back over the successful years during which you have directed and guided this community. But you do not rejoice alone, for it is our privilege to be glad with you because we have been, in a very true sense, sharers of your life’s work. You have always been interested in our welfare; your efforts have been for our good; your great success has been our advancement, and your life is for us an ideal of fatherly protection and love and sanctity.-
But to you the merry bells of this morning have returned a dismal echo, for they have recalled other feast-days in another land where unnatural circumstances have interrupted your success. Factional tyranny has interfered with your work, and the noble accomplishment of anxious years of heroic labor and toil has been swept away, from a temporal view, like a wave that rolls on the shore and is absorbed by the * sands.
As devoted students of Notre Dame we sympathize with you. But we hope, in fact, we are confident, that those circumstances will be rearranged, and until then we are glad that you are to live with us. In you we have the example of the priest who has been subject 1 to discipline; the diligent worker who has submitted to authority; the preacher who has taught us lofty spiritual ideals. Perhaps, owing: to the inconstancy of our years, we can form but a very imperfect estimate of spiritual values in the abstract. Our eyes see the precious riches ot faith “darkly and as through a glass.” The beautiful teachings of our holy religion relative to the dignity and duties of the priest can hardly more than win our admiration; they do not engage our affection. Admiration softens into love only as we approach not the ideal priest but the father in whom the ideal is realized. And, Very Rev. Father, it is m3- belief that I am expressing the senti- , nients of the students when I assure you that they i look up to you as the ideal, priest and the father in whom for them the ideal is realized.
You are. not here amongst us as a stranger. On the contrary, you have been directh' engaged in the intellec-,tual activities of this University. Your praise for us as students and your admiration for the scholarly progress, of. Notre Dame has prompted us to undertake greater tasks. Around you are men of your order; mien obedient to your call; men animated by your spirit.
296	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
You are their aid and inspiration. These men regard you as the patron of Holy Cross, as its constant supporter thus far, as its pillar, the “ pillar of light," of its hope for the future.
Very Rev. Father, allow me on the part of the student body to greet you on this your Feast-Day. Happy, indeed, are we to be able to participate in these festivities, to show that we are grateful to you for all you have done for us. Your unceasing toil, your unwearied zeal, your noble efforts, have all had a result; and that result is the Notre Dame of to-day. In acknowledgment of the triumph of your life’s work, which has afforded us so manv advantages, we, as students of Notre Dame, extend to you our heartfelt thanks, and express our common joy in having you amongst us.
Ven' Reverend Father, we wish you a happy Feast-Day.
Father General in his earnest optimistic way* replied:
Dear Friends:—I am grateful for the kind and beautiful words you have just spoken on the occasion of this my Feast-Day. I feel very happy to be here at Notre Dame. I can not fail to appreciate a university such as this. Not to speak of the good it has done and is still doing far and wide, I have known and loved all its founders; I have known and appreciated those who continued the work of those venerable pioneers, and now I know and esteem those who to-day are at its head and strive not only to preserve but also to develop its life by even- means in their power and according to the needs of the time.
Reverend Father, I greet in you the worthy President of this University-, and with you the faculty, religious and laymen, priests, teaching and working brothers; in a word, I appreciate the work of each and all of those engrossed in and fraternally devoted to the sacred work of instruction and education, the heavyresponsibility of which rests upon your shoulders.
And you, dear students, let me tell you how keenly sensitive I am to the hearty welcome you have tendered me to-day. I have always appreciated and loved young men, and in accordance with the natural progressiveness of life, 1 appreciate and love them still niore to-day. First of all, I congratulate you on your privilege of belonging to this great peerless country of the United States; a countryrich in the two oceans which spread the nation's influence east and west, rich in its great lakes, in its gigantic mountains, in its vast and' fertile plains, in its primeval forests and inexhaustible mines; a country- richer still in intellectual activity and perseverance, in an unheard of ability to put to the best use these wonderful treasures; a country, I am glad to sayr, still richer in a good and wholesome liberty-, and perfectly' equipped through the inner dispositions of all, through the strength of public opinion and the marvellous wisdom of its Constitution, perfectly-equipped, I say, to keep full and entire this liberty, the greatest of all blessings. Having thus congratulated you, let me express for you several good wishes. In the first place, though it is. not of the highest importance, let me hope that you. may be hale-and strong in body. ; Human life from its very-
beginning to its very end is an arduous toil. To grapple stoutly with its work, you must have sinewy- arms, strong hands, broad chests, in a- word, harmoniously developed bodies.
Secondly, in the intellectual order, may you possess not merely that mental quickness through which we grasp things, nor that deep comprehension from which springs true knowledge, but also that perfect common sense and sound judgment which sees things and men as they- are, and acts accordingly. May you also possess strong and loving hearts. Affection is a great power for good. It is very sweet, it is necessary- even, to love and be loved. But above all, may- you be men of character. A man of character is he who having sound principles follows them to the end. Believe me, my dear friends, every- day we need a strong will to take firm resolutions, to say yes energetically- whenever duty- commands, to say- no energetically- whenever passion tempts us. We need it to give to our life a fixed and determined purpose, to strive for that purpose’s attainment without wavering or turning back, with all the energies of our bodv, mind and heart. We need this strong will to reach our end despite all obstacles; we need it to have peace in and about us amidst life’s ceaseless struggles.
Last of all, to bind in one whole all these qualities, I wish that you may be pious, and that your pietymay be living, full of light, strength and inner joy. Pietv is useful for all things, savs St. Paul. Indeed, it is usefid to your health, for it keeps you away-from all the excesses that might weaken vour strength. It is useful for the mind. In giving it the light of faith, it preserves it from error; it points out to reason the way to truth; it broadens and deepens our mental insight. But piety- is, above all, useful, nay, necessary, to the perfection of our will. Bybringing the will closei' to God, piety- provides for it a never-to-be-shaken basis, upon which it can take a strong foothold, and start thence with an ever-renewed vigor, going higher and higher towards the ideal good.
My- dear Friends, such is my answer to y-our wishes. May you try to. realize it! Be robust as behooves young Americans. Be intelligent, prudent, manly, as behooves true Americans. Be religious, nay, pious, for respect for religion is a distinctive quality-of the great American people.
On Monday, January 4, the fifty - eighth anniversary of his birth, Father General, assisted by Drs. Oswald and Nieuwland, celebrated Mass for the students of Holy Cross Hall in their ' chapel. Before the breakfast, which was served in his honor, Mr. T. Burke read on behalf of the members of Holv Cross Hall the “Festal Greetings” appearing on the second page of this issue. Father General replied in earnest, thoughtful words which will long be remembered by the students of that Hall. On the whole it was-a day of sunshine and joy, the bright cheerfulness of the General was reflected on every face, and everyone felt he had reason to rejoice and be glad.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Varsity Verse.
A jail-bird’s reverie.
^\FT in the chilly night
When hunger’s pain has bound me;
Sad memory brings the sight
Of prison chains around me: No cards, no beers Of by-gone years,
No' daring cuss words spoken;
But always shown, They're never gone, Thus stones which must'be broken!
Thus in the chilly night
AVhen hunger’s pain has bound me;
Sad memory brings the sight
Of prison chains around me.	•
I can’t forget the ball
Which held us friends together. Nor how we labored all, • Like bees in wintry weather; .
And every one
With me alone	.
To this box-car deserted
Would soon have fled. Their stripes to shed If they could have departed.
Thus in the chilly night
When hunger’s pain has bound me;
Sad memory brings the sight Of prison chains around me.
W. F. C.
SHREDDED WHEAT.
lie lived upon plain shredded wheat
•	About a straw-stack high,
A man who had no use for meat Because the price was high—
A fellow by a load of straw Half hidden in the stack.
Fair as an ink spot in the clouds When all the sky is black.
So lived he on, and few could tell AVhen Ikcj* ceased to be: But he is in his grave, and oh! The shredded wheat’s to me.
T. E. B.
EVENING.	.
Bright dav and sombre night have met, Fair nature seeks to fade from sight;
But lo! the moon within its starry net Declares the beauty of the night. .	'	AV. F. C.
A LIMERICK.
The people of Cleveland are putting on airs, Thev sav that their Tom is the greatest of mayors.
. The street railways -are done:
* The city has won
And now folks are riding on straight three-cent fares W. J. D.
397
Transformation of Human Beings.
R O B E R T A. K A S P E K, ’0 7.
It happened just like those kind of things always happen. Their interest was first aroused, in a short time they found themselves stumbling on towards a climax, then they became jovial, and lastly incredulous. The joke was on them all right, and they had to take it as good fellows, or; I might say, good fools, always take and must take those kind of jokes.
They were seated in a club room in South Bend, four of them, busily engaged in a game of whist when the following event took place. Club! How significant that word is; but I must first tell their story as they told it to me so that j’ou also can judge. One of their party, Brown by name, sometimes Browny, in a tone of familiarity, is a rangier in the full sense of the word. The game had been unusually quiet, in fact, two games had been played in a peaceful atmosphere, and they were just thinking that Browny should be given a medal and placed in another class when the rubber game settled him. He simply broke loose, and when Browny breaks loose no one can get a word in. The storm he had stirred up continued throughout the entire rubber game, and when finally Browny lost, his rage became unbounded, and he turned upon his partner, a peaceful and quiet fellow, turned upon him because he was the only one Browny could for any reason annihilate. He accused him of ignorance of the game, of not trying to play, in fact, of anything that crossed his mind; and receiving no retort became enraged all the more.
During the storm a pair of limbs had. blown into the room and no one noticed them because of the excitement. When the dark clouds began to pass over, however, or I should say when Browny had worn himself out, the outsider, the limbs, (a rank outsider, Browny called him).-took the side of the partner, and then the dark clouds appeared once more; a gale of wind, or rather of air, blew across-the table, and they found themselves holding, onto chairs. -
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
298
This darkness prevailed some moments, when there came out of the dust and clamor, out of the wind and darkness, a voice, an exclamation, and that sort of slackened things a bit. The rank outsider who gave his name as Barlow—an assumed name as you will agree — proclaimed loudly and in a lordly fashion that if Browny* knew who he was he would be tickled to death at having the honor to address him. Tickled to death! Browny was, or at least they thought he would be, his face was so red. Soon after the voice and the exclamation, there followed a demand, and upon the demand being satisfied their interest showed itself.
“Who the devil are you, anyway?” asked Browny.
“Barlow. I have a patent that will make me far richer than .Rockefeller ever thought of being. Think of it! — with a liquid I transform human beings, change a man into a woman, a woman into a man, a boy into a man—”.
That was as far as Barlow had gone when Browny’ interrupted him.
“You’re plumb crazy.”
“Do not judge rashly, my friend. Here’s a letter from the government.” Brownv took the letter and glanced at it listening at the same time. “They are going to use my patent in times of war in order to get able-bodied men to go to the front. All I have to do is to show them it will work, and that is the easiest thing I have ever had put before me. This liquid can be used in many cases, hence its high value. Just think all the fun you college men could have with it. Let’s take one example, and you can figure out all the other opportunities for yourself. Suppose one of you fellows turned yourself into a boy in the class-room and after the professor had seen you, you’d change yourself back again. You certainly would have no more class that day, perhaps not for the rest of the week. I tell you, you can not get along without my* liquid, once I have shown you its worth.”
About this time Browny had examined the signatures and the seal on the letter and whispered in Jones’ ear: “It’s on the square; He has the engagement all right
and it mentions the purpose of it in the letter.” Then to the fellow:
“You will have to show us. We do not think what you tell us is possible, but at the same time we are willing to give you a chance to show yourself crazy or a genius, in fact, the latter presupposes the former.”
“Of course you do not believe I can show you I have the patent. That is just what I expected from you. It’s the sudden change from the right order of things that makes you mistrust my’ patent. Suppose Adam came back and saw electric cars and telephones—”
“ Oh 1 hang Adam. We heard that before,” they said in one voice.
“But it’s to the point. If you insist I’ll take your college as an example. Suppose some one told vou a student had bought an automobile. Of course you would not believe it. Suppose another fellow came up to you and said you fellows could have general permission all year. Of course you would not believe it. Suppose rumor had it that telephones had been installed in each room in Sorin and Corby. Of course you would not believe it. You would not believe any of these things because they’d be sudden changes, and it’s the sudden changes that people want to have proved to them before they’ will believe them.”
“Well said,” Browny, “you have the eloquence all right. You may be crazy* and you may* not, but I still think you are, and we are not going to listen to this rot any* longer. We want to see something done. We will bet you $25 you can not transform either one of us into a woman.”
“Horror,” exclaimed Alge, “not a woman! For goodness’ sake not a woman, Browny.”
“And you’ll be the subject, Alge, and we must insist it be a woman.”
“Oh horror, Browny, a woman! No, Browny, not a woman.”
“You bet the $25 with Barlow,” put in Arnold at this juncture. “I have only* five dollars to my* name and—”
“You fellows have cold feet. I’ll put in ten if you will gather the fifteen, and we’ll have a little meal on me after the show is over.” Browny* 'is a persistent fellow and quite a general too, they* tell me.
“All right,” was the general remark, and,..
.	eOTRL DAME
the money was collected and put on the table. Barlow covered it with a fifty dollar bill, it was the smallest he had, and he took up the 25 making the pot $50. My, but he was flushed I “You should have seen his roll,” they told me. It was more money than thev had seen for a long time. Alge was nervous and stayed back; but Browny grasped him firmly by the arm and admonished him in such a manner that he had to stick finally.
“Here, Alge,” Browny said, “you are going to be the woman; we all want vou to be the woman. How do you like last year’s Easter bonnet, and what kind of a dress do you prefer, white or green ? ”
“Make it green!’’ Arnold put in. “I like green on a woman.”
“Oh, horror,” exclaimed Alge, “I, a woman! I’ll be the subject, but make it man—I mean a boy—how I detest women! ”
“No, Alge,” said Browny, “you must be a woman. I shall escort you home. How will you wear your hair, pompadour or curled back?” (Browny knew a lot about hair.)
Alge consented to be the subject, or at least they forced him to consent. Barlow seemed to enjoy the performance as much as any of them, and they thought he might have been a college man at some time or other. Barlow rolled up his sleeves and placed Alge against the wall with:
“Now, Miss Alge Reginald, remember vou must learn a woman’s etiquette. Do not stand on one foot like that. It isn’t nice for a woman to do that in polite society.”
SCHOLASTIC.	299
Barlow 'then took a bottle out of his pocket, .amid groans from Alge, who was taking the man too seriously. Barlow rubbed a little of the liquid on his. first finger and then applied it to Alge’s nose. After he had done this for some minutes, Alge’s hand stole quietly to his hair, but he was reassured anyway, so what’s the difference. Barlow seemed to become nervous, probably it was they that were becoming so, but anyway Barlow finally said:	’
“I am sorry, gentlemen, but I can -not do the trick to-day. The liquid has been standing in the light and consequently has lost some of its strength. I would like to have the opportunity, however, of winning back the $25 I have lost, so shall make an engagement with you for 'to-morrow afternoon, say at two. Is that satisfactory?”
“ Let’s see,” said Brownv. “I have a class at two, so can not get away, but—I guess I can come all right.”
“Horror,” said Alge, “you would not skip a class, would you? Why Browny!”
“Keep quiet. Your name shall hereafter be Miss Alge Reginald, and you’ll skip that English class to-morrow and come down with me.”
And so it was arranged. The man with the patent left and they were joyous. But' only for a brief time. Browny went to the bank to have the fiftv dollar bill changed, and when he returned they learned that there was only ten cents of good money in the crowd—Darn Browny.
Sacred Heart Church.
LEO J. COOXTZ, ’0/.
QNE grey tower rising to the sky A golden cross
Anchored to the clouds.
Eight grey spires lifting not so high
Sentinels to
That tower in the sky.
Four pinnacles rearing nobly by The tower clock Chiming to ' the clouds.
Two steeples, twins standing nigh Outposts and grey	-
Relics draped in shrouds.
Grev walls rising stone o’er stone on high Parapets in story.
Sacred Heart and sky.
3oo	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Law—Not What It is, but What It Ought to be.
WILLIAM P. O’NEILL, ’0/.
The popular mino experiences difficulty in distinguishing- between man’s absolute rights and those relative rights or privileges he received from society. Men are extremely jealous of their natural rights, and in their mistaken defense not infrequently go to the length of condoning abuses which, carried to their logical conclusion, will subvert those rights and destroy the government designed for their security. This renders peculiarly difficult of accomplishment any proposed reform which public opinion may be inclired to regard as a covert attack on the security of property. Men are so prone to travel the beaten path, to accept that which is as being that which it ought to be, that they are not disposed to enquire, “Whence comes the power?” unless in the exercise thereof the necessity for the enquiry is made obvious by some flagrant violation of the public sense of justice and propriety.
Now, the power to dispose of one’s possessions by will is a power granted by law. It has been conferred by various governments, with widely varying limitations from the time of its. introduction into Athens by Solon down to our day. And so long has the exercise of' this testamentary power been permitted that it has come to be regarded, in the popular mind, at least, as an inalienable right; and before the public could be expected to entertain any proposition for its repeal or curtailment, it was necessary that there be some notable examples of its abuse. Fortunately, we believe, for our country the immense possibilities for harm bound up in this power have been forced upon public attention by the recent admission to probate of the will of one of the country’s so-called merchant princes. The character of the man and the nature of the occupation in which the bulk of his fortune was made were such as to remove his personality from consideration and thus permit a more careful and a more just analysis of the will as it affects society. By the terms of this
extraordinary document an estate of considerably more than a hundred millions is locked away for a term of forty years, at the end of which time the colossal sum of the principal and its accumulations is to be divided between the grandsons of the testator.
That this vast fortune, accumulated under the protection of the laws of society, should be bound up for the span of an average human life and made “incapable of answering those ends of social commerce and providing for the sudden contingencies of private life, for -which property was first established” (2 Bl. Gomm., 174), is so grossly violative of the spirit of the common law, so repugnant to the genius of our institutions, that we may well pause and consider whether the testamentary power is not being used to defeat the very purpose of its creation.
The essential object of government is the maintenance of the peace of mankind, and no power is properly conferred the exercise of which is not calculated to further that object. This fact has ever been kept in mind by enlightened public opinion in England and the United States in dealing with questions affecting the holding or transfer of estates; and where abuses have grown up in the enjoyment or alienation of such estates, society has made and enforced such regulations as the general welfare required. It is hardly necessary to make more than passing reference to this fact. Notable examples of governmental regulation of this, perhaps the most fruitful subject of contention and discord with which civilized man has to deal, may be found in the Statute de Donis Conditionalibus (13 Edw. 1), which empowered ancestors to create estates tail until Taltarum’s case (Y. B. 12 Edw. IV.) removed all restraints on the alienation of estates in fee tail; the Statute of Quia Emptores (18 Edw. 1), which was a prolific source of contention as to the power of alienation; the various "statutes of the Edwards, Henry VIII. and Elizabeth, including the Statute of Wills (32 Hen. VIII.)
The object and effect of these various statutes as well as of the legislative enactments and judicial construction during the past century in England and the United
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
States are obvious. They serve to exemplify on the one hand the fixed purpose of the government through centuries to effect an equitable distribution of the possessions of the deceased by limiting his control over property after death, and on the other, the omnipresent effort of the owner to selfishly bind up his property for the objects of his bounty and thus project himself beyond the grave.
That the concentration of the nation’s wealth in a few hands, if it is not a menace to our institutions, is at least a serious hindrance to the development of a well-rounded national character, is too patent to require argument. In fact, it -would be pedantry to recount in this connection the struggles that have been fought through the ages over property distinctions. Their number and ferocity render conclusive the statement that society is vitally interested in preventing the concentration of wealth in a few hands. Such accumulations in times past invariably reduced the masses of the people to a condition of servitude, and sapped the very life-blood of the nation. That the exercise of the testamentary power operates in effect to so concentrate the wealth of the nation within a brief space of a few generations—notwithstanding the rule against perpetuities—is indicated in the case of the merchant’s will. The object sought to be accomplished lw the state in conferring this power was to provide for the peaceful and orderly distribution of one’s possessions after death.
We maintain that the Statutes of Descent, as applied in cases of intestacy, subserve every just purpose of the Statutes of Wills; that they do not produce the evil consequences to society that flow from the exercise of testamentary power, and that to render them uniformly operative on decedents’ estates, to the exclusion of the power of testamentary disposition, would be to confer a distinct benefit on society and its members; for the menace to the state is not the only evil .with which the present system is pregnant. With the pursestrings tied away in mortmain, there is engendered among the descendants a spirit of irresponsibility, born of a lack of incentive to effort, or a spirit of resentment, bom of a deprivation of power, either of which
301
makes for the weakening of character and the severance of filial ties. Again estates are dissipated in the contest of wills; family concord is destroved bv the unseemlv exhibition of family skeletons; communities are divided into factions, and in the vast majority of cases, the attempted testamentary disposition of the property is defeated. That the success so uniformlv attendant upon such contests is a striking evidence of public confidence in the justice of the law’s distribution will hardly be denied.
The accumulation of colossal fortunes witnessed in this country in the past decade has been the most striking phenomenon of our national life. Their growth has been so rapid and the accompanying tendency to attempt their perpetuation so pronounced as to render imperative the necessity for new safeguards against the evils complained of.
That the Statutes of Descent are just in principle, alike to the State in the security of whose protection the wealth of the citizen was acquired and to the objects of his bountv among whom it is distributed and that they meet every just aim of the Statutes of Descent, is our contention. As now operative the Statutes of Descent are open to none of the grave objections that have been made to the operation of the Statutes of Wills. Property is equitably distributed, and thus segregated into parts of equal or just proportion continues to serve the ends of commerce with its opportunities for good enlarged and its possibilities for evil greatly diminished. By their universal application, family harmony would be promoted in the ensuing absence of unseemly efforts to cajole or coerce the living into making sought-for testamentarv disposition of his property, and a like absence of contentious striving for his effects after death. Reverence for the law would be engendered in the mind of him wrho entrusts to it the distribution of his possessions and in the minds of those who rely upon its just operation to receive their portions. A wholesome sense of responsibility, self-respect and healthy pride of ownership would accompany the operation of such a law, and finally, the cost of administration would be greatly lessened and the possibility of contest entirely removed.
' (Concluded on page 306.)

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
entered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, February 9, 1907.
Board of Editors.
EDWARD F.
THOMAS E. BURKE, ’07 WESLEY J. DONAHUE, ’07 WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07 ROBERT L. BRACKEN, ’08 PATRICK M. MALLOY, '07 LEO, J. COONTZ, '07 ROBERT A. KASPER, ’07
O’FLYNN, '07.
LOUIS M. KELLEY, '07
WM. E. CUNNINGHAM, ’07
FRANCIS T. MAHER, ’08
WILLIAM LENNARTZ, ’OS
VARNUM A. PARRISH, ’09 PAUL R. MARTIN '09
IGNATIUS E. MCNAMEE, ’09
—To-morrow will be celebrated with all the grandeur and devotion possible the opening exercises of the Fortv Hours’ Adoration
. :	of the Most Holy Sacrament.
The Evervbodv knows his dutv on Forty; Hours. occasion of the Forty Hours.
. Past years have' shown that the students realized their obligations and appreciated in an edifying manner the privileges afforded by these days of special graces. Of course, there have been the thoughtless few, and there will be. No . matter how golden the wheat, despite the best husbandry the rank tare will show its head. If we have a vestige of gratitude, if we appreciate our true interests, .we shall generously respond to the divine appeal, “Come unto Ale.”
At the present day, the world directs all its energies, aims and endeavors—its whole speculation, as it says,—to an easy and certain increase of fortune. By a shrewd handling of stocks and bonds in a wonderfully short time the poorest man often becomes richer than a monarch. It is a truism of our faith that we have it in our power to acquire spiritual treasures, and it is equally true that no man' ever became ’ bankrupt by. the loss of time spent upon his .knees in acts of reparation and thanks
giving. It remains, then, with each one to realize the possibilities within his reach. It is an entirely personal matter. The Forty Hours’ adoration is a “ silent devotion ” — mutual between von and God.
—One of the most notable things about the Notre Dame victory was the wav it appealed to the Catholic citizens of Indianapolis. Fully three hundred turned Our out to greet our orator and cheer Friends. him on to victory. Our record last year had made us many friends, but this year doubled them. Nothing was too good for Notre Dame, and we take this occasion to thank the many friends who so courteously entertained our representatives. To Messrs. Fox, Dunnigan and Donnelly, as well as to the members of the Knights of Columbus and Y. AI. I., we extend our thanks. It was a great victory, and we arc as glad to have won .it for our friends as we are for our Alma Mater.
—We would call the attention of our readers to the article on the following pages concerning the Latin and Greek The	societies. If you are a classic
Latin-Greek or an English student get in Society. line and help this society on by vour encouragement. A great deal of good may be obtained from such a society, and we hope to see it prosper.
The Rennay Recital.
Mr. Leon Rennay, now a famous singer, came back to the old haunts and rendered before the student body a varied and pretty program. He has a strong, beautiful voice, and every effort was characterized by the touch of the master. His interpretation was excellent, and he left a profound impression on us all. It is not often we have the pleasure of an artist rendering bits like the “Four Bergerettes,” or “L’Heure Exquise” or Handel’s songs, as Air. Rennay did. Being an old Notre Dame mpn we were doubly attentive to him, and we watch his career with interest. The student body awaits with pleasure another recital.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3
°3
The State Oratorical Contest.
On Friday evening, Feb. 1, at Tomlinson Hall, Indianapolis Edward F. O’Fhmn, His-P	tory and Economics ’07, won the State
’	Oratorical Contest. It is the first time Notre
I	Dame ever won the contest, consequently
t	there was much jubilation over the out-
t come. It had been rumored that DePauw j	was sending the best man it had in years
|	to again bring back what the Methodist
college had almost begun to claim as its j own. Whatever the Greencastle people thought or the Professor’s prediction about “another cinched victory” was, the contest showed differently.
For a second time Mr. O’Flynn represented us, and for a second time made a remarkable showing. In delivery he completely outdid himself, and when he had finished there was little doubt in the mind of the audience as to the outcome. Clear, forceful and thoroughlv at home on the stage he ; presented the appearance of a veteran.
O’Flvnn has a style distinctly- his own; he talks with earnestness and convincingiv. Putting his soul into his speech, he rings out strong, and is bound to impress deeply. The Indianapolis New s says in part of the contest:
With an eloquent defense of the Florentine monk, Savonarola, delivered in a masterful manner and with clear-cut, forceful words, Edward F. O’Flynn carried away for Notre Dame University first honors in the annual contest of the Indiana State Oratorical Association in Tomlinson Hall Saturday night.
The Catholic champion made a profound impression on the hundreds of visitors with his opening words, and his superiority oyer the remaining speakers left little doubt » as to the decision of the judges. O’Flynn’s oration concerned itself chiefly with the work of the monk, and with a refutation of heresv charges brought against him. Couched in beautiful language which introduced the romantic atmosphere of Florence the beautiful, the oration was an admirable composition, and under O’Flynn’s elocution became most convincing.
WABASH GETS SECOND PEACE.
Leo C. Kelly, representing Wabash College, took second place. His oration was on “ Edmund Burke, Apostle of Righteousness.” Kelly’s manner on the stage and his delivery approached more than that of any other speaker to the standard set by. O’Flynn, and it was easy to see that Wabash would come in for second place. The judges awarded third place to Samuel Taylor, the colored orator from DePauw. The Methodist students had great confidence in the colored man who gave a highlv commendable oration.
The scene in Tomlinson Hall was bewilder
EDWARD F. O’FLTXN, ’07.
ing. Seated in divisions in the stalls around the auditorium, the representatives of the . various colleges made the air ring with their shouts and songs. Most of the time the yells came in a conglomerate mass that could not be differentiated, and sounded altogether like a confusion of tongues. College colors were flying on every side, and even on the main floor of the auditorium many persons joined in the shouts with their old colleges, and waved back greetings to the students in the stalls, o o
3°4
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
MUCH GOOD-NATURED RIVALRY.
There was a commendable lack of objectionable rivalrv. Onlv once when Earlham brought on the scene an enormous banner was there anything approaching unfriendliness. This probably would not have occurred had not the standard-bearer inadvertently broken the flagstaff. The collapse of the pennant brought a storm of derisive shouts. Visitors below looked on with smiling approval as the enthusiastic students, . men and women, whirled along with a veritable cyclone of noise. Even the policemen caught the spirit, and when a song was started by some one .they tapped their clubs against the wall and hummed along with the singers.
The students of each college possessed .an unbounded confidence in their speakers and expected to win first place easily. DePauw, winner of first place in sixteen of the annual contests, went to the front and dared that its colors be snatched away. Hundreds of students from-the M ethodist' college, from a place of vantage near the front cheered on their speaker and would’ not consider the doubt of his winning. Although thev had not been so fortunate as DePauw,
the students of other colleges expected to the program. Indianapolis News.
make a similar imjDression. Because O’Flynn won second place in the last contest, the students - of Notre Dame . expected great things ■ from him, and would have been sorely disappointed with anything lower than first place.
FOURTH HONORS FOR BUTLER.
Carl Barnett, of Butler, speaking on “Civic Righteousness,” was awarded fourth place. John W. Holtzman, one of the judges on delivery, gave Barnett first place. Both of the other judges on delivery awarded
second place to him. Walter R. Miles won fifth place for Earlham with an oration - on “ Fraternalism in American Civilization.”
Miles made an excellent impression in the treatment of his subject, but lacked in
The judges placed Franklin College in the . sixth place. The school was represented
by E. R. Nichols, who discussed “The Indi-
vidiial in Politics.” Miss Adah Throop, Indianapolis and many of the Y. M. I., representing Hanover, obtained seventh besides ..-numbers- of other Notre Dame place. Miss Throop displayed excellent enthusiasts. '	. '	J. D.
talent, but the choice of her subject, “The Problems of To-Day in Our Country,” was more fitted to a masculine speaker.
FIRST VICTORY FOR NOTRE DAME.
During the intermission following the program and before the report of the judges, the clamor of voices again reached its height. But it was not at its wildest until Notre Dame was named as the winning college. Then the Catholic students stampeded the Auditorium. O’Flynn was buried in the crowd of enthusiasts wishing to grasp his hands. Numerous Indianapolis persons in sentiment with the Catholic college took part in the jollification, and it is even rumored that one or two young priests gave vent to a shout in the confusion. It was
4
the first victory for Notre approval was expressed decision of the judges.
The judges on composition
Dame. General concerning the
were Professor
J. R. Slater, of the University of Rochester, Professor S. H. Clark, Chicago University, and Professor George Baker, of Harvard. The judges on delivery were John B. Elam, Henry N. Spaan and John W. Holtzman, all of Indianapolis. The Earlham quartette of women sang several selections during
5
i
	Notre Danie	Wabash		De Pauw...	Butler		Earlham...	Franklin...	Hanover....
Judges in Composition: Baker		3		4	6	5	2	7
Slater		4		I	6	5	3	7
Clark		3 1	I	2	7	5	4	6
Judges in delivery: Elam 	;		i	4	3	2	5	6	7
Spaan		i	6	5	2	4	7	3
Holtzman....				2	3	5	I	4	7	6
Total points		14 !	17	20	24	28 |	29	36
Place	   |	-1 1	2 I	3	4	3“	6		7
The meet in general was the most successful held in years, and not a little credit is due the President, Mr. Farabaugh, whose untiring work was bound to bring results. The ladies’ quartette from Earlham starred in several selections, and Miss Kaufman, a soloist, was roundly applauded. But the hit of the evening was the Notre Dame rooters, comprising the Knights of Columbus of
25
NOTRE DAME . SCHOLASTIC.
The Study of Latin in Catholic Colleges and Seminaries.
Ever since Herder declared war against the ancient classics on the ground that they are of little practical utility, teachers of Latin and Greek have been confronted with the question of how to keep those time-honored studies in their old place in educational institutions. In spite of their quiet opposition to modern innovations, the old classics are rapidly losing their ground.
Whatever its merits in other directions may be, the option of studies, or the broad elective system, as it is called, has dealt a severe blow to the classic department in general, but more particularly to Greek; for it not onlv deters mam’ students from entering upon the full classical course, but it readily invites a substitute for Greek as soon as the beginner finds the mechanical -processes for learning the rudiments of that language contrary to his taste. However much this dropping off of Greek students is to be regretted, a reaction seems to be certain to follow. At anv rate, it is gratifving to hear of a Greek Club which has been established at Notre Dame. The aim is good. What the actual outcome of it will be, we shall watch with the keenest interest. In the meantime, let us turn our eves to Latin.
In Catholic colleges, the decrease of students taking Latin is not quite so marked as it appears to be in other institutions. The reason for this lies partly in the college itself and partly in the students. In some Catholic colleges there is little choice in a course outside of the classical, and even if the college offers manj- courses, as does Notre Dame, for example, a number of its students are studying for the Ministry; and Latin being the language of theologjr and of the ritual naturally receives more time and attention than any other study in the course. Hence a few general ideas on the study of Latin in Catholic colleges and seminaries may be of interest.
On looking over a score of catalogues of the principal Catholic colleges and seminaries in this country, I find that the
3°5	'
authors read in these institutions are practically the same, as those read in secular schools. However, in Catholic seminaries, and to some extent in the colleges also, the olcl method of teaching Latin is still in vogue and vigor. The text-books used are, to a large extent, those of twenty or thirty vears ago, in some cases revised editions. The modem approved linguistic method has been adopted only on a small scale. The reason is largely that the old method is believed to meet the demands better than the new. Now, the old method, it is well known, is literarv rather than scientific. It seeks to lay stress on the practical- value of the language, as actually spoken or written, rather than to impart a theoretic knowledge of the inflected forms of nouns and verbs. The teacher of Latin in a Catholic college or seminary may not have been schooled in philology, he may have had little training in linguistic science as it is understood to-day, but he has a practical knowledge of the language, and this practical knowledge he seeks to impart to his pupils. The “humanistic” aspect appeals to him rather than the philological. His ambition tends to exactness of expression rather than to accuracy of scholarship. His aim is to write and speak correct Latin, and not to rest satisfied with grammatical abstractions. Eorthis purpose the practical exercises in Latin composition are an important factor in his class. Besides bringing the student into closer and more conscious touch with the language itself, these ‘ practical exercises have a great educational -value. They train the restless mind of youth to habit* of accurate and methodic thinking-;
o *	■ .
they strengthen the memory by the application of the numerous forms of inflection; they sharpen the judgment and cultivate good literary taste by the constant demand to observe the rules of agreement and government. In the more advanced . years, exercises in writing Latin verse are occasionally indulged in.
At Notre Dame our efforts in teaching Latin are to blend . harmoniously theory and practice. As a solid foundation for the reading of the Latin classics can rest only on the proper understanding and the due appreciation of the grammar,, .we give our closest attention and best energy to the
306	NOTRE DAME
kJ
beginners. In our method of teaching Latin Grammar (and this applies to Greek especially) we do not disregard at any moment the scientific treatment of the subject. The principles of linguistics are applied wherever thej’ account for apparent exceptions and irregularities. In the treatment of the inflected parts of speech, gleanings from the field of comparative grammar are found to be a great assistance in arousing interest in this otherwise most mechanical subject of inflection.
The following summary may suggest some further ideas on the amount of work we do and the method we follow. Our course in Latin consists of four years of preparatory (academic) and four years of collegiate work. In the preparatory department, five class hours a week are given to Latin, while in the collegiate department four hours are devoted to it. In the preparatory department the form is principally emphasized, while the matter enters more into discussion in the collegiate department. The principle that guides us is: “The maximum of grammar in the first three years of preparatory work, even if it be necessary to reduce the reading of the text to its minimum; i. e., quantity of reading is not so much insisted upon as quality and thoroughness. This enables us to reverse the plan completely in the last preparatory year by giving from then on the maximum of text and the minimum of grammar.	M. F. 0.
The Semi-Final Debates.
The Debating Association is moving on steadily and the gradual “weeding” is taking place. Monday and Sunday evenings the semi-finals were held. In these semi-finals eight men were chosen. These eight will debate in Washington Hall, and from them will be picked the first and second teams. The three men receiving the highest marks will comprise the first team, the next three will be the second. The two remaining men will .be alternates. In the first semi-final Corcoran, Malloy, Boyle and Burke won out; in the second night Bolger, Donahue, Kanaley and Cunningham got places. The finals will occur soon and are awaited with much interest.
SCHOLASTIC.
(Continued irom page 301.}
It may be urged that the physical disability of a dependent renders special provision for his maintenance necessarv or desirable; But adequate provision to meet this emergency could be made during life. Again, it may be urged that a spendthrift, or improvident dependent, would soon dissipate the estate; but if it be necessary to meet this objection, let it be done by requiring proof of capacity with proof of heirship, and where there is a failure to produce such proof, let the law provide a guardian. A requirement of proof of capacity would have a salutary effect in the case of a wayward or improvident dependent. The knowledge that as soon as he proved capacity to manage his inheritance the guardianship would be terminated—unlike the usual ' custom under trusts created by testamentary provision — would stimulate him to qualify himself to assume and retain the management of his estate.
If it be urged that charitable institutions should not be deprived of benefits accruing from the unrestrained exercise of the testamentary power, let it be remembered that there is no inconsistencv involved in limiting the exercise of such power to bequests to charities. These in their verv nature are perpetual, and their endowment in the exercise of testamentary power is open to none of the objections herein urged. But even were this not permitted, proper provision could, and no doubt would, be made during the lifetime of those charitably disposed.
It will perhaps be urged that the proposed change does not offer an ideal method for the distribution of decedents’ estates. But to sustain our proposition, it is not necessary that we prove the method to be such. That it will effect an equitable distribution of estates, and that it is entirely free from the objectionable features of the present system, furnish sufficient reason for its adoption. The proposed ■ departure from the established order is ’ made in no captious spirit. It is born of an abiding faith that, considering both the interests of the individual and society rather than leave the distribution of man’s accumulations to his shifting judgment, we may more safely entrust it to the operation of Statutes of Descent and Distribution written in the light of the wisdom of the ages.
HO7HL .DaME scholastic.
Athletic Notes.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
Well, something happened, and this everready pen which has been begging some one to do something, something good or something bad, has occasion now to inform baseball players and track men that heretofore have not put forth any effort to do something, that Scanlon’s injury will suffice for the rest of the season. On Monday afternoon while sliding home Scanlon fractured his ankle and will be laid up for at least six weeks, and in all probability' will be out of the game until late in the season. His loss will be severely' felt as he was among the few stars in the new bunch of men. He was a catcher of rare ability and could also play7 in the outfield.
While the baseball men are putting in good hard training knocks the track men are getting on edge for the Michigan o o	o	o
“Aggie” meet which is to be held on the 16th.
■Jr *
With the indoor track meet between Notre Dame and the Michigan “Aggies” but a week off, the aspirants to honors on the cinder path are working with renewed energy, and the result of their strenuous training has a telling effect, as those who go to the “Big Gym” each afternoon at three will tell you. The team that will represent us in Saturday’s meet will not be a one-man team, nor a team of stars, but simply' an evenly’ balanced bunch of pluggers. Most of the squad are men of very little experience, and they7 will not go into the contest over-confident but with the thought to win or lose trving their very7 best.
- * *
Corby7 Hall had an easy' victory* last Saturday night when the South Bend High School team paid a visit to Brownson Gymnasium. The final score was 16 to 4-. The High School boys were allowed to make but one point in the second half, and that on a free throw. The low score was due to the work of the guards, Dubuc and Krost, while Schwab as usual played his steady7 game. Fraunheim made several good field goals.
o	-
* i	* *	‘
. Another victory to Corbv’s list; this time South Bend Y. M. C. A. was the loser by a score of 40 to 3. Wagner was responsible for their points, making three free throws. Dubuc for Corby seemed to be the man of the evening, tossing baskets from all corners of the Hall. Corby showed wonderful improvement in team work'- - • Field goals—Dubuc, 7; Werder, 5; Heyl, 6. Free throws—Werder, -1; Wagner, 3.
In the case of Donaldson r. Nicholson the solicitors were: Rupert Donovan, assisted by Thomas W. Phillips, for the plaintiff, and Robert L. Bracken for the defendant. The plaintiff sought to recover wages due him from the defendant for work done on the defendant’s farm. Defendant admitted the indebtedness, but having given the plaintiff a written instrument which apparently gave him (defendant) the 'right to pay the plaintiff whenever it was convenient, “or after the crops were sold,” he based his right for refusing plaintiff's demand on said instrument.
Statement of Facts.
John Donaldson, the plaintiff, resides in Clay* Township, St. Joseph County, Indiana, . and James Nicholson, the defendant, lives in South Bend, in the same County and State. For several years the plaintiff worked for the defendant on his farm in Clay Township. On the 20th of July, in the current year, or after harvest, Donaldson left the service of the defendant, The later, not having on hand moneys enough to pay* him in full, gave him the following paper writing covering the unpaid balance.
South Bend, Indiana, July* 20th, 1907.
Due John Donaldson, the sum of $425, being balance of note due for services on my7 farm during the past three years. This I will pay as soon as the crops can be sold or the money* raised from any* other source. I acknowledge it to be due and payable with interest.
Janies Nicholson.
The crops were sold in September, but nevertheless no steps were taken to pay the plaintiff. He demanded payment early* in October, but the defendant answered: “You must wait until I find it convenient to pay you.” Believing that the defendant is trifling with him, he has taken the necessary* steps to institute an action at law for the recovery of the amount stated.
The jury7 rendered a verdict after a twentyminute session in favor of the plaintiff.
■£ *
, Probably7 nowhere in the country can a more thorough knowledge of the actual practice of court work be obtained, than in the law school at 2 otre Dame. Dean Hoynes acts as Chancellor and Judge and is untiring in his zeal to impart to the young men the weapons with which they are to meet their life’s work.	.
NOTRa DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Obituary Notices.
The Death of Mrs. Harrington.
The sympathy of the University goes out to Professor Walter L. Harrington in the unexpected death of his mother on January 24-, in Charleston, Mass. The pain of such a bereavement can be fully appreciated only bj7 those who have suffered it; but the evidences of devotedness and affection shown by students and friends prove how deep and genuine is their attachment to Professor Harrington. The Month’s Mind will be commemorated by a Solemn High Mass of Requiem in the University church.
' The tragic death of Mr.' Frank DeLone brought grief to the hearts of all who knew -him while he was a student at the University. Gifted with an unusually attractive disposition, Frank had won his way into the hearts of officers and teachers and had .made .for himself a permanent place in their esteem and affection.
The circumstances attending his death
were of peculiar sadness. While indulging in his favorite recreation of riding, his horse shied while passing over a bridge and threw him. Stunned bv the fall he fell<;
into the water below and was drowned. No human consolation has • any power to comfort the familv to whom this beloved ' " * ' _ ■ .
one was so early and so^. Tragically lost, ' but on behalf of the -Universitv, the
Scholastic expresses, sincere sympathy. Solemn Requiem Service ■•was offered in the Universitv Church, at which Faculty and students assisted. R. I. P. "
The University and the Senior class extend their heartfelt sympathy' to Air. Frank Collier of St. Joseph’s in the loss of his father.- Mr. Collier had not been ill long, and though quite wrll on in years he was a well-preserved man. His death came as a shock and \ surprise to all. R. I. P.
.preparatory “drudgery”, of a few years’ dura tion is. abundantly rewarded by. the genuine.-pleasure and profit the advanced student derives from .fris . study of the grand
.	masterpieces of literal^
’ • ■*-jJ	p- ■/ :?	ment- of tyhis subjecty .we . would refer the
home; recentlyvliecause of the death, of his reader ,to}a recent-article: by the same author uncle, Mr.PatnckCou^hhn.Mi. J^ou^lilm: in - the. Classical Jou fii'al. . .	.
contracted pneumonia and died after a short illness. The University extends its sympathy to the family and friends of the deceased. R. I. P.
Mr. Patrick Beacom of Sorin was called home recently because of the illness of his mother. We are grieved to hear now of the death of Mrs. Beacom. The Scholastic joins in. expressing its deep sympathy to our fellow-student and the sorrow-stricken familv. R. I. P. ..
Personals.
—Among the old men we met at Indianapolis was John Pohlman. Jack was enthusiastic about the outcome, and was as great a rooter as we had.
—We have received word of the wedding of Mr. Richard E. Dunne and Miss Mary Fay White, at Eureka Springs, Arkansas. Mr. Dunne was a student here, and quite an enthusiastic Corbyite. The Scholastic joins in congratulating the young couple. They will live in Barthesville, 1. T. where Air. Dunne holds a responsible position with the firm of Simpson Brothers.
Local Items.
—The Electrical Society will hold its regular meeting to-night, 7:30, Science Hall. Everyone, is invited. '	• .
—The junior law class, that august body, attended “The Clansman” performance at the auditorium recently.	■
—The Scholastic is requested to announce that in accordance with a ruling of the Faculty at a. recent meeting, first honors will. no longer be conferred in the collegiate department. They, will be continued in the preparatory departments and in. the . commercial school. ‘
.—We. would direct the attention of beginners in the language courses to the suggestive paragraphs in this present issue dealing with the study of .Latin in Catholic colleges. The author emphasizes a truth beginners commonly ignore, viz., that