This book is not to be taken from the Library
CO
1Q 34 i
Th e N otre Dame
Scholastic
15 CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
MARCH 16
Nineteen Thirty-four
WHY
il •^Z‘, *
CIGARETTE
Tunc in on Tim Fio-Rito’s sensational Hollywood Orchestra every Wednesday night—Columbia Chain
No better tobacco grows than is used in OLD GOLDS. And they are PURE. (No artificial flavoring)
AMERICA’S
“LIFE’S TOO INTEREST-1AG to waste in arguing about what cigarette one ought to smoke.
“There arc many excellent brands. What’s best for you, may not appeal to me. ‘Try them all,’ 1 say. ‘And then let vour oiin taste decide.’
“That’s how I started to smoke OLD GOLDS. And their honey'smoothness keeps me smoking them.
“If you’re satisfied with your present brand, be loyal to it. But if you’d like a change, you could do a lot worse than trv OLD GOLDS.”
rgu e ?
LET YOUR TASTE DECIDE
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notro Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 186S
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 191". authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief
.Managing Editor
Associate Editors
News Staff
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN------------------JOHN E. CONLEY
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD--------------MICHAEL F. WIEDL
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH---------------------------The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.---------------------College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.________________________Staff Artist
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY.____________________
Graduate Manager
THOMAS G. PROCTOR)
JOSEPH A. BUCCI J .......................News Eaitors
ROY O. SCHOLZ-----------------------ROBERT F. ERVIN
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY------------------JOHN W. WALKER
GEORGE P. LEYES---------------------LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY
Sports Staff
JOHN D. CARBINE______________>
EDWARD J. VAN HTHS.qHT.TNG___-------------Sports Editors
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR.--------------HOWARD T. WALDRON
CYRIL F. STROKER
Volume LXVII
March 16, 1934
No. 19
EXTERIOR DECORATIONS
With the appearance of several new specimens of the art in recent weeks, it appears that the campus fad for decorations on the backs of jackets, rain coats, and leather coats is more than a hangover from the rah-rah period of high school collegiateism.
This is not primarily a condemnation of private tastes in the matter of sartorial embellishments. Those choices are necessarily personal and if a man feels better dressed by reason of having his name or someone else’s blazoned across his shoulder blades, that is his business. But several abuses have become apparent in the decorative motifs now popular.
The Notre Dame monogram is an official insignia. It can be awarded only at the discretion of the Board of Athletics, and is, traditionallly, given on official sweaters to athletes who have merited it. The monogram is out of place on the backs of jackets and coats; the individuals who wear it there are guilty of violations of the University regulations and of Notre Dame tradition.
Similarly, the right to the use of the University’s official seal and coat-of-arms is not public property. The University has the right to regulate their use, and it is improbable that authorization has been given for the appearance of the seal and the coat-of-arms on the dozens of suede and leather jackets now bearing them.
If decorations are necessaiy, the decorators would do well to stay in the field of “Bored of Education,” “Front Entrance,” and the names of their four hundred bosom friends. They would then be within their rights, and would, incidentally, be much closer in tone to the spirit that demands the posterior display of color.
THE LAETARE MEDALIST
Last Sunday the University awarded the Laetare Medal for 1934 to Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady, thus . honoring her signally as an outstanding member of the t American Catholic laity. ,	■
Mrs. Brady is unquestionably such a member. Her . welfare work, her charities, her civic leadership have long •’ been models of applied Christian and Catholic principles.
M a r c h 1 6, 1 9 3 J
In view of the recognition accorded her by Notre Dame in the awarding of the Laetare Medal, The Scholastic joins the chorus of congratulations.
THE BENGAL SHOW WEDNESDAY
The date for the Bengal Boxing show was changed this week. The show will be held next Wednesday evening, March 21. This alteration of original plans was motivated by a desire to give the campus the best boxing card possible. Because two of the outstanding student boxers would have been unable to compete on the date originally scheduled, The Scholastic thought it best to advance the date.	■
Several complications enter into the staging of an entertainment event on a Wednesday evening. The regular Wednesday evening Lenten devotions will be held at the usual hours, 7:00 and 7:45 p.m. Because of that, the first bout of the boxing show will not start until 8:30. There is absolutely no necessity for anyone to miss the Lenten services in order to get a good seat in the gymnasium. A SPECIAL SECTION OF THE BLEACHERS WILL BE SET APART FOR THE STUDENTS IN ATTENDANCE AT THE 7:45 LENTEN DEVOTIONS.
Because of the excellence of the Card arranged for this year’s show, The Scholastic expects that a new attendance record for the event will be established. That is a hope as well as an expectation, and one that we feel., all things considered,, is justifiable.
THE COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM
. The program for the 90th annual Commencement exercises to be held June 3 is announced today. The plans call for the presence of His Excellency, the Most Reverend Apileto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate, to the United States; for the Commencement Address by the Hon. Frank C. Walker, ’09; and the Baccalaureate Sermon by the Most Reverend John M. McNamara, D. D-, Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore.
• Such' a program is gratifyingly in • keeping with the Series of outstanding commencement exercises that have long been traditional here.	' '	’	'	'
’ ’ ’ 5 ■ * 1
One
THE WEEK
Debaters Win From Dayton, Mich. State
By Thoma* J. Stritch
0 Temporal 0 Mares!
The “No Smoking” campaign was launched this week by the Prefect of Discipline’s Office. We dropped in there the other day (on a purely social call, mind) and found the place determined to end the smoking nuisance. Maybe you’ve noticed the increase in prohibitory signs in Main and Commerce Buildings. Anyhow, the war is on.
The times have been when there was a tradition in force prohibiting smoking on the quadrangle. That, like so many others, is no more. But more than traditoin—rule—prevailed to prevent smoking in class room buildings, save in certain areas. This year nobody at all seems to pay any attention to either tradition or rule. From the description we had the Main Building belches forth more smoke than the Power House; Science Hall looks more and more like an abandoned saloon-building; and the Commerce Building is the worst offender of all. It’s gotten to the point over there where they flick cigarette butts against the globe in the foyer, so that in time we may expect to see the world emerging literally from an ash-heap.
What’s more, the problem of artistic expression has touched a new low on the desk-chairs over in the Marts school. The defacings are terrific. All in all, the whole place is getting to look rather ratty, and the same is true of all the other classroom buildings on the campus. And that does not take in the ragged appearance of the lawns everywhere: above all that totally unnecessary swath of grass trodden yellow from the Dining Hall entrance across the lawn to Dillon yard.
Well, anyhow, the Church still stands.
•
The First Is Last
The annual interhall indoor track meet preliminaries were productive of the usual frauds and frolics, which have for long made it one of the highlights of the winter season. There were the usual nicotine-mad seniors letting the physical have its day, though it cost them health; there were the usual vigorous freshmen; there was Bud McNichoIs, ready to die after 220 yards. But most of • all there was the battle of the mile.
The annual Sorin brains held an annual conclave and decided to perpetrate the annual trick started back in Esop’s time with the hare and the tortoise episode. They let one entry run from the word go, but saved the other, like Achilles in his tent,
Two
until the seventh lap, by which time they figured the other boys would be a mite tuckered.
But the wages of sin is death, and John Siscanaw, selected to run to glory for dear old Sorin, entered on the seventh lap at scratch and finished last.
•
Necromancy
The first mournful suggestion of the bitterness of life and the salty struggle for bread, brass and a berth as easy as the Norris family’s struck a drab note on the Sorin bulletin board the other day. It read: FOREIGN COMMERCE STUDENTS FOR SALE
Our further sensibilities as to the whereabouts of the slave market were spared, as the message was mercifully torn off just below this antebellum muezzin, but it did set us thinking. O, life with the sad, seared face! What percentage of panhandlers does the class of 1934 hold? ' Will our A.B. men dominate the Browning Clubs? Will our Commerce men play a decent game of golf? Will our two Mining Engineers catch on? And, while you’re at it, what in the name of Father Sorin is the writer of these ephemeral lines going to keep body and soul together with?
•
Perhaps it was some such somber musing as this that occupied the blond and tweedy editor of the Juggler as he prepared to partake of his repast in the cafeteria the other evening. No doubt some great pun problem awaited him, for he loaded his tray with all manner of delicacies of food and drink. But the awful thing on his mind, whatever it was, proved too much for him. As he rounded the turn to the cash register, down crashed the viands, tray and all. It made a dreadful mess.
•
Arbor Day
For your information, the trees they’re digging up are to go on the golf course, where they are sadly needed. What with two new sheds and new trees you’ll- hardly recognize it this spring. Father Holderith is planning all sorts of improvements, and all the golf team has to do is win a few.
The distinguished editor of this rag was blowing off about the unnecessary expense of moving the trees. “All they have to do,” he complained, “is put the golf team out there with niblics and they’ll soon dig ’em up.”
By Thomas Proctor
Continuing a successful season, Notre Dame’s undefeated negative debate team, John O’Connor and John Locher added two more winning de-
Prof. William Coyne Debate Coach.
cisions from critic judges to the list this past week.
On Monday, March 12 the two debaters won a decision from Dayton University, arguing in Washington Hall on the question, “Resolved: that a constitutional amendment making permanent the powers of the president as of July 1, 1933, should be adopted.” Locher speaking first against Ralph Locher, representing the Dayton affirmative, laid the basis for the negative attack, while O’Conner with pointed argument and keen logic beat down his opponent’s, Todd Mumma, contentions. Critic Judge A. L. Knoblauch, principal of Buchanan High School gave Notre Dame the decision on many points. Professor William H. Downey was chairman of the debate.
At East Lansing
Tuesday the negative travelled to East Lansing with Coach W. J. Coyne to defeat an affirmative team from Michigan State College on the question, “Resolved: that the powers of the president should be substantially increased as a settled policy.” Professor Hance of Albion College performed the duties of critic judge for this contest, giving the Notre Dame twosome the decision.
Return Debate Tonight
Tonight in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m. Joseph Becek and Hugh Fitzgerald will argue the affirmative side of the “settled policy” question against the Michigan State negative in a decision contest. This return debate with the Michigan school will be judged by Professor Berclaheimer of the Northwestern University department of Economics.
One other debate is definitely scheduled—that being with Western Reserve on March 27.
The Scholastic
Apostolic Delegate To Preside Over 90th Annual Commencement, June 3
Friday, March 16
Debate, Notre Dame affirmative vs. Michigan State negative, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall; Symphony orchestra practice, 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall. Meetings: Catholic Action Club, 8:00 p.m., Engineering Auditorium; Scholastic staff, Ave Maria Building, 6:30 and 7:00 p.m.
Saturday, March 17
Track, New York City, Notre Dame relay teams in K. of C. meet; Track, Chicago, Illinois, Notre Dame entered in Armour Relays; Movie, “I Loved a Woman” with Edward G. Robinson, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:45 p.m.
Sunday, March 18
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; Interhall basketball, gymnasium, 1:15 and 3:15 p.m.
Monday, March 19
Meetings: A.I.E.E., 8:00 p.m., Engineering Building; Patricians, 7:45 p.m., Law Building.
Tuesday, March 20
Economics Seminar, 6:30 p.m., Law Building; Wranglers Meeting, 6:30 p.m., Law Building; Symphony Orchestra Practice, 7:00 p.m., Washington Hall.
Wednesday, March 21
BENGAL BOXING SHOW, Notre Dame gym, 8:30 p. m.; Lenten Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 p.m., for upperclassmen, 7:45 p.m. for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Ed’s; Educational Seminar, Law Bldg., 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, March 22
Modern Language Club Banquet, Faculty Dining Room, 7:00 p.m.; International Relations Club meeting, library, 6:30 p.m.
R. D. Layman To Address
A. I. E. E. Monday Night
There will be a regular meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Room 22 of the Engineering Building on Monday evening, March 19, at 8 o’clock. The principal speaker of the evening is to be Mr. R. D. Layman, district manager of the Lincoln Electric Company of Cleveland, Ohio. His subject will be “Arc-Welding,” and he will accompany his lecture with lantern slides. All members are urged to be present.
Juggler----
The much-looked-forward-to young ladies’ issue of the Notre Dame Juggler was issued by Editor Joe Degnan this week-end. The magazine, scheduled to appear in the early part of the week, was delayed in its publication.
Young ladies from roundabout and afar contributed to the Juggler, making especial endeavors to ridicule the blase boys. The cover, done by Miss Beatrice Cannon, won the approval of the Juggler readers.
Many requests have been received from girls’ schools throughout the country by the publications’ office for extra copies of the girls’ number. The magazine is on sale in the cafeteria and also at the publications’ office.
Engineers Visit Studebakers In South Bend Wednesday
Fifteen Mechanical Engineers visited the Studebaker Automobile Plant in South Bend on Wednesday afternoon of this week. The inspection trip lasted from 2:00 until 4:30 p. m., • and covered all the important divisions of the plant.
The students visited the forge shop, the machine shops, motor assembly, body assembly, and complete assembly divisions of the plant. The various operations were explained by a guide. The trip was arranged by the local branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
C O N T E N TS
News
Boxing Show .................. 5
Boxers Train ..............   12
C. I. C. Meet ............... 11
Commencement Program ......... 3
Debate .....................—. 2
Golf Schedule ............... 12
K. C. Track Meet ............ 12
Spring Football ............. 11
Symphony Orchestra ........... 5
U. N. D. Night .............. 10
Features
Introducing ................. 14
K. of C. News ................ 7
Man About -------------------- 8
“News of the Week”	........ 6
“On Down the Line”	—...—j...... 16
“Splinters” ...........-..... 15
University Archives .......... 6
F.C.WALKER SPEAKER
Official announcement of the program for the 90th annual commencement, to be held on Sunday, June 3, was made today from the office of the President of the University.
The exercises will be presided over by His Excellency, the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate to the United States. His Excellency will sing the Pontifical Mass and preside at the awarding of the degrees.
The Baccalaureate Sermon will be preached by the Most Reverend John M. McNamara, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore.
Friend of University
The Commencement Oration will be delivered by the Honorable Frank C. Walker, ’09, Executive Secretary of President Roosevelt’s National Emergency Council.
Archbishop Cicognani has long been interested in the University largely through, his friendship with the Very-Reverend George M. Sauvage, Procurator General in Rome of the Congregation of Holy Cross. This will be His Excellency’s first visit to the University.
Bishop McNamara has been closely associated with members of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Washington for the past 25 years. Many of the priests now at Notre Dame assisted in parish work under Bishop McNamara when His Excellency was Curate at St. Patrick’s parish in the Capital City.
Walker Graduated in ’09
Mr. Walker entered the Law School as a post-graduate student in 1906 and received his LL.B. degree three years later. He had a very successful career in law in Butte, Montana, his home city. Business interests brought him to New York some years ago, and he now makes his home in that city.
He was one of the original sponsors of Franklin D. Roosevelt for Presi-den, and became Treasurer of the Democratic National Committee in 1932. It is rumored that Mr. Walker has more than once refused positions in the Cabinet. He has given unselfish service to the administration, how’-ever, in the execution of the relief measures passed by Congress to remedy the depression.
Notice
In order to include the above announcement of the Commencement Program, publication of The Scholastic was delayed until Saturday this week.
Three
March 16, 193*
Award Laetare Medal for 1934 to Mrs. Genevieve Brady, New York
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: Fine Arts
IS 11TH WOMAN MEDALIST
By Michael F. Wiedl
Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady, New York philanthropist, was awarded the 1934 Laetare Medal bestowed annually by the University of Notre Dame upon the most outstanding Catholic lay person in the United States.
Mrs. Brady is the eleventh woman to be given the famed Laetare Award since the primary presentation was inaugurated in 1883. For fifty-one years the University has conferred this honor on the most outstanding man or woman of the Catholic laity.
Presentation Date Not Set '
The latest woman to be a Laetare Medalist was Margaret Anglin. She was honored in 1927. Other women medalists are: Elizabeth A. Starr, Anna Dorsey, Mrs. James Sadlier, Mary Caldwell, Katherine Conway, Mrs. Frances Tiernan (Christian Reid), Agnes Repplier, Mary V. Merrick, and Elizabeth Nourse.
John McCormack, noted Irish tenor, was the last one to receive the award. He was decorated at the eighty-ninth Commencement exercises here at the University last June the fourth. The time of the presentation of the Laetare Medal to Mrs. Brady has not yet been announced.
Numerous are the positions and honors Mrs. Brady has held, and received. This Laetare Medalist is vice-chairman of the National Women’s Committee on Welfare and Relief Mobilization, having preceded Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt in the chairmanship.
Achievements Are Many
At the death of her husband, the late Nicholas Brady, financier and utilities magnate, in 1930, she succeeded him in the capacity of vicepresident of the Welfare Council of New York City and the finance committee. Since in New York, she has served as vice-chairman on the Social Service Board of the City Hospital.
During the World War, Mrs. Brady purchased the old Colonial Club House of New York City which was used by the United States as a mobilization center for the nurses embarking for overseas service. Later this building was used as the Carroll Club, an organization for business girls and professional women, which Mrs. Brady founded in honor of her mother, Mary Carroll Gavan.
Pope Pius XI honored Mr. and Mrs. Brady in 1926, conferring upon
Four
MEDALIST
By Emil Jacques
Mrs. Genevieve Brady
Awarded Laetare Medal
them the titles of Papal Duke and Duchess, the highest honors for laity. Mrs. Brady donated a large carpet in 1931 to be laid at the papal altar of St. Peter’s in Rome.
The late King Albert of Belgium decorated this prominent Catholic woman with the Order of the Crown in 1928 in recognition of her work among young girls. This order was presented her at Inisfada, the Brady estate, Manhasset, L. I., by the Prince de Ligne.
Beside being president of the Carroll Club, she succeeded Mrs. Herbert Hoover as chairman of the executive committee of the National Council of the Girl Scouts of America. For many years she has been a member of the national board.
Nations Decorated Her
The French government decorated Mrs. Brady for her help to the French during the World War.
Within the past year she has been appointed by Newton D. Baker as chairman of Moralization of Human Needs.
Previous to his death, Mr. Brady had started assisting the novitiate of St. Isaac Jogues, conducted by the Jesuit Fathers, at Wernersville, Pa., where young men receive their training for the priesthood. Now his wife is continuing this work.
Born in Hartford, Conn., Genevieve Brady attended the Sacred Heart Convent at Manhattanville, N. Y., and the Sacred Heart Convent at Providence, R. I. She studied two years in Dresden, Germany, and one year in Paris.
To the two questions, “Can I study art?” and “Shall I become an artist?” our answer is, YES to the first, and NO to the second.
It is not within the province of every student to study art, but all young people SHOULD study art; not necessarily with the intention of becoming artists, but purely as an . educational measure. Turning to art as a vocation is quite another matter. Unless a youth is driven by an urge that will carry him over all obstacles, and possessed of a vision that will make him a leader, art is not the career he should choose foi- himself. We already have far too many artists in this country, and almost no art.
As has been said, it is not our aim , to produce artists only. We are not teaching art to the selected few, but to the many, as a motivating and visualizing force of life; art that encourages individual expression and fosters appreciation of the spirit of art, that develops a sympathetic understanding of creative effort functioning in every-day life.
If we scan the history of mankind, we may divide the races into two groups—constructive and destructive. We measure their standing by the culture and enduring art they leave to posterity. Those races whose main objective has been war, materialism and politics, never are in the constructive column. As an example, Sparta may be cited, as contradistinguished to the Atheniam republic.
Our Puritan and Pilgrim forebearers, in their ungrateful fight for a foothold in a new land, set up stern, unsympathetic standards, the effects of which are still being felt throughout this country today. A native art could scarcely be expected to spring very quickly from such arid, unyielding social soil as the early settlers prepared for us.
Then, when America began to have time and money for culture, art had an unfortunate beginning, owing to the divorce of art and religion in the Protestant churches. If we analyze this cycle we will notice that it ran • parallel with a classical education, or rather, a preconceived idea of what antiquity should have been. Most of the ministers of those days were able to speak both Latin and Greek. Their churches had Doric and Tuscan facades, pediments and the nai’thex of Greek temples; but in this setting t sculpture and painting were left out, being considered idolatrous, gaudy and too suggestive. This kind of renaissance is never friendly to creative art; as its interest is not
(Continued on Page 9)
The Scholastic
Prof. Seidel Conducts 2d Symphony Concert
Change Boxing Show Date to 21st;
Golden Gloves Fighters to Appear
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard H. Seidel, again scored a hit with local student and South Bend music lovers Thursday evening,
Prof. Richard Seidel Leads Notre Dame Symphony
March 15, when they presented their second concert of the current school year in Washington Hall.
The program opened with the overture, “Magic Flute,” by W. A. Mozart. The “Ballet Egyptien,” one of A. Luigini’s most famous works, followed. This number was interpreted in four movements: the allegro non troppo, allegretto, andante sostenuto, and the andante expressivo-allegro.
Part two of the program, Professor Seidel and his musicians devoted largely to Irish tunes, beginning with “Irish Favorites,” arranged by Trink-aus. Following this, the Londonderry Air,” an old Irish melody, and “The B’Hoys of Tipperary,” by H. G. Amero, were played.
The program was concluded with the popular “March Militaire” by C. Saint-Saens.
Shay and O’Neil Read
Papers At Irish Meeting
Frank Shay and Hugh O’Neil presented papers treating that period of Irish history between 1500 and 1700 at a meeting of the Irish Club held Thurs'day evening, March 8 in the room of the club’s president John O’Connor, 253 Sorin Hall.
The club will not participate in a formal celebration of St. Patrick’s day.
M arch 16, 19 3 4
Strange Doings---
The unfathomable secret of Brownson could not occur in any other hall on the campus save Carroll; and there, it probably never would happen.
If you were to glance round the rostrum in the study hall, you might notice that the top of one of the desks, No. ??, was raised, and the occupant’s head submerged under it. Perhaps, you’d think, he’s looking for the letter he forgot to answer. But then, as you become more interested, you’d observe that he doesn’t move, and apparently doesn’t mind the strain.
Of course you can’t hear from where you’re standing. If you approached the hide-out, you’d see he ■was listening intently to the sound waves coming from the earphones resting on the bottom of the empty— of books—desk.
This freshman engineer- isn’t confining his experiments to the laboratory.
Newspapers Are Used As Text in Politics Class
For what is perhaps the first time in the history of the University, newspapers are being used exclusively as the standard text book in one section of American Government taught by Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Politics. The United States News, David Lawrence’s weekly publication, and the American Observes, of which Charles A. Beard is an editor are the papers being used. Mr. Bartholomew’s idea is that by means of the lectures and assignments of collateral readings in recognized books on American Government, the students can become cognizant of the theory involved, and then by means of the newspapers see the practical application of that theory.
Last year when the New Deal was being put under way by President Roosevelt, daily newspapers were used temporarily in all Mr. Bartholomew’s classes in lieu of the text book, but this is the first time that papers have supplanted the regulation text for the entire .semester.
Radio Club
Because of a conflicting Engineering Club meeting, the Radio Club meeting originally scheduled to be held last night -will be held next Friday evening instead.
FIRST BOUT AT 8:30 P. M.
Tickets for the Bengal Boxing Show next Wednesday evening are now on sale at the cafeteria newsstand and in all the campus halls. Price, 25 cents.
The Bengal Boxing Show will be staged at 8:30 o’clock next Wednesday evening in the gym. This change in dates was made necessary this week when it developed that two of the outstanding boxers on the card would be unable to compete on the date originally announced.
Featuring the eight-bout card will be a heavyweight exhibition fight between Max Marek, Notre Dame freshman and finalist in the recent Chicago Golden Gloves tournament, and Julius Coussens, light heavyweight champion of the South Bend Golden Gloves divisional tourney.
In addition to Marek, every one of the group of student boxers who entered the Chicago tournament will appear on the Bengal card.
Tickets Now on Sale
Donald C. “Chet” Grant, varsity backfield coach, and William Sheehan, of South Bend, wlil act as , judges at the bouts. Tom Conley, varsity football end coach, will act as timer. The referee is to be selected over this weekend.
Tickets for the Bengal bouts are now on sale in all of the campus halls where members of the staff of The Scholastic are handling the sale. Tickets may also be secured at the newsstand in the cafeteria. The admission price is twenty-five cents.
Bleacher seats will be erected on both sides of the basketball floor to accommodate the expected record crowd. No one but the officials of the program will be seated on the basketball floor. A special section of the bleachers will be held until after the 7:45 Lenten devotions Wednesday, in order to accommodate the group of students in attendance at the devotions.
For a complete story on the training activities of the boxers, see page 12.
Redecorate Art Gallery
During the past few weeks the University Art Gallery has been redecorated. The color scheme remains practically the same. A few of the pictures which formerly hung in the corridors of the gallery have been removed to the room which housed the tapestry exhibit. Aside from this no changes in arrangement were made.
Five
Language Clubs Will Have Joint Banquet
The activities of the modern language clubs on the campus during the past months will culminate in the First Annual Banquet of the combined organizations under the chairmanship of Reverend Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., head of the Department of Modern Lahguages of the University. Members of Le Cercle Fran-cais, Dei- Deutsche Verein, El Club Espanol, and the Italian Club will convene in the Faculty Dining Room next Thursday evening, March 22 at 7:00 p. m. to mark the first formal public appearance of these four organizations assembled as a unit.
As toastmaster of the banquet, Louis J. Grosso, A.B. junior and president of the French Club, will welcome all present and will introduce the speakers and the program of entertainment which will follow. The president of each club will speak in the language of his respective organization, and soloists will render songs representative of the four languages. Community singing in each langauge will also be a feature of the entertainment.
Invitations have been extended to many of the University officials, and attendance by the students which will be formal has been limited to those most active members of each club.
General arrangements are under the charge of Professor Pedro A de-Landero, faculty adviser of the Spanish club, who will be assisted by Professors Earl F. Langwell, George J. Wack, and Pasquale M. Pirchio, advisers of the French, German, and Italian clubs respectively. The presidents speaking in behalf of their organizations will be: Louis J. Grosso for the French Club, Robert S. Rens-berger for the Spanish Club, Emilio J. Gervasio for the Italian Club, and Robert A. Nachtwey for the German Club.
Farrell And Smith Address
French Club Members
Various aspects of French Civilization were treated in papers delivered by Wililam J. Farrell and Lewis A. Smith, at the regular meeting of Le Cercle Francais last Monday evening, March 12, in Carroll “Rec.” The customary discussion following the speakers was devoted in part to a review and commentary on the French picture, “Le Million” presented under the auspices of the organization.
. The entertainment featured the French Club Quartet and George Me-nard, as soloist, in a group of French songs. The entire program was arranged by Lindsey B. Phoebus who had been appointed as chairman of entertainment for the meeting.
News of the Week
By George Leyes
A bird’s-eye view of Washington today presents a confusing picture of Emergency Relief Administrations, supporting the largest payroll in our history. The growth of this vast bureaucratic service of 38 separate units, created by the government since March 4, symbolizes the New Deal and its ten billion dollar program of economic reform, relief and recovery.
These New Deal agencies have made possible such reforms as government supervision and cooperation with business, the taking over of the maj'or burden by the Federal Government, the abolition of sweatshops and child labor, the fixing of the hours and wages of labor, the refinancing of farm and home mortgages, the guarantee of bank deposits, and now makes possible the abolition of slums and the erection of low cost housing.
When the government’s four billion mortgage refinancing program is completed, Uncle Sam will be landlord and hold mortgages for one out of every seven homes and farms, or approximately two billion families. According to the last census, only 14 million-odd families in America own their own homes, either in the city or on farms, and live in them. The other 30 million families rent their homes.
After May 1, bathtub liquor will be doomed, since that is the date on which all restrictions on imports will be lifted temporarily. President Roosevelt hopes that the prices of domestic liquors will be swept downward under this wave of foreign liquors. To increase the supply and depress prices he has also planned to issue permits to hundreds of small dsitillers in the South, which will increase the American supply by 44 million gallons a year.
The ten fatal casualties and other mishaps sustained by the Army flyers, resulting in a temporary suspension of service, will probably speed the legislation recommended by the President. The new reform bill prevents illegal contracts by requiring competitive bidding and providing a maximum rate of 30 cents an airplane mile. The bill limits the salaries of officials to $17,500, bars unearned bonuses and illegitimate expense accounts, forces reorganization of the companies whose contracts were cancelled, and disqualifies the bids of combinations and holding companies.
University Archives Reveal Strange Facts
Unpublished documents, letters and manuscripts in six different languages and in every condition of preservation and decay, four hundred thousand of them, regarding hitherto comparatively unknown facts about early American Catholic his- -tory are being catalogued and calendared in the Archives of the University. This work, which is being directed by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist, with the assistance of Rev. Frederick T. McKeon, C.S.C., has disclosed information of particular interest concerning the pre-Sorin era of Notre Dame.
Various letters and papers from the possessions of a Fr. Sebastian Bach reveal the fact that the land upon which the University now' stands was, in 1839, offered to the Fathers of Mercy through their representative, Fi'. Bach. This grant by Bishop de LaHaillandiere of the diocese of Vincennes was made with the stipulation that a college should be established on the site within a period of two years. However, because of some disturbance in the diocese, Fi’. Bach took, instead, a plot of land in Alabama which is the present location of Spring Hill College. The Bishop then offered the land to Father Sorin who accepted it in behalf of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Further information of interest to the diocese of Cincinnati has been gleaned from manuscripts and letters relating to the history of the later part of Dom Peter Joseph Didier’s life. This Benedictine abbot of St. Maur in Switzerland, was appointed in 1790, prefect apostolic and spiritual leader of the French group which settled in Ohio and was known as “La Compagnie du Scioto” after the Scioto river in that territory. After the colony broke up the Dom moved to Louisiana where he assumed the duties of parish work. It is from a letter announcing his appointment as prefect apostolic and stating his faculties that much of the information has been gained. The translation and study of this letter and other documents written in Spanish, and the compilation of material concerning Didier is being done by Father McKeon.
A study of Archbishop John Lany, the historical actuality of Willa Cather’s Death Comes to the Archbishop in the light of what is reputed to be the finest collection of documents on his life, is being pursued by Francis J. O’Malley. The poems and writings of Fr. Adrian Rouquette, poet-priest of the bayou regions of Louisiana are being pre-
(Continued on Page 10)
Six
The S ch olastic
Reading of ‘Cyrano’
Pleases Audience
By Thomas Proctor
Edward Abnei- Thompson, M.A., whose name has been associated for many years with the highest expression and reflection of platform art, presented his reading of the romantic drama, “Cyrano De Bergerac,” by Edmund Rostand, for the approval of student body and faculty in Washington Hall Tuesday night. In the opinion of the audience, the powerful portrayal of love and spiritual awakening, the projection of personality and character through the voice in his treatment of the immortal Gascon stamps him as an artist of greatest merit.
Professor Thompson gave an interpretative reading of another great play twenty years ago here at Notre Dame. “That play was ‘Disraeli’,” says the Reverend Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., who introduced the artist to the audience at that time. Father Schumacher recalls that the blind artist was at that time just launching a career, which, in the past ' twenty years has been most outstanding and successful. Professoi’ Thompson is now making his twenty-first tour of the nation.
Has Honorary Degrees
Recently Bowdoin College in Maine bestowed the degree of Master of Aits on Thompson, who, though naturally handicapped, performs a dual program as teacher and platform interpreter. Many colleges, universities, and clubs have paid honor to Professor Thompson. One noteworthy tribute has been made by William Duffey, M.A., Marquette University: “I know of no reader who equals Thompson in dramatic interpretation. He has sympathy and understanding of character, and his voice has remarkable range and purity — a personality which combines the richness of mysticism with the virility of dramatic life.”
In Professor Thompson’s repertoire are such selections as “Caponsacchi,” a dramatic version of “The Ring and the Book,” “Hamlet,” “The Merchant of Venice,” “The Vision of Sir Laun-fal,” “Abraham Lincoln,” “American Humor,” and several miscellaneous programs, one of which he gave at St. Mary’s College on Wednesday evening.
Father McAllister Speaks
“The Genes and Environment in Heredity” was the subject of an annual lecture given to sociology students, Wednesday, March 7th in the University library. The Reverend Charles A. McAllister, C.S.C., delivered this lecture, illustrating it with various diagrams.
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
The meeting Monday night was a success and something which those of you who were not there will regret having missed. Contrary to expectations, Mr. Layden was able to attend, and he entertained the council with anecdotes of the men with whom he has played football.
The speaker of the evening was Dr. Francis McMahon, of the Department of Philosophy. Dr. McMahon spoke on Orestes Brownson, who he was and what he did. He contrasted the reputation Brownson enjoys in Europe with the comparative obscurity around his name in America. This great controversialist of the 19th century spoke and wrote ably on the most widely diversified subjects, yet most Americans never have heard of him. Dr. McMahon emphasizes the disadvantages Brownson had to overcome; disadvantages of religious prejudice in youth and later in life, of poverty in youth, of lack of education. His great soul, his realization of the problems of the age in which he lived, and his detennination to do something constructive about them, enabled him to overcome these disadvantages, and to achieve true greatness. Brownson became a Catholic in the prime of his life, and spent the rest of his 73 years in defending the faith with surprising vigor.	’
Communion Breakfast On March 18
It is quite probable that an overwhelming majority of the student body could tell a stranger no more about Brownson than that he is buried in the lower church and that there is a dormitory named after him. References to “Father” Brownson are not unusual. Dr. McMahon concluded by urging students to probe into this facile mind through the medium of the mass of his written material in the library.
To us the most distinctive and beautiful feature of the Knights of Columbus is being revived on this Sunday, March 18. It is the Communion breakfast. It will be conducted the same way it has in the past, with the knights sitting in- the front right center of the church, receiving in a body, and then proceeding to the faculty dining hall. The Mass chosen is the 8 o’clock, and will be said in memory of Professor Phillips. Robert Rogers has charge of the arrangements for the breakfast, and he has announced that the speaker for the morning will be Dean McCarthy of the College of Commerce.
Announce Final Plans For Washington Trip
“Once again, and for the third consecutive year, the students of the University are being given the opportunity to see the Nation's Capitol in the way that is most satisfactory to the individual with a limited amount of time at his disposal — a conducted tour. The purpose of the trip seems obvious. Any student can much more easily visualize his Government at work after he has seen in operation the enormous ‘plant’ in Washington.”
These words quoted from the pamphlet issued this week by Professor Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Politics, under whose personal supervision the Politics Classes Washington Tour will be conducted from April 7th to 11th, seem to sum up the situation. Professor Bartholomew urges students to take this tour because it will be beneficial and enjoyable, informative and educational.
Students Have Been Pleased
Several of the some forty students who went last year were questioned this week to determine their attitudes on the trip. Following are a few replies: Matthew Brown, Commerce Junior, “I gained more from this short tour than from any other trip I have ever taken;” Miller Mallett, Arts and Letters Sophomore, “You don’t realize how great your government is until you see it in action. Then, too, Washington is a fine place for many things;” Vincent Gorman, Arts and Letters Junior, “Such a trip is especially valuable when all eyes are on the government as they are today.”
In the next issue of The Scholastic the complete tour itinerary will be published. Students day obtain-copies of this sheet from Professor Bartholomew.
Economics Seminar To Elect New 1934-35 Officers
New officers for the 1934-35 school year will be elected at the next meeting of the Economics Seminar which will be held in the Law Building at 6:30 p.m., Tuesday, March 20. The present chairman of the organization, Francis L. Linton, A.B. senior, will, in retiring, present his appreciation to the members for their assistance in the management of his official duties during the past curricular year.
This election of the officers will occur subsequent to the reading of a paper on “Government Ownership and Control of the Ontario Power Plant,” by John Corrigan, A.B. junior.
March 16, 19 3 4
Seven
Notre Dame Observes Holy Hour Thursday
A Holy Hour was held in the Sacred Heart Church at 4:30 Thursday afternoon to commemorate the closing of the Holy Year which was proclaimed by Pope Pius XI as the nineteenth centenary of the Passion and Death of Our Lord. The priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross and the priests of the surrounding territory held their Holy Hour at 3:00 o’clock. The 4:30 services, which were for the students of Notre Dame, were conducted by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. For all those who were unable to attend these seiwices a Mass of Exposition will be said Passion Sunday at 9 o’clock.
The Holy Hour opened with the exposition of the Blessed Sacrament. Prayers were said and hymns were sung for the occasion. The Hour closed with Benediction. On Thursday, Holy Hours were held all over the world by the clergy. The Pope had asked every Catholic to take part in these sendees as a closing of the Holy Year.
By proclamation of the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, all the parishes of the diocese of Fort Wayne will hold Holy Hours on Passion Sunday and again on Holy Thursday. It is the intention that these services be offered in thanksgiving and reparation at the closing of the Holy Year.
Rifle Club Plans Interhall Contest Before. Easter
President John McGrath of the Notre Dame Rifle Club has announced that plans are being formulated for an interhall shooting meet. McGrath has appointed James McDevitt chairman of the committee in charge of the meet. Assisting the. chairman are Jerry Aiderman, John Brennan, and Jim Minarick. The meet will be held sometime before Easter at the Club’s range in the old boathouse. All those interested should notify either Chairman McDevitt or the members of the committee.
The rifle team will give an exhibition match with the Studebaker Athletic Association team as a part of the South Bend Sportsmen’s Show which will be held in the Granada Theatre Building next week.
On next Monday night, the club will meet the South Bend Rifle Club in a regular match on the Dufrendach Building range. The match scheduled for next Tuesday with the Buchanan, Michigan team has been indefinitely postponed.
The Rifle Club has adopted an apT propriately decorated blue jacket as its official uniform. These jackets are now being distributed.
Eig ht	-
'^‘about the comPys
Mike Fox is one of the most likeable gripers on the campus. He has red hair and lost of white tab collars.
And he comes from
Indianapolis, a large Indiana town which is noted for its fine monuments and its beautiful girls. On a clear day you can see the monuments. You can see the beautiful g i r 1 s. almost any time. If they are not in At
lantic City at a beauty contest, they are riding around the circle in glistening cars.
A Good Host
Mike Fox likes Indianapolis. He thinks it’s a fine town and it is. The people are genial and hospitable. Up at 3942 North Penn Street, where Mikes lives, the people are more than hospitable. During the course of four years the Fox home has housed more hungry, boisterous week-enders than any hall on the campus. Our Michael is a good host.
. One of Mike’s favorite pastimes is his fearless condemnation of Indiana basketball. No local pride at all. He insists that the lowliest Eastern team could wipe up the finest array of Hoosiers yet seen. Just now he thinks that Indianapolis Tech is the least bad of the high school teams and that Tech will, as a result, probably win the state tournament.
z Insurance, His Specialty
Fox is studying Commerce. He has been for four years. His more par-ticulai- interests are insurance, though he relaxes with an occasional date if he happens to be in the mood. After he has been in the mood, he goes back to his room and reads from his ten volumes of The Philosophy of Fire Insurance. In re: the ladies, he has an often-used statement: “I’m all washed up.”
Mike’s griping takes in a lot of territory. But so long as he retains the hearty Fox laugh, there won’t ever be malice in his complaints. And it’s only right that he should recognize faults—for he is a good Democrat, and red-headed.
LOST
A dark, tan topcoat, polo style, in the cafeteria. Was left on the coat rack Sunday night, March 11. Finder please notify Andrew C. Auth, 239 Walsh Hall.
Fr. Fogarty Speaks to
St. Vincent de Paul
The Reverend Jolin Kelly, C.S.C., Frank McGahren, and Arthur Gregory presided at the meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul Society in the basement of Walsh Hall, Tuesday evening, March 13.
After Father Kelly read the prescribed p* yers, Reverend James Fogarty, C.S.C., assistant professor of economics, spoke to the social workers on theiryproblems in case work.
Gives • Advice
Briefly Father Fogarty pointed out the “the St. Vincent de Paul Society work is a summary of Catholic action. People need your help,” he told the members, “but it must be intelligently given. There are certain standards you should go by. Your purpose is to build up the family, rehabilitate the social unit, and restore them to independence. The history of the case should be studied to find out if they have received aid before from some other source such as relatives or charity organizations. Look over the major problems,” warned Father Fogarty; “notice the motherfather relationship, the child-parent relationship, the religious conditions in the family, and the attitude of the neighbors toward that family. Principally,” Father concluded, “educate the family to help itself.”
Frank McGahren read a letter from a family in South Bend thanking the society for its services. With the permission of Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., an offering box has been placed in the candy store, the proceeds from which will be used for charitable purposes by the society.
English Major Examination
The qualification examination for sophomores intending to major in the Department of English will be held in Room 201, Commerce Building, Tuesday, March 20 at 7:00 p.m. Sample pages presenting the type of problem presented in this examination are posted on the bulletin board of the University Library.
Bookmen Meet
At the regular meeting of the Bookmen held last Monday evening in the Law Building, bookplates were discussed and it was decided to have one designed for the Bookmen. Another book was chosen in order to complete the selection of 15 for the club’s library.
Alfred Loritch, a member, will read a paper at the next meeting to be held Monday evening in the Law Building.
The Scholastic
Slavery Question Is Topic At Seminar
The attitude of the Catholic Church on the Negro slave question was discussed at a meeting of the HistorySeminar held in the library on Monday evening, March 12.
Albert Lawton, junior in Arts and Letters, . presented the opinions of Bishops John Ignatius Reynolds and Patrick Lynch on the slavery problem. Dick McMonagle s toke on Rome and the question of thv Southern Confederacy; while Vincent McAloon read a . paper entitled “Bishop John Hughes on Slavery.”
The Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., supplemented the discussion and presented documents from the archives to substantiate his contentions. Father McAvoy pointed out that the Church considered the slavery question as political rather than moral. That there should be a period of serfdom rather than immediate emancipation was shown by Father McAvoy to be the general opinion of the bishops of this time.
A book report on Andre Siegfried’s America Conting of Age was delivered by Ed Carey.
Fr. Carrico Issues Corrected Student Probation List
The corrected	list of	students on	
probation in the	second	semester of	
1933-34 according to halls is as fol-			
lows:	enroll-	on pro-	on pro-
Halls	ment	bation	bation
Sorin 			0		
Walsh 			2	1.1%
Corby 			 146	1	0.7%
Howard 				 154	12	7.8%
Alumni 				 210	12	5.7%
Badin —			 135	2	1.5%
St. Edward’s 			 117	12	10.3%
Morrissey 			 223	19	8.5%
Lyons 			 188	12	6.4%
Carroll 				 98	20	20.4%
Dillon 			 235	31	13.2%
Brownson 			 117	14	11.9%
Freshman 			 164	18	11.0%
Off-Campus 				 297	13	4.4%
Moreau Seminary —		 76	3	4.0%
Holy Cross Seminary		 29	2	7.0%
Dujarie Institute 			 38	6		
Community House ....			5	0		
Presbytery 				2	0		
Mission House 			 1	0		
Chemistry Hall 			 1	0		
Total 			2548	173	6.8%
Dausman Wins Brownson Ping Pong Tourney
Hurdis Dausman won three dollars and the championship of the ping pong tournament held in Brownson Rec by defeating John Dasso in the finals. Dasso took second place and two dollars when he beat Bill Fallon.
A. S. M, E. Members Hear Talk By R. R. Leonard
Twenty-five mechanical engineers attended the meeting of the Notre Dame branch of the A.S.M.E. held in the Engineering Building Monday evening of this week. R. R. Leonard, official of the mid-west branch of the A.S.M.E., addressed the students.
The benefits of the organization to the young engineers was the subject of Mr. Leonard’s talk. Moving pictures of the United Airlines and of the 20-hour flight from Los Angeles to New York were shown on the screen.
A student paper, “The Reo Transmission,” was read by Paul Dougher, junior mechanical engineer. General discussion among the members followed the reading.
Chairman Joseph I. Hayes presided at the session.
LAW NOTES
The Hon. Michael L. Fensler, Justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana, has been invited to address the Law Club and St. Joseph County Bar Association at a Hoynes Memorial dinner to be given at the UniversityClub in South Bend at 6:30 p. m. on March 22. Justice Fensler and the member of the St. Joseph County Bar Association will be the guests. The president of the Law Club will deliver a short memorial address. Members of the Law Club will attend Mass for Colonel Hoynes in a body-on the morning of March 22.
Dean Konop is now conducting court at 6:30 every Thursday evening in place of Judge Orlo Deahl, who is ill.
Professor Homer Earl has taken charge of annotating the Restatement of the Law of Agency which has been adopted by the American Law Institute. This work wil be done for the state of Indiana.
Robert Bondurant, Martin Tor-borg, Robert Daerr, and Edward Jackson were in Indianapolis last Monday and Tuesday taking their Indiana State Bar Association examinations.
Professor Manion delivered an address last Monday before the bar association of Evansville. He spoke on the “Spirit and Letter of the Constitution.”
Word was received by the Law School of the death of Donald Trombley, ’26, who was suffering from a tumor of the brain. His brother, Malcolm, received his degree in ’31.
Conspectus For A.B.
Majors: Fine Arts
(Continued from Page 4)
epochal of its own time, but rather an attempt to resurrect a dead age. Living art remains hidden in such a period, appreciation dies.
The result of this left America a ban-en field. Neither did the Catholic Church, which has so magnificent a history in art, accomplish anything worth while here in America, until very recently, but canned on, as in painting, with inferior copies of their masterpieces in Europe made by Raphael in Italy and Murillo in Spain.
Materialism can only give finite satisfaction, and is self-destructive: the more bread and butter you grab, the less, roughly speaking, there is for the others. However, the satisfaction of the beautiful is infinite: where a thousand people have enjoyed a painting, there is as much painting as before. Millions and millions can go on enjoying a cathedral in Europe for all time. There is as much of Homer’s poetry today as there' was a quarter of a myriad years ago; and there will be as much for ever- and ever.
The average undergraduate of our great centers of learning does not show any friendly7 spirit to refinement. Go into any dormitory or recreation room and see there on the walls the cheap reproductions which have been turned out by the thousands. How could they comprehend that art is like a mirror, and reflects their indifference, and will leave to posterity7 no marbles of their heroes and dramas of their life, or poetry of their straggles? Their history will be written in water; a race that never lived.
Art, the elusive goddess, needs a little wooing; and until the study of : art has become an integral part of our educational system, our advice to the young men, is to study art by all means; that the standards of our national taste may be raised, that the college man of the future may recognize that his true mission in the republic is to take more of the place the aristocrat held.
Beside the regular four-year program of courses, leading to the degree of bachelor of fine arts, (B.F.A) our art department offers elective courses to the juniors and seniors of the College of Arts and Letters, which entitle them to select art as their major subject for their A.B. degree, provided 24 semester hours of credit in art have been completed.
Patricians Meet Monday
The Patricians will meet next Monday, March 19, at 7:45. Franklyn Hochreiter will read a paper entitled “Economics in Rome.”
March 16, 1934
Nine
Universal N.D. Night Is Set For April 16th
According to an announcement made in the March issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus which made its appearance on the campus yesterday, the Eleventh Annual Universal Notre Dame Night is set for April 16. Plans for this celebration will feature, as in the past, campus alumni officials who will journey to individual Notre Dame clubs in various parts of the country as guest speakers.
Featured in Editor James E. Armstrong’s alumni publication is an article by Dr. William F. Roemer, associate professor of philosophy, entitled, “Fundamental Philosophy Underlying the Federal Constitution.” Dr. Roemer’s article is the summary of a paper presented before the February meeting of the Lay Faculty members of the College of Arts and Letters.
A tribute to the recently deceased Charles Wightman, donor of many paintings to the University, is written by Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University.
Engineers Hear Mr. Blair Talk On Rubber Industry
A meeting of the Engineer’s Club was held Friday night, March 16, at eight o’clock in the Engineering Auditorium.
Mr. Blair, a representative of the Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Goods Company, addressed the members on “The Rubber Industry.”
ARCHIVES
(Continued from Page 6)
pared for study by Prof. Earl F. Langwell.
The collection in the archives was begun about 50 years ago with the papers gathered by the late James Farnum Edwards, for many years librarian and professor of history at Notre Dame, who presented many of the documents concerning Louisiana to the University. It was not until 1929 that a system of cataloging and registering was instituted by Father McAvoy to assemble the thousands of documents. Since then some 5000 of them have been filed and calendared by the staff.
A new study of Brownson treating the character of the man himself and presenting a clearer viewpoint of his inner life is being prepared from the many letters in the collection of Orestes A. Brownson papers. This, as well as the collection of material for a centennial history of Notre Dame for 1942 are being arranged by Father McAvoy, as further projects of his department.
Dr. Hogstad Urges Pharmacy Students To Build For Future
“A new order in American Pharmacy” was the subject of the talk given by Dr. Anton J. Hogstad, Jr., to members of the Pharmacy Club at a special meeting in the Chemistry Bldg., Tuesday afternoon, March 13.
“You young men must be willing to sacrifice money and immediate profit and build for that future,” he declared. Dr. Hogstad asked the club members to think seriously before they opened up a business of their own. He stated, “if you have the courage to assert yourself as a pharmacist, rather than a druggist, you can defy the chain and cut-rate stores in your neighborhood.”
Dr. Hogstad deplored the arrangement of the modern drug store which gives preference to the cigarette and soda fountain at the expense of the prescription department usually hidden in the rear. “Cosmetics, cigarettes, and soda fountains should not occupy a prominent part of our stores” he told his audience, “and it is the sale of this conglomeration of goods which has lost us the respect of the medical profession.”
At the conclusion of the lecture, Dr. Hogstad presented each of the seniors of the Pharmacy Department with a copy of the Merck Index.
Wranglers To Take In New Members After Easter
New members will definitely be taken into the Wranglers club, honorary forensic society, immediately after Easter vacation, it was decided at a business meeting of the group last Tuesday evening in the Law Building. President Arthur Sandusky will appoint the membership committee, probably to be chairmaned by John Hayes, at the next meeting.
The purchasing of official Wrangler Plaques was also discussed at this meeting. Some six members intend to procure these plaques in the near future.
Arthur Korzeneski will address the club next week.
Michael Lahey Is Speaker At Educational Seminar
Michael Lahey, graduate student, was the speaker at the regular weekly meeting of the Philosophy of Education Seminar held in the Law Building Wednesday evening. He spoke on the methods of teaching.
Lahey outlined several plans of procedure, using Higginson as the source of his material. Robert Wallack will address the seminar next week.
N.F.S.A. Picks Shields For Sectional Office
The National Student’s Federation of America, composed of the student governing bodies of the universities of the country, has announced the appointment of George Shields, President of the Notre Dame S. A. C., to the vice-presidency of the Central Western section of the organization.
The accomplishments of President	f
Shields at Notre Dame are well-known to the student body, and it is . felt that the national recognition paid him by this conferrment is justly merited.
The position held by Shields is not merely an honorary one. It will entail the task of presiding at the sectional meeting of the Federation at Columbus, Ohio in April, attended by	j
the representatives of all the schools	J
in the section.
The Central Western Section includes the universities situated in Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Ohio.
Catholic Action Members Discuss Child Labor Laws
The advisability of the adoption of the Child Labor Amendment now before the states was discussed by the Catholic Action Club at its regular meeting last Friday night, March 9, with the Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., directing the discussion. After the views of members had been heard, a unanimous vote was taken in favor of the amendment.
Father Bolger announced that meetings during the next few weeks will study questions of population, such as recent trends in population growth in relation to the food resources of the world, and the economical, sociological, and moral aspects of contraception. Attendance at meetings has dropped down to those members who are seriously interested in the work of the club, some 15 to 20 students in all.
Cacciatores are Co-Chairmen Of Italian Club Banquet
At a meeting of the Italian Club in Carroll Rec Tuesday evening, March 13, plans for the annual banquet were discussed. Leonard and Rocco Cacci-atore were appointed co-chairmen of the affair, and the rest of the committees as follows: Tickets, John Bu-sichio and Anthony Camperlengo; publicity, Joseph Wade; entertainment, Sam Ferrari.
Samples of the club key were shown to the members with a view toward adopting an official club emblem.
Ten
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Spring Grid Squad Reports To Layden
Michigan State Wins C.I.C. Title With 32 1-2 Points; Irish Second
By John D. Carbine
Approximately 500 candidates for Notre Dame’s 1934 grid team reported last week to head coach Elmer F. Layden, for spring practice. The Irish mentor expects that, unless hampered by poor weather, he will be able to finish up spring practice within six weeks.
Among the 500 candidates who reported last week, there were but 15 men who won their monograms during the 1933 season. Only four of these, Captain Dominic Vairo, left end; John (Red) Tobin, right halfback; Fred Carideo, fullback; and Reyman (Bud) Bonar, quarterback, will be seniors next fall. The other returning monogram men, most of whom have had but little experience are: Wayne Millner, left end; Irwin Davis, right end; Marty Peters, right end; John Michuta, right tackle; Rocco Schiralli, guard; Fred Solari, center; Tony Mazziotti, quarterback; Frank Gaul, quarterback; Andy Pitney, left halfback; Johnny Young, right halfback; and Don Elser, fullback.
Layden Makes Two Changes
George Melinkovich and Dick Pfef-ferle, who won monograms in 1932 but who were forced to leave school because of illness, have returned and should reinforce the strength of the team. Melinkovich, a fullback, led the 1932 team in scoring and received all-American mention. Pfef-ferle, a left tackle, served as an understudy to Ed Krause. Jack Robinson, varsity center in 1932, may report in September. He has been troubled since last summer with a dangerous eye infection.
Coach Layden may shift some of the men to positions other than those they played last fall. He has already shifted Tony Mazziotti from quarterback to right halfback, and Dan Hanley from fullback to guard. He emphasizes the fact that these changes, while they may handicap individual players, will work for the good of the team as a unit.	1
Several major problems face the Irish coaches. They know little of the individual personalities or abilities of the returning regulars and of the upcoming freshmen. Only a few of the returning reserves had a chance to break in last year as Coach Anderson was forced to use his seniors almost the full sixty minutes in each game.
Lost from last year’s varsity are
Fencing —
The Notre Dame fencing team has one more match on their schedule before calling it quits for the season. They will meet the University of Cincinnati sabre wielders here on April 7; the match was originally scheduled to take place March 10 but was postponed to the later date at the visiting team’s request.
The local swordsmen have not had such an impressive record to date, winning two out of seven matches. Since fencing is still in its inaugural year at Notre Dame and since Professor deLanrero’s men have met nothing but class A opposition the win and lost record of the team does it an injustice. Coach deLandero positively refuses to schedule “setup” matches just for the sake of improving his win percentage. He has refused five matches with smaller schools believing his proteges would show the greatest improvement by facing the strongest opponents.
Last Monday evening the team gave an exhibition match at St. Mary’s between the halves of the sophomore-freshman basketball game. Four bouts were presented; two foils, one epee, and one sabre. The following men took part: Captain Ryan, Caresio, Grosso, May, Marterseck, C. deLandero, T. deLandero, and Seco.
Spring Fencing Practice
Professor deLandero, coach of the varsity fencing team, announces that spring practice for all those students interested in fencing will begin Monday, March 19 at three o’clock in the boxing room of the gymnasium. An elimination tournament will be held early in May in order to determine the make-up of the varsity team for the coming season.
co-captains Hugh Devore, right end and Tom (Kitty) Gorman, center; Ed Krause, all-Westem tackle; Tom Roach, Krause’s running mate; Joe Pivarnik, Jim Leonard, and Harry Wunsch, guards; Nick Lukats, left halfback; Ray Brancheau, right halfback; Steve Banas, fullback, Frank LaBorne, left halfback, and Norb Rascher, tackle.
Spring practice will be concluded with the regular game against the graduating monogram winners.
SEARS SETS RECORD
C.I.C. SCORES
Michigan State _________________ 32%
Notre Dame ..................... 21%
Pittsburgh _____________________14%
Western State .................. 14
Michigan Normal _________________12%
Marquette ----------------------  9
Butler .........................  5
Hillsdale ....................... a
Kalamazoo  5
Loyola -------------------------- 2
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
Michigan State College won its first Central Intercollegiate Confer-
Vince Murphy He beat Jackson.
ence track championship here last Saturday by defeating a colorful field of nine teams. State scored 32 Vs points during the afternoon to head Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, Western State Teachers, and Michigan Normal, who finished in that order behind the victors.
The Spartans have Alva Jackson to thank for their victory. This huge negro scored firsts in the high and low hurdles and tied for second in the high jump to amass 12 % of his team’s points. Pongrace and Warren also played a big part in the final result by placing one, two in the half mile run. Tom Ottey supplied the other Lansing first when he ran away from the field in the two mile jaunt.
Notre Dame tied Michigan State (Continued on Page 15)
March 16, 19 3 4
Eleven
Strong Field Of Campus Boxers Work For Places On Bengal Card
EIGHT BOUTS ON CARD
By Howard T. Waldron
Ranging from the mite featherweight to the mightiest of the heavyweight contenders, the some forty entrants in the third annual Boxing Show to he conducted on Wednesday, March 21, under the auspices of The Scholastic for the Bengal Mission fund promise to surpass even the fine showing made in last year’s bouts.
The card will feature seven championship battles in the regular classes from the featherweight class to the heavyweight, with the division of junior welterweight being added. The climax of the show will pair Max Marek, Golden Giove finalist, and Julius Coussens, light heavyweight Golden Glove champion of South Bend, in a special exhibition bout.
Marcy In First Bout
Anthony (Bud) Marcy, former C.Y.O. champion and present alternate on the Golden Glove team, will open the evening’s performance with some plain and fancy stepping in the featherweight division. Bud’s opponent wall probably be Tommy (Tex) Durkin, the sharpshooting pride of Dillon Hall, who is very apt with his hands and should give Marcy plenty of competition.
In the lightweight class, Hal Gooden, former Oklahoma featherweight champion and present campus titleholder,' will defend his title against either the rushing attack of Romuald Lachapelle or the sharpshooting left hand of Georgie Nauta. Both men are in first class condition and Hal will have to step very lively to keep his crown.
The junior welterweight class being a new division lacks a reigning titleholder but it certainly doesn’t lack for first class boxing material. There are eight evenly matched men in this division and an opinion on the outcome would be hazardous to attempt.
McKernan To Defend Crown
There are several so-called “dark” horses in the welterweight division who will give Frank Schiavone, Golden Glove contestant and runnerup in the middleweight class last year, a hard run for the now vacant title. Lou Purcell, Ed O’Hara, Charley Schlaffler, and Kevin Kehoe are the men, by name, who will battle for the welter honors with Schiavone.
Now we come to the heavier and more powerful divisions of the card. The middleweight crown rests on the sturdy frame of Bart McKernan and he is fully prepared to battle for it
T w e I v e
Tennis----
The Notre Dame tennis squad will face eight outstanding mid-western teams during the 1934 season, according 'to the schedule announced this week by Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden. Five matches will be played on the Notre Dame courts. Meets with the three remaining teams will be staged on foreign courts.
The team will open the season at Notre Dame April 20, facing the expert Northwestern netmen, who are considered among the best in the Big Ten. A match with Western State Teachers college will follow the next day on the Teachers’ courts. Three local matches with Armour Tech, Albion, and Detroit will be played during the following three weeks. Two matches with Michigan State, one here and one at East Lansing, and a local match with Chicago will wind up the 1934 season.
The 1934 team, made up of several veterans of last year’s play, will open the season with a more optimistic outlook. The new material and the experienced form of the older men will, it is hoped, combine to form a strong team.
The complete schedule for the 1934 season follows:
April 20—Northwestern, here.
April 21—Western State, there.
April 27—Armour Tech, here.
May 4-5—Albion, here.
May 11—Detroit, here.
May 12—Michigan State, there.
May 19—Michigan State, here.
May 25—Chicago, there.
with all comers. There are, however, plenty of eager young hopefuls who will strive to replace the present titleholder.
With neither of last year’s finalists entered, the light heavyweight class resolves down to a battle royal between Harry Marr, Golden Glove contestant, Bob Conlon, Bob Litty, and Billy Smith. All are fast punchers, good boxers and equally experienced in fighting technique.
The heavyweight final should be a beauty with Pete Paul, a fast, hard-punching, rugged fighter clashing with Reno Zarantonello, finalist in the heavyweight division last year. Zarantonello is a very shifty boxer with a beautiful left hand jab that should give Pete plenty of trouble during the fray. But Pete, on the other hand, carries the heavier punching guns and Reno will have to be on guard at all times to avoid these heavy blows.
Golf Team To Play Eight Match Card
By Cy Stroker
Eight matches with some of the strongest teams in the Midwest await the Notre Dame golfers The 1934 Irish golf schedule, announced this week, by Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden, includes three matches on foreign links, and five, including the Indiana State intercollegiate meet, at home.
A match with Detroit at Notre Dame opens the season April 14. Two weeks from that date the Purdue squad, which the Irish beat last year, will appear on the Notre Dame links. Two away matches with Chicago and Wisconsin will follow on May 7 and 10 respectively. Local matches with Northwestern and Indiana and a meet with Illinois will complete the schedule.
For the first time in Notre Dame golf history the Indiana Intercollegiate meet will be held on the local links-May 25-26. The meet, which was won by the Irish last year, and in which they have been remarkably successful in previous years, will feature Purdue, Indiana and other able squads from throughout the state among its contestants.
The Irish team, captained by Vince Fehlig, and including three other veteran members look as strong as ever. A successful season is predicted this year for the local team, which placed third in the national intercollegiate meet at Buffalo last year with the score of 624. Yale with 610 points, and Michigan with 622 were the only teams that topped the Irish record. During the few years that golf has been an organized sport at Notre Dame the teams have made surprisingly good records and the prospects for this year’s squad are very bright.
The complete schedule for the 1934 season is as follows:
April 14—Detroit, here.
April 28—Purdue, here.
May 7—Chicago, there.
May 10—Wisconsin, there.
May 12—Northwestern, here.
. May 19—Illinois, there.
May 24—Indiana, here.
May 25-26—State meet, here.
Varsity Baseball Card
Will Be Released Soon
The varsity baseball schedule, which is practically completed, will be released soon from the offices of Elmer F. Layden, Director of Athletics. A few open dates are being filled at the present.
Battery candidates for the Irish nine have been working out regularly in the gym under the direction of Coach “Jake” Kline. A call for the other candidates is expected soon.
The Scholastic
Xlnterhall Quintets / Play Finals Sunday
Carroll provided the upset of In-'	,terhall League competition Sunday,
, by defeating the hitherto undefeated I Group II leaders—off-Campus—and i	throwing them into a tie with Brown-
I	son, victorious over Walsh. In the
other heavy bracket St. Edward’s :	put aside Badin in their march to the
■	honors, while Lyons, the runner-up,
;	was stringing along with a victory
over Sorin. There is a strong possibility of a tie in Group II, as both ; Brownson and Off-Campus will meet considerably weaker teams in their play this sabbath.
Sunday also saw Carroll Hall lightweights clinch theii' Group II crown, wtih a victory over Off-Campus while only Badin was falling from the three way tie in the first group. The St. Edward’s mites proved their right to a higher rating than the latter club, with a 14-13 decision.
St. Ed’s Still On Top
Al Costello was the big ten point gun in the defeat of Off-Campus 17-16. Weidner paced the losers with five. In the other games of importance to Group II standings, Brownson, led by Dempsey and Stillwagon, nosed out Walsh 29-28, fourth placers in that division.
St. Edward’s remained the undefeated leaders in Group I with a 23-18 count over -Badin Hall. Themes and DeGormo kept up their team leadership with twelve points between them, as Vairo topped the losers with six. Lyons, second in that division had it all their own way in pushing-back Sorin 37-21, as Dillon kept Corby in the league cellar, 15-7.
Two Crowns Almost Certain
’ The lads “who play upstairs” have just about settled their differences. At least that is the opinion of Carroll, which hung its sixth straight win and Group II championship, over Off-Campus 41-20. Group I is still disturbed by the two way tie of Lyons and St. Edward’s, though the latter had its hands full in disposing of Badin 14-13. Corby defeated Dillon, and Lyons defeated Sorin 29-20, in other league games.
A resume of the standings before the final games of league competition, finds Carroll Lights with a completed undefeated schedule. St. Edward’s heavies have not tasted defeat, and should finish with a clean slate. These two crowns are fairly certain, but next Sunday’s games must break ties in Group II of the ■ heavies league, and Group I of the little fellows. Interest in this week’s games is high, however, because of close standings, and competition for
Trackmen Compete In Meets At New York And Chicago Saturday
Challenge----
COMPETE IN K. C. MEET
Sorin Hall claims a championship. Her champions challenge the campus.
The large lads of Sorin have a relay team. Six men, each weighing more than 200 pounds, make up the squad. Their relay is a specialty number: six men running 220 yards apiece.
The challenge is to any hall on the campus that can organize a similar team—minimum weight, 200 pounds per man. The Sorin flashes crave competition. They ask no favors— except that the opposition be big enough.
The line for competitors forms in front of 231 Sorin. Ed Vyzral will draw up the contracts; the race will be free style.
the lower positions. Games Sunday, March 18 follow:
Group II: 8:30 — Brownson vs. Howard; 9:30—Frosh vs. Off-Campus; 10:30 — Alumni vs. Walsh.
Group I: 1:30 — Badin vs. Dillon; 2:30 — Lyons vs. Morrissey; 3:30 — Corby vs. St. Edward’s.
INTERHALL STANDINGS
Heavyweights
Group I.	W
St. Edward’s ........... 5
Lyons ............... <1
Badin................... 3
Morrissey .............. 3
Dillon ................. 2
Sorin ...............  1
Corby................. 0
Group II.	W
Off-Campus ............. 4
Brownson ............. 4
Carroll ................ 3
Walsh ...............
Freshman ............
Howard ............ 1
Alumni ...........  1
L 0 1 2 2
4 5
L 1
1
3 3
4
T 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Pct. 1.000 .800 .600 .600 .400 .200 .000
Pct. .800 .800 .500 .400 .400 .250 .200
Lightweights
Group I.	W	L	T	Pct.
Lyons 				 4	1	0	.800
St. Edward’s 			 4	1	0	.800
Badin 		....... 3	2	0	.600
Corby 				 3	2	0	.600
Sorin 		2	4	0	.333
Dillon 			I	4	0	.200
Morris-scy 				1	4	0	.200
Group II.	w	L	T	Pct.
Carroll 	—			 6	0	0	1.000
Howard 			 4	1	0	.800
Freshman 				 3	2	0	.400
Off-Campus 				 2	3	0	.400
Alumni 				2	3	0	.400
Walsh 			1	.4	0	.200
Brownson 					 0	5	0	.000
The Notre Dame track team has been split temporarily to enable part of it to compete in New York City while the larger portion is at work in Chicago. Led by Coach John P. Nicholson, nine men left here Thursday for New York to participate in the Knights of Columbus meet in Madison Square Garden on Saturday. The remaining men, numbering twenty, will participate in the Armour Relays in the University of Chicago fieldhouse Saturday evening.
Nick took a one and two mile relay team and Vince Murphy east with him. The Irish one mile quartet of McGrath, Rubly, Bowdren, and Bernard will compete against Manhattan, Columbia, and Boston College in one of the college relay races. Nick predicts Columbia as the team to beat while Manhattan College is far from a pushover.
Handy Leads Crew To Chicago
The two mile team of Captain Joe Young, Roberts, Ducassa, and Shields will find a Columbia quartet pressing them alLthe way. The eastern representatives are capable of 7:50 for the distance. Nick figures his men at approximately a 7:53 pace, barring irregularities.’
Vince Murphy, whose leg is improving with the rest, it has been getting, will face the outstanding high jumpers in the country, Spitz and Maity.
Assistant Coach Elvin R. Handy will be in charge of nineteen men in the Armour Relays in Chicago. The men making the trip include: Frawley, Gioe, Conley, Meagher, Howard, Edwards, Elser, Sullivan, FinkeL Gil-foil, LaFrambois, Farrell, King^Mc-Farlane, Duke, Moran, Troy, and Fagan. It is doubtful if Link will compete. He has complained of a sore leg and Coach Nicholson may decide to rest him for a week.
Layden Ready To Go
Other events in which the Irish will compete are:—60 yard dash, broad jump, shot put, 440, 880, and one mile run.
Gilfoil, LaFrambois, King, and McFarlane will compose a medley relay team as well as compete in individual events. The bitter turned to the the better this week when Coach Nicholson announced that he believed Mike Layden would be ready for competition in the Butler Relays at Indianapolis next Saturday. Mike has been on the shelf with a pulled tendon. A three week rest has practically restored the use of the leg for hurdling purposes.
.March 16, 1 9 3 4
Thirteen
Hilltoppers Defeat Irish In Close Game
In an unusually rough game Marquette gave Notre Dame its third defeat in 23 games this season by nosing them out at Milwaukee last Saturday, 21-20. A capacity crowd of 6200 saw the Hilltoppers keep then-home record clean and avenge the 30-28 licking given them at Notre Dame.
The play of the Keoganites during the first half was very ragged. Their passes, lacking their usual accuracy, were wild and frequently intercepted by the Marquette team. The Irish defense was weak, and the Hilltoppers constantly sifted through it with their guard follow through plays. Coach Keogan’s men made a gallant attempt to come back in the second half but their efforts came to a sudden standstill when Moose Krause was forced from the game on fouls.
The Marquette five went through the game without a substitution. They played an aggressive game and it was only their inaccuracy from the free throw line that kept the score down.
Marquette scored first, but Krause and Voegele got together and made it 5-4, Notre Dame. Marquette came back strong to go into a 14-7 lead. Ireland’s long shot and Voegele’s charity toss made it 14-10 at the half. Cy Rubado, Marquette guard, kept his team in front during the second half by a few nonchalant heaves from the center. In the last few minutes Notre Dame came close, but Coach Bill Chandler’s crossed fingers and excellent floor work of Mullen and Gorychka kept the Irish from the basket.
Joe Voegele’s nine points made him high point man for the game. Rubado with three long shots led Marquette.
Marquette closed its season without losing any of its twelve games at home, and with a record of fifteen wins out of nineteen starts for the year.
Notre Dame (20)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Voegele, f 		. S	3	4	2	9
O’Kane, f 		. 0	0	0	0	0
Jordan, f 		. 0	1	2	0	1
Peters, f-c 		. 1	1	2	3	3
Ford, f ..		 ,	. 0	1	1	o	J
Krause, c (C) 		. 1	0	0	4	2
Crowe, g 		. 0	0	2	3	0
Ireland, g 		2	0	0	1	4
Allen, g 		. 0	0	I	0	0
	—	—	—	—	—.
Totals 		7	6	13	13	20
Marquette (21)	FG	FT	FTA	PF	Pts.
Morstadt, f		. 1	3	8	1	5
Gorychka, f		. 1	1	3	2	3
Kukla, c		. 2	1	3	3	5
Mullen, g (C) 		. 1	0	0	2	2
Rubado, g		. 3	0	I	2	6
	——	—	—		—
Totals 		8	5	15	10	21
Fourteen					
Introducing..,
By John D. Carbine
Back in the winter of 1931, a freshman named Jim Fagan felt that life in Howard Hall was too inactive and that he needed some exercise. He dragged himself over to the gymnasi-
Jim Fagan He wanted to learn.
um, donned a sweat suit and walked out on the track. On the track was a hurdle. Jimmy stepped up to it and, with nonchalance, topped it.
It happened that Coach Nicholson was standing by at the time and caught a glimpse of Fagan as he went over the hurdle.
“Did you ever hurdle before?” asked Nick.
Jimmy admitted that this was his first offense.
“Taking that into consideration,” said Nick, “you looked pretty good. Would you like to learn how to hurdle?”
“Sure,” replied Jimmy.
Nick, a great hurdler in his time, showed Fagan a few tricks and told him to come out for track every day. Jim reported faithfully and by the end of the year, he had developed into a good hurdler. Nick kept him on the low timbers until Easter and worked him on both the high and the low from Easter until June.
In his sophomore year, Fagan finished second in a number of meets to collect a total of 16 points for the Nickmen. Fagan did his best hurdling of the year in the Purdue meet when he ran the highs in :07.9 only to be nosed out by Sandback, the Boilermaker star.
Last year Jim won the highs in the Marquette and Pittsburgh meets and took first place in the lows against Army and Pittsburgh. He finished third in the highs in the Indiana State (Continued on Page 19)
Gagers Lose Season’s Final To Minnesota
Notre Dame’s great basketball team brought its 1933-1934 season to a sad end the past Monday night in Minneapolis, Minnesota when it was defeated in a nerve-wrecking overtime period tussle by a fighting University of Minnesota combine, 43-41.
The Gopher athletes jumped away to an early lead on baskets by Roscoe, the trick shot artist, and Norman, their elongated center. From here on Coach McMillen’s chargers kept piling up the markers until at half time the Keoganites were on the bad tasting end of a 24 to 13 count. In the second half of this hectic engagement the Irish started to click. Capt Krause and Leo Crowe found themselves and with the timely help of their mates managed to outscore their opponents 24 to 13, thus knotting the score at 37 all with a little over a minute left to play. Neither team was able to \ register with the hoop in this final minute of action thus necessitating an overtime period.
Baskets by Crowe and Krause gave the Irish quintet a four point lead at the start of this extra session but two pointers by Roscoe and one by Norman clinched the verdict for the Minnesota stalwarts.
Krause and Crowe with 14 and 11 points respectively showed up best for Notre Dame while for Minnesota Norman with 12 tallies and Roscoe, the hero of the engagement, with 11 points starred.
The summary	I		
Minnesota (43)	FG	FT	FTA PF Pts.
Roscoe, f 				— 4	3	4	2	11
Sochacki, f 			 0	0	0	0	0
Wallblom, f 		— 1	0	0	0	2
Baker, f			 0	2	-2	2	2
Norman, c 		— 5	2	2	0	12
Larson, c 		— 0	0	0	0	0
Farrell, g 			 2	2	3	2	6
Kane, g 		— 0	0	0	10
Svendsen, g		— 3	4	5	2	10
Elken, g 		0	0	0	0	0
	—	——		 	 	
Totals 		.—15	13	16	9	43
Notre Dame (41)	FG	FT	FTA PF Pts.
Jordan, f 			 2	0	0	0	4
Voegele, f 		..... 0	1	2	3	1
O’Kane, f 		..... 1	1	113
Ford, f		— 1	2	2	2	4
Krause, c (C) 		..... 7	0	0	3	14
Peters, c 		..... 0	0	0	0	0
Crowe, g 		5	1	3	2	11
Ireland, g 		..... 2	0	14	4
Allen, g 		..... 0	0	0	10
	—	—	_ 	 	
Totals 		-.18	5	0	16	41
Referee—John Getchell,		St.	Thomas.
Umpire—John Schommer, Chicago.
The Bengal Boxing Show, 24 rounds by the best campus boxers, will be held in the gym, next Wednesday evening, March 21, 8:30 p. m.
The Scholastic
.1
r
----------- j
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
BOXING
Next Wednesday evening the third annual Bengal Boxing Show under the sponsorship of The Scholastic will be staged in the gymnasium. Featuring the finest array of boxing talent that has ever appeared in this show, Wednesday’s card is expected to attract the largest crowd in the history of boxing at Notre Dame.
It has never been the primary aim of the sponsors of the Bengal bouts to relaunch boxing as an intercollegiate sport here, but that idea has always been in mind. Boxing has a definite place in a well rounded sports program.
Whether or not the Bengal tour-nies have had influence in that direction, The Scholastic feels that they have been worthwhile undertakings. As an end in themselves, as a worthwhile feature of intramural sports, we’re pretty proud of them. Why not drop over to the gym Wednesday night and pass judgment? We’ll be more than willing to take your verdict as official.
SCORING
Last Monday night Captain Ed Krause wound up his brilliant basketball career as a member of the Notre Dame varsity. Among his many excellencies as a eager, the ability to score points was outstanding. In the course of his three years on the Irish five, the “Moose” totalled 547 markers.
In addition he holds the modern Notre Dame high scoring record for a single game with a total of 22 points marked up against Minnesota here this season. A recapitulation of his individual game efforts shows that Krause, at one time or another, accumulated the following totals of single game scoring (many of them ■ duplicated later):
0—Against St. Thomas here in 1931-32
1—Against Indiana here in 1931-32
2—Against Ohio State there in 1932-33
3—Against Chicago here in 1933-34
4—Against Pennsylvania there in 1931-32
5—Against Northwestern there in 1932-33
7—Against Purdue there in 1932-33
8—Against Marquette there in 1931-32
9—Against Chicago there in 1932-33
10—Against Marquette there in 1932-33
11—Against Toledo there in 1932-33
12—Against Minnesota here in 1932-33
13—Against Western Reserve there in 1932-33 14—Against Marquette here in 1932-33.
16—Against Wabash here in 1932-33
17—Against Carnegie Tech here in 1932-3®
18—Against Butler there in 1932-33
19—Against Army here in 1931-32.
22—Against Minnesota here in 1933-34.
C. I. C. MEET
(Continued from Page 11)
with eight qualifiers Friday night and started out strong on Saturday with a well balanced performance. The first signs of the Irish downfall showed when Clyde Roberts failed to place in the 880 yards. Both Notre Dame entries in the low hurdles were eliminated in the semi-finals and the Spartans went on to grab victory in this race, scoring a first and third.
Roberts set a dizzy pace in an effort to outrun the Spartan in the half-mile and maintained his lead until the runners entered the home stretch. Here he wilted and struggled across the finish line out of the scoring.
Murphy Wins High Jump
Vince Murphy accounted for the only Notre Dame first of the day when he captured top honors in the high jump at six feet, 2% inches.
The first of two meet records was bettered by Sears of Butler, who scored his team’s only points. In the mile run Ray broke the tape in 4:17.3 to clip four seconds off the old mark. Joe Young matched the Butler ace stride for stride for seven laps before the pace began to tell and forced the Irish captain to yield second place to Hurd of Michigan State. Eddie King added to the total of the Nickmen with a fourth.
The one mile relay record was scrapped by Pittsburgh in the most spectacular race of the day. The Irish quartet battled the Panthers all the way until Bob Bernard collapsed on the home stretch after a desperate attempt to hold the slim margin given him by Jim Bowdren. The new mark of 3:24.2 betters the old record of 3:25.5 made by Notre Dame in 1932. Western State, Michigan Normal, and Michigan State finished in that order behind the eastern quartet.
Ottey Wins Easily
Tom Ottey found little trouble in winning the two mile event. The expected duel between him and Ray Sears did not materialize when the Butler coach thought it better to save his man for the two mile grind in New York next Saturday. Leo McFarlane finished behind Ottey with a big lead on the rest of the field. Other scorers in the event were Zepp, defending champion, of Michigan Normal, and Hammer of Michigan State.
Ray Lowry accounted for Normal’s only first with a winning height of 13 feet % inch in the pole vault. He failed to better the record when he fouled three times at 13 feet, six inches. Howard of Notre Dame and Pelucha of Pitt tied for second at 12 feet, nine inches, with Legrand of Marquette finishing fourth.
Jackson’s victory in the low hurdles was accomplished in the fast (Continued on Page 16)
Good Fiction Books
On Library’s Index
Recent additions to the University Library’s stock of books are of special interest. In the field of biography may be found such new comers as Agnes Repplier’s Junipero Serra; Arnold Henry Lunn’s Now I See; and Harvey O’Connor’s Mellon’s Millions. Miss Repplier’s biographies are nearly always finely written and ably handled.
The field of fiction is well represented. For mystery story addicts of the campus E. Phillips Oppenheim presents The Ex-Detective. Frank Packard’s The Purple Ball; and Ellery Queen’s The Siamese Twin Mystery are members of this list. Some other favorable novels new on the library’s shelves are Mrs. Pearl Buck’s The Mother; Sir Phillip Hamilton Gibbs’ The Cross of Peace; and Janet Beith’s No Second Spring.
Book collectors will probably want to read End Papers by Alfred Edward Newton. Those interested in hobbies of all kinds should be attracted to Mr. Newton’s book which deals with book collecting and its interesting phases.
For artists there are Gardner Hale’s Fresco Painting; and Frederick Paul Keppel’s The Arts in American Life.
Among the new books, appealing to varied interests, may be found George Douglas Howard Cole’s What Everybody Wants to Knozv about Money; Charles Austin Beard’s The Future Comes; and Clark Leonard Hull’s Hypnosis and Suggestibility.
Noteworthy among other additions to the University Library is Janet Beith’s No Second Spring, winner of a §20,000 prize, the largest offered by a publisher for a novel. In reviewing this work The North American Review acclaimed it as “A distinctive contribution to fiction by a new novelist.”
Rexford G. Tugwell, member of the Administration’s brain trust, puts aside affairs of state long enough to record his current reactions in Industrial Discipline and the Governmental Arts. Mr. Tugwell’s work is not a collection of dry facts but rather a series of penetrating observations written in the language of the philosopher.
Finally, Years of the Locust by Gilbert W. Seldes is outstanding, since it is a record of the psychological reaction of the people to governmental policies and acts during the years 1929-1932.
Other recent additions listed are:
Economics: Lowenthal, Max, The
(Continued on Page 16)
March IS, 1934
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
Returning home last summer after an invasion of foreign cinder tracks, RALPH METCALFE, Marquette’s world renowned sprinter, had to pay a $19 import tax for a trophy he won in a race in Germany. . . . The largest gate ever taken in at a boxing event was in the TUNNEY - DEMPSEY championship fight in 1927; $2,658,-660 passed through the barred windows. ... Do you know that VENZ-KE is the. oldest of the country’s three greatest milers? He is 24, CUNNINGHAM is 22, and BON-THRON is only 21 years old. . . . BOWDOIN’S stellar shot-putter, HOWARD NIBLOCK, recently smashed the college 12 pound record with a heave of 59 feet 314 inches. . . . During 12 years of boxing BILLY PETROLLE has earned about $400,000. Today he is worth about $200,000. . . . THE TRIUMVIR, knocked down to MRS. PAYNE WHITNEY, for the top price of the yearlings sales in 1932, has never won a race. . . . Believing that he is a jinx to his team, PERCY RYAN, trainer of the New York hockey team, never watches his team in action.
The Yankee training camp this spring has turned collegiate; their roster includes JOHNNY BROACA of Yale; CHARLEY DEVENS of HARVARD, and BOB ROLFE of Dartmouth. . . . Horace Man school claims the distinction of sending more varsity basketball players to leading institutions in the East than any other prep school. . . . Former second basemen hold a monopoly on the BOSTON RED SOX; they are TOM YAWKEY, owner; EDDIE COLLINS, general manager; and BUCKY HARRIS, manager. . . . THE UNITED STATES contains about 5,800 golf courses — more than any other country in the world. ... During the past two seasons only four major league players — JIMMY FOXX, HEINIE MANUSH, AL SIMMONS and CHUCK KLEIN — made 200 or more hits. . . . According to JACK DOYLE, veteran Broadway sporting man, about $4,000,000,000 is wagered annually on American race tracks. . . . The Green Bay Packers. and the New York Giants, pro football teams, are both seeking the services of JOHNNY DEL ISOLA, Jimmy Crowley’s brilliant Fordham center. . . . BENNY LEE, English professional roller skating champ, also holds the London ice skating title.
•
Experts claim that ski jumpers travel some 70 miles an hour at high speed. . . . Some parents are of the
Sixteen
opinion that only college boys go without hats and overcoats; but LOU GEHRIG of the Yankees and BILLY EVANS of Cleveland, never wear vests and seldom overcoats, regardless of the weather. . . . The sport that is most taking the country by storm is PING-PONG. It is estimated that the game is now played by approximately 3,000,000 people in the United States. . . . JOHNNY LAYTON, billiard star, was once upon a time a professional wrestler and baseball player. . . . Business must certainly be good in Florida, as far as the HORSE RACING game goes. Statistics of the mutuels handled for the first 27 days at HALIEAH show that a total of $7,077,003 was wagered on the “tote.” The total for the corresponding period last year was but $4,663,056. ... A former welterweight champion, JACKIE FIELDS, has forsaken the gloves for the movies. He is a technical director on a Hollywood movie lot. . . .
The Grand National Steeplechase Cup bears the inscription: “The gift of PETER LEIGH, Esq., to the subscribers of the Newton Hunt, and won by POMPEY the little in the year 1751.” . . . The biggest money maker of any of the sporting trades at the present time is JIM LONDOS. It is also claimed that he has more money set aside than any other man in professional sport. . . . TOM JENKINS, once our greatest mat champion, now West Point wrestling coach, says, “Pro wrestlers today are not wrestlers — they are tumblers. You have to go to colleges to find real wrestling.” . . . GENE FLETCHER, Southern California sophomore swimming sensation, is the seventh son of the same family to hold world swimming records. . . . When BILL BONTHRON entered Princeton his ambition was to be a football star, but after coaches saw him run they shifted him to the track where he has remained ever since. . . . The only member of the GIANT’S ball club to live in New York City is FRESNO THOMPSON, a valuable infielder. . . . On their coming tour through the United States BILL TILDEN and ELLSWORTH VINES expect to again play before 100,000 tennis fans.
C. I. C. MEET
(Continued from Page 15)
time of :07.3. In the high sticks he broke the tape in a hair line finish with Jimmie Fagan on the wrong side of the hair. It was the closest race of the day.
Other events saw Ralph Metcalfe winning in the 60 yard dash, Davis in the shot put, and Pfingst in the 440 yard run. Frawley with a fourth in the dash, Elser a third in the shot,
and Rubly a third in the quarter mile completed the Notre Dame scoring.
The summary:
POLE VAULT—Won by Lowry (MN) ; Howard (ND) and Pelucha (P). tied for second; Legrand (M), fourth. Height. 13 feet, % inch.
60 YARD HIGH HURDLES — Won by Jackson (MSG) ; Fagan (ND), second; Carlton (K), third; Guay (P), fourth. Time, :08.
60 YARD DASH—Won by Metcalfe (M) ; Fleming (P), second; Colletti (L), third; Frawley (ND), fourth. Time, :06.3.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Murphy (ND) : Jackson (MSG) and Mallard (WST), tied for second; Lowry (MN) and Salter (WST), tied for fourth. Height, 6 feet, 2% inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Davis (H) : Bonavita (P), second; Elser (ND), third: Rickwell (MN), fourth. Distance, 47 feet, 1% inches.
ONE MILE RUN—Won by Sears (B) ; Hurd (MSG), second; Young (ND), third; King (ND), fourth. Time. 4:17.3. (Betters old meet record of 4:21.5 made by Swartz (WST) in 1933.)
440 YARD DASH — Won by Pfingst (WST); Mullins (WST), second; Rubly (ND), third; Hershey (MN), fourth. Time. :50.6.
TWO MILE RUN—Won by Ottey (MSG) ; McFarlane (ND), second; Zepp (MN), third : Hammer (MSG), fourth. Time, 9:28.7.
880 YARD RUN—Won by Pongrace (MSG) ; Warren (MSG), second; Kubash (M), third; Beckett (M), fourth. Time, 1:58.2
65 YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Jack-son (MSC) ; Carlton (K), second; Colina (MSG), third; Walton (MN), fourth. Time, :07.3.
ONE MILE RELAY—Won by Pittsburgh (Kiger, Keller, Groat, Connelly) ; Western State Teachers, second; Michigan Normal, third; Michigan State fourth. Time, 3:24.2. (Betters old meet record of 3:25.5 made by Notre Dame in 1932).
HIGH SCHOOL MEDLEY RELAY—Won by Hammond; Horace Mann (Gary), second; South Bend Central, third; Mishawaka, fourth. Time, 4:52.4.
BOOKS
(Continued from Page 15)
Investors Pays; Beard, Charles Austin, The Future Comes.
Finance: Cole, George, What Everyone Wants to Know About Money; Pasvolsky, Leo, Current Monetary Issue.
Sociology: Tufts, James Hayden, America’s Social Morality.
Political Science: White, Leonard D., Trends in Public Administration.
Biography: Williams, Charles, Bacon.
Fiction: Gibbs, Sir Phillip Hamilton,' The Cross of Peace; Buck, Mrs. Pearl, The Mother.
Medicine and Psychiatry: Walsh, William Sebastian, Peace-of Mind and Body.
Religion: Barnes, Earnest William, Scientific Theory and Religion.
T h e ,S c h o I a s t i c
5
Third Annual
Bengal Boxing Show
Sponsored by THE SCHOLASTIC
8:30 p. m.
Gymnasium — Wednesday, March 21
Seven
Championship
Fights
Admission
Cents
Heavyweight Exhibition
Max Marek vs. Julius Coussens
Golden Gloves Finalist	South Bend Golden Gloves Champion
'Tickets on Sale
IN ALL THE HALLS 25c AT THE CAF NEWSSTAND
1 March IC, 19 3 S	Seventeen
te -
Always the Finest Tobacco
and only the Center Leaves
Copyright, 1934, The A meric— Tobacco Comp—y,
NOT the bottom li quality—coan
From the Diamond Horse-Shoe of the Metropolitan Opera House
Saturday at 1:50 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, over the Red and Blue Networks of NBC. LUCKY STRIKE will broadcast the Metropolitan Opera Co. of New York in the complete Opera, ■ "Peter Ibbetson.”
The Cream < 'The tendereat, mi am
NOT the top leave;
—-they

^TURKISH TOBJ
one i
vobaccos are se Strike—the m most delicate, tl Lucky Strike is i user of fine T Then these tend ish leaves are blf tobaccos from oi — to make you cigarette that is round, so firm-ends.That’swhj ter, smoother. “ throat protection
Resume of “Peter Ibbetson,” Grand Opera in English by Deems Taylor
OF FINE
IBACCOS
ne reason \uckies taste r, smoother
rkey too, only the finest )s are selected for Lucky —the mildest leaves, the elicate, the most aromatic. Strike is the world’s largest f fine Turkish tobaccos, hese tender, delicate Turkles are blended with choice >s from our own Southland lake your Lucky Strike a te that is fully packed—so so firm—free from loose hat’s why Luckies taste bet-oother. “It’s toasted”—for protection—for finer taste.
the top leaves—they're under-developed —-they are harshl
Cream of the Crop endereat, mildest, smoothest tobacco”
Act I—The curtain rises upon a ball given by Mrs. Deane during which Colonel Ibbetson quarrels with his nephew and ward, Peter, over the origin of a poem the Colonel recites. A violent row is averted by Mrs. Deane who engages Peter in conversation. He tells her of his early life in Paris; of Mimsey Seraskier, his childhood playmate; of the death of his parents and subsequent adoption by the Colonel. He has not seen Mimsey since childhood and believes her dead. The Colonel interrupts and, after Peter withdraws, hints that he is Peter’s real father. At this point, Mary, Duchess of Towers, arrives and catches sight of Peter. Inquiring who he is, she displays disappointment upon learning that his name was Ibbetson for he reminded her* of a childhood playmate. Peter watches her, spellbound, but is too shy to meet her. The guests depart for the ballroom leaving him alone. Observing the Duchess’ discarded bouquet, he picks it up and kisses it.
Act II, Scene I—Peter, visiting Paris, finds the scenes of his childhood completely changed. At a local inn, he meets an aged major, a friend of his youth. Although Peter greets him joyfully, the old man fails to recognize him and departs leaving Peter very dejected. Glancing through a window, he catches sight of the Duchess of Towers passing in her carriage, and, still thinking of her, falls asleep.
Scene II—Peter dreams of his childhood days and sees his mother and father, the Major, his adored Mimsey, and himself, a boy of twelve. The Duchess of Towers appears and warns him that he must neither touch nor speak to the dream people or the dream will fade. Still dreaming, he sees his uncle, Colonel Ibbetson, insult and try to embrace his mother. Peter rushes to defend her and the dream is instantly shattered.
Scene III—Peter awakens as the Duchess of Towers enters and they recognize each other as long separated companions. Peter starts to tell of his dream and Mary finishes the story. They realize, then, that the meeting was a real one; that while their bodies laid asleep miles apart, their spirits -wandered together through their dreams. Declaring that they ought never meet again, she turns and leaves the room.
Act III, Scene I—Mrs. Deane and her mother visit Colonel Ibbetson’s rooms to regain some letters when Peter, arriving from Paris, enters and greets them cordially. After
questioning him about his parents, they display a letter in which the Colonel declares that Peter’s mother was his mistress and that Peter is his natural son. The ladies leave and the Colonel enters. Peter quarrels with him about the letter and kills him with a cane.
Scene II—Peter is in the chaplain’s room at Newgate’ Prison. As day breaks and he is being led to the scaffold to die for the murder of his uncle, Mrs. Deane rushes in with the news that his sentence had been commuted to life imprisonment. Peter hysterically begs for death instead. Mrs. Deane displays a message from Mary in which she tells him to sleep and “dream true.” Exhausted, he drops into the chaplain’s chair and falls asleep.
Scene III — Dreaming, Peter returns again to the scene of his childhood days, and, though all his loved ones are there, they neither see nor hear him. Suddenly he catches sight of Mary who hurries to him and tells him that she will never leave him; every night as long as they both live she will come to him in their dreams.
Scene IV—Thirty years later, Peter lies dying in his cell when Mrs. Deane brings him a message; Mary’s last words to him. But Peter has already learned of Mary’s death for in his dream the previous night she failed to appear for the first time during all his years in prison. Suddenly he sees Mary’s face above him and falls back on his cot motionless. Mrs. Deane summons the doctor but it is too late. The back wall of the cell vanishes and in its place appears the old childhood setting. Mary, smiling, beckons to him, and out of the aged worn body on the cot, rises young Peter Ibbetson. He steps forward and embraces her.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page 1-1)
meet but failed to place in the C.I.C.
Jim pulled a tendon in practice this fall and made his first appearance of the year in the Ohio State meet. In the C.I.C. meet last week, Jackson of Michigan State edged out Fagan to win the high hurdles by the proverbial hair.
Jim is an excellent swimmer and spends his summers as a life guard at Beach Haven, New Jersey. He was a member of the Howard team which won the Interhall Football Championship in 1930.
He is a senior in the College of Commerce and will be graduated in June with a 92 average.
the bottom leaves—they 're inferior in quality—coarse and always sandy I
OPPORTUNITIES
FOR SENIORS
Two firms have written the University recently seeking “Educated Representatives” who are interested in selling opportunities after graduation. Seniors who are interested are invited to write direct to these companies.
The national organization of the Cook Coifee Company of Detroit, Michigan, through its Indiana division, located at Fort Wayne, Indiana, is offering young men between the ages of 18 and 30 employment and institutional training for promotion to district sales supervisors for those who desire to remain permanently •with them. The work is introducing the company’s products in a scientific manner—“they take no signed orders, but show the technical value of ‘Cook’s Fresh Coffee’,” to quote from their letter. Write to Norman Sweet, Personel Director, Cook Coffee Company, 427 West Superior St., Fort Wayne, Indiana, to make application or to secure further details.
The Kaydet Compound Co., of Boston, Mass., makers of water and wear resistant waxes, seek to contact several seniors “with no outlook at present and a bent for selling, who will be interested in receiving a complete outline on the product and the selling field, which will convince that immediate and substantial income is possible on graduation. . . .” “the field is Building Management, contacting superintendents and the buyers of maintenance supplies.” Different territories are available, so it is requested that the home address, or probable address after graduation, be given when writing in. Write to Arthur I. McClelland, Kaydet Compound Co., 80 Broad St., Boston, Mass., foi’ further information.
A Better Position
You Can Get It
Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dollars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure a better position and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE . OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. Good positions are available now in every state. They will soon be filled.
(Teachers address Dept. T. All others Dept. S.)
CONTINENTAL TEACHERS AGENCY, Inc.
1850 Downing St.	Denver, Colo.
Covers the ENTIRE United States
School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at our expense, if speed is urgent. You will, receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours.
T tv e n t y
ODD BITS —
The only college news reel theater in the United States has begun its second year at the University of Minnesota and is open every noon to students for the admission price of five cents.
Expenses incurred by the varsity head cheerleader of the University of Michigan in attending out-of-town games will be paid from the funds of the class treasuries of the eight library and engineering classes.
The students at the University of Michigan voted in favor of the modification of the rule which puts a ban on the use of automobiles. Only students with degrees are to be permitted to drive cars.
Racketeers in North Carolina are feeling forceful blows from the acad-demic balls of Duke University where the legal aid clinic has been for two years championing the cause of the people -with small means who were made the victims of such rackets as wildcat stock sales and usury.
Exactly one half of the members of the Marquette University football squad read the sport page before they turn to any other part of their daily paper. One-fourth glance at the head-.lines first; a few find the comic strips as their first interest, and one enjoys the editorials.
A bob-cat reared by a University of California biologist has been sent back “to the woods” because he could not be kept tame.
While running in a Cambridge University hare and hound race last week William Stickney of New York, a former student of Trinity College, fell and died.
Deans of the University of Minnesota, acting as chefs and waiters, were at the beck and call of first year men at the second annual bean feed in the Minnesota Union.
The first of the United States government schools for adults, the teachers of which are paid out of federal relief funds, has been opened in Clayton County, Georgia, where 16 grownups are enrolled.
• Driving without a license, obstructing traffic, operating without a franchise, and further investigation were the charges filed against students of Colorado School of Mines, - arrested while driving a street car plastered . with signs as an advertisement of their impending game with Denver.
The Scholastic
College careers are carved with
VITALITY
Burke’s Eye Service
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists & Manufacturing Opticians
O
228 S. Michigan St. Established 1900
"WHEN A FELLER
NEED5 A FRIEND"
College honors, on the campus and in the classroom, usually go to the energetic men. Their enthusiasm and good spirits are founded upon good health—and regular habits.
Too frequently, undergraduates permit vitality to be sapped by common constipation. This ailment can be corrected by eating a delicious cereal.
Placed on the market a year ago, this pipe mixture made many friends before it had a line of advertising. Aged in the wood for years ... BRIGGS is mellow, packed with flavor, biteless! Won’t you try a tin and let genial BRIGGS speak for itself?
Tests show Kellogg’s All-Bran provides “bulk” to promote regularity, as well as vitamin B and iron. Two tablespoonfuls daily are usually sufficient. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house, eating club or campus restaurant.
© 1934, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.