____________
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
April 15 19 3 2
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru, Better Glasses
O. A. Clark’s RESTAURANT 104-106 N. Michigan St.
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House.
Catering to
NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
WE HAVE NO KEY
Hello Men!
Smith 5 Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
MEN
Save on your Easter Shoes
Factory Cancellations
$3Z $4, $5 OXFORDS
*2.00
Fine black and brown Oxfords that were intended to retail from $3 to J5 now on sale for only $2. These shoes were sold to Gilbert’s for cash at a tremendous loss to the manufacturer. They were cancelled because of late delivery. Most any style and leather a man wonld want. All sizes in the lot, but not in some styles.
0
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
“Hello, Hawaii”
Bringing Hawaii within speaking distance of the United States is one of the latest achievements of the Bell System in its program of telephone service extension.
Five years ago the United States had telephone connection only with Canada, Cuba, and the Mexican border. Since then, Bell engineers have so developed radio telephony that handling calls to Europe, South America,
Australia, Bermuda, Samoa, and Hawaii is daily routine. Today more than 31,000,000 telephones can be reached — approximately 92% of all the telephones in the world!
Making the telephone practically worldwide in reach promotes understanding between nations. It has far reaching effects commercially and politically. That’s what puts the thrill into such Bell System pioneering.
BELL SYSTEM
4 NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTE R-CONNEGTING TELEPHONES
Two
The Scholastic
Lake Region » » »
What Might Be a Delightful, Sylvian Lovers Lane—But Isn’t!
April 15, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weMg at ths Vniveru-its of Notre Dams. Mawu-. scripts mag bs addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-dews matter at Notre Dams, Indiana. Acceptance far meA-mg at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 35, 1918.
Neil C. Hurley_________________________Editor-in-Chief
Henry B. Asman Managing Editor
William W. Corr__________________Departmental Editor
Associate Editors
GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN............News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITCHEL TACKLEY. .Assistant Netos Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT DILLON
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT RAY WATERS
PAUL FOLEY Desk Editors
GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors
JAMES CARMODY.............The	Week
JOHN PICK.............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY.............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN...........Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER...........Staff Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS.........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK EDW. VAN HUISSELING JOSEPH KURTH
'	Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON..........Features Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ	LOUIS HRUBY
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN...........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass't Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY MCGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY....Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
APRIL 15, 1932
Number 21.
SUMMARY
NEWS
Political activity lax on the campus as Spring primaries schedule is announced_____________ 5
E. J. O’Brien asks for Louis Brennen’s “Poisoner in
Motley” in a letter from London__________ 7
Monogram men frolic in their annual “Absurdities” show in Washington hall__________________ 7
Mayor Ray T. Miller, Notre Dame graduate, addresses the Cleveland club_______________ 8
The Juggler leads the mid-west in The Scholastic directed College Comix poll_______:______12
Ball modernistic, new feature on the engineers’ social calendar, held at the K. of C. ballroom tonight— 17
FEATURES
Charles Weiss used to slip passes through the fence to friends—and then turned usher; A Man About the Campus 14
William Karl, studying aviation in Germany, begins a series of articles for The Scholastic_16
SPORTS
Varsity golf team faces Valparaiso tomorrow in season’s opener 20
Palt and Mannix to hurl as baseball team meets Wisconsin and Chicago______________________________21
Nick Lukats to report for tennis squad; expected to bolster team considerably________________■_________22
Lyons wins two titles; baseball season opens; AU-Interhall cage teams picked________________________29
COMING EVENTS
FRIDAY, April 15—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin, Cartier Field, 3:30 p. m.—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Indiana State Teachers, Notre Dame Courts, 3:30 p. m.— Dance, Engineers’ Formal, K. of C. Ballroom, 9:00 p. m.—Scholastic staff meetings: editorial board, Publications o ce, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Law auditorium, 8:00 p. m.—Lecture, Dr. James J. Walsh, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, April 16—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Chicago, at Chicago.—Golf, Notre Dame vs. Valparaiso, Burke Memorial course.—Monogram Absurdities, Washington hall, 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, April 17—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. South Bend Boosters, Cartier Field, 3:00 p. m.
MONDAY, April 18—French Club meeting, Main Building, 6:30 p. m.—Universal Notre Dame Night.
TUESDAY, April 19—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard ‘rec,’ 6:30 p. m.—Educational Confgaternity meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Pre-Law Club Concert, Law auditorium, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, April 20—Economics Seminar, Law building, 8:00 p. m.
THURSDAY, April 21—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.—New Jersey Club meeting, Law building, 7:45 p. m.—Cleveland Club meeting, Walsh hall, 7:00 p. m.— Russian Cossack chorus, Washington hall, 8:C0 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
* THE WEEH ♦
By James Carmody
Remembering the ovations accorded to popular heroes of our day, some of the first floor Sorinites welcomed home in regal style yesterday Len Donoghue, who recently found time enough and money enough to go downtown and have some appendicitis. The hall in front of his room was carpeted; there was a wall of gray formed by the juxtaposition of a few army blankets; and between baskets of faded lilies were signs of welcome. In spite of the fact that Len violated tradition by not riding up esconced on the back of a touring car, everyone was highly pleased, including Len, who, without much urging, displayed the results of the doctor’s handiwork. We walked past the door just as Len was finishing his story. “Well, mister,” he was saying, “when they grabbed this tape and pulled, the skin just came right with it.” Personally, we thought Arroivsmith was much more exciting.
V
We want to nominate for oblivion two embryo bridge builders who are connected with the activities of the Engineers’ Formal, which, to you and you, is touched with the modernistic spirit. The first of these lads is the one who, with some five or six years of mechanical drawing, put out that monstrous sign which hangs in the Main building. It is, if we may use the word, lousy. The other mechanic is the one who succeeded in digging up the world’s worst orchestra to accompany the inevitable crooning in ears by the motley crew of lathemen. Jack Foulks, who used to be the head Juggler, tried for some time to take the aforementioned title away from the Kilties, but fortunately he lost out, and Al Stewart has since fallen even farther behind. The Lawyers have made history, too, by importing a band from one of Chicago’s toughest dance halls, which is justly famous as the den of the man who invented bell-bottom trousers. We should not be at all surprised to find ourselves dancing at the ball to the strains of the music of Half-Pint Jaxon and his Hotshots. If he’s there, we should like to suggest guns or hammers for favors.
E VERY year the Absurdities turns out at least one good skit. It is not to their discredit that it often is creditable by reason of the fact that * outsiders act it; after all, the monogram men got their letters for athletics and not for histrionics. What we are getting at is the fact that Johnny Perone’s and Herb Giorgio’s little take-off on Eugene O’Neill, provided that it is brushed up a bit and the tempo quickened, is worthier of much bigger time than the amateurish Absurdities. And we fear it is a little too far in advance of some of the more of less rustic wits of our acquaintance. To the disregard of the anti-Peronists, we like him and the kind of stuff he puts out; the question as to whether he is original or not does not bother us, so long as he is funny—and he is that. We haven’t seen for a long time anything as clever as John’s sticking his head through the curtain to announce that the second act would be played	:
to kill time until the scenery for the first act : arrived. We would suggest (with a superior smirk) that you read O’Neill’s “Electra” to appreciate this stuff.
△ ’
LONG time ago the prominent cigarette manufacturers had representatives on the campus who were entitled to go so far as to give away packs and even cartons of smokes. Until a few days ago you even got a can of pipe packing with every cookie. Something had to be done to draw into the fold the lads who were lugging around a can of scraps and a Target roller. We, entirely in sympathy with the bigger manufacturers, were sorry for them, but could see no way to help. And now here the University solves the problem by simply banning cigarettes in the class buildings and in all the halls; thereby there is shown no favoritism to any one brand, and the tailor-mades are made blood brothers to the languid smokes of the thrifty. We understand that an addition to the rule will provide for the detention of any person caught with a concealed Target or Gibbs	;
roller on his person. We would suggest that all	?
of you emulate the lumberjacks by lipping snuff [ and smiling moist yellow smiles.	'
April 15, 1932
Five
PURDUE UNIVERSITY MEETS N.D. DEBATERS
SCHEDULE FOR SPRING PRIMARIES
ANNOUNCED THIS WEEK BY KRAMER
National Control of Industry Is Topic For Discussion.
Tonight, at eight o’clock the debating team of the Universities of Purdue and Notre Dame will meet in a dual encounter.
In Washington hall, one Notre Dame squad, as yet unannounced, will defend the negative side of the issue: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt a compulsory nationwide plan of control and distribution in the major basic industries.
Professor McBurney of the University of Michigan will act as judge of the debate.
At the same time another team, composed of William Darrow, Hugh Fitzgerald, and Arthur Sanduskey, will be upholding the affirmative side of the same question at Purdue. The latter two men are sophomores, and are representing Notre Dame for the first time.
COMPETITION FOR THE DOCKWEILER MEDAL TO END MAY 1
Essayists competing for the Dock-weiler Medal for Philosophy are reminded that the final draft of their work must be presented to Father Miltner, head of the Department of Philosophy, not later than May 1.
The Dockweiler medal was-founded by Mr. Isadore B. Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, Calif., in memory of his deceased father, Henry Dockweiler. The medal is awarded to the senior in the College of Arts and Letters who submits the best essay on some philosophical subject.
The medal is not awarded if the essay is not of notable quality. Essays presented after May 1 will not be given consideration.
New Jersey Club Will Hold Election Thursday, April 21
There will be a meeting of the New Jersey club Thursday evening, April 21, at 7:45 in the basement of the new Law biulding. Officers are to be elected for the coming year and important business will be discussed.
Alumni Clubs To Observe N.D.
Night April 18th
A world-wide gathering Monday evening of more than one hundred Notre Dame clubs will mark the observance of the ninth annual Universal Notre Dame Night.
Seventy alumni clubs, in all parts of the United States, in Paris and in the Philippines, and some thirty smaller groups of alumni scattered in more remote districts will aid in this
Reverend Matthew Walsh. C.S.C.
He will address the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley.
universal homage to the University.
In the principle address of the evening, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will speak before the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York.
The Reverend Matthew Walsh, C. S. C., former president of the University, will address the Notre Dame Club of the Saint Joseph Valley in the local observance of the night. The University Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casa-santa, will entertain at this same gathering.
Professor Charles Phillips will speak at the meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet District. Other members of the Congregation
(Continued on Page 11)
ELECTIONS ON MAY NINTH
Campus Politicians Withhold Candidates; Expect Party Activity to Begin Soon.
Undergraduate political factions are expected to open their primary campaign in earnest this week, following the selection of the dates for the nominating balloting.
John Kramer, president of the Student Activities council, announced to The Scholastic yesterday the complete voting schedule.
Juniors will nominate the candidates for the senior class offices on April 27th, with the sophomores following on the 29th. The freshmen are scheduled to make their selections on the 2nd of May.
Polls To Be Announced
Election day proper will be on May 9th. The exact location of the polls, or the system under which the balloting will be conducted has not as yet been announced.
The year thus far has been notable for a decided decrease in enthusiasm on the part of the undergraduate politicians. There have been no circulars, or blotters distributed to apathetic class-mates, nor has there been any public announcement of a definite card of candidates.
Political leaders on the campus, however, are inclined to believe that a general undercurrent of planning has been forming during the past week with most parties holding back until the others come through with preliminary announcements.
Many Tickets Expected
The selection of the dates is expected to bring forth all of the tickets, however, as the various groups begin active planning for victory next May 9th.
At the present time it is not definitely known whether either Finneran or Ffrench, the two party leaders in the undergraduate classes, will attempt to gather together the threads of their organization of last year. Finneran, it is expected, will throw his hat in the ring for the S. A. C.
(Continued on Page 11)
Six
The Scholastic
Girl’s Number of‘Juggler’ Appears on Campus Tonight
‘MAC’ DOES COVER
Miss Betty O’Byrne Wins Prize For Written Work; Sketches Of Miss Romanin Best.
By Edmund Stephan
With its feminine finesse and pleasant humor the much looked for “Girl’s Number” of the Juggler will be pre-
Miss Betty O’Byrm:
A Trinity girl with. a ‘-Juggler” key.
sented to the student body this evening.
The Funny Fellow, faced with the difficult task of selecting the best of milady’s work, has completed his labors in the most admirable fashion.
The outstanding humorist of the issue and consequently Juggler key winner was Miss Betty O’Byrne, Trinity College, ’31, whose work in the words of Editor Gorman was “the best a girl has ever submitted to the Juggler”
The art key goes to Miss Evelyn Romanin of Cleveland, Ohio, a frequent contributor. Hei- pen sketches gave her the edge over capable Jane Dow.
The cover, a pretty young lady with a prodigious mop of hair, was handled efficiently by Miss Mavis Mac, Chicago studio artist, who drew the cover for last year’s “Girls’ Number.”
Gus Arnheim To Play For Senior Dance
Gus Arnheim and his “Ace Band of Movieland” have been selected to play for the Senior Ball. This announcement was made today by Al Consolati, chairman of the music committee.
This choice follows a nation-wide search for an orchestra which would be, in the minds of the seniors, the acme of musical perfection.
Soprano Solist, Too
The band itself is composed of nineteen artists. Each man in the band is an accomplished soloist in the art of his own instrument. There are several singers with the band, including the famous Arnheim Ensemble and trio, and Buddy Parkes, nationally known novelty baritone.
In addition to the male chorus, Arnheim also boasts the soprano of an artistic female performer. Those who have heard her at the Winter Gardens in Chicago speak highly of her vocal ability.
Favorite on West Coast
Arnheim and his orchestra are originally from the West Coast, where they played for many years at the Cocoanut Grove near Los Angeles. They have also appeared in movies.
On his first trip to the mid-west, Arnheim was acclaimed and soon became a ranking favorite in the musical cycle of Chicago’s night life. His first stand was at the beautiful Winter Gardens which he raised to the first and highest spot in Chicago’s cabaret list.
In order to appear at the Ball, Arnheim was forced to turn down an offer to appear at the Palace Theater in New York and another offer to play for the Ball at Penn State university, thus sacrificing greater profit to play before a Notre Dame gathering.
Immediately after his performance at the Ball, Arnheim will take his band to the Dells, near Chicago, where he will spend the summer satisfying the musical taste of Chicago’s and Evanston’s dancers.
APODACA SPEAKS AT A.B. FACULTY MEETING
Treats On Ultimate Effects of Machine Production.
By Raymond Waters
Wednesday evening, Instructor Joseph Apodaca, of the Economics Department, delivered a talk entitled “The Ultimate Effects of Modern Machine Productions” before thirty-five members of the Lay Faculty club of the College of Arts and Letters.
Promises Don’t Materialize
In his talk the speaker explained why the promises of a Utopia, which was to be a result of the factory system, failed to materialize. “In so far,” he said, “as capitalism represents a step forward in man’s productive powers, it resembles the previous economic stages; but it differs radically from the previous stages in that it failed to give mankind a degree of contentment commensurate with the potentialities of machine production.”
Calling the machine “that tireless servant of mankind that can toil continuously without fretting or rebelling,” he explained that man, instead of using the servant to best advantage, “has permitted the mechanical slave to go unbridled, to swallow raw materials at a fantastic rate, to create distressing holidays through unemployment, to bring misery and starvation, and to distort man’s sense of values.”
Education Is Answer
Education, through the medium of schools, colleges and the press was recommended as a means of control-ing high powered sales talk and false advertising, “evils,” he said, “which have set false ideals and standards of living for the people.”
The remedy for these evils of the present working order of the ‘machine production’ he summed up in: “When the attitude changes so that the artificial form subsides, protection and monopoly privileges are no longer open to colossal industries, the cetralization and the large-scale enterprises will give way to agriculture and to industries infinitely smaller in scope.”
Do you know that women pay a billion dollars a year for cosmetics?

April 15, 1932
Seven
POPULAR RADIO BAND TO PLAY FOR LAWYERS
Monogram Club Presents Its ‘Gold and Blue Review*
Invitations For Ball Will Be Distributed Next Week.
Ace Brigode and his fourteen-piece jazz orchestra has been chosen to play for the Lawyers’ ball it was announced this week by Harry Busscher, general chairman of the affair.
Brigode, well known in the east, was for some time a feature of the WTAM radio station at Cleveland, and is now broadcasting from WCFL in Chicago. This band has also played at Idorn Park, Youngstown, Ohio; at the Golden Pheasant restaurant in Cleveland, from which it did much of its broadcasting in that city, and played at the William Penn hotel in Pittsburgh.
Guests Subpoenaed
Busscher- said that only recently Brigode and his band finished a contract to make records for the Columbia and Brunswick recording firms. This band makes a specialty of novelty numbers.
Invitations to the Lawyers’ ball this year will be in the usual form of subpoenas. Joseph Moran, chairman of the program committee, has been working on these and announces that they will be ready for distribution next week. The subpoenas and the programs for the dance may be procured Wednesday and Thursday in the law club office of the first floor of the Law building.
Ticket Sale Arranged
Tickets, according to John T. Harrington, chairman of the committee in charge, will be issued so that each lawyer may have two extra. Anyone wishing to purchase a ticket should see one of the following: Raymond J. Reardon, Walsh hall; Lawrence Johnson, off-campus; John Manley, Walsh hall; Joseph F. Deeb, off-campus; Lewis R. Gentili, Sorin hall, or Carl M. Cronin, Sorin hall.
Students Nominate Prexy
By Intei-collegiate Press.
Amherst, Mass., Apr. 14.—A group of Amherst college students, led by Patrick Healy, has proposed that the student council go on record as asking the college trustees to appoint Alfred E. Steams, headmaster of Phillips Andover academy, as the new president of Amherst.
Louis Brennan Story Selected As 1932 Best
Louis Brennan, prominent undergraduate writer, will have his story “Poisoner in Motley” reprinted in this year’s edition of “The Best Short Stories of 1932.”
Confirmation of this came Wednesday when Brennan received a letter
Louis Brennan
O’Brien liked his “Poisoner in Motley”
from Edward O’Brien, foremost critic of the short story, requesting his permission for reprint rights.
The story first appeared in Scrip last June, when Brennan was editor of the publication. Since that time it has received wide praise of a local nature.
By this signal honor Brennan is placed on the top rung of literary accomplishment, which is the more praiseworthy for his extreme youth.
Following is the letter received by Brennan:
My dear Mr. Brennan:
I ask your formal permission to reprint “Poisoner in Motley” in the Best Short Stories of 1932.
Should you grant this permission, it is understood and agreed that all rights in the story will remain vested in you, so far as I and my publishers (Continued on Page 27)
HOFFMAN DIRECTS
Dances, Burlesques, Skits, and Stunts of Lettermen
Score Success.
By John E. Ryan
Did you know that Paul Host'has the most delicate lips that have been seen on the campus in many a month ? that NBC is after Charlie Palt? and htat Chuck Jashwich, alias “Madam Zaza,” can even tell you Hunk Anderson’s latest signals?
These startling facts were all brought out last night when the Monogram club presented its 1932 edition of the “Gold and Blue Revue.”
Grecian Dance A Riot
With the Jugglers in the pit, the Monogram Chorus skipped through several dances; Joe Pivamik chewed something that looked like leather but wasn’t; and J. “Pepper” Perone masqueraded as the Master of Revels.
The Grecian Dance was one of the best burlesques to appear in the Absurdities in the past several years. It was undoubtedly the most absurd, most hilariously funny feature that the Monogram men have succeeded in doing.
“Afternoon Becomes Electricity,” concocted by the versatile Perone between four and five of a dusky morning up in Corby, surpassed his efforts at the recent Bengal Bouts. Perone and Pivarnik are fighting it out to decide whose hair takes the prize.
Madam Zaza failed to create the consternation that threatened when it was announced that she “knew all;” several members of the audience, to our knowledge, held their breath throughout the act wondering if a new form of Stool Pigeon had been invented.
Hallinan Scores
The show on the whole was a credit to Nordy Hoffmann and his hardworking crew, though the dances were deserving of special credit. The skit, “Oh! Professor!” which Paul Hallinan had evidently dashed off in a moment of unphilosophic haste, impressed the audience as a notable addition to the literary creations of the campus.
Eight
The Scholastic
MAYOR OF CLEVELAND ADDRESSES LOCAL CLUB
Praises Students and Urges Cooperation With Alumni.
[Picture on Page 11]
“The men of Notre Dame have given the people of Cleveland a high opinion of the efficiency of the University, and of the students she turns out,” said Mayor Ray T. Miller of Cleveland while addressing the student representation from that city last Tuesday evening.
Mr. Miller went on to discuss the current events taking place in the home city, and the public improvements being made there. In connection with this he advised those present “to get interested in public affairs because a man with any civic pride should be interested in some phase of public life.”
Urges Cooperation
As is the custom at the present time the speaker made a remark to the effect that he supposed all the men were looking for work to be had during the summer, and he sincerely hoped they would not be disappointed in their prospects.
Concerning the club, the mayor pointed out the necessity of the utmost cooperation between the local organization and the alumni group for the purpose of keeping the graduates posted on the affairs of the University, and for the ultimate success in social affairs which is likely to come from such a union.
Introduce Mayor and Wife
Mr. Miller was then introduced to each member of the club, as was Mrs. Miller who accompanied the mayor on his trip.
Professor Clarence Manion addressed a few humorous remarks to the audience, but got off easy with the plea that the mayor had left nothing to be said. However, he made the statement that he was going to hold His Honor to all the promises he had made during the course of the evening.
President Myron Crawford brought the meeting to a close by urging all the members to be present for the forthcoming election of officers for next year which is to take place on Thursday, April 21. The payment of dues has been removed as a qualification for voting.
SPEAKER
Professor Clarence Manion of the Laic School, who gave one of his perennially fine performances in the role of speaker at the Cleveland Club meeting last Tuesday evening.
HIMBERT READS THESIS; DEBATES CRIME NEWS WITH PRESS FORUM
“Should Crime News Be Suppressed by Newspapers” was the title of a thesis read by Arthur Himbert at the first meeting of the Press Forum Wednesday morning, April 6. In his paper Himbert unearthed ample facts to sustain his contention that crime news should not be suppressed.
In an open discussion that followed the reading of the paper Robert McCullough, Circulation Manager of The Ave Maria, commended Himbert on his convincing bit of painstaking research. .
Personally, however, he was opposed to the publication of all crime news. Joseph Petritz, editor of the football Review, was of the opinion that regardless of the steps taken there will always be many crimes in our cities as crime and politics dovetail.
The purpose of the Press Forum organized by Professor John M. Cooney, of the School of Journalism, is to acquaint the juniors in the intricate ways of thesis writing, and to provide current important topics in the newspaper world for discussion. About thirty juniors and seniors were present at the first meeting.
CONTINUES SURVEY WORK
Father O’Hara Will Analyze Queries In Bulletin.
Seven hundred-forty copies of the religious questionnaires, for the Religious Survey of Notre Dame students, 1921-32, have been returned to the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline. A few more are needed before the required number is reached.
The next Survey, which is the tenth of the series, will be published in February, 1932. The reason for the late publication date is that the questionnaires must be analyzed first. A process which takes most of the time during the summer and fall months.
“All the questions the students requested to be answered in the Daily Religious Bulletin I am answering now,” said Father O’Hara. “I’ll be busy with the questions the rest of this month and part of May. When they are finished, I’ll start the analysis for the Survey.”
Advocates Change In
Coach Selecting Policy
By Intercollegiate Press.	.
New Haven, Conn., Apr. 14.—In the future Yale should pick its athletic coaches without regard to where they graduated, the Yale Daily News declared editorially, recently.
“There is no reason,” the News said, “why a graduate of Yale should make a better coach than a non-grad-uate.”
The News criticized the university for its alleged attitude in thinking it could prove its football was not overemphasized merely by pointing to the maintenance of its alumni-coach policy.
“There is little or no connection between the alma mater of the coach and over-emphasis,” the News said.
As a matter of fact, the paper said, the alumnus coach might feel he had to win his game with Harvard at any cost.
“A good coach,” the editorial said, “is a coach who can inspire men with ideas of good sportsmanship and who knows that football is not everything in the player’s life, and who develops a moderately successful football team. In other words, a good coach looks at football in a sensible light.”
April 15, 1932
Nine
N. D. COACHES IN MOVIES
Yarr and Schwartz Sign For Picture With Universal.
Captain Tommy Yarr and March-mont Schwartz, Notre Dame’s All-American football players, recently signed a movie contract with the Universal Motion Picture Corporation.
A movie will be made this summer featuring all the members of Christy Walsh’s All-American team. Yarr and Schwartz, who at present are assistant coaches at Notre Dame, intend to leave for the coast about July 15.
When asked to make a statement Schwartz, speaking for the two, said: “We are anxious to visit the coast and not have to worry about beating Southern Cal.”
Law Dean Speaks To Clubs
Dean Thomas F. Konop, of the College of Law, delivered two addresses before South Bend clubs last week. His subject was “Sidewalks in Congress.” The clubs addressed were the Young Men’s Club of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and the Y. S. Men’s Club.
The dean discussed the proceedings in Congress for the passage of revenue bills.
Ray Donlan, John Dorgan, and Oliver F. Field, graduates of the College of Law, passed the March bar examinations given by the state of Illinois.
Editor Charges That Students Cheat in Exams; Insult Prexy
By Intercollegiate Press.
Montgomery, Ala., April 14.—Because it was thought by the board of trustees that an investigation would be injurious to the college, a movement for an inquiry into affairs at Alabama Polytechnic Institute at Auburn has been dropped.
The investigation was asked hy Victor H. Hanson, publisher of the Birmingham News and The Age-Herald and a trustee of the college, after reports of flagrant cheating by students in examinations and of a department head’s disloyalty to Bradford Knapp, the president. Hanson withdrew the request when Dr. Knapp said he knew of no disloyaHy and that he resented charges of cheating in examinations.
LIBRARIAN
Professor John Whitman of the Lazo School, who will address the more and more active Pre-Law Club next Tuesday evening.
RUSSIAN COSSACK CHORUS TO GIVE PROGRAM OF NATIVE FOLK MUSIC
The Russian Cossack Chorus, world-famed musical organization, will present a number of songs at 8 o’clock Thursday evening, April 21, in Washington hall.
The program will be especially unique in so far as the group will sing in various languages. Folksongs, ballads, and marches make up the main portion of the entertainment. Music by Tchaikovsky, Turen-coff, Davidovsky and other noted composers are featured.
Sergei Sokoloff directs the chorus. He has been with it for a number of years, and has been responsible for a greater portion of the success with which his singers have met on their world-wide tour. His own arrangements of a “Medley of Folk-Songs’’ and “The Ballad of Kudear” will be sung.
Co-ed Enrolls At Hobo College
By Intercollegiate Press.
Chicago, Apr. 14. — The famous Hobo college here was excited last week when it received as one of its students its first co-ed. She was a buxom blonde from Nebraska.
SNAPSHOT CONTEST IS
ANNOUNCED BY EDITOR
Three Prizes Will Be Awarded For Best Campus Photos.
In a final effort to wind up the snapshot section of the 1932 Dome, the editor is announcing another of his cash prize contests.
The prizes for this contest, which will end at midnight on April 25, will be: one five dollar and two two-dollar awards.
The first prize of five dollars will go to the person handing in the most pictures that will be of use in the contest. The second prize will be awarded to the one presenting the best snapshot of a students’ room. The third prize will be awarded in consideration of originality of the snapshot in any view taken on the campus. Pictures of things, outside the campus will be considered, but with restriction. The object is to get a snappy ending for the book.
The judges will be James B. Clark, managing editor; Leslie Raddatz, editor; and Arthur Becvar, art editor. Send all contributions to J. B. Clark, Room 137, Alumni hall, or in care of the Dome, at the Publicaitons’ office.
Rutgers Is Privately Owned So Two Million Goes to Waste
By Intercollegiate Press.
Freehold, N. J., April 14.—Because New Jersey has no state university, other than Rutgers, which is a private institution with state aid, more than 82,000,000 in bequests and contributions intended for a state university have been lost, according to Albert J. Dear, Jr., president of the league for a free state university.
That amount, he said has been given to a state institution, only to find that Rutgers is a private institution.
Gilroy, Calif., April 14.—Twice in one week Will Rogers, Jr., son of the humorist, and a freshman at Stanford university, was arrested on traffic charges here. He didn’t have any wisecracks ready for the police.
Six trees given by members of early graduating classes of Whitman college have been planted at intervals about the campus.
Ten
The Scholastic
ELECTRICAL EXPERT ASTONISHES AUDIENCE
Dr. Thomas Works Wonders With Wires, Coils, Batteries.
By Paul Foley
Brilliant orange sparks crackled and eerie green lights flashed as Dr. Philip Thomas, consulting engineer of the Westinghouse Electrical company presided over his table of wires and coils in the auditorium of the Engineering building, last Tuesday night.
The huge indirect lighting system of the auditorium flickered and went out altogether under the impulse of a photo-electrical cell operated by the simple impulse of Dr. Thomas’ breath; the glare of a match proved sufficient to cause their re-lighting as the Doctor ran through his reper-torie of electrical miracles.
Light Beam Obeys
Even the every-day telephone was made to perform entirely alien, and amazing feat as the speaker manipulated the dial. The spoken word over the microphone was made to operate a light beam, which in turn stimulated a photo-electric cell that obeyed commands to turn out lights, switch on fans, and actually counted the numbers which the dial indicated.
These many novel examples were, however, merely laboratory experiments to illustrate the extreme sensitiveness of the “electric eye,” or the photo-electric cell, a by-product of the radio vacuum tube.
Doctor Thomas, in addition to his experiments with this type of apparatus, commented extensively on the various means of therostatic control, and the harmonics of the electrical impulse.
Ball In Charge
The speaker, who was formerly a member of the engineering faculty of Princeton university, was introduced by Hugh Ball, chairman of the Notre Dame brance of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, under whose auspices the lecture was given.
“As among the highest attainments of civilization, every girl should prepare herself for a career, but at. the same time should not lose sight of marriage,” said- Dorothy Becker, Temple university May Queen in a radio talk last week.
ACTOR
Boger Beirne
He did more than justice to one of Philip Barry's best roles last Sunday evening in the Theater Guild production “In a Garden.”
Seminar Hears Paper On Paternalism In Nat’l Gov’t
Erskine Edwards, freshman in the College of Law, delivered a paper Tuesday on “Paternalism” at the meeting of the economic seminar. Edwards discussed paternalism in the national government and brough up the problem as to what extent this policy of centralizing the control of the country should be carried out.
A resume of Edward’s paper is as follows:
The growth of Paternalism, which is excessive regulation of private affairs and business methods of the people, has been concurrent in this country with the centralization of power in the federal government.
The government through a vast bureaucracy now gathers antiquated and useless material which it furnishes to business. Through the Foreign Commerce service the government protects the foreign interests of domestic business.
The government has entered into the field of morals legislation through such an act as the prohibition amendment, and has attempted to legislate concerning child labor and the conduct of education. Legislation in regard to these problems should be handled by the commonwealths rather than thrust on the whole country through a minority.
S.B. GUILD CLOSES SEASON
Bierne and Allingham Receive Acclaim in “In A Garden.”
By John E. Ryan
Featuring the work of two prominent campus actors, Roger Paul Bierne and George Allingham, the Theatre Guild of South Bend closed its season this week with the presentation of Philip Barry’s “In a Garden.”
Since his arrival upon the dramatic when he took part in the University Theatre’s production of “Journey’s End,” Bierne has pleased one audience after another, culminating his career thus far with the portrayal of Adrian Terry, the dramatist-lover of scene of the campus several years ago Barry’s fine play.
Bierne Plays Lead
With greater ease than he has shown before, Bierne gave a remarkable interpretation of the emotional stress under which Barry presents his leading character.
Allingham likewise carried his part well, playing the former lover of the dramatist’s wife. The difficulties of the third act, particularly on the small stage of the Jefferson school, provided obstacles which the cast was forced to cope with as best it could, yet the performance most certainly ranks with the best that the Guild, in its highly successful season, has accomplished.
Miss Romona Dalenberg, Miss Virginia Byers, Mr. Albert Philion, and Mr. George Fassnacht, all of South Bend, were the other members of the remarkable troupe of artists who worked under the direction of James Casaday.
Latest Senior Grades Are For Honor Ratings Only
The list of seniors’ grades which was posted recently is for honor ratings only, and is not the basis upon which the qualitative average for graduation depends. The list contains the averages for the first seven semesters and does not include the present semester. The qualitative average, however, is that of the eight semesters of the college cours.
The regulations governing the matter are to be found on page 63 of the General Bulletin of the University.
<
April 15, 1932
Eleven
LAWYERS HONOR HOYNES
Prominent Alumni Give Talks At Annual Law Banquet.
Dean Emeritus Colonel William Hoynes was honored last evening by the Law club of the Notre Dame College of Law at a banquet held in the lay faculty dining hall of the University. The affair was scheduled for March 21st, but was later postponed.
Among the prominent alumni who were present at the banquet and who gave speeches were Ray T. Miller, mayor of Cleveland; the Hon. J. Elmer Peak, Superior Court Judge of St. Joseph county; G. A. Farabaugh; William Bergen; Vitus Jones; Senator Robert Proctor of Elkhart, Indiana; James Deery, city attorney, Indianapolis; and Judge Fing, Mishawaka.
Last evening’s banquet was the most successful of any of the previous annual affairs. One hundred students and guests were present. Many of the alumni who attended were students at Notre Dame under Colonel Hoynes.
The name of Colonel Hoynes is held in the highest esteem at the law school, the new building being named in his honor. The history of his campus life has truly been the history of the College itself.
N. D. NIGHT MONDAY
(Continued from Page 5)
of Holy Cross and the faculty will speak before neighboring clubs.
Hopes for a national radio hook-up are being entertained. The clubs are also co-operating with Alumni headquarters in arranging numerous programs from local stations throughout the country in an effort to bring the proceedings to the attention of a maximum number of friends.
In discussing the plans, James J. Armstrong, Alumni secretary, said: “The Alumni office anticipates a more widespread observance in number and scope than any previous night; yes, in spite of the depression.
“At the gatherings, several projects of the Association will be introduced. Movements by local clubs to sponsor retreats for members will be urged through an article by a New York alumnus which is being sent to club officers. New York and New Jersey alumni have been particularly aggressive in furthering this type of activity in their respective communities.”
HIS HONOR
Mayor Raymond T. Miller
Who spent several days on the campus during the past week and was a guest of the Cleveland club at a special meeting.
Dr. Walsh To Lecture Here In Washington Hall Tonight
Tonight at 8:00 o’clock Dr. James J. Walsh, M.D., will lecture in Washington hall on “The Mexico-Yucatan Situation.”
Dr. Walsh is widely known as a lecturer and a physician, and especially to this campus having made an annual trip here every year. His home town is New York City.
To Give German Concert
The German club of the University is sponsoring a German concert to be given by twelve singers of the South Bend Tumerverein, Tuesday, April 19th at 8:00 p. m. in the auditorium of the Law building. All those interested in music and in German are invited to attend.
PRIMARIES ON APRIL 27th
(Continued from Page 5)
chairmanship against James Gerund, but whether this will deter him from managing a Senior ticket is not known.
Kramer announced yesterday that in order to be eligible for an office in the senior class, the candidate must graduate next year. Six hours of deficiency will disqualify the other contestants.
The Blue Circle will be on hand to aid in keeping order at the polls on the election dates, John Perone announced today. '
JAN GARBER TO PLAY FOR K. OF C. FORMAL
Chairman Conway Announces Final Plans For Dance.
Jan Garber and his famous orchestra have been selected to play for the annual Formal of the Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, to be held May 6 at the Palais Royale. Dancing is to be from 8:30 to 12.00.
Gerald Conway, chairman of the ball, who made the announcement of an orchestra this week, stated that Garber and his celebrated band are at present in Kansas City broadcasting nightly, and that they will play here as a part of a nation wide tour they are making. Cities in which the band has had engagements are in every section of the country, including: Los Angeles, Detroit, New York, Pittsburgh, Chicago, St. Paul, and Miami. Garber’s orchestra is noted for its soft, slow music.
Novel Favors Assured
The favors of the dance were also announced by Chairman Conway, and will consist of something novel in the way of hammered brass with tinted enamel baked fronts. The nature of these favors, however, is to be kept secret till the night of the dance.
Three hundred and seventy-five tickets have been distributed by John Cahill, chairman of the ticket committee, among his assistants. Tickets may be secured from: William Murphy, Off-Campus; Jack Jaeger, Alumni hall; Irwin Crotty, Dillon hall; Peter Conncelly, Badin hall; August Von Boecklin, Lyons hall; Joseph Dunn, Off-Campus; Joseph Nugent, Walsh hall; Francis Marley, Sorin hall; Charles Bolger, St. Edward’s hall; Samuel West, Carroll hall; and Charles Nash, Corby hall.
The sale will close May 1.
Astronomist Visions World
A universe containing millions of worlds, some of them dead and others inhabited by beings as far superior to mankind as men are to single cells, is visioned by Dr. William D. MacMillan, professor of mathematical astronomy at the University of Chicago.
Six hairs said to have been cut from George Washington’s head have been given to the New York Public Library.
Twelve
The Scholastic
‘Juggler’ Keeps Pace With Leaders In National Poll
STEFFEL BACK ON CAMPUS
‘Dome’ Photographer Here For Few Days; Praises Raddatz.
LEADS IN MID-WEST
California “Pelican” Receives Unanimous Choice of the West Coast.
The Notre Dame Juggler surged ahead in the mid-west division of the National College Comic poll this week, it was announced today by Neil C. Hurley, editor of The Scholastic.
The balloting is under the direction of The Scholastic, with the authorization of the National College Comic association.
The California Pelican, thus far the unanimous choice of the West coast editors, still retains its place at the head of the national list by amassing a comfortable number of votes over any of the other undergraduate humor magazines.
One Vote Per Editor
Each editor of a university comic publication is entitled to one vote, which he may cast for any of the other magazines in his section. Winners will then be sent to Russell Patterson, nationally-known artist; John Lansinger, published of College Humor; and George Eggelston, editor of Life.
When the final victor has been established by this group, they will be presented with an original drawing by an outstanding American artist, not as yet selected.
"Exact figures are not available,” Hurley declared yesterday, "but it is safe to say that the leaders now are the Cornell Widow, the Texas Longhorn, the Wisconsin Octopus, the Pennsylvania Punch Bowl, the California Pelican, and the Notre Dame Juggler.”	'
A Close Sectional Race
Others, such as the Rammer Jammer of Alabama, are still very much in the running. At the present writing it would be very difficult to pick the ultimate sectional winner in any division but the West, where California seems to have the matter well in hand.	-
The Scholastic some time ago requested-that it might be allowed to hold such a contest and was given the permission of the National College Comic Association.	*
Flowers And Cheers Greet Len Donaghue
By Neil C. Hurley
In a manner befitting the triumphant return of a national championship football team, Sorin hall last Tuesday welcomed back home Len Donoghue, who for several weeks has
Charles Spangenburg
He left a class-mate talking to himself.
been incapacitated by an appendicitis operation.
Alily-strewn path, flanked by blankets and brilliant-hued placards, stretched from the creaky door of traditional Sorin to the portals of Len’s room on the first floor.
Signs, calling attention to such flamboyant remarks as “Hi, Boy. Hi Boy,” and “Well, Well, Len—What Ho!” were pasted about the corridor walls.
Taken altogether it was a splendid outlay, one that exen taxed the ingenuity of Charles Spangenburg and Willy Brown.
When the truant Donoghue was sighted upon rounding the post-office, bells- in the hall were rung. Whistles blew. Men cheered. Wardell shouted.
Spangenburg, just elected mayor of Notre Dame, and donned in a '(Continued on Page 14)	’
Joseph Steffel, official photographer for the 1932 Dome, returned to the campus this week to spend a few days with John Stoeckley, graduate manager of Publications.
Steffel, who has been affiliated with White studios for several years, appeared at Notre Dame this week in a new role. He is now manager of the College annual department of the Arthur studios in New York.
“The engravings of the pictures which we took earlier in the year are great,” he declared to Editor Leslie Raddatz. “The detail of the Senior
•and' Junior photos is well brought out. The Dome will be one of the best student annuals.”
Steffel is on his way from Syracuse university, where he has just completed taking all of the pictures for the college year-book there.
Wooten Speaks to Commerce Men on Public Utilities
William Wooten, editor of “Public Utilities” magazine, addressed a group of Commerce seniors on the subject of regulation of Public Utilities, Monday afternoon in the auditorium of the Law building.
“The right to regulate imposes the duty to protect,” declared the speaker who is one of the leading spokesmen for utilities, and a cousin of the late Judge Wooten of the Notre Dame Law school. •
“Publicity is necessary to protect the holding company as a untility institution. Utilities must confess the faults of this form of organization and show the good points which overbalance the faults,” summarized the main theme of the lecture.
A new chapel and a new theater, standing side by side were dedicated last week at Rollins college.
FOUND
A brown leather brief case bearing the initials C. H. W. has been found. The owner may have same by identifying it at the Lost and Found department
April 15, 1932
Thirteen
SCIENCE MEETING HELD
Papers Presented To Academy By Catizone, Wenninger.
Publicity Chairman Urges Price Reduction For Ball
The Notre Dame Academy of Science held its regular meeting last Monday evening, April 11, in Science hall. Roy Catizone, secretary of the Academy, presented a paper entitled “Six Thousand Years of Medicine,” while Fred Wenninger gave a biographical sketch of George Leopold Cuvier, great French scientist of the early nineteenth century. Both papers were very interesting and were well received.
Following the presentation of these papers, a spirited business session was held during which an amendment to change the date of election of officers from September to May was voted down.
Announcement was made that a sound movie produced by the Eli Lilly Company, of Indianapolis, will be shown in Washington hall on May 18. This movie is the only one of its kind ever made and the College of Science is to be considered fortunate in having secured it for a showing at Notre Dame.
Magazine Carries Article By Professor Kohlbrenner
Appearing in the April number of the Catholic Educational Review is an article entitled “Beginnings of Federal Government Relations to Education,” written by Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, instructor in the Department of Education.
The article is a study of the passage of the Federal Ordinances of 1785 and 1787, and of their educational provisions. Mr. Kohlbrenner finds that there is no precedent in this legislation for the extreme provisions in President Hoover’s advisory committee which urges the establishment of a Federal department of education.
NOTICE!
Applications for the Spectators’ Club are now being received. Blanks may be obtained either from Edmund Stephan, president, 236 Alumni hall, or from John Pick, secretary, 344 Alumni.
Former Editor
Visits Campus For Few Days
Emil L. Telfel, editor of The Scholastic last year, returned to Notre Dame this week en route to his home in New Jersey. Telfel has been doing newspaper work on a tabloid
Emil L. Telfel
A Texan shot his boss.
in Longview, Texas, where he served as city editor.
During his stay here, he addressed a meeting of the present Scholastic staff.
“The typography of the paper is great,” he told the reportorial division. “Head-lines and splendid editorial comment, coupled with a genuine appreciation of news values, are making a name for The Scholastic in the outside world.
“Features, a surprising amount o£ news coverage, and a general attitude of aggressiveness and progressiveness are counting strongly. It is better than ever before.”
While working on the Texas tabloid, Telfel continuing the editorial vehemence that last year won him the admiration of the campus, found his opposition using bullets instead of verbal rebuke. On one occasion a bullet barely grazed his head, and again, the publisher was severely wounded when an aggressor, disturbed by Telfel’s verbosity, shot him in the back.
FLAYS $5 FAVORS
Sees Senior Ball As Ignoble Experiment If $12.50 Charge Is Retained By Committee.
The Senior Ball dance committee were urged today to slash the price of $12.50, which they are asking for a ticket. Edmund Brit'z, chairman of the Publicity committee, in an open letter declared that unless this was done immediately the Ball would be “destined to become an ignoble experiment.”
Stating that the chairmen have prepared a budget “with a 1929 atmosphere, but are asking the class to pay with 1932 dollars,” Britz upbraided those in charge with fiery epithets.
The letter is said to be the opinion of a majority of the members of the Senior class. It follows:
AN OPEN LETTER TO THE SENIOR BALL COMMITTEE:
Gentlemen:
The Senior Ball of 1932 is destined to become an ignoble experiment if you persist in your intentions to maintain the price of $12.50 per ticket. This is no idle warning,—you must have given it thought, serious thought; your canvass of the senior class for attendance pledges bears conclusive testimony.
Why should the Ball be a failure? Because you have prepared a budget with a 1929 atmosphere and ask the class to pay for its tickets with 1932 dollars; because no senior will pay a price of $12.50, knowing that approximately $5.00 will go towards a favor, and only $4.00 towards an orchestra for both the Ball and tea dance, giving him cause to wonder whether he is financing a senior “shower” or a class dance; because you have allowed the budget figures of past dances to take precedence over your common sense, and are depending for financial support on pledges of sand.
Six hundred dollars has been lopped off the budget so far, totally eliminating decorations and publicity, and reducing the favors budget. Does not that call for a price reduction in tickets? Is it forthcoming? Is it (Continued on Page 28)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
RECITAL AT ST. MARTS
K Man About the Campus - Charles Weiss
By Roy Scholz
Charley Weiss, the man about the campus who lives off campus. His home is ours temporarily — South Bend.
The first extensive traveling Charlie ever did was walking from his home to Notre Dame to witness some athletic contests. He cherished the idea of receiving his higher education at this University, and has memories of the time when Walsh was the Gold Coast, and Sorin harbored athletes. Paul Castner, who was the captain of the hockey team, caused Charley to stand on the banks of St. Joseph lake for hours at a time, watching in silent admiration, the skill of an expert hockey player.
Six In On A Pass
With a smile he recalls the days when season passes were sold to the business men of South Bend for five dollars. Somehow or other he managed to acquire one of them, and with his “gang” of six he used to march toward Cartier field. One would enter with the pass which would be slipped back through a crack in the fence (there were many) to be used over again.
After graduation from high school Charlie’s dream came true—he entered Notre Dame.
When the call for freshmen football candidates was issued he was among the two hundred who answered. The aspirants were lined up and all over six feet tall were given the 100 available uniforms. Charlie was only five - eleven. Not to be daunted by this and still desiring to be near the team he enlisted in the army of freshmen managers and soon was cleaning uniforms and carrying water.
Works To Success
He was an exact and diligent worker, and at the end of the sophomore year we find him one of the twelve managers surviving.
At this time the Athletic association was confronted by the problem of procuring gatemen and ushers for the new stadium. It was evident that at least 800 would be needed, which was too great a number to hire, or recruit from the student body. Halpin, the new senior mana
ger, suggested a plan by which the men of South Bend would be offered the job of ushering in return for free attendance at the game.
The plan was accepted, and Charlie was given the job of organizing the club. He visited the executives of the
Charles Weiss
They wouldn’t give him a uniform.
various concerns, colleges and high schools of South Bend, and by Fall over 1200 were enrolled in the Ushers club.
On March 24th Knute Rockne appointed Charles Weiss associate manager of football and personnel manager of the stadium. During the first part of this year he traveled with the team.
Directs Interhall
At the end of the football season, however, he was without a job, and then was appointed manager of interhall sports, a position which he still holds. He organizes and directs interhall track, basketball, swimming, golf, playground ball, and may attempt for the first time an interhall tennis tournament.
Besides attending to all of these duties, Weiss found time to help organize the German club of which he is president, to hold the office of secretary and treasurer of the Ushers club and to take an active part in the activities of the Villagers.
Thus, for the time being, is concluded the story of a Man About the Campus who lives Off-Campus.
Difficult Dramatic Pieces Are Presented by Jean Beach.
Members of the audience gathered at St. Mary’s College on Tuesday evening last gained something of an insight into the dramatic ability of the young women when Miss Jean Beach, of Chicago, Ill., presented her recital.
Miss Beach, who is studying under the direction of Miss F. Theresa Chissholm, chose for her readings four numbers extremely difficult to give. In Atelier, by Aldrich, a monodrama, was the opening number, followed by a scene from The Taming of the Shrew, in which Miss Beach did particularly well with the part of Petruchio.
Alfred Noyes’ The River of Stars, the story of an Indian girl and her lover, was decidedly well done, but Miss Beach, in closing her program with The Twelve Pound Look, a one-act play by J. M. Barrie, proved conclusively that she is no mere dilettante in the fine art of play reading.
J. E. R.
LEN DONOGHUE CHEERED
(Continued from Page 12)
frock coat with tails, and a bow tie, stepped to the door-way and personally escorted the ex-absent student to a hastily constructed “mike,” which was erected from a handy alarm clock and a discarded floor lamp.
“Sorin is glad to have you back,” he shouted, amid the cheers and shouts of sixty or seventy of Sorin’s inmates. “And how’s the operation.”
But the world will never know about that operation. For this writer, together with the once cheering crowd, stole silently away after an hour of patiently listening to a scis-sors-by-scissors account of what transpired before and after the ether was applied.
Depression? Just Publicity of Wrong Kind, Says Dr. Miller
By Intercollegiate Press.
Philadelphia, Pa., Apr. 14.—“Publicity of the wrong kind,” is what has made the depression so bad, according to Dr. Clyde R. Miller of Columbia university, who spoke at the University of Pennsylvania here last week.
His theory can be summed up in “too unfounded optimism.”
April 15, 1932
Fifteen
KNIGHTS ELECT DELEGATE
HISTORY
Louis Buckley Will Represent N; D. Council at Capitol.
BECVAR, ARTIST, ATHLETE AMATEUR PHILOSOPHER
Louis Buckley, district deputy of the Knights of Columbus and past Grand Master of the Notre Dame council, was elected by the council as delegate to the State convention to be held May 16 and 17 at Indianapolis. The election took place Monday at a meeting of the council in their Walsh hall chambers.
As alternatives to Mr. Buckley, Edward Barrett and Robert Streb were elected. Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the council, and Eli Abraham, financial secretary, were also chosen to attend the convention at the expense of the council. Grand Knight James Collins will attend by virtue of his office.
Because of the work Professor William L. Benitz has done in connection with the building fund, the council at the Monday meeting extended him a vote of thanks.
Professor Daniel O’Grady addressed the council concerning the attitude of present college men in comparison with that of men of former times. Professor O’Grady read from books written by men who attended the universities of England in the latter nineteenth century.
A brief entertainment was presented by a novelty band from South Bend.
Miss Johnson Takes A Good Picture, So Prof. Marries Her
By Intercollegiate Press.
Abilene, Tex., Apr. 14.—Miss Carol Johnson, a beauty queen at Simmons university, is to sail for Holland this month to be married, following a romance of two years which begun because her picture was in the college year-book as one of the pretty girls on the campus.
Dr. A. L. Van Assenderp of Holland, a youthful university professor, saw her picture in the year book and wrote to her. The correspondence developed, and two months ago Dr. Assenderp came here to see his fiance. That settled things.
Twenty-five pupils are now attending school in a little building erected on recently reclaimed land where the waters of Zuyder Zee rolled less than two years ago.
Ed. Note: The folloiving items have reference to events which have taken place since the last issue of the SCHOLASTIC, blit which have lost considerable news value because of their age. Hence the title.
Graduate manager of Publications, John Stoeckley, together with Juggler men, Robert Gorman and Eugene
Eugene Fleckenstein
Did you ever go to a convention and be elected chairman.
Fleckenstein, sat in on the Mid-West College Comic convention during the vacation days. Fleckenstein was honored with the chairmanship of the session.
Fourteen members of University politics classes preferred a four-day trip to Washington to a visit home. Chaperoned by Professor Paul Bartholomew, the students scanned every nook and crevice of the Capitol, heard Senate debates, suggested depression remedies.
Chicago and Met Club Eastern dances were social, and, much more important these days, financial successes. “Bud” Groves and Ed. Kosky are once more getting their usual quota of sleep.
Notre Dame debaters locked horns with an alert University of Florida squad a few days ago on the question of government planning in industry. Many a word flew thick and fast, but the audience, acting as judge, went the way of the southerners.
(Continued on Page 27)
Numbers Among His Talents Football, Baseball, Golf.
Versatility is probably Arthur Bec-var’s outstanding characteristic; he is one of the best artists ever to attend Notre Dame, a keen student of philosophy, and at the same time an athlete. In addition to doing art work for the Dome and Juggler, he has found time to play interhall football, basketball and baseball, and to make the golf team.
Shines In “Dome”
When the Dome of 1932 appears next month, Art Becvar will for the first time really receive some of the credit due him. He has been drawing for the Juggler for the upast two years, but his cartoons and wash drawings, good as they are, do not do him justice. It is difficult for a real artist to turn himself into a Peter Arno once a month. In the Dome, however, he is more in his element. There he can do work in oils and in pencil (his pencil sketch of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., drawn from life, is one of the best likenesses of the president ever made).
Intent on becoming a good artist, Art last summer took a course in Venice. The water colors which he made there were exhibited abroad, at the library here, at . a water-color exhibition in New York, at the Hoosier Salon in Chicago, and at various exhibits in South Bend. The pictures contain all the brilliance and romance of Venice itself.
The Romanticist
Becvar, essentially masculine, delights in going to art exhibits where middle-aged women, who fancy themselves artistic, tell him how romantic he is. He returns from these exhibits to laugh over them as he eats unromantic stew and pudding (in the cafeteria at that) before going to his room to read unromantic philosophy or to draw unromantic pictures of the Law building for the Dome.
The twenty-four fraternities at Stanford university have been barred from further rushing or pledging activities until next November as a result of charges of illegal tactics between the fraternities.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
N. D, Grad Begins Articles On German Academic Life
CONVENTION TO BE HELD
Law Students Will Stage Mock Political Convention.
The following article by William ‘Karl, dispatched from Berlin early this month, is the first of a series that 'will appear in The Scholastic on German student life.
Karl, who was news editor of The Scholastic last year, is at present studying aeronautics at the Berlin Technical college.
The editors believe the folloiving and future dispatches present one of the truest pictures of German devel-oppment since the war. The SCHOLASTIC, proudly printing them, believes their significance will be more than local.
By William Karl
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE ' To the Notre Dame Scholastic News Dept. Copyright 1932, by Notre Dame Scholastic.
BERLIN, April 4.—The economic transition of the past decade has so altered the German academic picture that a good deal written prior to the war would not be so antiquated as to present absolute distortion of fact if applied to the present.
Furthermore, the films have done their share in showing what University life is not, even as life on the American college campus has been manufactured for the benefit of the theatre going public.
Post-War Attendance Large
Since the pre-war period, the attendance at German universties has risen 75%, with the male figures surging upward to a 49% addition. It is to be added, too, that the largest proportion of students are from families of lesser means.
This mass production of graduates, continually producing keener competition, coupled with the already mentioned difficult financial circumstances in which most students find themselves, has succeeded in producing a type of student who knows where his goal lies and seeks the shortest path to it — a type, be it said, that is different from those whose career the war interrupted.
Today there are about 35 universities and technical colleges in Germany, all of them state-owned; which, as one can see, provides a much to be desired uniformity in curriculum.
Before one is admitted to one of these universities he must have “made his arbiturium,” which means he must have passed the final examinations which are given as soon as he has spent the required time in the “Real-gymnasium” or school of equivalent
William Karl
He's learning how to fly in the Fatherland.
grade. No other entrance requirement is, as a rule, required.
After the applicant has filled out the necessary papers, he pays his fee, according to where and when he will be matriculated.
At the appointed day and hour, after having received a student card and a “belegbuch,” or schedule book, those to be matriculated meet with the “Rektor,” who gives a short address of welcome and a few words of advice, proceeding then to shake the hand of each candidate. This is all of the German ceremony.
Rektor, the Greeter
Since these matriculations are. held about twice a week over a period of six weeks, the Rektor, or President, is able to personally greet everyone who enters the University, even in so large an institution as Berlin with its 15,000 students.
After matriculation the student makes out his schedule, writing each course, its number and hours per week, in his “belegbuch.”
This he hands in at the office with a self-addressed envelope and in a few days he receives a bill for the semester, corresponding in size to the number of hours he has chosen. This bill must be paid at the post office before the “belegbuch” may be called for.
(Continued in next week’s Scholastic)
Students in the College of Law are making preparations to hold a mock Democratic convention during the first week of May. The purpose of the convention is to train the law students in parliamentary organization and practice.
Ninety-five delegates will represent the entire college membership at the meeting. Each class will elect one delegate for every ten students or a major fraction thereof. In the convention there will be twenty-three classes represented, each of the classes being considered as a state.
The following students constitute the committee in charge of this convention: H. A. Busscher, J. A. Bitter, T. A. Cannon, T. J. Morawski, S. A. Bontempo, H. P. Giorgio, and E. J. Hart.
Judge William M. Cain, and Dean Thomas F. Konop are the advisers of the proceedings. They are in ■ charge of the election of delegates and the general handling of the convention.
Philosophy Majors To Be Examined On May 9th
Comprehensive examinations for arts and letters students majoring in philosophy will be held May 9 in Science hall, the Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., head of the department, announced yesterday.
Students registered in the combined A.B.-LL.B. program will be examined in Room 301. All other students will be examined in Room 311. Examinations will begin promptly at 4 o’clock.
Unless for reasons of serious illness or authorized absence from the University, failure to be present for these examinations will prevent the student from graduating in June.
Pre-Law Club Notice!
Pre-Law club members will meet in the Law building Tuesday evening at eight o’clock according to an announcement by Francis Fallon, president.
Tickets for the Law Club formal will be available to each member of the junior organization and one guest.
April 15, 1932
Seventeen
Joseph A. Toussaint
BALL MODERNISTIC AT K. C. TO-NIGHT
First Formal Of
Engineers Club
Miss Mary Mahin
Miss Mary It. Walter
Raymond L. Pfeiffer
Stoneburner To
Furnish Music
'	Everything is in readiness today
for the first annual Engineers’ Ball ever to be given under the auspices of the Engineers’ club. General Chairman Joseph Toussaint and his band of committeemen completed preparations early this morning for what promises to be one of the best of the season’s social activities.
Black and Silver
The dance is to be held at the , Knights of Columbus ballroom in South Bend, with Glenn Stoneburner and his Kilties furnishing the music. The ballroom has been decorated with a modernistic motif under the direction of Nate Altman, chairman of the t decorations committee. The black and silved color scheme usually associated with things modernistic will be utilized by. the engineers, but the play of changeable colored lights upon the huge fan-shaped designs will j lend an original effect.
The center of the stage in the rear will be adorned with a semi-elliptical fan in black and silver. The wings will be decorated with quarter ellipses of the same design. The background 1 consists of black crepe paper and in the center of the stage behind the orchestra there will be a revolving cylinder of varied colors.
The music will start at nine o’clock and continue until midnight. President Pfeiffer has arranged that students attending the dance will be allowed twelve-thirty permissions.
The Kilties are well known in South Bend by virtue of their long engagement at the South Bend Inn. The band has enjoyed considerable
THE COMMITTEES
General Chairman — Joseph Toussaint.
Decorations — Nate Altman, chairman; Al White, Noble Harbaugh, Ray Boyce, Hugh Ball, • Jack Lambert, Leo Freitas, Edward Riley, Nate Lerman, Pete Trolio, Len Blommart, Jim Malcolm, Adrian Waskerman, and Russell Gramer.
Tickets. — Frank Murray, chairman; R. Fitzsimmons, T. David, T. Skeehan, E. Calhoun, F. O’Connor, L. D. Lopker, E. Troy, G. Shields, R. Shields, M. Saleh, and J. Andres.
Arrangements—Felix Frank.
Publicity—Gregory Franzwa.
Patrons—Gerald Hodges.
Program—Joseph Nugent and John Bleeg.
popularity with Notre Dame students.
The programs for the dance are In black and gold. The dances are named for the six departments of the College of Engineering and the four classes, senior, junior, sophomore, and freshman.
Pfeiffer Is President
The officers of the Engineers’ club are Raymond L. Pfeiffer, president; Francis J. O’Connor, vice-president; Daniel F. Cassidy, secretary; Peter Barbeck, junior secretary. Pfeiffer will have as his guest Friday night Miss Mary Kathryn Walter, of South Bend. General Chairman Joseph Toussaint will accompany Miss Mary Mahin, also of South Bend.
Patrons Are Announced
The patrons for the dance were announced last week by Gerald Hodges, chairman of that committee. The Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering, is an honorary patron. Others include Professors A. J. Boyle, E. A. Coomes, V. F. Fagan, P. I. Fenlon, F. W. Horan, F. W. Kervick, E. G. Mahin, J. A. Northcott, R. E. Rich, R. J. Schubmehl, W. L. Shilts, K. B. Smith, and K. R. Weigand, all of the College of Engineering.
Eighteen	The Scholastic
SHE’S A MAN
A freshman at St. Mary’s college by the name of Garbo is on the football team. Imagine 100,-000 rabid fans yelling Garbo.
SHEATS AND KELLY
The director of the College Players at the University of Dayton is a man by the name of Frankenstein.
ABSURD
"It’s an ill wind . . .”. The theft of the costumes intended for the performance of Spanish Blades by the Princeton Triangle club resulted in the most successful presentation ever given by the students. The "chorus girls” appeared in trousers and the beards of the leading “ladies” glistened gloriously under the spotlights as the audience roared in enjoyment at the latest edition of the comedy of errors.
ALL THERE
This might be interesting to you pre-medics, pre-lawyers, etc. Did you know that for every 10,000 families in these United States there are 50 physicians, 41 lawyers, 22 dentists, and 76 ministers? We didn’t either.
TRIANGLE
The dean of Nebraska university lists three reasons for freshmen flunking out: love, intoxication, and faculty intelligence.
CULTURE, AT LEAST
“Nut Culture” is one of the courses offered at Oklahoma A. and M. college. In order to prevent any ambiguity the catalogue adds, “study of pecans, walnuts, etc., not maniacs.”
SAFE
Massachusetts Institute of Technology has 12,-000 locks with 40,000 keys to safeguard rooms and buildings on the campus.
QUITE
Wellesley college girls have adopted a resolution to not speak to each other as they walk j across the campus. They claim that greeting the i same person three or four times a day is annoying.	j
CABBAGES
Northwestern university is seeking geniuses.
It will sponsor a special freshman class next year 1 for child wonders and expects to graduate them at a faster pace than the ordinary student.
EXERCISE
Three Washington university students were ar- < rested for attaching a freshman to a flagpole pulley and running him to the top.
ON REQUEST
Announcement in the Wellesley College Neu's:	,
“As an experiment, smoking shall be permitted in students’ rooms in all brick dormitories between 6:45 and 10 p. m.
“The door and transom must be closed in any room in which students are smoking.
“A student must stop smoking on the request « of another student who is seriously annoyed by it.
“Students must provide ash trays and metal waste baskets.”
WISDOM AND EGOISM	,
At a certain eastern college a professor recently called for notebooks. One of the Rip Van Winkles who had slumbered through the course purchased a tattered book from a student in a previous class. A few days later, the instructor who had graduated a few years before, returned < the notebook with the comment, “It’s a good book, but I can do better now.”
REACTIONARY
University of Heidelberg scientists have been studying a man with gill slits and a rudimentary gill in his back. They believe him to be a “throw-back” from the evolutionary long ago.

April 15, 1932
Nineteen
E©ITG©*f ©AGE
“WORDS, WORDS, WORDS”
Some time ago an article entitled “A Briton looks at American Education,” written by Mr. John Boyd-Carpenter, appeared in the London Saturday Revi&iv. In the article the author took a rather sneering attitude towards American education in general, and was particularly sneering about what he called the “intellectual pretensions” of Notre Dame.
It is not the intention of The Scholastic to reply to an obviously ignorant and unfair attack. The reply has already been given; it is far more able than any The Scholastic could make. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, in an open letter to the editor of the Saturday Review which was given prominent notice in the press, clearly refutes the statements of Mr. Boyd-Carpenter.
Father O’Donnell shows that Mr. Boyd-Carpenter, to put it bluntly, does not know what he is talking about. Of course not. If he did know, then the article was a purely malicious and false attack. If he did not know, then the article should never have been written until the author was sure of his facts. And it would have been a very easy matter to make sure, as Father O’Donnell points out. The intellectual achievements of Notre Dame are on record for all to see. Newspapers and magazines, among other mediums, have made them known not only to scholars and scientists but to the public in general.
In his reply Father O’Donnell asks, “Is it altogether unreasonable to expect men like Mr. Boyd-Carpenter to know what they are talking about? Is it asking too much that they inform themselves before setting out to inform the public?” In those two questions lies the point of this editorial.
Only too often attacks against Notre Dame and against American education in general are pointless and absurd because the writer is drawing conclusions from incorrect data or even from no data at all. In fact, this accusation may be made against the fulminations of nearly all of the present day crop of destructive writers. In the final analysis, their articles are only “words, words, words.” Father O’Donnell shows that Mr. Boyd-Carpenter’s article is, evidently, no exception.
The Scholastic’s final comment is that
Father O’Donnell proved Mr. Boyd-Carpenter was talking through his hat. He was made to appear ridiculous in the eyes of the people who are sure of the facts—the intellectual achievements of Notre Dame.
V
ACTIVE LETTER-MEN
Seldom is an undergraduate organization self-supporting through its campus activities.
The Monogram club, who this week are hoodwinking the public in Washington hall, will take the proceeds from the “Absurdities” to finance a private and exclusive dance on May 17.
The letter winners, right in their principle, are to be applauded for their initiative. None begrudge their success, financially or socially.
V
NEXT FOURSOME PLEASE!
If there is any one place in all the world where cooperation between patron and customer is indispensable it is a crowded golf course. The highest spirited of mashie wielders can have his day utterly ruined if things do not run along in a comparatively smooth manner on and about the fairways.
Last Saturday afternoon three hundred students scampered about the Burke Memorial golf course from 7:00 in the morning till 6:00 at night. The managing personnel had evidently not anticipated such a turn-out and was little short of non-plussed by the presence of the milling mobs about the first tee. At 12:30, five different foursomes stood on the elevation before the club-house, and, with many a dark and menacing look, claimed priority in the starting line.
The management’s attempt to clear up the situation by examining the serial numbers on the tickets issued went to naught. Men who had played earlier in the day naturally held the lower numbers, but of course should not have been permitted to depart first, because of this fact.
Future complications of this nature can easily be averted if students and the management make use of the bag rack in front of the tee. Forty individuals can be accommodated in this manner, and everybody will be happy.
Twenty
The Scholastic
SPCRTS
Golfers To Open Against Valpo
Capt. Redmond, Fehlig, Lead Links Team In Match Here To-Morrow
ANDERSON DRIVES GRID SQUAD IN SPRING DRILL
Weather Delays Play for Team Positions; Varsity Downs Frosh in Practice.
The opening shower of divots of the Notre Dame varsity golf season is scheduled to let fly tomorrow. The niblick swingers from Valparaiso uni-Ctt*	versity, a few miles
down the interur-V jFFt	ban tracks, will
furnish the opposi-tion.
Positions on the Irish squad were left hanging fire this week by an adverse spell of rainy weather. The challenge matches for the places were due to be completed this afternoon. Vince Fehlig and Captain Bill Eedmond, playing Nos. 1 and 2 respectively, were to clash yesterday for the lead position in the Valpo match.
John Gostisha and Johnny Monti-donico, Nos. 3 and 4, also battled yesterday for the right to advance their standing. The winner of the match will meet the loser of the Fehlig-Red-mond battle this afternoon to determine the No. 2 man in tomorrow’s lineup.
Opening the play against Valpo, the doubles competition will be played in the morning. In this, as in the singles, the Nassau scoring system, giving one point to the winner of each nine and one to the winner of the 18-hole match, will be followed.
The singles .play will be started immediately after the squads have had a bit of lunch. The combinations to be employed by the Notre Dame squad in their morning doubles combinations depended largely on the outcome of the matches this afternoon. The delay in the intra-team play makes it necessary for two of the men to play 72 holes in three
days, a decent accomplishment at this early date.
The varsity-frosh match played Sunday gave the first indication of the strength of the squad but weather conditions that were far from ideal marred much of the play. Captain Redmond and Gostisha, playing second and third positions for the varsity turned in the best cards of the day for their team. Redmond’s 80 was good enough for first honors with Gostisha crowding freshman Bill Cole with an 82. Cole carded an 81.
Redmond’s varsity squad topped the yearlings by a slim 25-20 margin. Fehlig dropped his match to Cole, 1-2. Montedonico won from Schmidt by the same margin but the combination of Fehlig and Montedonico were toppled by the freshman duo in the doubles compilation by the same score.
Redmond halved his singles match with Henry, and though Gostisha out-scored Martin by enough to take a 3-0 singles decision, the varsity doubles combination dropped the match by another 2-1 score. Veeneman and Moore, playing fifth and eighth in the singles and teaming in the doubles, gave the varsity score its biggest boost by sweeping their singles and doubles matches to garner nine points.
The results:
	Varsity	Frosh		
1.	Fehlig	(84)	Cole	(81)
4.	Montedonico	(89)	Schmidt	(92)
2.	Redmond	(80)	Henry	(82)
3.	Gostisha	(82)	Martin	(91)
5.	Veeneman	(43)	Albert	(48)
8.	Moore	(44)	Lehan	(49)
6.	O’Malley	(89)	La Londe	(88)
	Slader	(86)	Zimmer	(87)
9.	Culver	(86)	Flanigan	(86)
10.	Nehnes	(92)	Olson	(94)
Sylvia Thompson, who at 27, is the author of three popular novels and the mother of two children, believes that novelists cannot be good in their profession if they are too happy and contented.
Practice Features Hard Work; Prospects For Fall Bright.

Two weeks of spring football practice has rolled by. During this time Coach “Hunk” Anderson, together with his staff of assistants, have gotten a line on the candidates that will shape up for the season of 1932.
Left Half Vacated
The left halfback post, lately vacated by Marchmont Schwartz, seems to hold major attention. In the two scrimmages thus far there have been four or five candidates that have stood out. Among the players that have thus “carried on well” are: Mike Koken, Nick Lukats, Al McGuff, and Frank LaBorne.
At the fullback position, Rube Grundeman, Fred Carideo, and Jim Leonard seem to stand out as contenders for the line-smashing job. Right halfbacking seems to be monopolized by Ray Brancheau, who is turning in some excellent work.
John Tobin looks well at this blocking position also. There are others who show promise and during the next few scrimmages they may indicate their strong bid for a berth.
Laurie Vejar indicates that he is in the running at the quarterback job. His work is commendable and smirks of the possibility that next season he is going to do considerable signal calling.
Experience Helped
Taken all in all, the backfield this season seems to indicate that it has profited by the actual game experience it received last fall. There seems to be a sureness present now, that did not exist after the graduation of such stars as Carideo, Brill, Mullins, and others.
In the line there are some outstanding individuals that are sure to land (Continued on Page 25)

April 15, 1932
Twenty-one
TRACK SQUAD DRILLS FOR OUTDOOR SEASON
Kansas and Drake Relays To Open Spring Schedule.
With the indoor track season just completed and somewhat of a rest during Easter vacation, the track team is now looking forward to the 1932 outdoor season with fairly optimistic eyes.
Three dual meets, one of which is at Notre Dame, two relay carnivals, the C. I. C. meet, and the National Collegiates completes the spring schedule.
Nicholson Undecided
Coach Nicholson is undecided as to whether he will have a one-mile or a two-mile relay team entered in the Kansas and Drake relays. He is sure, however, that we will have a couple of teams running.
Middle-distance material is especially plentiful on the squad. Among the quarter-milers are such veterans as Alex Wilson, “Mickey” Macbeth, Charlie Kelly, Scanlon, Vettel, Oberg-fall, Kuhn, and Bradley.
In the half-mile a quartet of promising men are available in addition to Alex Wilson who will probably repeat his appearance in the longer distance. Clyde Roberts and Ray Troy garnered points in several of the indoor meets and have been showing improved form out of doors.
Joe Young, sophomore runner who was forced from indoor competition by a tobogganing injury, is rapidly getting back into shape for a comeback. Brant Little, former star at the 880, is also essaying a return to form after more than a year out of the win column.
Captain McCormick in Sprints
In the sprints Captain Bill McCormick continues to lead the field and may see action at the Kansas and Drake games. Ed Gough is back in training after a lay-off caused by an injured muscle. Murphy and Huller are both being drilled at the century and furlong distances.
Jim Fagan, a sophomore, should collect points in the high hurdles if his work continues to improve. Pore-don may come through in the low hurdles and the highs to boost the Irish totals. Rohrbach and Slattery will compete for honors in the pole vault (Continued on Page 28)
FLAYS RULE CHANGES
Coach George E. Keogan
Objects to alterations of basketball code on the grounds that they favor too strongly the defensive team and minimize the retvard for offensive strategy.
NATIONAL SQUASH CHAMP TO PLAY EXHIBITION HERE TUESDAY
Walter A. Kinsella, retired world’s open undefeated squash champion for fourteen years, now general manager of the Squash Courts Construction Division, Brunswick, Balke, Collender Company, New York City, will visit Notre Dame on Tuesday to play an exhibition of squash racquets with “Hunk” Anderson and Donald Dugan, ’34, at the handball courts, 10:00 a.m.
The game of squash racquets has been recognized for some time as one of the greatest contributing factors in the development of speed and footwork in connection with training for football, basketball, baseball and kindred sports. Squash is the most popular indoor game today, and about a year ago, an intercollegiate association was formed to promote active competition among colleges, which at present includes Yale, Harvard, Dartmouth, and Princeton.
Students wishing to become editors of the Carletonian, Carleton college newspaper, are required to compete for the jobs by writing editorials in a special examination. Thirteen took the test this spring.
BASEBALL TEAM FACES WISCONSIN AND CHICAGO
Open With Badgers Today; To Play At Midway Tomorrow.
Prospects for a good season were voiced by Coach George Keogan as he sent his charges through their last minute tuning up maneuvers for today’s game with Wisconsin, and for the tussle tomorrow with the University of Chicago at Chicago.
Inclement weather has kept the team inside for the greater part of the spring training and lack of actual playing may take its toll. Both Wisconsin and Chicago have engaged in at least one contest, and have shown they have the makings of good teams.
Palt To Get Assignment
Captain Charlie Palt will probably get today’s pitching assignment, and either Charlie Mannix or Golden will twirl against the Maroons tomorrow. Joe Sheeketski will be behind the bat.
Chicago will relp on the veteran Henshaw, generally recognized as the best hurler in the Big Ten. If the Notre Dame sluggers can get by him the season will have all the earmarks of becoming a highly successful one. ‘Slim’ Summerville, whom Captain Palt defeated for the Chicago city league title in 1928, will most likely get the call for the Badgers.
The Chicago game will mark the first time a Notre Dame baseball team has played against the Windy-City outfit in twenty years.
New Infield for N. D.
Ah entirely new infield with the exception of Denny O’Keefe at third will make its appearance. First base, the position left vacant by Bill Sullivan, now with the White Sox, will be taken care of by either Russ Stem-per or Cummings. Paul Kane and Hayes are in the lead for the regular second base berth, and either Jim Bosco or Palmisani will toke care of short. Denny O’Keefe, a veteran of two seasons and a former captain, will be stationed at third.
In the outfield Coach Keogan has a wealth of material. George Kozak, Jim McGrath, Will Lomasney, Dugan, O’Connor, and Cronin, are all battling it out for a regular position.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
NICK LUKATS TO JOIN VARSITY NET SQUAD
By James S. Kearns
WINNING STREAKS
Spurred on by the unfinished run of 16 victories hung up by this year’s eagers, we have been poking around in the basketball records this past while and have come up with this:
In 1908-09 the Irish, led by Pete Vaughn, played forty games. They won 33 and lost 7. Twenty-two of the wins came in succession between Dec. 23 and Feb. 10... The Buffalo Germans finally smashed the chain with a 34-22 victory. They repeated the following day with a 31-18 win.
Among the unusual features of the season was a 13 game Southern trip during the holidays. The Christmas present was a 64-14 win, and the New Year’s Day celebration included a double header with the Mobile A. C. Notre Dame won both games.
Modem winning streaks, against the cream of the collegiate cage talent, were climaxed in the ’25-’26, ’26-’27, and ’27-’28 seasons, all under'the direction of Coach George Keogan. In ’25-’26 the Irish won 19 out of 20, losing only to Franklin, and completing the year with an unfinished run of 12 victories.
Picking up the winning streak in the winter of ’27-’28, the Keoganites ran up seven triumphs for a record of 19 straight before Franklin again stepped in. They finished out the year with 12 triumphs for another record of 19 out of 20. The following season they copped five games before Minnesota measured them to cut off their record at 17 straight.
While comparisons are always odious, we would offer, as a personal opinion, the judgment that the feat of this year’s team was the greatest of any of these victory records. Winning 18 out of 20 games against the competition they encountered and handicapped as they were by sickness and injuries, marks them as at least the equal of any of the Keogan-coached Notre Dame teams.
Considering Coach Keogan’s record of having won 56 out of 62 games in his three previous peak years and his total mark of 151 victories against 56 defeats, such a label naturally means the “greatest Notre Dame teams.”
PROS B’GOSH
The difference, it would seem, between an admission charge at LaSalle, Hl., and one at Dyche stadium, Evanston, is enough to brand Phil Seghi of Northwestern as a professional. Incidentally it cost him the captaincy of the Wildcat baseball team.
Unless the daily press has hashed the facts, the reason for Seghi’s ousting was the fact that he took part in a football game at LaSalle, Ill., for which an admission fee was charged. Just that.
Unless we’re wrong, there were a few football games at the Purple stadium last fall that ran under the same general principles as far as the spectators were concerned. Why, then, aren’t all the members of the squad, from Pistol Pug Renter and Merry-Man Meenan down, professionals?
It is possible that there wasn’t any character built in the game at La Salle. If that’s it, we could understand: the privilege of watching the characters sprout in a college game is too great to go unpriced.
WE HEARD YOU THE FIRST TIME
The sports editors all over the country went into the morgue last week for the familiar story headed “Lott To. Quit Tennis.” George has been doing it for so long that most people can quote his statement verbatim.
It mightn’t be a bad idea for C. C. Pyle to take George in charge. Teamed with Sir Harry Lauder, he could make the greatest farewell tour on record. But, as our pal Bryan remarks, you’d have to shoot ’em both at the end of the trip to be sure.
John Doeg once announced that he, too, was going to quit. The funny part of it is, he did.
Grid Ace To Report Soon; Squad Tourney Advances.
Notre Dame varsity tennis stock soared to a new high this week with the announcement that Nick Lukats, erstwhile line smasher of the football squad, will turn his attention to the net team in a few days, in a serious effort to gain a place.
Lukats should add more than a little strength to the racquet wield-ers, as he has shown outstanding tennis ability in former years. The Gary ace won numerous titles and tournaments during his high school career at Froebel. Included in his conquests is the city championship of Gary.
In addition to the announcement of Lukats’ intention to compete for a place on the team, the most important development on the tennis front was the progress of the elimination tourney into the second round. All the candidates for the team have been matched in the large bracket with the object of weeding out the material more rapidly than could be done in any other system.
Because of the delay in running off the tourney and the consequent lack of preparation of the Notre Dame squad, the opening meet scheduled for today against the Indiana State Teachers, of Terre Haute, was postponed until some 'time late in May.
Among the filed of aspirants remaining in the running for tarn places are Louis Chreist, winner of The Scholastic’s fall tennis meet, Carl Meyer, the runner-up, Dick Kelly, a semi-finalist, and several other players who went far in the six round tournament.
The matches of the opening round and the scattered bits of play in the second matches have brought some promising material to light. The loss of Captain-elect Joe Borda and the graduation of the majority of last year’s varsity team has been a severe loss, but the candidates have shown more polish than was expected for this early date.
NOTICE!
A complete critical appraisal of the recent changes in the basketball rule code by Coach George E. Keogan will appear in next week’s “Scholastic.”
April 15, 1932
Twenty-three
===========F
Campus Opinions
(	Question: “What do you think af
the system of interhall playground ball competition folloxced at Notre Dame during the spring and early summer months?”
»
Edward M. Gleeson, Howard hall, junior: “Such an activity would, I believe, induce some fellows to abandon afternoon naps. Indoor baseballs are usually soft, so one might call it a soft job. Looking at it in another ,	way, it really would help pass those
long days between Easter and June.”
Muffs
Michael T. Coyle, Howard hall, junior: “It is a good thing for the reason that it gives those who do not take part in any varsity competition the opportunity to engage in some enjoyable and beneficial exercise. Playground ball is an excellent game to play during the spring and early summer months because it fills up the gap caused by the lull in the activity of major sports at this time.”
WENT OUT OF STYLE YEARS AGO!
Charles L. Farris, Badin hall, junior: “The student body does not indulge in enough athletic activities for their own good. Consequently, I believe playground ball to be of much value to the undergraduate. I believe, however, that the activity should be enforced and that all varsity men should be declared ineligible for it.”
WHEN steam-heated houses and closed automobiles came into style, red flannels and ear muffs went out. Time was when people protected themselves against the weather with all sorts of heavy clothing on the outside—and all kinds of hot, heavy foods on the inside.
But no longer! Now, you’ll find that winters seem much milder—and most of it is due to modem living conditions. That’s why crisp, ready-to-eat flakes at breakfast are such a healthful dish. You feel better, work better, and enjoy your meal more.
Vince Burke, Howard hall, junior: “Interhall playground ball is a wonderful pastime for the spring months. It forms an effective means of exercise and an outlet for surplus energy. Then, too, it helps to fill the twilight hours as they lengthen in the spring. Here’s hoping for more playground ball and some interhall leagues for competition.”
Try a bowl of Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes.
John Hoenninger, Howard hall, junior: “I think interhall playground ball is of great benefit to the students. For those who do not participate in varsity athletics it gives a chance for local fame, while to all it admits a form of exercise and interesting competition.”
You’ll love the flavor! And these better bran Sakes are made of whole wheat with its rich store of nourishment. Just enough bran, too, to be mildly laxative.
Wonderful for a late bedtime snack. Try it.

Twenty-four
The Scholastic
Flashes From The Xth Olympiad
INTERHALL PLAYGROUND BALL SCHEDULE—1932
By LEONARD HORWIN
Special to the Notre Dame Scholastic.
Los Angeles, April 12.—We introduce ourselves as your speciel news announcers on the Olympic Games, bringing to you for the next few months interesting side-lights on the “doings” as America prepares its athletic party for the world.
IT’S NOT SO
“People think of the Olympic Games as a type of glorified trackmeet.”
Bill Henry, famed sports writer and expert, for twenty years a leading correspondent on assignments to every part of the globe, now sports technical director of the Olympic Games, was telling us of his work.
“They are far more than that. Besides including an international contest in almost every field of sport with several' score nations represented, they are in themselves a great gesture of international fellowship and a tradition rooted in antiquity.”
“This,” and the athletically built sports mentor in the tan sports suit emphasized his words, “will probably be the only time in the lives of persons now living that the games will be held in America.”
OLYMPIA
These games had a deep symbolism in moss-covered antiquity;
It is a matter of historical fact that down in ancient Greece great battles were called off when the moon reached a certain position in the heavens during the summer solstice. The homicide squads on both sides of the battlefield would then adjourn and tramp off to Olympia on the west coast of Greece to hold the games.
In truth, they were not games, but athletic rites of purification dedicated to Zeus, invisible ruler of heaven and earth.
The serious business over, .and the victors crowned with the proper herb, the athletes would return to the horse-play on the battlefield.
DEATH AND REVIVAL
Although the Greeks had a word for him and more, the Roman emperor Theodosius finished both Greeks and games in the year 394 A. D.
And that was for nearly fifteen centuries until the year 1892.
In that year the athletically-minded Frenchman, Baron Pierre de Coubertin, then a youth of seventeen, proposed the revival of the games before the French Sports Union. His dream was realized at Athens four years later—the city which once beheld the glory that was Greece in the days of the Olympiadsnow witnessing the first modern edition of the ancient games.
It seems fitting that the Olympic Games, in which the physical perfection of the youth of that ancient day inspired eternal works of art, should have been revived by a youth in this modem day when the Games, with their intense competition, are an invaluable physical expression to men being dwarfed by the machine age.
OLYMPIC VILLAGE
Can you imagine a body of men deliberately setting about to build a city for 3,000 people, with its own roads, its own water system with 8 miles of mains, its own transportation system of 75 buses, its own hospital, bank, fire and police departments, motion-picture theatre, 6 to 800 two-room dwellings with every civilized convenience, its own dining hall 1200 feet long and administration building 700 feet long—doing the whole job in three months and taking the city completely apart at the end of the fifth month?
Can you?
Of course, you can’t, because history will be utterly barren of precedents for the medley of architecture and landscaping set up like a toy city almost over-night on the Baldwin Hills Overlooking the scene of the Xth Olympiad at Los Angeles, housing the hopes of 40 nations and the bodies of 3,000 men— modestly titled OLYMPIC VILLAGE.
APRIL 17th
Diamond No. Group I
1	Lyons vs. Corby
2	Sophomore vs. Badin
3	Sorin vs. St. Edward’s
Morrissey—bye
Diamond No. Group II
4	Howard vs. Off-Campus
5	Brownson vs. Dillon
6	Carroll vs. Alumni
Walsh—bye
APRIL 24th
Diamond No. Group I
1	Lyons vs. Badin
2	Morrissey vs. St.	Edward’s
3	Corby vs. Sorin
Sophomore—bye
Diamond No.	Group II
4	Brownson vs. Alumni
5	Howard vs. Dillon
6	Carroll vs. Walsh Off-Campus—bye
MAY 1st
Diamond No. Group I
1	Sophomore vs. St. Edward’s
•2 Morrissey vs. Corby
3	Badin vs. Sorin .
Lyons—bye
Diamond No. Group II
4	Howard vs. Alumni
5	Brownson vs. Carroll
6	Off-Campus vs. Walsh Dillon—bye
MAY 5th (Ascension Thursday)
Diamond No. Group II
4	Dillon vs. Walsh
5	Howard vs. Carroll
6	Alumni vs. Off-Campus
Brownson—bye
Diamond No. Group I
1	Lyons vs. Sophomore
2	Corby vs. Badin
3	Morrissey vs. Sorin
St. Edward’s—bye
MAY 8th
Diamond No. Group II
4	Walsh vs. Brownson
5	Alumni vs. Dillon
6	Carroll vs. Off-Campus
Howard—bye
Diamond No.	Group I
1	Lyons vs. Sorin
2	Badin vs. St. Edward’s
3	Sophomore vs. Morrissey Corby—bye
c
April 15, 1932
Twenty-five
LA RAZA BOYS LEND A HAND AS MORRISSEY BEATS ST. ED’S.
The intramural soccer rivalries, begun last Spring and continued last Fall between the La Raza club and Mr. Scannell’s Physical Education teams, has now spread to include St. Edward’s and Morrissey halls.
Last Sunday morning saw teams from these halls pitted against each other in a snappy game. Morrissey presented a powerful aggregation, which kept the ball most of the time in St. Edward’s territory. Tompkins and Roche of Morrissey formed a good defensive combination; Al Heig-el of St. Edward’s distinguished himself by making an extremely difficult goal. The score at the end of the game, however, found Morrissey ahead, 4-1.
The hall players were supplemented by members of the La Raza club from other halls. The following men played for St. Edward’s: Hallauer, A. Heig-el, T. Heigel, C. Yriberry, O’Neil, Valdes, Roxas, Rodriguez, Encarnacion, Gamboa. Morrissey played Reilly, Roche, Tompkins, Hoffman, Kennedy, Brias, Melian, M. Yriberry, Harrington, Forsbach, Alcebo, Arce.
The members of the La Raza club from other halls are eager to see their respective halls organize teams; all those interested in the game are invited to see a member of the La-Raza club about playing on some team. .
Next Sunday Morrissey and St. Edward’s will play a return game.
In an effort to throw new light on the evolution of the universe, an expedition of Harvard and Cornell scientists has observed 6,500 meteors at the Lowell observatory at Flagstaff, Ariz.
HOLD SPRING GRID DRILLS
(Continued from Page 20)
berths on the team. There is a sense of competition present that makes for better play on the part of those that are near the top.
Spring football, according to “Hunk” Anderson, will last until May 1. I think it is safe to prophesy that
"Let’s Telephone
Home!”
some excellent material will be uncovered and this same material will help to carry next year’s team well up in football circles.
Professor John Dewey of Columbia predicts that unless the Democratic party nominates a man of truly progressive mind this year, a third party will surely be in the field.
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
J. Burke, OPTOMERIST and MFG. OPTICIANS 228 So. Michigan St.
Est. 1900
SPECIAL. INDUCEMENTS TO N. D. STUDENTS
The 'Economical Noice of 'Millions
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
Lucretius Is Discussed
By Professor John Turley
“Lucretius: Scientist and Poet” was the title of a paper read before the Patricians club at a meeting last Tuesday by Professor John Turley of the department of classics.
Concerning himself especially the “De Rerum Natura” the speaker sketched the historical and philosophical background of the ancient atom-ist. The theories of Leucretius, it was pointed out, the speaker said, strangely resemble the these of modern physicists. In considering the poetical expression of Lucretius’ masterpiece, Professor Turley said: “. . . when Lucretius the poet rises above Lucretius the scientist, he shows a genius not only comparable to but even surpassing that of Vergil.” Lucretius was characterized as the great poet philosopher while Vergil may be said to be a philosophizing poet.
3^ a mile to
EUROPE and return, including meals and berth $85 (»p)
One Way
$150 (up) Round Trip
Go now—by all means! It’s so easy at the low Tourist Gass rates—and. in Europe, this year, your American dollar goes farther than it has in years.
On the Tourist Gass liners de luxe, Pennland and Westemland, there are no class distinctions. Then entire former Cabin accommodations (top class) are devoted exclusively to Tourist. The only liners of their kind in the world. Also delightfill Tourist Gass on such famous liners as Afay«tic,world’slargestship; Olympic, Homeric, new George and Britannic, Belgen-land, and many others.
For that trip to the EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS Dublin, June 1932
Weekly sailings of the White Star Line’s "Big Four” direct to Cobh.
Very moderate rates.
WHITE STAR UNE RED STAR LINE
MeraatiMal Mercantile Marina Canaan,
189 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago
Nick Lukats
Swaps moleskins for tennis togs as he reports for varsity court squad.
[Story on Page 22]
By Intercollegiate Press.
Wellesley, Mass., Apr. 14.—Freshman girls at Wellesley college have gained the right to smoke in the living rooms of their dormitories after meals, a privilege which the upper class students have not yet gained. The student council is looking into the matter for the older girls, however.
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Siugler & Probst
DENTISTS
405 Associates Bldg. South Bend, Indiana
Men’s Privilege? Pooh- Pooh, Says Co-ed As She Dons Pants
By Intercollegiate Press.
Ann Arbor, Mich., Apr. 14.—Marion. Shepard, freshman at the University of Michigan, is reported to be on the men students’ “blacklist” as a result of a recent escapade in which she donned men’s clothing and walked into the Michigan Union men’s club through the front door.
The university has a tradition that bars women from entering the Union building through the front door. Miss Shepard swaggered into the club without being detected. She told men friends about it and tried it again. The men tipped off the police, who caught her and warned her about the men’s clothing.
Miss Shepard was said to be competing for a position on the Michigan Daily, and engaged in the stunt as means of obtaining a feature story for the paper.
As a high school student at Lakewood, Ohio, Miss Shepard twice won first prizes in national poetry contests sponsored by Quill and • Scroll, national journalistic fraternity.
Peruvian Disciplinary Regulations Are Strict
By Intercollegiate Press.
LIMA, Peru, April 13. — If students in the United States think they are the victims of paternalism on the part of their college administrators, they have only to look to this country to see how much freedom they actually have.
The Peruvian government recently passed rules regulating the private lives of students in colleges throughout the country as to personal cleanliness, and punctuality in attendance and attention to their studies.
Smoking is forbidden on the campus, and gambling, politics, religious and political demonstrations, improper stories and insolence to teachers are outlawed. Penalties for violations of the rules range from suspension for short periods to expulsion for good.
Dr. Robert A. Millikan, dicoverer of the cosmic ray, said last week that he thought the weight given for the “neutron” reported as just discovered by Dr. James Chadwick of Cambridge university, England, was much too great. '
April 15, 1932
Twenty-seven
STILL MORE HISTORY
(Continued from Page 15)
On April 1st and 2nd Notre Dame was represented for the first time at the Annual Midwest conference of International Relations clubs. The conference was attended by fifteen universities and colleges from Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, and Indiana, and was held at MacMurray clolege, Jacksonville, Illinois. Notre Dame was represented by Dr. Paul Menge, faculty advisor, and Tighe Woods, president, of the local International Relations club.
With a “fine technique and generous variety” forty Glee club members under the tutelage of Professor Joseph Casasanta sang their way into the hearts of many an eastern audience during the Easter recess. The choristers tripped from Boston, Mass, where a concert was presented Easter Monday afternoon, to various points of sight seeing interest in the state. Performances at Milford, Mass, and Utica, N. Y. wound up the enjoyable itinerary.
Two faculty members, Dean James McCarthy of the College of Commerce, and Professor Lawrence Bald-inger of the College of Science, saw their families incerased during the holidays. A daughter in each case.
BRENNAN IS ACCLAIMED
(Continued from Page 7)
are concerned; that your permission is conditional upon confirmation by the Editor of Scrip: that your copyright will be protected as far as possible; and that a copy of the book shall be sent to you on publication day.
I shall be grateful if you will inform me whether any further permission is required from a book publisher, in case you have already arranged for the publication of this story in book form.
Sincerely,
Edward J. O’Brien.
NOTICE
All Crew Members, Supervisors, Team Captains and Student subscription salespeople who wish to avail themselves of the opportunity for free scholarship made possible through the courtesy of the leading Magazine Publishers again this year are requested to apply to the national organizer, M. Anthony Steele, Jr., Box 244, San Juan, Porto Rico, stating qualifications fully. .
IN THE MOVIES
Marchy Schwartz
To team with Tommy Yarr in movie grid roles. (Story on page 9.)
The Hoffman Hotel announces that
Carl Me Mann
(lit. years with Oliver Hotel Barber Shop)
Has been appointed manager of the
Hoffman Barber
Shop
ALLERTON HOTEL.
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in. Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
Tiventy-eight
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING a Bill Redmond
BRITZ FLAYS BALL PRICES (Continued from Page 13)
By William Flynn
Golf, as played at Notre Dame, has had rather a short history. When this year’s senior class enrolled at the University four years ago, the site of the present golf course was a field of flourishing corn stalks. Any student who appeared on the campus with golf clubs and knickers was considered rather queer. In other words, the sport of golf was not extremely popular- at Notre Dame.
Game Well Received
But now this entire attitude, as well as the field of corn has changed. The William J. Burke Memorial Golf course replaced the field of waving green stalks three years ago. The student body, with an opportunity for close study, became enthusiastic, and whole-heartedly adopted that game of clubs, balls, and fairways, not to mention bunkers.
Among those who set the pace among student golfers was William Joseph Redmond from Joliet, Illinois. He came to Notre Dame after completing his pre-college work at De La Salle high school in Joliet. There he played either forward or guard on a basketball team that won the National Catholic championship title of the United States in 1927. At Notre Dame he has helped make golf history.
Notre Dame didn’t do much in its first season of intercollegiate golf. It seemed that a season of experience was necessary before its team could compete successfully with representatives of other schools.
On Team As Sophomore
When Bill Redmond was a sophomore, he filled one position on the team. That year he won the Indiana State intercollegiate golf title. After the close of school in June he and the team took part in the national intercollegiate tournament.
Larry Moller and Redmond were the representatives of Notre Dame who qualified for individual honors in the national tournament. The team placed fourth. The Big Three of the East, Princeton, Yale, and Harvard, finishing in that order, were the only teams to place in front of the squad that was bringing Notre Dame national recognition in another sport.
When the 1931 season came around it found Notre Dame represented by one of the strongest teams in the nation. With all team members of the preceding year back a string of victories was hung up over team from the East to the Mississippi.
Captain Bill Redmond Leads his team against Valparaiso tomorrow.
In the national collegiate meet at Chicago’s Olympia Fields last June, Redmond, Moller and company, nosing out one of the teams that had placed in front of them the preceding year, placed third. Yale and Princeton were the only teams in the nation ranking ahead of them. Redmond climaxed his career in that meet by reaching the quarter-finals before Champion George T. Dunlap of Princeton eliminated him.
This year, after two years against the best of collegiate competition, Redmond is captain of a team he thinks will carry along in the characteristic manner of Notre Dame golfers. Besides his golf, he is finishing his work in the College of Commerce where he acts as secretary to Mr. L. T. Flatley.
He is preparing for a business career in his father’s Joliet bank. During the summer he divides his time between golf and banking. As to his future after commencement, he thinks he might be limited to golf, for banking is rather a precarious industry at the present time.
necessary that $1,200 be allotted for the purchase of 250 favors? Is it impossible to reduce the price to conform with the dictates of reason and present conditions?
The class awaits your answer. Let it confirm my belief that you are able to weather constructive criticism and act for the common good of your fellow- classmates. Reverse your positions mentally; consider yourself the purchaser of a ticket.
Gentlemen, I bid $9.00 or less for your $12.50 ticket. On a sale of 250 tickets this w-ould make a difference of approximately $900. But you are saving $400 by doing away with decorations and publicity. Deduct the remaining $500 from the budget for the favors, leaving $700 for 250 favors. Make this reduction in the price of the ticket and we are behind you to a man for a successful Senior Ball.
Edmund Britz,
Chairman Publicity.
TRACK PROSPECTS BRIGHT
(Continued from Page 21)
w-hile Bob Darling, lone varsity high jumper, should win places in the field events.
Finkel, who accounetd for some outstanding performances in the shot-put indoors, should do well in the weight events out-of-doors. Groves and Cronin are also scheduled to compete in the field events.
During Easter vacation the one-mile relay team composed of Vettel, Macbeth, Kelly, and Wilson ran in Cleveland, but placed only fourth. The men found themselves severely handicapped by the fact that they ran without spiked shoes on a board track.
On April 2nd, Coach Nicholson sent three men to the Armour Tech relays in Chicago. Captain Bill McCormick took first place in the 70-yard dash, covering the distance in the excellent time of :07.2. Gene Howery placed third in the mile run, which was won by Brocksmith of Indiana in 4:14.3. Bob Darling tied for third place in the high jump with a leap of 6 feet, 2 inches.
The Women’s Student Government association at Northern State Teachers college, Aberdeen, South Dakota, puts on an annual spring fashion show for the students.
April 15, 1932
Twenty-nine
INTERHALL SPORTS
Irvin B. Halper
BASKETBALL
Bognar, left forward for Off-Campus, tallied ten points but this didn’t prove to be enough to defeat Lyons, as the sophomores won the heavyweight division of the Interhall league, 22 to 18, before the Easter holidays.
Gildea and Hall, Lyons scoring aces, were the main factors in the Lyons victory. This duo was responsible for 16 points. Vitt and Bognar played good ball for the losers.
The lightweight championship of the campus was won by Carroll, 20 to 17, from Badin’s entry. This game was a bitter battle from the start.
SWIMMING
Lyons won the swimming title of the Interhall league in the final meet, held in the Natatorium, by annexing 26 points. Sophomore, winners of second place, could gather only 16.
Pete Dorschel, backstroke artist on the Lyons team, was the high point scorer for the evening, scoring 12 points. Dorschel won a first in the 40-yard backstroke, establishing a new record first in the 100-yard backstroke, and a second in the plunge.
The results:
40-YD. BREAST STROKE—Won by Farrell (Dillon) ; McCarthy (Off-Campus), second; Gerend (Brownson), third. Time :27.
40-YD. BACK STROKE—Won by Dorschel (Lyons) ; Glausner (Sophomore), second:
Pfeil (Brownson), third. Time :23.5. (New record.)
40-YD. FREE STYLE —Won by Dwyer (Brownson) ; Crunican (Sophomore), second; Flanagan (Dillon), third. Time :22.3.
100-YD. BREAST STROKE—Won by Farrell (Dillon) : McCarthy (Lyons), second; Moran (Sophomore), third. Time 1:23.
100-YD. BACK STROKE—Won by Dorschel (Continued on Page 31)
Men With Selling Experience
Lucrative jobs with establised publishing firm. Weekly salary, bonus on own work and that of men under you. Also a few jobs for inexperienced salesmen. Apply personally or write for appointment to George Maywait, 206 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Carroll, pitted against Badin’s substitutes at the opening tip-off jumped into an early lead and were never headed. Thole, one of the leading scorers of the season, again led Carroll’s scoring with seven points. Thompson and Montgomery, scoring 14 points between them, shone for Badin.
The heavyweights lineups:
Lyons
Gildea, rf ............................4	1	0
Hall, If .... Paskwitz, If Sandura, c Curry, rg . Vettel, 1g .
3	11
0	0	0
13	3
Oil 0	0	0
Totals ...........................8	6	5..
Off-Campus
Vitt, rf ...........................2	0	2
Rodriquez, rf ......................0	0	0
Bognar, If......................
Marbaugh, c.....................
Boehm, rg.......................
Augustine, 1g ..................
Cunka, 1g ......................
Woodike, 1g ....................
5	0	2
112
0	0	1
0	0	1
0	0	0
0	0	1
Your own Club House to EUROPE!
Totals .............................7	1	8
Phone	Xray
Office 2-1067 Residence 3-4041
Dr. E. S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building Opposite Oliver Hotel
SOUTH BEND - INDIANA
Tourist and yd Glass Become Exclusive! Entire sections set aside for you on convenient sailings of Lloyd Express and Cabin Liners. Dances, deck sports, masquerades, jollifications, cozy lounges, comfortable staterooms, pleasant decks. The "dues” are suited to your own purse.
ENGLAND • IRELAND • FRANCE •
NEW LOWS
Tourist Class
$g4
Third Class
s68
GERMANY
North German Lloyd
130 West Randolph St., Chicago, Ill., or your local agent.
g f p
g f p
Thirty
The Scholastic
Harvard President Declares U. S. Schools Equal Oxford
By Intercollegiate Press.
Cambridge, Mass., April 14.—Not only does instruction in the best American colleges in many respects equal that of Oxford and Cambridge, but the American college students of 1932 is superior to his predecessor of a generation ago.
This at least is the belief of President A. Lawrence Lowell of Harvard university as expressed in his annual report to the board of overseers for the academic year 1930-1931.
“Our college students as a whole appear more mature than a generation ago, not only in scholarship but also in their outside interests and in the sense of proportionate values which is the flower of maturity.
“And this in spite of, perhaps to some extend because of, the fact that they enter a year younger than they did in the early nineties. Maturity is by no means wholly a matter of years. It depends much more on environment, and above all, on responsibility.
“A youth who enters college at 19 and is treated like a school boy matures less rapidly than one who enters at 17 and is treated like a man. To enter at the appropriate age and be expected to be rather above than below his maturity is the best way to develop manly character.”
Preceptorial Study Plan For Colgate Freshman
By Intercollegiate Press.
Hamilton, N. ¥., April 14.—Plans are being made at Colgate University to extend the newly instituted preceptorial plan of study for freshmen because of the success it has attained this far. '
Under the new plan there are, in addition to class work, informal discussions between faculty members and students on the reading of books and the writing of essays. According to President George Barton Cutten, it is an attempt to develop each student “intellectually as a whole.”
Student Actors Suspended
By Intercollegiate Press.
Columbus, Ohio, Apr. 14.—Six student members of the “Scarlet and Mask,” Ohio State university musical comedy club, were suspended last week as the result of an alleged conspiracy to evade the eligibility rules. Rumors were prevalent on the campus that the club would be forced to suspend activities for a year. Dr. George W. Rightmire, president, would neither confirm nor deny the rumors.
President Pearson of the University of Maryland has appointed a committee to investigate examination conditions at the university and make possible recommendations for improvement.
China and Japan Students Don*t Care Much For War
HONOLULU, Hawaii, April 14.— While Japan and China are at swords points in the Orient several hundred University of Hawaii members of the Japanese Students association and of the Chinese Students alliance held a joint meeting of the two organizations in Honolulu, February 6. The Chinese students took the initiative in arranging for the banquet.,
Chinese students declared they saw no reason why they should not be as friendly with the Japanese as with and other racial group represented on the Honolulu campus. Both Japanese and Chinese students felt but a slight interest in the affairs of Japan and China, inasmuch as they are thoroughly Occidentalized American
A quantity of beads shaped to look like human teeth have been found in Assyria, showing that there was a fashion in ancient Nineveh of wearing artificial teeth around one’s neck.
Deposit Will Be Due Soon
The preregistration deposit of twenty-five dollars which must be paid by all students who expect to attend Notre Dame next year is due and payable to Registrar Robert B. Riordan immediately, according to a reminder he issued this week.
A silver nugget weighing 2,750 pounds was found in Mexico.
Chilean Workmen Oust Critic Who Criticized Their Energy
By Intercollegiate Press.
Antofagasta, Chile, April 14.—Because he wrote an article for a California university publication saying that Chilean workmen were lazy, lazier than anyone else on earth, A. L. Randall, former Los Angeles resident has been deported from Chile.
Unfortunately for Randall, the article was republished by a Chilean newspaper. Police reported the man was threatened with lynching.
Colorado is rapidly becoming recognized as a leading horticultural state because it is producing vegetables and fruits in high altitudes during seasons of the year when other sections of the country are not producing, according to William Case, extension horticulturist at the Colorado Agricultural college.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR
ROUND TRIP EXCURSION
South Bend to Chicago
$3M
Week ends, Fri., noon thru Mon. Leave South Bend station, Michigan and La Salle streets, any train Friday noon to Sunday noon. Return on any train up to and including 11:30 p. m. train, Monday. For information phone South Bend 3-3111, or see Chas. Woods, 222 Lyons Hall.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

April 15,1932
Thirty-one
INTERHALL SPORTS
(Continued from Page 29)
(Lyons); Glausner (Sophomore), second;
Pfeil (Brownson), third. Time 1:11.5.
100-YD. FREE STYLE—Won by Burchell *	(Lyons).; Corrigan (Sophomore), second;
Dwyer (Brownson), third. Time 1:05.5.
PLUNGE—Won by Burns (Off-Campus) ; Dorschel (Lyons), second; Moulder (Dillon), third. Distance 52 feet, 8 inches.
MEDLEY RELAY—Won by Lyons (McCarthy. Dorschel, Burchell) ; Sophomore, sec-•	ond ; Brownson, third.
z BASEBALL
The following are the results of the Interhall playground ball games for Sunday, April 10, and the league standings to date:
Group I—St. Edward’s 4, Lyons 2 (13 innings); Badin 5, Morrissey 1; Corby 8, Sophomore 5; Sorin, bye.
Group II — Howard 3, Walsh 1;
Brownson 9, Off-Campus 0 (forfeit); Dillon 10, Carroll 7; Alumni, bye.
►
League standings:
Group I.	w	l	pct.
St. Edward’s___________1	0	1.000
Badin__________________1	0	1.000
Corby 			1	0	1.000
Sorin			0	0	.000
Lyons 			0	1	.000
Morrissey			0	1	.000
Sophomore			0	1	.000
Group II.	W	L	PCT.
Howard			1	0	1.000
Brownson			1	0	1.000
Dillon 			1	0	1.000
Alumni			0	0	.000
Walsh 			0	1	.000
Off-Campus			0	1	.000
Carroll			0	1	.000
tions.
GOLF
Charles F. Weiss, secretary of interhall athletics, announced this week that interhall golf match play will start April 24. There are to be four men on each team.
The men who will represent the various halls will be selected by 36-hole qualifying scores. Aspirants must turn in the results of their rounds before 6:00 p. m., Friday, April 22.
The schedule will be posted some time during the next week by Frank Buhl, junior manager- in charge of golf.
Follow
William Karl’s
Series of Ai-ticles on
German Student Life
Beginning this week in
The Notre Dame Scholastic
v
Karl, former news editor of The Scholastic, is dispatching each week from Berlin the true information on the German activity of the post-war decade in the field of education.
V
EACH WEEK in
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ALL-INTERHALL BASKETBALL
TEAMS
(Selected by the referees and umpires who
officiated at the interhall games.)
HEAVYWEIGHT
Caldwell (Carroll)* Law (Walsh) *
Vitt (Off-Campus)* Marbaugh (Off-Camp) Brost (Morrissey) Jaskwhich (Howard)
LIGHTWEIGHT
F Montgomery (Badin)
F Bucci (Sophomore) F
C	Freeman (Badin)
G	Brown (Sorin)
G	Podraza (Lyons)
* Three men rated
equally for forward posi-
HONORABLE MENTION
Heavyweights—Forwards: Gildea (Carroll), Hall (Lyons), Host (Sorin), Cushing (Dillon), Rodriquez (Off-Campus). Mahoney (Howard) ; Centers: Igoe (Walsh), Sandura (Lyons), Rapier (Alumni) ; Guards: Christman (Sorin), Burke (Freshman), Crosson (Sophomore), Sexton (Badin), Vettel (Lyons), Bog-nar (Off-Campus).
Lightweights—Forwards: Carrico (Brownson), Martin (Badin), Thompson (Badin), Dugan (Morrissey), Brennan (Corby), Dunlevy (Corby), Bringardner (Dillon), Bickford (Lyons), Bontempo (Lyons), Meyers (Lyons), Burns (Freshman), Ward (St. Edward’s), Joyce (Alumni) ; Centers: Farrell (Dillon), Graves (Carroll), Link (St. Edward’s) : Guards: Buckley (St. Edward’s). Carroll (St. Edward’s), Nerod (Dillon), Clark (Sorin), Asman (Sorin), Colville (Sorin). Curran (Badin), Lasardi (Badin). Thole (Carroll), Lynch (Carroll), Robinson (Alumni).
Nationally Known Sport Shoes
|.00 £00 1(150
T 5.00 V 8.50 IV”
You will appreciate the style and value of these shoes
« Master Fitted »
ML1W
FOOT WF.AR\\\ z V XSVWON
120 S. Michigan
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
PEANUT PIETRO
On Down the Line
She prefers
Tennis Raquets Restrung
Golf Equipment
Full value given for American Trust Accounts on any merchandise in our store.
Berman’s Sport Shop
126 N. Michigan
ALBIE BOOTH, football, baseball, and basketball star at Yale, received eight letters in his college career . . . When GEORGE NICHOLS and DAVE MAIER battled for the light heavy crown it was the first time that two south-paws fought for a world title . . . KEN MEENAN, Northwestern halfback, is barred from athletics for one year following his second marriage in his short life . . . GEORGE SPITZ, champion high jumper can leap within six inches of the pole vault record set by J. W. PRYOR, of Columbia in 1877. . . .
V
R. P. WILLIAMS, now physical director at Wittemberg college, in 1906 ran 100 yards in the almost unbelievable time of nine seconds . . . On four other occasions he ran the distance in :09 1-5 ... He also has a mark of :06 flat in the 60 yard dash . . . Both of these times are recognized as world professional records .	. . JACK
JOHNSON, 56 years old and JESS WILLARD, 48, former heavy-weight boxing champs, are endeavoring to follow Jack Dempsey along the comeback trail. ...
V
JACK RILEY, All-American tackle from Northwestern, has won the national collegiate heavyweight •wrestling crown for the second successive year . . . An ice-boat travels twice as fast as the wind that propels it . . . SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY has discontinued issuing contracts to their coaches . . . they will be appointed just as any other member of the faculty . . . EXTERMINATOR won the 1921 Saratoga Cup by walking around the track . . . All the other horses were withdrawn. . . .
V
PAAVO NURMI’S declaration to stay out of the Olympics will rob the historic games of one of the most colorful athletes of modern times . . . The first scoreless nine inning baseball game was played in 1875 . . . GENE VENZKE, sensational young miler, will enter Penn in the fall to be under the tutelage of Lawson Robertson, Olympic coach, . . . BEN EASTMAN, bespectacled Stanford flyer, set the world’s mark for the quarter and half mile within two weeks . . . His 46.4 time in the 440 shattered by a second the 16 year old record held by TED MEREDITH....
A PIPE
?
(For you)
e
HER name is Ruth. She’s a popular co-ed on a famous campus. Yes, she’ll have a cigarette, thank you (and smoke it very prettily). But for you she likes a pipe.
That’s one smoke that’s still a man’s smoke. (And that’s why she likes to see YOU smoke a pipe.)
There’s something companionable aboutapipe.Friend-ly, cool, mellow___ it clears your mind, puts a keen edge on your thinking.
And you sound the depths of true smoking satisfaction
RUTH when you fill up its bowl with Edgeworth.
There, men, is a REAL smoke. Choice mellow burleys, cut especially for pipes —blended for the man who knows his fine tobaccos. It’s cool, dry, satisfying
—and you’ll find it first in sales, first choice of smokers, in 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
We’d like nothing better than to drop in tonight and toss our own private tin across your study table. But since that can’t be, just remember that you can get Edgeworth at your
YOUR smoke— a pipe!
dealer’s—or send
for free sample if you wish. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes, 15 £ pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
TONIGHT
The Girls of America provide your laugh treat-— when the
GIRL'S NUMBER
of
THE JUGGLER
goes on sale
» » »
FEATURES:
Avis Mac Cover Marge Drawings Mary Petty Art Work Lopker Frontispiece
The best humor from 100 girl’s colleges "The best Juggler ever"
ON SALE TONIGHT
IN ALL HALLS AND	WHILE THEY LAST
AT THE CAFETERIA	25 CENTS A COPY

HR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY,
NOTRE DAME, IND.
The cigarette that’s MILDER • •.
Chesterfield Radio Program MON. & THUR. TUES. & FRI. WED. & SAT. Boswell Alex RUTH
Sisters Gray ETTING 10:Xp.m.E.S.T. 10:30p.m.E.S.T. 10p.m.E.S.T. SHILKRETS ORCHESTRA every night but Sunday Norman BROKENSHIRE, Announcer COLUMBIA NETWORK
that TASTES BETTER/
© 1932. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co