


IS H~ 



E RAT OU 
FR M TH DRU K DRIV 
N.D. BACCHUS 4~ 
I 
1201bs..031 .063 .094 .125 .156 .188 .219 .250 .281 313 .344 .375 

BACCHUS is a student organization working to prevent 1401bs..027 .054 .080 .107 .134 .161 .188 214 .241 268 295 .321
I 1m....o23 .047 .010 .OS< .111 .141 .1s. .188 .211 .234 2s.e 2a1

alcohol abuse problems BEFORE they st.:1rt. If you'd 
1B0lbs . .021 .042 .063 .083 .104 .125 .146 .167 .188 .2'08 229 250 

lilce to learn more about alcohol or are interested in I2001bs..019 .038 .056 .075 .094 .113 .131 150 .169 .188 206 225. JOlnln~ other university students in promoting res­I 22011>1..011 .o34 .051 110 .188
.068 .085 .102 .119 .136 .1s:i 20, 2401bo..018 .031 .047 .063 ,078 .094 .109 125 .141 .158 172 11!11

ponsible drinking decisions, CALL BACCHUS at••. 
ITodo10fmcne )'O<Jreslima1ed BloodAla>hol Co,11•01:

Jane Heisel -2580 1. Count 'f0<J' aini<,. 
12. Line up tho rurbOlol d<1nlu "'111 tt,o ,-dooool 10 your~

Vince Willis-2022 3. To doiarmno lho effllcl of limo en yo<.or Blood Aloohol Content.,-lho ~chan. Aperoon b<.ma up about one drink po, hout.
John Sheeny -1721 
IHOURSOPORIHKJNQ 11 I2 I3 I4 I5 I6

Laurie Binlc -1254 
!=~­
.015 .roo .045 .080 on 090 

Contents 

January 29, 1987 Volume 128, No. 13

Scholastic 


8 
Delicious Alternatives 
By Catherine Coffey 
Despite what you might have heard, the South Bend area 
has a number of restaurants and bars worth checking out 

14 
Problems and Progress in South Bend By Sara Harty 
South Bend leaders confront rising crime, and continue 

to forge ahead with numerous economic revitalization and development projects 
Departments 
2/Editorial 3/Letters 4/Week In Distortion: Partying with the 'Big Guys' 12/Calendar 
17/On Other Campuses: Party All the Time 18/Books: Past and Present Powers 22/Music: Gotta Gotta Gotta Have 'Em 23/Final Word: The Newest Revue 
Cover photo by Allan Lim 

News 
5/Is 19 Enough? 
By Steffanie Keller 



Sports 

20 /Scoreboard 

Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Danie, IN 46556 and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75/year and back_ issues are available at $1.00/copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of, the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre J)a:me, its administration; faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Scholastic is represented nationally by CASS student advertising, Inc. IC 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 

Scholastic 



Letters 

Scholastic 

Vol. 128 January 29, 1987 No. 13 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 
Editor: Maher Mouasher 

Managing Editor: Keith Harrison 
General Manager: Philip Coghlan 
Editorial Staff 

Larry Burke: Sports Catherine Coffey: Departments Frank Lipo: News Kathleen McKernan: News Greg Miller: Student Life Aimee Storin: Copy Bob Winn: Student Life 
Production 

. Production Manager: Matthew Bradley Design Manager: Jim Doerfler Photo Manager: Allan Lim Graphic Arts Manager: Maria Murphy Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek 
Administration Business Manager: Dan Gamache Comptroller: Pete Cespedes Advertising: Julie Gschwind 
Circulation: Mike Hoban · 
Editorial Assistants 

Ed Jordanich: Sports Steffanie Keller: News Kathy Scarbeck: Departments Phil Wolf: Sports 
Layout 
Mary Faith Feeney Theresa Gianoli Susan Serrato Cathy Stacy 
Art & Photography Mike Murphy 
Homosexuality emotional aspects of the issue was given. 
I hope others' eyes on campus
Dear Editor, 
were opened by your efforts as 
Congratulations to you for the mine were and I also hope the informative December 4 issue members of the homosexual com­dealing with homosexuality on the munity within the Notre Dame 
Notre Dame campus. community begin to feel more like one of the family. 
I think you handled the topic very professionally and in such a Mary C. Berger way that a bit of insight into the Angers, France 

1------------------------z:~-:--:::-::----:---­
Do you have a complaint, 
comment or opinion? 
Write a letter to 
Scholastic. 
LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame, In 46556 








The heat is on. 
This summer may be your last chance to graduate from college with a degree and an officer's commission. Sign up for ROTCs six-\veek Basic Camp now. See your Professor of Military Science for details. But hurry. The time is short. The space is limited. The heat is on. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
Interested? Contact Captain Domingo at 239-6264. 


Partying With The 'Big Guys' 
Getting together over break with the old high school crowd can turn into a festival of fish stories and forgotten names 
By Mike Keegan 

It's eight o'clock in the even­
ing, and you're at home, 
. preparing to go out with your rriends from high school. It'll be the first party you've attended since your return from college. Excited thoughts cross your mind as you wait for your friend to pick you up. Your heart skips a beat as you hear your friend honk his horn. You stroll out the door for an evening of fun. 
Once you're in the car, lies become as common as truths. Exaggerated stories abound as each person tries to outdo the other. It goes something like this: 
Typical Friend: "Hey John, how've ya been?" 
You (thinking, "As if you really care, how many times did you write last semester?"): "Great. And yourself?" 
Typical. Friend (thinking, "What the hell happened to this guy's hair, he looks like a cross between Frankenstein and Lassie."): "I've been fine. Hey, did you get my letter?" 
You (knowing that this is the twelfth letter lost by the post office in the last year, you decide not to push the issue.): "Oh yeah, great stuff. I wrote you back, but I forgot to mail the letter." 
Friend (weighing in at a mean 140 pounds): "That's all right. Did I mention in the letter the time I drank 32 beers in one night? I was the only one standing at the end of the evening." 
You (Not wanting to be outdone): "That's great, but I can remember the time I had 27 shots and wasn't even buzzing." 
Friend (thinking,"Shots of what, water?"): ''You could always out­drink me. Hey, we're here. Let's go see everyone else." 
Upon entering the party, you notice your old sweetheart stand­ing alone in the corner. Thinking about what a suave and debonair guy you are, you meander on over 
with the hope of rekindling a flame. In a voice that would put Rhett Butler to shame,· you say, "Hi, Jenny. How've you been? How's college going?" 
Jenny, seemingly · uninterested, replies: "Ok. How have you been Larry?" 

"No, Jenny, it's Donald. Remember ninth grade when you let me sit next to you in English?" 
"Oh yeah Dennis. Would you please excuse me? I think Steve just walked in." 
"Oh, sure. Maybe we can talk later. I'll give you a call." 
Jenny smiles as she walks away, thinking "What a dweeb." 
After the conversation with the old flame, three of your old friends start calling your name from across the room. As they approach, you are suddenly gripped by fear as you can't remember their names.· Ner­vously, you look for a way out of the situation. There is no escape; what should you do? Of course, you Big Guy them to death. "Hey big guys, how are you?" They buy your line, and you kiddingly joke about old times with your three anonymous friends. 
After what seems an eternity, you finally leave the party. Your friend comments on what a great party it was. Of course, you reply that it was the most radical party ever. However, your only wish is to be back at school with your friends. What were their names again? 11 


Scholastic 



Student leaders lobby 
for 24-hour space in LaFortune despite opposition 
from administration 
It's midnight on a Wednesday night, early in the second semester, at the Faculty 
Dining Room on the second floor of South Dining Hall. Until three 
a.m. students are allowed to study in the room. Although the library is closed, there are only three stu­dents taking advantage of the study space. They must contend with the noise drifting upstairs from people entering and leaving the Oak Room and the snow foot­ball game being played on the quad. 
"In the beginning of the semes­ter, we only get three or four peo­ple a night," said Greg Tuel, one of the student monitors at the Faculty Dining Room. The room is monitored each night of the week from 11 a.m. to three a.m. "As the semester progresses and midterms are close, there's any­where from 10 to 20. Then it dies down -again until finals. 
."There are a fe·w people who come in regularly," said Tuel. "But generally, it's a wide variety. People only come in once in a while. Most people· don't make a habit of staying up until three in the morning." · 
But some people do want or need a place for early-morning study. And last semester the Stu-

January 29, 1987 


dent Senate tied the issue of late­night study space at Notre Dame to the renovated LaFortune Stu­dent Center. In late October, Stu­dent Body President Mike Switek informed Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, of a senate resolution which included a provision calling for a 24-hour lounge in LaFortune. 
Student Senate Resolution 001, passed unanimously by the senate, stated in part: "Furthermore, recognizing the new security sys­tem which allows limited access to the building, we strongly recom­mend and see a need for an area to be set aside and designated as a 24-hour study lounge." 
According to Tyson's November 3 reply to Switek's letter, "A few years ago, it was decided that a space should be made available for study that extended beyond the hours of the library. However, it was not believed that a 24-hour space was necessary. At the time, LaFortune was not considered to be an appropriate place, especially since the Huddle hours were to remain unchanged. Consequently, I requested that the Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall be designated as that space. 
"Given the later hours of the Oak Room, it was my feeling that food and beverages would be available to students studying in the Faculty Dining Room for a longer period of time than that provided by the Huddle in the Student Center. I would prefer to continue with the present policy." 
Fred Pugliano, the off-campus senator who worked on the propo­sal for a 24-hour area in LaFor­tune said, "We started this right at the beginning of the year, when we got back. I went and talked to 
5 





News 



Ceil Paulsen, assistant director of  j  "This  was  a  decision that  was  
student  activities,  the  second  or  made  when  the  renovations  
third week (of the fall semester). I went in with a few proposals of things we wanted changed. She  began," Paulsen said. "It was researched by contacting the stu­dent unions of 21 universities of  
was pretty firm on just about everything. The 24-hour lounge was just 'No.' They were pretty solid on that.  comparable size. It wasn't just off the top of our heads." Paulsen also said that the laundry facility to be located in LaFortune's basement  
"The reason that she gave me,"  will be open 24 hours.  
Pugliano said, "was that she had called other schools and the gen­eral consensus was that a place where they have the businesses, like downstairs, wouldn't be a good place for a 24-hour lounge. She said it had to do with security measures, the elaborate keying system. That was one of the rea­sons I thought they could seal off  Wendy Aitken takes advantage of study space on the balcony of the Faculty Dining Room. "That (policy) was Joni's deci­ "I spoke with Joni about it," Switek said. "She said that she didn't want a 24-hour lounge. She felt that it would become a 'home away from home' for off-campus students. She had visions of peo­ple just rolling out beds and sleep­ing there, making it a flophouse. And she said that she didn't want  
an area pretty well."  sion," said Tyson. "I don't know if  to see that happening to the new  
Pugliano said that the area which he envisioned as a 24-hour area would be one of the rooms downstairs in the new part of LaFortune's basement, not . the basement lobby area (the former Nazz), where Irish Gardens, The Cellar and other businesses are located.  she discussed it with her staff or not. My office approved it. From my point of view, policy is approved in my office. The for­mulation of the policy took place in student activities." Paulsen agreed that the decision was Thompson's. "Joni was direc­tor at that time. She made the decision. We discussed it, but it  LaFortune." "The Nazz was our old 24-hour area," Pugliano said. The Nazz was located in the basement lobby of LaFortune. "It was a kind of social place, and if you wanted to get some studying done, you could. It was really laid back. I guess they construed it as a. bad environment  
Paulsen said she  was  reluctant  was her decision.  to study.  
to  comment  on  her  role  in  the  
rejection  of  the  24-hour  space.  ~  
"That  decision  was  made  by  ~  
Father  Tyson  and  Joni  (Neal  
Thompson,  former  Director  of  
Student  Activities).  My  under­ 
standing is that the security of the  
building was a major concern. We  
have student monitors  here  until  
two  a.m.  It would be difficult to  
get  student  monitors  for  those  
early morning hours.''  
Paulsen also said that the Office  
of  Student  Activities  had  con­ 
tacted other universities of com­ 
parable size whose student centers  
closed  at  midnight  because . of  
"security factors and maintenance  
costs.  This student center is open  
19 hours a· day.  Those five hours  
that it's not open seem to be little  
to. complain about.''  Formerly the Nazz, this part of the· LaFortune basement is a lounge area encircled by a  
6  number of businesses. Under present policy, students may study there until 2 Lm.  • Scholastic  I  
I  
------~-­ :;..t.  
-­ - - 
,  ,  


News 

"A 24-hour area would benefit ] off-campus students the most," ~ Pugliano said. "You don't have !'!< anywhere · to go, especially if you're a transfer. A lot of off­campus people hang out in LaFor­tune. It was really hard in the beginning of the semester when nothing was open, because we didn't have anywhere to go, espe­cially for studying late. It's diffi­cult in your house. You just can't find that spot like in the dorms when you can go down to the study lounge .and stay until all hours." 
Often busy when finals are near, the Faculty Dining Room is open until 3 a.m. each night of the week. 
_:·_: ,.,::.:.,.-=-:-. ::.-· ,::; ·: 


.tt~ A~~lic~tson I:xemptip~ ( ... 
:-/\)((/.'·<:JV>>-:'-,::;:-:·-···.:':.:..:"'.::;-·-:·'_·-· ---:__--_ .. :.-·--·'-,(.' 
g~~~-i~·it.11~•.•••·~e.n·~•t.e·.. ··addr§ss.ed ·•·in·•·••1'es6lu tion• 
ti!-s;r;~!}RBti9p it;i/.hR Ocf9ber •. letter,. ~as.a 
•riunei Tenant Handbook, which> called•.• 
:f~~\~~ft~b,:,;~i)hit••·;~..... ;.ert·••l~i~•e.i:~s•··· 
YiY~~r\Vf 11.adto .• reapply •• for.•. spaqe. · 
ntpe;:qpledn.th.is gffice spaqe.·.•··• 
®! h~t~ iA thitoffipe ;nd get 6~ugh{) ff I]~Xt yca.l"wh~n student.g9ferr­
.~{~ff qf $Wcie;:i;itf\.st.ivities.)qolfld••. s~}'L~s.R ~i.l<~..~.,itek.• \V~S •.. ~p·•• there J:>1:ea½-'. ~}:;~U\V9uld. ha\'e tq pay••.forinciiscrt he . h~ye n(J conne;:ction with; /That 


jl1i~nl(.&~&J1Liie~~&~fi 
s~.Il.~tY<)Yl.t.li:;rRspestto.•··••the.•• JlSyQ.f the.... · c.~hR.:ti~99f•th~ .werd a.s. ry[errlllfJQ....•.•· ,.. .:.ft-On.s~~J?/:;.;•••t}cto. rot{(m\fisiontl1e~.e·•·
' li(ih tlle.;stucient ce;:nte,r.in. theifiittire:·•··· 
·,,±•.•.• will·... i.nfo·rn1.·.·Fathe['.i6§~~... :ti~~l~~~A<xr2~jii•r.~~id~ht.··fgr.s.t~~~~F .~ervices).••• that •·I .h~ye<magp ap;:~;x;~~gtie>fftO\thf;poycy for.• m.e·•. groups . 
·•Inentione..d ... aboye .... in. thaf a11 q.Illl~ettYXi$Y., \VIII rc::plac..e..... tll(!Jlnnµalr
application process." · ······ · ·· · · ·· · ·.· · · ·· · · · · · · 
, ~· ::. ·:·· .·.: i. .. . . . .. ::':-. :': :-: '.: ..:, :. ·:·: .. : : \ii:.:.·-:::_-:.:.:::::::/:,\-:\);{; :V '\'.t'.:Sliif///t:::::::::,..;\\/(:<\/\)}Ii :: /.· --'<\:;;::.;/ :_.-:: _), L!:.x>-: :: ·-,_it:>< :·.,_.-,?tY:_:::-::--·:<i)j/i\~
N.ow,.. w~ have thesp~<.:e,:11111~t}s 91.1rs,}'sa1d.•·Sw1tel<.''Eyen year: t.hef.do a.n•.·.9yaluatiqn·.•. of h.()'Y; 't'.¢:.1.1se.;thespac.e .• •.and,>if·•. afte;./Sbng;•••···· tiIIle., J~ere's ~ trend where we :Jtop ··· llsing a.II.•·· tlle.. ·· space,< the11 we 
could lose sbme ofit.? 
· · · ·· · 


,Tanuary 29, 1987 
The issue of late-night study space remains. Tuel said he thinks the Faculty Dining Room is a good place to study late. "After 12:30, no one is coming into the Oak Room, so you don't get the dis­tracting noise. From one a.m . .to three a.in., it's quiet." Tuel also said there are lamps provided there to improve the dim lighting of the dining area. 
Currently, this is the only campus-wide option available for late-night study at· Notre Dame, although Switek said he intends to pursue the 24-hour study space issue further. "I'm going to talk to Fred Pugliano and (student sena­tor) John Gardiner. If they don't. want to pursue it then I'm going to ask someone else to do it. 

"I just feel that if we're going to call this a student center, there needs to be a place where students can just go and relax. I don't see a problem with having a small area down in the basement, where stu­dents could go 24 hours (a day) if they wanted to stay up all night and study in a relaxed atmosphere. There should be a way they can fix the alarms and the doors." II 

Student Life 




Delicious Alternatives 
By Catherine Coffey 
Despite what you might have heard, the South Bend area has a number of restaurants and bars worth checking out 


If you are tired of eat­ing the same old food and going to the same old bars, South Bend, maybe to your surprise, does have quite a few diverse and excellent 
restaurants and bars -some of which have been recently reno­vated. Most are close to campus and, of course, welcome Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. A few of the lesser known places are described below. 
AJ's Grate Steak & Fish Co., 52855 U.S. 31, South Bend, 272­5478. 
Formerly Barclay's, thi~ recently remodeled restaurant and lounge is known for its baby back ribs and prime rib. The diverse menu lists 14 different appetizers, along with steak, chicken, pasta and seafood prepared in a variety of styles, such as barbecue; Mexi­can and Cajun dishes. Entrees range from $6 to $12. Appetizers are under $5.95, with most costing close to $3. Wooden floors and tables give AJ's a rustic appeal. Seating 200 people, part of the res­taurant can be partitioned to accommodate rent-free banquets. 
A Notre Dame theme charac­terizes the lounge. Twenty framed pictures of Notre Dame people, including the Four Horsemen and the Gipper, fill the walls. The tailgate of a pickup truck provides for an instant tailgater, complete 

with complimentary hors d'oeuvres. The lounge features a different drink special every day of the month in addition to the regular 24-ounce "mugger" of Miller, Miller Lite or Molson. 
DJ TOm Jeiger from WSBT plays tunes on Friday and Satur­day nights, and customers are encouraged to dance on the 325 square foot dance floor. The dress code at AJ's is casual but neat. 
AJ's accepts cash, checks and major credit cards. Hours are. 
11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m., Monday thru Friday, 4-11 p.m: Saturday, and 3-9 p.m. Sunday. The lounge is open until 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. 
Bruno's Pizza, 2610 Prairie Ave., South Bend, 288-3320 
Established in 1975, this spa­cious restaurant serves some of the best authentic Italian food in the area. Homemade pasta specialties, pizza and sandwiches highlight the menu. Red and green spotlights, wallhangings of Italy's landscapes, and paper Italian flag placemats add to the hospitable and homey atmosphere. It is not unusual to see Bruno and his wife Rosa min­gling with diners, many of whom are speaking Italian. Bruno's deep-dish pizza is delicious and very filling. 
Bruno's serves beer, wine and liquor and is open from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday thru Friday, 4-10 
p.m. Monday thru Thursday, and 4-12 p.m. Friday and Saturday. 
Scholastic 


Student Life 

Dress is very casual and prices are moderate. Cash and checks are accepted. 
Frankie's, 1621 Circle Ave., South Bend, 287-8993. 
Notable for its fabulous secret barbecue sauce and great service, Frankie's is a casual, seat-yourself, family-operated restaurant. Gen­erous portions of barbecued ribs go for $7.35. For those with smaller appetites, Frankie's also serves mini tips for $4. In addition 

to the many barbecue entrees, restaurant-goers may dine on a variety of sausage and shrimp and pork dishes while watching their favorite videos on a wide-screen TV. Frankie's does not serve 
. alcohol. Dress is very casual, and prices are inexpensive. 
Hours are Monday thru Wednesday, 4 p.m. to 1 a.m., Thursday thru Saturday, 11 to 4 
a.m. Cash only. 
Gipper's Lounge, 515 Dixie Way North, Sou th Bend, 272-6600 
Included in Sport Magazine's 1986 listing of Top 20 College Bars, the newly-renovated (over 21) and alumni. Football 


beer taps, brass railings, sports 
pictures by South Bend artist Jim 
Wainwright, and stained-glass 
windows paying tribute to Notre 
Dame coaches highlight the 
lounge. Customers are even served 
by waitresses in cheerleading uni­
forms. Patrons can slow dance on 
the dance floor to the 50s sounds of piano player Marge Dudek. 
Gipper's Lounge recently released a new menu or, as they call it, a new "Game Plan." 1/3 lb. hamburgers and assorted deli sandwiches served with chips are a bargain at $2.95. Also featured is a build-your-own thin or crispy crust pizza, with a choice of five toppings . 
In addition to beer, wine, mixed drinks and wine coolers, customers can munch on compli­mentary popcorn as they watch one of two 19-inch TV screens or 

HI•s Old Town Restaurant and Saloon features an array of 45,000 lights, a fraction of which lend glitter to this bar, located on the first level. 


Student Life 



a six-foot wide TV screen·. Gipper's also serves 20-ounce mugs of beers for $1.75. Dress is casual but neat and prices are inexpensive. Gipper's accepts Visa, checks and cash. 
Hours are: Monday,· I I a.m. to 
12:30 p.m.; Tuesday thru Thurs­day, 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and 6 to 11 p.m.; Friday, 11 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. 
and 9 p.m. to 2 am.; Satur­day, 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and 9 

p.m. 
to 2 a.m.; Sunday, 12 to 10 p.m. 


Hi's Old Town Restaurant, 213 
Front St., Niles, 684-7774 
Old-time street lights shine on polished brass as 45,000 tiny twin­kling lights make Hi's Niles' brightest restaurant. Even if you're not hungry, it is worth the 

. 20-minute drive just to see the decor. A stuffed replica of Wyle E. Coyote peeks around one of the many miniature trees in Hi's while his giant stuffed Warner cousins hang from the ceiling. A toy train makes its way around the room on tracks eight feet from the ground. Tiffany lamps add to the color. 
Hi's, a converted warehouse, 
serves huge portions of very good food. Patrons may choose from Mexican, chicken and seafood dishes or from eight different hamburgers, including the "famous" Philadelphia burger, served with cream cheese and sour cream. Desserts termed "death by chocolate," include double cho­colate cheesecake, chocolate mousse, and hot fudge sundaes. 
Hi's also serves a variety of ice cream drinks, including peaches' arid cream (peach schnapps, vodka and ice cream), and a rootbeer 
10 
~ 
~ 
8 

~ 
~ ~ 
float (B?,iley's Irish Cream, rootbeer schnapps and ice cream), as well as imported·beer and wine. Don't expect fine · crystal: Hi's serves all beverages in canning jars. Hi's is one of few bars that serves 16-ounce " fuzzy navels" 

and LaBatts beer. Hi's also has a lighted dance floor, and a DJ plays music ranging from Billy Joel to the Beastie Boys. Dress is casual but neat, and prfoes are inexpen­sive to moderate. Visa, Master­card, checks and cash are accepted. 

-• ~ ! ' 

Mitchele's Indiana Club, 320 W. Jefferson, South Bend, 234-5313 
Formerly Partner's, Mitchele's Indiana Club comprises Club Jefferson, a restaurant, and two bars, Nifty's and The Variety Shop. 
Club Jefferson 
Enjoy American cmsme in an old-fashioned setting that includes a player piano and antique nickel games. Specialties of Club Jeffer­son are crab legs and prime rib, but the menu also includes hot dogs and bratwursts. 
Nifty's 
Nifty's, Mitchele's front and more intimate bar, seats 175 peo­ple. A DJ spins top-forty music Wednesday thru Saturday, begin­ning at 9 p.m. There is no cover charge. 
Scholastic 

" j ' ' • ­
. . . 

Student Life 
The Variety Shop 

Featuring a 28 by 16-foot dance floor and two bars, The Variety Shop seats 600 people. Customers can dance to the sounds of a live band Wednesday thru Saturday or watch music videos on five 10 by 12-foot wide screens. 
Mitchele's Indiana Club accepts cash, checks, Visa and Mastercard. 
The Loft, 112 W. Colfax, South Bend, 233-8711 
Established in 1911, the Loft is among the best restaurants in South Bend. Offering entrees ranging from filet mignon to twin lobster tails, this restaurant prepares much of its fine cuisine at tableside. The Loft provides a 
choice of 1 7 after--dinner cordials and four specialty coffees, includ­ing Irish and Venetian brews. 
Homemade desserts such as 
January 29, 1987 
Strawberries Romanoff, Cherries . Jubilee and Bananas Foster top off an exquisite meal. 
Unusually attentive employees and a complimentary carnation for women help maintain the Loft's tory. The menu offers American and Italian dishes, with spaghetti and pizza specialties. The Old Spaghetti Works takes a dollar off selected chicken dishes on Sun­days. Customers may enjoy drinks 

./iTl,~;td~.•~t::i~~: .a.~hdiCe· :r'~~.ur/~p,Ciii1h, 
.. 
·•··icoJf~t~,.·...:. i~9lu~i,rg ...... Irish.......,. arj~.•.· ..••... \(efo~t.i~rt... ;, •.~refs:. :·• 
::•,·····••·::,t!.9,111,~'1].~~.~..•.•·•~··~:!;Serf.s.\~.~.c.n.... cJs...$tr~w.~.~rri.~.~......~ima~S:·. 
,;.·: <:>ff; ~:m~r~.i.e~ J,u~n~~.cJr1f1 .. Elarian~s.... Fo.~t~r.Jop .. qffc1n
/\ .~~g~j~i!ffra~c1I~ < . . . . 
lofty reputation. Dress is semi­formal, but a tie is not required. Prices are expensive. Major credit cards, checks and cash are accepted. Reservations are encouraged. Hours are 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 5 to 10 p.m. on Monday thru Friday and 5 to 11 
p.m. on Saturday. 
~ 
g 
3t"' · 
Old Spaghetti Works, 501 N. Niles Ave., South Bend, 232-4414 
The Old Spaghetti Works is housed in an old lathe works fac­in the spacious lounge, which has a "Cheers"-style four-sided bar. The lounge serves complimentary pizza bread, popcorn and pretzels. Patrons must be 21 to enter. 

The Old Spaghetti Works offers Italian margueritas, served with amaretto instead of tequila. A DJ plays 50s and 60s music from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. The lounge is open until midnight on 
weeknights. The dining area is open from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday thru Thursday .and from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. Dress is casual but neat. Prices are moderate. 
Sunny It~ly Cafe, 601 Niles Ave., South Bend, 232-9620 
Another Italian restaurant, the Sunny Italy Cafe, sports red-and­white-checked tablecloths. Speci­alties include pan fried chicken, veai scampi, spaghetti and ravioli, all homemade. Customers receive large portions an_d prices range from $5.50 to $12.50. Sunny Italy serves beer, wine and liquor and is open from 4:30 to 10 p.m., Tues­day thru Saturday. Checks and cash are accepted. II 







Notre Dame& Saint Mary's 
THURSDAY 
FILM: "Berlin, Symphony of a City / Man with the Movie Camera" Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. $1.50 
"Tommy" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9, and 11 p.m. $1 
THEATER: 1987 Keenan Revue O'Laughlin Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 

MUSIC: Campus Music -DJ Dick Abood Theodore's 8 p.m. -1 a.m. Free 
ART: Photography Exhibit Eva Enderlein Isis Gallery Riley Hall 
8:30 a.m. -5 p.m. Weekdays 
SPORTS: Men's Basketball: vs. Marquette ACCArena 
7:30 EST 
CLASS: Junior Night Chip's 746 S. Eddy 
11 p.m. $2 cover, dime drafts 
TRIPS: Signups for Spring Break 
Trip to Florida LaFortune Basement 3-5 p.m. $50 deposit 
FRIDAY 
FILM: "Play it Again, Sam" Annenberg Auditorium 7:30, 9:30 p.m. $1.50 
"The Gods Must Be Crazy" EI\gineering Auditorium 7, 9:15, and 11:30 p.m. $1.50 
THEATER: 1987 Keenan Revue O'Laughlin Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 
MUSIC: The Law Theodore's 10:30 p.m.-2 a.m. Free 
ART: Photography Exhibit Eva Enderlein Isis Gallery Riley Hall 
8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. Weekdays 
SPORTS: Hockey: vs. Wisconsin-Stevens Point ACC Ice Arena 
7:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 
FILM: "The Gods Must Be Crazy" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. 
THEATER: 1987 Keenan Revue O'Laughlin Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. · 


Compiled By Charlie Buckley and Ace Corsetto 
MUSIC: Marginal Man Precious Wax Drippings Youth in Asia Damaged Retina· Stepan Center 8 p.m. $5 
Campus Music -DJ Theodore's 8 p.m. -1 a.m. Free · 
SPORTS: Women's Basketball: vs. Marquette AOC Arena 1 p.m. 
Hockey: vs. Wisconsin -Stevens Point AOC Ice Arena 
7:30 p.m. 
Track: Michigan AOC .Field House 1 p.ni. 
fUESDAYSUNDAY 

SPORTS: Men's Basketball: FILM: "Woodstock" vs. North Carolina Annenberg Auditorium AOC Arena 7:30 p.m. 1 p.m. EST $1.50 
Wrestling: THEATER: Tickets on sale for Second City vs. National Catholic Tourney Washington Hall AOC 
$4 10 a.m. 
SPORTS: Women's Basketball CLASS: Junior Class Mass vs. Western Michigan Alumni"Hall Chapel AOC Arena 7 p.m. 7:30 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY MONDAY 
FILM: "The General" FILM: "Meet Me in St. Louis" Annenberg Auditorium Annenberg Auditorium 7p.m. 7 p.m. $1.50 $1.50 
"The Front" THEATER: Tickets on sale for Second City Annenberg Auditorium Washington Hall 9 p.m. $1.50 $4 
CLASS: Junior Overseas Welcoming Party SPORTS: Men's Basketball: Theodore's vs. LaSalle 9-12 p.m. AOC Arena Free 7:30 EST 

Michiana 

.Student Life 

Problems And Progress In South Bend . 
By Sara Harty 

South Bend leaders confront rising crime, and continue to forge ahead with numerous economic revitalization and development projects 

Few Notre Dame and burglaries to residences and lar­to study the various factors sur­Saint Mary's students ceny also increased in 1986. Rob­rounding city crime and its call Sout1.1 Bend home. beries, burglaries to non­prevention. "We're working on Still fewer students residences and arson decreased different projects to get at these express any real interest from 1985 levels, however. . problems, although it's not the in the city, beyond type of thing I can discuss. I 
complaining about the It is difficult to pinpoint causes worked for 12 years in narcotics. lack of things to do. But South for the variations in South Bend · People only felt we were doing our Bend is more than just ethanol. It job when we picked up 20 or 30
yearly crime statistics. Kilgore

is a complex city fighting its prob­people in a mass round up. When
said, "It's hard to attribute crimi­
lems and trying to stimulate a 

nal increases and decreases to. dif­we picked up the same number of sluggish economy with a number ferent things like economic situa­people but only one or two at a of new projects. tions in South Bend. They tend to time, citizens were dissatisfied. 
fluctuate." It's the same thing here. PeopleOne of South Bend's most 
don't feel we're doing the job, but 

apparent problems, especially to But the police department and• we are. We're just not getting the off-campus students, is crime. law enforcement officials continue publicity," Kilgore explained.According to Sergeant Richard Kilgore of the South Bend Police 8 
~ 
Department, the number of crimes 
[;

in six out of nine categories :;;! increased in 1986 over 1985. One of the most dr'.'.matic increases occurred in the number of murd­ers committed: in 1986 there were 16 murders, compared to nine in 1985. 
"Murder is something we have very little control over. Ninety percent of the murders in 1986 involved persons that already knew each other. A good number were arguments between family and friends. We can't control what goes on behind closed doors," said ~~ Kilgore. Rape, aggravated assault, 
14 
. 
u

•~• ~: ~ ~ _---:--.: -----=->" ;_----:..:: -,-_,--= ~)-:: '<•,-:••• "",:01•: •~•• ,._,-,•• 1"'~ •'"' ,-~ ;, ;':.,, .r',},, ~ •~ ~: C:.,.::~,, •"' • :;,-.. ~.~,''~~-•,•'-'c; .::-:;,,.-f •J,",.," 


Student Life 

Four of South Bend's 16 murd­ers in 1986 were committed near Washington and Walnut streets on the West Side. This area has been targeted for some time for revital­ization efforts. "The West Wash­ington Street Revitalization pro­ject is a comprehensive approach toward specific problems," said Jon Hunt, city director of ment and housing problems are being addressed. Neighborhood cleanups, new curbs along · the streets and increased police patrols have all contributed to the revital­ization. "Right now we're in the process of acquiring vacant homes and converting them to home­steading units. After inspection a lottery is held between residents who make a commitment to live there and fix the house up,". Hunt said. 
By placing a greater emphasis on cultural · and entertainment events, city leaders hope to draw people to South Bend. The restora­
. tion of the Palais Royale, which created an elegant extension to the Morris Civic Center, and the reno-

This vacant Robertson's building on Michigan Street is a reminder of the demise of South Bend's downtown business district. 

economic development. "This is a long term effort. We must attack problems on a broad front. We're getting out there with the residents and property owners." 
Hunt said that the necessary background data has been gath­ered, boundaries have been set and project g9als have been drawn up. The comprehensive goals include the creation of an environment conducive to private investment in homes and businesses, improve­ment of long-term economic opportunities of individuals, development of present businesses, and elimination of physical condi­tions detrimental to the neighbor­hood. 
Already, specific code enforce­



.Student Life 
vation of the Studebaker Natonal Museum's Archives Center are the type of thing that city leaders would like to see more of. Developers hope that construction of the skywalk between the Cen­tury Center and the Marriott Hotel will make South Bend more appealing as a convention site. 
One of the most controversial additions to South Bend is the Stanley Coveleski Regional Sta­dium.. The stadium is scheduled for completion July 1, said Dena Morris Lovett, events coordinator for the city. Mayor Roger Parent announced in early 1985 that South Bend had been chosen as a site for a Class A baseball team. The Chicago White Sox farm team will play its games in the new 5000-seat stadium, which will ~lso be available for football, soccer, 
concerts and other outdoor activi­ties. 
According to the Department of Economic Development's 1985 Annual Report, the stadium site at the corner of Lafayette Boulevard was chosen to encourage redevelopment activities, conven­tion prospects, and tourism efforts in that area. 
Some do not see the stadium as a beneficial addition to the city. Construction on the stadium has been delayed through the efforts of the citizen's group Fair Tax Inc. Fair Tax protests the fact that expenses appropriated for the sta­dium have risen above $7.7 mil­lion. The original cost estimate was $3.6 million. Members of the group have suggested that the land port present businesses and ·also encourage business development through support of entrepreneurial efforts. "Project Future means more jobs for the community. The idea is to attract new businesses and let them decide where to locate," said Hunt. Project Future 


be used for a landfill or sold to private developers. 
"Fair Tax Inc. is not ready. to let things. go, which. is creating a lot of the controversy. The com­munity as a whole, however, seems anxious to see the stadium com­pleted and the new team playing," said Lovett. 
Another problem South Bend faces is economic. Just as in other cities that once relied on heavy industry, the economy in South Bend has been struggling the past few years. In an attempt to stimu­late growth and attract new indus­try, several economic development projects have been created. One of these is Project Future, which serves St. Joseph County's needs. 
"Project Future started four 
years ago when community leaders 
got together and decided to step 
up economic development efforts. 
Over 200 people were involved. 
They included educational, 
government, labor and business 
leaders who worked with consul­
tants to improve development," · said Hunt. 
Project Future's goals are threefold. It aims to attract new businesses, at the same time sup-is currently trying to attract businesses connected to the inter­national market. 
In the spring of 1983 Indiana established an Urban Enterprise Zone. The zone offers state tax credits and easier access to state business-assistance programs. South Bend is one of 10 cities to experiment with the 1.0 year pro­ject. The ?:One covers 2.9 square miles of industrial, residential and commercial land. 
The main advantage that the UEZ offers businesses is an exemption from the state inven­tory tax. Although South Bend's zone has not yet attracted much new business, it has led to a great deal of reinvestment by local firms as well as increased renovation and use of once-vacant buildings. Hunt said that as of 1986 $13 million had been invested in the zone and 500 new jobs were created. The new stadium is located in the zone. 
Construction of new buildings. Renovation of old ones. Redevelopment of run-down neighborhoods. A minor-league. baseball team. Whatever economic and crime problems South Bend might have, it isn't afraid to face them.Ill 
Scholastic 


Party All TheTime 
Playboy says these schools like to, but some schools' administrators protest the inclusion of their "beacons of academic excellence" 
Bathroom facilities were in short supply, 
making Madison Area Technical College's students flush with anger, reported the National On-Campus Report. Because of an apparent error in planning, the college buildings were not equipped with enough toilets for the number of students. The school paper, the Slant, in an attempt to mock the situation, printed a full-page color photo of anxious students lined up before a portable toilet across the street from the school. Officials at the college recently have had two bathrooms added and the sign on another changed from "Men's" to "Women's" in an effort to help stu­dents spell relief. 

Higher grades are received by students 
who use computers than students who peck out their research papers on typewriters, concluded a study con­ducted at Rider College and published in The Chroni­cle of Higher Education. The in-house survey found that papers written on word processors garnered an average grade of 3.1 on the 4-point scale. Typewritten papers received an average of 2.6. The study con­cluded that computer-produced papers looked nicer, were longer, and showed improved sentence structure and idea organization. Thomas Simonet, a communica­tions professor at Rider, commen~ed that over a col­lege career "this ·could mean the difference between making the dean's list or hovering over academic pro­bation." 

Mud-wrestling is the dirty word brewing 
controversy ai: the University of Pittsburgh, according to the National On-Campus Report. American Civil Liberties. Union has raised objections to a rule which prohibits the sport and links female mud-wrestling matches with pornographic films and other events with "sexually exploitative components." When Pitt turned down Phi Gamma Delta's request to stage a mud-wrestling event, the ACLU wrote to university officials in support of the fraternity. Some Pitt stu­dents have accused administrators of a double stan­dard: last spring, the student housing office sponsored chocolate-pudding wrestling matches. 

"Top party schools in the nation" listed 
in Playboy recently angered administrators of some of the schools, reported the College Press Service. Cal­State Chico, • Miami (Fla), San Diego State, Vermont and Slippery Rock were some of the academic institu­tions ranked as the best party schools in the U.S. faom among 250 colleges and universities surveyed nai:ion­wide. It is not a title coveted by schools like Wesi: Vir­ginia, Mississippi, Cal-State, Vermont, Miami and oth­ers on the list waging a battle for more federal funding by trying to convince legislators that their campuses are "beacons of academic excellence." While students generally seemed amused by their school's listing, outraged officials at several of. the schools protested their inclusion, some callipg press conferences to emphasize the point. The University of Notre Dame was not included on the list. Ill 

Edited by Mike Farnan 
17



Past And Present Powers 
By Maher Mouasher 
Three new books discuss the origin, history and operation of three of America's most successful publications 


The Paper: The Life and Death of 
the New York Herald Tribune 
by Richard I<.luger 
Knopf, 801 patges, $24.95 . 
.Worldly Power: The Making of The 
Wall Street Journal 
by Edward E. Scharff 
Beaufort Books, 305 pages, $18.95 
The Great American Magazine: An 
inside History of Life 
by Loudon Wainwright 
Knopf, 443 pages, $19.95 
When the first edition of the New York Daily Herald rolled off the presses on May 6, it marked a revolutionary departure from journalistic norms of the time. For the first time, a newspaper was directed, according to its founder, James Gordon Ben­nett, at "the journeyman and his employer -the clerk and his prin­cipal." It was the first publication ever to be aimed at the general public, regardless of social status. 
Newspapers during the nineteenth century served pri­marily as mouthpieces for their owners, who were also the editors-in-chief and occasionally reporters as well. In addition, they were directed at the particular social class to which the owners most wanted to preach. Newspa­pers did not pretend to be objec­tive, nor were they construed as objective by readers. 
Thus Bennett's ideal of a news­paper aimed at all walks of life, with the necessary objectivity that such a move entailed, was a novel concept. In fact, this marked the emergence of a philosophy that would eventually form the back­bone of modern journalism. 
Six years later, in 1841, the owner of a printshop in New York and the publisher of the New Yorker decided to launch a com­petitor for the Herald. Horace Greeley, the son of a struggling New Hampshire farmer, wanted to take Bennett's concept of a paper for all one step further. He decided to publish a newspaper for all members of the family. A moral newspaper, removed, in the 
. words of Greeley, "from servile partisanship on the one hand and from gagged, mincing neutrality on the other." With that goal in mind, the New York Tribune was born, with both a daily and a weekly edition. 
Kluger's "The Paper" follows Horace Greeley and the Tribune from its birth in 1841, through its merger with the Herald in 1924 and finally to its demise in 1966. In the process, Kluger provides a fascinating inside look at the way in which journalism evolved dur­ing that period, as well as a day by day history of the U.S. and the world. 
The New York Tribune, and later the Herald Tribune, boasted some of the best writers and edi­tors in the history of journalism. From Greeley himself through Karl Marx, Tom Wolfe, Red Smith and many others, the Tribune staff was never without interesting per­sonalities. "The Paper" provides us with a look at these people in action, when .they were at their best. For that alone it is worth reading. 
"The Paper," however, contains much more. To read it is to follow the lifespan of the Herald Tribune. The helplessness and fear during the Civil War, the despair of the great depression, and the rebuild­ing and optimism after World War II are all documented through the pages of the Tribune and the lives of its staffers. . From William Harrison throug~ Lyndon John­son, "The Paper" chronicles the terms of 28 presidents and-the evolution of the political party system into what it is today. 
The main fault of "The Paper," if it can be called a fault, is that it is too comprehensive. Kluger tries to compile a history of the Tri­bune, biographies of its owners and staffers, a history of the world during that time period, and some insights on publishing technique. All the detail results in a book totalling a hefty 80 I pages, and this includes some rather dry read­ing at times. Overall~ it still manages to give a history of the New York Herald Tribune and its people that is complete, thorough, and highly enjoyable. 
"Worldly Power" by Edward Scharff takes an almost wholly different approach to a similar topic. Focusing on The Wall Street Journal, it focuses more ori the newspaper itself and the environ­ment in which it prospered than on the people who ran it. Founded in 1889 as a compilation of news bulletins that Dow Jones & Co. sent out to-Wall Street busine~ses, the Journal took on a life of its own, overta~ing the news -service in importance and developing into the premier business publication that it is today. 
18 


Scholastic 

:i 
,_-_ ---_ ~-•'---~----,, ...~~ ------..,--~--------~-~--_. .,·. ,-­
. , . 

The path of growth at the Jour­nal was by no means an easy one, and it is detailed in a very engag­ing manner in "Worldly Power." Scharff does a great job of integrating the various factors that led to the Journal's growth into a smoothly developing narrative that makes interesting reading for those concerned with either Wall Street or publishing. 

fhe best thing about "Worldly Power" is that it does not try to overwhelm with facts and details. It sets out to investigate the history of The Wall Street Journal and the formula behind its success, and that's just what it does. It does not even attempt to delve into the affairs of the main characters, and 



~---r.:::-· ~­
cj­
it is all the more enjoyable for that. Listed as one· of Business Week's top ten books of I 986, this is a book that must not be missed. 
While both "The Paper" and "Worldly Power" deal with news­papers that have shaped modern journalism, "The Great American Magazine" deals with a publica­tion that had an impact that was at least as great. From its inception in 1936, Life was a trendsetter. Photo essays had been used spar­ingly up to that point by Time and others, but never to the extent that they were utilized in Life. Perhaps aided by World War II, the coverage of which was uniquely suited to Life's strength in photo­journalism, it grew to a circulation of 2.3 million by 1940 and 5.2 mil­lion by I 949. 

Loudon Wainwright is well suited to writing about Life. He started work at the magazine· in 1949, and worked to the end of its weekly publication in 1972. More recently, he has even served as the top editor of the monthly Life. His writing style is reminiscent of Life at its best, full of insightful anec­dotes and probing commentary. 
Each of the three books has its strengths and weaknesses, but together they paint a picture of journalism as it has developed through the years complete with a look at the men and women who have made it what it is today. 11 

19 




Scoreboard 

'' 1''~·hM1!~!~ttrrrlitllt,~~•rt"sl'~l'~ 
Compiled by E~IJ<>if!Jnich 
:. :,-:-·='=.-' _. _;\::t:;_~~., : · · · -·t(.l·:·-::;rt~=t~ 


Irish To Take On No. I Carolina 
MEN'S BASKETBALL -The Irish will try to build on a long tradition of success against top-ranked teams when the Tar Heels of North Carolina visit the ACC on Sunday. 
DEAN SMITH'S Heels, who have been ranked in the top five the entire year, suffered an early­season loss at the hands of the UCLA Bruins, a team DIGGER PHELPS' Irish nearly beat last Saturday. 
Notre Dame will need the improved rebounding of GARY VOCE to combat the explosive Carolina frontline of JOE WOLF, DA VE POPSON, and freshman center J.R. REID. 
The game also will feature a match-up between two of the nation's premier point guards, Carolina's KENNY SMITH and Notre Dame's DAVID RIVERS. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -In the midst of a four-game home­stand, the Irish will entertain Mar­quette on Saturday in a North Star Conference Battle. 
Notre Dame has dominated the Warriors in recent meetings, including a 90-46 drubbing of the team from Milwaukee last year. 
The Irish continue to be led by center SANDY BOTHAM and point guard MARY GAVIN. Bot­ham is currently sixth on the Notre Dame career scoring list and sixth on the all-time rebounding chart. Meanwhile Gavin keeps adding to her Notre Dame career assist record and is moving closer to the all-time mark in total steals. 
8
~­; 
~ 
.~i;wifJ·~~-, 
-~,;,,., 


Gavin holds the school record for assists. 

MEN'S FENCING -Coach MIKE DeCICCO'S team extended its winning streak to 58 meets with three wins last weekend. 
The Irish were led by junior 

YEHUDA KOYACS in the foil 
and Scholastic athlete of the week 
KEVIN STOUTERMIRE in the sabre. 
Notre Dame will face 1986 NCAA runner-up Wayne State in Detroit on Saturday. The Irish edged the Tartars for the national championship last season. 

WOMEN'S FENCING -This 
season's 4-0 record has increased · the women's winning streak to 27 
meets heading into a Saturday 
match-up with Wayne State in 
Detroit. 
Defending NCAA individual champion MOLLY SULLIVAN, sophomore JANICE HYNES, and Scholastic athlete of the week ANNE BARREDA have won nearly half of the individual matches for Irish coach YVES AURIOL. 
HOCKEY -The Irish split with the Golden Flashes of Kent .State last weekend to send their season record to 7-11. 
Three third-period goals by the Flashes cost the Irish the Friday game, 6-3. On Saturday an over­time goal by freshman MICHAEL 

Scholastic 

Scoreboard 
LEHERR gave coach LEFTY SMITH'S icers a 2-1 victory. 
This weekend marks the last home series of the 1986-87 season for the Irish as they host Wisconsin-Stevens Point in the ACC on Friday and Saturday. Face-off for both games is scheduled_ for 7:30 p.m. 
INDOOR TRACK -Last week's dual m·eet victory over Michigan State at the ACC saw the Irish win seven of the 15 events. 
Key performers for coach JOE 

PIANE'S Irish included sophomore 
DAVID WARTH, who won the 
l,000-yard run, and freshman 

TOM KRAUSE, who broke a 
meet record while placing first in 
the shot put. 
Sprinters also were strong for 

Notre Dame as TIM BROWN, the 
football team's Most Valuable 
Player~ won the 300 and tied with · 
TONY RAGUNAS for second in 
the 60 with a Notre Dame record 
time of :6.23. 
The team will meet a strong Michigan squad on Saturday in its second dual .meet of the winter season. The meet is scheduled to start at 1 p.m. in the ACC Field­house. 

WRESTLING -Freshman ANDY RADENBAUGH and sophomore PAT BOYD wrestled well for the Irish last week, winning both their matches in contests with Athletes in AcJion and Nebraska. 
Notre Dame won the exhibi­tion against AIA, 25-23,but lost to the Huskers, 36-12. 
. Coach FRAN McCANN'S 

· team will welcome the return ·of captain JERRY DURSO when the Irish compete · in the 12-team National Catholic Invitational on Saturday. at · the A.CC. Action begins at 9:30 a.m., with finals set for 7 p.m. · 
January 29, 1987 
MEN'S SWIMMING -Going into weekend road meets with Cleve­land State and St. Bonaventure, the Irish sport a 5-3 record. 
Notre Dame coach TIM WELSH has his team gearing up for the Midwest Invitational later in the year with the upcoming road trips and last week's trip to the Kenyon Invitational. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING -Also on the way to Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure is Welsh's women's team (2-4). 

The Irish will be led by junior AMY DARLINGTON and the diving duo of GEORGIA BOS­SELER and KATHI EPPING. 
MEN'S TENNIS -The Irish lost their season opener . last week to Northwestern, 7-2. 
Injuries have sidelined PAUL DAGGS, BRIAN KALBAS, and number-one singles player TONY CAHILL, but three weeks off before the next Irish match should provide time enough for them to recover. 
Freshman MIKE WALLACE and junior DAN WALSH were the Irish winners against Northwestern. 

SMC BASKETBALL -The Belles picked up two big wins last week against a favored Franklin College team imd rival Huntington Col­lege. 
In the 75-66 win over Franklin, sisters JULIE· . and TAMMY RADKE led -Saint Mary's with 20 and 19 points respectively. JENNY HARTE.• shot 9-for-13 froin the field for 18 paints. · 
Against Huntington, Tammy Radke's basket with four seconds left in overtime pulled out a 67-66 victory. She was the Belles leading scorer with 24 while sister Julie added 21. 

The Belles' own· invitational, scheduled for last Saturday, was canceled because of bad weather. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
ANNE BARREDA 


Barreda, a freshman fencer from Peabody, MA leads the women's team with IO wins. Her .909 win­ning percentage in the foil also leads the Irish. She follows teammates Molly Sul­livan and Janice Hynes who also hail from the Boston area. "We have had very good people from that area," said Coach Yves Auriol. "They are all very good fencers and will play a large role in our success this season." 
KEVIN STOUTERMIRE 


Stoutermire , a fencer, upped his record for the season to 11-0 in last weekend's meet in Madison. The sabre-wield­ing senior from Troy, MI, is one 
of two· undefeated Irish fencers. "Kevin Stoutermire has fenced like a man possessed," said coach Mike DeCicco about his captain. "He is one of the fastest sabre fencers in the country, and he has proved he will be a factor at the NCAAs this spring." 


Gotta Gotta Gotta Have 'Em 
Melchizedek and Jones start the new year with a compilation of the twelve best albums ever 
By Melchizedek and Jones 



PM! P-cf 
e didn't get any new· albums 
for Christmas, and now we

W


don't have anything to write about. So we've made a list of the greatest pop records of all time replete with pithy statements to show exactly why these albums are so good. 
1. 
Blood On The Tracks -Bob Dylan. This is a fairly arbitrary selection, because nearly every­thing Dylan has done is well-nigh flawless. This particular record is heart-rending all the way through; we've listened to it at least 500 times. Other Dylan albums should be included here at the top, perhaps Infidels and Blonde on Blonde just because they have the best album jacket designs. 

2. 
Get Happy -Elvis Costello. Twenty songs of hopping bass lines and frivolous puns ironically play off the cynical view of love Elvis puts into every syllable. The record is a brawl appropriately ended by "Riot Act." · 

3. 
Exile On Main · Street -The Rolling Stones. This double album is The Stones at their murky best. 



: i Mick's vocals can be understood 
i j 
i' on maybe a quarter of the lyrics. "Let it Loose" is the best song 
ever. 
4. London Calling -The Clash. Hardcore punkers will forever say 

i 
i 22 
that early Clash is better, but the fury and the melody and the anger and the black humor put this album above their others. Side two is amazirig. 
5. 
The Beatles -The Beatles. "Dear Prudence" is a great song. This is a great record. Abby Road and Revolver are great. Every­thing else they did is great. This is an obvious selection. 

6. 
Making Movies -Dire Straits. Knopfler's harsh vocals and alter­nately rough and tender guitar 




[}! ::,,ill~~a~o;e :·..· .~riR~i~li 

work makes Making Movies supe­rior music. Side one's suite of three songs gives added merit to this work. The finger snap on "Romeo and Juliet" is an arresting musical moment. 
7. 
_Best Of -, Bachman-Turner Overd.rive. Well, not really, but if the entire · first side were an extendo-jam of "Taking Care Of Business" and the second a similar version of "You Ain't Seen Noth­ing Yet," this would be the very best of seventies garbage rock. 

8. 
Best Of -Otis Redding.. This is the best R & B ever. "I've Been 



Loving You Too Long" ranks all over Motown -except Marvin Gaye, of course. Otis' wild vocal improvisations are hilarious. Gotta, gotta, gotta have this record on the list. · 
9. The Smiths -The Smiths. This is music for right how, the merger of beauty and brutality: thunder­ing bass, lilting guitars, Morrissey swooning and crooning apparently harmless lyrics that are· actually fraught with violence. In the lullaby-like "The Hand That Rocks The Cradle," the line "There'll be blood on the cleaver tonight" comes out of nowhere. 
11. 
The River -Bruce Springs­teen. Hipsters and other assorted malcontents don't like him, but from the frivolity of "Crush On You" to the stark terror of "Wreck On The Highway," Bruce is all right. 

12. 
Graceland -Paul Simon. This may be a bit premature, bl,lt "I Know What I Know" is a funny tune and "You Can Call Me Al" is a funny video. So much is going on here. The. complex texture makes Graceland a good record to listen to with heightened cons­ciousness. ¦ 




Scholastic 

-----~---~---­
'

, , 
, -, • I 
(; ' .. ' 
! ' --• 
The Newest Revue 


Keenan's annual production causes uproar in the life of the director, and it doesn't even get him a date 
By Mychal Schulz 


The Keenan Revue. A social event. A happening. The only time Keenan guys can get a date because they each have four tickets to the show. Well, let me tell you something. The direc­tor of this year's show got a lot more than four tickets, and he still couldn't get a date. And that's the major reason I became direc­tor, for the dates I could get. Oh well. 
The director really earns his extra tickets, though. This year over 100 skits tried out for the show. That's about twelve hours worth of auditions that the staff sat through. That, my dear, is quite a few. Most were very good. Some were very bad. Some were .. . well, let's just say . . . different. One skit that didn't ·make it attempted to tastefully light a fart on stage. Now that's different. For the second consecutive year the Big Butts tried out, hoping against hope that the staff would accept them. And, for the second con­secutive year, the staff decided we ought not to magnify the problems of the girls in Pasquerilla West. 
In a show such as the Revue the producer and. director need to work closely. This year's producer 
January 29, 1987 
is Eddie Leonard. Eddie and I work very· well together simply because neither of us listens to what the other has to say. It's not that we're trying to be malicious, it's just that when one of us says something to the other, the only response is usually a blank look and a "What?" We don't know who is responsible for what. Anytime · someone comes to me with a prob­lem or a question I immediately send them to Eddie, who of course immediately sends them back to 
me. 
It was interesting to read the notes Eddie had on any skit in which I had tried out or vice versa. It never failed that the words "never," "you've got to be kid­ding," and "horrendous" showed up on the paper. 

The director's job is very stressful. So many details clog my mind that 'I sometimes forgets where I is.' At lunch on Monday, I got up to put some cheese sauce on my hot dog and and sat down ... in the wrong place. It took me a while to figure it out. Then, of course, there was the time during auditions when I was looking for Matt Snyder, the technical direc­tor. For 45 seconds I was yelling my head off screaming for him. Then he politely said, "Mychal, I'm standing right next to you." I told him never, never to hide him­self next to me again. 

And then there is my room­mate. Oh, he was a saint last week­end -mainly because he left town. But he's been very patient with me, especially the times I've for­gotten· his name. He's also let me use the room as a filing cabinet. I mean the whole room. 

After the cuts are made for the show, the director is not a very popular person with some Keenan­ites. Some people think that their skit is the funniest thing to hit campus. Yeah, right. On Saturday night I posted the list of those skits that made the cut, then made the mistake of actually sleeping in the dorm that night. I woke up on Sunday and found myself 'pen­nied' in. It took me half an hour to get out. I suspect that it was my own section. After all, our section skit was cut. 
Well, the show starts tonight. Many people have worked long and hard on it, and we all believe that it will be one of the best Keenan Revues ever. Thanks to all the support the campus has given us over the years. After all, the show is for you. 
And by the way, if you're 5'7", have long brown hair, and. need a ticket to the Revue, I know some­one who .needs a date ... 

-~  -~  
.  ~  __. .  
,  \  .  \  
' -- ~-----~-----~-\ ---"'-......___.............__.,  


Life In Hell 



f, St~PLE. T~Cl-tt\J fQUC5' lo 1<£f:f> YOUR MI\HJ LOV& ~ELl\tiON5HIP Al\\lE I( k'lCl(trJG 
AflEACEf'UL,. Lor.JG •TERM LD~-'T""PE-P.E!A1"1~<;ri 1P CAN QrTE!" e.f. l.l~c"' ~C> To A SUM SOl'IT To CHltlJ A, 
PUTrE~/N(:, A U>N(:, 'THfoU(;f,\ "THE,. MuRK'j WAT~R5 N t&trt A FT~~ N l&H,-, MOtJ'T~ AfTER MoN"f~, ~EA~ A~re.R '::1fAR, WHLI.S ~DU AN'J ~1)11#< Love M/fiE!:: )US1' St1' 1'HE.Q.E lt,J 1"Hf BotL~ft. P.001-'\ STOKIN'"'fHE Ft~~, CH~U(IN1 -r~e. PRli.S.SuRc G-AIJ6E, 0~ WATtHIN' CAaL.e "TV. Sou~t,S PR!1T!;::a !>OR1w&, 0Oe.$N' r IT? WELL, DON • .,. l?l:SPA1R.--6~ ~REFOLL" us1t.1c; iHtS S<.1E.NTrF1G r:,vit>e, 'jou CAtJ -ru~t-.1 ~ou11. owt-J TED1ous .L.OIIE·~~SH1P IN"'1"0 AN ASSERT'l'/E NVC\.cA~~Pow~Rc.C, Su&MAR.INf. Or L.IJSi, 1:x,1T~M'"',-, AWi.> ~fl.L-IN6. 
0 REC06Nl"lE ilio(\T ~oo'R. ,½,qjer 
ut.JHAPPl~ESS IS ~DT. !:::)OIJ2.
©PIil-i. A SIAIJTCHEQ.oO. 

A.esPoNS18JLJ~. 
CorJSTAaJT' AFFEc.TI0l'IJ (:,!;.TS STAI.€: 

0 
Al=TE~ A ~HILE, 5o•HE NEXT TIME IT S A DOC,-E.AT-DOC:1 WORL..D OUT -nlE2E, ~ov TALI< TO '1<)uR. PAR.TNE.12., MIX so wH11 s1-1ovLD rT BE. AtJi:, 01FF1:l!evr THE Sl6NA\.S. 
AT HOME:? LISTI=!() PATIE.NTL.11 TO ':lOUl2. PAA.TKlcR's PROBLEMS, i'HE.,J R'EPLI.:, W t-rn Ar-l O&JEC::T\IIE 5lJMMAR"1. 
'jou Ki-lCW. WHAT 'jouR.. PRoSU:M IS? ~OUR. PROBL.E.M. 15 ljoo'RE PATH€t'IC. 
@ Sl-\OW (D..>ce~,J fo~ ~ouR 

LoiJe~·s SHoRTC.ONIIN6S. @ RE.PERT Ttt'a "THREE MP6lt WC>RoS. TI\IS Tcc.HNIQ\IE: IS AcTVALL.11 Qv ITE: 5OMf.TIME5 ~o0'RE. Jv5T !JOT IN 11-11: (:,AATIF'11i->6. AU. ~OU HAVE. iO DO 15 t,.\c)OO FOQ. ~ CONIPLtcATE'C) DISluSS101\1 SUSTL'1 Po1rJT OIJT ~OV1' PAltTNE~'.S WIT\-\ ~ovR. ~P-12.TuER. I.vi-le,..) 1,us \S 'THE: 
DEFEc:iS A,Jf;I BLVIJt)c./cS. /W0ID 8£t"3C:, CASE: USE. THE Fou.OWl.l(:, 1"H2EE MA61C. 
1
Cli!.US.t, ll,)H6)J PoSS18.L.~ B'=' PH2ASING WORD'S TO GET c:,ovg WA".). 1:100 MA'1 'jouR. RE.M~S IN TI-lta FORM OF 1-!AIE. TO RE.PEAT -n{E WO~tiS SEVER.A.L. TIMES, PR.oe,1..;ic; Q \Jc S,top.J £. &,i E:VE1,YTVAL.L.l1 T\.IE<1 Wtl.L \J)~K. 
\-\OW C.AI-:) '10U BE. So 5ToillO? 
~ 
I'M 

@TEMPER !::'ollft HoS."TIL.l~ wIi;.\
u~TA

G) RESIST -ra~ lfr'\1'111..SE C,1.EV~IIJES~ AfllD HUl'"'loR.. 
WI CA

jo AP01,.o&1z.E. 1:,0lJ CAN "tl!AIJS FOR.tll ~OU!<. NASTIc$T ':,ouR. PARTNER WIL.\.. JUST R~ALl'Z.E 5TVP! F=EE L.ltJ6S INTO Mol\o\EtJT5 OF L.EVtT':, ':lolJ'RE. GE1T/N(;, WtARt::,. So '1011''/€. !..Ago-As B~ (.O !IIIMV~ IC ATIN(:, THE.M IN THE 'FQll.1\1\ 
01= SuB.TLI::, W lrt'~ .JD!::E5.
C:,ar To MAI l'JTAIN '1DVR. \)N'1 lfat7 \t,j (? INTEC:,Q.li\-'.). E.1THE~ -nlAT OR. WORD 'jouR. APOLO(:,~ So THAT 110U ootJ'T L.OSE FACE., 
Distributed by Acme Features Syndicate 
24 
Scholastic 


THERE'S A 

''GRATE'' 
NEW RESTAURANT IN TOWN 

FISH COMPANY 

Grote Menu, over 35 selections in all, Grate Atmosphere, we've created a ranging from Prime Rib and Steaks, to restaurant where you'll feel comfortable BBQ Baby Back Ribs, Fresh Fish, Pasta's whether you're heading to a play or coming 
Poultry and Sandwiches. from the game. 
Grote Prices, at AJ's we believe that you Grote People, at AJ's you'll find the staff don't have to spencl a lot to have a grate to be friendly and caring. We want to make meal, therefore, most of our entrees are sure you have a grate time. priced under $9.00. 
COME TRY AJ'S YOU'LL HAVE A GRATE TIME 
52885 U.S. 31 North ¼ mile north of Cleveland Road 272-5478 Another Adventure in Dining Brought to you by Hospitality Associates 









