1867 - 1992
A century ahead of the competition.
Parents - Alumni - Fans Subscribe to Scholastic
Notre Dame's Weekly Student Magazine
Follow the Fighting Irish and keep up with campus events as Scholastic celebrates our 125th anniversary!
Your subscription includes our annual football review issue, published in February 1992.
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:________________________
A d d r ess:_________________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
CONTENTS
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME S STUDENT MAGAZINE
ENTERTAINMENT
5
Music: Mudhoney Music: Metallica
NEWS
Building Notre Dame
CAMPUS LIFE
9 From Sorin to Malloy
SPORTS
15 It is Time to Play Ball’
18 National Champions : 1924
DEPARTMENTS
2
3
12
19
20
21
22
24
Editor’s Notes Editorial CampusWatch Coming Distractions On Other Campuses Behavior Modification Week In Distortion Glancing Back Final Word
Univ
On The Cover: Clockwise from upper left: Fr. Sorin, Fr. Moreau, Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. Malloy. Artwork by Jeanne Naylor
SEPTEMBER 12,1991
EDITOR'S NOTES
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'§ STUDENT MAGAZINE
Vol. 133, No. 3
September 12, 1991
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Ian Mitchell
MANAGING EDITOR
Mari Okuda
EXECUTIVE EDITOR
Patricia Doyle
NEWS EDITOR
Kate Manuel
SPORTS EDITOR
Jon Paul Potts
SPORTS ASSISTANT
Jim Kuser
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Elizabeth Graner
DEPARTMENTS EDITOR
Michael Owen
DEPARTMENTS ASSISTANT
Kim Cenedella
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Paul Webb
COPY EDITOR
Margaret Kenny
SYSTEMS MANAGER
Kevin Hardman
ADVERTISING MANAGER
David Chmiel
BUSINESS MANAGER
Scott Ecker
GRAPHIC ARTS MANAGER
Jeanne Naylor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacation periods at the University ofNotreDame,Notre Dame, IN, 46556and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN46542. The subscription rate is $25.00jyeor and back issues are available at $125/ copy. The opinions expressed m Scholastic are these of the authors and edilorsanddo not necasarilyrepreseni the opinions of theentireeditorial board of Scholastic or of the UniversityofNotre Dame, its administration, faculty or st udenls. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicited materials become the properly of Scholastic.
Copyright 1991 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or m pat without written permission is prohibited.
2
In This Issue
This week kicks off a year-long celebration for our university’s sesquicentennial. Executive Editor Patricia Doyle details the people responsible for this weekend’s anniversary eucharist and picnic, which marks the official opening of the academic year. It promises to be a spectacular and historic event,onethatissurenottobemissed. Other planned occasions are also highlighted, including a long missed official homecoming weekend.
Thefirstceremony of the sesquicentennial year is the dedication of the Joan B. Kroc Institute and the Hesburgh Center. These completed structures are one of many campus additions. Scholastic’s news staff reports on the further expansion of Notre Dame as it enters its 150th year — a far cry from the tiny log chapel of 1842.
Recovering from the euphoria of Notre Dame football’s first season victory, Sports Assistant Jim Kuser then pondered the identity of the man at the pep rally. ND’s new men’s basketball coach, John MacLeod rallied the Irish fans for Lou Holtz and now reveals his hopes for his own team and why he was meant for Notre Dame.
In Entertainment, Jeff Jotz explains the “seminal” impact Mudhoney contributes to the music scene with their new cut, “Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge.” In contrast to Jotz’ progressive taste, reviewer Pete McGullicuddy gives a “heavy” recommendation for Metallica’s latest release.
As always, our weekly departments are sure to keep you chuckling — find out which college campuses permit stadium beer consumption! Mr. Manners would also like to make an appeal for decent mail. He has threatened the editorial board that he won’t submit a column next week if there is no good mail in his box!
Anything You’d Like to Say?
We always welcome suggestions, comments, criticisms, and even gossip. Let us know what’s going on, who’s doing what or what you’re enraged about. Our office is 303 La Fortune Center, open every weekday from 2-5 and the phone number is239-7569.
Want to see your name in print? Join us! We encourage enthusiastic writers, photographers and artists to lend us their talents. Or, if you’ve got a personal concern you’d like the campus to know about, write a Final Word. It’s your chance to get your voice heard. Call us for deadline details and specifics.
Mari Okuda Managing Editor
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writers name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must besigned. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Scholastic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the Uniied States. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all Idlers received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN46556
SCHOLASTIC
a
EDITORIAL
Crime Hits
Home
Notre Dame students have always joked about South Bend. The weather, the ethanol, the residents—all have been fair game as Domers complain about the “South Bend-Mishawaka Regional Area.”
South Bend, quite simply, is not a college town. Unlike Georgetown, Ann Arbor, Austin or elsewhere, the university campus is not surrounded by welcoming shops and comfortable housing aimed at the affluent college student.
Notre Dame’s campus is fairly isolated, set apart from the blue-collar city of South Bend. Notre Dame students take great pride in the fact that we have our own post office — the university is officially located in “Notre Dame, Indiana” — not South Bend.
Contrary to the commercials, South Bend-Mishawaka has not been “Alive with Pride” lately. Rather, it has been alive with crime. Within the last few months, Drive-by shootings, pipe bombings, crack houses and brutal gang murders have all painted a picture of a crime situation that’s spiralling out of control.
Recent incidents involving off-campus students and sports celebrities have only served to highlight the issues of crime and police conduct More and more, the world beyond the Dome has become a dangerous one.
But students can’t just stay on campus and congratulate themselves. Crime doesn’t stop when it hits the 46556 zip code. A crime problem in South Bend means, inevitably, a crime problem at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Criminals can walk those few blocks as easily as students.
Cocooning on campus doesn’t prevent trouble, it just delays it. Concrete steps need to be taken now to keep the situation under control.
Neigborhood watches, increased police patrols, giving out more information to students on crime and how to avoid it, meetings between off-campus students and police—these simple steps could help to reduce off-campus problems.
On campus, the university’s current efforts — to install more lighting, add emergency phones, educate students as to safe behavior, continue SafeWalk and increase the security force—must be stepped up to meet the need.
South Bend is no longer a joke, no longer funny. Crime has turned the city’s shortcomings into serious problems.
Hiding on campus isn’tthe answer. Studies, committees and task forces take too long. What is needed is cooperative, swift and comprehensive action by student leaders, city residents, South Bend politicians, university adminstrators and police officers on and off campus.
For nine months of the year, at least, Notre Dame students are not much different from South Bend residents: crime affects us all. It’s time for all of us to do something about it.
— Scholastic
SEPTEMBER 12,1991
Scholastic is always sieBthg-mote^
IliltSMilBilii
IfyouwouldliBeto^	,
L|.studentmagazin^	' ■>
Interested in being Scholastics
cartoonist?
Submit three samples of your work to 303 LaFortune by 5 p.m. tomorrow
Questions? Call 239-7569
___
NEWS COMMENTARY
Campusl/l/afc/7
Information, opinion, attitude and outright innuendo
Bookstore Revenge
I Finale
; The Gipper is pleased to announce the ! winner of the “The Bookstore Took My ; Money and Now I’m Mad, Really, Really, Mad” contest. Of the two leading candidates mentioned last week, Senior PLS major Gina Bacigalupi came out on top: she spent $363.20 on 32 books (as mentioned last week, 16 of those were sold as “used”). As of this writing, however, the only award the Gipp has to bestow on Ms. Bacigalupi is die great honor of seeing her name in print and the undying fame which results. (The Gipp toyed with the idea of awarding a bookstore gift certificate, but quickly thought better of the idea.) The unnamed engineering student with the 64-dollar book who came in second will simply have to labor on in anonymity. However, as with Miss America, if for any reason Ms. Bacigalupi becomes unable to discharge the duties of her office, the first runner-up will take the crown.
Question of the Week
All right, so Father Malloy’s nickname is “Monk.” What’s his middle name? Everything the Gipper has seen identifies the prez as “Father Edward A. ‘Monk’ Malloy.” What’s the “A” stand for? If you know, call the Gipp at 239-7569. Note to dedicated CampusWatchers: don’t bug Monk about this; that’s too easy.
4
This Was Not a Good Idea
Since only 500 Michigan football tickets are available, the Gipp is pleased that alternative entertainment for the weekend has been arranged. Howard Helmer promises to teach students how to make their own omelette. Better hurry to register though; to quote the poster: “Open to students on Notre Dame board plan only -student I.D. required. Registration first-come, first-serve basis - limit of200 people each day.” The sessions are held at 10:00 a.m. “sharp,” and the Gipp is just sure that four hundred ND students will be getting up at that hour on Saturday and Sunday for a lecture on egg preparation. Really.
Classified
Information
One caller this week asked the Gipp about the identity of the “lizard king” who keeps showing up in that other publication’s classified personal column. The Gipp is toying with the idea of printing a guide to understanding and decoding the personals, but has thus far thought better of the idea. One thing any newspaper reader must know is that the paper’s staffers get free classified ads; any long-running or large ads are usually by employees either goofing off or filling space. While the Gipp misses AG’s daily greeting since her graduation, he is sure the lizard king is an adequate substitute. The Gipper hastens to explain that the only reason he picks up the other publication is for the crossword puzzle, which he generally completes in under seven minutes. In pen, he might add.
Tips for the Gipp?
The Gipper has heard a lot of rumors lately, and knows more than he tells —- but he’d like to hear more. If you have news or information for the Gipp, leave a message: call 239-7569 anytime, stop by the Scholastic office between two and five, Monday — Friday, or write him at 303 LaFortune.	□
SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
MUDHONEY
GREAT, GREEN GOBS OF GOOD, GRUNGY, GUTSY ROCK AND ROLL
Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge is the new one from Mudhoney
fry JeffJotz
^kne of the words that we music writers ^>*scem to take pleasure in writing is “seminal.” Not related to male germination or any tribe of Florida Indians, seminal is usually used in music articles to describe how a band has had a major impact on a specific genre or subgroup of music; i.e. they define or have originated a certain musical style, be it in classical, jazz, rock and roll, etc. For example, the bell-bottomed, feathered-haired writers of the seventies loved to call Yes a “seminal” band in the once-mighty world of progressive rock. They became a major influence on many bands of yesteryear, bands like the Rossington-Collins Band and UFO.
When punk spiked its way into the consciousness of music writers, feathered hair was traded in for colored hair, and the word “seminal punk band” has been floating around the music writers’ cosmos ever since like some cosmic plague. Rolling Stone writers, in their video-soaked universe of paparazzi-and Loderisms, love to describe any lite ‘n’ bubbly “alternative” band coming off the presses of the major record
labels as being influenced by a “seminal” punk or new wave band (which of course, is the Sex Pistols, the only punk band RS ever heard of). Now the reduced-calorie band wears bola ties, hair mousse and tours renovated ballrooms with whirlwinds such as the Milltown Brothers.
Mudhoney has been classified as a “seminal” band. Many of us feisty rock critics cite Mudhoney as the band which brought the legendary grunge sound of Seattle into the living rooms of America. Now you high-octane hipsters out there may say that pre-Mud bands like Mother Love Bone, Green River and Soundgarden were more seminal than Mudhoney in defining the rebirth of Motor City Madness in the great Pacific Northwest, but for the sake of clarity, we’ll call Mudhoney “seminal” for now. Besides, how many of you really care who came first?
Mudhoney’s long-awaited new album, Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge, roars out of the Columbia River Basin with an attack of fuzz, fuzz and fuzz. Launching into a pounding instrumental (“Generation Genocide”) and ending in an organ-melted groove (“Check-Out Time”) slightly reminiscent of the Stooges’ “We Will Fall,” EGBDF captures the complete Mudhoney.
Generally speaking, EGBDF (remember guitar lessons as a youngster ... see the connection?) is a rougher, rawer Mudhoney, closer in style to 1988’s Superfuzz Bigmuff E.P. than their last self-titled LP. Besides the Stooges’ comparison, the end guitar riff for Neil Young’s “Cinnamon Girl” commences the tune “Broken Hands,” and “Fuzzgun ’91" is definitely a garage-bome product of hanging out with England’s own R & B punker, Billy Childish of Thee Headcoats. It is definitely obvious in EGBDF that Mudhoney Singer Mark Arm belts forth
blatantly stupid lyrics in his trademark coarse, snotty voice, alternating between a grinding drone and a warbly buzz. Messrs. Matt Lukin (bass), Steve Turner (guitar), and Dan Peters (drums) all combine simple but fierce hooks with decidedly uncomplex rhythms for a tasty musical Milk Bone.
“Something So Clear” relies on a distorted cycle creates a mental image of a mortal rock band thrown in a food processor and puredd to perfection. “Shoot the Moon” is a frantic, fuzzed torrent of dreamy vocals and dastardly guitars. Like “Check Out Time,” “Don’t Fade IV” also displays the Stooges’ stamp, and the reworked version of “Thom” has been much improved from its humble release as a single B-side last year.
Mudhoney played last Friday with the Poster Children to a packed house at the Cabaret Metro in Chicago, and their usually frenetic combination of grunge and garage left the long-haired crowd in an air guitartype mood. Instalments were smashed, clothes were ripped off and bodies, beer and bouncers flew through the crowd. Simply put, it was magnificent.
To sum it all up, Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge isn’t a seminal album. It’s truly an awe-inspiring LP but not seminal. However, Mudhoney is a seminal band, and from the looks of things, the seeds that they have planted are taking root across the country as some good, grungy, gutsy rock and roll.	□
JeffJotz is back, and as of today, he is still the immature Music Director ofWVFI. He hopes that like last year, many alert readers will accuse him of being "pathetically selfserving.”
SEPTEMBER 12, 1991
MUSIC
Metallica:
The New Self-Titled Release
From the Legendary Angrymen
Metallica's Metallica is their newest release
Just when you thought Metallica couldn’t possibly get any angrier, the reigning lords of metal are back to prove you wrong. With their self-titled fifth album, this explosive quartet shows that it can still thrash and grind with the best of them while pulling no punches. From the thunderous drums of Lars Ulrich and the crystal clear • picking of Kirk Hammet at the opening of “Enter Sandman” to the final teeth-grinding riffs of “The Struggle Within,” Metallica, with few exceptions, is musically tight, lyrically convincing and masterfully engineered.
Metallica, unlike any of the band’s previous releases, has more of a mainstream rock structure to it, in contrast to 1986’s Master of Puppets and 1988’s ...AndJustice for All, which are closer to concept albums. This is perhaps due to the choice of Bob Rock (Ron Jovi’s Slippery When Wet) as a joint producer along with Ulrich and lead singer James Hatfield. Theaddition of Rock by no means has made Metallica into
another fish swimming in an endless sea of pop-oriented-glamour-metal bands, but instead has made each song on Metallica unique in its own right. Rock, if anything, has helped to put more punch and precision into Metallica’s sound.
The album’s opening cut, “Enter Sandman,” is a heavily distorted, thrusting bedtime song that translates the nighttime fears of every child into a nightmare of mammoth proportions. “Sandman,” with the potent vocals of Hatfield and the eerie moans of guitar virtuoso Hammet, brings.to mind easily forgotten childhood anxieties. From there on in, Metallica takes you “off to never never land” on a trip through powermetal heaven. “Sad but True,” a grinding death march and “Holier than Thou,” a comment on religious hypocrisy, pick up where the “Sandman” left off, in the traditional Metallica style. The synchronization of Jason Newstead’s bass, lines with the speeding riffs of Hammet and Hatfield and the resulting “chug-chugga-chug” effect that made the band famous, is ubiquitous in these songs and throughout the album.
“Wherever I May Roam,” a blues-oriented metal song (is it possible ?) and “The Unforgiven,” an unforgettable anthem of self-examination, come next, allowing the listener to take a breather from the faster paced songs that open Metallica. I was surprised when I examined the lyrics of the next song, “Don’t Tread on Me.” Could this really be a pro-war song coming from a Metallica ? After vehemently opposing war in songs like One, from ... And Justice for All, it seems that Metallica is practicing hypocrisy in broad daylight, much to the
confusion and dismay of one faithful listener. Although “Don ’ tTread On Me” is musically commendable, its lyrics are the one weak link on Metallica.
The album’s only ballad, entitled “Nothing Else Matters,” is about as close as Metallica ever has and, most likely, ever will get to recording a love song. “Nothing Else Matters” includes a crisp, intuitive acoustic guitar line and believable lyrics that are a far cry from those usually produced by heavy bands taking a stab at sensitivity. Even on this, the most subdued tune on Metallica, however, the listener is still reminded by Hammet’s echoing riffs, tucked away deep within the song, that Metallica is a metal band at heart.
Have no fear speed metal fans, for along with the songs mentioned above, Metallica offers a feast of fast paced, high strung, ferocious tracks, complete with maddening guitar solos and menacing bass lines. At high volumes, songs like “Of Wolf and Man” and “Through the Never” storm through the stereo like a hungry beast unleashed, rounding out Metallica’s finest work to date.
If you claim that you don’t like Metallica, either because they’re too heavy for your refined ears or because of their bad boy image, I urge you to pick up a copy of Metallica today, turn it up loud, and enjoy the work of one of contemporary music’s most important bands.	□
by Peter McGillicuddy
6
SCHOLASTIC
NEWS
BUILDING NOTRE DAME
Constuction over the summer once again offers new sights for students returning to campus.
by Scholastic News Staff
/'A ne hundred and fifty years ago, the V-THoly Cross brothers constructed the first building on the Notre Dame campus— the Old College. Its bricks were of clay dug from the bottom of St. Mary’s Lake, and it was built without benefit of the heavy-duty, diesel-powered cranes and trucks now found at the many construction sites on campus.
Once again — or perhaps continuously, as it seems to the upperclassmen, who have returned each fall to new buildings and renovations — Notre Dame is “under construction.”
The campus’ newest addition is the Hcssert Center for Aerospace Research, a former power plant building just north of Ave Maria Press. The structure that is now the Hessert center was renovated early this summer and occupied in July. A $1.6 million gift from Thomas J. Hessert, a member of the university’s engineering advisory council, allowed the Aerospace Engineering Laboratory to move from its former home in the Aerospace Engineering Building.
The old Aerospace Engineering Building, which was demolished over the summer, was located next to. the baseball field and was supposedly a temporary building constructed during World War II. Stephen M. Batill, an associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, said there was a definite need for the new facility and added, “the aerospace and mechanical engineering departments have had a degree program for over fifty years now and it’ sone of those better recognized programs in the United States.
“While the facility that used to be over on Juniper Road actually housed some very
SEPTEMBER 12, 1991
good equipment, the building was constructed as a temporary structure about fifty years ago,” he said, “Actually, the building, I believe, was left over from the building that was erected during the second World War. The department actually moved their equipment into the building in 1947.”
According to Batill, an addition was made to the building in 1964, and it has suffered since then “from many of the problems of a building that was 50 years old and constructed as a temporary structure and built out of wood and asbestos.” He also said the old facility did not allow its users to do some of the things they needed to do and was
Nick Spangler
The Hessert Center for Aerospace Research is "going to be, if not the best, one of > the two best laboratories of its kind around the country," according to Thomas J. । Mueller, chairman of aerospace and mechanical engineering.	4
7'f
becoming obsolete.
The primary focus of the summer move into the new facility was the relocation of the laboratory’s five wind tunnels. The two subsonic wind tunnels and three supersonic tunnels range from 15 to 25 feetinlength and weigh up to 20,000 pounds each. The move even allowed for slight modifications to the wind tunnels, the renovation of a 56-foot-long atmospheric tunnel and . the construction of an anechoic facility — a chamber free of echoes in which acoustic intensity can be measured.
Thomas J. Mueller, the chairman of > aerospace and mechanical engineering, said i that there was a need for the project.
S
Although the actual construction did not occur until this summer, proposals for the project have been around since 1978, when Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering was constructed.
“This is going to be, if not the best, one of the two best laboratories of its kind around the country. This one, because it’s brand new and has unique facilities,” he said, “I think it’s the best one you’ll find in any university in the country.”
As for the site of the former Aerospace Engineering Building, Don Dedrick, director of the physical plant, said that it will be turned into additional parking spaces.
A second campus construction project is less noticeable from the street. Since there are no bulldozers, cranes or mounds of dirt outside, the change becomes apparent only when one goes to use the elevators in the library. John Moorman, the manager of special projects for the physical plant, said that the library was thirty years old and its elevators needed to be upgraded in order to keep up with current codes for capacity and speed.
Katharina Blackstead, the library advancement officer, had a simpler explanation: “the old elevators were barely making it; they were getting things like “bless you” from the people on the thirteenth floor.” She added, “Bob Miller (director of
Nick Spangler
The Hesburgh Center for Internal Studies will be dedicated on September 13 and 14.
university libraries) had been saying for some time that new library elevators were necessary, and somehow the administration was able to squeeze some money out of their budget.”
The Fort Wayne branch of the Montgomery Elevator Co. began work on May 22. Each of the four elevators installed will cost approximately $100,000, according to Moorman.
The new elevators will meet current standards for code, technology and user expectations, as well as enhanced accessibility for the handicapped. Moorman said the elevators are controlled by a microprocessor that will dispatch cars to and from a floor depending upon the needs of that floor. They also have twice the carrying capacity and will cut the time between stops from 44 seconds per stop to 28 seconds.
Blackstead said that, even during renovations, two elevators have always been available for use by library patrons. “Just as the Montgomery Elevator Company promised, the two new elevators do as good, if not a smidgen better, than the four old ones, she said. “And the people on the thirteenth floor are smiling.”
All four new elevators should be installed by mid-to late September, Moorman said.
The campus also benefitted from road improvements over the summer: Juniper Road between Edison and Dorr Roads was closed from April 20 to mid-August to permit completion of the Juniper Road Safety Project, which was begun the previous summer with work between Dorr and Douglas Roads. Sidewalks were added, lighting and pedestrian crossings were improved, and Juniper Road itself was resurfaced.
The temporary closing of Dorr Road also allowed for the installation of a waterline to the DeBartolo Classroom Facility, a new “quad” located between the football stadium and the post office. The DeBartolo Quad has been under construction for some timeandis not yet completed.
If the DeBartolo Quad is a construction project not yet completed, the Frank E. Eck Stadium is a construction project not. yet begun. Yet, Patrick T. Murphy, Notre Dame’s head baseball coach, is very much looking forward to its completion.
“We’ve been a top-20 team for the last three years, and our students don’t even know that or have an opportunity to come
see us play. We beat those teams (including LSU, the number one team in the nation) and the students don’t even know about it,” Murphy said.
“If we brought the sport on campus, I think they ’d have a better chance of getting behind our program, and we’d get a great following. Covalesky Stadium is a $12 million facility and it’s beautiful, but it’s not ours, and it’s downtown. Students don’t want to go downtown, so we’ve got the approval to build a stadium on campus,” he added. The baseball team presently plays at both Covalesky Stadium and on Jake Klein Field.
The stadium will be part of a general redevelopment of the university’s intramural and intercollegiate playing fields and will feature a lighted, grass playing field with 1,500 permanent and 1,500 temporary scats. $1 million for the stadium’s construction come from Franklin E. Eck, a Notre Dame alumnus and chairman, president and chief executive officer of Advanced Drainage Systems of Columbus, Ohio. Eck also underwrote construction of the Eck Tennis Pavillion, an indoor recreational tennis facility.
All of the construction on campus ties into the Notre Dame sesquicentennial, in fact the first sesquicentennial event will be the September 13-14 dedication of the new Theodore M. Hesburgh Center for International Studies. TheHesburgh Center, which was also completed this past summer, houses both the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies.
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame’s president emeritus, and Kroc, the widow of Ray A. Kroc — founder of the McDonald’s fast food chain, whose $12 million gifts to the university made possible both the peace studies program and the Hesburgh Center — will take part in the dedication.
One hundred and fifty years after they set the whole process in motion, Notre Dame’s founders would have a hard time recognizing their ' original mud-brick building amidst all the construction that has —and still is—going on. Yet, those who are here now, undoubtedly would be surprised, reluming in a hundred and fifty years, at all of the new buildings which had been constructed. Notre Dame’s continuous growth and construction has been a sign of its vitality throughout the years. □
SCHOLASTIC
CAMPUS LIFE
From Sorin to Malloy:
Notre Dame celebrates its sesquicentennial
By Patricia Doyle
When Fr. Edward F. Sorin founded the University of Notre Dame in 1842, neither he nor anyone else, would know how far the university would come or how long it would last. This year, thanks to Fr. Sorin and the other leaders that followed him, Notre Dame is celebrating its sesquicentennial anniversary.
Long before most people were thinking about the sesquicentennial, the provost asked Dr. Roger Schmitz, vice president and assistant provost of the university to head the Sesquicentennial Committee.
“Most of the work has been carried out by a steering commitee which is a subgroup of that committee,” said Schmitz, who also chairs the steering committee, which has planned most of the events which will be occuring over the next 14 months
The Sesquicentennial year starts with the dedication of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for Peace Studies and the Hesburgh Center for International Studies as well as the formal
opening ofthe school year and will conclude religiously and next October with the dedication of the community to the
Edward J. DeBartolo classroom building, sense of family
Sesquicentennial symposium and academic convocation.
“In between there are a large number of events of all types — academic, social, athletic,” explained Schmitz. These events
include academic symposiums in colleges and departments, student activities, and meetings such as the Indiana College English Association meeting which are not always held here.
The key words that have been adopted to characterize the university, its history, its present and its future are inquiry, belief, and community. Inquiry relates to the academic nature of the university, belief to what the school stands for
fostered throughout the history of the university.
Five topics have also been posed by
SEPTEMBER 12,1991
Malloy to be examined during the sesqui-centennial: Notre Dame and the under-|	standing of its past, Notre Dame and Catho-
lie education in the United States, Notre |	Dame and the life of the mind, Notre Dame
and the creative imagination, and Notre J	Dame and the social and ethical issues of an
interdependent and technological world.
Schmitz said he was concerned with making the year diverse and not focusing on one single subject so that everyone could find something they like about the year long ' celebration. Doug Hemphill, former Army J commander of Notre Dame ROTC, is the executive director of Sesquicentennial Year । and will be working with Schmitz throughout the year to see things through, deal with ! new developments and follow through on events and programs.
:	“Our intention in laying it [the Sesqui-
i	centennial year] all out was that the opening
and closing events would be big. Both of ’	them surround a dedication of a new build-
ing ... Both events make big statements about the university — what it is about and
> where it is going,” Schmitz said.
This weekend is the official opening of the 150th school year. This will take place in conjunction with the formal opening of i	the school year mass on Sunday, September
15. This mass was planned as part of the opening day events by a committee headed by Fr. Richard Warner.
The mass will take place at 5 p.m. in the ! south dome of the Joyce Athletic and Con-L vocation Center. Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy, president of the university, will be the !. celebrant.
Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C., assistant vice president for student services was appointed to head the subcommittee planning ■ the mass. He was chosen because of his background in liturgical studies. He said his committee was given a “blank check” to : come up with ideas for kicking off the celebration.
J One goal of the committee was to make ; the mass special and different from a typical \ j Sunday mass. An audio-visual presentation I will be featured at the opeing of the mass. ' । The founding of the university will be por-| trayed through the eyes of Fr. Sorin and the the founder of Holy Cross order, Fr. Moreau, who sent Fr. Sorin to America to found a school. The text will consist of
Paul Webb
Senior Stephanie Ferry, Homecoming Chairperson, discussed plans with Katie Pamenter last spring for the weekend of November 1 -2.
correspondences between the two men about the establishment and founding of Notre Dame. Fr. Steve Gibson, C.S.C., Pete Pran-ika, and Susan Wood helped puttogether this audiovisual presentation featuring the voices of Fr. Andre Leveille, rector of Cavanaugh Hall, andFr. Gene Gorski, rector of St Edward’s Hall.
The faculty and many student leaders have been invited to process in together. Several families from the university community have been invited, with their children, to bring up the gifts at mass. A musical piece was commissioned to be written for the sesquicentennial by Richard Hillert. The text used is Revelation 15:3-4, a hymn that is sung at a heavenly banquet. This piece will be performed as die offertory song.
Fifteen special banners have made made for this occasion and will be hanging from the rafters in the JACC. Nine liturgical dancers, who “will help creative sort of a festive setting and tone for the celebration,” Rocca said. There will also be a choir of about 250 students including: the Glee Club, the Liturgical Choir, Chorale, Women’s Choir, and Voices of Faith, accompanied by the Concert Band.
To keep with the idea of a festive opening, eating together seemed like an appropriate
activity. “Eating is all part of a celebration—both around the eucharistic table and something we could do as a university community such as a picnic,” said Rocca. The picnic dinner will follow mass east of the JACC and Cartier Field. Live entertainment, games of chance and a concert by Clutch will accompany the picnic. The event will conclude with a fifteen-minute firework presentation.
In order to promote the mass and festivities on Sunday, Sacred Heart and mostof the dorms have cancelled their masses. The mass will be videotaped by Heritage Cablevision (channel 31) and retelecast on September 16at9:30p.m. andSeptember 18 at 8:30 p.m. “We’re making this a real university/community event. We’re inviting not only the students, but the faculty and their families, staff, administrations, and retired staff,” said Rocca.
Senior Katie Pamenter, a Breen-Phillips resident, is the current chairperson of the Sesquicenntenial Committee for student activities. Her former co-chairperson, Jennifer Salmon, graduated last year. Following the opening of the sesquicentennial year, araffle will be held from September 16-21 to raise money for other sesquicentennial events. The cost of raffle tickets will be one
SCHOLASTIC
dollar each or six for five dollars. They will be sold by dorm representatives, at the LaFortune information desk and at Senior Bar. Prizes include two Purdue football tickets, two footballs autographed by the coaches, and dinners at local restaurants such as Francesco’s and Spaghetti Works.
Homecoming events will begin Thursday, October 31, on Halloween. “This is right after fall break, so we think a lot of people should be able to get involved with the events,” said Pamenter. For students under 21, a Halloween dance will take place from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Thursday night in Stepan Center with a live band. The inside of Stepan will be decorated along the Halloween theme. It will be a costume party which is different than SYRs at which students cannot wear costumes.
“We definitely want to encourage people to come up with the most creative costumes,” said Pamenter Prizes will be awarded for the most creative costumes and door prizes will be given out as well. In addition to this, the Senior Formal Committee always holds an event at Senior Bar and the Sesquicentennial Committee will be working with them on this event The event at Stepan Center will be very short, a “let’s get your evening started type of event,” according to Pamenter.
The Homecoming parade will take place onFriday,Novemberl,at4p.m. Theparade will step off from Goodwill Plaza at the comer of Howard and Eddy streets. The paraderoute runs downNotreDameAvenue to Dorr Road which passes by the stadium. The theme for the whole weekend is “Spirits.” All the dorms have been paired together to build floats for the parade to encourage students to meet students on other quads. Campus organizations have been invited to build floats or perform in the parade, but they will not be allowed to just march with a banner. This way, groups will be showing what they do on campus. Some community organizations have also been invited to participate in the parade such as clowns, Ronald McDonald and area high school bands. There will be multiple grand marshalls because “Notre Dame is such a tremendous place and there are so many different people,” said Pamenter.
The Alumni Association will also play a big role in Homecoming Weekend. They will have a float on which the Notre Dame
SEPTEMBER 12,1991
cheerleaders will ride. Since so many alumni should be in town for this weekend, there will be banners by decade so that the alumni can participate in the parade as well. The parade should last one to one and one half hours depending on how many groups participate.
The pep rally for the Navy game will take place at 7 p.m. in the football stadium. “It’s different, and that’s why [we’re having the pep rally in the stadium]. Sesquicenntenial Homecoming weekend is supposed to be something different to celebrate 150 years ... We’re expecting parents back because it’s parents weekend, alums because it’s such a big event, students, and a direct invitation will go out to the community to join us,” said Pamenter.
Lou Holtz will speak at the pep rally with some of the football players. The featured guest speaker at the pep rally will be Rocky Blier, a Notre Dame football player from 1965-67, captain in 1967, former NFL player, and member of the Superbowl Champion Pittsburgh Steelers. The Notre Dame Pom Pons and Cheerleaders will perform together to music.
Also featured at the pep rally will be Miss and Mr. Notre Dame, similar to a home-coming king and queen. All the dorms and campus organizations have been invited to nominate a candidate. The criteria is that the person embody the spirit of Notre
M ; Sesq u icenten n la I Book List
-O’MALLEY OF NOTRE DAME-John W. Meaney f :: ' : r?
; NOTRE DAME SESQUICENTENNIAL DESK CALENDAR	/
POETSFROMNOTRED AME,1950499^
Walton / C V.'	A.	- ■ A^AA^/A
REISSUEOF SCHLERETH NOTRE DAME HISTORY	.
CHRONICLES OFNOTREDAMEDULAC,1841-1867-Edward
Sonn; CSC,; edited and annotatedby James Connelly,
NOTUE DAME: A SENSE OF PLACE^
T& TREES, SHRUBS At^ VINES. ON THE NOT
CAMPUS-BarbaraJ. Hellenthal, Thomas J. Schlereth and Robert ?
; P;McIntosh'A.a A
REFLECTIONSONSIXTYYEARSA
Thomas J. Stritch	'A A.A	LQ AQAAA
Dame. “The winners should be dedicated, determined, motivated. They should be leaders, not necessarily presidents of groups ... but people who have that drive and determination, that’s what we’re looking for. We want the caring person, the person who is Notre Dame,” stated Pamenter. The winners ; will be voted on by the student body, ques- i tioned by a faculty panel and then voted on by j the student body again. The winners will at the pep rally along with the winners of the floats.
Saturday, prior to the game, there will be bands on the quad provided by Student Government Active members of the past . football teams who are Monogram Winners have been invited to a luncheon and will be signing autographs prior to the game. The football players who return will be incorporated into the halftime show. After the game, student government will feature their annual dessert reception in South Dining Hall.
“We’ve done all of the planning, it’s up to the students now to make this weekend spectacular and to make it what it can be,” said Pamenter.
Second semester, Sesquicenntenial student week will take place from March 16-20. This will include Tuesday, March 17, St. Patrick’s Day. “We’re working to bring back some special guests for St. Patrick’s Day,” said Pamenter mysteriously.
(continued on page 14)
Coming Distractions
11 day calendar
Make sure your event gets listed -- send information (including date, time, and cost) to: Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call Kim Cenedellaat 239-7569. The next Coming Distractions calendar will appear in the September 19 issue.
Thur
Sept PopPi 8:10 p, HaU, $ Movie 8:30 ai Cushir Lectui Laurip
Musis Theod advanc
Sunday		Monday	Tuesday	Wednesday	
1	September 15 Mass: Sesquincentennial Mass, JACC, 5 p.m. Picnic Dinner Fireworks Lecture and tour: "Victor Higgins: Exhibition Recollections," 1:30 p.m., Snite.	September 16 Film: "The Grand Ilusion," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Scarface" ('32), 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.	September 17 Films: "Women in Hollywood Series," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. Film: "Manhunter," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.	September 18 Entertainer: An evening of mime, music and mayhem with Tim Settimi, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall, $3 at Lafortune Information Desk.	Sept Movie: 8:30 ar Cushin
	September 22 Volleyball: Campuswide tournament, 8:00 a.m. - 6:30 p.m., Stepan Field.	For More Information Call: On Campus	Touch Four LaFortune Information Desk: 239-8128	Call 239-2500, then press:			
		Student Union Board: 239-7757		ext. 2101 for movie informa	
		—	-	Snite Film Series Hot Line: 239-7361	ext 2114 for the music line News Line (summary of campus events): 239-5110	ext 2112 for concert inform JACC Ticket Information: 239-7354	exL 2117 for theatre inform; Notre Dame MenuLine: 283-FOOD	. ext 2525 for a list of colleg( . ----- 	 - — 		 ' -			
\ sday	Friday	Saturday
tember 12 ianist: Ariel, ,m., Washington 18. : "The Lost Boys," id 10:30 p.m., ig, $2.. re: Photographer- Simmons, 7:30 >nite. : "The Drovers," ore's, 7:30 p.m., $5 ;e, $6 door.	September 13 Pop Pianist: Ariel, 8:10 p.m., Washington Hall, $8. Film: "Silence of the Lambs," 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Mortal Thoughts," 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.	September 14 Football: Notre Dame vs. Michigan at Michigan Film: "Silence of the Lambs," 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Mortal Thoughts," 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2. Concert: Pomerium Musices, 8:00 p.m., Sacred Heart.
ember 19 : 'The Karate Kid," id 10:30 p.m., g,$2.	September 20 Film: "TheGrifters,"7:15 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Misery,"8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.	September 21 Home Game (vs. Michigan State) Show: Shenanigans, 10:45 p.m., JACC. Film: "The Grifters," 7:15 and 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Misery," 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Cushing, $2.
ition
ation ition i events
Movie Theatres
100 Center Cinema I & II: 259-0414
Scottsdale Theatre: 291-4583
Town & Country Theatre: 259-9090
University Park Cinema East: 277-7336
University Park Cinema West: 277-0441
Picks of the Week:
Go to the Michigan game!
No doubt about it -it will be incredible!!
Tim Settimi, an ; entertainer appearing at Washington Hall on September 18, was chosen as the performer of the year in 1988.	|
His hilarious	1
sho w wilt be	J
worth	!
your time.	1
Pull out and save this page!
(continuedfrom page 11)
' Wednesday, March 18, will be a “dessert fest” in south dining hall for class night The dining hall will be divided in four parts for each class and the classes will provide enter-|! tainment, such as bands or hypnotists, and for (• an entrance fee of one dollar, desserts will be j all-you-can-eat, such as cookies, brownies and sundaes. Due to the upcoming election । year, a government speaker will be featured j on Thursday. A nationally renowned come-p dian will perform on Friday. Saturday will ■ feature Nazz, the campus band festival, in j Stepan Center. By working with SUB, it will ■ feature two stages for the bands, but for a i single admission price there will be all-you-can eat concessions stands.
“The whole goal with sesquicenntenial student activities is to plan the bigger events so things that don’t normally happen here on campus [can take place].” The Sesquicenntenial Committee will also be working with the AnTostal committee. Humanitarian week will take place with the Alumni Association from April 18-25. Friday night will be Notre Dame Night with closed-circuit radio and television programs featuring Fr. Malloy broadcast nationally to alumni clubs. The week will be a service oriented week.
“The only thing we can stress is to definitely participate. Have fun with it,” said Pamenter. “It’s up to the students now. We’re so excited, we’ve been planning for a year and a half now...it their show now.” □
Highlights from the Sesquicentennial Calendar of Events
September 13-15,1991-Dedication of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for Peace Studies and the Hesburgh Center for International
. Studies	.	\
September 15,1991-Formal Opening of the Sesquicentennial with Academic Procession, Liturgy and Campus-wide Events
October 15,1991-First date of issue of Notre Dame postcard featuringhistoricMain Building	.
October 31,1991 Halloweeri Dance
November 1-2,1991-Homecoming Weekend
February 14-16,1992-Junior Parents’ Weekend Sesquicentennial Celebration	. j	:
March 16-21,1992-Student Sesquicentennial Week / , ’ ;
April 18-25,1992-Alumhi Humanitarian Week
April 24,1992-National video and radio hookup with Fr.
Malloy.	<■. ;■
/ June 4-7,1992-Sesquicentenhial Alumni Reunion <
June 14,1992-Campus event for the greater South Bend community
:j October 11, 1992-Closing Sesquicentennial liturgy	j
; November 26,1992-Founding Day-15()th Anniversary
14
SCHOLASTIC
SPORTS
8H IHm® II©
ipbw ©©an9
New Notre Dame coach John MacLeod
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
arrives in South Bend ready to begin a new era of Irish basketball
ByJimKuser
T ast Friday, at the Indiana pep rally, I ^NotreDame’snewbasketballcoach :
John MacLeod received a raucous wel-comefromanextremelyenergizedcrowd at the Joyce ACC. MacLeod concluded his pep talk to the crowd by saying, “It is great to be here at Notre Dame, to belong to the Notre Dame family. We will make every effort to maintain the Notre Dame i mystique on the basketball court as it has been maintained on the football field.” ■ And so the John MacLeod era of Notre Dame basketball began.	:
The JACC is the home of the Notre | Dame basketball team, but the night be- J longed to the Notre Dame football team. | MacLeod saw the admiration that Notre I Dame has for football coach Lou Holtz. I He witnessed the enthusiasm and the I spirit that surround Notre Dame football. I Now all that MacLeod needs to do is I duplicate what Holtz has done: He needs j I to revitalize a program that has plunged ■ I from the top of the collegiate ranks.	I
He has the tools to do just that	I
He has the coaches. He has the players. I He has the fans. Come November, when I Notre Dame starts its basketball season, I MacLeod, like Holtz, will try to wake up: I the echoes, shake down the thunder and I lead Notre Dame’s loyal sons onward to I victory.	I
MacLeod is meant for Notre Dame. As ; I a student at Holy Trinity Elementary in I
15 I
SEPTEMBER 12,1991

New Albany, Indiana, he was instructed by the nuns to pray for the success of the Notre Dame football team on Friday fall afternoons. He is a fiesty Irishman, once serving as a sparringpartner for former heavyweight champion Jimmy Ellis. Throughout his collegiate coaching career at Oklahoma University and his professional coaching career with the Phoenix Suns, the Dallas Mavericks and the New York Knicks, the prospect of coaching at Notre Dame burned in the back of his mind.
MacLeod arrived under the Golden Dome with a reputation for turning around programs down on their luck. And in keeping with the Notre Dame ideal, he brought a squeaky clean resumd with him.
“Success in sports is relative,” said MacLeod. “If you win. the game fair and square, you deserve to be proud. If you win by cheating, you should never have played the game.”
MacLeod was hired in the wake of the awkward departure of Richard “Digger” Phelps, the man who coached Notre Dame basketball for 20 years. Despite the bad publicity surrounding Phelps’ departure, the luck of the Irish proved prophetic when MacLeod, one of the best in the business, was signed to a five-year deal. In looking for anew basketball coach, theNotreDame athletic department discovered that the prestige of the position was not as glorious as in years gone by because the team records had declined, the attendance had dropped and the success of the Notre Dame football team had stolen the show.
Big-time names in the college basketball coaching ranks like Jim Calhoun of Connecticut, Bobby Cremins of Georgia Tech, Pete Gillen of Xavier and Mike Krzysewski of Duke surfaced as possible replacements for Phelps. But, after a long search, the athletic department settled on MacLeod.
During Phelps’ 20-year tenure, he took 14 teams to the NCAA tournament (including oneFinal Four appearance), graduated all 54 players who completed their eligibility and toppled countiess basketball powerhouses on national television. MacLeod’s respect for Phelps is evident
“I hope to live up to the legacy that [Phelps] established at Notre Danie,” he said. “His accomplishments are noteworthy because he epitomized what we are trying to do at Notre Dame — to teach our students values, be they in academics or athletics. In
L6
seven years at Oklahoma, only one of my players did not earn his degree. I will improve upon this fact at Notre Dame because we seek perfection here.”
Cotton Fitzsimmons, coach of the NBA's Phoenix Suns, sung MacLeod’s praises in a Sports Illustrated article which appeared in late April 1991, shortly after MacLeod’s hiring.
“There was a time when Notre Dame could just point a finger and any coach would say, ‘I’ll come coach them.’ But that
“We are going to be entertaining. We will win if the Notre Dame student body packs the JACC like sardines in a can. The students are our driving force because we represent them. We want to blow the lid off of the JACC so that every Notre Dame student is proud.”
-John MacLeod
was before many of the college coaches became so lucrative,” Fitzsimmons told Sports Illustrated. “A lot of guys don’t want to give that up just for the prestige of coaching at Notre Dame. John, though, had become disillusioned with the big money. He likes what Notre Dame stands for.”
And so MacLeod says he has come to Notre Dame because only here can a coach teach his players the game of life as well as the game of basketball.
“It will be fun to work with players who are trying to get somewhere, as opposed to players who are already there,” said MacLeod. “Notre Dame portrays a certain image, an image that many look to as a model for how things ought to be done. It is an image of class. If we are going to revitalize the basketball program, we are going to
need the support of our students because they exude the class that we are looking for.
“We are going to put our best product on the floor each and every time that we play,” he continued. “We are going to play uptempo on offense and man-to-man on defense. We are going to be entertaining. We will win if the Notre Dame student body packs the JACC like sardines in a can. The students are our driving force because we represent them. We want to blow the lid off of the JACC so that every Notre Dame
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
student is proud.”
As for a run-down on the players with whom MacLeod will be working, here is MacLeod’s early impressions of the 1991-1992 Notre Dame basketball team:
Senior guard Elmer Bennett — “A premier point guard with great athletic ability, he can shoot from outside and drive inside as well as get the job done on defense. His quickness and agility are stupendous.”
Senior forward/guard Daimon Sweet — “A consistent big time scoring threat whose range is wide. In top physical condition, he will be a big man and a scorer in our offensive scheme.”
Senior center Keith Tower — “We are looking for productivity out of him. He is a big body that can outmuscle many. Look for Keith to come on strong.”
SCHOLASTIC
Senior forward LaPhonso Ellis — “We are looking for LaPhonso to have the best year of his college career. He is in fine academic standing, having achieved an impressive 3.4 during summer school. He will dominate the boards at both ends of the court.”
Sophomore guard Brooks Boyer, sophomore center Joe Ross, sophomore forwards Carl Cozen and Jon Ross — “Our sophomores will influence our team tremendously. They will see plenty of playing time, and they will be counted upon to produce big stats.”
Freshmen guards Lamarr Justice and Jason Williams, freshman center Nathion Gilmore and freshmen forwards Malik Russell and Billy Taylor—“We are counting on our freshmen to develop and to develop quickly. Big-time college basketball is far from high school basketball. The freshmen know this, the upperclassmen know this, and the coaches know this. Nevertheless, we will look for the freshmen to contribute significantly, hopefully by the beginning of the season.”
MacLeod hopes that Ellis will, "... dominate at both ends of the
COUrt."	Marl Okuda
SEPTEMBER 12,1991
have what it takes.”
The other half of the “Texas Express,” Elmer Bennett, echoed the sentiments of Sweet.
“We are pleased to have him. He has established a healthy relationship with the players. His up-tempo style will enable us to have fun, and, like Coach MacLeod says, fun is a very important priority.”
The mere presence of MacLeod has altered the attitude of Notre Dame basketball players.
“We are looking forward to running the ball, to pressing on defense, to covering the court fast and furiously,” said Sweet. “Coach MacLeod knows our strengths and weaknesses. He has had a positive influenceon us from day one. The three other seniors on the team and I know that this is our last chance to prove what we can do. We want to win for Notre Dame, and Coach MacLeod will show that we
Marl Okuda
Bennett Is antlcapating fun season feels that MacLeod has established a ”... healthy relationship with the players.”
MacLeod hopes to have a positive influ- : ence on all aspects of his players’ lives’ — ; not just their hoops game and their athletic ; exploits;	j
“In life, you have to prioritize,” he said. ■ “In college life, your priorities are first aca- i demies and second athletics. We preach this ; and we mean this. Ifyou want to excel, you ! have to be dedicated to success. This includes never looking back.
“For example, LaPhonso will not look ; back to academic problems over the lasttwo years. He is back on track,” he explains.
• “The team will not look back to its records ; over the last two seasons. These things are behind us now. The future is ahead of us and : the future looks bright
“We are a team. We are Notre Dame. It is : time to take control of ourselves.	'
“It is time to play ball.”	□
17
B
SPORTS
A TraMton of Excellence:
1924 Notional Champions
Coach: Knute Rockne.
Captain: Adam Walsh.
Notes: The Irish finished at 10-0 to earn what is considered by most to be their first consensus national title. Pennsylvania led one poll, but Notre Dame garnered the top spot in the other three national polls ...This was theseason thatGrantlandRice coined his famous nickname, the “Four Horsemen” in his story of Notre Dame's victory over Army... The squad boasted four All-Americans in QB Harry Stuhldreher, HB Jim Crowley, FB Elmer Layden (three of the fabled Horseman) and the center who blocked for them, Adam Walsh... Oddly enough, the fourth Horsemen, Don Miller, led the team in rushing with 763 yards on 107 carries but was not an All-American ... The Faculty Board of Athletics was created to oversee the academic progress of student athletes.
1924 National Championship Team
FrrHM R®w; S&Nitaik::;	. O.iAMfer. WriM, O-bity.	E, Milter. jUir.MAp::,	U;K.-h: Mktilte : faxktt.
MeMvikiv AeiMd,	W«ts.«w.	l.utlw . Back Mow:	.Storer.	ha*
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
October 4 W	Lombard	40-0	H	8,000
October 11 W	Wabash	34-0	H	10,000
October 18 W	Army	13-7	N	55,000
October 25 W	Princeton	12-0	A	40,000
November 1 W	Georgia Tech	34-3	H	22,000
November 8 W	Wisconsin	38-3	A	28,425
November 15 W	Nebraska	34-6	H	22,000
November 22 W	Northwestern	13-6	N	45,000
November 29 W	Carnegie Tech	40-19	A	35,000
(9-0-0)
1925 Rose Bowl (at Pasadena, California) January 1 W Stanford 27-10 N 53,000
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Kenyon Meyer: Meyer, a senior from Louisville, KY, scored one of Notre Dame's three goals in a scrimmage this past weekend as the men's soccer team defeated the club-level Michigan Wolverines, 3-0. The team captain scored early in the first half, and the Irish netted two more goals in the second half to put the game away. Meyer leads the Irish into action tomorrow against the Billikens of St. Louis University in St. Louis as the soccer season gets rolling.
Alicia Turner: Turner, a junior from San Diego, C A, nailed 26 kills over two days as the Notre Dame women's volleyball team split their two matches over this past weekend at the Big Four Classic in Louisville, KY. Turner was named to the all-tournament team for her efforts as the Irish defeatedLouisville5-15,15-13,15-4,16-14; but lost to 22nd-ranked Kentucky 15-7,15-8,15-3. Turner also recorded 20 digs over the two days and had five service aces in the victory over the Cardinals.
18
SCHOLASTIC
ON OTHER CAMPUSES
Some Schools Get Beer in the Stands ! (Legally)
PLEA$E, PLEA$E Come to Our University
Colleges and universities around the country facing dwindling applicant pools are using some new and downright tacky methods to greet newly accepted applicants, reports the Stanford Daily. Such schools claim that they are merely being more personable with the prospectives. Lucky students have received letters with salutations such as, “Splendid, Christina,” “Bravo, Marla” and “Super, Jenny” at schools such as Brown, Georgetown, Princeton, and Yale. Obviously these sound just a tad too Politically Correct for such snobby schools. Letters and phone calls should begin with greetings such as “Beautiful Rendition, Constance” or “Exemplary Performance, J. Danforth.” Notre Dame reportedly still greets prospectives with the form letter “Welcome to Mecca, Michael/Mary.”
American Studies This Is Not
Is study time infringing upon your social life? Rolling Stone now has a guide to some of the easiest courses around. The “Guide to the Guts” offers courses that “even your dog could pass.” These include Supervised Reading (Cornell), Circus (NYU), Fairy Tales and Ever After (Northwestern), Psychology and Photography (Tulane), History of Rock Music (Texas) and Surfing (Pepperdine). Those of you who had to choose between here and Northwestern may be glad to know that students up there actually participate in a course called “Choosing a Life.”
Let it Flow	;
Someschoolsjustdon’tlikerulesthatinfringeupon fun. Colorado i State University in Fort Collins will continue to sell beer in the ■ stadium during football games, according to the College Press Service. Trouble began to “brew” after several students became intoxicated and caused problems. Students will now be able to purchase • only one beer at a time and sales will halt at halftime. Other schools ! that are allowed to sell alcohol in the stands include California State i University-Fullerton and the University of Hawaii. With the way Hawaii plays football, they’re going to need Valium dispensed.
Catch Me
Here’s a touchy topic if there ever was one. Recently, a student at the University of Connecticut filed a sexual discrimination complaint against the school reports the Penn State Weekly Collegian. The school has a 125 lb. weight limit for its female cheerleaders yet does not have one for its male cheerleaders. Penn State also has weekly weigh-ins for its majorette squad. One angered student stated, “if uniformity is the only issue, how about a uniformly fat squad?” Hmmm. Obviously, she won’t be the one tossing them in the air.
Pole Patrol
Some students at Penn State got a little over-excited after their opening victory over Georgia Tech reports the Weekly Collegian. Hundreds of students broke into the stadium to celebrate and ended up tearing down, the goalpost Such a malicious and potentially harmful crowd was met with cans of mace by the police force. Once again, football, fans, and police make for an overreaction by the i police. Sound familiar?	□ ;
*
Edited by Michael Owen
SEPTEMBER 12, 1991
BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION
Don't Buy Them Candy Bars
Dear Mr. Manners:
I'm usually quite sympathetic to various 'causes' around here. I have T-Shirts ranging from the ND Anti-Acne Kissing Booth Fund Raiser in '89 to the Fund to Retain Digger. I even bought this year’s "The Shirt" because I heard they got a little greedy and ordered like 9 bizillion of them. (Wonder what the siblings of SUB members will be getting this Christmas?)
!
However, if there's one thing I can't stand, it's those pesky little tikes who run up behind you shouting "Wanna buy my $2 candy bar? Please?!” Every time it happens I go through a massive moral dilemma. I ask the kid what the cause is and he or she will tell me it's for their school. Mr. Manners, this is a Catholic elementary school they attend. Should I not buy the candy bar hoping their school will close so they don't have to suffer the ruler knuckles and fear of clergy that I did? Or should I buy it and hope they can afford new teachers? So far I've purchased 72 of them, gained 212 pounds, and depleted my savings. What to do?
Kathy Cocoa, Junior, Knott Hall
After all, I’m you’re number one fan, Mr. MANners. I just wish you would stop using that oogie language all the time. If you want me to, I’ll terminate Athena for you.
Love,
Your Number One Fan Annie Misery Lyons Hall
Dear Annie:
Thank you for your support. However, you are totally psychotic. Imitation is no reason to kill someone. You can torture them, though. I find it downright flattering that the other publication on this campus resorts to such tactics. Anyway, take your Fatal Attraction schtick somewhere else, Annie.
Sometimes I get the feeling this column is becoming just too popular as it is worshiped in classrooms, offices, and stalls across this campus. Everyone just take a deep breath. Mr. Manners is still here and still the coolest.
Dear Kathy:
All I can tell you here, Kath, is to "just say no." Any school that forces six year-olds out in the streets to pounce on the guilty reactions of older Catholics deserves some modification. Besides, I heard there's Ex-Lax Chocolate in them.
Dear Mr. Manners:
One day last week I was eating my lunch in South Dining Hall and I almost lost it (my lunch, that is). It was this column, I guess, that sounded like it was imitating you. But it was a girl and she had all these funny names for the people who wrote these letters. I don’t think people even wrote those letters.
Mr. Manners, will our campus now be divided between those who support and worship you and this person? Are we choosing between Coke and Pepsi, Apple and IBM, and Sonny and Cher? This looks like civil war to me.
Dear Mr. Manners:
My boyfriend bet me that if I pluck my eyebrows and get tatoos reading 'Notre Dame* in the spaces, he might sell me a Michigan ticket that he got for free. Should I do it?
Meg, Junior, Breen-Phillips
Dear Meg:
Do it! Do it! Michigan is a kickin' time even if you don't go to the game. However, when you end up transfering there after all the fun, you may look a little out of place. ’	□
Dear Readers:
Mr. Manners is getting a littledepressed about the lack of decent mail coming in. Write to me at 303 LaFortune, Campus Mail with all of your pointless complaints, limericks, and haikus. If you do, you'll get a free "The Shirt". (Just kidding).
20
SCHOLASTIC
WEEK IN DISTORTION
Birkertsfocks: Hippie Chic at Notre Dame
Okay, we’ve all got our J. Crewardrobe matched and organized? What is the final step for hippie chic at Notre Dame? Birkenstock footware, of course.
For those whose fashion knowledge doesn’t venture below the ankle, Birken-stocks are those fat-strapped suede Jesus sandals from Germany that every Notre Dame poser possesses. Though they’ve just become a bona fide trend here in the last few years (even a few professors and grad students stride to the head of the classroom wearing them), they’ve probably been around about as long as Jesus, the only irony is that Jesus probably couldn’t afford a pair of these odd-looking sandals.
Most people think they’re ugly, which is not surprising considering that in the past, people had doctor’s orders to don those cork soles to correct foot problems. Y eah, I’m still waiting for the white-vinyl nurse shoe craze to catch on, but it’s true, everyone who ever wears them claims, “they’re soooo comfortable.”
So you want to look like some weird Jesus-impersonator just for comfort? Come on, fashion before comfort— don’t you remember Fernando? “It is much better to look good than to feel good, dahling.”
But somehow, as the trade winds of fashion blow, over the past five years or so, the eye of the beholder’s opinion has mutated to perceiving those hideous sandals as goodlooking.
I don’t recall a single pair loping about campus when my class landed here in the fall of 1988, then last year they began to covertly creep onto campus, in fact a lot of the people I hang around with or smile the routine “what’s up?” to were wearing them, saying, “Dude, they’re soooo comfortable, ya’ gotta get a pair.”
But the PRICE. A severe wallet diet at anywhere from $60 to $100 depending where you find them and what model you buy. The old reliable, 2-strap suede model is
called the “Arizona,” I discovered, and generally runs about $75. Have those of you who weren’t aware of the fat price for trendy comfort picked your jaws up off the floor yet?
So who can afford these things on a student budget? That’s where what we call TFHs come in, Trust Fund Hippies, whose parents fund their groovin’ and maybe sort of ecologically conscious lives between Grateful Dead shows. I saw examples of this sort last June: long flowing dresses (with Birks peeking out below, of course), long stringy hair and a Georgia license plate on a somewhat dusty, but nonetheless swank Ford Taurus broken down at a gas station in southwest
Colorado.
The pattern works as such: “like, mom, these are like great shoes, y’know, and like I know they’re kind of expensive, like, just for sandals, but I hear they, like, last for ten years, so that’s only, like, $7.50 a year, right?” And mom lovingly withdraws the Visa/MC/Amex from her purse and hands it over.
Opulent indulgence simply to catch the ND groover trend. A mountain bike is also very cool, but a bit more pricey for looking good and feeling good.
Soon, the fashion competition will become even more fierce when the cooler
months ensue and the Birk bearers add colorful rag wool socks to the ensemble.
What happened to those great 690 drugstore flip flops? You wear them around in the summer, get stupid, try to run in them and have a blow-out, but even if you have five blow-outs a summer for ten years, they’re still cheaper.
The only Birk bearers that deserve respect are those who can honestly say they’ve had them since before trend usurped the flip flop and paid for them with their own sweat
So what do I wear in attempt to find comfort and style at Notre Dame in September? The heinous truth is BIRKEN-STOCKS. Any hell to be distributed in my direction is deserved, they’re only a month or so old and I asked for them for my 21st birthday present from mom'n dad.
. Indeed, they are comfortable (and getting more comfortable as they mold to my feet) and I think I’m winning points with my Theology professor, but I am truly ashamed to have succumbed to the ND groover trend. Some girl passed me in the hall, her eyes went from my face to my Birks. Definitely a thing that makes me go “hmm...”
Last Saturday, though, I think they were truly broken in at Chisel’s sizzling final South Bend performance. At the edge of the writhing pit of dedicated Chiselheads, my faithful Birkenstocks endured puddles of muddy condensation, spilled keg beer and sweat.
So my toes are still a little muddy, and perhaps my cousin who found his pair next to a dumpster in Wyoming, thereby waiving the ridiculous price, deserves the most respect (or award for great luck), but, “they’re soooo comfortable”— I think mine are ready for a Dead show.	□
Nate FitzGerald is an off-campus Senior. He is currently unable to sport his Birks as the left one is missing.
SEPTEMBER 12,1991
21
1 $42-1992
University of Notre Dome
SESQUIC ENT ENN I AL A N NI V ERS A RY
Glancing Back
This weekend kicks off Notre Dame’s year-long sesquicentennial celebrations with a high mass, fun-filled picnic dinner and pyrotechnic spectacular. Scholastic recorded our alma mater’s golden jubilee (50th) andcentennial (100th) commemorations.
In true nineteenth century style, Scholastic “reporters,” on December 3, 1892, described (in brief) the salute to the Founder, the solemn Pontifical mass (and who attended) and the dinner following. What was actually recorded forposterity, in honor of its “literary worth,” were the complete transcripts of the opening address by Mr. Quinlan, ’93, and the entire text of Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan’s solemn sermon. For your reading ease, Scholastic highlights these scintillating speeches.
Mr Quinlan: “The pleasure with which the students have ever looked forward to occasions on which they can testify the respect and love cordially entertained for Notre Dame’s venerable Founder is appreciably increased by the fact that to-day is not an anniversary of mere passing significance, but one destined to be memorable in the annals of our college home....
“Here, where two and a half score years ago was naught but the wooded banks of a frozen lake and the lonely hut of a savage, now towers a lofty temple of religion arid education over which are extended in motherly protection the arms of the Patroness, and wherein the young man is trained to be the scholar, the patriot and, above all, the Christian.”
Rev. Sullivan: “If we now ask what were the qualities or characteristics that enabled one man to accomplish so much for the glory of God and the good of his fellow men in such a comparatively brief period of time I would say (1) a living faith which, realizing the things of the invisible world, gives a
strength and heroism that are invincible.... (2) A filial devotion towards the Mother of God.... (3) A deep knowledge of men. Like Napoleon, he quickly discerned the capabilities of each individual, and accordingly assigned to each of his subordinates the position best adapted to his capacity and character. ... (4) The purest patriotism. As soon as Father Sorin landed in the United States he thoroughly identified himself with the institutions and interests of his adopted country. When about to found Notre Dame he declared he would build not a French, nor an Irish, nor a German, but a purely American College! ... (5) An
Arrival at Notre Dame In 1842.
enthusiasm tempered with practical good sense. It is the men of enthusiasm who have affected all the great social, political and religious movements or revolutions of history.... In all his understandings Father Sorin was slow in counsel, but quick and enthusiastic in action.... (6) An indomitable patience. Like all the great servants of God, Father Sorin has had to tread in the footsteps of his crucified Master....
“One more touch to this imperfect portrait, and I have done: I mean his lifelong devotion to education —broad, free and complete; not the narrow training of the intellect or head alone, but the generous culture of the will and heart.”
Yet, there was one speech in that 1892 issue that was not recorded verbatim (save one line), unfortunately: “we lament more that we cannot give Father Sorin’s speech as he delivered it in reply to the tributes and greetings from the students and friends present.... Hesaid though he could not speak at length, on account of his feebleness, that on this memorable day, dear to him a thousand times, his memory carried him back to the meagre beginriing of this his life-work. And when, following up the years, he thought of the many who had helped him so zealously, and felt he was compelled to say a few words. ‘Not to me but to God do you owe your feelings of gratitude.’ He said he could have never withstood the many hardships and difficulties that fell to his lot as the builder of Notre Dame had it not been for that supernatural aid.”
Scholastic's September 18, 1942 issue headlined a special celebration, set in the Rockne Memorial, for the school’s 100 year anniversary.
“Centennial Ball To-Night For Seniors And Guests
“A century-old pulse will quicken at ten o’clock this evening when 300 Seniors and their guests christen the first and only Centennial Ball. This time the Seniors are double-lucky: they dance in the three-decade tradition of Senior Balls and at the same time pay tribute tb the sturdy career of Notre Dame. ...
“But the Ball is not all. Springing from it is a Saturday afternoon two-to-five Tea Dance at the Chain o’ Lakes Country Club, a one o’clock permission for Seniors Saturday night and a group attendance at ten o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church where the center-aisle pews will be reserved for Ball-goers.... For those who prefer to miss nothing, there is time for a one-quarter inspection of the annual Varsity-Freshman
22
SCHOLASTIC
DU LAC
football game in the stadium tomorrow afternoon.”
September25,1942: Scholastic returned to the tradition of reprinting verbatim sermons, this time one given by then Notre Dame president, the Rev. Hugh O’Donell, C.S.C., at the official opening of the academic year —a solemn mass on September 20 in Sacred Heart Church.
“One hundred years! A long time in the life of man, though a short span in the life of a university! But what a change there has been since Father Sorin first saw the log cabin in the woods south of St Mary’s Lake, in which there were a chapel and one living room. What a change there has been from the Old College, still standing as a reminder of our humble origin. Now, more than forty-five buildings on our 1,500-acre campus are devoted to the five colleges and the graduate school. The number of courses offered has been multiplied many times over, and the faculty is larger than the student body was only thirty-five years ago. 30,000 young men have been trained under the Golden Dome.
“Notre Damechanges butremains forever the same. Notre Dame still emphasizes the discipline of the spiritual, the intellectual, and the moral. Here you will always find applied the first principles from which all true development proceeds. This is still the
Senior Ball, September 1942: "Rockne would have smiled at such sport."
Notre Dame of Father Sorin and his worthy successors.”
Notre Dame was televised nationally on NBC (what some now consider its own station) — but this time it was not the proverbial gridiron telecast Scholastic featured this great event in the November 27,1942 issue:
“On Nov. 25, 1842 a weary band of French religious arrived in the wilderness of Northern Indiana and muttered the prayer that gave birth to the University of Notre Dame.
“Notre Dame commemorated that event in honor of the Founder, Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., and his six devoted Holy Cross Brothers this Thursday, Thanksgiving Day, with a Solemn Pontifical Mass in Sacred
Heart Church....
“The Blue network of the National Broadcasting Company carried the sermon of the Right Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen,... His sermon: “Keeping Faith With God and America” was delivered with all of Monsignor Sheen’s eloquence and perfect diction. [Scholastic, surprise, did NOT transcribe this eloquence —Ed]
“After the Mass the Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., Bishop of Indianapolis, dedicated the commemorative plaque of the Centenary in the vestibule of the Church. The plaque, designed and sculptured by Eugene Kormendi, will hang permanently in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church.
“Following this there was a procession, composed of the student body, the student representatives, the lay faculty and the clergy, to the monument of the founders at the site of the old Log Chapel. This was near the exact spot where Father Badin, first priest ordained in the United States, had his parish; and where Father Badin is buried. Here the Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C. conducted the service for the deceased members of the faculty; as well as praying for Father Sorin and his faithful helpers. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donell, C.S.C. concluded the ceremonies by giving a short talk, in the form of an eulogy, praising the founder of the University.”	□
Centenary Solemn Mass, September 1942: "The procession of the clergy, naval officers, and faculty wends its way from the Main Building to the Sacred Heart Church."
SEPTEMBER 12,1991
23
FINAL WORD
Save the Fish
The World Hunger Coalition challenges students to make a difference
Imagine for a moment that you are walking alone through the woods, around St Mary’s lake on a beautiful sunlit afternoon and up ahead you notice a child who appears to be drowning in waist-deep water. Assuming that no one would ever learn of your deed, would you go through with the task of saving this child? If your answer is no, than you need not read any further.
Whether we recognize it or not, every one of us is faced with a similar scenario each day of our lives. Consider the millions of people who lived through this day without anything to eat. Are we not just as obliged to help them as we are that helpless child drowning? Yet so often we let the days pass us by without making even the smallest effort to do something about world hunger. Please don’t let another day slip away.
So many people ask themselves, “What can I do ? How is one person going to make a difference?” For starters you can join the Wednesday Lunch Fast sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition here at Notre Dame.
The Fast requires that you abstain from eating for a few hours each Wednesday of the semester, from the time the dining halls close for breakfast until they open for dinner; The purpose of fasting is to make ourselves a little bit more aware of what it is like to go without food. Of course we realize that the ‘hunger pains’ we might experience are only a fraction of what others experience over much longer periods of time. However, our efforts are still greatly appreciated.
In return for our sacrifices, the University of Notre Dame Food Services agrees to
24
donate the cost of each meal skipped ($.92) to the WHC
We in turn, distribute the money among several hunger relief organizations throughout the world. By abstaining from lunch once a week (a task simpler than saving a drowning child) you are feeding hungry children.
In 1990 alone, the WHC raised $13,692.96. We sent funds to the following grass-root development projects:
Chol-Chol Foundation: helps educate peasant fanners in Central and South America so they may one day be able to live and feed themselves independently.
Caritas: runs educational and vocational training projects in impoverished areas of Bangladesh. Most recently provided relief to the victims of the devastating typhoons that hit Bangladesh earlier this summer.
Mar del Plata: located in Argentina, this small soupkitchen has doubled the number of children it feeds since our group began sending funds.
Feeding these children enables them to go to school instead of having to work. In the long run they will be better equipped to educate their children.
Lastsemester 575 students tookpartin the Lunch Fast. If enough people join this semester, perhaps we can get a little more than $.92. from the dining hall. (Everything else has gone up with inflation, why shouldn’t this?!) It is estimated that $5.00 will feed 2 adults (2 meals a day) for 7 days in Bangladesh. Just think of how many people you’ll be nourishing by giving up just one meal a week!
Many students claim that they can’t afford
to skip lunch because they don’t get up in time for breakfast. Our response to this is two-fold. First, waking up a little earlier each Wednesday isn’t too much too ask. Second, the purpose of the fast isn’t to see how much physical pain we can endure. We aren’t masochists! If you can’t control your own temptations you’re not going to be excommunicated from the WHC. An apple or banana to ‘tide you over’ is OK. However, we strongly discourage the ‘Huddle’ as an option. We would rather have you not fast at all. Keep in mind that our goal is to make ourselves more aware of hunger and its effects.
The WHC accomplishes the two-fold goal of providing relief to the hungry and making the Notre Dame community more aware of world hunger through more activities than just the Wednesday Lunch Fast. To name a few: Thanksgiving and Easter Food Baskets delivered to single-parent families in South Bend; Crop Walk; 24-hour fast/retreat; and a periodic newsletter sent to all those on the fast
A man approached a child standing on a beach as thousands of fish washed ashore. The child threw the fish back into the water one by one in order to keep them alive. The man asked, “what are you hoping to accomplish? Do you really think it will make a difference? The child replied, “it will make a difference to this one,” as he threw another fish back into the water. □
byEdMiehle with Craig Anzilotti, on behalf of the World Hunger Coalition. Sign-ups for the WHC's Wednesday Lunch Fast will be held next week.
SCHOLASTIC
IOHNPANKOW
BRUCE WILLIS
MORTAL THOUGHTS
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER IS SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 14
mortal thoughts
HARVEY KEITEL
Shown in Cushing Auditorium 8:00 p.m. & 10:30 p.m.
Admission is $2
STUDENT UNION BOARD
BROUGHT TO YOU BY