Vol. XIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, JUNE 23, 1S86.
No. 41.
The Age of Leo X.
BY JOSEPH A. ANCHETA, ’86.
God is great in His designs and works. With His ever-watchful providence He constantly guides His creatures without ever compelling them. Should the latter forget their duty and go astray, He endeavors to rectify them by leading them unconsciously back into the “ path of virtue.” The means He employs to do this are no less various than wonderful. A sad and unexpected event, as the death of a deal* relative, or some other striking occurrence, might open the eyes of a blinded wretch, or serve as the “turning point” in a man’s life. If something special is to be accomplished a special person, or one suitable to the condition of affairs, is sent into the world. Such a man, was the leading personage of the period, on the principal events of which I propose to dwell.
Refined and purified though human nature had been by the early persecutions, it again commenced to deteriorate. Man’s spiritual strength had been undermined by external causes as well as by the interior vipers of passion. Deplorable events were about to transpire and untold disasters to follow, which would place the Church of God in a most critical situtation. But as God had foretold that « the gates of hell would not prevail against His Church, that the Holy Ghost would teach Her all truth, and that He Himself would abide with Her forever,” who can wonder that a man was about to appear who was destined to protect Her during that dreadful hour and shield Her from the attacks of Her ungrateful children, who had so basely .abandoned Her.
Eastern Rome had fallen into the hands of the Turks. Mahomet II had met two insuperable barriers in the persons of Hunniades and Scanderbeg, who successively frustrated his two attempts to invade Europe, when, on December i, 1475?a Fl°r-entinian was born in Italy, who, although his birth was marked by nothing wonderful, nevertheless was to be the principal character of the age in which he lived. This man was Govianni di Medici.
From the very day of his son’s birth his father made up his mind to consecrate him to the Church.
After the death of Henry IV, in 1474, his sister. Isabella ascended to the throne of Castile. Soon after, the Castilian queen married Ferdinand, king of Arragon, who had recently inherited the dominions of his father Juan II. By this marriage Castile and Arragon were united into one kingdom, called Spain ever since then. At this very time Peter* D’Aubusson was weilding the Christian sword successfully in the island of Rhodes against the aggressing infidels, who endeavored to annihilate the power of the Cross. The union of the Spanish provinces instead of quieting the restless spirit of the Moors seemed to stimulate them to* redouble their exertions to extirpate Christianity beyond the limits of Spain. Remembering the many battles their forefathers had gained in that locality, and underestimating the power of the newly-formed ' kingdom, they had the imprudence to break the standing truce. Ferdinand and Isabella lost no time in availing themselves of the chance presented to them of carrying into effect their intention of exterminating the Moors from Spain. Two campaigns were sufficient to reduce the Moorish kingdom to the limits of Granada, its capital. This superb city was very well fortified, as it was surrounded by huge walls and high towers. Besides it was defended by several fortresses, and forty thousand warriors provided with a vast supply of ammunition and provisions. The Spanish monarchs soon invested it with sixty thousand veterans, but would not attempt an assault or risk a general battle, their plan being to make Granada surrender by the horrors of famine and starvation. So determined were they that instead of a camp they built a city to shelter their army. Upon seeing that there was no alternative but to surrender, or to perish miserably, Boabdil, the Moorish king, at last consented to evacuate the city and accept the terms of capitulation offered by the Christians.
The celebrated tribunal of the Inquisition, a state institution having jurisdiction over certain offences, was introduced into Spain in 1480. Although some of the examiners were selected from the clergy, on account of their knowledge of the Canon and the Civil Law, the tribunal itself was
654	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lay, and was in no way connected with the Church. Upon the formal filing of an accusation against a person, the accused was brought before the inquisitors, who treated him with kindness and even with leniency; and if he promised to retract his heretical teachings, or dangerous doctrines, he was either entirely acquitted or slightly punished. But if he persisted in his obstinacy and refused to amend, he was handed over to the civil power to be dealt with in accordance with the custom of the times. Putting all prejudice and bigotry aside, it cannot be denied that the Spanish Inquisition was a masterpiece of ingenuity. By it Ferdinand and Isabella not only governed their dominions in peace during that turbulent period, but also averted deplorable calamities that might have lessened the glory and power of Spain. Had Germany, France and Switzerland adopted similar measures, perhaps they would have saved themselves from the numberless disasters resulting from the fanatical revolts incited there by those who styled themselves the reformers of God’s Church.
Lovers of lucre and adventure flocked to America, which was'discovered by Columbus in 1493. Numerous were the conquests achieved by the Spaniards, who not only acquired vast fortunes for themselves, but had enough left to enrich their sovereigns. The way opened by the Spanish adventurers was followed by English as well as French navigators, so that in the course of a few years almost all the western continent was explored. • The Portuguese, however, directed their expeditions to another part of the world. Nor were their efforts and labors unrewarded. About this time Vasco de Gama discovered the passage around the Cape of Good Hope, and after a voyage of several months reached the shore, of Eastern India. Notwithstanding the determined resistance of the natives, after many hard, fought battles,Vasco de Gama obtained immense acquisitions of land and secured valuable treasures for his sovereign. The Portuguese flag was carried as far as the Eastern extremity of Asia and japan. It may truly be said that the close of the fifteenth and the beginning of the sixteenth centuries was a period of exploration and adventure. But, although most nations derived some advantage from the great discoveries of this epoch, Italy did not; in fact, they paralyzed the, traffic of most of. its seaport towns. Before, all the Eastern trade; .had been Tn: the' hands of the Venetians and other maritime provinces of Italy,, as they could easily communicate, with A.sia. and Africa through the Mediterranean. Sea. Now, Italian monopolists,saw with regret al! their commercial advantages: taken away, from them by the Portuguese, while all traffic with the Western world .was carried bn principally by Spain. . Moreover, ’ Italy itself was; the' common battlefield , of the ’ .; Spaniards and French, wholstruggledTorthe pos-■ session of-Naples. ..“All these calamities were, highly , 'aggravated?by the spirited-.Contentions- of intestine factions, headed by ambitious, princes, who, instead.
; of. uniting -tdgetherVagainstjtlie common enemy . . • .arid expelling; both aggressors, constantly fought
" amongst themselves; at one time helping the Span
iards, at another aiding the French to desolate their country. Louis XI, King of France, had no time to rescue Naples from the hands, of the Spaniards. He had enough to do in trying to weaken the power of his lords, who had been constantly encroaching upon the rights of the Crown. But Charles VIII, his successor, determined to enforce his father’s pretentions. He accomplished his object in one campaign; but his joy was of-very short duration. He was repeatedly defeated by the Neapolitan troops, arid although he remained master of the bloody battlefield of Fornovo, he obtained no decided advantage by his victory. Seven years afterwards, in 1501, Louis XII resolved to renew the attempt upon Naples. As usual everything gave way before the advancing cohorts of the French, and Louis had reason to expect a complete realization of his dreams. However, several signal victories of Gonzales de Cordova paralyzed his hopes and showed the French monarch how unfounded his expectations had been. A treaty of peace was concluded of extreme advantage to King Ferdinand. In 1508, a league was formed at Cambray against the Venetians, between the Emperor, Ferdinand, Henry VII and Louis XII. By his many victories, the latter roused the jealousy of his associates, and the league turned against him. He was defeated by the combined troops of the imperialists and English in the battle of the spurs, so called because in that encounter the French cavalry made better use of their spurs than their weapons. France itself was invaded by the Swiss. Happily for Louis, the confederates did not pursue their advantage in time. Shortly after, the French were victorious in the terrible battle of Ravenna, fought in i<i2.
J	O	kJ
This blow so crippled his enemies that they gave Louis a respite, and as he. was in sad need of it, he was not very anxious to renew hostilities. He died at .this juncture, and was succeeded by his brave and accomplished cousin, who assumed the name
•	of F rancis Ion the day of his coronation. The young king.had not forgotten the invasion of France by the Swiss, and he determined to punish their presumption and intrepidity. Consequently, he crossed the Alps, marched into. Switzerland, and fought the ever-memorable battle of Mariguan in 1515. The Swiss were situated in a narrow pass and had neither cannons nor firearms; but they possessed something infinitely better than those newly-introduced implements of war: they .were full of all the desperate, courage and consuming ardor that national honor can inspire;" The battle lasted two days. The French were on the point of being overthrown when General Alviano and. his Venetian army came to assist, him. A gallant resistance to the combined attack of the French and Vene-. tiaris was. ihade by the highlanders, but being • overwhelmed, the few survivors left the field after having performed prodigies of valor* in that unequal contest., Peace was soon declared, although the Spanish i king- endeavored to prolong the war in order to check the ascendency of the French. He/was prevented from doing soby an enemy he could riot conterid against, as death soon overtook him. i'/V n W*;
•	' - -- r - c,; ' ...	- • ' “	~ •	- . ' ‘_
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
655
; Either through his father’s influence or the ©
s bounty of some of the clergy, Govianni di Medici | was the recipient of two benifices while still very | young. When only thirteen years old he was * raised to the dignity of a cardinal, with certain res' strictions. On the death of the reigning Pontiff, Jul-f ins II, Govianni di Medici was elected to be his suc-| cessor. Leo X was the name he assumed. Within | two months prior to his elevation to the See of St. | Peter, he had received Holy Orders and had been consecrated bishop. Leo X at once directed his |	attention to better	the condition of Italy by en-
%	deavoring to pacify	the contending lords and induce
|	the Spaniards and	French to put an end to their
$	hostilities. When	this had been partly accom-
| plished he attempted to organize a crusade against I the Turks, who threatened to invade Europe, and invited all the crowned heads to assist him. They i united as a precaution, but would not take any active step, and the intended expedition was finally f abandoned. Still the principal project Leo X had > in view was the erection of St. Peter’s in Rome, ■i To raise the necessary funds he granted an indul-| gencc> to all those who, being penitent for their sins, 5 would cither give alms to the poor or contribute I something for the building of the Basilica. In 4 Germany, the publication of the indulgences was | confided to the Dominicans by the Archbishop of I Mentz. The Archbishop’s choice displeased the | Augustinians, who had always been intrusted with | the preaching of indulgences. Upon finding out i that there were some abuses in the manner in ; which some of their rivals disposed of the indul-? gences, Martin Luther, a young Augustinian monk, i was appointed by his superiors to preach against the j abuses. He did his work well, but he went too F far. After condemning the abuses, he began to £ attack the things abused, and to avoid contradiction £ he was forced to deny other universally acknowl-¥ edged doctrines of the Church. Having gained £ over a large party to his side by his eloquence or f? by promises, he would not listen to the admonitions | of the Pope. Consequently on the 20th of June, £	1520, Leo X by a formal edict pronounced the
S teachings of Martin Luther heretical, and threatened i to excommunicate him and his followers if they S would not submit to his decision. Being of a very a irritable disposition, he could not bear to be contraS dieted; hence, instead of submitting, Luther gave J vent to his rage by calling the Pontiff all kinds of I' disrespectful names, and to.confirm his perfidy, he I' burned publicly the Bull that condemned him. |. Not satisfied with attacking the tenets of the S’ Church, he severed the bonds of morality and huI manity that bound him to duty, and instructed his I followers that his interpretation of the word of [ God should be propagated “ even by the sword if L necessary,” promising to reward their exertions 1 with the plunder of churches and monasteries. I What Luther accomplished in Germany was re-= peated by Calvin and Zumglius in France and i Switzerland. In order to quell the general relig-i ious revolution that ensued, the Emperor issued a : decree commanding all to repair to Spire and there = endeavor to come to some understanding in regard
to their doctrinal differences. The fanatics that protested were on that account called Protestants. Leo X no longer existed. He died Dec. 11, 1521, so suddenly as to awaken suspicions of his having been poisoned; in fact, a 'post mortem examination revealed traces of poison, but how or by whom administered has never been known. He was liberal, munificent, and firm; a lover of the arts and sciences, and the patron of learned men. Music and literature were his delights, while the chase was his principal amusement. That he was moderate is shown from the fact that he has been blamed for his conduct towards the dissenters, as he was neither too violent nor too indulgent towards them.
Of the four great literary periods of the world— the age of Pericles, the age of Augustus, the age of Louis XIV and the age of Leo X—the latter, the third in point of time, produced the greatest number of illustrious men, as great men flourished throughout Europe. In Italy alone notwithstanding the multitude of calamities experienced by this desolated country, a complete revival of literature ~ was effected. Under the immediate patronage of Leo X such men as Sannazarro, Ariosto, Veda, Tasso and Michael Angelo astonished the world by their works of art.	c
Dante and His Tinies.
BY PHILIP VD. BROWNSON.
The years that told the life of Dante were the years during which the modern world began to assume definite and regular form. The long con© © test of Pope and Emperor had come to an end. The dream of the Hohenstaufen of a universal monarchy was no more, and the states of modern . Germany and modern Italy began to appear among the .ruins of the holy Roman German Empire of the West. The great powers of England under Edward I, and of France under Philips III and IV, were just assuming their distinct national traits, and building up the outward frame-work of the State. The lesser powers of Christendom were struggling manfully towards a realization of national life, as in the contests of Spain and Portugal with the Moor, and in the War of Independence under Wallace and Bruce in Scotland. It was distinctly the age of the nation-builders—of Edward the First and Philip the Fourth; Rudolph of Hapsburg, Henry of Luxemburg, Alphonso of Castile, of Bruce of Scotland, and of the Confederates of the Swiss. The dream of the universal Empire of Christendom had vanished with the fading memories of-that grand old German hero, Frederic Barbarossa. Years after his decease, the people still believed that he would return, as from some mystic sleep or enchanted castle, and • build up a monarchy beneath whose sway the globe should roll for aye in peace. But the popular legends and fireside-stories proved no prophecies, and the aged Emperor slept calmly on in the grave
656
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which his soldiers had dug; for him in the Orient.
The material glories that for a time had crowned the successors of St. Peter, as thej' sat the judges of nations in the Eternal City were fast passing away. The generations of actors on the stage had heard the last echoes of the Crusades— had seen the chivalric Louis of France borne in death from the walls of Tunis, and had listened to the tale of Acre fallen. And with the Crusade of Louis of France and Edward of England came to an end the attempts of the Pontiffs of the West to unite Christendom in the one great European struggle. This age produced the last great successor of Gregory the Seventh and Innocent the Fourth, and witnessed the final struggle of the mediaeval Popes for the rights of conscience and of Holy Church, in the contest of Philip the Insolent and Boniface the Eighth.
But while to review the great deeds in the political world of the period might tempt us, it is .	fitting that, in seeking to treat of the Age of Dante,
* we touch solely upon its literary side. It was by the building up into poetry and song of the vulgar tongues of Europe that the great national feelings and tendencies of the age were more especially exhibited. For centuries Europe possessed no distinctively national literatures. While science and $	literature had flourished they were the possession
. and the heritage but of the learned, and the tongue in which it was told was that of the universal Empire of Rome. No man as yet had arisen to elevate to the dignity of a literary tongue the speech of the common people. No, now for the first time since the Augustan Age, after cycles of revolution and misery, were Virgil and Horace about to find worthy successors in the long line of talented men which begins with the Age of Dante—an age which, ' though not prolific in the number of its literary characters, produced one admirable genius, whose name shall be handed down with gratitude and love to remotest posterity—one who was the last yet loftiest of the troubadours, the first yet grandest of all Christian poets. In treating of the Age of Dante and its effects upon the modern literary, world, well may we say that the story is wholly contained in the deep and painful labors of that mystic poet, Dante, who is for Italy the summary of thirteen hundred years.
About the middle of the thirteenth century Italy was the central nation of Europe. The great expeditions against the Oriental Saracens had proved . a source of emolument to many of her towns. Genoa had become a flourishing sea-port, and Venice was the mistress of the deep. Still Italy bore no political sway over the surrounding countries—where there is a lack in sympathy and unity of action, we need look for no power and strength. The contest between the spiritual and temporal powers had rent Italy in twain. The land was covered with independent commonwealths, and the , great families of nobles, such as the Visconti and ’ Medici afterwards became, extended their sway from town to town.
In the North was the Duchy of Savoy and the Lombard cities, the Republic of Genoa and Venice,
which was a pure aristocracy, though under the nominal rule of the Doge. • Farther down, past the Duchies of Parma and Modena, the dead Ravenna and the famed Bologna, laj7 Tuscany and the Papal possessions, and in the South a Frank was on the throne of Naples.	’
But the most celebrated, perhaps, of all these states was Florence, the queen of cities and school of wisdom. Florence, the cradle of modern art and literature, was beautifully situated upon the Arno, which, wandering far off to the west, past the walls of subject Pisa, finally cast itself upon the bosom of the Mediterranean. All the luxuries of the east and choicest exports of the west flowed steadily to her marts and vessels, laden with the spices of Arabia and the wines of France, sailed with their burdens to the strong bulwark of Guelphic power. Her banking-system was famous throughout the world, and even the English monarchs had borrowed from her merchants.
The discord between the great Italian commonwealths could bear but little comparison to the turbulent factions which divided the city. The marble palaces, gorgeous villas and sumptuous elegance of the wealthier Florentines contrasted strangely with the black, frowning fortresses which environed this beauteous queen of cities. Her theatres, baths, gardens and promenades were embellished by the finest productions of the chisel and the pencil; the softest sky was above them and the most voluptuous temperature around them; all, in fact,seemed there which could refine a people. Yet the rival parties frequently fought upon the streets, and even the sweet peace and quiet which had so long slept within the old Gothic cathedrals was disturbed by the unwonted noise of arms. Everywhere the nobles sought to oppress the people, who would no longer passively endure tyranny. The times presented the convulsive throes of a dying system about to give place to a new era in politics and literature.
We read in the chronicles of these times a sweet, strange story, which is characteristic of a noble and romantic spirit. Perched upon the rocks which overhang the Gulf of Spezia stood an old monastery belonging to the Order of St. Francis. A sheepwalk led to the little village which nestled at the base of the hills; on the other sides the eye rested only on the undulating waters and a dark, impenetrable mass of foliage. One evening, as the last, low sound of the Vesper-bells was softly floating away in the distance, an aged monk who loved to recite his beads in the mellow haze of an Italian sunset, perceived in the shadow of a buttress a tall figure, clad in a dark robe, gazing upon a broken statue. He paused at the end of the next Ave Maria, and slowly advanced towards the stranger. When quite near him, he noticed the loveliness and sorrow which seemed to be imprinted on a pale and dignified countenance. Touched to the heart by that look of ineffable sadness, he said to him: “My son, what seekest thou near the house of God ? ”. Roused from his deep musings, the unknown looked up and answered, in a low, hollow voice, the one word, “Peace!” And the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	657
good monk led him within the holy walls, and he • abode there for three days and then departed silently as he had come, without having ever proffered more than that one syllable—Peace.
Who was this melancholy stranger, upon whose face were plainly written love, purity, heroism and a lofty ideal ? Who but the founder of modern literature, Dante Alighieri, the exile, the poet, sur-named the Divine!
This illustrious character was born in the middle of May, 1265, at Florence. His father, who was an honorable citizen of the old quarter Porta San Piero, died while he was yet a child. Thus Dante was early taught to fight the cold, great world. His, indeed, was a long life of tribulation; yet through suffering alone lies the road to perfection.
A worthy notary of the town, Ser Brunette La-tini, who himself had compiled several Latin works, instructed the promising lad, to the best of his abilities, in all the arts and sciences. Educated, we might almost say, in the streets of Florence—for there he passed much of his time—he developed to an unsurpassed extent the faculty of observation. Possessed of a powerful memory and a capacious mind; he received impressions like wax and retained them like marble.
From childhood he manifested a love for music and painting. 2\rt was his passion, and his soul was filled with an intense admiration of the beautiful, and consequently of the true and the good. He was sincere, open, and affectionate, yet at times given to silence and melancholy, and far too proud to be vain. Much that was true concerning him has been covered by the dust of some half-dozen centuries. His biographers have drawn considerably upon their imagination, as men did not pay much attention to him during his lifetime. Fie may have studied at Naples, Padua, or even Oxford. All arc possible, but it seems most probable that he was at Bologna before, at Paris after, his banishment. Certain it is, however, that he passed through the regular universitv course and studied theology, medicine and painting. He is represented by some as entering at an early age a Franciscan convent, but if he did, he never took the vows. Fie even thought at one time of becoming a painter. One of his greatest friends was the artist Giotto, from whose picture of the poet all Dante’s portraits have been copied. Fie is represented as a young man, with the graceful fallingcap of the day on his head, yet with that same tender and pathetic look upon his face.
When Dante was but nine years old, he first saw the maiden Beatrice Portinari, who afterwards figured so prominently in his immortal poem. Struck by her innocence and beauty, he more than loved her; he almost adored her. Yet she was lost to him and early laid to rest. This worship, however, of a real being, which was carried to such a degree that he endowed her with ideal attributes, continued constant and unvarying till his dying day.
Nevertheless, when Dante was about twenty-four years old he married a lady of noble birth, Gemma dei Donati, and seven children were the fruits of this union. Though thus allied with one
of the most powerful Ghibelline families, he remained true to his political convictions and fought with the Guelphs at Cambaldino in 1289.
Dante was now in the fullness of manhood. His stature was of middle height, his face long and his nose aquiline. He possessed a high forehead and well-formed eyes and a projecting under-lip, while his expression was always thoughtful and reserved. Through the brilliant banquet-halls and the gaily-crowded avenues he stalked sullenly like, a ghost, castingagloom upon merriment, and hushing boisterous mirth to stillness. For what had he, who brooded day and night over the deepest subjects, in common with those dissipated Florentines, who fluttered like so many butterflies in the ephemeral sunshine of wealth and pleasure? Though an eloquent man, be rarely spoke; and his demeanor towards unlettered people was cold and distant. Yet this was brought about more by his long habits of contemplation and silence than by any natural harshness of temper, for at heart he was soft and compassionate. We can easily believe that he who afterwards wrote such exquisite and touching verses was sensitively open to the charms of music. Flow every note must have thrilled through his poetical heart and found therein a chord which beat in harmony! All his biographers confirm us in that opinion; how then could he, whose soul was a temple of the Muses, have been otherwise than full of love and tenderness for his fellow-beings? We must, however,remember that where there is infinite pity, there is also infinite rigor.
Dante’s chef-d^ceicvre^ and the work which has proved the corner-stone of the fame bpth of his own age, and, in fact, of all modern literature, was written after his banishment. With regard to his earlier writings, his “ Canzoni ” alone would have elicited the admiration of succeeding generations; because, in the eloquent words of Lammenais, “ Lorsquc apres 1’hivcr de la barberie, le printemps renait, qu’aux rayons du soleil interne qui eclaire et rechauffe, et ranime les ames engourdies dans de froides ombres, la poesie refleurit, ses premieres fleurs out un eclat et un parfum qu’on ne retrouve plus on celles qui s’epanouissent ensuite.”
The “De Monarchia,” written in the Latin tongues, sets forth his political hopes and embod- ‘ ics his ideas of a grand and perfect government. The hero of the work is Henrv of Luxembourg, the German or Roman Emperor. But, as a politician, Dante exerted little or no influence upon his age. He was too universal, too deep to be understood by the narrow minds of the day, and Florence scarcely deigned to notice her greatest ornament—the pale, sorrow-stricken man that walked gloomily through her midst.
The reader, no doubt, will readily pardon us if, overlooking other of his works, as the “ De Vul-gari Eloquio ” and the “ Vita Nuova,” we pass at once to the time when Dante, who was justice and honor itself, was driven forth from his native city —his beloved Florence—a beggar and an outcast. A feud which started in the neighboring town of o	o
Pistoja between members of the same family soon
658	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
spread to Florence. The Guelphs took sides with the Nigri, or Blacks, and the Ghibellines then naturally enrolled themselves as Bianchi, or Whites. The city was in a ferment; the streets were the scene of brawls and riots, and even the Pope himself was unable to pacify the infuriated parties. In this state of affairs, Dante was elected one of the Priors of Florence in June, 1300. On his motion, the leaders of both parties were banished to the frontiers; but they soon returned, and the Whites got possession of all the offices.
About September, 1301, Dante was sent by the Bianchi on an embassy to Rome, and during his absence Charles of Valois entered the city, and reinstated the Blacks. Dante was proclaimed an exile, and heavily fined on a charge of pecuniar}' malversation. As the indignant poet scorned even to deny the charge, the fine was not paid, and he was condemned to be burned alive if taken within the boundaries of Tuscanv. Longs afterwards, the Government decreed that the exiles might return if they would submit to a fine and penance; but even then Dante refused, replying by a sarcastic letter full of bitter reproaches and hot disdain.
Yet nobody could have felt more keenly than himself the wretchedness of his condition. He tells us in his own sad and inimitable strain how those who had heard of his works, and expected to find the great Italian master crowned with laurel and seated among the mighty, coldly turned away from the meanly-clad and care-worn exile, and thought no more about those bright creations of his mind. We know but little of his nameless wanderings when he tells us how hard it is to climb the stairs of a patron and how salt is the bread of charity. Yet, had not Florence unjustly driven him forth to struggle against poverty and hunger, who can tell whether the world would possess that deepest andsublimest poem which man has ever written:
' “Ah! from what agonies of heart and brain, What exultations trampling on despair, What tenderness, what tears, what hate of wrong. What passionate outcry of a soul in pain.
' Uprose this poem of the earth and air, This mediaeval miracle of song! ”
Dante’s immortal masterpiece, the “ Divina Com-media,” is written in terza rima. Fie began to compose it in Latin hexameters, but warned by the fate of other productions in that dead tongue, he changed his mind and adopted and, we might almost say, moulded, the Italian language. Thus was the tongue of the common people elevated to a lofty standing and fitted for a national literature.
In the words of Macaulay, “ The noblest earthly object of the contemplation of man is man himself,” and Dante tells us that if we understand the poem literally, the subject is the condition of souls after death; but if we take it in an allegorical sense, the subject is man—subjectuni est homo. The work is divided into three parts, the “ Inferno,” the “Purgatorio” and the “Paradiso,” each of which is again subdivided into three parts and contains thirty-three cantos, or ninty-nine in all. The reader will remark the predilection manifested for the mystic numbers nine and three. Virgil is his guide through the “ Inferno” and “Purgatorio,” and repre
sents human wisdom; Beatrice, who, in the allegorical sense, personifies theology, conducts the poet even to the Divine Presence. Students of literature and learned men in every age have spent years, and sometimes a lifetime, in studying Dante, and it would be impossible in a brief essay like the one before you, to enumerate, or even give a faint idea, of the unrivalled beauties of the “ Divina Com-media.” Its faults flit by unnoticed like a light cloud passing over a brilliant landscape.
Ubi plura nitent in carmine non ego paucis Offendar inacuiis.
And truly in no poem can we find such exquisite versification, such depth of thought, such sympathy with suffering mankind, such intensity of feeling and accuracy of representation, so many beautiful descriptions and lofty and sublime passages as in the “ Divina Commedia.”	-
Beatrice, his lost earthly love, is his guiding star, and a distinguished author says of him that “ his utterances of affection are the very purest, perhaps, that ever came out of a human soul.” In a briefer mannei' than Tacitus, Dante gives to his images and pictures such an air of personal belief that if he never really beheld them he must, at least, have viewed them with the eyes of faith.
On his return from Venice, Dante, who was then about fifty-six years old, departed this life at Ravenna, in the month of July, 1321. He died as he had lived, neglected and unnoticed, simple and pure, with true dignity and pride, an unclouded intellect and an undiminished faith.
After his death, chairs weie erected for the purpose of explaining his writings in all the great universities of Italy; Florence fought for the ashes of’her exiled son and banished bard; monuments were erected in his honor; his marble brow was surrounded with laurel; and for a century after the Vox 'pojmli seemed unable to forget the great enchanter, who, unnoticed and unknown, had lived and died in their midst. His fame spread far and wide; he was imitated by a dozen poets, and copied by a thousand rhymesters.
Every now .and then, sometimes only after the lapse of centuries, a great man arises and imprints upon the character of his age an indelible sign. Such grand and solitary geniuses are the true landmarks on the shores of Time. At the epoch of which we have been speaking, the Saracen power in the West and the Grecian in the East had passed their zenith: they were nearing their decline and soon to sink beneath a sea of blood. In Italy alone were the coals of burning thought and inspired song still kept alive by a breath however faint. They had long Tain beneath the ashes of some thirteen centuries, until at last the destined master-hand arrived, rekindled the expiring spark of poetic fire, and placed the sacred flame within that sweet and fitting shrine—the human heart. To mankind belongs the honor, to Italy the praise, and to Florence the glory of producing such a genius and such a character as Dante Alighieri.
It happens at one period that the story of the life of the world is in its wars, at another in its institutions, at another in the expansion of the domains
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of civilization; at times the interest is centred in some great political idea as the balance of power or the realization of national identity; and then again all interest gathers around the story of one life.
The epoch of which we treat stands out jis the close of the heroic period of the Middle Ages— of a period wherein there were many very great men, and where great men and their lives deservedly occupy first place in the story of the world. This closing epoch is fittingly told as the story of Dante and his work. His is the srreat and central figure; his work is the great and lasting deed of the age. That now, for the first time, there arose a national literature expressive of distinctively na- • tional life is the characteristic of the period. This was the work of Dante, and that he is recognized as the Father of Modern Literature is the stamp of his life-long labor.	'
He who would acquire fame, let him write in the speech and let him be aglow with the thought of the people. Dante’s glory and influence spread far abroad oer the lands. Followers and disciples trod fast in his footsteps. Chaucer sings of him; England, France and Germany felt the magic of his deeds. The nations had arisen, and soon did the lands resound in song and in story told in the words, and imbued with the thoughts-, of the people.
£c Knowst thou,” he said, “ thy gift of old? ”
And in the hand he lifted up
The Pontiff marvelled to behold
Once more his mother’s silver cup.
“ Thy prayers and alms have risen, and bloom Sweetly among the flowers of heaven,
I am The Wonderful, through whom
Whate’er thou askest shall be given.”
He spake and vanished. Gregory fell
With his twelve guests in mute accord
Prone on their faces, knowing well
Their eyes of flesh had seen the Lord.
The old-time legend is not vain;
Nor vain thy art, Verona’s Paul, Telling it o’er and o’er again
- On gray Vicenza’s frescoed wall.
Still wheresoever Pity shares
Its bread with sorrow, want and sin, And Love the beggar’s feast prepares, The uninvited Guest comes in.
Unheard, because our ears are dull,
Unseen, because our eyes are dim, He walks our earth, The Wonderful,
And all good deeds are done to Him.
John Greenleaf Whittier.
•	[Selected.]
St. Gregory’s Guest.
A tale for Roman guides to tell To careless, sight-worn travellers still, Who pause beside the narrow cell
Of Gregory on the Caflian Hill.
One day before the monk’s door came 2\. beggar, stretching empty palms, Fainting and fast-sick, in the name Of the Most Holy, asking alms.
And the monk answered: “ All I have In this poor cell of mine I give;
The silver cup my mother gave, In Christ’s name, take thou it, and live.”
Years passed; and, called at last to bear The pastoral crook and keys of Rome, The poor monk, in St. Peter’s Chair, Sat the crowned lord of Christendom.
“ Prepare a feast,” Saint Gregory cried, “ And let twelve beggars sit thereat.” ■ The beggars came, and one beside, An unknown stranger, with them sat.
“ I asked thee not,” the Pontiff spake, “ O stranger; but if need be thine, I bid thee welcome, for the sake
Of Him who is thy Lord and mine.”
A grave, calm face the stranger raised, Like His who on Gennesareth trod, Or His on whom the Chaldeans gazed, Whose form was as the Son of God.. .
Oliver Goldsmith.
Oliver Goldsmith was not the spoiled favorite, of fortune; no propitious circumstances occurred at his birth to convey any idea of his future career; the Fates whispered no prophetic warnings indicative oF his genius. People who now interest themselves in the varying fortunes and sad vicissitudes which checkered the life of our author are wont to exaggerate a little the disappointments which served to embitter his days and to attribute his misfortunes to the poor appreciation of his merits, without making allowance for his own frailty; for, though it is universally admitted that he was a great man, still, in all probability, the touching incidents calculated to awaken public sympathy, and hallow his life and writings with a romantic tinge of melancholy, were but the consequences of his own folly.
His childhood was passed at Lissoy in Westmeath. Surely those happy joys of childhood’s days vibrating through fiis youthful heart were but the first strains of that refrain which in after years rang out in the “ Deserted Village,” whose ‘minor chords have found an echo in the hearts of all admirers of our poet. Who does not enter into the sad spirit of these lines?
“In all my griefs, and God has given my share, I still had hopes my latest hours to crown, Amidst these humble bowers to lay me down; To husband out life’s taper at the close, And keep the flame from wasting by repose;
I still had hopes, for pride attends us still, Amidst the swains to show my book-learned skill, Around my fire an evening group to draw, And tell of all I felt, and all I saw.
66o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
And, as a hare, whom horns and hounds pursue, Pants to the place from whence at first he flew, I still had hopes, my long vexations past, Here to return, and die at home at last”
Even in early years Goldsmith’s sensitive nature was manifest. He was not favored by nature with a comely appearance: the rich gem of his genius was enclosed in a rude, unpolished casket. A little anecdote suggestive of its first dawn is preserved, evincing the precocious versatility-of his wit. At an entertainment given by a friend, Oliver was requested to dance the horn-pipe, to which he consented with apparent pleasure; his awkward figure and movements were so ludicrous that one of the fiddlers, thinking to display his brilliancy, compared his fanciful antics to yEsop’s dancing. Sud-denljr the mirth was directed to himself by Goldsmith’s sarcastically remarking,
“ Our herald hath proclaimed this saying, See zEsop dancing, and his monkey playing.”
His college life was not remarkable for any extraordinary advancement in science or art, and after some unpleasant episodes, he took his degree at Trinity, last in his class. He was successively a teacher, a lawyer and a doctor; but in these different occupations he met with no success. It was not until 1759 that his literary career really began, then he published his review on “Polite Learning in Europe.” This was written for the purpose of convincing the public that criticism is the enemy of literature, science and art. The poetic muse is represented as embodying the first inspirations of knowledge; philosophy, as dissecting and arranging these principles, which defy all caprice and govern mankind; then comes criticism and the decline of cultured elegance of style. Its pernicious effects are strongly commented on. Satire, keen yet delicate, which constitutes one of Goldsmith’s greatest gifts, is employed throughout. A humorous reflection on the present connoisseurs of art and sculpture is contained in the following lines: “ The professed critics of beauty in the works of art judge of medals by the.smell; of pictures by feeling; in statuary they hang over a fragment with the most ardent gaze of admiration, though wanting the head and other extremities; if dug from a ruin, the torse becomes inestimable.” These reflections, though not deficient in truth, were received with disfavor; still'the facts could not be refuted, conviction followed its perusal.
Some who felt the effects of the sarcasm remarked, and with truth, that in assailing criticism, Goldsmith endeavored to destroy the pillar on which he himself relied for support. Being his first endeavor, a few smiled in contemptuous derision, yet his name gained celebrity, and the work was not unproductive of good. In 1759, at the request of Mr. Wilkie, he became sole contributor to The Bee. This proved a failure; for, as Goldsmith says in defense, the leading topics of the day, fashion, social gossip, etc., were set aside.
The quaint humor, so characteristic of the man, gleams merrily in many of his writings, but it is in his comedies that his versatile power of humorous description fully appears;
Father Ryan says, “poets are strange.” Certainly Goldsmith possessed his share of eccentricities. His disposition was a strange mixture of good and evil; shade and sunshine flitted across* his path, but the shadows were always quickly dis-persed’by the genial, lovable nature that saw a “ silver lining to the blackest cloud.” His philosophy was quite Bohemian. What matter if the world scorn and revile me, if my debts cause me continual torment, so long as life spins merrily away, “floating vaguely on the waves of chance”? His natural inclinations, so adverse to mournful reflections, influenced his writings to a great extent; they are not devoted to the darker problems of life, nor to thoughts that adversity too often engenders.
His essays include a wide range of popular subjects, which are treated in a clear, judicious style. “The Good-Natured Man” was his first comedy. The opening passages are devoid of ease, the wit being constrained, and the stvle nervous, evincing the trepidation of the author concerning its reception. It was played at Covent Garden Theatre in 1768. The bailiff scene proved slightly objectionable, a few expressions being deemed coarse; however, it met with enthusiastic applause; and, what was even more essential at this period of his life, he realized from it quite a sum of money, which he unhesitatingly squandered in extravagant entertainments. Fortune never smiled long on Gold- ♦ smith; he courted her favor too assiduously, and while basking in her sunshine, forgot her well-
O	7 o
known fickleness.
“The Vicar of Wakefield” bears testimony of his deep appreciation of nobility of character. It was published in 1766, probably before the finishing touches had been given, as the money which resulted from its publication was intended as the means of pacifying his irritated landlady, and numerous other creditors, who, if they admired the great gifts of the author, could not exist on that admiration. This work embodies a noble conception of a high-principled man; the plot, however, is improbable; the patience with which he invests the Vicar nearly surpasses that of Job. It is quite a subject of conjecture how Goldsmith, never having enjoyed the felicity of home, wife and children, could so vividly portray those exquisite pictures of domestic bliss, and impress us with the sentiments inspired by such a theme. In reading “ The Vicar,” one is. disposed to sympathize with Olivia, and to appreciate the anguish of her distracted parents in their trials. After we have regretted the folly of her wayward fancies, and shuddered at the abyss of ruin into which she was about to fall—the absurd manner in which all the clouds are so suddenly dispersed—and Olivia, as if by magic, finally restored to her parents, impresses us with a sense of the ludricous. The wheel of fortune revolves with such velocity during'the concluding chapters, all suspense is so instantaneously banished by the tranquil harmony which succeeds such terrific storms of domestic life, that, figuratively speaking, the rainbow of happiness appears ere the last'echoing peal of thunder dies away.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	66t
His “ Animated Nature” was a subject of much merriment to his friends, and a universal jest, on which periodicals and newspapers harped continually. Johnson humorously declares he knew not one fowl from another save when served and tasted. Several histories were next issued, and received the warm commendation their merits deserved. His “ Roman History,” though containing no new information or deep research, has none of that dryness which a mere catalogue of events is apt to possess, unless enlivened by a bright and animated style.
His last comedy, “ The Stoops to Conquer,” was received with storms of applause. This drama is founded upon an incident of Goldsmith’s youth, when he mistook a gentleman’s house for an inn. The drollery of the circumstances, as well as the easy, natural wit, combine to make it much admired; few productions have afforded so much pleasure in the representation.
But it is in his poetry that he truly reveals his genius. His poems were well received, but from their publication he did not realize sufficient means to meet his pecuniary embarrassments. Had he yielded alone to the seductions of the poetic muse, had he given us more masterpieces like the “ Deserted Village,” then would his grandest hopes have been realized. Of the “ Deserted Village ” we have already spoken. “The Travdeller” is also universally admired for its accurate discrimination of national character. “ The Hermit ” is a very affecting little ballad, written, it is said, for the Countess of Northumberland. “The Haunch of Veni-son”isa humorous poem,distinguished for its marked peculiarity of diction and obscure wit. “ The Retaliation ” is a very good piece, affording him an opportunity of manifesting his appreciation of the noble qualities possessed by his friends, while humorously pointing out their follies and foibles.
But ’mid the praise and plaudits of the world, and just when his heart began to respond most freely to the inspirations of the muse, the light of his genius was extinguished by the cold hand of death.
“ Adieu sweet bard: to each fine feeling true, Thy virtues many, and thy foibles few;
Those formed to charm e’en vicious minds—and these With harmless mirth the social soul t) please.
Another’s woe thy heart could always melt, None gave more free—for none more deeply fell, Sweet bard, adieu! thy own harmonious lays Have sculptured out thy monument of praise.
Yes, these survive to time’s remotest day, While drops the bush, and boastful tombs decay, Reader, if numbered in the muses trom, Go tune thy lyre,'and imitate his strain;
But if no poet, thou reverse the plan, Depart in peace and imitate the man.”
Virginia B. Barlow ( Class
Si. Mary's Academy.
College Gossip.
—A traveller in New Mexico discovered the Greek letters AKE on a lot of cattle. The average cowboy didn’t know what “ triangle, K. E.” meant, but the traveller said that the owner was
undoubtedly a “ Deke ” from an Eastern college.
—A meeting of the Board of Directors of the Catholic University was held in Baltimore recently. It was attended by the Archbishops, Bishops and the clerical and lay dignitaries comprising the board. The selection of a rector was left to the four Archbishops, then* choice to be announced at the next meeting. Ten plans for the buildings were submitted and three were selected, from which the final selection is to be made.
—“Yes,” said Mrs. Richladie, “my daughter graduates next week.” “I understand she is at the head of her class? ” “ No,” she said with some sadness, “she will not be the valetudinarian, but she will take the salutary, and that’s nearly as high.” “The commencement exercises are to be • very interesting? ” “ O yes. The Rev. Dr. Grace will preach the bacchanalian sermon, the Rev. Mr. Mortimer will deliver the dilemas, and there will be other detractions too numerous to mention.”— Washington Critic.
—In the Malden (Mass.) high school, not long ago, the principal asked the class in rhetoric to clear the following sentence of metaphor: “The sanctity of the lawn should be preserved.” The class set their wits to work, but no one seemed wise. The principal exclaimed: “ Can no one answer the question?” A bright lad of fifteen threw up his hand. “ AVell, Master S., you seem to be the only one in the class to answer. What is it?” Amid profound silence, Master S. said: “Keep off the grass! ”—Ex.
o	_
—The most illustrious Catholic man of science at the present day is without doubt the great biologist, Professor VanBeneden, of the University of Louvain. The venerable professor, whose fame is worldwide, will celebrate, on the 20th inst., -his fiftieth . anniversary of professorship at the university. His friendsand admirers of all nations will present him on the occasion with a gold medal, specially struck for the occasion. To give some idea of the international character of the celebration, we select the names of some of the members of the committee. Among them arc Professor Huxely; M. Pasteur; Sir William Turner, Professor of Anatomy in Edinburgh; De Quatrefages, of the Institut of de France; Professor Flower, F. R. S., Director of the Musuem of Natural History, South Kensington; Dr. St. George Mivart, F. R. S.; Agassiz, ' ' Director of the Musuem of Comparative Anatomy, Cambridge, U. S. A.; and the following university professors: Boganoff, Moscow; Campeilina, Bo- . logna; Claus, Vienna; Donders, Utrecht; Forel, Lausanne; Gegenbauer, Heidelberg; Kovaths, -Pesth; Lenckart,Leipzig; Loven,Stockholm; Lut-ken, Copenhagen; Mariano de la Paz, Madrid; Macklin, - Helsingfors, Finland; Pilar, Agram, Croatia; Retzins, Stockholm; Swaen, Liege; Van Bambeke, Ghent; Lefevre, Louvain; the President of the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium; besides the Minister of the Interior of Belgium; M. Thomissar, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs • of Portugal, Barbosa.—London Tablet.
662
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre ISame. June 23, 1886.
The attention of the Aiunrni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Nineteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Music al, Lit erary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the suc-* cess of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Srjo fer Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Our present report of the Commencement exercises has been, owing to our limited space, confined to the proceedings of Monday evening. But, as another issue of the Scholastic will appear early next week, an opportunity will be afforded to give a complete and detailed account of all the exercises. We wish to call the attention of the students to the desirability of leaving their orders for this number before their departure, as the extent of the edition will be made contingent upon the demand for the paper. At the' same time orders may be left for the illustrated number of the Scholastic.	.
—Among the visitors of last week was Dr. L. D. McIntosh, of the “McIntosh Galvanic and Fara-dic Battery Co.” of Chicago, who brought with him several new pieces of apparatus for the Physical Cabinet. He kindly consented to divert us from examination horrors for a time by a short entertainment on Friday evening, at which he showed us the possibilities of an improved stereopticon, which was among the instruments brought with him. It is a beautiful piece of apparatus, finely and carefully finished, and consists of two ether-oxygen lanterns, one placed above the other in compact forin, and fitted as a “ dissolving view ” instrument. With it Dr. McIntosh first combined a microscope’and threw upon-the screen some beautifully prepared microscopic objects, the effect of some of which could be fully appreciated only by an experienced microscopist: and not the least interesting were some denizens of stagnant water and the like, all of which were shown squirming, jumping and fighting in their native element. Then followed some selected slides of scenery, statuary and other things, brightly and beautifully projected
to a diameter of about twenty feet, and successively melted .into one another with a peculiarly soft and pleasing effect by the neat arrangement for “ dissolving.” At the close of the entertainment a note of thanks was tendered to Dr. McIntosh, and all felt that an hour had been profitably spent. In our laboratories may be seen many instruments invented or perfected by Dr. McIntosh, or made by the Company. Among the most thoroughly useful of these are his “ Solar Microscope ” for projection, and “ Ives’ Ether Saturator” to replace hydrogen with the stereopticon, together with many pieces of electrical and other apparatus. Dr. McIntosh spent a day among the laboratories, and expressed himself as highly pleased with the arrangements. We hope this first visit will be followed by many others, and that our scientific students may have the pleasure of frequently profiting by his extensive experience.
— , --------------
—It is probably not as generally known as it should be that the works of the late Dr. Orestes A. Brownson have been collated, edited and published by Major Henry A. Brownson, of Detroit. But such is the case, and we are gratified to state that they comprise a magnificent edition of twenty volumes. The last volume—the index—will be soon completed, and we can unreservedly say that the work is well done and shows uniform excellence from the first volume to the last. With Major Brownson the publication of the writings of his distinguished father was evidently a labor of love, and most faithfully and acceptably he has accomplished it. Viewed from a practical standpoint, it was a very seriousTjmdertaking for him, as it necessarily entailed 1^^-continued and devoted labor and a considerable outlay of money. But the firm belief that these writing’s cannot fail to be productive of great good to the cause of religion, sound education and true philosophy, inspired him to battle on to a happy and successful termination of the undertaking. And now it is our privilege to state that Dr. Brownson’s writings -appear in a form worthy of their singular charm and merit—a form that fits them for a prominent place upon the shelves of any library. It is unnecessary for us to say a word in reference to the high standing of Dr. Brownson as a philosopher, to the extraordinary force and ability of his writings, to his patient and persevering search for truth through many years, to his entry into the Catholic Church and his exemplary life as a member of her communion, or to his zealous and valiant labors in defense of the true Faith in a period marked by many trials and dangers. His writings constitute the best evidence of his extraordinary power, uncompromising courage, and exalted character as a man and Christian, and we earnestly invite attention to the claims upon public patronage of this edition of them. It should certainly have a place in most of our school, college, society, church, and private libraries. It can be had at reasonable figures by addressing Major Henry A. Brownson, Detroit, Mich.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
663
Ths Oratorical Contest.
Last Monday evening found a large audience of students and visiting friends from far and near as-. sembled in Washington Hall to witness the opening of the regular order of Commencement exercises by the “ Oratorical Contest.” This annual “contest,” since its inception, has proved a great and a most entertaining feature of the pleasure of these days. Unusual and intense interest attached to the efforts of our orators this year, owing to their number and their almost perfect equality in point of ability. The expectations of friends were fully realized in the oratorical display afforded by the contestants, Messrs. M. O. Burns, S. F. Murdock, V. H. Burke, W. Jess, D. Byrnes, A. Ancheta and D. Latshaw. It was pronounced one of the most successful exhibitions of the kind given at Notre Dame for many a year. The Judges of the “ contest” were Prof. T. E. Howard, of South Bend, A. B. Miller, Editor of the Sozith Bend Tribune, and W. P. Breen, Esq., ’74, of Fort Wayne. Their decision will be made known this (Wednesday) morning and will be reported in our next issue. • The exercises of the evening- were varied and made additional!}' interesting by the introduction of some excellent instrumental music by Profs. Kin' dig and Paul, and Master R. Oxnard. In particular, the saxophone and violin solos by Prof. Kindig were musical gems and proved the performer to be worthy to be ranked among musicians of the highest order. It was regretted generally that our excellent Orchestra failed to appear. We are informed that the cause of this failure is attributable to they'e ne sais quoi of one individual, who, we trust, appreciates the notoriety he has achieved.
* * . .
Referring to the “contest” in detail as far as our space will allow, we shall give a brief synopsis of each oration, following the order of the Pro gramme.
The first speaker was
MR. M. O. BURNS, who discoursed upon the subject of “ The Blessings of Equality,” particularly as exemplified in the country in which we live, and which, said the speaker, “ now stands forth the grandest combination of power, unity, equality and happiness the world has ever seen.” A glance at the history of the past ^revealed to us “ governments built upon the shoulders of slaves and written in the blood of the oppressed. Rome, mightiest of all, saw the day when her slaves far outnumbered her freemen and from that hour her star began to decline. . . . Westward the course of empire wended its way. The spread of Christianity diffused the doctrine of the equality of man before God and awakened the thought that he should also be equal before the powers of earth.” This thought agitating the varying phases of the progressive civilization of Europe —culminating in some instances in political revolutions,social dissensionsand civil disorders—found its best expression and realization here in America, where “a new life began, a new people flourished,,
who, through their common struggles and common sacrifices, reared aloft an august and splendid temple into which the thirteen colonies entered and hung up along its walls their battered shields inscribed with the memorials of valor and the blazonry of fame.” The speaker eloquently portraying the labors of the founders of our Republic, showed how, free from all selfishness, the grand idea of liberty and equality furnished the all-inspiring motive of their every effort, and how consequent prosperity-—which was well described—has attested the truth and soundness of their purpose. “ Now,” he said, “ in our midst we recognize but one nobility—the nobility of nature, and but one peerage— the peerage of intellect, adorned by the crown of virtue.” The peroration was an eloquent portrayal of the splendid future which the destiny of our country opens out to her children, if there remain a perfect conformity to the idea of man’s liberty and equality before his fellow-man.
MR. S. F. MURDOCK
next appeared, and spoke on the subject of « Patriotism.” “As lovingly,” he began, “ we linger o’er the tales of the old colonial times, we see blazoned upon History’s pages, sparkling with unborrowed light and undimmed lustre, the names of the heroes who procured the priceless boon of liberty for their posterity by deeds of valor inspired by patriotism.” The causes which led to the American revolution, crowned by the achievement of independence, were concisely, but eloquently, set • forth. The immortal names of the heroes who bore the burden of the strife were told, in words of noble and commanding language. Said the speaker: “Their patriotism never wavered, and the arch that was erected through their efforts stands on a foundation more firm than the adamantine rock. Its keystone is that great truth, ‘All men are created free and equal.’ That glorious structure will remain a monument of lasting honor to the architects and to our nation long after the empire of its oppressors shall have sunk into ‘oblivion’s murkey bed.’ . . . Europe is adorned with' monuments of art, which have been erected to commemorate great victories and to perpetuate the memory of noble sons. But our heroes have carved withjheir own hands an imperishable inscription that will remain untarnished and unstained long after the marble columns reared to their memory by posterity shall have mouldered into dust. The empires of antiquity are no more. Carthage, Greece and Rome are buried in the mist of ages, but their classic ' ruins still remain to tell the story of what they once were, and stand as warning to all nations againts party strife, civil dissensions and lust of gain. As the devoted son affectionately clings to the loving mother that cared for and protected him in his infancy, so also we should bear a strong attachment towards this glorious land that offers us home and happiness. For over a century its course has been upward and onward, and its loyal citizens have dwelt in peace, prosperity and unity. But let us take heed by the fate of the republics of old and keep burning bright the fire of true patriotism.
_ • /
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	.
And while other nations fall bj7 the wayside and weaken in the struggle, the American republic ‘shall flourish in immortal youth, unhurt amid the war of elements, the wreck of matter, and the crush of worlds.’ ”
MR. V. H. BURKE,
who was the next speaker, pronounced an eloquent oration on the subject of “ Orators and Oratory.” Time in its presentation of the great drama of life reveals a constant variety of scenes and actors. “Gilded tombs and edifices of barbaric grandeur, colossal columns and lofty towers that kissed the skies now mingle their dust with the dust of their founders as a symbol of the mortality of man and his works. When we turn our tele-cope of history over the horizon of the past and remember how the golden sun shone as brightly to the Chaldeans as it does to-day; how the brilliant stars which gem the heavens like fiery sparks now cast their light o’er the dust of the boasted walls of Babylon; how the silent moonbeams fall on the shattered seats and ivy-wrapped pillars of the Coliseum; how the pyramids stand as grim sentinels over the departed glory of Egypt;—when we see all this, we exclaim : Oh, man! what monument hast thou erected to perpetuate th}7 memory? The most enduring one is not found standing in the voiceless desert, nor in the depths of the sea, where, the triumphant waves rolling over, murmur that it is forgotten; it is not found among the relics of oblivion’s tomb, nor among remnants of shattered thrones, that tell of the long-faded glories of an Alexander, a Cresar, or a Napoleon, but it is found in living testimonials of genius. In the heart of every nation, in every civilized clime where thy joys of liberty are sung, a monument of undying fame, an intellectual pyramid with its lofty summit towering to the clouds, declares the immortality of the famous orators who spoke for the glory of God and for the freedom of man.”
The orator then reviewed the periods of Grecian and Roman eloquence and came down to modern times. His various transitions gave occasion to a glowing tribute to the great orators, whose names are immortalized in the pages of history—Demosthenes, Cicero, Chatham, Edmund Burke, Daniel O’Connell and Webster—and concluded with a masterly peroration of the inspiriting influence of liberty upon the orator’s powers, paying the following glowing tribute to our country: “As long as the flag of union shall continue to spread its folds o’er this grand fabric of national freedom; as long as man entertains the feelings of humanity and compassion toward his fellow-men; as long as he retains in. his heart the love of country and of liberty, so long will oratory plant the sunbursts of her glory in every clime, so long will she continue to fill the great casket of human freedom with refulgentgems of universal Liberty.”
- ■	MR. WILLIAM JESS.
next spoke, taking as his subject “ This Land of Ours.” The exordium was an outburst of eloquence. “ Our country,” said the speaker, “ mother of republics, inspiring genius of-noble sentiment;
land of heroes,patriots and statesmen; magnificent realization of the principles of free government; e great federation unparalleled on the face of the globe; government without prototype in history —result of our fathers’ genius, monument of their fame! After a century of unalloyed prosperity, we stand upon the summit of national greatness, acknowledged the grandest republic of the age. Our fame has gone forth unto the ends of the globe; our praises arc sung in every language; our blessings have fallen as sunbeams on dark places, removing all sorrow and gloom; we are the comforter of the entire world—the exile’s shelter, the pilgrim’s rest,—in a word, the chosen nation of Heaven.” Continuing, he said that this greatness consisted not in unlimited territory, rich valleys, magnificent forests and mountains—though we
O	O
possessed all these—but in the fact that the government is founded on a system of equality, and freedom is guaranteed to every man on the soil, and the blessings of liberty are enjoyed in every corner of the the land.”
The speaker then paid a glowing tribute of praise to the memory of the heroes of our country— Washington, Lincoln, Grant, and Hendricks—and concluded with eloquent words upon life’s duties, to uphold before the world the standard of our country. “ When we leave Notre Dame, our duty . begins. Will we do it justice? Fickle, indeed, are the ways of the world; the faint glimmerings of the pale-faced moon are not half so inconstant. The beautiful visions of youth may fade from our eyes; we may be jilted by fortune and deluded by fame till life seems without a solitary ray of brightness. Temptations of every sort may beset our path. Let them not pierce the shield of the moral and intellectual training received at Notre Dame.
MR. DANIEL BYRNES
then delivered an oration on “ Communism.” We do not know what the judges have decided, and what we write will appear too late to influence their decision, were such a thing possible; but we think that this oration as combining the excellencies both in composition and delivery requisite to gaining the prize. This preliminary remark will do no harm—it is stated to give expression, as critic, to our judgment of the comparative standing of the orators of the evening.
“To the thoughtful mind the great socialistic uprisings of the present day are ” full of profound meaning and serious suggestion. The speaker did not at all sympathize, in the extent to which it is carried, with the outcry of popular rights, but he saw and maintained “ that the movement from beneath upward is a natural reaction against corruption in government and abuse of wealth and power. ... If the rights and rewards of labor, economy and honest trade were considered and bestowed men, possessing their natural equality, would fall into the place their individual energies and capacity might, assign them. The speaker eloquently depicted the evils of communism and showed the benign influence of Religion to be the only remedy. He concluded as follows: “ The divine inspiration
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
665
that gives force and movement to our time is the idea of the necessity of a greater love of mankind a keener sense of universal brotherhood, a wider compassion for the poor, suffering humanity that lies around us, steeped in suffering and cursed with sin. This inspiration is burning in the very heart of religion. Think not that I am here as a champion of social disorder. Deem me not a partisan of those who would cast down the established barriers that protect the lawful possessor and surround the sacred rights of justly acquired property and wealth No: I but foreshadow a great issue wherein two contending parties may rest their claims on principles of truth and justice. No movement that agitates society could have a moment’s hearing before the tribunal of common sense and reason unless it contained some element of right. But the right of the master is strengthened by resources that appeal to us with irresistible eloquence. Whereas the right of slave is unheard and unrespected until it finds an advocate in hearts that know no fear and in tongues that know no falsehood.”
UR. J. A. ANCHETA
spoke on the subject of “ Liberty.” “ Every true man, every noble-minded patriot, every American worthy of that glorious name, conversant with the early history of his country, understands fully the deep significance and inestimable value of liberty. Utter but the word, and the old Independence Bell again proclaims in loud, harmonious and pathetic peals the freedom of this country. Revered Patrick Henry and heroic John Adams are heard urging eloquently and indefatigably the last step in the sacred cause. Illustrious Thomas Jefferson is seen embodving and reading the solemn strains of that mighty writ which made us free and independent subjects of a free and independent country— the Declaration of Independence. The shrill notes of the revolutionary muskets announce the beginning of the holy struggle and the sharply-contested gory fields of Lexington, Concord, Bunker Hill, and a host of others flash vividly and in rapid succession before the eyes of the mind. The cannons of that same period now belch forth their furious thunder and missiles of destruction and death, with unimaginable effect and havoc, emblazoning the cloudless canopy overhanging and, as it were, shielding injured, insulted and oppressed Columbia, with an aureola of splendor, which unerringly foretells the happy issue of the desperate strife and consequent deliverance at hand. ’Mid the torrents of blood shed by American’s chosen patriots, who sacrificed themselves willingly and fearlessly on the altar of liberty—through desolate, dreary ruins and devastated, shattered remains of once populous, prosperous and flourishing cities—enduring calmly and firmly the horrors of inevitable famine, aggravated by exceptionably severe and dismal winters, insidious distempers, unavoidable reverses of arms and dreadful carnage; pacing with bare and bleeding, feet a soil already crimson with the blood of their immolated comrades and butchered brethren, the surviving veterans of the American legions are at last led to victory by their gallant
and intrepid commander. By one whose name will be revered when all of us shall cease to be, whose achievements will be lauded till the sun shall refuse to emit light; by one who has been styled, and will continue to be styled to the end of time, the Liberator of the oppressed, the savior of the liberty of his people, and the Father of his country—the immortal George Washington.”
The speaker then gave the true definition of liberty and proceeded to show its right and proper application. “ Liberty in its only true signification does not imply the right to do as one pleases. Man has the power to perform certain actions which he should not; he can disturb the peace, but never can he have the right to act in that manner; so that if he does disturb the tranquillity of the community he is liable to punishment. The abuse of liberty is never justifiable. And the choice which man possesses to do evil, aside from the fact of its not being necessary in order that he should be free in the fullest sense of the word, as might be supposed, is an imperfection in his liberty.” These thoughts were developed and aptly illustrated and their practical bearings shown by many pointed historical facts.
MR D. A. LATSHAW
closed the contest with an eloquent address on the grand hero of our day, “ William Ewart Gladstone.” “ Unpopular at first, in half a century of public life he has conquered English prejudices and won English hearts to such a degree that now this old man, who walks to Westminster and chops wood in vacation, is the idol of all England. . . . Night after night he stood calm amid the uproar, patient under complaints and sneers, forcing down opposition by a knowledge of facts which none could equal, stated with an eloquence that none could surpass. Then it was the cheers of the grand old man made way for more reverend tones, and at the age of seventy-eight he holds the mind and heart of the nation in his hand. As premier, Gladstone has given jewels to the crown that shine through its sombre veil like stars. The averted Russian war, the United States difficulty, the revision of statute laws, the new system of national education; the extension of franchise; these are the achievements of that English president whose only halo is the lustre of his services, and whose authority in each and every instance is the precise weight of his character and ability. Gladstone was not like his rival Disraeli, a dashing, political acrobat: but he is nevertheless one of the greatest of English statesmen. Call him to-day the first man of his age, and you have not done him justice. The rival of Pitt in eloquence; of Burke, in philosophical breadth; of Fox, in strength and personal magnetism, his collected orations number some the grandest in the language......When that great heart of England has ceased its beating, a scholar, a philosopher, and a philanthropist, lie waiting eternity’s dawn. When that heroic soul has gone forth like “a star quenched on high,” the flame of a good and a practical genius will remain, plowed into the history of the world. When those eloquent lips have been touched by an eternal silence, .
666
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
a million tears—meek applauses—will attest the grandeur of that orator,	-
“ Who battle for the True, the Just, And stood the peer of all.”
When those prophetic eyes are curtained by an everlasting darkness, England will have lost her greatest statesman—yet Ireland her best friend. When the world has stood for one brief moment in sables by that grave, the foremost man of this world will be immortalized.”
Personal.
—Rev. Luke J. Evers, ’79, of Newburg, N. Y., is a welcome visitor to Commencement. Father Evers celebrated Solemn High Mass on Sunday last in the church at Notre Dame.
—Rev. J. Scheier, was ordained subdeacon by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger at Fort Wayne on Friday last. We congratulate the Rev. gentleman, and express the hope that ere long he will attain the great object of his desires in his elevation to the sacred Priesthood.
—Rev. A. Louage, C. S. C., formerly Professor in the University and now Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Canada, left America a short time ago for a short visit to his native France. We have learned with pleasure from recent letters that, on the occasion of his-visit to Montmartre the famous shrine of the Sacred Heart in France, the honor was conferred bn him of opening the benedictions of the month of June.
—John Gibbons, a prominent lawyer of this city, went to Notre Dame, Ind., last Thursday, and examined the Graduating Law Class in Notre Dame University in the general principles of commercial law, nature of American institutions, laws of contract and real estate, commercial paper, etc. There were twenty-two members of the class, eight of whom graduated. The class is under the. instruction of Professor William Hoynes, an able instructor.— Chicago Inter-Ocean, June 20.
—Among the welcome visitors to Notre Dame during these Commencement days is Miss Marion Muir,'of Morrison, Colorado, a highly-gifted and accomplished lady, whose writings have made her name well known in the literary world. .Her many valued contributions to our college paper— evidences of a kindly interest taken in its literary standing—are familiar to our readers, and have greatly enhanced the pleasure of her attendance at our exercises. We are glad to know that Miss Muir has beeii surprised and delighted with the many attractions of Notre Dame and that her visit has been a most enjoyable one.
Local Items.
—GoodBye.
. —When shall we meet again?
—Don’t forget the Scholastic. , “A student is,an awful funny’animal.”
—"‘Rah / ’Rah I '‘Rah ! Nostra Domina 1
—Our dudes loomed up as usual, the admired of all.	'
—Hagerty wants to know “ when school takes up.”
—Leave your orders for the illustrated vacation number.
—The Junior baseball combination coibrt—nay, challenge competition.
—Lost.—An anchor. Finder will please return to the captain of the Abbie Coon.
—Several interesting items unavoidably crowded out in this number will appear next week.
—We hope that at future oratorical contests, all floral displays and prinia donna offerings will be tabooed.
—What strange things come in with the tide!— soliloquy of our friend John on beholding one of the dudes. -	•
—The Minims had a grand picnic in Mr. A. Coquillard’s groves on Monday—the feast of St. Aloysius.	•	'
—A question for the student of human nature would be: How to provide against the freaks of a crank in an Orchestra?
—Examiner—Is there any difference between the fishes of the Devonian age and those of our own days? Student—Difference in de-tails!
—This list of visitors to the Commencement exercises, though prepared for this issue, has been unavoidably crowded out. It will appear full and complete next week.
—There will be another Scholastic published early next week. It will contain full reports of the Commencement Exercises, the names of the recipients of Class Honors, Prize Medals, etc., etc.
—The final meeting of the St. Cecilia Association was held Monday morning. Votes of thanks were tendered the officers and Prefects of the College for kind favors done the Society during the year.
—The writer of “ The Age of Leo X,” which appears in the first part of this papar, has introduced a novel feature in the formation of acrostic paragraphs. The first letter of each paragraph forms the words “ Great Leo.”
—Before making up your mind about your summer trip write for the Michigan Central’s illustrated book of Summer Routes. The direct route to Niagara Falls, Mackinac Island, St. Lawrence and Hudson Rivers and White Mountains. Address, O. W. Ruggles, Gen’l Pass’r and Tkt. Agent, Chicago.	,
-—The second Senior nines played the concluding game of the championship series on the 13th inst. The following is the "
Score by Innings:—1. 2 3 4. 5 6 7 8 9
-	, . Blues o i 4 4 202.7 *=20
■	. Reds o i 03.2004 6=16
——We all knoWjthe Catskill Mountains, but the fact has never hitherto been satisfactorily explained.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Reflecting, however, on the old Latin proverb, “ Parturient montes, nascetur ridiculus mus,”
we observe that mountains and mice are indicated as being of the same breed. Hence, as cats notoriously kill mice, there is no reason why they should not kill mountains.
—The champion nine of the Junior department —the “ Reds ”—were presented with fine gold medals, with imposing demonstrations, in the refectory on the 20th inst. Those who received medals were Jos. S. Courtney, G. Cartier, G. Cooper, C. West, M. Luther, L Hayes, P. Brownson, F. Fehr, ' H. Robinson, W. Arts, M. B. Mulkern, W. Borg-schulze and T. Williamson.
—Two Junior nines, one directed by Bro. Alexander, the other by Prof. Jas. F. Edwards, played a championship game on the afternoon of the 20th. The scorer gave up in despair when the 50th tally was made, so that we are unable to give the complete score. After the game both nines adjourned to the refectory, where they were regaled with strawberries,ice-crea m, etc.
—The diplomas of the St. Cecilia Association were distributed by Rev. Vice-President Zahm in the Junior refectory on Monday noon. The following received diplomas: Messrs. William Arts, D. F. Regan, A. Cooper, E. Prudhomme, F. Fehr, P. Brownson, C. Spencer, P. Levin, G. Plouck, C. Ruffing, M. O’Kane, S. Smith, T. Goebel, R. Newton, H. Robinson, E. Dillon, F. Long, P. Jacobs, C. Shields, P. Wagoner, W. Houlihan, J. Fitzgerald and E. Ewing.
—Rev. P. Boland, of Lakey, Minn., has shown himself a special friend of the Minims. Last April he sent on a handsome gold medal for the best baseballist among the Minims, and as a further encouragement to the “ little men,” as he calls them, he now presents a beautiful gold medal for politeness and good conduct to the most deserving among the Minims. The princes appreciate the generosity of the Rev. donor and desire to express, through the Scholastic, their sincere thanks.
—The Junior’s picnic last Thursday is declared to have been the most enjoyable fete the participants attended for many a day. The ride to the Farm behind spirited horses, the delicious milk and cakes served on the arrival of the excursionists served to . put all in the best of spirits. After astroll about the premises and a roam through the groves, large fires were built, and material prepared to cook a first-class dinner. Brother Marcellinus acted as chef ably as-« sisted by Messrs. Fehr, West, Borgschulze, Brownson and Regan. Tender, juicy stakes were roasted on the live hard wood coals, eggs scrambled, and potatoes-baked. Excellent lemonade was made by Messrs. Myers and Wabraushek, whlie ice-cream and strawberries were provided by Bro. Simon. Cloths and plates were placed on the grassy-ground under the shady trees and Bro. Alexander covered the unprovised tables with delicacies and sweetmeats of all kinds. But why say more? It was a right royal feast, and right royally was it enjoyed.. Sports of all kinds made a pleasant afternoon, and as the shades of evening fell upon tEe “banner”
Juniors “homeward bound,” no happier boys/ . > could be found on the face of the earth.	A '
—The Euglossians inaugurated the proceedings , of Commencement week by-a series of preliminary	.	.
exercises on the evening of the 20th. The seance • ; -was held in the large parlor of the University, and . in addition to the various college societies, whose . members were privileged to be present, there were also many visitors from abroad. The exercises - . . ' consisting of declamations, recitations and speeches .	.
by the elite of the Euglossians, served the double \ purpose of a competitive drill for elocutionary ' prizes and a pleasant entertainment for the large audience of students and visiting friends. The .	.
speeches were all of a high order of merit and the declamations showed to advantage the elocutionary talents of the speakers and the careful, painstaking -	.
training to which they had been subjected during . the year. The result of the efforts of the youthful	..
speakers will be made known in the report of the prize awards, which will be fully reported in our next issue. The exercises of the evening- were agreeably varied by the various pieces of instrumentai and vocal music, to which numbers had been assigned on the programme. Particular mention must be made of the charming vocal duet rendered hyJRev. Father Kirsch and Mr. J. O’Reilly, and -which, for correct phrasing and vocalization, was -all that could be desired. The gem of the even- -ing—in the line of instrumental music—was the violin solo by Prof. Kindig, who, with the tech- -nical and artistic skill, which the maestro alone pos- .
• sesses, displayed in a wonderful manner the re-	=
sources of the instrument, holding the audience in wrapt and breathless attention .until the last note . died away and the performer had disappeared.
The tremendous and hearty encore which followed :	.
was gracefully acknowledged, but owing to the - .	.
lateness of the hour, the Professor did not present -another piece.	L
’ —The Minims’examination, which took place on Friday and Saturday, was conducted by Very . Rev. Father General, Rev. President Walsh and . . " Rev. Father Granger, assisted by Brothers Cajetan, -Thomas, Alban, and Mr. Deegan, C. S. C. Rev. . President Walsh, wishing to satisfy himself as to •	;
the progress made by the Minims during the year, '	.
gave them such difficult problems in compound^ .. proportion that Father General more than once ■/ told him such problems were too difficult for the . ;	.
young brains of the princes; but when they pre- > ~.: sented the correct answers. Father. General.said to ; ' ; the Rev. President: “That is all right, but let"me , . -	'
give them some problems of my own.” He did _	.
give some puzzling ones, but the clear heads of the Minims readily solved them. The examina- . . Lj. tion closed on Monday by a literary entertainment A . ; given by the members of the Sorin Literary and- ; j. / Dramatic Association. There were present on the ■	< -
occasion the parents and other visitors from abroad, ff\ \ all of whom speak in the highest praise of the. elo- . . cution and grace of the Minims. At the close, : - ■	.
Very Rev. Father General arose and made a beau- - > ? . ;; tiful speech, which neither the ymung elocutionists - ; l-	‘;
nor the distinguished visitors will soomforget; \
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Compagnie Generale Transatlantique.
FRENCH LINE TO HAVRE.
The mail steamers of this Company, between New York and Havre, for the landing of passengers, will sail from Pier 42,North River, foot of Morton street.
Travellers by this line avoid both the English Railway and the discomfort of crossing the Channel in a small boat. Special train leaving the Company’s dock at Havre, direct for Paris, on arrival of steamers. Baggage checked at New York through to Paris. Steamers leave New York every Saturday. For further particulars apply to Louis De Bedian, 3 Bowling green, New York.
Exercises of the
Forty-Second Annual Commencement
of the	,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
PROGRAMME :
Monday, June 22,1886.
Overture (Caliph of Bagdad)...............Orchestra
Oration—“The Blessings of Equality ”..M. O. Burns Oration—“Patriotism”.................S- F. Murdock
Music (Saxophone Solo)...................Prof. Kindig
Oration—“Orators and Oratory”............V. H. Burke
Oration—“ This Land of Ours ”................W. Jess
Music (Piano Solo).......................R. Oxnard
Oration—“ Communism ”....................D. Byrnes
Oration—“ Liberty ”......................A. Ancheta
Oration—“ Wm. E. Gladstone ”.............D. Latshaw
March for Retiring...................N. D. U. C. Band
Tuesday, June 22.
8.00 a. m...............................Alumni Mass
9.30“ “..............................Alumni	Meeting
10.30 “ “...................................Regatta
1.00 p. m.,—Dress Parade by Company “A” of the
Hoynes’ Light Guards
2.30 “ “................................Field Sports
4.45 “ “...................Distribution	of Premiums
7-30 nt.
Overture..................................Orchestra
Cantata.........................Orpheonic Association
Oration......................Right Rev. Bp. Spalding
Closing March.........................N.	D. U. C. Band
Wednesday, June 23.
Opening March.........................N.	D. U. C. Band
Chorus........................ Orpheonic	Association
Valedictory......;................Thomas	J. Sheridan
Distribution of Premiums, Awarding of Honors, Conferring of Degrees, etc. Grand Closing March (Home! Sweet Home!) *	N. D. U. C. Band
Premiums. ♦
SENIOR department.
Ancheta, A.—1st Premium in Logic; Premium in Descriptive Geometry; Premium in ist Physics: 1st Premium in Mechanics.
Aubrey, W.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Pj emium in 1st Grammar; Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Akin, W.—Mention in United States History; 1st Men. tion in 1 st Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic;
Mention in Penmanship.
Ashford, J.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar.	.
Archambault, J.—Mention in 2d Orthography.
.. . Becker, B.—Premium in Moral Philosophy; Premium in 1st Latin.
Burke, V.—2d Premium in Logic;'2d Premium in Me, chanics.	.
• t-.Baca, F.—3d Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in 3d German.	.
Burke, P.—Premium in 6th Greek; Mention in4th Latin.
Burns, M.—Mention in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Bryar, B.—1st Mention in 4th Latin; Mention in 2d German ; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Bowles, C.—Mention in 1st Geography; 1st Mention in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Conlon, J.—ist Mention in Logic.
Crowe, C.—ist Mention in 2d Chemistry; Mention in 3d Greek; 2d Premium in 3d Latin; 4th Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Combe, F.—2d Mention in 2d Physics; 3d Premium in Botany; ist Premium in Elocution.
Cartier, W.—Mention in Geology; 2d Premium in Instrumental Music; 2d Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Carbijal, P.—ist Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in Instrumental Music. .
Craig, G.—ist Premium in Ancient History; Mention in Modern History; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in Rhetoric; ist Mention in 3d Latin.
Collins, Walter—ist Premium in ist Orthography; Premium in Penmanship.
Chapin, P.—ist Mention in 3d Algebra; Mention in Phonography; Mention in Elementary Chemistry.
Crowe, J.—Mention in 3d Algebra; ist Mention in 2d
Christian Doctrine.	’
Chappell, A.—ist Premium in ist Reading.
Congdon, W.—Mention in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in 3d French; Premium in Type-Writing.
Cassidy, J.—3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Cooney, W.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Cusack, Jos.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine;
Mention in Elementary Chemistry.
Dexter, F.—2d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 2d Premium in 2d Physics.
Daley, L.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in Elocution.	“
Dohany, J.—Mention in Penmanship.
De Haven, G-—2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Emmons, J.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.	.
Egan, E.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Finlay, C.—ist Mention in Sth Latin; ist Premium in
Elocution.	•
Forbes, F.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Glenn, W.—Mention in 5th Latin.
Gordon, A.—3d Premium in Elocution.
Hagenbarth, F.—2d Mention in 2d Chemistry; ist Premium in Elocution.
Hagerty, C. A.—ist Premium in Physiology; 4th Premium in istChristian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Hull, H.—Mention in Botany; ist Mention in Geology; Mention in 3d Algebra; ist Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Harris, C. R—2d Premium in Ancient History; istPremium in Modern History; ist Premium in English History; ist Premium in Phonograpy.
Harrison, G.—Mention in Ancient History; ist Mention in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Mention in Modern History; ist Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Hamlyn, J.—ist Premium in Surveying; Mention in 2d German; Premium in Phonography; 4th Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Houck, G.—3d Mention in 2d Algebra; ist Mention in ist Geometry; 3d Mention in Rhetoric.
Harless, W.—ist Mention in Surveying; Mention in Elocution.	.
Hampton, J.—ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Holden, S.—Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Orthography.
Jess, W.—ist Mention in American T iterature; 5th Premium in ist Book Keeping.
Jackson, J.—3d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Keys, T.—istMention in English Composition; Mention in ist Arithmetic.	’	.
Kendall, S.—ist Premium in 8th I atin; Mention in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Mention in ist Reading. .	_
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Karst, G.—Mention in ist Grammar; Mention in ist Book-Keeping.
Kivilinski, A.—ist Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Kleiber, Jno.—ist Premium in Elocution; 2d Mention in 3d Latin.
Koudelka, M.—2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry; 2d Premium in Elementary Physics.
JUatshaw, D.—ist Mention in Botany; 2d Mention in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in American Literature.
Long, H.—Mention in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in Elocution; Mention in Phonography; 2d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Larkin, A.—2d Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Mention in ist Geometry; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Luhn, H. B —ist Premium in English Composition; 4th Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Luhn, W.—3d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in Reading; ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Lally, W.—2d Premium in ist Orthography.
Ley, J.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
McGuire, P.—Mention in Zoology; ist Mention in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in 2d German: 2d Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Murphy, J’.—ist Mention in English Composition; 4th Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Morrison, B.—ist Mention in ist Orthography.
McErlain, G.—Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Moody, A.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in«-2d Book-Keeping; 2d Mention in English Literature.
Moon, C.—2d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Mention in English Literature.
Mier, A.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 4th German.
Meagher, J.—3d Premium in English Literature.
Miller, A.—2d Premium in Elocution.
Nancolas, C.—Mention in rst Reading; ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in Phonography.
Ott, W.— ist Mention in istGeography; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in i>t Arithmetic 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
O’Rourke, W.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Arithmetic.
O’Donnell, J. V.—Premium in ist Phonography.
Paschel, H.—Mention in ist Geometry; ist Premium in Elocution; Mention in Phonography.
Paschel, C—Mention in ist Geometry; Mention in ist Algebra; ist Premium! n Elocution.
Paschel, P.—ist Premium in 4th Algebra; ist Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Ohristian Doctrine.
Padilla, V.—ist Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Elocution..
Prudhomme, P. P.—Mention in Pemnahsuip.
Rheinberger, C.—2d Mention in 2d German; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Rothert, H.—Premium in Geology; Premium in Calculus; Mention in Phonography.	> -
Rodriguez, F.—Mention in 3d French; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in Penmanship.
Rochford, W.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Mention in ist Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in ist Arithmetic-
Rilev, E.—Premium in Penmanship; Premium in Instrumental Music.
Remish, T- J-—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Mention in Phonography; Premium in Instrumental Music.
Saviers, D.—2d Premium in ist Physics.
Sheridan, T.—ist Mention in Geology; ist Premium in ist Greek; Mention in Moral Philosoyhy.
Stubbs, C.—Mention in Zoology; ist Premium in 5th Greek; istPremium in Elocution; 3d Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Shaide, C.—Mention in 2d Orthography.
Strauss, I.—ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeking.
Snapp, R.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Soden, F.—2d Premium in Elocution.
Sack, F.—2d Mention in 4th German; ist Premium in Instrumental Music.
Vandercar, H. B.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Voorhees, C.—Mention in ist Grammar.
White, M.—ist Mention in Trigonometry; Mention in Elocution.
Wilson, J.—ist Premium in 2d Geometry; ist Mention in ist Algebra; ist Premium in Music; Mention in Elementary Chemistry.
Werst. H.—Mention in English Composition.
Williams, A. S.—2d Premium in Instrumental Music.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adelsperger, E.—ist Mention in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in Elocution; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Adams, A.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Phonography.
Austin, W.—Premium in Telegraphy; 5th Premium in -ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in Elementary Natural Science; 2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
Aiken, W.—Mention in Music; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Arts, W.—3d Mention in Instrumental Music; 4th Mention in Elementary Science; 3d Mention in Penmanship.
Brownson. P.—ist Premium in Ancient History; ist Mention in Modern History; 2d Premium in English History; ist Premium in American Literature; ist Mention in 3d Greek; ist Premium in 3d Latin; ist Premium in ist French.
Boos, J—2d Premium in 2d United States History; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Benson, G.—2d Mention in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 4th Grammar; ist Mention in 2d Orthographv; 3d Premium in 2d Reading.
Bacigalupo, L.—ist Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Grammar; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Bunker, I.—ist in Premium; ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in Phonography.
Bodley, E.—3d Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Berry, E.—2d Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in ' Penmanship; Mention in Elementary Chemistry: 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Bowles, E.—2d Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Borgschulze, W.—2d Premium in. Elementary Natural Science; Mention in Penmanship.
Cooper, A.—2d Mention in 2d Algebra; ist Mention in 2d Geometry; 4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Cavaroc, C.—2d Mention in Botany; 2d Mention in American Literature; ist Premium in French; ist Premium in Elocution; Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.-
Cleary, J.—istPremiurh in English Literature; ist Mention in 5th Greek; 2d Mention in 4th Latin; 2d Premium in ist German.
Courtney, J.—ist Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Mention in 4th Latin.
Coad, F.—2d Mention in 2d United States'History; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in4th Christian Doctrine.	_	. ’ - - ’
Campbell, E.—ist Premium in ist Geography ;-2d Premium in ist United States History; 2d Mention in ist Reading; 3d Premium in Arithmetic; ist Mention in 2d Grammar.	- .
Coles, J.—ist Mention in 3d Geography; 2d Mention in 3d Reading.
Clarke, J.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Mention in ist Reading; ist Premium in Penmanship.
Cleveland, A.—ist Mention in ist Orthography; ist Mention in Reading; ist Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Cartier, D.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in Phonography.
Colina, M.—rst Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in Penmanship;.Premium in Spanish.	- .
6^0	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Corbett, L. D.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Chute, L.—Mention in Phonography; Premium in Instrumental Music.	.
Darragh, E.—3d Mention in Modern History; 3d 'Mention in Rhetoric; 2d Mention in German; 2d Mention in Christian Doctrine.	.
Dillon, E.—2d Premium in English Composition; 1st Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in 1 st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Dunning, L.—1st Premium in 4th German; 2d Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Mention in 1 st Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Doss, J—ist Mention in 2d United States History; 2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Duffield, A.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Grammar; Mention in Penmanship.
v Decker, E.—3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 4th Christian Doctrine; 4th Mention in 2d Geography.
Dungan, P.—3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Mention in 3d Reading. .
Dougherty, J.—Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Ewing, E.—2d Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Zoology; 1st Premium in Trigonometry; 1st Premium in 1st Algebra; 2d Mention in American Literature; 2d Premium in 4th Latin; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Epple, C.—4th Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 1st Grammar; 2d Mention in 1st Orthography; 2d Mention in 1st Reading; 4th Mention in 2d Penmanship.
Edgeworth, R.—3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Fisher, J.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 3d Mention in Ancient History; 1st Premium in English Composition; 1st Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in Elocution.
Fitzgerald, J.—1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 4th Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in Elocution.
Finckh* A.—2d Premium in 5th Greek; 1st Mention in 4th Latin.
Fontanel, L.—1st Premium in 2d French.
• Flood, T.—4th Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Pre.. mium in Phonography; 3d Premium in 4th < Christian Doctrine.	-
Frain, R.—4th Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 5th Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar.
Fehr, F.—1st Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Fitzharris, A.—2d Mention in Industrial Drawing; Premium in Spanish.
Goebel, F.—3d Premium in Modem History; 1st Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in 3d Greek; in 3d Premium in 4th Latin; ist Premium in 2d German.
Grothaus, O.—ist Mention in 2d Geography.
Garrity, J.—4th Mention in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in Elocution; Mention in Phonography.
Galarneau, C.—3d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Reading.
Gordon, W.—ist Mention in 3d Grammar; Mention in Type-Writing.
Houston, H.—Mention in 2d French; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Hake, F.—ist Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Reading.
Hake, A.—ist Mention in 3d German; 3d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 4St Mention in 2d Reading; 2d Premium-in 4th Christian Doctrine.	*
Hayes, J—3d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in ist Reading; 3d Men-" tion in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.	-
Hiner, E.—ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in ist Reading.
Hoffman, M.—3d Premium in ist Reading: ist Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Hoye, A.—Mention in Phonography.
Houlihan, W.—ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Inderriederi, C.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic. •
Jacobs, N.—3d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Jacobs, P.—ist Mention in ist German; ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist United States History; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Jewett, H.—ist Mention in 3d German; 2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Elementary Natural Science; 2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
Joyce, A.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Reading; ist Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Jeffs, E.—3d Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Konzen, W.—2d Mention in 3d German; 3d Mention in ist Geography; 2d Mention in istUnited States History; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 6th Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Kern, W.—ist Premium in 3d Geography.
Konzen, F.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Long, F.—;ist Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Zo-Slogy; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Luther, M.—Mention in 3d Algebra; 2d Mention in ist Book-Keeping; ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; Mention in Elocution; Mention in Music.
Levin, P.—ist Premium in Elocution.
Muelkern, M.—ist Premium in Zoology; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Mention in English History; 2d Premium in Elocution.
Myers, G.—2d Premium in Modern History; ist Premium in 3d Algebra; ist Mention in German; ist Premium in Phonography.	-
McPhee, W.—4th Premium in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in ist Grammar; 2d Mentionin Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
Mitchell, C.—4th Mention in 2d Orthography.
McConn, H.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra; Premium in ist Phonography.
McVeigh, A.—2d Mention in 4th Algebra; 2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in Elocution; Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Meehan, G.—Mention in Sth Latin; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in ist Reading; Mention in Phonography; 2d Premium in Public Course of Christian Doctrine.
McIntosh, J.—ist Premium in 2d United States History; 3d Mention in 2d Geography; 3d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar; ist Mention in 4th Christian Doctrine.	'
McCourt, W.—3d Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Ortography; ist Mention in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Macatee, L.—4th Mention in 3d Arithmetic; ist Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Reading; 4th Mention in 2d Orthography;' 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.	_
Mulberger, W.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium ist Reading.
McCart, M.—3d Mention in ist Orthography; ist Mention in ist Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Muessal, G.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Orthography.	•
Mohun, L.—ist Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Newton, R.—2d Mention in ist Algebra; 2d Mention in Rhetoric; ist Mention in 5th Latin; ist Premium in German ; ist Premium in Elocution.
Nations, R.—Premium in 2d French; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Spanish.
Nussbaum, S.—ist Mention in ist United States History ; Premium in Instrumental Music.
Noud, F. J.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Nealis, J.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Mention in 4th Christian Doctrine.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	671
Nester, F.—2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; Mention in 1st Grammar.
Oxnard, R.—2d Premium in Botany; ist Mention in English Composition; 2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
O’Kane, M.—3d Mention in 1st German; 1 st Mention in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st United States History; 4th Mention in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in Instrumental Music.
O’Connor, W.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship; Mention in Elementary Chemistry.
Porter, E.—1st Premium in 3d French. '
Preston, L.—5th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in Instrumental Music '
Press, A.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Mention in 2d Reading.
Prudhomme, E.—Mention in Music; Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.	’
Robinson, H.—1st Mention in 1st Geography; 3d Mention in 1st United States History; 3d Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Ruffing, C.—2d Premium in 1 st Book-Keeping; 1 st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Instrumental Music.
Ramirez, R.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Regan, D.—1st Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in
Penmanship.	•
Redlich, A.—2d Premium in Penmanship. •
Ruffing, A.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; 1st Premium in 1 st Reading.
Scherrer, L.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 4th Mention in 1 st Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Grammar; Mention in Music; ist Mention in Elementary Chemistry; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Elocution..
Smith, F.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Grammar; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Smith, S.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Book-Keeping;-2d Mention in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in Industrial Drawing. ’	"
Smith, L.—ist ^j-emium in ist Orthography; 2d Mention 2d Arithmetic; Mention in Phonography.
Shields, C.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in 4th Christian Doc-, trine.
Smith, H.—5th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in Phonography.
Smith, N.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 3d Orthography.
Stattman, W.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Mention in ist Orthography. '
Senn, C.—3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Spencer, C.—ist Premium in 7th Latin; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.	-
Towner, F.—ist Mention in ^th German; ist Mention in ist Reading. ■
Tewksberry, D.—4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Grammar ; 2d Premium in Elocution; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.	■	’	,
Tiedrich, B:—3d Mention in 3d Orthography; Premium in*Instrumental Music.	■	-	•
Tan-ant, G.—2d Premium in Elocution; Premium in Penmanship.	’ .	.	_
Vanselow, W.—ist Premium in Telegraphy. ' j
Valasco, R.-r-ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship.	•	'
. West, C.—ist Mention in Rhetoric; 2d.Mention in 5th . Greek;, ist Premium in 2d French; ist Mention in 2d .German; 3d Premium in"Christian-Doctrine.	-	,
Williamson, T.—2d Mention in ist Geography; istMention in ist-Orthography;, ist Premium in ist Reading;-ist, Mention ist Arithmetic. ,. , • - - •	‘
West, L.—id Mention in 3d Geography; ist Mention in 3d . Orthography; ist Premium'in 3d Reading.	.
• Welch, W.—ist Premium in Type-Writing; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d .
Premium in ist Grammar; Premium in ist Christian Doc-
• trine. , '	-	-	■ r . - - -c J
Wabraushek, W.—Mention in Phonography. :	?
Walsh, W.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine; Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in 2d Arithmetic...	’ '.
Warner, J. H.—Premium in Penmanship ; Mention in Christian Doctrine.	,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.. _
Atkinson, W. A.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography;	. ...	;
Ackerman, W. H.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship. -	.	=	•	.	■
Bailey; W. H—-2d Premium in ist Geography ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Reading; Premium in Elocution. .	-
Barger, E. L.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography. .	.	..
Boland, H.—5th Premium in ist .Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Orthography; ist Mention in ist Reading.
Boland, J.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in ist Penmanship. .	: .
Bull, J. M.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 6th Premium in ist Geography; 6th Premium in 2d Reading. ~
Campeau, C. A.—ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 5th Premium in. ist Orthography. -
Chute, F. J.—4th Premium in ist Penmanship; ist-Pre-mium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography;
. 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.	-
Ciarcoschi, S. J.—4th Premium in 2d-Arithmetic Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in-ail Readitrg; 5th Premium in Penmanship.' • ... :
Cobbs, F.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in German- <
Connors, J.-D.—ist Premium in 3d Readings 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine. .	,
Connors, E. B.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Geography; 3d, Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography. :	-	.	- , . \ ,
Crotty, F. P.—ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Pre-' mium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Penmanship; 4th Premium in ist Geography;. Premium in Elocution.
Dewald, M. B.—4th Premium in 2d .Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; ist Mention in 2d Penmanship. .
Doss, E. J.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; Prize for Piano. /
Doss, L. S.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Dunford, F. M.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in. ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; Premium in Penmanship. . . ■	-	' . -	. ' , • . •	';
Dunford, ,G. A.—ist Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading. ,	.	. . ■	.	;
Dungan, Jesse—5th Premium in 5th Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography.	'	. . ... -	?
, Dungan, Jamie—-5th Premium in 7th Readings ? .1. , , Falvey, T. M.—6th ’Premium in -3d, Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship, - ,	-- ., . \	~ -- fT .
Falvey, F.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d. Premium, in 3d Penmanship;* 4th' Premium tin 3d -Arithmetic;7.istr Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.--
Faivey, ;E.B.—-4th Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography;. 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic. L
Farmer, E. E.—-ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic;.6th-Pre-: mium in- 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d .Christian .Doctrine. ’	•... y
. Fontanel, A.—4th Premium in 4th. Arithmetic;. 3d*Pre-, mium in ist Penmanship; .Premium in. French. 'r.-. j.;-/.
. Garber, F. D.-^th Premium-in 2d Orthography ;i6thi' Premium in,2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d.Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic. ,	-7 . . .i .	;
672	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Garber, E. E.—6th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Grant, C- V.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Graham, R. M.—4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Griffin, O. J.—4th Premium in 4th Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Mention in 3d Penmanship.
Healy, J. J.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 1st Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Haney, 0. W.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography.
Hillas, R. E.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Inderrieden, R. M.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Jewett, E. H.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 2d Grammar.
Jones, S. E.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Keeffe, P. J.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Kellner, F. F.—6th Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium in German.
Klaner, G- G.—5th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Reading.
Landenwich, G. E.—4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Geography.	.
Mainzer,F. L.—4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 4th Reading.
Moncada, J.—2d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 6th Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1 st Orthography; 2d Mention in 1st Geography.
McIntosh, J. J.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship;. Premium in Elocution.
McNulty, J.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Reading.
McCourt, M. M.—3d Premium in 2d- Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 1st Mention in 2d Reading.
McGill, W.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium .in 2d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Pre-.mium in 2d Reading. •
Mason, A. J.—4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Morgan, H. A.—1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Mooney, C. H.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in*2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; Premium in Elocution. ■ Mooney, H. B.-—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in5th Arithmetic; 1st; Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Munro, R. E.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d .Granimar; 3d Premium in 2d Reading.	'
.. Murphy, F. E.—6th Premium in 1 st -Arithmetic; 4th -Premium in.2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship ; 3d Premium in . 1st Christian Doctrine.	’
Moran, M. TA-6th Premium in 5th Reading; 7th Premium in 5th Orthography. J , ’	.	:	,
. 'Moran, P. E.—5th Premium in-7th Reading.	_
: . Morgenweck,A.C.-^6th Premium in 4th Reading;- 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; J	.	. .
Morgenweck, A. H.—6th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography. .
Maloney, J. J.—4th Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Martin, W. 0.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar.	.
Nealis, B. J.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; Premium in French; 5th Premium in 1 st Arithmetic.
Nealis, C. B.—1st Premium in 5th Reading; 1st Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Nester, A. J.—2d Premium in '2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium for Piano.
Nussbaum, A. E.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.
O	-
Noonan, F.—5th Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship.	.
Paul, L.—1st Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Peck, F.—4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium for Piano.
Peck, J. S.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Piero, J.—3d Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine ; 5th Premium in 1st Reading.
Quinlin, C. S.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Ramsey, C. M.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1 st Grammar.	.
Rowsey, W. A.—6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Riordan, J. L.—4th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic^ 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Stone, L. R.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 1 st Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Steele, S. W.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography; 3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Sullivan, A. J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Scherrer, C. W.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.	’
Scherrer, E. A.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Premium for Piano; 1st Premium in 3d Penmanship.	.
Smart, A. T.—3d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 3d Premium, in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic. '
Smart, W.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Premium in 4th Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Sweet, P. A.—5th Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Christian. Doctrine; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Sweet, G.—-2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in4th Reading; 1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d .Mention in 4th Orthography.
Taft, C. O.—1st Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Tillenbiirg, H;—ist: Premium- in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 4th . Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Reading.
Williamson, A. F.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th ;Premium’,in 2d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 3d ; Arithmetic;.2d Mention’ih;2d Reading.	:■