
' 
r: 
Advertisement 
PRODUCTIONS 
Representing the bands of. • • Luther Allison Buddy Guy 
J.B. Hutto Magic Sam* Junior Wells 

Representing the solo artistry of. Arthur "Big.Boy" Crudup Son House Mississippi John Hurt*. Skip James* Mance Lipscomb 
· Fred McDowell Johnny _Shines Robert Pete Williams 
* Listed in memorium 

Richard A. Waterman· 
.Terephone 617 625 7200. 
november 12, 1971 notre dame indiana

scholastic special blues issue volume 113, no. 5 


bob koester richard bizot  4 8  home sweet chicago caught in the act  
biographies  
10  the artists  
11 12 13 14  mississippi fred mcdowe.II homesick james carey bell eddie taylor howlin' wolf shirley griffith · little brother montgomery otis rush  
15 16 18  muddy waters mance lipscomb buddy guy & junior wells johnny littlejohn & jimmy rodgers  
casey pocius richard bizot richard a. waterman  21 22 24  london howlin' wolf sessions digging blues blues collections  
michael francis  26  blues in east texas  
kevin cassidy cherri weismantel  28  coming distractions  
phi/ & marie glotzbach  30  movie reviews  

special blues editor: mike mccabe 

editors-in-chief: joe hotz, mary ellen stoltz I managing editor:· greg chinchar / art director: rick fitzgerald I editors: mike mooney, greg stidham, jim fanto, mike mccabe, tom macken copy editor: jim palenchar / sports editor: don kennedy / assistant managing editor: joe runde / business: howie sutton / circulation: cliff zmick / faculty advisor: frank o'malley staff: george block, ed bower, john banks-brooks, kevin cassidy; john flannigan, marie glotzbach, phil glotzbach, mike givler, robert hamilton, marty head, bruce hooper, jim jendryk, dave jones, jerry koshinski,, john linsky, mat mccarthy, fred monsour, john moore, john moran, mark o'connel, dan o'donnel, jim pearce; pete peterson, peggy perkinson, bob rizzuti, jim sitzman, pat smith, mimi wheeler, cheri weismantel, jeff wyszkowski business and circulation: joe leahy, ron hein, jack reschauer, marty zone I art and photography: jim hunt, michael lonier, bob mcmahon, joe raymond, pam seifert. 
,'blues staff: perry aberli, pat geary, tom sherwood, john rafert, karin aberli 
The opinions expressed in the .SCHOLASTIC are those of the· authors and editors of the ScHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second ~lass postage paid ·at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at AVE' MARIA PREss, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the· FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, .All unsolicited material becomes the property of the S~OLASTIC. 
It is a popular artifice of writers and rock musi­cians who haven't been on the Chicago blues scene in five or ten years, if at all, to depict the Chicago blues as a dying idiom. But those who have ·spent any appreciable time in the more than 30 blues bars on the South and West Sides that still present the music every weekend night know better. They dis­couer Junior Wells and Detroit Junior at Pepper's; Otis Rush at the Alex Club; Luther Allison at the L & A Lounge; Buddy Guy, Andrew Odem, and the Myers Brothers at Theresa's; J. B. Hutto at Rose and Kelly's; Carey Bell and Jimmy Dawkins at Duke's Place; Johnny Littlejohn at the Riveria; Hound Dog Taylor at Florence's; Sunnyland Slim at the J & P Lounge; Mighty Joe Young at the Brass Rail; or 23-year-old Young Blood (Alvin Nichols) at the Sports­man's. 
No, the blues is not dying in Chicago. The vital influence of Gospel music and the better soul singers, the cultural interchanges with jazz, the oppressive partnership of the political machine, the crime syndi­cate, and the racist system must all disappear before the Chicago blues will be spoken of in the past tense. 
How did Chicago become a major center for blues activity? Of course, there are no phonograph records to give us any insight into the musical environment of Chicago in the earliest years of black migration to the city. (Since Chicago was founded by a black man,· we should speak of white migration.) B~t very early in the history of so-called race recording, Chicago became important. The venerable Paramount label hired a sportswriter named J. Mayo Williams in 1923 to produce its ser~es of blues, jazz, arid vaude­ville sessions beamed to the black community. He crossed the street from his office and hired Ma Rainey, Lovie Austin and Ida Cox at the Monogram Theatre, and later went afield to give us the first sides by Blind Lemon Jefferson. Sir1:ce recording apparatus was quite bulky, the artists were brought to the · Chicago area. ·when the records sold well, mariy of them stayed. 
Chicago was firmly established as THE "race" re­cording center by 1926 when Okeh ·and Vocallion· centralized their blues activity here. Gradually a body of resident bhiesmen developed from this recording activity and from the increasing movement to the city by blacks trying to escape the more naked oppres­sion of the South. 


sweet 

During these early years, the bluesmen literally "put it in the alley"·-played on the streets and in the alleys for tips -or worked at house rent parties and whiskey flats (prohibition, remember, wasn't repealed until 1932). A walk through residential neighbor­hoods on aweekend night provided ample evidence of house parties in progress. Sometimes it was a full-time business: the selling of alcohol and water, gambling and vice to the accompaniment of the rolling bass that found its way to the city from the rural South. 
Most of the itinerant musicians were blues singers who learned their songs down home but found a more generous audience in South-Side flats. Some had originally played the guitar, but, with a piano in every building on the South Side capable of a louder volume of sound, the stringed instrument was dis­carded. A few.Chicago pianists who didn't sing devel­oped the instrumental possibilities of the idiom. Meade Lux Lewis, Albert Ammons and Jimmy Blythe were really jazz musicians -and c~uld perhaps be termed the first "soul" jazzmen because of their close associa­tion with blues at its most magnificently primitive level. 
The development of a recognizable Chicago blues idiom can be seen in the evolution of Big Bill Broonzy's recordings, beginning with his country blues on Paramount and Champion thru the gradually more urbanized approach on his later Bluebird and Vocal­lion (later Okeh and Columbia) sessions. Some of the credit belongs to Lester Melrose, a white music publisher who . eventually supervised two-thirds of Chicago blues sides during the late 30's and 40's. He combined bluesmen often literally off the farm with jazz musicians from New Orleans, who were influencing Chicago's music ·scene ·in a way that was unheard of in the early 20's. 
Thus, trumpeters Lee Collins and Punch Miller, clarinetist Arnett _Nel,son, bassist Ransom Knowling, drummer Jump Jackson and many others are featured on numerous Melrose ·dates of the period and are also known in ·tl1e world of traditional jazz. Pianists "Black Bob"-Robinson and Thomas A. Dorsey had careers in black vaudeville and jazz, which brought some sophistication to their ·blues accompaniments with. Big -Bill and Tampa Red._ Eventually the . piano became an, integral part of Chicago-made blues re­cordings; and a few pianists such as Joshua Altheimer, Blind . John 'Davis,· Roosevelt.. Sykes ·and even onetime guitarist Peetie Wheatstraw made literally 

home 
NOVEMBER 12, 1971 

chicago 
hundreds of sides with various bluesmen. 
Now, it must be remembered that Chicago had feeder cities, primarily IncHanapolis (Champion Jack Dupree and, before him, LeRoy Carr) and St. Louis (Sykes, Wheatstraw, ·walter Davis, Speckled Red, Robert Lee "Nighthawk" McCoy) and more recently Memphis (Wells, Cotton, Big Walter and the BB King school). Also, new talent was constantly coming in from the rural South -all this still keeps the pot melting and the music close to its roots. 
By 1938, when blues recording was organized by the black musicians, Union local, electric guitars be­gan appearing on records. In the 40's, the pianists began to overtake the guitarists in popularity with Roosevelt Sykes, Jack Dupree, Memphis Slim and, later, Sunnyland Slim broadening the appeal of the blues to middle-class blacks who chose to forget the unpleasantness of their Southern birthplaces and the music connected with it. 
Wartime prosperity brought with it increased wages for workers who brought a love for the blues with them from the Southern rootland. Blues bands started appearing in the taverns of the West and South Sides. Big Bill Broonzy played at Sylvio's, Sonny Boy Wil­liamson sometimes in the band with him. Sykes. more debonair, worked steadily between North Side syndi­cate joints and 47th Street's then swanky spots. And Memphis Minnie, Curtis Jones, Tampa Red and other really popular blues artists no longer had to depend 
. on cop-dodging on the South Side and Ma:x·well Street Sunday afternoons for income from their music. 
But Melrose, who now had a virtual monopoly (since Mayo Williams Decca operations were moved to New York after 1938's recording ban in Chicago and never returned) on Chicago recording, did pot record the bands that appeared in the taverns. His sessions were polished but lacked the robustness of 
·the blues joints. 
Before getting into the modern Chicago scene, sev­eral extremely important artists of the early 40's should be mentioned. First, guitarists Baby Doo and Willie James Lacey -who must have influenced greatly the way even T-Bone \Valker (who worked Chicago regularly at that time) played the blues. And you must hear the records of Doctor Clayton to appreciate how much this African-born and New York­bred vocalist influenced every aspect of the blues in the postwar years. 
Recording of bands as they sounded in· the clubs had to wait for the appearance of the independent labels in the late 40's. Of course, the_ surviving label of this group is Chess, with its Checker and Argo ~ub­sids, and marvelous reissue series. But let's pay heed to the others. Miracle, ~remium and "United States'' were to give us modern-style sides by .Mem­phis Slim, Roosevelt Sykes, Robert Nighthawk, Junior Wells and Big Walter Horton. Disc jockey Al Ben­son's Swingmaster, "Parrot/Blue Lake" gave us J. B. Lenore, Snooky Pryor, Dusty Brown, and some classic early T-Bone Walker material in the 50's. "Cobra" pro­duced magnificent debut sessions by Magic Sam, Otis Rush, Shakey Jake and Buddy Guy in the late 1950's. J~O.B. entered dozens of great sides by Sunnyland · Slim, J.B. Lenore, Johnny Shines, Willie Mabon,: Floyd Jones, John Brim, Eddie .Boyd, and others. Vee-Jay began with Eddie Taylor, Jimmy Reed and later John Lee Hooker, merged with Chance (J. B. Hutto; Ho.me-· sick James) before going pop with the Beatles, Four Seasons, etc. (Only poor .management prevented Vee­Jay, United and Parrot from becoming major inde­
pendent operations.) , . . , \ Elmore' James' and. Junior Wells'. _Chief' and Pro­file releases are_ much sought after by 50's, blues col­lectors. "USA Age,''. in the 60's brought back Magic 
· Sam, Willie Mabon, Homesick James, and added A. C. Reed, Koko Taylor, Ricky ·Allen, and others to the blues discography. Bill Lasely's Web-Cor operation concentrated on Mighty Joe Young. In the last few years the small-label tradition continues with Bo Dud's various labels (TDS, Dud-Sound, FM, etc.), Nation/ Salem, and others, offering artists only beginning to appeal to white blues fans: Johnny Littlejohn, 
J. L. Smith, Big Mac. Rev. Harrington's Atomic-H label continues its very long history with a recent re­lease by Eddie Clearwater. 
In the tradition of tavern-owners who have. oper­ated labels, Cadillac Baby still recorded Earl Hooker, Little Mack and Eddie Boyd 45's in the early 60's. The day bartender at Theresa's operates CJ/Colt/ . Firma with items by Hooker, Little Mack, Detroit Ju­nior and a recent release by Lee Jackson. . 
These 45's are often pressed in quantities as .small as 500 or 1000 copies, usually do not get.the vital air­play needed to become really popular. ·But .a real local smash such as Junior Wells' UP IN HEAH can break thru to the 35,000-50,000 bracket and mean 

more in terms of local. gigs ._than any blues LP's ever made· in Chicago by Delmark;. Arhoolie, Testament or Vanguard. . -, ; . . 
: It0:i{ true that you cannot come to Chicago and expect .to find.. the old country players ·like Big Joe Williams or -Arthur Crudup ·working the West Side. Ti~es. change ,and· ..with it 'the·.mus.ic chariges.. You must. either-accept change-in· art or encrust yourself ~ a sad:nostalgia. 'You will not even hear the Muddy­Little _Walter sound very often anymore. J. B. Hutto, Lee.Ja.ckson, Sunnyland Slim, _Louis Myers, Big Walter and ·even Junior Wells and Buddy· Guy in a mellow mood will give you a glimpse of the past occasionally ­but they·are with the newer sounds, too, and that's why they remain a part of avital music scene which is pro­
. ducing· new -artists such as Jimmy Dawkins, Lefty Diz, Young Blood, and others , who are able to think and play beyond the genius of B. B. King's style. 
In the "New York Times"· (June 21, i970), Albert Goldman depicted bluesmen as "middle-aged or elderly" but has .probably never been inside a blues club. The commentators, promoters and producers of certain white bluesmen who drew most of their inspiration from occasional sitting-in at Pepper's or Theresa's ten years. ago tell the same fiction from the same lack of know.: ledge. It's good for the imitative musicians' ego and Myth (and business) to portray themselves as the saviors of a dying tradition -twenty years ago the Dixielanders were turrtjng the same trick -but the 
· · creative ferment of the ghetto is all-encompassing. It can almost be sniffed amid the stale beer and cigarette smoke of the thriving tradition· of blues bar sessions. · · That's why the young Chicago blues fans who re­cently kicked off America's first blues magazine dub­bed it LIVING BLUES. If you come to Chicago, arid are 21, you can usually find some of the clubs listed in the. Sun-Times' Thursday and Sunday enter­tainment calendars -a few dozen of the others are listed on the wall chart at the Jazz Record Mart at Grand-and State just north of the Loop. And if Chicago's still cooking, so is St. Louis, Memphis, etc., etc., etc. Anyone who thinks the blues are. dying doesn't know much about the sick state of American society, about racism, about artistic evolu­tion, or the _fecund musical environment of the black church. · .--bob koester 
UTILE BROTHER NONl&ONERY 
AD10035 -No Special Rider Little Brother Montgomery 
Titles: No Special Rider Blues; Prisor.er Bound Blues; You've Got to See Your Mama Every Night; Cow Cow Blues; Gin House Blues; New Vicksburg Blues; London Shout; Oh, Daddy; Little Brother's Early Pieces and History; No Special Boogie. 
"Montgomery favors jagged rhythms over rolling basses; and the 
mood he creates is always superbly sustained. COW COW is perhaps the 
best in this set, but NEW VICKSBURG isn't far behind." 
Ed Steane 
HIP, the jazz record digest 
Vol. 9, #1 

"This is a very nice album from Adelphi, possibly their best. The impeccable pianist is allied with his protege Jeanne Carroll and the redoubtable Sam Firk who comes in with his guitar on several titles. This album will appeal strongly to fans of Brother and the tradition he represents." -· · · ­
Simon Napier 
BLUES UNLIMITED #79 

"Little Brother brings it all back as soon as he commences a'stacking the blues. He's got an amazingly full sound, mostly because his left hand does as-much work as his right with its five note rolls and rocking tenths. Jeanne Carroll, a female blues singer, does some convincing vocals on the_ Adelphi album. Little Brother sings with the same integrity and feeling with which he plays. It's this that makes his records seem so contemporary although they are traditional. There are few other records that I would recommend as highly." 
-John T. Vala'uri 
THE HARVARD INDEPENDENT_ 

ADELPHI RECORDS/ P. 0. Box 288, Silver Spring, Maryland 20907 

NOVEMBER 12, 1971 

caught 
The following review of the 1910 Notre Dame Blues Festival is reprinted front Downbeat, November 12, 1910, with pennission of Maher Publications. For tlwse who attended the 10' festival, the review will s~ir memories; for those who did not attend, perhaps the re­view will strike an interest in the '11 festival. 
Blues at Berkeley-sure. A major blues festival two years running at Ann Arbor-not surprising. But now there's blues at Pittsburgh and Portland State, Wesleyan and Wittenberg; there's blues at Bryn Mawr, Beloit, Baldwin-Wallace, and on practically every col­lege campus this side of Bob Jones U. 
Blues lives at Notre Dame. When blues estab­lishes a foothold in the citadel of football it should be a sufficient sign that its invasion of academe has reached impressive proportions. 
It was a long time coming. Until two years ago, bottlenecks were strictly for pouring from on home­game weekends, and Bessie Smith's name was known mainly to those who'd read Albee. Then, in the spring of 1969, J. B. Hutto brought his Hawks down from Chicago and a couple of hundred people found him to their liking. A year ago, Son House stopped off on his way to the west coast and an audience of 500 stomped its approval. But South Bend was still on the map for football, not blues. So much so that last spring, when Luther Allison and Robert Pete Williams were con­tracted to play at Notre Dame, they were given direc­tions to Indianapolis. The concert finally came off, two hours late, but without Williams; he spent the night in the Indianapolis bus depot, 150 miles south of the home of the Fighting Irish. 
It doesn't take much exposure to honest blues, however, to make dedicated fans out of neophytes. Within the span of about 18 months, a sizeable blues­digging audience has grown.up at Notre Dame. Ample evidence of this was manifest at the blues festival which greeted returning undergraduates on the first weekend of the fall semester. Despite almost no op­portunity for advance publicity and despite the rela­tive inexperience of the enthusiastic student promoters of the event, the audience was there, nearly 1000 strong for each of the two nights of the festival. 
_ The Friday night session began late. Fred Mc­Dowell, chipper after a 17-hour bus trip from Como, Miss., arrived on time; but no one had told the Chicago 
•

Ill the act· 
-richard bizot 
performers (J. B. Hutto and Otis Rush) about the time difference between Illinois and Indiana. So there were more than' a few anxious moments for promoters Bob Brinkman and Mike Cervas before things got underway. Mississippi Fred ("I don't play no rock and roll.") did a couple of numbers to keep the audience happy, and then Otis Rush took the stage for what was to this observer the best set of the two days. 
The dynamo of Rush's five-piece group that night was drummer Sammy Lay, who provided crowd-pleas­ing vocals on Mojo and Hoochie Coochie Man in addi­tion to sure-handed rhythmic control. Rush's band was the only one at the festival to use horns; a honk­ing tenor sax and a spirited trumpet (the latter in the capable hands of Bill Naylor) filled out the group's sound. But Rush himself was clearly at the helm. Repeatedly he brought the crowd to its feet, both with his tight-throated singing and with his biting, stinging guitar. By the time he closed with his now classic So Many Road,S, he had taken the place apart and put it back together again; a tired, impatient crowd (which had waited an hour and forty-five minutes for the concert to begin) had become oblivious to every­thing but Otis Rush and his talent. 
J. B. Hutto followed. The audience seemed to enjoy the prancing and mugging of Lee Jackson, Hutto's 63-year-old rhythm guitarist, but Hutto him­self appeared to be down that night. Technical prob­lems with bassist James Brickhouse's equipment were no help either. But nothing could dampen the excite­ment which Rush had kindled in the crowd, so when Fred McDowell returned to the stand sometime past midnight, things were still cooking beneath the geo­desic dome of Stepan Center. 
McDowell's set was not an unqualified success. Though he plays an electric guitar now, McDowell's style is still clearly in the country blues tradition. It is the intensely, even painfully, personal style of the Delta, and it wants no accompaniment. Not only was McDowell accompanied, and by the now inappro­priately hammy Lee Jackson, he actually found himself upstaged by Hutto's sideman (and Fred's not easily upstaged). Musically, they never got together. None­theless, enough of McDowell came through to keep the audience calling for more, until finally, around 1:30, the house lights came up, somebody unplugged 
the mike, and the hall was cleared. 
McDowell, it should be said, established himself as 

the festival's unofficial but ubiquitous spreader of joy. 
When he wasn't onstage (and he stayed over an extra 
day to make an unscheduled appearance at the begin­
ning of the Saturday night session) he was backstage 
teaching guitar licks to clusters of would-be blues 
guitarists, or promoting after-session parties, or danc­
ing out front with delighted students. And frequent­
ly he crept onstage, snuck up behind whichever vocalist 
was performing, and puckishly horned in on a chorus 
or two. The crowd loved him, and he reciprocated. 
Following McDowell on Saturday night was Hound 

Dog Taylor's raucous trio. There was nothing subtle 
about their South Side Chicago blues; not that there 
should have been. Hound Dog's bottleneck yelped and· 
growled and his voice barked happily above the blare. 
It was loud, funky, straight-ahead barrelhouse blues­
and it was great fun. 
The somewhat lower-keyed (and musically more interesting) Jimmy "Fast Fingers" Dawkins was next up. What Otis Rush was to Friday night, Dawkins was to the Saturday night session: impassive of visage, restrained in his movements, and spectacular as hell on his axe. Like Rush, he worked the crowd at will, taking it up with a hard-driving blues, down with a plaintive blues, and every which way with a nasty blues-then back up again. He received able backing from bassist Roosevelt Bromfield (who added two effective vocals of his own) and drummer Lester Dor­sey. 
Lightnin' Hopkins closed the festival and he did it ­though with some difficulty-alone. Lee Jackson wanted to accompany him; Lee Jackson got chased. Then Fred McDowell sidled onstage ( still busily spreading joy); and he got chased. Perhaps Lightnin's desire for solitude on the stand had something to do with the fact that a camera crew was filming the Texas blues­man for educational TV. At any rate, Lightnin' played to the camera, not the house, and thus failed to estab­lish the complete rapport \\ith his audience that he is capable of achieving, and with so little apparent effort. (His best number, not coincidentally, was Baby Please Don't Go, which came while a camera was being ad­justed or loaded or something.) 
Still, Lightnin' proved himself to be, as _always, a 

NOVEMBER 12, 1971 
wonder. His soft voice was in fine form, his amplified 
acoustic guitar was mellow, and his familiar line of 
patter wove its familiar charm: 
"I'm going into a key now I don't 'low nobody to 
play in but me. 
[Pause; fiddles ,vith tuning pegs.] 

Now don't you gittar players get mad at po' 
Lightnin'. 
[Chuckle; pause; etc.] 

I don't 'low nobody to play in "A". but me and 
Blind Lemon Jefferson 
[Pause; sideways shake of head] 

-and he dead and gone." · 
Y.ou know it's his act, you know he's gone through 
it thousands of times in coffeehouses and clubs and on 
campuses, and yet it gets to you: the sly humor, the 
rib-nudging innuendo, the double take, the chuckle. 
Despite the tomfoolery, there's nothing fake about -the 
man. He's absolutely authentic-in his music, in his 
style. And at the mention of the legendary Blind 
Lemon you remember that Hopkins really does go back 
that far, that the man from Houston-no matter 
where he has been or how many times he has per­
formed-does represent a link with a fading past. And 
then you forget the rest. 
The festival was a satisfying one, not only because of the individual performers' and groups' merits, but also because in the space of two nights one had en­countered such ~ representative cross-section of the history of ~lues. From the remote past there was Fred McDowell, from the somewhat less remote past, Lightnin' Hopkins. The raw city blues of a genera­tion ago was there in the persons of J. B. Hutto and Hound Dog Taylor. The present generation of Chicago bluesmen was ably represented by Otis Rush and Jimmy Dawkins. And then there was the audience. 
If the performers represented past and present, the listeners-young, and in almost all cases very new to the blues-represent the future. They won't be the blues musicians of tomorrow, the kids at Notre Dame and hundreds of other schools, to be sure. But the blues, whose incipient death is forever being predicted or announced, will die only if there is not sufficient demand for those who can play it to do so. . College students everywhere comprise a large and growing market for the blues, and they assure its future. 




midwest blues · 
.,. ' _­
----.---h
-. ­
-~ ----, ­
---: ·-:-· --: -" ---. -t e
C  - -•  <  
.  -'  ;  '  ·­ 
' .".  - .  - , -:.·_ - -.  - -:::: .  




··' ?:t1rtists 

mississippi fred mcdowell 
Fred McDowell is, without question, one of the finest country bluesmen in the Mississippi tradition. With his emotional voice and vibrant guitar playing, McDowell ranks in the same league as such great Mississippi bluesmen as Charlie Patton, Son House, and Robert Johnson. 
Fred McDowell, in reality, should be called Tenn­essee Fred McDowell because he was born in 1905, in Rossville, Tennessee. McDowell lived and worked on farms in the area until he was about 21. At that point,

l 
he became a farmer for himself.

I 
I 
It was during his teen years that he became in­terested in the guitar. He would go to various parties and country suppers in the Rossville area and would sing while others played the guitar. After he finished 
I 
singing, he would pick up an instrument and pick out various accompaniments that he had heard. In 1926, McDowell moved to Memphis, where he 
I 
held a number of jobs as a laborer. It was while he was in Memphis that he received his first guitar from a white Texan named Mr. Taylor. Since Memphis is considered to be part of the Mississippi Delta area by 
l 
blues collectors, it may have been during this time that McDowell first learned to use a broken bottleneck as a 
slider, a technique that is so typical of Mississippi Delta bluesmen. 
In 1940, McDowell moved to Como, Mississippi, and, in December of that year, he married Annie Mae Col­lins, who is a fine singer in her own right. Como is a very interesting town to scholars of black folk music in that it is the only area in which one may find African­sounding fife and drum bands. 

I 
It wasn't until 1959 that Fred McDowell was finally able to record his music. Alan Lomax, son of folk­lorist John Lomax (discovered Leadbelly), was in the Como area on a field trip documenting the ongoing traditions of black music, when some citizens in the area mentioned McDowell. Lomax found him and proceeded to record some of the most powerful rural 
blues since before the Second World War. Since that time, McDowell has toured the country and Europe, playing at various festivals and colleges. 
NOVEMBER 12, 1971 

In addition, he has recorded a number of albums for various companies. Below is a selected discography. 
Roots of the Blues: Atlantic 1348 The Blues Roll On: Atlantic 1352 Mississippi Delta Blues: Arhoolie F1021 Fred McDowell Vol. 2: Arhoolie F1027 Fred McDowell and His Blues Boys: Arhoolie F1046 I Do Not Play No Rock 'n' Roll: Capitol ST404 Long Way From, Horne: Milestone 3003 

homesick james 
Among the various blues guitar styles, the use of a bottleneck is perhaps the most startling to the new blues fan. \Vearing this device on his finger and slid­ig it up and down the strings of his guitar, the blues­man can create a close unity between his voice and the notes of his instrument. Over the last fifty years, the style has been recorded in nearly every major blues arc3. in the United States, although it is most typical of the Mississippi Delta area. One of the best bottle­neck bJuesmen is Homesick James. 

Homesick James Williamson was born April 30, 1910, in Sommerville, Tennessee. He was born into :i musical family, as both his father and mother played instruments His father was a drummer, and his mother played guitar. With this environment, it is not surprising Williamson would be interested in play­ing a guitar. However, his mother strongly objected to this as she didn't want her child to be a musician, especially of the blues. Fortunately, \Villiamson learn­ed to play on his own, behind his mother's back, and, as he learned, began to follow the classic route of playing for dances and country suppers that were held in the area. 
Homesick James learned to play, using the bottle­neck, after having seen his mother use a knife while playing a version of the folk song "John Henry." At one point, sometime later, he recalls seeing the great ragtime guitarist Blind Blake using a slide. 
Homesick James left Sommerville, when he was 16, and moved to the Chicago area. He secured a job in a restaurant in an effort to earn the money to buy a better guitar. After he obtained a guitar. he began to follow the great, and now legendary, blues artists, who were living in the Chicago area at the time. Among them were Big Bill Broonzy and Lonnie Johnson. 
It was in 1938, that Homesick James formed his first band. and played in the small taverns in the Chi­cago area. He also toured the South and worked, at times, with Sleepy John Estes, Yank Rachel, Baby Face Leroy, and Snooks Pryor. From about 1954 on, Williamson worked with perhaps the most influential of the Chicago city bluesmen. Elmore James. He worked as a sideman on a number of Elmore James' records and, after Elmore's death, made several re­cords of his own. Among the best of his recordings is Homesick Jamess Blues on the South Side (Prestige 7388). 
carey bell 
Appearing at Midwest Blues, along with Homesick James, is one of the masters of the Blues harp-Carey Bell. Carey was born in Macon, Mississippi, on Novem­ber 14, 1936. He says that his grandfather got him into blues when he was eight years old by buying him a 25-cent harmonica. By the time Carey was thirteen, he was playing blues in his stepfather's band. (Carey's stepfather, Lavey Lee, still plays blues piano on Chi­cago's South Side.) 
Carey came to Chicago in 1956 with his stepfather and his band. They played several places on the South Side before trying the West Side of Chicago. It was on the West Side that Carey met Honey Boy Edwards, who later introduced Carey to Little Walter Jacobs. Carey studied harp with Little Walter and eventually worked some gigs with him. Since then Carey has played as a side-man on praccically every important blues band in Chicago, and he also played with Mike Bloomfield at the Fillmore. Notably Carey has played with Howlin' \Volf, Earl Hooker, Johnny Young, Little Walter and appeared at the late Ann Arbor Blues Fes­tival. Carey's only major album is a Delmark release (DS 622) Carey Bell's Blues Harp-a brilliant album featuring Jimmy "Fast Fingers" Dawkins, and Eddie Taylor (al~o appearing here). 

eddie taylor 
Eddie Taylor. the third member of the Midwest Blues version of a supersession for Friday evening, was born in Benoit, Mississippi, on January 29, 1933. Eddie was raised in the Delta back country; he met and in­fluenced many of the best blues singers around. Near­ley Leland was a small blues town that boasted singers like Son House, \Villie Brown and Charlie Patton at the dawn of the 30's and Eddie saw them and studied their playing. While "hoboing" it Eddie met Big Joe Williams in Clarksdale. Big Joe loved to teach blues; Eddie was anxious to learn; a fast friendship developed. 
Around this time Eddie also met Jimmy "Big Boss Man" Reed and the two teamed up and began playing country suppers throughout the Delta region. The blend of Eddie's guitar and Reed's harp and vocals was ideal. 
In 1946 Eddie Taylor went to Memphis and became a truck driver, supplementing his income by moon­lighting as a bluesman. During this time he played second guitar behind the legendary likes of Elmore James and B. B. King. 
In 1949 Eddie left Memphis for Chicago. After a quick look at the blues scene up north, he returned to Memphis for Jimmy Reed and Big Walter Hortan (the innovator of the high compression blues harp) and again went to Chicago to become a familiar performer in blues joints on the West and South Sides. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

howlin' wolf 
The Howlin' Wolf, otherwise known as Chester Arthur Burnett, was born in 1910 in the deep South­more exactly in Aberdeen, lVIississppi-''between Memphis and Jarkson on Hwy. 45, gain' South" as he says. He grew up in Arkansas around Forrest City and West Memphis, ran around with Charlie Patton, farmed a little, and even made a stint in the Army. In the late 40's, he did a radio program on KWM in West Memphis, playing blues and advertising plows, tractors, and seeds. Sometime in these late 40's he began gig­ging with his first band and cut his first record for Ike Turner on the Sun label. Shortly thereafter, he start­ed recording with Chess Records, though he had been playing for a while before this time. As he puts it, "I been playin' long before I start to cuttin' records, doin' out the South." 
While living in West Memphis, the ·wolf received his basic musical training from Patton, who influenced 
~ . \.
·'·\,·.-,,·. .......... -;.t 
,rt.:.:~~ ~ 

';.,";C. ·­~ ~ )~~,.'".\ ' .--... 
~,;;t:~~/-,:::-~ ~.. 
f..:,~t~....&.:, ..~::<.... · his incredible vocal style, and Rice Miller (Sonny Boy Williamson II) who taught him to play the harmonica (harp) and influenced his down-home harp sound. Chess brought the Wolf to Chicago, his permanent hangout, in 1952 and thus to the place where he wou1d carve a lasting niche among blues greats. Since 1952, when Muddy Waters got the ~Nolf his first job, he's been playing his dirty down-home country blues in Chicago clubs and nightspots, making the scene at occasional blues festivals, and acting the part of the good time man-"300 lbs. of heavenly joy." As he puts it, "I just like to play anywhere." During his career in Chicago, the Wolf played with many different musicians, most of whom left him to form their own bands or record their own songs. But he remained himself, always howling away and blow­ing his powerful harp, sometimes even playing guitar. He has cut a large group of records, of course, and a number of his songs have been re-recorded by such well-known white rock groups as the Doors ("Back 
NOVEMBER 12, 1971 
Door Man"), the Cream ("Spoonful") and Jeff Beck ("I Ain't Superstitious"). They still belong to the Wolf and his nasty, gravel voice, though. He has cut a few rock 'n' roll singles but is at home when he's seated at the first table before his band, shouting and wailing the blues which have pursued him from the Delta to the South Side. He prefers "those old blues'' because he knows them intimatelv-"I suffered 'em in a lot of places.., His music often refers to his man­liness and "badness"-his ability to lh·e \vith trouble whether it is restlessness in the ''city" or bad women. 
Recently, Howlin' vYolf got together in London with the Rolling Stones and Eric Clapton to produce an album entitled ''London Session." Really. though. it's the blues ("your inheritance" as he likes to call it) that keeps this artist and his band (Hubert Sumlin. Calvin Jones, vVillie \Yilliams, and Detroit Junior) cooking. In the past, the \Volf has had such famous performers as Sam Lay and Carey Bell play in his. band. But this current list of his bandsmen should not be taken as definitive because the Chicago blues scene has always been characterized by a great fluidity of musicians and groups. 
The Wolf's fame continued when, in March of this year his was the inaugural act at the opening of the new Pepper's Lounge on South Michigan in Chi­cago. The old Pepper's on 43rd Street is a famous blues spot and is often referred to as the Home of the Blues. 
Ev-il: Chess 1540 Howlin' Wolf: Chess 1469 The London Sessions: Chess 60008 


Shirley griffith 
Shirley Griffith was born in Brandon, :Mississippi (near Jackson) in 1907. ·while in the Delta he had heard and learned from Tommy Johnson and Ishman Bracey. He came up to Indianapolis-known as "Naptown'' to its black residents-at the age of nineteen and made a living playing in the many joints that thrived before the Depression forced their closing. It was always pos­sible to hear Shirley in the taverns on Bright Street-a true Mississippi Delta sound emanating from the heart of the Midwest. Griffith, as mentioned, was a student and a close friend of the late Tommv Johnson-the great Mississippi bluesman of the 1920's. He does a perfect version of Johnson's greatest songs: "Canned Heat" (from which the rock group got its name and much of its material), "Maggie Campbell,'' and ''Big Road." Shirley did a magnificient guest set at the first Ann Arbor Festival and has a few albums on the Pres­tige label but they are unfortunately no longer aYail­able. While not a Chicago or Delta bluesman by resi­dence, Shirley is their equal in talent and will have at Midwest Blues the opportunity to play with his peers and receive some long overdue attention. 
little brother ­montgomery 
Eurreal "Little Brother" Montgomery was born on 

April 18, 1906 in Kentwood, Louisiana. Eurreal's father ran a barrelhouse-juke joint for the workers at the local sawmill and his mother played accordion and organ. Little Brother began playing piano at age five and left his home when he was eleven to start his long career. He went first to Saratoga Street in New O~leans and then roamed up and down the Mississippi River playing t.he barrelhouse-juke joints, entertain­!ng the levee camp and sawmill workers. Legend has 1t that he met up with Skip James in Vicksburg, Mis­. sissippi and the two traded songs-Little Brother giv­ing Skip his "No Special Rider Blues" and Skip return­ing the favor with his "Vicksburg Blues." It was dur­ing this time that Little Brother's style was matur­ing -profiting from an eclectic exposure to many unknown and now forgotten barrelhouse pianists. Also during the 1920's Little Brother played in the bands 
of Clarence Desdune and Leonard Parker. 
Little Brother Montgomey came to Chicago in 1928 

and was thrown into the company of such blue blues 
pianists as Jimmy Yancy, Pintetop Smith, "Cripple" 
Clarence Lofton, Charlie Spand, Albert Ammons, and 
Meade Lux Lewis. His first recordings were made, 
not in Chicago, but in Grafton, Wisconsin, in 1929 as 
accompaniments for Irene Scruggs on the Paramount 
Label. While Miss Scruggs soon dropped into that 
dark obscurity that was the fate of many blues singers 
and players (and, in this case, a well deserved obscuri­
ty) Little Brother started his own recording career 
starting with a September, 1930 session in Grafton 
consisting of two cuts-"Vicksburg Blues" and "No 
Special Rider Blues". After the crash, however, things 
tailed off and Little Brother was discouraged enough 
to return to Mississippi where he formed his own band 
in Jackson. In 1936 he recorded again in New Orleans. 
He toured with his band until 1939 when he moved to 
Hattiesburg before returning north to Chicago at the 
beginning of World War II. In Chicago he played 
at the Hollywood Show Lounge regularly for twelve 
years. 
From the early fifties Little Brother has lived in 

Chicago playing at Northside and various suburban 
clubs. In 1966 he toured Europe with the American 
Folk Blues Festival and he appeared at the Second 
Ann Arbor Blues Festival in August, 1970. 
Little Brother llfontgornery Blues: Folkways FG 3527 After Hours Blues: Biograph BLP 12010 No Special Rider: Adekphi AD 1003S 

JJ 

~ }t,:-~ 
];· . 
. •·. (;_ 
< 
l'$. 
C '":­






:it} 
. ~a: j­
:'·· 1, ;· l 
t ; l
I . ;j 
~. t r

I -; 

Otis rush 

Otis Rush is probably one of the finest blues guitar­ists in Chicago today, as anyone who saw him at last year's blues festival can well attest. Unfortunately, he is just now escaping the tag of Chicago's most under­rated blues artists. Underrated, of course, not by his peers, but by the white blues audiences. Perhaps this stems from the fact that he is just now putting out some records, after a silence of six years, forced by a record­ing company which had him under exclusive contract, and which for some reason also had a policy of not re­cording "hard" blues. Or, perhaps it stems from the fact that Otis is very reserved and in command in his playing, restrictin a more .flamboyant performance to occasionally playing behind his back. Whatever the reason, he has a new recording company, and is on his way to the recognition which he so richly deserves. 
Otis was born in Philadelphia-Mississippi, that is­in 1934. He learned his early blues from the records of such artists as John Lee Hooker, and Lightning Hop­kins. He moved with his family to Chicago in 1948, where exposure to the many great blues bands of that period provided him a further blues education. He formed his own band in the early 50's and in the middle fifties made his first recording, on Cobra records . 
Otis has developed a powerful singinge style to go along with his unique guitar work. What makes his guitar work unique is that he plays left handed, hold­ing the guitar backwards and upside down, but not reversing the strings' order, so that when he plays, he hits the treble strings first, instead of the bass. 
Otis played a set in last year's festival and really brought the house down, and the Midwest festival is fortunate in having him again this year. Door To Doar: Chess 1538 The One's A Good Un: Blue Horizon-7-63222 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


muddy waters 
Muddy Waters, one of the all time blues greats was born M~Kinley Morganfield in Rolling Fork, Mississippi on April 4, 1915, the second son of Ollie Moraanfield a farmer. Born in the Delta region, Muddy g~ew up'in Clarksdale, Mississippi. During his youth, he came to be called Muddy Waters supposedly because he enjoyed play_ing in near?y Deer Creek. Muddy remembers sing­mg m the Baptist church and in the fields of the Delta's farms, usually in time to the workers' hoes. By 17, he had married and formed a band with a friend, playing the guitar and doing most of the singing. At some point in this period, he heard Son House perform and was influenced strongly by this bluesman's guitar and vocal style; also, he listened to Robert Johnson and adapted much of his slide technique and his agile rhy­thms.. Muddy refers to himself as a mixture of all three-himself, House, and Johnson. 
The turning point in his life and career came when he moved to Chicago in 1943, looking for the good life the city reputedly promised to bring most blacks and hoping to "make it." He began life in Chicago as a truck driver in the day and an entertainer at house­rent parties and small West Side clubs at night. It was a tough life and the blues were waning badly. Big Bill Broonzy introduced him at Sylvia's sometime around 1945 and in 1946 he recorded a couple of sides at Columbia which were never released.. Later that year, however, Muddy was heard by the Chess brothers' talent scout and recorded his first session for Aristocrat (Chess). 
His first real break came in 1948 when he and Chess had their initial success-his first release on that label, "Rolling Stone." It was a hit, which in those days meant 60,000 copies sold in the exclusive "race" market of Chicago, St. Louis, Gary, Memphis and the South. At this time, he was playing informally with Little Walter (harp) and Jimmy Rogers (guitar)-both outstanding soloists in their own right. This group would go around to the clubs and challenge other amateur bands in contests. That didn't last long, though, as Muddy's talent was soon recognized and owners wouldn't let him compete. Finally in 1951 he gained enough con­fidence to form his own blues band which comprised himself, Rogers. Little ·walter, Elgin Evans, and the superb pianist Otis Spann. He became an established national star and placed three of his nine records on Billboard's R&B Top Ten charts. He felt that that this early success was attributed to his retention of the traditional "Mississippi sound" while putting a beat to it-"a little drive" as he says. This success continued when in 1954 he landed three records in the Top Ten including "Hoochie Coochie Man" and "I Just vVant To Make Love to You." And the true Chicago style of blues was established-the electric ensemble blues of which Muddy's first band was a peerless example. But when rock and roll crashed into the market, the "race" market was forever lost. As a result, Muddy never had another real hit after 1956. 
His records sold steadily until around 1960, but Chess avoided him, looking for new markets. Muddy himself was losing interest in the blues and increasingly let his band do all the work-often having Spann and James Cotton on vocals. The nightclub routine was taking its toll on him. Finally, Muddy adopted a new style-a music of the club atmosphere-entertaining a joyous, drinking crowd. His renewed interest was due to a larger white audience which began listening to his music. His styles and music began to be studied and employed by the white rock groups (Beatles, Clapton, and Rolling Stones) as Muddy started playing guitar again and in a way that resembled his original style. His fame grew to international dimensions after he made British tours in 1958 and 1963 and occasional re­
turns thereafter. He has reached both black and white 
audiences. 
Today, Muddy seldom plays the tavern circuit and works little around Chicago. He appears occasionally at larger clubs like Mr. Kellys and at college festivals. However, the "Muddy vVaters sound" is an .unmistak­able, lasting part of the blues. It is a further tribute to his talent to know that many modern, Chicago style bluesmen have been in Muddy's band-Big ·walter Hor­ton, Junior Wells, Willie Dixon, James Cotton, Earl Hooker and Buddy Guy. He has also aided and en-r couraged a great number of singers over the years­such greats as the Wolf, Chuck Berry, Otis Spann, Mike Bloomfield, and Paul Butterfield. l\'Iany of the younger stars (Buddy Guy and Luther Allison) have emulated his unique style and used l\liuddy's art to 
launch their separate careers. 
Sail on: Chess 1539 
Fathers and Song: Chess 127 
More Real Folk Blues: Chess 1511 
They Call Me Muddy ·waters: Chess 1553 
AKA) Muddy Waters: Chess 2CH 60006 

mance lipscomb 
Among the collectors and scholars of folk music, Mance Lipscomb is described as a songster. In addi­tion to performing a wide selection of the blues of Texas, Mance's music also includes gospel, folk songs, the music of the white folk singers, and popular tunes. One of the main characteristics of the songster, aside from the wide repertoire, is that he will make a great effort to perfect his performance of any given song and play it the same way each time. One might compare the recordings of another famous songster, Mississippi John Hurt, listening to his 1928 recordings and those 
NOVEMBER 12, 1971 
made after his rediscovery in 1964. They are identical. 
Mance was born on April 9, 1895, in Brazos County, 

Texas, near the town of Navasota. He began to be in­volved in music when he played bass guitar for his father who was an excellent fiddle player and an ex­slave from Alabama. By the time Mance was eleven, ·.his father had left home and Mance was forced to hire out as a laborer in an effort to support the rest of 
his family. 
At the age of sixteen, Lipscomb became involved 

in the sharecropper system. Anyone who is familiar 
with this system knows that it is so designed as to keep 
the sharecropper in a·state of continuous debt. · Fortu­
nately, Mance is not the type of person to be _easily 
defeated by this kind of system and many long hours 
were spent trying to keep ahead. Mance tells of how, 
during a good year, he would be able to show a $200 
profit for his effort. 
While he worked those six-day weeks as a farmer, 

he began to play for parties in the Navasota area. He 
performed at both black and white parties and while 
he would sing blues at the white parties, they would 
be what he called, "White Man's blues." Once when 
asked if he knew any songs that were of particular in­
terest to the black people, he said, "Oh, you want to 
he~ the real thing." He then proceeded to sing classic 
blues and folk songs of his area for the next five hours. 
The results of this effort may be heard on his first LP 
entitled ''Texas Sharecropper and Songster" (Arhoolie 
Fl00l). He has since played at many clubs and col­
leges and has recorded a number of other albums. 
Mance Lipscomb: Reprise 2012 Texas Songster Vol. 2: Arhoolie Fl023 Texas Songster in a Live Performance: Arhoolie Fl026 Mance Lipsconib Vol. 4: .Arhoolie F:1033 Texas Songster Vol. 5: Arhoolie F1049 
buddy guy & junior wells 
Buddy and Junior are representative of what may be called the new bluesmen, and as such are exerting great influence on the blues scene today. As B.B. King says, "They are the young guys who are gonna have to carry on." They are carrying on the blues tradition, but they. are carrying it on in·many new, innovative, and exciting-ways. They are the ones who are re­sponsible for taking the blues' roots and applying them to the modern, fast, demanding and often chaotic world of today.. In this application they have adopted many new· techniques, while never forgetting their strong traditional blues heritages. Newsweek refers to them as being "in the vanguard of the newest blues styles-theatrical, visual antf spontaneous, stretching 
. the limits of the once rigid form toward. jazz, toward rhythm and blues." · . Junior Wells was born in Memphis (1934) and lived his early years in Arkansas. As a young boy he 
\ 
heard Howlin' Wolf, B.B. King, Big Walter and others, who all lived near him, and who imbued in him strong blues roots. His love of the blues was born and nur­tured here, and he carried it north with him to Chicago. Junior was especially enamoured of the great blues harp players of that time, like Big Walter and Sonny Boy Williamson. There is an oft-quoted story about how Junior got his first harp, at about age 12. He had set his sights on a harp offered at the local pawn­shop for $2.00, and set to earning the money. After he had amassed $1.50, however, he decided that he couldn't wait, and proceeded to the pawnshop to ask for a 50c 
-discount. When refused, he attempted to avail him­_self of a five-finger discount, which led to his appear­ance before the judge. The judge was intrigued by the story, and asked Junior to play. After hearing him wail for a while, he fished the 50c from his own pocket, and dismissed the case, and Junior-has been playing a harp ever since. 
Junior got his start by going around to the various clubs and sitting in with whomever would have him. After a while, he was being invited to sit in~ and after a little while longer, was headlining. 
To see Junior perform is to see why he is one of the foremost among the blues showmen. He is often on ·the move onstage for, as he says, "if the music's good,· then it moves you around." He is equally at home with the fast blues tunes, such as his "It's All Soul," and with the gutbucket blues of "Hoo Doo Man" or "It's So Sad to Be Lonely." . . 
Junior has cut many good sides, but he·a11ows that he won't make a record unless Buddy Guy plays guitar on it.• Junior says that Buddy "makes blues moan and say anything he wants." 
Like Junior, Buddy was born in the South, near Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to be more precise. That was in 1936, and Buddy spent the first 20 years of his life soaking up the blues tradition. He was inspired by the records of John Lee Hooker, Lightning Hopkins, and T-Bone Walker, and was playing regularly when he was · seventeen. He also had an interesting experience involving his first instrument, a guitar, which he made himself from a couple pieces of screen wire nailed to a wall. Buddy came to Chicago in 1957, to a music scene which was, as he admits, very tough. He sat in with a few bands, such as Otis Rush's, and got a few gigs,· but didn't really get a big break until he won a "battle of the blues" at a Chicago club, over a field that included the likes of Rush, Magic Sam, and Ju­nior Wells. Otis and Magic Sam each then contributed to Buddy's career by introducing him to recording companies. 
He started his own band, and today is recognized as one of the "heirs apparent" in blues. He is also recognized as one of the greatest showmen around, · one who excites perhaps the most audience identification and participation. His style is very alive, and he is known to play the axe behind· his back, holding it with one hand outstretched, or during a series of ever-intensifying leaps. 
His innovative conception and style of the blues has led him to incorporate many different sources into his personal musical whole. He admires jazz very much, and has recorded while being backed by a jazz group. He also appreciates "soul" music, or Rhythm & Blues, and has been known to knock off "(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction" or "Money (That's What I Want)" or "Knock on Wood." Of course, his main thing is still .the blues. And the great feel for the audience, to which he admits, and which is the real reason for whatever deviation he makes from traditional blues, will never turn him from it. 
Buddy and Junior together present probably the most dynamic and exciting blues show around. They show' great talent, whether they are playing electric or acoustic blues, and this year's Midwest festival ·is fortunate enough to have them playing a set of each. Hoo Dao Man Blues: DS-612 Delmark Sauth Side Jam: DS-628 Delmark Buddy & The Juniors: Blue Thumb BTS-20 I Was Walking Through the Woods: Chess 409 Chicago/The Blues/Today Vol. I (4 cuts): Vanguard 
VSD 79216 

johnny 



littlejohn ·& jimmy ·rodgers 
Jimmy Rogers is not only a great second guitarist. Besides playing such a role in what is considered by many as the greatest city blues band ever (that of Muddy Waters in the early and middle fifties) Jimmy is a fine vocalist and lead guitarist (as is borne out by his Chess album~ "Chicago :Bound"). 
Jimmy Rogers (ne_ James A. Lane) was born in Atlanta, Georgia· on June 3, 1924. -He is considered by many as one of the finest examples of early and middle fifties· blues guitar often employing "sweeping bass runs and. deep rhythmic accents to drive his songs." His vocals are sharp and smooth. · 
Excepting what Jimmy tells us in the song "Chicago Bound'! little is known of his background save that he was in Chkag6 playing harp in 1945: He later switched to _guitar· and-worked regularly ,with Little Walter, . Sunnyland Slim~ and Baby ~Leroy Foster. In 1949 Jimmy teamed up with the budding _McKinley Morgan­field for what was to be a eight year partnership pro-· ducing :the greatest. city·blues .ever -recorded._, alt was this band that set. the pace and cast the mold· which blues .performers still ·strive to, attairi. The_ rhythmic . interplay between th_e .guitars: of Muddy and Jimmy is· still unparalleled.. Jimmy's first record on·-his own was "That's AlLRight," which was_ a big hit· for the 
· burgeoning company .of .the. fledgling Chess ·brothers. 

In 1956 Rogers recorded one of his best pieces-"Walk­ing By Myself"-which featured the high compression blues harp of Big Walter Horton. 
In 1959 Jimmy forsook the blues and began driving a cab on Chicago's South Side. He came out of this imposed· retirement in the ·summer of 1970 and now is a featured member of Johnny Littlejolm's excellent band. But it is the performances .he ·made with the Muddy Waters band that·mark Jimmy's pinnacle. It wa·s this band of. Muddy, Jimmy, Otis Spann,. Little Walter, · Willie Dixon,-·and·Fred · Below which "set the 
'!'?'

standards which still; defy today's Bluesmen and Rock 
J 

performers." · ·. l The music of. J qhnny Littlejohn is that kind which 
I

comes out of a man's:insides-.but not easily. It's the blues that comes"... out forcibly-.harsh, mean, and . screaming. It is the blues that results from·.the com­bination of country. ,blues pressea··jnto the Procrustean matrix of the Chicago environment and the electronic amplifici:ltion. . Johnny. _Littlejohn . has played with 
· pretty much the same gr_oup pff. a_nd on now for.about fifteen :-years -featu~ing· Little .Mack Simmons and his wailing _harp and frenzied .vocals~ . · Tllis set could well be the best_live pe:r:forlllance·-of Midwest Blue~ .. 
Ji;imy:Rogers_''~C{iicdgo B~nd';: Chesi 407-.. 
"John Littlejohf!,'S. C.liicagg :Blues. Sta'rs": A!'hoolie­
Representing The Finest bluesmen Living in Michigan 
Lightnin' Slim Bo Bo Jenkins J3aby Boy Warren & Boogie W oogie Red Arthur Gunter & various detroit blues artists 
Contact: 

Fred Reif 1928 Robinwood St. Saginaw, Mich. 48601 1-517-753-1024 
.YAZOO 
54 King St. New York, N.Y. 10014 

For the last five years Yazoo has specialized in bringing the best of the country blues from the 1920's and 1930's to the musical public. Artists include Charley Patton, Son House, Skip James, Bukka White, Rev. Gary Davis, Blind Willie McTell right down to lesser ,known but equally good artists like Geeshie Wiley. SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE OF-OVER 40 LP's. 


BLIJEGOOSE 
54·King 'St. 
New York, N.Y. 10014 

-Blue Goose Records was organized to bring tb public attention those· artists both· black and white who can today still play in a way .which i_s entertaining. We will have an LP out shortly of Shirley Griffith who is _playing in this festival. It was recorded this. summer. We also have LP's by Larry Johnson, Bill-Williams, Graham Hine and _'others. We hope to spotlight country blues and ragtime so _that it will again be exciting. SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE. 
The Scholastic needs BUSINESS MANAGER 
sophomore or junior business student position is salaried, plus commission 
Contact 

Howie Sutton -233-4981 Mary Ellen Stoltz -· 288-9855 Joe Hotz-. 232-1913 
R. K. MUELLER, INC. 
·Genuine Registered KEEPSAKE diamond rings 
· Downtown. 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St~ ­
the wars continue 

ovei 
. 54,000 .Americans are dead 

over 124,000 South Vietnamese are dead 




Louie's 
the fastest, the friendliest service the best, the most delicious pizza . we would not kid you 
744 N. :Notre Danie Ave. 233-0380 
over . . ·704,000 _ _ 

N.I.F. and North Vietnamese are dead 
· ·_·_.~··Help with--y<>u-r actions 
• _-____. ; -•~nd prayers . _·: 
london howlin' wolf sessions 
The man ambles slowly across the room, pulls up a stool and sits down. His manner and dress, yes, even his acoustic guitar seem out of place, even anachronis:­tic, surrounded by the morass 'of wires and switches that is a recording studio. 
The man is Chester Burnett, ·better known as How­lin' Wolf. Sitting there, he embodies a considerable tradition while remaining a contemporary artist. He is about as out of place as a fish in water. Some other men gather around him; they're the band he's going to play with. They look different; younger and leaner, more flashily dressed. But these are minor differences. Their names are Clapton, Winwood, Wyman and Watts. All gods or demi-gods of the emerging rock culture. More precisely, they are · skilled musicians who possess that unique talent of being able to impart not only their music but also the feel of it to an audience. All of them come from blues-based groups. Wyman and Watts from the Stones; Winwood from Traffic; Clapton, from the Cream. 
This is where it's at: in a shack by a field near the Mississippi River delta; in a bar on Chicago's southwest side; in a cold-water London tenement. Wherever you find a man who has so much weighing on his soul that he can't hold it in; wherever you hear those high, sweet notes that come from the heart as surely as the strings, there is where you'll find the blues. There's nothing complicated or esoteric about it: the blues is feeling~ pure and simple. The legendary Son House puts it b_est: "the blues is a cold and a shake and a chill n' if you never had 'em children, I hope you never will." 
There are a lot of things that make this album work, not the least of which is the individual talent of the performers, which is considerable. That's a nice little pick-up band the Wolf's got behind him and they sure dq cook. Clapton gets in some fine licks on lead guitar while the rest of the band backs him flawlessly. Still, it's the Wolf's hard-edged, sandpaper vocals that are the marrow of these songs. Whether it be a blues­brooder like "The Red Rooster" or the mellow "Sittin' On Top Of The World", he exhibits the style and voice_ that propelled him to fame in the middle and late fifties. All of those men got their start playing tunes like these, which the older bluesmen worked out. It's really fine to hear them playing with one of the best. Still, the roots remain. As long as the feeling i~ there, the music will flourish. · 
-casey pocius 



digging 

of, different strokes for 
a treatise on the variety of places in which and the 
Scene: Boston night club; dark but well-ventilated; ample walking room between tables, some tables empty; no dancing; mixed drinks predominate, beer in heavy mugs; audience mostly white and youngish (twenties and thirties); coats and ties. 
Time: within the last three years or so, probably a weekend. 
Conversations are conducted between songs and between sets. The seating here is more fixed: there is little or no table-hopping. No one, it seems, is allowed to stand except the band and the waitresses; one is politely asked to take a table and place an order. Cou­ples are clearly in evidence as couples; many have come here after a show. The blues band is slicker than those on South Side Chicago, and there is banter by the -leader before each song. He's an entertainer here and he knows it. He also knows this audience can be jived. The audience's attention is respectful, its ap­plause is enthusiastic without being demonstrative. 
* * * * * * * * * 

Scene: Washington Hall, Notre Dame; 500 in fixed seating; proscenium stage; no smoking, no drinking; undergraduates, mostly white. 
Tirne: November 1969. 

First an off-the-cuff lecture accompanied by taped blues; then two sets by an ancient country blues singer. For the lecturer, more-or-less patient attention; for the blues singer, emphatic approval. Two events alter the formal concert setting. A young black man climbs to the stage, midway in the second set, and presents the blues singer with a larger paper CUJ? of water. The blues singer grins and drinks from it gratefully. At the close of the concert, several young black men rush to the foot of the stage, with upraised clenched fists and shouts of "right on!" The_blues singer is startled and appears confused; later he asks whether they were threatening him. 
* * * * * * * * * 
Scene: Stepan Center, Notre Dame; seating both on blankets (or else simply on cement) and on folding chairs. 

Time: Spring, 1971. 
This is a free concert; the band is a white, blues­
type band from Chicago. There are a few blues buffs in the audience but not many, and some of the~ leave early. There are bottles of wine and smoke of different kinds, and many are more preoccupied with consump­tion of these than of the music. Mostly it is a good­time crowd, out for a diversion. There's a lot of unison clapping (at times one has the sensation he's been caught in the collision of a hoe-down and a pep rally). There's an inordinate amount of leaping to the feet. 
* * * * * * * * * 

Scene: Ann Arbor Blues Festival; outdoors, all day and half of the night; 6000 or so in a field enclosed by chain-link fence; ninety-five per cent white crowd, mostly under twenty-five sprawled on blankets; an aro­matic blue haze hangs over the field. 
Time: August 1969 or 1970; Friday, Saturday and Sunday. A large, covered bandstand constructed of raw lumber; towers of scaffolding for spotlights and the 
P.A. system. At the back of the field, several hundred yards from the stage, booths selling: hot dogs, ice cream bars, chicken, oranges, soft drinks, handicrafts, record albums. Also at the back: rows of portable johns and a first-aid station (a rumor passes through the crowd that a baby has been delivered in the first­aid station; apparently it is only a rumor). 
There's a fair proportion of people merely making the scene, being pointedly hip and/or obstrusive; but there's a much greater proportion of pure blues freaks. The crowd, though, is so large that it is difficult to generalize about; instead, a few vignettes: 
D an infant breast-feeding, as oblivious to the crowd as its mother, intent upon the music, is to the infant's ardent nursing. 
D a blind ol_d bluesman waiting for his turn on 



blues 
different folks /being 
variety of ways in which people + blues come together 
stage, seated on a blanket and proposing marriage (or something) to a lady reporter from the Chicago Tri­bune. 
~
D a young man, bent double and groaning, and 

his friend trying to talk him down. 
D a child of two or three riding his tricycle up 

and down what serves for an aisle. 
D a serious-looking man frowning and fussing over 

a portable tape recorder, and never applauding. 
D a man sitting serenely and cross-legged on a blanket with an assortment of sand-cast candles spread out before him. 
D two Japanese men wearing what appear to be identical sandles, black trousers, and short-sleeved white shirts. 
D a buckskinned black photographer endlessly mov­ing leaning, crouching, twisting-seeking the perfect angle, the perfect shot. 
D a fat girl with no shirt on dancing by herself. 

Besides the particular vignettes, a blur of images: lots of couples and other assortments of people sharing bottles and food and bug-spray; people sleeping and/or (at the afternoon sessions) sunbathing; a number of families having picnics; people playing frisbee on the fringes of the crowd. But above all, thousands of peo­ple listenin intently to blues; intent and yet relaxed, if you can dig that. Few if any serious hassles. But a seemingly endless fund of interest and attention ; and, for the bluesmen, applause which is homage. 
* * * * * * * * * 

Scene: jammed South Side Chicago bar/night club; dark and smoky; tables crowded close together; per­haps some dancing; a beer crowd (bottles on every table); an all-black audience, not very many young people (mostly forties and up). 
Time: any Saturday night in the last twenty-five years. This is where blues lives; this is, at least in the North, its native soil. The din is deafening. The band's 
NOVEMBER 12, 1971 
amplification is loud but cannot drown out, can only compete with, the clink of bottles, the scrape of chairs, and the patrons' shouted conversations. To an out­sider, the customers' apparent inattention may be puz­zling. This crowd will seldom give its undivided at­tention to the performers; applause is often perfunc­tory. There's no such thing as a standing ovation. But apparent inattention is by no means indifference; and acceptance here is, after all, acceptance by the most knowledgeable blues audience extant. Not knowledge­able in a technical sense, necessarily; for here blues is not an art form (and it's certainly not merely a type of entertainment) but part of a way of life shared by customers and musicians. 
-richard bizot 

I would imagine that everyone at the Notre Dame Blues Festival has a blues record collection of some kind. Perhaps it's just a few albums of bluesmen that you have seen in person._ Many others, however, have collections that include rare 45s, albums only available overseas or re:.issues that have very limited pressings. 
Because· blues records are pouring onto the market in an ever-increasing number, I have compiled a basic library of recommended albums. The labels range from the biggest in the world to some that are virtually unknown. This list is not intended to be a measure of sales success but rather as a guideline to discs that have captured the artist at his best. Bear in mind that this list is just one person's opinion and everything from that point on is all Caveat Emptor. 
ROBERT JOHNSON, KING OF THE DELTA BLUES SINGERS, VOL. I & Il (Columbia) 
If you don't have at least one of these albums then you have no business being here in the first place.· These represent the best of the best. They were originally recorded in 1936 and 1937 (for A.R.C.) · and ~ohnson was dead under mysterious circumstances less than a year later. This is ·the zenith of Coun­try Blues with all of the anguish and torment of the great Delta bluesmen. An absolute essential to every collection. 




blues 

McKINLEY MORGANFIELD A/K/A MUDDY 
\VATERS (Chess) 
The definitive collection of Muddy with early tracks of him backed by Jimmy Rogers, Little Walter and countless others. It traces his career from the first Post War recordings. This two-disc set can easily forgive a_ lot of previous mediocre efforts by Muddy and ghastiy production ideas. by Chess. 
BLIND WILLIE McTELL (Yazoo) 
A great re-issue record by this legendary Georgia bluesman. His "Statesboro Blues" has since become a classic. Avoid the Library of Congress record and buy this one._ 
B. B. KING, LIVE AT THE REGAL 
(ABC Paramount) 
This has beeun around for some years but ABC 
Paramount has repackaged it for fans who have 
just recently jumped on the Iµng bandwagon. It ~ates 
as one of the best live recordings ever made and 
the band really cooks behind some superlative 
singing. There are many King albums out on the 
market now but this 1964 recor.ding remains the one 
to have. 
CHARLIE PATTON, FOUNDER OF THE 
DELTA BLUES (Yazoo) 
Patton loomed as a giant among bluesmen in the late 1920s and early 1930s (he died in 1934) and was a wellspring for dozens who followed him. This is a two-disc set with the material arranged chronologically. Listen before you buy it because this is not for the casual listener. Don't lose the enclosed sheet of lyrics because you'll need it. · 
LIGHTNING HOPKINS, EARLY RECORDING, VOL 2 (Arhoolie) 
Lightning has probably 50 albums out on various labels so it's nearly impossible to choose a "best." This one comes the closest to capturing his charisma. No tricks here and nothing fancy but it's a· master-• piece of the Texas style. 
HOWLIN' WOLF, EVIL (Chess) . 
Bypass the London sessions (\Yould you beiieve 150,000 sales!) and get this essential album of Wolf at his gravelly best. Hubert Sumlin's guitar work 
. THE SCHOLASTIC 

collections 
is so subtle that there is a tendency to forget how 
important he is to Wolf. All of the material is 
excellent. 
THE LEGEND OF ELMORE JAMES (Kent) 
There are a multitude of Elmore's records now available so I suggest that you listen to several before making a decision. This one captures all of the intensity of that incredible voice. An absolute. must for slide guitar freaks. 

BLUES AT NEWPORT, 1964, VOL. 2 (Vanguard) 
No one who was at that festival will ever forget the newly rediscovered Skip James soaring that falsetto voice into the first note of "Devil Got My Woman." Some fine cuts by Mississippi John Hart and an epic version of "Prodigal Son" by Rev. Robert Wilkins but the four Skip James songs alone are worth the price of the album. 

SLIM HARPO, RAINING IN MY HEART (Excello) 
Bypass his later (more commercial) recordings and get this one. Louisiana blues may be an acquired taste but the. title song and "King Bee" (later recorded by the Stones) make this the very best in its style. 

MAGIC SAM, WEST SIDE SOUL (Delmark) 
This is a great album by a brilliant b1u·esman who died in 1969 at the age of 32. The recording is a rarity, capturing the excitement of a live· performance in a recording studio session. 

MISSISSIPPI BLUES, 1927-41 (Origin) 
When this album first appeared in 1962, it contained original recordings by inactive musicians, but in only two years no less than five of them (Son House, Skip James, Booker White, Robert Wilkins, John Hurt) had been rediscovered and were active performers again. This small label may be hard to find but it's worth the search. Ignore the erroneous lyric sheet and biographical notes. The fidelity on some of the cuts is poor but the music is outstanding. · 
OTIS RUSH, TmS UN'S A GOOD 'UN (Polydor) 
This is a re-issue of a re-issue anthology if you get what I mean. It's a collection of Otis' Cobra singles from 1958~59 and was released in England on Blue Horizon and recently issued here on Polydor. 
Otis deserves a good album for the here and now 
but this one will do in the meantime. 


ARTHUR CRUDUP, VINTAGE SERIES 
(RCA Victor) 
Sixteen magnificent tracks including the original versions of "Rock Me, Mama," "My Baby Left Me," "Mean 01' Frisco" and 13 more. These recordings were made over the 1941-1956 period and represent a perfect fusion of Country Blues with basic R&B. Bypass the later Delmark recordings to buy this new re-issue and hear him at his best. 

BLIND WILLIE JOHNSON (RBF, Folkways) 
The music and singing here are brooding and intense to an almost painful degree. This is gospel material and not blues. It's definitely not for beginners. Don't worry about not being able to decipher the lyrics because no one else can either. 
JUNIOR WELLS, HOODOO lllALV (Delmark) 
This was his first album and remains the best by a wide margin. The gutsy trio behind him (Buddy Guy, guitar; Jack Meyer, bass; Fred Below, drums) show what Chicago Blues is all about. Wells has often neglected his harmonica playing in recent years but his work on this album shows that he can be a master if and when he wants to be. 
EARL HOOKER, TlVO BUGS AND A ROACH 
(Arhoolie) 
Hooker is regarded by many as the greatest electric-guitar player of all time. He could play blues, ragtime, bluegrass and anything else. This one may have too much wah-wah pedal for the purists but it's a fine record and recommended over the Cuca and Blue Thumb. 


THE BEST OF MISSISSIPPI JOHN HURT 
(Vanguard) 
This two-disc set is a live recording ( Oberlin College, 1965) that captures all of the warmth and gentle charisma by the best blues-songster of all time. Some incredibly complex guitar work and, my oh my, he makes it sound so easy. This album would be an excellent gift for someone not into blues. 
-Richard A. Waterman 

blues in east texas 
----·· , , 

-
Although I have all too frequently regaled my Notre 

Dame students with anecdotes of my two years (1963-5) 
as ?TI instructor at Texas A & M University, there were 
a few really memorable moments there and the appear­
ance of Mance Lipscomb was one of them. · · 
Folk singing-both· authentic and Kingston _Trio­

ish-was a popular recreation around the A & M-cam­pus and one. of my friends who was ·interested in the authentic Texas genre h·ad ·arranged, a:series of con~erts to be climaxed.by the j:>erformance ·of .Mance I:.ipscomb -a figure about _whom I' knew nothing. Then ap­proaching 70 (and now.-in-his rriid-70's),· Lipscomb had grown up near· Navosta; Texas, asmall town about 50 miles northwest-of ·Houston. Until 1960 he had never been recorded, although he had travelled during his younger days singing in Dallas arid -Houston. But Navosta had_remained his-home-where he sharecropped and ·until World War II had been singing for a dollar­-and-a-half a night 'in ·the rough black bars arid clubs around Navosta. War-time prosperity had driven· his price up to seven dollars a night, although he was liv­ing in_ a weathered two-room cabin in Navosfa and making a_ living cutting grass -on the shoulders of the 
state highways· when he was "discovered" Jn-1960. _ Then came a successful and much publicized appear­ance at Newport and_ he began to !Ilake the university folk-blues circuit. 
Actually my appreciation for blues was limited to_ a strong admiration for Leadbelly and a lukewarm reac­tion to Lightning Hopkins and Blirid Lemon Jefferson. But Lipscomb's concert in _the intimate -surroundings of a basement on the A & ·M campus was powerful. Not being a music critic and with seven years having passed, I will ·not attempt to · describe his style. He was not i_ntimidated by his· all-_white audience and for about two solid hours he sang a variety of songs with a rich voice that put my stereo to . shame. Seemingly 
·frail, he handled his guitar with an unexpected strength. Everything he did :was-direct and honest with no _at­tempt at any·phony showmanship. . 
After the concert, ,at my .friend's house, amid a cauldron of Mexican barbecue goat and cold Lone Star beer, Lipscomb sat with his hat i~ front of him contin­uing to alternately sing and recall what it was like during the 1930s and 40s. If: anything, he was perhaps a little excessively polite; ?S blacks of his age in east Texas have. learned to be with whites. · But the com­ment I rememb~ ~~s(vididly came·at 'the end of a long series of_ anecdotes about_his life· of playing unappre­ciated in the taverns of east Texas, being shot, at by drunks, -and so forth. He.mused, "I_ sure wish I know about these university. concerts ,befo_re."_ A lifetim_e of playing for· pennies because· the black blues were not appreciated in a society ·such as east Texas' had limited his mohility~had kept him-sharecropping, and mowing the high'Yay grass. Thus Lipscomb's· style and purity have really:been preserved.for today's audiences by the system._which kept him down. Now he appears·as one of the few·. authentic glimpses we. have .of bl_ack east Texas during the 1930s and 40s. ­
When _you listen to his music, try to picture him during the depression singing these same songs to afr all-black (except perhaps for the owner) roadhouse audience and_ one can begin to sense what has_ shaped this persevering man's artistry. The fact that he is now enjoying some popularity has changed little in his music. The hard years made hiin his .own man. 
·-michael j. francis 
THE SCHOLASTIC 






Juggler 
First Issue Soon! 
i have thought 
·hoiv ivith our ivords like spiders .. we. spirJ out from ourselves the 
airy structures . · -. john hessler 

NOVEMBER 12, 1971 
I~---------------------,Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 I I mailed off campus and out of town II delivered on campus. I I Make check payable to: I 
I . I 
I Juggler I
I 
Box 583 II Notre Dame, Ind. .1 
·. I

I . IIName · _ I I Address ___________________·__________________________ I 
I . I 
I · I
L __________________J 
27 


coming 

distractions 

lIDSIC 
Happiness with the Midwest Blues Festival begins 

Friday, Nov. 12, 7:30 p.m. featuring Fred McDowell; 
Homesick James, Carey Bell and Eddie Taylor, Howlin' 
V/olf; Saturday, Nov. 13, 7:30 p.m., Shirley Griffith, 
Little Brother Montgomery with Sippie Wallace, Otis 
Rush, and Muddy Waters; Sunday, Nov. 14, 2 :00 p.m., 
Mance Lipscomb, Buddy Guy and Junior Wells ( acous­
tic), Johnny Littlejohn with Jimmy Rogers, Guy and 
Wells (electric). A weekend of Blues is $6.00 in ad­
vance, single sessions, $2.50. Remember, there is 
limited space in the cosmic Stepan Center. 
Up! Up! and Away! or Never My Love with the 

Fifth Dimension, Nov. 13, 8:30 p.m. in the Athletic 
and Convocation Center. 
The South Bend Youth Symphony will appear in 

Fall Concert Nov. 14, 4 p.m., in the IUSB Auditorium. 
The Western Michigan Wind Ensemble from West­

ern Michigan University, Kalamazoo, will perform 
Nov. 17, 8 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. _ 
Richard Showalter, formerly Sir Richard, brings rhythm of drum music to the Library Auditorium, with his Percussion Cli~c, Nov. 18, 4:30 p.m. 
Nov. 21, the ND Glee Club will fill Washington Hall with the universal language of music. -Gather around for Music in the Round, Nov. 22, 8 
p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium Foyer. , 
The South Bend Symphony will present Arturo Sergi, performing arias from Verdi, Puccini, Bizet, and ­Beethoven, Nov. 28, 4 p.m. 
Butler Ballet from Butler University, a concert company of nine dancers with a classical repertoire, will appear in the O'Laughlin Auditorium, Dec. 1, 8 p.m. 
Arthur Follows, cellist, will perform in the ND Memorial Library Auditorium, Dec. 2, 8:15 p.m. Experience the Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club Concert, Dec. 2, in the Stepan Center 
The Cultural Arts Performing Art Series will spon­sor the Toronto Dance Company, Dec 3, 8 :30 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The Christmas Concert in the SMC Church _of Loretto, Dec. 5, 8 p.m. 
Jordan River Quartet, · sponsored-by the South Bend Chamber Music Society and the IUSB Division of Music, will perform in the Public Library Auditori­um, Dec. 8, 8 p.m. 
LECTURES 
Learn of the Experiences of a Black Attorney. Come to the Memorial Library Auditorium to hear Black Attorney Bobby Hill. This Black American Law Students Association sponsored event will be held on November 12, from 8:00 to 9:30 p.m. 
New York Attorney Hugh Fitzgerald comes to 
Notre Dame. The International Society will sponsor 
his November "12 talk in Room 102 of the Law School 
at 4 :00 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Cultural Arts Commission goes 
international. The CAC will present British poet John 
Silkin November 14 at 8:00 p.m. in the Library 
Auditorium. 
Prison rights and the South Bend Public Library: Do they mix? Come to Dean Thomas Shaffer's panel discussion on November 17 at 7:30 p.m. and find out. 
China, Africa, California, and Notre Dame: Put ihem all together and what do you come out with? A lecture by Professor Bruce.Larkin, of the University of California at Santa Cruz, on "China's Foreign Policy in Africa" in the Area Program Reading Room of the Notre Dame Memorial Library. It all comes together under the co-direction of the Institute for Interna­tional Studies and the Program of African Studies on November 17 at 8:00 p.m. 
Whether you are from the farm or the city, Doctor Enrico Plati's "Systems in Urban Design" will interest all. This FREE UNIVERSITY talk will begin at 8 :00 
p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
"The Diplomatic Revolution of the 1970's" will be the topic of Robert F. Byrnes, Distinguished Professor of history of the University of Indiana, November 18 at 8:00 p.m. in the Architecture Auditorium. 
South Bend Psychiatrist Doctor R. Charles Eades, in conjunction with Haynes Forum, will head an 11:15 
a.m. open discussion on psychiatric problems Novem­ber 18. 
The Notre Dame Law Students hereby subpoena the Student Bo~y. Their three Practice Courts will be in session November 20, 27, and December 1. The judges' gavels will drop in both the _U.S. and Superior Courts at 9:00 p.m. 
Dorm life got you down? Maybe Doctor William Liu's "Patterns of Friendship in an Urban Setting" will get you up. Check up with FREE UNIVERSITY. Your appointment is November 22, in Flanner Lounge at 
8:00 p.m. Tired of looking at four wall,s? Take a breath of fresh air December 1 with l\lr. Pat Horsbrugh and his "Highway Aesthetics." One· whiff of this 'FREE UNI­VERSITY 8 :00 p.m. experience and you will soon for­get Grace Lounge's four walls. "Three Approaches to Psychotherapy" will be viewed in three films in the CCE at 8:00 a.m. as part of Dean Shaffer's Legal Counseling Class on Decem­ber 1. Mr. Douglas G. McConnell will speak on ''POLIS '76": Proposals submitted for official consideration of the 1976 National Bicentennial Committee. The lec­ture, presented by the Department of Architecture, will be held in the Architecture Auditorium on Decem­ber 1 at 2:30 p.m. Do you understand Picasso? If you are the one of a hundred who does, then you do not have to come to 
Harold Zisla's December 5 lecture at 3:00 p.m. in the Main Gallery of the South Bend Art Gallery. 
THE SCHOLAS_'.fIC 

FILMS: 
Nov. 12, Last Gasp Cinema will show "H" for those who want to learn a way to avoid finals. Showings are 3 :30, 7, 9 p.m. in the SMC Little Theatre. 
Nov. 15-10 the Cultural Arts Commission will pre­sent the Eastern European Film Festival; Sign of the Virgin, Nov. 15; Love Affair, Nov. 16; The Peach Thief, Nov. 17; Intimate Lightning, Nov. 18; Cranes Are Flying, Nov. 19. All films will be showing in the Engineering Auditorium, 7 and 9 p.m. 
Nov. 16, the Performing Art Series of the Cultural Arts Commission will show Open Theatre in the O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 :30 p.m. 
Nov. 19, Last Gasp Cinema will show Shop on Main Street, o_ne of the greatest Czechoslovakian :films, which manages to translate the apocalyptic tragedy of our century, genocide, into human terms. Showings are 3:30, 7, 9 p.m. in the SMC Little Theatre. 
Nov. 19 the South Bend Art Center will show The Shop on Main Street in the South Bend Public Library, in the Schuyler Colfax Auditorium, at 7 :30 p.m. 
Nov. 19, Indiana University, South Bend, will show The Committee, 9 p.m., Room 126, N orthside Hall. Nov. 20-21, stay in tune for a Fund Raising Film sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission, 7 and 9 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Nov. 26, the Travelogue Series sponsored by the Lions Club of South Bend will show Norwegian Pan­orama by Joe Adair, 8 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Audi­torium. 
Dec. 1, Indiana University's Civilisation film series will show Grandeur and Obedience, 4 and 7 :30 p.m., Room 126, Northside Hall. 
Dec. 3, _Indiana University's Student film series will terrify the audience with The Boston Strangler, 9 p.m., Room 126, N orthside Hall. 
Dec. 3, Last Gasp Cinema will show one of the most profound emotional experiences in the history of the . Cinema, Diary of a Country Priest, 3:30, 7, 9 p.m., in 
the SMC Little Theatre. 
Dec. 4, the Performing Art Series of Cultural Arts Commission will sponsor Workshop, 11 a.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Dec. 4 & 5, Cultural Arts Commission will show Midnight Cowboy in Washington Hall, 2 and 8 p.m. Dec. 5, the Youngstown Club will horrify the audi­ence with psychopathic murders. See Psycho, 7 :30 and 
9:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. . Dec. 10-11, Cinema '72 will show Mandabi, 7 and 9 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Dec. 13, the Travelogue Series sponsored by the Scottish Rite of South Bend will show The New Korea with Ken Armstrong in the O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
Dec. 15, the Indiana University Civilisation film series will show The Light of Experience, 4 and 7 :30 p.m., Faculty Lounge, Northside Hall. 
ART The Notre Dame Art Gallery will exhibit An Im­pressionist View on Paper, an extraordinary group of 
NOVEMBER 12, 1971 
19th-century graphics from the Lessing Rosenwald Collection of the National Gallery, Washington, D.C., until Dec. 12. Dean A. Porter: \Voodcuts, a comprehen­sive showing of prints by the Notre Dame curator, which exhibits a traditional approach to-media and yet a contemporary commitment in expression, will be on display Nov. 7-Dec. 19. A retrospective of paintings and prints by the internationally known contemporary French artist, Alfred lUanessier, will be exhibited Nov. 10-Dec. 27. 
Works by Sister Blanche ~Iarie from Mundelein College will be exhibited in the Moreau-Hammes Gal­leries at SMC through November. Moreover, SMC Art Department presents a Fall Seminar and Field Study, "Sense and Insense; Genuine Fakes," Nov. 10. 
The ND Architecture Gallery will display architec­
ture of Bernard Ralph lUaybreck, a sampling of the 
many buildings he designed and crafted to a unique 
level of aesthetic refinement, Nov. 28 to Dec. 20. 
The South Bend Art Center, 121 Lafayette, will exhibit recent works by Abner Hershberger, Nov. 14­Dec. 5; and Harlem Portfolio and African Art, Dec. 12­Dec. 30, in the Main Gallery. The Local Artist Gallery will display new paintings by Edward E. Herrmann, Nov. 21-Dec. 12. 
FUN 
One day only! Shrine Circus travels to ND Athletic & Convocation Center, Saturday, Dec. 4. The ACC will be converted into a veritable "Big-Top". for the matinee at 2 p.m. and evening performance at 7:30 
p.m. For info, call 288-3883 
SPORTS 
"Diggers Debut'' on November 22 at 8:00 in the ACC pits the freshmen against the varsity in the only public pre-season basketball scrimmage. Admis­sion is by way of donations of canned goods, used clothing, toys or 50 cents with the first item preferred. Take time out on the pre-Thanksgiving Monday to enjoy Digger's antics, and help by contributing needed goods and clothing. 
The Fighting Irish will close the 1971 home foot­ball season against Tulane on November 13. 
The Notre Dame Hockey team debuts November 19 in the ACC. The Irish skaters will be unveiled op­posite Colorado College. 
LSU and Notre Dame mix it up in the deep South at Baton Rouge on November 20, roundin·g out the 1971 gridiron season. 
The eyes of November 26 ·and 27 will see Michigan Tech and Notre Dame .drawing sticks and skates. 
The basketball season gets under way December 1. New Coach Digger Phelps sends the ND Hoopsters against lUichigan in a regional battle. 
Michigan team number two tests its basketball luck against the Irish, when \Vestern Michigan plays here on December 6. 
St. Louis and Notre Dame clash in a December 11 basketball game. -kevin cassidy and cheri weismantel 






movies 

2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY 
,Stanley Kubrick's sci-fl-special-effects extravaganza 

delights the eye and poses a few worthwhile questions 
about the future of intellectual Man. However, the 
film is flawed by too many potentially boring 
sequences of objects in space drifting s 1o w 1y 
together or apart. It is also unfortunate that further 
knowledge of either the original book or Kubric's 
own statements of purpose would seem to be . ,necessary to render the film entirely intelligible. 
Nevertheless, Odyssey stands on the overall success of 
its visual-musical fusion which well warrants a 
second (though we think not a third) viewing. 

THE TOUCH 
The twice-turned tale of a seemingly content housewife whose eminently predictable existence shatters under the strain of what begins as a casual affair. Bibi Andersson is the Swedish wife, Karen, attracted to an American archaeologist (Elliot Gould) by his admission that he loves her. And, although the script provides an inadequate basis for their relationship, Bergman nevertheless presents an expectedly artistic, but sometimes disappointing portrait of its development. What results is a penetrating character study delving within the fragile network of relations which constitute a family or a· love triangle. The treatment is realistic, yet most notable for its sensitivity. 
The film's major problem rests in Elliot Gould's erratic creation of the archaeologist, David. The . character is a complex bundle of contradictory impulses and actions. But we are never quite sure whether his inconsistencies are inherent in the script or are merely attributable to Gould's acting deficiencies. In any event we fail to find in David the subtlety of portrayal which Bergman's direction so regularly evokes. By contrast Bibi Andersson gives a most credible Karen. We experience no difficulty discovering empathy with her painful emergence from the wifely image she so long embraced. Fine performance also by Sheila Reid and Max Von Sydow. 
0 


WHO IS HARRY KELLERMAN AND WHY IS HE SAYING THOSE TERRIBLE THINGS ABOUT ME? 
A rock song writer who has made it to the top · finds it has been easier to produce marketable lyrics than it is to live with his successful self. Dustin Hoffman is strong as the neurotic George Solloway, but the film really belongs to director-producer Ulu Grosbard. Grosbard leads us lightly through George's paranoid states in which his music and his madness become one. The tragedy is that of an aging man who has never been able to face the fact of time. But we are shown all of this in such a beautifully comic manner that deeper emotions are saved until the end. Certainly one of the year's most original releases, Har.ry Kellerman might also be one of the year's best. 
-

THEATRES 
COLFAX: 2001: A Space Odyssey, Nov. 11-17 (G) Gone With the Wind, Nov. 18-25 (G) RIVER PARK: The Touch, Nov. 12:-17 (R) 
On Any Sunday, Nov. 18-25 (G) STATE: See no Evil, Nov. 12-17 (GP) TOWN_& COUNTRY: The Skin Game, Nov. 12-17 (GP) 
-Phil & Marie Glotzbach 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Blues Mgt. Group Representing America's greatest Bluesmen Representing the Artistry of these great Bluesmen and their Bands: 
CHARLIE MUSSELWHITE OTIS RUSH WILD CHILD BUTLER JOHNNY YOUNG JIMMY DAWKINS EDDIE TAYLOR SAM LAY JOHNNY LITTLEJOHN JOHNNY TWIST MIGHTY JOE YOUNG EDDIE SHAW CAREY BELL LUCILE SPANN JIMMY ROGERS CHICAGO SLIM CHARLES FORD BAND 
America's great traditional artists 
JUKE BOY BONNE·R 
Thomas J. Radai, Jr. 
BLUES MGT. GROUP 
26_13 South 51st Street Milwaukee, Wis. 53219 
(414) 321-0188 






