INDEX TO ADVERTISERS
At Max AdUen, Co.
Adler's, Max 2-20
American Telephone & Tel. ........—	23
Arrow Shirts ............................    20
Block Bros. .....................     22
Bookshop, The ______________________ 16
Bookstore, Notre Dame  .............Il— 21
Boston Shoe.......................... 17
Burke ______________________________ 16
All Wool
Glove and Muffler Sets $35°
Warm, woolly gloves and mufflers—in a sturdily masculine knit. All colors—gloves and mufflers to match.
Bruggners ........................   22
Cain .........................       22
Chesterfield ______________ Back Cover
Coca-Cola ........................... 19
Ellsworth's _________________________ 16
Grundy, Dr. O. J. ________________   22
- Hans-Rintzsch ....................... 17
Longines _____________:______________ 18
Lower ..........................     22
Lucas, Dr. Robert __________________ 22
Makielski ........................   22
Marvins  16
Parker-Winterrowd ________________   15
Probst, Dr. ________________________ 22
Rose Dental Group..................  22
Singler, Dr. ----------------------- 22
South Bend X-Ray____________________ 22
South Shore Railroad ............    21
Stamp Shop, The _____________________ 22
Williams, The Florist ______________ 15
Wool	. $1 awl up
MTK CDRWK... MKIWMI ( W6MMM
SCHOLASTIC SUBSCRIPTIONS
Any civilian student regularly enrolled at Notre Dame is ipso facto a subscriber to the SCHOLASTIC and the subscription price is included in the general tuition fee.
Subscriptions may be ordered at the Publications Office in the Main Building for anyone outside the University by any student. The price of the subscription is one dollar per semester, mailed to any part of the United States.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 86
NOVEMBER 30, 1945
NO. 3
TWO SEMI-FORMALS PROVIDE
NROTC. V-12 Dance
FESTIVE WEEKEND FOR N. D. MEN
It’s a social double-bill this weekend for Notre Dame students. The festivities start tonight with the Veterans’ Semi-formal Ball at the Palais Royale, and Saturday night it’s “on to St. Mary’s” for their* Charity Ball.
And the horn doesn’t blow at midnight tonight. For the merrymakers at the Vets’ Ball the dance continues until 1:00 a. m., and then one whole hour to escort the dates home and make that mad dash for the campus.
Cavorting around the dance floor, in addition to the civvies who not long ago were in uniform, will be the civvies who will soon go into uniform and the excivvies of the Notre Dame Naval Unit. The R. O.’s and V-12’s have been granted 2 a. m. liberty to make it an all-University affair.
Bob Olcese, trumpeter for Louis Prima before he forsook the nightclub circuit for Notre Dame’s halls of learning, and his twelve Cavaliers will play music soft and sweet in the Palais Royale’s dimly-lighted ballroom. For those who like their music hot, during the intermission a sextet will play jive that will make the place jump.
Wending his way through the dancing couples will be the discerning photographer ready to record some memorable
oNe
moments that will serve to retain memories of the occasion.
Tonight’s dance will serve very well as a pre-Victory celebration in preparation for the game with Great Lakes tomorrow, and the Charity Ball will be the ideal victory dance.
Some of the students are importing girls for the dance, but the St. Maryites and South Bend’s belles are being given the big rush by most of the students.
The extended and gala weekend gets the go-ahead signal at 9:00 p. m. tonight with the Cavaliers’ opening number. After the playing of the Victory March at 1:00 the students will fortify themselves with a short rest, take the intervening Saturday morning classes in stride, and then take up partners again at the Charity Ball.
The first dance of the current term sponsored by the NROTC, V-12, and V-5 units here at Notre Dame, will take place next Saturday night in the Rockne Memorial. The music, provided by Jack Francois and his Anchormen, will start at 8:00 and last until 11:30.
In addition to the dancing, there will be a floor show given by members of the units. Al D’Lonzo, noted for his comic interpretations, will be one of the performers. J. W. Miller, a former V-12 trainee here, will demonstrate his own “boogie woogie” style on the piano. The singing will be ably handled by Carl Erickson and a barber shop harmonyquartet, while A. Meli will give his imitation of Bonnie Baker and Danny Kaye.
There is no admission and all members of the units, as well as officers, ships company, and their guests are invited.
A Winter Carnival
There is going to be a Sunday afternoon when we will all be “eligible” to go over to St. Mary’s. It will be about the middle of January.
Big doings are in the making. Our collegiate sisters are planning a big Winter Carnival—ice skating (on the private fish pond over there)’, supper (we think you will have to buy a ticket), dancing (if you can squeeze your way onto the floor), and “all the trimmings” (to quote the note we have on the affair).
Our not-too-thorough understanding of the situation has it that men on the campus wanting to go should make a connection and get himself invited. “Invitation by date only” (to further quote the notice) are the plans of the committee.
(EDITOR'S NOTE: The vicious rumor that the University student body would be restricted all this weekend because of the flu epidemic reached our office just as we were going to press with this page. H the rumor pans out don't, say we didn't tell you. 11 it doesn't we needed to fill this space anyway.)
3
^he ^Notre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus ~FOTnHX>ED 1867
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS
•HiiiiiiiiiitiitiiittttiuiiiiitiniiitttiiiitttiiitiitiiiiiiiiiamiBiitittiiitfiiiiitniiitaiiiiHHiiittiiiiitmittiiiiii
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -GEORGE COLLINS PAUL WEYRAUCH james f. McCarthy
-	Managing	Editor
Navy	Associate	Editor
-	Sports	Editor
-	Feature	Editor
COLUM N I S T S
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI ----- The Crow’s Nest ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN - - - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART ----- The Green Banner PHIL CORBOY ------- Splinters ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLA VICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN
RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG
FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN
JAMES FERSTEL -	-	-	- Photography
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-	_ Circulation Manager
REV. PAUL BEICHNER, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
ADVERTISING -	-	-	- Publications Office
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
There’s a quaint custom in vogue at Ohio State (we hear that it is used at other colleges too). It seems that on the Wednesday following an out-of-town game movies of that game are shown to the student body for a slight fee. How’s it that we have no such custom on our campus? You can’t tell us that the South Bend movie houses have the rights to these reels sewed up too!
★
An ad in the Purdue Exponent recently called for some student who held an Illinois and Indiana embalmer’s license. Indiana didn’t roll over and play dead, however, to Purdue’s chagrin.
★
The Georgetown Hoya contributes this one: A Chinese student at Georgetown found himself locked out of his room. He called the night switchboard operator and said, “I am Chinese. I live in New North. I am outside of room. Key inside. I should be where key is. Please!”
The Butler Collegian says that it’s not that girls are spoiled today; no, it’s simply the perfume they wear.
. ★
The Kansas U. Daily prints an item that the Natural History Museum has purchased a kettle once used by the Navy to cook beans. Now it will be used to boil skeletons before mounting.—We presume from the taste of the soup here lately.that the N. D. Dining Hall has purchased the old skeleton kettle that the Museum used. Quick, Henry, my Listerine!
Girl to 0. A. 0.—I didn’t say that it was a small diamond. I just said that it looked as though it were paid for.—New Rochelle Tatler.
is
Marietta College (Ohio) has come up with a new wrinkle. They now have a co-ed fraternity. (Or is it sorority?) For the benefit of all students transferring to Marietta, a special train has been assembled.
★
For the first hockey practice of the year at Minnesota, 64 candidates turned out. With all that manpower available, there should be no truth to the rumor that the Gophers have refused an invitation down to Lake Marion to play the St. Mary’s sextet during the Winter Carnival.
★
We have heard rumors of sportswriters having trouble coping with the names of the Fighting Irishmen, Dancewicz, Mieszkowski, and Mastrangelo. Pity the poor chaps who have to cover the Carnegie Tech soccer games this year. The two mainstays of the Tartar forward line are Resat Aynogin and Neuzat Erkin, a duo of “terrible Turks.”
★
“Sir, I believe that you are trying to kiss me!”
“Well, now that you know, suppose that we quit assaulting each other and cooperate a bit.”
—Annapolis Log
★
A motor journal says that the $200 car is bound to come. The question is—will it go?
—Queen’s Journal

Notre Dame and the Atomic Bomb
With the return to the faculty of Dr. Bernard Waldman, Notre Dame physicist who was released for special government research and who was one of the scientists who flew over Hiroshima to study the effects of the atomic bomb, attention is again focused on Notre Dame’s part in this world phenomenon. Kev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, at the recent quarterly meeting of the Alumni Board, stressed the hope of the University for peace-time development of the principle rather than its devastating use as a weapon of war.
Concerning the atomic bomb and Notre Dame’s part in it, the following text was released by the University publicity department:
“The world of tomorrow can look forward to limitless peacetime possibilities of atomic energy such as is used in the new devastating atomic bomb which has just been unloosed upon Japan, according to Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the graduate school of the University of Notre Dame, in commenting upon the University’s contribution in the atomic research that has led to the development of the bomb.
“The United States Government has clamped a lid of secrecy upon the Notre Dame activities in connection with the atomic research, but Father Moore said that while the University’s facilities were not used in the development of the atomic bomb itself, our research facilities played an important part in the unlocking of the riddle of the atom.
“Three other Notre Dame men, in addition to Father Moore, have been highly instrumental in the atomic research program at the University. They are: Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Physics at Notre Dame; Dr. Marcellus Wiedenbeck, who completed his graduate work at Notre Dame; and Dr. Bernard Waldman.
“Although Father Moore and his associates are not permitted to disclose the methods which they used in their contribution to the atomic project, on which thousands of scientists all over the country have been working at a cost of more than $2,000,000,000, it is a fact that before the war Notre Dame was completing the construction of a mammoth electrostatic generator capable of bombarding atoms with 8,000,000 volts of electricity.
“In pointing out tremendous postwarapplications to atomic energy, Doctor Wiedenbeck revealed that if the atomic energy stored in a thimble full of water-
should be converted into energy, the resulting power could run a 20-horsepower engine, or a small automobile, for the next 2,000 years. Moreover, he revealed, less than a quart of water conceivably would be the only fuel needed to power a giant ocean liner—the Queen Mary, for instance—on a voyage around the world.
“In the field of power alone, emphasized Dr. Wiedenbeck, the release of energy from atoms is so far-reaching that it simply staggers the imagination. Power would be practically without value; a new social and economic order would have to be constructed. But power would be only one of the postwar applications. It would seem that a vast quantity of new radio-active substances will be made available for the treatment of such malignant diseases as cancer. Such substances would enormously increase our limited supplies of radium and would be far cheaper.
“One of the most important parts of
The Notre Dame Electrostatic Generator
developing atomic energy, Father Moore stated, was the development of the knowledge of how to control the process. Without control, he said, production of atomic energy would be useless. ‘And it is only natural that Notre Dame should be interested in atomic research. As a center of scientific research, the University became interested in this problem and installed unique facilities. After the war started, it continued its research.’
“The University of Notre Dame, then, played an important part in the research leading to the development of the atomic bomb. But scientists at the University are going even further; they are continuing their research in the energydevelopment and controls toward a better peacetime era.”
No After-Effects From A Bomb—Dr. Waldman
People visiting the area of the atomic bombings in Japan today are in no danger from effects of the bombs, Dr. Bernard Waldman, assistant professor of physics, told a large audience of members, friends, faculty and students at a combined meeting of the Engineer Club of South Bend and the Institute of .Radio Engineers in the Navy drill hall recently.
Dr. Waldman pointed out that while persons within 2 miles of the sites at the actual time of the bombings were affected by the x-ray effects of the bomb as it exploded, there is no foundation to the rumors that persons visiting the areas several weeks or months afterward were aflected by the rays.
The Notre Dame professor, who was one of six United States scientists who witnessed the bombing of Hiroshima and who was on leave of absence from the University until November 1st on Government research relative to the bomb, described the manner in which the atomic bomb is different from ordinary bombs.
He declared that the atomic bomb has, besides the forces of an ordinary bomb multiplied many times, a tremendous heat, which melted the sands in New Mexico during tests; it also sends out a tremendous burst of X-rays which are probably lethal for 2 miles.
Dr. Waldman expressed the belief that within the next 10 years large power plants might be operated through the use of atomic energy.
In his talk, he also agreed with-the decision of the Allied Powers in controlling the secret of the atomic bomb and stressed that a freedom of research is necessary in dealing with the use of atomic energy.
“We must continue fundamental research,” stated Dr. Waldman. “It must continue unhampered. That is a thing we scientists are fighting for.” Speaking of the bomb’s diplomatic importance, he said that we have no secret in the true sense of the word. “But we have a head start on the other countries. Knowledge of the bomb secrets should be made available to all the world, but under definite restrictions. We can pass them on to other nations who comply with certain qualifications.” Mr. Waldman said if we fail tb^rdo this we are letting ourselves in for ah armament race with the atomic bomb as the weapon. “You only have to see what a horrible thing it is.” He set
(Continued on page 16)	’	'
S
Know7
Well fellows, to know your Notre Dame we are running this schedule of the hours of the various offices and stores on the campus. We feel that this will be of help to you throughout the semester. So why not clip this column out and put it next to your best girl’s picture.
The hours of the offices located in the Administration building are as follows:
Mon. through Fri. 9 A.M.-11 A.M. and
2 P.M.-4 P.M.
Director of Studies (Fr. Kenna, C.S.C.) Prefect of Discipline (Fr. Kehoe, C.S.C.) Registrar (Fr. Connerton, C.S.C.)
Mon. through Fri. 8 A.M.-12 N. and 1 P.M.-4:30 PM
Director of Students’ Accounts (Miss Ann Stroyna) Director of Veteran Affairs (Fr. Lane, C.S.C.) Personnel Records
(Mr. McAuliffe) Publications Office (Fr. Beichner, C.S.C.) Publicity Office (Mr. Kennedy)
Right about here it would be nice to take our stomachs into consideration. The Huddle is open on Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. and on Saturday until 12:30 p.m. The Caf is ready for you from 8:30 a.m. to 9 p.m. every day of the week.
The Bookstore in Badin Hall—where you can get virtually everything you need in class or your room—is open on weekdays from 8 a.m. until 4:15 p.m. and on Saturdays until 1 p.m.
New if it’s recreation you are seeking (And who has any time for play?) your
Your NOTRE DAME
various likes can be suited. From Monday to Saturday, at periods from 9 a.m. to 12, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m., and from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. you can play to your heart’s content at billiards, pool, ping-pong, or the telephone booths in the “Rec” room in Washington Hall. For the more athletic type we have the Rockne Memorial. The building is open from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. The evening swimming period extends from 7:15 to 8:30, and the swimming and other sports can be had on Saturdays from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. and on Sundays from 1 to 4:30 p.m.
For that outside reading, or reference work you can get that help at the University library. It is open on Monday
through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m., Saturdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday morning from 10 to 12. For that bit of pleasure reading we suggest you visit the Cavanaugh reading room, which is open every night, except Sunday, from 7:15 to 9:30 p.m.
Speaking of help, we know one place where you can receive a good bit of advice and a possible solution to your problem. The place is the office of the Prefect of Religion and his assistant. Father Craddick has his hours all morning, 7:30 to 10 at night, and by appointment. Father Simonitsch has the same office hours except in the morning, when you can find him in between the hours of 7:30 and 9.
—Paul Abraham & Gerard Hekker
500 New Students Get Library Cards
Over 500 library cards were issued to new students at the Notre Dame Library during the first three weeks of the Winter Semester; less than 150 were given out at the opening of the Summer-session.
. Mr. William Setty, in charge of distribution, said that the 500 figure does not include approximately 75 cards given to returning servicemen whose old cards were found in the files.
Most popular books among the 400 ex-GI’s on the campus are oddly those relating to current war stories. Many want to find out what they were fighting for, according to Mr. Setty.
In the religious field, Theodore Maynard’s life of Mother Cabrini, Too Small a World, and Sister Mary Eleanore’s story of the Blessed Virgin, Mary, are most widely read.
Bennett Cerf’s Try and Stop Me, Bruce Marshall’s The World, the Flesh, and Father Smith, Louis Bromfield’s Pleasant Valley, and Elizabeth Goudge’s Green Dolphin Street are tops with students in the popular field.
Navy Christmas Leave
Comdr. George Hutchinson, Executive Officer, announced today that the Christmas leave for the Navy trainees would begin at noon, December 22, and will end at midnight, December 30.
MASS CLUB CALENDAR
FRIDAY. Nov. 30
The Vigilary (Matins and Lauds of the Divine Office) will be recited in English tonight in the Cavanaugh hall chapel at 7:15 in preparation for the Mass of the First Sunday of Advent.
SATURDAY. Dec. 1
Dialogue Mass for Mass Club members and all others interested tomorrow morning in the Blessed Virgin Chapel (behind the main altar) in Sacred Heart Church at 6:50 sharp.
SUNDAY. Dec. 2
Meeting of the Mass Club Sunday morning at 11:00 in the Architecture building library.
ALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN THE LITURGY ARE INVITED TO PARTICIPATE IN THESE MEETINGS AND JOIN THE MASS CLUB.
S
LIEUT. E. W. BOWMAN-COURSE OFFICER
By JUSTIN CICCONETTI
(This is another in a series of articles on the officers attached to the Naval unit at Notre Dame which The SCHOLASTIC is presenting especially for the navy subscribers.)
Lieut. E. W. Bowman came to Notre Dame in March 1945. Upon arriving here he assumed the duties of course officer for the NROTC and V-12 units. He was later appointed a member of the academic board.
At Spokane, Wash., in December 1942, Lieut. Bowman was commissioned a Lieut, (jg). In February, 1943 he reported to the University of Arizona at Tucson for indoctrination training. From that city he went to Columbia University for further training, and in June 1943 was assigned to Illinois State Nor-nal University at Normal, Ill., where he served as executive officer of the V-12 unit. Lieut. Bowman was attached to this unit until March 1945, at which time he was transferred to the University of Notre Dame, replacing Lieut. J. L. Beatty.
As course officer of the naval units here, Lieut. Bowman advises the trainees as to the courses which must be taken in order to comply with the NROTC and V-12 curricula as outlined by the Navy Department. He also aids the men in choosing those courses which would be of most use to them in their major field.
In civilian life Lieut. Bowman was superintendent of a consolidated school in Rockford, Wash., and before that he taught at the North Idaho Junior College in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho. At one time he was an infantryman in the National Guard but he is thoroughly convinced that a naval career has more merits than a career in the infantry.
Lieut. Bowman is interested in amateur photography. He is also a firm believer in athletics, with basketball and baseball at the top of his list. While in high school and later at the University of Idaho, Lieut. Bowman played basketball and baseball, both equally well.
Lieut. Bowman is a native of the west coast, naming Rockford, Wash., as his home town. After he receives that coveted “homing pigeon,” he intends to return to the teaching profession.
It is Lieut. Bowman’s firm belief that his son, Eugene, Jr., who is almost one year old, has the makings of a potential quarterback. Another cause for pride is his four-year-old daughter, Virginia Ann. At present Lieut. Bowman and his family reside at 1738 Marine Street in South Bend.	.
Lieut E. W. Bowman
Notre Dame Publishes
Albert Zahm Booklet
“Early Powei-plane Fathers,” by Albert F. Zahm, a brochure dealing with the contributions to aviation by three 19th century ail- enthusiasts; has been published by the University Press. Subtitled “Henson, Goupil, Ader,” the treatise outlines the work of these three men and also discusses the claim of Gustave Whitehead of having been the first man to fly with petroleum power.
The author of the volume received his science degree from Notre Dame in 1883, and has gained an international reputation in the field of aeronautical science. He received his master of science degree in 1890 from Cornell University, and was made a doctor of philosophy by Johns Hopkins University in 1898. While a student at Notre Dame, he first became interested in scientific research and experiments as relates to aeronautics, and upon graduation he remained as professor of mathematics.
Father Arthur J. Hope, in his book “Notre Dame—One Hundred Years,” relates that Dr. Zahm, performed his first experiments in Old Science Hall in 1880. He built flying models and “developed gliders capable of steady and stable flight when launched freely.” With a shop assistant, “he made flights about the museum to test the merits of various kinds of propellers.”
In the later eighties, according to Father Hope, Dr. Zahm built a man
carrying glider and used it for short flights at night on the senior campus. Later, he launched gliders from the roof of Science Hall.
During his final year at the University, he organized with Octave Chanute America’s first International Aeronautic Congress at Chicago and presented scientific papers before various groups. Since 1929, he has been chief of the Division of Aeronautics (Guggenheim), Library of Congress.
In “Early Powerplane Fathers,” Dr. Zahm names William Samuel Henson, an Englishman, as the original inventor of the true airplane. Previous flights reported by other men were made in gliders without automotive power, and thus, can not be classed as airplar^ Dr. Zahm says.	I
Dr. Zahm then proceeds to list the six elementary devices which Henson developed and describes in detail Henson’s ideas from patent texts and drawings. Herison never built the plane, but patented it and, according to Dr. Zahm, had “very good patent drawings to clarify his claims.”
Alexander Goupil, native of France, added ailerons to Henson’s developments and thus “the aerodynamic invention of the airplane was fairly complete,” Dr. Zahm points out. Goupil’s invention included a control system comprising rudder, elevator and a pair of ailerons. In the jargon of aeronaut, Goupil’s system is known as “three torque airplane control.”
While Henson and Goupil thus invented the airplane and necessary improvements, it was Clement Ader, another Frenchman, who first flew a powerplane. Dr. Zahm’s articles says Ader used a three-wheel steam monoplane in “fully ’ sustained” flight for a distance of 164 feet in 1890. Ader successively developed three monoplanes and piloted each on short trips before witnesses.
In reviewing the claims of Whitehead as the first to fly on petrol, Dr. Zahm quotes in its entirety a letter Whitehead sent to the editor of an American scientific magazine in which Whitehead states his claim and backs it up with evidence.
Dr. Zahm’s text is written in the technical language of the aeronautical scientist and is illustrated with pictures of the men mentioned, several sketches and pictures of their planes and a sketch of one of Ader’s flights.
In recognition of his accomplishments, Notre Dame presented Dr. Zahm with the Laetare Medal in 1925.
T
INTRODUCING THE GLEE CLUB OFFICERS
At a meeting held at the end of last semester, the Glee Club elected its officers for the coming term. John W. Owens was elected president; Barney Slater, vice-president; James Greene, publicity manager; and John R. Boyes and Robert Schneider were re-elected librarian and secretary, respectively.
Jack Owens, the new president, is a member of the N.R.O.T.C. and resides in Lyons Hall. He is a Junior in the College of Commerce and has sung in the Glee Club for four semesters. John’s home is in Ferguson, Mo. A lover of all forms of music, he particularly likes to organize, and sing with, quai-tettes. As liaison officer between the Glee Club and the Navy officials, he has been responsible for arranging leave for the Navy members to engage in concerts.
Bernard J. Slater of Sharon, Pa., is the senior member of the Glee Club. This semester, his 11th in the Club, he is serving as vice-president. Barney has spent six years on the campus, two in A.B. and four in Architecture. He will graduate in June. His room in Alumni Hall is well decorated with his drawings, including the one which was entered in the Beaux Arts National Student competition and which won for him the Speiring Prize of 1945.
Robert Schneider, the Glee Club secretary, is enrolled in the Department of Music, majoring in piano. He has been
at Notre Dame for three years and has been in the Glee Club for four semesters. Bob, who lives in New York City, is also a member of the Band and the Symphony Orchestra, in which he plays the drums. He is active in the Knights of Columbus and his campus residence is in Alumni Hall.
John Robert Boyes of Long Beach, Calif., fulfills the post of librarian in the Glee Club. Like Bob Schneider, he is in the Department of Music, majoring in music education. John, who lives in Breen-Phillips'Hall, is now in his second semester at Notre Dame and his second in the Glee Club. An excellent trombone player, he is also a member of the Band and the Symphony Orchestra.
James Greene is the publicity manager of the Glee Club. A second semester student in the College of Commerce, his home is in St. John’s, Newfoundland. Jim is also a member of the Wranglers and Catholic Action and a contributor to the Scholastic. This is his second semester in the Glee Club and he resides in Breen-Phillips Hall, the roommate of John Boyes.
The Notre Dame Glee Club is an organization which now has over 90 members. The preparations for this semester’s concerts are well under way, directed by Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke, B.Mus., F.A.G.O., head of the Department of Music.
K. of C. Elect Robert Sullivan Grand Knight
At the council meeting held Tuesday of this week, the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus elected Robert Sullivan of Helena, Mont., to the position of Grand Knight. He succeeds Joseph T. Kivlin, Jr., who was called to the army early this month.
Business handled at the meeting included the appointment of William Schmid as chairman of the grand opening planned for the time when the Knights return to the council chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall. The club rooms are being readied for the return and present plans call for. the grand opening to take place on Tuesday evening, December 11.
The new grand gnight is no newcomer at the Notre Dame K. of C. He served as grand knight of the council when he was a student here before the war.
An informal gathering has been called by Grand Knight Sullivan for Tuesday evening, December 4. This affair will be held in the council chambers of the South Bend Knights of Columbus, and will serve to acquaint the members with the new Grand Knight who promises to restore the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus to their pre-war- position as “The Century Club” of the campus.
On Sunday, December 9, the first three degrees of the initiation into the Knights of Columbus will be held in South Bend. The rituals will start before noon and those planning to enter the organization should make arrangements accordingly. William McShay, Council recording secretary, will notify those men who have submitted applications of the details of the initiations as soon as information is available. Anyone wishing to consult McShay can contact him on the second floor of Walsh Hall.
Notre Dame Polish Club
A meeting has been set for Monday evening, December 10, for all students on the Notre Dame campus who are interested in becoming members of a Polish L Club. The Rev. Stanislaus Li-sewski, C.S.C., will be the moderator of the club.
A student need not be of Polish descent to join the club. Membership is open to “all those interested in Polish culture.”
The meeting on December 10 will be held in the Law Building and will begin at 7:30 p. m.
4
Business Is Booming in Notre Dame Infirmary
By BILL PFAFF
If any branch of the University has been making expenses during the past few weeks, it is the infirmary.
“Beezness, she has been wonderful!” These are not the words the nurses and sisters might use but they adequately cover the situation. The infirmary, which has a capacity of 80, is full. The daily schedule recently has been about 25 in and 25 out. With the aid of a comptometer we thus deduce that about
430 students, or about one-sixth of the school have come down with flu at some time during the past two weeks. Then, somewhere around half of the “healthy” studes have been just as sick, but have not sought admission to the infirmary.
This hike in infirmary business means that in the period of our little epidemic, the nurses have served the patients about 50,400 pills. We are absolutely serious about this number—figure it out for yourself! Fifteen pills per mealtime
per patient. As the diet of the infirmary is chiefly liquid (tea, soup, tea, milk, tea, orange juice, tea, jello, tea, custard, and of course, tea), some 3,360 quarts of fluid have been served. (That’s more fluid in one spot than most of the boys in the NROTC have ever seen; but don’t take me seriously, fellows.)
To sum the whole thing up, we have come up with the worst pun of the month—Notre Dame has simply gone “fluey” the past two weeks.
"Spirit of Badin" Unveiled as Veterans Resume Studies on Notre Dame Campus
The glory of Badin Hall has come to life after being dormant for three years of war. Once again a civilian hall, Notre Dame spirit has blossomed forth as returning veterans, old and new, take up the serious business of education and readjustment.
The jargon of the boys is still mostly G.I. They “Hit the deck” in the A.M., “Fall out for chow,” and get all the “Sack time” possible, all in the course of a day’s work.
Of the returning veterans in Badin, there is at least one who has visited any named city, country, or island in the world, while serving in the armed forces, and there are many who have seen action with every branch of the service.
Medals for meritorious service and bravery are numerous but are never spoken of boastfully. The Purple Heart is the most abundant; the Air Medal is second.
Bull sessions are frequent, and though sometimes not very eloquent, hold the attention of the listener until the last round has been fired. By now all the residents know each other, at least by their first or last name, and a cheery, “Howdy Buddy” can be heard most any time in and around the hall as the boys meet each other to and from classes.
Griping is the favorite indoor sport next to bull session, and is done in great abundance to “the good Padre,” whose friendly and easy going reply clears the difficulty up in a matter of minutes. Padre’s office is always open to the boys and is usually the scene of many friendly
9
“The girls around here are biased."
“Yeah, buy us this and buy us that until
I'm broke."
visits or serious conversations.
The first real group achievement of the men of Badin was the task of completing the hall chapel. About 15 men gave up their weekend trip to the Northwestern game to paint and tidy up the chapel so that it would be in order for Mass on the following Monday. A good word from the rector was the only compensation that the boys would take for their efforts, and this sort of spirit has lighted a fire of loyalty to the hall in many ways.
At present, a basketball team is being formed that wil give all comers a rough and tough go. Notre Dame is proud to have you back, vets — artists, writers, athletes, musicians and just plain Joes, all living together to bring to life once more The Glory of Badin.
QfieeM.
By JACK STEWART
THIS WEEKEND
There is no room, other than disciplinary or financial, why all you fellows won’t be at the Vets’ Dance tonight. For some of you it will be just like home, being able to stay out till 2 a.m., and for some of the other it will be a novelty. The ticket is only $1.80, and the success of this dance will have a bearing on the number and success of other dances. There certainly should be no difficulty in getting a date in this town with its aggressive lassies.
OF MICE AND MEN
Wonder what Dick Brose and Fred Jones are doing for hobbies now that they have left Walsh? One night the big game hunters trapped ten mice. Jones had been eating cheese and was waiting for them with baited breath.
ETYMOLOGY IN VERSE
The Sultan got sore at his harem, And invented a scheme to scare ’em;
He caught him a mouse Which he loosed in the house (The confusion is called harem-scarem.)
❖ NO DOUBT
Tom Martin, when asked what Paul Revere said at the end of his midnight ride, substituted a knowledge of horsemanship for that of American history by announcing: “Paul Revere said, ‘Whoa!’”
MISTAKEN IDENTITY
Bob Bachelor loves to tell about the football games he and “Philly Willy” Meehan used to referee for some local grade schools here in South Bend. It seems that Willy had ot wear a striped shirt so the grammar school athletes wouldn’t get confused with their own players. Bachelor didn’t need one because he was the only one there with red hair.
*
TETE-A-TETE
Huddled close together over a small table in the Town Club the other evening, Jim Brisbois and his (?) Norma were chatting. Gradually the subject took a personal turn and Norma asked Jim, “Do you love me?” Jim slyly said, “Yes, dear.” But still she wasn’t satisfied and countered with “Would you die for me, Jim?”
“No, mine is an undying love,” said gallant Jim.
FAMILIAR SIGHT
“The Kalamazoo Kibitzer,” George Kennard, looking in rooms, halls and hotel, in the cafe, in the music hall, in George’s, under tables, and in the bus station for Culver, and asking: “Have you seen FrankSnyder?”
“Ask old Chuck,” we don’t know.
BY SOLITARY DEMAND
Call me Francis Bacon. That's my pen name.
Two blows for Dick Gottsacker, Dick Gottsacker. Happy now?
❖
QUIZ FOR JOHNNY DEE
Who are your friends who always ask, “Remember when we were in -------?”
Maybe Al Whittingham or Leo Murphy can tell you.
❖
CHARITY BALL
By definition “charity” is Christian love. We are Christians, and so have Christian love, which is charity. By virtue of that there will be some 200-odd fellows and girls at S.M.C. tomorrow night. With that crowd the clinches will be legitimate, and the punch refreshing. Have fun!
La hiere est tres bonne.—Descartes.
10
Shillelagh
“A great man’s path is strewn zvith the things he has learned to do without.”
—Phillip Brooks
PRELUDE:
To translate what is in our gendered hearts tonight requires a deeper knowledge of words than actually bespeaks us. But somehow or other some inscrutable, impelling force—which we cannot understand, but which we blindly obey—hurries us onward to answer- the requestletter (of a pretty young Miss) who -petitioned us to pen a “Dorian Gray” letter. We shall comply with her wish, gladly. We know, however, that such a diabolical letter is written only in fun, and hope consequently that its contents won’t be taken seriously. Those students still in their intellectual rompers, please take special notice that the following is a “Dorian Gray” letter.
Worthy and gentle reader,
We dedicate this little letter to thee with many fears and misgivings of heart. Being a total stranger to thee, and having never administered to thy wants, nor to thy pleasures, we can ask nothing at thy hands saving the common courtesy of a tender understanding throughout the Satanic column.
Now, that we have introduced our pen to you, let it be fully known that your missive (clothed in beautiful rhetoric) contributed some specific value to our mental and emotional equipment. It had the intoxicating effect of transforming us into creatures of rare sensibilities. It reacted upon our emotions like sparkling Burgundy and Strauss music. The vagaries of the creative mind actually came forth within our highly enigmatic souls.
Yes, my dear, your soft, touching words (like those of an enchanting siren) moved us further for the search of truth and a deeper thirst for reality itself. . . . Dost thou comprehend? Huh?
It has been silently rumored (from those that know you) that you have a wonderfully beautiful face. Don’t frown, my dear, for we believe them. And beauty is a form of genius—indeed, higher than genius, as it needs no explanation.
It is of the great facts of the world, like sunlight, or springtime, or the reflection in dark waters of that silver shell we call the moon. It cannot be questioned. It has its divine right to existence. It makes angelic creatures of
those who have it. Perhaps you smile? Ah! When you have lost your youth you won’t smile. ... To us, beauty is the wonder of wonders. The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible. . . . Yes, my dear, the gods have been good to you. But what the gods give, they quickly take away. You have only a few years in which to really live— perfectly, and fully. When your youth goes, youi- beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there are no triumphs left for you, and will have to content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your past wil make more bitter than defeats. Every month as it wanes brings you nearer to something dreadful. Time is jealous of you, and wars against your lilies and your roses. You will become sallow and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed. You will sulf er horribly. . . . Ah! realize your youth while you have it. Don’t squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying to improve the hopeless failure, or giving your life away to the ignorant, the common, and the vulgar. These are the sickly aims, the false ideals of our age. Live! live the wonderful life that is in you! Let nothing be lost upon you. Be always searching for new thoughts, and experiences.
As you perhaps know, man is the creature of interest and ambition. His nature leads him forth into the struggle and bustle of the world. Love is but the embellishment of his early life, or a song piped in the intervals of the acts. He seeks for fame, for fortune, for space in the world’s thought, and dominion over his fellow-men. But a woman’s whole life is the history of the affections.
The heart is her world; it is there her ambition strives for empire—it is there her avarice seeks for higher treasures. She sends forth her sympathies on adventure. She embarks her whole soul on the sea of affection, and if ship-wrecked, her case is hopeless—for it is a bankruptcy of the heart.
But this must never happen to you, my dear. Be afraid of nothing. . . . With your looks and form, there is nothing you could not do. The world belongs to you for a season.
The moment we perused your letter we saw immediately that you were quite unconscious of what you really are, of what you really might be. There was so
much in the letter that charmed us that we felt that we must tell you something about yourself.
We thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted. For there is such a little time that your youth will last— such a little time. The common hillflowers wither, but they blossom again. But we never get back our youth.
The aim of life is self-development. To realize one’s nature perfectly—that is what each of us is here for. People are afraid of themselves nowadays. Cour-
Dorian Gray and the evolving portrait
age has gone out of our race. The terror of society, which is the basis of morals, is the thing that governs us. And, if one man were to live out his life fully and completely, were to give form to every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream, the world would gain a rare creature. To quote Dorian Gray himself in support of himself, “The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for the things it has forbidden to itself, with desires for what its monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful.”
With these words, and with a polite bow, we will humbly take leave of you. Let our warmth, like sunlight, surround you and yet give you illumined freedom.
.	—Dorian Gray.
NOTICE TO THE GREEN BANNER
Those of us who know Art “The sun god” Mosher violently deny his ever having sung “You Are My Sunshine” at the solarium. . . . The simple reason being (Continued on page 23)
11
Irish Close Season Tomorrow at Great Lakes; Will Play Rubber Game in 27-Year Old Series
The nation’s most colorful wartime football rivalry, Notre Dame and Great Lakes, will be renewed for the last time on Constitution Field, at the Naval Training Station, Saturday afternoon. This, the fifth game between the two elevens, will also mark the final 1945 appearance of the surprising Notre Dame team, coached by Hugh Devore.
A generation ago, 1918 to be exact, Notre Dame and Great Lakes fought to a 7 to 7 tie. That was during World War I. During the Second World War, Great Lakes and Notre Dame met three times —one victory apiece and on? tie. At Soldier’s Field, Chicago, in 1942, Notre Dame rallied in the second half to tie the Sailors, 13 to 13. The 1943 game will never be forgotten. Undefeated Notre Dame was given its only setback of the season when in the final minutes of play, a Great Lakes pass clicked for a score and a 19 to 14 victory. Last year in Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish won a 28 to 7 snow game. Thus, the 1945 game will be the rubber match of the rivalry. With due respect to Great Lakes, everyone hopes that this will be the final game between the two teams, at least under the circumstances of past games—namely, war.
Notre Dame closed its intercollegiate competition by winning a hard fought game from Tulane last week, 32 to 6. Devore again showed that the Irish do have reserve strength to burn when fourth string quarterback, Frank Tripucka, passed to John Agnone for a touchdown in the final 35 seconds of the game. Terry Brennan showed up well again and is slated for plenty of action against the Bluejackets. Elmer Angsman has been the team’s leading ground gainer all season, even without 11 teeth. Great Lakes will be keyed for the Irish, as al-
THE FOOTBALL ISSUE
Next Friday, December 7, the SCHOLASTIC will present the bi? Football Issue. This very special edition of SCHOLASTIC will be devoted entirely to the Notre Dame football team of 1945.
Realizing that many of the students will want to present some of their friends with one of these magazines, we are printing a number of extra copies which will be placed on sale in the cafeteria and the bookstore for the nominal price of twenty-five cents.
NOTRE DAME VS. GREAT LAKES
Probable Starting Lineups
Notre Dame	Great Lakes
Dick Cronin (205).......LE....BH1 O’Connor	(200)
Ed Mieszkowski (205)----LT.....Jos Stall	(200)
John Mastrangelo (200)	LG_____Dave Foley	(192)
Bill Walsh (212)........C ..Marty Wendell	(185)
Fred Rovai (198)________.RG..Jean Lamoure	(195)
Pete Berezney (215)-----RT..Dean Widseth	(205)
Bill Leonard (195)______RE....Hurry Grant	(190)
Frank Dancewicz (180)....QB..George Terlep (167) Phil Colella (170)------LH.____G. Clemmer (180) Elmer Angsman (185)....RH Aschenbrennrr (ISO) Frank Ruggerio (200)___________FB_M. Motley (210) Referee—Rollie Barnum (Wisconsin) Field Judge—Bill Orwig (Michigan) Headlinesman—Archie Morrow (River Falls
Teachers)
Umpire—J. D. Marvil (Northwestern) Radio Broadcast—WSBT, South Bend (Joe Boland)
ways, and will be watching every move of Angsman, Dancewicz, or any Fighting Irishman, for that matter.
For Great Lakes, it will be similar to old home week since four team members previously played at Notre Dame. Marty Wendell, scheduled to the regular Irish fullback post at the start of the season before Navy transfer, has been playing his usual rugged defensive game at center for Lt. Paul Brown’s Sailors. Bill O’Connor, giant end, George Terlep, quarterback, and Bill Chandler, reserve halfback, saw action with the Irish last year. Around these men Brown has built a team that started slowly but now has blossomed into a mighty potent aggregation that has won their last five games. Marion Motley, negro fullback, was hampered by injuries in early games but has been sparkling on both offense and defense in recent games. Coach Brown has received a big lift with the improvement of some of his younger men such as Dave Foley and Dean Widseth. The latter is a nephew of the former Minnesota great. Halfback Frank Aschenbrenner, formerly of Marquette, has paced the team in scoring in the last five games with 11 touchdowns. Halfback Grover Klemmer holds the world record for 400 meters dash and is co-holder of the world’s 440 yard mark. This speed has been his greatest attribute as a football player for the Navy.
This game will be the final collegiate appearance for Captain Frank Dancewicz of Notre Dame. Technically, Frank has one year of eligibility remaining but he will graduate in June. His generalship ability, collectedness, and spirit have been one of the underlying factors in the success of the 1945 Notre Dame team.
Continue Interhall Practice Next Week
Practice sessions for the interhall basketball teams which started Monday, will continue at least one more week, Dr. John Scannell, head of the Physical
Basketball Squad Opens
Dec. 8th Aig<
An all-veteran Notre Dame basketball squad with a new coach, Elmer Ripley, will open its 1945-46 campaign in the fieldhouse Saturday, December 8, against the Camp Atterbury, Ind., “Attaboys.” The following Tuesday evening, December 11, Chanute Field, Ill., will bring j . its quintet to Notre Dame to meet the j Irish. Since the annual football issue	i '
will appear next week, the first two	।
Notre Dame basketball opponents are being introduced at this time.	; i ’
Camp Atterbury Post Athletic Officer,	I	’
Lt. Lee McKinney, is the coach of the	;	'
Attaboys. His quintet won their opening ’ ‘ game against Milroy, Ind., 47-44, and	.
followed with a 49-32 win over the	,	,
Greensburg, Ind. YMCA. In both of these games, Atterbury resorted to fre- 1 quent substitutions in an effort to find the most effective combination of play- 1 ers. S/Sgt. Leo Mogus, 6'-5" center has I. been the team’s leading scorer to date. i He played from 1939 through 1943 with	<
Youngstown College. In his senior year	1
he was the 14th ranking collegiate scorer 5 in the nation. He topped all players in 1 the scoring column at Ft. Benning, Ga., ( before going overseas. Last year in a »
12
i
Education Department, has announced. Dr. Scannell said that by the end of next week the department members will be ready to determine the opening date of the league.
Large turn-outs were on hand as the eight hall teams and the off-campus group worked out for the first time. The race for the league title is expected to be keenly contested. At this early date no team has been established as the favorite to walk off with top honors.
The league will be operated on a strict hall basis, Dr. Scannell asserted, but if an “overflow” league is conducted, it may be on an open basis. The . amount of interest being shown seems to assure another league for civilian students.
The winner of the civilian league will battle the winner of the NROTC league ? for the campus championship. All play' ers participating in the championship games will be awarded interhall medals.
ms Season
ugainst Camp Atterbury
1
| tournament in England, Mogus led all ‘ I scorers in a tournament of over 400
, teams. He received the Purple Heart in the European Theatre of Operations.
Along with Mogus, Atterbury boasts s of Pvt. Laurence “Deacon” Jones, regu-< lar center foi- Ed Diddle’s famed West! ern Kentucky College “five” last year. I This 6'-6" giant is now performing at ’ forward. Pvt. Bob O’Brien will open at . i forward along with Jones. Another tall ’ 1 boy, 6'-4", O’Brien played with Pepper-। dine College during the 1944-45 season.
Pepperdine won the collegiate champion> ship of Southern California. Pfc. Ed
Lyons and Pvt. Homer Bickers will be the Attaboy guards. Lyons is a former Temple player. He is 6'-2" tall. Bickers is a 5'-10" boy who played regularly with a very good Morehead State Teachers “five” in Kentucky.
j Robert R. Harvey of Earlham College, £ is the head coach of the Chanute Field eagers, Dave Dillion, former- star at the University of Illinois, leads the Flyers’ attack from his forward position. At : the other forward spot is Bob Kalember, 6'-4" former Drake hoopster. Arnold Jones is listed as the starting center for
The Fighting Irish of 1945 Will Be
Honored at Banquet Tuesday Night
General Chairman John E. McIntyre has announced the program for the annual civic testimonial banquet for the Notre Dame football squad to be held in the University dining hall, Tuesday evening, December 4th. The affair is being sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club of which Eugene L. O’Brien is president.
John Lavelle, director of athletics for the Catholic Youth Organization, Archdiocese of New York, will be the principal speaker of the evening. Included on the program as speakers will be Clem Crowe, former Notre Dame basketball coach and present head football $oach at the University of Iowa, . L. W. St. John, director of athletics at Ohio State University, and Governor Ralph E. Gates of the State of Indiana.
Father Eugene Burke, chaplain of the Notre Dame Club, will give the invocation opening the program. President O’Brien of the Notre Dame Club will extend his welcome and will introduce the toastmaster, William F. Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis News. Mayor Dempsey of South Bend will express his welcome to the gathering; several short talks will follow. Captain J. Richard Barry, Commanding Officei- of the Notre Dame Naval Unit, Clem Crowe, and L. W. St. John will speak in that order.
Lieut. Col. Francis Gabreski, Notre Dame, ex-’4O, will be the honored serviceman guest of the evening. He will appear as one of the speakers. Colonel Gabreski was officially credited with shooting down 28 German planes in combat along with the destruction of two planes on the ground. In the European theatre his record was exceeded by none, whereas in the entire U. S. Air Force, his record was second only to that of the late Maj. Dick Bong, Pacific ace. Gabreski left Notre Dame in 1940 after
Chanute Field. With his height, 6'-6", he should not have to go far for flying. Guard Hillard Nance is a former High Point College (N. C.) player, while his running mate, Stan Franczak, 6'-2", saw action with Long Island University. John H. Bedene is the Supervisor of Post Athletics at the air base.
The Irish will be tangling with two worthy foes in these games. Both teams feature height and experience—strong assets in the court game.
completing three years of the pre-med course.
Gabreski was not satisfied with his record of 28 planes, so before he was to return home on leave, he volunteered for a mission on which he was shot down and captured. He spent 9 months, in a German prison camp, being liberated in May of 1945 by American forces. He was married after returning to the United States this summer.
The World Premiere of the Grantland Rice Sports Review, “Running The Team,” -will be shown at the banquet. This film was taken on the Notre Dame campus; thus it is fitting that it have its initial showing at Notre Dame.
Wilfred Smith, noted sports writer for the Chicago Tribune, Governor Ralph E. Gates, and Father O’Donnell will speak after the showing of the Grantland Rice film. Guest speaker, John Lavelle, will then address the group. Hugh Devore will appear as the last—but not the least—speaker on the program.
The Notre Dame Band, under the direction of H. Lee Hope, will entertain throughout the evening. General Chairman McIntyre and his assistants have spared nothing to make this testimonial banquet for the 1945 Fighting Irish a success.
Mr. McIntyre has been ably assisted by Paul M. Butler, Robert Fitzsimmons, Jerry Crowley, and Clarence W. Harding. Al McGann, Frank Miles, James Armstrong, Dick Kaczmarek, Herbert Jones, Bernie Voll, Harold Weber, Lou Chapleau, and Walter Kennedy have acted as a steering committee for the program.
Phy Ed Instructor Returns
D. J. Napolitano, who has received his honorable discharge from the Navy after three years of service, has rejoined the Department of Physical Education. Prior to entering the service in 1942, Napolitano had been a member of the physical education staff here for 10 years.	.
Napolitano headed the boxing program at Notre Dame for a number of years and was largely responsible for the development of the Bengal Bouts to their present importance. While serving with the Navy with the rank of lieutenant, Napolitano coached the boxing team of the Iowa Preflight School. He was serving on the carrier Ticonderoga when peace was declared.
13
Splinters from the Press Box
By PHIL COBBOY
HUGHIE'S SUCCESS
Assuming that the Great Lakes football team is incapable of rising to unknown and heretofore unexhibited heights tomorrow afternoon, the Notre Dame grid season should be concluded with eight wins, one tie, and one loss. A scant two and one-half months ago no journalist, sports announcer, or coach would have dared predict a favorable season for the Irish—at least not 90 percent favorable!
After the resignation of Szymanski and the subsequent transfer of Wendell, the majority of the above group was of the opinion that the football team under the auspices of its neophyte coach was destined for one of its most inauspicious seasons in years.
Hughie Devore, however, took little cognizance of these discouraging omens. Presented with a callow group of freshmen, three regulars from the preceding season, and six or seven returning servicemen, he proceeded to create a formidable grid machine that was to be the scourge of all collegiate competition. He molded the play of his youthful aspirants; he perfected the talents' of the veterans; and he instilled a confidence in the entire squad which was quite incommensurate with a team about to begin a season of—at its best—mediocrity.
That he has been successful can be realized from a cursory glance at the team that barely sneaked by Illinois, and the eleven that retaliated to defeat a stubborn Tulane Club last week. The same players, with the exception of Bob Skoglund, took the field against these two opponents and also against the other seven teams on the schedule. The Illinois team which held the Irish to a lone touchdown succeeded in winning but one game all season. Evidently then, the Irish gridmen have developed quite a bit since that warm September afternoon when Phil Colella dashed seventy-six yards for the game’s single score.
We cannot gainsay the indomitable spirit of the players nor their innate knowledge of the game; but when a team can progress as this year’s Notre Dame squad has, we are prompted to assign much of its success to the persistence and judgment of its coach. That he was persistent in his desire for the
14
welfare of the team can 'be perceived by the light bill that was incurred as the result of many a midnight session in Breen-Phillips Hall. His judgment in regard to plays, line-ups, and defenses, in the light of his record, cannot be questioned.
Tomorrow, Hugh J. Devore will be coaching the Fighting Irish for the last time. Nothing more than the unreliable rumors stated in the press give any indication to the future of the jovial New Jerseyite. In his short tenure as head football coach of the Fighting Irish, he has retained all of the characteristics so germane to that position. His leadership, his perseverance, and capacity for- making friends have all helped to attain the success that is his. His services should not be easily forgotten; he has earned the devotion and admiration of a grateful student body and alumni.
THIS 'N THAT .. . HERE ‘N THERE
Mike Bush is another athlete who has begun the study of law this semester. The ex-St. Ambrose Academy gridster is joined by John Le Breau, Jack Barret and Jack Dee. It may or may not be significant, but none of these fellows intend to be courtroom barristers—rather their interest in legal studies is stimulated by a desire for “background” which they all hope to utilize in some form or another. . . . Frank Dancewicz was hampered by a 101-degree temperature just previous to the team’s embarking for New Orleans last week.
Angelo Bertelli, former All-American quarterback, has been transferred from Third Marine Division to Pearl Harbor where he will play football with a Marine All-Star Eleven. The Heisman Trophy winner of 1943, who said he had planned to resume his grid career next year with Los Angeles of the AllAmerica Pro League, had been managing the Third Marine Division baseball team, winner of 26 out of 29 contests.
Marty Wendell, former Irish fullback, who was -transferred to Great Lakes less than a week before the Illinois game, will start at center for the Bluejackets tomorrow. The 19-year-old Chi
cago boy hopes to return to Notre Dame after he is released from sei-vice. Under existing eligibility rules he still has 3 years of competition remaining.
Walt Grothaus has played his last game for Notre Dame. The freshman center entered the Army this week. He, too, hopes to return to N. D. and college football—provided, he states, he isn’t in the service too long.
INTRODUCING
By John Gunther
The left-tackle on the INS All-Western team is our own Ed Mieszkowski. Ed, who comes to Notre Dame from Chicago, Ill., is one of the largest men on the first eleven; he stands 6' 3", weighs 215 pounds, and is 20 years of age. Ed’s brilliance in analyzing opposition plays has
Ed Mieszkowski
been outstanding in each game that Notre Dame has played this esason. The men of the second floor of Alumni are justly proud of this outstanding junior.
While in attendance at Tilden High School, Ed played two years of varsity ball and was All-City in 1942. All the high school football fans around Chicago will long remember Ed’s excellent playing in the City Championship game of 1942.
Ed played third string left tackle on the great 1943 Irish team, but he was injured in the fall of 1944 and was unable to play at all last season. Ed’s greatest thrill in sports came when he was sent into the 1943 Army game. His greatest all-time football player is Notre Dame’s Creighton Miller. Ed spends his spare time working on a scrapbook of the Notre Dame football squad, and his favorite food is kielbosa (whatever that is).
Cross Country Team
Wins 2nd in N.C.A.A.
The apparently unbeatable Drake University cross-country team walked off with first place honors in the N.C.A.A. meet at East Lansing, Mich., Nov. 24. However, “Doc” Handy’s boys had the satisfaction of taking second place, finishing ahead of Wisconsin, Miami, Ohio State, Michigan State, Kansas, and Wayne. Defending individual champion, Fred Feiler of Drake, led the pack home on the snow-covered course. John Hanley of Dartmouth was second and Stewart of Miami third.
In team tabulation, Drake had 50 points while the Irish had 65. Bill Tully was the first Notre Dame man to finish, landing in the seventh position. Jim Kelly was the number 12 man and Lou Tracy 14th. Bill Leonard came in as the number 18 man. Notre Dame displayed its usual team balance rather than individual stardom in the runner-up position.
Final team scoring was as follows: Drake 50, Notre Dame 65, Wisconsin 84, Miami 89, Ohio State 113, Michigan State 149, Kansas 179, and Wayne 197. The first seven to finish were Feiler of Drake; Hanley, Dartmouth; Stewart, Miami; Webster, Wisconsin; Hawk, Purdue; Moore, Kansas; and Tully, Notre Dame.
WILLIAMS, The Florist
Just West of the Oliver	Phone 3-5149
Irish Whip Tulane
With 2nd Half Drive
After fighting a stone wall for 30 minutes, Notre Dame came to life against Tulane in New Orleans, Nov. 24, to bring back a 32 to 6 victory. The largest crowd ever to see a regular season football game in the south, 63,000, sat stunned as the valiant Green Wave disregarded all press notices and fought Notre Dame to a standstill throughout the first half. The Green Wave led 6 to 0 at halftime. Realizing the precarious situation at hand, the Irish began to roll at the outset of the second half and never stopped until the final gun.
Tulane took the opening kickoff and marched downfield 68 yards to score, with Ernie Counch driving over. The try for the point failed. The highly-keyed southerners then dug in for the rest of the half, stopping Notre Dame cold. The defensive play of Dick Hoot was the major factor’ in Tulane’s remarkable play throughout the game.
Terry Brennan took the situation into his own hands early in the third period when he raced 47 yards behind excellent blocking by Mastrangelo, Berezney, and Ruggerio to score. Krivik converted and Notre Dame led. Ten minutes later, a
PaAkeb-WiMieMOUMi attuiAeA
That it looks like a rough winter ahead — but you'll be mighty comfortable and properly turned out in an
ADLER-ROCHESTER OVERCOAT
PARKER-WINTERROWD
115'/z N. Main Street
Upstairs
PATRONIZE "S C H O L A S TI C" ADVERTISERS
u
Dancewicz-to-Leonard pass put the Irish on the Tulane 14, from which point they scored again with Angsman doing the honors. Krivik’s conversion failed. Tulane never stopped fighting, remaining in the game until the final period when Notre Dame tallied three more times. Rovai initiated the first drive by recovering a fumble on the Tulane 41. Gom-pers took a pass from Ratterman to put the pigskin on the 21. Panelli drove to the 8; then Ratterman passed to Brennan in the end zone for another t.d. The try for point failed again.
An 84-yard trip by the Irish registered the fourth touchdown, with Panelli going across from the 3. Krivik hit the bull’s eye to make the score 26 to 6 with two minutes remaining. At this point Devore cleared the bench but this maneuver did not stop Notre Dame from scoring again. Those Eager-Beaver third and fourth stringers extended themselves for the fifth score when George Tripucka passed to John Agnone in the end zone.
Probably the outstanding man on the field for Notre Dame was John Mastran-gelo, brilliant guard. His defensive play, which has been spectacular all season, was never better. Particularly in the first half John was stopping every Tulane effort to push over another score. To the entire team goes credit for pulling themselves together and finishing in typical Notre Dame style.
Glasses CORRECTLY Fitted J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Books...
make splendid gifts for the young people in your family.
The Book Shop
130 N. Michigan
FOOTBALL PREDICTIONS
NOTRE DAME over GREAT LAKES.
Army over Navy.
Alabama over Mississippi State.
Rice over. Baylor.
Clemson over Wake Forest.
Louisiana State over Tulane.
Yale over Harvard.
Maryland over South Carolina.
North Carolina over Virginia.
Oregon over Oregon State.
Southern California over U.C.L.A.
Tennessee over Vanderbilt.
Southern Methodist over Texas Christian.
—Paul Weyrauch
WALDMAN'S BOMB TALK (Continued from page 5) forth the views of the scientists when he said, “We who have seen the bomb and worked with it, are scared, really scared.” Dr. Waldman, in describing the atomic bomb explosion over Hiroshima, said: “I saw a tremendous flash—then a ball of fire that looked like a sun. It began to rise, as a cylinder, quickly to 40,000 feet; there- was a puff of smoke at the . top, and the whole thing gave the impression of a mushroom. While this was occurring, a cloud of dust covered the ground to the extent of 3 miles.” 16
ELLSWORTH’S
Helens Rebinstein
APPLE BLOSSOM PERFUME for the young in heart of all ages _________________________ 1.00 to 6.00
plus tax
Cosmetics . . . Main Floor
Student-Professor Smokers to be Resumed
As the student population nears its pre-war level, the Catholic Action club again resumes its series of StudentProfessor Smokers. These smokers, informal gatherings of the students and prominent professors on the campus, meet in the Rockne Memorial lounge. Too
HansaRintzsch ________ <77	Michigan at Colfax
many students go through four years of university life without having the opportunity to meet prominent Notre Dame professors. To rectify this unacquain-ance, the sessions cement student-professor relationships and benefit the students by personal contacts with campus authorities in scholastic fields.
The first gathering will take place on Dec. 3 at 7:30 p.m. Professor Waldemar Gurian- will open the series; he has chosen as his subject, “World Crisis after World War II.” As a member of the Department of Political Science and as a lecturer, Prof. Gurian is qualified to answer questions which may arise in the discussion following the lecture.
Throughout the semester these smokers will take place every other Monday night in the Lounge. Other interesting professors will present talks on timely subjects’.
New Exec for V-12
Lieut. Comdr. W. C. Darrah reported to the University of Notre Dame Naval Training School, November 12, replacing Lieut. Comdr. R. H. Light as Executive Officer of the V-12 Unit. Lieut. Comdr. Light was detached Wednesday in order to procure his discharge.
Lieut. Comdr. Darrah received his commission at Cleveland, Ohio in April 1943. His duties have included those of Commanding Officer for the V-12 units at Doane College in Crete, Nebraska, and Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster,- Pennsylvania. His home is in Kent, Ohio.	,
17
A TALE WITH A MORAL ....
We listened in on RO, a V-12, and a V-5 who happened to be playing contract bridge with the OOD one afternoon and this is what we overheard:
“Three diamonds,” said the V-5.
“Four spades,” said the V-12.
“Five diamonds,” chuckled the RO.
“One club,” said the OOD.
“Pass.”
“Pass.”
“Pass.”
❖
THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME
There seems to be a misconstrued opinion that here at Notre Dame we have a conglomeration of unpronounceable names. We don’t know where people ever got that idea. Just because a prof in one of our classes sneezed the other day and four students (including yours truly) answered “Here, sir!” let’s not be too hasty in forming opinions.
❖
WE MUST HAVE BEEN LEFT HANDED . . .
More dirt on company commanders— rumor has it that this embryo ensign needed a few more men to put on report in order to meet his quota for the week. He decided to inspect his company to find out if any of the men were wearing white socks and so gave the order for the company to raise the right leg. One confused trainee raised his left leg in error. The commander looked up and down the ranks and spied the upraised left leg of one man beside the right leg of the next man. “All right, wise guys,” he roared, “who’s the character in the first squad who raised both legs?”
❖
A ROMANTIC SHORT STORY ....
Dear Mr. Apker
Dear Burt
Burt Dear
Dearest Burt	'
You wonderful guy
My sweet purple passion flower
You wonderful guy
Dearest Burt
Burt Dear Dear Burt Dear Mr. Apker ❖
GIVE ME LIBERTY OR GIVE ME DEATH
Liberty every night! However, we feel quite certain that some of the more ra
fey, -E&u
tional men in the unit will not go hog wild but will go on studying as before and only go on liberty when absolutely necessary—And both of them will be darned lonesome. So why be rational at a time like this? As Don Brady, an old liberty hound from way back, puts it, “Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow your roommate may be broke too!”
SCUTTLEBUTT OF THE WEEK ....
Phy Ed classes will be discontinued for the duration of the peace. . . . The NROTC is going to be mechanized. Each man will be issued a little red scooter to enable him to make the trek from the Biology building to the Navy building in nine minutes flat. . . . The soft drink in all the coke machines. will be removed and will be replaced by—(BURP! Must have been something I ate!). . . . Eight days’ leave for the Christmas holidays—■ and this had better not be scuttlebutt.
Before we go, here’s a word of warning to you men. The sweet gals across the Dixie have formed a very select organization, something on the order of a Lonely Hearts Club, and have adopted as their motto, “A thing of beauty is a boy forever.”
That’s all the prattle for this issue. I’ve got a date with an egg and don’t want to break it. Ouch!
Navy Trainees Are Granted Mare Liberty
Lieut. C. R. Tomlin took a forward step in his new policy and announced a complete revision in liberty-hour schedules for the trainees. The revision of the liberty hours corresponds very closely to the liberty of the civilian students attending the University.
All hands are permitted liberty on the week-days from the ending of their last class until 10:00 p. m. First and second classmen, with the permission of their Battalion Officer, may have liberty until midnight each night and may have four week-end passes monthly. Third classmen are entitled to liberty until midnight on Wednesdays and Fridays and may have two week-end passes each month. Fourth classmen may have liberty until midnight on Wednesdays and are entitled to one week-end pass a month. Liberty for Saturday night extends until 1:00 a. m.
18
If we print jokes, people say we are silly.
If we don’t, they say we are too silly.
If we clip things from other papers, we are too lazy to write them ourselves.
If we don’t, we are too fond of our own stulf.
If we don’t print contributions, we don’t appreciate genius.
If we do print them, the paper’s full of junk.
If we make a change in other peoples’ write-ups, we are too critical.
• If we don’t, we are asleep.
Now, like as not, someone will say we swiped this from some other paper.
Well, they are absolutely correct.
—The. Juggler
CAMPUS QUIPS
Bill Sherman was reading “The Little Green Book” (now an off-shade tan) one day last week and came to the part
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
about tipping hats to priests, Brothers, etc. Bill looked somewhat puzzled and said, “Suppose you’re wearing earmuffs?”
❖
Jack Gill spent a few days in the infirmary recently (and who didn’t?), so we asked his roommate, Pat Meenan, how it felt to be living alone. “It’s pretty lonesome,” he said. “I miss Jack’s friendly coughing and gasping.”
❖
We heard George La Buda bemoaning his evil luck last week-end. “Just think,”, he told us, “wouldn’t it be great if Thanksgiving came on Friday some year? Then I’d have three days to spend at home.” Sure, George, write to Uncle Harry Truman and see what he can do about it.
❖
Two southern boys, Jerry Daigo (La.) and Ernie McCullough (“Southern” Canada), were walking around in the snow
last Friday. Ernie remarked, “What do you think of all this white stuff?” Jerry said, “I think that they’re carrying this Super Suds business too far.”
♦
Frank Mancino: “Do I need a hair cut?”	’
Ernie Virok: “I can’t tell—all your hair is down your collar.”
♦
Ron Myrter received a letter from his girl in which she offered to stand half the cost of the Christmas present he was going to buy her.
♦
Before I heard the Doctors tell
The danger of a kiss,
I had considered kissing you
The nearest thing to bliss;
Now that I know biology,
I sit and sigh and moan;
Six million mad bacteria—
And I thought we were alone.
♦
CANDIDATES FOR THE GALLOWS
The one who throws cigarette butts through his transom to land in front of your door. . . . The one with the supersounding alarm clock. . . . The one who laughs when you don’t get any mail. . . . The one with the same shirt size.
19
Frosh Reporter—I gotta scoop, chief. Campus Editor—What happened, man bite dog?
F. R.—No, a bull threw the professor.
❖
HOW TO BECOME UNPOPULAR
Bob Campbell: I’ll give you a nickel for every quarter you can stand on edge.
Bob Poisson: O. K. There are two of them standing on edge now.
Bob Campbell: Here are your two nickels. Thanks for the quarters.
[Editors Note: This really happened.]
❖
ADAM FOOL REPORTS
Dear Fellow Bipeds:
This is going to be a digest of a condensation of one of my laugh (?) flavored quickies. As a member of the Carolina aristocracy I would like some info from you Yankees on this white stuff covering the campus. As my kinfolk have never seen it, I packed some of the curious substance in a box and sent it home by pony express. All this dreary landscape reminds me of a parable they tell back home. At the end of August 1939, F. D. R. called Hitler to avoid war. Hitler said he had only one more claim of territory. The President said if he’d forget it, he could have Indiana—the next day Germany invaded Poland. I have to run now—after that blonde that escaped me at Walgreen’s. See you. Your lonely Pal—ADF.
Termites Invade
Dining Hall
The University termites have forsaken hallowed St. Ed’s and have their headquarters in the East Wing of the Dining Hall. For the past week, workers have been striving to check the tiny mites by ripping out paneling around the base of the dining hall walls and filling holes drilled in the baseboard with a chemical preparation. The presence of the tiny destructors was discovered last summer but action was delayed in the hopes that they would make arrangements for payment of regular dining hall fees. However, after a three-month wait, the crack firm of Terrible Termite Exterminators, Inc., of New York, Chicago, and Goshen, Indiana, were engaged. Interviews about campus reveal a tone of sympathy for the termites since many feel that their action was taken in the form of a protest against dining hall meals. The residents of St. Ed’s, however, have expressed a note of alarm. As one of them put it, “If those two termites on the third floor have stopped holding hands, what’s going to hold this place up?”
20
Do you get “subcicula stranguiatio”?*
Do you suffer from shortness of breath, wilting collars, shirts that bind when you bend? Try Arrows —the cure-all for shirt ills!
Collars on Arrow shirts fit perfectly—always stay neat and trim. And Arrows have, the Mitoga figure fit; with room where you need it.
Get your sure-cure Arrow shirts today! (If your dealer hasn’t the one you want, try him again).
^shrunk collar
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Ifs idlers for ^RROfTS
ON TNI OftNEK... INGUOAN $ MSNNHRM
FOR GOD, COUNTRY AND NOTRE DAME
t
With the addition of fourteen more names to Notre Dame’s Gold Star Honor Roll the number of alumni who have
Adriatic Sea he was given the Air Medal with one cluster.
★Lt. Bernard J. Ferry, ’41, Baltimore, Md., was killed when his plane, carrying

prisoners of war, because of bad weather crashed into a mountain side en route to Munich, Germany.
★Capt. Martin S. McGinnis, ’39, Memphis, Tenn., formerly missing in action was officially declared dead on Jan. 13,
sacrificed theii’ lives while fighting for their country totals 284. The Scholastic now publishes the names of the latest casualties suffered by Notre Dame:
★	Lt. Cmdr. John M. Hughes, ’31, Jacksonville, Fla. This naval officer was killed in a plane crash Sept. 28,1945, in Kingsland, Ga.
★	Sgt. Francis M. Maloney, ex. ’45, Louisville, Ky.
★	Pfc. Joseph J. Petillo, ex. ’47, Asbury Park, N. J. He was killed while fighting with the Marines on Okinawa, April 13, 1945.
★	Lt. Robert E. Schoo, ex. ’43, Louisville, Ky., died in a plane crash near El Paso, Texas, on Aug. 5, 1945.
★	Lt. John W. Smith, ex. ’41, West Winfield, N. Y., was killed in a plane mishap at the Army Air Base at Greenville, S. C., on Jan. 29, 1944.
★	Pfc. Charles Leckie, ex. ’47, Minneapolis, Minn., was killed while fighting on Okinawa, July 17,1945.
★	Daniel Ginsburg, USMCR, ex. ’47, Detroit, Mich., was killed in action on Iwo Jima.
• BRACELETS
• NECKLACES
•	BILLFOLDS
•	CHRISTMAS GREETING CARDS
Welcome SkfM
-
Your Christmas shopping problems will be solved when you find that there are gifts for all at the
BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
★Pvt. William A. Brezenski, ex. ’46, Detroit, Mich., previously listed as missing in action since Jan. 30, 1945, has been officially declared dead. For his heroic work during the battle for the Vosges Mountains in France he was posthumously awarded the Purple Heart.
★Ediuard V. Ankli, ex. ’46, Benton Harbor, Mich., missing since his first bombing mission over Berlin in October, 1944, has been officially listed as killed.
★Lt. Eugene R. Killoren, ex. ’45, Appleton, Wis., missing over Germany since Oct. 2, 1944, has been officially declared dead. His unit received a Presidential Citation for its historic part in operating the first shuttle bombing mission of Germany, flying from Africa to England. He personally was awarded the Air Medal with two Oak Leaf Clusters.
★Lt. William Katz, ex. ’45, Teaneck, N. J.	’
★Sgt. John C. Haffner, ’41, Oak Park, Ill., fonnerly missing in action was declared killed on April 27, 1945. As flight engineer on his fatal mission over the

19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE 4 SO. BEND R.R.
21
A Christmas gift that's different...
give an oil painting of Notre Dame, painted by an internationally known artist.
S30.00 and up
Miss C. F. Makielski
623 J. M. S. Building South Bend
[•JtaiiiiiutitttiiiMintimaiitimiiiiimiiiiHiiimititatimitaittiaiatiQ
|	• Greeting Cards	=
i	• Artists’ Supplies	E
E	• Picture Framing |
] I. W. Lower Co. I
I	DECORATORS	I
i 128 North Michigan Street =
QQ<aiiiiaiiiiaitiiaataiaati)iatiiiiaaaiaiaaaaatiiiiatiiiiaaaaaiaaaaataaaaaiaiia[^
THE STAMP SHOP Everything for the STAMP COLLECTOR 501 Pythian Bldg.
1945, at which time he failed to return from a raid over Mannheim, Germany. Previous to his death he had made 18 successful missions as a member of the Eighth Air Force.
There has been a steady decline in the number of Notre Dame men included among the lists of captured and missing. According to the latest available information gathered by the Alumni Office, 10 Notre Dame men are still listed as captured and 26 are numbered among the missing. These latest figures are subject to constant revision but at present they accurately represent the information contained in the files of the Alumni Office.
Law Club Sponsors Series of Speeches
William N. Dewitt, Managing Director of South Bend Citizens, Incorporated, will speak to the members of the Notre Dame Law Club and the members of the local legal profession on mediation of labor-management disputes at 7:30 p.m., Monday, December 3, 1945, in the auditorium of the Law Building at Notre Dame. Mr. Dewitt is eminently qualified to discuss labor-management problems and disputes since he has been engaged in this work exclusively since the South Bend Citizens, Incorporated, was organized six years ago as a non-profit group with the sole purpose of mediating labor disputes. Mr. Dewitt has handled over 300 cases during this period in South Bend and Mishawaka.
On the national scene in 1941, Mr. Dewitt was appointed managing consultant of the Labor Production Division of the Wai- Production Board. His duties covered six states. In this capacity he acted as mediator in over 60 labor disputes, donating his services to the U. S. Government. Mr. Dewitt has been given national credit for contributing heavily to the production of war materials in that his experience dates back to the pre-war period. Local labor and industry are depending upon Mr. Dewitt to assist them in their post-war problems. Prior to his present work for labor and management, he was in sales management and national advertising work for twenty years.
The forum will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Law Club and is the first of a series of talks on current problems and discussions of general interest to the public.
The committee in charge of arrangements for these meetings is composed of John D. O’Neill, Clyde Remmo, and Eugene Wohlhorn of the Notre Dame Law Club. -
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGANWASHINGTON
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
♦
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4 -5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
•
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, O.D. S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. , SOUTH BEND, IND.
•
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
4OC-4OB TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
22
New Book by Father Shanahan to Appear Soon
The book, Prussian Military Reforms, 1786-1813, by Bev. William 0. Shanahan, assistant professor of history at Notre Dame, will appear in the Notre Dame Library soon.
Father Shanahan is on leave from the University at present, serving as a lieutenant in the Navy. He hopes to be back at Notre Dame in the spi-ing, teaching military history. His classes were always very popular with students.
The treatise on mid-European militarism is an investigation of the comparative values of a large rotating conscripted army and a' thoroughly-trained small group of long-term professional officers and non-commissioned officers as exemplified by the rebuilding of the Prussian army after its disastrous defeat by Napoleon at Jena in 1806.
Rev. Shanahan’s book is truly a scholarly approach to Germany and her military institutions, shedding light on her past as well as offering a good explanation of German military trends.
THE SHILLELAGH (Continued from page 11)
he doesn’t happen to know the words. Perhaps “The Atomic Lover” (Jack Stewart) misconstrued the song title source with many of his many amorous fancies. Could it be “Kitty?” H’mm? With the dashing Charlie Clauss making a play for “Kitty” also, we certainly hope no dissension will come about in the “Green Banner.”
“Marriage is the crocodile in the river of love.”—Jack McCourt.
❖
TO THOSE WHO SEEK VARIETY:
For those who have never made the acquaintance of Jack McCourt let us say he’s one of the swellest and most sincere guys on the campus. He has a vivid and warm personality, his talk glows with humor and sparkles with epigrams. One is continually surprised by the scope of his knowledge, the range of his interests; the swiftness and dexterity with which he clothes a thought in the fitting word and phrase.
Jack has been known to utter such rare phrases as: “a genuine pessimist is one who believes that he was exiled on this earth by God.” And, “As for me my present existence is an unfastened cloak that may slip from me at any instant.”
In actuality, it is impossible to be in frequent contact with him without becoming “lit-up” within. Of course the term “lit-up” has various connotations.
P.S. Perhaps Nocho Lozano would say we were lost in our own terminology!
HEADS GOT TOGETHER
RESULT: MORE TRANSCONTINENTAL TELEPHONE CIRCUITS
With wire scarce and wartime calls increasing,, telephone engineers made existing pairs of long distance wires carry nearly four times as many calls as before. This was done through installation of additional carrier equipment, requiring closer spacing of the wires on the line and transpositions at shorter intervals.
Three pairs on the Southern Transcontinental Route were rearranged, and in a 430-mile section this had to be done while keeping the urgently needed wires in service all the time. To do this, new tools and new methods had to be devised in the laboratories and on the job.
This is another among many examples of how Bell System teamwork and engineering skills maintained telephone service under wartime conditions.'
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
23
’*»«»>■
Copyright 1945. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
ETTER TASTING
SMOKING
DO YOU KNOW YOUR
SIGNE HASSO 9
knows her A B C’s. This glamor-
ous star is currently appearing A .43 in Twentieth Century-Fox's "The	।
House on 92nd Street.
Wnen you know your A B C’s of real smoking pleasure . . . you’ll have the answer at your finger tips.
Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the World’s Best Tobaccos gives you a cigarette that’s A—ALWAYS MILDER, B—BETTER TASTING and C—COOLER SMOKING.