— Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
DI5C€-?VASl-5€mPGI2'VICTVRVS- • VIVG-(pVASI-CRAS-MOISITVRVS-
Vol. XLII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 24, 1909.
No. 28.
The Wondrous Emerald.
George J. Finnigan, '10.
IN farthest East, long ages since, was found
A precious emerald, whose virgin blaze
Spread lustre when night’s darkening shades fell ’round.
So pure its light, so splendid were its rays, That cursed serpents crawling o’er the ground ’ Were blinded if they dared its wondrous gaze.
A rarer gem have we in friendship true.
It spreads its cheering light across our way When shades of loss and grief have dimmed our view.
Not unkind strife, but mutual trust holds sway, No serpent envoy can its fires subdue,
And discord falls abashed before its ray.,	•
Why Rome had no National Drama.
John McDili. Fox, ’09.
N Rome we know as a certainty that there were dramas and dramatic writers who equalled, if not actually excelled, the Greek masters. Quintillian in the tenth book of his “Institutes of
Oratory,” tells us clearly that Attius, Pacu-vius, Ovid and Pomponius Secundus were dramatic writers of no mean worth, and that the Thyestes of Varius could easily compare with the. works of the Greek tragedians (Chap. I., Sec. 98), and Quintillian was a literary critic, most probably the peer of any before or after him, with the possible exception of Aristotle. Now, that these tragedies could compare with the Greeks in literary merit, but yet were not preserved to us, points out clearly only one thing—the people were not able to appreciate them, arid consequently Rome could have no national
drama. This does not mean that thev were useless, for in the process of literary evolution they served a great purpose in molding and influencing the form of modem Romantic Drama. They gave the start in the devitalization, as it were, of the chorus in making it of little, if any, dramatic worth by its dissociation from actual performance. They accomplished the decomposition of the unities by impairing the “unity of standpoint” and the “unity of stoiy,” and admitting of agglutination for the purposes of a more complex plot. Thus they paved the way for the modern drama and bridged over the gap between ancient classical and the drama of to-day.	. .
To create a national drama it is not onlv necessary that it conform to the established' laws of dramatic technique, that it portray artistically some action of the nation’s life, history or tradition, that it be a literary production of worth; but, in addition, that it be stageable and that it be national in its appeal. To achieve this result the drama must on its part portray themes of national scope, and reflect the spirit of the.people; and on their part the people constituting the audience must be representative of all classes of the nation; they must be national in their language, in their common interests and in their history, and must be. able to appreciate the drama, or else no drama can be either stageable or national.
Let us see, then, first what conditions are necessary for .a drama to be national, and second, the presence or lack of these conditions in Rome. “The absence of any art in a civilized country can be explained only by the absence of certain local conditions, whether these conditions be religious, political or a matter of custom.” In Athens the tragedy flourished; it grew out of the soil.
4$ 2
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
In civilized Rome the tragedy tried to grow, was protected and recommended by powerful patrons, but the public did not care for it. Hence tragedy was reduced to a mere reading circle and was not admitted to the stage, its natural place.
There are then—of those conditions which may serve—three conditions necessary for a drama to be national: first, literary conditions; second, political and religious conditions, and third, social conditions. Let us see first how these conditions obtained in Greece, and then whether or not they really existed in Rome at the time of the best Roman dramatists.
The Attic drama was essentially both religious and political. The theatre among the Greeks was in harmony with the temple. The same deities were worshipped in both. The gods of Athens were the creatures of fancy, or human beings who had during life attained the heroic standard, and after their death were deified by their countrymen. They had the same feelings, passions and moral imperfections as men have; they were, so to speak, the ancestors and countrymen of the spectators. They were wont to bathe in the same rivers,'drink of the same fountains, seek shade in the same -groves and climb the same hills as the inhabitants- of the country. The national character was expressed by sentiments of bravery and patriotism, by the respect due to the laws, by the cultivation of letters and the fine arts, as well as by the glorification of agriculture and commerce. In the drama these feelings were voiced by the chorus, which usually personified the audience itself; “The literature of any nation, when not modified, or rather purified and elevated by supernatural revelation, grows up in accordance with exterior circumstances naturally as the dark fir clothes the borderland of the Scandinavian' fiords, and the olive and vines deck in rich luxuriance the hills that look down on the sunny waves of the JEgean Sea.” Pre-eminent in physical and £ mental gifts, the Greeks represented, perhaps, the purest, the most harmonious type of the human race. They lived in the most picturesque land, where every influence of sun and sky and sea favored their genial spirit. Naturally keen of intellect, sprightly of imagination and susceptible to the. sense
of the beautiful, they deified the powers of nature, personified everything in myth and fable, till strove and fountain, the gloom of cavern depths and the cloud-capped summits of Olympus, with the cool valleys of Thessaly, and the-olive groves of Attica were teeming with deities.
It. has been said that the Greek poetry was the poetry of joy, but this is true only in a certain sense. Back of it all and permeating it, is. that quality which so distinguishes and characterizes Greek literature— the keen, overwhelming and ever-predominant sense of the religious. Moreover, in Greece, the national religion, the mythology, the political history of the country, ' were so inseparably interwoven that it was impossible for the dramatist to treat of one without treating of all. The spectators likewise made no distinction between these, as their religion embodied everything of their past and present. Therefore, the tragedian found his materials ready for his hand, all that was lacking was some skilled master at whose touch they would resolve themselves into an harmonious and beautiful poem. Homer supplied the legends and gods; Greece gave her whole political history and list of illustrious heroes. “The writer of tragedy *had nothing to invent, neither subjects nor art nor religion. The catastrophies of the royal houses are the local history of Greece, hence in Greece the tragedy is the religious and political history of the country and of the men of the country.” The literary conditions also were propitious for the development of a great drama. The Greek drama may be called the compound of epic and lyrical poetry. All the tragic poets of Greece were imbued with religious and national spirit which they had drawn from Homer and the primitive traditions of their country. ..The great moderator of the Greek drama was Homer. He was the all-powerful dictator and arbitrator. He had sounded all the depths of human feelings, passions and emotions. He was the skilful wonderworker who, “to his breathing flute and sounding lyre, could swell the: soul to rage or kindle soft desire.” The dramatists took their ideas from their great master. “The great quarrel of the Iliad, ’ ’ says an eminent critic, “ is the unique, stuff of the tragedy;
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The writers have invented no new men; they have invented no new customs; they took them from Homer.” The treatment of passion and all the wondrous wealth of character portrayal of Homer were adopted and carefully studied by Sophocles, Euripides, and even yEschylus. All the passions developed in the tragedy are clearly indicated in the epic. Homer had traversed all the avenues leading to the heart. In short, Greece had a literary ancestry upon which she prided herself far more, than the most fanatic genealogist does his family tree.
Finally, the people, as said before, must be national in their language, their common interest and in their history, and must be able to appreciate the drama. The drama appealed forcibly to the Athenians, as therein they saw their religion and customs reflected back to them and there their past was depicted. “The Athenian was a pure race of man. There was no mixture of outsiders; hence, they preserved pure their traditions, their religion, and especially ,their language.” The Athenian loved the drama. On all the festival days it was the chief attraction and was part of their religious ceremony. AU were supposed to attend, and in so great a regard was it held that if a man were too poor to pay the admission fee, the State paid it for him. From this it can be seen that the social conditions among the Athenians were conducive in the highest degree to a national drama. “Therefore, when a people has inteUigence and good taste,” as an eminent critic so aptly puts it, “where it is a people of the home country without change and without mixture, there the drama will flourish.” On the other hand, where there is no homogeneous people, all the power of the greatest aristocracy can not produce anything but an abortive attempt at the drama.
We have seen, so far, that in Greece, where the drama first originated and where it was truly national, that the three conditions existed, namely, literary, political and religious and social. Now let us consider the second part, the presence or absence of these conditions at Rome. When letters began to develop in Rome under Augustus, there were poets of great magnitude—Horace and Virgil. But it was found necessary for these poets to have powerful protectors, such as Maecenas and even Augustus himself, in order to accomplish their purpose. In fact,
+83
there was among the aristocracy a certain element who devoted its attention chiefly to the promotion of letters and the fine arts generally. How different is this from the condition of Greece, where Pindar, for example, needed no patron, but was himself, by virtue of his ability, of sufficient power to demand respect from the people. He wrote his odes in praise of the victors in the games, and was entertained at public expense as well as by the victor in whose triumph he also had a part. In Greece, poetry and tragedy were part of the religious ceremonies and were received and judged by the people themselves; in Rome, however, poetry, and the drama especially, had to be nourished and watched over like a hothouse plant. Why was this? Because the people of Rome did not care for the drama. Comedy they tolerated; not Terence’s refined comedy, which, together with that of Plautus, was an imitation of the Greek, but Plautus’ more vulgar species. At this time Rome had opened wide her doors of citizenship and teemed with barbarians from Gaul Germany, Spain and even Africa. '“The pure, true Roman blood was preserved in only a few families of equestrian rank.” Rome was inhabited by slaves and sons of slaves, gathered from all sections of the world. These adopted children were just as jealous of the greatness of Rome and as fully persuaded of Rome’s perpetuity as were the original founders of the city. But for the tragedy nothing was more disastrous than the absence of the true Roman people from Rome. The true people would have preserved its traditions of origin, of religion and of language. An assimilated people, if truly assimilated, have no history or language, but only an absorbing current life and a dialect of the adopted language.
What literary conditions were there in Rome conducive to a national drama ? At the very outstart, “a Roman audience did -not represent all classes of the community,” says Brander Mathews, “like the Athenian audience—and like the London and Parisian audiences to which Shakespeare and Moliere were to appeal.” In Greece, the people were literary; they had iheir great epic before them; their tastes, thought and expression were artistic. In Rome the people were not literary. The gladiatorial combat gave them more delight than any other amusement. They were warlike, and, moreover, they were at war continually. Now such a state
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
is not at all propitious for the cultivation of the literary arts. Furthermore, even of the great men among the historians, philosophers and orators of Rome, the majority were not true Romans. It is said of Theo-thrastus, who was born a Greek and who had lived twenty-five years in Athens, though not a native of that city, that a fishseller hearing his pronunciation took him for a foreigner, so pure was the Attic idiom. On the other hand, in Rome, Terence himself a slave, when he used pure Latin was not understood by the Romans, and his spectators left his play to attend something they could appreciate better—a prize-fight in' the arena. As regards the religious condition the same is true. These false Romans had no truly national religion. The gods of the Greeks were those venerated by their forefathers centuries back, by their own countrymen. In Rome, the gods were borrowed from the Greeks. What could these gods mean to the foreigner? He could respect the savage deities-of his own land, but these Gr<eco-Roman ones could only be expected to incite in him mere* passing interest. In Athens, Anaxagorus, the physicist under whom Pericles studied, was banished on account of Atheism. In Rome indifference was tolerated to such an extent that many openly professed their belief in no deity, and yet were unmolested.
As regards their traditions, these people may have had their separate traditions, but they were not those of Rome. As regards the language, we have already' seen that Rome was filled with dialects, and dialects are not good material for literature. In their social customs they were lacking. They did not care to go to the theatre to witness a dramatic piece; they wanted the spectacles of the amphitheatre. Furthermore, they were incapable of judging any piece in regard to its literary values. “The drama is controlled by the people. It is on the stage where it is criticised, approved or condemned.” Now Rome had no drama, because at the time its civilization could produce a drama, there were no true Romans in Rome. In scattering her true sons all over the battlefield, Rome lost the glory of the tragedy, which is one of the greatest glories of the human mind.
These are the reasons for the absence of a Roman national drama. The three conditions necessary—literary, religious, and conditions of custom—were absent. Moreover, the people at Rome were not homogeneous, but an admixture of almost every nation then known. I would even go further, and predict that America will never have a strictly national drama, for the reason that the people here are polyglot, and the drama is molded on that of almost every nation.
For Mother’s Sake.
Francis J. Wenninger, ’ll.
George Francis locked the door of his father’s laboratory and started on his way home. He had finished his day’s work and had put everything in order, but just what had become of that new set of objectives which his father had only recently bought, he did not know. It had been in its proper place at noon just before he went to dinner, and as his father was out of town attending the State Scientific Convention, no one had come into the room all afternoon except his brother Claud. Where could the instruments be ? Was it possible that Claud had hidden them to play a joke on George? No, that was out of the question, because the relations between the brothers had been strained for some time past. Claud had not spoken a kind word to his elder brother since the latter told him that he was “living too fast.”
Immediately upon his arrival at home, George went to his brother’s room and asked him whether or not he had seen the new objectives in the laboratory that day.
“No,” snapped Claud, evidently displeased at the question, “I’ve got more important things to do than looking out for your scientific apparatus.”
There was sarcasm in his brother’s tone and George soon guessed that something had gone wrong with Claud, so he excused himself and left the room.
George went to the library and tried to read, but the thought of those objectives was forever forcing itself upon him and he threw aside the’ book he had been trying to' read and went to his mother’s room.
“Mother,” said he,. “I’m going back to the laboratory to look for those instruments; I may not be back for supper.”
“What instruments? ” asked Mrs. Francis.
“Oh, pardon me, I thought I told you of them. Well, father’s new objectives are gone and I can’t find them. Claud ;is the only one who was in that room' to-day. I’ve already asked him about them, but he says that he knows no more than I do. But,—”
“See here, young man,” interrupted .his

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
mother, “no more of that. What right have you to speak thus of your brother? Do you think that he stole your father’s instruments? You had better look to your own affairs and not meddle in Claud’s.”
George was dazed. He had never even suspected his brother of dishonesty. Why should his mother thus upbraid him?
“But, mother,” he began, “you misunderstand me. I meant no harm, I—”
“That will do, I say. Now be about your business,”, and she picked up her sewing which she had laid aside when her son had entered.
George said nothing more but left the room. He was grieved to think that he had offended his mother, but what hurt him most was the way she had ordered him out of her presence. In the past he had often been made to feel how much lower he stood in her affection than his brother, but never did he realize as to-day that he had lost his mother’s love, if indeed he had ever enjoyed very much of it. Instead of returning to the laboratory as he had intended, George went to his room. Try as he might, however, he cos’d not comprehend the situation. Where were the lost articles ? Who took them ? He could not think. His head was a maze, his mind, a blank. In a few days his father would return and then— he dared not think further. Dr. Francis was a man of rash temper, and it was not the loss of his lenses that would arouse his anger, but the neglect of duty on the part of his son.
During the next few days George continued his search for the lost articles but to no avail. Claud avoided him, though his mother treated him with at least a show of deference. Dr. Francis had returned, and as soon as was convenient, George went to see him.
The scientist was in the best of humor, and after George had asked a few questions about the Convention, he told him what had happened. The Doctor was not disturbed very much when he heard of the loss, and advising more caution for the future, turned the conversation to other topics. While they were talking some one knocked, and a moment later Claud stood before them.
“Hello, Claud!” cried the father grasping his son’s hand, “how are you? Sit-down
485
and tell me of your doings in my absence.” Claud murmured something about being glad to see his father, but George saw at a glance that something was wrong and accordingly left the room. He had hardly seated himself in his own apartment when his father, white with rage, burst in upon him.	•
“George,” he almost shrieked, “you scoundrel, why have you deceived me? Don’t know where my expensive objectives are, do you? Well, you ingrate, look at this,” and he produced a ticket from a pawnshop. “Needed money,” he continued, “and thought this a good way to get it? No,” he snapped as George tried to speak, “keep still. I don’t want to hear or to see you any more. Get out of here, and never again darken my doors.” And he turned on his heel and left the room as quickly as he had entered it. Half an hour later a servant brought George an envelope containing some money; but the boy needed not money at this hour. He was sick at heart, and one v ord of love would have done him more good than all his father’s riches. What was he to do? His father would not give him a hearing, and his mother had left for a week’s stay at Marsh Hill. Accordingly he wrote a short note to his father, put the money into an envelope and placed both on a table. In another hour he had left the house.
War had been declared against Spain. Everywhere the people were alive. to the needs of the hour, and from all sides came volunteers to s v ell the ranks of the American army. Among the first regiments hurried to the scene of activities was the Third Indiana Infantry in which George Francis had enlisted shortly after' he left home. He was now a quiet, sad-looking fellow who never bothered anyone, but also resented any attempt at raillery on the part of his comrades; He was honest and brave, and for this reason well liked by the officers and men of his regiment.
One night a spy was caught within the lines. The prisoner was bound and placed in a separate tent with George Francis as guard. It was a dark night. The roll of distant thunder heralded the approaching storm. George paced up and down in front of the tent, occasionally casting a glance within, to assure himself of the safety of his
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
486
charge. But the latter made no effort to escape. He lay upon the ground in the moonlit tent. He neither moved nor said anything. The guard continued his lonely watch, when suddenly he thought he heard some one call his name. That sound could come from only one person—the .prisoner. But how could he have found out his guard’s name ? George stepped into the tent, and there before him was—his own brother.
“George, can you forgive me?” came in a plaintive tone from the prostrate figure before the guard. Could he forgive him and for what? George was so bewildered that he could not utter a sound. Finally he managed to stammer,
“How did you get here?”
It was a common story that Claud told in a tone that bespoke a sense of guilt. He told how he had become associated with several young fellows addicted to gambling. The means at his disposal were too limited to satisfy his wants and thus it was that he began to borrow money. One debt followed another until he found himself facing disgrace. During his father’s absence at the Convention, several creditors threatened to denounce him to the Doctor upon the latter’s return if he did not pay at least a part of his debts. What was he to do ? He saw the objectives, and as he knew that they were valuable, he took them and pawned them in his brother’s name. The afternoon of their meeting in Mr. Francis’ room, the ticket had fallen out of Claud’s pocket when he pulled out his handkerchief. He was afraid to tell his father the truth, and the result was that George was forced to leave home.
Claud halted in his recital and looked intently at his brother. George saw now why his pardon had been asked. The injustice of his brother dawned on him and he saw the reason for his father’s action. He had been standing during the whole length of the story, but now he seated himself on a camp-stool and bade his brother continue the narrative.
There was not much left to tell. Claud had been living carelessly before his brother left home, but after George’s . departure, this carelessness turned into recklessness. Finally, being forced to flee in order to escape detection, he found his way to Cuba.
The Spaniards wanted his services and were willing to pay him well. He accepted and his present position was the result.
The prisoner had spoken hastily in relating the unpleasant incidents, and when he finished, great drops of perspiration stood upon his face and forehead and his breath came in quick gasps. The guard, too, was deeply affected by the narrative, but could not say a word. For a long time, neither stirred, then George jumped to his feet, and as though afraid that a moment’s hesitation would destroy his determination, hurried to the prisoner, cut his cords and bade him rise.
“Now, Claud,” he said as he divested himself of his coat and hat, “put these on and get out of here as fast as you can.”
“But I won’t,” protested the other, “do you think I’m a coward to leave you here to suffer the punishment of my fault? I may be bad, but I have more sense of justice than that.”
“It doesn’t matter what I think,” answered George, “you do as I say and do it quickly,” and then there was a note of sadness in his voice as he continued:
“ Claud, I’m doing this for mother’s sake. She lives for you. I want you to go back home to her and be a good boy. She doesn’t care for me, but her heart would break if you should die the death of a spy. She won’t miss me, but you,—she can’t live without you. Now go.”
Claud still protested, but his brother, whispering the countersign into his ear, pushed him out of the tent.
At daybreak it was discovered that the prisoner was missing and accordingly the guard was put under arrest. If the commanding officer had expected that the culprit would plead for clemency he was badly disappointed, for the guilty man made no defense. At the court-martial, however, he told the story of his life. He related in detail how he and his brother had been brought up by their mother, for the father was too engrossed in scientific pursuits to pay due attention to his sons. Claud was the younger, and upon him was lavished all his mother’s affection. He barely mentioned the occurrence that caused his expulsion from home and led him into the army. There was no need to refer to his life

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
< among the soldiers for his comrades and officers had lived it with him and knew him ortly to respect and love him. But there was an audible expression of surprise when he told them that the escaped spy was none other than his brother Claud. George knew the desolation of their old home and the sorrow that must fill his mother’s heart at the evil conduct of her favorite. For his mother’s sake had he done the deed as his brother solemnly promised to return home and lead a better life.
The prisoner was silent. Before him sat his judges. What would the sentence be ? A tremor ran through his body and it was with difficulty that he staggered to a camp-stool and seated himself. When finally the sentence,—imprisonment for life — was read to him, he never winced, but followed his guard with firm step and erect bearing.
Number Seventy-six in the State Prison looked up when a heavy hand was laid on his shoulder and followed the guard from the work-house. He had been a model prisoner all these long years, and could not now understand why he should be summoned. Surely he had done nothing to merit punishment. His bewilderment. was increased when the guard mounted the steps to the director’s office and ushered him into that dignitary’s presence.
Director Parker looked up from his desk when the two men stepped into his office, and inquired:	.	,
“Stout is this the man?”
“Yes, sir,” was the curt reply and the guard left the room.
■■ “ Well, Francis,” said the director producing a huge envelope from a pigeon-hole and handing it to the prisoner, “here is your pardon which has just been received. You may leave any time - to-morrow. Let me congratulate you and wish you the best of success.”	.
It was a happy man who presented himself at Director Parker’s office on the following morning. Parker received him kindly and requested him to be seated. Upon being asked whither he intended to go, George replied that he did not know.
“Well,” queried Parker, “haven’t you forgiven your brother?”
“Forgiven him?”.asked Francis. “I guess
487
I did that the night I took upon myself the responsibility of releasing him when he had been committed as a spy to my keeping, and
. now I should be glad to go back home if ' they would only take me.”
“That’s what-I wanted to hear,” cried the director rising from his chair, “why, man, let me tell you that this rascal brother of yours went right straight home as he promised you and made a clean breast ’of the affair to your father. Of course, the Doctor was dumfounded. It has taken him all this time to get you out and now that he has succeeded he wants you to come home.”
The years have wrought big changes in . Redwood. Spacious buildings have replaced the small cottages of yesterday, but the finest house in town belongs to George and Claud Francis, lawyers.
The Hague as a World Parliament.*
Richard J. Collextine, ’09.
When the Creator placed the first man and woman in the Garden of Eden, it was contrary to His design that any one of the offspring of that union should ever raise hand against another. In giving man life He reserved to Himself the right of taking.it away. The first one to trespass on this right was branded as an outcast, and his race accursed. Many have since trespassed on this right and have not been branded as outcasts, rather have thev been lauded' as heroes. Despite all this, however, the design of the Creator still remains. That right of His is still inviolable, and whoever dares to encroach upon it is as guilty as the first murderer.	•
When two nations seek to settle their -differences by setting their soldiers upon one another, hoping thus to determine who is in the right, it is surely time for a general examination of conscience. But now is not the time to dwell on the wrongfulness that may be involved in warfare. We know'how contrary to the design of the Creator it is,
* Competitive oration in the Peace Oratorical Contest held at Notre Dame on March 24th for selecting a representative to the State Contest. .
488
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and how revolting*’to anyone who gives it real consideration.
In pleading the cause of peace I will not point to the graves that contain the choicest fruit of our nation. Millions are gone from us who might have been spared, we know. Homes have been made desolate. Blood that might have been the seed to people our country with greater men and leave it greater than now, has been sacrificed. It avails nothing to rehearse the only too well-known scenes that mark the path of warfare.' We know it is wrong and must be stopped. The duty we owe ourselves as a nation, and our foreign brethren as parties to a common interest, is to strike at it and take all pains to prevent it in the future.
Let those who sneer at peace, who are ever on the alert for rumors of warfare, ponder over the bloody scenes which historian and artist have painted for us, and see if their consciences do not chide them. If they view with favor what even the man of no religion must look upon with repulsion, then for the sake of peace we must leave them alone.
The man who. deplores warfare but regards peace as a mere utopia, because history shows warfare to'be inevitable under certain conditions, is the one whom we
must reach. We need his sympathy, for it
will help our cause. He has the hatred of uents. warfare at least, and to him we address ourselves. To him we say that peace, with all its attractiveness and promise of happiness for humanity, is by no means a utopia. In proof of this statement I will point to
the Hague Tribunal, where recently forty-four nations came together and discussed their common interests. That fact alone carries with it a world of assurance, for it has brought together those who are liable to take part in warfare where they can settle amicably what ordinarily requires warfare for settlement. Aside from this, what are the possibilities of the Hague Tribunal? One of them, the one which could best preserve peace and best express the desires of the nations of the world, is a world parliament. The distinguishing feature of a parliamentary body is the two divisions of which it is comprised— the upper and the lower houses. The one represents the conservative element and the other the radical. This feature renders a
parliamentary body so well adapted to: framing laws for the guidance of those under it, which shall be an expression of what they wish to be governed by. The formation of a parliamentary body at the Hague would secure the enactment of laws concerning warfare that would preserve peace and at the same time meet the approval of the nations represented in that tribunal. Some, in keeping with natural temperament, are prolific in ideas and plans, seeking always for the new, and as a result leaving much unconsidered. These form the radical element. Others are less fertile in ideas, more deliberate in the formulation of plans, and thus able to detect whatever dangers there may be lurking in a proposed plan. These form the conservative element. These two forces. singly are undesirable'; but acting together they can accomplish the best results. Brought together they act as a restraint upon each other and preserve an even balance of movement. This is what helps the parliamentary body to fulfil its mission.
In 1776, our thirteen states formed a central government out of the men they sent to represent them. These men, as usual, were by no means uniform in what they suggested for the welfare of their constitr Some were for taking the most
drastic action against England, leaving such minor considerations as expense and equipment entirely unnoticed. Those of the Upper House were quick to perceive and call attention to these, minor details, thus nipping in the bud all hasty action. For over one hundred and thirty years our government has been carried on along these lines. From danger it has been preserved by the deliberate action of the Senate. From the possibility of falling behind the times and of losing opportunities for bettering the condition of its people, it has been kept by the policy of the Lower House until at the present day we see it with much of its resources put to practical use, and the people enjoying prosperity.	.
The very same circumstances now surround the representatives at the Hague as surrounded those who made up our central government in ’76. The radicals, among whom our own country might have, been included, were, most strongly in favor of
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	489
U~	arbitrating international questions without
considering the amount of voice due each nation. They were met by the conservatives, those who pointed out the impracticability of allowing a nation of Persia’s standing a ’ voice equal to that of a nation like Germany.
Here we have exemplified the manner in which the radical and conservative forces work together for the common good. Both, we see, are held by mutual restraint in a direct line moving unswervingly and ' unscathed through all dangers. The radical element in the world parliament would comprise the Lower House that strives after what is newest and best, as does the House of Representatives in America and the House of Commons in England. The conservative element, the Upper House would provide ■ against hasty action, and its final verdict would express what those represented desire, as does the verdict of our Senate or that of the English House of Lords.
Does this not appear to you practicable ? If thirteen states, possessing all the qualities of sovereignty that each nation now enjoys, could thus form a body which should make laws that would form a general rule of . conduct, why can not forty-four nations form a body that will enact laws merely to regulate those actions of theirs which affect the common interests ? If our govern' ment utterly prevents by law any of these independent sovereignties we call states from quarrelling with one another, why can not a Hague parliament merely settle by arbitration the differences which cause warfare ?
, The number and the jurisdiction of each nation’s representatives could be proportioned by the commercial interests of each nation. This is the most vital of the common interests, and might well form a basis for deciding the voice of each nation. The possibility of outside influence being brought <	to bear in handling anything of impor-
! tance could be provided for in the same ;	manner as is done in our present parliamen-
tary government by requiring a. certain majority vote.	'	'
But, you ask, is it not too much to expect that a nation which feels itself hurt will tamely allow a third party to say whether it shall seek satisfaction or not? That is the leading objection. The greatest difficulty in bringing about arbitration is
national pride, the fear of a nation that any concession no matter how worthy the end may detract from its prestige. It is a difficulty which time can cure. We need have no fear that time will not cure it. There is a duty which demands that, all national pride be discarded, yes, even prestige sacrificed. And when the nations of the world realize how much more consideration warfare deserves as a general nuisance than their individual reputations deserve, when they realize how binding is this duty of discarding national pride for the common good then will the difficulty be solved. •
There is not a close bond of iiitemational fellowship to be found in recent centuries. Nations are now more intimately united commercially and socially, and warfare in any part of the world is undesirable and indirectly harmful to all.' The spectacle of America using her influence to bring Russia and Japan to a peaceful settlement, and the world-wide sentiment of disapproval toward the war which prompted this action, is proof of the growing distaste for warfare. The Portsmouth Treaty has shown warfare to be a common enemy to be put down by the combined influence of nations. One -hundred and thirty years ago our thirteen states united to fight their common enemy— English oppression. In similar fashion must the nations of the world now unite and strike at their common enemy—war. Thirteen states banded together against the authority which England strove to enforce upon them; why can not forty-four nations unite to protect themselves against trouble and expense in life and treasure some two or three of their number may seek to impose upon them ?
The Hague Tribunal is a fulfilment of the Creator’s design that none of the human . race should ever raise hand against another, that peace and harmony should govern the attitude of man toward man. Let us hope then that the link of national brotherhood will be forged anew and strengthened. Let us hope that when the Palace of Peace now being reared at the Hague shelters the representatives of the world in their next conference, it will be a temple enshrining the cherished design of the Creator, where, in the ages to come, the nations of the world may pay homage to the God of Peace.
49°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
.ntered as second-class matter at the Post Office. Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, Indiana
Notre Dame, Indiana, April 24, 1909,
Board of Editors.
IGNATIUS MCNAMEE, ’09	RICHARD COLLENTINE, '09
OTTO A. SCHMID, ’09	JOHN B. KANALEY, ’09
HARRY LEDWIDGE, ’09	GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10
PETER E. HEBERT, ’10	EDWARD P. CLEARY, '09
DENIS A. MORRISON, ’10	PAUL R. MARTIN, ’10
THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ll	JOHN B. MCMAHON, ’09
MICHAEL A. MATHIS, ’10	JOHN J. ECKERT, '11
-LEO C. MCELROY, ’10	LEO J. CLEARY, ’10
JOHN MCDILL FOX, ’09	FRANCIS C. WALKER, ’09
— The growing sentiment in favor of peace will doubtless be given a new impetus when the coming Congress takes place at
Chicago. The last one The Second National held there in 1893, while Peace Congress. somewhat overshadowed
by the Columbian Exposition, was still a means of bringing the cause of peace before the public by the literature contributed on the subject. In addition to the illustrious names we see connected with that occasion, the importance of Chicago as a city and its central position were also important factors. Coupling the latter fact with the education in the idea of peace since received by - the public, and the illustrious men slated to deliver addresses at the Second National Congress, “it wall,” to quote from the announcement, “undoubtedly go down into history as epoch-marking, if not, indeed, epoch-making.”
“ The Question Now Conies, 1 What Next? ’ Two years before the assembling of the -Third Hague Conference in 1915, a statement will be drawn up by the several governments concerning the questions which will - come up for discussion at the . third
session of what has come to be -virtually a periodic Congress of Nations. One of the objects of the Chicago Peace Congress will be to consider what subjects should be taken up by the Third Hague Conference. A generous portion of the program is to be devoted to considering next steps. History is making so rapidly towards international co-operation that it is difficult to keep ahead of prose facts.”
—Dramatics as a source of entertainment have, within the last few' years, come into great prominence in the universities and colleges. The very fact that College Dramatics, the drama is a creation for amusement has perhaps had too strong a tendency to make the student overlook the training of mind and body that is derived from participation in the action. There is a culture that comes from acting that can scarcely be over-valued, and the appreciation of this should make students anxious to take part in college plays. In oratory and debating, the aim is to acquire perfection of voice and movement; yet the extent of movement and the range of voice exercise are necessarily limited. But in acting, the opportunities for the training of the body are almost incalculable, and the voice culture is extremely wide in its scope. Again, the accomplishments of oratory and debating, are, in a certain sense, artificial when compared to the histrionic art. Elocution and oratory have a tendency to develop numerous mannerisms of speech and action, which can be avoided or corrected in no surer way than by the training in variety and naturalness afforded by work on the stage—the portrayal of life as it is lived. The actor strives to present to his audience a living picture of life as it is lived, and in so doing his aim must necessarily be towards naturalness and simplicity, and in this his action is not artificial. It is not intended that the benefits of or’atory and debating shall be underestimated, but that -the accomplishment of acting may be better appreciated. There is still another reason w7hy the student should take part in dramatics, especially the Shakespearean or Classical; and that is because of the knowledge that
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
491
is acquired of the masterpieces. The true understanding of the thoughts of the master playwrights can be better obtained by acting than in any other manner, because in acting, every shade of meaning must be interpreted correctly. Opportunity to participate in dramatic work should not be neglected by any student. Effort and earnestness in this line will contribute something to his liberal culture which is not likely to be otherwise obtained.
—The many disastrous fires which have occurred during the past few years with great loss of life, have led to much improvement in the way of adequate Fire-Drill, protection. The fatality has been greatest perhaps in the public and parochial school buildings, where the loss of life has been far in excess of what, under any moderate protection, might be regarded as a maximum. One reason of the direful loss is the cheap and unsafe method of construction often allowed in buildings where thousands of young people are daily confined. Another, and no doubt greater, reason is the entire absence of any properly superintended fire-drill for the regulation of exits in case of fire. The plan adopted by many of the larger cities, of delegating an efficient member of the local firedepartment to supervise the drills for teachers and pupils, has met with admirable success and deserves to become general. Ordinarily, where a panic occurs in case of a fire in a crowded building, it is because those involved have never been in such a situation before. All try to get out at once, and as a consequence they never get out. A little training for such an event, as can be easily given in the schools, will develop, both on the part of teachers and pupils, the order and deliberation which are the best life-savers in the time of peril.
—On January fifteenth last the Christian Socialist, a weekly paper published in Chicago, printed a “Catholic Special Edition.” The purpose of editing
The Christian Socialist this special Catholic ediUnmasked. tion was, in the words of the editor, “To present the subject of socialism to Catholics
from the Catholic view-point.” There is at least a gratuitous tolerance on the part of the public toward any social measure no matter how unpopular it may be, so long as its advocates plead their cause above board. But when the promoters of so unpopular a measure as socialism attempt to show by a special edition edited by Catholic clergymen that the Infallible Catholic Church approves of socialism, all informed men will want to know “how they did it.” The Extension in this month’s issue, after an investigation of this special Catholic edition, says: “It is hardly necessary to point out that none of the ‘Rev.’ gentlemen who edited the Special belong to the Catholic Church.” It certainly requires a world of brass to venture the prefixing to anybody’s name the title “Archbishop,” which the whole world recognizes to be proper only to certain individuals, and then declaring the paroxysms of these newly made catholic ecclesiastics to be the doctrine of the Catholic Church on socialism. More than that, in great headlines, this special Catholic edition boasts that “The saints are with us,” and then for a proof quotes from Saints Ambrose, Augustine and Chrysostom passages relating to private property vs. collectivism, which may be interpreted only as meaning that voluntary surrender of one’s . goods from religious motives, recognized in the Catholic Church from the earliest times and for seventeen centuries practised by religious orders still extant. These successful results, where the principles of collectivism, as advocated by the Catholic Church, have been put to practical experiment in the past by the religious orders and the results to-day under present condition by hundreds more of these religious communities, strik-. ingly contrast with the failures where the principles of collectivism have been recently tested in Australia and the Brook-Farm force. These results also show that there is a world of practical difference between the voluntary surrrender of private property for collective use from religious motives and the compulsory seizure of private property for collective use from no religious motives. The Extension dismissed this brazen perpetration of the Christian Socialist with the observation that “It appeals to us as another slug of humor added to the merri-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
492
went of nations.” It no doubt is humorous to those who know the “Rev.” editors referred to; but what about those who are ignorant of the facts ? And is it not a matter of common knowledge that socialistic propaganda is carried on almost entirely among the ignorant as a class, to whom. such a flagrant abuse of the press is not a source of humor, but on whom it is an impertinent imposition ? Our Federal Constitution provides for freedom of the press, but it also relies on the good sense of our citizens to squelch any abuses of it by pushing such editors off the stage, and we can do this in a practical way by condescending to expose such editors in our own good papers and by discouraging subscription to their papers.
A New Scientifc Journal.
The Midland Naturalist, a bi-monthly magazine devoted to studies in nature and edited by the Rev. Dr. Nieuwland, C. S. C., Professor of Botany at Notre Dame, has just made its appearance. The new journal merits special attention from all students of natural science. Local journals, such as the Ottawa Naturalist, Rhodora, the Ohio Naturalist and others, have their special mission and are fulfilling it well. The Midland Naturalist, however, is unique in its field of research, in that it -has its own floral and faunal territory and one that to the present time has remained unoccupied journalistically. In his investigations of biological and-kindred subjects at Notre Dame, the editor has realized the desirability of having a ready medium of publication for matter appertaining to those branches of Natural History taught in the class-room. But as there is evidence that a new era of naturestudy in the Middle West is upon the dawn, the Midland Naturalist should prove a stimulus to all students of that field not only in the colleges, but also to the equally interested and efficient private workers outside the schools. Careful articles will be furnished in the new publication with photographic illustrations by the most eminent botanists, chemists, ornithologists, physicists and naturalists in the Midland States,
A Paying Proposition.
We publish the following communication recently received from Professor J. L. Laughlin, of the University of Chicago, concerning the annual essay contest in which handsome prizes are given by Hart, Schaffner and Marx, which ought to be of interest to some of the students at Notre Dame, especially those following courses in Economics. The unusually liberal prizes are a genuine inducement which make the effort of competing even financially worth the while. The subjects proposed are worthy of an intense study, and the apt student who will select one of them and take the pains to master it may be repaid in more than one way.
An invitation is given to students of Notre Dame University by Professor J. Laurence Laughlin of the University of Chicago, and other educators, to compete for the prize essays offered by Bart, Schaffner and Marx to encourage the study of business subjects. The competition for 1909 is now under way and will end the coming June. Subjects for 1910 have just been suggested by the committee as follows:
1	The effect of labor unions on international trade.
2	The best means of raising the wages of the unskilled.	■
3	A comparison between the theory and the actual practice of protectionism in the United States.
4	A scheme for an ideal monetary system for the United States.	-
5	The true relation of the central government to trusts.	.
6	How much of J. S. Mills' economic system survives.
7	A central bank as a factor in a financial crisis.
The contestants are divided into two classes. Class A includes any American without restriction. Class B includes only those who, at the time of competing, are undergraduates of any American college. A first prize of $600 and a second prize of $400 are offered for the best studies presented by Class A; a first prize of $300 and a second of $200 are offered for the best studies presented by Class B. Any member of Class B, however, may compete for the prizes of Class A.
Men or women who have not had a college training are eligible to compete under Class

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
493
C, to which a prize of $500 is offered for the best essay, and for which the following subjects are suggested:
1	The most practicable scheme for beginning a reduction of the tariff.
2	The value of government statistics of wages in the last ten or fifteen years.
3	Opportuni ti- s for expanding our trade with South America.
4	The organization of the statistical work of the United States.
5	Publicity and form of trust accounts.
The winning essays will be published in book form at the discretion of the committee, which, in addition to Professor Laughlin, consists of Professor J. B. Clark, Columbia University, Professor Henry C. Adams, University of Michigan; Horace Wright, Esq., New York City, and Edwin F. Gay, Harvard University. The papers are to be handed in by June 1910.
Athletic Notes.
Last Saturday, April 17th, Notre Dame defeated Kalamazoo College on Cartier Field by a score of 22 to 1. The game was a walkaway and hardly served as a workout.
“Dreams” Scanlon pitched five innings and had the Kalamazoo batters hopelessly at his mercy, Catcher Biss being the only one to connect. “Billie” Burke entered the game in the sixth and proved quite as effective. McKee, Philips and R. Scanlon excelled in stick work for N. D. ' The score:
Notre Dame	AB. R.	H.	PO. A.	E.
Connelly, 3b			4	2	0	1 1	1
McKee, cf				3	0 0	0
Ruell, ss..'			-.	6	1	1	1 1	0
Kelly, If.	-			2	2	0	0 0	0
; Hamilton, 2b			3	3	0	0 1	0
Ulatowski, rf.			1	3	0	0 0	0
R. Scanlon, c			4	3	1	13 1	0
Phillips, lb				4	4	2	6 0	1
F. Scanlon, p			3	1	1	0 4	0
Burke, p			1	2	1	0 0	0
	33 22	9	21 S	2
Kalamazoo	, AB. R.	H.	PO. A.	E.
Kinney, 3b			:	3	0	0	3 2	2
Louterette, ss				3	0	0	3 0	1
Mumford, 2b and p...		3	0	0	1 3	1
Biss,c	:			..	3	1	2	2 2	1
Puffer, If.			3	0	0	1 1	0
Reliefer, rf.			1	0	0	0 0	0
Couter, cf.	.’.		2	0	0	1 0	0
Hughes, lb	:			2	0	0	9 0	1
Mack, p and 2b			2	0	0.	1 5	0
	24 1	2	2113	6
Bases on balls—Mack 11, Mumford 1. Left on base—				
N. D. 5, Kalamazoo 2.	Two-base hits—Philips, R. Scan-			
Ion.- -Home run, R. Scanlon. Struck out-		-By Mack 2,		
bv Scanlon S, bv Burke	5. Hit bv pitcher-	—Ulatowski.		
Passed ball, Biss. Umpire, Dugan.				
Notre, Dame 11; Michigan, 2.
On Monday, April 19th, the University of Michigan appeared on Cartier field, received a severe jolt to the tune of 11 to 2, and after seven innings faded away as gracefully as possible. Scanlon was again on the mound for the Varsity, and let the Wolverines down with three hits to their credit.
All our scoring was done in the third and fourth innings. Pitcher Scanlon led off with-a neat bunt, beating it to the initial sack. Connelly went out, Barr to Dunne, Scanlon advancing to second on the play. McKee was safe at first on Dunne’s error, Scanlon going to third. Then in the confusion attendant upon the lanky first baseman’s misplay, he stole home. Daniels singled, sending McKee to third. Ruel walked. With the sacks crowded, Kelly singled, scoring McKee and Daniels. Philips and Ulatowski ended the inning by each taking three healthy ones at the atmosphere. In the fourth, a bunt, an error, a hit and an outfield fly gave Michigan two runs. •
In our half, hits by both Scanlons, together with passes, errors and ragged fielding, gave us eight runs. This ended the scoring. Michigan was at no stage of the game dangerous, and the game which in the beginning promised well, proved a disappointment to the fans. The score:	’
Michigan	AB. R.	H. PO. A. E
Sullivan, cf.			2	0	0 0 0 0
Lathrop, 2 b			3	1	12 11
Blandy, rf.			3	0	0 0. 0 0
Lathers, 3b			3	1	0 110
’ Olson, If.			2	0	110 0
Dunne, lb			2	0	0 9 0 2
Fountain, ss			1	0	0 0 11.
Euzenroth, c			3	0	0 4 3 3
Barr, p			2	0	1 1 2 0
	21 2	3 18 8 7
Notre Dame	AB. R.	S. PO. A. E
Connelly, 			.-.4	0	0 2 3 1
McKee			4	2	0 2 0 0
Daniels			3	2	2 .5 2 1
Ruell			2	1	0 2 10
Kellv	-			.L..3	1	2 0 .0 1
Philips 			3	0	0 10 0
Ulatowski			-.2	1	0 10 0
R. Scanlon			3	2	2 8 1 0 ..
F. Scanlon			3	2	2 0 3 0
	27 11	8 21-10 3
Score by innings—N.	D.—0 0 3 8 0	o’x=ii
Michigan—0 0 0 2 0		0 0= 2 '
Two-base hit—Kelly.	Three-base hit—Daniels. Sac-	
rifice hits—Connelly 2, Dunne. Bases on balls—Off Barr		
4; off Scanlon 3. Struck	out—By_.Barr:4* by'Scanlon 8?	
Hit.by pitcher—Fountain:. Umpire,		
	-	
*		, ■	-j’ '/'xV'
		
494
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Judging from the interest of those who witnessed the final contests in boxing and wrestling last Wednesday night, these sports are popular and bid for a permanent place on the athletic program of the University
The wrestling followed, the first bout, for the heavy-weight championship, being between Howard Edwards of South Bend and George Attley of Chicago. Attley seemed to work more on the offensive than did Edwards but the latter, finally secured a scissors and arm hold, and won the fall in 3 minutes and 18 seconds.
In the middle-weight bout, it took Frank Binz of, Chicago 41 seconds to secure a half-Nelson on Otto Probst of South Bend, and this hold, coupled with a roll, brought both of Probst’s shoulders to the mat.
Edmund Shea of Ashland, Wis., took the Welter-weight title from Thomas Sheehan of Toledo, Ohio, in 2 minutes and 26 seconds. Shea accomplished the fall by means of an arm-lock and roll which is a very effective hold and requires a strong bridger to get away, from it.
In the feather-weight class, Warren Sexton of Utica, New York, defeated Edmund Bruce with a half-Nelson and head-lock in 3 minutes. This was the prettiest wrestling match of the evening.
The boxing matches consisted of three, two minute rounds with one minute intervals. Chief of Police McWeeney refereed these as well as the wrestling matches, and at the conclusion expressed himself as delighted with the quality of the several matches.
The light-weight contest between Harry Dufly of Chicago and Claude Sack of Mendota, Ill., was awarded to Dufiy after one round. An injury to Sack’s wrist prevented the continuation of the bout. Duffy outpointed Sack throughout, being lighter on his feet and seeming to command a harder punch. Duffy used short-arm jabs considerably and very effectively.
The Welter-weight event between W. H. Brady, Corning, N. Y., and J. P. McCafferty, Washington, was awarded to Brady. In the first round, Brady rushed McCafferty around the ring getting in several hard wallops. McCafferty’s foot work seemed to be his forte, and he was able to- avoid many of Brady’s hard swings. The second round was
pretty 'much a repetition of the first. In the third round Brady started with a rush and clearly out-fought McCafferty, who seemed to be tired out.
The light heavy-weight match between Lee Mathews and Paul McDonald, of Columbus, Ohio, was forfeited to McDonald through the non-appearance of Mathews, caused by a misunderstanding on the part of the latter.
The feather-weight battle between Lister and Dean, both of Chicago, was easily the stellar event of the night. Both of the men were strong and fast and showed considerable science. In the first round the fighting was about even, Lister possibly having a shade of the advantage. Both mixed it up considerably and some hard blows were exchanged. At the opening of the second round Dean was sent to the floor, but was on his feet again immediately and fighting hard. This round closed with advantage to neither. In round three, Dean seemed to have the better of the argument, but the advantage, if there was any, was so slight that at the end of the round it was called a draw. This necessitated a fourth round of three minutes’ duration. Although there was considerable clinching in this round, the fighting was hard and fast. It was clear that the men were evenly matched, and Referee McWeeney voiced the sentiments of nearly everyone present when he announced that it was a draw.
The heavy-weight battle was between Howard Edwards, of South Bend, and Henry Burdick, of Cincinnati, Ohio. This bout was also decided as a draw. Chief of Police McWeeney said that the Dean-Lister “go” was the best amateur performance he had ever witnessed, and complimented Coach Maris highly on the result of his training. Chief McWeeney himself deserves the compliments and the thanks of the student body for his work with the wrestling classes and the interest he has helped to arouse in this form of sport.
A class of about forty Minims, under the supervision of Director Maris, gave an exhibition of marching and calisthenics, and the precision and smoothness which they exhibited in the performance are deserving of high compliment. .	L. C. M.■; .
NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC	495
Local Items.
—The Hoosier baseball team of Carfoil Hall have provided themselves with new white suits. This regalia will be worn during all games played by the team.
—Dr. James J. Walsh of New York will lecture in Washington Hall tomorrow evening, April 25th, at 7:30 P.M. Dr. Walsh is a scholarly and accomplished gentleman and is said to be one of the most brilliant speakers in the United States. . His appearance will be a real treat to all at the University.
—The seniors are now at work getting their theses into shape for presentation to the Faculty Board of Examiners. It is a requirement of the University that every candidate for a degree submit a creditable thesis in his major subject. This work, together with that of the Dome and preparation for the examinations is keeping the graduating class pretty busy at present.
—From present appearances it. looks as though fishing in the Lake would be good this spring. Several students have already tried their luck with great. success, and on Thursday two visitors from town landed a long string of large fish in a couple of hours. During the warm days the minnows were close to the shore and a number of large bass could be seen feeding oh the little fellows.	.	■
—The debating contest -which took place last Wednesday evening between Georgetown University and Notre Dame at Georgetown resulted ima decision of two to one for Notre Dame. The details of the contest will be furnished in our next issue. The State Peace Contest in which we were represented by Mr. Francis Wenninger was held last night at Purdue University, but we could not get' .information of the outcome in time for the press.	.	■
—Under the direction of Father Farley, a baseball diamond is being laid out on the campus just south of Old College. Workmen with a sod-cutter and scraper have been at work for the past few days getting the. ground into shape. When completed, this diamond will be used by . the Corby Hall ’ boys, who heretofore, have. .had.-, no.
place where they could play ball without borrowing the campus of some other Hall.
—On Tuesday evening last Brownson defeated Corby in the first of the debates held this year between the Interhall teams. The question of which Brownson argued the affirmative was, “ Resolved, That the railroads of the United States be owned and controlled by the government.” The sides were quite evenly matched, and both displayed a thorough study of the subject, but Brownson seemed to have a shade the better of it throughout. The debaters for Brownson were, in order of speaking: J. Dean, R. Bowen, and P. J. Meersman; for Corby, C. Deckman, R. Payne, and J. D. Farneman. Prof. Spiess presided as chairman. The judges, who gave a two-to-one decision, were Father Quinlan, Professor Hines and Professor Dillon.
—Last night the engineering students enjoyed a very interesting lecture by Mr. C. J. Hammond, City Engineer’ of South Bend. Mr. Hammond has just returned from a several months’ visit to the Panama, where he made a special study of the Isthmus and the Canal that is being built across it. He gave a . full history of the legislation regarding the work and the progress made up to the present time, presenting stereopticon views to illustrate the more important details. The Panama Canal is an opportune subject, and the interesting manner in which Mr. Hammond presented the data he had gathered on the scene held the closest attention of the students. The members of the Engineering Society take this opportunity of thanking Mr. Hammond for his kindness, and trust that it will not be long until they again have the pleasure of listening to him. .	/
.—The annual banquet of the Philopatrian Society was held last Thursday at the Oliver Hotel. The members of the Society, about ninety in number, made the trip to and from South Bend in a special car; and after a lunch at the hotel attended the theatre in the afternoon. At six o’clock they assembled at the Oliver where an eight-course dinner was served. Music was furnished during the banquet by Mattes’ Orchestra. The menu cover was specially designed by Prof. Worden, while the menu itself was .inters spersed with names of characters in the St. Patrick’s Day play. The guests of honor were: the Rev. Fathers Cavanaugh, Crumley, Maguire Quinlan, Lavin, Brother. George, Prof. Worden, Messrs. H. Curtis, Edward
496
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
McDonough, Claude Sorg and Leo Cleary. At the close of the dinner Father Cavanaugh took occasion to address a few words of commendation regarding the behavior of the boys and the success of the arrangements which had been made by Brother Cyprian. The youngsters, catching the spirit of the occasion, made the event one of wholesome, happy enjoyment.
—On Monday evening the Brownson Literary Society and the Brownson Glee Club gave their last public entertainment for’ this year. The literary and musical entertainments of this kind, so earnestly promoted by Brother Alphonsus, are effective in bringing out and developing the wealth of talent in Brownson Hall. The last program, though not so good as some of the former ones, showed a great deal of preparation and care. The Glee Club, which, under the direction of Father Maguire, has achieved great success, rendered in an excellent manner the first number on the program, “The Queen of the West.” Masters T. Clarke, G. Clarke, M. Rumely, W. Leslie, E. Griswold, and H. Heck of Carroll Hall assisted the Glee Club in the rendition of “Inflammatus.” Mr. W. A. Fish spoke on “Ireland;” Paul R. Byrne delivered “The Irish Emigrant,” and John P. Murphy told of the life and struggles of John Boyle O’Reilly. Mr. Claude .Sorg delivered “The Sister of Charity,” and Brother Alphonsus delighted the audience with his “Ghost in the Minims’ Dormitory. At the conclusion of the program some appropriate admonition was offered the members by Rev. Father Cavanaugh.
- —k great deal of amusement, and to the participants at least, no little vexation, was caused recently when Holy Cross was scheduled to meet St. Joseph’s Hall in debate. Brother Florian had done his most artistic work of decorating the St. Joseph recreation room for the occasion and, to quote the society column of the daily papers, “it presented to the eye a scene so beautiful that it could only be compared to fairyland.” The visitors had assembled, and the debaters, replete in clean shirts and stiff collars, lined up preparatory to the great contest that was anticipated. The chairman took his seat, and, after calling the meeting to order, announced that the debate would be opened by the first speaker of the affirmative. A debater from St. Joseph’s arose and started toward the center of the stage. Another debater from the Holy Cross side did likewise. All eyes were centered on the stage. In the exact center they met and stopped, eyeing each other suspiciously. “Beg pardon,” said the St. Joe man, “but I am the first speaker for the affirmative.” “Beg. pardon,” said the Holy Cross man, “but Tam.the first speaker, for the affirma
tive.” Then there was silence. The chairman looked puzzled and fumbled for his Robert’s Rules of Order. Then the teams compared notes. Then they laughed. Some one had blundered. “The affirmative wins,” said the judges, and it was decided to hold the debate later when there might be a little more disagreement in regard to the matter at issue.
—An epic spectator of last Sunday’s encounter between Holy Cross Hall and the Catholic Club of Mishawaka celebrates the contest in the following strain:
“Hear me, ye baseball fans and bleacherites of much enthusiasm, that I may speak the things which my mind commands me in my breast: On Sunday last, about the third hour of the revolving sun, the Mishawaka C. C’s encountered the formidable spike-wearing warriors of Holy Cross Hall on the Campus Seminarius, well chalk-lined in divers directions for fear of fouls. Being drawn up in battle array the mitt-clad combatants stood on tiptoe with knees bent forward, while the umpire of majestic stature and lofty voice nominated in reverberating accents the many-curved balls and strikes in order that the spectators, who shouted one to another, might hear. For five threatening innings the battle raged, accomplishing naught save large goose-eggs of oval shape, but in the sixth, through the wise counsels of the unerring coach, the localites smote the twirlers delivered by the strong arm of the fearless Weinkauf, scoring five runs. But the doughty C. C’s in turn collecting themselves made their approach to the bat. With much fear and heavy toil they snatched two tallies; then there was excessive quiet till the eighth inning when they secured three more, thus making it a tie and anybody’s game. At this juncture Captain McElhone of the auburn hair, planning destruction for the foes, stepped cautiously into the box. With thunderbolt swiftness he hurled them over, but each successive batsman failed to connect. For fourteen innings, each side fought valiantly, but without vantage. Black darkness hovering hear was striking uneasiness into the breasts of all, when Quinlan of the firm grasp smote a speedy one down toward Kentucky which made him keeper of second base. McElhone offered a sacrifice hit, and like rolling sounds from ocean billows rose the yells from the lusty-voiced rooters i Breeks followed, and with his baseball shaft drove the far-shooter’s big drop beyond the extreme boundaries of the far-reaching diamond, losing the ball of priceless worth amid the rugged cliffs of the lake shore. The battle was won, and with the spoils of victory upon their shoulders the victors were carried to their evening repast.” .
I
I f
1
1 I I