2
The Scholastic
S G U 7 'H BEND'S LARGEST S 7 G ~ E ~ Q p
NITE-LIFE BEGINS AT GILBERT’S
in Tuxedos with all the tailoring “know how” of years of experience fully apparent in the ease with which they fit the wearer. The size range is complete with regulars, shorts, longs, extra-longs and portlys.
Prices start at
$3950
FULL DRESS
all sizes starting at $60
Tuxedos bought before 3 o’clock will be ready for you by 6:30 the same evening!
GILBERT'S
OPEN EFERY EFEN/NG
UNTIL 9 P. M.
813-817 S. Michigan Street
B Oct. 14, 1949
Timber!
Editor:
It would be much appreciated by all students who are anywhere near six feet in height, if some ingenious soul would get a saw, and cut down some of the low hanging branches on the tree near the northeast corner of the Chemistry Building. If it’s not done soon, some unsuspecting victim is going to leave one of his eyeballs dangling from a twig.	Chuck Linsenmeyer
Lyons Hall
P.S.: Also southwest corner of Lyons Hall on path to Rockne Memorial.
Why don’t you smoke more?—Editor
Case of the Shrunken Shirt
Editor:
By means of this column, if I may, I would like to contact any of my fellow students who may have some little friend (male) in need of a shirt. I have for sale—cheap—a blue and yellow striped tee-shirt of excellent quality, worn only twice. Any little boy of about four feet six, 80 pounds, will fit comfortably into it.
You see, I had one just like it, but several sizes larger, which I sent to the campus laundry. In return I received by mistake the miniature replica described above.
In spite of the efforts of the Dining Hall, I doubt that the shirt will ever fit me. So if anyone is interested, please contact me. Don Carbone 314 Farley
F.S.: It would also make a good nightshirt for a large doll (toy, not human).
1950 ‘Dome’ Distribution
Editor:	•
When Publications made plans for early publication of next year’s Dome it was with the thought that it might be an added convenience to the graduating seniors.
A representative of the Senior class has informed us that the class officers have queried members of the next graduating class and that the general opinion is that the later publication date is preferred so that all the year’s events can be included.
The Dome is the seniors’ book. What they wish is what we wish. So next year’s Dome will have a late distribution but will include the entire year’s events. Dale Francis,
Director of Publications
MASS CALENDAR
SATURDAY, OCT. 15—Double-white — St. Teresa, Virgin; Gloria, Common Preface.
SUNDAY, OCT. 16—Semidouble— Green—XIX Sunday after Pentecost; Gloria, 2nd Coll. St. Hedwig, Widow, 3rd “Defend Us,” Creed, Preface of Trinity.
MONDAY, OCT. 17 —Double — White—St. Margaret Mary Alacoque, Virgin; Gloria, Common Pref.
TUESDAY, OCT. 18—Double of II Class—Red—St. Luke, Evangelist; Gloria, Creed, Pref. Apostles.
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 19—Double White—St. Peter of Alcantara, Confessor; Gloria, Common Preface.
THURSDAY, OCT. 20—Double-White—St. John Cantius, Confessor; Gloria, Common Preface.
FRIDAY, OCT. 21 — Simple — White—St. Hilarion, Abbot and Confessor; Gloria, 2nd Coll. Holy Spirit, 3rd “Defend Us,” Common Preface.
Special Purchase! Pure wool
AIRFORCE GREY FLANNEL SLACKS
7.95
It’s values like these that have made Adler’s famous for slacks. Pure wool airforce grey flannel with zipper closing, pleated front, California wristband and other features you’ll like. Ideal for class or date wear. Get yours tomorrow!	'
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER
O
FRANK DRISCOLL — 219 Morrissey Hall
THE WEEK
by Jack McGoldrick ==- -
Top of the Week
Army, 21; Michigan, 7.
Dissa and Data
With regard to last week’s prediction on the World Series outcome . . . the WEEK says . . . ‘‘wait till next year.” . . . Is it true that Mauri Rose, of Indianapolis Speedway fame is . driving the 11:45 ND bus for Northern Indiana Transit? . . . John R. (for rural) Sullivan went to the Riley High-East’ Chicago football game last week. . . . His comment on the peroxide cheerleaders was, “the bleachers went wild when Riley won.” . . . We hear that several of the nation’s sportswriters sent Frank Leahy a record of You Were Only Fooling ... (if we beat Tulane, we can only lose six this season). . . . It’s too bad the VA checks aren’t in yet, since some local bookies are taking Tulane even tomorrow. . . . Brother Bookstore says that the large freshman class has caused razor blade sales to
ing and exercises with ten-gram bug bells, then takes a brisk walk around the flower pot, a refreshing dip in the gardener’s mustache cup, and sits down to a hearty vitamin-packed breakfast of crispy crunchy souffled brawmash-awns, steefils on toast, and sliced her-milberries with cream. In fact, he used to work out on Cartier field with the Bee-squad just to stay in shape.
The other fellow, though, was a gay little son of a bee, who used to stay out till all hours of the night with his honey, and get a buzz on from slurping the suds down at Hornet Harry’s Happy Hacienda in the Hyacinth. Then he’d sleep most of the day away, and get up just in time to put two bucks on the long-shot in the last race at the Bee-line track.
Well, anyway, to make a long story short (gotta make that deadline), these two fellows met. Everybody saw it. All the well-known bees were there, except of course, Throckmorton P. Gil
derbee, who was unable to attend, due to a bad case of the hives. One remark led to another, and there were some stinging remarks to say the least, until one of the bees threw his three left feet and caught the other one in the ear, nose, and bread-basket simultaneously. They slugged, wrestled, cussed, etc. (you’d think they were an admiral and a Bee-36 tangling), and finally (brace yourselves, men, this is the coup de grace), the vitamin bee won. (If you can read that last sentence, you’re wanted as a proofreader).
Bottom of the Week
Now who’s going to beat Army?
15 PHOTOS $1°°
for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2x 3}/2
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL §1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROCOpy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
fall off 50%. . . . Jerry Cowhig and Jack Zilly, class of ’48, and now with the Los Angeles Rams, visited their Alma Mater this week following the Bears-Rams game. . . . They both have parts in the RKO picture Easy Living, starring Victor Mature. . . . This pic is coming soon to South Bend. ... A recent survey showed that 67% of the commerce students think that the school colors are green and white. . . . Jack Long, A.B. student who transferred here from Fordham so he could get four tickets to the North Carolina game said . . . “Well aren’t they green and white?”
Maybe It’s Bee-cause
STOP
PASSING VP GOOD TIMES
Now that the Scholastic is running fiction (or hadn’t you noticed?), the WEEK decided to incorporate into today’s column the following little story about the bee farm that is just north of the campus. This story has to do with the two little bees who had a fight, and a very gruelling fight it was, indeed. But to start at the bee-ginning: there were these two little bees. Now one of the bees was a healthy specimen of masculine beemanity; one of those fellows that gets up at six every morn-
Oct. 14, 1949
GET THE BEST FOR LESS
It’s
NORTHERN INDIANA'S LARGEST STUDIO
Congenial Dance Fiesta every Thursday Nite 9-11 pan. for pupils and guests. Meet new friends and have fun.
• Incomparable Low Rates
• Private Studios and Main Ballroom
• Friendly, Congenial Atmosphere
• Personally Trained Staff
Fun... the GEORGE DAVIS WAY
Alice and George Davis
TLCIOS
SPECIAL Low Rate for Notre Dame Students.
Phone 38229
ST UUIO HOURS 10	10 pjn*
106 W. MONROE AT MICHIGAN
Entertainment
OCTOBER 14
COLFAX (through Oct. 19)—Gary Cooper stars in this Actionized history of the Navy’s aircraft carrier entitled Task Force (Legion of Decency Rating A-l). Jane Wyatt and Walter Brennan offer fine support. The film is excellent.
PALACE (through Oct. 18)—Oscar-winning John Huston fails to capture the verve of reality in this picture. (We Were Strangers B) that was so prevalent in his Treasure of Sierra Madre. Jennifer Jones unconvincingly plays a Cuban resurrectionist (she shouldn’t keep her teeth locked) while John Garfield is seen as an American who pilots the murky plot. There are a few memorable scenes in the movie but, on the whole, it is turgid fare. Mr. Soft Touch. (A-l) with Glenn Ford and Evelyn Keyes is the co-feature.
STATE (through Oct. 15)—For a change two worthwhile reissues are presented. They are James Hilton’s Lost Horizon with Ronald Colman and Adam Had Four Sons with Ingrid Bergman.
AVON (through Oct. 18)—South Bend’s newest first run theater opens with The Midnight Kiss (A-l), a sparkling musical starring Kathryn Grayson, Jose Iturbi, and Ethel Barrymore and introducing Mario Lanza. The story is rather inane but the music is well worth the price of admission.
OCTOBER 15
STADIUM—The Irish take on the yo’all boys from Tulane. Coach Leahy is after his 31st win. Kick-off at 2 p.m.
NAVY DRILL HALL—Again: the Victory Dance.
j OCTOBER 16
TIMES (through Oct. 18)—In the Good Old Summertime (A-l) is a technicolored musical out of the top drawer. Judy Garland hasn’t appeared to better advantage in years. Van Johnson, for a change, is bearable. The story is clever and the production is perfect. Skip the co-pic, Jungle Jim, with tubby Johnny Weismuller.
AVON (through Oct. 25)—Professional football gets a going over in Easy Living (A-2). Victor Mature, Lucille Ball, Lizbeth Scott and Sonny Tufts are in it. Some sharp dialogue and some interesting sidelights of the pigskin big-time make it an interesting feature.
OCTOBER 19
PALACE (through Oct. 22)—MGM has done a superlative job in bringing Flaubert’s Madame Bovary (A-2) to the screen. Jennifer Jones makes up for her performance in W.W.S. and makes the philandering heroine completely believable. Van Heflin, Louis Jourdan and James Mason rate high also in supporting roles. House Across the Street (A-2) with Wayne Morris and Janis Paige is merely average.
OCTOBER 20
COLFAX (through Oct. 26)—Marie Wilson stars as the dumb blond in this picturization of her radio show My Friend Irma (A-2). As on the air, the show is silly. The only thing that lifts it out of the mediocre class is the debut of that zany comedy team Jerry Lewis and Dean Martin. Lewis is a comer to be reckoned with.
PIPE SMOKERS
A splendid assortment of Nationally known pipes featuring Hardcastle Pipes —the pipe with Personality.
Stop in today
ONLY $1.89
ALSO: CANASTA CARDS BOXED—$1.95
HansZ-Rintzsch
138 N. Michigan
SPECIAL:
BLANKET
With N.D. Monogram All Wool
Rvxe s
I % FOA MEN ANO I ^.VOUNC MEN
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
-Vol. 91 October 14, 1949 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA_____________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT._________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY.__________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN__________Photography
LEON GARDNER__________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_____________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO______________Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY._______________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE________________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Last weekend, as hundreds of other Notre Dame men hunched over radios wherevei* they could find them to listen to the outcome of the Irish-Purdue fracas, some 150 ingenious Zahmites (and friends) gathered around their newly-purchased television set to witness the action as it happened, as they did for the World Series and the Washington game. This week’s cover shot is but a handful of the Zahm TV spectators (complete with popcorn).
The Zahm Hall set, bought by the residents of the hall from their own donations, rests majestically in the hall basement. Carrying four channels from Chicago—WBKB, WNBQ, WENR-TV, and WGN-TV—the basement video theater is the haunt of Zahm clientele for two hours nightly (there are no matinees).—Photo by Jim Ferstel
From the Editor's Desk..
Learn 'Em and Sing
A couple of weeks ago, reader Tom Wolff of Alumni Hall wrote a letter to The Scholastic, asking if that magazine couldn’t help the sad situation surrounding school songs. We agreed that it is a sad affair when few students know the verse to The Victory March while even less can sing any of the words to As the Irish Backs Go Marching By. However, we suggested that the Blue Circle (an organization devoted to the promotion of spirit) distribute a mimeographed sheet or a pamphlet setting down all the words to all the school songs.
At a meeting of the Student Council after that letter and the answer appeared, it was decided that neither the Council nor the Blue Circle had the funds to do so. Because of that and because all students should know the songs, we have a page of them in this issue.
Tomorrow afternoon the football team plays Tulane. Not quite as fearful as Coach Leahy, we think Notre Dame may score—very probably four or five times. Mr. Hope and his bandsmen will follow the usual tradition and play one of the school songs after each touchdown. It would be nice if all the students would also follow a tradition and sing the right words to the right song. If you’re one of the team’s hitherto “silent supporters,” sit down and memorize the songs so you’ll be able to sing them tomorrow.
Comics Aren't Everything
There is a tendency for students here at Notre Dame to forget the outside world. Secluded as we are on campus with all “the comforts of home” close at hand, there’s hardly any reason to venture into South Bend. Newspapers are usually read for their comics or stories on sports.
As a consequence of this more or less natural result, most of us don’t know or don’t care what’s going on in business, politics, and world affairs. Some of those who read the comics exclusively argue that this knowledge isn’t too important. “We don’t get out for a couple of years yet and even if we were out, what could we do about it?” That’s another natural attitude—but it’s not a good one.
The things that are going on today virtually affect each one of us. For instance, the labor unrest caused today will affect almost all of us, whether we’re laborers or managers. We should have opinions based on facts. There is a great need for Catholic laymen who can apply the principles of their religion to world and national problems. We are getting the Catholic principles in our classes; the facts on current problems we must ferret out for ourselves.
On page 12 in this issue, there is a forum on company-paid pensions for union men. The Scholastic would like to have more of these features because they help correct that lacking. However, they need to be read and evaluated to be really worthwhile.
Work out the different angles to this problem as well as to other current questions. Try to form an opinion from these facts based on the Catholic principles you’re learning. If you do this now, you’ll be prepared for the leadership our religion demands of college-trained Catholics.
7
Oct. 14, 1949

WHAT’S WRONG *='?
FIND OUT NOW AT
POOR RHYTHM
FIND OUT just what’s holding you back from the fun and popularity you should enjoy when YOU go dancing. An Arthur Murray expert will discover the cause in a 15-minute free dance analysis at your nearest studio.
Then the way lies clear to joyous tri-umps. Just a few lessons will give you the latest steps, thanks to Arthur Murray’s Magic Step Method. You’ll absorb fine technique to make you a poised, graceful dancer ail your days.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
DIAL
2-3339
Why wait and miss out on good times when the finest dance instruction is yours to command? Come to your Arthur Murray Studio today.
MAIL TODAY
I am interested in having A FREE TRIAL LESSON at YOUR STUDIOS.
Please make my appointment at......o’clock
on Oct........,	1949.
NAME ......................................
ADDRESS ...................................
□ BEGINNER □ ADVANCED
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame ^CllOldStlC
9 VOLUME 91, NUMBER 4
OCTOBER 14, 1949
Speech Dept. Opens First Radio Workshop
This semester Notre Dame is undertaking the first radio workshop in its history. Mr. Jerome Fallon, working under the auspices of the Department - of Speech, will open a series of seminars next week designed to provide instruction in the fundamentals and fine points of radio technique. .
The radio workshops will be in line with similar programs’ in other- colleges and universities. It will provide an overall view of radio and will feature programming, sales, audience measurement, publicity, script writing and the like. It will also produce several of its own shows.
Mr. Fallon, who is in charge of the new project, is a graduate of Michigan State University. He majored in speech and radio and was connected with Michigan State University radio station, WKKR, for a number of years. Mr. Fallon is now an instructor in the Department of Speech here and is undertaking this workshop in the hope of laying the groundwork for the eventual establishment of a Department of Radio at Notre Dame.
The workshop will be run in seminar fashion. Meetings will be held twice a week, on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, from 4 to 5:30 p.m. They will be held in room 330 of the Main Building.
Besides providing instruction in the various branches of radio, the workshop hopes to obtain the assistance of several prominent men from local radio stations in South Bend for tips and advice on practical problems in radio work. In general, the course aims at a cooperative study of the major problems facing small radio stations.
Mr. Fallon expressed the hope that the workshop will work closely with the present campus radio station, WND.
The first seminar will be held next Tuesday, at 4 o’clock, in room 330 of the Main Building. All who are interested in joining the workshop are invited to attend this meeting. No academic credit will be given for the course.
Oct. 14, 1949
Council to Open Hall Elections Monday;
550 Students, Band Exhaust Tarheel Tickets
By RAY DOHERTY
In its effort to give the student body more representation in student government, the Student Council last Monday passed a resolution providing for the formation of hall councils to serve as arms of the Student Council Service Committee. Eight councilmen and a hall president will be chosen by the residents of each of the 13 campus halls, in elections to be held next Monday and Wednesday.
Each hall will be split into eight sections by the rector of the hall, working with a representative of the Student Council. Monday, students of each section will vote for one man from their section as their section representative. Of the eight chosen representatives, one will be elected as hall president by the students of the whole hall in Wednesday’s election. The runner-up from Monday’s election in the section from which the president is chosen will take over the job of section representative.
The hall councils will carry the responsibility for organization and execution of activities conducive to better hall efficiency and to the welfare of the residents. “We have been planning this action since we first organized,” said Student Council President Bill Kirchner. “These councils will help in our attempt at a closer-knit student organization, and
Griff Williams Band Set for Soph Cotillion
The Sophomore Cotillion committee has reached back into the memories of the best in ND dances and come up with Griff Williams and his orchestra, straight from the Edgewater Beach Hotel and the Mutual Broadcasting System, to highlight the activities of the Iowa weekend.
Williams and his smooth danceable music last appeared here in May, 1947, when they served as a big boost to ‘ a memorable Junior Prom. The orchestra, with featured vocalists, will' be the
they will he invaluable at events such as the homecoming game.”
Freshman class elections will be held during the week of Nov. 7, the Council decided. These elections will be conducted by the hall councils, which will be functioning by that time. The president and vice-president of the Freshman class will automatically become members of the Student Council.
In other matters taken up by the Council, Senior class President Jack Thornton informed the group that student-trip tickets to the North Carolina game have been sold out. Besides the 110-man band, 550 students will make the trip to New York for the Nov. 12 battle.
Russ Skall, Treasurer of the Council, presented a petition calling for the formation of a varsity boxing team. The petition, signed by 200 students, many of them Bengal Bouters, noted that in Mr. Napolitano we have one of the outstanding college boxing coaches, that the sport would be self-sustaining, and that it would give more men a chance to compete in inter-collegiate competition.
A resolution was also passed that the Student Council office in the Main building is to be open every Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday from 2 p.m. till 4 p.m. for the convenience of the student body.
background for 9 to 1 dancing at the Palais Royale, where they’ll bring back the smooth dance stylings they’ve made famous throughout the midwest.
With the band settled, committees are hard at work on suitable decorative schemes to fit the occasion. Ticket sales will begin in approximately a week, with dance bids, game tickets, and hotel accommodations available individually or in one package to suit the sophs’ needs. Information on the latter can be had from Hank McCormick or Jack Moran.
9
Niles Doctor Not Content With One Vocation; Enters College of Law to Satisfy Ambition
By JACK POWERS
If you think you’ve got too much work, or if a heavy schedule is getting you down, pause and consider the daily trials of Harold M. Pritchard, M.D., first year student in the College of Law. Studying law is one thing and performing an operation is quite another; when the two are combined in one man he must be busy and able. That’s why Doctor Pritchard, of Niles, Mich., deserves a great big “E ’ for effort.
Before he decided on a medical career, Dr. Pritchard had considered being a lawyer. “Law always appealed to me,” he said. “I’ve become interested since leaving Medical School, in the importance of medical testimony which is often overlooked in court because of lack of understanding.” Last Summer, the doctor decided to give it a try, and enrolled in Notre Dame’s College of Law.
Dr. Pritchard went on to explain that in legal cases involving medical testimony doctors rarely understand legal terms and procedures, and the courts rarely understand complicated medical terms. He is sure that training in both fields would be invaluable.
Should a panel-practice type of socialized medicine appear in the United States, the doctor would have another career open to him. “If we ever got a form of practice such as Britain has, I’d become a full-time lawyer,” Dr. Pritchard explained.
M.D. From Marquette
The doctor received his degree in medicine from Marquette University, and set up his practice in Niles, where he’s still at it. The 40-year-old physician is married and has two children. When he spoke to his wife last Summer about studying law, she encouraged him. “Everybody else said it was crazy,” he chuckled, “but we’ll see.”
So far, Dr. Pritchard’s strenuous schedule hasn’t actually caught up with him, but it leads to a pretty full life. Since he still maintains his full practice, the Niles physician’s biggest problem is finding time to do his studying. “I’ll just get settled down with my contracts assignment,” he pointed out, “when the phone will ring. Either someone has broken a leg or someone else is having a baby; that’s the end
of my studying for the night. I manage to keep up, though.”
As a starter, Dr. Pritchard registered for a minimum of nine hours a week. He likes it, however, and has almost decided on continuing his law studies and obtaining a degree. If he does, he’ll get a partner to help him handle the practice. The doctor does not intend to let his law studies interfere with his medical career.
Practice Has Priority
His work as a physician still has priority on his time, but Dr. Pritchard
Dr. Harold Pritchard
insists that he can do both. Last weekend, for instance, he spent Saturday night and most of Sunday on his hospital duties. “This gave me Sunday night to prepare for my Monday morning classes,” he explained.
The doctor admits that he wouldn’t be able to carry the load if he didn’t like it. “I really enjoy it,” said he. “Instead of wearing me down, it makes me feel younger.” Except for emergency calls that make him late, he’s had no serious conflicts so far. “It’s good to get away from medicine for a while,” he went on. “And the task isn’t as hard as it sounds.”
In Own Backyard
Asked why he selected Notre Dame, Dr. Pritchard pointed out that “It’s
right in my own backyard.” He liked ND from the start and is very pleased with the way his plans have worked out. Although studying law is worlds apart from medical school, the doctor has found that study habits return very easily. He is well satisfied with all his instructors and has a high opinion of Notre Dame students.
“These fellows in all mature; they act find it a pleasure them,” he declared.
Law School are like adults and I associating with
Dr. Pritchard is confident that, barring no unforeseen difficulties, he’ll be able to continue his dual occupations. “As I said,” he concluded, “I enjoy the work very much, I think highly of Notre Dame, and I want a legal education.” After talking to Dr. Pritchard, one wonders how he can miss.
National Poetry Association Will Publish Student Verse
The National Poetry Association has announced Nov. 5 as the closing date for the submission of manuscripts for their Annual Anthology of College Poetry. All college students are eligible to submit manuscripts for inclusion in this anthology.
There are no charges or fees for the verse accepted by this publication. The National Poetry Association was founded in 1937 for the purpose of publishing original work of college students in the field of verse. Manuscripts should be sent to National Poetry Association, 3210 Selby Ave., Los Angeles 34, Calif. Each effort must be on a separate sheet and must state that the work is the personal effort of the contributor.
Wranglers Accept New Men
Ten students have recently been accepted into the ranks of the Wranglers, campus discussion group. The new Wranglers are: James Carberry, Daniel Clarke, Fallon Evans, Rodney Forbes, William Leeds, Thomas Weithers, seniors: Robert Thompson, David Yerex, juniors: James Kelleher, Frank Haend-ler, sophomores.	"
Current topics under discussion by the group are: “The Layman Finds Happiness”, “The Philosophy of History,” and “The Church In Spain.”
Wrangler meetings are held every Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in room 301 of the Law Building. President of the group is Thomas Keenan while Vincent Cunningham holds down the post of secre
tary.
10
The Scholastic
Mr. Francis Jones
Your Future
1: As a Lawyer
This is the first in a series of job futures with material obtained from Notre Dame men in the various fields.
“As in everything else, there will always be room for- a good lawyer,” says Mr. Francis Jones. “But the field is very crowded right now and a young lawyer does not usually have a very easy time getting started. At the most he may make about four thousand dollars a year to start. At the least he may go to work for some good firm for nothing, just for the benefit of the contacts and for the experience. How fast his income goes up depends on many things; namely his ability, his personality, and the contacts that he can make.
“Usually it is best for a young lawyer to try to join some firm that has a good business and a good reputation. There are advantages to working alone a while in general practice; most law firms like men who have had wide law experience. But today the average law graduate is a specialist. Specialists have a very slow time building up businesses on their own. And it is usually very hard for a new man to work up any sort of general practice, even in a small town.
Experience Counts
“It comes down to this. If a man is sick is he going to go to the new doctor or to the clinic? Usually he is going to go to the clinic, or at least to the older doctor. And likewise when in legal troubles he will usually go to the firm or to the more experienced man.
“Again, good contacts are vital in law. Membership in a firm can lead to good contacts.
< _ “Politics is at best a very shaky ^7^ Oct. 14, 1949
ladder to desirable prominence as a lawyer. Even the most honest of men will have a hard time keeping his name clear in politics. Some good and honest lawyers have been helped by political careers — but to the average young lawyer the name ‘politician’ does more harm than good. In the long run a lawyer’s reputation is the thing that makes or breaks him. And politics, in the minds of most people, is not the sort of business that honest men engage in — regrettable though this notion may be.
Home Community Is Best
“It is a good idea for a young lawyer to be active in community aifairs. Along this line it is self-evident that it is usually better for a young lawyer* to begin practice in his home community if he can. Right now one part of the country is about as good as another for beginning a law practice. But it should be obvious to any Notre Dame student that it would not be too wise to try to begin practice in a strongly Protestant community.
“What could a pre-law student be
Mr. Francis Jones is president of the Notre Dame Law Association, which is a part of the Natural Law Institute. Mr. Jones received his bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame in 1931. He received his law degree from the Georgetown Law School. He is affiliated with a law firm in South Bend.
doing to prepare himself? For one thing he should be sure to take at least a course or two in accounting before he starts law school. Taxation and money will make up a large part of the cases that he will have to handle as a lawyer. Today there is a great scarcity of lawyers who have enough tax and accounting knowledge.
“For another thing it would be very good if every prospective lawyer could get in some practical job experience in a county or city clerk’s office. There are at least a hundred different places to get the routine things and information that every lawyer has to have every day. Law schools can’t teach very much about where these places are and about how they are to be used. But if the beginning lawyer doesn’t have at least a general idea of how to go about these routine matters he will have just that much more to confuse him in an admittedly confusing business.
Lawyers Are Honest
“Finally it is a fact that you now have to be an honest man if you want to be a successful lawyer. The day of the slippery shyster is over. Both lawyers and clients are too busy to spend weeks in litigation. Most cases are settled between lawyers outside of the courts. Lawyers have to be able to trust each other if they are to get anything done. So any pre-law student had better make up his mind early that he will make his living with ability and integrity — not tricks.
“The big disadvantage to a law career is that it is usually not secure for a
11
long time. One badly handled case may be enough to ruin your practice in a small town or severely damage it in a large one. There are no pensions unless you make them yourself. You may make three hundred dollars one day and then nothing for three weeks.
•'Probably the big advantage in a law career is that you are your own boss. If your work is organized, your clients protected, there is nothing to stop you from taking some time off.
“It really does again come to the old saying. If you are a good lawyer there is probably a good place for you in law. But today it usually works the other way around, too.”
Senior Class to Toss Square Dance Oct. 22
If any of Breen-Phillips’ denizens are planning to stay in the night of Oct. 22 in expectation of a little extra sack-time, they better give up all such hopes. Better yet, they ought to latch onto a couple of ducats to the Square Dance being tossed by the senior class in the Drill Hall that night.
Under the aegis of chairman Bob Schlosser and Bill Kennedy, the shindig will last from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. with Bill Pritchett and his “Happy Ranch Boys” providing the background to those “do-si-dos” and “promenades.” In addition to the square stuff, there will also be round dancing, polkas, and some ballroom music.
All the local young bucks, whether frosh or senior, are invited, with tickets going at §1.50 per couple. Cider (unfermented) and doughnuts will be served on the house. The ducats will go on sale Monday, Oct. 17, in the caf’s lobby, so that an estimate can be made on the amount of “vittles” to order.
Busses on the ND-St. Mary’s route will be run on -the regular Victory Dance schedule, with the, exception that they will leave the Promised Land at 8:15 instead of 8:30 p.m.
Dress is strictly informal, with the local yokels wearing levis (bear grease optional) and the “farmer’s daughters” clad in sweaters, skirts, and bobby sox. Incidentally, the damsels from across the lake promise to be in fine fettle for the hoe-down as Miss Jean Aaron of the St. Mary’s College Phy Ed department has been coaching them on the intricacies of “country style” and will assist the night of the hop.
Bob Rohling and Jack Donnelly are in charge of decorations for the affair. Bill Eggers and Jim Drennan will handle the refreshments.
—Charley Dullea
12
'Whistling in the Dark' Actors Three Weeks From Mystery-Comedy's Opening on Nov. 1
Winding up their first full week of rehearsal today, members of the University Theater’s Whistling in the Dark cast find themselves facing a short three-week deadline before the play opens Nov. 1 for a four-night stand in Washington Hall. Frank J. Hanley, director of the show, and .William J. Eisen, director of the Theater, expressed satisfaction with the first week’s results. “It shows promise,” Mr. Eisen said, “and we should have a successful play.”
The cast for Whistling in the Dark, with Pat McAteer and Jo Ann Smith in the leading roles, includes five veterans from previous campus productions and five newcomers to Notre Dame dramatics. The three feminine parts—with Miss Smith as Toby Van Buren, Eleanor Thompson as Rosa, the Portuguese woman, and Rosemary Donnelly as the Operator—are all played by Vetville wives. Practice sessions have been moving along smoothly, Mr. Eisen said, and the cast has displayed a rewarding interest in their roles, and by Nov. 1 the rough edges of the play should be polished and ready for opening night.
Whistling in the Dark, a comedymelodrama written by Laurence Gross and Edward Childs Carpenter combines elements of suspense and laughter to a fine degree of entertainment. When first produced on Broadway in 1932, the play basked in the light of suc
Jack Powell, Jo Ann Smith, Pat McAteer, Stage Manager Jim Beymer and Director Rank Hanley run over a scene from "Whistling in the Dark." The play opens Nov. I.
cessful review notices from a number of critics. Said the New York HeraldTribune-. “The play’s scheme is ingenious . . . the third act builds up into a frantic scramble of action and dialogue.” The New York Times critic said Whistling in the Dark provides “a cheerful evening of well-planned fooling,” and the World-Telegram called it “laughable and exciting.”
The plot of the play is clever and intriguing. How its hero, a diminutive writer of mystery novels becomes involved with a bevy of crude gangsters is in itself amusing. How he and his adoring fiancee wangle their way out of such predicaments is even more entertaining.
From the way it has started, TF/h's-tling in the Dark looks like a good bet for a pleasant evening, come November.
—Vic Dorr
Navy Announces Exam Date For College ROTC Hopefuls
The Navy has announced that for the fourth year nationwide examinations will be given to select approximately 2,000 high school students to enter some 50 colleges and universities throughout the nation under the Naval ROTC program. The tests will be given on Dec. 3, 1949.
Applications for the examinations are available at the office of the Director of Studies, the Navy Drill Hall, and the Information Booth in the Main Building.
The Scholastic
® 'Life' Back on Campus Snapping Everything
Shine your shoes, put on a tie and get your hair cut, boys! Life magazine is coming again to Notre Dame.
This time they won’t shoot’ merely LOBUND labs and top-notch athletes. A They want a big five to seven page photo feature of Life at a football weekend. The game with Tulane is currently the Game of the Week, so don’t be surprised to see cameramen scurrying all over the campus between , now and tomorrow night.
According to Ray Donovan, director of public information, the Life photographers will commence snapping their picture story at the pep rally tonight. Saturday morning they plan to catch the Fighting Irish at their traditional pre-game Mass in Dillon Hall, and in the afternoon they will lap up plenty of football action and color in the Stadium in the battle with the Greenies. They plan also to have two photographers on the sidelines, one in the stands, and one on top of the press box.
Not only that, they’re dispatching a photographer from New Orleans to board the train and make the trip with • the Tulane squad, taking pictures as he goes. The Green Wave will roll into Chicago Friday, spend the night there, and arrive in South Bend Saturday morning. Life will close its picture story of the weekend after the big game Saturday. “This is a rush job,” Mr. Donovan said. “The feature will be included in the issue to hit the newsstands next week (Oct. 20).”
Irish Debaters to Argue Foreign Policy at Purdue
“Our Foreign Policy in the Orient” will be the topic of discussion the six debaters representing Notre Dame will face in the Regional T.K.A. Debate Tourney at Purdue next week.
John Hauck, David Hogan, Pete Nin-neman, George Pearse, Joe Bellon, and Hugh Braun will compose the ND team that travels to Purdue. The contest-ants will take part in a four-round dis-cussion and also a four-round debate of which “Resolved, that the U. S. Should Nationalize the Basic Non-Ag-ricultural Industries” is the question.
The purpose of this tourney is not to Ml determine the victors and losers but for ■I experimental purposes to further the B< debaters’ tactics. The rest of the club’s W	time will be devoted to tutoring the
p	new members and determining the
teams for future debates.
I® Oct. 14, 1949
Left to right are: Joseph B. McGlynn, '12, Archbishop Ritter, Robert J. Callahan, '48, of St. Louis who arranged the luncheon, Dean Manion and Professor Sullivan.
ND Law Association Holds First Luncheon
Lawyers from all over the country gathered in St. Louis on Sept. 7 for the American Ear Association Convention. As part of the proceedings, the Notre Dame Law Association held their first annual luncheon. The Notre Dame lawyers heard short after dinner speeches by the Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, Archbishop of St. Louis; Robert E. Sullivan, executive secretary of the association and professor at the University, and Clarence Manion, dean of the Law School.
Other guests included Luke Hart, supreme advocate of the Knights of Columbus; John Griffin, president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis, and Robert Hellrung, former vice-president of the Alumni Association. The luncheon was arranged by Robert J. Callahan, ’48.
Nov. 12 Set -for First Concert By ND Symphony Orchestra
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Charles Biondo, will present its first concert of the school year on Nov. 21 in Washington Hall.
According- to president Ed Conroy, junior music major from Elmwood Park, Ill., a program of four selections
is being planned. The tentative schedule of classics to be rendered include: the Overture to the Barber of Seville, by Rossini; Symphony No. J5, by Mozart; and the Marche Slave, by Tchaikovsky. Highlight of the program will be a piano solo by Henry Ketterer, who will play Greig’s A-minor Piano Concerto. Mr. Ketterer is a piano major and will graduate in January.
Although there have been eight new men added to the ranks this year, there is still a need for string players. Any interested students who are accomplished string instrument players are asked to contact Ed Conroy in 228 Badin Hall.
Civil Service Sets Exams
The U.S. Civil Service Commission has announced exams for the posts of Junior Professional Assistant, Junior Management Assistant and Junior Agricultural Assistant. Information about the examinations is available at the Placement Office in the Main Building. Applications must be received by the Civil Service no later than November 8, 1949.
PHOTO CREDITS
Page 10 by Ferstel; 11, Feistel; 12, Fitzgerald; 13, “Alumnus”; 14, Gorman; 15, Ferstel; 16, Brickson; 17, Ferstel (top) and McLaughlin; 20, Brickson; and 23, McLaughlin.
13
Religion Department Plans Lecture Series
The Department of Religion has completed plans for two lecture series, one for graduate students, January graduates, and married students on Christian marriage, and the other for faculty members on Sacred Theology and the Church.
The first of the weekly lectures on marriage will be on Wednesday, Oct. 19. The’ first faculty lecture will be on Friday, Oct. 28. All but two of the talks will be given in the Engineering auditorium.
Several prominent speakers are scheduled for the marriage lectures. Among them are Dr. Herbert Ratner, a convert now teaching at Loyola University in Chicago, Coach Frank Leahy, and Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley, two leaders in the Christian Family movement in Chicago. Students from Vetville will be asked to act as moderators.
Tickets covering the eight-lecture series will be sold at the door before the first talk. The charge will be fifty cents.
The lectures for the faculty will deal with the development and application
Glee Clubbers Picnic at Pedtke's
Refreshments Chairman Bill Sahm gets the fire going at the Glee Club Picnic held last Sunday at the rural estate of the club's director, Professor Daniel H. Pedtke.
of theology in university life, as well as the world at large.
Among the speakers for this series will be Rev. Walter Farrell, o.p., author of Companion to the Summa Theologica, and Rev. J. Courtney Murray, S.J., of Woodstock, Md. Both of these lectures will be given in Washington Hall.
Program for Faculty Lectures
Oct. 28—Function of Theology in the University. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., S.T.D. Discussion leader: Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C., ph.d.
Nov. 18—Theology and the Modern World. Rev. Walter Farrell, O.P., S.T.D., S.T.M. Discussion leader: Rev. Leo Arnault, O.P., S.T.L., j.c.L.
Jan. 13—Theology and Science. Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer, C.S.C., S.T.D. Discusion leader: Lawrence H. Baldinger, PH.D.
Feb. 17—The Church as Mystical Body of Christ. Rev. William H. Robinson, C.S.C., S.T.D. Discussion leader: Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C., PH.D.
March 10 — The Mission of the Church in the Modern World. Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., s.t.b. Discussion
leader: Rev. James Smyth, M.A. (Oxon.)
April 21—Church and State.* Rev. J. Courtney Murray, S.J., S.T.D. Discussion leader: Waldemar Gurian, PH.D.
*Note: Place for lectures of Fathers Farrell and Murray will be in Washington Hall.
Mel Allen to Speak At Pep Rally Tonight
The Pep Rally for the Tulane game, to be held tonight at the fieldhouse, will include a list of sports celebrities that promises to make it one of the most entertaining rallies ever held at Notre Dame.
Heading the list of notables who will speak at the rally are Mel Allen, who just concluded his annual broadcast of the World Series, Jim Britt, famous Boston sportswriter and baseball announcer, Fred Digby, general manager of the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans, and Fred Russell, noted sportswriter of the Nashville Banner.
The band will start from Washington Hall at 7:15 p.m. and, after making a complete tour of the campus, will lead the student body to the fieldhouse, where proceedings will begin at 7:30.
" The special guest will be Colonel Roger Cunningham, from the “Deep South.” The nature of his mission at Notre Dame is not fully known, except that he is in some way connected with North Carolina. His main theme will be the Southerners’ opinion of northern football, given in the entertaining style for which he is famous.
“Moose” Krause, athletic director, will complete the program by introducing co-captains Jim Martin and Leon Hart, and will give the starting lineups and the general outlook for tomorrow’s game.—Bob Finney
Affairs Club Makes Plans
Don Zehnder, presiding over a meeting of the Inter-American Affairs Club in the Audio-Visual Center last week, told a large turnout of prospective members the purposes and makeup of the club.
The members then discussed future meetings, the Town Meeting to be held at Mundelein College on Dec. 4, and the news-letter to be published by the group. This latter will cover the activities of various clubs throughout the country and points of interest to club members.
The next meeting will be held next Tuesday and will close the membership drive. Anyone with a genuine interest in the Western Hemisphere, social, political, religious or economic, is invited to attend.
14
The Scholastic
* Senior Commerce Classes View Production; Take Two-Hour Tour of Studebaker Plants
As guests of the Studebaker corporation, the production-management classes of Mr. J. D. Alexander toured the company’s South Bend plants last week. The group, numbering about 50 senior students, viewed the mile-long assembly lines in a two-hour tour.
“The purpose of this tour,” commented Mr. Alexander, “was to enable the class to see what a factory is like before going out and working in one. ’
Founded in 1802 by five brothers, Studebaker now employs 22,000 workers in its four main divisions. Special operations are carried out in the body shop, foundry, machine shop, and final assembly line as a car is built.
Traces Course of Auto
Tracing the course of an auto being built, the tour began in the body shop. Here the main body parts are formed and spot-welded together. A continually moving conveyor carries main sections of the differently styled cars down a long aisle while workers pick out the required parts and build up a shell of the body using special frames.
car to be seen under construction. After completion it rides along a conveyor to the final assembly line, where it meets the body, engine, seats, wheels, fenders, and hood, each arriving on its own conveyor.
Experienced men spot-weld and bolt the sections together as 74 Studebakers roll off the final assembly line each hour. Of the two assembly lines, one is devoted entirely to the Champion model, by far the most popular- of the Studebaker series. Two other models, the Land Cruiser and Commander are assembled on the second line.
Gray Most Popular
The most popular style is the four-door sedan, while gray leads in color choice because of its ease of maintenance. After the car is completed, it undergoes rigid tests for brakes, acceleration and engine timing.
The headlights are focused and other small adjustments are made, and another finished Studebaker is ready for shipment.—Ken Stead
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS
The schedule of Cavanaugh Hall noon-day concerts for the coming week is as follows:
Monday
Piano Concerto No. 2__________
__________________Rachmaninoff
Gaite Parisienne _____.Offenbach
Tuesday
Piano Concerto No. 1 in B Flat
Minor ____________Tchaikovsky
Largo al factotum from Barber of Seville .............Rossini
Visi d’arte from Tosca...Puccini
Wednesday
Scheherazade ...Rimsky-Korsakov
Romeo and Juliet Overture_____
------------------ Tchaikovsky
Thursday
Waltzes and other selections__
----------------------- Strauss
Symphony No. 40__________Mozart
Friday
Symphony No. 1------Shostakovitch
Appassionata Sonata for Piano ....................  Beethoven
£ On the second floor this shell receives a naphtha and two acid baths. The acids are washed off with water, thus completing a “bonderizing” process which prevents rust from spreading if the paint should become scratched.
The body shell is then coated three times with special primer paint and baked dry in 260 degree ovens for three hours. After sanding, the primed body is ready for its final two coats £ of enamel.
Continuing its journey, the body ends up on the sixth floor, braced, upholstered, trimmed, and equipped with dash board and windows. It is now ready for final assembly, and is whisked away by truck to the assembly line.
Equally interesting in detail and operation is the foundry. Here the engine parts are die-cast. Four furnaces supply the molten steel for engine £ blocks, manifolds, pistons, and other parts.
Castings are sent to the machine shop where $35,000 000 worth of equipment is used to tool them. Automatic drills bore up to 78 holes at a time in “ the engine block.
The finished castings join other parts, and soon emerge completed six and eight-cylinder Studebaker engines.
The chassis is the final part of the
ID Photos Swamp Photo Department
Dave Cowden, assistant in the Photography Department calls for help from Dick Gorman as he’s engulfed by ID negatives. Dave still hasn't found some of them.
A Oct. 14, 1949
15
Should Management Pay the Pension? *
A Forum Conducted by Al Laporte and Larry McDermott
Blown skyhigh by the current U. S. Steel strike, the old latent issue of pensions for the retired laborer has blasted to the fore in national interest. Like tinder waiting patiently to be ignited, the pension plan has lain relatively quiet since the Federal Social Security Act of 1935. But the threat of explosion was ever present. The blast finally came.
In the wake of the new Ford contract by which labor realized its aims along retirement lines, U. S. Steel was hit with demands for old age provision —demands backed up by a crippling strike threat. The expiration of present labor-management contracts gave the worker his chance to insert new clauses providing for more satisfactory old age retirement benefits. Until his demands are met the laborer promises to keep the fires burning and the iron hot.
Contrary to popular belief, many big industries- and name corporations have not adequate retirement plans for their employes. Social Security, which pays on the average between $26 and $27 in monthly pension benefits to those enrolled, falls short of labor’s needs when the “step aside” age is reached. The new Ford contract seems to correct Social Security’s “fault”—if it can be called a fault — and satisfy labor at the same time. Ford’s contract calls for $100 a month maximum pension for all those 65 and over who retire after 30 years employment and decreasing benefits in direct ratio to years of service. The difference between the amount received and that given by the government is to be paid by Ford. The whole cost, exclusive of that provided by Social Security, will be met by management in this case.
Crux of Question
That’s the crux of the question — who will foot the bill for retirement pensions? That the pensions are needed is not, in general, disputed. If nothing but a reward for “good and faithful service” rendered through the years the laborer merits them. But the retired worker must live as well as the active laborer and since the company has made use of his talents for the greater part of his life it should give him compensation when he retires to “pasture.” The argument does not lie here.
Payment is the package of dynamite which exploded in the Murray-Fairless fight. U. S. Steel’s Ben Fairless countered with the “Contributory Plan” when the Union’s Philip Murray tossed the issue in his lap. Murray and the unions want industry to pay all. Fairless and management advocate partial payment by industry and a contribution by labor along the road. In other words, both pay into the pension fund as is current in Social Security. Fairless pointed out that it wouldn’t cost most of the workers any more to kick in a few cents; Murray would have none of this.
President Truman’s fact-finding board of Carroll Daugherty, Samuel Rosenman and David Cole think industry should pick up the check. Said the boards: “In many ways the cost of pensions and insurance is much akin to the cost of providing for maintenance and depreciation of plant and machinery.” Obviously this pleased the unions. It sounded like an excerpt from their brief. (U. S. Steel now pays an overall pension amounting to $5.83 a month: its three top executives will receive $50,000 pensions at age 65, solely from company funds). Labor was gleeful; management scoffed. '
Bishop’s Program
In the “Bishops’ Program of Social Reconstruction” (1919) this statement is made: “The State should make comprehensive provision for insurance against illness, invalidity, unemployment, and old age. So far as possible the insurance fund should be raised by a levy on industry, as is now done in the case of accident compensation. The industry in which a man is employed should provide him with all that is necessary to meet all the needs of his entire life.” Many laborers in steel and other industries cannot afford to pay into the fund. They are just getting by with present wage conditions. What’s the answer?
Scholastic assigned two men to dig up a story on this very timely issue. The digging was difficult. Downtown union officials expressed their regrets but they were beginning to bargain on that point this week. They couldn’t make any statements on their position. Management in the same plants gave the same answer. Scholastic then turned its sights to men on campus fa
miliar with the topic. Presented here are the results.
Jim Cunningham, a graduate of the -class of ’43 and now studying for his masters in economics under the Kim-' berly-Clark Fellowship:
“Desire for economic security has been an urgent force determining the thought and action of U. S. workers
since the bleak,
Jim Cunningham
dismal days of the Great Depression. Along with steady jobs and decent wages this se-j curity has come to mean pensions — not o1d age assistance or abhorred local hand - outs, but
sound pensions paid as just compensa
tion for lifetimes of honest work.
“Old age insurance benefits have never been adequate and the well organized unions have long been preparing to take the fight to industry if necessary. The failure of Congress to act since the war has intensified this preparation, and with the expiration and reopening of contracts this fall the crisis has come.
“Workers are convinced of the justice of the non-contributory pensions. John L. Lewis expressed their universal view last year when he said: ‘There’s a definite principle involved in making the commodity bear completely its own cost 9 of production. We hold that the care of the human element in an industry should inherently run with the cost of production. A man is just as essential as any other item in the cost of production.’ ”
“The responsibility rests heavy. The worker gives most of his life to a corporation and is entitled in return to corporation provided economic security. Man’s very dignity as a creature of God demands that his human needs be satisfied when he is fulfilling his part in a wage contract. Certainly security in old age is a basic human need. The steel companies are clearly at odds with Christianity when they deny their full responsibility in this matter. For U. S. Steel and all American industry the obligation is clear.”
James E. McCarthy, Dean of the
16
The Scholastic
College of Commerce: “Retirement and Pension plans for the American worker
are highly desirable, both socially and economically. The adoption of such plans relieve the worker of the fears, worries, and concerns that normally would be his were' no provisions made for
Dean McCarthy
his retirement after specified periods of service. The plans insure, too, that the worker need no longer fear an improvident old age nor the prospect of becoming a public charge or dependent.
“It is my impression that industry’s customers (who, in large measure will underwrite the cost of pensions) will rather uncomplainingly accept the higher product prices they must pay in order to insure the well being of the American worker.”
George Strong, Professor of Labor Law: “I do not think that it is a wild
or unreasonable hope for a man to
Prof. Strong
anticipate retiring at some time and still maintain a decent standard of living. It is not a great deal to ask.
“The average m a n’s • savings are diverted into life insurance, his children’s
education and relatively small emergency funds. These are not savings for retirement. In order to get an income of, for instance, §1200, the maximum under the recent Ford plan, a man would have to have §24,000 invested at five per cent.
“Now a pension plan is going to cost money. The maxim that you don’t get something for nothing is so obvious that quite often it is ignored. What you must do is determine whether or not the benefits balance the costs.
“Should the worker carry a part of the burden? If he pays so much per week this will amount to a wage reduction. If his money income is to remain the same he would have to receive a wage increase equal to his contribution. This, of course, would be the same as having the company pay the entire cost in the first place. The worker should not be forced to contribute unless it is assumed that a wage reduction at the present time is appropriate. Speaking
of “deferred wages” is ridiculous unless the present wage is more than satisfactory. I don’t believe this is the case.
“Theoretically the cost of the pension could be carried by industry without increasing the price of the product to the consumer. Other costs could be reduced by increased productivity or the corporation’s profit margin could be reduced. It is difficult, however, to increase productivity in the short run and management will always resist a reduction of profits. As far as the steel industry is concerned, I would expect to see an increase in the price of steel, especially when it is realized that the demand for steel is inelastic.
“However, once you agree in principle that a worker is entitled to a retirement it follows that all workers are entitled to retire. But some industries can not afford a pension plan. Therefore we must look to someone outside of industry. There is only one place to look; society as represented by government. Through increased Social Security coverage and payments the government may be able to provide a pension where industry can not.
“All this may lead to the question, ‘Am I responsible for my neighbor? Am I my brother’s keeper?’
“The question has already been answered.”
Stress Holy Year Prayer In Preaching and Practice
This year- has been designated as one of prayer by the Church, in preparation for the 1950 Holy Year. In compliance with this, emphasis on prayer is being stressed here at Notre Dame both in preaching and in practice.
For the remainder of the year, Sunday sermons at Sacred Heart Church will concern the different aspects and types of prayer. The ten-minute dissertations will be given at the 7, 8, 9, and 10:10 o’clock Masses. “Efficacy of Prayer” will be the topic of next Sunday’s sermon.
As for “practice,” the results have been rather disappointing. For example, average attendance at 5 p.m. services has been only 125, or three per cent of the student population. Of that 125, many are visitors and faculty members. It is the hope of the Department of Religion that more students will see the light and attend these daily devotions.
The Prefects of Religion send along this thought: “The more we learn to appreciate prayer, the more we’ll use it; the more we use it, the more successful the Jubilee Year will be.”
VA Relaxes Controls On Education Rights
Notre Dame veterans can breathe easy if they are worried about the regulations of Public Law 266 curtailing their educational desires. The Veterans Administration has canceled its month-old restrictions on the educational rights of war veterans.
It has installed a more liberal set, but has called on Congress to pass legislation to “prevent grave abuses” of the benefits granted by the “GI Bill of Rights.”
Regarding this “more liberal set,” Mr. Edward J. Murray, director of student accounts, said, “I’d like to see them. As yet we haven’t received a copy of them.” .
Complaints Are Studied
The Senate Labor Committee was called to meet in closed session Thursday, Oct. 6 by Acting Chairman Claude Pepper (D. Fla.) to study this as well as some VA rulings on which Pepper said complaints had been received.
Yielding to protests from Congressmen and many others, Gray repealed his controversial “instruction 1-A” which limited veterans in changing courses or schools.
Dated Sept. 1, the ruling was to take effect Sept. 12. Veterans, however, heard nothing about it until Sept. 15, when the official announcement was made. Many already had arranged shifts in schooling by then. An outcry arose from students and from school officials. The VA blamed the incident on administrative delays.
Section 1-A required veterans to give special justification before being allowed to resume interrupted courses, transfer to new studies or colleges, take postgraduate work, or enroll in schools established since September, 1944. All this was repealed in the cancelling of those regulations on Oct. 5.
Furthermore, students may take flight training if this is required for graduation from the school. But if flying is a voluntary course, justification must be obtained. And the government will not foot the bills in schools established less than one year.
The new VA order specifies that any change in course must be in the same general field as the instruction already given.
A change into a completely new field of study will be permitted only after the VA’s advice and guidance service (basement, Main Building) had determined the student’s aptitude or need for a change.—Don Smith
17
Oct. 14, 1949
Steel Worker Swells Library Collection;
Donates Hundreds of Books to Notre Dame
By ROGER VORCE
Most of us have occasion to use the library many times during the semester. The purpose may be an outside reading book or just a good novel for spare time reading. On any of these assignments, if you come across a bookplate on the inside cover with the name Joseph Kotcka you might recall this story behind it.
Joseph Kotcka was born some thirty-five years ago in Clairton, Pa., near Pittsburgh. His parents weren’t wealthy and Joe never got his chance for an education. Most of the people of Slavic background like his parents came here without an education or trade and as a result had to take any job that was offered. They remained in the mills or coal mines and never got beyond them.
As a youngster Joe sold papers and from his small earnings bought books. He hoped to educate himself through constant reading and eventually break into the literary field or, through his knowledge of Slavic affairs, into the Central European Division of the State Department. He knew several famous authors and submitted stories to them but their replies were always the same; “not enough individual style.” Joe made an application to the State Department but they were interested in specialists or graduates of Foreign Service Schools.
You may wonder what Joe’s story has to do with Notre Dame. Well, as Joe read his books he began thinking about them. He didn’t have the opportunity to put them to use but perhaps someone else might. So he began sending his books in monthly lots to the Notre Dame library. Joe’s packages have come in regularly, and over a period of years his contribution of books
SOUTH BEND'S FINEST
>	SPAGHETTI HOUSE
Steaks - Chops Seafoods
We cater to Parties A FAVORITE WITH NOTRE DAME MEN
415 North Michigan
has run into the hundreds, averaging two or three a week. He is by and large the library’s largest benefactor in book donations.
On his meager income his contributions seem almost impossible. A paragraph from one of his letters reveals both his philosophy and interest in Notre Dame. He says, “In all humans there is a certain amount of good and bad. Sometimes the good overpowers
Joseph Kotcka
the bad and the result is something of a sentimental value, as my contribution of books to the great institution of Notre Dame. Perhaps you wonder how a steel worker can manage on the meager income that he gets every month to dispose such a large amount for reading matter. I’m not married, don’t
Phone 3-0903
drink or smoke, and put that surplus into reading matter for pastime.”
Joe’s books continue to pour into the library. In many of his letters he mentions a desire some time to meet the staff at the library and see our campus. Let’s hope that Joe gets the chance. His story is typical of that certain intangible element called “the Spirit of Notre Dame.”	।
Dr. Gurian to Head Group On International Relations
Dr. Waldemar- Gurian, of the Political Science Department, has been named director of the Committee on International Relations of the University of Notre Dame. This Committee was recently formed to conduct research in the inter-relations of religion, democracy | and international order, and is financed in part by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation.
Three other members of the Notre Dame faculty are members of the committee. They are: Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, professor of political science, Dr. M. A. Fitzsimons, professor of history, and Mr. William 0. Shanahan, also a professor of history, who is currently doing research in Germany.
Present plans for this committee call | for a three-year program with gradually diminishing assistance from the Rockefeller Foundation. The committee contemplates a series of publications embodying the fruits of their research.
Sociology Profs to Attend Princeton NCCJ Meeting
Professors Louis A. Radelet and John J. Kane, of the Department of Sociology, will join approximately 25 other leading psychologists, educators, and sociologists from all parts of the nation at a meeting sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews at Princeton, N. J.
The conference, which is scheduled for three days beginning Oct. 21, will discuss and formulate plans to set up intergroup relations centers at various colleges and universities throughout the country. Plans so far call for these centers to be composed of a full time director and three assistants at each school selected. One of the assistants will devote his time to teaching, while research work and community relations will occupy the remaining two members. It is hoped that through centers such as these answers to many of the problems and difficulties in the field of human relations will be found.
The Scholastic
18
Scholastic Sports
Bill Svoboda	Paul Lea	Eddie Price
Rampaging Green Wave Here Tomorrow
■Tulane University, victors in their last eleven appearances, will invade Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow at 2 p.m. before an expected over-flow crowd of 58, 000. Runners-up of the 1948 Southeastern Conference, the Green Wave will be out to prove that the caliber of present-day Dixie football compares favorably with that of the Hutson, McAfee, Sinkwich era.
The Greenies finished a successful ’48 season with a 9-1-0 record, scoring 207 points to their opponents 60. The lone defeat, a 13-7 setback was administered at the hands of an underdog Georgia Tech eleven in a struggle which found the Wave teetering on the brink of victory at the final whistle. They completed last season with eight consecutive victories, and have added three more this Fall.
Starting out by trouncing Alabama 28-14, the Green Wave picked up speed with an 18-0 revenge victory over Georgia Tech. Coach Henry Frnka’s men finally rolled into high gear in a 40-0 capture of the Southeastern Louisiana Lions last Saturday. How badly Tulane defeated her two rivals is revealed by the statistics which credit 562 yards rushing and 31 first downs to the Wave, and only 122 yards and 8 first downs to the Yellow Jackets and the Crimson Tide.
The gentlemen from New Orleans
By JACK ECONOMOU
have not fared so well with Notre Dame. In the four games played to date, 1944 to ’47, they have never won, have scored in only two of the contests, and have been outpointed by the Irish, 158-12. The ’47 game was the most disastrous for Tulane as Ernie Zalejski and Co. walloped them 59-6. Incidentally, it was in this game that Eraie sustained the knee injury which has hindered him the past two seasons.
The Olive and Blue hopes are being borne on the backs of 28 returning letter-men from a ’48 squad of 32 regulars. The starting backfield will consist of four All-Conference hopefuls led by
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
Wightkin (198)	...,E.....Sheffield	(193)
Martin (204) ______T........... Druen	(231)
Johnson (190) -----G........... Brown	(202)
Grothaus (192)	....C....... Maddox	(204)
Wallner (203) _____G........... Doyle	(204)
Toneff (232) ........T......... Rogas	(222)
Hart (245) --------JI.......Partridge	(165)
Williams (180) ----Q----------- Ernst	(185)
Spaniel (184) .....H___________ Kinek	(185)
Coutre (170) ......H__________Svoboda	(212)
Sitko (180) -------F........... Price	(185)
Game time — 2:00 p.m.
190 pound fullback Ed Price. Tulane’s answer to Charlie Justice picked up 1,178 yards last year, including ten touchdowns, and averaged 6.3 yards per try. This year, in the first two games Elegant Eddie rushed 234 yards in 38 attempts and has, in eight of the last twelve games, outrushed his opponents’ combined offensive forces.
The halfback posts will be manned by Bill Svoboda, who has averaged 7.3 yards per try, and George Kinek, who amassed 104 yards. Rounding out the backfield and masterminding the T is letterman Joe Ernst, who chucked for 809 yards last Autumn.
The forward wall, a huge charging machine which averages 205 pounds, will be solidly anchored by tackle Paul Lea, a 225 pounder, and Dick Sheffield, a fleet-footed end who caught 17 tosses for 318 yards in ’48.
The Irish, still smarting a week after that Washington incident, greatly out-charged a Purdue team-which had visions of upset. Getting off to an unusually fast start and neglecting to give their opponents a first quarter touchdown, Notre Dame tallied four times in. the first half, once in the second, and ^then coasted while Purdue shoved over two last period scores. Thus, by virtue of the 35-12 victory, the Irish extended their unbeaten string to 31 games. Sitko matched his three touchdowns of the Indiana game with three more, while the
Oct. 14, 1949
19
two Bills, Gay and Barrett, added single six-pointers apiece.
This game may be the game of reckoning for Frnka and his staff, which included backfield coach Andy Pilney, a star back for Notre Dame in the ’30’s. Frnka has come a long way since that disastrous ’47 season which showed the Greenies with a 2-5-2 record and a mere eighteen victories in the six year span from ’42-47. After last Fall’s successful season, Frnka felt his boys were good enough for championship contention and at the first scrimmage sessions this year he stated “It will be either the conference title or Notre Dame. We cannot possibly hope for both.” Soon after, he implied that the Irish were his target. . Nevertheless, the Green Wave will be seeking its first perfect season since the 1929 Bernie Bierman squad walked off with the laurels.
Varsity B Gridders Rally To Down Purdue, 27-20
Notre Dame’s varsity B gridders opened their abbreviated season last Friday by coming from behind to down Purdue’s reserves, 27-20. The game began under a bright sun on Cartier Field and ended in semi-darkness in the big stadium because of the crowd.
A questionable Boilermaker touchdown put the downstaters ahead at halftime, 13-7, but ND came back strong. Husky Jack Bush smashed through for a long six-point gallop and George Dickson pitched to Ray Jonardi for another score. The Riveters rallied with a long TD pass before Dickson piloted the Irish to their last score. George tallied himself on a beautifully executed bootlegger play.
Bush, Dickson and Jonardi were the offensive guns for ND and Joe Caprara contributed some fancy place-kicking.
Future ND Opponents Win 4 Over Weekend
By JACK VARLEY
While Notre Dame was playing a cat and mouse game at Lafayette with Purdue, her future opponents won four, lost one, and tied one. The best game in which a future opponent participated was at the Los Angeles Coliseum where the University of Southern California held Wes Fesler’s Ohio State Bucks to a 13-13 tie.
Although the Bucks piled up a 343-101 advantage in the net yards rushing department, fumbles or a stubborn Trojan defense held them to their two scores. The big gun in the Trojan defense was big Bill Martin, who incidentally, scored both markers for the California lads. Martin is credited with making more stops than the rest of the Trojan team combined.
Green Wave Advances
Meanwhile, way down in New Orleans, the Green Wave of Tulane rolled over an unsuspecting Southeastern Louisiana eleven 40-0 in the best scrimmage of the week. At Annapolis a fighting Navy team came from behind to scuttle the Duke Blue Devils, 28-14. Paced by the touchdown passing of Quarterback Bob Zastrow, the Middies set forth an aerial barrage that completely withered the Duke secondary.
At Columbia, South Carolina, there was just too much Justice as North Carolina defeated the South Carolina Gamecocks, 28-13. Justice threw three touchdown passes to Art Weiner after the Gamecocks had held the Tarheels to a 7-7 half-time deadlock.
In East Lansing, a favored Michigan State squad had to come from behind to
ease out a 14-7 victory ovei’ Maryland.
At Iowa City, the fighting Illini de-cisioned Iowa, 20-14. It was Illinois’ game all the way with Johnny Karras scoring twice for the Illini.
Tomorrow, while Notre Dame is playing host to Tulane, William and Mary will invade East Lansing to take on Michigan State and Wisconsin will attempt to snap Navy’s two-game win _ streak. Southern Methodist, after last week’s rest, should trounce Rice at Dallas as Southern California meets California out on the Pacific Coast. Indiana will attempt to break into the win column at the expense of Iowa as North Carolina takes on Wake Forest.
Records of Notre Dame’s opponents:
W L T
Indiana .......................   0	3	0
Washington ....................   I	3	0
Purdue .......................... 0	3	0
Tulane —.......................   3	0	0
Navy —.........................   2	1	0	A
Michigan State .................. 2	10 "
North Carolina .................. 3	0-0
Iowa .........................    1	2	0
Southern Calif. ................. 2	6	1
Southern Methodist .............. 2	0	0
Totals 16	13	1
Halls Begin Diamond Play After Foul Weather Stall
After several days of bad weather, Notre Dame’s interhall baseball program finally got underway last week. Sorin and Howard opened league play with the strong nine from the four-tower hall winning, 5-1.
Because of the bad weather and early darkness, Ernie Szekely, in charge of baseball, has decided to speed up the fall season. A double elimination tournament will be run instead of a full league schedule.
Mr. Szekely also announced that interhall touch football will start next week if enough teams are entered. Entries should be submitted to Mr. Szekely immediately.
Emil Sitko plows his way through a host of would-be Purdue tacklers. Sitko scored three times against the Boilermakers.
Irish tacklers gang up on a battling Boilermaker. Notre Dame made it 31 games without losing by winning 35 to 12.
20
The Scholastic
*Ray Burian Breaks Golf Course Record
Tuesday, October 4, was a red lettei’ day for Ray Burian of Joliet, Illinois. On that day tall, likeable Ray walked out to the first tee of the William Burke Memorial Golf Course and proceeded to break the existing course record. Ray Ashot the record shattering score of 64 "and broke the old mark of 65 which had stood since Gene Fehlig established it in August, 1942.
Tom Veech, Tom Klett and Bob Rolfs were the witnesses of Ray’s inspiring golfing. The weather was perfect and Ray started right out by paring the first two holes. After that it was just a matter of hitting pai* or one below par on the remaining sixteen holes. Ray shot one under par seven times, on the ^3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 8th, 16th, and 17th holes. Ray had what he called “a good day” and everything seemed to go right for him. He was on the green in one, exactly fifteen times and putted only twenty-six times. To show how sharp he really was, Ray called a chip shot on the sixteenth hole.
Ray has had quite a background for his golfing laurels. In high school he was captain and medalist of the varsity golf team for two years. While serving • in the Army, Ray found time to play in Japan with Jack Fitzpatrick, who was on last year’s golf team. As a frosh here at Notre Dame, he had the honor of winning the campus Open Tournament crown. Now, two monograms later, Ray is co-captain elect, along with Paul Hudak, of next spring’s golf team. Ray is a business administration major in the College of Commerce and will graduate in January, 1951. He is also a member of the Monogram and Chicago clubs.
" Ray’s score card:
Par- ................ 444	453	444—36
Ray- ................ 443	342	434—31
Par:	  443	443	544—35—71
Ray: ’.....-......... 443	443 434—33—64
—Bill Delaney
Prospective Fencers Set For Practice Monday
Fifty prospective fencers led by Cap-_ tain Bob Schlosser are expected to reW port for the first practice Monday afternoon in the fieldhouse.
Coach Herb Melton should have another strong squad. Besides Schlosser, who has won three monograms as a sabre man, Melton has these regulars: Ralph Dixon, Nick Scalera, Bob Bosler, John Vincent, Dan Parisi, Jerry Dob-yns, Tom Roney and Jim Jansen. Lost from last year are Mike DiCicco, Lou Burns, Ralph Witucki and Jerry Lubin.
SPLINTERS from the Press Box by Ralph Wright ■■■■■■■
Quick Results
We sure got quick results in our appeal for a football game when the varsity is on the road. The athletic department had a contest arranged between the Purdue and Notre Dame B teams before the Scholastic even came out. We’d still like to see shat B teamFrosh game though.
It’s safe to assume that a little advance notice on B games would be appreciated by all. Last week hardly anyone knew about the game until they heard officials’ whistles and a few faint cheers coming from Cartier Field. That loudspeaker in the chow hall isn’t too clear sometimes.
Singing for the Unsung
Ed Hudak and Ray Espenan, two more unheralded ND linemen, played terrific ball against Purdue last Saturday.
Two scouts sitting next to us in the press box were quite impressed with Hudak. Noticing that big Ed was making all kinds of tackles, the pair decided to watch him for weaknesses. Neither could find any. Said one of them, “You know, that guy is quite a tackle.”
Espenan made more tackles than anyone, with the possible exception of Hudak. Besides his defensive work, Ray contributed several crucial downfield blocks on some of those long excursions.
At this time, we’re also inclined to put in a plug for one of our favorite Irish ballplayers, namely Larry Coutre. With all the praise going to Emil Sitko (who certainly deserves it), we wish someone would take time to mention the Scooter. He’s just ahead of Emil in both yards gained and average per try. And despite the fact that he had no chance to add to his total Saturday, Larry still paces Irish pass-receivers.
Harriers Give Good Show
Our cross-country meet with Wisconsin tomorrow reminds us of that sport which, for some reason or other, attracts little student attention. Those who have watched the cross-country men in action have gotten quite a kick out of the affairs.
In the regular four-mile races, each man circles both lakes twice. The course is laid out so that spectators can see a. surprisingly large part of the race, including both start and finish.
The cross-country meets have a sort, of collegiate, informal air that must have prevailed in intercollegiate athletics before the current commercialism came in. The spectators lie around in the grass and offer encouragement to-their buddies as they go struggling by.
Coach Doc Handy does an excellent job of handling the affairs. He tells the spectators where the boys will run and how the scoring is done. He also introduces celebrities (like Gil Dodds of Wheaton) when the occasion demands it. Doc has a nice way of running a show without acting like a big wheel.
One of the best reasons for watching our current harriers is that they are good; Benny Almaguer and Jim Kittell won’t trail many people this fall. Both these boys have real team spirit, too. Against Wheaton and Quantico, Almaguer, with a comfortable lead, wanted to slow down and finish in a tie with Kittell. But Jim wanted no part of this; he practically pushed Benny, ahead of him.
All told, the harriers put on quite a show. Tomorrow’s meet starts at 11 a.m. Too bad there are so many IL aan. classes on Saturday.
Plays of the Week
In the varsity game: Bob Williams^ run and lateral to Sitko for the third TD. Bob knows when to lateral the ball on those optional run-lateral plays.
In the B game: Wily George Dickson’s bootlegger score against Purdue. Eleven Boilermakers went the wrongway. It was dark, but not that dark; . George just fooled ’em.
Prediction of the Week
This is it — the best in the South against the best in the Midwest. As the old saying goes: Tulane is the best where they come from, but this isn’t where they come from. ND will work harder than last Saturday, but the score could look about the same. Notre Dame 35, Tulane 13.
21
Oct. 14, 1949
End Runs and Field Goals
by BARESKIN
HEROES OF PAST «
•
What Former ND Stars Are Doing Today
{In the late ’30’s a column called Bareskin was NOT run in the Scholastic. In fact there never has been such a column in this magazine. But Bareskin is noiv here, with comments vitriolic on ND football. As long as this writer maintains the absurdity of a- similar anonymous character in a South Bend paper, we shall publish his work.)
Well, well, well. I went down to the Purdue fracas in Lafayette last Saturday. Miserable was the word for it. Six-Yard Sitko once again failed to live up to his nickname, gaining 8.5 yards per try. Come now, Emil, Charlie Callahan gave you a nickname, don’t foul things up.
Williams as usual, was inept at signal calling. After kicking two beauties into the coffin corner earlier in the game, he disdained the punt when it was fourth down and one-half foot to go on Purdue’s 20. He chose a running play when a punt was obviously in order, and would have put the Boilermakers in a real hole. Sitko luckily scored on the running play, but what Bareskin wants to know — was it smart?
And there was Bob Toneff again, making like a showoff. C’mon, Bob, don’t let your head roll off just to show the folks who’s making all the tackles. For three plays in a row in the second quarter Toneff made the tackles, and at no time during those plays did he have his head secured on his shoulders. A team as smooth as ND is supposed to be can do better than that. Heads up, Bobby!!
Steve Oracko, as usual, gave a lethargic exhibition of kicking extra points, two of them failing to make even the 20th row of the reconstructed Ross-Ade Stadium. There was a time when Oracko cared a little about kicking a nice-looking extra point. The college try has gone out of his work, though. What good is 13 out of 16, when his heart doesn’t seem to be in it?
Jim Martin went into his television act again. He made it a duet this time, with Fred Wallner as partner. They wiped out four would-be Purdue tacklers on Sitko’s first touchdown sprint. And get this — it was right in front of the television cameras. I distinctly saw Martin look up and smile as he sent Norb Adams flying through the
22
air. A lackadaisical captain won’t lead his team to many victories.
Most miserable performance for the third straight week was turned in by Co-Capt. Leon Hart of the Irish. Leon had trouble taking out more than three men in any one play. Unless he shows more hustle in the future, the 240-pounder from Turtle Creek is likely to watch the rest of the games from the bench, instead of his usual position, which is in the enemy’s hair.
Well, ole Bareskin will head down North Eddy St. tomorrow to see what the feeble ND offense can do against Tulane. Judging from last Saturday’s showing, the Irish better have all their prayers in good working order. Tulane downed a loaded Southeastern Louisiana Tech eleven, 40-0, so ND should be easy pickings. See you at the joust.
Harriers Hustle Past Purdue Squad, 20-38
Showing real power, Notre Dame’s young cross-country team dumped Purdue last Saturday by a 20-38 score, but Michigan State, advertised as a second opponent for the Irish, changed their minds and didn’t show up for the race.
Bob Rodibaugh gave the hometown Purdue fans some consolation by out-kicking Notre Dame’s Benny Almaguer to win the race by twenty yards, but all five Irish scorers were across the finish line before the next Purdue man came through the posts in seventh place.
Bob Fieler, sophomore Irishman and brother of a long line of Drake University distance stars, came in third, some 45 seconds behind Almaguer. Jim Kit-tell and Con Tetrault tied for fourth and George Gross took sixth place to give the Irish their low twenty point total.
Tony DaDamio, recovered from his heel injury and running his first race of the year, showed a strong kick as he took eighth place and pushed Purdue’s score higher.
The winner’s time, 22:30, looks slow for four miles, but was fast for the Purdue course which looks like a roller coaster that only goes uphill. Coach Handy was quite pleased with his boys’ showing since they seldom get a chance to practice running hills.
—Ted Prahinski
By RAY FITZGERALD
For three weeks in the autumn of 1920 an insignificant little Notre Dame fresh- ™ man followed his big brother to the equipment room of the fieldhouse. Every day, big brother Gerry drew full football regalia, while little brother Don got a regular “see me tomorrow, son” from • the McAllister-like custodian of shoulderpads, helmets, et al. Four years later, Don Miller, still small, but no longer-insignificant, could have had the fieldhouse if he’d asked for it. The guy who had trouble getting a freshman uniform was, in 1924, a member of Knute Rockne’s (and Grantland Rice’s) Four Horsemen, the mightest backfield ever to run on a football field.
Where is Don Miller today? Unlike Stuhldreher, Crowley and Layden, he didn’t become a big-time football coach. He did spend four years at Georgia Tech showing the backs which way to run, and he had a similar job at Ohio State for four more years. In 1933, when breadlines resembled the present day Notre Dame bookstore entanglements, Ohio State informed Don that they were cutting his salary in half for the ’34 season. He quickly informed Ohio State that he didn’t think he’d coach football anymore. He was going to become a lawyer.
Today, Don Miller, ex-football star and coach, is U. S. District Attorney Miller, representing the Northern District of Ohio. He’s come quite a way since he and his galloping pals trampled Stanford in the 1924 Rose Bowl game. He’s been President of the National U. S. Attorney’s Conference, and was also I president of the Federal Bar Association of Cleveland for two years.
Don doesn’t have much to do with football nowadays, except perhaps to keep an eagle eye open for husky Cleveland high school half-backs who want a good Catholic education. Golfing and six husky and healthy kids take up most of his spare time in Cleveland, where both his
J-home and office are located. There’s only one boy among the six kids, and that’s the youngest, Don, Jr. But Pop is making sure that young Don is going to know his football. At the age of six, he’s the mascot of the St. Anne’s Parish football team, and rumor has it that Don, Jr., is the best mascot they’ve had in quite a while. With an Notre ’Dame all-time great for a father, how could he miss?
The Scholastic
A few short days ago came the end of a baseball season that will provide fuel sufficient to last the hot stove league through many a cold winter blizzard.
This season had its heroes and goats just as so many past years have had them, but here’s the story of a hero who became famous because he was a goat. Yes, the story of one player’s helplessness for a few futile moments, that has grown by leaps and bounds, and has added mellowness with each succeeding year. A tale that has become a part of America’s tradition much as the legends of Johnny Appleseed and Paul Bunyan.
A legend, that on the surface, has been richly coated with the eye-catching, heart-tugging color of a rabid crowd’s excitement, tension and hope, and a determined man’s effort to come through with the chips down. And underneath it all lies the less attractive tint of overly ambitious men trying to cash in on a great athlete’s fame with the most prominent of these glory seekers turning out to be the athlete’s own brother!
Looking further we find: a Notre Dame student who happens to be the grandson of a famed ballplayer; the account of nine life-loving, battling Irish brothers; and a scrap book in which are found, side by side, the endeared memories of the old star, browning press clippings and souvenirs which recall the exploits of a football team called “The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.”
Sportswriter Pens Poem
The legend is that of “Casey at the Bat” which came into existence when a sportswriter, struck with inspiration,
The Casey Legend
by Rudy Unger
wrote a poem about an incident he had witnessed at a ball game. That writer was Ernest Lawrence Thayer; the incident occurred in New York City in 1887, in a ball game between the New York Giants and Philadelphia Phillies.
The Phils trailing, came up to bat in the late innings and started a rally. A Philly outfielder stepped up to bat with a chance to win the game, but he didn’t have it that day and went down swinging. That player was Dennis Casey who today is world famed as “the mighty Casey who was like putty in the hands of the opposing pitcher!”
Yes, the Dan Casey of Mudville in Thayer’s masterpiece was in reality Dennis Casey of the 1887 version of the Philadelphia Phillies. He was an ordinary ballplayer who made a living of planting the old apple back out in the orchard. He went quietly on his way and so would have the incident were it not for the fact that Thayer, looking for a steady job, made his way to California where he joined the San Francisco Examiner. This paper published his poem.
It was picked up by a vaudeville trouper, De Wolf Hopper, who pro
Dan Hipskind Reads About Grandfather Casey in Family Scrapbook
ceeded to use it as part of his skit, and, as he went from town to town, the fame of Hopper and the poem grew until it became what it is today—an American legend!
Son of Pioneers
Dennis Casey was the son of pioneer immigrants who came to this country and settled down on a farm near Bing-hampton, New York. The Casey farm wasn’t a rich one, but William Casey made a go of it, for beside Dennis, there were eight other brothers and three sisters. Tilling the soil agreed with the Casey boys for they developed into young brawny Irishmen who never learned the meaning of the word fear. Dennis was a fine example with his six foot, three inch frame liberally sprinkled with some 200-odd pounds of muscle.
Baseball was making progress in those days and the Casey boys took a fancy to it; matter of fact, they got quite a name for themselves in the nearby community of Binghampton. The town had its share of young hoodlums who were always open to a gentlemanly game of baseball provided they were
^Oct. 14, 1949
23
assured of a favorable outcome; but it seems that the Caseys played the game fair and square, so that whenever they came down off their New Ireland farm for a weekend game the cry of “get the Caseys” was circulated. After properly trimming the local thugs on the diamond, the Caseys invariably wound up clearing the local pub of the same nauseating individuals a few short hours later; then, quenching their thirst and nursing their overworked knuckles, they went their merry way back to the farm.
From this family team, Dennis and his brother Dan, a brilliant pitcher, went on to play in organized baseball, both eventually winding up with the Phillies.
Rep Grows Fast
It wasn’t long before Dennis’ hitting prowess caught the eyes of the fans and his reputation grew fast. Long before anyone ever heard of Babe Ruth, Dennis was heralded by newspapers as “Dennis Casey, one of the Kings of Swat.” But old Casey never cashed in like the “old Sultan” did. His 1884 contract with the Baltimore Orioles called for $250 a month 1
Nor did Casey ever cash in on the fast-growing Casey legend. When the narrative was first published, Casey took it to heart; it shook his pride, but, as time went on, Casey grew accustomed to it; seeing how it didn’t actually affect his batting, he didn’t care, and so went on playing his usual fine calibre of ball.
Never, even after his playing days were over and he retired to the old homestead up near Binghampton (where he died in 1909), did he ever attempt to use the legend as a source of monetary gain.
However, in years to come, others saw the legend as a juicy bonanza, waiting like a calf for slaughter, for their eager, grasping hands. Some of them never learned how to swing a bat or fling a ball, but they all knew how to sling the blarney. By the time they went their way, the identity of the true Casey was somewhat hazy.
Unfortunately, the most prominent of these aspirants turned out to be Dennis’ own brother, Dan. It wasn’t until many years after the death of Dennis that Dan started claiming that he was the illustrious Casey. He insisted that Thayer had written the poem in irony about him, for pitchers in that day, like those of the present, were notoriously poor hitters.
Had Good Argument
He had a good argument since Thayer used the name of Dan instead of Dennis
Casey. And since he was a pitcher with the Phillies when the event occurred, he was familiar with the details surrounding the famous fanning. Dan’s biggest splash came in 1939, when in honor of the 100th anniversary of baseball, he revealed, in a large national Sunday supplement, that he was the memorable Casey.
Too bad Dan didn’t stick to his pitching for he was second to none in that art. In his peak year with the Phils he pitched 52 games and won 38. Not bad!
When the real Casey, Dennis, died in 1909 his family was broken up, his wife having died two years previous,
Dennis (The Real) Casey
and the children were sent to relatives throughout the country. A daughter, Frances, was sent to an uncle in Wabash, Indiana, where she grew up and married a J. Henry Hipskind.
The Hipskinds moved to Fort Wayne, Indiana, where Mr. Hipskind settled down to his present day contracting business. In the course of years a family was reared and one of the sons, Dan, came to Notre Dame in 1948.
Dan at present is a sophomore residing at 448 Morrissey. He is enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters and is looking to a probable major in economics.
Strapping Six-Footer
Looking at Dan it isn’t hard to note that the great Casey was his grandfather, for Dan is a big strapping six-footer who carries a well proportioned 200 pounds.
Dan attended Central Catholic High
in Fort Wayne, where he was a sue-cessful student and a stellar athlete. His athletic endeavors brought him the honor of being named all-Fort Wayne tackle in his senior year.
But the Hipskind connection with Notre Dame started long before 1948. Dan’s dad and mother have been avid Irish rooters since the days of Rockne.
Proof of this may be found in the aging Hipskind scrapbook, where amid £ memoirs of one great champion, the mighty Casey, are intermingled the printed records of another great champion, the football Irish of Notre Dame.
On one page is found a big black sinister headline, dated April 1, 1931: “World Mourns Death of Rockne” while immediately below it is a picture-sketch of “the Immigrant’s son who taught all America how to play football.”
A banquet program of the 1932 foot-ball testimonial dinner is present among the souvenirs along with many football tickets of past Notre Dame games, one in particular which glistens out among the rest. A golden ticket of the Dedication game of Notre Dame Stadium, between Notre Dame and Navy on October 11, 1930.
Clippings on Layden
A section of clippings is devoted to the hiring of Elmer Layden as head football coach, a move which brought Notre Dame back to its winning ways, after the acute depression following Rockne’s death. Among the pictures, there is one showing the genial Rockne holding a baby in his arms and the caption below identifies the baby as Elmer Layden, Jr., who today is a sophomore at Notre Dame!
So goes the story of a great hero, his grandson, a group of fortune hunt- fB ters, nine Irish brothers, and a great football team; but there still seems to be something wanting—a vital question goes unanswered, and probably always will. Who was the unsung hero, the Giant pitcher, who sent the mighty Casey down swinging, swinging to immortality?
R.I. Club Names Officers
At the first meeting of the Rhode Island Club, last week, new officers were elected for the coming year. They are: Joe Pert, president; Bill Fleming, vice-president; Frank Surprenant, secretary, and Colin MacDonald, treasurer.
The club announces that all students from southern Massachusetts are invited to attend the next meeting in Room 4 of the Law Building at 7:15 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 20 and join the club.
The Scholastic
24
Notre Dame Songs
VICTORY MARCH
Rally sons of Notre Dame;
Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah, rah, for Notre Dame (U rah, rah) We will fight in ev-ry game, Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne’er forget her And we’ll cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame.
(chorus)
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame.
Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory.
NOTRE DAME, * OUR MOTHER
Notre Dame, our Mother, Tender, strong and true. Proudly in the heavens, Gleams the gold and blue, Glory’s mantle cloaks thee, Golden is thy fame, And our hearts forever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, Love thee, Notre Dame.
WHEN IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Up! Notre Dame men! Answer the cry, Gathering foemen fling to the sky.
Fight! Fight! Fight!
Brave hosts advancing challenge your name, March to the battle, Notre Dame!
Rah! Rah! Rah!
(chorus)
And when the Irish backs go marching by The cheering thousands shout their battle cry: For Notre Dame men are marching into the game, Fighting the fight for you, Notre Dame, And when that Irish line goes smashing through, They’ll sweep the foemen’s ranks away;
When Notre Dame men fight for Gold and Blue, Then Notre Dame men will win that day.
HIKE SONG
The march is on, no brain or brawn Can stop the charge of fighting men. Loud rings the cry of grim defy Of hard attack let loose again. Oh, it’s the hike, hike of victory, The call, to rise and strike. For Notre Dame men are winning When Notre Dame hears hike, hike, hike. Hark to the cheering song rising high, Hark to the roar as the ranks go marching by; Shoulder to shoulder chanting her glorious name. Burn high your fires and swing along for Notre Dame.

Names Make Neats
JACK RUMBACH, ’45, has been chosen the “outstanding young man of the year” by the Junior Chamber of Commerce Distinguished Service Award Committee in Jasper, Ind. The 25-year old recipient of the award received it for “the substantial contribution he has made to the welfare of his community.” Rumbach is managing editor of the Dubois County Daily Herald. . .
It was announced last week that BRUCE AV. RAFF, of Akron, Ohio is engaged to Miss Betty Earl, of South Bend. The wedding is planned for next June. . .
CHARLES E. McGUIRE, ’49, was married last week in Mishawaka to the former Miss Christina Louse Thau, of that city. And EDWARD A. OSTROWSKI, who received his master’s degree in August, was married to Miss Helen Lee Black in St. Joseph’s Church, South Bend. . .
REV. PETER O’REILLY, S.J., a research fellowship student in the Mediaeval Institute and teacher in the Department of Philosophy, is writing a critical edition of St. Thomas’ commentary on the De Hebdomadibus of Boeth-ius and an index of the concordance type to St. Thomas’ Contra Gentiles and De Ente et Essentia. Another student in the Institute, the REV. ASZTRIK L. GABRIEL, 0. Praem., is writing a monograph on the Ave Maria College in Paris which will appear in a series in Publications in Mediaeval Studies. . .
JACK McMAHON, ’49, has been appointed head basketball and track coach at Mt. St. Mary’s College in Emmitsburg, Md. He will also help with baseball and handle football backfield candidates. ..
TERRY BRENNAN, ’49, graduate and football star, is head coach at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago. . .
JACK FALLON, ex-heavyweight Bengal champ who graduated last year, has been named assistant coach at Wayne University in Detroit. . .
Reports have MIKE CONLEY, three year Bengal champion in the 147-lb. class and 1949 graduate from here,
teaching and coaching at Mount Sacred Heart High School in San Antonio, Tex. BOB McDAVID, another* ’49, grad and former star hurdler on the track team, has been named graduate assistant in health and physical education at the University of Mississippi. . .
Writing in his column “Post-Sportem” in the Chicago Sun-Times, Dick Hacken-berg says that LEON HART, “the
Leon Hart
ruggedly handsome six-foot four-inch, 250-pound co-captain of the Notre Dame squad, has been approached by a couple of movie studios . . . could be Leon will be our next Tarzan.”
ROBERT L. REYNOLDS, ’49, a June graduate of Notre Dame, has assumed the editorship of Today, a Catholic Action student magazine. Reynolds was one of the founding editors of Concord, a national college monthly. . .
Round Table Talks Steel
Lively discussions on the current steel dispute highlighted last week’s meeting of the Economic Round Table. The fiery debate, which lasted for the entire meeting was handled by Jack Murphy, chairman for the evening.
Five new applicants for admission into the Round Table endured this “trial by fire” test and were accepted at the close of the proceedings.
Slated for discussion at the group’s next meeting on Thursday, Oct. 20 is the controversial Taft-Hartley labor law.
ND Club to Publish Inter-American Paper
A new campus publication which will serve over 25 colleges and universities in the midwestern area will be inaugurated this month by the Inter-American Affairs club of Notre Dame.
The publication, “The Inter-American Newsletter,” will be organized and published monthly by the members of the club and will be sent to the various schools in the Tri-Regional Commission on Inter-American action of the NFCCS comprising the Fort Wayne, Chicago, and Milwaukee regions. The news organ is expected to come out near the middle of the month.
The purpose of the newslettei* is to coordinate the activities of the InterAmerican and affiliated clubs in the Tri-Region. It is also intended to keep members of the individual clubs informed of the progress of the commission, current news in Latin-American affairs, and of club activities within the commission.
Spinelli to Head Staff
The idea for the publication was originated by ex-President of the club Frank Spinelli who will head the staff for the paper. He will be assisted by associate editor Bob Sincavich and members Carl Lish, John Reynolds, Don Maher, and President Don Zehnder. Dr. Thomas Downey of the department of History, moderator of the club, will serve as official advisor.
News for the publication will be sent in to the staff by correspondents who will be appointed from the' 25 colleges and universities and also from press chairmen in other regions throughout the United States. In addition, articles will be contributed by Dr. Downey, an expert on Latin-American affairs, together with a monthly column on current news topics dealing with the Inter-Americas.
Other Schools to Contribute
Local students and students from other colleges and universities will also contribute articles to the newsletter. Cartoons, a question and answer box, and a Tri-Regional sidelights column together with news of the semi-annual Inter-American conferences will round out the reading material.
Subscription rate for the first six editions will be one dollar and individual copies of the newsletter may be procured for twenty cents. The news-magazine will be published regularly during the school year.
26
The Scholastic
IT’S HERE
NOW $2-65
Notre Dame
Bookstore
NOTRE M DAME
' ASH TRAY
Mo Hutli A/imI Ht ^6lla,l - - -
1	The New N. D. ASHTRAY In Life-Time Chrome Plate Is An Ideal Souvenir Gift
•	Perfect item for every Notre Dame man's desk.	• Beautifully Designed	• Built to Last
•	Moderately Priced Sold in attractive Gift Package for Dad, the Girl at Home, or any Notre Dame enthusiast.
Get Yours NOW!
Oct. 14, 1949	27
Irish Hoopmen Begin Practice for Opener
Last Monday the 1949-50 edition of the Notre Dame basketball team began practice under the direction of Coach Ed “Moose” Krause in preparation for cage opener with Creighton in the Old Gym December 8.
The hoopmen will be led this year by two-time All-American Kevin O’Shea. O’Shea is noted for his brilliant floor game and phenomenal dribbling skill which have perplexed many opponents in his previous three years.
In addition to O’Shea, Krause has only
From the makers of the tooth powder exclusively NAMED in Reader’s Digest—
Now! Amurol in Tooth Paste!
ONLY AMUROL DOES ALL SIX!
1. Stops growth of acid forming bacteria.
2. Neutralize: and prevents formation of tooth destroying acids.
3. Helps dissolve gluey film on teeth.
4. Strengthens nature's immunity to tooth decay.
5. Adheres longer to tooth surfaces for better therapeutic action.
6. New patented base releases ammonia at maximum strength.
“Your Dentist Knows'’
AMMONIATED
DENTIFRICES
two monogram winners returning—John Foley, a very capable center, and Marty O’Connor, last year’s sophomore sensation, who will be remembered for his last-second winning basket in the Butler game last year. Other members of last year’s squad who will probably see plenty of action are Dan Bagley, Neil Fichtel, Dick Giedlin, Ralph Hinger, Gene Kinney and Russ Skall. The new sophomore crew which will probably form the nucleus of the Irish team and decide whether or not they have a successful season is led by such future headliners as Floyd Blair, Dick Clancy, Mike Jaekles, Tom Johnson, Leroy Leslie, James O’Neill, Don Strasser, Bob Wray and Hughes Wilcox.—Bob Rubery
The Paste with the Good Taste
Amurol
Tooth Powder
For those who prefer an ammoniated powder Large economy size, only 49l
Gehrman, Badgers Run Here Tomorrow
Campus cross-country fans will get their last chance to see the Notre Dame harriers in action this season when they run against Wisconsin tomorrow. The Irish meet the defending Big Nine champions at 11 a.m. down near the _ Grotto.	1
Heading Wisconsin’s entries will be the famed Don Gehrman who, as a junior last year, proved conclusively that he was the best miler in America. Don toured the mile distance as fast as 4:06, won the national title and even beat the best that Europe could send over to compete in this country.
Things look black for Coach Doc Handy’s boys since Gehrman is backed up by a whole bunch of veteran dis^ tance men, including Jim Urquhart, Big Nine two-mile champ last Spring.
Two weeks ago the Badgers pulled a “perfect job” by putting seven men across the finish line before the first man of a by-no-means-weak Marquette team could finish.
Last season this same Wisconsin outfit snapped a two-year Irish dual and triangular meet winning streak by a near-perfect 18-38 score. That was the only loss for the Handymen in that type of competition.	|
Jim Kittell finished fourth that day and was the first ND man in. Tomorrow Kittell and his sophomore teammates will go down to the local course and try to get revenge.
—Ted Prahinski
Football Statistics
RUSHING
	Times Net Yards		A.^
	carried	Gained	
Coutre 			 32	220	6.9
Sitko 				 33	219	6.6
Spaniel 				 19	157	8.3
Landry 			 18	71	3.9
Barrett 			 14	69	4.9
Cotter:.			 13	56	4.3
Swistowicz 			 11	53	4.8
Hart 				 4	36	9.0
	SCORING	J	
	TD	PAT	T
Sitko 	 Oracko 			 6 	 (V	0 ’ 13 ’	3(f) 13
Coutre 			 2^’	0	12
Hart 			 2	0	12
Gay 			 2	0	12
Other Touchdowns: Barrett, Swisto-			
wicz, Landry,	Wightkin.		
	PASSING	Yds.	
	A C	Gained	Av (j.
Williams 		. 30	15	192	.500
Mazur 		. 2	1	17	.500^
		The ScholastiC	


28
Bob Lowry to Edit 1949-50 'Juggler* As Literary Mag-Begins Its 30th Year
By KEN THOREN
Exactly 30 years ago this Fall a group of literary-minded Notre Dame men got together and decided to bring out a magazine. The result of this prosaic beginning was The Juggler. Now under the editorship of Bob Lowry, a senior English major, the publication is readying its first issue of the year for mid-Novem-ber.
The magazine derives its name from the legend concerning the poor juggler and Our Lady. Its significance is that
The Old Scrip
all the work is offered up as a tribute and is written with that thought in mind.
The magazine of a few decades ago followed the then popular trend of all college humor magazines. Mr. James E. • Armstrong, Alumnus editor, was on the staff of the old Juggler and said, “One of the things that the magazine should receive most credit for is the fact that it didn’t lower itself to the type of humor so prevalent in othei- college magazines at the time. It set a standard and showed that it was not necessary for a publication to become off-color just because it was a college magazine.”
Poems, Questionable Humor
Art work, including caricatures and ^cartoons, vied for space with pithy pieces of questionable humor and short poems. Perhaps the most attractive part of the old Jttggler were its colored covers. They were excellent. Another interesting portion of the magazine were its ads. On the whole, the Juggler reads and looks like a blend of the New Yorker and Esquire. It is an enlightening pictoral commentary on the years during which it was published.
In 1934 the magazine changed its for-iAmat completely. Because of financial

reasons it was incorporated with the literary magazine Scrip and adopted its name. It continued under this guise until the war and then went into temporary retirement.
When the campus changed from blue clad sailors to khaki wearing students, it was decided to revive the magazine. This time it was to be strictly a literary magazine, but with the original title retained. And so the Juggler that we know today is getting ready to hit the stands for its 30th year of publication.
A subscription drive has been launched with a 2,000 circulation mark as its goal. The magazine will come out three times this school year and will sell at 25 cents an issue or 75 cents for the year. Editor Lowry is determined “to put the magazine into as many hands of students who are interested in a literary publication— without lowering its standards.” The staff has been lengthened to include 15 members while the table of contents of the first issue will list 14 contributors.
Editorial Board
This year’s circulation manager will be Bob Cassurela. Dave Yerex will be exchange editor. Those on the editorial board include Charles Brumm, George Bresnahan, Garry Bolger, Fallon Evans, Jim Beymer, Walt Clements, Bob Thompson, Hugh Kennedy, Frank Brophy, Frank Haendler, Earl Rauen and Rodney Forbes.
Among the works scheduled to appear in the year’s first issue is Tom Gorman’s thesis on Whitman. Fallon Evans’ prizewinning Mitchell Award play will also be printed.
Editor Lowry looks upon his brainchild as a “writers’ workshop. It expresses the spirit of the students in this Catholic university. Everyone can’t be interested in it for it is definitely a literary magazine which limits its interest.”
The ’49-’5O school year will see three issues of the Juggler printed. They’ll be interesting and readable but their real worth won’t be recognized until 30 years from now. At that time a Scholastic man will endeavor to write a piece on this highly-rated magazine, and discover that the years have really been like here at Notre Dame. History books will supply the black and white facts; the Juggler will supply the warmth between the lines.
Smoking Machine, Pre-Smoking Dr. Grabow
Pipes at the factory with fine tobacco.
Subscribe to the 1949-50 "JUGGLER"
Three Issues — 75c
USE COUPON BELOW
Board of Publications, 118 Main Building	-
Notre Dame, Indiana Please send me all three issues of the 1949-50 Juggler. I enclose 75c.
Name______________________.-------------
Street..................................
City_______________________ State.______
Oct. 14, 1949
29
NOVELTY JEWELRY GIFTS FOR ALL THE FAMILY
SEND HOME A MUSICAL POWDER BOX WITH VICTORY MARCH OR ANY OTHER POPULAR TUNE
By JIM BRETT
BLOCK BROS. ‘/cwftng W'whV
CORNER MICHIGAN AND WASHINGTON
GIFTS WRAPPED AND SHIPPED TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD
r.
7.
“Oh, John, even in the dark I can tell it’s a
PHILIP MORRIS!"
Anytime, anywhere you can detect the "exclusive difference’ the minute you light up your first Philip Morris.
Pgs
That’s because it’s the one cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand.
Remember: there’s NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER when you smoke
I	Philip Morris!
Sf PHILIP MORRIS
Music lovers’ eyes are turning toward cow-country as songstress Margaret Whiting dons her boots and spurs and teams up with cowboy Jimmy Wakely^ in Capitol records’ hit western, Slipping Around. Jimmy is well known for his performance of I Love You So Much It Hurts Me and One Has My Name. Capitol executives, pleased by the sale of the ditty, are said to be planning to repeat their use of the new combo, so podner, grease up that saddle and start totin’ them six guns.
For those who like music with an Italian flavor, Tony Martin has brought 0 up an adapted version of O Sole Mio called There’s No Tomorroiv. We also have a bit of the French in a waltz number, The River Seine, by our old favorite Guy Lombardo. However, in order to avoid any trouble with the Un-American Activities Committee, let me hasten to add that Eddy Howard’s new release, Crocodile Tears, is typically U.S.A, in the good ole’ corn-cob style.
❖ -
The Andrews Sisters and Gordon Jenkins and his orchestra have joined™ together on I Can Dream, Can’t I? and also on the flipover, The Wedding of Lili Marlene. Gordon, by the way, together with a choral group is currently giving melodic advice to a love-lorn guy named Joe. The title, of course, is Don’t Cry Joe (Let Her Go, Let Her Go, Let Her Go). And while we have Gordie and the boys under our spotlight, I’d better mention his recording^ of Maybe It’s Because or Dick Haymes, W his vocalist on the disc, might possibly feel slighted.
I Never See Maggie Alone has moved up during the week through the arrangement of Kenny Roberts, aided by Nancy Lee and the Hilltoppers. Jo Stafford and Gordon MacRae are teamed up again and do a little vocalizing on Whispering Hope, which is traveling fast on the popularity road.
Those fans of the “Mammy singer” Al Jolson, who have seen—or rather heard him in Columbia’s technicolor production, Jolson Sings Again, should enjoy Decca Album A-716 for standard machines or Decca Long Play DLP 5006 with the new microgroove platters. Both albums feature the songs from the picture and do not over-lap on his previous albums. For all lovers of robust melody it’s Jolson, two to one. —..
The Scholastic
30
New Campus Building
To House Generator
To house the Chemistry Department’s new electrostatic generator, Rev. B. J. Furstoss, c.s.c., head of the Maintenance Department, has announced plans for the construction of a one-story concrete building to be located just west of the present Chemistry Library.
The building will occupy 30 square feet and contain a main generator room plus a storage room for cobalt which is used in the generating process. The new generator was acquired by agreement with the Atomic Energy Commission and whips up 2,000.000 volts. It will be used for atomic research under a joint project of Notre Dame and the AEC, and was purchased from the Van de Graff Accelerator Co. of Cambridge, Mass. The generator will be delivered as soon as the building is under roof which, Father Furstoss says, should be around Thanksgiving.
The Maintenance Department has also made a few innovations over at the Fieldhouse. In conference with an AAU regulation, new glass backboards have been installed and will be ready for ND’s first cage tilt. The glass £ buffers will allow latecomers sitting behind the backboards to watch the game with less neck craning. A new blower-type heating system has also been installed in the gym as an insulation against Indiana’s winters.
Sorin Hall witnessed the glitter of new tile when the antiquated shower and toilet facilities were taken out during the Summer and replaced with new • ones. The Book Store Annex got a rejuvenation during the Summer to provide for the Fall influx of students purchasing new texts. To wind up a full schedule, the Department is painting and caulking the window frames at the Rockne Memorial and installing a new gutter system on the Main Building.—Joe Conlon
Clashmore Mike II Is Hero 6 In New Book for Children
Clashmore Mike II, Irish terrier, former mascot of Notre Dame is the hero of a new book called “Mascot Mike of Notre Dame.” The sixty-four page story-book written by Leila B. Rostiser, is intended for children from 4 to 12 years.
Attractively illustrated the book opens Mike’s career in a kennel where an ND representative chooses the
toughest, Irishest terrier he can find which is Clashmore Mike II. Mike then makes his campus debut and goes into boot training where he proves his mettle as ND’s mascot. The climax
$
>
r Two things way college man should know I |
• Tnis is a Glee Club man. Full groan. Takes life as a matter of chorus. Fakes on high notes— lung time, no ”C”. Likes the sweet harmony of ”Manhattan” shirts and ties.
This is the Manhattan Range. Widespread cellar hits ri^it style note. In white and a symphony of pastel colors. Size-Fixt (averagefabric residual shrinkage 1% or less).
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Comp. V** Manhattan Shirt Co.

comes when the “Fighting Irish” defeat the Army team, while Mike, in his own right, beats the Army “Mule.”
The book is published by the Dunne Press, Louisville, Ky.
Oct. 14, 1949
31
The | first complete story R of your heroine IO and her heroes—
New "Concord1 to Feature NS A Congress Analysis
Continuing its policy of service to the student, Concord, a national student publication formerly located at this campus, presents in its inaugural edition of the present semester a complete analysis of the Second Annual NS A Congress held at Urbana, Ill., during^ the Summer.
In an article, “Leadership in Action,” Editor Vincent Giese, a Notre Dame alumnus, appeals primarily to college administrations to support the NSA despite policy disagreements. Pointing out the excellent student service program, adopted at the session, he asks that ample opportunity be given delegates to implement the program on the campus this year.
A political article written on student level, “Christian Democracy,” by Sally W. Cassidy, decides that the Catholic political way of life is democracy.
Notre Dame Story
By FRANCIS WALLACE
President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association
HERE is the fabulous history behind the football facade of the University of Notre Dame ... its traditions and fighting spirit which make you proud of one of the country’s most remarkable colleges. A personal memento which will be cherished by every admirer, alumnus, and football fan.
SHUTTERBUGS
At all bookstores
$2.15
232 Madison Ave., New York 16, N. Y.
TOMORROW!
John Adams Auditorium
Let us suggest proper equipment and interesting subjects that would appeal to your friends.
TICKETS
$3.00 - $2.40 - $1.80 $1.20 Tax included
COPP MUSIC SHOP
124 E. Wayne St.
2 SHOWS
7 p.m.
You can make this show and the Victory Dance, too.
9:30 p.m.
If you have a dinner date, go at 9:30.
— Special
NOTRE DAME
SCHOOL ALBUM in Blue and Gold $3.25
ADITCAMERA SHOP
(Inc.)
122 S. Main Phone 3-5041
32
The Scholastic
5


STUDEBAKER TOUR
The ND chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will sponsor a tour of the Studebaker Corp, next Tuesday evening. Anyone wishing to make the tour should submit his name to Mr. C. C. Wilcox, head of the Mechanical Engineering Dept. Buses will leave the circle at 7 n.m. and will return after the tour.
History and Sociology Topic For First History Discussion
“History and Sociology” will be the topic of the first History Discussion of the semester, to be held Tuesday eve. ning, Oct. 18, at 7:45, in Room 101 of the Law Building. It reflects the- general theme of future discussions this year: the relations existing between history and other fields of study.
Dr. E. K. Francis, of the Department of Sociology, will inaugurate discussion with a paper entitled, “The Two Sociologies and Their Relations to History.” “The Impact of Sociology on American Historians” by Dr. Aaron Abell, of the Department of History, will follow. Audience participation will ^continue the discussion. Father Philip Moore, Dean of the Graduate School, will be chairman.
While the Department of History is sponsoring these discussions primarily for students and faculty of the department, faculty members and students of all departments are expected to attend. The November discussion will be on “Philosophy and History,” with Father Thomas Brennan and Dr. Marshall tSmelser presenting papers, and the December topic will be on “Mathematics and History.”
HAS THE GIFT OF
ARROW
GABARDINE
ARROW SHIRTS
WMWVWWVWI
See your Arrow dealer right away for the season's smartest sport shirt—Arrow's "Gabanaro." It's made of a rich, soft gabardine, in a wide choice of solid colors and is completely washable.
DO CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN? No, but they help with the women. Send for your free copy of "The What, When and Wear of Men's Clothing." Address: College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., 10 E. 40th St., N. Y. 16, N. Y.
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Arrow "Gabanaro"
Sports Shirts


The P L A C E to go for names you know
IT'S GILBERT'S
for
ARROW
^LBERTC
813-817 S. Michigan St.
•be. 14, 1949
Ifs ADLERS for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
33
Roughly Speaking
by Kat Xhoren
Random Thoughts
It looked like a dry run for the student trip. Lafayette was jammed to the gunnels last weekend with ND rooters and students. The roads leading out of South Bend on Saturday morning were loaded with hitch-hikers. Rides were plentiful. It took about two and a half hours to get there. Here are some of the impressions we came home with:
Newly expanded Ross Ade stadium is a poor excuse for a college arena____ the sun: it practically ruined the game for Irish fans who had to face into it all afternoon . . . the temperature was in the 80’s . . . football weather? . . . Purdue really has a band . . . their glockenspiel section is particularly interesting . . . the band certainly knows how to march . . . too much regimentation, however, for our taste . . . Mr. Hope’s aggregation might go too far at times in attempting to put on a show, hut still their results are always more interesting to the eye . . .
The Boilermakers have better cheers than ours . . . their welcoming cheer to Notre Dame should be copied by us . . . the Purdue cheering section subsided considerably after the first few minutes of action . . . the colorful placard display was a wonderful sight... their scoreboard belongs on some high school field . . .
Although the ND rooters were scattered throughout the east side of the stadium their support was heard and felt . . . one group of fellows, in particular, down behind the south goal post bellowed a ton of spirit . . . those ■who wore suits were wishing they had brought T-shirts instead . . . man, that heat!
Purdue and Lafayette hospitality couldn’t have been beat . . . one family we know of put up 18 ND men Saturday night . . . frat houses were •open to our fellows ... at least 50 stayed in one . . . some of the Greek-lettered lads even gave up their beds for the visiting men from here . . . meals were free, too.
Lafayette: a pretty little town . . . not at all like South Bend . . . murky Wabash was a shattering sight . . . rolling hills were a welcome. change after this pan-cake country . . . the ■colorful Indian (a) Summer was really beautiful . . .
34
Purdue: a large sprawling University . . . buildings, foi the most part, nice but not spectacular . . . exceptions: Carey dormitory, Hall of Music, Student Union and Field House . . . campus not as isolated as ours . . . grounds not as well kept . . . campus noisier . . . not as well planned . . .
It was easy to get a hitch home. We were back by mid-afternoon; beat. Now that everyone knows what to expect, the rallying cry is On to New York!
K. of C. Explains
Two weeks ago we made a suggestion to alleviate the jam at the communion rail at Sunday masses. Last week Dan Norander, chairman of the Knights’ usher committee, sent us a letter explaining the situation. It seems that the Cardinals in charge of the. Code of Canon Law recently passed down an edict forbidding attending Communion in ranks. The “spirit” of this law is applied at Notre Dame. We’d like to thank chairman Norander for clearing up this matter.
Clean Campus
Not much thought is given to the fact, but it’s amazing how clean the maintenance staff keeps the campus grounds. As soon as the Fall leaves hit the ground a squad quickly rakes them up. It’s a year round job of perfection and they really deserve a big pat on the back from everyone. Their work helps to create a certain pride in everyone. Thanks to these men we have one of the cleanest, prettiest and most well kept campuses in the country . . . and we know it!
Detroiters Revise Charter
The Detroit Club held its first meeting of the year last week, with President Bill Anhut, stressing the importance of maintaining a close bond of fellowship among Detroiters. Plans for revision of the Club constitution in compliance with the Student Council ruling were discussed and a dinner was decided upon for the Ramble In Oct. 26.
A Communion breakfast was tentatively scheduled for some time in November and Bob Wink was reappointed as head of the club bowling team for the coming year.
Vetville Wives Organise Local Great Books Group
The wives of Notre Dame’s married students met last week in their inaugural session of a Great Books seminar at the Vetville Recreation Hall.
This venture is unique in that it is conducted especially for the wives of married students who are anxious for a bit of intellectual training while waiting for their husbands to complete their academic training.
To Mrs. Eleanor Thompson goes most of the credit for organizing the women for the first seminar. She was a member of the first Great Books group which was organized in March of 1948 by Edward Dixon, Muncie, Ind. (a graduate), and Professor John J. Broderick, Assistant Dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame.
The meetings will be held every other Wednesday at the Rec Hall in Vetville. The purpose of the Great Books movement is to provoke thinking about great documents.
The Great Books foundation in Chicago takes preferred selections and sometimes whole books, and prints them in pamphlet form to be distributed to its members for a fee of $9.60 per year. “That’s cheap enough for almost any-^-. one,” said Mrs. Thompson.	" '
Mrs. Thompson also said that “Father Bailey (instructor in religion at Notre Dame and chaplain of Vetville) and Professor Broderick will be our ‘leaders’.” The “leaders are the men who guide the sessions with probing questions. They are not permitted to make any decisions in the arguments of the members. Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., Professor of Philosophy at Notre Dame, serves as coordinator of the"/ group.
The Vetville husbands serve a dual purpose in this intellectual endeavor — they catch up on their own studies and baby-sit at the same time, while their wives partake of the training afforded by the Great Books seminars.
The Great Books movement was begun twenty-seven years ago by novelist John Erskine and its popularity has since spread throughout the country.
—Don Smith *
Rocky Mt. Club Elections
The Rocky Mountain Club elected officers for the current year at a meeting last week. John Moran, Denver, Colo., was chosen as president. The vice-president is Jim Sheane, Denver, Colo, and the secretary-treasurer is Jim Kittell, Missoula, Mont.
The Scholastic'
AMMWWVVWW/^^
Completely Washable!
sport shirts
How? Use soap and water... an old Indian trick! No dry cleaning bills with these completely washable gabardine sport shirts in 22 "Honest Injun” colors. Stay color-right... size right—a new shirt free if your Van Gab shrinks out of size. Always popular California Lo-No model—smart with or without tie —now only $4.95!
0 Van Heusen'iL
"the world’s smartest" Ullll II)
PHILLIPS.JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
COURTESY BARBER SHOP
112 E. Washington Ave Under Max Adler Co.
”3 BARBERS TO SERVE YOU"
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world. •
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
•: -
... MKNMMI f MOMMM
The P L A C E to go. for names you know
ITS GILBERTS for ’
VAN HEUSEN
813-817 S. Michigan St.
TABOR CITY. N. C
printed a' '
LIGGETT A MVE4S TOBACCO CO


and Mr. Lupo, Prominent Tobacco Farmer, says
I like Chesterfields better than any
other cigarette. They’re definitely milder.
They buy clear, clean, fully ripe tobacco
... the best I’ve got to sell.

