The Notre Dame Scholastic
227
(( UHIM
Just returned from a long walk. In a few moments we’ll be on our way to the classroom, there, to try to gather something of what has been thought and said and done in the world. But we wonder: here, on a fine November morning, we have been watching Nature and observing- her. And our question is, have we, really, heard what she has to say, and, supposing that we have, is not that knowledge comparable in value to much of what men have had to say?
| Awareness! j *♦* “ *♦*
Though we realize that we may be accused of cheap clowning to put over our point, nevertheless it strikes us that the significance of the above word is so very important that it deserves special attention. You will see this word repeated again and again below. Useless, tiring repetition, you may say, and yet we would ask: is continued insistence on that which may open altogether new avenues on Life, useless or tiring?
At this time of the year there are some especially fine pictures painted by Nature for herself and for us. The way in which she almost wastefully scatters her red badges of beauty over meadow and hill is evidence of her delight in painting for the sake of painting.
| Awareness! |
Our little word is witness and reward of our delight in her* “play”—we refuse to say work.
When the sun strikes water in the early morning with a white smoke, when the moon at night leaves the far planets with whom she has been conversing during the day, and falls great heights to the little dark-blue floor of the sky; when these things happen, we wonder if we have a seat in the front row; in short, we wonder about
Awareness! |
For the third time, in one column, we set down the same word; well, when one has something to say and all other means fail, one can at least use a bass drum—and a printing press!	....
Proving, at least, that one is aware of one’s resources—and that is something!
Gke
No^re Darae 5 choicest io
Disee- Quasi-SempeT-Vic^urus-Vive’-Quasi-Cras-MorituTus
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
____Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel..... Thomas A. Cannon.. J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford.... Joel Egerer........ Ramon G. Smith..... Alfred E. Gall..... Paul J. Hallinan...
James J. Kearney
James Collins Howard Webster
...........Managing	Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor .................The	Week
.......The College Parade .......Music and Drama .......Campus Clubs
.............Script Editor _
NEWS STAFF
Features
Editor
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor Harry A. Sylvester
Harrington Chester M.
George Allan-John Mo-tz Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors
William J. Magarral, Interhall Sports Editor
Henry B. Asmax
James McFeeley
BUSINESS STAFF
J. Noon
Local Circulation
Ashman. .Foreign Circulation
Frederick N. Davis.......Local Advertising
James L. Rizer........Foreign Advertising
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman-Frank J. Conboy
VOL. LXIII.
NOVEMBER 8, 1929
Manager Manager Manager Manager
John B landa Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
No. 8.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Grotto—Frontispiece______________________________
Coming Events________________________________________ A Man About the Campus_______________________________ A Man You Know—Emil L. Telfel________________________ Music and Drama—Joel Egerer-_________________________ Southern California “Rally Week” Program—Alfred E. Gall. Campus Clubs—Ramon. Smith____________________________ College Parade—Walter M. 'Langford___________________ War Days at Notre Dame—Paul J. Hallinan______________
The Wink__________________________________________
Editor’s Page__________________________________________
Fighting Irish Chalk Up Fifth Victory—John A. Kiener-.
Interhall Football
Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr--------------
228
229
230
232
236
238
239
240
242
243
244
245
252
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-scripts may be addressed to 'I'M R SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for luailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men
The Notre Dame Scholastic
229
<£♦ ❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
II Coming Events II
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦	♦♦♦ *2* ♦*♦ ♦*♦ ♦£♦ **•
FRIDAY, November 8—Rocky Mountain Club meeting, first floor, Law building, 6:40 p. m.—Pacific Northwest Club meeting, second floor Law building, 6:45 p. m.—Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Junior Class informal dance, Palais Royale, 8:30 p. m.
SATURDAY, November 9—Football, Notre Dame vs. Drake, Soldier’s field, Chicago.—Gridgraph, Gymnasium, 2:00 p. m.; Varsity Reserves vs. Iowa “B” team, Cartier field, 3:00 p. m.—Cross Country, Notre Dame vs. Indiana at Bloomington. Movies, Clara Bow in “Dangerous Curves,” Washington Hall, 6:408:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, November 10 — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 a. m.; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Interhall football, 9:30 a. m. and 2:00 p. m.—K. of C. initiations, Council Chambers, Walsh hall.
MONDAY, November 11—Villagers’ Club meeting, Rose Marie Tea Room, 6:15.—Finals, Breen Medal contests, Washington Hall, 8 p. m.
TUESDAY, November 12—Youngstown Club meeting, South Room of the Library, 7:30 p. m.—A. I. E. E. meeting, Engineers’ room, Badin Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Journalism room, Library, 8:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, November 13 — Grand Rapids Club meeting.
THURSDAY, November 14—Lecture, Dr. James J. Walsh, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Spectators’ meeting, Journalism room, Library, 8:00 p. m. ’
FRIDAY, November- 15—Scholastic Editorial staff meeting, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Movies, Washington Hall, 6:40-8:15 p. m.
ROCKNE IS AUTHOR OF ARTICLE IN “MENTOR”
Coach Knute Rockne becomes Author Knute Rockne, as words from the pen of Notre Dame’s coach appear in current magazines and newspapers.
The latest contribution is a history of the game which he coaches, appearing in the November issue of the Mentor, a monthly literary magazine. It is called “Football—a Man’s Game” and traces the legendary story of Aris-tonico Caristo, the first football player. This Greek, according to Rockne’s story, was honored above the “noncontact” athletes who are now credited with having made Athens and . Sparta famous.
The article continues with the progress of the game through Rome, and then old England. It concludes: “If the battle of Waterloo was won on'the playing fields of Eton, then the World War and any future war in which America may participate will find its victory secured on American football fields.”
The December College Hwmor and the November American Magazine carry feature articles on Rockne, consisting of personal experiences and some of the numerous anecdotes for which he is famous.
STUDENT DIRECTORY
IS RELEASED
The Student Directory, a record of all the students enrolled at the University, was issued last week. Resplendent in its old gold cover, all of the names of faculty members and their residences; and students, their home address, local address and classification are given. The directory was placed on sale at the news-stand in the cafeteria.
YOUNG, ’29, CHOSEN FOR COLLEGE HUMOR HALL
OF FAME
Murray Young, ’29, of Poteau, Oklahoma, a graduate of the University, has been awarded the distinction of being chosen in the Hall of Fame in the current issue of College Humor. This department selects representatives from schools throughout the United States for its members.
Young, while at Notre Dame, was president of the Scribblers, a member of the literary staff of the Scholastic, class poet and erstwhile writer. At present, he is working for his Master’s degree at Columbia.
Roy Reigels, of the University of California, Ann Joan Shea, of Syracuse University, Martha McLaughlin, . of Indiana University and John Doyle of the University of California are also featured in this issue.
FOOTBALL JUGGLER TO APPEAR MONDAY
According to the Funny Fellow, the football number of the Juggler promises an nunsual treat and will appear on the campus Monday night, November 11.	.
One of the special features of the issue is an article by K. K. Rockne. The editor in chief, John L. Nanovic, declind to divulge the contents of the article but remarked that it will be truly a reflection of Coach Rockne’s inimitable humor.
The cover page was designed bp John Kuhn, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and has an unusual attractive appearance.
All members of the Juggler staff who have not received their contributor’s card may do so by calling at 130 Sorin Hall, Monday, Nov. 11.
200 ATTEND VILLAGERS VICTORY DANCE
The Victory dance, the first dance of the year sponsored by the Villagers Club, was held last Satur- ’ day evening in the Oliver Hotel, South Bend. 200 couples were present and danced to the strains of Fred Faust and his Music Masters. This affair marked the unofficial celebration of Notre Dame’s victory over Georgia Tech.
The next meeting of the Club will be held Monday evening, November 11, in the Rose Marie tearoom, South Bend at 6:30. John R. Marcus, club prexy, has announced that Vitus Jones and Louis Bruggner will address the group.
JUNIOR CLASS INFORMAL TO-NIGHT
With all preparations for the Junior Class informal being satisfactorily carried out, the committee for the affair is confident of the success of the event which will be held to-night in the Palais Royale from 8:30 to 11:30 o’clock.
According to Joseph Deeb, chairman of the affair, a large crowd will be present from all of the classes as this dance will be one of the outstanding social events of the fall season. The Indianians, popular South Bend orchestra, will furnish the music and entertain with a number of novelty acts.
Tickets for the affair are §1.50 per couple and anyone wishing tickets may purchase them from members of the committee to-night.
230
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
Louis L. Hasley
Not so very long ago we were told by Mr. Fenion that Louie Hasley is the hardest working man on the campus, when it comes to literary production. After interviewing him we can well believe Mr. FenIon. The young man has ambitions, very high ambitions, and he has the quaint notion that hard work is necessary if ambitions are to be realized.
Louis writes. He writes short
stories, essays, poems, and what have you? The Scholastic literary section (which has blossomed forth into a full-blown magazine) has printed what he writes ever since his freshman year. In his sophomore year the Scribblers welcomed him into their midst. We venture to say that no other member of the Scribblers scribbles as hard as Louis scribbles. (Say that very fast.)
But wait—there is more to come. Louis has done more than write for campus publications. He is a professional, because his creative efforts have appeared in magazines that pay “cash on acceptance.” His verse has appeared in the Poet’s Scroll, an Oklahoma magazine; a short story, “He Moved His Soul,” was printed in the October, 1928, issue of the St. Anthony Messenger; he has sold humor to Judge, the American Legion Weekly (now a monthly), and Film Humor; and, only recently he was informed by the editor of Manuscripts that a short short-story, “Escape” (which appeared in the Scholastic), had been accepted for future publication.
Last year Hasley was chairman of the Scribblers’ poetry contest. He succeeded in enticing more poetry— good and bad—from ambitious embryo poets than had ever been submitted to a Scribblers’ contest before; in spite of the fact that Murray Young was still in college.
At one time or another Louis was on the staff of every campus publica
tion except the Catalyzer and the Lawyer. He has been associate editor of the Dome and the Santa Maria, and, recently, was elected president of the Spectator’s Club.
Hasley lives in Marengo, Iowa, is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, and is a Knight of Columbus —has been for four years. And, oh yes!—he was one of the best shortstops (so he says) that ever played in the Interhall League. He used to “dig- ’em out of the dirt” for Freshman Hall and the championship Sophomore Hall team of 1927.
“All I ask,” said Louis, as the interview ended, “is this: don’t make any cracks about my hobby, or . . .” So we won’t.	—E. L. T.
CALL FOR VARSITY DEBATERS ISSUED
The annual call for the debaters has been issued; and the debating season will open within the next few weeks. On next Monday, November 11th. a meeting of all debate aspirants will be held in the library. The initial tryouts will be held December 1, and the second tryouts on December 17. The question for debate this year pertains to the matter of naval disarmament. The question is timely and interesting-. It should not be difficult to speak on, and interest in it is universal. Interhall debating on the same question has already gotten under way. Varsity debates have been arranged with Purdue, Michigan State, the University of Florida, Northwestern, and Marquette. Several other universities have suggested debates on the subject of an international bank; and tentative meets with these schools are being considered. The teams will work under the direction of the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C. .
Notre Dame has always been proud of her debating teams, and justly so. Few universities can show such an excellent record in the field of public speaking as Notre Dame’s has been; and the students are expected to give to the debating teams (the same loyal co-operation that they give to athletic teams.
PROFESSOR W. F. ROEMER WRITES BOOK
The announcement of a new book by a Notre Dame faculty member was made this week. The book, “The Ethical Basis of International Law,” is the work of Professor William F." Roemer, of the philosophy depart-
ment of the University. The book is composed of the thesis which Mr. Roemer wrote for his doctorate, in June, 1928. Two new chapters have been added, entitled “Kant’s Peace Theory’ ’and “International Law.”
LIBRARY RECEIVES OLD PERIODICALS
Displayed in the catalog room of the Library are three old periodicals, which date back to the 18th century. - The first was presented to the University by Sister Ignatia, of the Order of Mercy. It is the Massachusetts Mercury of October 26, 1798, which includes “An ingenious political letter from a respectable American in France.” Subscription was $3.00 a year and publication was semiweekly.
The Boston Gazette of March 12, 1770, claims to present the “freshest advices, foreign and domestic.” In this paper is a full account of the Boston massacre of March 5, 1770.
An account of the death of George Washington is found in the Ulster County Gazette of January 4, 1800. This was published at Kingstown.
MANY ALUMNI TO WITNESS GAME NEXT SATURDAY
s The largest gathering of Alumni since the Minnesota game in 1927 will be present at the game with Southern California at Chicago next Saturday. More alumni have applied for tickets to this game than any other game in the history of Notre Dame, athletics. It is estimated that 3000 alumni will be present at the game.
Special trains carrying alumni and their parties will be run from Toledo, Louisville, Omaha, St. Paul, Milwaukee, Detroit, St. Louis and South Bend.
Many reunions will be held at the various hotels in Chicago. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago will be host to a large number of guests at its dinner-dance, which will be held in The Stevens Hotel, Saturday evening.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS TO MEET MONDAY
The next regular meeting of the Knights of Columbus, Council 1477, will be held Monday evening in the Walsh Hall Council Chambers. Important business of interest to the entire council will be discussed and all members are urged to be present. Lecturer Frank McGreal has announced that Prof. Clarence “Pat” Manion will address the group.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
231
RECORD CROWDS TO WITNESS REMAINING GAMES ,	1 The attendance at the Southern
California, Northwestern and Army games will be over the 320,000 mark, according to J. Arthur Haley, Graduate Manager of Athletics.
More than 110,000 seats have , already been sold for the game with I y Southern California, with applications !' for more seats being received daily.
65,000 will fill the Dyche stadium at Northwestern to its capacity. The ticket sale for this game has been a sell-out for the past two weeks. The i	Army game, to be played at the
IJ	Yankee Stadium, New York City, will
I ' be witnessed by 75,000. This sale ' was closed October 1.
NOVEMBER “ALUMNUS” . TO BE OUT NEXT WEEK
James E. Armstrong, Alumni Sec/' retary, announced today that the next edition of the “Alumnus” would be out sometime during the latter part of next week. It will deal largely with football and will include a brief write-up of the last five foot' ball games. The added attractions of the issue will be a comment on ? recent science books, by the Reverend , Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, and a reprint of a feature article on Cartier Field by Alfred E. Gall, Script editor of The Scholastic.
R. A. HOYER ADDRESSES TORONTO CONVENTION
Mr. R. A. Hoyer, of the Boy Guidance Bureau at the University, attended the International Boys’ Work Council, at Toronto, Canada, on October 29th and 30th. In connection with the convention, a meeting was held for the Catholic workers of the council. Mr. Hoyer spoke at this meeting on October 29th. Again, he spoke before the regular council on October 30th. His subject was that of training leadership. Mr. Hoyer was also a member of the program committee.
WALLACE VISITS CAMPUS
Frank Wallace, ’21, sports editor of the New York Mirror, and feature writer for The Saturday Evening Post and Liberty, was a visitor on the campus Tuesday. He will remain in this vicinity until after the Notre Dame-Southern California game. While at the University Mr. Wallace was sports editor of the Scholastic.
55,000 TO WITNESS DRAKE GAME TO-MORROW
Notre Dame will invade Chicago for the second time this year- when approximately 1200 students will witness the conflict in Soldiers’ Field tomorrow between Notre Dame and Drake. It is reported that a large number of representatives from the Chicago City Schools will also be present. An estimated crowd of 55,000 will view the game.
The University band will lead the student body from the South Shore Station in Chicago to the Hotel Auditorium, the Notre Dame football headquarters. The students will return Saturday night as no arrangements have been officially made for week-end permissions. ■
RESERVE OFFICERS VISIT CAMPUS
Captain Clarence Manion and Sergeant Robert B. Riordan were the hosts for the University to contact members of the 13th district chapter of the Officers Reserve corps, last Friday and Saturday.
Arrangements were made by the Student Activity Council for the entertainment of the officers here. They were the guests at the Gridgraph for the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game, and were honored with a dinner in the LaSalle Hotel Saturday night. They spent Sunday morning working out tactical problems at the Studebaker proving grounds. The Reverend J. Allan Heiser, C.S.C., was in charge of the arrangements.
GLEE CLUB SMOKER TO BE
HELD NOVEMBER 19
Peter J. Wacks, associate manager of the glee club, announced this week that the annual smoker of the club will be held Tuesday, November 19, in the Music Room of Washington Hall. The plans are to make this the best of the traditional smokers of the club. The program is being arranged by Zeno Staudt and Tom Kerrigan, who plan to have many novelty features. Ed Phelan is in charge of the refreshments.
The club has entered final practice for the “Armour Hour” broadcast which will be given from Chicago one week from to-night. The club will sing over the National Broadcasting Company hook-up which will be sent over thirty-seven states. The club will be entertained at a theatre party by Joseph Lyons, of Chicago, immediately after it broadcasts.
Gleanings
Among the Notre Dame men continuing their studies at Harvard this year are: James Brady, William Kearney, Victor Hart, James Schock-nessey, Carroll Pinckley, Samuel Col-orusso, John Leddy, James Roy, Mark Farrell, James Cullen, William Leahy, Bart McHugh, Harold Ruppel, William Krieg, Ted Griffin, Tom Ryan, and Bob Newbold. -
Joseph P. McNamara, ’29, former editor of the Juggler has written a play entitled, “The Kick-Off” which will be presented by the Catholic Guild of Indianapolis, Indiana. William F. Craig, also a former student at the University is directing the play.
Frank Wallace, ’21, former sports editor of the Scholastic and present sports editor of the New York Mirror, had an article in a recent edition of the Saturday Evening Post on the subject of “Football.” The article treated of Notre Dame’s schedule this year and the crowds to be played before.
John V. Hinkel, editor of the Scholastic last year, is at present enrolled in the graduate school of Columbia University, New York City.
Jack Lavelle, shot putter extraordinary on the Notre Dame track squad two years ago, is now on the staff of the New York Tinies. He also spends his time taking law at Columbia and coaching the All Hallows Institute football team in Harlem.
The Four Horsemen are still riding! Harry Stuhldreher in addition to looking after Villa Nova’s football prospects, is writing a weekly sports review for the National Catholic Welfare Council.
Elmer Layden, assisted by Joe Bach, is down at Duquesne university.
“Sleepy” Jim Crowley assumed control of Harry Kipke’s Michigan State team and- held Kipke’s U. of Michigan team to two touchdowns! Nice work, Jim!
Don Miller hasn’t had much of a chance to show his wares at Ohio State, yet, but he’s still the talk down in Georgia.
232
The Notre Dame Scholastic
|| A Man You Know ||
Poetry and the short story would seemingly require two very distinct talents for their creation. To create the strange potencies of verse; to turn fact into truth and beauty by the
Reverend Leo L. Ward, C. 8. C.
powers of the imagination: to express the truth and beauty by words of sheer music; these are the problems of the poet; far different from the problems of fiction writing, where a different medium of expression, prose, is used. To possess either the talent of writing poetry or the talent of writing imaginative prose would be a great enough gift, but here at Notre Dame we have a man who is gifted with both accomplishments. He is the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C. S. C., priest, poet, short story writer, and teacher.
Father Ward was born in Otterbein, Indiana, in 1898. He received his early education in the Otterbein public schools,. and entered the University in 1916, graduating in 1920 with the degree of Ph. B. After spending one year in the Novitiate he went to Holy Cross College in Washington for his theological studies. On June 24, 1927, he was ordained to the priesthood by Bishop Noll, in Sacred Heart Church. Since then he has been an instructor in English here at the University. He is peculiarly fitted for the profession of teaching English; for he has that rare gift of imparting some of his creative enthusiasm to his students.
While a student at Notre Dame,
Father Ward distinguished himself as a writer and as an athlete. He was on the editorial board of the Scholastic for three years, and he was a member of the basketball team, winning his monogram.
The results of his activities as an author have been printed in many magazines. He is a frequent and popular contributor to the Ave Maria, of which he was at one time associate editor. His poems have also appeared in America, Commonweal, Thought, ajid the discriminating Harriet Monroe’s publication, Poetry. John T. Frederick, editor of the Midland, is a firm friend of Father Ward’s, and regards him very highly as a short story writer. His magazine has printed more than one story by the talented priest and author.
Father Ward excels in writing the lyric, his favorite mode of expression. His lyrics have quiet beauty and dignity, fused with deep intensity of feeling. . The simple, homely things of nature are his favorite themes; by the magic of his pen he transmutes them into glowing beauty.
In Father Ward Notre Dame has an author who, in company with Father O’Donnell and Father Carroll, has happily combined the ancient callings of priest and poet.
STUDENTS COMPETE FOR BEAUX ARTS PRIZES
The students of the Architectural Department under Professor* Kervick have submitted work in competition for the Beaux Arts prizes. These plans have been sent to New York for the consideration of the judges.
Information concerning the disposition of awards has not yet been received but when they are made, the selections will appear in Scholastic.
WRANGLERS GET UNDER
WAY IN INTER-HALL DEBATING
Try-outs for inter-hall debating are getting under way this week under the direction of the Wranglers Club. The coaches for the various halls have had a practice session with their teams during the past week and all report great prospects. The question for the debate has not yet been announced by Thomas Keegan, who is in charge of the debates, but it will be decided upon shortly.
The preliminary debating is being done upon any question that the coaches may decide on, merely as a competitive means to make up the * Hall team.
CIVIC MUSIC ASSOCIATION PLANS CONCERT
The Civic Association of South Bend will open its fall concert season within the next few weeks. These concerts are usually eminently worthworthwhile in view of the fact that it brings much of a cultural interest to both South Bend and Notre Dame. Professor Joseph Casasanta, head of the Department of Music, is in charge of the ticket sale on the campus. There will be about five conceits and the season ticket price is five dollars.
This year, the opening concert will be the Boston Womens’ Symphony orchestra under the direction of Ethel Leginska. Miss Leginska is almost as able a show woman as Amy Lavell. It was her lack of good taste in choosing publicity before good notices two years ago that caused a temporary disappearance from the ranks of the more famous pianist of to-day.
Should Miss Leginska manage the dictatorial baton as well as she managed a piano, she will have something to offer her local connoisseurs.
♦j» ***	••• ♦♦♦ *** ♦♦♦ ***	*«* *»*
I! S.A. C. Notes II
NOTRE DAME TRADITIONS
The traditional fight of the Notre Dame man is known everywhere. Unswerving loyalty to athletic teams is habitual with him; teams returning defeated from foreign fields are given even greater welcomes than are victorious teams. These traditions demand the loyalty of all true spirits.
Notre Dame is a great brotherhood. In the “rec.” rooms students form lasting friendships and enjoy wholesome recreation. Here East and West, and North and South meet, and boys become men through contact with their fellows. The friendship of priests, brothers, and professors with the students is something quite peculiar to Notre Dame. This close relationship adds much to the fraternal spirit of the school. The loyalty of Notre Dame men to their school and their willingness to uphold her name are traditional. Traditionally Catholic, Notre Dame has ever fostered a sincere, active devotion to the faith. Family, wealth, and social position are all hidden in the democracy of the University.
We’re proud that we are of Notre Dame.	'
The Notre Dame Scholastic
233
WORK ON FOOTBALL REVIEW PROGRESSING
Work on the Official Football Review which will make its appearance shortly after the close of the 1929 season, is progressing very rapidly, according to Joseph S. Petritz, editor of this year’s edition.
The 1929 Review, which has been enlarged both in the size and number of pages, will contain numerous pictures of players, coaches, and other individuals and organizations connected with the “New Four Horsemen” team, as well as intimate sidelights on the varsity players and stories by nationally known feature writers and members of the Review staff.
A graphic account of all the games, stories on inter-ball, reserve, and Freshmen football, reports of the activities of the band, the managers, the trainers, the cheerleaders, and campus organizations connected with the teams will be included.
Among the new and interesting features of the book are statements and pictures of coaches and captains of Notre Dame’s nine opponents, an All-American team selected from members of these teams, and supplemented with pictures of the players, stories and pictures concerning the new stadium, Notre Dame fields of the past, and a story on the recordbreaking crowds Notre Dame has played to this year.
Art Kane, well known on the campus for his art work in the Juggler, has drawn a very attractive design for this year’s book.
NOTED MEN TO ATTEND FOOTBALL TESTIMONIAL
BANQUET
Grantland Rice and Warren Brown, two of the outstanding sports writers of the country will be the principal speakers at the third annual football banquet given as a testimony for Coach Rockne and the 1929 varsity ’ by the Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley. This affair will be held in the University Dining Hall on December 5.
Prominent coaches and newspaper men will be among the guests. Efforts are now under way to have Jimmy Phelan, coach of Purdue, foremost contenders for the Big Ten Title; William Ingram, Director of Athletics at the United States Naval Academy; Don Maxwell, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune; and Frank Wallace,
sports editor of the New York Sun, present at this occasion.
Plans now under way indicate that the banquet this year will surpass that of last year when Mayor Jimmy Walker of New York City was the principal speaker.
Grantland Rice is probably one of the most noted sports writers in the United States. He is sports editor of the New York Times and writes a column that is syndicated in papers throughout the United States. Then too, his All-America football team selections are the most authentic as he travels 10,000 miles during the season to witness various classics of the gridiron and makes his personal selections of players by seeing them play.
Warren Brown is sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner and is one of the most noted sports authorities of the middle West. He is also a very good after-dinner speaker and a favorite among Notre Dame audiences.
Music for the occasion will be rendered by the Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Joseph Casasanta and the “Jugglers” orchestra.
Paul Castner, president of the Alumni organization, is arranging the program for the banquet.
|! . College of Law Notes 11
♦♦♦ *♦* ❖ *♦* *5* *♦* &	**♦ *5*	*** *♦*
Dean T. F. Konop has recently received a letter from Robert E. Glasscott, LL. B. ’24, informing him that Bob is a candidate on the Republican ticket for city judge at Michigan City, Indiana. Mr. Glasscott was graduated from the College of Law at the University in 1924, and has been a successful practitioner in Michigan City since that time.
* * *
The canes for this year’s Senior Class have been distributed. The custom of carrying canes by the Seniors in the College of Law has been in vogue for many years, and it is intended that they be carried at all special functions in which the Senior lawyers participate The Senior Class in the College of Law also presented a cane to Dean Konop.
* * *
The first issue of the “Lawyer” came out last week. This was the first issue published in the present school year, and it is announced that seven more issues are to appear.
ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB REORGANIZES
One of the oldest campus clubs at Notre Dame, for four or five years fallen into decay, is the Rocky Mountain Club.
In the “Good Old Days” its members were found in the gymnasium every Homecoming,—resplendent in woolly chaps, cerise shirts, and screaming bandanna neck-pieces serving barbecued sandwiches to “Old Grads,”—they were found on prize debating teams, on the grid-iron, - on the staff of the school publications, and in literary societies.
Then, for some unknown reason, students from the Rocky Mountain Region became less numerous and the club was disbanded. This year, however, the number of students from Colorado, Wyoming and New Mexico has increased to such an extent that the club is to be revived. The old club had among its members students from Montana and Idaho, but since that time Montana and Idaho have sent their sons to Notre Dame to become members of the Pacific Northwest Club.
The first meeting of the Rocky Mountain Club will be held this evening, Friday, November 8, on the first floor of the Law Building. All students from these three states are requested to be present, or if it is not possible to attend, to hand in their names to Ramon G. Smith, Science Hall.
NEW UNIVERSITY CLEANING SERVICE
The new University cleaning and pressing service which was inaugurated on October 8th has been meeting with the approval of the students. The cleaning and pressing is done in conjunction with the University laundry, located in back of the Main Building. Mr. Fred Amison, manager of the laundry, says that an up to date apparatus has been installed whereby no chemicals are used in the cleaning process, and the best results are obtained without injury to clothing which otherwise frequently occurs.
An office has been opened in Badin Hall basement under the charge of Joe Thornton. Suits, coats, hats, etc may be taken there between the hours of 7 a. m. and 7:30 p. m. Pressing jobs will be finished in twenty-four hours, and clothes to be cleaned will be returned in forty-eight hours. The charges are nominal and as an added convenience, the bill may be sent home.
234
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FORMER NOTRE DAME LIBRARIAN ENDS RESEARCH TOUR
The Reverend Dr. Paul J. Foik, C.S.C., former librarian at the University, and now chairman of the Texas Knights of Columbus Historical Commission, just recently completed several months’ work devoted to collecting material for the proposed history of the Catholic Church in Texas and its bearing on the development of the state. Father Foik’s search for material led him from coast to coast and he visited every public library of importance in addition to inspecting other public and private archives.
“COLLEGE HUMOR” PRINTS ARTICLE ON ROCKNE
About this time every year divers magazines throughout the country print various articles about great football teams and their coaches. This year Notre Dame is receiving more than a goodly amount of such publicity. Coach Rockne is the subject of a great number of these articles, and different happenings in the course of his coaching at Notre Dame are meAoned to add zest to the material. college Humor in its December issue included a story by Jimmy Corcoran, on Knute Rockne. Corcoran’s articles in other newspapers have always been appreciated by Notre Dame readers, and this one ought to especially please them. It is practically a biography of the great coach, and it is written in a style which expresses the true spirit that underlies Rockne’s success at Notre Dame.
BRANCH OF A. S. M. E. IS ORGANIZED HERE
A branch of the American Society . of Mechanical Engineers was organized at the University last evening at a meeting held in the Engineering building. Twenty-five mechanical engineers signified their intention of joining the national society. Professor William L. Benitz, head of the department, conducted the meeting.
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers is a national organization and it is indeed a compliment for the campus engineers to be asked to join. The society has branches in a number of the larger technical schools throughout the country.
Officers will be elected at the next meeting which will be held within the next two weeks.	•
GRIDGRAPH WILL GIVE ACCOUNT OF DRAKE GAME
While 1200 students are viewing the actual playing of the Notre Dame —Drake game on Soldiers’ Field, Chicago, the remainder of the student body will be permitted to hear an improved play by play account and gridgraph review of the game in. the gymnasium at two o’clock.
The account of the game this week will be direct from the field via radio. Special loud-speakers will be in use to convey to the audience the actual play. ' The position of the ball during the course of the game will be reproduced by the gridgraph.
Following the gridgraph report the Reserve team will play the University of Iowa “B” team on Cartier Field. This game will mark the last encounter that a Notre Dame team will engage in on Cartier Field.
WORK PROGRESSING ON NEW LITERARY PUBLICATION
Mr. Louis Heitger, chairman of the new Quarterly magazine board, announced yesterday that much of the initial work on the publication has already been done.
Paper, covers, typographical arrangement, and space allottments for various creative endeavours, have all been decided upon. The one outstanding selection yet to be made is the name. According to Mr. Heitger several are under consideration and it is a question of selecting the best.
Mr. Cyril Mullen when interviewed as to the poetry submitted, said that several fair short pieces had been turned in, and that one poem of several hundred lines was being considered.
Mr. John Nanovic, in charge of the essays, has under advisement a rather considerable number of contributions.
Mr. Murray Hickey Ley, editing literary criticism and took reviews, declared that the cause of creative criticism would find several new -reasons for its existence at Notre Dame, in the forthcoming magazine.
One act plays, according to Mr. Louis Brennan, while not so plentiful, are displaying a rather good “quality average.”
Though much material is already in, Mr. Heitger announces that all student work will be given careful attention; such efforts are to be turned in to Mr. Heitger, in Walsh Hall, or to any one of the members of the board.	"
SCRIBBLERS ANNOUNCE NEW MEMBERS
President Cyril Mullen of the Scribblers announces the election of five new members to the club. The new men are: Emil L. Telfel, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and assistant managing editor of the Scholastic; Frank Seward and E. A. Robinson, also juniors in the College of Arts and Letters; and Joseph McCabe and Louis Brennan, sophomores in the College of Arts • and Letters.
Plans are being made for the Scribblers’ annual poetry contest which will be held some time in February. Last year the winner of the contest was Murray Young-, whose poem “The End of Labour,” was later accepted by Harriet Monroe’s Poetrij. Second prize was won by Brother Emil, C.S.C., and the third prize was awarded to Cyril Mullen.
In their future meetings the club plans to have papers read that will be of more general interest. Short stories, poems, plays, and critical essays will be written and discussed; and a determined effort will be made to more concretely relate the contributions of the various members to the “literary pulse” of the day.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL TEAMS TO MAKE TRIPS
। Members of all interhall football teams are scheduled to make a trip to some nearby city on ThanksgivingDay, according to the Physical Education department. Although the trips for the halls have not as yet been announced, Mr. George Keogan, in charge of interhall football, expects to have his list out shortly.
The custom of sending a squad of men from each hall team, on a Thanksgiving trip, originated about two years. The team plays an out of the city squad and is afterwards entertained at a special dinner.
EI ■■■■■■■■■■■   ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■.........  ■■■■[■]
j NOTICEI 1 = There are several positions on = | the Scholastic news staff that I | are now vacant. At a special I | meeting this evening in the E E Publications rooms, applications | = will be considered. All regular = E staff members, and all who wish I | to try for the staff, are re- 1 E quested to be present.	e
El"............■■■■■■■■.  ■■■■■■■■tlulllll|lllli3
The Notre Dame Scholastic
235
New Library Books
The following is a partial list of the books which have been recently added to the University library:
Philosophy—E. B. Titchener, Systematic Psychology.
Religion—Hilaire Belloc, Survivals and New Arrivals; J. L. Connolly, John Gerson, Reformer and Mystic; S. S. Curry, Vocal and Literary Interpretation of the Bible; Henri Gheon, The Secret of the Cure d’ Ars; George Matheson, The Representative Men of the Bible; H. E. Ryle, Early Narratives of Genesis.	.
Biography — J. Q. Adams, The Diary of John Quincy Adams, 1794-t 1845; J. E. Amos, Theodore Roose-i.t> velt; Philip Guedalla, Supers and f Supermen; Walter Lippmann, Men of I Destiny. .
i History — Hathorne Daniel, The Clipper Ship; E. R. Forrest, Missions
I and Pueblos of the Old Southwest; Frantz Funck-Brentano, The Earliest Times; Victor Klarwill, The Fu,gger j News-Letters; Hunter Liggett, A. E. ? F. Ten Years Ago in France; U. B. ! Phillips, Life and Labor in the Old I South; H. I. Priestley, The Coming of I the White Man.
Sports—E. D. Branch, Hunting of the Buffalo; J. R. Tunis, Sports, Heroics and Hysterics.
Sociology—J. A. Hobson, Economics and Ethics; E. R. Johnson, Principles of Transportation; J. S. Lawrence, Stabilization of Prices; G. H. Williams, Careers for Our Sons.
Music—C. J. Bond, The Roads of Melody; E. B. Ordway, The Opera Book.
Literature — E. H. Abbott, But Once a Year; E. H. Abbott, Love and the Ladies; Hilaire Belloc, The Emerald of Catherine the Great; S. A. Brooke, Tennyson, His Art and Relation to Modern Life; G. K. Chesterton, Robert Brozvning; Warwick Deeping, Old Pybus; Brother Ernest, Orphan Eddie; J. C. Farrar, The Bookman Anthology of Essays; A. P. Forbes, Modern Verse, British and American; Milt Gross, Durit Esk; J. B. Heidler, The History, from 1700 to 1800, of English Criticism and Prose Fiction; Christopher Hollis, Dr. Johnson; Mary Johnston, The Exile; M. F. Judell, The Fun Shop.
ALUMNUS WRITES PLAY
Robert J. Kasper, a member of the class of 1929, is the author, of a one act play, “Smoke-screens,” which was shown at the Palace Theater the first part of this week. This play has begun a long run on the Keith-Albee-Radio vaudeville circuit, having been awarded first prize in the 1929 Chicago Drama League Tournament. Many students of the University were witnesses of the play.
Coincident with the showing of “Smoke-screen” was the motion picture, “The Frozen North,” at the Granada. This play was directed by one of Hollywood’s foremost directors and a graduate of Notre Dame, Allan Dwan, of the class of 1909.
CHICAGO CLUB TO SPONSOR SO. CAL. VICTORY
DANCE
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Club of Chicago -will jointly sponsor a dinner-dance which will be held as a testimonial to the Notre Dame and Southern California football teams Saturday evening, November 16 at 7:00 p. m. in the Main Dining Room of the Stevens Hotel. Members and coaches of both teams will be present as well as many prominent notables from the city of Chicago.
Following the dinner a dance will be held at 9:30. Jean Renard’s Victor Recording Orchestra will entertain with a number of novelty acts during the evening. Decorations will be in the forms of the colors of the two schools, maroon and orange for Southern California and gold and blue for Notre Dame.
William J. McCarthy, president of the campus organization, has announced that a limited number of students may attend the affair, and that all students planning to attend should receive their tickets from any Chicago club member.
CLEVELAND CLUB GIVES SUCCESSFUL SMOKER
“The biggest and best smoker given on the campus this year!” That is the decision of the one hundred fellows who attended the Cleveland Club Smoker in the Faculty Dining Room last evening. There was enough variety in entertainment to satisfy the most severe critics. Two boxing bouts were held, Johnny Burns and Spike McAdams tangling in the one, and Ted Abel and Kid Tarzan, two
promising South Bend amateurs, in the other. The mixing became so fast and furious on occasions, that it had the spectators on the edge’ of their seats.
The lovers of jazz were sent into ecstacies by John Beljon and his Mad Cap Trio, who gave louder and better music than many a full sized orchestra. Pat Mangan and John Faulkes complete the trio.
One would have to go far to duplicate such illustrious speakers as Professor Daniel O’Grady, Tommy Mills, John Law and “Ooney” Donovan. These men all expressed themselves on various subjects j&i, evening.
Ice cream, cake and coffee were served at the close of the evening and of course the inevitable smokes were
very much in evidence.
A meeting of the Cleveland Club is to be held next Wednesday evening in the Law Building.
COACH ROCKNE TO DIRECT TEAM NEXT WEEK
Coach Knute K. Rockne who has been confined to his bed by a leg ailment will again appear on Cartier field next week to prepare the team for its struggle with Southern California. The condition of Mr. Rockne is much better at present than any time during the past two weeks. He will coach the team next week from his car, using an amplifier to direct the practice.	’
If the condition of Mr. Rockne continues to improve he will be present at Chicago, November 16, when Southern California is met. He will resort to a wheel chair but will be able to direct the team from sidelines. If no ill effects follow his presence at the Southern California game, he will attend the Northwestern and Army contests.
"DOME” TO BEGIN SUBSCRIPTION CAMPAIGN
Harley L. McDevitt, Graduate Business Manager, announced that members of the Dome business staff would begin their subscription campaign sometime within the next week. The campaign, which promises to be a unique one, is open also to students who are not on the business staff. It is the purpose of the business board to award prizes to students procuring the most subscriptions. Further announcements will be made in next week’s issue of the Scholastic.
236
The Notre Dame Sc h o I a

11 Music and Drama 11
On Monday evening Chicago’s music lovers thronged to 20 Wacker Drive to hear Aida. This was the grand opening of the magnificent twenty million dollar home of the Chicago Civic Opera. Thirty-six hundred thrilled souls revelled in the beauties of the gorgeous theater and then settled down in the luxuriously upholstered seats to hear Verdi’s Egyptian masterpiece. The Insulls, McCorn^gks, Fields’, Cranes and SwiftsC cscme in Rolls-Royces and family’jewels. The Jones’, Murphys, Faccinis and Schweitzers arrived in Fords and street-cars. Whether they sat in the Diamond Horseshoe or in the top row of the last balcony, they were united in that fraternity, that grand democracy of music. Beyond the elaborate rose and gold proscenium arch were to be seen and heard Rosa Raisa, Cyrena Van Gordon, Hilda Burke, Charles Marshall, Cae-sare Formichi, Chase Borromeo. Virgilio Lazzari and Guiseppe Cavadore. Wielding the baton in the pit was Giorgio Polacco.
Monday, however, was only a first first night, if we may call it that. There are really five first nights this week and one first afternoon. On Tuesday evening Edith Mason and Giacomo Rimini were heard in Isis, a new production. On Wednesday Claudia Muzio, Alice d’Hermanoy, Charles Hackett, and Richard Bonelli starred in La Traviata. Romeo and Juliet with Alice Mock, Irene Pava-loska, and Edouard Cotreuil was Thursday’s opera. While tomorrow afternoon Frida Leider, Maria Ols-zewska and Theodore Strack (debut) will give Tristan and Tsolde. Saturday evening comes II Trovatore with Muzio, Van Gordon and Lazzarri. All in all a stupendous week and a golden milestone in musical history.
In the same building as the opera is the Civic Theater which will run for twelve weeks this winter and give nothing but Shakespeare. Monday, November 11, is the opening date and Hamlet will be given during the entire winter. This means that we have the opportunity to see something truly good over the Southern California week-end. Fritz Leiber is playing the lead. The top price for seats is two fifty but excellent places are available for a dollar, as the theater is about the size of Washington Hall.
The first tiling that catches our eyes, as we look over New York events, is the opening of Metropolitan last week. This makes the forty-seventh season for Manhattan’s venerable company. Lucrezia Bori was the misguided heroine in Puccini’s Manon Lescaut. Opposite her sang Beniamino Gigli. Metropolitan has a new conductor this season in the form of Josef Rosenstock. Herr Rosenstock hails from Vienna.
Six new operas will be given this year beginning with The Giri of the Golden West. Maria Jeritza, Giovanni Martinelli, and Lawerence Tibbet will be the supporting stars. Elizabeth Rethberg and Rosa Ponselle will sing in Mozart’s Don Giovanni. Verdi’s Luis Miller will be well presented by Giacomo Lauri-Volpi. Fidelio or Leonore, by Beethoven, will be given, as also will Rimsky-Korsakoff’s Sadko and Donizetti’s L’Elisir d’ Amore. The versatile Flo Easton will be absent this season along with Titta Ruffo and Feodor Chaliapin.
The accomplished Mrs. Fiske is appearing in a production titled Ladies of the Jury. It appeared in Baltimore about three weeks ago and is now playing in Manhattan. The first act is a bit of wicked satire and high comedy. The last two acts develop into a farce. New York critics pronounce it not so good, but Mrs. Fiske is usually worth the trouble. She has had a rather remarkable life, to say the least. At the age of three she appeared in Richard III and at fifteen she had a company of her own. She has starred in many of Ibsen’s plays.
Three rather famous revivals opened_in New York last week:
Abraham Lincoln, Jolin Drinkwater’s famous play. In the lead is Frank McGlynn.
Grant Mitchell is playing John Paul Bart in A Taylor Made Man.
Naughty Marietta is the third of a series of Victor Herbert revivals. Ilse Marvenga is singing the lead.
PRESIDENT MAKES STATEMENT CONCERNING CAR-
NEGIE REPORT
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., has issued a statement concerning the report of the Carnegie Foundation dealing with athletics in the nation’s colleges. The heads of Holy Cross College and Georgetown University have also replied to the charges made in the report. No accusations were made against Notre
tic
Dame. It was merely stated that the University provided jobs to pay tuition, board, and room in return for “very nominal services.” Father O’Donnell’s statement is as follows:
“As yet we have not received a Carnegie report on college athletics. When the representative of the commission came to Notre Dame, he was, of course, welcomed by the University authorities and every effort was made to co-operate with him. He was put in possession of all the facts pertinent to his investigation. What conclusions the commission has drawn from these facts we have as yet no authoritative way of knowing. From the attention which the newspapers are giving to the Carnegie report it is evident that the matter involved is of considerable interest to the general public. It goes without saying that the colleges share that interest and harbor a hope that good will be accomplished by an investigation which was sincerely disinterested and as thoroughgoing as possible.”
FACULTY MEMBERS TO SPEAK IN NEW
ORLEANS
The Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., and the Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., will represent the University at the National Convention of Catholic Charities to be held in New Orleans next week. The convention will last six days, from Nov. 10 to 15. Leading authorities on sociology and economics, and the outstanding probation officers of the United States will be speakers at the convention. Father Murray will read a paper on Monday, November 11, on “Training College Men for Probation Work.” Father Mulcaire will give his address on Wednesday. It will concern the “New Relations Between Capital and Labor.”
DR. WALSH TO LECTURE IN WASHINGTON HAIL
Dr. James J. Walsh, M. D., will address the student body on Thursday evening, November 14, in Washington Hall. The subject of his lecture will be “Century Disillusionment in Psychology,” as announced by Reverend William H. Molony, C.S.C.
Dr. Walsh is the author of The Thirteenth, The Greatest of Centures, a book which is of great interest and especially well written. He has spoken before the student body on previous occasions, and has won the good will of all those who have either heard him or have read his book.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
237
Southern California “Rally Week” Program
A mammoth rally, such as has not been witnessed on the University campus, is being arranged for next week by the University stunt committee. H. Jerome Parker, stunt manager this year, who is in full charge of the entire Southern California “Rally Week,” program, is’ being assisted by Robert Kuhn, Blue Circle chairman and Robert Hellrung, chairman of the Students’ Activities Council, in order to put across a celebration which will include pep meetings, a bonfire, “Rockne Day,” flares, noise, torches, music and a monstrous outdoor demonstration to climax the week’s activities. At the game in Chicago, Saturday, November 16th, silent cheering cards, stunts, balloons, field demonstrations, band maneuvers—this is but a partial list of promised attractions by the Stunt chairman.
Today marked the semi-official opening of festivities. Each residence hall began its campaign for wood to build a huge bonfire which is to be lighted next Thursday night. The Minnesota bonfire of 1928 will be but a dwarf compared with the present one. The wood will be piled, until next Wednesday, in the field south of the post office. The chairmen of the hall committees will be in charge and, assisted by Blue Circle members, will see to it that students will commit no acts of vandalism in their overenthusiasm for wood gathering. A silver loving cup will be donated to the hall having the largest wood pile at the bonfire.
Program of Events
The stunt manager is a new campus responsibility this year. Jerry Parker was appointed by Knute K. Rockne to be in charge of all demonstrations and celebrations at all \Notre Dame “home” games in Chicago. Under Mr. Parker’s direction, several assistants have been appointed, who will be in charge of each day’s activities and upon them will rest the success of the day. ’
Ray Reardon, president of the senior class, will be in charge of the first “Rockne Day,” at Notre Dame next Tuesday, November 12th. A Mass will be said at 6:30 a. m. in Sacred Heart Church, thus formally opening “Rockne Day.” Although final plans are not as yet complete, it is hoped to have a short, spontaneous demonstration immediately after supper next Tuesday night.
. By Alfred E. Gall
Wednesday noon will mark the closing of the wood-gathering contest. During the afternoon, Blue Circle and S. A. C. members will judge the piles and decide to whom the loving
Jerry Parker, Stunt Manager
cup shall be awarded. After the rendering of the decision, the wood will be gathered and stacked in a rectangular pile. It will be surrounded by blue and gold banners along with the maroon and yellow colors of the Trojans. Dan Welchons will be in charge of the bonfire.
Halls to Be Decorated
During the course of the afternoon, each hall will be decorated by the students. It is the intention of the committee in charge to have only the entrances decorated for the celebration. Appropriate signs, banners, bunting—all are to be used as a medium in carrying out each hall’s decorative motives. Wednesday night will witness a recurrence of the individual hall pep meetings held before the Carnegie Tech game. Alfred E. Gall has been placed in charge of hall cheering and all hah cheerleaders should report to him in 123 St. Edward’s Hall for instructions. An allowance of five minutes will be granted each hall. The stunt committee has a surprise to introduce at the evening’s festivities and in order to allow each hall to witness it, the difference in time has been necessitated.
The Bonfire
Next Thursday will be final night for celebration on the campus as most of the students will begin to leave for Chicago sometime during Friday. After supper the band will parade from hall to hall, gathering
the students. Students are requested to return to their respective halls after supper and at a given signal the band will begin its tour of the campus. Headed by large signs, banners, bombs, flares, colored lights, singing and yelling, the students will parade the campus and meet in the field south of the post office. The Off-Campus students, headed by an escort from South Bend will also be present.
Fred Zimmerman is responsible for the field novelties to be furnished during the night’s program while Frank Mosher is completing all the field arrangements. A platform will be erected to hold the speakers for the evening. Amplifiers will carry their words to the crowd, which, strengthened by out of town visitors and the South Bend public, is expected to number about 5000. Bob Hellrung, S. A. C. chairman, who is to arrange for the speakers of the evening, has not as yet announced his list of speakers.
The Southern California Game
Blue Circle members are expected to be at Soldiers’ Field at 6:00 a. m. Saturday, November 16th, in order to make the final arrangements for the silent cheering section. At present, sections 17 and 19 will be utilized for this purpose and all students having seats in these two sections are expected to co-operate with the stunt managei- on the day of the game. Through the courtesy of the South Park Commission in Chicago, seats ■will be installed in the aisle between Sections 17 and 19 in order to make a solid block of students. Thomas Medland and Thomas Lisztwan are at present working out the various card stunts, assisted by Felix Isherwood and Ron Sullivan.
About 4500 colored cards will be used in the silent cheering act. Jerry Parker, stunt chairman, will lead the execution of the stunts from the sidelines, while Bob Kuhn, assisted by Art Kane, will be in charge of the balloon and field stunts. Section 19 will be used for stunt purposes throughout the game, while Section 17 and 19 will be used only during the half and for the larger stunts. Present plans call for the Notre Dame and the University of Southern California monograms, different greetings, and various figures, including a shamrock and a huge Trojan head.
238
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ROCHESTER CLUB
The Rochester Club held its meeting a week ago last Tuesday night in the Law Building. A large number of members attended, so plans for the Christmas dance were very nearly concluded. Frank Norton was appointed head of the ticket committee, and other chairmen will be appointed for decorations, publicity and entertainment at the next meeting. Frank Norton is presenting tickets to all those who have not as yet received their quota, and all those members not at the last meeting are urged to see him as soon as possible.
Ray Fagan’s Keith-Orpheum Band has been secured and the dance promises to be a greater success than in any year previous.
The next meeting will be held the third week of this month. All members are requested to be present as there are many plans yet to be discussed.
THE YOUNGSTOWN CLUB
All members of the Youngstown Club are asked to be present at the next meeting for the appointment of chairmen of the various committees for the Christmas dance. They are also asked to bring their alumni lists with them, for all reports outlined at the last meeting. The meeting will be held in the South room of the Library, next Tuesday evening, November- 12.
TEXAS CLUB
The Texas Club, a campus organization of Notre Dame men hailing from the far-flung corners of the Lone StarState, officially came into existence recently when, at a meeting held in the Law Building, the constitution was adopted and officers were elected for the ensuing year.
Edward G. Conroy, of San Antonio, was elected president; Joseph Dunne, of El Paso, vice-president; Louis Psencik, of Smithville, secretary, and Earl Brieger, of Taylor, treasurer.
Plans were discussed for the first banquet of the club to be held soon. John A. Bitter was named to serve as toastmaster for that occasion. Walter Langford was se- . lected as chairman of the Publicity committee and Edward McDonnough as chairman of the Smoker committee.
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB
The Louisiana-Mississippi Club will hold a meeting within the next two weeks to make final arrangements for all dances and banquets to be held.
All members are requested to carefully watch the Coming Events column in the Scholastic for the next meeting date. '	’
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The Connecticut Valley Club held an important meeting in the Law Building Friday night, November 1. President Tim Toomey appointed Francis Farrell general chairman for the Christmas Formal. The dance will be held December 27, at the Hotel Bond, in Hartford, Connecticut.
Carroll Murphy was appointed chairman of a smoker, to be held in the near future. Jim Lyons, Dan Halpin, Tom Ferriter, as well as ticket representatives in each hall, will
assist Mr. Murphy in organizing an entertaining smoker.
At the coming smoker the committees for the Christmas Dance 'will be announced, constituting an added inducement to the entertainment which the chairman promises.
SPANISH CLUB
At the last meeting of the Spanish Club, elections were held, and the following men were raised to office: President, Pat Hastings; Vice-president, Anthony R. Diaz; Secretary, Felix Isherwood; Treasurer, George Bentley Ryan; Sergeant at Arms, Lambert Reinehart. Papers to be read at the next meeting, were assigned to Robert Kelly, Joe Apodaca and Joe Hoffman.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB
The last meeting of the Grand Rapids Club was held Wednesday, October 30. Mr. McDermott, general chairman announced the committees for the Christmas dance, to be held at the Pantalind Hotel. Arrangements: Maitland Strong; Door Committee: Bud Rosewarne; Music: Jerome Roach; Publicity: George Jackoboice.
All students living in Grand Rapids are asked to attend the meetings to be held hereafter every other Wednesday.
PACIFIC-NORTHWEST CLUB
Plans for a dance in South Bend, for a banquet for celebrities from the Pacific Coast, and for other activities, will be discussed at the next meeting of the Pacific Northwest Club to be held this evening on the second floor of the Law Building. Every member living in Oregon, Washington, Idaho and Montana is sincerely requested to be present because a great deal of co-operation will be needed for the club to enjoy a successful year.
Officers of the Club: President, Ron Sullivan; Vicepresident, Ed. McCrimmon; Treasurer, Felix Isherwood; Secretary, Jim Collins.
PITTSBURGH CLUB
At the last meeting of the Pittsburgh Club, held Friday evening, November 1, plans for the Christmas dance were continued to the point where arrangements were made to secure Theiss’ Orchestra, which broadcasts over WLW.
The dance will be held on the night of January 1, at the Field Club as announced last week in the Scholastic. Bulletins will be posted in the near future to announce ticket sales. Members may secure reservations for the dance now, directly at the Field Club or through Richard O’Toole, 126 St. Edward’s Hall.
WEST VIRGINIA CLUB
The last meeting of the West Virginia Club was held on the second floor of the Law Building, Wednesday, October 30. James Coram was appointed chairman of all the Christmas dance committees. Plans for a banquet were discussed, and it was decided to hold it the latter part of this month.
All members are requested to attend meetings which will hereafter be held the fourth Wednesday of every month.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
239
(OLLHiE PAIMDE^ S
At Indiana a campaign is under way to raise $4500 with which to send the university band on three major football trips this Fall. The games at which Indiana’s “Famous Hundred” wants to play are those with Northwestern, Ohio State, and Chicago. A Bloomington theatre has generously offered to donate one-half of the proceeds derived from a late show Saturday night, but the offer seems to be partly a protective measure, the idea being to prevent the students from “crashing” the show after each game during the football season. The proposed show will start at 10 o’clock, and to profit by this kindness of the theatre, the univer; sity officials must grant permission for the co-eds to reach their respective lodging places by 12:30 instead of by 11:30, which is normally the zero hour.
—o—
Daily Texan: “1250 English Papers Written By Freshmen in Tests.” Sounds bad, Texas. But we guess it’s all right, as the “Zero English Test” seems to be a method of determining just which of the freshmen must be shunted in the “Zero English Class,” which might as aptly be termed the Dub Class.
—o—
Tee Harter says in the. Tulane Hullabaloo that “a clever co-ed is one who makes you think she is taking dinner with you and not from you.” Score one for Tee.
—o—
The University of Missouri is- constructing a new field house which is to be completed by the first of the year*. Besides “one of the finest basketball courts in the middle west” and accommodations for more than 6000 spectators, the field house will also include an indoor dirt track, four indoor tennis courts, a full-sized baseball diamond, a large number of three-sided handball courts, and two or three volley ball courts Not bad, Missouri, not at all bad.
Columbia Spectator: “Humorists to Aid in Editing Jester.” Those fellows seem always to be around when anything funny is going on.
“25 University Men to Acquaint Frosh” at Ohio University. In lots of places it is left up to the entire Sophomore cl^ss to put them wise. .	—o—
The Flying Club of Northeastern has certainly got off on the right foot this year. For President they elected a gentleman named Bird.
The Denver Clarion exhorts the students to “Get That Kynewisbok Today.” We guess it’s all right, but we would like to know what it means in English.
A certain co-ed of Earlham College protests through the Quaker Quill that the girls’ hall is being neglected while every care is taken to improve the habitat of the young men. No doubt she is absolutely correct, but—well, did you ever see a woman that was satisfied for more than about a minute at a time ?
“Opening Months Most Difficult,” declares the President of Tulane. Yeah, we have always found that the first few months—say the first eight or nine months of each year —are the hardest.
There are to be no dances held.at the University of Missouri after Christmas. We guess they are supposed to make enough whoopee during the Christmas, vacation to last till June.
—o—
The Frosh football squad at Northwestern numbers only 75. Hardly a respectable turnout for one of the Interhall teams around here.
With amusement we note that the official guesser for the Tulane paper had the audacity to predict an Indiana victory over Notre Dame in the recent game at Bloomington. Well, from our point of view this guesser must be at least a mighty good sport. Maybe he is one of those three fellows who bet on the Cubs.
It makes us feel a little better to learn that Notre Dame is not the only place where would-be registrants are exhausted by standing in lines that never move. At Texas, too, the “Weary Students Wanly Stagger Through Lines.”
In the Manitou Messenger of St. Olaf we read that a “Former Coach Tunis Chicken Raiser.” We have heard of coaches being driven to almost everything, but never before to fowl production.
This headline in The Daily Northwestern seemed to indicate that egoism runs high in Evanston: “Shakespeare Plot Improved by Club.” But it turned out that the plot referred to is the William Shakespeare garden which is situated on the North western Campus.
At Colgate they have' quite a halfback in the person of Tommie Dowler, who in the Indiana game “broke through the line on a deceptive reverse play and proceeded to zigzag 250 yards up the field for a touchdown." Evidently he doesn’t know his conservation of energy, by which he might easily have converted all that running into three or four scores.
Secretary of the Interior Wilbur recently assisted in the dedication of a new medical building at the University of Virginia. The new structure cost $1,400,000 and is one of the most modem buildings for the teaching of medicine in the United States.
The freshmen at Washington and Lee University must be pretty hot, for in the Ring-turn Phi we read that “Freshmen Are Mistaken For Flames in First Fire Drill at Dormitories.” Quite a little accident, what?
240
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Reverend Mattheiv Walsh, C.S.C., Chaplain
‘' T F war were declared,” inquired the I War Department in letters to leading A American university presidents, “would your students fight?”
“Why wait for the war?” was the reply of Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame.
This assurance of loyalty was not misplaced for in a few months about 300 Notre Dame men were at the front, or on their way; several hundred Notre Dame alumni were in the khaki, and six priests were working as chaplains in the camps.
Rupe Mills, one-time renowned athlete and campus philosopher, called the war “the biggest he was ever in.”
The Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and later president, was the first chaplain to be
assigned a post. How he was greeted at
Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., chaplain
the Alabama camp is told in part of a letter from Ray Miller, one of the Miller brothers, and First Lieutenant Adjutant:
“Can you imagine me, who used to come shivering into Father Walsh’s room, for permission “to go to the dentist”—in reality to go to the Orpheum —being now his superior officer? Can you imagine Father Walsh now coming to me for permission to go to town? Can you imagine Ray Miller, who “subbed” on the team when “Eich” was a whirlwind, now be-
WAK DAYf A
EY PAUL
ing a superior officer of the vice-president of Notre Dame, with authority to give or refuse him per?”	.
“Don’t be a slacker,” said Sergeant Campbell in charge of military affairs at Notre Dame in 1917 when the call to arms first was sounded.
Here are the words of Herbert Hoover— U. S. food administrator—in a special article to College men:
“But you, too, should remember that every additional month or semester of training in college will make you a more effective helper to your country in this time of its emergency, ever growing more critical. So be willing and ready to go out, but go in no thoughtless hurry, not merely to satisfy the natural restlessness of the moment.”
The first man of Notre Dame to give his life in the great war was William J. Egan of Cogden, Ontario, Canada. He was killed in action on the battle-fields of France, May 4, 1917.
MY PAL
‘Vincent Fagan, ’20	■
The campus life is not the same, • A different spirit fills the air.
I miss his face; his shouted name Draws no response. He is somewhere In France.
He was my pal not long ago,
My partner through the months of school, Who smoked my pipe, wore my chapeau; He’s followed flag and army mule
To France.
—Scholastic, Oct. 13, 1917.
Slogan: “Don’t be a toy pistol in the present .war; be a big gun.”
Here is a picture, not from “All Quiet on the Western Front,” but a description of’the activities of Captain Charles Sweeney, Notre Dame in ’98, who was placed in charge of four batteries of tanks:
“A rumbling echo across crater land. It is not shell-fire, not the approach of a barrage. Thundering, groaning, clanking, the earth rocking. Then looming monstrous' through the fog pitch the giants, smashing entanglements, grinding posts to dust, careening over hole and hill—how spitting fire with roar and crash. Terror-stricken the Germans flee, or crouch gibbering in the trench corners.”
“I wish,” said Josephus Daniels, then secretary of the Navy, “that I could personally shake hands with each college man ivho has entered or will enter the service."
The Very Reverend Charles L. O’Do nell, C.S.C., then professor of poetry a: । now president of the University, right to the heart of the battle as chaplaf Here are excerpts______________________—
from two letters:
“. . . I say Mass every morning in a church where the bells were silenced by Schrecklichkeit, but whose walls and roof still stand and are the holy place though all around lie ruins . . .”
And again, of Joyce Kilmer:
“. . . I had my first great sorrow of the war in Joyce Kilmer’s death, word of which reached me only yesterday, though Joyce had been these last three weeks with God. For us it was a joy and inspiration to have called him friend . . .”
Memorial Doo
Imagine the perplexity of the cen?$ who opened a parcel which containe “atrocious-looking German bombs” to Dj that they were—well, the following tel gram was received here:	1
General Pershing (left) and Capt. Jin
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
241
NCTRE
HALLINAN
France, Europe, Jan. 28, 1918. 2v. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.: -.Suns received. Regards to all.
A. M. Mclnerny.
Heart Church
Last fall, w e heard, through the S. A. C., about the time that Notre Dame, with a team riddled by enlistment, went down to New York and defeated a great Army aggregation, known as “Oliphant and company,” 7-2. Here is what the New York Times said:
‘The great Elmer Oliphant and the Army football team crumpled up before the persistent attack of a lighter but scrappier eleven from Notre Dame this afternoon, the soldiers meeting their first defeat in two years . . . before the afternoon
caned the Notre Dame youngsters had topped the battering line-smashing Oli-jkant in his tracks and administered a locking defeat to a team that was being-bailed as one of the greatest the Point Tas seen in years.”
rphy, ’22, (center) inspect troops, 1918
LAME
No one decided who the star of that 1917 battle was: Gipp, Captain Rydzewski, Quarterback Allison, and Brandy have been named.
Captain Phelan, oustanding among the few veterans left by Uncle Sam’s inexorable draft at the beginning of the season left for an army camp just one hour after his brilliant battle against Nebraska (the only game lost that season)—the third game, leaving his “green” teammates to carry on against South Dakota, Army, W. and J., Morningside and Michigan Agricultural College.
“When the Kaisei- meets a squadron led by men from Notre Dame,
He’ll be wishing he was neutral in the bloody bloomin’ game.
For they’ll take his mighty Teutons and drop him in a trench,
An’ Hindenburg is lucky if he gets to play the bench.”
—Varsity Verse of 1917.
While their big brothers were fighting in the trenches, the Minims and Preps, gave the money to equip an ambulance. About $2,000 was donated. The ambulance was dedicated to “Cardinal Mercier of Belgium, the noblest moral figure manifested in the war.”
Other campus, priests to enlist as chaplains were First Lieutenant (Reverend) Edward Finnegan, C.S.C., now pastor of Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame; First Lieutenant (Reverend) George Finnigan, now Bishop of Helena, Mont.; the Reverend Ernest Davis, C.S.C., and the Reverend John McGinn, C.S.C. The last three named have now left Notre Dame, but all were professors at the time of enlistment.
Reverend Paul Doherty, C.S.C., now in
structor of religion, was captain of infantry during the war, joining the Holy Cross Congregation later.
Student logic by the ironical editor of the “Safety Valve” in 1917: “If food will win the war, then why don’t they give us more of it?”
Part of a poem written by a member of Father O’Donnell’s regiment—the 117th Engineers:
BILLETS DE FRANCE
I’ve slept with the horse and the sad-eyed cow,
I’ve dreamed in peace with the bearded goat.
I’ve laid my head on the rusty plow, And with the pig did table d’ hote.
Reverend John Cavanaugh, c. s. c., President of the University, 1905-1919
I’ve chased the supple, leaping flea As o’er my outstretched form he sped, And heard the sneering rooster’s crow When I chased rabbits from my bed.
And when the morning, damp and raw, Arrived at last as if by chance,
I’ve crawled from out the rancid straw And cussed the stable barns of France.
’Tis then we dream of other days
When we were free and in the dance, And followed in the White Man’s ways Far from the stable barns of France.
■ “We are not through. We have not begun to give!” declared J. L. R. in the Scholastic of May 4, 1918.
The Armistice of November 11,1918, was announced in the Scholastic thus: “End has come at last. The great battle has been fought and won.”
In 1925 the “Memorial Door” was built
in the east entrance to the Sacred Heart Church. On each side a bronze tablet contains the names of the fifty-six Notre Dame men who were killed in the war; inside there is a lamp made from an inverted helmet. Dedicated to St. Joan of Arc and St. Michael—the arch and vestibule pay tribute to those who recognized their duty to
GOD, COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME
—the words inscribed over the door.
The Ambulance—Minims’ Gift
242
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Dear Sir:
While we are on the subject of lobbying, Joe Whysit requests that an investigation be made, to see whether or not the South Bend taxicab companies had anything to do with the selection of this location for a University.
—Willie Wolverine.
OUGH
It seems correct enough
That the professor had to cough
And stammer and squirm as though
. Caught on some linguistic bough
Whose bark he could not bite through
When he was called upon to explain— The pronunciation of the English language.
—Chaucer’s Uncle.
NOT QUITE TWENTY
•	Sweet Sixteen,
Never kissed— So “they” said. What “they” missed!
Seventeen, “Golden spring— Love was all” So they sing. '
Now eighteen, ■	Another year.
Not of age, Pretty near.
And at last, Joy a-plenty, . ■	Because nineteen
I’m Not Quite Twenty.
—Thymus.
—o—
But there’s one little thing I’d like to try, Something above all the-rest.
Pd like to be a purple sky
When the sun goes doivn in the west.
—Don Lee.
■	—o—
Some time ago we wanted to give Attache a great deal of space for some really worthwhile poetry, but due to the vagaries of a certain type of mind, the poem was lost in
transit. However, Attache being Attache, we have another equally as good.
—o—
POSSESSION
I do not fear that I shall want ‘ Of Beauty’s peace and lavish balm, Nor shall I have to seek afar Where Beauty sleeps, serene and calm.
What matters it if life floivs on
Bereft of Beauty that’s our own;
May not we the seas possess,— Are the stars for one alone?
—Attache.
—o—
SIDELIGHTS ON THE COTILL
Several chaps made the Cotill on a dollar, the roommate’s tux, someone else’s girl.
We have proof that the Cotill can be made on a dollar. Tommy wrote home for money to go and T. J., Sr., very coyly sent back a dollar.. That, dear kiddies, is the acme of agenbite. Then there was the other Fratie Boy who found out at eight o’clock that his shoes were both for the right foot.
The usual collection of college widows attended.
The usual collection of upperclassmen attended.
We did not.
—o—	-
T. Talbot Tabloid would like to hear from Bishop M. again and regrets that publication cannot be given at present.	■
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of Fort Huachuca please notify the Wink. Someone has accused us of writing the Wink. Someone in Fort Huachuca is going to be a young calvary officer .... and a widower.
—Donnie D.
To continue with the above subject, prizes will be given for the three most humorous two-line poems submitted between now and the time three come in.
It is rumored that a senior is going to be thrown in the lake. It seems that Westerners don’t like to have you date their wimmin. Uncivilized, I calls it. I’ll bite you.
’	—T. Talbot Tabloid.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	243

"H AI MAN RCCrNE”
If the word “Nemesis”' were ever applied to a football coach for blasting- the championship hopes of other schools, it would rightly belong to Rockne. He has ruined the dreams of more coaches than any other living man.
Whenever a college on a Notre Dame schedule develops a potential championship team, the coach and the faculty anxiously scratch their chins and worry about “that man Rockne.” Whenever a team with a clean slate of victories plays against Notre Dame, the coach offers a few honest prayers for protection against “that man Rockne.”
Sports forecasters at the beginning of the season write column after column on the probable winners and losers. They always include the admonition to watch “that man Rockne.” It has become so common to see a winning Notre Dame football team that the herculean efforts of Rockne are often unnoticed.
The schedule this year has been called the hardest in the country. 'Other years have been hard, they always are, but this year every opponent will have the distinct advantage of playing us away from Notre Dame. Rockne himself admits that it robs the team of about a third of its effectiveness. In order to match this year’s team with the winning clubs of former years, Rockne is forced to give himself unsparingly to his team.
This year, although faced with the unpleasant prospect of facing nine strong teams with a comparatively new squad, Rockne has undertaken the job with gratifying results. No one has reason to complain of the season’s- record so far. Certainly the public is satisfied. They evidence it every Saturday by filling stadia in all sections of the country to watch us play. Yet, doubtless they go away convinced that Notre Dame has “just another good team” without ever a thought of the hard working coach.
Early in the season Rockne was stricken by an aggravating ailment which kept him from accompanying the team on several of the trips. Foreign coaches breathed thanks for this lucky break until they discovered to their surprise that the team could be just as effective and just as dangerous without the presence of the master mind. Then indeed they knew that the calibre of a Notre Dame team was just as high with only the inspirational presence of “that man Rockne.”
Newspapers again ran columns devoted to our ailing coach. The wonder of wonders was that we could play and win without the comforting presence of the chief. Ask any coach who placed a team before us. Do not be surprised if he raises his right hand to heaven and swears that he cannot understand how we do it, for he really does. Like all other gridiron mentors he knows that the reason for Notre Dame success is the magic spell and dominating personality of an experienced psychologist—“that man Rockne.”	T. v. M.
244
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Fighting Irish Chalk Up Fifth Victory
Notre Dame Outruns Golden Tornado In 26-6 Win
EMPLOYING a devastating and smashing running attack, mixed with a few passes, Notre Dame rose up on its haunches, pelted lead into its opponents from the sunny South, and walked away with its fifth consecutive victory. Georgia Tech, 1928 national champion, was tossed
An Expert Blocker and a Hard Worker
Tom Murphy
around in the mire to the tune of .26 to 6.
The Golden Tornado twisted, twirled, and whirled about the Fighting Irish but seemed to blow them straight down to their objective, the Georgia Tech goal line, which was trampled on four times. On two or three other occasions the Notre Dame ball-carriers were headed for sure touchdowns but the plays were all called back.
However, as the statisticians have decided that Notre Dame chalked up only four touchdowns against the Southerner’s one, we will have to take the fact for granted.
Everybody Had a Hand
It seemed that everyone of the Fighting Irish wanted to take a crack at wiping out the ignominious defeat of last year and therefore, it is practically impossible to choose any one outstanding performer. We wouldn’t attempt to—we’d probably never choose the right one out of the 30-odd who played against Tech.
In case you haven’t heard the news, Jack Elder and Frankie Carideo reeled off the spectacular touchdown-making runs. They were helped admirably on these dashes by the remainder of the team. For the stars of the game consult the Notre Dame line-up. They were all stars.
Interference Is Perfect
The outstanding feature of the game was the splendid interference and blocking during Elder’s 53-yard run and Carideo’s dash of 73 yards. Every man on the team was on his toes during these spectacular runs and through their complete interference, enabled the runners to rush on to the enemy’s goal.
Carideo’s run was the more remarkable because it came as an aftermath of a Tech punt. Receiving the punt on his own 27-yard line Carideo followed his interference across and around the would-be Tech tacklers, ending up over the goal line after outdistancing the entire Golden Tornado team. He sidestepped three tacklers enroute to the goal, flew by five others and left four of his teammates behind to take out the remainder of the Techites. It was a most interesting spectacle of perfect blocking and the entire team performed most creditably on this particular play.
Elder Rambles On
Another example of a runner safely following his interference was shown in Elder’s dash of 53 yards. This play came shortly after, less than a
minute in fact, the Southerner’s had scored their only touchdown of the game. The flying phantom sliced off left tackle, cut a swath through a half-dozen tacklers, slid by the secondary, and rambled on to the touchdown.
A Powerful Tackle With Plenty of Fight
Dick Donaghue
Shortly after, the Fighting Irish completed their only forward pass of the game; a 20-yard heave from Carideo to Conley which put the ball on the one-yard line in position for Mullins to crash over for the touchdown on the succeeding play.
The Fighting Irish surely deserve all the praise they received for their victory. It was indeed a difficult problem to combat the Southerners in their hot sultry weather and Notre Dame dealt out its revenge on a strong and powerful team. Any team that can run up seven first downs like Georgia Tech did is certainly good.
Better Team Won
Georgia Tech played a good game— but Notre Dame played a better one. The Fighting Irish play was well co-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
245
1	STATISTICS	OF	THE	1
I	GAME
i FIRST DOWNS:	i
E	Notre Dame, 9.	:
=	Georgia Tech, 7.	5
I PASSES COMPLETED:	1
=	Notre Dame, 1	of	4	for	20	e
E	yards.	E
E	Georgia	Tech, 2 of 7 for 24	E
j	yards.	S
YARDS FROM SCRIMMAGE: =	Notre Dame’, 276 yards.	=
E	Georgia Tech, 97 yards.	e
i PENALTIES:
E	Notre Dame, 40 yards.	E
E	Georgia Tech, 60 yards.	:
QtiiiiuiiiiiiuiiiiiittiiniiiiiiitinitiiiiiituitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiititiiQ ordinated and was victorious in what was perhaps the most impressive win of the season but on the other hand the easiest.
Every member of the home eleven played a corking good game. As stated, it is practically impossible to choose any one individual star of the game but we may let the matter rest with saying that the usual excellent performances were much in order.
The line-up:			
Notre Dame		Georgia Tech	
Collins	LE		Jones
McNamara	LT		Watkins
Kassis	LG		Farmer
Nash	C		(c) Rusk
Metzger	RG		Brooke
McManmon	RT		Holt
Murphy	RE		Williams
Gebert	QB		Dunlap
Schwartz	LH		Mizell
O’Connor	RH		Thomason
Savoldi	FB		Maree
Score by periods:			
Notre Dame			. .0 12	7	7—26
Georgia Tech 			..0	6	0 0—6
Touchdowns — Thomason, Elder, Mullins, Schwartz, Carideo.
Points after Touchdowns—Carideo 2 (placements) .
Substitutions: Tech—Millianes for Watkins, • Fincher for Holt, R. Law for Brooke, Williams for Sloan, Edwards for Westbrooke, Hauck for Maree, Frink for Dunlap, Isaac for Jones, Watkins for Fincher, Graydon for Mizell, Huntsinger for Thomason. Notre Dame— Conley for Murphy ; O’Brien for Collins : Twomey for McNamara: Cannon for Kassis; Moynihan for Nash; Law for Metzger; Don-aghue for McManmon: Elder for M. Schwartz; Brill for O’Connor; Mullins for Savoldi; Culver for Twomey; Locke for Cannon ; Yarr for Moynihan; Bondi for Law; C. Schwartz for Donaghue; Leahy for Elder; Kaplan for Brill; Howard for Mullins ; Savoldi for Howard; Elder for Leahy; Donaghue for C. Schwartz; Law for Bondi; Moynihan for Yarr; Cannon for Locke; Twomey for Culver; Kaplan for Brill; Conley for T. Murphy; Donaghue for McManmon; Twomey for McNamara; Colrick for Collins; Collins for Oolrick; Culver for Twomey; Locke for Cannon ; Nash for Moynihan; Metzger for Law; McManmon for Donaghue; Vik for Conley; M. Schwartz for Elder; Kenneally for Carideo ; O’Connor for Kaplan; Howard for Mullins ; Leahy for M. Schwartz; Kaplan for O’Connor.	.
Officials—Birch (Earlham), referee; Powell (Wisconsin), umpire; Street (Auburn), field judge; Wyatt (Missouri), head linesman.
DRAKE BULLDOGS TO SNAP AT NOTRE DAME TO-
MORROW
A scrappy bunch of Bulldogs will take the field against the Fighting Irish tomorrow on the gridiron at Soldier’s Field. It’s slated to be an easy win for Notre Dame but if Ossie Solern, coach at the Des Moines institution, imbues his boys with the proper amount of spirit they will be out to fight, and attempt to get revenge for their very disastrous loss to Notre Dame last season. ,
Drake won the Missouri Valley Conference Championship last week for the second consecutive year, defeating Creighton University, 34-12.
Drake Downed Handily
Drake was riding on the top of the heap last fall and came to Cartier field with the intention of tying the Notre Dame banner to its long string of victories, but the Fighting Irish spilled them with a stinging 32-6 defeat.
In the three years of competition
| INTERHALL FOOTBALL |
SOPHOMORE AND OFF-CAMPUS HEAD DIVISIONS
Sophomore and Off-Campus continue to lead their respective groups in the interhall football race. Including the games played last Sunday both teams have clean slates, Sophomore winning four games and tying one and Off-Campus winning three and tying two.
Off-Campus Beats Walsh
The most important tilt of last Sunday’s schedule was the Off-Campus-Walsh game which decided the first place holder in Group 2. Both had been undefeated up to this game but Off-Campus eked out a 7-0 win over their opponents. The bright spot of this contest was Kozak’s long pass to Crosley which netted 40 yards and a touchdown for Off-Campus’ winning margin.
Sophomore continued its winning streak with a clean-cut victory over Lyons Hall, 6-0, giving the Sophs undisputed claim to the top rung in Group 1. Sophomore finished the regularly scheduled games on her
(Continued on Page 247)
with Drake, Notre Dame has won all three games; the first one in 1926 ended 21-0, and the next season Drake held Notre Dame to a lone three points, which came as a result of a successful field goal.
Good Kickers on Team
Van Koten and King are a snappy-set of punters who -will try to outdo the Notre Dame kickers tomorrow, and they will prove to be keen competition for the Fighting Irish’s corps of hooters.
One of the most spectacular plays of the season last year was a long 25-yard pass by King, who flipped it to Seiberling from Drake’s 20-yard line and then the big fullback sprinted the remaining distance for the lowans’ lone score. These two lads are back again this year along with Dick Nesbitt who was rated as being one of the best halfbacks in the west. Barnes, a triple-threat man, will also have to be watched very carefully tomorrow or Drake may put across several surprises which might prove just as disastrous to Notre Dame as Notre Dame did to Drake last year.
| NOTRE DAME | i vs	I
|	DRAKE	I
E	(at Chicago)	=
| November 9 |
E will find football fans making | = their headquarters at = I HOTEL	I
i	LORRAINE	J
E Wabash Avenue at Van Buren = E (Just a short walk to Soldier’s Field) :
I CHICAGO	|
| 250 rooms with bath at = j	fixed price	=
=	$2.00-$2.50 per day	E
5	Extra person, $1.00	E
= Garage in Connection =
QiiHtniiiiiiiiitiiiHiiitiiiiiiHiiitiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiuttiiiiiiinfitQ
246
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I fOLFAY I
| THEATREXw |
E	A Publix Theatre	E

ONE ENTIRE WEEK Beginning Saturday
DON’T MISS IT
“The
Hollywood Revue”
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s
ALL TALKING, SINGING, DANCING SENSATION with
JOHN GILBERT MARION DAVIES NORMA SHEARER WILLIAM HAINES JOAN CRAWFORD BUSTER KEATON BESSIE LOVE CHARLES KING CONRAD NAGEL JACK BENNY UKELELE IKE ANITA PAGE DOLLY MORAN GUS EDWARDS BROX SISTERS and Others.
The greatest entertainment in the annals of the screen is presented now. A $6.60 Broadway musical revue, a brilliant melange of song hits, amazing dancing, laughs, skits, with 25 of Hollywood’s stars.
PALACE
3 DAYS - STARTING SUNDAY |
ANOTHER BIG UNIT SHOW—	1
“ZEPPLING AROUND” |
25 - People - 25 J
The Capering, Careening Career of a	E
Balloonatic—featuring	E
FRANK O’NEIL |
“THE RAINBOW OF JOY”	|
and a Host of Musical Revue Stars, including i
8BUILA DANCING Q |
COMETS O |
A Sparklingly Original All-Star Revue with 1 Overwhelming Comedy, Pep and Beauty.
--ON THE SCREEN-	\
FRANK BORZACE’S	J
“The River”	)
With	e	• J
Chas. Farrell	\	j
MARY DUNCAN	1	|
’	=	*
A Drama of Conflicts	E	|
I	4 DAYS—COMMENCING	I
[	WEDNESDAY	|	|
i	Dorothy MacKail—Ina Keith in	I	|
I	“THE GREAT DIVIDE”	|
| 5 IK ACTS W VAIMVH1E | I
ii.......................       4	I
The
Notre Dame Scholastic
247
(Continued from Page 245)
schedule without a point being scored 7 on them.
The annual contest for the supremacy of the Main Building toga ended in a 14-0 triumph for Brownson. Both teams played a ragged brand of ball, marred by frequent difficulties which took away the glamour and spirit of / ' the annual feud.
Off-Campus 7, Walsh 0
A beautiful pass from Kozak to Crosley in the last half minute of play in the second period, netted Off-Campus a touchdown and victory over Walsh. The ball had barely crossed the uprights for the extra point when . the whistle blew, ending the period.
Walsh came back strong early in the second half and made three successive first downs. This march was stopped, ' however, when Doyle intercepted a Walsh pass. The losers never-threatened thereafter.
Bill Walsh’s defensive play was outstanding for the winners while O’Connor and Jane played best for the losers.
The line-up:
Off-Campus	Walsh
Eminger	RE	Frye
Walsh	RT	Derby
Otte	RG	Bergan
Hall	C	McManus
Wallace	LG	Sullivan
Friel	LT	Kerrigan
Crosley	LE	Meyers
Crooks	QB	Blument
Stowell	RH	Jane
Kozak	LH	Davis
Doyle	FB	O’Connor
Score by periods:
Off-Campus ...............0
Walsh ....................0
7	0	0—7
0	0	0—0
Howard 0, Freshman 0
In a rather slow and uninteresting-game, Howard and Freshman played to a scoreless tie Sunday morning in their annual grudge battle. For the second consecutive year the teams entered the fray knowing that a victory would bring the “Freshman Championship” to their hall, and for the second time in two years, the game resulted in a tie. Last year the game was also to determine the champion of Division II. As most of us remember, Howard finally won out, 18-0, in the third meeting of the two teams, the second resulting in another tie.	’
In Sunday’s game, both teams threatened repeatedly but neithei-possessed sufficient punch to put it over. Shortly before the first half ended Howard started a strong drive down the field but the Frosh stopped
it short on the 25-yard line. Freshman was in a similar position when the game ended.
The playing of McCarty and Poynton in the backfield, and Polito in the line stood out for Freshman, while Garrity and La Roux were best for Howard.
The line-up:			
Freshman Stechschulte	LE		Howard Gaul
Lang	LT		Mavies
Polito	LG		Uhlrick
Majur	C		Maroney
Newhoff	RG		O’Neil
Huen	RT		LaRoux
Cummings	RE		O’Hara
Poyton	QB.		Lopowski
McCarty	LH		Reese
Malfrejot	RH		Garrity
Rowen	FB		Moller
Score by periods: Freshman 			...0	0	0	0—0
Howard 			..0	0	0	0—0
Brownson 14, Carroll 0
Brownson won the championship of the Main Building Sunday with a 14-0 victory over Carroll on the Varsity practice field. The game was loose and uninteresting, and was marred by excessive and unnecessary arguing between officials and players. The game was not a typical Brownson-Carroll contest. Those who saw that unforgettable 24-19 Carroll victory last year and then watched the exhibition given by these two teams
ezj Granada Theatre osj
RIO - RITA
RADIO-PICTURE’S EIGHTH WONDER OF THE SHOW WORLD — FROM ZIEGFELD’S MUSICAL COMEDY — ENHANCED WITH NEW SONGS, NEW SCENES, AND NEW SPLENDOR—	-
BEBE DANIELS
JOHN BOLES, DOROTHY LEE and
5000-- OTHERS --5000
SEE THE ENDLESS PROCESSION OF ZIEGFELD’S GLORIFIED GIRLS—AN ASTOUNDING COMBINATION OF MUSIC, COLOR AND SONG.
Starts Saturday, Nov. 9th—For One Entire Week
248
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Sunday could not but be disappointed.
The playing of Thompson of Brownson, alone, stood out. Early in the third quarter, the elusive little Brownson halfback, intercepted a Carroll pass and scampered 35 yards for the initial score of the game. On the next kick-off, a Carroll man fumbled and was downed behind his own goal line for a safety. In the fourth quarter Thompson took it upon himself to strengthen his team’s lead. He caught a punt on the Carroll 45-yard line and returned it, a la Carideo, for the second and. final score of the game.
Malone stood out as the best
ground-gainer	of	Carroll’s	rather
weak offense.			
The line-up:			
Brownson			Carroll
Scannell	LE		Gausselin
Osborn	LT		Rapier
McCue	LG		Jacobson
Enright	C		Quinn
Friehill	RG		Van Allen
Coyle	RT		Cusano
Marek	RE		Solm
O’Donnell	QB		Curran
Thompson	LH		Malone
Hennifin	RH		LeCompte
Morrow	FB		Rodderig
Score by periods:			
Brownson 			...0	0	S 6—14
Carroll 			...0	0	0	0—0
Sophomore 13, Lyons 0
With Capter playing a steady game
at fullback Sophomore hall’s squad scored two touchdowns against Lyons’ hall team last Sunday to win 13-0. Sophomore has not been scored upon this season, but was tied in one game.
Capter made both of the touchdowns for Sophomore and succeeded in smashing his way through the line for the extra point. Sophomore, threatened to score in the second period when they possessed the ball on Lyons’ eight yard line. The very astute referee obligingly penalized Sophomore 15 yards for backfield in motion.
The ball was again worked into scoring position and Capter tore through the line for the first counter a few minutes before the half ended. He converted by hitting the line. Score 7-0.
In the third quarter Sophomore intercepted a Lyons pass on the latter’s 30-yard line and forced their-way to the goal through straight football. Conti’s kick for the extra point was wide.	.	.
Capter was the outstanding player of the game, gaining consistently when called upon.
The line-up:
Sopiiojiore	Lyons
Conally	LE	Woods
Riley	LT	Matthews
Bender	LG	Hipps
McCarthy	C	Kenny
Hamilton	RG	Caswick
Garlanger	JIT	Armstrong
O’Brien	RE	Luckett
Smirthwaite	QB	Hoff
McCabe	RH	Coyne
LaGura	LH	Mangan
Capter	FB	Cummings
Score by periods:
Sophomore ..............0 7 6 0—13
Lyons ...................0	0 0 0— 0
Corby 6, St. Edward’s 0
After fighting up-hill for the major portion of the game, St. Edward’s hall team came within an ace of either tying or whipping Corby’s representatives Sunday when a completed pass good for 50 yards put the St. Edward’s lads in a position to score in the dying moments of the game.
Corby scored in the second period when Rahaim tossed a 20-yard pass over the goal.line to McDonald. The drop-kick for point after touchdown was blocked. The ball had previously been fumbled by a St. Edward’s back on the 20-yard line.
With three minutes to go in the
(Continued on Page 250)
| Shoes for the |
I Occasion	I
I	...	I
. IN BLACK PATENT	I
i	OR	I
SOFT DULL CALF	1
❖ ❖ ❖	i
|	WALK-OVER	|
|	Shoe Store	j
|	111 S. MICHIGAN	j
I THE SOUTH BEND	j
| CLEARING HOUSE BANKS	|
E	--0--- 1
j Union Trust j
I	Company	I
I	—0—	I
I	INVITES THE ACCOUNTS	I
|	OF NOTRE DAME MEN	I
|	—o—	|
I JEFFERSON & MICHIGAN J
QHaaaaaaaBitiiaaaBaiaaBaaaaaaaaaaaaBmMia'iaaaaiaBBaatiitaBaaaaaBiiiaaaaaiaaauiBaaaaiaBBiBiaiaaaiaaaiaiaaaaaaiHaaQ
The Notre Dame Scholastic
249
* FILES OF THE SCHOLASTIC * ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ »:• ❖
MARCH 2, 1878	’
Soft and moist weather was what we had at the close of last week (even in ’78!).
The Philopatricians are all learning to fence, as each one hopes to get the fencing part in their play.
’ The Juniors are grateful inasmuch as the benches in the center of their play hall have been removed .
MARCH 25, 1873
The Minim graduate has arrived.
On account of the rusting of the tin which for many years has protected the dome, it has been painted red as a groundwork, and is to be painted so as to resemble a marble dome.
The students spend their recreation days either by taking long walks in the country or fishing. Quoiting was in vogue sometime since, but we have not seen much of it of late.
Straw hats are in style.
DECEMBER 17, 1870
The bulletins were sent home to parents this week (back in ’70 too).
Last year the Minims ran a pig to death and were mulcted _$20 for damage done to his hogship and Herr butcher, whose culinary plans were thwarted thereby. This year, they caused to be ruptured one of the Senior refectory cars, loaded at that time with a precious freight of earthenware, at a loss of ?50.
The Senior students, appreciating the advantages and pleasures derived from Professor Iver’s instructions, have commenced a new dancing class.
Qiiiimtittitttiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitistniitiiniiiiiitiiiiiiittiiiitiiiiintititiitiiiitinniitiiittiuitiiiiitfa]
i	HELLO MEN!	I
SMITH’S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of . Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING	|
SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP	|
West Washington Ave.	j
isiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiitmitiiit iiiiiittiiiinHiiiitnuiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuQ
[ For school supplies	j
and	i
appropriate reading material |
j	patronize	]
| The Book Shop |
|	119 North Michigan St.	1
tllllillll tilllllllllliUt lllllllllllllllillllllllllllllilllllllllllilllllimuilllllllllll till
j Notre Dame I
1	vs.	1
|	Drake	J
i If you cannot attend the game you | | can get a play by play report in the ' | | News-Times “Pink” Football Extra, i | containing final scores of all games; on | | the street Saturday night at 7 o’clock. |
I	THE .	I
I NEWS - TIMES I
250
The Notre Dame Scholastic
(Continued from Page 248)
|he Profs voice	won’t
drone off into nowhere when you’re fortified with a breakfast of SHREDDED WHEAT, the food that imparts pep and lets your mind focus on the subject in hand.
Shredded Wheats?
All the bran off the whole wheat
last half McDevitt of St. Edward’s passed to Gleason, who sped down the field until he was stopped, on the & yard line. Line plunges were then in order and the ball was finally planted on the one yard strip, fourth down and one minute to play. A frantic effort to push the sphere across the line failed and St. Edward’s lost the ball on downs with one foot to go. The game ended before Corby could kick out of danger.
Reaume of St. Edward’s and Ra-haim of Corby stood out on the offense. Both teams played well and were quite evenly matched.
The line-up:		
Corby		St. Edward’s
McDonald	LE	Citro
Fisher	LT	Conaton
Biebel .	LG	Grocziki
Taeckens	C	Emmerich
Waassel	RG	Norris
Moran	RT	Dyniewicz.
Spleen	RE	Czara
Rahaim	QB	Reaume
Cooney	RH	Oelerich
Rudolph	LH	Kennedy
McGlone	FB	Gleason
Score by periods:		
Corby 			..0	6	0	0—6
St. Edward’s 			. .0	0	0	0—0
Nunn-Bush cdnkle-FashionedOjcfords qou can see and feel the difference
The Interhall' Standing, including games played Sunday, November 3, is as follows:
Ankle-Fashioning, exclusive with Nunn-Bush, eliminates unsightly gapping at the ankle and uncomfortable slipping at the heel. Result: Nunn-Bush oxfords look better and feel better. ~	~	~
Group I
	Won Lost		Tie	Pct.
Sophomore	3	0	1	1.000
Morrissey	3	1	0	.775
Corby	2	1	1	.666
Lyons	1	2	1	.333
St. Edward’s	0	3	1	-00G
KLINGEL’S MENS’ SHOE SHOP 112 NORTH MAIN ST.

Group II
	Won Lost	Tie	Pct.
Off-Campus	3	0	1	1.000
Walsh	2	1	1	.666
Freshman	2	1	1	.666
Howard	1 1	2	.500
Brownson	1	2	1	.333
Carroll	0	4	0	.000
IOWA RESERVES HERE FOR 1
TUSSLE TOMORROW ’
Patronize the SCHOLASTIC advertisers
The Notre Dame reserves will be divided into two divisions tomorrow with one section playing the second home game of the current season on Cartier Field with a reserve team of Iowa Cornhuskers. The whistle will be blown for the start of the contest at 2 o’clock tomorrow. Admission will be by presentation of A. A. books.
Reserves Go to Muncie
The second section of the reserves will trek to Muncie, Indiana, where they will meet the Ball Teacher’s College varsity in the annual contest. Ball Teacher’s College has on its lineup a number of formidable players and are expected to give the Fighting Irish a stiff battle.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
251
RESERVES TROUNCE GOPHER “B” TEAM, 13-0
Following the Minnesota-Indiana game in Minneapolis last Saturday, the Notre Dame reserve team took the field against the Minnesota reserves and whipped that aggregation 13-0. Notre Dame scored in the second quarter when Lyons, Notre Dame guard, blocked a Gopher kick and Host, Fighting Irish end, fell on the oval behind the goal line for a touchdown.
Notre Dame Passes Completed
The Fighting Irish tallied again in the third quarter after Host received a pass that put the ball in scoring distance on the three-yard line. From that point, Kremer, fullback, smashed through the line to score. O’Brien then kicked goal for the last point of the game.
The Notre Dame reserves made 11 first downs to three for Minnesota, completely outplaying the Gopher squad. Notre Dame also completed five out of eight passes that were attempted while the opposition failed to complete any.
Due mainly to the excellent punting of Cronin, the Minnesota team was unable to have possession of the ball past the centei’ of the field at any time.
The last half of the contest was played with the use of a floodlight and a “ghost” ball. It was novel to the Notre Dame reserves, but the caliber of the Notre Dame performance in the second half was much higher than that displayed in the first two periods.
IN CHICAGO AFTER THE GAME I’LL SEE YOU AT
FRIDAY NITE IS COLLEGE NITE FREE DRINKS
All the Ginger Ale, Soft Drinks, Ice, etc. you can consume—Spend the entire evening for $1.10 per person.
Don’t Miss Bert Kelly’s Stables
Demand a mirror . ♦. don’t hesitate!
CHOOSE your pipes as you do your hats—try ’em on. See how they look.
How a pipe feels is your worry—but how a pipe looks is a matter of community concern. A bulldog pipe in a greyhound face would sear the souls of one’s remotest associates. One owes one’s duty . . .
The tobacco, now, is your personal business entirely. Take no man’s preference—find your own.
Here’s Edgeworth, a good old burley graduated with the Class of ’04. Like to meet Edgeworth at our expense? See the coupon? Fill it out, and soon thereafter the postman will bring you—these magic mails!—a neat little glad-to-meet-you packet of the real, the genuine, the good, the unchanging Edgeworth . . . Don’t mention it! The trick is you’ll be buying Edgeworth later!
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos—selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor never change. Buy it anywhere—“Ready Rubbed” or “Plug Slice”— 151 pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
| Larus 8s Bro. Co., Richmond, Va.	1
{I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it । । in a good pipe.	.	।
I ,____________________________________________{
I	(Witness my seal)	।
I _____________________________________________ ]
|	(and my seat of learning)	I
I	.	|
I	(and my postoffice and state)	!
I Now let the Edgeworth come!	V ।
CHEWING GUM
With an exclusive flavor that’s refreshing and lasting. Save the wrappers. See inside for list of premiums.
VAL BLATZ BREWING CO.
MILWAUKEE, WIS.
SAWYER'S Rainwear FROG BRAND SLICKERS
SAWYER’S Frog Brand Slickers havcestab-libhcda lasting reputation on the campus among v.ell-drc$>cd college men and uumen tobcre rain garments of good appearance as toell as long life are o-?ential.
Sawyer slickers are all good-looking. roomy, MclI-cul garments, guaranteed to keep you absolutely dry and v»arm and are to be had lined or unlincd. buttons- or clasps os you prefer, in a wide variety of styles for every purpose. our choice of colors- Shops every* uhcre carry them.
H. M. SAWYER & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE, 2=^-----------MASS.
Ogun •
■w>orb. N.Y Chicago. !1L	S’. Louts. Mo Im AtMOoto-Trsa*
i Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741 |
]	Dr. Leo J. Quinlan	I
I DENTIST I
E	514 J. M. S. Building	1
b South Bend, Ind. |
Qaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaat.1
252
The Notre Dame Scholastic

QiiitttittiHiiiMiiiiiiinsiiniiisiiiiMissmsiisiHiisJiiiissiiMitsiiisitssiuiiiiistiuiiiiiiiifistsisiiiiiiiirQ
BY KUPPENHEIMER
Good Football | ^Feather |
You’ll want to look your best, too, for there = are many critical eyes that follow you to your = seat in the stadium. Ruings Ruffels, a new 1 O’coat by Kuppenheimer, would be just the 9 coat. It’s smartly styled and remarkably = light for giving such snug warmth. Obtained = only at this store.	=
other overcoats $35. to $125.	j
Juitingdbw	|
GOOD CLOTHES FOB~| UNIVERSITY MEN I
❖ SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX ❖ i
.>	BY H. A. S. JR.	❖
The Yale-Dartmouth game of last Saturday was unique in more respects than one. Not only did the underdog win, and the traditional substitute score the winning touchdown . on the equally traditional long run, but Alton Kimball Marsters, the Green Ghost of Dartmouth, had one of the ] greatest five minutes any football player has had since the Great Grange had his field day against Michigan. In five 3 minutes the elusive Marsters turned in two touchdowns, ; both of which were directly attributable to him although he ■ only scored one of them, and both of them were earned.
But possibly the most remarkable feature of the game,	:
which was easily the best played last Saturday, was the	;
fact that Yale, the ultimate winner, outplayed Dartmouth ; for fifty minutes of the game, and yet had to depend on breaks to score twelve of her points, whereas Dartmouth, outplayed most of the way, earned all of her twelve points. And so, as the mists gathered over New Haven last Saturday evening, an even darker mist of a decidedly indigo hue hung ovex- Hanover, for the Blue jinx still holds sway, and Dartmouth has yet to beat Yale after many, many years ; of football games.	.
From now on the upsets will start to occur; even last Saturday was not entirely free of them. California beating Southern California, Chicago taking Princeton, and Penn trimming Navy may all be classed as upsets.
Two big intersectional games will hold the spotlight tomorrow, with Harvard treking West to meet Michigan in the continuation of their old rivalry, and the Army storming Bob Zuppke’s stronghold at Illinois. Harvard and Illinois will be the favorites because of their superior lines, but with the numerous factors that enter into all intersectional games it is quite possible that again the underdogs may come through.
.Gene Howery’s performance last Saturday in beating Sivak of Butler in the Notre Dame-Butler x-country meet, stamps the lean sophomore as a potentially great runner. Sivak has been one of the leading distance runners of the West for years, despite the fact that he is only a sophomore at Butler.
WE NOMINATE FOR THE HALL OF FAME—
Albert Edward Booth, a sophomore at Yale University, affectionately known as Albie, who, although only weighing some 144 pounds, bids fair to be one of the greatest backs that ever wore the Blue, who last Saturday scored his 38th . consecutive point of the season when he drop-kicked a field goal in the opening quarter of the Yale-Dartmouth game, who is one of the outstanding backs of the season, but who, most of all, is a leader and an inspiration, for this diminui-tive firebrand not only rises to the heights himself, but possesses that rare quality of being able to inspire others to do likewise.
Speaking of great backs: Marsters, Booth, Uansa and Hewitt seem to be about the best in the East; while Elder, Harmeson, and Van Nice seem to be the cream of the West. But this is almost entirely on running ability alone. One would have to go a long way to find a better blocking and tackling back than Brill. Then, too, McEvers of Tennessee seems to be good as anything in the country.
Last Saturday gave us eight victories and a tie out of tweve games picked thus far. Saturday we pick Pennsylvania to beat Penn State, Georgia Tech to beat Vanderbilt, and Michigan to upset Harvard.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	253
SOPHOMORE HALL WINS CROSS-COUNTRY MEET
Sophomore Hall emerged victorious in the annual Inter-hall cross-country meet last Sunday morning, when their harriers scored a total of 27 points. Freshman was second with 43 points and Brownson third with 48.
Grimes, Off-Campus, Is First
Grimes, plucky Off-Campus runner,
crossed the finish line first in the remarkable time of 10:24 for the two mile jaunt. He was followed by Rusnak, of Walsh, MacBeth, of Freshman, and Miller, of Sophomore, in that order.
Following Miller, the Sophomore men who counted in the point scoring for their teams were: Lane in the sixth place, Kennedy in eighth, Kuhn in ninth, and Hausman in thirteenth.
Freshman and Sophomore Tie
In a previous meet, Freshman Hall scored an easy triumph and chalked up five points towards the championship trophy. Sophomore’s victory last Sunday created a tie between the two teams and a dual meet to decide the championship is to be run in the near-future.
254
The Notre Dame Scholastic
$10.00 Men’s Blue Corduroy Sheeplined Coats
$7.93
Men’s great warm sheeplined coats, with Beaverized collar, 36-in. long, with belt. A splendid coats for all occasions. Sizes 38 to 48.

U. S. Army Style DOUBLE- SOLED Field-Shoes Rivited Vamps $3.65
Sizes 6 to 11 Boys’ Sizes
2 to 5
$2.98


CREAM, BLUE OR BROWN CORDUROY PANTS $2.95 and up
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street
i iiiiiitn if iiiiiitun.tint.iinuiiiiiiiiiiuu
Royal | Portables I
Are The Best |
THE	I
OFFICE ENGINEERS I 126-128 S. Main St.	I
B.
YOU WILL BE GLAD
YOU WILL PROFIT!
You transferred and broke away from the circular beaten path leading only to school and back.
SELLING AT RETAIL
Watches
Rings
Jewelry
Silverware
Picture frames
Toilet sets.
Ask the conductor to let you off at the Watch Company.
Profit doubly, by spending the few minutes to ride the extra distance from the business district.
SELLING AT RETAIL
Leather goods
Luggage
Radios
Furniture
Gifts
Novelties.
It costs no more to come to this store than to go into town.
And you save!
Store Hours 8 until 6 Saturday until 9
South Bend Watch Company 1720 Mishawaka	•! Ci	South Bend, -
Avenue £\£ldll	Indiana
Plenty of Parking Space No Time Limit
The Notre Dame Scholastic
* I I I I I I I II I I I I I II I I I I I I * | On Down the Line | ❖ I I 11111 111111111111111 ❖
. . . George Washington University’s backfield is composed of a Chinese, an Indian, a Greek and a Jew ... We pity the team if the Ori-7 ental barks the signals . . . Sunday golf has been banned on the municipal links of Portsmouth, England . . . Four captains perform on the Penn State football team this season . . . They head the varsity basketball, ' boxing, golf and football squads . . .
. . . Betty Nuthall, the British tennis star, started training under her father’s tutelage at the age of 7 . . . Kid Chocolate, the Cuban boxer, carries knockout drops in both hands
‘	... He’s put to sleep 66 opponents
with the right and 61 with the left mitt . . . Penn State student athletic passes bear photographs of their owners this year . . . which eliminates much “gate crashing” . . .
. . . Bogoljubow and Alekhine are . merely names of chess players . . .
Football players’ names are bad enough but we never want to choose an All-somewhere team for chess . . . The best season’s average by any big league pitcher is held by Smoky Joe Wood . ’. . He won 34 games and lost five for the Red Sox in 1912 . . . The fastest dog up to 100 yards is the whippet . . . the greyhound is swifter for long distances . . .
. . . University of Michigan is just completing a new golf links covering
i 140 acres ... In and around New York City there are about 32,200 motor boats . . . And they can’t all be pleasure craft, either . .. The playing field in the new Hawkeye stadium is 30 feet below the level of the surrounding earth . . . The Military x Academy regards Polo as the most important game there ... It is only sport played the whole year round . . .
. . . Don’t attempt to try this—but an old custom at the University of Washington is that a hose be shoved down the pants of the football captain . . . this is done at the first training session and the water is then turned on full force . . . The crowd passes the hat whenever a baseball player- makes a home run in the Southwestern league .. .
Ready-made	•
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
(Charter Mouse
Suits *40, *45, *50 Overcoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE (Jhurter Mouse
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA The character of the suits and overcoats tailored by Charter House	i
will earn your most sincere liking.	‘
MAX ADLER
On the Corner
Inc.
Michigan and Washington

Phone 3-1254
Drs. Sing! er & Probst
DENTISTS
261 Associates Bldg.
256
The Notre Dame Scholastic
^^£4*54
ijiS-Kcag!
Daniel Hays Gloves

VARSITY HARRIERS DEFEAT BUTLER
The plucky Blue and Gold harriers of Notre Dame gave Butler University an unexpected setback last Saturday afternoon when they defeated them by a score of 24-31. The meet was the only home appearance of the cross-country team this year and was the first to be run over the new University cross-country course.
Howery Leads Runners
Gene Howery, one of Notre Dame’s brilliant sophomore stars, crossed the finish line first in the five mile event in 25 minutes and 55 seconds. Joe Sivak, Butler captain and one of the best distance men in this part of the country, was next to count and he was closely followed by Alex Wilson, of Notre Dame. Cavanaugh took fifth place, Biggins, sixth, and McConville, ninth for Notre Dame Captain Joe Quigley, of Notre Dame, suffered a recurrence of the injury he received last Saturday in the Michigan State meet, and probably will be out for the remainder of the season.
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
OLDER PEOPLE often think that college life is one of easy lolling around. You know better. You know that the steady grind of classes and outside activities takes every ounce of energy you have.
Keep fit if you expect to keep it up! Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN will prevent constipation, the cause of most ill health. Two tablespoonfuls eaten every day will keep you strictly regular. It’s guaranteed. ALL-BRAN is a pure, wholesome cereal, delicious with milk or cream, mixed with other cereals, or with fruit or honey added. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or. favorite campus restaurant.
1¥all-bran
Meet Indiana Tomorrow
Tomorrow the harriers will go to Bloomington, Indiana, to meet the strong Indiana University runners in the last dual meet of the season. Indiana seems to have a strong team year in and year out and this season is no exception. Headed by Banks and Clapham, they will present a fast, well-balanced squad.
Experiment. With WWAppe&ratice
The Notre Dame Scholastic
257
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
259
G^alqreeitG*

50,000 Husky Voices
Rah! Rah! Rah 1 Ra-a-h-h 1
Come on you Fighting Irish - - -
At’a Boy-----Get that Man!
Hurrah! Another Touch-Down. Whoopee! !
All yelling and hollering for victory -
50,000 Husky Voices—And Husky Voices they are— but what do they care—after the game down they go to Walgreen’s where they soothe those husky voices with a famous DoubF Rich Chocolate Malt. Its rich creamy thickness and mild bittersweet chocolate flavor not only soothes the tiled throats, but leaves a lingering pleasing taste—“Man they are good” ! !
II DRUGS WITH A REPUTATION s
4 4 Where Good Fellows Gather ’9

260
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Knute K. Rockne