i
w norra otk	!
SCHOLASTIC
WOT W HEWS [TOM :
VERY REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C. To Preside at Monday Meeting
(Story on Page Three)
IN THIS ISSUE ...
ANTI-COMMUNISM MEETING VARSITY DEBATERS CHOSEN U. THEATER NAMES CAST
BENGAL BOUT PLANS NETTERS MEET PENN SYRACUSE TROUNCED
THE WEEK
SPLINTERS FROM PRESS BOX INTRODUCING
JANUARY 22. 1937
?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
President
REMINDER • . . Safety, like charity, must begin at home if patrons are to be protected in their lives and property. I am especially proud of the fact that thousands of Illinois Central supervisory employes hold cards testifying to years of clear safety records for the men under their direction.
Emblem »f
UNCEASING CARE
"Long life and prosperity!" That is the toast of the New Year. And it is the toast of our American railroads, for—factors other than transportation being equal—their travelers live the longest and their shippers suffer the least from loss and damage. • That well-known motto "Safety First!"is derived from the opening rule in the book of railway operation: "Safety is of the first importance in the discharge of duty." • Railway safety is enhanced by strong track, automatic train control, electric block signals, improved braking, special safeguards on trains, constant inspection and repair of equipment, constant schooling of the men at work. • As a result, on the travel side alone, 99 of the 142 principal American railroads recently completed 15 years with not a passenger fatality in a train accident—this despite the movement annually of hundreds of millions of passengers billions of
miles. The Illinois Central is now in its ninth consecutive year of similar safety to passengers. • Protection of freight, as measured by claim payments, is likewise at a high standard, the loss declining in recent yearsto considerably less than a dollar per revenue car.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL SYSTEM
—-----AN INDIANA RAILROAD---
The Notre Dame Scholastic
■	Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 70
January 22, 1937
No. 13
JUNIORS TO CHOOSE BERNIE CUMMINS
OR NICHOLS
•
By John Callaghan
William Branigan, general chairman of the Junior Prom, which is to be held on Friday night, Feb. 5, at the Palais Royale, announced this week that the choice of orchestra has been reduced to two—Bernie Cummins and “Red” Nichols, and that one of these will take the stand on that night.
Bernie Cummins is well known here since he played at the Prom last year. After leaving the Stevens Hotel, where he was playing last winter, he began a year’s engagement at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. On the coast he made new additions to his band, and now all advance publicity points to the fact that he has been chosen number one band of the west. Cummins is now completing his engagement at the Palace and is swinging his band on a tour through the east.
The torrid trumpet of “Red” Nichols, “waiting to the four winds,” has long been a favorite of dance lovers, and he has been a top-notch performer ever since he and his now famous Pennies brought a new rhythm to the dance world. Originally only five men, his organization has broadened out and has grown better with each addition.
He has been featured at the Ambassador Hotel in Atlantic City, the Park Central Hotel, New York, Lakeside Park, Denver, and in every current show on Broadway for the past three years. Sandwiched in between these engagements and making records for every phonograph company, he has aired his famous trumpet over WTAM, in Cleveland, and .both of the large broadcasting chains.
Chairman of the Decorations Committee, Thomas J. Radigan, has been working on a novel idea for the decorations and plans have been progressing rapidly. He also wishes to announce a plea to all Juniors for the loan of N. D. blankets and banners.
The time of the dance has been set at 9:30 p.m., and dancing will continue until 1:30 a.m.
(Continued on Page 22)	■
KEY MEETING IN GYMNASIUM MONDAY NIGHT AS ALUMNI PUSH NATION-WIDE DRIVE AGAINST COMMUNIST FORCES
Nation wide attention will be focused on the gymnasium Monday night when students and alumni of this area convene at 7:30 p.m.‘ in the key meeting of the alumni anti-Communism drive.
The Very Rev. John F. O’Hara,
Sebastian Bonet Has Information First-Hand.
Semester Examinations Start January 28
•
Semester examinations in all colleges of the University will be held from Thursday, Jan. 28 through Monday, Feb. 1, according to the following schedule released this week from the Director of Studies’ office:
Classes taught at 8:00 on Monday 9:00 on Monday 10:00 on Monday 11:00 on Monday
1:15 on Monday 2:15 on Monday 3:15 on Monday
Classes taught at 8:00 on Tuesday 9:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Tuesday 11:00 on Tuesday
1:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday
Examination at 8:00 on Friday 8:00 on Monday 10:00 on Friday 10:00 on Monday 1:15 on Friday 3:15 on Friday 1:15 on Monday
Examination at 8:00 on Thursday 8:00 on Saturday 10:00 on Thursday 10:00 on Saturday 1:15 on Thursday 3:15 on Thursday 3:15 on Monday
Registration for the second semester classes will be on Tuesday, Feb. 2 and classes will begin on Wednesday, Feb. 3.
C.S.C., president of the University will .j, preside at the session and will introduce several notable speakers including The Rt. Rev. Monsignor Thomas Shannon of Chicago, formerly editor of the New World, diocesan publication of Chicago. Monsignor Shannon has been widely read as an outstanding Catholic writer and editor and has made many platform appearances in the mid-west.
Arthur J. Hughes, Ph.B., ’ll, LL.B., ’17, national president of the Notre Dame Alumni association, will deliver one of the principal addresses of the evening. The anti-Communism drive of the Alumni association was first started after President Hughes returned from an audience with His Holiness Pope Pius XI last summer. Since that time President Hughes has appeared before many alumni clubs, civic organizations and student groups throughout the country pointing out the need of active battle against Communistic principles and activities.
Sebastian Bonet, law student from Barcelona, Spain, will be, the only student speaker. Bonet will describe conditions in Spain which led up to the roaring conflict now ripping the country. He was in Spain last summer and narrowly missed conscription into the fighting forces. On his return here in September, Bonet, in a radio interview, gave some brief sketches of the Spanish war.
The- S.A.C., under President Philip Bondi, is in charge of student participation in the Monday night meeting. Bondi said this week: “This is the first real opportunity afforded the student body to take active part in this drive—we hope every student will attend the meeting to enroll in' the battle.”
The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley is the alumni unit actively arranging and participating in the session. President Louis F. Buckley is handling arrangements for the graduates of this area.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
CAST CHOSEN FOR "WHISTLING IN THE DARK"
DILLON WHIPS SORIN
TO STAR JOHN E. BRASSELL IN LEAD, CIOLINO GIVEN FEMININE ROLE
TO ENTER FINAL HALL DEBATE
By Richard Riley
The part of Wallace Porter, leading character in the theatrical production ‘‘Whistling in the Dark” will be played by John E. Brassell of Taunton, Mass. Ernest Truex, well-known actor, played this part in the original production of this play shown at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre in New York City.
Frank Ciolino of Greenville, Miss.,
will play the difficult feminine role of
John Brassell
Toby Van Buren, “a lovely, gay little thing of 20.” This part was originally played by Claire Trevor, glamorous screen and theatre star. The other feminine part, that of Hilda, a dope fiend, will be played by Paul Lenihan.
In an attempt to
follow in the steps of Edward Ar
nold, star of many theatrical productions, who originally played this part, George McDermott will take the part of Jake Dillon, “the Boss” of the
gangsters. “Benny,” his body guard, will be James Sweeney, and “The Cossack,” his chauffeur and constant companion, will be represented by Merril Mulready.
Other members of the gang include Slim Scanlon, shifty-eyed killer, just imported from Detroit; Herman Lefkowitz, dapper Jewish dope peddler; and Charlie Shaw, quiet killer type. These parts will be taken by Jack Scott, James Brown, and George Morris respectively.
The production which is in its second week of rehearsals is progressing rapidly, and the first of its three acts is nearly perfected.
Set Deadline
Editor Tom Radigan announced this week that all Senior pictures for the Dome must be taken before 5:00 o’clock next Wednesday, Feb. 27. This is absolutely the deadline for all pictures. This is especially directed toward the law students who haven’t as yet returned their proofs or had their picture taken.
Dr. Roderick Peattie, of the geography deparmen a Ohio State University, has drawn plans for the construction of a model of the university campus intended to aid blind students in determining the location of the various buildings.
Second Issue of "Scrip" To Appear Next Week;
Honors Chesterton
Notre Dame’s literary periodical, Scrip, will make its second appearance of the year on campus next Friday, Jan. 29. Editor Philip Welsh announced early this week that he would appreciate any literary contributions from the general student body. These can be used, and may be published depending on their merit.	.
This second issue of Scrip will contain the literary contributions of Charles B. Nelson, John M. Broderick, and others. Nelson’s “Morning,” appearing in the first publication, was one of those pieces more favorably commented upon, as was “Some Things Are Ugly” by Broderick.
The fine cinema review feature, it is hoped, will be continued, especially as it was received so well by the student body. The popular “Freshman Sketches will be continued. These sketches are taken from Freshman work submitted in English courses.
Much space will be devoted in this coming issue to Gilbert Keith Chesterton, brilliant convert to Catholicism, and writer. Chesterton’s autobiography is to be reviewed, as are some of his other works.
Scene From “The World Waits” Last. Year
By Graham Starr
The Dillon interhall debating team moved into the final brackets of the interhall skirmishes last Friday evening, when it crushed Sorin, negative, the only team left in the juniorsenior division. The Rev. Philip S.
Moore, C.S.C., instructor in mediaeval studies, was judge of the debate. •
At the final debate at St. Mary’s College on Thursday evening, Feb. 18, Dillon will meet Morrissey, winner of the freshman-sophomore division, George Morris, chairman of the tournament announced this week. Since both teams were affirmative, a coin was tossed. Morrissey lost, so it will defend the negative side.
The debate, judged by Mr. William J. Coyne, associate professor of speech and varsity debate coach, should prove highly interesting, inasmuch as both contenders have survived the entire season without a defeat. .
Edward McDonough, of Parkersburg, W. Va., will lead the Dillon squad against its opponents, headed by Thomas P. Mulligan, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio.
Thomas Funk, of Anderson, Ind., and Richard Foley, of Detroit, Mich., complete the Dillon roster, while Maurice-J. Murphy, of Sumner, Iowa, and John J. Wintermeyer, of Kitchener, Ont., make up the rest of the Morrissey team. Wranglers James K. Nerney, of Attleboro, Mass., and Pierre de la Vergne, of New Orleans, La., are coaches of Dillon and Morrissey, respectively.
The question debated is: “Resolved, that the extension of consumers’ cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.”
The defeated Sorin team, composed of W. Redman Duggan, Carl Doozan, and John F. McNeill, was coached by Richard H. Meier. •
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
5
NEW ACADEMIC PRIZE IS MEMORIAL TO
CHESTERTON
•
A new scholastic award, the Chesterton Medal, will be given for excellence in the field of Apologetics it was announced this week by Rev, J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. This award is in memory of
NINE CHOSEN FOR VARSITY DEBATE SQUAD; MARBACH. SCHMELZLE, MEIER NUCLEUS OF TEAM; HARD SCHEDULE SET
By Robert McClain
From a group of twenty-two students, nine candidates were selected this week by Prof. William J. Coyne, varsity debate coach, to complete the varsity debate squad. The varsity question is, “Resolved Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry.”
The Late G. K. Chesterton His Name on New Medal.
the late G. K. Chesterton, eminent convert and apologist, whose association with Notre Dame, and in other ways, is one of the most treasured traditions of the University.
The Chesterton Medal is to be awarded on the combined results of an examination and an essay. The examination, which will be held early in March, will consist of questions in the field of practical apologetics similar to the ones that appeared in the Daily Religious Bulletin last fall. Copies of the particular Bulletins may be consulted in the reference room of the University library.
The subject of the essay is: “The Approach to Non-Catholic Youth.” The essay, consisting of not more than 1500 words, is to be submitted on three well-typed copies, on bond paper, of size 8i/> by 11 inches, to Father Carrico, not later than March 1. Competitors .'are expected to do some research among non-Catholic friends, with a view to discovering their attitude toward the- Church, and their reaction to arguments in favor of the Church.
Any student, graduate or undergraduate, registered at the University in the second semester of 193637 is eligible for competition in the contest. The committee of judges, will comprise members of the faculty. Final judgment on the examination papers and the essays will be by Mr. Arnold Lunn. Mr. Lunn is giving autographed copies of his books to the student who do the best examination papers in their respective classes, the graduate, the senior, the junior, the sophomore, and the freshman. .	.
DUALISM BASE OF U.S.
POLITICAL SYSTEM SAYS MERCIER
•
American political philosophy, on which is based the only political system which is working well today, has its roots in the Catholic philosophical system of dualism, in the opinion of Professor Louis Mercier, who spoke Thursday night in the engineering building auditorium at the University.
According to Dr. Mercier, this philosophical system is defended today only by Catholic philosophers and by a few fundamentalists outside the Catholic church. He pointed out that the Constitution and our* entire form of government is based on the premise that man is endowed with certain inalienable rights given to him by God at the moment of his creation.
Professor Mercier, a recognized authority on the philosophy of New Humanism, condemned John Dewey, npted American philosopher, and his followers who call themselves “religious humanists.” He cited the manifesto of the “religious humanists,” which is signed by Professor Dewey, Professor Henry L. Barnes and others as a catechism of monist philosophy.
One of the principles of the “religious humanists” is that the universe is self-existing and not created by God; and that man is only a part of nature.
“Professor Dewey,” declared Professor Mercier, “would not have been able to sign the Declaration of Independence because it says that man has certain inalienable rights given to him by God; and Professor Dewey doesn’t believe in God.”
He declared that the government of other* nations is in a shaky condition today because the rulers have forsaken the political philosophy which holds the inalienable rights of man sacred.
Three veterans, John Marbach and Richard Meier, seniors in the College of Arts and Letters, and Robert Schmelzle, junior lawyer, will form the nucleus for the 1937 team. Meier and Schmelzle have been members of the debate squad for two years. Marbach has been a member of the team for one year.
Three juniors, one sophomore and two freshmen have been added to the 1937 team. The new members are: Thomas Mulligan, of Cleveland, Ohio, Charles Osborn, of Balboa, Canal Zone, and Redman Duggan, of Dur-
Professors Moran and Apodaca Helped Choose Star Debaters.
ango, Colo., juniors; Frank Fitch, a sophomore of Cherokee, Iowa, Frank Brame, of Alexandria, La., and Thomas Patrick, of Chicago, HL, freshmen. Thomas Proctor, graduate student in law, has been nominated as radio debater.
The debaters will inaugurate their season as participants in the Midwest Invitational Tournament which will be held March 4 and 5 at the University of Iowa, Iowa City. Last year they placed second as a team at Iowa. The varsity will journey to the campus of the University of Wisconsin, at Madison, to participate in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament, March 18 and 19.
On March 17, the debaters will meet the University of Alabama here. Two debates have been scheduled with Michigan State in March, and a tentative debate has been scheduled with the University of Florida here the latter part of March.
In consequence of a change in the varsity question, the B team will represent the University at the state tournament on Feb. 26 and 27 at Manchester College, North Manches-
(Continued on Page 10)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.

SET FEB. 4th AS DATE OF THE K. OF C. INITIATIONS
Some Sly, Slinking Soul Seeks Secret Solace;
Silently Searches 'Scholastic' Society Sheet
By Vincent DeCoursey
First Degree initiation is planned for the Notre Dame council Knights of Columbus meeting on Thursday, February 4. At a second meeting scheduled for February 14 major degrees will be conferred.
Election of an Outside Guard and . Chancellor will also take place at the February 4 meeting. These offices will be left vacant when Joseph
Knights Cronin and Dreucker Chancellor and Guard Bow Out.
Dreucker of Kokomo, Ind., and Arthur E. Cronin, of Detroit, Mich., finish school in February.
Cronin was presented with a gift by the council for his excellent work as an officer. Professor Raymond Hoyer, of the department of sociology, made the presentation.
William Branigan, of Albany, N. Y., was elected to succeed Joseph Drolla, of New Orleans, La., as deputy grand knight. Drolla was recently elevated to the position of grand knight.
Word of the death of a charter member, James Sherlock, was received this week. He passed away, Jan. 13, at his home in Great Falls, Montana.
Missourians Hold Two Holiday Dances
Two successful dances, one at Kansas City, the other in St. Louis, have been reported by the Missouri club.
A dinner dance was held at the Ambassador hotel in Kansas City by the western division of the club. It was attended by 50 couples. Alumni were invited to attend, and showed their appreciation by a ready response.
Fifteen couples attended the dance of the Eastern division at the Chase hotel in St. Louis.
Two communion breakfasts are in prospect for the club, one before exams and the other just afterward. At a future meeting dates for a number of smokers will be discussed.
No meeting will be held until after examinations, according to President Tom Riordan.
A human snake is in our midst!
Perhaps he is the mild-looking cud-chewer next to you in the dining hall; mayhap he is the adjoining "number one” in your psychology class; certain it is that he is one of the hungry buffaloes that stampede to the dining halls for their three squares per day. But wherever he is somewhere among you he is spewing his vile venom and worst of all it is highly improbable that he will ever be found.
/
Ah, the very lake would refuse to accept such vermin as he—woe to his person if ever his secret is uncovered. There are crimes and offenses that can be forgiven and forgotten, but his hideous act will always remain to fester in the heart of the true son of Notre Dame. If superstition can be believed, the old grad who is long buried and so knows the identity of the anonymous lizard, are ironing out fresh sheets and preparing for a haunting expedition.
It seems that this year the American College Research Bureau, in search of advertising data, sent out questionnaires to a limited group of Notre Dame men to find out campus preference. Some hundred and fifty blanks were filled out and returned; the results agree almost exactly with the Commerce Forum Survey. But there was one question asking, “Do you read your college .paper?” that was answered one hunrded percent in the affirmative.
But the Commerce Forum did not touch one particular point included in the Bureau’s survey, and it is here that the particularly vicious incident occurred. Here it is that the shock-
Bookmen To Complete Membership Soon
Again swinging into action, the Bookmen held their first meeting since the Christmas vacation last Wednesday night in the Hurley Hall of Commerce.
Additional plans covering the remainder of the semester and for the second semester were discussed by the members of the club.
Announcement was also made that the club tentatively plans to take in more members in the near future. According to Robert McGrath, president of the Bookmen, definite announcement of the time and the number to be.taken in-ilwill be made shortly.	.
ing and lurid details are brought to light. One question pointedly asked the student, "Which part of the school publication do you read first?”
To get a complete picture of the scene let us imagine that we are watching an industrious Notre Dame man poring over his Money and Banking (or College Humor as the case may be)—brow wrinkled, pipe clenched between set teeth. Suddenly he hears a crashing outside his door and, flunking that an earthquake has demolished the hall, investigates To his surprise he finds that it was The Scholastic that made all the noise when it was dropped by his door—incidentally the surprise is in partly because he got the magazine before the boy whose girl friend always wants an extra copy gets his hands on it. Quickly he locks his door and sits down to read his paper and, according to the Bureau, he will first turn to the sport pages, then to the rotogravure section, and then in turn to the front page, the editorials, the campus gossip, and winds up by dwelling over the society notes.
Nothing wrong you say! Nothing wrong? This is the sort of tiling that makes the red blood of brave men boil; this is one of those times when a cool head will be required if bloodshed is to be prevented! One “student” of Notre Dame has made it impossible for the Sorinite or the Brownsonite to walk unashamedly down the streets of Podunk, his native city! Someone has betrayed our students, and we demand vengeance on the so-called man who admits that the first thing that he reads on picking up The Scholastic—is the Notre Dame Society Page!
Visit To Art Gallery Planned By Servers
Plans for a visit to the art gallery in the library were discussed at the Monday meeting of the Servers’ Club in the sacristy of Sacred Heart church. February 15 was set as the tentative date for the visit.
The members were urged to make suggestions for the improvement of the club. President Keenen said, “that the organization was passive. It is up to the members to make it active.”
The next meeting of the club will take place about a month from January 17. All the members were urged to be present as well as to bring new members to the meeting.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
DISPLAY NOTRE DAME ART AT ST. MARY'S
IN TERRE HAUTE
•
Traveling from Lafayette, Indiana, the exhibit of the paintings of Notre Dame students which has been touring several mid-western states, will be at St. Mary-of-the-Woods in Terre Haute, Indiana, this week.
The exhibit has had a slight delay in schedule, but according to Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, associate professor of art, it will make the complete circuit before the end of the school year, as planned.
Stopping next at Springfield, Illinois, the exhibit will go from here to Aquin High School in Freeport, Illinois. It will then travel to Rockford, Illinois, from where it goes to Racine and then Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
As now scheduled, the paintings will remain for one week at each of these cities.
Fraternity houses at the University of Florida lodge more than 100 more students than the dormitories. The fraternities have 600 men, while the dormitories have 491.
Notre Dame Writers Included in Private Edition of "Canticles For Saint Francis"
Notre Dame book lovers, and especially those interested in Franciscan literature, have found much to intrigue them in a new anthology compiled by Benjamin Francis Musser of Atlantic City, entitled Canticles For St. Francis. This work is representative of the poetic output of something like 140 writers who, from the Thirteenth Century down to the present day have found inspiration in the Franciscan message and have given it expression through the medium of poems written either about St. Francis himself or Franciscanism in general.
Benjamin F. Musser will be well remembered for his work Franciscan Poets which was published by the Macmillan Company about four years ago. This work was, of course, offered for sale in the book market. Not so, Canticles For St. Francis. Mr. Musser has permitted the printing of only 300 copies of this work and these he has distributed as gifts to a select group of friends. According to present plans there is no likelihood that it will ever be offered for sale.
Both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are represented in this anthology.
Life Of Polish Students Differs From Ours
Students in Poland have far greater liberties in their social and political activities than those in America, the Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., told the Cracow club, Polish cultural group at the University, at their meeting last Thursday.
Drawing incidents from his two years of study abroad, Father Lisewski offered an interesting comparison between student life here and in Poland, pointing out that unlike the continental American system, the students attend classes as often as they desire.
Joseph Pawlowski, president of of the organization, announced the appointment of Joseph Krupa, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, as chairman of the Cracow club’s forthcoming dinner.
Other members of the executive committee chosen were Stanley Par-tyka, Alexander Niespodziany and Richard Mizerski.
A prominent speaker of Polish descent from South Bend is being contacted by the club to address its next meeting.
There is a beautiful poem entitled “Ad Matrem in Caelis,” written by the late Father Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., who was president of Notre Dame for six years; and two poems, “Come Up To Umbria” and “Assissi” by the late Professor Charles Phillips. “I Go To School” and “Roses For My King” are by Sister M. Ma-deleva, C.S.C., president of Saint Mary’s College. Other Sisters of Holy Cross represented in the volume are Sister Genoveva, C.S.C., “Spendthrift”; Sister John Frederick, C.S.C., “Joculator Domini,” and Sister M. Monica, C.S.C., “The Wolf of Gubbio Speaks to St. Francis.”
Dr. Thomas Walsh, an honorary alumnus of Notre Dame upon whom the degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred during the celebration of the diamond jubilee in 1917, is represented by two poems, “St. Francis to the Birds” and “Stigmata” and among what the compiler calls “a brief list of authoritative books on St. Francis and his followers” two of the 19 titles are by Paul R. Martin, an alumnus of the University and now a member of the faculty. These books are The Gospel in Action and Survey of a Decade.
SCIENTISTS DISCUSS CARE, TREATING OF RICKETS
•
Rickets is a disease of the bones which from experiments and observations is shown to be caused by a diet deficiency, Orlando Pisaturo, a senior in the College of Science from Rochester, N. Y., declared at the Academy of Science first meeting of the year in Science hall.
Of the three tests for the diagnosis of the disease: the Roentgenogram’s
Scientists Pisaturo and Campbell From Kant to Rickets.
test, the microscopic examination of the decalcified bones stained with haematoxylin, and the line test; Pisaturo asserted that the last is the most efficient.
In a review of remedies, the speaker demonstrated that rickets is invariably treated with application of foods containing vitamin D, usually fish oils. Pisaturo stated that the vitamin in fish oils is believed to be obtained from a microscopic marine animal, the plankton.
Previously, John Campbell, a senior from Hazleton, Pa., delivered a terse address on the life of Emanuel Kant, German idealistic philosopher, showing how the founder of modem philosophy influenced the development of biology.
He pointed out that Kant, who is considered the University of Koen-igsberg’s greatest scholar, did not confine his learnings and teachings to one subject, philosophy, but took an active interest in the study of biology as well.
Rangers To Beat Trail To Banquet Table
According to J. W. Gallivan, president of the Rangers, a meeting will be held Wednesday, Jan. 20, to discuss plans for a banquet of the club in the near future. The meeting will be held in room 174 of the Administration building. A room in some downtown hotel will be used for the banquet.
Plans will also be proposed for a communion breakfast to be held the first Sunday after examinations.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
J. D. WATSON WRITES OF ANNUITIES IN RECENT REVIEW
•
The second of a series of articles on simplified accounting for the business man, by Prof. J. Donald Watson, assistant professor of finance at the University of Notre Dame, appears in the December issue of The Accounting Review.
The article is entitled “Explaining Annuity Formulas.” It tends to take much of the mystery out of the usual formulas for rapidly figuring interest, rents, sinking funds and various annuities by substituting formulas in ordinary arithmetic for the algebra or geometric progressions ordinarily used.
Mr. Watson’s previous article in the June, 1936, issue of the same publication was on “Annuities Illustrated by Diagram.” In this article a half dozen fundamental charts were worked out, from which any annuity could be quickly figured.
Three Hundred Attend
Annual Law Ball
Dancing to the strains of Keith Beecher and his orchestra, 150 couples attended the annual Law Ball held at the Columbia Athletic Club last Friday evening.
Rated as one of the most successful of the series, the ball was featured by clever decorations, novel table arrangements, and distinctly smart dance music.
James Osgood, senior lawyer from Chicago, and Pat Fisher president of the Law club, were in charge of the dance. They were accompanied by the Misses Mary Lou Fubershaw and Eugenia Cass respectively.
Francis Dunn, senior lawyer from Joliet, Ill., headed the decorations committee which arranged the novel set-up.
Father Ward Ta Talk To Chicago Club
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor* of philosophy at the University, will address the Notre Dame Club of Chicago on February 3. Father Ward’s talk will be on “Philosophy of Value.”
This will be the fourth of a series of lectures scheduled to be delivered by members of the Notre Dame faculty before the Chicago Club. Other speakers will be, Christopher Hollis, “The World Money Muddle,” on March 3, and Dr. Daniel O’Grady, “The Psychology of Laughter,” on April 7.
about the camPys
The George Arliss type. . . ringside weight about the same as a ^2.00 Panama hat. Delancey Joseph Davis, ex-editor of The Dome, now editor of everyone’s stray comments. Comes from the near-east but has difficulty remembering which town it is this semester. . . . first Hazleton, Wilkes Barre, now Schenectady, N. Y. Was graduated, by the grace of God and a meat axe, from Hazleton, Pa. High school.
Last year was part of Alumni’s famed “Culture Corner” but managed to produce a good Dome in spite of it. Tools of his trade: an ancient machine that spewed cobs, which he
called a typewriter, one borrowed pencil, two old copies of Collier’s, and a fast outfield. He is still baffling prefects who expect him to move his books in from home any day now.
Displays the weirdest set of fingers either side of the Rockies. . . . but in catch-as-catch-can affairs he manages to hold his own. ... in fact he has to hold his own. His greatest blights are a tendency to nose-bleeds, and people who eat sloppily. ... he never wants for either.
Delancey followed an older brother here .... but since then has made his way through sheer muscular force... and'a flat monotone “Why?” He is the scourge of informal debates . . . . represents the Opposition Party regardless of the conflict... knows all about everything and fools you sometimes when he does.
Might be a watch-charm edition of Dean McCarthy if he could grow, a mustache. . . but he wields a straight razor like a machete. . . . what he finds to shave is a secret.
GLEE CLUB WILL SING IN ERIE, PA.; RADIO WORK CHANGED
•
The Band and Glee Club will participate in the regular weekly radio production of the Notre Dame Varieties from the campus studios next Tuesday evening. This was revealed by Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the University’s music department; and Norbert Aleksis, student manager of campus radio activities.
The touring Glee Club of forty men wall entertain with a full concert program in Erie, Pennsylvania on Sunday evening, February 7, and will repeat this program the next night in Cleveland, Ohio, to begin a busy season of appearances extending from the beginning of the second semester to late March.
The Glee Club will make a solo appearance locally when it sings for the Rotary Club of South Bend at noon on Wednesday, February 10.
The Band and Glee Club will be one of eight university groups to take part in a series of programs for the Pontiac Motoi* Company over a nationwide hookup of radio stations. Notre Dame will appear late in the month of February.
An intensive series of March engagements by the band opens on the evening of Sunday, March 14, with a symphonic concert in Washington Hall. One week later, on Palm Sunday, the Glee Club will present its annual concert from the same stage in Washington Hall.
Davis was a rock-ribbed republican of the baritone type. . . a rare bird . . . until the democrats began paying ten dollars to poll workers. . . . and that’s a high rate per pound for Davis at that. He will wear that gabardine trench coat until Spring and then flash a heavy brown overcoat. . . providing he lasts till Spring .... which he surely will despite grave doubts now.
With pal George Feeley, Davis went on the road last Summer with Little Gem, Everybody’s Elixir, • For Man or Beast. . . started with 12 bottles. . . . wound up with 11, two suspender buttons, an Elk’s tooth, and a half punched meal ticket from Woonsocket. . . . but he still craves the life of a salesman.
Will be graduated, unless the bottom falls out of everything, in June with a Ph.B. in Commerce. . . average: Just about.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
9
THE WEEK
By John A. Gillespie
STORY ON DEUTERIUM FEATURES FOURTH 'CATALYZER'
Spotted Lungs
Stop the presses! There’s an epidemic of para-thyroid among the guinea pigs! These little martyrs, living in the. dubious environment of the old swimming pool, are dropping off like flies. It was all made clear to us on a visit to the domain of Professor Reyniers on the second floor of the Science building. He didn’t know we were there, but our inspection tour was none the less profitable. We won’t bore you by telling you of the profound and successful experiments that are being conducted by the professor with his unique germ-free guinea pigs. How anything could be free from disease in the dust-laden air of the Science building seemed preposterous, but now we have seen and we believe. When we sneaked into the room we were immediately attracted by cages at the far end. There was a plump, white, pink-eyed rabbit in a large wire cage. We watched him eagerly but he looked disgustingly healthy; he stared blandly at us until we began to think that we should be in the enclosure instead of him. A bit ashamed, we thought of roasting him over a Bunsen burner. Next to him were nine guinea pigs, some adults, some children, some brown, some black. Perhaps these were the germ-free specimens. No, one of them, big and black, was lying on his side, wheezing and twitching. We peered at him while two unfeeling babies clambered up and over his helpless stomach. We called to one of the workers and told him about the ailing animal. He opened the cage door, reached inside and lifted the protesting beast to a table. He poked and probed and decided to operate. He got rubber gloves and remarked, “Guess I’ll open him up and see what makes him go. He’s starving to death—stomach all shriveled up.” We asked about an anesthesia. “Sure, I’ll put him out so he doesn’t feel anything. But I’ll let him die afterward. No use sewing him up.” He reached for some wickedly sharp instruments and we left, promising to come back in an hour to get the results. Our layman stomach wasn’t hardy enough to make us want to watch the actual cutting. An hour later, wishing that we had never mentioned the condition of the guinea pig, we returned. The surgeon told us rather callously that the patient
had had spots on his lungs and that there had been no food in his stomach. It was another case of parathyroid. We kept a moment of silence for the bereaved, then turned to the cages for a last call. Our fat friend, the rabbit, again gave us that “Who let you in?” look. The remaining guinea pigs were frisking merrily and seemed not to miss their cellmate. That, we guess, is life.
4s
Expose
For years English professors have . called down the wrath of mighty men upon the magazine rack in the cafeteria. They have bewailed the predominance of thrillers over belles lettres. They have threatened with failure any student in their classes who dares to read Wild West stories. In the guise of an average citizen we asked a few pertinent questions and now it can be told. The consistent buyers of thrillers are not students, but certain faculty members. We don’t dare to point any accusing finger or to give a moral. We just repeat the statement; aeronautical pulps, detective magazines, and Wild West yarns are kept for the good tutors. The man in charge of the business says that he does his best to hide the lurid tales, but, after all, a quarter is a quarter, whether for Scribner’s or Daniel Boone’s Doings. No doubt they are read for relaxation after ponderous thinking—something like Einstein playing with blocks, but there you are. Conclude for-yourself; we want to hear the baccalaureate sermon in June.
* * *
Portsiders
The annual Lawyer’s Ball probably would have been a roaring triumph but for one oversight. They may be up on their torts but they’re distinctly down on their advertising technique. Posted conspicuously on the Main building bulletin board was a large sign proclaiming to the passerby that the Ball would be held on Friday night, January 15 and that Keith Beecher would grind it out for the dancers. So far so good. But there was a drawing of a man and a maid in a dance position that has never been the mode. The man’s outstretched right hand grasped the extended left hand of the girl. For shame. The socially correct procedure is just the reverse. Naturally, when a potential patron saw this grievous faux pas, he shrugged his shoulders and began planning for the Junior Prom.
A questionnaire for the graduates of the Chemistry department was included in the January issue of The Catalyzer, technical chemistry periodical edited by Frank Burke, which made its fourth appearance, of the year Wednesday.
“Deuterium and Deuterium Oxide,” written by Dr. Romeo P. Allard, is the featured article of the month. Dr. Allard, a graduate of the University and now a professor of physical chemistry at Loyola University, Los Angeles, explains in this article little known facts relating to the discovery and composition of what is commonly known as heavy hydrogen and heavy water.
In this he demonstrates that the fact that deuterium has twice the mass of ordinary hydrogen makes it a valuable tool for the research chemist in organic chemistry.
In another interesting article written by K. Fendall Froning, ’37, data on the discovery of the elements is given. Tracing back some of the elements to the dawn of history, Froning enumerates the beliefs and works of ancient philosophers and medieval alchemists on this subject.
An editorial “Recent Trends” mentions some of the recent developments in chemical engineering which were discussed at the International Chemical Engineering Congress last June.
Breakfast For Ohioans
Set For Next Sunday
A communion breakfast on Sun
day, Jan. 24, just before examinations has been arranged by Joseph
Ryan of the Central Ohio club. The members will receive'communion at
G. Besanceney
8:00 o’clock Mass and attend breakfast in the faculty dining hall.
Tentative arrangements have been made to have Professor Joseph L. Apodaca of the department of economics to talk at the breakfast. It is thought he will address the club on
some one of the current socio-eco
nomic problems.
A meeting has been called for Tuesday, Jan. 19, by Girard Besan-ceney, president of the club, to discuss arrangements for the activities of the- new year.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
CALENDAR
Friday, January 22
Band practice, 4:00 pan.
Saturday, January 23
Movie, “Mary of Scotland,” starring Katharine Hepburn, Washington hall, first show for freshmen begins at 6:40 p.m.; Basketball game, Varsity vs. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.
Sunday, January 2i
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m.; St. Vincent de Paul meeting, Knights of Columbus chambers, Walsh hall; Wranglers meeting, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, January 25
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; S. A. C. meeting, north basement of library, 6:30 p.m.; Basketball game, Varsity vs. Western Reserve, Cleveland; antiCommunist meeting, University gym, 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, January 26
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Band practice, 4:00 p.m.; Radio program, Chemistry club Forum, 7:00 p.m.
Wednesday, January 27
Glee club practice, 12:30 p.m.; Radio, Interesting Questions and Answers, 4:30 p.m.; Engineers’ Club Forum, 7:00 p.m.
Thursday, January 28
Examinations begin at 8:00 a.m.
Lack Of Religion is Evil Heywood Declares
At the regular meeting of the Wranglers Thursday, January 14, Robert Heywood talked of “Religion and its Relation to Education.” He declared that the lack of religion in the school is the chief evil in the educational system as it is at present, and emphasized that a greater importance must be placed on Catholic and Scholastic methods if correctness is to be preserved.
Rev. N. C. Hoff, advisor of the organization, spoke briefly on the subjects discussed by the club. It was also announced that the next meeting will be held Sunday night, the place to be announced later. Dick Meier will be the principal speaker at the meeting, and the runoff of the finals in interhall debate will be considered.
Ledden Speaks
Mr. Jack Ledden, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, spoke to the members of the Journalism department of the University last Friday. His subject was “When is slang permissible in sports writing?” The talk was delivered in the basement of the Library.
COLLEGE PARADE
By Anthony F. O'Boyle
Longer Than Long
A law student at the University of Texas recently wagered with some of his friends that he could better the Congressional filibustering record of the late Huey P. Long. His friends took him up on his boast, so he commenced to sputter into a non-stop monologue that lasted for 16 hours and 10 minutes thus bettering Long’s record by exactly ten minutes. For subject matter this potential Demosthenes used his own life, religion, politics, astronomy, economics and whatever else came to his mind as he talked.
Why?
With semester exams confronting us we feel that the following query is perhaps a pertinent one for some of us:
“Why is. it professors can wear hideous ties,
Haphazard haircuts, and coats the wrong size,
Trousers too short and color scheme vile,
Yet flunk me in English because of my style?”
Woe Is Michigan
Our sympathy to the student body of Michigan University. Fletcher Henderson’s orchestra was contracted to play for the school’s Inter-Fraternity dance but the reservations that poured in outnumbered the dancing capacity of the hall where the affair was to take place. With desperate energy the committee in charge signed up Charlie Agnew’s band to take care of the overflow. So now students attending the dance can select the orchestra they wish to hear. However, in order to accommodate the dancers it has been arranged for both orchestras to change halls during the intermission so that everybody will get the opportunity of hearing both bands.
Speaking Briefly
There are 516 college stadia in the United States which have a net seating capacity of 5,168,200. This makes an average of about 10,000 per school . . . Porter-house steaks take their name from the old Porter House, a favorite eating place for 19th century Harvard students. (We wonder if “Rosie’s will ever make a contribution to the Epicurean art?). . . . Criminology students at Syracuse University contend that morons can dance as well if not better than most people of normal mentality . . . Two students at Texas Christian University earn their schooling expenses by catching wildcats and selling them to the school’s laboratories for experimental purposes.
Re-organized Met Club Dance Scores A Hit
■ •
. The Winter Garden room of the Hotel McAlpin was the scene of the gala Metropolitan Club Christmas dance, on Dec. 28. Chairman Lane announced this week that the dance was both a financial and a social success.
The Met Club cleared approximately §125, most of which will be used in the payment of past debts. There were nearly 140 couples attending, among which were many of the prominent alumni from New York.
This dance was the first Met Club activity in two years. From now on, the campus organization, and the alumni club of New York City will run their affairs conjointly. Because of this cooperative plan the club was given official sanction to operate, and thus retain its charter as a campus organization in good standing.
Francis “Bugs” Walther’s orchestra played for the Christmas dance, and was well received by the attending couples. Walther, an alumnus of Notre Dame, graduated in 1926, has been playing for many Notre Dame functions in and around New York City in the past few years.
Spaniards Plan
Just prior to the opening of the Christmas vacation the members of the Spanish club had a joint meeting with the Santa Theresa club of St. Mary’s. At this meeting the Notre Dame Spaniards were entertained by a three act Spanish play and also by several musical selections. This was followed by an informal meeting of the members of the two clubs during which Spanish was spoken entirely.
The Notre Dame club held a meeting last Thursday and had a lengthy discussion of the plans, both social and educational, for the remainder of the year.
Varsity Debaters
(Continued from, Page 5)
ter, Indiana. The question which wlil be debated at the state tournament is: “Resolved that the extension of consumer cooperatives would contribute to public welfare.” Last year the negative team won three out of five debates at this tournament.
Judges for the final tryouts were: Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department of Economics; Joseph L. Apodaca and Louis F. Buckley, associate professors of Economics; and Stephen H. Ronay and Francis E.. Moran, associate professors of English at the University.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.	.	11
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
We have reached the half way mark and since Top-hats, Proms, Balls, White Gloves and Tails are in order, it is only befitting that we give you some Law Ball Propaganda. Maybe it was an accident and then again—well in spite of the fact that JIM OSGOOD (Sorin) was Chairman of the Ball, his name is nowhere to be found in the program given at the dance, but orchids to him for handling the orchestra situation as he did, it denoted that already his college education is beginning to pay dividends. ... Professor RICHTER averred that he enjoyed himself immensely mingling among his students. January isn’t a very opportune time to boil molasses but it is as good a time as any to polish the apple, what with the impending calamities the 28th of this month. . . All the seniors were out in their artillery, even PETER VIVIANO found the florist shop after these six —or is it seven?—years, he had the slickest little red carnation you ever did see. Speaking of Pete, he was gayly leading a group in their version of how a German song should be sung. . . . FRANK VELOZ (The famous dancer) had better watch his wares now that FRANK “PALAIS” KELLY (Walsh) is back in circulation. He was doing a twisting two step that was absolutely devastating .... BOB LeMIRE (Walsh) was there with one of the classiest tuxedos seen in years. His father, who is a head waiter, had his night off...
JOHN DEMOTS (Alumni) moseying around the dance floor with a titian-haired miss. . . •. SABE BONET (Howard) we thought was immaculate, even the white gloves looked in order on him. . . . JOE CRISANTI (Alumni) stepped out of -his role as a social lion and waltzed with everybody else’s girl, but that’s old stuff to Joe, he is forever using something that belongs to some one else. . . . MARTY BURNS, CHICK MALONEY and GENE LING (Walsh) again were out on full regalia but for the most part were about as silent as the dog in a sausage. . . .
Traitors to the cause: HANK POJMAN, STEVE MILLER (the treasurer, no less) and BILL PRENDERGAST (Walsh) frequenting the Wheeler - Woolsey cinema instead of tripping the light fantastic. . . . Sum Cum Laude Stuff: PAUL GUAR-NIERI’S singing of the “Penalty of Love,” we all. thought it would have been wiser for him to whistle both
choruses. Will some one page Weem’s Paul really can whistle — “The Whistler and his Song.”. . . . All in all the ball was a huge success but this column would not be complete ' unless some remark was made of JIMMY MYERS (Alumni) and his step-step-step-and step, it was very cute but we don’t think the young lady appreciated it. . . .
Well now perhaps Wally was right, the time has come when we certainly must talk of many things, absolutely we j‘ust gotta get it off our chests. Has anyone heard Dean KONOP try to pronounce SAM BORZILLERI? He does everything but cough. . . .
Things we never noodle now: TOM HUGHES doesn’t get those dinner invitations from South Bend any longer and we could tell you why.... Unless we receive two apples from CHUCK HUFFNAGEL and JOHN MANNING (Alumni) we will tell you something that will make their faces red. . . . What Chicago sophomore in Lyons hall has been offered a movie screen test? That’s on the level too and if you don’t believe us ask JOHN McGUIRE. . . . MARK FINOCCHIARO (Alumni) is sprouting a sweet looking cauliflower chin and he didn’t run into any door... DAN FINN (Walsh) blushes beautifully when the topic “Dotty” is brought up. We have it from good source that her last name is Finn also .... JOHN CAVANAUGH (Alumni) is now receiving flowers instead of sending them, what price athletes!
Some more Thumbnailers:
VINCE HARTNETT (Alumni) a continental wine merchant. . . BOB HEYWOOD (Morrissey) our own Runt Radcliffe. ... COULTER GIBSON (Walsh) “I’m an old cow
“Ad lib, No Yen Tu, ad lib!”
hand”. . . . PHIL BONDI (Walsh) the head waiter at Child’s. . . GENE PETRICK (Carroll) “Comes ze revolution” .... Dean MCCARTHY (Com. Bldg.) Man Mountain Dean_________ SABE BONET ( Howard) then came the Don. . . NEIL O’BRIEN (Howard) a ringing alarm clock. . .
Last week’s remark concerning the “aged woman on the street car” received so much attention that our notice was called to other breaches of gentlemanly conduct. To wit: Be a gentleman: remove your hat while seated at the tables in the Cafeteria for the sake of etiquette and intelligence. The management as well as the patrons will appreciate your cooperation......
She: Notre Dame men seem to be proud of their clever line.
He: Haven’t you heard of the Irish line?	.
Here’s the latest—Oh well it’s getting late and we’re out of names and stuff and so until after the- finals, we’ll say pip-pip. . . .

12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus Founded 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 233 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C____________-___________Faculty Adviser PAUL FOLEY____________________________Editor-in-Chief
CYRIL F. STROKER___________________.__Managing Editor
Departmental Editors
John A. Gillespie_________________The Week
Anthony F. O’Boyle______________College Parade
Joseph Rotondo________________In The Juggler Vein
Robert L. Grogan"Scholastic of the Air"
News Staff	■
Louis DaPra_____________________________________News Editor
Harold A. Williams__________________Assistant News Editor
Michael Mongoven_______________-____________Frank Reilly
Richard Riley_________________________i Robert McClain
George Haithcock_______________________Vincent de Coursey
Frederick Sisk________________________________________John	Callaghan
Thomas Marker_________________________- .James Hufnagel
Gregory Byrnes------------------------------Graham Starr
Vincent W. Hartnett?________________________Literary Editors
Harold A. Williams J
Sports Staff	.
Eugene Vaslett__________________________________Sports Editor
Andrew M. Crowe-----------------------^Assistant Sports Editor
John Cackley--------------------------------Mark Mitchell
Allan Bride------------------------------Nicholas Lamberto
Frederick Digby_____________________________John Clifford
Charles Callahan----------------------William A. Donnelly
Arch Gott-------------------------:______James-A. Waldron
Francis Kroeger_______
William R. Dooley, ’26.
-------Art Editor .Business Manager
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Vol. 70	January 22, 1937	No. 13
TECHNICAL REGIMENTATION.....
ONE OF the important functions of an education is to fit a man for the making of proper distinctions. One of the important factors in powerful editorial writing which remains sane, is the ability to write these distinctions accurately. Many collegiate editorial writers fail
• miserably in this attempt.	-
■ In the January 8th edition of The Tech, a bi-weekly publication of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an editor writes of Notre Dame as “The Regimented University.” He goes to great length to show that Notre Dame forfeits her right to the title “university” by “regimenting” the attitude of students, alumni and professors with regard to Communism. This, the editor says, does not promote , “intelligent and independent thought.”
We have long heard of M.. I. T. as a most highly regarded school, teaching technical subjects with a precision achieved in few other schools. We assume that ' the Institute teaches something of electricity. We assume also that these, teachings are very much the same as at other schools; we know positively that M.I.T. “regiments”
the ideas of her students with regard to this physical phenomena. We know positively that certain facts are stated very plainly—allowing no room for “independent thought” on the matter.
In 1933 and 1934 there was a gentleman in the middle west who held very independent ideas. This gentleman’s ideas were so independent that he believed other people’s money was his for the taking. The United States government “regimented” this man’s thoughts, first by imprisoning him, later by shooting him dead. That man was John Dillinger. In his way he epitomized the “independence” of thought which knows no regard for fundamentals.
Notre Dame does “regiment” the ideas of her men. She “regiments” their ideas on justice, on ethical principles, on scientific facts—indeed on all fundamentals that man has no legitimate right to challenge.
It would be well for anyone to realize how thoroughly he must be. “regimented” if he is to live sanely. Man, by his very nature, regiments himself to live in accordance with natural law.
As for the case in hand—Notre Dame’s battle against Communism—The Tech says: “There is no consideration of the possibility that perhaps an investigation of Communism will lead to the conclusion that it is not dangerous enough to get excited about—perhaps even that it has a few good points.” Here we agree with the writer. Notre Dame, the professors, alumni and students heartily favor thorough investigation, and we do feel that Communism has a few good points—its good points are the protests it makes. We have always granted this, as any “investigation” on the part of The Tech will show. As for growing excited—we rarely grow’ excited when we realize the strength of our position.
The Tech says “the question (Communism) is not to be approached with anything like an open mind.” Right. Neither do we. have an open mind with regard to murder, thievery or any other fundamental wrong. And what is equally true—we hold no open mind for the philosophy of godless, forceful blasting of society plotted by Communism. .
“It is unfortunate for any educational institution to be under Church influence in this manner. . . .” opines The Tech. It would indeed be unfortunate if Notre Dame wras not “under the influence” of sound moral principles —her fight with Communism would collapse as. surely as night follows day.	.
SIT DOWN STRIKE. ...
WITHOUT any fanfare of publicity. there is something of a “sit down” strike in progress locally. In fact you might not have known about it unless you counted heads on the street-car some day. The strikers are sitting down in the cars. . . . not for solid comfort but because the cab meters still do tricks in rapid calculation. .	.
While the flag rate hasn’t been raised, and South Bend cab riders have noticed little fluctuation, the campus lads on their longer trip have borne the brunt of all raises in fares. It might be added that the cab company is over due for an acute case of dropping patronage. In fact even now the drivers have little trouble finding a place to park on the stand and few cases of over-crowding have been reported.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.	13
Little Gam
Porter inhaled deeply of the Camel and then shot it expertly into the fog-clogged air to watch its fire-etched descent to the billows below. He observed disinterestedly as the last faint gleams- died in the engulfing troughs the ship left, in its wake. The S.S. Homeric was an hour from Cherbourg; Porter was an hour nearer to his rehabilitation.
Were it not for his conscience and an occurrence in Paris, Porter would have had an enviable accomplishment in his record. However, it was Iris conscience—and the incident at Paris —so a highly imaginative, pusillanimous Porter was returning to the States to restore fifty thousand of a •sixty thousand dollar swindle he had manipulated. He traveled incognito, of course. Despite the exact “William Porter” his checques bore, his birth certificate had known him as Richard Staple. The popularity, oi' unpopularity in a stricter sense, the latter name had with certain individuals in the States had warranted the change.
“Hello, Porter,” a cold voice said, and drew him from his morbid retrospection as he loitered.
“Eh?”
“I said hello.”
Porter squinted. “Oh! It’s you, Hemble!”
“Yes,” Hemble said. “It’s me.”
“—I hadn’t expected you,” Porter explained haltingly. “Waited in that hotel lobby an hour, but you didn’t show up. Though I’d meet you on the ship, then. I had told you I was taking—” ’	,
“You told me that you were taking the ‘Majestic’,” Hemble supplied.
Porter did not comment. He lit a cigarette and smoked.
“There is a little matter,” Hemble persisted, “that we didn’t straighten out in Paris: it amounted to twenty thousand dollars.”
A convenient coughing spell seized Porter. Hemble waited. .
“It was a just debt,” Porter parried. “If it hadn’t been for the turn of that card—” He paused, as if mentally reviewing the scene; then he grimaced. .
“But you have my I.O.U.,” he finished.	■
A cutting edge came to Hemble’s voice.	।
“Quite! But it was unusual ink, i Porter: it faded completely only this i morning!”	j
Porter* colored.	>
“You lie!”	|
“Perhaps,” Hemble acquiesced. He ; extended a monogrammed square of ; paper for the man to behold.	=
“Well?” ,	’
Silence.	.	!
“Well?”—doggedly.	, 1
g »	»	»
“I can’t meet it!” Porter blurted.
“You can’t?”
“No!”—sullenly.
“Why not?”
“I—I’ve a large debt I have to meet when I get to the States.”
“Very large?”—cagily.
“What’s the difference?” Porter demanded.
Hemble shrugged. “I thought I could make it easier for you in that case.”
“Easier for me?”
“Uhuh.”
“How?” queried Porter.
It was the moment; Hemble pounced.
“There’s a little game in my cabin —few friends, ’ that’s all—and if you’re willing to stake me with ten thousand of the debt, I wouldn’t object if you made your play on the odd half. You split your winnings with me and I call it even.”
Porter hesitated. “If I don’t win?” he asked.
“To the amount of ten thousand, you split your losses also.”
“Fair enough,” Porter commented.
“It’s better than a fifty-fifty chance, and all on even keel,” Hemble prodded.
“Then,” Porter decided after a brief consideration, “let’s sail!”
Hemble smiled enigmatically.
“I thought you would,” he remarked , and preceded Porter to the cabin.
II
When the S.S. Homeric was five hours from Cherbourg, Porter* realized the fifty-fifty chance that a little game held for him. He wetted his dry lips and looked again at the cards holding the fate of his last twenty thousand. The realization deepened and he took to staring.
Hemble, although not in the money himself, was taking his losses lightly.
The playing* went on, monotonously methodical. Porter’s eyes assumed a glassy brilliance, little agates of misery gleaming through the soporific, . smoke thick air. They swept the cabin, fastened their stare in turn upon the countenances of the four men about the table. Four imperturbable masks, ruddy, pallid, obese, elongated. But always opaque, stoic.
“New hand,” the obese one had asked. \	.
- Swish, swish, swish—swish, swish, swish. .	’
Porter’s eyes fascinatingly watched the cards glide; lodge under the thick fingers.	•
“New hand.” He reiterated the re-quest.weakly.
The cards came at him unerringly, swish, swish, swish—swish, swish, as
By Michael Monday
though used to their journey and companionship.
He assembled them cumbersomely; they were agonizingly heavy. As he read them he saw his rehabilitation sink below a far horizon. Something inside his brain cracked.
“Thirty thousand,” someone said.
“Taken.”
“Thirty - five thousand,” someone said.
Thirty-five, thirty-five thousand! The thing beat into Porter’s brain, thudding dully. He pushed his chair back; arose.
“Gentlemen, I—I have a—a cablegram waiting to be sent,” he managed. “Urgent. Pardon me, please? A moment?”
“Certainly,” a voice said. “Go right ahead, Porter.”
He backed out of the cabin and stumbled onto the deck. The stiff ocean breeze stung his face and eyes. Out there were whitecaps, great bubbles of foaming water. He leaned against the rail, staring. Rehabilitation? Conscience? Money? Gone! . . . Get them back! How? . . . Out there were whitecaps, great bubbles of foaming water . . . His stare was transfixed, now.
“Go right ahead, Porter,” the voice had intoned. “Go right ahead. . . .”
Inside the cabin four men waited patiently. There was an air of expectancy about them. Three smoked; Hemble beat the devil’s tattoo across the back of a deck of cards he held. His eye fell on the hand Porter had left by the edge of the table. Reaching over, he turned each card up-w*ard in succession.
The pallid one laughed.
“Why do that, John?” he asked. “You’ve seen that hand before.”
Hemble grinned viscidly. The elongated one cackled loudly, a hollow, sonorous noise that died in its own echo.
“Man overboard!” canned into the cabin in sharp exclamation. There was a scudding, shuffling of feet. A vibration ran through the ship. After a period it subsided.
The tenseness within the cabin tightened. Hemble caught the eye of the ruddy one and nodded toward the door. The man arose and opened it; peered onto the deck momentarily. He shut it quietly, returned Hemble’s nod’ and resumed his seat. Someone . sighed.
Hemble arose slowly. His chair scraped against the table. He cleared his throat.
“My brothers, Richard Staple is dead.” There was a brief pause. “Will you kindly hand me my cut of that fifty thousand.”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
ATHLETICS
PLANS GO FORWARD FOR THE BENGAL BOUTS; ENTRANTS TO TRAIN AFTER EXAMS
TENTATIVE DATE SET IN MARCH
By Gene Vaslett
The date for those Bengal Boxing Bouts has been tentatively set. The big night will be March 5 or two weeks later, March 19. The bouts will be held earlier this year than in the past because of the crowded calendar of events for March including the early Easter vacation.
If March 19 is the final night and the preliminary bouts scheduled for earlier in the week, the aspiring boxers of the University will have some 50 days to get into condition to fight for the coveted boxing championships of the University.
Early this week there were quite a number of men starting their preliminary training. Most of this consisted of running around the track and taking light exercises. It is expected that the real training phase will begin immediately after the semester examinations. At this time regular boxing classes will be held in the equipment room of the field house under the tutelage of Frank Schiavone, one time champion of the University. These classes will be devoted to teaching beginners who have had no experience in the ring, the finer points of the sport.
The Scholastic wishes to emphasize, in answer to a great number of queries, that experience of any kind is not required to enter the bouts. Every year several men who have had no previous boxing experience have fared very well in the bouts. If you have never fought before in the ring and wish to learn to box, the class in boxing will be open to you. Participation in the boxing class does not demand that you enter the bouts in March. Schiavone’s class will take care of everybody that comes along whether they plan to enter the bouts or not.
It is expected that a great number of Freshman will enter the bouts. Academic standing is no barrier to entrance. Freshmen have always been the most predominating factor in the bouts and every year have walked off with a majority of the championships.
Bengal Bouts
Harry Marr
He chezvs his roommate’s gum.
COACH LAUDS SPIRIT OF STUDENT BODY
AT NET GAMES
“I want to compliment and thank the student body, for the wonderful spirit shown in our Syracuse game. It reminded me of the old days, when every student was behind every team competing here. It certainly helps to raise the spirit of our players, to know they have that loyal student support.
“Why not have it in every game from now. on. For Purdue on Feb. 3rd, and for Illinois on Feb. 6th. It will take plenty to succeed in winning these two contests. More power to the student body.”
George Keogan.
NETMEN PLAY PENN.
IN QUAKER CITY SAT. NIGHT
•
By Bill Donnelly
Notre Dame’s invasion of Pennsylvania’s Palestra in Philadelphia tomorrow night will perhaps prove for the sport world that the Irish has definitely hit its stride at last, and that the 52-31 .victory over Syracuse last Monday was not merely a freak of luck. The game will be a tough one because the Quakers are undefeated in eight games thus far, and are at present rated the favorites to regain the Eastern Intercollegiate crown taken from them last year by Columbia.
Coach Lon Jourdet has an all-veteran team that has greatly improved since last season; Although they looked a trifle spotty in a few of their early games, they have recently been working exceptionally well together with baffling cohesion and smooth team-play.
Franny Murray, all-American halfback according to many selectors, was unavailable until after his return from the East-West football game on New Year’s Day, but since then his excellent guarding and ball-handling, particularly his dribbling, have added greatly to the success of the team.
His fellow defence man, Barrett, is a dead-eye at dropping in set shots, while Roy Menzel is the high-scoring Red and Blue center. Roger Hanger and Bob Dougherty, the two forwards, and Tony Mischo, their alternate, complete the picture.
During the past nine years, Notre Dame has won all of its eight court contests with Pennsylvania. None of the games, however, were at all onesided.
The Irish reached a peak against Syracuse and should maintain it. Paul Nowak and Tom Jordan will be ready for competition again and for the first time this season, Notre Dame should really be at its full strength. Johnny Moir will team up with either Ray Meyer or Eddie Sadowski at for. ward, while Earl Brown, Tommy Wukovits and Tom Jordan will fight it out for the two guard positions.
A Notre Dame team that showed it can really play championship basketball on its home court must now prove that it can do just as well against the same type and the same ■ quality opponent in the enemy’s own field house.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
15
ALL TEAMS COMPETE FOR INTERHALL NET CHAMPIONSHIP
•
Last Sunday morning interhall basketball retained its characteristically fast pace set on Jan. 10, as the second round of the schedule changed the status of several of the competing halls. Anyone who has witnessed the game will agree that the presence of flashy, but consistent team work makes this year’s competition the best ever.
There was but one forfeit in Sunday’s games, an indication as to the interest displayed in getting teams on the court. After forfeiting last week’s game the Off-Campus heavyweight five came back to decisively defeat Cavanaugh 28-9 in Group 1. Brownson and Carroll, both undefeated in the Heavies group, showed all-around strength in their easy victories over Freshman and the Old Infirmary re- ■ spectively. Badin Hall was not extended in beating St. Ed’s.
In the Lightweight division Cavanaugh and St. Ed’s “turned the tables” on their victors in the Heavyweights, the latter holding Badin to the unusual total of five points. Carroll and the Old Infirmary put on a torrid battle is this division also; the Gold Domers won 16-15.	-
Football men tapering off from a strenuous fall season find that interhall basketball is ideal for keeping in condition. The Howard-Sorin Heavyweight game saw many of the footballers in action and action it was. Howard finally won 22-19, a game that was deadlocked several times. The Sophomores of Morrissey showed conclusively to Walsh that seniority was not to be the rule in either the Heavyweight or the Lightweight division. Walsh was nosed out in the Lightweights by the scant margin of a point. Dillon and Lyons divided both their games.
Brownson and Carroll, as were expected, are leading the Heavyweights of Group I with two wins and no defeats. Carroll also is an undefeated team in the Lightweight division. Morrissey and Howard are yet to be beaten in either the Heavyweight or Lightweight division of Group II. Next Sunday’s games are certain of breaking the ties between the leaders and until then any observations as to the outcome of the series would be premature.
HEAVYWEIGHTS
Group 1: Brownson 23, Freshman 12; Off-Campus 28, Cavanaugh 9: Badin 29, St. Edwards 13; Carroll 22, Old Infirmary 16.
Group 2: Howard 22, Sorin 19: Morrissey 22; Walsh 14; Lyons 14, Dillon 11; Alumni bye.
LIGHTWEIGHTS
Group 1: Brownson 24. Freshman 22: Cavanaugh 28, Off-Campus 17; St. Edward’s 13, Badin 5 ; Carroll 16, Old Infirmary 15.
Group 2: Howard 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit) ; Morrissey 16, Walsh 15 ; Dillon 19, Lyons 13 ; Alumni bye.	•
NICHOLSON RELEASES NEW TRACK SCHEDULES CHAMPIONSHIP INDIANA TEAM TO OPEN INDOOR SEASON HERE ON FEB. 5.
Coach John Nicholson’s trackmen greeted the 1937 track schedule release on Sunday with an intensive practice session.. In the early part of the week the men were hampered in their workouts by lack of space because of the erection of the bleachers for the basketball game.
FENCING TEAM LOSES FIRST MATCH 9 - 8
TO NOR'WESTERN
•
Fencing for the first time as a recognized Notre Dame team, the Irish swordsmen lost the opening match of their 1937 schedule to their more experienced opponents from Northwest-era by the narrow margin of one point, the final score being 9 to 8. For the past two seasons the Irish have remained undefeated, and this was the first loss in eighteen consecutive matches.
After losing the foil event, 6 to 3, the Irish came from behind and tried to turn defeat into victory. It was not until the last bout that the meet was finally decided, but the Wildcats were able to win because of their big lead.
The three veterans on the team, Captain Telmo de Landero, Jack McAuliffe and Bob Seco, although they were upset in the foil event by a marvelous pair of Northwestren fencers, accounted for 7 of the 8 victories. Captain de Landero won one foil and two sabre bouts to lead his teammates. McAuliffe and Seco each won one foil and one epee bout. The eight point was scored in the sabre matches by a sophomore, Sal Scar-lata, engaging for the first time in intercollegiate competition.
The 9 to 8 setback was not a surprise to Coach de Landero who said before the meet that he “would need all the luck in the world and every possible break” to defeat the Wildcats. He was much pleased with the sabbre and epee events which were a big question mark to him when he entered the matchs.
The results of the three events:
N.D. N.W’n
Foil ------------------ 3	6
Sabre  3	1
Epee  2	2
Individual scoring:
Foil: de Landero defeated Hoffer, 5-4; lost to Provus, 4-5 and Friedman, 3-5; McAuliffe defeated Hoffer, 5-2; lost to Provus. 0-5, and to Friedman, 2-5; Seco defeated Hoffer. 5-2; lost to Provus, 2-5, and to Friedman. 2-5.
Sabre: de Landero defeated Steven, 5-2, and Wood, 5-1: Scarlata defeated Steven, 5-3 ; de la Vergne lost to Wood, 2-5.
Epee: McAuliffe defeated Naylor. 3-1. and lost to Neal. 0-3; Seco defeated Smith, 3-1, and lost to Neal, 2-3.
With so many men on the injured and sick list, the task of beating a strong Indiana team on Feb. 5 seems a hopeless one to “Nick.” This fact together with the pending examinations the ends of this month may make Notre Dame’s debut against the Hoosiers a rather inauspicious one.
The Irish were hit particularly hard in the distance races with Szu-machowski, Francis and Donnelly all on the ailing list. These men if they do run against Indiana will not be at
Arch Gott
He’s got stuff, remember?
their best. Gibbs’ knee is responding to treatment, but his recovery is not as rapid and complete as was expected. Langton the other vaulter reported to the infirmary with a heavy cold Monday.
In the dashes the Irish followers will find some measure of consolation. Captain “Bucky” Jordan and Bill Clifford should grab the laurels in their specialty. “T-Bone” Mahoney is the old reliable in the hurdles and will render assistance to the mile relay team if needed. Sheehan and Parsons are counted on to replace the graduated Bernard and Rubly in the quarter mile. Lill and Levicki are fixtures in the shotput event.
The schedule as announced by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, features the addition of the strong Navy team on the outdoor schedule. The Middies will travel to Notre Dame, one of the longest trips on record for them. The Indiana State outdoor meet will be held here for the first time ince 1930.
Following is the 1937 track schedule as released by Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics:
(Continued on Page 18)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
INTRODUCING
By Gene Vaslett
Adolph, the apple man, is a popular figure at all Notre Dame basketball games. His apples, ice-cream and peanuts are necessary to properly enjoy a basketball game at the local fieldhouse, especially his peanuts. Tins year the boys have been complaining about the size of the bags of peanuts that Adolph sells as compared with those of other years, in fact some of us have vocally derided hard working Adolph for chiseling us, but deride no more. It’s not his fault there are so few peanuts in a bag; it’s the fault of the packers. Thei'efore we should deride the packers, but deride not the packers, Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak; they win our basketball games for us, ergo we shouldn’t deride anybody. But we would like to put in our plaintive plea for more peanuts to Johnny and Paul.
This column isn’t going to devote itself to asking for more peanuts. Its prime purpose is to introduce Johnny Moir, the Scoring Scot from Niagara Falls and party number one of the peanut absconding scandal of Notre Dame.
Johnny has probably added more prestige to Notre Dame basketball than any one person since the days of “Moose” Krause. His scoring sprees that come with remarkable regularity are talked of in basketball circles from Minnesota to Madison Square Garden. The talk died down a bit, early this year but now it’s started again following his great performance of last Monday night against the vaunted S-men of Syracuse. Speaking of the Syracuse game Johnny took quite a beating in that fracas. His jaw, broken once already this year, was knocked around some more, his wrist was banged so hard it looked as though he’d be taken out of the game, and his eye was slightly puffed. All this pummel-
ing cost Syracuse 24 points and the ball game as Johnny turned in his greatest game this year and nearly broke his all-time record of 25 points in the bargain.
Maybe it. was the peanuts that did the trick but John was no great shakes as a basketball player before he came to Notre Dame. At Niagara High School he claims he was a puny lad of a very light weight. He had no idea of coming to Notre Dame when he graduated from high school, and for a few years worked in an accounting office in Niagara. He played a little basketball on the side and it was here that he acquired the fundamentals of the game, but it wasn’t until his freshman year at Notre Dame that he caused the boys to sit up and take notice.
His first year on the varsity needs little repetition. He and his four sophomore mates practically usurped the seniors on the team with the exception of Johnny Ford. The five sophomores turned in the greatest record any Notre Dame cage team ever made, and at the head of the parade was Johnny Moir with 260 points for the season. An all-time Notre Dame record and one-fourth of the team’s total points for the season. With five games remaining on last year’s schedule Johnny had broken the previous high score for a season, 212, set by “Moose” Krause. It was in the second Pitt game that he broke Krause’s season record and in addition Krause’s high score for a single game. Johnny tallied 25 points against the Panthers to break “Mooses” record by three points. At the end of last year he and Paul Nowak received All-American mentions to bring a close one of the most sensational years in Notre Dame basketball history.
Johnny has another year of bas-(Continued on Page 18)
IRISH TO PLAY PURDUE BASKETEERS HERE
ON FEB. 3
After a brief time out for examinations Keogan’s eagers will return to the floor against the fast stepping Purdue aggregation in the local fieldhouse on Feb. 3.
This meeting will renew a traditional rivalry between the two Hoosier quintets and will enable followers of the hardwood game to form a basis of comparison between the three leading teams of the state. Purdue holds a decision over the newly named “Fightin’ Hoosiers” of Indiana University and are expected to cause the Irish many uneasy moments.
The Boilermakers are up to the usual standard of Purdue basketball teams and have set an impressive record to date. At the present time they share the Big Ten lead with Illinois, each having won four conference games while dropping only one. The downstaters list Indiana, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Michigan among their victims. They suffered their first setback Monday night in a spectacular battle with Illinois in which the Ulini came from behind to gain a 38-37 victory.
The main problem confronting Meyer and company is that of stopping the high scoring Jewell Young who has been setting the pace in Big Ten scoring. Against the Ulini, Young scored fourteen points before leaving the game on fouls. Anderson, a smooth working floorman, teams with Young on the front line. The rangy Seward will take over the center post and Malaska and Downey will hold down the guard positions. The Boilermakers have two capable reserves in the person of Dickinson and Sines, both of whom have seen plenty of action this year.
To beat Purdue the Irish will have to display the same brand of basketball they showed against Syracuse. Earlier in the season the Keoganmen were decisively defeated by Illinois while the Purdue quintet remained on even terms with the Ulini until the closing seconds.
It is expected that Nowak will be in shape for the contest and will perform in the jumping position. Moir and Meyer will probably start at forwards with Brown and Wukovits at guards. Sadowski will probably see action before the forty minutes are up.
MIKE BASRAK, All-American center and captain of the Duquesne team that won the Orange Bowl classic in Miami on New Year’s Day, was once refused the job of student manager on his high school football team.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
17
ON DOWN THE LINE
JIM RASMUSSEN, freshman basketball coach at Marquette university, has a center who towers 6 feet, ten inches. He’s JOHN (MAN MOUNTAIN) CLARK, he comes from Elroy, Wisconsin — and he’s only 17.
Navy plays but one basketball game away from home this year. That one is with Columbia in New York City on Feb. 6.
Two members of the Creighton varsity football squad, FRED TRISH and JOE McKENNA, have been elected princes of the 1937 JuniorSenior Prom.
ROGERS HORNSBY is the only manager in the major leagues who prohibits his players from smoking in the club house.
HORACE STONEHAM, owner of the New York Giants, gave all members of his office and park staffs two months’ pay for Christmas.
A photograph of himself, wife and 12 children featured the Christmas card of EMMETT (RED) ORMSBY, American league umpire.
The New York Yankees will be the highest paid team in baseball this year. They will draw as much in salaries and perhaps a bit more than they did when the mighty BABE RUTH was getting §80,000 a year.
MRS. AMOS ALONZO STAGG has received a special trophy from Stagg’s College of the Pacific football squad, “in appreciation of her fine constructive work during the four years she and Mr. Stagg have been at College of the Pacific.” Mrs. Stagg has kept complete files of all the team’s games, charted every contest and kept statistics on all the players.
BURLEIGH GRIMES is sending RALPH BIRKHOFER and BABE PHELPS to Hot Springs for weight reducing workouts prior to spring training in Florida. They weigh 430 and are supposed to drop the 30 pounds.
Purdue and Indiana meet at Lafayette, Feb. 27. The Boilermaker gym has been sold out for the game since Dec. 20.
ADOLFO LUQUE, New York Giants’ coach, is living in Havana Cuba in the off season. He rules 30 acres like a feudal lord. Besides being a successful farmer, Luque raises fighting cocks as a hobby.
JOHN (BULL) POLISKEY, line coach at Creighton, is a Justice of the peace during his off seasons at Bellaire, Ohioj his home town.
NOTRE DAME DEFEATS GREAT SYRACUSE TEAM IN HARDEST HOME GAME OF YEAR;
IRISH TROUNCE ORANGE 52 - 31
By Arch Gott
The terrible S-Men from Syracuse with a couple of other giants from the East were taught a tremendous lesson in basketball by Coach George Keogan’s five in the local fieldhouse last Monday night. The undefeated and supposedly invincible eastern aggregation was reduced to a surprised
WEST. RESERVE TEAM FACE KEOGANMEN THERE MONDAY
•
By Charles Callahan
Following their sensational upset slaughter of Syracuse last Monday night, the Notre Dame basketball team now heads East. Tomorrow night, Saturday, they meet the Quaker quintet of the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, and then on Monday at the Cleveland Auditorium, they encounter Western Reserve.
Western Reserve, like Notre Dame, has had an in-and-out season thus far this year. They’ve looked good on some occasions, and on others not so good. They reached their peak when they trounced City College of New York. Nebraska barely edged them out, but Stanford and Syracuse overcame Reserve with but little difficulty. However, Stanford triumphed over every other team during their Eastern invasion with the same small amount of difficulty, while Syracuse, until they ran into an avalanche of baskets thrown in from every direction by an inspired Fighting Irish five, was an undefeated outfit.
• Kelker, the Reserve center, is the man that Meyer, Nowak, Moir and company will have to watch closely. He was a star end' on the football squad last fall, and now the basketball team is built around him. Siding-er, veteran forward, and Andrews, stalwart sophomore guard, are other luminaries on Coach Clifford’s club.
This entanglement, incidentally, will mark the third meeting of the two schools on the hardwood. In 1932, Notre Dame won 32 to 25, and one year later, the Irish were again victorious, 40-35.
Just who will “carry the mail” for the Keoganites is rather indefinite. Paul Nowak, All-American pivoteer, and Tom Jordan, regulai' guard, are now out of the infirmary and ready to go. However, the combination of Captain Ray Meyer, Ed Sadowski, Johnny “Point-a-Minute” Moir, Earl Brown, and Tommy Wukovits clicked with the precision, timing and accuracy of a well-wound watch against Syracuse.
and wounded group of basketeers when the Fighting Irish had completed the little demonstration. 5,500 fans roared their approval as Johnny
Ray Meyer
Handicaps Don’t Phase Him.
Moir entirely out-razzle-dazzled his foes by scoring ten baskets and four free throws to come within one point of his .all-time Notre Dame record of 25.
The crowd screamed some more at the hard-playing Captain Ray Meyer who countered with Moir to the tune of 13 points. Then there was the constant ball-hawking of the two speedy guards Tommy Wukovits and Earl Brown accompanied by the burly Ed Sadowski who intercepted passes so often that the Syracuse board of strategy had to resort to long shots. These five played almost the entire game for Notre Dame until Wukovits was removed on fouls late in the second half. The game was the first loss for Syracuse in seven tilts this season, one of their victories being a 52-18 count over Harvard.
Syracuse began the game as if they were going to walk away with the honors, piling up a 12-6 lead in the first few minutes. Suddenly in direct response to the encouragement of a spirited student body, Johnny Moir began to hit his stride and Notre Dame scored the next ten points to go into a 16-12 lead. This amazing change in the complexion of the game proved to be the undoing of the Syracuse Orangemen because they never regained the speed and deception of the first couple of minutes of the game.
Big Ed Sonderman of 1935-36 AllAmerican mention and a man who (Continued on Page 19)
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
Splinters From The Press Box
By Cy Stroker
The gym was filled with an unusually large number of spectators. The students nonchalantly blew smoke in the direction of the No-Smoking signs. Adolph was pulling his usual service-with-a-smile act. The band played a greater number of classical pieces and was proportionally less popular. Brightly attired girls walked guilelessly up and down on the other side, causing quite a stir in the student section. And as we squeezed into our seat up among the rafters (three cheers for the privileges of the press) we could not help but think that this speedy Syracuse team was destined to make short work of the Irish. We are a firm believer in that magic something known as the Notre ’ Dame spirit which frequently enables Irish teams to beat stronger opponents. But this, we felt, this was too much.
The fact that the score at the end of the game was almost two to one in favor of the Keoganites left us breathless. So, also did the team’s performance. Johnny Moir is still the fastest breaking forward we have ever seen. One more basket Monday night would have broken his record of last year, which, in turn, broke all previous Notre Dame records. But we are perfectly satisfied with twenty-four points for one man. During the game we were toying with the idea that Johnny might possibly make as many points as the whole Syracuse team. What a story that would have made. Bravest man on the floor was Captain Ray Meyer who, despite his injured knee was in the thick of every scramble with the result that surprised. Orangemen wondred what had become of the ball that was so recently in their possession. Wukovits played guard in a manner worthy of an Ireland or a Wade. And Brown’s performance makes us wonder if he hasn’t permanently replaced Jordan as a starting guard. All in all, the game was so satisfactory that we nodded our approval, and in doing so bumped our head against the steel beams that hold the roof in place.
FENCERS WORK HARD TO IMPROVE FOR BATTLES AHEAD
■ •
The Irish fencers, still smarting from the defeat suffered at the hands of the Northwestern Wildcats last week, will meet the Wayne University team tomorrow in the second match of the fencing season.
The Wayne squad is led by Captain Saul Karch who is equally capable with the foil, sabre and epee, and who , last year competed in the Midwest fencing championships. Bert Robb is one of the top men on the squad and is an experienced and accomplished sabre man.
Wayne already has an 11 to 6 victory over the strong Michigan State team. Consequently the Irish will have to be in top form to whip the Wayne team. The Notre Dame squad will be out to begin another long string of victories, having broken the string of eighteen left by the team of the last two years.
The rest of the schedule is really a “suicide” one since it includes all of the best teams in the Middle West.
The future opponents whom the swordsmen will meet are:
Jan. 30—Purdue at Notre Dame.
Feb. 6—Washington at Notre Dame.
Feb. 12—Ohio State at Columbus.
Feb. 13—Cincinnati at Cincinnati.
Feb. 25—Purdue at Lafayette.
Feb. 27—Chicago at Notre Dame.
March 8—Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
The Scholastic always lias at least one reporter hanging around the coaches’ offices trying to pick up stray bits of information about schedules, future plans, etc. But in spite of this precaution, no sooner do we go to press than the South Bend or Chicago papers come out with an important schedule that no one seemed to know anything about two days previous. In the last four years our esteemed colleagues of the press (Sound effects: noise of throatcutting) have never failed to scoop us on such matters. Last Sunday we had a fit of foaming at the mouth when we saw the track schedule for the coming season in the South Bend papers. We had been angling for that for weeks. Oh, well 1
Track Schedules
(Continued, from Page 15)
INDOOR
Feb. 5—Indiana at Notre Dame.
Feb. 13—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Feb. 27—Drake at Notre Dame.
March 6—Illinois at Champaign.
March 12} Central Intercollegiate conference
March 13J at Notre Dame.	■
March 20—Butler relays at Indianapolis.
OUTDOOR
April 23-24—Drake or Penn relays.
May 1—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
May 8—Navy at Notre Dame.
May 15—Ohio State at Columbus.
May 22—Michigan State at East Lansing.
My 29—Indiana State meet at Notre Dame.
June 4—Central Intercollegiate at Milwaukee.
All we know is what we see in the papers,' and now we see that the Irish open their indoor track season with Indiana. That is what is known as starting off with a bang. Indiana, besides being Big Ten champion is known as one of the very top ranking track teams in the country. If Coach Nicholson wants to size up his team when they are competing under pressure, he won’t have to wait long, — only until February 5. The Irish, however, will have a well balanced team this year, with strength in practically every event. In the sprints Notre Dame has Jordan and Clifford; in the half mile Parsons and Sheehan look good; Francis and Cavanagh are quite capable of taking care of the half mile. The mile position is comparatively weak with Rice, McKenna, and Donnelley prancing at the post and promising to make us change our mind. Arch Gott and Gormley can take care of the two mile, and Mahoney, Morgan and Jordan will cover the hurdles. “Chick” Levicki, Faymonville, Gibbs, McCarthy and Langton will be on hand for the field events. The relay team this year will consist of Cavanagh, Mahoney, Sheehan and Parsons.	_	-
Introducing
(Continued from Page 16) ketball after this, and if he keeps it up we should see some more of that sensational brand of cage play. It seems that the harder a shot looks the easier, it is for John to sink one.
In his private life the Scoring Scot is practically the supporter of the telephone company’s long distance line between Niagara and Notre Dame, and he doesn’t make those calls to keep in touch with the accounting office he used to work for. In addi- ’ tion those daily letters have never stopped since his freshman year. Yes, our Johnny is quite a boy!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
19
BASEBALL BATTERIES HOLD FIRST MEET IN GYMNASIUM
THE HISTORY OF N. D. FENCING TEAM REVEALS A RAPID RISE TO HIGH STANDING WITH deLANDERO COACHING
The first faint harbinger of Spring -was heard on the campus early this week when Coach “Jake” Kline issued the first call for candidates for battery positions on the baseball team.
The battery candidates are now holding regular drills in the fieldhouse every afternoon loosening up stiff muscles and preparing to pitch the Irish nine through another successful season on the diamond.
Prospects in the line of pitchers look fairly good for the Irish team this year. The brunt of the pitching assignments will fall on Ennio Ar-boit, captain-elect of the baseball team. Arboit was the sensation of last year as he pitched the team to many victories in their greatest season.	.
Frank Kopczak,' a senior, is expected to share the starting assignment ■with Arboit. Jake is looking his other prospects over for a few more men who may be of help on the mound.
Jim Waldron and Alex Kovzelove are expected to carry the burden of the duties in the catching department although there are a few sophomores that may give these two veterans a battle for* their positions.
The battery candidates will continue their workouts throughout the remainder of the ■winter, and will join the ’other members of the squad at the first sign of milder weather in practicing in the open.
Scholastic Candidates
All Freshmen who are interested in becoming members of the Scholastic sports staff will please report to the editorial offices of the Scholastic tonight at 6:30. The offices are located in the Ave Maria building to the rear of the Administration building.
PAAVO NURMI is doing as well in business as he did as a distance runner. He is the agent for all Finland for one of the United States’ biggest automobile manufacturers.
JIMMY (PAT) COFFEE, star L.S.U. halfback, has been nominated for a West Point appointment by SEN. ELLENDER of Louisiana.
Freshman basketball' teams at Creighton during the past six years have never lost a game against collegiate competition.
Notre Dame is generally conceded by John Q. Public to be primarily a football-minded institution, athletically speaking, and the Irish hall of fame is naturally thought to be largely made of of stirring records achieved by the Four* Horsemen and Rockne’s great championship elevens. The majority of Gold and Blue followers throughout the country, though, have neglected to examine the deeds accomplished by Coach Pedro de Landero and his fencing squad—a remarkable stoiy that tells of two consecutive years of countless victories.
Truly the fencers rightly deserve to be placed on a high pedestal in Notre Dame’s long and colorful list , of athletic triumphs. Since the formal recognition of the sport by University officials, in 1934, the foil and saber adherents have emerged from what was termed a mediocre team and not altogether too bright future into an unbeatable combination of superb swordsmen.
Coach de Landero came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1907 to pursue his study for higher learning. After receiving a degree in Civil Engineering, four years later, the present Irish fencing master returned to his native Mexico. Although Coach de Landero was selected to be a member of the faculty in 1926, the sport of fencing was not started until the winter of ’33.
The First Fencing Team
The French Club at one of its regular meetings was staging a saber bout as part of the entertainment program, and Mr. de Landero was asked to officiate. Graciously consenting to be the judge, he even went so far as to give a lecture on the fine points of fencing at the termination of the bout. Not content with this Coach de Landero proceeded to don a mask, and gave a demonstration by fencing with one of the members. The advent of this ancient and honorable art was thus given its inaugural reception here on the campus.
Having been tutored by such famous men as Marteaux, Temperi, and Merignac, the latter reputed to have been the world’s outstanding foil participant, Coach de Landero was well-prepared to assume charge of the Irish fencing squad. Only one of that original group of enthusiasts is still in school of that small gathering in 1933—Telmo de Landero, the present captain and a mainstay in the foils.
Commencing with the season of '34 Notre Dame began to gain prominence in intercollegiate fencing. The opposition has been most difficult and included in the list of opponents have apepared Ohio State, Northwestern. Detroit, Washington University and numerous others. Link the quality and quantity of the Irish foes with that of the Gold and Blue record of two straight years without a defeat (Continued on Page 23)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
Trackmen Start New Indoor Season February 5
The above action photo shows Parson’s, senior quarter-miler, leading a field of runners in the Central Intercollegiate Conference track meet a few years ago. The C. I. C. meet is the high-light of the indoor track season at Notre Dame and will be held March 12 and 13 at the local fieldhouse.
Coach John P. Nicholson’s track and field forces will open their tenth season under him tzvo zveeks from today in a meet zvith Indiana University. Nicholsozi has been remarkably successfzil zvith Notre Dame track teazns and this yeaz- is expectea to be no exception.
Charles “Bzicky” Jordan, of Oak Park, III., succeeds George Meagher as captain of the track team this year. “Bucky” will compete in the dashes for the Gold and Blue. Last year he was a znembei' of the relay teazn that won two events at the Drake relays.
Notable among the great track stars developed by Coach Nicholsozi is Alex Wilson, ’32. Wilson was a famous long and middle distance runner. He cozn-peted in the 1932 Olympics at Los Angeles where he took second place in the SOO meters and third place in the 400 meters.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
21
Every day is Wash-day—And What a Wash!
At Campus Laundry, Largest of Type in World
By Frank E. Larwood
At home mother usually complains when she has nine shirts in the wash in one week, but what would she do if she had 9,000? That along with 15,000 pairs of socks; 18,000 napkins; 5,000 sheets; 5,000 pillow cases, and a proportionate number of handkerchiefs, underwear, etc., is what comprises the week’s wash at Notre Dame’s laundry according to Gerald J. Hoar, manager.
If mother had the University laundry’s $100,000 equipment, however, she would, no doubt, be as matter of fact about wash day being six days a week as Mr. Hoar and his 72 assistants are. Handling 3,000 student bundles, 500 community bundles as well as all the linen from the dining and residence halls is one week’s work for the University laundry.
In the seven large electric washingmachines 350,000 gallons of water and 700 pounds of soap are used each week. This means that 1,000 gallons of water are used by each machine during one washing. Each machine carries a load of 250 pounds and washes six loads a day, about an hour and a half being, the time required for each load.
The water is changed 11 times during each washing; the first four changes being suds, the next six rinses, and the last bluing. Before being used the water is softened to zero hardness. This changes all the soap consuming compounds to nonsoap consuming compounds. The water is then as soft as rain water and purer because there is no suspended matter in it.
“Temperature of the water and sorting of clothes are two important things in laundering,” explained Mr. Hoar. “Heat makes the fibers expand and allows the soap to thoroughly permeate the garment. During a washing the temperature is gradually raised from 90 degrees Fahrenheit to 180 degrees. This temperature is held during the first two rinsings and then gradually lowered to 90 degrees again.
Interior view of laundry.
“Sorting is done according to color and material. Light and dark garments, those of mixed colors, and those having colors that will fade are separated. Cottons, wools, and silks are also separated since vegetable fibers and animal fibers react differently to soap and temperature.
“Silks and wools which are of animal fiber can’t stand a high heat and are washed in water not over 100 degrees in temperature. Since an alkaline soap blisters animal fiber a
Gerald J. Hoar
1V«s/i Day Comes Six Times.
neutral soap of vegetable oil is used for silks and wools.
“Drying is done by placing the garments on heated surfaces. Everything is dried this way except towels which are dried in a tumbler. The towels are placed in revolving wire cylinders near steam coils where the moisture is alternately heated and blown off by forcing air through the tumbler. They are then folded without being ironed so that they will be fluffy and retain then* absorption quality.”
In ironing a shirt there are 64 separate operations Mr. Hoar explained. During these operations the shirts are first starched, then both sides of the collars and cuffs are ironed on a press. Next the front and center bands are ironed on a bosom press and after being taken on a conveyor to the body press the larger areas; back sides, and seams; are ironed.
The sleeves are ironed by slipping
| From "Scholastic" Files
November 25, 1876—The boats are soon to go into winter quarters.
Any sernior who strays into the Minim’s playgrounds when snow is on the ground always meets with a warm reception.
Those members of the faculty who reside in South Bend are delighted with their drives each'morning over the frozen ground. There is no danger of their being troubled with dyspepsia, for the jolting they get is something terrible to behold. The average lift from the seat at each step of the horse is two feet. They -expect, however, to go a little higher next freeze.
November 27, 1880—No mail from the East or West on Monday. Snowbound trains account for it.
The Legal Fraternity is compiling a new set of laws for the government of the country.
“Nogo Dumps” sported a rather fine-looking beaver at Tuesday night’s entertainment.
Mr. Dumps, Mrs. Dumps and all the little Dumplings were made happy on Tuesday evening.
We cannot too strongly condemn the despicable and uncharitable habit some Seniors have of continually annoying some’ of their younger companions. We would adivse these young gentlemen to remember the golden rule. ...	•
We saw Brother Simon commiting a fowl deed last Wednesday morning. He slaughtered about two hundred turkeys for Thanksgiving Day.
them over* a heated flat-like cylinder. Another conveyor takes the shirts to the finisher who finishes any unironed parts by hand and folds the shirts. Each shirt is ironed in about six minutes being handled by seven persons. This department irons 180 shirts an hour.
Dress shii-ts are ironed the same way, but special equipment costing $3,000 is needed for dress collars. This includes a press which exerts a force of 600 pounds. Wearing ap-parrel such as pajamas, underwear, etc., are also ironed on presses. Socks are ironed on steam-heated forms the exact size of the socks.
“This is the largest institutional plant of its kind,” said Mr. Hoar, “and it is completely equipped with the most modern machinery.”
In comparing it with commercial laundries Mr. Hoar explained, “Of course it is not as large because we have no delivery fleet or sales force. The personnel, however, is very high, in fact, much higher than average.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
Twenty-Seven Schools Have Rhodes Men
Twenty-seven universities and colleges, representing every section of the country, contributed the 1937 Rhodes Scholars-elect to Oxford University. In announcing the complete returns of the 32 scholars selected, Dr. Frank Aydelotte, president of Swarthmore college and American Secretary to the Rhodes Trustees, pointed out that the distribution was more wide-spread than in recent years.
* Princeton University is represented by four Scholars, nominated from Connecticut, Ohio, Texas and Missouri; Harvard by two, from North Carolina and Florida; and Swarthmore college by two, from Virginia and Maryland. Twenty-four other colleges and universities supplied the other scholars.
The scholarships represent an annual stipend of 400 pounds sterling for two years study at Oxford University, with the option of a third year’s study if their work warrants it. Founded under the will of Cecil Rhodes, the scholarships are available to thirty-two men each year.
Syracuse Whipped
(Continued from Page 17)
scored 18 points against Notre Dame last year, was just another ball player that night, and the Irish lightning defense cut him to one field goal and five free tosses. At the half, Notre Dame had crept to a 30-23 lead but there was still more to come. A badly rattled Syracuse team was held to only one field goal in the entire second half of the game. Moir, in the meantime, was in his greatest form and with the score 49-27 he made a free-throw to bring the count to 50. With all his brilliance and speed in this game it must also be remembered that Moir did not have one foul called on him.
Sensational ability to sink free throws was one of the factors of the Irish success as they dropped in 16 out of 19 otsses while their opponents sunk only 9 out of the same amount of chances. Official Lane added to the enjoyment of the evening at one time when he called a foul on a Syracuse player. “Foul on number 10—
A Beautiful Hip” bellowed showman Lane.
Notre Dame (52)	Syracuse (31)
B F P	B F P
Sadowski, f 10 1 Thomas, f 2 0 0
Meyer, f	4 5 3 Stewart, f 2 0 2
O'Conner, f 0 0 0 Belinsky, f 0 10
Knobel, f	0 0 1 Sidat Singh.f 0 10
Moir, c	10 4 0 Sonderman.c 15 3
Walker, c	0 0 0 M’Naugh’n.c 0 2 1
Wukovits. g 14 4 Gorecki, g-f 2 0 1
Brown, g	13 2 Simonaitis.g 2 0 2
Allen, g	10 4 Baylock, g 2 0 4
Gaglione, g 0 0 0 Lemitt, g 0 0 0
Ducharme, g 0 0 0
Free throws missed — Sonderman (3),
Thompson (2), McNaughton (3), Baylock, Moir, Sidat Singh, Gorecki, Schroeder, Brown (2).
Page Your Bookkeeper To Try This Out
Washington, D. C.—(ACP)—Asserting that the present football scoring system does not always allow the best team to win, Co. E. A. Hickman, F.D., United States Army, on duty as finance officer of the 3rd Corps Area, has offered a new scoring method.
He suggested that the value of the touchdown and the field goal be reduced from six points to five and from three points to two respectively.
Col. Hickman declared that a team could earn one point for each first down—no matter the excess yardage made, each forward or lateral pass completed and resulting in gain, each forward pass intercepted, each fumble recovered, and each kick that rolled outside -within the ten yard line.
The team would also lose a point for fumbling and not recovering or for each fifteen yard penalty inflicted upon it.
Form New Honorary Political Forum
The Reverend Francis E. Boland, C.S.C., head of the Department of Politics, has announced the organization of the Academy of Politics, an honorary society for students of political science. The aim of the body is to promote a closer union and a stronger bond among those students exhibiting a serious interest in the science and philosophy of politics.
Students who possess the necessary scholastic attainments will be eligible for membership. Those who do not fulfill the qualifications, but who are majoring in Politics, will be given a membership which enables them to attend the meetings.
Anyone interested in joining the Academy should submit his application for membership to George Cecala, 314 Walsh Hall.
Band Plays Romberg Program at Game
Not only did Coach George Keo-gan’s varsity basketball squad burst out in splendor against the Orangemen of Syracuse University last Monday evening, but Professor Joseph J. Casasanta’s musical organization of bandmen produced a show worthy of particular note.
Junior Prom Plans
(Continued from Page 3)
cars has been permitted according to the usual school regulations which apply to these dances.
William V. O’Brien, junior from Little Rock, Ark., has been named class soloist, and he will sing the
class song at the completion of the Grand March.
The sale of tickets will begin on Monday, Feb. 1, and will continue until Wednesday at 5 o’clock in the basement of the dining hall. The Prom tickets will be §5.00.
As previously announced the Tea Dance will be held on the Saturday following the Prom. However the chairman, Jack Wilson, has decided that the more ample space of the Columbia Athletic Club should be the setting of the annual Prom Tea Dance.
The dance will begin at 4:00 p.m., and will end at 7:00 p.m. A dinnerwill be served at 5:45. Music for-dancing at the Tea Dance will be furnished by tunesmith Andy Reidel and his orchestra.
Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., rector of Dillon Hall, and Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C., rector of Howard Hall, will preside at the dinner.
Plans have been made for those attending the Tea Dance to round out-the evening by attending the basketball game that night.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, JANUARY 22, 1937.
23
AT WASHINGTON
By Marvin Cox
(A. C. P. Correspondent)
Washington, D.C.—When Congress assembled this week for its first session, there arose to take his oath of office a new member who looked young enough to be a college senior rather than a representative in the National Congress. As a matter of fact, he is only slightly older than many college seniors and, perhaps, not as old as many students who complete their undergraduate work and go on to professional schools to prepare themselves for the practice of medicine or law.
The “Baby - Congressman” is 27-year-old Lyle H. Boren of Oklahoma, who defeated the incumbent “Cowboy Congressman” Gassaway and a field of eight other candidates to win his seat in the House.
We hear a lot aboout the need for young people in politics; and here is one. Boren finished his studies at Oklahoma A. and M. in 1932 and now, less than four years later, he’s in Congress. He was doing graduate work at the A. and M. school after being graduated from East Central Teachers’ College at Ada, Okla, in 1929.
The young Congressman taught school for a while after finising college, worked for the government, wrote “Who Is Who In Oklahoma” and devoted himself to other literary work.
College students who eye the future with hopes of political success may watch Boren’s career with interest. It may be worthwhile to compare the tactics of the baby House member with that of the baby Senator, Rush Holt of West Virginia.
Holt was elected to the Senate two years ago when he was 29 and had to wait several months before he could take his oath of office. Soon thereafter he went- on the warpath against his colleague from West Virginia, Senator Neely, as well as various other officials including Relief Administrator Harry Hopkins and President Roosevelt. Last fall he campaigned against the nominee of his party although he was elected as a Democrat. His tactics caused the Administration to strip him of his patronage and the Senators, in resentment against his conduct, walk out of the chamber when he rises to address them.
Senator Neely, reelected despite the opposition of the baby Senator, broke a long standing tradition when he walked up to take the oath of office with Senator Robinson instead or the colleague from his own state.
Holt’s antics, however idealistically inspired, tend to discredit young people who aspire to high office, but perhaps Boren’s conduct will be such as
to regain for young people the prestige in politics that Senator Hold has lost.
Numerous young men have brought credit to themselves and their electorate despite their youth. Senator Richard B. Russell, Jr. of Georgia is an example of this. Still in his thirties, he has served as speaker of his state house of representatives, governor of Georgia, and has just entered upon his fifth year in the Senate, having been overwhelmingly reelected to a full term after serving four years of an unexpired term.
Fencing History
(Continued from Page 19)
—the result is a phenomenal mark that carves its own niche into Notre Dame’s hall of fame.
Last week Coach de Landero and his fencing squad opened another sea- : son of vigorous activity by meeting Northwestern in their initial match. Although the Irish mentor is handicapped to a large extent by the loss of such veterans that include two of his former stellar proteges, Co-Cap-tains Kevin Kehoe and Carlos de Landero, nevertheless the fencers are expected to again maintain their enviable record.
Launch Re-organization Of New French Group
Mr. Boisvert, of Montreal College, spoke of the method and routine of French classes there before the Le Cercle Francais, newly re-organized language cultural group at the University last Thursday evening.
The task of successfully launching the new organization was entrusted to Paul Herbert Anderson, a junior
Established 30 Years
OPTOMETRISTS
222^2 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
REASONABLE DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
in the College of Arts and Letters from Pittsburgh, Pa., who was appointed temporary chairman.
At the next meeting of the group scheduled for February 4, additional organization plans will be discussed in an effort to return the club to its former high rank.
Anderson, late this week, announced that the election of permanent officers, however, would not take place until a meeting slated to be held on February 11.
CALLING
All He-Men to the HOCKEY GAMES in Chicago
Take a large order of speed and skill . . . all the gentle tricks of fourteen giants with clubs — and that, friend, is a hockey game. Don’t miss seeing the Blackhawks in action --but let them take the risks-ride to Chicago via South Shore Line. You’ll travel safely.— and you’ll save money and time, too.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

NAY NAY LAD
YE CANNA GIE ME THOSE I LL BUY MY OWN KIND I KEN WHAT THEY DO...
CopyrishtlYBZ; .bc^BT: