PROFESSIONAL CARDS
AMERICA'S FINEST TIMEPIECES
Right on the Campus!
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3*1395	J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3*2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-09S9	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4*5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3*1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.
M. D.
17 Jewel Butova Senator — $33.75
ALSO GRUEN AND WESTFIELD WATCHES Expert Watch and Jewelry Repair!
Telephone 3*4269
M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose. o. d.s. PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
629 -629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
Buy your VALENTINES at the Bookstore
Come early — wide selection at 5c, I Oc, 15c, 25c
Some humorous — some are very sentimental — big and little ones — sedate greetings and a few that are not so sedate — but all of them are quality HALL MARK cards.
THEY WILL GO FAST SO DON’T WAIT TOO LONG TO MAKE YOUR SELECTION . . .
We have some gift items $1.00 and up — for your very special Valentines.
ASSOCIATE. BUILDING
SOUTH BENO. INO.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
THE WEEK i= FRANK WEMHOFF=
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
Top of the Week
The Monogrammers try another sport.
> Situation Wanted
If you will consult your local trashpile, Elmer Layden’s transfer of franchise was predicted in lemon juice in a recent Scholastic. But, far from resting in sorrow, Notre Dame this week sent out blue questionnaires to outstanding candidates, Crowley, Stuhldreher, Leahy, Anderson, Carideo, etc. Sorin’s janitor, Alex, while spraying tobacco juice all around Sorin Sub, confided to intimates that, he was secretly booming Heiny Schrenker for the vacancy.
Football
Qualification Test No. I
(Married men may not accept children’s help)
Are you equipped with a personal ghost writer?
Do you favor orange juice or apples between halves?
How many footballs do you own?
Do you drive a Studebaker?
Do you know that the Dome is peeling? Would you make Joe Boland reduce? Where do you get your jokes?
Does our team look better in green or blue?
Have you seen “Philadelphia Story”?
Do you believe in the forward pass? If so, why?
What is your draft number?
Define pep talk.
Discuss briefly the philosophy of sportsmanship.
Outline in gibberish the history of the roll block.
What will you do if the schedule conflicts with the fencing team?
What’s that on your necktie?
(All tests must be submitted to the Contest Editor, Notre Dame U. Entries must be postmarked no later than Spring Practice. All entries remain the sole property of the sponsors.)
After the usual amount of coin-flipping, politics, telegrams, rumors, cigar exchanging, and haggling, the winner will probably be Jim Crowley because he believes in de-emphasizing the touchdown.
The Men About
Erwin Mooney has applied for canonization papers.... Mr. McAuliffe announces the excuse most likely to succeed .... Say you have a broken leg and then go out and break it.... Zahm’s “Young Tom” O’Rourke has just invented the cigarette lighter, a sequel to the cigar lighter.... John O’Dea, no relation to the person of the same name stuggling for control of the cosmos, lost a flock of berries on last Saturday’s Tea Dance.... will attempt to put more money in circulation this week.... Bill Mulvey, who wonders if they shoot off the Yacht Club’s cannon on Washington’s Birthday, has originated another movement, Hatracks for Halos.... another movement will be his last.... We would like to blast forever those cracks about Scrip’s endings.... the boys just haven’t reached that chapter in the course yet.... Buber and Fallon, premeds, at “Kitty Foyle”:... “Was that last scene supposed to happen before the first or after the last?”.... Brutz, Bro-sey, Ziemba, Bereolos, Bagarus, McHale, going or gone and who even wants to be a coach?
❖
Boner of the Week
We quote the Scholastic of Jan. 24 on page 6.... “Graduate students have been especially unfortunate in securing positions after leaving school”.... Truth is stranger than fiction or, brother, can you spare a proofreader?.... ■ Realism or hypocrisy, take your pick.
❖
My O'Dea
The library, we hear, is to have brand new lights in the reading room. According to unimpeachable sources, the present lights were never meant for reading, but some one (we don’t know who) forgot to obtain table lamps. Now we are to have them, and we hope that the young men of the University will start .to read, even if only to prevent all that extra light from going to waste.
❖
Bottom of the week
Three frosh walking along the main quad.
“I passed and I didn’t use any cribs, either.”
“Me too.”
“Me too.”
Igor Stravinsky, who has lately taken out his first American citizenship papers, has announced to the American public something which ought to make it happy and proud. Or at least those Americans who are at all aware of Stravinsky’s position in contemporary music should be pleased to know that Igor is “nuts” about swing. In these words, at a recent press interview, Stravinsky let the world in on his great passion for swing music: “I love swings. I love all kinds of swings. It is appealing to me as a composer. Always I love to listen to the good swings orchestras. Not only in this country but in Paris. When the players go by themselves it is wonderful, I think. I have always stayed with them. Now it is to the Harlem I go. It is so sympathetic to watch the negro boys and girls dancing and to watch them eating the long, what is it you call them, frankfurters, no — hot dogs — in the long roles. And the ham on the plain paper. It is so sympathetic.”
Stravinsky is so attracted to swing that he thinks he will try writing some of it himself. All music ought to be an expression of the soul of the people, he things. Boogie-woogie is precisely that, Igor says. This, then, is some indication of at least part of the American soul.
It is comforting to know that Igor Stravinsky sanctions, with enthusiastic approval, such a basic element of our American culture. In times like these it is unquestionably flattering to us that the utter goodness of things American be called to our attention with all possible fanfare. We like to have people say that they like the fundamental things of America. We are more than glad that Stravinsky plans to write some hot music. If he incorporates into his swing the elements of his tremendous interest in the pure classical form, something of his interest in ancient liturgical, musical forms and his unequalled atohality, then we ought to have an art form unrivalled.
Applications Available
Accounting majors and combination accounting-law majors from this year’s graduating class, qualified for appointments with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, may secure application forms from Dean James E. McCarthy’s office in the Commerce Building.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
-	RAYMOND J. KELLY "	■■	■
blue streamers and told everyone to “Give Him an E------, It’s the American way!” It made the Parade feel very bad for as he looked at the alarm clock strapped securely to his wrist he realized that it was not an E---- and what did
Where's Who Dept.
When the Parade found that readers were interested in the short note we ran sometime ago about the whereabouts of the little man with the green hat, we decided that news of our notables would be faithfully reported if and when they burst into print in some collegiate publication. Naturally, some reference should be made to the picture-section that camouflaged the latest issue of Bunthome’s Gazette, when it slipped under our door last Monday. Though it may have seemed like just another publicity shot faked for the occasion by the first floor of Walsh, the whole thing is strictly on the level. In fact, the Parade actually saw the organizer and one of the charter members briskly stepping along the Niles Road the very afternoon the picture appeared.
Joe Ruetz, tap-dancer par excellence, who played football here between engagements, attracted a great deal of attention recently from the people who put out the St. Mary’s Collegian. Joe is assisting “Red” Strader with the St. Mary’s football team and studying anthropology. In line with his studies, he took a trip into the wilds of Utah. Carrying an 88-pound pack and one carton of ciagrettes, he headed for the Cataract canyon and spent five weeks exploring Indian pueblo ruins and many of the caverns in the region. Joe tried his hand at cattle-punching when he would occasionally meet a group of cowboys. When he returned to St. Mary’s he had lost 20 pounds and acquired a beard and material for several magazine articles.
Graduation
At a time when our own Seniors are getting accustomed to the wonders of the eighth semester, with its 15 hour load and no grades to make, the Log comes out of Annapolis with its graduation number. Because of the present “situation,” the entire first class was sent out into the hard, cruel world a full three months ahead of time. However, before the graduation fun could start, the exams had to be taken in hand. One third classman made history when, in an exam in physics (called “skinny” at the Academy) he stated, “Sublimation is when a piece of ice disappears and leaves no puddles of water and nobody took it.”
War Talk
Since the blitzkrieg has become part of our every-day language, the Parade has observed various stupid symptoms of the same hysteria that, during the last war turned sauerkraut into “Liberty cabbage” and prompted concert masters to ban Wagner’s works as “subversive.” Others have noticed this same foolishness that some think constitutes patriotism. Much has been made of the fact that people, who wouldn’t know the first stanza of the “Star-Spangled Banner” if it was recited to them, rise and remove their hats when a swing band breaks into “God Bless America.”
What provoked a lusty roar from the Parade was a poster advertising the watch that Yale men have had in their families for three generations. This poster was decorated with red, white, and
that make Mother and Dad who had given him the watch that memorable day when he was put out of high school for good?
Sport News
When we read a story in the San Francisco Foghorn recently we resolved to print it because it would have such wide appeal. George Meltzer would read it because the story concerns Aquinas and Sam Neild would probably like it because it takes place on a golf course. It seemed that St. Peter had challenged St. Thomas to a friendly game and on his drive from the first tee scored a hole-in-one. St. Thomas brandished his celestial club and equaled the feat. “All right,” said. St. Peter, rubbing his hands together. “Now, let’s cut out the miracles and get down to work.”
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
FEBRUARY 7, 1941
Number 14
BLESSING BESTOWED ON STUDENTS LEAVING TO JOIN COLORS
Left to right: Father Lynch, W. Hampel, J. Mulqueen, A. Maddalena, C. Kyan, C. O’Neil, P. Finneran and C. Simmons.
Seven Notre Dome Students Leave Campus For Active Military Service of Nation
Father O'Donnell Makes Awards to Men
With the completion of the first semester, seven Notre Dame students have left the campus for active military service in the armed forces of the nation. The men are: Joseph Mulqueen, Craig Simmons, Patrick Finneran, William Hampel, Charles Patrick O’Neil, Arthur Maddalena and Clarence J. Ryan. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, presented the men each with a missal, a rosary and a medal before their departure. Of the seven men, two go to the Navy Air Corps, one to the Army Air Corps, one to the Marine Corps, two to the Navy, and one to the Army.
Joe Mulqueen, of Council Bluffs, Iowa, enters the marine corps with the status of second lieutenant in the U. S.
marine corps reserve. During the summers of 1939 and 1940 he spent two camp periods of six weeks each at the San Diego, Calif., marine base, and has now been assigned to three months of training at the Marine Basic School at Philadelphia, Pa., beginning Feb. 20. After this training period Mulqueen is to be assigned to immediate active duty for at least one year, and probably for the duration of the present national emergency. During the past semester at Notre Dame Mulqueen has done graduate study in social work, having received his A.B. degree here in June, 1940.
Craig Simmons, of Los Angeles, Cal., a member of the Naval Reserve Air Corps, has been assigned to two months of training at Glenview, Hl. After this he will receive eight months of more advanced training at Pensacola, Fla., then to be assigned three years of active
duty with the naval air corps. Simmons, enrolled in the College of Engineering at Notre Dame, received his B.S. degree in mining engineering last week.
Two undergraduates are among the Notre Dame men leaving for military service. They are Patrick Finneran of South Bend, Ind., and William Hampel, of Mount Vernon, N. Y. Finneran, a member of the naval reserve air corps, will receive six weeks of training with status of Seaman Second Class, and then be sent to Pensacola as ensign. He completed his primary and secondary flight training under the C.A.A. program while at Notre Dame. Academically he is rated as a junior in the College of Engineering, and would have received his B.S. degree in- electrical engineering in 1942. Hampel, a junior in the College of Commerce, would have received his degree in 1942 also. Hampel will be assigned to three .years of active duty with the army air corps.
C. J. Ryan, known as “Gus” at Notre Dame and in his home town of Oak Park, HL, enters the infantry of the U. S. army as a second lieutenant. He has had four years of R.O.T.C. work at St. Thomas Military Academy, St. Paul, Minn., and will now be given three more months of officers’ training before being assigned to active service. Ryan received his B.S. degree in commerce last week.
Arthur Maddalena, of Westfield, Mass., now has status as midshipman in the naval reserve and has been assigned to three months of basic training at the U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. Upon completion of the course at Annapolis, he will be ranked as ensign, and be assigned to immediate active duty for at least one year, probably for the duration of the present crisis. Maddalena was a pre-medical student at Notre Dame, received his B.S. degree in science last week.
Pat O’Neil, of New Rochelle, N. Y., ranks as midshipman, naval reserve, and has been assigned to the Naval Academy at Annapolis for three months of training. He then becomes an ensign in the U. S. Navy, and will be assigned to immediate active for one year, probably as long as the emergency lasts. O’Neil received his A.B. degree in June, 1940, finished his work in economics during the past semester.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Promgoers Will Dance to the Rhythms of Ray Herbeck's "Music with Romance"
Miguel Will Furnish Rhumba Rhythms
Ray Herbeck, the handsome blond maestro who will play for the Notre Dame Junior Prom on Feb. 21, traded in diamond dust for star dust. . . . Herbeck was a star moundsman for the University of Southern California where he at one time studied dentistry. His band was formed from his classmates and he turned down offers to play professional baseball so that he could continue his career in music.
The Herbeck musical aggregation will bring their “Music With Romance” to the Prom directly from the Marine Room in Chicago’s Edgewater Beach Hotel. Prior to this, the orchestra shattered all-time attendance records at Westchester’s famed Log Cabin Farms in Armonk, having first achieved an enviable reputation at Bill Green’s Casino in Pittsburgh and the Paramount Theatre in New York.
Versatility is the keynote of this orchestra which features Ray Olson on the drums, Benny Stabler, 20-year-old trumpet sensation, and Betty Benson, pert songstress. “Music With Romance” is music on the sweet side. Harmony is stressed in Herbeck’s orchestra but never to the sacrifice of rhythms.
Chairman of Music Ted MacDonald has announced that this year’s Prom will also offer Jose Miguel and his orchestra, authentic Cuban Rhumba exponents. Miguel, the current favorite of Chicago’s socialites, will bring his eight Cubans to the Prom from a string of prominent engagements. As a result, the Prom will be able to offer continuous dancing from 9:30 to 1:30 with a wide diversification of dance tempos. The Class of 1942 will perhaps create a new epoch in Notre Dame dances by securing two such popular orchestras.
Saturday afternoon, Feb. 22, will find Prom-goers at the Indiana Club, dancing to the smooth rhythms of Jack Russell and his orchestra, currently featured at the Boulevard Room of the Stevens Hotel in Chicago. Steve Glali-ker, chairman of the tea dance, has announced that plans are being completed to make the tea dance an attraction in harmony with the rest of the week-end activities.
The bids, according to General Chairman James Fayette, will be $7.00, which price includes the Prom and tea dance. Tickets for the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech basketball game on Sat
urday, Feb. 22, may be had for 50 cents upon presentation of your athletic book. Fayette also revealed that all those attending the Prom may secure permission to drive cars over the weekend.—James P. O'Laughlin
Maestro Ray Herbeck
"Dome’' to Snap Pictures
At Tea Dance Tomorrow
The last of the newly-inaugurated Saturday Afternoon Tea Dances will take place tomorrow from 2:30 to 5:00, at the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle. As before, the music will be provided by Marty Ross and his orchestra. Bids, at $1.10 a couple, may be obtained from John O’Dea in Alumni Hall, or at the dance.
A Dome photographer will be at the tea dance to take pictures for the 1941 yearbook.
This will be the last of these affairs before the Lenten season. The series may be continued later.
—Mark' G. McGrath
Saturday Film Will Be "Tom Brown's School Days"
Tomorrow afternoon the feature motion picture presentation at Washington Hall will be RKO “Tom Brown’s School Days.” Included on. the program are a Disney cartoon and an RKO newsreel.-
Stars of Athletic World
Dance at Monogram Ball
Football Captain Milton Piepul, Captain-elect Paul Lillis, Cliff Brosey, University record holder in the shot put. Track Captain Joe Olbrys and Baseball Captain Andrew Chlebeck will lead the parade at the annual Monogram Ball this evening, beginning at 9 o’clock, at the Palais Royale in South Bend.
The committee, under General Chairman Al Perrine and Club President Bob Saggau, has assigned Paul Reedy’s Campus Commanders the role of music maker. Reedy’s band comes from Purdue University for the affair.
Proceeds of the dance will go to a fund to provide all monogram men with a blanket and monogram. It has been a custom in past years to make this award to seniors but this year the plan will probably include all monogram men.
According to the plan introduced a year ago, Freshmen -will be eligible to attend, and 12:30 a.m. permissions will be granted. Tickets, priced at $1.50, may be obtained from any member of the Monogram club.
The dance this year will be informal. Blue and gold will be the color scheme for the affair. Captain Olbrys and Paul Lillis are in charge of decorations.
Publicity for the dance has been under the direction of Edward Sullivan. William Hawes, is chairman of the music committee, while James Brutz and Hercules Bereolos will supervise the floor show at the intermission.
Ray Pinelli is in charge of patrons; Ray Mendolia, has been handling tickets.
Members of the University coaching staffs and their wives will be patrons for the dance.—Bill Scanlan
Social Work Department Studies Child Welfare
The Department of Social Work is cooperating with the State Department of Public Welfare in a study of certain child welfare functions of the county courts. The same type of study is being conducted by the University of Indiana School of Social Work and the De Pauw University Department of Sociology.
John J. Reddy, John D. Ellis, and Daniel O. Quinlan, graduate students of the Notre Dame Department of Social Work, are doing the research work involved, under the direction of Professor John J. Cronin of the Social Work faculty.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Fathers R. W. Woodward and E. R. Fitzgerald Receive Commissions as Army Chaplains
Two Notre Dame priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross have recently received commissions from the President of the United States to serve as chaplains in the U. S. Army, and one of them has already been called for active dutyT They are the Rev. Edward R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., a member of the Notre Dame Mission Band since 1934, and the Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., former rector of Morrissey Hall and professor of philosophy at the University since 1936. Father Woodward leaves the University very soon to report for duty at Fort Hancock, New Jersey.
Besides Fathers Fitzgerald and Woodward, two more members of the local Congregation have applied for commissions as army chaplains. They are the Rev. George J. Welsh, C.S.C., prefect in Howard Hall and instructor of history at the University, and the Rev. Joseph
Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C.
Barry, C.S.C., now at St. Joseph’s parish in South Bend.
Father Woodward, prefect in Walsh Hall during the first semester of the present schoolyear, received his commission as First Lieutenant in the Officer’s Reserve Corps early in January, and now awaits final notice to report for active duty at Fort Hancock, N. J. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1928, studied theology at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., and was ordained in 1932. After ordination, Father Woodward spent a year as assistant pastor in Sacred Heart parish in New Orleans, La., another year in graduate study of philosophy at Notre Dame, and
Rev. Edward R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C.
then two years as assistant superior and instructor at the Seminary of Our Lady of Holy Cross, at North Easton. Mass. Returning to Notre Dame as professor of philosophy in 1936, Father Woodward has been here since that time.
Father Fitzgerald received his commission as First Lieutenant in the Officers’ Reserve Corps on Jan. 3, 1941, but has not yet been assigned to active duty. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1930, attended Holy Cross College in Washington, D. C., for four years, and was ordained in 1934. After his ordination, Father Fitzzgerald was assigned to the Notre Dame Mission Band, and in this line of duty has been on the campus until last September when he was assigned to North Easton, Mass.
Fr. L. R. Ward Writes
New Book on Iowan Life
Sheed and Ward promise to bring out on Feb. 24, a new book by the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., author of God in an Irish Kitchen. The new book was to have been called “Holding Up the Hills,” but the publishers have asked that this rather poetic title be given up in favor of the more directive one, Biography of a Country Town, meant at first as the sub-title.
The aim of the book is to express the whole life of a rural parish in Ipwa, and the work is based on factual resources : land and' parish records, oral tradition, observation, letters and newspapers; it narrates the story through particular men and women in the neigh
borhood, and through their common problems and sufferings and joys. Father Ward insists on the common everyday life of the people, on their own sayings and doings, and— as in the book on Ireland—he goes on the theory that the people ought to be the book. He said in the foreword to the Irish book: “Books about people should be written in part by the people, in terms of their interests and with at least a suggestion of their idiom.” He tries to maintain that idea throughout the present book.
Elected Chairman
The Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame education department, was elected chairman of the National Conference of Church-Related colleges at its recent meeting in Pasadena, Calif.
Father Cunningham had formerly served as vice-chairman of this conference. Catholic members of the National Commission of the Conference are: the Very Rev. Edward V. Stanford, O.S.A., president of Villanova college; the Rev. Daniel M. Galliher, O.P., of Providence college; and Ralph W. Lloyd, of Maryville college, St. Louis.
Prof. Emerson, Zoologist, to Lecture Here Monday
Prof. Alfred E. Emerson of the Department of Zoology, University of Chicago, will give a general illustrated lecture on “Social Insects” at 8 o’clock on Monday evening in Washington Hall.
In the afternoon of the same day, at 2 o’clock, Professor Emerson will address the faculty and graduate students of the Department of Biology as well as the members of the Notre Dame Academy of Science, on “Speciation.” This lecture will take place in the auditorium of the Biology Building.
The speaker’s extensive field and laboratory studies, published in numerous scientific journals and books, furnish a colorful and scientific background for his lectures.
At present Professor Emerson serves as secretary of the newly-founded “Society for the Study of Speciation,” which includes biologists of all interests who are concerned with “various aspects of the dynamics of the origin of species.”
Men wanted I Swimmers, with or without previous competitive experience are invited to try out for a berth on the Notre Dame team which will swim against Indiana and Chicago. For further details, see the story appearing elsewhere in this section of THE SCHOLASTIC.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dr. Gurian Traces Hitler's Career Before Academy of Politics Meeting
‘‘The only way to get rid of Hitler is
by his death or defeat. Nothing else will
do it,” said Dr. Waldemar Gurian, pro
fessor of politics at the University, before a meeting of the Academy of Politics on Jan. 23. “Any talk of internal revolt is nonsense unless Hitler is defeated in a decisive battle, because the Nazi party is a strong, semi - mili
Dr. Gurian which together
tary organization with the secret police
(Gestapo) can quash a revolt of the
people easily.
Dr. Gurian in his lecture, first dealt with the rise of Hitler into power; and second, he explained the methods and situations which helped Hitler become dictator of Germany.	'
Hitler was handicapped at first by his Austrian birth, and by his lack of a profession. He had tried to become a painter, but his indifferent work failed to gain him entrance into an art academy.
Between 1919 and 1923, Dr. Gurian continued, Hitler made his entrance into Bavarian politics. He joined the National Socialist (Nazi) Party, which was very small and just getting its start. Here his natural brilliance as an orator first became known to Hitler himself and started him on his way upward. Hitler found he could dominate the organization easily with his talent, and an army captain named Roehm noticed that ability with great interest. The latter with General Ludendorff and von Kahr, a government leader in Bavaria, used Hitler to gain control of the radical parties in that southern region of Germany. By this strategy Roehm tried to bring these parties under the indirect control of the conservative government.
In November, 1923, the Nazi party thinking that the police were on their side, tried a putsch to overthrow von Kahr’s government. But the police under von Kahr, and the regular army, fired on the Nazi marchers under Hitler and Ludendorff, and defeated the coup d’etat.
Dr. Gurian designated the period between 1923 and 1930 as “the years of party - building,” when Hitler dictated Mein Kampf to Hess, his secretary, in a fortress; and when, after being released, Hitler began for the first time to participate in electoral campaigns. Success was slow, but it did come even
amid inter-party quarrels. Herr Thyssen, a rich German industrialist, financed Hitler during these years, and by 1930 there were 107 Nazi deputies in the German Reichstag. “Three things are responsible for Hitler’s success after 1928,” said Dr. Gurian; “first, the economic crisis, second, the proportional representation system of Germany, and third, the destruction of Germany’s middle class by the inflation of 1922-3.”
The year 1933 marked the beginning of Hitler’s direct fight for power. He was taken more and more seriously by the German people. Finally, President von Hindenburg was bored by General von Schleicher’s intrigue’s, and through the petitions of von Papen, Hitler was appointed as dummy ruler in 1933, with von Papen as vice-chancellor and the real head of state.
“Here is where Hitler’s genius came into play,” said Dr. Gurian. “He outwitted all the ‘brilliant’ politicians like von Papen and von Schleicher. Hitler increased his own power by slowly outlawing the opposition parties. Then only the Army could have stopped him, but Hitler kept them out of it by promising promotions and other gratuities. Besides the army feared civil war would come out of their interference.”
Nevertheless, Hitler feared the army and in June, 1934, he purged the Nazi party of men disliked by the generals. Captain Roehm was executed as were other radical Nazis and conservative Catholics. “I was the supreme court of German for a few hours,” Hitler said afterward. At this time President von Hindenburg was weakening physically and he died in August of that year. Hitler then united the two offices of chancellor and president and became with the army’s permission, Reichs-fuehrer. In 1938 General von Blomberg, minister of war, was ousted and Hitler assumed supreme command of the army. “Now,” said Dr. Gurian, “only defeat can get rid of Hitler, because he is the German government.
“Hitler succeeded,” said Dr. Gurian as he summed up Hitler’s career, “because he was not understood or taken seriously at first. He was thought incompetent and used as a tool by other men. Capt. Roehm was first; he was ambitious and used Hitler as a means for his own ends. He was executed in 1934. Von Kahr was second; he was a good but mistaken man—murdered also in 1934. So was General von Schleicher, a supreme ego-
(Continued on page 20)
By William K. Mulvey
When Rudyard Kipling said, “East is East and West is West and never the twain shall meet,” he hadn’t counted on the unhappy sequence of events that was to shock China from its tranquil past and send the younger generation scurrying to universities of the western world where they might learn and absorb the latest and most expedient methods of combating the materialistic avarice of her neighbors.
From Hankow, Hupie province in central China, came William and John
Soong. Back in 1936 they were studying English undei' Catholic Sisters in China; these Sisters pointed out the road that led to Notre Dame, and late in August of 1937 Bill and Johnny began their journey. At Shanghai they got their first real taste of hostilities. The unfortunate bombing of the American lines’ President Hoover had tied up traffic leaving Shanghai; so Bill and Johnny had to trek down the coast to Honkong before they could board a ship. From Hongkong they went to Japan — where, needless to say, they remained on board the ship. After a brief stay at Japan, they had clear sailing across the Pacific to Seattle. There followed a swift train ride to Chicago, thence to South Bend.
By this time, it was October- 4, 1937, some three weeks late, for the beginning of the semester, but arrangements were made and Bill enrolled under the sign of the T Square and Triangle to study mechanical engineering, while Johnny turned his mind to the study of balance _ sheets and board meetings in the Commerce School. Social acclimation was as simple as academic orientation. They found American boys “not much different” from the boys they had known at home. Though some of them asked some (Continued on page 19)

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Van Deventer, "Iron Age" Editor, Speaks Wednesday
J. H. Van Deventer, prominent publisher, and president and editor of the Iron Age, will be the main speaker at a joint meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter, American Society for Metals, Michiana Chapter, American Foundrymen’s Association, Manufacturers Division, Association of Commerce of South Bend, and South Bend Chapter No. 39, Amer-ican>Society of Tool Engineers, on Wednesday, Feb. 12.
Mr. Van Deventer will speak at the technical session in the Engineering auditorium following the dinner in the University Dining Hall. His subject is “Today’s Challenge to the Engineer.”
The speaker has had a long and varied career in the fields of publishing and editing, and manufacturing. From the time of his graduation from Cornell University until the World War he was in the field of manufacturing. During the War he assisted in the organization of the United States Ordnance department. Since that time he has been connected with a number of technical publications, and he has been prominent in the affairs of business publishers for many years.
The March meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter, ASM, will be held on March 12. M. F. Judkins, of the Firthite Division of Firth-Sterling Steel Co., will speak on “Powder Metallurgy.”—Bill Welch
Editor J. H. Van Deventer
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
For a long time we thought that the Sociology professor who gave such commands as “Pencils up” and “Pencils down” was the best example of the old-school classroom disciplinarian at the University. Recently, however, we have been forced to change our minds. News of another professor’s methods have come to our ears, and we must confess that his best trick is the only one of its kind on the campus, and one that we don’t remember hearing about since our grammar school days. This teacher compels every student in his class who fails to answer correctly to stand for ten minutes. With things going this way we expect to hear of “punish lesson” assignments being made any time now.
There are two seniors living on the first floor of Alumni Hall who having been carrying on long distance communications since the opening of the school year. They have erected some sort of tick-tack apparatus, and worked out a simple code. Whenever one of the ticktacks begins to crackle “tack-tita-tack-tack,” its owner knows immediately that an interesting opera is on the radio. If another- signal is heard the listener knows that the sender wants to see him. Now and then when books and life in general become dull and boring, when all things appear futile, the seniors touch out a single tick on their machine. And when the single answering tack comes back, a symbol of sympathy and a message of encouragement, the disconsolate member of the team goes back to his work with renewed faith and stern determination.
* * *
In all the conversations we have ever heard where the campus water fountains were discussed, we have never heard a single, brief mention given to the two drinking bowls next to the cafeteria. And to our way of thinking they produce the clearest, the coolest and the quickest flow of water in the entire University. We think they are the most under-rated water fountains on the campus, and we wish that some one would do something about it.
• * * *
A certain fellow who lives in Brownson Hall (ha!) has been having trouble in his academic life ever since he entered upon the stormy sea of collegiate occupation, but he has always liked the
way of the University man here, when that way did not interfere with his own individual activities. Recently, he received a notice from his father which warned him that if he had any failures at the semester he would be recalled from the land of the Pottawattomi, and enrolled at a small, non-social college near home. When he had read the message, the student said: “Well, it looks like I am going to end up at the hometown college or the army. . . . And I would have a high draft number!”
* * *
Until this time we have avoided any reference to that place. Ever since September we have succeeded in writing round that neighboring campus which is the target for so many bad jokes and ineffectual comment. But now, since we have learned of the current indoor operations which will produce woolen socks for the British soldiers, we are compelled to speak out. We are anxious to know why, when there are so many young men at this place of learning who are in sore need of foot covering after their clothing has been to the laundry twice, why, the British get the socks? On this question, we are definitely a member of “Save America First.”
' * * *
Even in their new building the pressmen of the Ave Maria continue to have trouble. It seems that there are two members of the proofreading staff who have opposing theories on punctuation, and they take turns berating the typesetter for not following orders. Each one claiming that the other is completely ignorant of the rules for commas and colons. We expect to see the typesetter’s own system any day now.
* * *
Not long ago the South Bend Tribune reported that one of the local congressmen was sponsoring a Dog and Cat Bill in the Indiana State Assembly. The bill was designed to prevent the disposal of unwanted pets, especially the disposal of unwanted pets on ‘dark and lonely roads.’ We trust that every dog and cat lover on the campus will get behind this bill and promote its passage. And while they are about it, they might try to discover some way of capturing persons who dispose of their pets on dark and lonely roads.
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
STUDENT FORUM
Is Labor a Spoiled Child?
By John J. Reddy
Two weeks ago a writer in this column called labor a “spoiled child.” He admitted “time was when labor was mis
Jchn J. Reddy-
treated.” But a benevolent government entered the picture, protecting labor. “The first unbridled act of the spoiled brat, Labor, was the strike.” Originally, “strikes were bad means toward a good end; now, in most cases, both means and end are bad.” Labor needs renovating because of Communists and
racketeers in its membership. Strikes must not hold up the “benefactor’s defense program.” .
A spoiled child receives over abundantly of the things which are its due. Has labor received its just share, and more? A minimum decent urban wage is $1,600 a year according to the National Industrial Conference Board. Forty percent of our families received less than $1,500 a year in 1929 according to a report of the Brookings Institution. The average wage today in the highly efficient United Automobile Workers Union is $1,300. Fully half of our workers have never received a just wage.
When income is inadequate, food, shelter and clothing come in less than adequate amounts. Of these three necessities, the adequacy^ of housing is easiest to measure. The Real Property Inventory taken all over the U. S. in 1936 showed ten nfillion families living in sub-standard houses. Such homes are without full sanitation, central heating, electric or gas lighting; they are crowded, poorly ventilated, in need of major repairs, unfit for human habitation. They do not conform to the department of agriculture Principles of Dairy Bam Operation: “The stabling of animals in dark, poorly ventilated, damp bams affects their health and helps spread tuberculosis among the stock whenever the germs are present.” Labor’s share of food and clothing is as poor as its housing.
Labor has a natural right to organize. Workers are human beings possessed of immortal souls. They too, share in the
Mystical Body of Christ. They are neither chattels nor cattle, nor a commodity. Workingmen deserve a partnership with capital. Government never gave labor anything. Charity is a gift. Justice is a payment. Some years ago workers organized to gain the partnership which Pope Leo XIII had advocated. The only thing which convinced their employers was the strike. Strikes preceded government recognition of the right of collective bargaining. Strikes forced recognition of collective bargaining. They were the first acts of the bridled “brat.”
We must realize a strike is not evil of itself. If the demands of the workers are just, if all peaceful means are exhausted, if the good effects outweigh the evil, a strike is moral. Most of our strikes have been just. Laboring men do not like violence. It means a big loss in wages. Public opinion is against it. Union treasuries are not adequate to support the men for the duration. Much 'of the necessity for strikes has been removed by the Wagner Labor Act. But the constant refusal of some industrialists to recognize the rights of labor has kept the strike in the news. Strikes are never desirable, but often necessary. We will continue to have them unless consent is given to a just “co-partnership arrangement.”
Necessity for national defense has rallied many strange creatures around its colors. Saboteurs of labor have pressured Congress for anti - strike legislation. Among the great national organizations which have called such laws unjust is the United States Chamber of Commerce. On Jan. 28 of this year they “announced opposition to federal anti-strike legislation and expressed the belief that public interest would best be served by voluntary cooperation.”
Red-baiting among the unions is a favorite sport. Communism is an evil. Labor has its share of them. In its infancy labor was reviled by all except its own members. Our Catholic college men did not enter the movement in large numbers. Neither did any group except the Communists. They saw a fine chance to promote class struggle. Labor received the benefit of their skill and zeal; now it reaps the evil. Catholics who wish to eradicate Communists from the unions should work with labor. A demonstration
(Continued on Page 19)
Knights to Induct 100
Sunday—50 From Campus
Familial- faces will be plentiful among the 100 candidates who ■will be inducted into the Knights of Columbus next Sunday in South Bend. Fifty new members will enter Notre Dame Council No. 1477. Milt Piepul, Charlie Dillon, Jack Hayes, Chuck Farrell, Bob Osterman and many other prominent campus figures will receive their knighthood.
The large class of candidates representing councils of the first, second, fifth and eighth districts, will be named in honor of Joseph F. Lamb, supreme secretary of the Knights of Columbus. Mr.
Supreme Secretary Joseph Lamb
Lamb received his early education under the- Christian Brothers and holds degrees in engineering from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and from Fordham and Columbia universities. Before his elevation to the office of supreme secretary at the Seattle convention in 1939, Mr. Lamb had served in various capacities in the New York State council of the K. of C. which has over 100,000 members. He became State Deputy of New York in 1937 and served until his election as supreme secretary of the order.	JT
The second degree will be under the direction of District Deputy Otto Geier, ofsMishawaka, and the third degree will be under the supervision of District Deputy Paul Kadel, of Terre Haute. Mr.
Continued on Page 20)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
New Anti-Smut Pamphlet
Published by Committee
Pausing from his plethoric labors, the Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., the Prefect of Religion, recently commented on the exemplary student leadership exhibited by the Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature. “Their program,” he remarked, “appears to me to have a real positive side. They are not just ‘agin’ something.”
The anti-smut drive conducted by the Commission gathered momentum aggressively last week: coincident with the appearance of the second pamphlet the Commission agreed upon the invitation of Mayor Pavey of South Bend to cooperate with leading Catholic women of the South Bend Deanery to clear local newsstands of pornographic magazines.
The new pamphlet, definitely the positive note of the crusade against bad literature, is entitled “Hints for Living the Faith.” It contains representative selections pertinent to contemporary morality from Religious Bulletins of the past year, many of which were written by the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., pioneel* Prefect of Religion.
Track Coach William Mahoney has generously offered to devote some time to the secretarial work and to the possible legal aspects associated with the drive. The students are highly enthusiastic over the prospect of co-working with Mr. Mahoney as their advisor. Walter Brennan has been named chairman of the Commission.
Father O’Donnell receives first copy of Anti-Smut Pamphlet.
Major Riordan, Registrar, . Called to Army Service
Notre Dame’s support of the national defense preparations has been enlarged through the loss of the competent services of Major Robert B. Riordan, F. A. Res., as registrar and associate professor of economics at the University. Major Riordan has received the call to active duty at the R.O.T.C. unit, Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind., effective Feb. 22.
Major Riordan, a veteran of World War I, successfully orientated himself to post-war difficulties through a college career. He was graduated from Notre Dame in journalism in 1924. Away for five years in Washington, he returned to Notre Dame to teach, and in 1930 succeeded the Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., as registrar. He was the first layman to hold this administrative post.
After returning to Notre Dame he completed his work for his master’s degree, which he obtained in 1933. Serving in the dual capacity of teacher and registrar, Major Riordan at the same time continued his military activity and won his majority two years ago.
A competent teacher, a capable administrator and a truly Catholic character is lost through this severance, and the Army’s gain is Notre Dame’s loss. No successor to Major Riordan has been appointed, it was announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University.—Jack Sprague
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
Preparedness, the word of the hour, is always pertinent in the spiritual life .... “Blessed are those servants whom the Lord, when he cometh, he shall find watching” (Luke 12,37) This is the spirit of the season of Septuagesima which-begins this Sunday.... It is a transition from the mystery of-the Incarnation to the mystery of the Redemption.
Its penitential aspect is premonitory, of Lent.... The names of these three Sundays have no longer any special significance, not even as arithmetic... They are survivals of an earlier time when the period of preparation for Easter was longer than it is now.
The masses for these Sundays were composed in the sixth century, at the time of the migration of nations.... This probably accounts for their passionate plea to God for help, for deliverance. — They apply equally today when new enemies assail God and his Church, which means ourselves, with new weapons and new strategies.
The best kind of preparedness is a greater intensification of the Catholic sense.... The Catholic sense is a proper awareness of Catholic truth and its exercise. ... Scripture and tradition are the two sources of Catholic truth.... The Liturgy contains both.
The apostolate of’ teaching and the apostolate of examples are the two modes of expression of Catholic truth.... To both all are called according to the measure of their enlightenment. Christ had many disciples but only twelve Apostles.___To all, which also includes us, he said, “So let your light shine before men that they may see your good works.” (Matthew 5, 16)
Given the fundamentals in any endeavor, the rest depends upon individual initiative and self-reliance—: A copy of the missal for the daily mass and one of the New Testament for some daily reading is the best preparation for Lent .... “So run that you may obtain.” (Sunday Epistle) .
' (Mass Calendar on page 23)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, Newa Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES,
. Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Holy Cross field of Bengal, India. Of this number there are 25 priests and about 15 brothers who are Notre Dame men. Also, there are ten native priests. Four sisterhoods are represented.
Under the guidance of these missionaries, 8,000 Bengali tribesmen have become Catholics, and some 12,000 conversions have resulted from work done among the Gali tribes which have left their native Assam hills and now cultivate the rich soil of the Bengal plains. There is at present a strong movement toward the Church among the hill-tribes and “untouchables.”
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building: Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.: General Staff, 7:00 P.M. ’
Missionary work in Bengal is carried on from “centers.” Each one consists of a boy’s boarding house, a tin-roofed church, priests’ and catechists’ houses, a dispensary, a school, and possibly a convent. Such a center cares for at least 30 villages. There are 15 Holy Cross centers in Bengal.
Elmer F. Layden
Resignation of Elmer F. Layden as athletic director and head coach of football at Notre Dame came as a distinct and unexpected surprise to the entire University. Students last Monday night could hardly believe it. Some refused to believe it until the story was verified on Tuesday. After seven successful years here, it is hard to conceive of a Notre Dame without Layden.
Elmer Layden returned to Notre Dame on Feb. 1, 1933, after coaching successful football elevens at Duquesne University and Columbia College. He assumed the athletic directorship at a time when Notre Dame football was at its lowest ebb. Just two years previously Heartley “Hunk” Anderson and Jesse Harper tried as best they could to keep the ideals and the spirit of Knute Rockne alive. Anderson’s teams were not of an exceptional calibre. Then came Layden.
With him serving as athletic director and football coach, Notre Dame’s department of athletics has enjoyed unusual success — from secondary winter sports to basketball, football, track and baseball. Under Layden, Notre Dame football teams have played before the largest crowds in the history of the game in this country. During his stay here, the “thin man” produced outstanding teams. His record of 47 victories, 13 defeats, and three ties, needless to say, speaks for itself. He holds the unusual distinction of producing at least one All-American football star for six consecutive seasons.
A statement from Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Uni
versity, aptly describes the sentiments of the entire student body. “Since graduation Elmer Layden has reflected in his life and work the finest ideals of Christian manhood, and, as a result, has brough glory to his alma mater. All at Notre Dame join me in congratulating him on his new appointment and in wishing him success in his new position.”
Notre Dame will miss Elmer Layden. If his successor, whoever he may happen to be, can organize and supervise athletics at Notre Dame equally as well as did Layden, we can look forward to many successful seasons in the future.
However, we confess, we shall miss yelling “Yeeeeaaaaahhh Elmer!”
—James Newland
Tenth Annual Bengal Bouts
Ten years ago Notre Dame boxers began training for the First Annual Bengal Bouts. Since that time the bouts have taken a prominent place in the athletic program of the University.
The Scholastic’s promotion man, Jim Newland, is in full charge of this year’s bouts. To him has fallen the momentous job of making the Tenth Annual Bengals a gala anniversary.
As the training grind begins, as a budget is being drawn up, as officials are being secured, it is wise to consider for a moment just what the Bengals do beside entertain the students. What is behind all the publicity, the financial outlay, the special awards and training facilities inducing student boxers to enter?
Five hundred Catholic missionaries are now hard at work in the American
What do the Bengal Bouts have to do with all this?
During the dry season, after the floods of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers and the heavy rains have been baked out of the soil by a scorching sun, the missionary’s work is heaviest. Each month he makes a week-long trip and four or five one-day trips over the territory. The cost of this travel, per priest, including his catechist-cook combination, is about $33 a month. The trips include the cost of travel, by rail if possible; lodging, even though there are no hotels in Dacca, a fairly large city; and coolie porters or guides. The catechists are lay persons who devote their full time to working for the missionaries. In the hill section support for them and their families is about $6 a month excluding travel and medicine. Catechists, too, travel as far as a $5 travel allowance permits; each one takes about $2 worth of medicine with him including quinine and iodine. In short, the expenses amount to a minimum of $50 a month for a priest including keep and travel; $10 per month for a traveling catechist; $6 a month for resident catechists.
That is where the proceeds .of the Bengal Bouts go—to help <the Bengal Missions financially. Last year and the year before, Notre Dame sent over $400 to Bengal, the entire net profits of the school boxing championships.
There is no .doubt that the past nine years of Bengal Bouts on the campus have been successful from every standpoint. But, with the tenth anniversary present, the Scholastic intends, with the help of the student body, to double its efforts to double the results.
—John Patterson
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Bishop O’Hara Reports to His Alma Mater .. .
A little more than a.year ago, on Jan. 15, 1940, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., was consecrated Bishop of Milasa and Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese. At the request of the SCHOLASTIC, Bishop O’Hara has very kindly contributed the following article, which contains the story of his first year’s activities away from Notre Dame. The actual writing of the article was done on Jan. 28, 1941, by Bill Reilly, ’34, secretary to Bishop O’Hara.—Editor’s note.
A visit from Professor Kearney during the holidays reminded me of my promise to provide some data about Notre Dame’s former president, but the induction of new troops all through the month and the office work involved in the assignment of new chaplains took all our time. And the Bishop wasn’t here to check on the facts; he was out in Indiana with you people, en route to Fort Custer, Michigan.
As a matter of fact, he’s away most of the time; he’s as absent from here as he was omni-present at Notre Dame while prefect of religion. His diary, if he kept one—would read like a timetable, a combined time-table of railroads, planes and steamers. But he doesn’t seem to mind. Although he rarely gets a chance to spend three consecutive nights in his home at St. Cecilia’s Rectory here, he comes back from his rounds of Pullmans, planes and staterooms, fit as a fiddle and ready to go. He has to be. In less than 24 hours, he’ll probably be off again and, in the meantime, there’s the ever-increasing correspondence to handle.
A year ago this month, when he took over, there were 57 chaplains on active duty. On this anniversary, a tabulation for the Catholic Directory lists 163 of them on active duty with the Army, Navy and National Guard. Others not yet on active duty bring the total under his jurisdiction to 361. By June that number will rise to 500 when the Army reaches its projected strength of 1,400,000 men.
The chaplains are stationed from here to Honolulu and Manila, from Vermont to Panama and Puerto Rico, at Army posts and Navy stations. The chaplains aboard ship extend the domain even farther, particularly those with the Asiatic fleet.
And among those outposts—he hasn’t gone into the Pacific yet, but he will—
travels the former president of Notre Dame, exhorting priests and people in devotion to Our Lady and her Son. He is still the zealous confessor, making only one request of chaplains whom he visits: that he be allowed to have Saturday evening free so that he can hear confessions.
As a bishop he now administers confirmation to the soldiers, sailors and marines in the armed forces, his first
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D.
tour a year ago taking him far into the Northwest, to Bremerton, Washington and to Long Beach, California, where he presided before an assembly of several hundred sailors hearing Mass on the deck of an aircraft carrier. Another trip took him to Fort Benning in Georgia by way of Chicago where he attended the installation of Archbishop Stritch.
He visits members of the Hierarchy whenever possible, to report on the activities of the Military Ordinariate, which is the “diocese” of the Army and Navy. From the cardinals, archbishops and bishops of the nation’s dioceses he must obtain priests for the chaplains corps, for the Military Vicariate, headed by Archbishop Francis J. Spellman of New York, as military vicar. It is not strictly-speaking a diocese, but a vicariate.
Other trips last winter took Bishop O’Hara to the Naval Operating Base at Norfolk, Virginia and the Marine Base
at Quantico, but he went by way of Little Rock, Arkansas, to attend the Consecration of his Episcopal twin, Bishop Albert L. Fletcher, whose elevation was announced at the same time as Bishop O’Hara was made military delegate. In between these visitations, he squeezed time to report to Annapolis as a member of the president’s board of visitors to the United States Naval Academy.
There were numerous visits to “local” posts for Field Masses during the Spring and early Summer. (“Local” means any place that can be reached by plane and back over the w’eek-end, any place from Fort McClellan, Albama to Fort Knox, Kentucky). The Army Maneuvers took him from New York state to Wisconsin for Field Masses and sermons, and the Knights of Columbus Convention brought him back to Indianapolis.
Aside from his sermons and addresses, his “Religious Bulletins” now are Circular Letters to the chaplains. The program and principles should be familiar to Notre Dame men now and yesterday. Listen:
“One point needs to be. stressed again and again. The primary purpose of the chaplain is to place the souls of his men in touch with God. He needs auxiliaries in this work, and no more devoted missionaries for this can be found than at least a small band of daily Communicants. Encouragement to daily Communion can be offered most readily through the Sacrament of Penance; facilities for its use require early rising....”
And he still keeps in touch with the South American situation, now more important than ever. He sailed to Panama in the early Fall and an army bomber enabled him to get around the Canal Zone to survey the religious facilities and to make recommendations for the heroic priests who struggle in the un-accessible outposts—more like missionaries than chaplains.
On his first visit, he had discovered a large group of Catholic soldiers stationed 80 miles away from the Zone at the Rio Hato airfield located on a high plateau in the surrounding hills of Panama. For months they had been without the services of a Catholic chaplain. Now the chaplains were able to report:
“In the past few weeks we have been able to give them Sunday Mass. Eighty
(Continued on Page 22)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Layden Outlines Duties of His New Job As Czar of National Pro Football League
Banner headlines in all the papers heralded the announcement that Elmer Layden is Pro Football’s first Commissioner. Then all the sports writers started to guess why.
The surprise element of the news was quickly overshadowed by the confused attempts of newsmen analysts to figure out what need there is for a commissioner.
Up to now it’s all been guesswork. So secret was all preliminary dickering that most newspapers still report the affair with a question mark attitude.
Tuesday afternoon in Mr. Layden’s office there was a kind of bewildering hustle and bustle. Congratulatory telegrams piled higher by the minute on Layden’s desk. People flocked in to ex-
Saturday afternoons off, from now on
tend good wishes personally. Norm Barry, George Gipp’s running mate at halfback, was there. So was Andy Pil-ney, star of the never-to-be-forgotten Ohio State game of 1935. Jay Wyatt, one of the outstanding football officials, dropped in for a minute.
Bob Cahill, Mr. Layden’s secretary, answered the phone only a thousand times, typed out telegram after telegram, and wore a path from his desk to the boss’s office taking messages, admitting visitors.
Even Bob didn’t know exactly what was what. He had learned of Layden’s new position no sooner than it had been
announced over the radio. Only man who could answer the questions of guessing newspapers was Layden himself.
Newspapers are wondering what likeness there is between Layden’s job and the post held by K. M. Landis in the baseball world. The writers have hinted that there is no similarity. They point out that there is only one league involved here — the National Football League; Landis controls all organized baseball. Further, the papers say that the pro league is already well organized, and they maintain that there is now an overlapping of jobs — Layden’s and League President Storck’s.
Mr. Layden’s analysis of the situation clears up all the “why’s” and “wherefore’s” that have appeared in newspapers up to date.
The story is this. Pro football is in the incubartor stage of organization. With a commissioner as a central figure, the aim is to centralize league headquarters and operate from one office. Organized already? Well, the president hangs out in Dayton, Ohio, the secretary and treasurer are both operating from Brooklyn, and there is a publicity department in New York City, another in Chicago. Conflicting tales often come over the news wires, one from the New York headquarters, the other from Chicago.
Now affiliated with the National League are two minor organizations, one in the South and another in the East. There are other leagues, now haphazardly organized, that will join forces under Layden’s rule.
Layden’s job will overlap no one’s. He is to have complete authority over all problems arising in the entire set-up. He will approve all schedules, club operations, trades, contracts, and the annual football draft. One of the most serious problems in pro football today is the cut-throat fighting for college stars. To settle situations like it Layden has been appointed.
Very important part of the new commissioner’s work will be to build up a cooperative spirit between professional and college football. Since the pro branch has bloomed to such popularity, there has been some jealousy evident. Trouble cropped up recently when a number of officials left college ranks to sign contracts with the pro moguls. To bring harmony and to see that college football remains on an equal footing with pro ball is one of Layden’s aims.
There’ll be no more “stories,” either
After all, the colleges feed the pros “name players” every year.
There, derived from an interview with Layden himself, is a general outline of his duties as Commissioner of Professional Football. Rather than an undefined, ambiguous position, it is a highly important job — one which is intended to put pro football into the class of baseball as a perfectly organized enterprise.—John Patterson
Rice Still Leads Nation's Best Distance Runners
Although the indoor track season is only two weeks old, Greg Rice, former Notre Dame track star, and now king of the -two- and three-milers, has given indications that if anyone is going to break his world’s indoor record of 8:56.2 for the two-mile event, it is going to be the little South Bend comet himself.
The ‘little bugger,” who is by far Notre Dame’s most famous luminary in the track world, got off to a flying start in the ’41 indoor season, by nosing out Don Lash, the Indiana cop, in a thrilling finish to the special two-mile run, which featured the K. of C. games at the Boston Garden, January 25. Greg went all out to notch this one, and in so doing, set up a new record for the games, traveling the distance in 9.4.
Last Saturday night, J. Gregory made (Continued on Page 16)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Layden Is Commissioner of Pro Football
Elmer F. Layden, 37-year-old athletic director and head football coach at Notre Dame since ' December, 1933, startled the football world Monday, Feb. 3, when he signed a five-year contract as commissioner of the National Professional Football League.
“It is with regret that I accept the resignation of Elmer Layden as director of athletics and head coach of football at Notre Dame,” commented the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, in a statement for the Scholastic.	.
“Since graduation Elmer Layden has reflected in his life and work the finest ideals of Christian manhood and, as a result, has brought glory to Alma Mater. Under his capable direction, our department of athletics has enjoyed a substantial growth, and the administration of the University is indeed grateful to him for his loyalty and devotion. He will always be held in the highest regard here for his contribution to the development of clean and wholesome recreation in the field of intercollegiate sport.
“All at Notre Dame join me in congratulating him on his appointment and in wishing him success in his new position.”
Coach Layden, one of the greatest athletes in the history of Sacred Heart High School in Davenport, Iowa, later won fame at Notre Dame as fullback on the immortal team of 1924, which won the acclaim of Grantland Rice as the “Four Horsemen.” Playing with Layden were Harry Stuhldreher, Wisconsin’s coach; Jimmy Crowley, coach at Fordham; and Don Miller, Cleveland attorney. That team climaxed an undefeated season by winning Notre Dame’s only Rose Bowl appearance from Stanford, 27 to 10, with Layden scoring three touchdowns and contributing an 80-yard punt.
After leaving Notre Dame, Layden coached at Loras college in Dubuque, Iowa, in 1925-26, where his teams won eight games, lost five, and tied two. He was also admitted to the Iowa bar. Moving to Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, Layden’s football machine com' piled a .750 percentage with 48 victories, 16 defeats, and six ties. He then - came to Notre Dame, taking over the position of director of athletics and head coach of football, which had been held respectively by Jesse Harper and Heart-ley (Hunk) Anderson. Layden’s Irish teams won 47 games, lost 13, and tied three. His best year was 1938 when the Blue and Gold won eight games and lost one. Last season Notre Dame dis
played one of the greatest scoring teams in its history and wound up with a record of seven victories in nine games. Mr. Layden, who was elected head coach of the 1939 All-Stars coaching staff by the nation’s fans, is married and is the father of four children: Joan, Elmer Jr., Michael and Patrick. He will take his new position in Chicago on March 1, but the family will remain in South Bend until the end of the schoolyear.
“I owe practically everything to Notre Dame and I have enjoyed my stay here as a student, player, and coach,” Mr. Layden said as he expressed his regrets in leaving the University. “I appreciate and thank the administration, faculty and students for the fine cooperation and sympathy they have shown while I was here.
“I wish for Captain Paul Lillis and the boys the greatest success next year, and I will be immensely interested in following the team throughout the season.
“My association with Notre Dame will not end here. I will remember the boys who played for me while I was here, because of their fine accomplishments on the field and off.
“It is hard to select one outstanding event of my career here — there have
Elmer Layden at his desk in the Athletic Offices
been many. Some thrills came when the boys played a great brand of ball and lost, without the plaudits of the crowd that come with victory.”
Silencing many wild rumors that have been circulating about the country, Father O’Donnell announced that no successor to Mr. Layden has yet been appointed. The President said: “There will be a special meeting of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics this evening, at 8 o’clock, at which time the question of successor to Elmer Layden will be discussed. Naturally, I shall be guided by the recommendations the Board makes. This is the traditional policy of procedure at the University.”
After the preliminary recommendations, the usual interviews will be made, and the final announcement is likely to be made by March 1, Father O’Donnell pointed out. Members of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics are: the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the Board; the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C.; the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C.; the Rev.' James D. Trahey, C.S.C.; Dean James E. McCarthy, secretary of the Board; Professor Clarence E. Manion; and Professor William L. Benitz.—Bill Scanlan
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
-	■ ■DY ALBERT DEL ZOPPO.	—
For a fellow that four years ago had only six days to live, Larry Ryan is doing right well for himself as a crack basketball player on Coach Keogan’s varsity squad. It was in the summer of 1937, several weeks before Larry was to enroll at Notre Dame, that doctors agreed that there was little hope for Ryan’s recovery from injuries suffered in an automobile accident. Severe internal injuries — ruptured kidney; punctured lung; hemorrhages — plus numerous contusions, were too much for any one fellow to lick at one time was the opinion held by the doctors. But the doctors had not considered the stamina of a fighting Irishman who wanted to fulfill his dreams of wearing the white and gold basketball uniform of Notre Dame.
Larry got well. Refusing to give up the idea of playing basketball here, he registered late in the fall. Ryan played very little basketball in his freshman year, laying off to give his injuries plenty of time to heal completely. In his sophomore year he was brought along very slowly by Coach Keogan who, fearing to play him too soon, substituted him in ball games only to give him a taste of varsity competition. But Larry was given the
chance to open up last year, and he came through to win a starting job just as was expected. I say “just as was expected” because to those who had seen Ryan play basketball for Fenwick High in Chicago the West-sider was considered “a cinch” to play varsity ball for Notre Dame.
In high school Larry showed that he had all the makings of a good college basketball player. He had poise, speed, drive and shooting skill. During the three years that Ryan played for Fenwick he tormented the opposition with his single-handed scoring raids and tricky floor play. In his senior year.his brilliance. on the basketball court won him recognition as one of the best players in Chicago’s tough prep league. Larry saved his greatest exhibition of
prep play for the National Catholic Tournament, however, when he led Fenwick to the National Catholic championship. His scoring sprees and his fine leadership in the final game won for him a guard position on the All-National Catholic team and a beautiful cup — the most valuable player award.
Ryan hasn’t been a prolific scorer since he began playing Coach Keogan’s system of basketball; but he has devel
oped into the type of guard that makes Notre Dame’s offense click. He is now an excellent passer, feeding equally well with his left or right hand; a rebound man second to none in college competition; and a smart and tricky dribbler. Larry seems to get his greatest “kick” out of basketball when he is playing a stalling game — freezing the ball towards the end of a contest in an effort to protect a small lead. In three years of varsity play, Larry has yet to have the ball taken away from him when he resorts to his dribbling-freezing tactics.
Foot trouble has been Larry’s biggest bugaboo since he came to N.D. And his arches have been so weakened during the past year that he has been able to play only with special-made gym shoes and tightly-taped feet.
Irish Cagers Meet N. U.
In Return Match Tomorrow
After a two-week layoff for exams, Northwestern’s basketball team will resume play against the home forces tomorrow night in the local gym. Earlier in the season, the Wildcats defeated the Irish, 46-36, at Evanston in a New Year’s Eve engagement.
Immediately after that victory, Northwestern hit a losing streak. Coach Lon-borg then decided that a combination of speed and better ball-handling was needed. He substituted Bud Hasse for Clawson at center and he placed Don Mc-Carnes at guard. Other starters were Al Butherus, a playmaker, at forward; Hank Clason, a good set shot, at the other forward, and Russ Wendland, an excellent all-around performer, at the other guard. This is the Northwestern team that will probably start tomorrow night.
Notre Dame will be without the services of Captain Eddie Riska, who still has the cast on his foot. It is expected that he will be ready for the New York game on Feb. 14 and not before.
Although Riska is out of the lineup, the team has looked very good in its last two starts, against Michigan State and Marquette. State was considered one of Notre Dame's stronger opponents this year, but the Irish defense plus an outstanding perofrmance by Charlie Butler won that game. Against Marquette, the team played very well; the outcome of the game was never in doubt as the Irish were consistently sinking their long shots.—Bill Rogers
RICE LEADS NATION (Continued from Page 14) it two straight for the season by hitting the tape first in the special two-mile race which featured the Annual Millrose A.A. games held in New York’s Madison Square Garden. In winning this one, the Notre Dame Clipper ground the rest of the field into the boards, beating Don Lash, his nearest rival, by eight full yards in the fast time of 9:03.2.
The little man still has a long way to go to crack his own world’s record for the two-mile run, but the season is young and the competition as yet has not been too terrific. Greg is at his best when the heat is on, and one of these nights when he is forced to travel at his fastest clip, the little speedster from South Bend is going to give the boys at home something to shout about, with a new world’s record to add to the laurels he has already reaped since his graduation.—Jim Clemens
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
•	Her favorite cologne, bottled— Faberge, Lelong, Coty, Quinlan, Lentheric.	$1.00
•	New Jewelry—pearl necklaces, colored necklaces, amusing lapel jewelry.	$1.00
•	Saddle leather purse — frontier fashions. $1.98 and $2.98
•	Gardenias, Violets, Cherries — boutounniers for her buttonhole.	50c
•	Belle-Sharmeer chiffon stockings in her own leg size — new Parfait colors. $1.00 pair, or
. 3 pairs $2.85.
•	Handkerchiefs, printed linen or hand-embroidered white. 50c
Cupid’s little helper!
JOAN NAVARRE, Main Floor, will assist you in selecting your Valentine.
Gift wrapping free!
NEW MEN’S SHOP
GEO. WYMAN & CO.
Splinters From the Press Box ■ JAMES NEWLAND—™
THE REGISTRATION BLANK
If you've made plan* for next year, it comes to you like a thief in the night. You sit at your desk minding your own business. The mailman opens your door and in the same action calmly drop* a big, white envelope in front of you. Before you can refuse he is gone. Before you can tell him you don’t live there anymore, that you moved last week, and that you are one of the Jone* boys the blank stand* before you in bold defiance and your conscience tells you to open and sign on the dotted line. You even try to explain that you have flat feet and that you can’t see your hand in front of you. That mailman is gone before you can tell him you are a conscientious objector and that you have false teeth as well. The blank ha* you in its deadly grip — like a wet rat in a filled bath tub. You start to perspire and a frog suddenly appears in your throat. Your door locks and there is no means of escape. You think about jumping out the window to end it all — but three long stories is an awful fall. You try to forestall the signing by telling your conscience the latest one about Pat and Mike. But no, it keeps repeating and repeating “Sign — you swine, on the dotted line.’’ What are you to do? You pick up the fountain pen. First you say you can’t write. You scratch an “X” on the wrong dotted line. But your conscience looks over your shoulder and guides your pen to the correct place of signature. You sign. Then you sit back and think. Maybe it won’t be so bad after all.
That’s what happens. Splinters knows. So does several Notre Dame football players. We are informed the following Fighting Irish have been called: Wally Ziemba, Steve Bagarus, Hercules Bere-olos, Cliff, Brosey, Jim Brutz, et al.
It is very pleasant to sit back and contemplate the string of eight straight victories our basketball team has compiled. Recent victories over Marquette and Michigan State have given the Irish added prestige among top ranking University quintets, and a victory tomorrow night over Northwestern’s Wildcats will place Notre Dame high in the upper bracket. Here in the midwest, Purdue’s upset victory over Indiana’s highly touted team last week has blasted the hardwood race wide open.
It wa* thought at first that Captain Eddie Riska’s injury in the Syracuse
game might place Notre Dame’s basketball forces on a precarious limb. The outstanding performance of sophomore Charles Joseph Butler brightened the Irish rank* considerably in the Michigan State game and maybe Riska’s absence will not be felt as much a* everyone anticipated — maybe. Butler, a Chicago boy, reminds one of Riska to a marked degree as he drives under for a basket. His apparent ability to change his pace makes this chap a definite threat in any ball game. He teams well at forward with veteran George Sobek and his brilliant play so far assures Coach Keogan of a high scorer for 1941-42.
Watch for the beef-trust tomorrow night. It always happens when Northwestern plays here. Last year Coach Keogan had to use towering Bob Osterman in the Notre Dame lineup to match the bruising rebound work of the Wildcats’ Don Clawson. The Irish held their own in that game with Gene Klier and Mark Ertel working with Osterman. From all appearances Wally Ziemba will have his hands full tomorrow if the game gets too rough. And Northwestern does rough it up — plenty. If you don’t think so watch Clawson and company work.
A familiar and beloved Notre Dame figure will be missing tonight when Notre Dame track men entertain Michigan State in the first indoor meet of the season. A year ago this very week the late Coach John P. Nicholson gathered his team in that familiar circle in the fieldhouse prepping them for their indoor opener against Marquette. And believe me, when Nick spoke, hi* boys listened to him, because he always had something to say. He used to tell us “A world of good track material is going to waste here.’’ He was right. Because Nick developed track stars out of men who never ran a race until coming to this school. Dan Gibbs is an outstanding example. He holds the University pole vault record. ‘Nick* with his big, overgrown tennis shoes and familiar timer’s watch will be missing tonight.
Promising sophomore track material gives Coach Bill Mahoney a good squad of potential record breakers. Not since the days when Gregory Rice scooted his way around the local track has Notre Dame boasted anything exceptional in the distance events. Cliff Brosey makes Notre Dame an outstanding threat in the shot put.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Two New Track Coaches Pit Forces
As Notre Dame Opens 1941 Season
Outdoor schedule:
April 25, 26, Drake or Penn Relays
May 3, Michigan at Notre Dame
May 10, Michigan State at East Lansing
Michigan State Invades Irish Gym Tonight
A Notre Dame track team, the first squad in complete charge of Coach Bill Mahoney, makes its debut tonight against Michigan State’s forces in the gym at 8 o’clock.
State, under their new coach, Schlade-man, who succeeded R. H. Young, now director of athletics at East Lansing, expects to come up with several first class performers. The team is sparked by Captain Walt Arrington, star jumper, who will probably be hard pressed by Notre Dame’s sophomore, Keith O’Rourke, to cling to the high jump record of 6' 5%" he set in last year’s meet. Dale Konality, a sophomore quarter-miler and hurdler is another definite threat on the Spartan squad.
Bill Mahoney, 1938 captain, hurdler and quarter-miler and the latest addition to the Notre Dame coaching staff, was an understudy to the late John P. Nicholson, widely known Notre Dame track coach for several years, and was freshman coach here the past two seasons while completing his law course. “Nick’s” familiar boom, “all track-men up” still echoes in the fieldhouse from the lips of Bill Mahoney. He has Nicholson’s system, steering his men through tough daily workouts to condition them into capable performers.
Against the invading Michigan squad, which placed third in last fall’s intercollegiate cross country tournament, will be pitted a speedy list of sophomore runners. Milers Hunter, Conforti and Riordan should give State some concern while wiry Tony Maloney, Bronx-man from Brownson, paces the two-mile for the Irish. Jim Delaney will be’ flipping the shot. Cliff Brosey’s leg, injured in football last fall, has currently shifted Cliff’s chances in the event but he is expected to hit his peak soon. Veterans Bob Saggau in the sprints, Roy in the quarter, Captain Joe Olbreys and Tupta in the half promise to chalk up points for the Irish.
In last year’s Notre Dame-Michigan State meet at East Lansing, seven new indoor records were set. The mile relay team of Schiewe, Lawrence, Roy and Halpin clipped the old time to 3:28;
Cliff Brosey heaved the shot 48' 6" and Arrington established his new high jump mark. Greg Rice in '39 spun around the oval for 4:19.5 and 9:24.6 records in the mile and two mile. Notre Dame and State speedsters will undoubtedly be out there pounding their spikes around those banked turns to tack up some new marks on all those record performances.
Mahoney expects the distance and middle-distance events to be hotly contested, hard fought and very interesting judging from previous outdoor cross country performances of both teams last fall. “Although,” he says, “we have not yet hit a peak in condition, the boys are in pretty good shape. We have a fair chance of winning the meet.”
The following is the Notre Dame indoor schedule: Feb. 7, Michigan State, here; Feb. 15, Illinois Relays at Champaign; Feb. 22, Indiana at Bloomington; March 7 and 8, Central Collegiate Conference, here; March 15, Butler Relays, Indianapolis; March 22, Chicago Relays.
It’s NOT LONG until SPRING and
Parker-Winterrowd
115^ N. Main Street
Invite you to see the new selection of Spring materials now in their shop at
Shetlands, gabardines, tweeds, flannels — many more.
LEARN TO DANCE ★ IMPROVE YOUR DANCING
We teach thorough foundation and the newest steps in Waltz, Fox Trot, Rumba and Conga.
•
Call 3-4079
Maxene Mollenhour School of Dancing
Indiana Club — 320 W. Jefferson Street South Bend, Indiana
May 17, Wisconsin at Madison
May 24, Marquette at Milwaukee
May 31, Indiana State Collegiate Meet, Lafayette
June 5, Central Collegiate Outdoor Meet at Milwaukee
June 20 and 21, National Collegiate Meet at Palo Alto, Calif.
—Francis Carver
Your choice gift-wrapped ready for mailing.
HansZ>Rintzsch
Shop.
138 N. Michigan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
MEN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 8) “pretty foolish” questions at first, the obvious sincerity and friendliness of the Americans made them feel quite at home.
Though these boys can’t express themselves in our language as eloquently as could be desired, they are much more mature than the average American college man. The general observations they made on American life might bear out this contention. They said that they found Americans “snappy, quick and frank, but often doing things without thinking.” And a bit later they both agreed that Americans depended almost too much on “material things” to satisfy and please them. These are both legitimate criticisms, and they carry the strong hint that in all our frantic hustling for progress and efficiency we might have missed something even more important.
Bill and Johnny shied away from any prolonged discussion of international politics, but they did admit that they would make good New Dealers because they favor “all out aid” and the “lend-lease bill.” But they added slyly that there was a selfish reason in so far as each bit of aid to Britain is indirectly aid to China. They approve of this country’s preparedness — even to the extent of registering for the draft themselves — but they would hate to see us enter the battle directly. Considering their own difficulty with Japan, they are stoically aware that they can be certain of little except their own determination to win.
Bill and John were both articulate on two questions of extreme interest to Notre Dame men: girls, and that comic strip, “Terry and the Pirates.” They find little difference between feminine dress of the orient and Occident, but that very “little” difference makes them favor their own girls, and besides American girls can do no more with lip-stick and rouge than Chinese women. As for “Terry and the Pirates” they each turned up a nose and grunted “Fantastic!” All this might be very true, but it seems cruel of them to disillusion the admirers of Hu Shee and the Dragon Lady.
Neither of the boys can plan very far * ahead, but each would like to get back to China as quickly as possible. Immediately, it means trouble and work, but it also means home and family. Ultimately they trust it will mean great careers in the service of a new China, and the lasting peace and security that their ancestors knew.
STUDENT FORUM '(Continued from Page 10)
of the power of our faith and works is more effective than “caustic and sour” criticism.
Racketeers are a disgrace to labor. It is up to the unions to erase them. Catholic college men can help. Their training must be used wherever reform is needed. It is fortunate racketeers have made pest centers in so few unions.
It is a good idea to reprove so important an institution as labor, thoroughly and honestly. But if we wish to be just we cannot condemn a good movement
A Variety of Pipes—-A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ______________$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular________1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial_______1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless _______3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor______4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran______5.00
Hollyclourt 3.50
Sasieni 5.00
Comoy ____________1_______5.00
Select your DR. GRABOW from the largest pipe stock in South Bend.
• because of some abuses. Pope Pius XI ■ in Quadragesim Anno asks all men of ; good will to “stand united.” “Let them : seek, not themselves and the things that : are their own. but the things that are • Jesus Christ’s. Let them not urge their : own ideas with undue persistence, but . be ready to abandon them however ad-: mirable, should the greater common good i seem to require it.”
Brnggner’s Cigar Store 110 N. MAIN STREET
IN THE J. M. S. BUILDING The Natural N, D. HaufOut
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Dr. Clarence E. Manion
Speaker at DePaul
Dr. Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame law department, was guest speaker at the mid-year convocation of the De Paukuniversity held in De Paul auditorium Tuesday evening, Feb. 4. Dr. Manion has been professor of law at Notre Dame for the past 17 years and was formerly a practicing attorney in Evansville, Ind.
All Aboard for CHICAGO
First Train — 6:00 A. M.
Last Train—Midnight
Every day 19 South Shore electric trains leave South Bend for Chicago. That’s frequent service. You’ll appreciate it again and again.
Keep this schedule in mind: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. The third train leaves at 7:30 A. M. Thereafter, until 9:30 P. M., there is a train an hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight.
For further information inquire of ticket agent, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-3111.
DR. GURIAN ON HITLER (Continued from Page 8) ist, who underestimated Hitler’s talents. Another, Herr Hugenberg, industrialist and leader of the Nationalist party, stupidly tried to use Hitler and thought he succeeded; today he still lives and is allowed to sing in the Reichstag the national anthems and to listen to Hitler’s speeches. He is lucky to be alive, as is von Papen, present ambassador to Turkey, who escaped the blood-purge in June, 1934.”
Hitler’s methods were listed by Dr. Gurian as: 1) He concludes alliances with future adversaries in order to destroy his real, immediate enemies; 2) Then the allies are destroyed or isolated because they overestimate themselves; and 3) Hitler combines violence with cunning calculation to gain his victories.
In conclusion, Dr. Gurian said that the right situation had to present itself before the voice of Hitler could be effective. “Success came for him only when a complete social breakdown in Germany had occurred.”—William C. McGowan
KNIGHTS TO INDUCT 100 (Continued from page 10)
Kadel and his staff conferred this dedegree on another class of Notre Dame students in the spring of 1937.
. Notre Dame Council will be host to old and new members and their guests at a testimonial honoring the newly-inducted knights and the supreme secretary. Mr. Lamb will deliver the principal address of the evening. Short remarks will be made by University officials. State Deputy George Kinzel, of Gary, and Timothy P. Galvin, of Hammond, Ind.
Mr. Galvin is one of the outstanding Notre Dame alumni, a former president of the Alumni Association and supreme director of the Knights of Columbus. Last week Supreme Knight Matthews appointed Mr. Galvin to the important post of supreme master of the fourth degree. This appointment came as a recognition of his sincere efforts for the K. of C., which dates from the time he served overseas as a Knights of Columbus secretary during the World War. During his student days Mr. Galvin was editor of the 1916 Dome as well as a member of various campus clubs, including Notre Dame Council No. 1477 of the K. of C.	.
Thomas Gillespie, freshman lawyer, who is chairman of the banquet, has announced that Paul Butler, South Bend attorney, will be toastmaster of the banquet. Gillespie expects 600 persons to attend this banquet which will be held at the Indiana Club in South Bend.
Others on the committee in charge include: Harry Gotron, Bob Haines, Tom Carroll, Bob Cronin and Gus Dereume.
HAL KEMP Memorial Album—Got a Date With An Angel—Dinner For One Please, James, etc.................. $2.50
ANDRE KOSTELANETZ—Musical Comedy Favorites ................. $3.50
NUTCRACKER SUITE — Tschaikowsky —
Chicago Symphony conducted by Frederick Stock ___________________$3.50
XAVIER CUGAT — 50c each Swing Conga and Cuba Libre Mama Inez and Peanut Vender
RAY NOBLE — 50c each Far Away and Sioux Sue Harlem Nocturne and Isola Bella
BENNY GOODMAN — 12 inch — 75c The Man I Love and Benny Rides Again
RAYMOND SCOTT — 50c each Eagle Beak and Copyright 1950
WILL BRADLEY
High On a Windy Hill and Love of My Life
Down the Road of Peace and Celery Stalks at Midnight
EDDIE DUCHIN
It All Comes Back to Me Now and The Old Jallop
I Close My Eyes and Number Ten Lulla-bye Lane
35c OKEH Recordings
GENE KRUPA’S Theme Song
Apurkasody and Jungle Madness — was 75c, now 35c
GENE KRUPA
It AU Comes Back to Me Now and High on * Windy HiD
LAWRENCE WELK Mari* Elen* and Daddy’s LuUabye
FRANKIE MASTERS
Let’s Dream This One Out and I Should Have Known You Years Ago
RAY HERBECK
Shadows on the Sand and Eight O’clock
RAY HERBECK
Theme Song — “Romance” and Oh Dear! What Can the Matter Be
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas WeU-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES., THURS., SAT. EVENINGS
HODII1S
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Fill These Requirements
And a Monogram Is Yours
To win a monogram in football at Notre Dame a member of the squad must participate in a total of 60 minutes of important contests played during the season. In addition to this, he must have the approval of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics.
A monogram is awarded to a member of the baseball team who has the approval of the Faculty Board and who has taken part in at least one-half of the regularly scheduled contests. The total time of his participation must equal at least one-fourth of the total time of the playing season. This applies to all members of the squad except the pitcher and catcher, who may earn a monogram by participating in one-half of the time required for the other members.
Students inclined toward track can earn a monogram by scoring 12 points in indoor and outdoor competition; placing in the National Collegiate meet; or by running on a winning relay team in a meet of importance.
Basketball is similar to baseball in its monogram requirements, requiring a player to participate in one-half of the total regularly scheduled contests. The total time must equal one-fourth of the playing time of the season.
Minor monograms are awarded to members of the fencing, golf and tennis teams who meet the following requirements; fencers must take part in tow meets and score among the first five participants; members of the tennis squad must win singles or doubles in three regularly scheduled meets; golfers must take part in at least one-half of the regularly scheduled matches.
Freshman numerals for football, basketball, and track are awarded after recommendation by the freshman coach and the athletic director and approval by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. There may be no duplication of freshman numerals.
Monograms are awarded to cheer leaders upon recommendation of the Director of Athletics and approval by the Faculty Board. In the corner of such monograms there must appear a white “C,” encircled by a strip of gold.
Finally, the Faculty Board has the authority, upon recommendation by the Director of Athletics, to award a small major monogram to a representative of the University who has excelled in some minor sport.
—Ray Donovan
No matter what line of business you go into after graduation, you’ll find the telephone a powerful aid. If you’re in the selling end, the telephone will help you to save time, cover more prospects more frequently, increase sales and decrease selling costs.
If your work has to do with purchasing, distribution, production, administration or collections, the telephone will help you to get things done faster at low cost.
Bell System service is so valuable to business because it meets so many varying needs.
Ten thousand day and evening students attend classes in Hunter College’s new skyscraper in New York.
WHY NOT GIVE THE FAMILY A RING TONIGHT? LONG DISTANCE RATES TO MOST POINTS ARE LOWEST AFTER 7 P. M. ANY NIGHT—ALL DAY SUNDAY.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
BISHOP O'HARA REPORTS....
(Continued from Page 13) percent of them are now receiving Holy Communion every week.”
That was the highest percentage the Bishop had seen in the Army and it brought joy to his heart. To Andy Huf-nagel, ’36, and myself here in the office it was reminiscent of the daily Communion charts at Notre Dame and we were elated. But the bishop’s humility cautioned us:
“Take no credit for results. Just do your best. The results belong to God. They are in His hands.”
The office phase of the work, including canonical procedure, the granting of marriage dispensations, the recording of marriage and baptismal records and the inspection of reports from chaplains, is ably supervised by Father Robert E. McCormick, vice-chancellor of the Archdiocese of New York, who was appointed chancellor of the military ordinariate by Archbishop Spellman. Our staff of two has jumped to five within the year. Next 1 month we will take over new quarters at 33 East 51st street.
The second year is starting appropriately enough. His Excellency is off for an inspection of posts and forts in Puerto Rico, via Washington, Savannah, Jacksonville, Pensacola and Cuba. He’ll be back in a few days to tell us about the Notre Dame men he seems to meet everywhere, and we’ll have a list of callers who wanted to see “Father” O’Hara here in New York.
Coach Keogan Opposed To Artless Cage Play
Ray Meyer, assistant basketball coach, was talking to head coach George Keogan, the little man who wasn’t there, about the recent Syracuse game when the writer strolled in.
“Yes, sir, George, we had everything on those Syracuse boys, last night, but size.”
Pouncing upon- the subject with ap-
Let us mail a Package to your
Valentine
Large selection of
HOME-MADE '
CANDIES
The Karmelkorn Shep
Main and Colfax South Bend
parent glee, the fluent Mr. Keogan proceeded to air his views on the element of size in basketball. If the writer can place much faith in the “hen-scratches” he took down on the occasion, Coach Keogan’s discourse ran along the following lines:
“Three or four years ago, coaches all over the country were complaining about the center-jump in basketball.
ue(e’s the tehesW treat	M « I
With campns llte t Bight in step"1* guM. Plenty oi that’s DOUBUM1 ^eUiuntocheW jefceshing ^^oUBtEMI^
I eVSiy	sessions,
occasions	chewing heip
dass, sWeetenyo«bl	$ coste so htfe
youi smile, l°°^oVBtEMnrr GU« -




They maintained that a team of human skyscrapers possessed an unfair advantage over a club composed of smaller’ men. In view of this, legislation was enacted which banned the center-jump from the game with the exception of one at the beginning of each half. Result — the legislation backfired. There are more big men in the game today than ever before. And unfortunately

1

v

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
these great big boys are woefully inept when it comes to the fine art of feinting, pivoting, dribbling rapidly, and shooting gracefully.
“With these interesting elements of play gradually disappearing from the game, basketball is rapidly becoming nothing more than a mad, wild scramble. Why look at that score two New England college teams ran up the other night, 92-42. That certainly isn’t basketball.
“For my part, give me normal-sized boys with mental poise. . . .”
—Frank L. Kunkel
Northern Indiana Rebels
It remained for the Indiana Daily Student to hoot at Life magazine’s statement in a recent article on northern Indiana night life that Calumet City was a “sociological by-product of America’s rearmament program.” The Student wanted to remind Life that Calumet City was just what it is today “when Hitler was a mouse and a fellow’s only worry was the ROTC.”
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Mass Calendar: Feb. 9-15
Sunday, 9—Septuagesima Sunday. 2d prayer, St. Cyril, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor, 3d, St. Apollonia, Virgin, Martyr.
Note: In all masses until Easter Saturday the Tract replaces the Gradual and Alleluia Verse.
Monday, 10—St. Scholastica, Virgin. Mass: Dilexisti (Common of Virgins) first prayer proper, 2d, for Peace.
Tuesday, 11—Apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary Immaculate at Lourdes. 2d prayer, for Peace. Credo. Preface of the Blessed Virgin.
Wednesday, 12—Seven Holy Founders of the Servite Order, Confessors. 2d prayer, for Peace.
Thursday, 13—Feria. Mass of the preceding Sunday. 2d prayer, Intercession of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Faithful Departed, 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Friday, 14 — St. Valentine, Martyr. Mass: In virtue (Common of Martyrs) 1st prayer proper, 2d, Intercession of the Saints, (A cunctis), 3d, for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Saturday, 15—Blessed Virgin on Saturday. Mass: Common of the Blessed Virgin on Saturday. 2d prayer, Saints Faustinus and Jovita, Martyrs, 3d, the Holy Ghost, 4th, for Peace. Preface of the Blessed Virgin. Votive or Requiem
WE TELEGRAPH FLOWERS
South Bend Floral Co.
Phone 3-8227	114 S. Michigan
SWEET VALENTINE!
from the Diana Shop
Est. 26 years
FINE CANDIES
lb. 65c up
117 WEST WASHINGTON
SAVE $5.00
$9.95 RC4 Victor Record Mayer
Double your radio enjoyment. This RCA Victor Record-Player records through your radio. Formerly S9.95. While our limited stock lasts, you save S5.
Savings up to one-half on
VICTOR
Recordings
HOT Concerto for Clarinet — Artie Shaw — a 12 inch record — parts 1 and 2 — 75 cents.
T. DORSEY — songs written by winners of his “Fame and Fortune” contest — Frank Sinatra and Pied Pipers take the vocals. — 50 cents —
Oh, Look at Me Now and You Might Have Belonged to Another.
“MUSICAL AMERICANA” — Raymond Page and his orchestra — an album of old and new favoritets — Rhapsody in Blue — When Day is Done — La Cum-parsita — Porgy and Bess — Among My Souvenirs — Anything Goes — Mood Indigo — Louisana Hayride — Night and Day — Moonlight and Roses — Beautiful Ohio — Lady of the Evening. $3.50
Come in MONDAV —
By that ’ime we will have in stock GLENN MIL1 ER’S long-awaited recording of THE VOLGA BOATMAN.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-informed Clerks
OPEN TUES.. THURS., SAT. EVENINGS
BODHIS
/ ; *	r	. • s
Join the Army of smokers like yourself who enjoy
Chesterfields
MILDER, BETTER TASTE
“Copyright 1941, Ltccett & Myers Tobacco Co. -
next time you buy cigarettes ask for Chesterfield... and join the army of Satisfied smokers all over America who are getting Real Smoking Pleasure from Chesterfield’s Milder, Cooler, Better Taste.
YOU CAN’T BUY A BETTER CIGARETTE