—the only leading King-Size cigarette made an exclusively different way to avoid the main cause of irritation!
NOW! PHILIP MORRIS is available in the new KING-SIZE and the famous Regular Size.
Remember, you’ll feel better when you change to PHILIP MORRIS. In case after case, coughs due to smoking disappear ...
parched throat clears up . . . that stale, “smoked-out” feeling vanishes.
Yes, KING-SIZE er REGULAR
YOULL FEEL BETTER smoking PHILIP MORRIS ^PHllIP MORRIS
lateqour choice but mate nowchoice MIIPNOMK

Here’s a picture of Class of ’03, all decked out for a smashing time with
the girls of Miss Abernathy’s. Just get a load of the spats, yet. And the new close fitting trousers and jacket. And that new derby!
Well, at least the girls liked it, and though you probably wouldn’t even wear the stuff on Halloween, you’ve got to admit the boy was concerned with his appearance.	.
We’re thinking about the hat. Back in ’03, just as today, a hat was as important to a well dressed man as any other part of his attire. A hat is designed to make you look better. Our Gay Blade here knew it, and smart college men of today know it... a person without a hat simply doesn’t.
look well dressed.	1.
. And that’s not all. A hat is just as important to your health as it is to
. your appearance. Your head is the first place you should think of when
. it comes to protection from wind, rain, cold and even heat. And tne primary function of a hat is protection.
Take a look at a new hat today. They’re made better—and styled better—than ever before.
"Wear a Hat-lti as Healthy as Its Handsome!"
KsbW&S •' CAVANAGH • BERG •. BYRON. C&K, V^bUNLAM^WwS
- Fublished by Ww makm of AmwricaV Fin«»» Hcrt» "<>'•
.	Ditiswnv </ Hat Corporation of America—Makers of Fine Hats fir Men and Fob®
March 6, 1953
Wanted: Chow Line Improvement
Editor:
There are very few* students who will deny that much improvement is needed on the little matter of line crashing, etc., at the Dining Hall. But judging
from the latest Official Bulletin, one would think that the only people on campus with any “moral obligations” are the students. As with most things, there are two sides to the story.
(Continued on page 5)
St. Mary’s Gives Assist to Bengal’s
Editor:
Everyone knows the 1953 Bengal Bouts are rapidly approaching. To insure the success of these Bouts a great deal of work is being performed by the fighters and the Bengal Bout Committee. This work is being done for a great charitable cause, yet I wish to publicly thank one of our special committees.
Two days before the Mardi Gras we discovered that we were behind schedule on some of our preparations. We called upon St. Mary’s to help us meet this deadline. Thirty girls volunteered to address almost 2500 envelopes in record breaking time. Due to their efforts our deadline was met, and the results are proving profitable for the Bengal Missions.
I believe we owe these girls this recognition for the time and effort which they so generously donated for this worthy undertaking. Thank you, St. Mary’s.
George R. McCourt Promoter
1953 Bengal Bouts
■
Want Mail From Germany?
Editor:
Your students and pupils (from 10 years upwards) are cordially invited to write me, if they wish to have congenial English-knowing pen-friends in Germany.
Since I have hundreds of German teenagers (students and high-school pupils) on my waiting list, I can find a friend of the same age and educational standard foi- every boy or girl in your country.
Teachers are invited as well, I get many requests from German ladies and gentlemen in the teaching profession.
All the letters of introduction I receive, I shall pass on to suitable persons in this country. Please, do not compile lists, send single letters of introduction that can be passed on to would-be friends over here. If more convenient to you, all letters of introduction may be sent to me in one lot.
Thanking you for your kind attention and help, I hope to get many applications from your end and remain,
Miss Anna-Maria Braun
International Correspondence Bureau Munchen 15
Lindwurmstrasse 126a
Germany—Bavaria—U. S. Zone.
i ’’Amazing variety and practical wisdom”
says DR. ANDREW W. BLACKWOOD I
Temple University, Philadelphia, Penna.
’’The Reader’s Digest helps a busy man to understand life in these United States, in the United Nations, and even in Soviet lands. With amazing variety, and a world of practical wisdom, each monthly issue helps the reader to interpret life on earth today, with more than a few glimpses of tomorrow.”
Each month, Reader’s Digest editors comb through more publications than any one person could read in two years, and select whatever seems of outstanding interest.
Each article is carefully condensed to preserve both its content and flavor. The wide range of subjects stimulates new interests, encourages a further search for knowledge.
In a real way, Reader’s Digest helps continue the education of millions of readers in America and all over the world.
* ★ ★
In March Reader’s Digest, you’ll be interested in The Earth Is Born—latest scientific theories on how our earth began, how it will end; We CAN Win the War in Korea—William Bullitt’s analysis of how we can end the bloody stalemate; Fred Waller's Amazing Cinerama—how a self-made scientist is bringing breathtaking realism to movies.
The Scholastic
M i
By Mort Luby
Top of the Week
Due to the Flu, a short column this week.......
■
A Conversation
Conscientious objector: The trouble with you is that you’re always talking -about the crummy bands we have around here, or else trying to pick a fight with other columnists. Just for a change, why don’t you pick a fight with the sports department.
Columnist (shaking with fear): You’r'e not one of those ruffians from Farley Hall are you, sir? My very existence has been drenched with fear and trepidation because of those horrid letters they always send me. And half the time I can’t make any sense out of them.
Conscientious objector: No, I’m not from Farley. And for goodness sake stop shaking. I’m not going to hit you.
Columnist: Oh, thank you sir.
Conscientious objector: But do you like
I told you!
Columnist: YES SIR!
And so for those people who don’t like a sophisticated sarcastic column we offer this eye, ear, nose, and throat account of the assorted athletic performances that took place in the old (we really mean old) gym last Monday night.
9
The Poor Man’s Sport Column
The first event was a hard fought high scoring game between the local firemen and policemen. Those who like to take an aesthetic appreciation away from their spectator sports wished they had stayed in bed. Fortunately no homes
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
4 NOTRE DAME TRADITION
caught fire or were robbed after the game. The final score was a 24-24 tie, which is a bit rare for a basketball score.
In the next event the seniors, led by Bevo Flood, Bevo Bardash, Bevo Ales-sandrini, and Jerry McCloskey (the fattest man on campus) tangled with the youngsters of the basketball varsity and managed to lose, somehow. As his prize pupils were scampering with basketball players of the cruder sort, Coach John Jordan sweated blood for fear they might fracture a toe nail or something.
Later, Coach John Jordan sweated sweat in the feature attraction which pitted the undefeated coaches against the unbeatable sportswriters. This game was refereed by a score of people who sounded like a chorus of frenzied whippoorwills when they blew their whistles for personal fouls. The coaches were an inspiring sight in their well-filled T-shirts and there was no doubt that they were in excellent physical condition.
It is rumored that after the game Coach Jordan remarked of youngster Frank Leahy, “Give me a couple of years and I’ll make another Moose Krause out of him.”
Incidentally, this was another high scoring game. 7 to 9. Who cares who won?
■
Bottom of the Week
. . . which should bring joy to the hearts of all those people who write us letters.
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Letters
(Continued from page 4)
Many times we sit down to eat, only to have the silverware snatched from our trays before we are through, and invariably when there are plenty of tables before us yet to be cleared. . . -
Why is nothing said when some chow lines are so long that a 15 or 20 minute wait is inevitable, while in others there are few, if any fellows being served? Sometimes we are permitted to go to another line, sometimes not. An inquiry one morning brought the following reply, “Why shouldn’t you wait? Your line was empty earlier and the other line was too long.”
Now who is serving whom? When will the people at the Dining Hall realize that they would be working somewhere else if it weren’t for the students who are paying them?
Is there no chance for the adoption of a few simple rules of courtesy and efficiency, without which no business in normal competition could possibly survive?
Bob Karlsberger
117 Alumni Hall
■
Man: a Dry-Land Animal
Editor:
I am fully aware that the University building program is struggling with the mighty problems of more dorms, the Circle shelter, and a . §120,000 student center.
But I do wonder whether' some attention—and funds—couldn’t be diverted to an admittedly smaller but more immediate problem: namely, the repair- of campus paths and roadways, especially in Badin Bog and in the no-man’s land between the Drill Hall and Father Sorin’s statue (the big one).
—Name Withheld
YOU CAN RIDE TO TOWN FOR as low as 13c in an I
Indiana Cab
New flat rate—65c
from Circle to Michigan and Colfax. (Up to five per cab)
cau 3-9333
INDIANA CAB CO.
March 6, 1953
5
EXPERT TYPING
Will do Typing in my home
Phone 6-9079
FRANKIE LANE
made the Song famous but GOOD FOOD made us famous for our Italian dishes.
MARCH 6
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—With the first-night kinks out of their systems, the University thespians do a repeat on Vile Bodies.
DRILL HALL (8:30)—Spike Jones and his City Slickers bring their Musical Depreciation Revue of 1953 to South Bend—or as near as the anti-noise ordinances will allow. Seats on the gun barrels: $1-80; in the “orchestra”: $3.60. Bring your own cotton.
AVON (five more days)—Look’s pick for one of 1952’s best, Ivanhoe (A-l), with a couple of Taylors, Bob and Liz.
COLFAX (through March 11)—Another good ’un, -The Jazz Singer (A-l). More talking than the original, at least.
PALACE (one week)—Man Behind the Gun (B) is a Randy Scott western, No Time for Floivers (A-2), a rather trite tale of Czech commies.
MARCH 7
FIELDHOUSE—High spot of the indoor track season: the Central Collegiate meet, with prelims in the afternoon, finals in the evening.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:30)—Only one show on campus this night. The Walsh-Tumpane version of Waugh’s Vile Bodies will give the “cinema” and its vociferous critics a holiday.
MARCH 8
WASHINGTON HALL (matinee and evening performances)—Last chance to see all the Vile Bodies.
RIVER PARK (three days)—The story of John Philip Sousa, with a little fiction added for no good reason, Stars and Stripes Forever (A-l). For variety, the double bill includes Fabulous Senorita.
GRANADA (four days)—The Tall Texan is about “greed for gold,” but it’s no Treasure of Sierra Madre. Co-pic has George Raft and an optimistic title, I’ll Get You.
MARCH 10
WHOT will broadcast the Irish-Eastern Kaintuck match from Fort Wayne as the NCAA tourney gets underway.
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Round one, bout one, of the 1953 Bengal Bouts.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30)—“Do you know,” ask the posters, “how to get a girl?” Father Hesburgh will speak on Courtship and Engagement in session three of the Marriage Institute.
MARCH 11
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—Second night of the Bengals.
RIVER PARK (four days)—Here’s two to make you forget the cares of city life, if you have any, and want to. Ma and Pa Kettle at the Fair and those ever-present Bowery Boys in Feudin’ Fools.
MARCH 12
FIELDHOUSE (8 pan.)—Action gets rougher and better as the ’53 Bengals swing into the quarter-finals.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30)—Question four on the Marriage Institute poster asks the seniors if they know “all about women.” Dr. Herbert Ratner gives “A Doctor’s Viewpoint.”
Spaghetti Chicken
Ravioli Steaks
The new tradition at Notre Dame is . . .
RESTAURANT 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
[health I SPOT I ^HOES
For
Men Women Children
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
209 W. COLFAX AVENUE
Italian Home Cooking
Five Minutes from the Campus
PIZZA SPAGHETTI FRIED CHICKEN Every day but Sunday
You’re always welcome at...
ROCCO'S
537 N. St. Louis, on the Bus Line
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
Welcome fo
128 W. WASHINGTON
The Scholastic
Vol. 94 March 6, 1953 No. 17
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section HOI, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
Associate Editors DONALD J. CARBONE THOMAS E. FOOTE
PATRICK C. CARRICO ................News
FRED C. ECKART _________Assistant News LAWRENCE J. BREHL ....Assistant News ROBERT E. HAINE ________Features
JOHN F. SAND ___________________ Sports
WILLIAM F. NOONAN ....Ass’t. Sports THOMAS C. MURPHY ............Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN .........Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT ....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Tom Bosse, Dick Callaghan, Jerry Campbell, Irv Carrig, Doug Cole, Paul Fullmer, James Gallagher, Tom Hartzell, Jim Mason, Bill Moore, Henry O’Bryan, Peter Sturtebant, Mike Ward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Warren Ashbaugh, Tom Caplet, John Cywiniski, Bob Ettle-brick, Bob Frolicher, Jack Healy, Jack Kirby, Bob O’Malley, Tom Welly.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Bill DeCrick, Bob Fowler, Bob Huddleston, Mort Luby, Barry Reece, Bob Swanson, Dana Weithers.
PHOTOGRAPHY COORDINATOR: Dick Hairsine. FEATURES: Dan Boland, Frank Goerg, Mike Long, Matt Maliason, John Slavick.
ADVERTISING ASSISTANT: Jerry Baier. CIRCULATION: Don Doland.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame, Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Again We Want Blood!
“No matter how avidly you read the papers the war in Korea seems far away from Notre Dame. Unless you hear of a friend being wounded or a friend being drafted, you’re liable to forget there’s a war on. And it’s understandable, too. But the grim fact remains that there is a war on and there are those who can’t forget it.
“Those who fight the war and die don’t have to be reminded. At times, though, we’d guess that they feel like doing a little reminding of their own. One of the most startling pieces of news we’ve read in the last few weeks is the fact that the nation is way behind in the blood donations and consequently there is a shortage of blood in Korea. Maybe we can’t do anything about the situation in the country as a whole, but we dam sure can do something about it here.”
* These words are more than a year old, having appeared in this same space in the Dec. 14, 1951, Scholastic, but they are just as true today. To quote WNDU’s Zulu Warrior in describing what he called a typical Scholastic editorial: “We feel we must say something about this.”
Early last fall we heard that plans were brewing for a bigger and better blood drive this year, bigger than the one which broke all percentage-wise intercollegiate records last year. But since that time a junior-grade iron curtain has descended, and “blood” seems to have been added to the list of words not fit for mixed company. The news editor has sent reporters in search of blood news week after week, and they return without so much as a scratch.
Why all the secrecy? You’d think we wanted to bum every outstanding book of the Summa Theologica instead of merely trying to help save lives. There is no reason why last year’s tremendous response couldn’t be equaled. Ask anybody who gave blood last year—the donor feels that he has actually done something, and that is reward enough for him. Admitting that we are more fortunate than some, almost everyone here would again take such an opportunity to help his less fortunate kinsmen in Korea.
Because of the cloak-and-dagger stuff, we can only guess at the reasons for the failure of the blood drive to materialize. Last year the drive was delayed for a long time while the Red Cross decided who could and who couldn’t take our blood. The whole thing was finally accomplished only after some wire-service publicity which was unpleasant for all concerned. It seemed to be a case of the right hand crying for blood and the left hand not having the facilities to process it. The Red Cross filled magazines with full-page ads crying for blood, but didn’t seem at all anxious to tap a new source of 3000-odd pints.
It is wrong to point the accusing finger when the facts are not known, but we can’t see how or why students could be at fault in the blood drive. Whoever is the tardy party, we hope all procrastination will soon be resolved into action.
Our hearts bleed for this one, but they won’t give our arms a chance to do likewise.
A Recommendation for Juniors
All juniors are advised to file reservation requests now for graduation weekend. Many are the seniors who wish they had done so at this time last year, for the Morris Inn is completely filled with commencement guests already.
COVER: They’re j'ust practicing in this shot, but starting next Tuesday they go at it “for real” as the 22nd Annual Bengal Bouts get under way in the Fieldhouse. You’ll find news of the Bengals plus interesting sidelights on page nine and in the sports section.
—Photo by Bill DeCrick
Also, in the interest of not repeating a misunderstanding which was prevalent this year, the rooms are awarded on a first come, first served basis. This year 30 rooms were set aside for official commencement guests of the University, and students went after the rest tooth and nail. The misunderstanding spoken of above centered around the idea, mistakenly widespread last fall, that requests for reservations would not be taken till January, but they were taken as early as last April.
So act soon, juniors, and good luck.
March 6, 1953
7
When Grover talks to his dreamboat—something clicks
A call from Dreamboat always clicks with Grover. And an Automatic Message Accounting machine has been clicking too — down in the telephone office — busily punching impressions on a paper tape.
You may be interested in what this ingenious recorder does. It keeps track of what telephone number you called, how long you talked, and records this information in such a way that another machine can automatically prepare a monthly bill.
The development of this new automatic accounting machine is the result of team
work by Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and the telephone companies. Telephone people working on this and other interesting and important projects were in college just a short time ago. Perhaps you’d like to join them.
Your Placement Officer can give you details about employment opportunities in the Bell System. Or write to American Telephone & Telegraph Company, College Relations Section, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y., for a copy of the booklet, "Looking Ahead.”
Bell Telephone System
The Scholastic

The Notre Dame
VOLUME 94, NUMBER 17 '	t
MARCH 6, 1953
Bengal Bout Prelims Open Tuesday
Davey to Be Honored In Tournament Finals
The 1953 version of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts will open next Tuesday at 8 p.m., in the Fieldhouse for the first of three nights of preliminary rounds which will feature over 60 contenders on the scale of weight divisions.
The semi-finals will be held next Saturday night, with the final bouts in each weight group on the following Tuesday, St. Patrick’s Day.
This twenty-second staging of the Bengal Bouts is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, with proceeds going to the Bengal Missions.
Most of the fighters have been preparing for the Bouts since training opened, January 12. Some were in the Novice Tournament which ended Dec. 13 and others started training even earlier.
Foi- the first time, the St. Mary’s girls will be permitted to attend the fights unescorted. A special section of the student reserved section has also
THE 1953 BENGAL BOUTS COMMITTEE
Promoters of the “Fighting” Irish
been saved for them for the last night of the preliminaries on Thursday, and the semi-finals on Saturday.
The last night of the Bengals will feature the presentation of trophies to finals victors and the appearance of professional boxer Chuck Davey.
Besides the usual trophies for the winners in the different weight classes, a trophy will be awarded to the outstanding boxer in the preliminaries who does not reach the finals, and a sportsmanship trophy will be presented by the Huddle. Davey will be given an award as the man who has done the most for boxing during the past year.
George McCourt is general promoter for this year’s Bouts. His assistant is Charles Fluehr, who is also acting as corresponding secretary and committee liaison.
Other committee heads include: Bill Motzel, tickets; Ed Broderick, patrons;
(Continued on page 29)
Four Hundred NCAA-Bound Students Leave For Eastern Ky. Tilt in Fort Wayne Tuesday
Four hundred tournament-bound Notre Dame students will push off from the campus Tuesday afternoon to see the Irish hoopsters tackle Eastern Kentucky in the second game of an NCAA-playoff twin bill in Fort Wayne’s Allen Memorial Coliseum at 9:45 p.m.
The Student Senate-sponsored trek will leave the Circle Tuesday at 4:30 p.m., and will return from Fort Wayne immediately after the game.
Late permissions may be secured from hall rectors upon presentation of game and bus tickets with the student’s names on them. There will be no excused class absences. Residence curfew for students attending the game will he 2:30 a.m.
Notre Dame students who made their reservations before last night will have their choice of courtside seats for the twin bill which pits DePaul against Miami University of Ohio in the opener. Price for reserved seats now will be $3.
Bus tickets may be purchased at the same time the game ducats are obtained. The round trip fare, direct from the Circle to Fort Wayne, will be $2.75.
Because there is a limited number of seats available for Notre Dame students, as well as a limited capacity on the buses, all reservations are being made on a “first-come-first-served basis.”
March 6, 1953
Spike Jones' 'Harmonious Discords' Pervade 17^7^ “r" Drill Hall in Music Depreciation Revue Tonight ter, and several Panis theatres.
BY LARRY BREHL
“The discords have gotta be harmonious. Let things get out of hand and what have you got? Bedlam!” That’s the way Spike Jones justifies and explains his Musical Depreciation Revue of 1953, which will be staged in the Drill Hall tonight at 8:30.
All the clamor—called music—created by cow-bells, auto horns, flit guns, fire sirens, gunshots, and screams emitted from various members of the City Slickers comes “where it sounds just right,” according to the leader of the pandemonium.
Spike plans and rehearses every bit of noise so that it comes out the way it does, always. In all the show, not one sound effect is ad libbed, though in typical City Slicker fashion it could sound like a house falling down. In fact, every noise maker, except the blanks fired from a stage pistol, is tuned.
Among the numbers which the Revue will present at the Drill Hall are some of Spike’s oldtime hits, including “William Tell Overture,” “Chloe,” “Cocktails for Two.” “Some Enchanted Evening,” and “In a Persian Market.” These will be rendered—in some places quite violently—by the noisy group in
THREE OF THE CULPRITS “Music Where It Sounds Just Right"
typical Spike Jones’ City Slicker style.
Taking the stage with Spike will be his wife, Helen Grayco, who supplies some of the vocalizing for the nutty show. Though she’s his wife and sings besides, Helen still plays “second fiddle” to Spike.
Besides the nutty noisemaking referred to as “music,” the audience at the local large quonset will view juggling routines by Bill King and Lottie Brunn, both supposed to be among the country’s top juggling acts. Miss Brunn is reputed to be one of the nation’s fastest female jugglers.
Freddy Morgan and Dick (“Icky”) Morgan are two of the show’s featured comedians. Freddy, once in the cast of Joe Cook’s “Fine and Dandy” musical, handles the banjo and comic mimicry besides. Icky also is a musician, a guitarist formerly with the Horace Heidt and Alvino Rey orchestras. His nickname is a result of the “Icky Face” he often makes.
Peter James, another comedian, like Sugar Ray Robinson, deserted the ring for the stage. Before he recently joined the depreciation of music crowd, James played a Command Performance for
At last report the member of the cast with the largest part, Cherub Pearson, was still hitting high operatic notes and still tipping the scales over the 200 pound mark. This great woman’s hobby? Collecting earrings.
Both Cherub and little Frankie Little, the show’s tiniest performer, will be on hand tonight in the Drill Hall with Spike and all the City Slickers.
ND Gets 35 Renewals Of Grad Fellowships
More than thirty-five endowed or industrially sponsored graduate fellowships at the University of Notre Dame have been renewed for the 1953-54 school year, it was announced recently by the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School.
Graduate work in chemistry tops the list with twenty-three fellowships available, sixteen of them sponsored by private industrial concerns. Five additional chemistry grants are provided by the Peter C. Reilly Foundation, one is offered by the Charles B. McCanna Fellowship Fund and another by Frank J. Seng Fellowship.
The Hearst Foundation of New York provides four fellowships in the Department of History, and the Archbishop John F. O’Hara Fellowship— financed by the Notre Dame Alumni Fund — offers varying numbers of grants in all departments of the College of Arts and Letters.
The Departments of Physics, Metallurgy, Biology, and Chemical Engineering also offer fellowships, many of them provided by industrial firms for specific research projects.
The majority of the industrial fellowships in all departments pay for tuition, fees, and supplies, with a stipend for the students selected as recipients by the University.
Companies sponsoring fellowships at Notre Dame are: E. I. DuPont de Nemours, Eli Lilly, General Tire and Rubber, Miles Laboratories, Olin Industries, Sinclair Refining, United States Rubber, Socony-Vacuum, and Michigan Chemical.
Notre Dame is also cooperating in the sponsorship of research projects with a number of government agencies including: the Office of Naval Research, National Institute of Health, National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics, Atomic Energy Commission, Naval Ordnance, Bureau of Standards, and the Research Corporation.

10
The Scholastic
Record Labor Arbitration Audience Hears Cole Denounce Intervention in Industrial Rows
Advocating a policy of curtailed government intervention in major industrial disputes, David L. Cole, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, addressed a record-breaking audience of 500 labor, industry, education and the legal delegates last Friday at Notre Dame.
Cole said that “government can best serve industry and labor in emergency disputes by intervening only as a mediator,” and that government should “assist, not compel, contending parties to bargain.”
Declaring that “there has been no strike in the last dozen years which truly threatened the national welfare,” Cole added, “we haven’t given collective bargaining a chance to work in major disputes in recent years.” “Many industries and unions,” he said, “have come to take government intervention as a matter of course.”
Cole felt that the frequency of critical strikes will be reduced if the parties to a labor dispute rely on collective bargaining rather than government intervention to solve their difficulties.
The conference, one of the largest of its kind, was sponsored by Notre Dame’s Department of Economics and College of Law in cooperation with the American Arbitration Association. The huge turnout made it necessary to transfer conference sessions from the Law Audi-
businessmen and spokesmen of the nations economic ranks was the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vicepresident of the University. The group also heard messages from Secretary of Labor Martin P. Durkin and Paul G. Hoffman, chairman of the Studebaker Corp., and former president of the Ford Foundation.
Both the University and the American Arbitration Association drew the plaudits of Durkin “for performing a noteworthy public service in holding the conference.” Hoffman predicted that the session would “bring dividends to those in attendance in the form of increased knowledge of how labor-management differences can be resolved in a rational manner.”
Among other prominent attendants was J. Noble Braden, executive vicepresident of the American Arbitration Association. In his keynote address, Braden declared that “Collective bargaining will determine the future security of America, for only as we develop areas of understanding and good will at home can we hope to extend them abroad.”
“Arbitration,” Braden said, “reduces, if not eliminates, the need for government intervention in labor-management relations.” He defined arbitration as “the
voluntary submission of our disputes to a mutually agreeable third party for final resolution.”
Curtis G. Shake, former- Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana, told the conference that “arbitration must be encouraged rather than handicapped by state and federal legislation.” Shake pointed out that 90 per cent of labormanagement contracts provide for some form of arbitration. “This,” he said, “indicated legal acceptance of the principle of arbitration.”
“Voluntary arbitration must be protected or compulsion will take its place,” Joseph S. Murphy, former executive and director of the American Arbitration Association, declared. “Unless the fundamental virtue of honesty and the American sense of fair play enter into all aspects of the arbitration procedure, arbitration will fail and the advances made in labor-management relations will collapse,” Murphy said.
Petei- M. Kelliher, Chicago, served as moderator of a panel discussion on the arbitration of grievances. The panel agreed that an arbitrator shouldn’t attempt to conciliate or mediate a dispute. Among other- questions the panel debated was whether a single arbitrator or a tripartite board was preferable. Panel members agreed that the use of oaths in arbitration proceedings usually were not necessary.
A practice arbitration hearing of an' actual industrial dispute completed the conference agenda.
torium to the larger Engineering Auditorium.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., was conference chairman. He was assisted by John H. Broderick, Assistant Dean of the College of Law.
Welcoming the large gathering of
International Relations Slates Cold War Talk Wednesday
Dr. Waldemar Gurian and Dr. Stephen Kertesz, members of the Department of Political Science, will direct a discussion on “Peacemaking and the Cold War, 1945-52” this Wednesday at 8 p.m. in Room 103 of the Law Building.
The discussion is being sponsored by Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations.
Dr. Gurian and Dr. Kertesz will concentrate on the main issue, which is a consideration of possible war with the Soviet Union and its avoidability.
All students are invited to attend the discussion.
PANEL SPEAKERS DISCUSS LABOR-MANAGEMENT
More Arbitration, Less Intervention
March 6, 1953
HILDEGARDE VARGYAS AND CHORUS AT REHEARSAL
Singing Angels or Vile Bodies?
Curtain at 8 Tonight For Second Performance Of 'Vile Bodies' by University Theatre Group
Second night performance of the University Theatre’s Vile Bodies will take the stage at 8 tonight in Washington Hall, with Nancy Driscoll and Jim Nichols playing the leads.
The play, adapted from Evelyn Waugh’s book of the same name by Rev. John J. Walsh, S.J., of Marquette University, and John Tumpane, the Notre Dame director, was seen for the-first time last night.
University Theatre Director Tumpane, assisted by Mr. Michael Casey as technical director, has assembled one of the largest casts ever used here. The cast totals 56, including girls from St. Mary’s and South Bend.
Waugh has previously allowed none of his works to be done on either the stage or screen.
The story concerns a typical Waugh hero, Adam Fenwick Symes. Symes, played by Jim Nichols, is an innocent fellow' who really doesn’t seem to know what is going on. He is pushed about and cajoled through a series of high society parties, but manages to come out with somewhat the best of it in the end.
Nancy Driscoll plays Nina Blount, Symes’ unconcerned fiancee, who manages to end up with a prude from India named Ginger Littlejohn, done up by Bill Bleakley.
Such sterling characters as a drunk major who falls out of a dirigible, portrayed by Frank Jackman; a California social climber, Bill Santoro; and a racing car driver in the form of Jack Allesandrini make for lots of life, lots of confusion, and lots of actors.
The sets are colorful suggestions of the real thing. They blend in with the wild parties of the play, and lend a modernistic atmosphere.
The show will play on campus through Sunday, with a Sunday afternoon matinee. Tickets are on sale in the Dining Hall lobby: 75 cents for adults, and 50 cents for students.
Oldtimers in Notre Dame plays include Jean Richards as Agatha Run-cible, Hildegarde Vargyas as Mrs. Melrose Ape, Eleanor Kaskey as Kitty Blackwater, Richard Gerken as Simon Balcairn.
Jack Wilcox will be Father Roth-child, S.J., and Donald Rathgab is Miles Malpractice.
Others in the cast are Frieda Beez-ley, Jeanine Berner, Ludwng Breiling, Donald Brophy, Frank Broucek, Mary Jo Bujarski, Charles Doherty, Jeanie Dosmann, Kay Dale, Jessie Flautt, Arlene Haffner, Donald Hanisch, Kay Howland, Joe Heubner, Gavin King, Jere Lloyd, Joseph Mead, and Ann Murray.
Seniors Go Oriental
With Ball Decorations
Unique in the annals of campus dances are the plans of the Senior Ball decorations committee. Theme for the May 8 formal will be “Shangri-la: An Evening in Paradise,” and all the props will be appropriately oriental.
The interior decorating firm of Graham, Schaefer, and Argen (Ed, Bob, and Ralph), together with their cohorts on the fourth floor Walsh, are already hard at work translating blueprints into fact.
“The Drill Hall will be converted into . . .” is the usual line handed out by decorations committees, but the seniors aren’t kidding. If all goes well, they say, the Navy’s barn will be recognizable only from the outside.
As the seniors and their dates enter the building, they will cross over a pagoda-enclosed bridge onto an orientaltype patio equipped with potted plants and simulated stone walls.
At least 300 tables will flank the Drill Hall walls, which will be covered all around with blue cloth nine feet high. Meeting the cloth at the level will be an arched “ceiling,” of a lighter blue tone, made from ten-inch-wide strips of crepe paper. Sloping upward from nine feet at the walls to 30 feet at the center, the false ceiling will extend the
SPECIAL MASS TOMORROW
Students and faculty members are invited to participate in the Solemn Mass to be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church tomorrow morning at 9 o’clock in honor of the feast of St. Thomas Aquinas, patron of Catholic universities.
The Mass will be sung by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president, assisted by Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., head of the Department of Philosophy, as deacon, and Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., head of the Department of Physics, as subdeacon. The sermon will be delivered by Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion.
12
The Scholastic
length of the hall and will be illuminated from above.
Chinese lanterns will dot the walls, while two sparkling, colored globes, two feet in diameter, will be centered on the dance floor.
A crowning touch to the oriental atmosphere will be added at the rear of the bandstand. What it is, however, must remain a deep-dark secret for the present.
In spite of the Asian theme, ballgoers need not bring chopsticks and platform shoes. All they’ll need is a bid, which may be had for $9—cash on the line—March 18 or 19 in Walsh or the Dining Hall lobby during the noon and dinner hours.
At that time, seniors (and graduate and law students, who are also eligible to attend) may also purchase tickets at $3 per couple for the Senior Ball Communion Breakfast to be held May 10 at the Morris Inn.
Reservations may be made at the time of ticket sales for rooms in either the Morris Inn or the Oliver Hotel downtown. Forty rooms will be available at the Inn. Lists of private homes offering rooms will also be furnished.
The Ball won’t be without some traces of western culture, however. Ray Anthony and his orchestra will be on hand with an assortment of America’s most danceable tunes.
'53 Rooms on Block At March 18 Pick
Pre-registration for September, 1953, with both the office of Student Accounts and with the College Deans has recently been announced.
The times are: Wednesday, March 18 to Friday, March 27 have been reserved for pre-registration with the office of Student Accounts; and Friday, April 10 to Friday, April 17 for pre-registration with the College Deans for Fall semester courses.
Pre-registration with the office of Student Accounts will include registration by both campus and off-campus students but will not include those in the Graduate school. Reservations of rooms for the Fall semester will also be made at this time.
A $50 pre-registration deposit will also be required. Notices of a particular date .and time for pre-registration will be sent to each eligible student. If a student does riot receive his pre-registration notice by March 13, he should report immediately to the office of Student Accounts.
The student will be ..called for his registration according to his class stand-
Dean O'Meara Discloses Future Elimination Of Extensive Elective System in Law School
Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr., of the Notre Dame College of Law, recently announced virtual abandonment of the elective system when he spoke before law alumni in Chicago, and declared that for the most part the Notre Dame law school will have “a prescribed program of instruction” in the future.
“The elective system not only proceeds on a fallacy; in practice it involves many absurdities,” O’Meara said. He recalled stories of students who never signed up for a course which was
DEAN JOSEPH O’MEARA, JR. No More Snap Courses
ing and scholastic average (as of June or Summer session, 1952; as of Janu-aiy, 1953 for those who entered in September, 1952.)
A bulletin will be issued by the Prefect of Discipline designating particular residence halls to each of the four classes.
It is not yet known if a combination of juniors and seniors in residence halls will again be necessary in the coming semesters.
Students desiring to live off-campus must present a parental letter of permission forwarded directly to the office of the Prefect of Discipline before March 16, unless 21 years of age and responsible for their own education.
Students who will be employed at Studebaker Corp, or at any individual plant where work will keep them after midnight must live off-campus.
taught above the second floor or before 9:30 in the morning. “The elective system tends to coddle students; it encourages them to choose what are thought to be snap courses and instructors with a reputation for marking high,” O’Meara added.
Dean O’Meara claimed that the elective system “is at war with one of our obligations—namely, to train lawyers for responsible leadership. This means that our graduates must have a rounded and balanced legal education; and this, in turn, means that they must have training in areas which many, if left to their own devices, would pass by.”
“There still will be electives in the Notre Dame College of Law, but they will be offered in the summer session,” Dean O’Meara revealed. He also announced that the law school will inaugurate cumulative, non-compartmentalized, comprehensive examinations.
Examination questions, O’Meara said, will not be “labeled.” Rather, he said, “questions will cut across various fields of law as questions with which lawyers have to wrestle in real life.”
In defining a good lawyer, O’Meara said he is “one who has not only professional competence but who has, in addition, a love of the law and a passion for justice.” Professional competence, he said, is comprised of two elements, knowledge and skills.
“Of these I think the skills are more important,” O’Meara said. “There is a time in a lawyer’s life when he knows more formal law than at any other time, and that is when he takes the bar examination. He will spend the rest of his life forgetting much of the law he then knows. Yet, as he forgets, he will become a better lawyer,” Dean O’Meara said, “and he will become a better lawyer because his skills will mature and multiply.”
Among the skills a lawyer needs, Dean O’Meara explained, are the ability to diagnose a situation, the ability to locate with facility the materials relevant to his problem and the imagination to use those to the advantage of his client, and the ability to express himself clearly, accurately and persuasively^
“We hope to impart the knowledge and to cultivate the skills a lawyer needs to represent his clients effectively in a twentieth-century, work-a-day world,” he asserted. “But at the same time, we don’t want to neglect—indeed, we want to emphasize—the theoretical underpinning of the law, its great role in human affairs and responsibilities, and the dignity and destiny of the legal profession as the priesthood of justice.”
March 6, 1953
13
As sacristan, Brother Boniface must see that the altar, even to the candles, is properly prepared for Sunday Mass.
Our Lady’s Sacristan
A few minutes before every ceremony in Sacred Heart Church the stocky figure of a Brother of Holy Cross marches out of the sacristy and up onto the main altar with a springy, self-assured, almost military stride. The attitude of confidence and determination that is as much a part of him as is his shock of striking white hair projects itself as he adjusts the tilt of a candle or smooths out a ruffle in the altar cloth.
The man is Brother Boniface Lan-denberger, C.S.C., his job, Notre Dame’s sacristan. The job is a large one; Brother Boniface is responsible for the preparation of every religious ceremony held on the Notre Dame campus.
In 1922 Brother Boniface left his home in Stuttgart, Germany with the direct and single intention of joining the Congregation of Holy Cross. On July 2, 1923 he received the Brother’s habit, and after spending one year at Dujarie Hall he was appointed sacristan of Sacred Heart.
Photos By BOB HUDDLESTON Text By DAN BOLAND
For the past twenty-eight years Brother Boniface has been overseer of every religious function in Sacred Heart. Masses and confessions, consecrations, and ordinations all come under his preparatory jurisdiction. Last summer, for example, Brother made accommodations for more than 600 visiting priests to say Mass each morning by setting up 50 altars in Sacred Heart and 100 altars in the main building.
In his domain Brother is strictly business, whether he is filling a holy water font or preparing the main altar for High Mass on Sunday. It is in this latter role that he is most familiar to the students, as he bustles about the altar, making it ready for the Holy Sacrifice.
Before each ceremony he will personally prepare the altar, usually
checking once or twice to see that all is in readiness. If necessary, he will give the servers last-minute instructions or assist the celebrant in vesting. As the procession moves out of the
Robing the celebrants is another duty. His Twenty-Eighth Year
14
The Scholastic
sacristy and into the Church Brother Boniface will inevitably bring up the rear from a distance until the priests and acolytes are on the altar. Then he will ease himself into a pew along the side of the Church until the ceremony is concluded.
Duties Cover the Campus
As soon as the priest has left the altar after the services, Brother will mount the steps and hastily snuff out the candles or carry a vestment back to the sacristy to be immediately and carefully laid away.
Brother Boniface’s duties are not concluded after Sunday evening benediction. Quite to the contrary, his responsibility extends to every chapel on the campus as well as to the main church. It is his responsibility to furnish each campus sacristy with vestments and robes, every altar with candles, cruets and all necessities. He is even responsible for the weekly distribution of an estimated 18,000 hosts that are sent to campus chapels.
Vestments and Museum Pieces
Under Brother Boniface’s personal supervision vestments are constantly being made by a seamstress in the basement of the sacristy to replace old ones. He is known to many of the clerks at Wyman’s in South Bend as a shrewd judge of silk. Whenever he makes a purchase it is of the finest quality, since the material eventually emerges as a Mass vestment.
Brother also has charge of the museum in the rear of the sacristy which houses the vestments, sacred vessels and relics of popes and missionaries, and many other objects of religious interest in full length glass cases. Brother is planning an exhibit of this collection, the only one of its kind in the country, sometime after the Easter vacation.
Sacred Heart Church is His Domain
assembles. As yet, Brother’s plans are still in the undeveloped stage because he is unable to go about getting the flags himself.
“But,” Father Barry confided, “he has hopes that some of the city and state clubs on campus will perhaps donate the flags of their respective
After the Mass, the treasured vestments must be carefullyfolded and laid away.
states to Sacred Heart. It would certainly be a marvelous gift to Brother and to the University as well.”
An Indispensable Function
At the moment Brother Boniface is looking ahead to the liturgy of Holy Week, which contains some of the most beautiful ceremonies of the Church, and in June Brother will once more prepare Sacred Heart for ordination ceremonies, as he has done so often in the past.
The rest of the summer will again see him making all necessary arrangements for the many priests who will be here for summer school and other various functions. Then when September rolls around again students will return and see a familiar sight—Brother Boniface carrying out the duties of his beloved routine throughout the year.
A member of the congregation recently expressed the typical community sentiment towards Brother Boniface when he said, “No one in the community is indispensable — unless it’s Brothei- Boniface.”
And no one could disagree.
And in the Future
Brother Boniface rules the sacristy '	with a firm but gentle hand. During
the summer, for instance, when he is flooded with requests from visiting priests for an altar, he allows them to pick the time they prefer, but he vigorously insists that they stick to the time they choose. And they do.
The Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C., pas!	tor of Sacred Heart, disclosed that
।	Brother Boniface’s pet project is to
i	obtain the flags of the forty-eight states
for the purpose of hanging them wherever a group of Notre Dame students
March 6, 1953 !
ND Plans Invitational Debate March 20,21; Nation's Best Will Vie For Trophy and Honors
Notre Dame will host 48 of the Nation’s best debaters when the first annual University of Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament gets underway March 20, 21.
Teams consisting of two members each will represent 24 schools in considering the negative and affirmative sides of the topic, “Resolved that the Congress of the United States Enact a Compulsory Fair Employment Practices Law.’’
Each team will compete in six preliminary rounds, four of which are scheduled for March 20. The two re-maining 2’ounds will be held the following morning.
Semi-final and final verbal contests will take place the afternoon of March 21, following a special luncheon in the Morris Inn.
Students of the University and the general public will be welcome at the debates.
Both team prizes and individual awards will be given to the debaters who present the best performances.
Chief among the awards is a trophy which will be presented to the team attaining first place in the tournament. This is a gold memorial cup dedicated to Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., coach of Notre Dame debating teams from 1912 to 1928. The tribute was presented by alumni who debated under Father Bolger.
In the words of Prof. Leonard Sommer, director of Forensics, “The trophy is really a fitting prize for outstanding debate, I am sure. We will hear- just that during the tournament because of the reputation of those teams already entered.”
The cup—standing 43 inches high, supported by three Grecian-style pillars, and surmounted by the figure of Victory —will be held by the winning team for one year. It is a three-year retirement trophy, which means that any school winning it three times will retain possession permanently.
The schools receiving the top four ratings will receive permanent plaques inscribed with the Notre Dame seal. A permanent personal trophy will be awarded to the outstanding individual
YWCA Record Dance Tonight
A “Record Dance’’ will be held tonight at the YWCA, 802 North Lafayette Street.
All Notre Dame students are cordially invited to attend.
debater, and in addition certificates of merit will be presented to the 10 best debaters.
Al DeCrane, Notre Dame’s debate captain, is in charge of arrangements for the tournament. He will be assisted in the tourney’s supervision by the members of the debating team, several of whom will act as timekeepers for the debaters.
History Conservation Talks Continue at Rock Tuesday
Prof. William Shanahan of the Department of History and Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science will carry on the general theme of “Conservatism” Tuesday night when they conduct a March History Discussion in the Rockne Memorial Lounge at 7:45.
Professor Shanahan will speak on “The Prussian Conservatives,” and Dr. Gurian will elaborate on the topic, “The French Conservatives.”
Chairman of the discussion will be Prof. E. K. Francis of the Department of Sociology.
After the opening papers have been read there will be general discussion from the floor.
The general public is cordially invited tp attend.
Navy Reserve Offers Seniors Ten-Week Officers' Course
The Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps has announced that its Officer Candidate Course is available to members of the Senior Class and graduate students.
The course is a ten week training period following enlistment in the Marine Corps Reserve as a Private. A Second Lieutenant’s commission follows.
Members are then assigned to basic officer training before being ordered to duty with a Marine Corps organization. Students applying now, who must be between the ages of 20 and 27, will undergo their training period at Quantico, Virginia, beginning July 9, 1953.
Besides receiving transportatoin, quarters, meals, uniforms, medical and dental care at no cost, they will receive $75 a month plus cash allowances for any dependents they may have.
It is emphasized that the purpose of the two programs is to qualify men as officers—not to disqualify them.
Students interested in obtaining advance information may contact Major A. M. Zimmer, USMC, in the Navy Drill Hall or call extension 297.
WANT TO TAKE PICTURES?
The Scholastic needs additional photographers.
Applicants may apply to Tom Foote, associate editor, in Room 258 Alumni.
Professional experience i n photography and dark room operations preferred.
State Dept. Offering Foreign Service Test
The U. S. Department of State has recently announced the annual examination for appointment as Class 6, Foreign Service Officer.
The examination will be held September 14-17, 1953, at the following places: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, St. Paul, Salt Lake City, San Francisco, San Juan, P. R., Seattle, Washington, D. C., and at American Diplomatic Posts and Consulates abroad.
Appointments are made in the $4,-000 to $5,000 per annum salary range after successful completion of written, oral, and physical examinations.
Candidates must be at least 20, and under 31 years of age as of July 1, 1953. A citizen of the United States for at least ten years, and if married, married to an American citizen.
Duties of Foreign Officers include: Negotiation with Foreign Officials; Political reporting; Economic reporting in such fields as labor, finance, transportation and communications; commercial reporting and trade promotion; agriculture reporting; issuance of passports and visas; and development of cultural and informational programs.
Applications should be forwarded to the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, U. S. Department of State, Washington 25, D. C., so as to arrive not latei- than the close of business July 1, 1953.
Application forms and literature are available at the Placement Office.
Fischer Declares TV Offers Newest Journalism Frontier
“The new journalism of today is television,” Prof. Edward A. Fischer of Notre Dame’s Department of Journalism told attendants at the NFCCS Regional Press Workshop held at St. Joseph’s College, Rensselaer, Ind., last Saturday.
( “Since TV is here to stay,” Professor Fischer added, “it might be improved to a high point of moral and cultural taste.” He stressed that only by using well-trained journalists and the pressure
16
The Scholastic
of public opinion may this goal be attained. By improving shows, the number of bad ones will be eliminated, and “then will be Utopia,” he concluded.
Don Carbone, associate editor of the Scholastic, and Pat Carrico, news editor, presented a panel discussion on the problem of covering all news-worthy campus events.
Other Scholastic staff members who attended the conference were Jack Sand, sports editor, Bill Noonan, assistant sports editor, and Larry Brehl, assistant news editor.
Representatives from St. Joseph’s College; St. Mary’s of Notre Dame; Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Marian College, Indianapolis; Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich.; St. Francis College, Fort Wayne; and St. Mary’s of the Woods, Terre Haute, attended the workshop.
Fr. Hesburgh Speaks On Courtship Tuesday
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, will be the principal speaker Tuesday night in the Engineering Auditorium as the third session of the Marriage Institute gets underway. All sessions begin at 7:30 p.m.
Father Hesburgh’s topic for discussion will be “Courtship and Engagement.” Well-known for his expert counseling in such matters in the past, Father Hesburgh will deal with such questions as long courtships and short engagements, deciding upon the right partner in marriage, when courtship should begin, and what principles one can apply in determining who the one is.
Originally scheduled to open the first session, Father Hesburgh’s discussion was moved to the third session to allow him to fulfill previous business appointments.
Thursday night the Institute will continue with Dr. Herbert Ratner, M.D., assuming the principal speaker’s role. “A Doctor’s Viewpoint” will be the topic for discussion at this session.
Dr. Ratner, health commissioner of Oak Park, Ill., has appeared at previous marriage forums here. He will discuss the various medical aspects involved in the birth and development of children.
The semi-weekly sessions are open to all seniors and graduate students of the University. All sessions will be stag, with the exception of the final lecture which will be open to the wives and girl friends of the students.
Tickets for the remainder of the series may be purchased at the Engineering Auditorium before each session.
Junior Prom Committeemen Completing Plans For Dorsey's Musical Stand Here April 24
Ticket sales for the Junior Prom will go on a two-day run Thursday and Friday, April 16 and 17, in the lobby of the Dining Hall at noon and evening meal hours, tickets chairman Jack Ros-shirt announced today.
A limited bloc of 500 bids will be offered exclusively to juniors on the first day of sales, Rosshirt said. Tickets may be opened to seniors and graduate students on Wednesday, if necessary.
Ducats for the “Lamplighter Serenade,” which will feature saxophone artist Jimmy Dorsey and his musical ensemble on April 24, are priced at $8 per couple—including bid and favor. No reservations will be accepted.
Co-chairmen Mickey Moran and Phil Bolin have disclosed that preparations are rapidly progressing—with individual committee heads putting the final touches to their particular assignments.
The decorations committee, under the chairmanship of John Reidy, is making final plans to convert the Rockne Memorial into a dimly-lit park—complete with colored lamps, white fences and shrubbery to blend with the “lamplighter” theme of the dance.
Managers of general weekend arrangements Joe Springer and Bill Guilfoyle
JUNIOR PROM COMMITTEEMEN
Set Off Torch for Lamplighter’s Serenade
have also planned a Saturday dinnerdance at the South Bend Country Club, and a special Junior Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn on Sunday morning.
Reservations for both affairs will be taken along with bids in the lobby of the Dining Hall, Breakfast chairman Ronny Mazzoli said.	'
Only 125 couples will be accommodated at the South Bend Country Club for the dinner-dance Saturday, and attendance for the Breakfast will be limited to 90 couples.
Only a few room reservations are still available in the Morris Inn, accommodations head Bill Woodward warned, but arrangements for downtown. hotels and private homes can still be made, he said. A list of private homes in South Bend where Prom guests can find lodging can be obtained from Woodward in Room 315 Sorin.
Additional committee heads include: Gene Howley, business; Mike Scanlon, lefreshments; Jack Sand, publicity; and Jack Ryan, entertainment.
Bill Woodward is also serving as liaison man between St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame in arranging blind dates for the Prom.
March 6, 1953
17



C&V*
£
Dod, eh? We’ll And that Chi-Let’s go, men!
“What’s this? Relax for a moment and they score two field goals! Nothing lost though. . . . We’ll tighten our defense. . . . Plenty of time left. Watch ’em, men!
“This situation doesn’t look good. Two more field goals and we haven’t registered a thing. Much more of this and I’ll have some explaining to do. . .



iman Caught This

And
been set and the Chicago Stadium defeat revenged in one of the greatest exhibitions the old Fieldhouse has seen.
so the game ended. A new Notre Dame record had
CQNDOn
SE80M
MEYER
iORDAI
points.
name p»
COACH
hope we draw this team in the NCAA we can’t win in this fieldhouse, any-
, £
S'
52
“What did I tell you! Did you see those two baskets? Meyer must have given them a real pep talk at the half.
$2 ^4^
, VISITORS
NOTRE DAME
a artMOLDS
least they missed 100
The Demons Exorcised
56
Xi $
I





Four Views of ’52’s
In the interest of good reading, the SCHOLASTIC, this week, brings you the selections of four men who, we think, are qualified to speak with some authority on the literary zvorks of the past year. These men are: Prof. WiZ-liam Shanahan of the Department of History, Prof. John T. Frederick of the Department of English, Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., zvhose recommendations are those of the Department of Religion, and Rev. Stanley J. Parry C.S.C., of the Department of Political Science.
—Editor.
Prof. Shanahan
The literary vintage of 1952, now pressed and bottled, had a heady quality. Early in the year an English journalist, Chester Wilmot, aroused American sensibilities with The Struggle for Europe (Harper, $5), by showing how military operations which had won the war against Hitler had lost the peace to Stalin. Waldemar Gurian’s Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism (Notre Dame, $3.25) examined, with mature scholarship, the nature of the Stalinist threat to the world.
Another aspect of America’s stake in world politics was scrutinized in Carlton Hayes’ The United States and Spain (Sheed & Ward, $2.75). Here the dean
PROFESSOR WILLIAM O. SHANAHAN
of American Catholic historians, intent on showing Spain’s solidarity with western Europe, set about revising the popular estimate of Spain as a Fascist country.
Equal sympathy for the Latin world pervaded Eleanor Clark’s Rome and a Villa (Doubleday, $4), a travel book in the grand manner, combining literary subtlety with fine insights into Italian customs and artistry.
And in 1952 a new edition of Heinrich Wolfflin’s Classic Art (Phaidon Press, $6.50) appeared. This book, written a half century ago, has been more than a guide to Italian Renaissance art: it established the leitmotif of modern art history by dealing with style rather than with the artists’ biographies.	'
Ernest Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea (Scribners, $3) was a biographical episode, transformed at the hands of a talented writer, into a commentary on the grandeur and tragedy of human life. The lean, tense Hemingway style made the story of a Cuban fisherman’s victory and defeat come alive if read only as a yarn about man and the sea.
Man’s fate — insofar as political ideologies affect it—informed Arthur Koestler’s Arrow in the Blue (Macmillan, $5). This autobiography of the Hungarian-born novelist offered a glimpse of that intelligentsia, so numerous between 1917 and 1939, at first attracted to and then repelled by Communism.
The battle between faith and unbelief occurred on a lofty plane in The Correspondence between Paul Claudel and Andre Gide (Pantheon Books, $4). These letters display, as in no other recent publication, the deep tension in French intellectual life.
American political parties were analyzed with skill and verve in Samuel Lubell’s The Future of American Politics (Harper, $3.50), which forecast much that came true last November.
In Evelyn Waugh’s Men at Arms (Little Brown, $3.50), the first part of a trilogy, there was promise of a great novel about World War II. Waugh, the acknowledged master of the comic novel, has reminted his coin to bid for permanent recognition as a master novelist.
A year so filled with literary splendor may yet be titled “great.”
PROFESSOR JOHN T. FREDERICK
Prof. Frederick
The Old Man and the Sea, Ernest Hemingway. Hemingway’s best work to date.
Don Camillo and His Flock, Giovanni Guareschi. Warm, funny, substantial stories of Italy today.
The Golden Hand, Edith Simon. Richly colored and widely inclusive panorama	«
of mediaeval life.	|
I
The Houses in Between, Howard	/
Spring. Recommended by Professor	|
Fenlon, which is good enough for me. |
J
The Man on a Donkey, H. F. M. Prescott. Recommended by Professor Sulli- ‘ van, likewise adequate for me.
In my opinion, the fiction of the past year has been markedly inferior, on the whole, to the non-fiction. Here are five non-fiction books which have much of the quality of fiction.	■
£
The Desert Year, Joseph Wood	|
Krutch. Not unworthy to be called a	j
contemporary Arizona Walden.	i
People of the Deer, Farley Mowat. , Absorbing and moving record of real experience with Canadian Indians.
Picture, Lillian Ross. Story of the making of the motion picture, “The Red Badge of Courage;” “inside” the movies . with a vengeance. .
Always the Young Strangers, Carl
The Scholastic
to'
20
Best in Literature
REV. LOUIS J. PUTZ, C.S.C.
Sandburg. Pleasant record of an Illinois small city boyhood.
The Goshmvk, T. H. White. Brilliant narrative of the taming of a hawk, by a writer of great ability.
These, for me, were the outstanding works of 1952.
Father Putz
The Philosophy of Democratic Government by Yves Simon. University of Chicago Press. §3.50. A valuable clarification of the basic concepts underlying the democratic form of government. The function of authority, the problem of freedom, equality and sovereignty are capably explored.
Leisure, the Basis of Culture, by Josef Pieper. Pantheon, §2.75. It aims to restore philosophy to a place of importance for every educated person instead of keeping it the privilege of longhaired specialists.
The Long Loneliness by Dorothy Day. N. Y. Harper, §3.50. Whether you agree with Dorothy Day or not, you cannot ignore her nor the message of love she preaches.
The Sign of Jonas by Thomas Merton. A direct successor to Seven Storey Mountain. The' author speaks to the man of the twentieth century of the secret longings' of their hearts.
Catholicism and American Freedom
by James O’Neil. N. Y., Harper, §3.50. An answer to the Blanshard thesis that the Catholic Church is a menace to American freedom.
Catholicism and the World Today by Aelred Graham, O.S.B. N. Y., McKay, §3. The author presents the case for Catholicism in the modern world. He asks what chances there are that the Church will again play a role in the building of the modern world.
The Church Today, the Collected Writings of Cardinal Szihard. Fides, §4.75. This eminent member of the Catholic hierarchy has repeatedly put his finger on the problems facing the Church in the modern day in his celebrated pastoral letters.
The Meaning of Faith by Romano Guardini. Guardini is a theologian of the modern day who does not pursue a particular problem to its theological conclusions, but treats of problems that the modern mind will inevitably encounter- in its pursuit of truth.
For Men of Action by Yves de Mont-cheuil, S.J., Fides, §3.00. Penetrating essays on problems of lay spirituality. An inspiring guide for the layman who wishes to infuse Christian principles into his secular vocation.
The Man on a Donkey; a Chronicle by H. F. M. Prescott. N. Y. Macmillian, §5.00. Some one has remarked that Prescott did for the England of Henry VIII what Sigrid Undset did in Kristin Labransdatter for mediaeval Norway.
Father Parry
“The ten books described in the following represent the best of those I came into contact with last year. All of them are in the library.”
1.	Baker Brownell, The Human Community. An analysis of social life. Fundamentally the book attacks both the concept of the mass society and that of a pluralism based on special interest sub-groups. Brownell assei-ts, even to the point of repetitiousness, the principle that real community is a cooperative union that involves every aspect of human life. These ideas could change our society much more profoundly than the “radical” socialist ideas which, after all, are not very radical.
2.	D. Selznick, TV A—Grassroots Democracy. A book on the problem of decentralizing modem social and economic life. Basically, therefore, it is a work on the problem of planning for freedom. It should be read in company with Lilienthal’s book TV A—Democracy On the March (Pocketbook, Inc.) For it is a criticism not of Lilienthal’s ideal, but of his optimistic estimate of what TVA has accomplished in the way of effective decentralization. The point of the book is in harmony with Brownell’s idea that effective decentralization is possible only when healthy local communities exist. The modem local community,, being special interest oriented, is not a trustworthy receptacle for political power.
3.	Wilhelm Ropke, Civitas Humana-A book continuing the theme of the first two on a level more profound than Brownell and less specialized than Selznick. Ropke forces the reader to face up to the need for fundamental changes in our economic and moral life if the modern movement toward the Mass— and necessarily anti-democratic—State is to be halted. These three books together constitute the most radical trend of thought I know of. This quality in them may not be seen at first glance because they are also constructive books.
4.	Passerin D’Entreves, Natural Law-A series of essays on natural law, ranging from the historical to the philosoph-
(Continued on page 33)
REV. STANLEY J. PARRY, C.S.C.
March 6, 1953
21
From Out The Depths... . .
An original pome by Hal Tompkins, The Cellar Sage of Sorin:
Oh Worra, Worra—The Primrose Path! In far Tibet there live a lama, He lay dying by his mama;
She say “Why you die for, Charlie?” He say “Too much pickled barley!” She say “Next time salt instead.” But po’ Charlie almos’ dead;
He no more hear what say mama, Done drop off in lama-coma.
When the fever reach its peakie, Lama-Charlie start to speakie; He say “I gung tell you whyfur, How an’ whatfur I gung diefur; I gung tell my tale of life, Tale of why I got no wife; Tell of all what done me in, All what truck Chuck tuck on chin.
Lama-life is lonely, muchuv, Ain’t no fun, ain’t even a touchuv; Ain’t no moonlight, no romancin’, Done no drinkin’, did no dancin’; Lots of cares an’ lama-worries, Ain’t no cheerin’, just rasburries. It all start that big day when, Me grow up at age of ten.
Charlie askie Jane for datie,— How he know her name was Katie? Katie, she get plenty mad, Little lama, him feel bad.
Little lama grow to twenty, Loneliness, he gottie plenty; Finally Cupid find him target— Sun bust on when Chuck see
Marg’ret!
Marg’ret look at lama, smiling, Out of temple Charlie’s piling;
Chuck-boy temple—ask for date, Girlie say “Not yet, but wait.” Chuck throw way his lama robe, Sit him down an’ wait like Job. Fifteen years an’ millyon stars, Nothing lama-patience mars.
One day Charlie get the scoopie, Angel-chile done fleed the coopie! Sound like world go BOOM in dust When Charlie’s heart jus’ up an’ bust. Poor ole Charlie, hones’ kid, Never knowed what wrong he did; Wearily he moan “Well, dahmna “Guess me badder be a lama.”
Charlie go back into temple, Try to set a good exemple; Get big name by bein’ just, Allasame his heart still bust. Ole an’ aged lama, now,
Sick ole bod’ an’ fevered brow; Marg’ret, you jus’ badder cry, Cause then po’ Charlie up an’ die.
Charlie’s mama run for barley, Ain’t no use, ain’t no more Charlie! Bang the gong an’ temple cymbals, “Buy yore mournin’ robes at
Kimble’s!”
Listen lads, you’ll love an’ learn, They ain’t no rose wifout its them;
So if youre smitten, git a rope An’ hang yoreself, they ain’t no hope!
Our comment: “Thank you for these words of wit; too bad they all sound that way.”
WMIU Mike flatter
All I have to do is write one column about a “personality,” like the Zulu Warrior, and right away our station manager is after me because I’m putting “too much emphasis on the funny stuff and not enough on our serious programming.” O.K. Bill, here’s a column designed to let the good people know that we have a well-rounded schedule, and do give the audience some serious music and stuff.
In keeping with the station policy of giving the larger organizations on the campus (the ones that influence the most people) air time if they can put together a show of real interest to the general student body, we put the Political Science Academy in on Sunday afternoon. The show at first turned out to be a good program of comment by members of the academy, but nothing out of the ordinary. We were pleasantly surprised when this semester the show began to feature some of the really important names that are here on the campus, such as Dr. Gurian, who appeared last Sunday. The program is really outstanding as it stands now. And Tim Kett, the moderator of the show, promises that he will try to have an outstanding guest each week from now on.
For quite a few years we’ve been
Dial 3-0567 or (Dial S.M.C.
for Murder):	1
St. Mary’s is having a Variety Show March 13 and 14. It is the highlight of the talent season in the upper regions of Northern Indiana. Aardvark von Seed, our St. Mary’s columnist, reports that this year’s show will be a bigger and better extravaganza and phantasmagoria than ever before (Aardvark has even heard that there are three directors). ’ Von Seed urges all kiddies to dial 3-0567 and beg, buy or borrow a date!'-' Author! Author!
Strictly, Strictly:
In case someone doesn’t know it, “Vile Bodies,” is now playing Washington’ Hall. Strictly first run, strictly fifty cents, strictly better than technicolor. Save your confederate money lads, the South will rise again.
—Walter Werner	«
—Gerry Voit
—Jack Dilenschneider t
trying to satisfy the many people on the campus who like classical music, and have been increasing our classical time in the program schedule as our library would permit. The Sunday Opera is a good example of our classical fare. Each Sunday we present a complete opera, some heavy and some popular, by the best cast available on records. We’ve been able to do this mainly through the cooperation of the record department of Robertson’s. They have about the best classical library in town.
But then, you don’t have to wait until Sunday to hear some good music. Every day we feature two hours of good classical and semi-classical music on the Afternoon Concert at 3:30 and the Invitation to Music at 6. These programs are sometimes “heavy,” but more often they feature music that we know most people like, or will like once they have heard it.
Finally, I, might mention two Sunday night shows. At 6 we always feature an hour-and-a-half-long drama that is produced by BBC. Then at 10: 30 .is the “Flights of the Mind” starring Tom Knott—a very unusual type of student written program.
O.K., Bill, there it is. But I still like the Zulu Warrior! And next week I’m going to write about two of my friends and yours, the old D.J., K.J., and a guy I’ve mentioned before, but who didn’t like my mention, Al Wood.
—Bryan Coughlin
The Scholastic
22
Srad cNotes
The initial meeting of the Graduate Student Association for the Spring se-, mester was held last night in the Vet i. Bec Hall. First on the agenda was a v business meeting which afforded an ' ’	opportunity for the introduction of the
I	new officers as well as a brief glance
I at the financial and social status of the Association.
।	Topic of the evening’s • discussion was
j “McCarthyism.” Rev. S. J. Parry, '	C.S.C., from the Department of Polit-
I	ical Science, stated the principles on
, which this phenomenon called “McCar-1 thyism” should be judged. Then Dr. ; E. J. (The Case for Stevenson) Cronin ;	explained why he was opposed to the
;	activities of the junior senator from
Wisconsin. The heated atmosphere created by the discussion that followed । was cooled down by what Art Raymond called the “usual refreshment. . . .”
We were told Bob Kane and Norm MacArthur resented that we did not mention their very obvious presence at the Valentine’s Day dance. Sorry, fellows. Voila: Norm MacArthur and Bob Kane were also there. They were harmonizing. They were louder than the record player. Their’ songs were just as old . . .
''	Forthcoming nominations for the
“Best Dressed Men of the Year” should see the History department well represented. George Baehr, Charlie Poin-sette, Ralph Weber and Jack Woods, all avid readers of Esquire, are leading
• the field of the debonnaires. Even the dust of the Archives doesn’t seem to phase them . . .
It’s been rumored that the Chemistry f department has added a cooking course for its bachelor members. Not only can one find absent-minded chemists mixing sodium chloride with tomato soup at these luncheon clubs, but a closer look . will find the ex-secretary of the Graduate Student Association, Ed Cochran, playing host to newly-elected President Lou Glunz. This little gathering, otherwise know as the Kitchen Cabinet, makes you think of what it would be
5 like if Ike and Adlai spent their noon hour dunking doughnuts to the mellow k strains of the Missouri Waltz . . .
Our own “Top of the Week”: Grad * students can get tickets to the Senior
Ball . . .
Our own “Bottom of the Week”: Tickets sell for $9 . . .
Bob Wray
Ivan deHuszovzsky
. . . For A Catcall and A Letter
In last week’s issue Week columnist Mort Luby noted with disgust the performance of the Washington Hall catcallers during the movie Great Expectations. There was one such bird, however, whose presence wasn’t generally known because he made only a brief, quiet “debut.” Judging from their laughter, his neighbors enjoyed his appearance, and one of them passed the story along so it could be recorded for posterity.
The setting for this remark was the room of the recently-deceased recluse. She had been left at the altar many years before and had consequently shut herself up in the room where the wedding feast had been prepared. She shuttered all the windows, keeping out every bit of sunlight, and refused to clean the room or change it in any way. The room, therefore, looked as only an uncleaned-for-40-years room could.
In this particular scene the hero was engaged in defying the old woman’s ghost, energetically sweeping debris this way and that, and tearing drapes and shutters off the windows to let in the sunlight. He was having quite a time for- himself and raising great clouds of dust.
It was at this point that said catcaller- chose to make his brief, dramatic appearance, to wit:
“Look, he’s turning it into a student union!” . . .
And that brings, us (don’t ask me how) to the story of the letter which came to Notre Dame from Garden City, N. Y., via Bombay, India.
The letter was sent by a lady who is not very familiar with the English language and hence not proficient at spelling. The letter was mailed Oct. 30, 19-52, and the address appears to read: “Mr. Joe Bill, 128 Zehm Hall, Noeradem, Indie. Univeristy.”
This address was misinterpreted by a post office employee, and eventually found itself in Bombay, India, and the envelope is stamped by the dead letter office of that city. Nobody knows how Bombay figured out where the letter was supposed to go, but someone there wrote “Notre Dame, Ind., U.S.A.” on the envelope, and it was finally received here on Feb. 22.
That’s the whole story. Is this where Notre Dame alumni end up—the Bombay post office? In any event, the Bombay people should get the Colonel McCormick trophy for being well-informed on world events.—Bob Finney
“I’ll never pay 18 cents to go downtown!”
March 6, 1953
23
Handling of Small Student Loans Transferred From Administration to Special Senate Body
Rev. Jerome A. Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president in Charge of Business Affairs, recently approved transferral of dispensing student loans from the administration to the Student Senate. The Loan Fund has been handled by the Senate since Feb. 24.
The Fund, provided by the University for the aid of students, was turned over to the Senate upon that body’s request. A committee had studied the feasibility of student administration of the funds for several months before the Senate voted to ask for control of the function.
The Student Loan Fund is not to be confused with the Fisher Fund which is also for student use, but remains under the administration’s control. This fund was made available by the late Mr. and Mrs. Fred J. Fisher.
A special committee composed of three Senate members, and headed by the Senate treasurer, is in charge bf
STUDENT SENATE AND LOAN FUND
Office Hours Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday 3:30 - 5:30 p.m.
Room 122 Main Building
dispensing the funds. The committee will study requests, which it will approve or refuse.
Use of the Fund is available to all students of the University, except students from Vetville, graduate students, and students who intend to use the borrowed money to pay their tuition. Because this is a small loan fund, and limited in its resources, it was necessary to make the restrictions.
But, those students who fall under the restrictions can apply to the Office of Business Affairs, which handles funds of a larger denominational capacity.
Students desiring loans from the Senate-administered fund must apply personally at the Senate Office during office hours and fill out an application for a student loan. This application will be studied by the Senate treasurer and the loan committee. If approved, authorization for the loan will be given soon afterwards.
Along with his application, the student must sign an interest-free promissory note to the University. A onemonth time limit has been applied to loans. The borrower will receive a notice one week prior to the loan’s maturity. Parents will he notified if the
loan has not been repaid two months after administration.
Since the fund is released out of University funds, the school reserves the right to withhold academic credits of the delinquent borrower.
President Tom Reedy announced new Senate office hours which would facilitate the functioning cf the Loan Fund.
Student Winners Announced In Mardi Gras Sales Contest
Official winners of the Mardi Gras sales contest among No^re Dame students have been announced by Brian Kelly, general chairman of the Mardi Gras.
On campus, two upperclassmen tied for top honors and the right to divide $75 equally between them.
Clair Southgate, 304 Dillon, and Pat Leone, 4 Fisher, each sold 66 books to take first place. Third place honors and $10 went to Freshman Tom Cre-han, 359 Zahm, who sold 25 books.
Off-campus competition was more evenly distributed. Pat Henry, 438 E. Howard, copped first prize of $50, sell-ign 23 books. Second prize and $25 went to Ernie Jonhowski, 2630 Hartzer who was only three behind with a total of 20 books sold. Third prize went to Bill Miglas, 230 S. Francis, who sold nine books for the $10 award.
Vetville came in for the final share of $195 worth of cash prizes as Gene Joeger, Apt. 31-C, merited a $25 sales award.
Rewards to winners at St. Mary’s were not given this year. A change in the long standing policy was enacted this year confining the awards to the campus.
Mixer and Musical Fill
St. Mary's Social Card
Mid-lenten activities have more than adequately filled the St. Mary’s social agenda with a Date Party scheduled for tonight and an original student musical set for next Friday and Saturday.
Tonight’s affair—by invitation only— will be sponsored by St. Mary’s Overseas Service Program to raise money for the exchange of foreign students. The Sadie Hawkins affair in the students’ Rec Room features a 50-cent fare cuffed by the girls.
Next Friday and Saturday nights the Women of the Western World will present an original student musical,
“North Atlantic,” depicting the transoceanic capers of 10 female voyagers enroute to romantic Europe. The show will be spiced with appropriate foreign scenes done up by the girls.
Mary Kramer, a junior, is general chairman for the two-night musical. She will be assisted by three script writers—Rody Oppenheim, Rose Marie Murphy, and Mary Cavaney, who wrote the entire show.
Listed in the cast are more than 100 sprightly lasses from across the Dixie.
A few of the leading ladies will be Nancy Irgang, Fat Gannon, Mary Agnes Majewski, Mimie Dougherty, Carol Hannigan, and others.
The two-night stint is set for the St. Angela’s Hall Auditorium with performances beginning each night at 8.
Those in attendance on closing night will be feted at a party after the show in the Rec Room.
Newman Club Seeks Religion Textbooks
An appeal for books is being made by the chaplain of the Newman Club of Northern Illinois State Teachers College.
Rev. C. K. McCarren has expended the money available to him, including personal funds, to furnish a small building for the use of the Club. He must therefore depend on donations of books to build up the library.
Father McCarren is particularly interested in obtaining several copies of the religion texts being used at Notre Dame: Father Hesburgh’s “God and the World of Man” Father Sheedy’s “The Christian Virtues,” and Father Cavanaugh’s “Evidence for Our Faith.”
Other religion texts or works on Catholicism would be welcomed too, as would classics such as the poems of Milton and the plays of Shakespeare. Standard works used by students of the departments of English, Education, Math, Language, Physical Education and j Speech, and in the social, physical, biological and earth sciences would help the library.
“Considering the intellectual atmosphere that prevails in so many secular colleges,” Fr. McCarren said, “Notre Dame students who can donate a book or two—foi’ which they no longer may have much use—will be performing an act of charity toward the 400 Catholic students of Northern Illinois State Teachers College.”
Books may be mailed directly to: Rev. C. K. McCarren, The Newman Club, Northern Illinois State Teachers College, 618 College Ave., DeKalb, Ill., or brought to the Publications Department, basement of Farley Hall.	j
The Scholastic
24
Tourney Time! Irish Face E. Kentucky
(L-R) STEPHENS, BERTRAND, CAPT. LEWINSKI, ROSENTHAL, GIBBONS, SET
SIGHTS ON E. KENTUCKY HOOP
Irish Starting Five Fort Wayne Bound in Quest of First Tourney Victory
After more than a week of confusion and uncertainty, the stage is finally set for Notre Dame’s first appearance in a post-season basketball tournament. Tuesday night the Jordanmen will invade the new Memorial Coliseum in Fort Wayne to take on the Eastern Kentucky Maroons in the first round of the NCAA regionals. The Irish tilt, starting at 9:45 p. m. will be the nightcap of the doubleheader with DePaul meeting Miami of Ohio in the first game at 8 p. m.
In Eastern Kentucky, coached by Paul McBrayer, the Irish will be facing the champions of the Ohio Valley conference. The Maroons edged Western Kentucky for the crown, but lost out to their arch-rivals in last week’s post-season OVC tourney. Western won that one,
70-60. This past week’s Associated Press poll placed Eastern Kentucky 17th in the nation, four notches below Notre Dame.
Like so many of this season’s college basketball teams, Eastern has an outstanding home record but a pretty poor road showing. Not including last Tuesday’s game with Dayton, the Maroons had won 16 and lost seven, all the defeats being inflicted on enemy grounds. Among the top teams beaten by the Kentuckians are: Brigham Young (6967), Louisville (91-85), Toledo (79-68), Western Kentucky (79-68), Xavier (9174), and Murray State twice (96-68 and 52-43). The seven teams to hold decisions over the Maroons are: No. Carolina St. (88-75), Dayton (72-62), Xa
vier (80-68), LaSalle (89-67), Louisville (68-66) and Western Kentucky twice (86-76 and 70-60).
The Blue Grass club has good height —almost identical with that of the Irish. Shirley Kearns, a 6’1” guard is the team’s standout. In the first 20 games, he scored 113 field goals in 228 attempts for a 49.6 percentage, placing him 11th in the nation in that department. Roger Geyer, also 6’1” is the other guard with Stan Standford,. 6’6”, working at the center post. The starting forwards will probably be 6’2” Bob Mulcahy and 6’6” Jim Bingham with Tom Holbrook as a first line replacement. He’s 6’1”. Elmer Tolson, at 6’5” and Bill Bales, 6’2”, also might see consid-(Continued on page 29)
March 6, 1953
Scholastic Reporter Holds Bevo to 41 Pts.
BY WARREN ASHBAUGH
It all seemed like a nightmare then, but now it’s somewhat of an honor—or at least unique, for a second rate high school player like myself, to be able to say, “I guarded Bevo.”
For those of you who haven’t seen a sport page since basketball began, “Bevo” is Clarence Francis, a 6’9” giant whose net scorching tactics have hoisted little Rio Grande College from the obscurity of southern Ohio to the sport pages of Time magazine and virtually every newspaper in the country. Bevo’s accomplishments this season include a 116 point night against Ashland College (Ky.), breaking Johnny O’Brien’s single season point total, and a per-game average that is hovering around 50.
Bevo Follows Coach
Clarence followed his high school coach, Newt Oliver, to Rio Grande, the latter’s Alma Mater. Since the two became partners each has served the other’s purposes well—Bevo, by increasing Oliver’s prestige as a coach, and Oliver by keeping the big boy’s feats in or out of the papers. Oliver’s commendable job as press agent is evident from the fact that after the first round of publicity he kept Bevo in the headlines with questionable stories about a crippling childhood illness to his star and a courtroom battle over a postponed game with a small college. Oliver* also did a great job of covering up Bevo’s lack of a high school diploma, which he has since received, after playing almost a half season of college ball.
Because of scholastic difficulties Francis played only one season of high school ball. That was for Wellsville, Ohio, a minor power in the tough Ohio River Valley League. Although he failed to win the Ohio scoring crown that year he did receive all-state honors and was good enough to get more than 60 college scholarship offers.
One Man Team
We (East Palestine, Ohio, H. S.) met Oliver’s one man team on our home court in an early season game. E. Palestine had beaten the favored Ben-gals by one-point margins for three straight years and the Wellsville fans were counting on Bevo’s ability to gain revenge.
In a pre-game pep talk, our coach, in an effort to quell our defeatist attitude, told us not to worry, “because the big goon’s just newspaper talk,”
and not to watch him in the warm up period.
We were playing a zone with two men, one in front of and one behind, on Bevo. The strategy worked to a degree for a while until the other Bengals began to realize that there were things to be done with a basketball besides feed “Bevo.” Following our adoption of a man to man defense, the game broke wide open. Bevo put on a terrific scoring show with an array of left and right handed hooks, both of the sweeping variety and the straight over-head type. He also had an unerring jump shot, one handed push shots, and driving lay-ups that left me and everyone else on the court, unfortunate enough to be on our team, in a complete physical daze.
A contest did develop out of the onesided game however, for everyone began to wonder if our team could out-score the sharp shooting giant himself.
I hadn’t yet hit the scoring column, as the game came roaring down the home stretch, but Bevo who had dumped in 41 points fouled me with 45 seconds left. The score at that time was 74-40 and my foul shot was the last point scored. Our team had matched Bevo’s individual 41 point total.
Despite the sickening experience of seeing him take the ball out of bounds and come loping slowly up the court, frowning bigger and bigger with each step as he came toward me, I felt somewhat like a hero for my only point had “tied his score.”
JIM RENO WEIGHS IN BEFORE BENGAL CHIEF “NAPPY" NAPOLITANO Fighters In Top Physical Condition As First Round Nears
Bengal Bouters Set For March 10 Debut
BY LEE TAVIS
Training for the Bengal Bouts is reaching its closing minutes and the fighters are adding the finishing touches to their preparations.
Last week the fighters started their sparring rounds in earnest, and most of the boys expect to get down to their desired weight class. An interesting example of this is Alex McAngus. Mc-Angus is the returning 147-pound champion from last year, and one of the outstanding boxers of the 1952 Bengal Bouts. This year Vic Roblez returned to Notre Dame and Bengal competition in the 147-pound class. Roblez attended Notre Dame from the fall of 1948 to the spring of 1950, before he was called back into the navy from the reserves. He won Bengal championships both years, first in the 147-pound division, and then with the 160-pounders.
Roblez has always been well within the limit for the 147 division, but McAngus now weighs about 152. However, McAngus wants to defend his 147 title against Roblez, and is trying hard ta get back down to Roblez’ weight. The two of them have been sparring regularly at the fieldhouse. They are surprisingly closely matched and prom
26
The Scholastic
ise to furnish one of the best fights of the Bouts.
Other sparring rounds that have been attracting a lot of attention from the crowds watching training are those between heavyweights Ed Cook and Gideon Jarvis, and lightweights Pat Drew and Tom Magill. Jarvis and Cook both played freshman football together here last fall. They met once before in the heavyweight finals of the Novice Tournament last December.
These sparring matches are only a preparation for the matches that you will be seeing in the 1953 edition of the now famous Bengal Bouts in the Fieldhouse starting next Tuesday.
Fencers Get Scare; Nip Wisconsin, Iowa
Notre Dame’s fencing team remained undefeated last weekend as they earned their ninth and tenth victories of the present campaign, and their 13th and 14th straight since the 1952 season, at Iowa City. Although the Irish were pressed to the limit, they managed to defeat Iowa and Wisconsin in a triangular meet by identical 14-13 scores.
Against the Badgers of Wisconsin they lost the epee, 4-5, the foil, 3-6, but rallied to capture the sabre, 7-2. Wisconsin held an 11-7 edge on the Irish going into the final sabre bouts. This meant that the ND sabre team, composed of Jim Hurley, Gerry Finney, Tony Man-dolini, and Pat Mulrooney, had to win seven out of a total of nine bouts to win the meet. They proceeded to do just that as they swept seven out of the first eight matches to gain the margain of victory. Individual totals for the epee were: John McGinn (2-1), Rod Duff (1-2), and Dave McBride (1-2). In the foil the totals were: Jack Mooney (2-1), Jerry Brainerd (1-2), and Dick Hull (0-3). Hurley (3-0), Finney (2-0), Mandolin! (2-1), and Mulrooney (0-1) were the totals in the sabre.
In its match with Iowa the Irish were ahead 11-7 going into the foil. The match score for the foil was 13-13 after eight of the nine foil bouts. Dick Hull was the hero of the day as he took the ninth bout from his Hawkeye opponent by a 5-4 margin to give Notre Dame the 14-13 win. The Irish lost the foil, 3-6, but took the sabre, 6-3, to even the meet, and then won the epee to wrap up their one point victory. The' individual totals for the foil were: Mooney (0-3), Brainerd (1-2), and Hull (2-1). In the sabre the totals were: Hurley (1-2), Finney (3-0), Mandolini (2-0), and Mulrooney (0-1). McGinn (1-2), Rod Duff (2-1), McBride (2-0), and Bill Lesso
Chuck Davey, 'Boxing's Most Valuable,' to Get Annual Bengal Bout Presentation March 17
BY BRYAN COUGHLIN
The Bengal Bout award to the “Man who has done the most for boxing the past year” will be given this year to Charles P. “Chuck” Davey, the popular welterweight boxer. He will receive the award on the final night of this year’s Bengal Bouts, on March 17, and will then referee the final heavyweight match.
Davey is being given the award because he has shown that a boxer in the professional ring can also be a gentleman and an educated man. He is the holdei- of a master’s degree from Michigan State College. He has also shown that there is still a place in professional boxing for the “scientific” boxer,
CHUCK DAVEY
Back In Ring. . . As Honorary Ref
not just a man who goes into the ring to maul his opponent. He is rated one of the most skilled boxers now competing, even though he lacks a real punch.
Davey was undefeated in professional competition until his recent bout with Kid Gavilan for the welterweight cham-
(0-1) were the Irish totals in the epee.
Tomorrow Notre Dame competes with the University of Chicago and the University of Kentucky in a triangular meet here in the fieldhouse. Then the Irish have but two matches remaining, both at home, before they compete in the NCAA Championships, March 27-28, at the University of Pennsylvania.
pionship in Chicago. In spite of this loss, the Bengal Bout Committee decided that Davey was most deserving man for the award.
Outside of his defeat at the hands of Gid Gavilan, Davey has an impressive record in the professional ring. Before his loss to Gavilan, he had gone 39 bouts without a loss, winning 37 of them and drawing two. In this string, he beat two former world champions, Lightweight Ike Williams, and Middleweight Rocky Graziano. His bout with Gavilan in the Chicago Stadium drew' §275,454, a record for a welterweight match.	a
Managing Davey through his impressive professional career has been Hec Knowles. His trainer is Issy Kline.
As an undergraduate at Michigan State College, Davey, won four National Collegiate Boxing titles. In that time he won 93 of the 94 fights in which he engaged. He is a rarity among boxers in that he is a southpaw, and fights that way. His last bout shows that he is also one of the gamest boxers in the professional ring today, especially when he got up on the count of nine in the ninth round.
Davey knows the boxing game, and some have, said that he should become a manager, especially after the Gavilan fight showed the disadvantage he has in the lack of a punch. There is certainly a place in boxing for a man like Davey and there will be for many years.
Davey was married last October 12 to Patricia Abell, a nurse at Chicago’s Henrotin Hospital. They met when he was being treated at the hospital for a cut under his eye that he suffered during his second fight with Carmen Basilio. During his free time he likes to read historical novels, and is a rabid follower of the Detroit Tiger baseball team. He does a weekly radio sports program in Lansing, Mich., when he isn’t fighting. His service record shows three years in the Army Air Force as a navigator.
In winning this award, Davey joins such boxing notables as Tony Zale, Barney Ross, Elmer Layden, Rocky Marciano, and the Most Rev. B. J. Sheil, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago and the guiding power behind the CYO. Another illustrious name* has now been added to the list of Bengal Bouts Award winners.
March 6, 1953
27
O’Connor Benefit Tilt Features 9-7 Comedy
Last Tuesday night the Notre Dame fieldhouse was the scene of basketball capers at their best. The main game was between this year’s seniors and next year’s varsity. However it was the half time contest between the Notre Dame coaches and the South Bend press which attracted the greatest interest from the crowd. The proceeds of the Marty O’Connor Benefit Game went to the National Polio Foundation.
• The “53-54” varsity downed the seniors 76-49 in a regulation game. Leading the varsity were Junior Stephens and a newcomer to the varsity squad, freshman Lloyd Aubrey. Each boy collected 10 points as did John Lattner who played for the seniors.
In the main attraction of the evening everything happened. Casting the rule book aside the Press Experts against the N.D. Coaches really provided laughs for the spectators. Ten officials had a whistling good time of officiating the game. The press used their superior number to down the coaches by the fabulous score of 9-7. Sports publicitor Charlie Callahan who was traded to the press for a pair of socks during the game provided the winning basket for the press.
The starting five for the coaches were “Ozark Ike” Leahy, “Dribbles” Druze, “Little Bevo” Krause, “Fakey” Earley, and Sure-Shot Jordan. Opposing these basketball geniuses were Joe Doyle, Vince Doyle, Mort Linder, Frank Cro-siar and Captain Joe Boland.
—By Bob Ettelbrick
Irish Host Annual CCC Indoor Track Meet Tomorrow; Drake, Marquette Leading Threats
Seven 1952 champions will return to defend their individual crowns when Notre Dame hosts the 26th annual Central Collegiate Indoor Track and Field Championships, tomorrow. Trials will be held in the afternoon with the finals taking place in the evening.
Heading the list of returning champions will be Notre Dame hurdler Harvey Newquist. The slender junior won both the 60 yard high hurdles and the 65 yard lows last season; Ted Baars, 880 yard run, and Dean Mielke, shot put, both of Marquette, Dewey Johnson, mile run, Drake; Joe Springer, pole vault, Notre Dame, and Gordon Busse, broad jump, Bradley.
At least two of the defending champions will find the going especially tough. And in both cases the man most likely to inherit the crown will be from the same school as the champion. In the pole vault Springer will yield the favorite spot to Jim Harrington of the Irish. Harrington, who a few weeks ago became the first vaulter in Notre Dame history to leap 14 feet when he went a half inch over that height against Michigan, is undefeated this year, while Springer’s best effort was a 13’ 9” vault that tied Harrington against Michigan State.
Dewey Johnson of Drake is the other champ challenged by a teammate. Bay McConnell of the Missouri school has finished ahead of Johnson in the Drake dual meets. Jack Alexander of Notre Dame who finished second in 1952 and pushed Johnson to a 4:16.2 which tied the
Notre Dame Fieldhouse record for the distance and Wayne Robbins of Marquette who finished third also returns.
Ten schools will be competing for the team championship won by Notre Dame last year. That 1952 victory by the Irish was their 15th in the 25 year history of the meet. Drake and Marquette are the top threats to wrest the title from the Irish, although Bradley and Michigan Normal could win. Other schools entered are Bowling Green, Central Michigan, Butler, Wayne, and Western Michigan.
Last Friday at Bloomington, Indiana crushed the Notre Dame track team, 79-35 in the ninth renewal of their intrastate track rivalry. Two meet records were broken and one tied as the Hoosiers swept ten of 12 events.
Jim Harrington, undefeated Irish pole vaulter, soared to 13 feet 5 5/8 inches to break the meet record he set last year. Joe Springer of the Irish tied for second. A 23 year old meet record was shattered as Hoosier high jumper, Jim Harper, jumped 6 feet 4 inches. Fred Watson’s :06.2 winning time in the 60 yard dash tied the existing meet record.
Notre Dame swept the 70 yard high hurdles, but was unable to match the superiority of their rivals in the other track events as the Hoosiers amassed a total of 59 points to 19 for the Irish. In the field events things were more even with the Bloomington boys edging the Wilsonmen, 20 to 16.
The track at Bloomington is only 176
GRADUATING SENIORS VS. 1953-54 VARSITY—COACHES VS. EXPERTS
Basketball Polio Show, Globetrotter Style, Delights Marty O’Connor and Fans
28
The Scholastic

yards, and ten laps around it constitute the mile run which, on a 220 track, is completed in eight laps. This shorter track hampered the Irish somewhat, for in several events the Irish lost out on the turns.
Alexander Second in Mile Run
Jack Alexander of ND finished second in the mile which was won by Indiana’s Jim Lambert in 4:21.6; Joe Puccinelli took third place in the 60 yard dash. The quarter mile run was all Indiana as the Hoosiers swept the event, beating ND’s Justin McDonough, Norm Feltes, and Dick O’Keefe. Ed Powell, Jim Baker, and John Campagnone finished in that order as the Irish swept the 70 yard high hurdles. Harvey New-quist, ace hurdler, did not travel to Bloomington because of a pulled leg muscle. However, he is expected to be in top shape for tomorrow’s CCC meet.
A trio of Hoosier aces helped to cinch a victory in the track events as they placed 1, 2, 3, in the two mile event. Indiana also won three places in winning the half mile. Without Newquist in the 70 yard low hurdles, the Irish were only able to take third place as Ed Powell saved the team from another shut out defeat.
In the field events the Irish thinclads were much stronger. Besides Harrington’s feat, Jack Cunningham placed second in the shot put with a heave of 45 feet. Bill Killburg, a promising sophomore, who has been improving consistently, took third with a toss of 41 feet.
Al Kohanowich was second in the high jump with a leap of 6 feet 3 inches, and teammate Tom Hassenger took third as he cleared 6 feet 2 inches. Joe Heap finished third in the broad jump as Indiana copped another one-two event.
Bengals
(Continued from page 9)
Lee Tavis, Joe Shelley and Bryan Coughlin, publicity; Bill Keane, finance; Bob Hull, concessions; and Joe David, advertising.
Most of the action this year will be in the heavier weight classes. The top five divisions have drawn the most contenders, thus assuring a lot of fights by the heavier men each night of the bouts. Of special interest .is the promise of a return match between Gideon Jarvis and Ed Cook in the heavy weight division.
These boys gave the best showing in the recent Novice Tourney when they fought it out with each other for the heavy title. Also intriguing ,is the possibility of a match between Alex Mc-Angus and Vic Roblez. Roblez is defi-
By Jack Sand
JOHNNY JORDAN
Flying Irishmen
tuckv defeat
In between the halves of the recent DaytonSeton Hall contest Coach Paul McBrayer of Eastern Kentucky was heard bemoaning the fact that his Maroon quintet had to travel all the way to Fort Wayne while the Irish only had to cross the state. What he thought would have been a better idea was to play the first round of the tourney in Louisville or some other arena close to home. The present trend in basketball seems to be that nobody wants to play away from the friendly atmosphere of their home court. At this rate basketball will be in a real fix. Imagine Notre Dame renting the fieldhouse to St. Louis, while the Irish in turn take over Kiel Auditorium just so they could lose a ball game once in awhile.
Coach Johnny Jordan recently saw E. Ken-State 52-43, in a game he thought poorly played
because MS completely throttled Eastern’s attack with their zone defense. ‘*But don’t let that low score fool you,” Jordan said. The Kentuckians rank 16th in the nation in team offense with an average of 80 points per game. The hillbillies also rank 13th in field goal percentage as a team with 39.1. Even more significant is the fact that they have a 69.1 foulshooting percentage to place them ninth in the collegiate free throw department.
Cagers Pick All-American All-Opponent Team
Notre Dame’s tough schedule provided for a tough all-opponent team Avith Holy Cross forward Togo Palazzi being the only unanimous choice. Closely following Palazzi was Ron Feiereisel, DePaul, Bob Leonard, Indiana, Dick Knostman, Kansas State, and Chuck Noble from Louisville.
nitely in the 147 division and McAngus hopes to be there by weighing-in time.
Only three former Bengal Bouts champions are in this year’s competition, but the tournament as a whole shows a lot more experience than in the past.
Almost all of the winners and many of the finalists in this year’s Novice Tourney are trying for Bengal crowns, as well as many familiar faces from former Bengal tournaments.
For instance, two old faces around the Bengals are Pat Drew in the 135 pound class, who is trying for the fourth time in the Bengals, and appeared on last year’s short-lived boxing team, and Don Berman who is also trying for the fourth time, but in the 167 pound division. Bergman is trying to dethrone the third Bengal champion, Bob Bickert.
Pat Drew, incidentally, is one of the most skillful of the fighters this year. He has had a lot of experience, and is
one of the most “scientific” of the contenders.
Most of the student reserved seats have been sold for the five nights, but a few are available from the hall representatives. Student general admissions are being sold in the Dining Hall at the noon meal.
NCAA Playoffs
(Continued from page 25) erable action.
Supported by the Student Senate-sponsored student trip and their own patented fiery drive, the Jordanmen should be ready for whatever the Kentucky crew has to offer come Tuesday night. A capacity crowd of 10,000 is expected to witness the spectacle. If the Irish win, they will go on to play the Ivy League champion (Penn or Co-umbia) in Chicago on Friday. The winner- of the Miami-DePaul clash will play Indiana.	—By Bill Noonan
March 6, 1953
29
Notre Dame's Unknown Sport
A folder in the file of Charlie Callahan, director of sport’s publicity, tells the history of “Wrestling at Notre Dame”—one match, one defeat. Nothing is known of this single match except: Michigan State college trounced Notre Dame 36-0 in 1927. Details are left untold by the records; but with that score in mind, maybe the beginning of wrestling was a good place to stop the sport.
At least that seemed to be the opinion until a spirited group of wrestling enthusiasts—led by two students, Bob Noonan and Dick Anton—got the ball rolling in the fall of 1950; and fellows interested in the sport gathered for group work-outs. The incentive for this interest was the annual inter-hall wrestling championship, sponsored by the physical education department. The boys practiced together in preparation for this tournament, and then extended their sessions in hopes of recognition as a minor sport.
A step toward this goal was realized last year when the wrestlers were organized as a campus club and received a charter from the Student Senate.
Last year- the club took part in meets against Wheaton college and Chicago university, breaking even in the win-lose column. This season the schedule consisted of three matches—Wheaton, Chicago, and Great Lakes Naval Training Station. The Irish won one, dropped two, while a fourth match with Illinois Normal was cancelled because of bad traveling conditions.
Although the Student Senate allocates a budget of sixty dollars to cover the expenses of the group, it is far short of the needs—equipment, medical precautions, and travelling expenses. The students chip in to pay the additional expenses themselves. The multiple permissions necessary to travel or to compete on the inter-collegiate level also present a difficult problem. The consent of the Athletic Board is necessary in addition to the usual ones required of all University club activities. However, the wrestlers take this realized necessity in stride and fail to let it discourage them.
Mr. Thomas Fallon of the physicaleducation department has functioned as moderator for the club since it was organized. Mr. Fallon is not a coach, but only an adviser for the group. He stresses that “it is the boy’s project, but
by Jerry Campbell
I help as much as possible.” The running of the club rests in the hands of the officers, and the practice sessions are largely run on the “buddy system,” which calls for the wrestlers to help each other and learn together. These practice sessions are as vital as those in other sports, if not more so; because conditioning on the part of the individual is a big problem in collegiate wrestling. In the words of Mr. Fallon, “wrestling is a sport that requires an awful lot of personal discipline.” The necessary timing can be only acquired by continuous work-outs and drills. There is also the ever constant worry of making a specific weight requirement, and the problem of being in shape to spend nine straining minutes on the mat. This is all up to the individual.
Most people have the wrong idea of what collegiate wrestling actually is. So you aren’t very big, nor muscular—who cares? Wrestling is a highly scientific sport that affords a chance for men of all sizes. Wrestling shouldn’t be confused with the professional wrestling seen on television. This is popularly known as rasslin’, while the college brand is truly wrestling. A healthy set
WRESTLING UNDER THOMAS FALLON GRAPPLE FOR VARSITY SANCTION Grunt And Groan Boys Fast Becoming Recognized
of muscles comes in handy, but they aren’t all-important. Timing, speed and conditioning are greater assets than the results of a Charles Atlas course.
The fact that nobody is pulling your leg, when they say this is everybody’s sport, was proved by two incidents in the Chicago match last year. What would you do if you discovered your opponent was blind? Bob Gordon, Notre Dame 121-pounder, was faced with this question and decided that the “go-slow” policy would be the best way to avoid taking an undue advantage. The surprise was all Bob’s when he discovered that blindness wasn’t such a handicap, and it took all his skill to squeeze through with a victory.
Tony Zambroski, former tackle on the Notre Dame football team, came across an entirely different type problem in the heavyweight match. At 215 pounds Tony is no small man himself, but he seemed minute beside the round man he met on the mat that night. Prematch guesses set his weight at about 275. The scales proved this estimate to be wrong: he pushed them to over 300. Tony spent the majority of the match stalling out from a well-flattened position in a match which bordered on television style.
Wrestling is also a sport subject to the unusual. The humorous, as well as the startling, are always showing their
30
The Scholastic
heads in both practice and competition. One of the humorous situations proved quite a shock to Dick Anton during a practice session this fall. Dick was illustrating fundamental take-downs to a group, when he noticed a big fellow sitting in the corner just watching and not taking part in the practice. During a break Dick walked over to him and inquired if he would like to try some of the holds. “No thanks,” was the reply. He was just watching to get an idea of the club. Thinking he understood the fellow’s attitude, Dick went back to the business at hand. After the practice was over and the rest were leaving, the disinterested spectator lost his shyness and walked over to Anton. “Like to go for a few minutes with me?” he said. “Sure.” It was Anton who now took the lesson, and he learned real quick why the fellow wasn’t interested in learning fundamental take-downs. He knew them all; and he had a few original ones up his sleeve besides. After a seemingly eifortless move, Dick found himself flat on his back with 190 pounds of wrestler applying a very effective body-press. The truth now came out; the guy who knew nothing about the sport was a former Indiana state high school heavyweight champion, freshman James Schrader.
Unusual, I’ll say! Even the audience was convinced that anything could and did happen at one of these meets after last year’s encounter with Chicago. The club usually carries extras on their trips in case of an emergency. Discovering this surplus of wrestlers, the referee offered to take on one of them in exhibition after the regular matches. Charlie Parquette of Bengal Bout fame, was nominated and he took a decisive beating from the referee, who proved that whistle blowing wasn’t his only wrestling experience.
Organization and planned competition as well as a wider realization of what
MASS SCHEDULE
Monday, March 9—Monday of Third Week of Lent; Feast of St. Frances of Rome, Widow.
Tuesday, March 10—Feast of Forty Holy Crowned Martyrs.
Wednesday, March 11—Wednesday of Third Week of Lent.
Thursday, March 12—Feast of St. Gregory the Great, Pope, Confessor, Doctor of the Church.
Friday, March 13—Friday of Third Week of Lent.
Saturday, March 14—Saturday of Third Week of Lent.
collegiate wrestling really is, have developed an increase of interest in the club. A show of continued enthusiasm on the part of the club’s members might one day lead to the addition of their name to the list of teams officially representing Notre Dame.
Francis Story Contest Offers Four Prizes
Cash prizes will be offered to readers of the Catholic Boy who write the four best letters commenting on “The Magnificent Fool,” a true story in the March issue written by Dale Francis, former Director of Publications at Notre Dame.
It is about a Franciscan priest who was killed in a Nazi concentration camp because he refused to reject a crucifix dangled before his eyes.
Father Maximilian Kolbe was first seized by the Gestapo about two weeks after the Nazi forces invaded his native Poland. But the bearded man with the spare body and the ascetic face baffled the prison guards.
“A strange man. He smiles at us and offers us medals. Doesn’t he know he is a prisoner and we are his captors?”
Later Father Maximilian was transferred to Oswiecim, the “Death Camp” where five million men were later tortured and killed during the war. It was there in July, 1941, that he was slain.
Ten prisoners were sentenced to death in the starvation bunker after only one inmate had escaped. When the 10 were being selected Father Maximilian stepped forward and asked to take the place of a man who had a wife and several children. The astonished prison guards consented.
Father Maximilian ministered to those condemned with him. Instead of screaming, as others gone before, they sang. Death came to Father Kolbe with a hypodermic injection, after all the othei- prisoners had been killed. When they came to take him away, “his face was smiling and happy. Even in death they could not defeat him. They could not erase the love from his face.”
From Carton To Icebox-To Hospitality
(OItl» UHOU	O» IHI COCA-COM ,C0«»A« AT
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
History Majors Face RevampedCurriculum
Beginning in September, students in the College of Arts and Letters who major in History will follow a revamped and more integrated course.
Basis for the change, according to the Department of History, lies in the need for a less abrupt transition from survey courses to seminar work.
In the new program, introductory classes—which will combine the seminar work with a broader study of the particular periods of history—have been substituted for the seminars in the first three semesters of the major sequence.
In the fourth semester of the history major sequence, when the senior is preparing for his final comprehensive, he will be under the special direction of one instructor who will supervise his readings and direct him in the preparation of a senior essay.
Regular courses in Ancient History and Latin American History will continue to be required, but the course in Historiography will no longer be required, though still strongly recommended.
The new courses—numbered 31, 32, 33, and 68—will handle the major problems of European and American History through group discussion. Extensive readings in contemporary works and modern studies -will constitute a major part of the classes.
Such major problems as capitalism, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, liberalism, and communism will be read and discussed at length in the study of European History. ’ The American. Revolution and Constitution, Civil War, and the New Deal will be dealt with in the semester of United States History.
In the final semester of the senior year, the histoiy major will hold weekly conferences with his director in preparation for his essay and final comprehensive exam.
Survey courses will continue to be conducted in the history of the Ancient Mediterranean, Russia, Japan, and China.
March 6, 1953
31
RCA, Westinghouse, Curtiss-Wright Head List For June Graduate Interviews Next Week
During the next week, 28 companies will be represented on the campus to interview June graduates for employment.
Monday—Clark Equipment Company ■of Buchanan, Mich., manufacturers of Automotive, Bailway and Industrial equipment will have a representative here to interview mechanical engineers.
Radio Corporation of America, located at Bloomington, Ind., will be looking for business administration and economics majors, and electrical and mechanical engineers for its supervisory training program in production. Interviews will be conducted for R.C.A.’s Television assembly plant only.
Electrical and chemical engineers; physicists and mathematicians on all degree levels will be sought by the Army Ordnance Corps of Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md.
Sinclair Research Laboratories, Inc., of Harvey, Ill, will hold interviews for B. S. chemists and chemical engineers.
Tuesday—The following Navy installations in California are seeking chemical, civil, electrical, metallurgical and mechanical engineers, mathematicians, physicists, and chemists on all degree levels: Naval Ordnance Test Station, Navy Electronics Laboratory, Naval Air Missile Test Center, Navy Radiological Defense Laboratory, Naval Civil Engineering Research and Evaluation Laboratory, and the National Bureau of Standards Laboratory.
Group meeting with slides at 3:30 p. m. Monday, March 9 in the AudioVisual Center, Main Building. All interviews will be in the Engineering Building. Interviews will be held on both Tuesday and Wednesday.
United States Rubber Company of Mishawaka, Ind., will interview chemists, mechanical and chemical engineers for production supervision, plant and product engineering. AB and Commerce graduates for production control, control division, sales, and sales administration and accounting majors will also be interviewed.
Westinghouse Electric Corp., is in need of electrical and mechanical engineers; metallurgists and physicists on all degree levels.
Mechanical, aeronautical, electrical and chemical engineers and physicists are needed by Pratt and Whitney Aircraft of East Hartford, Conn.
Columbia-Southern Chemical Corp., is looking for B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. chemists and B.S. chemical, electrical, and mechanical engineers.
Federal Telephone & Radio Corp of
Clifton, N. J. will interview B.S. electrical and mechanical engineers.
Wednesday—Elmes-King Division of American Steel Foundries of Cincinnati, Ohio, is seeking mechanical engineers.
Lumbermen’s Mutual Casualty Company of Chicago is looking for Law, AB and Commerce graduates for claims, underwriting, accounting and statistics.
Chemical, mechanical engineers and chemists on all degree levels are wanted by Wyandotte Chemicals Corp, of Wyandotte, Mich.
Mechanical and electrical engineers are being sought by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., of Chicago, III.
Whirlpool Corp of St. Joseph, Mich., will interview mechanical and electrical engineers for engineering and manufacturing trainees and business administration majors for production management trainees.
Professor Driscoll of the Civil Engineering Department will arrange the interviews of civil engineers for the Illinois State Highway Department.
Thursday—A group of American Telephone and Telegraph subsidiaries will interview AB and Commerce men, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical engineers and physicists on all degree levels in Room 204, Commerce Building on both Thursday and Friday.
Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Company of Oak Ridge, Tenn., will interview electrical, chemical, mechanical engineers, and physicists and chemists on all degree levels both on Thursday and Friday.
Corn Products Refining Company of Argo, Ill., is looking for B.S. chemical and mechanical engineers. They also are seeking M.S. and Ph.D. physicists.
Detroit Edison Co., of Detroit, Mich., will interview electrical and mechanical engineers including sophomores and juniors for summer work.
M.S. and Ph.D. chemists; B.S. mechanical, chemical, civil, and metallurgical engineers are needed by the National Lead Company.
Curtiss-Wright Corp., Wright Aeronautical Division of Wood-Ridge, N. J., are looking for aeronautical, mechanical and metallurgical engineers.
Toledo Scale Co. of Toledo, Ohio, will interview mechanical and electrical engineers. Summer opportunities for draftsmen in ME or EE who will have finished their Sophomore year.
Friday—Marathon Corp, of Menasha, Wis., is seeking chemical, mechanical
engineers and chemists. Commerce graduates interested in marketing, accounting and production, and Commerce and AB men for sales are also being sought.
Chemists (physical), metallurgists, physicists, mechanical and electrical engineers on all degree levels will be sought by the Naval Research Laboratory and Naval Gun Factory of Washington, D. C.
Armour & Co., Research Division of Chicago, will interview B.S. chemical engineers and B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. chemists.
B.S. and M.S. aeronautical, chemical, metallurgical, electrical, mechanical engineers and physicists will be interviewed by United Aircraft Corp., Hamilton Standard Division, East Hartford, Conn.
Professor Driscoll of the Civil Engineering Department will arrange the interviews of civil engineers for the Wisconsin State Highway Department.
I I i
I i

Campbell Gives Fifth O’Hara Talk Thursday
E. D. Campbell, treasurer of Associates Investment Company, South Bend, Ind., will address students in Notre Dame’s College of Commerce on “Economic Consequences of Automobile Installment Financing” Thursday in the Law Auditorium at 1:30 p. m.
Campbell’s talk will be the fifth in the current series of Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures. He will be introduced by Assistant Dean Edmund A. Smith.
Before assuming his present post in 1946, Campbell was assistant vice-president of the Mercantile Trust Company in St. Louis. From 1937 to 1941 he was manager of Mercantile’s credit department.
A native of Ontario, Campbell was a major in the Royal Canadian Artillery during World War II, and served as a battery commander and divisional staff officer in the European Theater of Operations.
A graduate of the Royal Military College of Canada, Campbell became a chartered accountant in Ontario in 1932 and was graduated from the School of Banking at Rutgers University in 1940. He formerly was associated with the Canadian National Railway, and with Clarkson, Gordon and Co., chartered accountants.
The Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lectures, honoring Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., Archbishop of Philadelphia and former president of the University of Notre Dame, are held annually to correlate theoretical classroom instruction with practical experience in business and industry.
It
■5
32
The Scholastic
Fr. McAvoy Presents Aquinas Talk Sunday
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., will present the third Aquinas lenten lecture at 8:15 p.m. Sunday at the Progress Club of South Bend.
Father McAvoy, noted author and head of the Department of History, will speak on “History of Catholicism in South Bend Region” from the viewpoint of the clerical observer.
The lectures, running for five consecutive Sundays and ending on March 22, are sponsored by the Aquinas Library and Book Shop. Admission for the entire series is $2.50. Charge for a single lecture is $1.
“Religion and Maturity” will be the subject of Rev. Philip L. Hanley, O.P., a former Army chaplain and a religious periodical writer, at the fourth lecture on March 15.
Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, J.D., a native of Hungary and former First Secretary of the Hungarian Legation in Budapest, will deliver the final address on “How Stalin Conquered His Satellite Empire” on March 22.
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., and Mr. Otto Bird, Ph.D., were the previous lecturers in the annual presentation of the Aquinas Library.
Books
(Continued from page 21)
ical to the political. There are few good books in English on this topic. Rommen is introductory; D’Entreves may be beyond the intermediate stage. But the effort to comprehend him, even if unsuccessful, will be well worth while.
5.	Yves Simon, Philosophy of Democratic Government. A work in political philosophy. Chapter I contains, perhaps the ultimate elaboration of the Thomistic argument concerning the nature and function of authority. In a nation where men vote, every educated man should understand the fundamental nature and conditions of political authority. Contemporary popular discussion of political life is marred by an .incredible ignorance concerning the very elements of life in the state.
6	Alan Gewirth, Marsilius of Padua. Vol. I. A specialized work on this Mediaeval Imperialist. The naturalism basic to Marsilius represents the force that won the day in the 18th century. We are so adjusted to it today that we hardly recognize it as naturalism. But by reading this analysis of opinion, we suddenly see that certain opinions v.g. on the nature of Holy Orders, can profoundly affect our conception of the State. Consequently we learn that religion and politics are closely related in
the area of thought as well as action.
7.	H. D. F. Kitto, (Pelican Books) The Greeks. I may have spoiled this book for some seniors by making them read it for class. But here is an excellent and readable introduction to the Greek mind and way of life. The fascination of Greek life will always be apparent to the mind that can applaud a culture in which a philosopher cornered the market in olive presses (read wheat futures) to prove that he could become rich if he thought that a worth while objective. Kitto shows the reader the qualities of mind that makes such a flamboyant act natural.
8.	Raymond Preston, Chaucer. No man is educated until he understands that people who dress differently or live in earlier ages also laugh and weep as men. Preston gives us a view of Chaucer that establishes him as “The poet of humble and happy men in God’s world ... a poet who makes laughter in the world.” If your taste for Chaucer has been dulled by an English class, Pres-
your course. At these parties you meet new people, dance with all types of dancers, get the feeling of being out in public. Even timid people become confident and their true, attractive person-
Do you think you have no talent Parties, a very important part of for dancing... that good times	* ’
and popularity can’t be yours? Well, here’s good news for you. Whether you’re a timid beginner or just an old-fashioned
dancer, here’s your chance to find out that you can be a sought-after partner and have more fun without risking a single penny.
You see, the Arthur Murray Way of learning to dance is different, better than any other, because you not only learn all the latest steps but develop your dormant personality while you’re learning.
This you do at our Student
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing 120 E. WAYNE Call 2-3339 for Appointment
ton will sharpen it. Even philosophers could be interested.
9.	Chaucer, Canterbury Tales (Pelican Books). A new “translation” of Chaucer, one that captures the human spirit and slangy language of the work. Read it with Preston.
10.	Victor Reisman, The Lonely Crowd. This is a book about you when you were in high school and even today. Reisman thinks American Society is training its youth to the habit of conformity, to what the spiritual writers call “human respect.” It should lead some of the “radicals” of the campus to enquire whether or not they are really conforming to a very conservative expression of radicalism. This work is in the same general order of analysis as anthropologist Margaret Mead’s Male and Female—another Study of American life, which casts much light on bull session boasting, and the catcalls among the younger set in Washington Hall on Saturday, first evening showing.
ality comes out at these parties.
So don’t wait. Come in now and have your FREE lesson. Get started on a new life of more good times and popularity than you’ve ever had before.
Copr.1952—Arthur Murray, Inc
Visit our
March 6, 1953
33
By Paul Zalecki
Happenings This Month.
Though it may be Lent, there still is a lot happening this month. Tomorrow the track team has its last indoor meet of the season; a few days later the "basketball team begins play in the NCAA, and next weekend the Bengal Bouts get under way. It is also time for the underclassmen to begin the annual jaunt from hall to hall in search of some spacious abode for next year.
If the recent action of the student senate means, anything, the juniors and sophomores should not be faced by the confused registration system of last year which failed to make sense and pleaed hardly anyone. The juniors did not like it because they could not get good rooms together, and the sophomores disliked it all the more because they could not get good rooms at all.
Last year certain rooms were reserved for the sophomores and then dis-reserved when the juniors were about half-way through their registration. Probably the most justly dissatisfied of all were the athletes who learned the day of registration that, instead of "being assigned rooms, they were to register with theii- class. Some of them had all of an hour to hunt up a roommate, get a lead on a room, and register.
Up to last year there had seldom heen any criticism of the University’s room registration policy. It was practical and workable. Last year there was nothing but criticism. If the poll taken in Dillon Hall is a good sample, there is hardly any doubt that the students want to eliminate the present system and return to the old one. Tradition wins out again.
"Registration for Courses
Room hunting also means that it is about time for the underclassmen to Tegister for next semester’s courses. In a few weeks the College of Arts and Tetters formally will initiate the annual sophomore headache with a discussion of majors and their role in the liberal •education. •
The recent announcement by the testing and guidance department — that one-third of the students entering college today select the wrong course of study—certainly suggests that choosing a major is difficult and often is coupled
with indecision and error. The talk on majors should be of some help to the uncertain student.
In all probability many of the sophomores also could profit by asking some of the upper classmen if they have changed their major or if they wish that they had. The results might very well confirm the one-third figure reported by the guidance department.
An important factor to consider in selecting a major is to determine the actual value of a particular program. One way to learn what various sequences offer would be to observe the opportunities open at present to the graduating seniors and to evaluate what profit their majors have been to them.
Job Interviews
While the arts and letters seniors still can be seen wending their way to the Library, a large number of students in the other colleges, especially the engineers, spend a good part of their time heading toward the Placement Bureau for another job interview.
So many companies have been coming here recently that it looks as if the major concerns of the country really are intent upon making a good impression. Only last week the back .inside cover opposite this column carried a full-page advertisement informing engineers, mathematicians, and physicists that a representative of Bell Aircraft would be on campus soon.
All this hustling by companies—which seems to be making the engineers feel somewhat smug and is causing the AB seniors to re-read their copy of The Uses of Knowledge—has something of a “mountains-to-Mohammed” air about it. The corporation comes to the job-seeker rather than vice versa. Apparently the heads of these businesses have not read Louis Bromfield’s The Shame of our Colleges.
Prospects After Graduation
Materialistic or not, it would be well for the student planning to concentrate upon the liberal arts to consider the factor of employment prospects after graduation. Regardless of the arguments that may be advanced, the liberal
sequence of studies per se does not offer the immediate job advantages of engineering, commerce, or science. It even falls behind in the armed forces.
Along with learning the role of majors in a liberal education, the arts and letters sophomore then could profit by reconsidering the role of a liberal education in life. In spite of what educators may say, more and more students have been deciding that Arts and Letters offers less than the other colleges. It is interesting to note that many have taken great pains to defend the worth and need of a liberal education, but that such arguments do not seem to mean much unless they have a practical value for the individual student.
That a liberal education is necessary no one will deny. But that this means that the student would be best in the College of Arts and Letters, is another thing altogether. Consequently the liberal arts sophomore does not face an easy decision. The wisest thing for him to do is to determine for himself what he wants from college, then to choose a major, and if he does not like it to change to something else.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
DR RW TURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
---OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces”
---EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel	4-5777
"The House of Jazz"
FOR REI ORDS TRY
RECORD BAR
JAZZ ■ DIXIELAND • POPULAR CLASSICAL • BLUES
Ma'- • ' ■' • '■ ID 1	।-i: n’ r\
I - • • < a t h I • <
41? Mich. ^mith Bend Ind.
34
The Scholastic
NOBE AIBCIAFT ENGINES
bear this emblem than any other
There are few places where the technical graduate can utilize his training more fully than in the rapidly evolving field of aircraft propulsion. Our engineers are constantly exploring new areas of knowledge. Thus their work is varied and interesting, and they find good opportunities for professional advancement.
If you are looking for challenging work — for a real future in engineering—for real living in New England —why not talk to our visiting engineers.
There may be a place for you in experimental testing and development work ... in performance and structure analysis ... in mechanical designing . . . in analysis and development work on controls and systems ... in work on heat transfer and applied research problems.
March 10
Contact your College Placement Office for an appointment with our visiting Engineers
NOW... 10 Months Scientific Evidence For Chesterfield
A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular bimonthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.
After ten months, the medical specialist reports that he observed...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.
MUCH MHDER
CHESTERFIELD
IS BET TOR YOU
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Mvers Tobacco Co.
I
*
First /and Only Prdmiuin Quality Cigarette in Both Regular and
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
i