§
Hes a
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM Oft
Campus A-man

Ihe "A” stands for "Activities”—and he’s in a lot of them. Plays first-string basketball. Represents his class on the student council. Writes for the school paper.
When it conies to campus doings, his major is Service.
Telephone people are like that, too. They believe in giving good telephone service—courteous, friendly, helpful service. And because they believe it so strongly, their spirit of service shows up in community affairs.
That’s why you’ll find telephone men and women working on charity drives, joining service clubs, leading Scout troops.
Both at work and at home, telephone people try to help out wherever there is a need—and enjoy doing it.
2
The Scholastic

Mistake Corrected
Sports Editor:
In all of the newspapers the past week, Jim Dunlay, Sophomore defensive tackle, has been given credit for the tackle of Dick Bunting while passing, which was intercepted by Paul Burns. Even you mentioned this in your column. But if you will investigate the facts, you will find that it was DICK COTTER who tackled Bunting. I’m not panning you, Jack, I just like to give credit where it is due.
Joe Stanichak 407 Howard Hall.
I want to thank Bernie Lavins for ivriting in also, checking this error.
—Sports Editor
Panner is Panned
Editor:
I have nothing to do with WND, except as a listener; but Jake Janowski’s comments on WND in “The Week” seem rather crude. Jake’s vocabulary, if his article is representative, doesn’t seem to be bubbling over with poly-syllable words. Why should he expect any more from WND’s announcers? In my opinion, WND is doing a pretty good job, granted there is room for improvement. But where isn’t there?
Next week please print a large picture of Mr. Janowski. My dart target needs just such a cover.
Jim O’Neil
302 Howard Hall
Autographed SxlO-inch pictures are available for 50c. Send name and money to THE WEEK, c/o The Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind.—Jack Janowski
Champagne for Notre Danie
Editor:
. . . Saw Saturday’s game with North Carolina on TV—sure was a thriller—so happy it ended in our favor. Looking forward to this Saturday for number 40. Of course we can do it—by golly, we must. Let you in on a little secret.
Last year we started a little game (in fact, quite an expensive one). As I have written to your staff before, each Saturday before TV we listened to the games and charted them on graph paper. (We have quite a collection now, in a nice book form with clippings, pictures, etc.) This charting business has been
(Continued on Page 26)
Van Hensen
REG. T. M. "the world1s smartest"
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1. N. Y.
completely washable gabardines
Now the gals will be giving you the wolf call. Finer-woven . . . lustrous . . . soft—man! you’ve got everything. Washable? ... and how!... stays size-right and every one of the 27 he-man colors is color-fast. California Lo-No model (shown) is smart with or without tie. And famous Van Hensen styling will open any babe’s eyes. §4.95
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
Oct. 12, 1950
5
Sr*BllSHEO l8,B
OUR u346" CLOTHES offer Brooks Brothers' quality ...at generally lower prices
In our fine new store in Chicago college men will find a comprehensive selection of our distinctive and popular "346” clothes.-.specially designed for today’s undergraduates.
Casual campus clothes that are colorful and unusual...good-looking single and double-breasted suits...and dress wear that is correct in every detail are included ...all reflecting Brooks Brothers’ unsurpassed workmanship and Good Taste.
We believe you will like our fine new store...our quality merchandise...and the generally lower prices of our "346” clothes.
ESTABLISHED 1818
If ens furnishings, ^ats	hoes
MADISON STREET AT MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK. • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
	.•M
PIPES A product styled by Custombilt Carved from aged imported briar. Formerly $2.00 NOW $1.00 Quality Guaranteed HANS - RINTZSCH LUGGAGE SHOP 138 N. Michigan Street	
BLOCK BROS. Corner Michigan & Washington	. -
•	
Jewelers to	1
Notre Dame	
for more than 25 years.	
I We’ll loan you a Camera ...
Send Your School Pictures | to the Folks at Home ... I
i— Here's What You Get —
2 Rolls Film, Eastman or Ansco.
We will develop and finish the 16 pictures.
Loan you a Camera
ALL $4* FOR
Your I. D. Card is all you need.
Ault
CAMERA SHOP. Inc.
122 So. Main St.	Ph. 3-5041 i
Your Eastman Kodak Store	4
The Scholastic
Top of the Week
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish footballers invade the Sugar Bowl Saturday to start a new undefeated string that will really make everybody stand up and take notice . . .
Belles Lettres
A couple of years ago everybody with a story to tell decided the best way to get somebody to see it would be to put it in a comic book. Hence a deluge of Historic Comics, Scientific Comics, Holy Roller Comics, and so forth.
These little gems, uncut and unpolished, awakened the American public to the real life adventures of guys like Chris Columbus and Tom Edison and girls like Gertie Ederle and Amy Earhart. The exploits of Captain Marvel and Dick Tracy in other comic books were about as tame
PREPARE NOW
FOR DANCING FUN THIS SEMESTER
GEORGE DAVIS offers Special Low Rates for Notre Dame Men
Don’t miss out on all the fun at the Dances this semester. Even if you don’t know your left foot from right ... A few easy lessons with a GEORGE DAVIS expert will set ycu straight.
NOTRE DAME DANCE SCHEDULE
St. Mary’s Sophomore Cotillion Oct. 27
N. D. Sophomore Cotillion Nov. 10 Victory Dances every Saturday night.
Call 3-8229 NOW for your FREE TRIAL Lesson.
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST STUDIO
106 W. MONROE (Corner Michigan)	Dial 3-8229
as the activities of a lifeguard on the Sahara.
Today we won’t have to pay for a lot of new comic books that have hit the periodical racks. The Ohio Democrats have published a number telling the story of their arch-enemy Senator Robert A. Taft.
You’re bound to get a lot more readers via the comic book road, but we think the Ohio Democrats should leave comic strip politics to monsters like “Bags” Bacardi and Senator Snort.
There’s an awful rumor going around that General MacArthur is in line for-a cartoon series. The publishers of this book ought to include Mac’s buddy, Col. Robert R. (The World’s Greatest Newspaper) McCormick, and title it something like The Hard Luck Felloivs or
Anybody Can Be President If He Waits Long Enough.
After Defeat
Purdue’s victory in the ND Stadium provided this columnist with a multitude of observations and reflections. Here are some:
The half-time crowds bought just as many hot-dogs as at any other game and the umbrella salesmen did a land-office business. The student body made more noise during the second half than any similar group in our memory.
After the game we felt proud to be a Notre Dame student, as we think you did too. We all felt proud of our team, in defeat as we always are in victory. You probably didn’t expect a bouquet from this comer, but, fellow students, football team, Band, Cheerleaders, and all Notre Dame fans—you were wonderful.
South Bend didn’t seem very taken aback by the Irish loss. The local soda fountains stayed open until midnight as usual and the local constabularies had a doubly hard job on their hands, thanks to the rain and other impedimenta.
There was no mass jumping out of windows and we doubt if anyone has developed any mental or physical disorder other than a typical Indiana cold.
We knew everything was in its usual order Sunday morning when we walked to Mass. The same wind, the same sun, and the same Notre Dame.
More Radio Reverberations
Last Tuesday we accepted a very gracious invitation to appear on WND. After not talking to anyone all day, for fear of losing an already cold-ravaged voice, we went up to the spooky station headquarters in the Fieldhouse expecting nothing less than murder. Instead, we were chosen WND’s “Feature Man of the Week” and everyone smiled and shook our hand.
After generously reiterating and explaining our criticisms of last week to interviewer Jack Hynes and the scores of people tuned in for this momentous occasion, we were a little disgusted at not getting some kind of medal or something.
On the way back to the office we wondered how our pear-shaped tones carried through the steam tunnels and couldn’t get our mind off probably the most thought-provoking question of this week or any other as posed to us by M. C. Hynes: “Why do you think .they put erasers on pencils?”
Bottom of the Week
... If you were anywhere on this good old earth last Saturday we really don’t have to bring IT up again.
Oct. 12, 1950
5
Vol. 92 October 12. 1950 No. 5
OCTOBER 12
CAMPUS—A special supper will be served all student trippers who live on campus at 4:45 p. m. Busses will leave from behind the Dining Hall from between 5:10 p. m. and 5:25 p. m. and go directly to the Union Station. The special train will be ready to board at 5 p. m. and will leave South Bend at 5:45 p. m. After a 1 hour and 15 minute trip to Chicago it will switch to the Illinois Central tracks for the trip southward. A lunch car and club car will be on the train today and a dining car will be attached tomorrow. The same service will be oifered on the return trip.
OCTOBER 13
NEW ORLEANS—Twenty-one hours later the special will arrive at the Union Station—also called the Illinois Central Terminal—at 5 p. m. Busses will transport students to the Naval Reserve Air Base, which is 5 miles north of the main business district.
Colonel A. H. Shroeder of Camp LeRoy Johnson was instrumental h in procuring the billets for the trippers.
’I Tomorrow night the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New Orleans is ;; going, to hold a rally in the Grand Ballroom of the Roosevelt Hotel from j	9 p. m. to 12 midnight. All ND students will be admitted free upon show-
|!.	ing their I.D. cards, according to Mr. Thomas McMahon, Club president,
ji
j	OCTOBER 14
il NEW ORLEANS—A special Mass will be held for all student trippers at 8 a.m. at the Sacred Heart Church. Father Thomas Patton, pastor, I has arranged to have breakfast served in the Parish Hall right after Mass. A small fee will be charged.
Kickoff time is scheduled for 2:15 p. m. sharp. The Sugar Bowl is ; five miles west of the business district.
After the game Mr. and Mrs. Joseph David, ardent rooters of the Fighting Irish, have extended an invitation to all members of the team and the band and all other Notre Dame students to attend a garden party at their home. The social will start at 7 p.m. and the address is 2728 St. Charles Avenue, New Orleans.
There will be no restrictions on student trippers in regard to hours. One helpful hint sent up from the Crescent City is that students should not wander too deep into the French Quarter.
OCTOBER 15
NEW ORLEANS—At press time it was not certain, but plans were hopeful that a Mass will be said at the Naval Reserve Base. The South Bend bound train will leave from the Union Station at 6:45 a.m., on the dot.
OCTOBER 16
SOUTH BEND—Train will arrive at 6 a. m. Busses will transport students back to the campus—allowing them time to brush teeth before making that 8 o’clock class. -
CAMPUS—For students who are remaining at Notre Dame over the lengthy weekend, we recommend several good movies in South Bend. Sorry, but space doesn’t permit a listing. Then, too, there are also those things called books!
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus
Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors
WALTON R. COLLINS '51
JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
JOHN J. POWERS '52 News
CHARLES B. DULLEA '52....Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51_________Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52______________ Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52_______Assistant Sports JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN '51....Photography
LEON GARDNER, '52............. Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER............ Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51_____Advertising ROBERT WILDEMAN '52__________...Circulation
JAMES ROGERS '51.............Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: There was supposed to be a picture on this week’s cover. It was to be an arty shot of two ND men lost in New Orleans. Saturday changed all that. The original cover was scrapped. This was no time for art. It was a time to get down to business because from here on in we play on a week to week basis. And the first foe standing in our way is the Green Wave. Forget Purdue—BEAT TULANE!
6
The Scholastic
WE BEGIN AGAIN
It happened. We all knew it was coming but knowing didn’t help lessen the shock. For four years it’s been heading our way. Last Saturday we got it. We were whipped to the ground by a better team. We have no alibis. They were good. Saturday—we weren’t. They won—we didn’t.
All right, so we lost. That doesn’t mean everything has to turn black.
Take the way we took the defeat. For four years a lot of people have been waiting like starving vultures for the day Notre Dame lost. They wanted to see how the team and student body would react.
Nothing could have created a more stirring display of loyalty than did the defeat. Somehow it seemed to unify the students and team—the bond is stronger than it has been for a long time. For several years we’ve been regarding our team, perhaps unconsciously, as a group almost completely detached from student life. They were so good victories became routine. Then Saturday we all realized those guys out there weren’t parts of any machine. They were football players, yes. But first and most important, they were fellow students.
And if we could cheer them when they won, we could cheer them when they lost. And we did. So our winning streak was broken. What of it? What’s to prevent us from starting a new one? Nothing. And we’ll start it this Saturday.
Let the nation’s press babble on—we still have a team of champions. They’re downright great and they’ll come back.
Oct. 12, 1950
7
fitted formalwear
RENTAL
You can be easily, inexpensively, dressed in the latest fashion, correct formal attire for every formal event — without maintaining a large formal wardrobe! Next time you plan to “go Formal” use our rental service. Gingiss Brothers in Chicago fit to properly suit your measurements, send it out freshly cleaned and pressed.
All forma accessories ... to rent or sell. . .
Tuxedos—S7.50 Coat and Trousers
Accessories $1.00 extra
Parker-Winterrowd. Inc.
115^-117% North Main St.
Second Floor — Upstairs
“South Bend’s Oldest Custom-Tailors and Clothiers”
Arrow Sports Shirts
For all-round campus wear . . . best choice is an Arrow. They’re made to fit comfortably and to give you long rugged wear. Corduroys, gabardines, colorful checks and plaids . . . all washable! See your Arrow dealer.
*3.95 to *10
ARROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Make GILBERT'S
Your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
8
The Scholastic


VOLUME 92. NUMBER 5
OCTOBER 12. 1950
Student Trippers Off for Dixie Today
Students Rally Behind Leahy and Team As Boilermakers End 39-Game Streak, 28-14
By JACK VARLEY, ’52
The gun went off. The game had ended and so had the long, proud, undefeated streak of Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish. For beneath a grey blanket of niist an upset-hungry squad from Purdue had toppled the 39 game string the Irish had been building ever since their 39-7 defeat by Great Lakes in 1945.
In a drizzle that evolved to a rain, 56,746 eager fans watched as Coach Stu Holcomb’s Boilermaker eleven outplayed and outclassed and went on to outscore Coach Frank Leahy’s green-clad warriors, 28-14, in the Stadium last Saturday.
As the teams left the field at the half it looked like not only an upset was in the making, but also a rout, for Notre Dame was behind three touchdowns by
V Halfback Bill Barrett (37) gets plenty of blocking and goes Tor a gam against Purdue. Clearing the way for the Irish speedster are Wallner (63) and Landry (30).
then. But, as the second period got under way it seemed that a New Notre Dame team had taken the field.
Only a few seconds after the kick-off, the Irish found themselves on the Purdue 10 yard line thanks to an off-side penalty and a loose ball recovered by Dick Cotter. Big Bill Gay raced for seven and then a pass from Bob Williams to Jim Mutscheller scored. Joe Cap-rara booted the extra point, but Purdue still had a 21-7 edge. Then late in the same quarter, the Irish again began to move goalward. Bill Barrett, John Petit-bon and Jack Landry combined their efforts to place the ball on the Boilermaker 10 and from here Petitbon inaugurated the last quarter with a touch-
(Continued on Page 20)
Special Train Bears Irish Fans to Tulane
Boarding an Illinois Central special at 5:45 this afternoon, 326 students will begin the first leg of a 22% -hour ride scheduled to bring them into New Orleans at 5 p.m. tomorrow night.
To welcome the students, the Notre Dame alumni in New Orleans have prepared a pep rally for tomorrow evening at the Roosevelt Hotel. Only I.D. cards are.needed for admission. Other details covering room and game accommodations are listed in the Calendar.
As in former years the cheerleaders and band will accompany the rest of the students on the trip. Those cheerleaders traveling to New Orleans are Jack McGlinn, Mike Perino, Jack Wenning and Captain Dick Herrle.
In New Orleans the 107 members of the band making the trip will room and eat at Holy Cross College, a boarding school operated by the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
At half time the band plans to give a salute to the director of the Tulane band. To open its half-time ceremonies the band will do the Fanfare and Hike Song routine and continue with a vocal on Tulane, which will be a parody on the song Mother.
Continuing its march step display, the band will play Way Down Yonder in Neto Orleans to a swing step and When Irish Eyes Are Smiling in waltz time. After a precision drill the band will give tribute to the Tulane band leader, John Morrissey, and will close with the Victory March.
The trip back to Notre Dame will begin at 6:45 Sunday morning after Mass. The train will bring them into Union Station at 6 a.m. Monday.
The trip to New Orleans is the first of the last four to visit spots outside the midwest or eastern seaboard. The students visited New York in 1949 for the North Carolina game. The two previous trips before that were for Navy games. In 1948 the students went to Washington for the game played in Baltimore and in 1947 they visited Cleveland.
Oct. 12, 1950
9
Mark Founder's Day Wi+h Solemn Mass
A Solemn High Mass at 8:30 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church will mark the celebration of Founder’s Day tomorrow, the first free day of the scholastic year.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University, will celebrate the Mass. Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., will be deacon, and Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., sub-deacon. Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., will preach the sermon.
Although Notre Dame was actually
Pass Formative Stage on New Year's Dome
Most of the groundwork on the ’51 edition of the Notre Dame yearbook, the Dome, has already been laid, according to editor James Kelleher. With the selection of a staff of approximately 45 men, the Dome has advanced beyond the formative stages.
At the present time, Senior pictures are being taken in the basement of Walsh Hall. Formal hall pictures are also being taken this week during the noon hour.
An entire “dummy” book has been set up for this year’s Dome. Although subject to change, this present “dummy” calls for 354 pages. The first 16 were made up over the summer and comprise the dedication and theme of the book,
Already at work on Dome of *51 are (I. to r., standing) F. Haendler, J. Kinville, J. O'Brien, E. Water, J. Hynes, J. Richmond, (seated) R. Earle and J. Kelleher.
founded on Nov. 26, 1842, Founder’s Day has always been celebrated on Oct. 13, the feast day of St. Edward, patron saint of the founder, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.
Father Sorin, accompanied by seven Brothers of the Society of St. Joseph, arrived at the site of the University on Nov. 26, 1842, and promptly dedicated it to Our Lady.
He wrote of that first day: “Everything was frozen, and yet it all appeared so beautiful. The lake, particularly, with its mantle of snow, resplendent in its whiteness, was to us a symbol of the
this section being entirely in color. An added emphasis on student activities will be given in this year’s book.
It has not yet been established whether the Dome will be ready for June distribution. However, the majority of work will be done by the end of the first semester.
Associate editor for this year’s issue is John O’Brien. Other department heads are: managing, editor, Joseph Conlon; business manager, James Richmond; copy editor, Frank Haendler; sports editor, Edward Waters; hall editor, Raymond Earls; activities editors, John Hynes and James Jacobs; photography editor, John Kenville, and art editor, Charles Lenz.
stainless purity of our august Lady, whose name it bears, and also of the purity of soul which should characterize the new inhabitants of these beautiful shores.”
When Father Sorin arrived only the log chapel had been built. His first student was his guide, Alexis Coquillard, who later became an influential citizen of South Bend, then a town of about one thousand pepole. Father Sorin and the Brothers built the square brick building which still stands on the lake shore.
This building housed the entire school until June, 1844, when the basis of the present administration building was completed. A novitiate house and chapel were then built between the lakes, beginning the growth of the University, which has never stopped.
St. Edward’s feast day was first designated Founder’s Day during the tenure of Rev. William Corby, C.S.C., third University president, and is rightly one of Notre Dame’s principal holidays.
Student Council Gives Okay To Hall Constitution Draft
Approving plans for a final draft of the new hall constitution, the Student Council this week scheduled the election of hall presidents for next Tuesday. Candidates from each floor were selected this week.
Each hall chief will select a hall council to assist him in the administration of activities coming under his jurisdiction. The hall elections are being conducted by the Blue Circle, under the direction of the Student Council. Officers of the Student Council hope that the hall organizations will provide more efficient handling of problems usually confronting the Council which could be dealt with on a hall level.
At Monday’s meeting, the Council also empowered its Service committee to investigate the possibilities of alleviating the eating situation during home football weekends. Plans for providing further dining facilities for visitors are under consideration.
The religious, educational and athletic committee was instructed to make any possible arrangements for showing movies of road football games on campus during the week after they take place.
Geology Club Smoker
A smoker, sponsored by the Notre Dame Geology Club, was held Tuesday for students and faculty of the department. Cider and doughnuts were served. This is the first in a series of get-togethers to encourage a closer relationship between students and instructors.
10
The Scholastic
October Fifth Again Professor's 'A' Day
History repeats itself, or so the saying goes. On October 5, 1942, Edward A. Fischer, professor- in the Department of Journalism, entered the service. This year’s October 5 marked Mr. Fischer’s last day for the present here at the University. The following day he was recalled into the army.
Mr. Fischer graduated from Notre Dame in the Class of ’37. For the next two years he worked on the now-moribund South Bend Neivs Times and the Chicago Herald Examiner.
After leaving the Examiner he joined the faculty of St. Joseph’s College at Rensselaer, Ind., in the fall of 1939. During his three years at St. Joseph’s, Mr. Fischer started their Department of Journalism, and also did .extensive work on founding their Department of Public Relations. Another of his achievements at Rensselaer was to start an alumni newspaper.
In 1942, as already mentioned, Mr. Fischer entered the service and received his basic training as an infantry private at Fort Benning, Ga. In May of 1943 he was commissioned, and joined the press branch of the Fifth Army.
Overseas in Burma he acted as guide to civilian newspapermen, and was personally responsible for- their safety in combat areas. Another of his assignments was writing field manuals for U. S. infantry schools.
Near the end of the war Mr. Fischer was commissioned by the War Department to write the history of the Burma-India War Theater. When the results of this undertaking were in, he received a similar order from the War Department to do the history of the New Delhi Theater.
Among others to see his two reports for the War Department were Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek and Lord Louis Mountbatten. They both requested that he write personal histories for them of the Burma-India Theater, which he later did.
After leaving the Army in 1946, Mr. Fischer joined the staff of the Department of Journalism at Notre Dame in September of 1947. He has been teaching required courses for Junior and Senior journalism majors; news writing and editing, and problems and policies in journalism.
Mr. Fischer returns to the army with his former commission of captain, and will be stationed for the present with the press branch of infox-mation at Fifth Army headquarters in Chicago. This term of service supposedly calls for 21 months. At its completion, Mr. Fischer hopes to return to the journalism staff.
Oct. 12, 1950
invitation to friendship
(The following is an editorial printed in the Oct. J issue of North Carolina's Daily Tae Heel. It is a- piece the Scholastic thought every Notre Dame student would want to read.—Editor)
This is an open invitation to the faculty, students and friends of Notre Dame University.
Come on down next year and Carolina will show you one of the greatest welcomes you’ve ever seen and a visit you will never forget. UNC has always prided itself on its hospitality, but after last weekend, the Tax- Heel friendliness is going to have to rise to astronomical heights in ordei- to match that of our good friends and friendly rivals from Notre Dame, the city of South Bend, and the state of Indiana.
For the information of the great majority of students who had to watch the game ovex- television and heax- it ovex- radio, the few Tax- Heels who did make the journey to the North came back singing praises of all those who played host to us.
It was undoubtedly the greatest welcome Tax- Heels have ever received. After battling with disgruntled Georgia students at Athens, fussing and fuming William and Mary hotheads in Williamsburg, and aftex- the unfortunate vandalistic occurences resulting from football rivalry with Duke and State, the 'South Bend trip came as a cool breeze blowing home the fact that students can and do match the friendliness of rivalry that teams display on the field.
From the moment of arrival to the final whistle of the game, and even more after oux- battling football squad had put on its great display, Notre Dame students and the good people of Indiana showed theix- hospitality by being perfect “Carolina Gentlemen and Ladies.” No one had a bitter- word fox- the flag-flying Tar Heel fans who canned UNC colors to South Bend. All threw open the doors to their heax-ts and their homes, and aftex- the heart-breaking defeat, they were the first to offer- condolences, and “better luck next time.”
The whole trip was one that points to one of the healthiest sports relationships ever to exist between two schools. Tar Heels should greet with delight the efforts of the University and Notre Dame in seeking to make the UNC-Notre Dame football series a permanent one.
Such a series would not only become the most colorful football series in the history of the game, it would become the finest example of friendly rivalry, student goodwill, and happy relationship between the student bodies of two great institutions.
Father Cavanaugh Accepts Board of Visitors Position
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c., president of the University of Notre Dame, has accepted membership on the Board of Visitors of the Air University at Maxwell Aix- Force Base, Montgomery, Ala.
The Aix- University was created in 1945 by the United States Air Force, accox-ding to General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, chief of staff of the United States Aix- Force, “to provide postgraduate education for Air Force officers in ordei- to improve theix- professional capabilities and knowledge, to widen theix- vision and to insure forward thinking and adequate leadership fox- the Air Force, both in peace and war.”
The Board of Visitors of the Aix- University, comprised of seniox- educators and university administrators, was cre
ated in* 1946 to guide the development of the university. The Board of Visitors convenes annually to confer with the senior- staff and commandants of the Air University on matters of policy and to assist in the over-all direction of the university.
Father Cavanaugh also is a member of the Board of Visitors of the United States Naval Academy.
Kentucky Club Meets
New members of the Kentucky Club were welcomed at a banquet in the Club Nox-mandy Oct. 5. The body again plans to sponsor a trophy for the Bengal Bouts.
Officers for the year- are David Schoen, president; William Kelly, Receiving secretax-y; Robert Nunnelley, corresponding secretary; and Homer Barton, treasurer.
77
Building Program Begins
Father Moore, Dr. Baldinger (third from left), and ND advisory council members kibitz as Father Hesburgh breaks ground for the long-awaited Science Building.
Barristers' Ball Scheduled For Homecoming Game Eve
Notre Dame Law students will have their big social event of the year Friday, Nov. 10, with the annual Law Ball at the Progress Club in South Bend.
The orchestra has not been selected as yet, but it is definite that the hop is to be formal and that the time is to be from 9:30 p.m. till 1:30 a.m. on the evening before the homecoming game with Pittsburgh.	•’>
Bids will sell to law students at $4 per couple. The dance committee will attempt to form a date bureau some time prior to the affair, although that too is indefinite at this time.
Co-chairmen of the dance are Bill Ethridge, Alliance, Ohio, and Dave Matthews, South Bend. The dance committee has not been selected yet.
Investigates Gold Standard At Econ. Round Table Meet
Charles Talley presented a paper on “The Gold Standard and Decline of Great Britain” at the second meeting of the Economic Round Table, held last Thursday evening.
Plans of the Round Table include the annual trip to the International Relations Conference which will be held at Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis. A tour through the Federal Reserve
Bank of Chicago, as well as several other tours, are being planned.
All Sophomores and Juniors from any college of the University may apply for membership in the Round Table provided they are interested in current political and economic problems and have an 85 percent scholastic average.
Officers for the year are: Richard Birmingham, president; Lawrence Clark, secretary, and William Langhi, treasurer.
Vetville Will Hold Saturday Dances for Married Students
Striving to coordinate the activities of all ND married students, the citizens of Vetville are planning regular Saturday night dances in the Vetville Recreation Hall.
“I’m hoping that we can form closer cooperation between Vetville and the married students in town,” explained Mayor Charles Perrin. There will be no admission charge at the dances. Music will be supplied by a new phonograph and a new P.A. system.
To finance the Rec Hall innovations, the Vetville council will supervise the distribution and sale of Christmas cards. Extra proceeds will be used to improve the Rec Hall, and establish a lending library. Plans are being made for a Halloween dance Oct. 29.
The council is also considering a mo-
Name Father Norton New Vice-President
The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., has been named vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs at the University of Notre Dame, it was announced last week by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh also announced that the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, c.s.c., has been appointed'assistant vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs at the University. Father Norton previously had served as assistant vicepresident in charge of Academic Affairs and Father Beichner had been assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters.
Father Norton succeeds the Rev. Howard Kenna, c.s.c., as vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs. Father Kenna was named assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, the religious order that administers Notre Dame, at the Congregation’s General Chapter held this Summer- in Rome.
Father Norton, a native of Indianapolis, Ind., joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1946 after being discharged from the United States Navy Chaplain Corps. The new Notre Dame vice-president served three years as a chaplain including two years with the Marines, and had duty in the Pacific. At the time of his discharge in 1946, Father Norton was a Lieutenant, Senior Grade.
Father Norton received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1929 and pursued further study at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., until his ordination to the Catholic priesthood in 1933. He received a Master of Arts degree from the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., in 1934. From 1934 until he entered the service, Father- Norton served on the faculty of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas.
Father- Beichner, a native of Franklin, Pa., received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1935, and was ordained to the priesthood in 1939. He received a Master of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1941 and a doctorate from Yale University in 1944.
A specialist in English literature, Father Beichner formerly served on the English faculty at Notre Dame. Until he assumed his duties as assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, he had been assistant dean of the Department of English at Notre Dame.
tion to conduct a census of Vetville residents. Traffic signs have been installed to protect the younger residents and transportation facilities have been provided to St. Mary’s School.
12
The Scholastic
Cotillion Ticket Drive Opens Sophs' Doors
Riderless Runaways Befuddle Onlookers; Dujarie Horses Enjoy North Campus Jaunt
A corps of salesmen is knocking on Sophomore doors these days with tickets for “An Evening in Paris” and an afternoon with Pittsburgh. Bids for the November 10 Cotillion at the Palais Royale are priced at $5.50, which includes the cost of the favors.
Cotillion-goers can also order pairs of football tickets for the Pittsburgh game and hotel reservations ’ for their dates. The Sophs have salesmen in each hall for this purpose, as well as two men on every floor to sell dance tickets.
Tuxes can be ordered through Morrissey man Dick Petrarca. A complete formal outfit at cut-rate price will be available if ordered within the next week.
For those fellows more worried about finding a date, Mike Dolan of 121 Morrissey is the man to see.
Frankie Masters
Co-chairmen Mike McNulty and Jerry Kelley assure everyone of an enjoyable evening and have backed up that promise by signing Frankie Masters and his Orchestra to supply the music.
- In his college days, Masters was the Gene Hull of Indiana U. Since then he has become one of the nation’s best-known bandleaders. “America’s most versatile band,” as Masters’ men are billed, have done everything from jazz to waltzes, in night clubs and ballrooms or on records, radio and television.
But at the Cotillion, Masters and his band will concentrate on “sweet,” or danceable, music with some swing.
Currently, Masters is playing at the Boulevard Room of the Stevens Hotel in Chicago on an extended engagement.
At 4:35 p.m. on Wednesday afternoon of last week, a group of boys from the Holy Cross “little” seminary on the north bank of the St. Mary’s lake were wholeheartedly playing football. At the same time, the main body of the Notre Dame cross country team was sprinting up the cinder path that runs beside the field where the Holy Cross junior gridmen were playing. The harriers were on the last few yards of a two-mile practice run.	■
On the football field, the center snapped the ball and the fullback started around end. The track coach was clocking the first cindermen to finish the race. Then two horses trotted across the field.
The horses were chestnut brown. They wore no saddle, no bridle, no anything. They more or less materialized on the field where the seminarians were playing football, and trotted through the stupefied crowd of players. They trotted on to the cinder path and through the crowd of harriers and turned down the cinder path toward the Grotto.
The football players looked at the horses in wide-eyed wonder. The track men looked vaguely startled. A priest was walking along the lake and he looked and then gaped. Various students in the vicinity gulped hard. Yep, they were horses.
The two horses trotted toward the Grotto, swerved to their left, and disappeared past the Laundry.
A short time later, the Brothers were locking up the Ave Maria Press for the afternoon and getting ready to go home. Then the horses appeared and the Brothers stared. A few of the Brothers made an attempt to stop the horses, after their first startled amazement, but the horses were clever and trotted out of sight again.
After another short time, several residents of Vetville looked out their- windows at the setting sun. There were the two horses.
A truck came roaring out of the afternoon and stopped not far from the horses, who by now had also stopped. Two men got out. One of the men went over to the horses and they let him come near. He put ropes on them and led them back to the truck. The men got back in the truck and the truck went off leading the horses.
The story of the horses spread legendlike. The real story is much less glamorous than some of the legends.
On that same Wednesday afternoon, shortly before the horses turned up at the Holy Cross football game, one of the
Brothers who works on the Dujarie Hall
farm brought the farm’s two work horses .in from pasture. He led them near the barn and the horses walked ovei- to a rain barrel for a drink of water. Another Brother started the motor of an electric paint spray gun. The horses spluttered, went rigid, and bolted —all in rapid succession. The two Brothers saw the horses’ heels and not much else. The Brothers hopped in a truck and took off.
It was three-quarters of an hour before the Brothers caught up with the runaways in Vetville. Meanwhile the horses had taken a non-guided and non-scjieduled tour of the north side of the campus, leaving confusion and puzzled stares in their wake. But the Brothers got to the horses and by that time the horses were calmed down. So they all went back to Dujarie Hall.
Statistics say that 14 undergraduates swore off all alcoholic beverages; one elderly man fainted away; and all football players at the seminary wanted a ride.—Walt Collins, ’51	'
5,052 Enroll for Schoolyear;
A.B. Leads Among Colleges
A total of 5,052 undergraduate and graduate students have enrolled for the 1950-51 schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame, according to an announcement by the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs at Notre Dame.
A breakdown of the enrollment figures announced by Father Norton reveals that the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame has the largest number of students with a total of 1,406. The College of Commerce ranks next with 1,375 students, the College of Engineering third with 1,037, the College of Science fourth with 571, and the College of Law fifth with 266.
Why don't you exhale and let me get some shut-eye?
Oct. 12, 1950
The beautiful Howard Tilton Memorial Library serves the 5500 me n and women students enrolled at Tulane University, New Orleans.
New Orleans, Gem of the South
Crescent City Awaits Tomorrow’s Irish Invasion Ready to Offer Trippers Fun-Packed Weekend
As the annual ice age slowly sweeps over the Indiana flatlands, over 200 Notre Dame men entrain this afternoon for gridiron and gumbo in the Crescent City of New Orleans.
A better spot for a trip couldn’t be picked, for New Orleans makes a business of gaiety and seldom disappoints anyone in search of a good time. It is gaudy and quaint, old and new, and always exciting to the visitor. But what is this town about which we’ve all heard so much but few of us have seen?
The city of New Orleans parades under many an alias and each one presents an interesting clue to its various aspects. It is known as the Crescent City because of the half moon shape of the Mississippi as it skirts the metropolis. Its pre-Lenten madness denotes it as the home of the Mardi Gras and its 600,000 population backs up its claim of being the largest city in the South.
14
By BILL STAPLETON, ’52
The hot music coming from its many night spots and the history of Basin Street substantiate the contention that New Orleans is the cradle of Jazz. Although the city has quite a history, its greatness lies not exclusively in the past. It’s still quite a town.
The first glimpse which the studenttrippers will catch of New Orleans will be from the entrance to the Illinois Central Terminal — Union Station — around 5 o’clock tomorrow afternoon. This will be the beginning of the big weekend.
Since everyone’s going to be hungry when they detrain and since quite a few meals are going to be necessary to stay alive for the weekend, a word about
the facts of eating in the Crescent City seems to be in order.
Just like everything else, you get just about what you pay for in the line of sustenance. We’ll start from the top. The most famous, of course, is Antoine’s. very old, very renowned, very good food and ridiculous prices. You can get a good meal (if you don’t splurge) for ; the altogether insane price of eight dol-	I
lars. With this, of course comes the	|
French atmosphere, French waiters and unintelligible menus. A word of warning—don’t order steak. The chefs feel that it is far below their culinary abilities and will refuse to serve such, peasants’ fare. Reservations must be made beforehand.	।
Down in the middle class peon depart- I ment we find the Vieux Carre, the Galo-toire and the Amoud, the latter of which is the most kindly to the pocketbook. Reaching the bottom of the ladder we have also reached the cafeterias. Good *
The Scholastic
ones are located on Common St. just a block off of Canal (the main stem). This method of acquiring food is probably the most familiar to the average line-wise ND man.
Night Life Galore
And now, we have arrived inevitably at the night life of New Orleans.. If you’re not interested in that phase of the city you might just as well sell your ticket and stay home for this is what the town is famous for. 'To choose from, there are extravaganzas and little jazz joints, big and small, naughty and nice.
Whatever your preference you’ll find it in the famous French Quarter; a 20-block square remnant of the Old New Orleans. It is here that New Orleans Jazz and Dixieland rule. For the best spots featuring hot music try the Famous Door (with Sharkey), the Paddock Lounge or the Papa Gellar Stand. All three are on Bourbon Street, in the Quarter within walking distance of Canal Street and the music played in all three will captivate anyone.
If you’re not a Dixieland fan drop in any of these places and become one. For Jazz (as distinguished from Dixieland) try the Magnolia Room and the Old Absinthe House, both on Dauphine. The French Quarter is fine as far as Jackson Square but venturing much past the square is not advised. Clipping is not a lost art in the more remote sections.
Saturday morning everyone will be invited to attend Mass at Sacred Heart Church. Then, out to see the sights. At the risk of sounding like a promotion campaign for the French Quarter (the Vieux Carre), the historic old spot is once more about to be urged upon you. This is why.
The French Quarter
New Orleans proper is little more than just another big city. What is really distinctive is the old New Orleans, now known as the Quarter. This is the place over which seven different flags have flown, which was founded in 1718. Formerly enclosed by a wall, it still has a very real Old World atmosphere with its lace iron-work, narrow streets and old French archtiecture. Jackson Square is the center of attraction. Here stands St. Louis Cathedral, oldest Cathedral in the United States, built by the original French inhabitants.
Across the street—the Cabildo, former gubernatorial mansion and legislative assembly house of the entire Louisiana Territory, now converted into a museum. This is a must on any sight-seeing tour. Nearby looms the Pontalban, oldest apartment house in the country and former haunt of such famous figures as Jean Lafitte, the notorious and legendary pirate.
The city is loaded with history and of such a nature that you’ll never have to take a departmental on what you’ve learned. There are many other points of interest such as the river front and Canal Street, the big thoroughfare of which the town is so proud. Actually it is only the most famous dead-end street in .the world, rushing to a river at one end and tenninating ignominiously at the other pole in a cemetery. (It’s 171 feet wide; measure it!)
Saturday at 2:15 p.m. is the big moment. The game will be held in the mammoth Sugar Bowl and the sweet little structure will be jammed to the
« S z
Astride the perennial steed, Andrew Jackson keeps guard over St. Louis Cathedral.
top with an expected crowd of £0,000 partisan rebels. All there are going to be mad, with that 46-7 shellacking rankling in their Southern hearts. It should be quite a game but it’s hard to see how the relatively small contingent from the Golden Dome is going to be able to make much headway against the Green Wave uproar. That’s all right. It’ll be a lot quieter after the game, fellas.
If you’re wondering what the weather is like down there you can soon be set straight. It’s rather warm. The Chamber of Commerce claims an average temperature ranging from 70 to 75 degrees
Oct. 12, 1950
15
Artistry in iron-work makes itself known from the Quarter's Old-World galleries.
but it is liable to get a little warmer than that. Light attire will be the general rule with something a little heavier in reserve to be prepared for those changes in the weather that the best Chambers of Commerce can do nothing about. If the higher class eating places are on the agenda, coat and tie are required but in most places they are not necessary.
Because of its French origins, New Orleans retains many of the expressions
of the old days. For instance, a sidewalk is a banquette, tobacco is perique and porches parade under the name of gallery. The word for girl, however, is girl and some of the local femmes are even known to speak English.
A point on Southern accents. You’d be disappointed looking for a good, long, drawn-out y'all down there. For some reason this city of the deepest South has escaped the Southern trademark. If you’d like a taste of the real drawl just
stop off in Georgia where it takes the natives half a day to say hello to each other.
Everyone is going to be out for a t good time on this weekend. That’s the idea behind the student trip. There’s plenty of things to do and places to see in New Orleans to satisfy the most eager. But there’s one thing that really should be kept in mind. We’re going to be recognized down there as students from Notre Dame and for that reason may be watched rather closely by the • locals. There’s certainly no need to crawl into a corner and act the recluse but there’s no need to make too ostentatious a display of our youthful ex- . uberance either.
The whole outfit can enjoy themselves without any clowns stopping traffic on Canal Street. Most of us think we’re pretty well-behaved individuals but when you get loose in the city you sometimes surprise even yourself. So let’s try to keep the old name clean in Sunny South territory.
As you read this the special train is probably roaring, or at least moving, through the Mid-West. Tomorrow afternoon at 5 p.m. it will come to a screech- t ing, or at least noisy, halt in New Orleans’ Union Station. From there on in, for the next 62 hours, you’ll be taking the Crescent City by storm. There’s nothing to compare with a Student Trip. You might be a bit tired next Monday morning at 6 o’clock, but you’re bound to agree on that point.
New Orleans, here we come!
Mayer Memorial, one of Tulane's newest buildings, houses the School of Commerce.
TULANE
Tulane University had its beginning in 1834 when seven young physicians banded together to found a medical college in New Orleans. Yellow fever and cholera were the twin curses of the city in that period and a determination on the group’s part to combat the diseases more successfully led to the establishment of the college.
The college was later to grow into the University of Louisiana and subsequently into the privately endowed, non-sectarian Tulane University of today.
The University received its name from Mr. Paul Tulane of Princeton, N. J., who made his fortune in and around New Orleans and who bequeathed $1,000,000 to the institution in 1882. His gift, made at a time when the South was financially bankrupt as a result of the War between the States, provided a revenue which revived a virtually moribund institution.
16
The Scholastic
Green Wave Sports Editor Sends Welcome; Tulane Spirits High as Friday 13th Looms
.	By SHEP PLEASANTS
Sports Editor, Tulane Hullabaloo
New Orleans, La. (Special to Notre Dame Scholastic)—Friday, October 13, will be a big day in the lives of several hundred students at the University of Notre Dame. It will be the day that they arrive in New Orleans—for the beginning of what can’t help but be a memorable weekend.
For several thousand Tulane University students it will just be Friday, the 13th—an ominous day of bad luck and foreboding, the day before the Notre Dame game. Those several thousand Tulane students are ready and waiting, though, and are bound that those visiting Irish won’t find them lacking in spirit, fight, and hustle both on and off the field.
We’ve got a spirit rally and a shirttail parade in the business district scheduled for that Friday night. Spirit at Tulane rises with the competition, and when Notre Dame comes to town the competition is at its highest point. Well do we know how good the competition is, since Tulane hasn’t beaten Notre Dame,
or even come close, in the entire series.
This year football prospects and student attitude don’t seem to predict any change in the standings. Notre Dame lost quite a few good players from last year’s National champions but Tulane’s SEC champs graduated 21 seniors, including Eddie Price. Balancing that against last year’s lop-sided score things don’t look too well for the Green Wave.
Feeling around New Orleans is that Notre Dame will win. How or by how much is left to the individual predictor, but forecasts range from three touchdowns to figures the typewriter won’t print. On the other hand there are those who claim “visions” of a stunning upset, and are holding forth for a Tulane victory.
If Tulane is to provide that upset it will have to improve remarkably on its showing against Alabama. Again this season the Greenies have shown themselves .extremely vulnerable to a passing attack. Against Alabama they demonstrated lack of coordination in the back
field and sloppy blocking. This, coupled with a mediocre pass attack, adds up to a not-so-potent offense.
One bright spot is Tulane’s defensive line. It packs a big load of beef and experience and should be awfully troublesome to run through. But who wants to run when you can throw, particularly Notre Dame, with All-American passer Bobby Williams in the line-up?
New Orleans, nevertheless, is eagerly awaiting the arrival of the Fighting Irish. It’s always a pleasure to see the champion—even if you expect to see him mauling your boys. And at that the only mauling is only expected in the score. People around here aren’t shedding too many tears for Tulane’s “underfed youngsters.” They’re a pretty tough bunch when they put their minds to it—and we’re hoping and thinking they will.
As for the Irish student body, “The Paris of America” awaits you with open arms. We hope you have the time of your lives and are able to keep inside your budget. We know that with the prospect of a wild winter at South Bend you will utilize all of your spare time scrutinizing such French Quarter attractions as the St. Louis Cathedral, the Cabildo, Jackson Square and various other “places of interest.”
Tulane sends a hearty welcome!
Tulane Students Cross Campus
Bustling undergrads hit the road across the Green Wave's spaciou s campus, soon to become greener with arrival of Notre Dame.
Oct. 12, 1950
17
them AU!
Philip Morris l
brand ,o 'hfa 7
This test
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a PHILIP MORRIS. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn't it?
dsi



2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!

"S/’SJREnE HANGOVER
a"""’ mom smok,ng

PHIUP MORRIS
18
Scholastic

Irish, Green Wave Clash in Sugar Bowl
Fresh from two hard fought games in the Notre Dame Stadium, Coach Frank Leahy’s Fighting Irish move far south of the Mason-Dixon line to engage a revengeful Tulane Green Wave in New Orleans Saturday. A capacity crowd of 80,000 snarling Tulane rooters slightly tempered with Notre Dame student trippers, will be on hand to witness the battle.
Coach Henry Frnka’s charges, still smarting from that humiliating 46-7 debacle of last season, have prepared a bristling ambush for the Irish. The Wave well remembers that perfect first quarter of football, which added up to four Irish touchdowns, three in the first ten minutes by Halfback Larry Coutre.
Tulane Hasn’t Won
Another incentive for the defending Southeastern Conference champions will be the fact that they have never beaten the Irish in the series which began in 1944.
Most of the principal characters in last year’s contest will not be around. Gone are Tulane’s Eddie Price, who for two consecutive seasons rushed for more than 1,000 yards; Bill Svaboda, the savage linebacker; the two starting ends, Rex Partridge and Dick Sheffield; seatback Jimmy Glisson, and many others. The Irish, of course, lost ten of their 11 starters by graduation.
The greenness of the Wave was shown
ND Band, Students Accompany Squad
By BILL LONDO, ’53
in their opener against Alabama. Fumbles and a poor pass defense set up all the Crimson Tide’s scores in its 26-14 conquest of the Louisianians. Last week, however, Tulane smashed Louisiana College, 64-0, and showed considerable strength in doing so.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
Notre Dame	Tulane
Mutscheller .....E......... Harper
Toneff............T........... Lea
Wallner ..........G...... Headrick
Groom ............C........ Maddox
Burns ............G......... Doyle
Flynn ............T......... Regas
Ostrowski ........E.... Kirkpatrick Williams ...............Q. Bonar
Barrett ...........H......... Kinek
Gay................H.........Sikora
Landry ............F......... Jones
Kickoff: 2:15 C.S.T.
At center, tackle, and the all important quarterback position the men from New Orleans are stronger than last year. The pivot slot has three letter winners back, headed by Homer Dedeaux, a three
year vet, and George Maddox, a two year man. Harold Brinson is the other monogram winner. Maddox, with added weight and experience, is one of the Southeastern Conference’s outstanding centers. Lea Top Lineman
Perhaps the best lineman is Paul Lea, a slightly terrific tackle, who has been first string All-Conference choice for the past two years. Lea, a three year letterman, is a good candidate for AllAmerican honors. He is big, fast and rugged, and rated as one of the best defensive tackles in the South.
Opposite Lea at the other tackle, Frnka will use three veterans: Dan Ro-gas, who is an offensive star; Dick Ful-ger, the most improved tackle on the squad this year, and Jerome Helluin. The latter is the Green Wave’s heaviest player carrying 280 on a 6’ 2” frame.
Sandwiched between' these vets is a mixture of experience and youth at guard. Harold Headrick and Dennis Doyle will probably start. Doyle was chosen the most unselfish and best blocking lineman by coaches and players in 1949.
On the flanks Joe Harper, a 193-pound senior and the only lettered end, and Gale Kirkpatrick will get the call. Kirkpatrick, a squadman last year, has shown great improvement and was outstanding against Alabama.
Bill Bonar is Frnka’s boy at quarterback. The 190-pound senior completed
Bill Bonar
Ronnie Kent
Oct. 12, 1950
19
22 out of 46 passes last year, among them five touchdown tosses. He is a smart strategist and an excellent ball handler. Bonar has a capable replacement in another senior, Joe Ernst, who also threw five scoring pitches in ’49.
Kinek to Shine
The silver lining in an otherwise dull Wave halfback picture is George Kinek. The hard driving two year letterman was Tulane’s second best ground gainer two years ago, and finished third last year, despite an injury which kept him out of three games. He is the only experienced offensive back returning, and his improved speed from left half has made him the Wave’s chief ground threat.
Right halfback was especially hard hit with the loss of Svaboda and Glisson. Ellsworth Kingery and John Sikora, from Gary, Indiana, will carry the load.
A sensational sophomore, Ronnie Kent, is the one who will fill the gap at fullback left by Price’s graduation. The speedy 19 year old hails from New Orleans and is rated a great prospect.
Purdue Defeat
(Continued from Page 9)
down smash. Caprara converted and Leahy’s Lads were now within striking range of their opponents.
Fate Shuns ND
But fate was not with the Irish that
champion. They had met a team, beaten by Texas the week before, but were “up” for this game. From the beginning, the Boilermakers had played good hard ball capitalizing on every break. They looked like champions all the way, but especially in the first half when they scored three touchdowns.
They took the opening kick-off down to the Notre Dame one, but had to forfeit the ball on downs. But a few minutes later they were again knocking on the Irish goal. This time they scored as John Kerestes plunged over from the one yard line after a long sustained drive down the gridiron.
Then in the second quarter, Kerestes scored again. Irish quarterback Bob Williams punted and Purdue took over on the Notre Dame 41. Samuels passed to Neil Schmidt who ran it to the six before he was tackled. Two plays later Kerestes broke over from the two.
With the first half rapidly fading, the Boilermakers found themselves on the Notre Dame 30. Samuels threw two passes, but both of them fell harmlessly to the ground. He tried again; this time he connected with Maccioli in the end zone and Purdue had run up a 21-0 halftime lead.
When the final gun went off, the Irish rooters were sullen. From the other side of the stadium the Purdue band streamed onto the field cheering and shouting. They began to play their fight song, but
then the sullenness of the Notre Dame students was broken. They began to sing the Victory March drowning out the strains of the band. And they began shouting, “Let’s go ... to the locker room.” Coach Leahy came out in front of the locker room, and talked to the mass of students that stood before him, “Men, the entire world will be watching how we take this adversity.
“It’s a real test of real men to be able to lose like champions.”
A few minutes later some of the players came out and were hoisted up on the students shoulders as the Notre Dame band began playing the Victory March.
The Purdue football weekend was now over for all intentional purposes. The dance at the Palais Royale was no longer a victory dance fox' on this Oct. 7 a great opponent was celebrating their- victory—over us.
Harriers Top Purdue; Marquette Saturday
It’s Marquette who will be facing the Notre Dame cross country team on the deserted Irish campus this Saturday at 11 a.m.
The Irish, who scored a convincing but close 26-31 victory over Purdue last Saturday, may have to step some to dump the once lowly-regarded Hilltop-
(Continued on Page 24)
day. For a few minutes later Purdue’s great quarterback, Dale Samuels, faded back and threw a pass to Mike Maccioli that covered some forty-seven yards and ended with another Purdue score.
The Purdue cheering section went wild. They realized that this had broken the back and the heart of the Notre Dame attack. Fans on both sides knew for sure now that they were witnessing one of the greatest upsets of the year, for the Black and Gold eleven that had entered the arena was a three-touchdown underdog.
Up in the pressbox, a Western Union telegrapher, jumped up and shouted, “Do you realize what’s happening? It’s impossible, impossible.” Charlie Callahan, Sports Publicity Director, walked around almost dazed. He had been warning the press for the last six months that it could happen, but now that it had it was too hard to believe. Ray Donovan, Director of Public Information, was just standing there when a newspaperman came up and offered him consolation. He just replied, “I guess it had to happen sometime.”
Down in the stands the student section was going wild, cheering madly with every tackle, with every Irish gain. But it did no good, Notre Dame had met the inevitable which always faces a
Sharpshooters Receive Sweaters
NROTC Rifle Team and Capt. Counley proudly view Hearst Trophy. Holding their new sweaters are (I. to r.) J. Hartman, W. Hayden, D. Murphy, G. Brickson and W. Six.
20
The Scholastic

And Still Champions
It’s a lot easier to be a good winner than a good loser.
The Irish were always more than good winners during their 39 game streak. Frank Leahy never failed to praise the play of the other team or compliment the work of their coach. The Irish were true champions in every meaning of the word. Even the loss to Purdue hasn’t changed them.
Frank Leahy went over to the Purdue dressing room after the game and went through the same ritual just as if he had been the winning- coach instead of the losing.
In the locker room after the game, Coach Leahy told his emotion-choked squad, “We were champions in victory . . . we’ll be champions in defeat.”
It will be hard to get used to the idea that, temporarily, we are no longer the kingpins of collegiate football. If the team ever needed support, it needs it now. And the support doesn’t come from the alumni or the subway alumni. It comes from you, the student body.
Many people thought that week after week of Irish victories had caused the Irish student body to become complacent and lethargic. The students certainly removed these ideas after the game when they waited in the drizzling rain for their team to appear, and then carried them on theii- shoulders back to the campus.
As for the team, they needn’t brood over the loss. Purdue had a good team, confident, geared for an upset. That’s a tough combination to beat on any Saturday. The Irish did all they were physically able to do, everyone’s aware of that. The student body has shown that it’s solidly behind their team.
Now that the pressure is off, the Irish should be a much better- ball club.
They can play their own game without worrying about failing to live up to something that they actually were not.
There will only be a handful of ND students in the Sugar Bowl on Saturday to start the Irish off on their new streak. But the Irish will be getting support from all quarters. The entire country will be pulling for them — watching,
waiting, hoping, praying that they will come back. After all, Notre Dame is the nation’s team, too.
Monday Morning Quarterback
For the second week in a row, the line play of the Irish inside the 10-yard line was tremendous. And again, the woeful lack of reserve strength was only too apparent.
Notre Dame gained more on the ground than did Purdue, but penalties hurt the Irish no end. It seemed that just as the Irish attack would start rolling, a 15 yard penalty would be walked off to either stall it or halt it completely.
Offensive stars for the Irish were Jack Landry, Bill Gay and Bill Barrett. Much of the ground they gained was only by sheer driving power and when they did get some decent downfield blocking, the Irish looked like a different team.
At Last
Notre Dame’s “B” squad will play three more games this year (they beat Purdue Saturday, 13-7), and a “B” team schedule is something that the occupants of this seat in the Press Box have been harping on these past few years. Highlight of the schedule is a trip to Fort Smith, Arkansas, to meet the Razorback “B” eleven. Even though it is a “B” game, reports indicate that a large crowd will be on hand to watch the junior Irish.
Prediction of the Week
Tulane has never beaten Notre Dame. The Irish are itching to get that new streak going. It may be more, but we’re saying:
Notre Dame, 21; Tulane, 7.
GYMNASTICS
The University of Notre Dame Gymnasts Club will hold its first meeting in Room 1, Rockne Memorial, at 7:30 p. m., Monday, Oct. 16. All students who are interested in learning gymnastics and all candidates for both the Freshman and varsity gymnastic teams are requested to attend.
YEARS AGO
By BOB FINNEY, ’53
Fifty Years Ago
From the Oct. 13, 1900, Scholastic: The Irish beat Englewood High School 68-0 for their second win of the season. . . . The board of examiners in a Western university discovered that about 57 per cent of the applicants for admission failed because of inability in spelling. ... A Founder’s Day piece: “. . . these temples and halls of Notre Dame hear witness . . . what firm resolve and perseverance can accomplish: the most valuable lesson that can be taught us. We therefore honor this man of faith and lofty purpose — Father Edward Sorin.”
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the Oct. 16, 1925, Scholastic: Arrangements for the Sophomore Cotillion, to be held Nov. 20, were completed. The dance would last from 10 till 2 o’clock in the K. of C. ballroom, and pel-mission to return to the campus was extended to 3 o’clock. . . . The Department of Boy Guidance in the Graduate School was beginning its second year with thirty-three enrolled. Its purpose was to train counselors, social workers, and “boys-work executives.” . . . The Notre Dame bam burned to the ground with a loss of §65,000. . . . Notre Dame beat Beloit 19-3. Rockne made the players run a few hundred-yard dashes before going in after the game. “Which is one way of getting ready for Army.” . . . New stands were built at Cartier Field, raising the seating capacity to 6,000.	'	'
Ten Years Ago
From the Oct. 11, 1940, Scholastic: Classes were to be suspended Wednesday, Oct. 16, to allow approximately 600 students and professors to register for the draft. . . . WND’s first broadcast of the year was a Founder’s Day program featuring University vice-president Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and head football coach Elmer Layden. . . . T. Boyer Campbell, professor of History at Notre Dame, said the new Rome-Tokyo-Berlin alliance was an attempt to distract us from Europe. He expected Japan to take over the Dutch East Indies soon, and said that U. S. forces in the Pacific weren’t sufficient to stop them. . . . Frank C. Walker, ’09, became the first Notre Dame man to hold a portfolio in the cabinet of the President of the United States: He was appointed Postmaster General by President Roosevelt on Sept. 11. . . . The Oliver Coffee Shop advertised hamburgers for ten cents, baked ham sandwich, fifteen cents, and spaghetti and meatballs for thirty-five cents.
Oct. 12, 1950
21
Sheridan Builds Strong Freshman Squad; Compares Favorably With '48 Contingent
By JIM BRISLIN, ’52
The chant set up by the varsity during calisthenics died in the chill Autumn air. At a barked signal a band of green-shirted behemoths took the field and another practice session began at Cartier Field. It was difficult at times to identify the varsity players, clad now in sweat shirts. Williams passed. Barrett ran. The varsity moved forward.
Yes, they moved, but they never rolled. Every yard they gained was bitterly contested. The boys in green didn’t look as smooth as their opponents and there were rough edges. You couldn’t miss seeing that. But you saw too that they were big and strong and fast and smart; and they played as though a whole lot depended upon them. A whole lot does. For they are the forgotten men on the local football scene — the Freshman squad. The future of Notre Dame as a gridiron power shall someday be their responsibility. They are the men whose task it will be to alter the record books already rewritten by Leahys’ Legions. It’s a big job, and they’ll have to be good.
Just how good are they? Freshman coach Benny Sheridan rates them as one of the best teams he’s handled and says they compare favorably with the ’48 squad. That group, you remember, included Toneff, Burns, Mutscheller, Ostrowski, Barrett, Mazur, Flood, and Pe-titbon to name just a few.
There may have been a time when there weren’t any great quarterbacks at Notre Dame. If so, it was long ago.
Freshmen Ed Paterra and Jim Martin seem to have all the requirements needed to keep the tradition alive.
Halfback prospects include John Lattner, Bob Rigali—both from Fenwick in Chicago—Ed Sama, and Jim Lapash. Lattner was an All-State end in ’48 before being shifted to halfback, where he garnered like honors.
Jim McClure, a big fast boy, looks strong at fullback.
When you ask Sheridan about ends, he smiles. That’s the strong point on this year’s frosh squad. At the flanks you’ll find Joe Katchick, Art Hunter, Don Pinza, Fred Manalaidi, and Mel Mavraides. Katchick, who hails from Johnny Mazur’s home town of Plymouth, Pa., stretches to the awe-inspiring height of 6’ 9”.
Joe Bush, Ray Bubick, and Fred Trail look good at tackle, and the same goes for Frank Kettles, Al Petranick, and Paul Robst at guard.
Bernie Feeler, Art Nowack, Jim Schrader, and Joe Derrageau are battling for the center post.
Coach Sheridan, assisted by Phil Cantwell and Dick Reilly, has brought these boys a long way. Remember their names —you’ll be hearing of them a lot in the not too distant future.
Grid Foes Lose Five;
Tulane, Hoosiers Win
It was a bad day for all but two of Notre Dame’s seven remaining opponents, too, last Saturday. Only Tulane and Indiana were able to come out on top, while Southern Cal managed to fet away with a tie. Michigan State, Navy, Pitt and Iowa all .ended up on the short end of the score.	.
Tulane, Saturday’s opponent, ran up 64 points on Louisiana College. The Green Wave had little trouble and the contest had more the aspects of a practice scrimmage than a scheduled game.
Down at Bloomington, Indiana showed surprising power in beating Iowa, the upset victor over Southern Cal, 20-7. Indiana’s passing attack sparked the Hoosiers and it was Sophomore Lou D’Achille, a neighbor of Jim Mutscheller in Beaver Falls, Pa., who threw two touchdown passes and gained 215 yards through the air.
Michigan State had their hopes for an undefeated season smashed by Maryland, 34-7. Maryland led, 13-7, going into the last period, but broke away for three quick touchdowns to put the game out of the reach of the Spartans.
Maryland’s victim of the week before, Navy, was shut out by the Big Ten invaders from Northwestern, 22-0. Navy put on two big offensives but both were stopped in the shadow of the Wildcats’ goal line. Bob Zastrow was the big gun for Navy with his nine pass completions good for 110 yards.
Last year’s Rose Bowl winners, Ohio State, scored all their points in the first (Continued on Page 24)
Hefty Hamburgers Gird for Future
Notre Dame's varsity of the future, the Freshman squad, pose in c ompany with coaches Dick Reilly, Benny Sheridan, Phil Cantwell.
22
The Scholastic
Travel-Happy Irish Pick Student Trip Sites; Rome, Reykjavik, Rio, Riviera Really Rate
In keeping with today’s migratory motif, Scholastic herewith offers a smattering of campus opinion on where the ideal Student Trip should be held.
Armed with travel agency broadsides, Scholastic canvassed halls hither- and yon, receiving answers both flippant and serious—with some it’s hard to tell.
A few of the foot-loose replies follow:
James Curry, 144 Farley, Syracuse, N. Y.: Lourdes has always attracted me because of its spiritual significance.
Leonard Dury, 121 Farley, Syracuse, N. Y.: I’ve always been interested in salt mining ... so I’d choose Siberia.
Thomas Hassenger, 123 Cavanaugh, Sioux City, Iowa: New Zealand has never been completely explored, so why not add this to the list of Notre Dame achievements.
Robert Beeh, 123 Cavanaugh, Fort Dodge, Iowa: Nothing interests me as much as the Oriental way of life, so I’d choose China.
John Gustainis, 307 Breen-Phillips, Melrose Park, Illinois: I’d pick a far distant place, such as the Social Science Building.
Paul Bruck, 115 Cavanaugh, Kenton, Ohio: The beauty and grandeur of Hawaii would make it my choice for a student trip site.
Michael Hackett, 213 Farley, Pontiac, Michigan: Paris . . . Why? You tell me.
Gerald Miller, 129 Breen-Phillips, Detroit, Michigan: Rome; every Catholic should see that place before he dies.
Charles Weitzel, 315 Farley, River Forest, Illinois: I’d choose Mount Olympus. Why? Haven’t you heard about those Greek goddesses?
Willlam Cavanagh, 215 Farley, Oak Park, Illinois: The Holy Land is the place I’d like to see because of its great significance in the life of Christ.
Richard Hohman, 214 Farley, Oak Park, Illinois: Any Communist-held city, if possible. It would be well worth while to see first hand the Communist type of government so that we could appreciate ours more.
Robert Hull, 115 Cavanaugh, Parkersburg, W. Va.: Offhand I would say Rio would be my choice for a student trip. After having seen travel folders
and. hearing people speak of its extraordinary harbors, it has always seemed to be the focal point of South America.
Roger O’Keefe, Breen-Phillips: Reykjavik, Iceland: Reykjavik—where else?
Joe Hanrahan, 345 Dillon, Chicago: Paris, France. According to the students who went abroad this summer, Paris has been acclaimed “the most fascinating city in the world. Ergo . . .”
Harry Hannigan, 349 Dillon, Chicago: A student trip to South Bend would win my vote. Reason: decreased cost.
Steve Martin, 348 Dillon, Grand Rapids, Michigan: Saint Louis gets my vote. It has several big breweries, a long history, and a blonde that came up to about here on me.
John O’Brien, 355 Dillon, Detroit, Michigan: Miami, do ged rid ob dis cold.
Don Roduguez, 360 Dillon, Mount Vernon, N. Y.: Switzerland, so I could yodel in the Alps.
Joseph Galloway, 355 Dillon, Susquehanna, Pa.: Scranton, Pa. . . . She’s five feet six and blonde.
Bob Lee, 341 Dillon, New York, N. Y.: A desire to see the parts of Europe untouched by war would make me choose Denmark, Switzerland or Sweden. — Compiled by Bill Hank, ’SU, and Jack Gustainis, ’54.
John Bolander, 118 Cavanaugh, Libertyville, Illinois: I’ve read a lot about Europe, and I’d like to see it for myself.
Tom Hamilton, 209 Cavanaugh, Pittsfield, Mass.: As far as our thumbs could carry us.
David Fox, 209 Cavanaugh, West Chicago, Illinois: Being a ukulele strummer, I’d like to visit Hawaii for further studies.
Walter Wagner, 325 Breen-Phillips, Louisville, Kentucky: Let’s go to Vassar so that we could promote friendlier relations between these two great schools.
Jerry Derivaux, 125 Alumni, Vicksburg, Mississippi: I’d like to go to Rome. There are more things of historic and religious value there than in any place I know of.
Frank Roche, 158 Alumni, Medford, Mass.: I’d like to go to Rio de Janeiro. It is a resort area where the seasons and location allow you to do as you please in comfort.
Bill Rauh, 158 Alumni, Coldwater, Ohio: I’d like to go to the best little town in the world—Coldwater, Ohio, my home town.
Bob Ingram, 275 Dillon, Astoria, Queens, N. Y.: I’d like to visit the Riviera because it has obtained a reputation for making enjoyment a big business, and it seems to be a likely place to go when one is seeking enjoyment.
Interhall Tennis Finalists
Congratulating Freshman Jim Farrell (right) of Kalamazoo, Michigan, the winner of the annual Interhall Tennis Tournament, is Runner-up Ken Angyall. Angyall pushed the new champion to four sets in the close, hotly-contested final match.
Oct. 12, 1950
23
Track
(Continued from Page 20)
'pers. Last Saturday Marquette lost to the University of Wisconsin—a “name” cross country team—by a slim 26-30 margin. Their Sophomore newcomer, John Stearns, ran away from the closest Wisconsin harrier and broke the Badgei' course record. This took a pretty good performance since the old record was set by a fellow by the name of Don
ND harriers Benny Almaguer (I.) and Jim Kittell rest after race against Purdue.
Gehrman, who was the nation’s top miler last year. Furthermore, the Hilltoppers had four other men fairly close together, a condition that spells danger in cross country, since it is the cumulative score of a team’s first five men that decides the meet.
Bob Rodibaugh of Purdue won the individual honors in the Notre Dame meet last week from Benny Almaguer in a fast 20:20.7 for the four miles. Almaguer hit 20:32.4—ten seconds faster than his best time all last season. Benny and Rodibaugh ran together for most of the first three miles, but the Boilermaker was able to gradually open up a 60-yard gap over the last mile and a quarter.
Team captain Jim Kittell ran by himself' most of the way and was never challenged for third place.
Despite the more spectacular running of Almaguer and Kittell, it was Bob Fieler, George Helfenstein and John O’Connor who really iced the meet when they took sixth, seventh and eighth places to complete the Irish scoring and make it impossible for the Boilermakers to win. Harry Snyder and Con Tet
rault, the sixth and seventh men on the Notre Dame team, pushed the Purdue score a little higher (that’s bad in cross country) when they finished in front of Purdue’s fifth man. Fieler knocked some seconds off his best previous time in negotiating the course in 21:29.
Coach Alex Wilson had to replace Tony DaDamio, who had qualified for the team, when a swollen ankle made him look like a risky bet. Tony ran a time trial the Friday before the meet with the ankle taped, and through guts or what have you, was able to hold out and run a fast-time. Now Coach Wilson is faced with the decision of letting DaDamio ride the bench—only seven men can run for a team in a meet—or benching one of the other fellows.
ND Foes
(Continued from Page 22) half as they rolled up a 41-7 score on Pittsburgh. The Panthers didn’t have a chance with Vic Janowicz leading a revitalized Buckeye eleven.
Only a last period scoring barrage saved Southern Cal from their second defeat of the season, in as many starts, in their visit to Washington State. The Trojans were outplayed for the first three periods but their 20 points in the fourth were good .enough to tie Forrest Evashevski’s State outfit.
While the Irish are meeting Tulane in the Sugar Bowl on Saturday, Indiana plays host to Ohio State, Michigan State
* A Requiem Mass or a Votive Mass is permitted.
But I thought they did away with this sort of thing in New Orleans long ago.
is home to William and Mary and Navy visits Princeton. Pittsburgh meets the invaders from Rice, Iowa plays Wisconsin at Iowa City and Southern Cal, still looking for that first win, entertains powerful California.
Mass Schedule
Saturday, Oct. 14—red—Saint Cal-listus, Pope and Martyr. New Mass for Popes. 2nd or. of the Rosary, 3rd or. for Peace. Preface of the Apostles.
Sunday, Oct. 15—green—20th Sun. after Pent. 2nd or. of Saint Teresa, 3rd or. of the Rosary, 4th or. for Peace. Credo and Preface of the Trinity.
^Monday, Oct. 16 — white — St. Hedwig, Widow. 2nd or. “Defend us,” 3rd or. of the Rosary.
Tuesday, Oct. 17—white—St. Margaret Mary Alacoque, Virgin. 2nd or. of the Rosary, 3rd or. for Peace.
Wednesday, Oct. 18 — red — St. Luke, Evangelist. 2nd or. of the Rosary, Credo and Preface of the Apostles.
Thursday, Oct. 19 — white — Saint Peter of Alcantara. 2nd or. of the Rosary, 3rd or. for Peace.
Friday, Oct. 20—white—St. John Cantius. 2nd or. of the Rosary, 3rd or. for Peace.
24
The Scholastic
ND, St. Mary’s Join Family Rosary Ranks
4 At long last the nationwide Rosary Crusade, which has gained so much momentum in the past few months, is coming to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
Students will have an opportunity to join with our Catholic brothers throughout the world in praying the Family Rosary.
This movement, under the direction of Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., a Notre Dame graduate, has been hailed by Church leaders as “the only thing that can save us from a terrible third world war.”
The Crusade, suggested by the promises of Our Lady of Fatima, has for its motto “The Family that Prays Together, Stays Together.”
Here at Notre Dame the Crusade will begin with a mass rally in the Stadium on Sunday, Oct. 22. The entire Notre Dame and St. Mary’s student bodies and thousands of devout followers of Mary from Northern Indiana are expected.
Discussions to Help Frosh
* Learn Best Study Methods
Under the direction of Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of Academic Affairs, a new series of discussion groups has been set up as a service to the Freshman class. The discussion groups will be handled by the Blue Circle in a series of open forums beginning next Wednesday and running for several weeks.
The hour-long meetings will be conducted weekly in each hall immediately after night prayer, and will center around such topics as budgeting time for studying, proficiency in reading, concentration and notetaking. They will also aim at helping the student in correct methods for exam preparation, the writing of term papers and theses, plus such pertinent matter as disciplinary information, draft status, and deferment standings. Library tours will be arranged and the students will be made familiar with the Department of Testing and Guidance, and the facilities which it offers in determining student vocation and aptitude.
These discussions have been arranged with a view toward acquainting the Freshman with methods of correct study, and enabling him to take advantage of
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth— x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
the experience of upperclassmen in the general conditioning to college life.
Science Profs Attend Med Confab in Chicago
Four faculty members of the College of Science are spending tomorrow and Saturday at the Conference on Premedical and Medical Education in Chicago, sponsored by the University of Illinois College of Medicine. The attending professors are Dr. L. H. Baldinger, Dean
VERSATILE PAIR FOR WEAR EVERYWHERE
Surrelmll suit
BUSINESS • SPORTSWEAR WEEK-ENDING • EVENING
PERMANENTLY MOTHPROOFED Surretwill Suits now only *45 Contrasting Surretwill Slacks
and HARMONIZING SLACKS
Definitely the smartest wardrobe investment for any campus man! Tailored in the traditionally fine Rose Brothers manner from an exclusive, allwool fabric by Pacific Mills that looks and feels like gabardine. Don’t cut classes, but get yours soon 1
^GILBERT'S
of the College of Science; Rev. Robert Sheehan, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Biology; Rev. George J. Baldwin, c.s.c., of the Department of Physics, and Mr. Donald J. Plunkett, of the Department of Biology.
Interspersed with discussions on current medical education problems will be a luncheon, dinner and several tours of the College of Medicine and affiliated Institutions and Colleges of the University of Illinois.
$13*5
Oct. 12, 1950
25
En Route
This is the sort of thing that shouldn’t be necessary in a Catholic school with the reputation of Notre Dame. But we might as well be realistic about things.
You Student Trippers are on your way to New Orleans for several days. During that time you will be representatives of Notre Dame. People will.be watching you and watching what you do. They will judge Notre Dame and all Notre Dame students by you and what you do.
Therefore be careful at all times to act as Catholic gentlemen. And the emphasis here, in our estimation, is on Catholic. It’s an old story and you’ve heard it often before. It gets to the nagging point after a while. “Be careful, they’re watching you . . . yeah, yeah, yeah.”
Okay. But it’s true. As we have said, this sort of comment—warning or reminder, call it what you will—should not be necessary. But, as we have also said, we might as well be realistic. If for no other reason than the fact that you are representing Nptre Dame, try to act like a Notre Dame man should. And there should be a great many other and deeper reasons than that.
Sure,, enjoy yourself. Have a good time. But keep in mind that there is a point beyond which a good time becomes something else.
Student Musical
It has come to our attention that this year, for the first time since 1948, a student musical is being presented on campus. By a student musical is meant one which is written as well as acted by the students.
In our opinion, a student musical is precisely what we have been sorely lacking since the last one went over so successfully. We admit the fact that there is room in a University for many different kinds of stage productions. Broadway plays (somewhat after Broadway, of course), perennial favorites, classics—all these are good and should be produced on the University level by the students. But so should student musicals.
The student musical selected for this year is written by Bill Carey and Dick Marshall, two Seniors from Pittsburgh.
26
We haven’t seen the script, but we have a distinct feeling that it will be good— very good. There will be headaches and details galore before the footlights switch on and the play opens. But to all those who will participate in this endeavor, in whatever capacity, we say go to it. And good luck. Good, bad, or indifferent, it is a step in the right direction. And we incline toward the first adjective, if predictions are in order.
Fish In Them Thar Lakes
Beware of those casual strolls around the St. Mary’s oi" St. Joe lakes in the next couple of months. It’s just possible you will be yanked out of your meditations by a fishing hook which you will subsequently discover to be lodged in your neck. Or, you might get dirty looks from the guy squatting on the lake bank who you hadn’t even noticed. He might look up scowling and hiss: “Shhhhh.” This is because you are stepping on twigs and scaring the fish.
The Student Council, as all lovers of the great where else know by now, has come up with, of all things, a fishing contest. You are supposed to get out anything from a fly rod to an old sapling and a safety pin, rush down to one of the lakes, and fish until you land a large mouth or otherwise tonsiled bass. Then dash with the slimy creature and register his size in Corby Hall.
The contest began Oct. 1 and ends Dec. 1. There are said to be between 10 and 15 thousand bass in the two lakes. Somewhere in this number is a monster" bass. That’s the one to look for. If you catch it, you will get a prize. Gad, that Student Council is really on the ball.
Letters
(Continued from Page 3) going on for years but last year we started the game. We call it “A bottle of Champagne for Notre Dame.”
Every Saturday morning a bottle of Champagne goes into the Frigidaire to be properly chilled. After the game is won we drink the “joy juice” and on the cork we record the team names and scores and one by one these corks are strung—on ribbon of ND colors awaiting the next victory.
As I say, we started this game last
year so we now have a string of 10 corks for last year’s victories and a new one started with one cork for this year. If we lose (as some day we must although I really don’t know why—law of । averages, I guess) we drink Canada Dry Soda Water. What an awful thought. . . .
Mildred B. Hehre
New York 17, N. Y.
Wonder how that Canada Dry tasted?
—Editor
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
HEALTH SPOT o ?.........
SHOES
TOR MEN WOMEN ANO CHILDREN
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
^Vlarvin .
JEWELERS
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
HOE. LaSalle
The Scholastic
s	Mato?

This instrument measures the acuity of your eyes for reading without handicap
YOU CAN READ TWICE AS MUCH
IN THE SAME TIME
Cover your assignments more thoroughly in less time. No matter how fast your present reading rate, you can more than double it and have higher comprehension too.
You can actually cover twice as much study reading in the same time you are now spending. The greatest amount of your study time is spent in reading—why not get the maximum benefit from it?
Learn how your reading skills compare with recommended standards.
Stop in. for a free copy of the booklet “You Can Read Better.” It tells you how you can master this amazing study skill in only 20 fascinating hours of practice.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING 114 E. LaSalle Avenue Phone 3-0077
Oct. 12, 1950	27
D
0
flat
in
Jgawtte5
Let R.O. Mc CORMICK teHyou how to-
BE YOUR OWN CIGARETTE EXPERT
B YOU smell that milder Cv YOU smoke Chesterfields
At YOU buy a pack of Chesterfields and you open it up.
tobacco aroma. No other cigarette has it.
and prove what every tobacco man knows...
tobaccos that SMELL MlLDER-SMOKE MILDER /
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER-JAVA, VA.
^prOve Whatfproved westerfe/d;s
vre based on {
hQ {Qrno^ ^9e play
z