Volume 73
February 9, 1940
Number 15
FRANKLIN Delano Seniors Vote Roosevelt will spend for Roosevelt four more years in the White House, if November voters cast their presidential ballots in accord with 177 Seniors interviewed in a survey conducted by The Scholastic last week-end. Roosevelt received three times as many votes as his nearest Democratic competitor, twice as many as his nearest Republican opponent.	(See page 5)
MR. FRANK J. Sheed, Sheed Lecture author and lecturer, Monday Night founder of the publishing house of Sheed and Ward, will lecture in Washington Hall, Monday evening, at 8 o’clock. His topic will be: “The Modern Idea of God.” Mr. Sheed has addressed well over 3,000 street - corner and indoor meetings in England and America. (See page 5)
A VETERAN squad, Nickmen Ready of topnotch Hilltopper for Marquette Trackmen, a dirt track, and an uncertain Irish ‘ squad of thinlies, decidedly weak in reserve power, will all play their parts tomorrow afternoon when Marquette comes to Notre Dame to open the indoor track season.	(See page 12)
'	SAFETY is the watch-
Bengal Boxing word of the Bengal Classes Begin Bouts. Special classes in boxing fundamentals and ring craft begin Monday evening, at 8 o’clock, in the light apparatus room of the Memorial. Inexperienced fighters will receive special help from Prof. Dominic Napolitano. (Seepage H)
Floorman Ed Riska — Irish risk six-game winning streak against undefeated New York University in Garden tomorrow night. (See page 12)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack Willmann
Obiter Dicta
Running the gamut of collegiate popularity from ankle-sox to zebra-striped pajamas is enough trivia to foment bull sessions over carbonates and after lights. Each semester has its peculiar history that is universal from the U. of Maine to San Diego Junior College. The past semester was no exception. Saddleshoes survived from the previous year, and cardigan sweaters were the dominating piece of feminine array. Trousers were rolled, but last year’s socks cut from Joseph’s coat gave way to more sedate hosiery featuring solid colors and vertical ribs. The juke-box became a heavy item on every student’s entertainment budget.
However the most striking trend was an advertance to philosophy—in particular to an old Chinaman who made some pretty serious observations in his day. Most liberal are his translators, and his quotations are more widely circulated than the reports of transactions on Wall Street.
Stay Out of the Breadlines
To the old question, “Does college pay?” there have been given a multitude of answers. There is the intellectual cult that preaches learning for culture’s sake, and the “put it down in black and white” pragmatist who argues that a college is only as good as the job it can get you. The final word was recently given by sage Uncle Sam who authorized a study by the U. S. Office of Education. 56,000 graduates of 31 colleges between 1928 and 1935 contribute the following statistics: sixty per cent have never been unemployed; 98 per cent have never been on relief; the average graduate is making $1,300 one year out of school and he doubles the salary in the next eight years; and the divorce rate is lower among college graduates than among people in general.
Pardon Our Knife
A man, seeing another man swimming off the Florida coast, yelled: “Hey, aren’t you afraid of the sharks?”
Swimmer: “Heck, no. I’m tattooed.”
Observer: “What’s that got to do with sharks?”
Swimmer: “I’ve got Tenn is the best college in Pennsylvania’ tattooed on my chest, and even a shark wouldn’t swallow that.”
—The Log.
“In the Mood . . .”
Is the best record of last semester, but the critics and dancers are of a mind to indulge in that banal past-time —saying good-bye to swing music. Any name, whether jazz, jive, barrel-house, or bogie-woogie, is still just as hot. The ins and outs of hot rhythm is an open and a moot question, but without question it will be the King himself, Benny Goodman at the Georgetown Prom .... “Delta Rhythm” by Bob Zurke at Stephen’s Mid-winter Formal .... Jan Savitt and the Tophatters providing shuffle music for the Ohio State Prom. . . . Hal Kemp and Eddy Duchin at Auburn .... and our seniors are speculating on the choice of a Ball band.
Birth of a Pulp
Varsity, a college news magazine, went into publication to give America’s collegians a Time magazine of their own category. Priced at ten cents, the presentation issue was well received by the more intimate Parade viewers. Pictorially resplendent, and typographically accurate, Varsity is all that its name implies. It does not throw its scope to the shoddy angle of the humorists or to
“When will Mommy get home from the Prom?”
the rah rah devotees. It has interest to _ the alumni, faculty, undergraduates, and
the folks back home. It sums up the college scene in its columns which cover campus headlines, cartoons, world news, athletics, fashions, music, cinema, travel, radio, and editorials. A long and spirited life to Varsity.
Recommended for Reveille
If those morning bells are not sufficient to rouse you out of bed, try this device as perpetrated by a Brown University sophomore. He has his alarm connected with a phonograph so that the bleating alarm releases a switch that starts the phonograph. He hears: “Get up, Bill. Get up.”
The first message is gentle and seductive, but if the sleeper is reluctant it continues: “Now, Bill, don't give us any of that stuff. No, don’t turn over again. You know what will happen if you sleep through another eight o’clock class.”
If still unheeded, the record roars: “Do you hear me? Hey, hey get up, before I call out the militia.”
Native Wit
A Ubangi young man had a stammer That greatly diminished his glamour.
He’d try to make quips
But his overstretched lips
Would crack like a riveter’s hammer.
—The Pointer.
Vindicated
The most recent national pool of the Student Opinion Surveys indicates that a majority of American college students themselves, including members of fraternities and sororities, disapprove of that once traditional form of campus sublimation—hazing. Only 32 per cent of all students approve of the pranks and tortures that initiates and frosh have endured for generations. Many of those polled frowned only on corporal punishment, but 48 percent expressed unqualified disapproval of all hazing. The oddity of the survey concerned the freshmen who as a class voted most strongly in favor of hell-week.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
OPINION
Top of the Week
Joe Junior’s renege on a two heart bid. . .
Et tu, Jim Farley
. . .Backfires from the Prom bring the notable tale of a group of young swains being led to the dance by a campus politician. . . This fact in itself is not eventful, but consider the sight of toppers, white scarfs, and tails, streaming from the real’ of a delivery truck . . . Also the, to quote Fortune, “horrific look” on Henry Busse’s face when he overheard this genial blast, “The music would be O. K. if he’d only sell that corny trumpet”. . . The latest in weekend permissions was by those boys who accompanied their dates to Chicago on the South Shore Sunday afternoon . . . Once on the train they discovered that Fr. Trahey was aboard, too.... with perfect finesse they asked him for permission . . . but what if he had said “no?”. . .
❖
On the Glee Club circuit
The vocal pilgrimage shattered all former beliefs: They do not serve the worst food in the world here . . . contrary to popular belief the glee club’s blue plate specials are alleged to have topped everything else. . . .
❖
Still Afeudin’
“From the beautiful Palais Royale Ballroom in downtown South Bend, In-niannaaa” . . . Sporting his best, but still misplaced, inflections, The Perishingscope brought us the Prom, more or less ... If it weren’t for Studebaker, we wouldn’t have known where the fair city was located ... If we overlook a number of things . . . “inimitable Busse rhythm,
etc.” . . . we find that he did an otherwise excellent job ... I guess. . .
.y
Habit forming, isn’t it?
I miss your kiss, your soft caress, your softly arching brows,
My tails and gloves are laid away, no more do we carouse.
Our day is done, the Juniors say, till early Easter’s dawn,
And then, my love, once more we play; but still The Week goes on.
Let’s talk this thing over
Gorging themselves, the Scholastic staff was annoyed by the arrival of a vexed Thomas Carty cashing in on his ■ editorship . . . wanted to know how the Scholastic rated food when the appointment-makers of the Dome were left with open beaks . . . perhaps they should be referred to one philosophy prof’s cure for the economic depression . . . the two South Sea Islanders who made their respective livings by taking in each other’s washing ... we suggest that TC start looking for another native with some dirty shirts. . .
❖
Classroom etiquette
Out of the far-flung haunts of the Journalists comes a scribe with the report of an enthusiastic professor. After the bespectacled teacher had completed twenty minutes of lecture, he asked if there were any questions. Upon receiving no response, he hit the boys directly between the eyes with, “Since there are no questions, and I realize fully how much you gentlemen dislike first day classes—we shall now proceed with class in the usual manner” . . .
♦
With Malice Towards Some
Hearty congrats to the Prom Committee on their soft and romantic decorations, their Macy’s basement bids, and the plethora of “comps” which they showered about with de rigeur abandon.
Question of the Week: In your opinion should the Senior Ball be held at the Palais Royale or on the campus? The question was addressed to eight seniors and one junior, Frank Wemhoff, who voted for the Palais Royale. Final count read: Palais Royale—1; campus— 8.
Sorin—Ronald Rejent: “I’d like to see it at the Rockne Memorial because that is the fitting place for the last official dance of the senior class.”
James McClarren: “I’m of the opinion that the dance should be held in the Rockne Memorial because the campus is best suited—more collegiate.”
Leo Facteau: “Last year it was held in the Memorial and it went over fine. I think it makes it more at home and different from the other dances.”
Walsh—Art Lancaster: “On the campus. For one thing it would be more like a college dance. By the time you are a senior you get pretty tired of going to the Palais. Besides, it makes a better impression on the date.”
Jerry Donovan: “Campus by all means. Convenient, picturesque, and fitting for the dance.”
Tom Browning: “I prefer the dance to be held on the campus. Why? Last year it was held here and with great success. Even the Dining Hall would be weir suited for it, once cleared out.”
Alumni—James Cleary: “My opinion is that we have waited for four years and there should be a distinction for the seniors. It should be held on the campus because it marks the Senior Ball off from the others.”
Paul Menneg: “Campus naturally. Mainly because of the atmosphere that is created by holding the dance on the campus. Last year’s Senior Ball was the best held in the history of the school.”
Howard — Frank Wemhoff: “Palais Royale. I don’t know what all the boys are complaining about I have a swell time at the Palais every Saturday night.”
—Don. Heltzel
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered aa second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
February 9,1940.
No. 15.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT RECEIVING HONORARY LL.D. IN 1935
Seniors Endorse Roosevelt
In Poll of ’40 Candidates
Democrats Outvote GOP;
Garner, McNutt Trail
Franklin Delano Roosevelt will spend four more years in the White House, if November voters cast their presidential ballots in accord with 177 Seniors interviewed in a survey conducted by The Scholastic last week-end. 103 Seniors registered Democratic — of these 68 voted for Roosevelt, 24 for Vice-president John Nance Garner, and 20 for Social Security Administrator Paul V. McNutt.
The 74 Republicans interviewed favored Thomas E. Dewey, District Attorney of New York City, over Arthur J. Vandenburg, Senator from Michigan, as presidential nominee in the fall election. Dewey received 31 votes to Vanden-burgs’s 27, with Robert Taft, Senator
from Ohio, running third with 15 votes. A tabulation of the voting by first, sec-
ond and third places		follows:		
Candidate	1st	2nd 3rd		Total
Dem. Roosevelt	68	24	24	116
Gamer	24	36	38	98
McNutt	20	36	39	95
Rep. Dewey	31	25	18	74
Vandenburg	27	32	26	85
Taft	15	23	25	63
Summary:	Roosevelt		received three	
times as many votes as his nearest Democratic competitor and twice as many as his nearest Republican opponent. He received almost twice as many votes as his three Republican opponents combined. Garner edged out McNutt by three votes for second place on the Democratic ticket. Only four votes separated Dewey from Vandenburg in the Republican balloting for first place.
To obtain an accurate determination of student opinion on this question The Scholastic plans to poll the entire campus. The results of a complete poll
should evidence the amount of thought students, many of whom will vote in November, devote to problems of politics and national affairs.
Present plans for conducting The Scholastic poll are: each issue will contain a printed ballot which the student of the designated hall should clip, fill out and place in the box placed for that purpose at some convenient spot in his hall. Ballots should be cast no later than noon of the Sunday after the ballot is received. This week the halls to be sounded are Cavanaugh and Zahm. Current results will be printed in succeeding issue of The Scholastic. Cavanaugh and Zahm ballots will be found on page 16.
Sheed Lectures Monday On Modem Idea of God
Mr. Frank J. Sheed, author and lecturer, who is best known as founder of the publishing house of Sheed & Ward, will lecture Monday in Washington Hall at 8:00 p.m. His topic will be: “The Modern Idea of God.” Mr. Sheed is an Australian of Irish descent, and graduated from Sydney University with first-class honors and two degrees, A.B. and LL.B.
Instead of practicing law in England, he founded a Catholic publishing house which aims at being a medium of expression for the whole Catholic world. In 1927, with his wife, Maisie Ward, he established the London house of Sheed & Ward; in 1933 he opened an American office for the company. Among the authors whose books he has published are Chesterton, Belloc, Monsignor Sheen, Arnold Lunn (sometime Notre Dame professor), Jacques Maritain, Etienne Gilson and Henri Greon.
Mr. Sheed is the author of Nullity of Marriage, A Map of Life, Communism and Man, and Groundplan for Catholic Reading (a pamphlet). So has he contributed to leading Catholic reviews, and is now a regular European correspondent for the Franciscan. As a member of the Westminster Catholic Evidence Guild, Mr. Sheed has addressed well over 3000 street-corner and indoor meetings in England and America in the last fifteen years.
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Marquette First Debate
Opponent For Varsity
Albert Funk and William Meier will open the varsity debate season when they take the negative side of the question: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt a policy of strict military and economic isolation toward all nations outside the western hemisphere engaged in armed international or civil conflict,” against Marquette University in the auditorium of the Engineering Building next Wednesday evening, Feb. 14, at 8 o’clock. This debate will be a non-decision contest. The 1940 schedule:
Feb. 14_____.Marquette Univ., Here (Non-decision) Feb. 23-24__Manchester Tournament, North Manchester, Ind. (A and B teams)
Feb. 29, March 1 & 2____Delta Sigma Rho Tournament, Iowa City
March 2____________Discussion over WJJD, Chicago
March 6_____Michigan State, Here (Date tentative)
March 13____Michigan State, There (Date tentative)
March 25___________Canisius College Buffalo, N. Y.
March 26____St. John’s University, Brooklyn, N. Y.
March 28________________Princeton, Princeton, N. J.
March 29_________Pennsylvania, Phila., Pa. (Radio) April 3__________Princeton, Here
April 15____________________Leland Stanford, Here
Vanadium Executive To
Address Metals Society
Jerome Strauss, New York, vice-president of the Vanadium Corporation of America, presents the feature address on “Metallurgical Applications of Vanadium” at the joint meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals with the Michiana chapter of American Foundrymen’s Association, at 8 p.m., Wednesday, Feb. 14, at the University Engineering Auditorium.
Mr. Strauss will review the properties imparted by vanadium to ferrous alloys, including steel and cast iron, and special applications that have resulted from such properties. The technical session, which will be illustrated, follows the 6:45 p.m. dinner in the University Dining Hall.
The speaker received the degree of Mechanical Engineer from Stevens Institute of Technology, where he won the Priestly Prize in Chemistry and the Stillman Prize in Applied Technology. After leaving Stevens Institute he entered the metallurgical department of Illinois Steel Company, later spending several years with Western Drop Forge Company, becoming chief chemist and metallurgist in this organization. From 1923 to 1928 he was materials engineer in the United States Naval Gun Factory, Washington, D. C. In 1924 he resigned a commission as captain in the United States Ordnance Reserve, a commission which he had held for several years. He
became chief research engineer in Vanadium Corporation of America in 1928, and vice-president in 1935.
Mr. Strauss is a member of ASM and of AFA, as well as other American and foreign engineering societies. He is author of several papers dealing with research in the field of corrosion-resisting steels and irons. He has been chairman of the ASTM committee which deals with iron-chromium, iron-chromi-um-nickel, and related alloys, since the foundation of the committee in 1926. Recently he was elected as director of the American Standards Association.
—Bill Scanlon
Jerome Strauss
Fr. Ward Is Chairman
Of Second Symposium
The philosophy symposium on “Religion and Modem Society” which is to be held at Notre Dame on Friday and Saturday, Feb. 16 and 17, will have the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Professors Francis J. O’Malley and Daniel O’Grady of the Notre Dame faculty as participants. Father Ward will use “The Relevance of the Thomistic Conception of Religion” as his topic. Mr. O’Malley will speak on “Contemporary Literature and the Religious Attitude Toward Life,” while Mr. O’Grady will take part in a round table discussion on “The Secularization of the Human Person.”
Others scheduled to take part in the symposium will be A. C. Pegis of Fordham University who will speak on “Nominalism and the Educational Ideals of a Catholic College,” and Bernard J. Muller-Thym of St. Louis University whose topic will be “Self-Knowledge and Mysti
cism.” Rev. John K. Ryan of Catholic University of America will discuss “Religion and Nationalism.” “St. Thomas and the Christian Cultural Dynamic” is the subject of the talk to be given by Robert Pollock of Fordham University. Professor Walter M. Horton of Oberlin College will present “The Present Position of Protestantism.” The following men will discuss “The Secularization of the Human Person” at the round table meeting: Richard Gabel, DeSales College; E. Jordan, Butler University; William H. Kane, Dominican House of Studies, River Forest; Samuel C. Kincheloe, The Chicago Theological Seminary; and Mr. O’Grady of the Notre Dame faculty.
This is the second symposium to be held under the auspices of the University of Notre Dame, and Father Leo R. Ward has arranged the program and is to serve as general chairman. In addition to those taking part in the discussions, more than six hundred philosophy teachers and students from the East and the Mid-West are expected to attend.
John Casey
Haas To Guest-Lecture
For Philosophy School
Professor Arthur Haas, of the Department of Physics, will present five popular lectures on “The Modem Conception of the Physical World,” beginning Monday, Feb. 12, and continuing each Monday through March 11. These lectures will be presented under the auspices of the Department of Philosophy, of which the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., is department head.
The first lecture, Monday, Feb. 12, will deal with “Ultimate Particles and • Physical Forces.” In this lecture Professor Haas will deal with the following: (1) The atomistic principle; (2) Electrons, protons and neutrons as stable particles; (3) Positrons and mesotrons as unstable particles; (4) Photons as constituents of light; (5) Transmutations of ultimate particles; (6) Conservation of electricity; (7) Equivalence of matter and energy; (8) The gravitational forces; (9) The electric forces and (10) The forces binding together the ultimate particles.
Each lecture of the series, to be held in the Engineering Auditorium, will start at 8:00 p.m. Everyone interested is invited to attend.—Ray Donovan
The Scholastic extends sincere sympathy to the parents of William Madell, freshman, who died in Plymouth, Indiana, a week ago.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Things I Never Knew
About St. Valentine’s Day
That Saint Valentine had nothing to do with the practice of sending valentines nor did he do anything in his lifetime to give rise to such a practice. . . .
That there are at least two Saint Valentines. Moreover, the Church celebrates the feast of seven other martyrs on Feb. 14.
That the practice of sending valentines originated as part of the celebration of the pagan festival of Pan and Juno. Since the feast occurred about the middle of February, the early Christians chose the feast of Saint Valentine to celebrate the substitute custom.
That the celebration of Saint Valentine’s Day used to be one of great social importance in Old England, dating back to 1446. That one of the superstitions of English peasants for the celebration of this day was that the birds chose their mates on February 14.
That it used to be the custom to give a gift to the one who became your valentine. . . . That superstition really ran wild in its association with this day. For one, the first of the opposite sex that a person met on his or her morning walk would be his or her valentine and true love for life.
That the person about whom you dreamed on Valentine Eve would marry you within the year. Here is a dream producer of one girl, “I boiled an egg hard, and took out the yolk and filled it with salt; then I went to bed and ate the egg, shell and all.”
Still another way of finding a truelove was to write the names of several
boy-friends on pieces of paper and wrap each piece in a clay ball. The balls of clay were then put in a pail of water and the first one to rise to the top would contain the true-love’s name.
That even in the sixteenth century comic valentines had made their appearance. One writer, deploring their use and reminiscing about the “good old days,” says. “Formerly the letters contained a courteous profession of attachment from some young man to some young maiden, honeyed with compliments to her various perfections and expressive of a hope that his love might meet with return.”—Harry Penrose
N. D. School of Music
Officially Recognized
On Feb. 18th the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will present its first concert of the year at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Classical compositions predominate on the tentative program. It includes selections from Wagner’s music dramas, Die Meistersinger, Lohengrin, and Rienzi; Mozart’s Concerto No. 5 in A Major; and from Ippolitow-Ivanow’s Caucasian sketches, “The Entrance of the Sidar.”
An added treat for music lovers is George Gaska, who will play several violin solos. Mr. Gaska is concert-meister of the South Bend and Fort Wayne symphonies, and conductor of the South Bend Junior Symphony.
He studied under Prof. Ingersoll of Notre Dame, then with Prof. Czerwonky, internationally noted violinist and composer. The Notre Dame Symphony, with Prof. Daniel Pedtke as impresario, will accompany Mr. Gaska as he plays
the Mozart Concerto for violin in A Major.
Recently the Music Department of the University was officially accredited by the Indiana Musical Association. For recognition, courses in this department must correspond with the requirements of the National Association of Music Schools. Other bases for recognition are practice, teaching facilities, extent of the library, and faculty of the department. Mr. Pedtke is head of the Department of Music.
“Notre Dame offers excellent courses balanced by the academic background of the Liberal Arts school, which many institutions of music lack,” Mr. Pedtke stated. Growing importance of this department is demonstrated by this year’s increase in the number- of music majors.
—Jim Brugger
Fr. Cunningham Elected
To Conference Office
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., was elected vice-president of the National Conference of Church-Related Colleges at the annual meeting held in Philadelphia on Jan. 11 and 12. The conference is composed of about 400 colleges which are affiliated with churches, about 50 of which are Catholic. Father Cunningham had previously been one of the three Catholics on the conference committee, which is composed of 15 members.
In his capacity as vice-president, Father Cunningham is now a member of the executive committee. The whole purpose of the conference is to show that religion is an integral part of higher education. — Robert LeMense
Professors Pedtke and Ingersoll, and the University Symphony Orchestra
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Student Forum
THE PROBLEM OF CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHY
By Alfred Callan
one
Al Callan
Truth, by its very nature, cannot be confined exclusively to one person or to persons. That which we call philosophical truth likewise finds itself in no way wedded to the devotees of some cabalistic inner-circle. It cannot, in other words, be confined to any one system of philosophy. There is a greater or less degree of truth to be found in all schools,
but a monopoly or edge on this precious but elusive product is in no manner possible. Truth is a transcendental attribute of being, and with ontological necessity stretches beyond all finite limitations. To achieve the most profound truths of philosophy, man need not be identified with any school or any philosophical movement. His only need is a functioning intellect.
If, therefore, the object of philosophy is truth, and truth does possess this universal nature, how can we possibly speak of such a thing as Christian philosophy? Does it not seem like a contradiction in terms? No one would ever argue for the existence, or even the possibility of a Christian chemistry or physics; and for the same obvious reasons, it would seem absurd to posit the reality of a Christian philosophy. What do we mean? Does this term signify something of purely historical or methodological importance, or does it possess some definite significance, an intrinsic positive aspect?
We thus find ourselves faced with a twofold problem; not only must we determine whether a Christian philosophy is possible, but we must also proceed to find out whether such a thing ever existed.
In its connotative sense, the term Christian implies something intimately associated with faith and the Bible. A belief in the Divinity of Christ, as well as an acceptance of the truths of revelation are the notes which are necessarily contained within this concept. Philosophy, on the contrary, signifies something of a. purely rational nature, divorced completely from the testimony of authority and the trammels of faith. How
then is it possible to link up these two ideas and produce a synthesis which at the same time is both philosophy and Christianity? As a starting point, it might well be observed that the truths of faith and reason can never conflict, for truth is one, and what is true in Christianity must likewise be true in philosophy. If an apparent conflict does take place, the error can inevitably be traced to the defectiveness of man’s reason, rather than to divinely inspired revelation.
If we examine the history of Christianity, we will discover that certain beliefs were always held to be true by Christians. They were accepted on faith alone, and as far as we know no one even attempted to justify them rationally. Later on, however, when the great Christian minds began to philosophize, it was discovered that many of these truths could be established on the grounds of reason also. The idea of creation, for example, was to be found in Genesis, yet no Greek mind ever approached the conception of this unique work of God. The Christian thinkers proved that such a work not only was possible, but philosophically necessary. The notion of a single, self-subsisting God was another philosophical truth achieved by Christian minds. The Greeks had demonstrated the necessity of a first cause and a prime mover, but it was only under the stimulus of revelation that a relatively adequate notion of a single Deity could be established. The key to this important truth was to be found in the book of Exodus, in which God tells Moses who He is. Ego sum, qui sum, He said, and from this was deduced the supreme truth of Christian philosophy, the fact that God was a being, whose essence was to exist. “I am who am” meant that God was Being itself.
Truths of this nature are purely philosophical because they are the works of reason, and Christian because they were developed by Christian minds under the influence and inspiration of Christian revelation. As a matter of historical fact,we see that a whole system of thinking developed in this manner, and it is this body of thought that we call Christian philosophy. At first sight, it would appear superfluous and unnecessary that God should reveal that which reason
alone can know. Nevertheless, we see that even the greatest minds in history, including the combined genius of Plato and Aristotle, never as much as approached these problems. On this point, too, St. Thomas tells us that God found it wise to inject such truths into revelation because most men either have not the intelligence, the time, or the energy to reason them out for themselves. Yet there is always a sharp cleavage between faith and reason, and the one is never confused with the other. Christian philosophy is not religion; it is philosophy —perfectly good philosophy.
Weather Loses Friends
And Alienates People
One Tuesday morning, the wind blew, the snow fell, the sun thought of rising, and the hall bells (subtle as avalanches) hinted the hour to inmates lost in dreams of apple pie for dinner. The sun almost forgot to rise, and so did some of the inmates; but the wind kept blowing and the snow falling. This one could hear and see from behind closed windows and locked doors. But there was something else to learn, and once the doors opened, it was an easy lesson. The thermometer had palpitations of the heart, a headache, cold chills, and a charley-horse. It had passed beyond the land of the living to fifteen degrees below zero.
To the Dining Hall began the trek for the wherewithal to keep body and soul together. After about 100 yards of it, one fourth of the aspirants to breakfast figured body and soul weren’t worth it, or wouldn’t be, when and if they arrived. Two hundred yards and even Brownson-ites and Carrollonians dropped by the way side. Three hundred and only Dillon, Alumni, Badin and Howard were left. Four hundred, and breakfast was served only to Dillon.
On the return trip several from the Upper Peninsula and North Dakota, with strains of St. Bernard in them, used shovels and stretchers to exhume those buried in snow drifts. Earmuffs blossomed for morning classes and heads, shrouded with mufflers, struck a quaint peasant motif. Fellows from Georgia moaned for civilization where “A man’s breath don’t trail fahve steps behind him.” Eskimos from Minnesota belittled the weather. “When it gets this warm we travel in shirt sleeves.” But the Dining Hall attendance was still sparse at lunch.
And at dinner it was sparser. The cold continued. The snow formed intricate patterns on the trees, and the frost did as artistic a job on the beards
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
of those with broken elbows. The gale on the quad whipped up to 55 m.p.h. and in self protection convoys were organized to pick up the wounded as they fell when crossing. Conversation died in the Dining Hall and they spoke of Easter as “If I get home” instead of “When I get home.”
Then came the blessed relief. The thermometer shot to ten above. The weather became balmy. The snow thawed a little and people, missing for days, were found sitting in snow drifts where they had been studying for mid-years’, whiling away the time. Another day and it was fifteen above. Then twenty. One evening, about a week later, Notre Dame was back to normal. The Dining Hall was full for dinner. —William Keenan
Three Added To Faculty
As New Semester Begins
With the examinations a thing of the past, with the headache of registration lines over, and with a new semester following in its wake comes the news of faculty changes. Mr. James A. Withey will join the Department of English in the' capacity of associate professor of English. Mr. Withey received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1926 and the following year he was given his master’s degree. He taught at Notre Dame from 1926 until 1938, when he took a leave of absence because of illness.
Robert Speaight, prominent English actor and novelist, will offer a course in Shakespeare. He has been known to the University since last summer, when he offered the same course and gave a series of public lectures in the University Theatre. Before that time, he had completed an acting engagement with Orson Welles in the combined production of Shakespeare’s historical plays. Earlier, he appeared as the lead in T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral,” in England and in the United States. Mi*. Speaight is also the author of an historical study of St. Thomas a Becket and other works.
Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., formerly of the French Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, will be added to the faculty of the Department of History, where he will teach a course in the history of western Europe.
—John Poivers
An announcement by the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science, states that all seniors in that college should have a written report on their thesis in his office on or before Feb. 15.
Prom And Busse’s Band
Enjoyed By 300 Couples
Henry Busse’s trumpet, a cleverly decorated Palais Royale ballroom, and more than 300 couples made the 1940 edition of Notre Dame’s Annual Junior Promenade a huge success.
Among the guests were Miss Mary Elizabeth Messner, who accompanied General Chairman Lawrence Burns, and Miss Patricia Rogers, guest of Class President Clarence Marquardt.
Saturday afternoon the tea dance was held in the Progress Club. Chairman Walter Cronin and guest, Miss Betty Wink, presided over the festivities.
Henry Busse
Richard Whalen Wins
$100 Beaux Arts Prize
Notre Dame wins again! This time it was on a drawing board where a number of Notre Dame student architects produced award winning designs. This recognition was given in January in a design contest sponsored by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, in New York City.
A first mention place won a prize of §50 for Richard Whalen of Yonkers, N. Y. A first mention place went to John McHugh, Springfield, Ohio, and Robert Nolan, Louisville, Ky. Milton Paskin, South Bend, and Douglas Haley, Vallejo, Calif., won mentions. The problem in this division was a decision for a seashore restaurant.
Camiel Bracke, John Carney, William Ford, and George Supplitt won mentions for their designs of an archaic temple of
Athena. Mr. Carney and Mr. Ford won mentions while Mr. Bracke won a halfmention with designs for an entrance through a garden wall.
An interesting article in connection with the above was written by Charles B. Driscoll in his syndicated “New York” column. Following is the article quoted in full: “We’re all mighty proud, at our house, to read in the papers that Richard Whalen, a neighbor’s boy, has won high honor at Notre Dame University. He has landed first prize in all the nation for an architectural design. Though only a junior, he designed a shore restaurant. The plan will be given national publication in connection with the Beaux Arts award. Richard’s father was a policeman. We knew him well. Many a time he piloted our little girls to safety through traffic. . One day, six years ago, Officer Patrick Whalen was walking his beat on Broadway. Half a block in front of him he saw the sidewalk heave, flames and debris shooting high into the air.
“Someone had blundered again, saving money in installation of electrical apparatus in front of a theater. Overloaded, the machinery had blown up. Whalen ran toward the explosion. He got there just in time to see a little girl topple into the pit whence the flames were shooting. Not hesitating a second the policeman leaped into the hole. He lived just long enough to toss the child to safety.
“Patrick Wlialen’s widow has devoted her life, since then, to rearing her son and daughters as worthy children of a hero. Of course, the regular allotment that goes from the police pension fund to widows of officers who died in line of duty, helps. All in all, you can understand why we are especially proud of young Richard, and why we hope he will become a great architect.”
—Robert LeMense
Fr. Reddington Directs
Repair Of Fire Damage
Nearly two weeks of work still remains to be done on the Administration Building, Carroll Hall wash rooms, and shower room for both Carroll and Brownson halls, the Rev. John Reddington, C.S.C., director of the University Maintenance department, announced this week. The damage, estimated at about $10,000, and confined to the locker room of the building, the shower room and locker room, occurred during a fire on Sunday morning, January 28.
Rollins College this year has an equal number of men and women students.
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disae Quasi Semper Vic turns Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
William Kelleher, Art Editor
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland,
Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff. 7:00 P.M.
Dies was guilty of collusion with Silver Shirtist Pelley. As evidence he produced two supposedly authentic letters from Pelley to Dies disclosing the details of the alleged agreement. But this week Representative Hook’s charges backfired, as the letters were discovered to be deliberate forgeries, admittedly part of a plot to “get” the Dies committee by fair means or foul. Perpetrators of the plot, the confessed forger charged, were a former lobbyist for a “nonpartisan” league and a former employee of a “civil liberties” committee.
If Representative Hook is, as he maintains, the innocent victim of unscrupulous antagonists of the Dies committee, he should be thankful that more serious consequences did not result from his rash action. But the whole affair is not the sort of thing that one likes to read about at a time when the most momentous affairs in twenty years are taking place in Washington. It smacks too much of the Zioncheck school of statesmanship.—Donald A. Foskett
Across the Editor’s Desk
Tails, You Lose
CALL IT,’’ said Mr. Newland. “Heads,” cried Mr. Foskett, not too confidently. The coin spun round the table, clattered dead beneath some ragged copy marked “The Week,” over which Mr. McGowan’s flowing Palmer had added the phrase, “Late again.”
Mr. Newland retrieved the coin. “Tails,” he shouted gleefully, then pointed at Foskett, who was cowering in the corner behind the Folder. “Ya gotta write the editorial again,” added Mr. Newland, unnecessarily and ungrammatically.
“That guy Fay never writes an editorial,” snarled Foskett with rare sportsmanship. He walked with heavy tread to our other typewriter—it was eleven o’clock on Thursday morning, one hour before what would be known in more professional circles as a deadline.....
Mr. Hook Muffs
THERE’S a pretty pungent odor drifting from the banks of the Potomac these days and it isn’t coming from Washington’s famous cherry trees. For some months now Congressman Martin F. Dies and his committee on un-American activities have busied themselves with the sizeable task of discovering, interrogating, and exposing those persons or groups of persons engaged in activities subversive to the Government of the United States. That there is need for
such a committee we feel there is little doubt. The very existence of a potentially dangerous organization like Brooklyn’s radical “Christian Front” or of anti-Semetic, hence anti-Christian, groups like Dudley Pelley’s Silver Shirts and Fritz Kuhn’s German-American Bund testifies to the presence of a trend of political thought deleterious to the interests of a government founded on the democratic ideal. Just how strong this anti-democratic sentiment is and to what extremes its subscribers intend to go, we do not profess to know. That is the purpose and the business of the committee itself.
Some have objected to the manner in which Congressman Dies and his committee have conducted their investigations. They may have sound reasons. Let it be understood that we advocate a committee to investigate subversive activities, not necessarily the Dies committee. Some have charged that the committee has discriminated against the communist-affiliated groups while paying comparatively little attention to their fellow-radicals, the Nazi-Fascist-affiliat-ed groups. Personally we think not. The fact that more Communists than Fascists have been examined (and exonerated) is, we think, only another indication that the Communist movement is the more widespread of the two.
But to get back to that disagreeable odor. We first noticed it sometime last week when Representative Frank Hook of Michigan charged that Representative
Charity Goes Abroad
APPARENTLY we have been taken in just as completely by the honesty of the Finns as we were by the dishonesty of the English and French. The Allies, who could not pay for the last war, are now spending more than seven million dollars daily in this country for munitions. And Finland, which kept up the installments on her independence, is now the recipient of a golden stream of dollars from the various newspaper subscription drives and Herbert Hoover’s war chest.
Where money is could England be far behind? British and French actors are turning over large sums to their governments from benefit performances in Hollywood and along the West coast— a section whose own poverty areas will be the basis of a picture adapted from the controversial Grapes of Wrath.
We can be interested in the maneuvers of the English and the French and the Germans as they play another hand in the game for power which has made Europe a continent of strife. We can sympathize with Finland—the “outpost of civilization,” as one writer put it— but the sympathy might better be emotional than financial.
Toledo and Cleveland, to name a few cities, have been hard put to meet their relief rolls the past months. , Perhaps what those who are always with us need is a little glamour.... Maybe old Sam Barry down on North Alley ought to invest his next relief check in a white snow suit and a pair of skis.
—William C. Fay.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Meier Plugs Russia;
Wranglers Back Finns
All you good, unprejudiced and unbiased men who have added a penny or two to Mr. Hoover’s Finnish relief fund
Bill Meier
please gather round and lend an ear to the words of Bill Meier, a stumpy little gentleman of 17 summers from the village of Faulkton, S. Dak. You see, Mr. Meier took Russia’s side, merely for the sake of argu-m e n t, at the Wranglers weekly conclave Wednesday evening.
Mr. Meier asked his listeners to divorce themselves from a discussion of the religious principles involved and to view the matter in the present-day attitude of a European caught in the channels of modern international European politics.
The defense of Russian tactics was based, therefore, on a study of the historical, economic, and political problems involved. The Finnish people and government were traced with the facts showing the peculiar social setup in Finland, their continued definite relationship with the Soviet Union, and their break-away from Russian domination to show that Finland had no political or economic foundation for the separation.
Finally, the peculiar military weakness of Russia on the Finnish front, and the following European policy of the Reds in taking precautionary methods for defense, showed that Russia was merely in step with other countries in insuring her future international integrity.
The Wranglers, of course, heaped protests on Meier’s views and the ultimate outcome was that Russia’s side of the case scarcely seemed justifiable.
—F. G. Barreda
Old Best Sellers Still
New For Local Readers
Among the 192,884 books assembled on the shelves of the University library, there are many thousands that contain the “life blood of master spirits treasured up on purpose to life beyond life.” For many famous and valuable volumes are here, including the Dante collection
wherein are found works valued from $500 to $3000 each.
According to Mr. Paul Byrne, the librarian, the University recently purchased the mathematics library of L. E. Dickson, retired professor of the University of Chicago. At the lending desk Mr. W. M. Cetty stated that many of last year’s favorites are still in popular demand. Numbered among these are Northwest Passage, Of Time and the River, The Yearling, and Drums Along the Mohawk. The non-fiction list contains Belbenoit’s description of Devil’s Island, Dry Guillotine, and two political books, Hitler’s Mein Kampf, and Buell’s Poland, Key to Europe. That last title has a certain gruesome significance just at present.
New books added recently include a novel by Jacques Ducharme, called Delusion Family, and two books of an autobiographical nature: The Bishop Jots it Down, by the Most Rev. Francis Clement Kelly, Bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa; and the life of Earnest Psichard, brilliant young French writer who holds in France the place held by Rupert Brooke in England.—Don Heltzel
Hanley’s Prize Oil An
Allegory of Old China
For the second time, a Notre Dame professor was awarded the Peter C. Riley award of $100 for the outstanding work of art submitted by an instructor
of a Catholic school in Indiana. Professor Francis J. Hanley’s “Sung and Samudai” was adjudged the best work of this field in the Hoosier Salon Patron’s Association annual exhibition in Chicago. The late Professor Emil Jacques also won this award.
The prize winning painting is a 36" x 30" still life in oil, which has as its theme an arrangement of oriental vases on a black satin brocade of the three flower-kingdoms of Old China. Diagonally across the composition is a carved ivory sword and sheath of the Japanese Samurai, the old knight class of feudal Japan. The title “Sung and Samurai,” is an allegory. A large blue mortuary urn dominates the picture, a red lacquer box, and white flowers in an amber vase, signify the death of Old China— the “Sung.” The Samaurai sword completes the allegory, signifying the Sword of Japan as it stretches across China.
Professor Stanley S'. Sessler, second prize winner in 1938, is also represented at the exposition. His contributions are “Nocturne, Notre Dame,” a landscape of the University with the gold dome shining in bright November moonlight, and “Robert Peggs, Esq.,” a portrait of Mr. Peggs, a South Bend resident, in informal equestrian style. Both Professors Hanley and Sessler’s paintings, along with 255 other paintings and 22 pieces of sculpture, will remain on exhibition for the duration of the show.
—Conway McDevitt
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAPTAIN LEONAS — MAKES 1940 HOME DEBUT
Monday by 20 points. The score was 57 2-3 to 37 1-3.
Notre Dame displayed plenty of the proper track etiquette as the relay team of Schiewe, Lawrence, Roy and Halpin took that event for a new record of 3:28. On his second try, Hester, Notre Dame’s substitute for Greg Rice, was beaten by inches in the one-mile. Reidy, Schiewe, and Prokop moved in as place winners in the low hurdles. Brosey won the shot-put event by heaving the weight 11 1-4 inches further than Fay-monville’s record toss of 47 feet of last year. Olbry’s performance in the 880 was considered good but not good enough to top State’s Fehr.
—Tom Powers
Track Team Faces Veteran
Marquette Squad Tomorrow
Violets Threaten Irish
Victory Chain at Garden
Coach George Keogan’s Fighting Irish basketeers left for the East yesterday where they will battle New York University’s unbeaten Violets in Madison Square Garden tomorrow. On Monday the Irish will stop off at Toledo to engage Toledo University.
Nicholson Gives Irish
Only “Outside Chance”
A veteran squad of experienced Hilltopper trackmen, a dirt track, and an uncertain Irish squad of thinlies decidedly weak in reserve power, will all play their parts tomorrow afternoon when Marquette comes to Notre Dame to open the indoor track season.
The track team that Marquette’s Coach Jennings will trot out on the dusty carpet of the Notre Dame fieldhouse will have everything that goes to constitute a track powerhouse. With several star reserves of “starting” quality for each position except the high jump, this year’s squad is considered one of the strongest to come out of the Milwaukee institution in many years. The roster is well fortified with such fine sprinters as Bendry, Kinert, Black, Shelton and Ber-tucci. In Herman Carr for the quartermile, Marquette has last year’s Central College Champion. But even he is backed up by reserves. In the pole vault, Earl Stolberg, another 1938 Central Collegiate Champion with a record of 13 ft., 9 in., stands out prominently. The squad boasts five distance runners in Francis, Papuga, Wickersham, Woods and Teir-nan. And so the story goes on down the
list, each event parlayed with good men. Only in the high jump and the broad jump where several sophomores are to be used, is there the slightest intimation of weakness.
Sharing a great part of this pre-meet pessimism is Notre Dame’s Coach Nicholson: “We have an outside chance of winning; I think we will be licked. We lack the reserve strength that Marquette has. We have good men but we can’t fight numbers forever. If the men are “right” they’ll carry the fight. But if they aren’t then there’s nothing to go back on. We are rather wide-open in two events.... the pole-vault and the mile. We’ve a good relay team and a strong hurdle combination. In fact with Reidy, Prokop and Schiewe the low hurdles are probably our strongest event. Brosey appears to be developing into one of the finest shot-putters Notre Dame has ever seen.”
However, there is another side to the question. Marquette tomorrow will have to cope with a track problem. They will race on a dirt track for the first time this season.
Another thing that may be an aid to the Irish is the fact that the meet Saturday will not be Notre Dame’s first encounter of 1940. The Irish. trimmed Michigan State in East Lansing last
The Irish carry an impressive six-game winning streak to the Garden and will attempt to continue their mass point-getting which has netted 681 points in 14 games, or 48.7 per game.
New York University’s record ranks the Violets among the National leaders —being unbeaten in 11 games. Coach Howard G. Cann’s unit has piled up 613 points in 11 games, averaging nearly 56 per game.
In facing N.Y.U.’s Violets the locals meet as high scoring a team as themselves. Led by the sophomore sensation, Kaplowitz, whom Metropolitan officials tabbed as one of the greatest players ever to perform for the Violets, the Easterners will present a fast, consistent offense which has several times rolled up scores in the 60’s. This undefeated aggregation is the same squad that Notre Dame edged out twice last year. Should the Blue and Gold win tomorrow night they will definitely be ranked among the leaders in national collegiate basketball.
According to reports from New York, the Violets are pointing for Notre Dame this year more than ever before. They have won only one game from the Irish since the series started in 1935 and are convinced that this is their year. The odds are against “the luck of the Irish” but Coach George Keogan has brought along a fighting team which has no regards for the odds thus far. A packed
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
house in the Garden tomorrow night will see whether or not Notre Dame can continue to held its spell over the Violets.
On the return trip to South Bend the Keoganites will stop off in Ohio for a battle with Toledo University’s fast stepping quintet. The Ohioans have been riding along at a fast pace, having lost only three games in 15 starts. Last week DePaul, who lost by one point to Southern Cal., beat them 37-35 for their third setback of the campaign.
In one of the roughest battles seen this year on the local court, the Irish avenged an early season Illinois triumph by trouncing the Orangemen 58-40 last Saturday. It was Notre Dame’s tenth victory in 14 starts and the fifth straight in which the Irish have scored 52 or more' points. It also kept intact the record of nine years standing in which the winner has alternated in the Illinois series.
Irish superiority in sinking charity tosses gave them an edge in the first half, but in the final 20 minutes they forged into the lead chiefly by virtue of greater accuracy from under the basket. They sank a higher percentage of their shots than the closely guarded Ulini. Ertel and Ellis held Illinois’ Hapac to 12 points while Eddie Biska garnered 13 for the Irish to lead the scoring.
—Chuck Farrell
Irish Point For Battle
With Chicago Fencers
“They beat us badly last year and this year they top the Big Ten, so our chances appear rather slim.” Thus Coach Walter E. Langford answered the question concerning the possible outcome of Saturday’s fencing meet with Chicago.
The Irish swordsmen invaded East Lansing last weekend and were sharply upset by Michigan State, 10-7. They are looking forward to February 24 when they will seek revenge in a match here.
Coach Langford, though disappointed with the blot on the season’s record, feels the defeat will set up the team’s mental attitude for the meet on the Midway.
So far this year, Gavan, Donavan, and Smalley, regular sabre experts, have set up the enviable record of 14 triumphs in 17 encounters.
A pretty fair country basketball team could be assembled from the ranks of the grid squad. Steve Sitko was on allstate performer in high school. Then add Tad Harvey, Bernie Crimmins, Johnny Kelly and Steve Bagarus, who has been crowding into Keogan’s second five of late.
Splinters From The Pressbox
Frank Aubrey
Last night George Keogan, Mark Ertel, and the rest of the Irish basketball contingent left for New York. Tomorrow they will make their annual appearance before the Metropolitan Basketball Connoisseurs Association, Incorporated, with headquarters at Madison Square Garden. A few weeks ago such a trip into the den of the basketball-mad Violets was looked upon as a lost cause, principally because Notre Dame had just absorbed four lickings from prominent teams while N.Y.U. was riding a crest of victories. The Violets had trimmed other eastern teams with ease, and in addition, had upheld their end very well against the influx of western and southern teams who had been enticed into the Garden’s prosperous double-bills. At present, N.Y.U. is still going strong, having slipped by Temple last week for its 16th straight win. But back home in Indiana things have changed.
After the Illinois floperoo over at Champaign Coach Keogan tried a new combination which involved replacing Ertel, Byan, and Klier with the two Smiths and Ellis. On paper that change appears to be the only evidence to explain the revolutionized play of the Irish, but there is more to it than that. Through the streak of four defeats the first combination played in spurts — sometimes hot, but more often, as though winning or losing was all the same to them. Some of the boys couldn’t work up any enthusiasm; easy does it — seemed to be the general plan of attack. That sort of attitude couldn’t cope with teams like Michigan, Southern California, and the like. But with new guards and a new center, and the roars of a student body once more behind them the whole team suddenly started playing ball. The defense, instead of being merely mechanical, became aggressive and hell-for-leather. Our shots began to go through the hoop all over the floor. It was unbelievable basketball to the crowd, but how they liked it! Game after game we began to pile up the points at such a rate that usually midway through the second half Coach Keogan could yank out the varsity and still finish the game with 50 or 55 points.
While we can’t take any credit away from the Smiths and Bex Ellis, the fact is, it was the greatly improved game of Klier, Byan, and Ertel which had put the team back on its feet. Given the
bench instead of a starting job, these boys woke up to the fact that they hadn’t been giving their all before this. Barely had Byan or Klier made over two baskets a night, though both are excellent shot-makers, and it was seldom that Mark Ertel had come up to his usual par. But once given an initial lay-off at the start of a game, this trio hit their stride.
So we’ve seen Bob and Don Smith and Bex Ellis start and play a quarter or so and get the ball rolling, and then the ‘seconds’ or ex-varsity enters and proceed to take charge. It has been this latter trio — Klier, Ertel, and Byan, which has been the more effective of the two, both offensively and defensively. It seems that all they needed was to be waked up and- shaken out of their lethargy. Last Saturday’s Illinois game is a good illustration of just what has been going on. Ellis and the Smiths started, and at the 13 minute marker, thanks to some phenomenal shooting by the Ulini, the score read 20 to 15 in their favor. In came Gene, Larry, Cap’n Mark, and the ‘scholarly’ Bed Oberbruner, and from then until three minutes of the second half had elapsed Illinois scored only two points, while the ‘new’ Irish ran the count up to 31-22. From the moment this new quartet entered the game, the tiring Ulini seemed to droop and lose their early effectiveness.
With such an effective result of player shuffling serving Coach Keogan as an ace up his sleeve, it is probable that he will continue his policy of starting the less-experienced men and then follow up with a timely substitution of the ‘varsity.’ And so, with the shock-troop system formerly attributed only to Notre Dame football, the Irish basketball fortunes have revived to such an extent that a victory over N.Y.U. is expected, not despaired of. Without going into any man-for-man comparison, this year’s team at its present pace is the equal of the great teams of the Moir, Nowak, and Wukovits era. In reckless and headlong speed, agile and aggressive defensive play, and in an ability to get ‘hot’ offensively when the time comes, this year’s team is every bit as good. Not as sensational as individuals, the 1940 team cooperates sensationally. With a little cooperation of the subway alumni to make them feel at home, we’re confident the team can surpass the best Howard Cann’s boys have to offer.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing By Pete Sheehan
When Red Oberbruner replaced George Sobek last Saturday night Irish basketball fans were worried. The latter, a sophomore, had been one of George Keogan’s principal performers during the last five games but was with- -drawn after the third personal foul was charged against him.
His substitute, a senior, had turned in some great performances in the past but he was as consistent as the Indiana
weather. Yes, Red was one of the fastest men on the squad, a tricky dribbler, and a deceptive passer. On several occasions his passes were so deceptive that his mates were the most surprised men on the court.
But Saturday night Red went in and immediately took charge of affairs. Before Sobek had time to put his jersey on, Red had three points and the Ulini were convinced that the latest substitution did not weaken the Irish attack. Throughout the battle he made life miserable for the visitors, and Irish fans are convinced that from now on the red head will perform in a like manner.
However, Coach Howard Cann, of New York University, may stop this Red Menace tomorrow by following this suggestion. If, about the middle of the first half, he has his managers bring a bull out onto the garden court he can be sure that
Oberbruner will not give his guards any trouble. The Irish red head will not even be in the vicinity of the Garden.
Red will stand up against any basketball star in the country but he does fear bulls. This strange phobia dates back to Red’s high school days when he was busily fishing in Northern Wisconsin. A rustle in the bushes caused him to turn around. To his amazement a huge bull was gazing at him. Suddenly the animal noticed the fisherman’s curly locks and then the trouble began. The next two hours Red spent in a tree, and he will tell you that they were tougher than any game in which he has ever played.
Oberbruner prepped at De Padua High, Ashland, Wis., where he won four letters as varsity guard. During his last
three years his team went to the National Catholic Tournament,, and Red was chosen All-tournament in ’35. De Padua was undefeated during his junior and senior years and annexed both the Upper Peninsula and State Catholic championships.
Red played sandlot baseball while in high school, and a teammate was Morrie Arnovich, Phillies star and one of the National League’s leading hitters.
Oberbruner started as a guard at Notre Dame but was shifted to forward last year where he won a monogram. He has already earned his monogram this season and will be long remembered as one of the most colorful- players the Irish have ever had.
When Spring arrives Red will trade his sneakers for a pair of spiked shoes and take his place in left field where he starred last year. His ambition is to better the .327 average which he compiled last Spring.
Red played against Eddie Riska in the Chicago tourney and says, “Eddie is the greatest high school basketball player I ever saw.” He then added, “I’ve seen few better in college.”
Statistics: Full name—Kenneth Louis Oberbruner. Born in Ashland, Wisconsin, on Oct. 5, 1917.
Bengal Novice Classes
Begin Monday Evening
Safety is the watchword of the Bengal Bouts. Special classes in boxing fundamentals and ringcraft begin Monday evening, at 8 o’clock, in the light apparatus room of the Memorial. There will be no contact work. Inexperienced fighters will receive special help from Professor Dominic Napolitano, of the Department of Physical Education.
The special classes will continue each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evening until the Bengal Bout preliminary fighting begins March 11. Safety. Over the last ten years more than 400 fighters have squared off in the fieldhouse ring without one single case of serious injury —and that record includes the traditional six-week training grind as well as the actual fighting.
Behind this remarkable record is the careful three-point program of Instruction, Training, and Supervision carried out by Professor Napolitano and his assistants from the Department of Physical Education. In addition to the special aid given beginners, “Nappy” watches over the afternoon workouts of the experienced Bengal Bouters—even the defending champions ask for a recheck on their fighting equipment.
No boy may train for the bouts until he has been examined and approved by a member of the University medical • staff; no boy may fight in the preliminaries unless his record card shows he has trained faithfully for at least one month. Memorial rings, apparatus rooms, special headgear and large gloves are available at all time for conditioning work.
The actual fighting is carefully supervised and carried on in accord with both Intercollegiate and A.A.U. boxing rules. The fighters are carefully matched—a novice is never thrown in against a hard-hitting champion in the first round. No boy fights more than once in one night—more stringent than the A.A.U. ruling—with preliminary bouts strung over three evenings.
Competent A.A.U. referees work every bout, alert for any weakening or injury of a fighter. An experienced “second” is stationed in each comer ready to help, if needs be, the two handlers permitted each contestant under the rules.
Last year the Indiana State Boxing Commissioner attended the bouts and personally approved every feature of the training and fighting program.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Do you want to learn to fight? Competent instructors are now available. Last year novice Jerry Ryan learned enough in Bengal classrooms to fight his way to the championship. Maybe you can do the same thing when the finals roll around, March 15.
—John Patterson
Hope To Discover Hidden
Talent In Interhall Meet
A coach’s greatest thrill is in making a “find.” An athlete’s greatest thrill is in being “discovered.” The coach takes a personal pride in seeing some boy that he had chosen from a group of other boys, trained and developed into a star in the world of sports. The athlete who is “discovered” is pleased with his part of the bargain, too, because he finds that a phase of his ability, although perhaps he had never been aware of it before, is now bringing him to new achievements. Combine these two elements and you have the reason-for the Interhall Track Meet which starts Monday.
The contest is open to all Notre Dame students, both of the residence halls and off-campus, who are not at present on the Varsity or Freshman track squads. Whether you’re a trackman who carried the colors for Sunnyside High School back in the home town, or merely one of those human comets who have never donned a set of “spikes” but who recklessly speed down the sidewalks on the way to the dining hall or to a tardy class, you’re the type of competitor sought for in the Interhall Track meet.
Because of the widespread attraction of Notre Dame there are among the student body a large number of former high school athletes who have either been distinguished as “stars” in their various sports or who are at present potential Varsity material. For various reasons these men have neglected even to report when calls for the various sports have been made. It is to cope with this situation that the Interhall athletic competition has been instituted: to try to “discover” the great wealth of material that yearly passes into this institution and yet because of timidity or a lack of confidence or some other reason never participates in athletics at Notre Dame.
There will be opportunity for competition in all events including—the one mile relay, the 75 yard dash, the 440 or the quarter-mile, shot -put, 75 yard high hurdles, the two-mile run, 880 yard run, the pole vault, the high jump, broad jump, 75 yard low hurdles, and the one mile relay. There is no restriction
as to the number of events in which one many may enter. Trials in all events except the distance runs will be held at 7:45 p.m., February 12 for Alumni, Dillon, Sorin, Brownson, Freshman, Breen-Phillips, and Lyons halls. Tuesday, for Walsh, Morrissey, Howard, Carroll, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Badin, and Off-campus. Finals will be held at 7:45 Thursday evening. Medals will be awarded for first, second, and third places in all events, as well as a trophy to the hall garnering the most points and a trophy to the winning relay team.
—Tom Powers
Petritz Has Witnessed
Last 63 Football Games
Joseph S. Petritz holds the unusual distinction of being Knute K. Rockne’s last appointee to a Notre Dame Athletic Association post. This schoolyear marks the tenth anniversary of Rockne’s establishment of the University publicity de-
Joseph S. Petritz
partment with Petritz as director. And Petritz has carried on well, for records show that more than four and one-half million spectators have watched Notre Dame games since Joe’s appointment in 1930, and relationships with the press are growing wider yearly.
Rain the day of the Northwestern football game shattered possibilities of six sellout tilts in a row, but the Irish ended the season against Southern California before 56,000 to send the season aggregate to 498,000. In addition to being a constant publicizer of Irish teams, Petritz has seen 87 of the past 91 football games and that includes the last 63 in a row—a mark rivaled only
by J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, and Eugene (Scrap) Young, University trainer.
The other day Joe recalled that Rockne never had a “ghost writer.” He did all his own writing. Joe said Rock’s great humility, dynamic personality, and desire to improve himself were the outstanding characteristics of the immortal coach. Even while he was sick one fall, he read extensively and knew his own illness as well as did the physicians.
Biggest news break during Joe’s 10-year reign was the death of Rockne in March, 1931. “Writers were here from all parts of the country,” said Joe. “It was the hardest story I ever wrote — Rock had always been so good to me.”
Petritz was graduated from the school of journalism in 1932, two years after his start as University publicity director. In the fall of 1934, however, the department was enlarged and Thomas Barry, present University publicity director, took charge of that work while Joe continued under the Athletic Association and Elmer Layden, who succeeded Hunk Anderson. From a start with a desk outside Rockne’s office in the Main Building 10 years ago to the office in the new Breen-Phillips building Joe has seen many changes.
Requests from South America, Australia, the Philippines, India, and China have reached the Petritz office. The most touching request of the past season came from a blind girl of Stamford, Ky. Though she is blind she keeps a scrapbook and has someone else identity the picture and make sure that it is put in the book correctly.
During the football season Joe handles 20 to 30 letters and telegrams which require personal answers each day while thereafter the mail drops off to 10 to 15 letters and wires daily. Each week Joe issues one or two releases, sent at present to 450 newspapers, radio stations, and special columnists throughout the country. In addition, special stories are requested by various papers.
Supplementing the routine work, Joe entertains such men as . Grantland Rice, Ted Husing, Bill Stern, Stanley Woodward, Bill Cunningham, Jimmy Powers, Wilfred Smith, Jim Kearns, John Carmichael, Warren Brown, Christy Walsh, Francis Wallace, Jock Sutherland, Arch Ward, Henry McLemore, Steve Snider, and hundreds of other news, radio, and cameramen during the season. He makes hotel arrangements, appointments with the coaching staff or team members, meets trains and airplanes, arranges for guests at the weekly pre-game press smoker, or campus pep rally.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In addition, he must have on hand all the information that might be wanted, as ivell as special requests from photographers. He must see that picture-taking and interviewing is done with as little inconvenience as possible to University coaches and practice sessions. He also provides student spotters for those pressmen desiring them.
During the Southern California game, Petritz assisted nearly 400 press men, photographers, radio men and their aides. Assisting Joe, both in the office and at games are Charles Duke, dependable secretary who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938, and Bill Scanlan, a student. Professors James Dincolo and William Finnan of the commerce faculty act as statisticians.
The Notre Dame stadium is the only one in the country with a dark room for developing and enlarging pictures during gametime. By halftime of the games, newspapers in New York are on the street with pictures sent by the Associated Press wirephoto system. The press box has 260 seats and eight radio booths.
Petritz got his start in sports writing under Arch Ward, nationally - known sports editor of the Chicago Tribune and originiator of the All-Star baseball and football games. Joe was an assistant under Ward at Rockford, Illinois Morning Star. From 1929-32, Joe edited the Football Review and has been editing the colorful football programs since 1933— another part of his work.
Joe, a more capable observer during the past ten years than almost any other person at Notre Dame, picks his all-star unit of that era: Left end, Wayne Millner; left tackle, Joe Beinor; left guard, Jack Cannon; center, Jack Robinson; right guard, Bert Metzger; right tackle,
ZAHM - CAVANAUGH
BALLOT
Party Affiliation________________________
I-----------------------
Choice of Candidate' ?
3-----------------------
Hall________________________________
Ted Twomey; right end, Chuck Sweeney; quarterback, Frank Carideo; left half, Nick Lukats; right half, Marty Brill; fullback, Milt Piepul.
Now that the season is over and Joe doesn’t have to worry that every newsman gets a hot dog and coffee between halves of the football games, he answers requests for all-American pickers—and, well, the basketball season is already nine games under way. Imminent are fencing, indoor and outdoor track, baseball, golf, handball, spring football, and tennis.
In between seasons Joe hopes to bust 90 more often on the golf course, and plans to retain his status as a handball player.—Bill Scanlan
N. D. Squash Team Drops
First Match To Purdue
Notre Dame’s newly-organized squash team went down to defeat last week-end in its first encounter against Purdue University, which won five of the seven matches.
“The 5-2 score should be encouraging, not depressing, to the team,” Thomas Mills, director of the Rockne Memorial, said. “Purdue has an experienced, intercollegiate squash team, while the Irish aggregation was formed only at the last minute.”
The results of the matches follow: Mann (Purdue) 3, Dillon (Notre Dame) 2; Carroll (Notre Dame) 3, Morley (Purdue) 2; Adams (Purdue) 3, Pohl (Notre Dame) 1; Eberhard (Purdue) 3, Alfs (Notre Dame) 1; MacMillan (Purdue) 3, Murphy (Notre Dame) 2; Morley (Purdue) 3, Kelly (Notre Dame) 2; Repetto (Notre Dame) 3, Mann (Purdue) 2.
The all-campus squash meet gets under way Monday, Feb. 12, with 25 already signed up for the meet.
Doubles Handball
Over 50 teams await the “go” signal in the doubles handball tourney. This meet will start Feb. 12th.
Life Saving Course
A preliminary course for life saving and water safety instructors will start soon at the Memorial. A 15-hour preliminary training school will be conducted prior to the final course when Mr. Thomas Costello, American Red Cross field representative of Washington, D. C., will examine all those pursuing the course.
The preliminary course will be given by Ed Slezak, director of swimming at the Memorial, who is a qualified American Red Cross instructor. All students must register for the preliminary course now.
Students must complete the preliminary training before being qualified for entrance into the teacher training phase of the work; and should be at least 19 years of age to be appointed life saving and water safety instructor.
The teacher training phase of the work will be held the week of March 18th by Mr. Costello. Not only must ' all students take the 15-hour preliminary
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TO ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
HEART APPEAL for your Valentine Perfumes—by Guerlain, Caron or Arden—dram______ 1.50 up
Kislav Gloves—finest of doeskins for her! .....    5.00
Handkerchiefs — gay Valentine prints in linen    25c
Moonstone Jewelry—New . . . and as lovely as she!_ 1.00
Otetoortlfg
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
training course, but they must first pass or already hold a certificate in senior life saving.
Those passing such a course will he qualified to do life-guard work and to teach Senior and Junior life saving courses.
Inter-Hall Basketball
Next week’s schedule in the heavy division of the Inter-Hall basketball league follows: Monday, Howard vs. Carroll; Sorin vs. Zahm; Walsh vs. Dillon; St. Ed’s vs. Cavanaugh. Tuesday, Lyons vs. Breen-Phillips; Brownson vs. Off-Campus; Alumni vs. Morrissey; Badin vs. Freshman. The program of the lightweight division on Thursday is Carroll vs. Brownson; St. Edward’s vs. Badin; Howard vs. Freshman; and Cavanaugh vs. Off-Campus.
—John E. Lewis
Bowling League Starts
Activities in the local bowling alleys have suddenly come to life with the close of exams. The Knights of Columbus League is now in full stride, and the Interhall league is scheduled to start-in the near future. All students are eligible to compete in the Interhall league, with prizes worthy of the effort being awarded the winners.
A tournament sponsored by the Knights has been going on since De
For One Week Only! Final Clearance of Our Entire Stock of ADLER-ROCHESTER SUITS
$35.00 to $50.00 garments including all town and country suits; Tweeds, Shetlands and Flannels—at
$27-50
Plus Alterations
All sizes from 35 to 48 regulars . . .
PARKER-WINTERROWD (Upstairs Shop) 11514 - 117^ North Main Street
CONSULT OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES: GEORGE L. HAITHCOCK—MAIN BLDG. - TAD" HARVEY—11 MORRISSEY HARRY STEPHENSON—109 SORIN	JACK DEMOSS—309 SORIN

cember 1. The leading team at present is composed of Blackhurst, Cam-pagno, Dempsey, Tlusty, and Gagin. Their high score is 2,229. The individual leader is Joe Bina of the Biology Department.
According to present plans this league will continue for another month. It is highly probable that the winners of the local tournament will be sent to the National K. of C. tournament in Buffalo, March 9.
Don't Miss Him!
Wed. Eve., Feb. 14, 9 to I a. m. TINY HILL and His Orchestra With Featured Entertainment 350 pounds of rollicking rhythm.
You've heard him on the Mutual Broadcasting System for one full year. Now see and hear him
IN PERSON
PALAIS ROYALE Advance 40c; Door 65c
Tickets at Walgreen's, Lenscher's Bakery, Clark's, Rodin's, and the Palais Royale
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The mystery of the Redemption is the special theme of Lent. Why God so loved the world as to give his only begotten Son to the death of the Cross, is the mystery. The fact in its historical setting, the inter-relationship between man and the Man God, make up the content of the liturgical readings for Lent. The centre around which all revolves is the Mass, the act of Redemption ceaselessly renewed. Thus the Liturgy is not a saying merely, but a doing also.
The mystery is not meaningless. “And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all things to myself” (John 12, 32). This drawing is also a giving. It is the restoration of and participation in the divine life. Though we are of the redeemed, we are still of the flesh. The spectre of sin arises, hence the need for expiation. Penance, a thing we experience every day in our relations with others, is a hateful thing unless we accept it in the spirit of the Cross.
And always beyond the Cross is the Easter Sunrise. “Therefore we also . . . looking on Jesus. . . .who having joy set before him, endured the Cross, despising the shame, and now sitteth at the right hand of the throne of God.” (Hebrews 12, 1, 2)
Mass Calendar: February 11-17
Sunday, 11—First of Lent. 2d prayer, Feast of the Apparation of the Blessed Virgin Mary at Lourdes.
Monday 12—The Seven Holy Founders of the Order of Servites of the Blessed Virgin. 2d prayer of the Ferial, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 13—Ferial. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 14—Ferial. Ember Day. 2nd prayer, St. Valentine, Martyr, 3d, of the Saints (A cunctis), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday, 15—Ferial. 2d prayer, St. Faustin and Companions, Martyrs, 3d, of the Saints (A cunctis) 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, 16—Ferial. Ember Day. 2d prayer, of the Saints (A cunctis), 3d, the Living and the Dead (Omnipotens), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday, 17—FeriaL Ember Day. Mass includes prayers and readings proper to the conferring of Orders. Other prayers as yesterday.
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The average Williams College student sees three movies per week.
Beer consumes 36 per cent of all fraternity rushing expenses on the Dartmouth College campus.
PICTURES
of the
CONSECRATION CEREMONIES
A lasting momento of Bishop O'Hara's Consecration. Dull-finish photos suitable for framing. On display in the Bookstore.
Also supplies for the new semester.
Start right with all the equipment you need.
Notre Dame Bookstore
Sadin Hall
VALENTINES
the kind Tony Wons talks about! for Mother, Father, Sister, Brother, and Sweetheart!
Humorous or sentimental . . .
OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO., Inc.
130 N. Michigan St.
THE WICKETT ROOM
A dank, dimly-lighted room, resting in muffled silence and strangely nauseating with the mustiness of antiquity. A room filled with fascinating historical treasures—articles that were once used by great figures of the past—articles that have known and felt the presence of people who are now immortalized by the pages of history. This is the Wickett Memorial room in our Wightman Art Gallery.
Because of the varied papal possessions included in tins collection it has been called the “Room of the Popes.” It is the most popular room in the gallery and never fails to awe its many visitors.
The chief artistic interest, both from the point of view of historical association and execution of details, is, perhaps, the hand-carved mantle-piece with the oil painting of Ceres, goddess of the harvest, which hangs above the mantle shelf. Its elaborate carving and rich shading has caused many art-collectors to point to it as one of the finest pieces of wood sculpture in the country. It is believed that this fireplace was originally the property of St. Francisco Borgia II, taken from the Borgia palace in Rome during the sixteenth century.
An attractive object in the room is the canopied four-poster bed, another piece of excellence in the art of woodcarving. This bed was made for the summer home of the De Medici family in Fiesoli about 1465. Another remarkable piece of wood-sculpture is a huge intricately carved table that was a former possession of Pope Clement XII, a member of the celebrated Corsini family.
Various other articles adorn the room: a red plush chair that belonged to Queen Alexandria, wife of Edward VII; a small chest with the Borgia coat of arms inscribed; a seventeenth century Florentine chandelier entirely carved by hand, and various small wood-carvings. Special ‘ mention should be made of the beautiful tapestry that covers the south wall. This is a Mortlake, done by a famous English factory of that name which was closed in 1743 after producing the best tapestries of all time.
Various paintings hang from the walls. These are important works of French and Italian artists. The “Adoration of the Magi” is an original Tintoretto. Also included is a self-portrait of Sir Peter Paul Rubens, celebrated seventeenth century Flemish artist.
This entire collection was presented to the University in 1932 by Mrs. Frederick H. Wickett, as a memorial to her husband, a prominent Chicago attorney.
The Kensington Museum in London bid for many of the articles but the entire collection was offered to this University.—Edmund Butler
SKATE FOR HEALTH AND ENJOYMENT . . .
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK (Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS
Every Night Except Monday Matinee Sunday, 1:30-4:30 p. m.
Students always 25c
“A Cood IVay to Ma^e Money for Your Club"
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
Times - do - change Note : Gustavus Adolphus College men have handed down this order to their feminine colleagues: “Don’t appear to be a helpless and fragile creature. The ‘clinging vine’ type went out with the bicycle built for two.”—Associated Collegiate Press
Give
Valentine Flowers
Feb. 14th
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
114 South Michigan
Headquarters for Delicious
Sea Foods
Fish Dinners Vegetable Plate Spaghetti Dinners
HOWELL'S CAFE
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Physics Dept. Prepares
For New Age Of Rubber
The world of tomorrow might be an age of glass, homes and office biddings being completely furnished with this substance; or it might be an age of rubber, taking the place of the steel. If so, a great deal of credit for this transformation will probably be due the physics department of the University, under the Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., head of the department.
Pioneering in the physics of rubber, as the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., did when he discovered synthetic rubber, Father Bolger stated that it is hoped that important results may be forthcoming: “In the past all development in rubber has come from the chemical laboratories, but now it seems quite imperative that Science learn something of the physics of rubber, and it seems no more than right that an institution which did so much for the development of synthetic rubber should now take the lead. Since this is pretty much a virgin field, it is natural that progress be slow, but we hope to make some important contributions in this field.” The work is under the direction of Drs. Robert L. Anthony and Eugene Guth.
Work of international importance, especially in the field of nuclear physics, has been accomplished in the past few years. The culmination of this research was nuclear disintegration by electron bombardment, achieved for the first time. The November 1st issue of the American Phyical Review featured an article reporting this work, done by Drs. George B. Collins, Bernard Waldman and assistants.
Summarizing the work of the department, Father Bolger said that a year ago research laboratories in electronics were started by Dr. Edward A. Coones, and that this project has reached the state where research problems can be undertaken.
In the past it has been the policy of the department to bring eminent physicists from other institutions to lecture to the staff and graduate students. During the past years, Drs. Allison of Chicago; Breit and Herb of Wisconsin; Goldhaber of Illinois; Lark-Horovitz of Purdue; Mitchell, Langer, and Kurie of Indiana; Crane of Michigan; Rabi of Columbia, and others have lectured here on their work.—Don Heltzel
The Law Club is contemplating a smoker to be held either next Wednesday or Thursday. Efforts are being made to obtain a member of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as the speaker of the evening.
On the Ohio University campus, only 17 per cent of the students have no dates during an average month.
“It pays to always look your best”
Go where N. D. Men Go!
Hotel Hoffman Barber Shop
120 West LaSalle St.
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
years of experience at your command.
\J\~S years of reliable, compe- tent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination ’ of the eyes and the making of fine glasses.
L E M O N T Fl E E S
Optometrists and Opticians
314 South Michigan St.
South Bend, Ind. .
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
MUSIC NOTES
If press write-ups can be believed, Notre Dame has a superb glee club. The audiences and critics were universally pleased with the concerts given on the recent tour. Every concert was a sellout. At Toledo the boys sang at Mary Manse College for Girls. In Indianapolis, more than 1500 persons heard the concert which was sponsored by the Knights of Columbus. In both Portland and Richmond, the audiences were very enthusiastic.
* * *
Some of the comments made by the critics: “A distinctly superior group of singers, welded together by the skill of a director who knows and loves his music, the Notre Dame boys gave a program that will be remembered for some time.”.... “Varying their program in a manner suitable to a wide range of tastes, the young men gave their numbers with a gusto and enjoyment that communicated itself to the audience.”— “Responding instantly to each little move of the director, Daniel H. Pedtke, the Club showed its fine training in the ease and sureness with which it made
transitions from the fortissimo passages to the pianissimo phrases. Preciseness of attack and release also characterized the singing of the young men.”
“At the director’s fingertips is a rolling chorus of sound that can fill the hall, and when the voices are so carefully matched as they are in the Notre Dame group the effect is magnificent.”... “Two voices of an excellence rarely heard outside the concert realm were those of Donald Tiedemann, baritone, and Anthony Donadio, tenor. Tiedemann sings with an ease of an accomplished artist, his resonant tones were matched by the skill with which he used them. He has a surprising range with a fine tonal quality extending throughout. Not only was he superb in his presentation of the
ballad, ‘They’re Rangin’ Danny Deever,’ but he built up a tense atmosphere of gloom and sustained it throughout the piece. Anthony Donadio has a keen sense of phrasing and a tenor voice that is exceptional.”—William Mooney
THEATRE
There was a double feature on Michigan Avenue last weekend. Some of you probably saw it. Anyway—
There’s a refreshing note in Damon Runyon’s stories that M-G-M’s Robert Sinclair catches in the screening of “Joe and Ethel Turp Call on the President.” This Runyon brainchild, like his others,
★
THIS
is the " PLACE '
Headquarters for
ARROW
UNDERWEAR
M*X ADM Michigan at Washington
Underwear that doesn’t sneak up on you!
Many shorts seem to be made mostly of seams. Seams that never let you alone.
They saw and chafe—heckle you the whole
Not Arrow shorts! For Arrows have a seamless crotch—a patented feature that means real comfort, joyous freedom.
Bid goodbye to underwear torture and try Arrow Shorts today. They’re Sanfor-ized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1% —a wide range of patterns with either snap fasteners or buttons. 65c up. Tops 50c up.
ARROW UNDERWEAR
day through.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
deals with real people. And to accent this real people angle, Runyon takes characters from the real locale of Brooklyn, where people are, if nothing else, real.
Joe Turp is William Gargan’s best role, and Ann Sothern does Wife Ethel with a homespun, down-to-earth, Brook-lynese that makes the heart feel rather good and warm. The scrappily married couple plead the case ■ of their lovable old mailman (Walter Brennan), convicted of tampering with the U. S. mails, which he did. Justifying his action is the groundwork for the yarn which Joe and Ethel spin in the President’s private office. Needless to say, the President (Lewis Stone), swamped at the moment by the foreign situation, uses this visit of the Turp’s as a mental relaxation and proves very cordial and sympathetic. Of course the mailman is cleared by order of “Hizzoner” and Joe and Ethel go back to Brooklyn to continue living scrappily ever after. Give us more Damon Runyon in screen version if this is a sample of what Director Robert Sinclair can do.
David Niven is a good actor. He is popular, charming, romantic, debonair, and inoffensively aristocratic. Why Hollywood throws him to the lions in a cage called “Eternally Yours” is a question that probably no one can answer, not even Hollywood. , So we won’t ask it.
THE HUDDLE
Headquarters for Coca-Cola, Pipe Tobacco and Candy
Sajwuf TdJiiU GENE SARAZEN
We’ll just keep in mind that David Niven is a good actor.
As a globe-trotting magician, Niven is compelled, handcuffed from behind, to jump from airplanes at 15,000 feet. He wriggles free in time to pull the rip cord of his parachute, however. Sounds rather exciting, doesn’t it? Poor Loretta Young, angel come to live with earthly mortals, knovrs only of her desperate love for the adventurous magicianhusband. She can’t stomach his deathdefying leaps, however, and wants to settle down. Niven says no in the form of a two-year contract of periodic leaps in all parts of the world. Loretta packs her bag.
Niven is stunned with the thought that he loves his wife more than his leaps, and goes in search. He finds her divorced and married to the old standby
Duke university
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terns of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (graduation in three and one-quarter years) or three terms may be taken each year (graduation in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, character and three years of college work, including the subjects specified for Class A medical schools. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Admission Committee.
of the days B. N. (Before Niven). One more leap, this time at the World’s Fair, and Loretta leaps into the arms of the grounded Niven. Incidentally, her divorce from Niven is illegal, automatically annuling her second marriage. This proves rather fortunate, we think, in that poor Loretta and dashing David can come back together again. It’s just.. a clear case of love before you leap, more of these little movie expeditions and we’ll begin going to libraries.
—Vern Witkowski
Lovely Voice Makes Chicago Debut
AATHEN you ride the South ’ " Shore you can get off at six convenient Chicago stations.
The Randolph and Van Buren St. stations are only a whisper away from Michigan Avenue and the “Loop.”
For complete information call
C. W. VEACH .
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office-
301 N. Michigan St. _ Phone 3-3111
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
YOUR RELIGION
When Ernest Hello, a French essayist, wrote that “of all the mad ideas inspired by the devil, this is the most worthy of him: ‘Truth is dull’,” he was probably right. Few lies, at any rate, would more effectively forward the purposes of the great enemy of the souls of men. The lie itself would not be worth mentioning if nobody believed it. It might be merely amusing, like some tale of a drunken sailor, or the wonders related by a circus barker. Alas, however, such is not the case. The lie that truth, especially religious truth, is dull, uninspiring, insipid, boresome, has been repeated so often that it has come to be widely accepted as fact. As evidence of this one might cite the phenomenon of religious indifference which, like a blight on a growing field of grain, has so long affected the modern mind. Publicists with their fingers on the pulse of the body politic report signs of a reawakening of interest in the study of religion, and at least one well known columnist has ventured to prophesy a great upward surge of religious thought within the next decade. Now sleep precedes an awakening, and nothing so quickly induces sleep as boredom.
A second indication of the success of the devil’s deception is the astonishingly small number of those within the fold, those for whom religious truth is admittedly paramount, who either have the enthusiasm or the ability to present it to the public in reliable and attractive form. How many outstanding pulpit orators have we in the United States today? How many writers, clerical or lay, are there who produce scholarly books and articles in explanation or defence of the faith, or how many among the great body of the laity, in college or out of it, can give even a passable answer to inquiries concerning their faith and practice? Some, undoubtedly, but embarrassingly few.
It is not demonstrable, of course, that this mediocre artistry and cultural barrenness is exclusively due to the conviction that religious truth is unpalatable. Many other factors could be cited in partial explanation. But could anyone deny that the relative lack of interest in religious truth, the enormous disproportion between the effort made to study, understand and proclaim it as compared with secular knowledge is largely due to the assumption that the latter only is lively, cheerful, comforting and inspiring?
Yet, how could it be so? Religious truth in its substance is not the word of man, but the infinite wisdom of God. Of | it the Psalmist sings: “Thy word is ex- I
ceedingly refined.... pure words: as silver tried by fire, purged from the earth, refined seven times.... This hath comforted me in my humiliation because thy word hath enlivened me.... and in thy word I have much hoped.... How sweet are thy words to my palate! more than honey to my mouth.” Shall we reply by saying that there is pleasure and profit, inspiration and grace only in error, in fiction, in falsehood, in the lisp-ings of fallible men about science or art, commerce, travel or industry? Such an
"M M
3
Drink
Coca-Cola had to be good to get where it is... ■ the drink that people the world over enjoy.. .winter ...summer...every day in the year. Its clean, exhilarating taste brings a happy after-sense of complete refreshment that everybody welcomes.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
answer were surely to misunderstand badly the soul hunger and thirst of man. As the ends and the order of right living are discerned in the spontaneous impulses and natural cravings of men, so the true means of the spiritual and bodily life are recognized in the objects of those cravings. Now man, it is written, “does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God.” And will anyone contend that to hearken to the voice of God, to meditate on His Revealed Word, to pon-

Delicious and
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments 434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
RES. 3-4080
OFFICE 4-5661
ocas DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND
3)rs. (Probst and Singler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend Phone 3-1254
|	SOUTH BEND	J
1 X-RAY LABORATORY 1 1	825 SHERLAND BUILDING I
S L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON, 1
| M.D.	M.O.	|
—“—       —■—   —"—■—“——
(Prs. (Rose and Rose DENTISTS 430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BENO
der on the heights and depths of His sublime, yet simple wisdom couia oe unmoved, uninspired by it?
Since when has human discourse come to surpass the divinely inspired writing in power to elevate the mind and move the heart? Since when have the sapiential books lost their wisdom, or the Psalms their poetry, or the Gospels their good tidings, or the letters of Saint Paul, to use a phrase of Chesterton’s, their “resounding a fortioris,” i.e. the witchery of their eloquent appeal for all things Christian? The truth is rather, we suspect, that it is not the sacred writers who have lost any of their savour, but rather the shallow “intellectuals” of our day who, through abuse of their own minds can no longer distinguish between appearances and reality, and who therefore tend to reject what is, in favor of what is not, but what they wish might be. They are at the old game of fitting a world that calls for selfdenial to flesh that does not want to be denied. It is after all a moral world in which we live, and as morality has its roots in religion, it has become the devil’s game to make moral precepts unpopular by the simple expedient of calling religion or religious truth dull. But surely it will be a frantic kind of defense on judgment day to say to the Lord God: “Oh, pardon us, for the truths which You revealed to us were so dull!”—Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
DISC - CUSSION
“I’m In the Mood for Love,” “Paradise,” “Body and Soul,” “Moonglow,” “Blue Moon,” and “Boulevard of Broken Dreams” may seem, Juniors, a review of the weekend; but it is actually a list of the songs presented in the new Frances Langford Album. Miss Langford’s sultry voice gets the most—and that is plenty!—out of all these songs and Harry Sosnick’s accompaniment is choice. These are the recordings you’ve been waiting for of the songs you’ve always wanted.
In the same mood we find Bea Wain doing two more of the best: “Dancing in the Dark” and “I Don’t Stand a Ghost of a Chance With You.” Maybe it’s my Irish blood revolting, but I can’t get ecstatic over Miss Wain’s nasal tones. The record is not too bad, but I can’t help wishing Langford had done these, too.
For those of us less fortunate, or foresighted, who walked alone last weekend, Paul Whiteman has done “Dam That Dream” and “My Fantasy.” The hit song of the late “Swingin’ A Dream” ।
receives here its best treatment to date with Joan Edwards and the (Paul Whiteman) Modemaires vocalizing. “Fantasy,” based on Borodin’s “Prince Igor,” is too much like “My Reverie,” but is still good. Joan Edwards holds forth here, too, very satisfactorily.
“Indian Summer” has been recorded pretty well by all who have tried it, so I hesitate to mention Kay Kyser’s version. It doesn’t suffer in comparison with any, however, due chiefly to. Ginny Sims, and has the advantage of “Do I Love You?,” on the other side. I prefer Dick Jurgens’ “Do I Love You?” but I can’t say much for “Katey Went to Haiti.”
Benny Goodman’s latest are: “Dam That Dream,” “Peace, Brother,” and “Spring Song” from “Swingin* a Dream,” and the old stand-by “Honeysuckle Rose.” Mildred Bailey sings the first two but she is replaced by instrumentation in the others. Goodman is at his best — which is good enough, I guess.—Bill Geddes
4 Sweet Song for YOUR VALENTINE
And Victor Recordings at 75c
Tommy Dorsey (All the Things You Are 75c (That Lucky Fellow
Tommy Dorsey (Angel 75c (It’s a Blue World
Hal Kemp 75c
j Thank Your Stars (Playmates
And Blue-Bird Recordings at 35c (3 for $1.00)
Bob Chester ( sy Does It
(Make Love with a Guitar
Glenn Miller
Glenn Miller
Abe Lyman
Give a Little Whistle The Sky Fell Down
(Faithful to You
(It’s a Blue World
(Yodelin* Jive
(At the Balalaika
RODIN'S, Inc.
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Needles and Record Accessories
Open Saturday Evenings
(Jornbination
The famous COCHAND family... father, son and daughter (the only combination of its kind)... show thousands every winter the fine points of skiing, America's fastest-growing sport.

Lou can look the whole world over and you won’t find another cigarette with Chesterfield’s RIGHT COMBINATION of the best American and Turkish tobaccos.
In Chesterfield you find just what every smoker looks for ... COOL SMOKING, definite MILDNESS, and the one thing that really satisfies ... downright GOOD TASTE.
ASK FOR
Copyright IMO,
^cwT5 Cooler, Better-Tasting, DEFINITELY MILDER Cigarette