BEUEVE IN YOURSELF! Don't test one brand alone ..♦compare them all!

TRY THIS TEST! Take a PHILIP MORRIS—and any other cigarette. Then, here's all you do:
4 Light up either cigarette. Take a puff—don't inhale— * and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. O Now do exactly the same thing with the other “ cigarette.
NOTICE PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
Unlike others, we never ask you to test our brand alone. We say . .. compare PHILIP MORRIS...match PHILIP MORRIS . • • judge PHILIP MORRIS against any other cigarette!
Then make your own choice!

Remember...
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER means
MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
JS PHILIP MORRIS
4
2
The Scholastic 5

THANKS FROM THE LOSERS
Class of ’52:
The first thing to be said is “congratulations” to a class that continues to astound everyone with its spirit, hard work, and cooperation. We refer specifically to the recent elections, at which 642 of some 900 Juniors exercised their right to vote. This turnout is in keeping with the standards set in the past and is undoubtedly an indication of good things to come next year.
This plus the quality of the men selected help to “ease the pain” of defeat. We feel that the class has recognized and elected the best men for each job.
Therefore we would like to thank not only those who supported us, but also each and every Junior who voted. Your actions have increased greatly the feeling of pride we have in being members of the Class of ’52.
With particular congratulations to the victorious candidates, we remain,
Sincerely and thankfully,
John “Moe” Moran.
Gus Gerwe.	Jim Powers.
THANKS FROM THE WINNERS
Members of the Class of ’52:
We, the elected representatives of the Senior Class for the year of 1952, wish to thank publicly the entire class for its support in the past election.
The Class of ’52 has shown itself to be an outstanding class by repeatedly presenting successful activities during the past three years. We intend to help you in continuing this class progress during the coming year and hope to make this, our Senior year, the biggest and the best student year that this campus has ever seen. You have shown your interest and support by voting and deserve a pat-on-the-back for a record turnout.
We’ll do our best to fulfill your expectations !
Yours for a successful year, George Sweet	Jim Mutscheller
Robert Cossaboon	Sal Fiorella
Hank McCormack	Lou Garippe
Walter G. Purcell
THE NEW DOME
The 1951 Dome will be distributed the last week of May in the Publications office, Farley Hall basement. All students are urged to get their copies then. Copies will be mailed only to those who pay the cost of postage and packing. Those who do not pick up their copies will be able to do it at the beginning of the next school year.
May 18, 1951
foundry I
— Fine white broadcloth, extreme widespread collar. Sharpest shirt on the quadrangles this year.
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of Manhattan shirts, neckwear, underwear, pajamas, sportshirts, beachwear and handkerchiefs.
—White buttondown oxford, soft roll to the collar. Popular as a holiday with the fellows and the gals.
Suits, from $20.75 • Odd Jackets, from $21
favored by undergraduates... OUR COOL, COMFORTABLE LIGHTWEIGHT SUMMER SUITS
Casual and good-looking, our lightweight suits and Odd Jackets are a must for college wardrobes. They are made exclusively for us on our own distinctive patterns.. .in all cotton or nylon and rayon blends. The wide choice includes cords, neat checks and birdseye or houndstooth patterns in white with tan, blue or grey.
ESTABLISHED 1818
MADISON STREET AT MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J. M. S. Bldg.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws	,-i
Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661	•
Aquinas Library
and ■
Bookstore
Your Catholic Shopping Center in South Bend
110 E. LaSalle
The Scholastic
fhe week
by
Top of the Week
Commencement exercises for some . . .
Swan Song
The time comes in every N.D. man’s life when he must bid fond adieu to certain things and enter a new kind of existence. We, with every other graduating Senior, will do this in two weeks when we receive our “sheepskins” amid the cheers and sighs of relief of family, friends, and acquaintances. Since this last issue of the Scholastic for 1950-51 is being published by next year’s staff, we feel like a forgotten corner after the Spring housecleaning—we know we’ll be swept away from this page right after this issue, but we hope the new regime will bear with these final death-gasps of The Week.
It’s hard to find words for our four years at Notre Dame, but we know there must be words. “An experience we’ll never forget” seems to fit all around and we’ll use that in reference to everything about ND life we have known and observed. Our spirits were as high as the proverbial kite on occasions and correspondingly low on others, as was our appeal to readers—a patient lot to whom our large, economy-sized “thank-you” goes to first.
When the hot Indiana sun beats down on the capped and gowned multitudes awaiting graduation in the Stadium, we will all recall little things that made ND life just a little more interesting and worth-while than any other we might have chosen. Do you remember:
The first encounter with a Departmental Exam?
The look on others’ faces after the Purdue game this year?
The old tea-dance routine at St. Mary’s College?
The lonely visits to the Grotto or thoughtful walks about campus when Indiana weather was at its best?
The class dances, the bull-sessions, the outside readings, the student trips, the filled-up bulletin boards, the empty pocketbooks after a night at the old “Strat-igon,” Sweeney’s, or a weekend in Chi, or anything at all ad infinitum?
Nostalgia improves with age and so we’ll save most of ours for our grandchildren and fellow-grads at the Class of ’51 reunion in the year 2001 when the trying and frustrating occasions of college days will disappear from view amid the happy recollections.
What we have all done with our four years at Notre Dame have not always been the most intelligent, the most advantageous, the most rewarding, or the most impressive things. What we have done, however, is learn. From praise of “Pogo” to castigation of “politicos” we have waddled in the.mire of human sentiment and have found most people an understandable, likable, and appreciative group. If egos were deflated or prides hurt, we did so without malice. Subtle and other inferences were oft’ times read without being fully understood and turned around by some to mean other than was the case, but people do things like that and we were tickled to see it.
Thanks for being with us this year and may our successor do his Week job with as much energy and conscientiousness as is possible.
Now, we will just sort of disintegrate and let the old soldiers fade away during the many IFee&.s to come.
Bottom of the Week
. . . but, finals for all.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, hid.
Fellow Scholastic writers and personnel have made our years at Notre Dame doubly interesting and enjoyable as have all the members of our heterogeneous publications family, whether it be esoteric Juggler romantics or Dome men trying to meet some sort of deadline.
We must cast a rose or two WND-wise before we graduate to clear up the impression that The Week fails to recognize progress. From an ugly and messy infancy, the “Campus Voice of Notre Dame” has grown up to its present stature to the surprise and delight of most interested parties.
We have also seen the rise and fall of a football empire and look forward to a resurgence of the “winning way” that makes ND teams feared in the years to come. We have learned to take the bitter with the sweet in all aspects of our University life and would not hesitate to do it again, were the opportunity afforded us.
Leave after your last class—
FLY UNITED
and be Heme
in a Few Heun
g s 81
United Air Lines’ 300-mile-an-hour flights FJ will get you home for summer vacation fast-er than you ever thought possible, and fly-ing luxurious DC-6 Mainliner 300s is fun and inexpensive too! For reservations, see your travel agent, or:
UNITED AIR UNES: Airport Terminal. Call 2-1401.
May 18, 1951
5
Dash Thirty Dash
With this issue the Scholastic ends its 92nd year of publication. During the 1950-51 year the staff members have tried to uphold the standards handed down to them by their predecessors. The magazine’s aim has been to instruct and entertain journalistically the University of Notre Dame community . . . always keeping its patroness in mind, never allowing anything in the magazine to offend her, and always praying the staff’s efforts will do her honor.
We hope we have succeeded.
If we did then we are proud. But we are also humble for we know how much so many have helped us and our magazine.
We shall never forget, for instance, those nuns who wrote for a subscription, saying that although they couldn’t pay for it they would gladly pray daily for our work. And we shall never forget the men at the Ave Maria press — Brothers Finbarr, David and Sabinus, Joe, Gene, Frank, Bill, Collins, Mason, the pressmen . . . all of them. They have been our teachers; our friends.
Our thanks go also to Charlie Callahan, Mo Mills, Frank Sullivan, and everyone in the Athletic Department who were always so willing to help the Scholastic during the year. Ray Donovan was another person in our corner. Donald Dolan continually aided us. Bob Lehman got paid for the work he did but he did more work than he got paid for. Thanks ... to these and to all those who were behind our magazine.
We were especially fortunate in having Dale Francis as our faculty moderator. We could not have had a more understanding man, nor a man who could have helped us more in trying to make the Scholastic a true Catholic publication.
To change pronouns in the middle of an editorial, I would like to thank personally every member of this year’s staff who has worked hard to improve the magazine. It was a sincere pleasure to have worked with you.
You who will remain will do a great job next year — as proved by this issue which you have put out. Staffmen: you have a fine group of editors to guide you. And both you editors and staffmen should remember to offer next year's newcomers the same helping hand that our predecessors offered all of us.
Don’t be afraid to work for the magazine. Don’t be afraid to pray for the magazine. Combine these two things and you’ll have a publication that will be worthy of carrying Our Lady’s name. Thanks, again, and good luck.—Editor.

Vol. 92 May 18, 1951 No. 26
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
KENNETH A. THOREN, '51 Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS, '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI, '51
JOHN J. POWERS, 52___________________News
ROBERT G. FINNEY, '53______Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE, '51_________Features JOHN F. MEANEY, '52________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY, '52_______Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, 52_____Photography
LEON GARDNER, '52_______________Librarian
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT, 51....Advertising G. M. McARTHUR________________Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN, '51___________.Circulation JAMES ROGERS, '51______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS____________Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Dave Hayes, John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier.
SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub.
FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Jay Conlon, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta, Dick Cody, Charles Hands and Hugh Schaedle.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Symbolizing the graduating Senior Class, president Jim Henessy sits worrying about the uncertain future atop the well-known eight ball. Most of the graduates will head for service under Uncle Sam. Others will return to college for further study. Some more will enter the business world. Those not accounted for will sit under a tree counting peaches. Photo by Dick Bennett, ’54.
6
The Scholastic

Our Lady’s Men
Four years ago the Class of 1951 arrived at Notre Dame. Looking back it seems like only yesterday.
Looking back it seems like more than a o
decade ago.
Outwardly the group didn’t appear much different than the usual goggle-eyed lot of Freshmen who annually step onto the campus for the first time, eager and rarin’ to start college life. Like their predecessors and successors, too, most of the ’51 newcomers unwittingly got off the bus at the circle. Gripping bags and sundry bits of too much luggage, they faced north and glanced up at the shining dome and the lady on top. For many this was the day thev had long dreamed of.
And so the Class of ’51 began its life at Notre Dame.
It wasn’t too long before the beavers had realitv thrust upon them. They soon learned college life at the University of Notre Dame is not like anything they had seen in the movies, or had read about in magazines, or had been told about by an aging and sentimental grad.
This emerald covered spot of Indiana clay was not— to the surprise of many — Utopia. Some were shattered by the realization and left. The vast majority, however, regeared their maturing thought processes and accepted the situation.
•
These are the men who will be graduating on June 3.
Most of them. found in Notre Dame something they had not been prepared for. At first they were disappointed but now, at the end of the four short years, they consider themselves lucky for having been granted the blessing of attending Our Lady’s school.
There are things amiss here — there always have been and there always will be. But there is so much that is good the wrongs will soon be forgotten.
As the Seniors revive what has passed during the four years they have spent here they are asking themselves a lot of questions. Where else could they have found an environment such as Notre Dame’s? Where else could they have found men like those who go here? Where else is the stress of education put upon the whole man? In the final analysis, where else could they have ended their college careers with a deeper feeling of satisfaction? The answer for most is no other place than Notre Dame. if
£
Now that the days are few before they"will leave the University the uncertainties of the future are becoming impressed upon these men. A lot of things will neces-sarilv have to be left behind. There is one thins;. however, most of the Class of ’51 will take with them and keep with them.
And that is the close bond which has scrown between .o
them and the Blessed Mother. Outsiders misht scoff at this strong spiritual association. But the true Notre Dame man knows it is real. He knows it was through her intercession that he came here in- the first place and not someone else. He has accepted this gift with profound appreciation and prays that it will not end when he leaves. If he is truly her- son he will carry this bond with him and continually endeavor to make it grow richer.
This, then, is the finest thing that Notre Dame has given the Class of 1951. It is something each class before it has received and something each class following-will be offered. With humility the class thanks the Blessed Mother for bestowing her affection upon it.
During the past four years the Seniors have matured ’ under her care. Their final wish now is for as long as they live they will be worthy of being called Our Lady’s men. May she always be with them.
May 18, 1951
7
Portrait of how a man feels in An ARROW lightweight shirt!
Ifs ADLER’S for ARROW
Choose your
ARROW SHIRTS
FROM THE COMPLETE SELECTION IN THE MEN'S SHOP AT '
First Floor
mmsoirs
SPuM,$iend
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
cW*
111 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
VACATION STARTS at the RAILROAD STATION And You Can SAVE up to 28% on GROUP COACH TICKETS
Here's the Low-Down on Low Cost! Gather a group of 25 or more heading home in the same direction at the same time. Buy GROUP plan tickets. Each group member saves 28% compared to regular round-trip fares, or up to 45% compared to buying oneway tickets in each direction!
Go Together—Return as You Please! You all leave on one train. But you can return separately, in time for reopening of school. Group Plan savings apply as far as you all go together. Then buy individual round-trip tickets the rest of the way.
Plan Your Group Plan Savings NOW! Your nearest railroad passenger agent will help you organize a group to get these big savings... good on most coach trains east of Chicago or St. Louis, north of the Ohio and Potomac Rivers, and west of New York City.
Or, if you’re traveling alone, save on Regular Round-Trips.
For Comfort and Safety IN ANY WEATHER Take The Train!
EASTERN RAILROADS
8
The Scholastic

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 26	MAY 18, 1951
University to Give 725 Degrees June 3
LL.D.’s So +o Har+ke, McCanna, Maritain
Dr. Jacques Maritain, French philosopher-theologian, Rev. Gilbert V. F. Hartke, 0. P., of the Catholic University of America, and Mr. C. Roy McCanna, chairman of the Board for the Bank of Burlington, Wis., will receive honorary LL.D, degrees at the 106th Notre Dame Commencement Exercises to be held here Sunday, June 3. The announcement was made by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c. s. C., president of the University.
Dr. Maritain, formerly French ambassador to the Vatican, rejoined the Princeton University Faculty as a visiting professor in the Department of Philosophy in 1948. During the academic year 1949-50, the eminent scholar directed graduate work in the field of Christian philosophy.
Chairman of the French delegation to the UNESCO conference in 1947, Dr. Maritain has been a professor of philosophy at.the Catholic Institute of Paris for many years and has held a professorship at the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies in Toronto.
A native of Paris, Dr. Maritain took
A FELLOW STUDENT NEEDS OUR HELP
During the Easter vacation Jim Aoki was in an auto accident. He came out of the wreck with a broken back and has been in the hospital since then and it looks as if he won’t be released for at least another six months. Jim needs not only our spiritual support. A conservative estimate is that his medical expenses will come close to $10,000. Students have contributed to his fund but the donations so far have not been exemplary of traditional Notre Dame charity. Everyone is strapped at this time of the year — but a fellow student needs our help. Send whatever amount you can to the JIM AOKI FUND, o/o THE RELIGIOUS BULLETIN. He’d do as much, if not more, for us if we were in his boat. And please do not send word to him of this fund. Give a little — give it today.
both his M. A. and M. S. degrees from the University of Paris and his Ph.D. from Rome Pontifical University. As a visiting lecturer, he has recently concluded a series of talks at Notre Dame.
Fr. Hartke is the founder and present head of the department of speech and drama at Catholic University. A native of Chicago, he received his Bachelor of
Arts degree from Providence College in 1929 and his Master of Arts degree from Catholic University in 1937.
Fr. Hartke, a pioneer in integrating drama as a fine art into a liberal arts academic program, founded the first Catholic touring company, Players* Inc. This group, composed of former Cath-(Continued on Page 32)
MR. McCANNA
May 18, 1951
9
1900 Students to Take Draft Deferment Test
For three hours next Saturday approximately 1900 members of the student body will try to do their patriotic duty by proving to the draft officials that they are worthy of further schooling by taking the Selective Service qualification test here on campus. Mr. Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Testing and Guidance, has announced the pertinent details for taking the test.
All students taking the test are required to report at the southwest door (nearest the Law Building) of the Engineering Building at 8:30 a. m. There they will be separated into specific groups and will be escorted by their proctors to the room in which they will take the test. Left handed and right-handed writers will be separated to insure greater ease in writing the test. The tests will be held in the Engineering, Law, Biology, Commerce, Social Science, Science, and Main buildings along with Washington Hall and the Navy Drill Hall.
Students will be fingerprinted in their respective test rooms by the proctors. Immediately after everybody is fingerprinted the test will start.
It is very important to bring either a No. 2 pencil or a pen along with an official document showing your selective service number and the exact designation, number and address of the local draft board involved. Also, each one must bring his test admittance card.
The qualification tests will also be here on the Campus on June 16 and 30. Anyone unable to take the test on the day assigned must write to the Educa-. tional Testing Service, Selective Service Examination Section, P. O. Box -586, Princeton, New Jersey, requesting the • change.
PHOTOGRAPHERS WANTED
Photographers are wanted by the Publications office for the 1951-52 scholastic • year. For the first time, four photographers will be placed on student credits during the coining year. These four men will service both Scholastic and Dome. Applicants should bring details of their experience or samples of their work to Publications Office during the coming week. Publications office announced that while photographic supplies will be furnished, applicants should have their own camera.
Students Win Five Awards, Eight Citations in Art Show
Five merits of excellence and eight honorable mention merits were awarded in the annual student Art and Hobby Show- held in the Drill Hall last weekend.
Bob Lynch’s drawing of an old woman’s head, George Schilling’s photo entitled “Dunes,” Jack Young’s portrait of a young girl, Bill Degnan’s drawing denoting physical fitness, and the sculptured head of Christ won awards of excellence.
DEGNAN AND ENTRY
Mike Wilkinson’s photo entitled “Campus Reflections,” Alfredo Roces’s portrait of a young girl, and Roger Kotoske’s modern art painting entitled “Music Master” were awarded honorable mention. The following also won honorable mention: Coly Griffin’s drawing of the head of Christ, Charles L. Christen’s painting of scrap metal workers, Louis Beck’s painting of a nude, sculptured heads of Mary and Jesus, and C. F. Murphy’s photo called the “Wheat Field in Idaho.” Various cash prizes will be given to the above mentioned winners.
Tom Snyder acted as chairman; he was assisted by Dick MacDonald, handling publicity; Roy Strickfadden, displays; Bill Kelley, arrangements; and John White. The 100 entries were judged by Mr. Reginald Neal, a South Bend artist.
Placement News
Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Bureau, has announced that Mr. C. M. Finnel, of the Boy Scouts of
America, will be on campus next Tuesday to interview seniors interested in executive work with the Boy Scout organization.
On the same day, representatives from the Gary Sheet & Tin Mill, a subsidiary of the United States Steel Corp., will speak to undergraduate students who desire summer jobs in the Gary area.
Those who are interested in either of these interviews should contact Mr. Dooley in the Placement Office on the ground floor- of the Main Building.
Classes Form Plans For New School Year
Though the school year is quickly drawing to a close, George Sweet, newly elected president of next year’s seniors, has organized his new executive council in formulating plans for the coming year’s activities.
Comprising his four point planned program are: 1) an extra football trip for the Seniors, 2) a semi-formal dance in the Fall, 3) a renewal of the student talent quest show, and 4) the inauguration of Senior Class awards to outstanding intra-mural athletes, class members who have distinguished themselves through the promotion of class activities, and class members who have contributed most to further student welfare.
Not to be outdone by the Juniors, Floyd Blair and the Sophomore Class are well on their way toward rounding-out plans for next year’s activities. At present, leading plans for next year’s Juniors include: 1) formation of a close-knit hall council, 2) a semi-formal dance and a picnic on one of the football weekends, 3) pictures of each student as a part of the directories placed in the lobby of each Junior hall, and 4) a “lay-away plan” to aid in the purchase of class rings.
The Freshman Class, led by presidentelect Bob Poden, has already made definite plans for the most important Sophomore activity of the Fall, the Cotillion. At the Student Council meeting last Monday, the week end of the Purdue game, Oct. 27, was approved for the Sophomore festivies.
Other plans for the year are the formation of a hall council to meet monthly and a bi-monthly bulletin with information regarding the council work, a Sophomore Class picnic and a Spring dance if the success of the Cotillion should warrant it.
10
The Scholastic
Charity Chest Gives Over $5,000 in Year
Over §5,000 in contributions for needy causes has been granted by the Charity Chest since its inauguration last year.
The nine man Charity Chest Committee, headed by Jack Broderick, represents the Notre Dame student body in recommending the allotment of donations to worthy causes. Upon approval by the Charity Chest Committee, the names of the recipients are submitted to the Student Council and, if approved, the money is taken out of the special fund for that purpose. The Charity Chest was designed to eliminate door-to-door collection of funds on campus.
Though the Mardi Gras Carnival is the only source of income for the fund at present, there is a balance of over §9,000 on hand. Next year this amount may be increased, since new sources of revenue have been added.
Notable gifts include §1,000 to the Our Lady of Fatima Shrine which is to be constructed near the campus, §1,000 to the NFCCS Overseas Service Program’s Foreign Student Relief Fund, and §500 to the Logan School for Retarded Children. The March of Dimes,
K. of C. Bengal Bouts, and the Community Chest each got §300, and §200 was sent to the American Heart Association and the Cancer Society.
Numerous grants have also been given to missions, seminaries and the like in dire financial circumstances.
Senator Bricker Stresses Importance of Natural Law
The Honorable John W. Bricker, United States Senator from Ohio, pleaded for a return to the Natural Law philosophy of the Founding Fathers of this nation as the only hope of defeating Communism on the ideological front, in an address at the annual banquet Saturday of the Notre Dame Student Law Association.
Senator Bricker’s address climaxed the annual Practicing Law Institute held Friday and Saturday at Notre Dame to aid practising attorneys of northern Indiana.
“Our efforts to combat Communism by military, diplomatic, or economic means are futile unless we also win the war of ideas,” Senator Bricker declared at the Notre Dame banquet. “Our only hope of defeating Communism on the ideological front lies in a rebirth of those moral
and spiritual convictions on which our Republic was founded.”
The Ohio Senator, praising the annual Natural Law Institutes held in the Notre Dame College of Law, said that “Natural Law has at least a sub-conscious or indirect impact on the nation’s legislators.”
He pointed out in his Notre Dame address that Godless materialism which is so prevalent today is a serious threat to our traditional way of life.
“Too many of our judges and educators have spread this materialism by denying any inherent limitation on the power of government,” the senator declared. “The students of legal mate- -rialism in particular have been quick to see that if there is no moral law for government there is none for men. Alger Hiss, a protege of Mr. Justice Holmes and other legal realists, simply carried that view to its logical -‘on-clusion.
“I have no doubt that Justice Holmes, a patriotic American, would have been appalled by the traitorous conduct of his most promising disciple. I have no doubt that the law professors who taught Alger Hiss that Natural Law is a myth were deeply shocked by his betrayal of his country. The University of Notre Dame law school may take justifiable pride in the fact that it has created no no Frankenstein monsters.”
May Day
AT THE GROTTO: Prayer is Notre Dame’s answer to communism’s demonstrations.
Six Attend Final NFCCS Meeting in Terre Haute
Six Notre Dame men represented the student body at a meeting of the Fort Wayne Region NFCCS Council last Sunday at St. Mary-of-the-Woods College, Terre Haute, Ind. Attending the final session .of the year were John O’Connell, Jim Garvin, Al DeCrane, Paul Zalecki, Don Carbone, and Tom Godfrey, members of the campus NFCCS Council.
The purpose of the meeting was to wind up regional NFCCS affairs for the year, and to plan for the National Congress in St. Paul late in August. Midway through the meeting, O’Connell, assumed his new duties as regional president. He was elected by the Council at the last meeting. '
A special ways and means committee was set up to study methods of increasing the regional treasury, which closed its books this year with a balance of §170.10. Also, a calendar committee will form a tentative schedule for next year’s regional activities.	,
May 18, 1951
11
1950 - 51
Review of the Year
TT’S almost over, now . . . this 19-50-51 •*" school year . . . we have skipped through the calendar so quickly it does not seem possible that many of the things we remember so well were way back in the ‘50 half of the year . . . it’s funny, too ... so much has happened that we should hardly remember it all . . . but we do . . . maybe because everything was so big . . . but it still was a long way back . . . remember.
Remember the first day of school . . . registration day . . . all the bags you carried and forms you filled out and lines you stood in . . . remember the pictures you posed for which never came out . . . and how you purposedlv looked as beat as possible . . . wondering whether it would turn out like those pictures you’ve always seen on post office walls . . - that’s one thing we missed this year . . . the passing round of photographs and all the guffaws as you determined who had positively the worst picture.
Then you got the key from your rector and went up to your room . . . how bleak it looked the first time, with sun streaming in the bare window on wooden floors and empty desks . . . but a few well-spent bucks at the Salvation Army would take care of that ... all the hel-
“Up” in the evening
los as the boys dropped into your room ... or wondering how to get acquainted, if you were new here . . . but everyone else was in the same boat ... so it did not take long . . . you told what you did this summer, and what you think of this Korean business ... it seemed a world away then, and there were other things to think about . . . like the coming football season . . . for weren’t we defending national champs ... all the bull-sessions . . . we can’t be beat . . . yeah, but all the men we lost.
But there were other things to do around that time . . . like the first week of class - . - boy, did I draw one for Bus. Admin. . . . those frustrating bookstore lines, where you found out once again that Brother Conan isn’t manager because he has a nice brogue . . . then things really began to move . . . for classes were still new and interesting . . . besides, it was time for the first pep rally . . . you went over to the gym . . . this was the night you got the real scoop, from the head man himself . . . and he warned you . . . but why worry about something until it happens ... so you cheered . . . for the captain, for the team, and just cheered in general . . . the North Carolinians came up, breathing fire and vowing revenge for the debacle in Yankee Stadium . . . but the Choo-choo had pulled out, so what was there to worry about . . . Bunting was a willing substitute, yet we came through . . . thanks to a passing combination we would see a lot more of.
How the sessions flared up after that one . . . this may be the year ... I don’t know, if we can just get by the Spartans . . . but there were some other people who had the chance to get in first licks . . . metal-workers, or something like that, from Lafayette ... by 4:30 that Saturday afternoon it had ended . . . the streak . . . the world . . . everything . . . but only for a little while . . . you stood outside the dressing room for over an hour . . . and by the time you left the impromptu rally it wasn’t so bad . . . for wasn’t the whole world waiting to see . . . but oh, boy, you thought, I can just imagine what those Sunday -papers will have to say . . . it was plenty . . . then it was time for
Top of the Year
the student trip . . . New Orleans, this time . . . the orchid of the South . . . it shaped up to be a great weekend . . . of fun and frolic . . . with a game thrown in . . . the Green Wave was trying to work itself up to swamping dimensions ... it had a long memory, too . . . they were talking about giving us a watery cleaning out . . . but no soap . . . and then the big Saturday night . . . sightseeing around the town . . . down to Papa Celestine’s for some Dixieland . . . then other places and other things . . . finally the long, long train ride back . . . never did the campus look so desolate as at 6:00 that morning.
But the season was only beginning, and the trouble, too ... it soon became apparent that Purdue wasn’t the only other school in Indiana . . . the hurryin’ Hoosiers were loaded, and they had the grudge to go with it . . . but we couldn’t lose more than once . - . especially not to them ... a bunch of renegades from South Bend . . . when it was all over* we had to admit one thing . . . they were pretty good renegades . . . we carried on . . . it’s hard to say what happened the week of that next game . . . the slow-build-up of excitement . . . the discovery that Seniors aren’t as blase as
12
The Scholastic
popularly supposed ... all those signs— by the circle, across the bog, on the halls, everywhere . . . that Thursday night, awaiting the invasion . . .- the false alarm . . . and that bewildering moment the next morning ... if I am just getting up how is it that I’m already dressed . . . that night . . . the pep rally . . . the bonfire, like something out of “Hades” . . . and we planned to give them some of that the next day . . . hades ... all culminating in one gigantic effort at the game . . . we lost . . . but felt kind of proud, nevertheless.
Things settled down after that . . . the Victory Dances were just as crowded as ever . . . the fishing contest was still going strong . . . rehearsals had started for the first theatre production of the year . . . and architecture classes were being distracted by some people digging a hole in the ground . . but there were worries . . . not shared, however, by draft boards regarding college students . . . they didn’t seem to know we even existed . . . and so we stewed . . . the football season was fast coming to an
end ... it wasn’t too successful, perhaps, but interesting . . . and we were crying what had always seemed funny before . . . wait ’till next year.
One Sunday we went over to the stadium for something else . . . the Rosary Crusade ... no double-locomotives or sky rockets this time . . . but devotion . . . then winter was upon us . . . the season of big dances . . . and handker-
Great buildings from little holes grow
Standing
chiefs ... it started off with the Soph Cotillon, and then the Law Ball . . . not much else was happening around this time ... it was three centuries from last summer and an eon before Christmas . . . this was the season when Washington Hall came into its own . . . when there was standing room only at the
Room Only
Saturday flickers and Mighty Mouse was man of the hour . . . when you saw a show in South Bend to think up wise cracks . . . then delivered them when the movie was shown on campus . . . one day it happened . . . the rumor started slowly, then built up to a crescendo of fearful certainty . . . the regime had fallen, the old days were over . . . they were cracking down at Washington Hall . . . ushers were ^stationed at all exits . . . seats were no longer to be saved ... no more . ad-libs were to be shouted . . . the ushers lasted for a month, and silence for even less - . -then everything was as before . . . pandemonium again reigned supreme.
Eventually the theater put in its first appearance of the year, with “The Man Who Came To Dinner”. . . some sceptics were disappointed not to find Randolph Scott under the beard of the crusty old drama critic . . . but apparently Randy was resting up for next Saturday’s Ca-nadian Pacific ... it was just as well . . . this was no role for an outdoorsman . . . the pre-vacation monotony was at last broken when the year’s second major sport came to Notre Dame . . . it was basketball time . . . the team started off fast, winning the first four games . . . usually we consider four victories as only the beginning . . . this year it was a streak in itself. . . our longest one so far.
The days stumbled by . . . and then at last it was Christmas . . . home . . . for
May 18, 1951
13
a big two weeks of dances, parties, and merriment . . . then back to the campus, and we settled down to the regular school diet . . . and more merriment . . . there was talk that students were to be snatched out of school between semesters . . . people began to think of enlisting . . . some actually did join up . . . the Air Corps . . . the Navy . . . even the Army . . . those we could understand . - . but the Marine Platoon Leaders . . . the short-lived presence of law and order had only one serious rival for Revolution of the Year ... it happened early in February . . . always a bad month . . . there had been a tradition of long duration, amounting1 to almost an institution . . . oh, it wasn’t receiving much support now, but it was a link with the past . . . and they abolished it . . . the Sunday Tea Dance . . . never missed until it was no more.
The period of mourning was short, however, for things were happening . . . that object behind the Architecture Building was no longer just a hole in the ground . . . now it was an inflammable hole in the ground . . . and one day soon after Christmas it inflamed . . . what a stir that was ... it lasted as a
Pick a receiver, any receiver
topic of conversation for at. least two days . . . and then it was once again Mardi Gras time . . . games of skill and games of chance ... a dime a toss and quarter a dance . . . there were all sorts of interesting things . . . leis, burnooses, town girls ... it ended with a Ball . . . according to a concensus of student opinion, the Mardi Gras was almost perfect . . . one more added touch would have done it completely . . . Ann Blyth.
But we had all the Irish we wanted on St. Pat’s Day . . . rumor had it that some rascals were planning to wear
Open up those Cotillion gates
orange . . . but orange clothing apparently was not making news in the fashion world this year . . . their market was bullish, at best ... so nothing came of it . . . and class as usual . . . then Harvey dropped in for a pleasant two-day visit . . . perhaps he was wearing orange . . . it was hard to tell ... he just made it through the closing doors of the semester . . . another week and he would have been left out in the cold . . . exams . . . and even the snap courses sprouted teeth and started growling . . . a too-short vacation of five days.
When you came back you discovered that some of the boys would not . . . registration again . . . those same lines . . . more books to buy . . . and you could start taking cuts again . . . there were more basketball games . . . we were hot, then cold . . . until the Billikens put in an appearance . . . there had been some unkind words about the poor support given our team ... so we went all out ... it was much like the big football game . . . only a little happier . . . that tremendous first half . . . and hanging on the rest of the way ... a good one to win. . . the upset of the year, as far as we were concerned . . . but it was the high-spot, and our basketball record ended up much like the gridders’ . . . also an interesting season, a portent of things to come next year. . . .
Athletics continued in the spotlight . . . the annual Bengal Bouts ... all you can do is give one long tip of the hat, to everyone connected with the affair . . . to the Knights of Columbus who ran it . . . they really worked ... to Nappy, about whom so much has already been said. . . . deservedly ... to the champs ... to the losers ... to those men who come out year after year . . .whether they win or lose . . . and to the people who appreciate good fighting . . . for a worthy cause ... all those great fights, like the Windishar-Chisholm melee, Cotter and Flynn, and every other . . . adding up to something really awaited around here.
Soon after that the weather began to
14
The Scholastic
Some people would stoop to anything
get warmer . . . there were several false Springs, as usual . . . but Winter was obviously on the way out . . . we were visited by a month or two of what is optimistically called “rain” . . . years ago when it rained you would be told that the angels are crying . . . but come to Indiana and you get the truth . . . they are drowning up there . . . gradually the weather improved . . . until one day you realized that this was Spring for sure . . . appraising eyes were cocked bogwise, to see how one of the last natural
Careful, we're being watched
ball fields on campus had weathered the Winter . . . golf clubs came out of hibernation in closest corners, and you went to see what William J. Burke had to offer . . . people re-recognized the existence of an entity known as the Notre Dame Lakes . . . and you read about a student musical that was due to be presented soon . . . sure enough, something was going on in Washington Hall . . . people entering for rehearsals, and a good half of them were obviously not from Notre Dame . . . we’ll have to check this musical out, you said. . .
But there were other people in rehearsal on campus, too . . . the baseball season was coming up, football practice was being pointed towards an engagement later in the Spring, and small groups of upperclassmen were hard at work on plans for the Junior Prom and Senior Ball . . . but “Mr and Mrs. Broadway” had first debut . . . one of the most distinctive audiences of first-nighters and theatre lovers west of Elkhart gathered at Washington Hall for the opening night performance . . . and heartily enjoyed what they saw . . . good songs, good dances, good peifformers . . . made this show easily one of the big events of_the year . . . there were so many standouts . . . perhaps what will be remembered longest of all was the Charleston which brought down the house . . .
Seems like something new is always
popping up around here . . . usually sports . . . the outdoor track season was still going strong when it came time to play ball . . . most of the games away from home . . . but we did see some good ones ... all those Soph regulars promise well for the coming two years.
Gradually the school year moved into its final phase, and the Rockne Memorial was turned over from the athletes to the prom-goers . . . the Juniors started it off, with a notable assist from Harry James, and came up wnth a weekend that the other two classes would find it hard to top . . . but a pretty good try was made by the Freshmen on the following week ... in between dances a fair amount of discussion time was devoted to WND’s new early morning show, “Out of the Sack with Chazz and Jack” . . . although for a while it was thought that Chazz and Jack had blown their stack . . . but we liked it.
The days of April had steadily been crossed off, and another calendar page was discarded ... it was May . . .in other places people were gathering to dedicate the month to revolution on that first Tuesday . . . and at the Grotto a vastly different ceremony was taking place ... a dedication of May to the Lady who could overcome those others . . . the warm days continued to slip by . . . there were so few of them left now . . . and there was talk of the sum-
Life of the party
May 18, 1951
15
Uu and at ’em, gang
Just talking shop
mer . . . not so much about jobs this year . . . but on how good it would be to get home . . . and back again . . . suddenly the campus was plastered with slogans, promises, and posters . . . loudspeakers blared . . . class elections . . . seemingly a bit subddued this time . . . but close, and well-supported.
Only a day or two later all sorts of lovely ladies began drifting in for the
biggest social event of the year . . . the Senior Ball ... all the anxious looks that were directed skyward that Friday as the rain poured down . . . and the thankful prayers that night during the stroll to the spotlighted Rock under rained-out skies . . . really an evening to be remembered . . . and the Old Timers Game the next day . . . seeing the former Irish greats again . . . some
for the last time . . . and seeing the new Irish, 1951-52 vintage . . . looks like big things coming.
And here we are . . . with less than a week of classes left . . . then exams . . . graduation for some . . . straight home, for most . . . more packing , . . more lines, but for turning in books this time ... a last look at the room ... it is just as bleak and empty now as at
the beginning of the year . . . you turn in your key to the rector, and off . . . the year is over, the cycle complete . . . it wasn’t too unusual a stay ... a Little more good, and perhaps a little more bad . . . you don’t know what you’re walking into, is one thing . . . our me-
Bottom of the year diocre athletic record is another . . . but the sports angle is shaping up . . . and maybe things in general will do the same . . . any way, the least you can say about it ... it was an interesting-year.
Local ROTC S+uden+s Receive 14 Citations
Members of the Air and Naval ROTC Units received annual awards at the Air Force Federal Inspection held Tuesday in front of the Rockne Memorial. Colonel Matthews, U.S.A.F., was the inspecting officer at the joint review of the University’s Reserve Officer Training Corps.
The following awards were presented to Air ROTC cadets. Commander Leva of Bendix Aviation Post 284 presented the American Legion award for outstanding achievement to Cadet Colonel Robert O’Connell. The 40 & 8 award for outstanding achievement was presented to Cadet Captain Thomas Digan. The Air Force Association award presented to an outstanding first-year advanced student was given to Bill Whiteside by Colonel Matthews, U.S.A.F.
The Chicago Tribune gold medal was awarded to Edward Burke and the Chicago Tribune silver medal was presented to Raymond Korzen. The Tribune
May 18, 1951
awards are given on a basis of both scholastic and military aptitude.
Lt. Colonel Nimtz, U.S.A.R., president of the local chapter of the Reserve Officers Association, awarded the Reserve Officers Association medal for the outstanding first year student to Cadet Carl Eck.
Captain F. E. Edgar, U.S.N., representing the Commandant, Ninth Naval District, presented the William Randolph Hearst Annual National NROTC Rifle Match second place plaque to the University of Notre Dame. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president, received the plaque in the name of the University. Midshipman Donal Murphy was awarded the national individual honors. All members of the rifle team received second-place medals.
The Chicago Tribune Awards to the Senior and Junior Naval Science students with the highest scholastic standing went to Senior Hugh Herdy and Junior Cornelius P. Sullivan. The Reserve Officers Association award for outstanding military achievement was presented to Midshipman Donal Murphy.
The American Legion Auxiliary award for scholastic and military aptitude was given to Midshipman Herdy. Infantry drill honors were awarded to Company A, Midshipman Nelson Lowe commanding. The award for the best-drilled platoon went to Platoon 3 of Company A, Midshipman George Heid-kamp, platoon leader.
Poden Announces Chairmen For Oct. 27 Soph Cotillion
President-elect of next year’s Sophomore class, Bob Poden, has recently announced the co-chairmen for the Sophomore Cotillion. They are Jerry Sheehan and Walt Vaughn.
These men, already working on the dance, have made tentative arrangements to hold it on October 27, the night before the Purdue game. Following approval by the Student Council, a special section has been reserved at this game for those attending the Cotillion.
In order to form the committees for the dance, the co-chairmen have calle ' a special meeting for Monday night in room 101 of the Law Building. The meeting, which will be short, will begin at 7. All members of the present Freshman class have been invited to attend, whether or not they have had previous experience in dance preparations work.
Lawmen Hold Moot Finals, Law Library Presentation
Final competition for the Moot Court Association’s Dean’s Award and the dedication of the Alvin Gould Natural Law Library will highlight the semiannual business meeting of the Notre Dame Law Association which is to be held on campus in the Law Auditorium June 8 and 9.
Mr. Alvin Gould will formally present the law library to Father Raymond Murphy, c.s.c., and Dean Manion in behalf of the University. A plaque representing the Dean’s Award is to be unveiled also.
The various committees of the Law Association will conduct meetings on Friday, June 8, and there is to be a Board of Directors’ Meeting Saturday morning.
Approximately 150 distinguished alumni of the Notre Dame Law School are expected to attend.
Marketmen Cite Economics Head for Service as Arbiter
Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics will be honored Monday, May 21, by the Marketmen’s Association of the Port of New York at a luncheon in New York City.
Professor Sheehan will be given a citation at the luncheon for his “outstanding work in' the field of governmentbusiness relations.” The Notre Dame ed-ucatoi- has served as an arbitrator in labor-management disputes since the middle of World War IL
Occasion of the labor-management luncheon of the Marketmen’s Association is the commemoration of the anniversaries of the great social encyclicals—the 60th anniversary of Remm Novarum and the 20th anniversary of Quadragesima Anno. Professor Sheehan has made it a practice during his teaching career at Notre Dame to give his students a complete analysis of these encyclials as part of their economic courses.
Dr. Francis Presents Paper
Dr. E. K. Francis, associate professor of sociology at Notre Dame, will read a paper entitled “Typical Variables in the Formation of So-Called Minority Groups” at this year’s annual meeting of the American Sociological Society in Chicago.
Dr. Francis has also been invited to make a contribution to the annual meeting of the Rural Sociological Society at Madison, Wis.
17
ALL ABOARD for Moonlight Soil are Jack Murphy, Gene Myle r, Tom Kennedy, Dick Byrne, Lee Brown and their dates.
Senior Ball Weekend
IT was Friday afternoon. May 11. In a matter of hours the annua! Senior Ball was to begin. This was the dance the Class of 1951 had looked forward to for four years. But something was wrong.
Everyone in Dillon and Sorin was sitting around with a long, disgruntled face. Outside the screened windows a steady, unceasing rain kept pelting the campus. Mother Nature looked as if she was determined to put a damper on the biggest social weekend at Notre Dame.
And then things started to get brighter. The sun didn't come out but the girls started to come in. From as far away as California and Denver; from New Orleans and Miami; from New York and Boston; from Chicago — they poured in with the consistency of Indiana rain and the brightness of Indiana sunlight.
The Senior Ball weekend was off to a wonderful start. The Ball, itself, was perfect. The last year men had attended many dances since they arrived in Septem-18
ber, 1947, but this was it — this was the best.
Saturday the crowd scattered: some went to the Old Timers' game, others headed for Lake Michigan beaches for picnics. Some came back that night for the Monogram Club dance; others remained around warming beach fires singing.
THE majority of the more than 500 Ball couples went in a body Sunday to the 9 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Some headed for the Oliver Hotel for a Communion Breakfast after that.
Then at noon the guests started to leave. By evening they were all gone. It had been a weekend that would long be remembered — that’s a cliche but any Senior will tell you it was true. A week has gone by and they’re still talking about it. A month from now they’ll be talking about it, a year from now, and at every Class of ’51 reunion from now until they wheel them on campus. It had been great.
The Scholastic
BREAK-TIME finds Bob Wallace, Miss Anne O'Neill, Den-
who attended the Ball will
nis O'Neill and
pinnacle of Notre Dame
the
a
always social
AT 2 O’CLOCK the Moonlight was over and the more than
ALL STUDENTS member it as
Sail
500
relife.
JOHNNY
LONG’S orchestra
and helps them forget
keeps the the wet

Miss Mary Dooley doing some relaxing.
MISS JANE SMITH, co-queen, with class president Jim Hennessy, after crowning.
Ball-goers shuffling weather outside.
MISS JUDY HOGAN, co-queen, enjoys spin with Hank Madden, her date.
couples went down the moored Rock’s gangplank to shore. On Saturday the celebrators chose either the athletic events on campus or else the beautiful — and slightly freezing — shores of Lake Michigan. Some took in both. That night there was the Monogram Club Dance at the Palais. On Sunday the Seniors attended Mass together and then some went to the Oliver for a Communion Breakfast. Two more pages of pictures start on next page.
I I s
£
■8
I I
&

May 18, 1951
19
Senior Weekend
PHOTOS in this four-page spread were taken by Jerry Sheehan, ’54, John Kinville, '52, and Al Muth, ’51. Text and layout are by Ken Thoren, '51.
DEEP IN THE HEART of South Bend’s juvenile rooting section are Chuck
Cohn and his date who vociferously cheer the Irish Varsity to their win.
TWO COUPLES seem much engrossed in the Old Timers' game. Bottom twosome later went to Monogram Dance.
THE WEEKEND’S second night ends at Palais as Joe Solomon helps his girl with her wrap. One day to go — that's all.
20
The Scholastic
AFTER SUNDAY MORNING’S 9 o’clock Moss the Senior Ball throng streams
down past Sorin toward the
CAUGHT from a Sorin Hall window.
Main quad beneath bright, sun-soaked trees.
couples leaving Sacred Heart Church.
OUTSIDE Church weekenders already rehash memories of wonderful days.
FATHER HESBURGH gave a talk at Communion Breakfast.
BALL-GOERS at Breakfast agreed it was a fitting way to close a dance weekend ar Notre Dame University.
May 18, 1951
21
c
Men of the Year
(The Editors of the Scholastic present their fourth annual selections for Notre Dame Men of the Yeai honors. These men and the one organization have been chosen on a basis of leadership of and contributions to the University of Notre Dame and its student body according to their neics value during the past year, .-D in the past, publication members and Dome Award zeinnets were not eligible for consideiation.)
FRANK A. CROVO, Richmond, Va., accounting major, deserves much of the credit for the success of this year’s Mardi Gras, where he served as chairman of the raffle. Secretary of the Washington-Virginia Club, Frank has also been active in the Blue Circle’s orienta-
tion, welcoming, and constitution committees.
He organized the
new system of auditing for campus clubs, is a member of the Ac-
counting Club, and served as Broadway.”
make-up
man
for “Mr. and Mrs.
i

WILLIAM P. FAGAN, Newark, N. J., Freshman, one of Notre Dame’s most promising public speakers of recent years, has already won the Breen and Freshman Oratorical Contests and placed second in the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Contest. He represented ND and Indiana in the mid-western eliminations of the Hearst “Tournament of Orators,” placing third. Fagan was cited for Superiority and Excellence
at the Bradley Invitation, Georgetown tournaments.
Illinois
State Normal,
Eau Claire, and
i
JAMES F. GARVIN,
a political
science major
from Toledo, Ohio,
wins Notre Dame Men of the Year honors for the second straight year. In addition to being senior delegate and president of the NFCCS Council, during the past year Jim was also Secretary of the
Student Council and Junior Class representative tivities Council. He gave further evidence of manager of the Student Council Victory Dances of the Dome Award Committee.
to the NROTC Ac-his capabilities as and as a member
The Scholastic


WILLIAM P. HUBBERT, of West Newton, Mass., and a transfer student from Tufts College, lost no. time in making a name for himself. Bill served as May Day chairman, program director of the '51 Bengal Bouts, and as chairman of the New England Club dance. He has also demonstrated his managerial ability and capacity for work in regard to his studies, and will graduate cum laude in August.
JOSEPH G. LOTTA,
of Hamilton, Ohio,
ably served
as the first presi-
dent of the Engineering Students Advisory Board, organized this past year, and as co-chairman of the Engineers Ball. This aeronautical engineering student, who graduates in June, did not confine himself to these offices alone. He was also chairman of the Aero Club, and as a member of the Vau guided missies research
group, authored the article “Vau 9-13,” which March issue of the Technical Review.
appeared in the

WILLIAM A. TOOHEY,
DAVID S. SCHOEN, Commerce Senior from Louisville, Ky., was secretary-treasurer of the Blue Circle, where he expanded the orientation, welcoming, and study counseling programs. The finance-major is president of the Kentucky Club, Lieut.-Colonel and Regimental Commander of the AROTC unit, and served as ticket chairman for
the Air Force Ball. He was cited in Who’s Who leges and Universities, and has been a member Club, and fencing team.
in American Col-
of YCS, the Glee
of Racine,
Wis., has firmly
established him-
self as deserving of Notre Dame
Men of the Year honors. During
the past year Bill was president of Howard Hall, publicity director and announcer of WND, and a member of both the Glee Club and the Blue Circle. It was as co-chairman of the Junior Prom, how-eyer, that he really demonstrated his organizational abilities, and the job he did in that capacity highlighted his Junior year.
May 18, 1951
23
JEROME F. GROOM and ROBERT A. WILLIAMS are two men who need no introduction to anyone familiar with Notre Dame. Groom, a Senior Commerce major from Des Moines, Iowa, was the hardhitting captain and All-American center of the ’50 Fighting Irish. Williams, a Senior Speech major from Baltimore, Md., is a two-Year All-American and the most famous name in college football last season. This season was the last time either played under the colors of Notre Dame.
WND ENJOYED A BANNER YEAR of broadcasting, growing to unprecedented stature as the “Student Voice of Notre Dame” under the direction of manager Jack Maher. Broadcasting time was expanded from 58 hours to 90 hours a week. Vastly improved programming, achieved under Bill Ryan, next year’s manager, included “Re-questfully Yours,” “Campus Digest,” “Sports Final,” and complete worldwide and campus
news coverage. Spot broadcasts were sent from Palais Royale and Rockne Memorial Spring dances, and from home athletic events. Most unusual was the early risers’ show, “Out of the Sack With Chas, and Jack.” Installation of new equipment and modernized studio facilities improved transmission and reception of WND shows. Other staff men deserving praise are Ray Earls, Jack Hynes, Joe Shelley, Jerry Burlage and Hawley Hall.
REASONS for WND s success: (I. to r.) Hawley Hall, designer, Ted Byrne and John Saul, technicians, Bill Ryan, manager.
The Scholastic
» --» > . - ——- —

Irish N ine Closes Campaign at Home
Irish Defend Track Laurels at Bradley
By Ted Prahinski, ’51
It’s the closed Central Collegiate Conference Championship meet on the schedule tomorrow for the Irish track-sters and after that only three more meets will remain before the Irish close out one of their more dismal track seasons.
The Irish are the defending champs in tomorrow’s closed CCC meet, but it’s rather improbable that they will repeat since the competition will be strongei’ tomorrow than last year, and because the Irish don’t have the balance they boasted last year. They should win their next meet, a dual contest with Bradley on June 2, since they were able to dump the Braves, 84-30, in an indoor contest last February, but the team probably will not set the world on fire in the following meet,
JOHN HASTINGS, Lou Lepry and Norm Feltes sweep the 440 event in Pitt meet.
the open CCC championship where the competition should be plenty strong since a lot of non-member schools, Big Ten teams for example, will be competing. So far none of the team has shown enough stuff to warrant an entry in the National Collegiate Meet which is being held in Seattle on June 16, but several individuals could conceivably develop enough in the next few meets to make the trip worth while.
Notre Dame has three defending CCC champs competing tomorrow — broad jumper John Worthington, half miler Vai Muscato, and two miler Ben Almaguer — but none of them will be a favorite. John Mohar, Irish half miler, looks like a good bet to beat Muscato, but Worthington will be hampered by an injury and Almaguer has already been beaten twice this year by Marquette’s John Stearns. The Irish should pick up a lot of points tomorrow, but Marquette, Drake, and Michigan Nor-(Continued on Page 27)
Wisconsin, Western Michigan Invade ND
The Notre Dame baseball team will play six games in the next two weeks to wind up their 19-51 season. Four of these six games will be played on Cartier Field.
First on the Irish schedule this coming week is a return engagement Tuesday with Purdue at Lafayette. Earlier this season the Klinemen edged the Purdue nine, -5-2, behind the fine pitching of Stan Konopka. It was the 46th baseball victory for the Notre Dame squad in the history of the baseball rivalry between the two schools. The Boilermakers came out on top in 20 contests and three games ended in ties.
The University of Wisconsin comes to Notre Dame for two games over the weekend of May 2-5 and 26. Last Spring Coach Kline’s club whipped the Badgers twice, 10-5 and 14-5. The all-time series record between the Irish and the Wisconsinites is 38 triumphs for ND, one tie, and 30 wins for the Badgers.
On May 30 the Great Lakes Training Station team will arrive in South Bend for their second game of the season with the Klinemen. The first meeting this year between the two clubs will be held tomorrow afternoon on the Great Lakes squad’s home field.
Notre Dame will close out their 19-51 baseball season with two games with Western Michigan. On June 1 the Irish will journey to Kalamazoo for the first encounter and the next day the Western Michigan nine will come to South Bend to meet the Klinemen in the final game of the season. The all-time record between the two schools on the diamond stands at 36 wins for the Irish, one tie, and 13 victories for the lads from Western Michigan.
Last week-end Notre Dame played four games on the road encountering Michigan, Michigan State, and Illinois twice.
In the road opener with the Wolverines, the Klinemen got off on the (Continued on Page 29)
May 18, 1951
25
Leahy's Lads Ruin Old Timers' Return, 47-20; Frosh Lattner Sparkles With Three Scores
By Bill Londo, ’53
Flashing an impressive ground attack, the 1951 Notre Dame varsity struck speedily and consistently to overwhelm the ND stars of yesteryear, 47-20, in the annual windup of Spring practice. Almost 20,000 shirt-sleeved grid fanatics watched Coach Frank Leahy loose a bevy of bruising backs who swept through the Old Timers’ defense nearly at will.
The Irish showed promise in all departments, but the runners stole the show. Bill Barrett, John Petitbon, Del Gander, John Lattner, Neal Worden, Frank Paterra, and Joe Heap sliced through the line or cut around the ends with what looked like ridiculous ease. John Mazur and his substitute, Bill Gaudreau, coordinated this blazing attack with finesse and assurance.
The Senior foursome of Mazur, Barrett, Petitbon, and Gander started the contest and worked smoothly. “Billy the Kid” was especially effective, as he showed no signs of the leg injury which bothered him most of last season. Petitbon flashed his Michigan State form, and Gander ran powerfully, scoring the first touchdown on a beautiful quick opener. Freshman Lattner led all the Irish point makers with three TD’s, and played well as defensive safety.
Allcssandrini Outstazzding on Defense
On defense Leahy used mainly first yeai* men, and although they lacked the poise to please the perfectionist coach, they performed creditably. Frank
Mangialardi, Al Kohanowich, and Charlie Doud were among the most impressive of the forward wall, while Jack Alessandrini and Worden were outstanding backing up.
This was not as potent an assembly of ex-ND stars as the one which defeated the varsity last year, but it was far from being weak. No less than three All-Americans filled the center spot: Jerry Groom, George Stroh-meyer, and Frank Szymanski. The Seniors from last year’s club were there, as were such former stars as Jim Martin, Gus Cifelli, Emil Sitko, Ernie Zalejski, Jim Mello and Walt Grothaus.
The varsity lost no time in showing that they intended to do much better than their ’50 predecessors. After vet Bob Williams had completed two passes, one to Chicago Bear- star Bill Wightkin, Alessandrini intercepted the next attempt by Williams, and returned-to the Old Timers’ 34. Petitbon lugged the ball to the ten in two tries, and then Gander blasted his way up the middle to score. Menil Mav-raides made the first of his five extra points.
After the kickoff Williams was smothered three times by the aggressive Irish line, and the varsity took over. Lattner bolted 22 yards for the TD on the first play. The former Chicago Fenwick flyer shook oft three would-be tacklers on the way. Barrett accounted for the last six points of the first pe
riod as he turned Martin’s end and raced 34 yards to score.
Dave Flood set up the next varsity tally by recovering a fumble on the Old Timers’ nine. Worden whirled to the two, and Lattner crashed over. After this touchdown the vets came to life and went 82 yards to paydirt. A fourth-down pass from Williams to Zalejski sparked the drive, along with Bill Gay’s fine running. Williams threw four yards to Martin for the marker, and Blackie Johnson converted.
The Old Timers struck again a moment later on a 35-yard effort by the Williams-Zalejski duo. Zalejski put on a brilliant display of broken field running to rack up the tally. The extra point was missed, and the half ended with the varsity in front, 27-13.
Two 15-yard penalties at the start of the second half incensed the ’51 hopefuls into their longest march of the day. With the ball on the Irish nine, Mazur tossed to Petitbon who made a sensational catch and slid to the Old Timers’ 35. Barrett rushed to the 19, and then Petitbon sprinted into the end zone. Lattner captured a Williams pass a minute later and romped 48 yards for another score.
Then in the final quarter the Chicago Freshman repeated his theft and raced 53 yards before he was hauled down by Williams on the Old Timers’ three. Paterra bulled over the goal on the next play to finish the varsity’s scoring for the day.
The Old Timers tallied the last touchdown late in the game. An interference ruling on another Williams-Zalejski aerial put the ball on the varsity four, and Dick Cotter went over from there.
OLD TIMER halfback Bill Gay takes off around his right end in futile attempt to gain yardage in last Saturday's game.
HALFBACK Dick Cotter of the Old Timers carries the ball as halfback Ernie Zalejski (12) attempts to block Joe Heap.
26
The Scholastic
Netters Win Double Header
Last Saturday in Pittsburgh the Notre Dame tennis team won a double ► header on the tennis courts. In the morning the Irish defeated a hapless ' Duquesne team, 9-0, for their greatest I margin of victory this season.
But the Irish netters had to fight for a 5-4 win in the afternoon match with , Pittsburgh. This was the fourth win of I the season for Coach Walter Langford’s team and with only two regular season matches left the team must win both to have a winning season. Up to today’s match with Detroit the team has won four and lost five.
The fifth loss came last week at the ’ hands of Purdue, 6-3. The overall competition was much keener than the final score indicated. The Boilermaker margin of victory was provided by victories in the last encounters after the Irish had won the initial sets.
Track
(Continued from Page 25) mal all have enough individual stars to make a higher total.
Last Saturday Pittsburgh turned on the steam in the last several events to beat the Irish 76y2-63y2 in a dual meet on Cartier Field. Most spectacular of the day’s races were the 880 and the two-mile runs where Pitt runners came from way back to nip Irishmen John Mohar and Ben Almaguer respectively at the tape in meet record time.
The meet started off on enjoyable terms for Notre Dame when the Irish jumped to a 12-point lead in the first four events, largely on the strength of the clean sweep John Hastings, Lou Lepry, and Norm Feltes engineered in the quarter' mile run. Less enjoyable was the clean sweep the Pittsburghers took in the next to the last event, the discus throw, to put the meet on ice for them.
Buck Ewing was a double winner for ND, taking the 100 and the 220-yard dashes. Bob Toneff won the first contest of the day — the shot put — before he took off for his tackle chores in the Old Timer-Varsity football game. Hastings took the quarter, and Long John Murphy tossed the javelin far enough to win that event. After the meet had been already lost, the mile relay team of Jim Bollas, Norm Feltes, Jack Wagner, and Lou Lepry won its race to make the score look respectable.
Contributing to the early scoring binge were Con Tetrault and George Gross who were second and third in the mile, Dave Fox, third in the 100-yard dash, and Ed Powell ’who was second in the high hurdles.

by
The New Irish
So the Old Timer team that got drubbed by a 47-20 count last Saturday was the best the Irish will face this year, huh? They did have a lot of name ballplayers, and they did look all right at times, but we sure wish they were the best the Irish will run up against in ’51.
Still, they can be considered a fail-test, in spite of their somewhat anemic play. We’ll admit that this ’51 squad can go a long way, if it doesn’t suffer from dry throats and hearts-in-mouth, usually associated with inexperienced, pre-war football teams.
Yet, there is need for improvement, particularly in the pass defense. Notre Dame teams have often relied upon a charging line to hurry the passer, and trust he does have time enough to find a target. Last year it didn’t work—no line. This year it may.
The line was charging exceptionally well last Saturday. If Bob Williams thought he was going to get some protection for a change, he soon found out differently. The Varsity forward wall looked like a lot of lines we saw in action last Fall—all against Notre Dame. They had better be good next Oct. 13 when SMU comes to town.
The new spirit that has taken hold of this ’51 squad, especially among the holdovers from last year, was very much in evidence. Del Gander looked like the fullback everyone thought he should be when he exploded through his own right tackle for the first Varsity touchdown. That first score looked like a carbon copy of the run on which he scored the winning touchdown against Tulane last Fall.
Bill Barrett and John Petitbon looked like Bill Barrett and John Petitbon. John Mazur didn’t play much, but it didn’t look as though he needed the workout. First time he tried a quarterback sneak he went five yards through the middle of the Old Timer line. All he had to do was follow the path carved out by the trio in front of him.
And of course there were the newcomers, the brightest being one John Lattner. On his first touchdown run he gave one of the best examples of smart power running we’ve seen in a long time.
His work on defense must have pleased even the Old Master.
One thing the Irish didn’t show last Saturday was the variety of plays they will use in the Fall. There were eagle eyes from Purdue, Indiana and Michigan State, among others, in the stands, and Frank showed them enough in the way of players to make them start worrying about next football season. Then they’ll get to see the plays they didn’t see last Saturday. It should be a much more delightful Fall than the one of ’50.
The Fade Out
This is the fade out for this Press Box columnist since this is the last issue of the current school year and we won’t be around this way again next Fall.
Before taking our leave of the Press Box for the final time, we’d like to catch up on some unfinished business—the recognition of certain groups or individuals because of tearful pleadings, threats on our life or, more seriously, because they deserve the thanks of my staff and myself.
First of all, to the Rinky-dinks on the baseball squad, who don’t have as much trouble knocking off the Varsity as other teams do. “They also serve who only stand and wait.”
Then there is Frank Johnson, the most draft eligible guy around, who successfully kicked his first PAT in the game last Saturday. Hurry back, Fi-ank.
This department would have a hard time functioning if it wasn’t for the help given us by Charlie Callahan, and his Sports Publicity assistants, Bill Riley and John Rohrbach, and his secretary, Maura Mills. We’ve pestered them for all sorts of data, photos—we’ve even walked off with their files, but still they cheerfully help us out.
Also our thanks go to Frank Sullivan, who guards “the” door, and to the coaches of the various sports who have always given us the fullest cooperation.
Finally, thanks to you, our readers, for offering criticism and suggestions, and for taking what my staff and myself had to offer each wreek. We appreciate all.
May 18, 1951
27
Knocking flround the Halls
Vanker Pitches No-Hitter
Sorin Hall moved closer to the Eastern Interhall Baseball Championship Wednesday by virtue of John Vanker’s 12-0 no-hitter over Zahm Orange. They now need only a win over Walsh Hall to sew up the title and gain the opportunity to face Dillon, the Western champ, in the playoffs. If the Juniors should upset the men from Sorin, it could possibly provide a four-way tie for the initial spot. Sorin, Zahm Orange, Walsh and Breen-Phillips would all own virtually the same record if this were to occur.
Vanker was the whole show in Sorin’s romp of the Orange nine. Both teams entered the game undefeated and deadlocked for first place, but it did not take long for the Seniors to show their superiority as they jumped to a quick lead and maintained it easily the rest of the way. Vanker pitched to the minimum number of batters in the six inning con
test as only 18 Zahmites strode to the plate. Don Zech, the only base runner, worked the fastbailer for a pass in the first frame, but was quickly picked off first base by Catcher Voit. Vanker fanned 12 and not one ball was hit out of the infield. Paired with Fred Wallner, Vanker gives Sorn a solid 1-2 punch in the pitching department.
Also on Wednesday, Neil MacFarlan hurled Zahm Gold to their second win of the season against three losses by setting down Zahm Blue, 6-3. It was the second setback of the week for the Blues. On Monday they forfeited a contest to Walsh.
The rest of the schedule was wiped out because of Thursday and Friday’s downpour. It seems doubtful at the present if all the rainouts can be played, but there will be an attempt to get in all those games having a bearing on the battle for first place.
Bill Noonan, ’54
Farley and Vetville Tied for First
Once again hampered by the weatherman, the Interhall Softball leagues saw the current pace-setters continue o n their merry way toward the playoffs despite the fact that only a few games
were played. The playoffs are scheduled for May 18, and in the event of a first place tie in any one league the date will be moved up to the following Monday.
The two most important games in the Blue league saw Vetville and Farley remain locked up in a first place tie with the Vets beating St. Ed’s, 12-8, and Farley edging Alumni, 4-2. Both teams found it rough sledding, since Vetville staved off a sixth inning rally in -which St. Ed’s Tom Connors -whacked a grand slam homer. Farley on the other hand got caught in one of the few pitching duels this season, managing to eke out a 4-2 win.
In the Gold league, it was idle St. Ed’s watching their nearest rival, Morrissey, gain a 6-3 triumph over Zahm. The latter had also sustained an earlier defeat, 11-5, at the hands of Howard Hall.
In the “A” league, the St. Louis Club is tied with the Detroit Club for first place honors by virtue of the Saints’ 11-7 victory over the Detroiters last -week. Also capitalizing on Detroit’s loss -was Kansas City, now right on the heels of the leaders as a result of their 28-14 licking of Rochester.
Film shows how often and how long your eyes
—first step in re-training.
Have This Survey NOW.
at no extra cost!
Your college aptitude, ability to learn, and basic reading skills arc tested when you take the Foundation’s 3-hour survey. Standarized tests measuring these factors, professionally administered and scored, will be profiled and privately evaluated for you — now.
The way your eyes move when you read will be recorded on ■movie film and analyzed. Your vision will be checked.
All this is done easily and conveniently — without advance preparation. So, find out where you stand now — and how — even on your own — you can further develop your reading skills.
The nominal fee you'll pay for this comprehensive survey will apply in full toward the small investment you make in our complete reading training program — whenever you decide to start.
Call for this important and timely survey today!
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
114 East LaSalle Avenue
(open evenings)
Phone 3-0077
28
The Scholastic
The remaining “B” League produced very little action, with Central Illinois and Central New York breathing down the K of C’s neck, since each gained a victory last week.
In the 16 inch softball league Lyons is setting the pace with a 4-0 record. In their only game played last week they walloped Farley, 12-1. Of the remaining teams in the five team league, only Morrissey hall is anywhere near the leaders, and they show only three wins against two defeats.
Softball standings as of last week:
Blue League	W	L
Farley ........................5	0
Vetville .....................    5	0
Alumni ........................3	1
Morrissey .....................3	2
St. Ed’s.......................3	3
Sorin .........................2	3
Zahm ..........................2	3
Alumni Gr......................2	3
Cavanaugh .....................  1	4
Gold League	W	L
St. Ed’s.......................  6	0
Morrissey ...................    -5	1
Howard ........................4	* 1
Sorin .........................4 2
Alumni ....................  ...3	3
Zahm ...-.....................  3	4
Badin .....................   —.2	-5
P&ptuubiecA, jo*
Real Italian Pizza
Pizza with home-made Italian sausage 75c Pizza with scamorza Italian cheese 75c Pizza with fresh mushrooms 75c
(Served from 7:30 till 11)
THURSDAY — STEAK NITE — $1.25 “A favorite with Notre Dame men” PAPANDREA’s Spaghetti House 415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
A League	W	L
Detroit ....................-....5 1
St. Louis........................5	1
Kansas City.......................4	1
Fox River Valley.................3	1
Rochester .......................4	3
Cleveland .......................2	3
Milwaukee ..................-....2 4
A tennis ball has been timea at 100 M.P.H. ... a thrown base ball at 98.6 M.P.H. and the initial velocity of a drive in golf at 170 M.P.H.*
Buffalo ...................-.......-1	4
B League	W L
K. of C....................-....6	0
Central N. Y...............-....-5 1
Central Ill..............—-.....5 1
Aero ......-....................3	2
Kentucky ...............-.......2	2
Syrian Leb......................1 3
Minnesota ................      2	4
Hawaii .................-.......1	4
—Jack Sand, ’54

Baseball
(Continued from Page 2-5) wrong foot and after two innings were too far behind to overcome the deficit. Notre Dame started off the first inning on singles by Bob Manning and Jim Boland and a double by Jim Gillis to put them ahead, 2-0.
However, Michigan hopped on starter Bob Nemes after their lead-off man grounded out. They combined six hits for seven runs before Nemes was relieved by Jerry Ledwidge. Three
I’M SOW 5
ToTSSta J SOAlDlUG ') QKX£T/y
SPALDING^ fSPALDINa GIVE THESE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP	BAHS 3600WALLOPS
ATIOOM1LESFERHOUR. BUT THEY STILL CONFORM
U.S.L.TA. SPECIFICATIONS?
*Golf balls are machine tested not to exceed 250 ft. per second (U.S.G.A. Rule).
SJMUXMG KRO-BATSabe
HBBE-WEIDIMS braces ■n<E*THBarr rawhide Reinforces 1NE*SH0ULDERS* NEWSUPEB-S1R0HG ADHESIVE BUIDSTM8 laminations wtme*bow~
SPALD/NG- "SX?
May 18, 1951
29
bingles and two more runs finally ended the scoring for the inning.
The Wolverines went on the rampage again in the second inning. Five hits accounted for four more runs before they finally ended their scoring for the day. After the second frame Ledwidge had little trouble until relieved by Jean Ferryman in the eighth. Bob Larson who rescued Al Vergona in the first was credited with the win. The Irish attack was led by Gillis with a pair of doubles and by Manning and Boland with two singles each.
The following day the Klinemen traveled to East Lansing to face Michigan State and the game turned into a nip-and-tuck pitcher’s battle between Stan Konopka and Bob Carlson. Both teams were held scoreless until the bottom half of the seventh inning when Bob Ciolek, first baseman, started the Spartan rally with a walk, moved to second on a balk by Konopka and came home on a single by Cornell Ghise. Catcher Boland’s passed ball put Ghise on second and Bill Bower walked. Bick Moser followed with a single to put State ahead, 2-0.
Len LeRose started the Irish off in the eighth with a walk, went to thLd on an infield bounder by Gillis and scored on Boland’s bingle. The next two Irish hitters went down on strikes but Joe Ridge beat a little bounder in front of the plate. Meanwhile, Gillis came home with the tying run. The Spartans scored the clinching run in their half of the eighth. Notre Dame tried to come back in the ninth but their rally died out.
Illinois Romps to Two Victories
Notre Dame finished their road trip in a two-game series with Illinois. The Irish suffered two of their worst defeats of the season at the hands of the Illini at Champaign, 10-1 and 20-3.
Illinois collected five runs on five hits off starter Nemes in the first two frames, after which he settled down to pitch effective ball until he was relieved by Joe Durkin in the eighth. The Illini scored their last five runs
SPORTS SCHEDULE
May 18—TENNIS Detroit here
19—BASEBALL at Great Lakes TRACK CCC (Closed) at Peoria, Ill.
TENNIS at Iowa
21—GOLF Michigan State here 22—BASEBALL at Purdue
25—BASEBALL Wisconsin here
30—BASEBALL Great Lakes here
June 1—BASEBALL at Western Michigan
June 1-2—TENNIS CCC here
2—BASEBALL 'Western Michigan here TRACK at Bradley
9—TRACK CCC at Milwaukee
16—TRACK NCAA at Seattle
24-30—GOLF NCAA at Ohio State
25-30—TENNIS NCAA at Evanston.
in the eighth off Durkin on four hits.
Herg Agase, left-handed senior, shut out the Irish the first six innings, allowing only four hits. Notre Dame’s lone tally came in the seventh. Two straight walks to Manning and Gillis put a little life in the Irish attack. After the next two batters went down on strikes, Ridge cracked a single to center to score Manning.
The next day the Irish closed their road campaign, Illinois dropping them hard, 20-3.
Illinois was calm until the second inning. They then collected seven hits and ten runs off starter Bill McQuane and relief hurler Ledwidge. Notre Dame’s record now stands at eight wins and nine losses.
GET YOUR LUGGAGE. BILLFOLDS AND OTHER LEATHER GOODS AT
Hans/-Rintzsch
138 N. Michigan St.
Senior in Sivil
WORK IN CALIFORNIA
Many good beginning professional positions now open with California Division of Highways. Civil engineering degree required. $325 month to start. Wide choice of California locations. Early appointment. Get application from your campus placement officer or write State Personnel Board. 1015 L Street, Sacramento, California.
Nationwide Examination June 30	- Application Deadline is June 9
ACT TODAY .... MAIL EARLY
SUMMER JOB?
"Make hay while the sun shines!"
Good Humor Ice Cream Company has high-earning established routes open for the summer. Can place both drivers and non-driv-ers. Contact the branch nearest your home.
Good Humor Corp.
2736 Armitage Ave., Chicago, III.
6844 Wagner Ave., Detroit, Mich.
25 James St., New Haven, Conn.
664 So. 15th St., Newark, N. J.
115 E 3rd St., Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
426 L Beach Rd, Oceanside, N. Y.
322 Rutledge St., Brooklyn, N. Y.
818 Bleigh Ave, Philadelphia, Pa.
30
The Scholastic
EVER HOLD HANDS
EIKE THESE?
They're not soft and warm, these hands. They’re hard and cold — and mechanical. They work at the Oak Ridge atomic energy plant, preparing radioactive isotopes for shipment to Bell Telephone Laboratories and to other research centers.
These isotopes—which serve as tracers— are used by Bell scientists to study the materials that go into the telephone system. Our research men, working with Geiger counters, are able to detect wear in relay contacts, impurities in metals, the penetration of preservatives in wood.
This new research tool helps us to learn more in less time, helps us to make telephone equipment even more rugged and dependable. That’s especially important right now when the Nation relies on the telephone to help get things done.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
May 18, 1951
31
Z 3
Von Tux and
Van Dress, $595
how to
keep off the stag line
Will you be the life of the party in these Van Hensen Formal Favorites? Well, not necessarily... but you will have that nice, confident feeling of knowing you’re properly dressed. Van Tux comes in two collar-attached models—wide-spread and regular. Van Dress is neck band only. Both with snowy-white pique fronts.
Van Hensen
"f/ie worlds smartest’’’ OHAl 110
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
Graduation
(Continued from Page 9)
olic University students who have become professional actors, toured 30,000 miles in the United States and Canada during 1950-51.
Mr. McCanna was president of the Bank of Burlington from 1914 to 1917, when he became chairman of the Board of Directors. The son of a Wisconsin dairy pioneer, he is, at present, a member of the Board of Directors of the Marquette University School of Medicine and of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame.
Mr. McCanna has two sons who are graduates of Notre Dame: Charles, ’40, of Burlington, and Dr. Philip, ’41, of Marinette, Wis.
The Most Rev. Leo Pursley, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Fort Wayne, will deliver the Baccalaureate sermon at a Solemn Pontifical Mass at 9 a.m. in the Notre Dame Stadium. The Mass will begin the main program of the day.
The principal speaker at the afternoon Commencement Exercises will be the Honorable Francis X. Matthews. Appointed Secretary of the Navy in 1949, by President Harry S. Truman, Mr. Matthews was formerly a director of the United States Chamber of Commerce for the Department of Finance. He was active during World War II in welfare work for the United States armed forces and subsequently in relief work for the peoples of the liberated areas of Europe.
Student speakers for the Exercises include Robert J. Nicodem, valedictorian, William T. Carey, and James C. Hennessey, president of the senior class and program chairman. Approximately 725 graduate and undergraduate students will receive their degrees at the Notre Dame Commencement.
Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
COUNCIL ELECTIONS
Last Tuesday night Jim Garvin, the present Student Council secretary, was elected to succeed Bill An-hut as president of the organization for next year. Also chosen as officers were Jim Mannion, vice-president; Tom Reedy, secretary; and Lou Ga-rippo, treasurer.
These men were elected by next year’s Council, which was chosen by the students at the polls earlier this month. They are all familiar with Council work; the top three men have served on this years’ Council.
32
The Scholastic
YEARSAGO
•By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53-
Fifty Years Ago
From the May 18, 1901, Scholastic:
The Honorable Bourke Cochran was formally presented with the Laetare Medal in New York City. . . . The Notre Dame baseball team defeated Illinois, 10-7. . . . Captain Bouza selected a team of eight men to represent Corby Hall in the annual boat races held during Commencement week. . . . The South Bend High School baseball team was victorious over Carroll Hall, 9-16. . . . Mr. and Mrs. T. Howlon of Chicago, Ill., paid a brief visit to their son of St. Edward’s Hall last Sunday.
Twenty-Five Years Ago
From the May 21 1926, Scholastic: Sidney B. Whipple, the newly appointed editorial writer of the South Bend News-Times, delivered a lecture on “Newspaper Ethics” at the University last week. . . . L. H. Hennessey of Vicksburg, Miss., was elected president of the Senior class for 1927. . . . The Notre Dame track team defeated Michigan State, 71-48, at East Lansing. . . . “Behind the Front,” a war-time comedy, with Haymond Haltery, Wallace Beery, and Mary Brian was to be presented at Washington Hall for the benefit of the Bengal Missions. . . . The 1926 edition of the Dome was scheduled to be delivered the following Tuesday. . . . The Doctor’s Wooing, a new novel by Charles Phillips, appeared on campus during the week.
Ten Years Ago
From the May 23, 1941, Scholastic: Wally Ziemba was voted the most improved player of the 1941 football squad. Coach Frank Leahy made six other presentations of the Hering Medals to Tom Brock, Paul Lillis, Bernie Crimmins, Dippy Evans, Bob Dove, and Angelo Bertelli. . . . Dr. F. A. Hermens, a professor in the Department of Politics, published a new book entitled Democracy or Anarchy? .... The Class of ’41 initiated a Senior Memorial Fund to be given to the University at graduation. . . . The track team defeated Marquette, 91%-39%. ... In a sermon at Sacred Heart Church Rev. William Bolger, c. s. c., urged the study of the two encyclicals Rerum Novarum and Quadrag esimo Anno at a solemn Mass commemorating the anniversaries of their appearance.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
SHESOY had a bone to pick because gals treated him like a dog. “Wire they giving me the cold nose?” he howled. “Terrier self away from your books,” advised his paw, “and get yourself some Wildroot Cream-Oil. It’s non-alcoholic, and contains
soothing Lanolin. Grooms hair neatly and naturally. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the finger-nail test.” Now Sheedy’s a real dog catcher: he collars a new gal every day! Doggone it, you better get Wildroot Cream-Oil at your nearest drug or toilet goods counter, quick! And ask your barber for professional applications. Remember: “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of curs!
sfc of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder. N. Y
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11. N.Y.

d 1951
PARKER- WINTERROWD, Inc.
115% N. Main Street
May 18, 1951
33
Ay
Senior Ball
Everyone probably agrees that the Senior Ball and the ensuing (maybe even preceding) weekend was just about the best dance the class of ’51 conducted. As always, the men who handled things did an enviable job and deserve a vote of thanks from those who enjoyed the results.
A well-taken cue from the Juniors provided smooth working for all the technical details. The only person who comes in for censure is the weather man, but he tried to make up for things Saturday and Sunday.
One question still looms large in the minds of many Seniors. We’ve noticed them whispering it in the dark corners of the Commerce building and bellowing it across the greens of the golf course. “What can you do with them?”
This refers, of course, to the somewhat startling favors given out at Friday night’s dance.
We don’t know exactly what you can do with them. But we do have a couple of suggestions the Seniors could chew over. First, you might use them as a sort of vase, to hold violets and other small-type flowers. If this doesn’t satisfy, why not try using them for holding cigarettes. We tried the latter, and you can get nearly a full pack into one of them.
To the men who put out this issue, then, we wish best luck and many good things.
Swan Song
Comes the time when, according to what might, by an imaginative broad jump, be called a “tradition,” we are supposed to say thank you to everyone, apologize for stepping on toes, and jump off some bridge.
Except for the rest of the staff down here and a few others, we can find no one particularly deserving of thanks for just about anything. Nor for censure, I guess.
As for stepping on toes, we’re not particularly sorry for that, either—if it has occurred.
There are, however, a few things we would like to say before we fade away (which, we assume, columnists do too). First of all, we would like to join another member of the staff in our praise of a comic strip called Pogo, which some call immature and the rest enjoy like they enjoy Prokofiev or a candy bar.
Next, we would like to predict, without fear, an unbeaten season for the Irish next Fall. This is the only topic
one can mention which elicits, if not agreement, at least sympathy from all students.
We would like to congratulate station WND and the Student Council for doing what we consider some of the best work —by and for students—that has been done here during the last nine months. This is not just for the sake of saying something. It is what we believe.
We would like to hope that politics and the rest of the nonsense will be put aside pretty soon, and that a stupid and too-real war ends before it’s too late.
Finnally, we would like to get out of final exams, if we could find some way to get around them. This is escapism.
The Last Word
Now for that bridge ....
-----------------------------Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN 408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours: Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5	PHONE 6-3627
Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12	Res. ph. 7-1409
VO* MIN WQMIN AN* OHLMBII
209 West Colfax Avenue
Paul Whalen, Mgr.
If neither of these suggestions strike home, we give up. That’s the best we can do. Might as well let your dates worry about it, anyway. It’s not your problem any longer.
For Next Year
Looking into the hazy future is always good for passing idle time. But this week we are in the unusual position of having the future in the present.
In other words, this .week’s Scholastic was put out entirely by next year’s staff. We think it’s a fine issue. We would go even further and predict, on the basis of a working knowledge of the men who will handle the Scholastic next year, that it will be good all the way through.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
“Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
34
The Scholastic
I
Wluii a ^ballaA, will da
yM, tfoun, kid buMefo
^OU can Get him
the ne^ct Ate iAiuei g^
The Catholic Boy
Archbishop Cushing soys:
"Get him THE CATHOLIC BOY. It will run real competition to the magazines and comic books harmful to our youth. I wish every boy in America would get and read it regularly! It's a must!"
Quit pin a dollae to- the coupon and mail the coupon todau
The Magazine
THE CATHOLIC
Boys Want
THE CATHOLIC BOY Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send The Catholic Boy to:
NAME
Scholastic Special
STREET
CITY
ZONE
STATE
from
□ Dollar attached.
□ Send Gift Card.
%■ library
NOTRE DAME
NR CHARLEY
IND
WHAT EVERY SMOKER WANTS
ForYOlL
Mildness
See BARBARA HALE starring in "LORNA DOONE
An Edward Small Production • A Columbia Technicolor Picture
No unpleasant After-Taste
Hundreds of prominent TOBACCO GROWERS SAY: “When I apply the Standard Tobacco Growers’ Test to cigarettes, I find Chesterfield is the one that smells Milder and smokes Milder/'
A WELL-KNOWN INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION REPORTS: “Chesterfield is the only cigarette in which / members of our taste panel hi found no unpleasant after-taste.
Always
^Chesterfield
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.
s