4
Light up this great new, all-new king size cigarette. Cavalier’s new blend gives you great taste .. . rich, natural flavor that flows to you so
easily through the cooling extra length of Cavalier’s top-crop tobaccos. And—the smoke feels good to you, so smooth, so easy-going! It
feels as good as it tastes! Win this new, true smoking enjoyment for yourself with the all-new king size Cavaliers. Do it today!
4kpwfefi cwodaz, ’
Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem, N. C.	B
Herschel Loomis asks:
What are my chances for advancement in a large company like Du Pont?
Peter J. Meshkoff joined Du Pont at the Jackson Laboratory in 1941, after obtaining a B.S.Ch.E. from the University of Detroit and an M.S. from the University of Michigan. He has had a wide range of Du Pont experience, from chemist in the Dye Works to chief supervisor and works engineer at several plants, with many opportunities to observe Du Pont personnel policies. Today Pete Meshkoff is works engineer at Du Pont’s new Film Plant at Circleville, Ohio.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about the opportunities for growth touched on by Pete Meshkoff? Send for a free copy of "The Du Pont Company and the College Graduate,” which discusses many of the employment policies and activities of DuPontindelail. WritetoE.I.du Pont de Nemours <t- Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
Reg. u.s.PAT.orf-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WATCH "DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
Herschel H. Loomis, Jr., will receive his B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Cornell University June 1957. Herschel is a member of the freshman and varsity rifle teams, an associate member of Octagon, a dramatic group, and belongs to Theta Chi Fraternity. Like many other students, he’s making employment plans early.
Peter Meshkoff answers:
Your question is a natural one, Herschel—one we hear quite often. Du Pont is unquestionably a large company in total number of employees and in all its operations. But, actually, Du Pont is made up of ten independent departments, almost as if it were ten companies under one management. And it is a fundamental policy at Du Pont to promote from within and on merit only.
That produces many opportunities for new men, but in addition there are proportionately more promotions at Du Pont each year—by reason of expansion and retirement—than you would find in most smaller companies. I say "proportionately more'’ because Du Pont has grown at an average rate of seven per cent a year for the past 153 years—a record that few companies can match.
And Du Pont is still growing rapidly. Take your field, electrical engineering. A host of novel and challenging problems have to be faced, both in new construction and in maintenance. There are plants to design with features that have never been applied before; there are new equipment-control problems to work out, and new engineering processes to pioneer. So, to answer your question in a word, Herschel, I’d say your chances of promotion on meric are extremely good at Du Pont!
May 11, 1956
3
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .
NO CARRYING CHARGE
5
1
BUILD AN "EXECUTIVE" WARDROBE
WITH YOUR CAMPUS SHOP
"JUNIOR EXECUTIVE CHARGE ACCOUNT"
t
Because most of you men here at Notre Dame	'
will be out in the business world before too long, it is well to give thought to “building” a wardrobe, too. The Junior Executive Charge Account is designed to help. It does exactly what it says . . . you buy now to wear now. You pay nothing until August. In August, you pay one-third, one-third in September and one-third in October. There is no interest, carrying charge, nor “extra” fee of any kind. Come in now and use your Junior Executive Charge Account, o
4
The Scholastic
£ttbia»
Three years ago, SCHOLASTIC Columnist Mort Luby, who doubled as an artist, expressed his sentiments an the Senior Ball in cartoons. With the forthcoming Ball in mind, ice reprint his work here, with minor changes. Maybe Fogo and. his damsel will turn up at next week3s dance, just as it was rumored they did in 1953.—Editor.
May 11, 1956
The Notre Dame
Back in the Jungle Again
Editor:
Being a subscriber to the Scholastic, I would like to ask you some questions regarding your Back Page article of April 20, concerning “Seventeen Years in the Jungle.”
I think I failed to get the point of your article. Are you criticizing education in general, or are you only reflecting your views? Or rather, I should ask, are you confused about our form of education?
When I refer to the two paragraphs about “Red influence in our schools,” and “the atmosphere isn’t right to instill Communist thought,” I am taking strictly a political conservative approach. If you think I am missing the point please tell me.
The implication I get from these two paragraphs is that you do consider teachers to be in constant thought that their jobs may be jeopardized by being “leftist” and that students could readily discern whether or not a teacher was trying to instill them with Communist philosophy concerning different aspects of government, society, religion, etc.
I sincerely think that education in een-eral in the U.S. is in a serious situation. It seems to be the general opinion in most colleges that the collectivism realm of thought is the correct theory to teach. I believe that teachers who are not dedicated to the collectivist theory are being stampeded into teaching this by the school administrators and the authors of school text books.
By doing this, they are not combatting Communism, but becoming more susceptible to the Socialist state, which is Communism’s younger sister. I must admit, however, that I think this trend is not apparent in most Catholic schools. I do not believe it exists in Catholic schools.
This is my argument against your
(Continued on page 33)
SPECIAL STUDENT
RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
• 1,000 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Scholastic
Vol. 97 May 11, 1956 No. 23_ ■	-	'3
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK .. .News Editor ED JOYCE ....................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN..........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL ..........Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON ............Assistant	News^
james McDonald ........Assistant News JIM STEINTRAGER ...-------Assistant	News
JIM O’BRIEN ..............Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN ................Art	Editor
HARRY CONLON ..........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD. ....Photo Co-ordinator JOE NORTON ............Sports	Editor^
JOHN GLAVIN ........... Assistant	Sports*
RAY LESCHER .............Assistant	Sports
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-ley, Joe HeimoskT, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Joe Mo-carski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, Mike Schofield, David Schwartz, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh. SPORT STAFF: John Barthel, Andrew Carnazola, Patrick DeFoe, Robert Early, James Goethals, John Grady, Russell Hopkins, James Langford, James Merz, Robert Parnell, Edward Rohrbach, James Short, Carl Skiff.
BUSINESS STAFF: Bob Parker and Loran Sheffer/
INVENTORY
Entree ......................... —5
Repercussion _______________    ..6
View ...................       ...7
Campus Scene....................  9
Folio ...._________________     .15
At a Glance .................    20
Showcase ...................  ...22
Irish Scene ____________________ 25
Time Out______________________   28
Back Page ____________________   34
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
ON THE COVER Artist Ramon BerriosW does a sensitive sketch of Notre Dame's man-on-a-tightrope for next year, Student Body President Pat Logan.
The Scholastic


retouch
THERE ARE PLANS on the griddle to do a little facelifting on the interior of old Washington Hall. Exact I plans are a little indefinite but the “new” Washington Hall | is sure to sport comfortable theater seats and a few cans of 1 paint for the walls and ceiling—no doubt there will be a I few accessories thrown in like a new railing for the balcony | and ramp-type flooring for the downstairs. Consideration | of whether to widen the stage is still very much up in the air, 1 but restrooms will be installed on the ground floor. All 1 things considered, the Saturday theater crowd won’t be able I to feel more at home.
IL There are some elements of the student body, however, aPwho feel that the best face-lifting job old Wash Hall could H get could be administered with a couple of sticks of dyna-|| mite. "Why,” they say, “should the University sink, say H $10,000, into a rambling old edifice like that, when they S could so much better put it into a brand new auditorium?” a As a matter of fact, I don’t think the administration is l| too happy about plowing about $10,000 or so into WashingS ton Hall. But look at it from this point: There are no a auditoriums o fany kind in the foreseeable future, and let’s 8 say that the foreseeable future is at least ten years—so for 1 an investment of $1000 a year the University can have a § well-equipped, modem-on-the-inside auditorium which can ■kserve as a first-rate auxiliary house when and if a new one is ever built.
i But Wash Hall has a few things in its favor, too. In the I first place, it’s not as minute as everyone seems to think, | comparatively. Quite a few of us from the sticks out here in I the Midwest are surprised to learn that most Broadway | theaters are only as large or slightly larger than Washington | Hall. Secondly, performers like it because, rickety as it may i be, Wash Hall is pretty sound acoustically. Thirdly, Notre | Dame has 1700 acres—why go around knocking down some | of the old landmarks just because they’re old, there’s plenty | of room to expand in other directions. Also, $10,000 is a ^kdrop in a bucket toward a new auditorium.
W And so I’m much in favor of renovating old Wash Hall. | Start by pulling it down and soon someone will want to go I at Sorin, Badin, and the Main Building—and then you’ve I pulled the heart out of Notre Dame—/. A.
| May 11, 1956
alumni
RECENTLY we received a letter, as did all graduating seniors, from the Alumni Association of Notre Dame. The letter welcomed us as the most recent members-to-be and stated that the Association anticipates many mutual benefits from our active participation in class and local alumni chib activities in the immediate years ahead.
Now as a last-semester senior we couldn’t muster up much enthusiasm for this “alumni participation” pitch. Our first impression was that this was the University’s first tug at our wallet pocket and, well, we just won’t have much beer money to spare for the next ten years at least.
But let’s take another look. Via the Alumni Association we graduates will receive copies of the Alumnus and Notre Dame magazines. Beyond a sporadic correspondence with one or two of our best friends, these magazines will comprise about the only ties we’ll have with the campus and our classmates over the years. We certainly think that these ties should be maintained. After all we’ve spent four pretty important years here and it would be the height of apathy not to care whether these friendships are broken the moment we receive our sheepskins.
We don’t believe that the Alumni Association expects us to become philanthropists during the first year after graduation. Its primary objective is to maintain contact with all graduates. Perhaps in future years, we will be in a position to do the University some good. Our contribution doesn’t necessarily have to be a monetary one. .A university grad can do his school immeasurable good by putting forth the effort needed to become outstanding in his field. He can generate a large amount of good will by exemplifying the values for which his alma mater stands.
The purely selfish motive' can’t be overlooked either. Regardless of the vocation a graduate chooses to follow he’s bound to meet other Notre Dame men in his endeavors. Acquaintance with these fellows and the men these fellows know will never hurt a young graduate.
All this ‘‘alumni participation” business boils down to one thing: It’s the old story of getting out of something just as much as you put into it.
Notre Dame’s alumni groups have come a long way in recent years through the Association and the Foundation. As a private institution Notre Dame depends entirely on private help for its ‘ existence.
And it’s the alumni who should be the most interested in Notre Dame’s future. We’ll be interested in the fortunes of the.football team every fall, but let’s not forget the rest of the University either.—P. L.
7
hltert^taREYTON
HWON
Tgreyton’s Quality Tobacco | Tareyton’s Real Filtration Full King Size Full Measure
the taste
§
Q A 1 CO.
AMERICA'S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CK3ARETTES
ARODUC
is great!
PUFF A T R E A

MODERN s,XE
8
The Scholastic
UNIVERSITY GRANTS 1,060 DEGREES JUNE 3
Naval Chief, Bishop To Address Seniors
Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, chief of naval operations, will deliver the commencement address and the Most Rev. Thomas K. Gorman, Bishop of Dallas-Ft. Worth, will preach the baccalaureate sermon at the University’s 111th annual commencement June 3, it was announced today. Approximately 1,060 graduate, professional and undergraduate degrees will be conferred by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, at exercises in the Notre Dame Stadium.
List Honorary Degrees
A Honorary degrees will be awarded to ' the two speakers as well as to Secretary of the Treasury George M. Humphrey, Washington, D.C.; Frank M. Folsom, president of the Radio Corporation of America, New York City; Dr. Marston Morse, a noted mathematician at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J.; William K. Warren, chairman of the board, Warren Petroleum Corp., Tulsa, Okla.; Dr. Philip E. Mosely, pro-^fessor of international relations at Co-*lumbia University’s Russian Institute, New York City; Walter Duncan, LaSalle, Ill., oil executive; and John A.
BISHOP THOMAS GORMAN
Baccalaureate . . .
May 11, 1956
Coleman, of Adler, Coleman and Co., New York City brokerage firm.
Duncan is an alumni member of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees. Folsom, Coleman, and Warren are members of the University’s advisory councils. Warren’s son, William Jr., is president of the 1956 Senior Class.
Bishop Gorman’s baccalaureate sermon will be heard during an outdoor Solemn Pontifical Mass to be celebrated in the Stadium at 9 a.m. by the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Apostolic administrator of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind.
Following the Mass, Father Hesburgh will bless an American flag which the Senior Class presented to the University on Washington's Birthday. Traditionally, the seniors’ flag is blessed and flown for the first time on their graduation day and then throughout the following year.
WORKERS WANTED
Students to work on decorations for the Senior Ball are urgently needed. Anyone interested should report to the Drill Hall during working hours from now through Friday, May 1 8.
ADM. ARLEIGH BURKE
. . . Commencement speakers.
OampuA Scene
Three Students Win Danforth Fellowships
Three seniors were recently named winners of Danforth Fellowship awards given annually to men who have decided to make college teaching their career. Those named were John Meagher of Washington, D.C.; Gerald Massey of Ottawa, Ill.; and Stephen Rogers of Medford, Mass.
Tentative plans of the fellowship winners vary. Meagher, an English major, will continue his - studies at Princeton University. Massey, a philosophy major, will postpone his Danforth fellowship to take advantage of his Fulbright grant for graduate study at the University of Louvain in Belgium. Rogers, in the general program, is uncertain as to his plans, but will probably attend Harvard.
Meagher, though a junior, will graduate magna cum laude this year. He is editor of the Juggler, and president of both the Wranglers and Bookmen.
Massey is a member of “Who’s Who,” recipient of a Dome award, a student senator, and Senior Class orator. Besides his Danforth and Fulbright grants, he also won a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship. He is a battalion commander in the NROTC, and president of the Tri-Service Council which represents the Army, Navy, and Air Force groups on campus. He will graduate maxima cum laude.
Rogers has been an active member of the Wranglers, YCS, and Glee Club. He has served on the Arts and Letters Advisory Council and the Freshman Orientation Council. He will graduate cum laude.
The Danforth Fellowships were set up in 1952 to encourage and aid graduate study in the field of college teaching. Approximately 400 men were nominated throughout the country for the award.
Nominations are made by the university faculties. The nominees must survive an extensive elimination process which begins on a small scale at the university. Through interviews, the maximum number of three nominees from any one school is reached.
On the national level, the 400 nominees were cut in half. Further elimination reduced the number to the final 78 winners.
afsmrxfnssf

Five Stay Senators Elected for Next Year; General Summer Storage Plans Approved
Five stay senators were elected by the Student Senate last Sunday afternoon. The men elected were: Jerry
Dance Group to End Concert Presentations
The Merce Cunningham Dancers, along with David Tudor and John Cage, pianists, will be the attraction at Washington Hall Friday, May 18 at 8:15 p.m. This will be the last show of the
CUNNINGHAM DANCER Watch out below!
current Concert and Lecture Series presentations.
Tickets will be sold Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and from 3:30 until 7:30 p.m. except Friday night when the box office will remain open until curtain time. All seats are reserved with prices set at $1.50 and $1 for visitors with $.75 and $1 for students, faculty, and stair.
Included in their repertoire of dances are: Root of an Unfocus, Amores, Tico-Step, Collage, Suite by Chance, Solo Suite in Space and Time, Septet, Banjo and Untitled Solo, Fragments, Minutiae, and the most recent work, Springweather ami People.
During the past year, the dancers have performed before audiences in New York and in several cities on the West Coast.. They then travelled to Asia where shows were presented in Ceylon, India, Indonesia, and Japan. Following these engagements, they returned to the United States at the beginning of this month for another concert tour.
Murphy, an AB junior from Peoria, Ill.; Jerry Brady, an AB sophomore from Idaho Falls, Ida.; Joe Ryan, a Commerce sophomore from Columbus, O.; Harry Wasoff, a Commerce sophomore from Dallas, Tex.; and Jim Hughes, an AB freshman from Columbus, O.
Inauguration of these senators, and the new student body president took place Sunday evening in the Student Center. The senators were sworn in by Paul Kearney, chief justice of the Student Court. Short addresses were given by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; Tom Cre-han, the incumbent Senate president; and Pat Logan, the newly elected Senate president.
Stay senators are elected by the other senators in the Senate. Their purpose is to serve in the Senate next year as a -means of maintaining continuity in the changeover of Senate members.
General plans for summer storage have been approved by the Senate. These consist of the number and types of positions to be filled, and the procedure which the individuals involved will follow.
Salesmen and Foremen
Each hall is to be assigned a salesman, who will solicit business, fill out orders, and explain the conditions of the contract. In addition, he will designate the time and place where storage items must be placed for pickup, and compile a roster of all items to be stored from his hall, with a description of each article.
A van foreman will supervise the loading of each truck, checking all items against the roster, and noting any item improperly packaged. Articles will be delivered to the warehouse and stored by the warehouse crew according to their delivery spot next year.
In the fall, the items will be delivered to the individual rooms where they will be checked off the roster and signed for, either by the owner or by another student in the hall. Senate responsibility ends when the property has been delivered and signed for.
A claim bureau will be set up for two weeks following delivery. The Senate representatives and the summer storage manager' will open this claim office and publicize it to the students. The student court will hear all cases.
A motion was unanimously passed to accept an act which provides for an agency of the student government in
each of the undergraduate colleges of * the University.
This act states that a student board shall be organized in each of the undergraduate colleges of the University to function as an agency of the student government. This board shall serve in an advisory capacity and represent the opinion of the students of the college to the dean, the faculty, and the student^ government. It shall initiate and administer such activities and projects as are deemed necessary for the welfare of the students of the college.
Navy Releases Cruise Ports For Junior Contract Students
I
The Navy unit this week released in-'^ formation on the cruise ports to be visited by cruise “Charlie.” This cruise involves 28 contract students, and will last from July 15 to August 24.
The following ports will be visited on the cruise. The midshipmen will embark at Norfolk, Va., on July 15, and arrive at New York on July 18. They will leave there July 21 and arrive at Balboa, Canal Zone, July 25 and departg on July 30; arrive at Cristobal, Canal" Zone, Aug. 6 and depart Aug. 10. The midshipmen will arrive at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, on Aug. 16, to commence the gunnery phase of their training. They will leave Guantanamo on Aug. 20, and arrive at Norfolk Aug. 24.
The ND Chapter of the U.S. Naval Institute sponsored a field trip to the Navy ordnance plant in Indianapolis yesterday.	<
Highlight of the trip was a personally^ conducted tour through the plant, which specializes in aircraft armament. Over 15 Navy ROTC students participated. The trip was in keeping with one of the main purposes of the club, the advancement of scientific knowledge of naval affairs.
Sturtevant Wins Scholarship
Peter Sturtevant, an economics senior, from Barrington, Ill., has received a
Root-Tilden scholarship for study at the New York University School of Law, Dean Russell D. Niles of NYU an- j nounced recently. He is one of 20 stu- ; dents from the United States who have J been chosen for the awards.	j
Sturtevant will receive a Bachelor of 1 Arts degree, magna cum laude, in June | and 'begin his three years of law study I at NYU in September.	|
A member of the Blue Circle, he has^ been active in student government and 85 was elected to “Who’s Who in American I; Colleges and Universities.”	K
The Scholastic^
10
3.
^Bergen to Take Over As Wing Commander
I Cadet Major Dan Bergen, AB junior from Albert Lea, Minn., was appointed wing commander of the Air Force ROTC unit, it was announced this week. Bergen ^will take command immediately and will ^continue as commander next year.
Cadet Major Pat Sweeney, junior in engineering from Russells Point, Ohio, was named deputy wing commander. Wing adjutant is Cadet Captain Terry Byrne, AB junior from Earlham, la.
Other appointments include: Cadet Major Mack Hicks, commerce junior from Watertown, Wis., deputy for personnel; Cadet 1st Lt. Dick Gorman, ■^commerce junior from Miami, Fla., deputy for operations; and Cadet 2nd Lt. John Thomas, commerce junior from Bellefontaine, 0., deputy for material.
All men take command of their positions immediately. Juniors were in charge of the AFROTC unit for the military Mass last Sunday and will lead the Wing in the Armed Forces Day parade in South Bend Saturday, May 19.
Juniors are put in charge of the unit J for the remainder of the year in order to familiarize them with Wing organization, develop qualities of leadership, pre' pare the men for high positions during 1 summer camp training groups, and to k assure that the men are able to mobilize i the unit effectively next fall.
Junior AFROTC cadets will attend । the following Air Force bases this sum-| mer for training: Webb AFB, Texas; | Connoley AFB, Texas; Griffis AFB, j ANew York; Sewart AFB, Tennessee;
^Langley AFB, Virginia; Tyndall AFB, Florida; MacDill AFB, Florida. The cadets will attend camp for one month periods.	’
MONOGRAM BALL
The Student Senate in cooperation with the Monogram Club will present the “Monogram Ball” tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. Ed Pistey and the Lettermen will provide music for the dance which will conclude the Spring Festival.
Tickets for the informal affair which is open to all students are priced at $1. The door prize will be a football autographed by the 1955 football team.
The Monogram Club is preparing entertainment for the intermission. At that time the new officers of the A club will be introduced, and several of the members will present short skits.
Reeve Appointed 'Technical Review’ Editor; Schriber, Scriba, Norris Named Assistants
William Reeve, a junior electrical engineering major from Hartford, Conn., will be next year’s editor of the Technical Revieiv, it was announced this week by Richard Carroll, present editor.
Thomas Schriber, junior chemical engineer from Muskegon, Mich., and Jack Scriba, junior mechanical engineer from Benvyn, Ill., will serve as associate editors.
Students to Compete Sunday In Interhall Bridge Tourney
Interhall bridge teams, composed of four members each, will compete in the two session bridge tournament Sunday afternoon and evening. The afternoon session will start at 1:30 p.m.
The hall represented by the winning team will be awarded points in the President’s Cup competition. In addition, each member of the winning team will receive a Bridge Club trophy.
Featured at the afternoon session will be the team of Easley Blackwell, outstanding bridge player, author, and lecturer. Mr. Blackwell’s team, brought from Indianapolis for the occasion, will include Chuck Stemming, a Notre Dame alumnus.
The American Contract Bridge League will award masterpoints for Sunday’s play. Fractional masterpoints will also be awarded for- both sessions.
Jack Steinthal, a sophomore commerce student from Rye, N.Y., is chairman of Sunday’s tournament.
‘TECH REVIEW’ CHIEFS SCRIBA, SCHRIBER, REEVE, NORRIS Slide-rulers ready for next year.
Assistant editors appointed by Reeve include: Guy Weismantel, sophomore from Lancaster, O., feature editor; Frank Moore, sophomore from Kilgore, Tex., copy editor; and George Navadel, sophomore from Buffalo, N. Y., articles editor.
Robert Norris of Middletown, O., will be business manager of the magazine next year. Peter O’Connor, a sophomore from Jackson Heights, N. Y., will be the new circulation manager and Tom Herman, a junior from Detroit, Mich., will be office manager.
Reeve has been a staff member of the Technical Review for the past three years. In announcing Reeve’s appointment, the present editor Dick Can-oil said, “Bill has the necessary experience and has shown himself capable of handling the problems one meets in editing a technical magazine. With the excellent staff which will take over in the fall, I am confident that next year’s Technical Review will be one of which Notre Dame will be proud.”
The Technical Review, now in its seventh year of publication, has received six awards in competition during the past two years. It has been commended for excellence in illustrations and layout.
Reeve, in accepting his new position, said, “It is an honor to be chosen editor of the Review. A fine staff will be returning to assist me, and we will do our best not only to meet the standards set by the magazine in the past, but to produce an even better Technical Review.”
May 11, 1956
11
TONINI, POTTEBAUM, DAKOSKE, MASSEY, CLARK
Y.C.S. student apostolate award winners.
First YCS Award Received by Five Seniors For Outstanding Work in Campus Apostolate
Five seniors received the first annual YCS St. Thomas More Award yesterday at a special Mass in Morrissey Hall chapel. They were given the award in view of their outstanding achievements in the field of the campus apostolate.
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., YCS chaplain and director of the Catholic Action Office at Notre Dame presented a St. Thomas More medal and citation to Richard Clark, River Forest, Ill.; George Dakoske, Detroit, Mich.; James Massey, Ottawa, Ill.; Gerald Pottebaum, Teutopolis, Ill.; and Frank Tonini, Staten Island, N.Y.
The YCS board of juniors who selected the five based the selections on the seniors’ achievements in the field of the campus apostolate, their spirit of generosity, leadership qualities, and academic merit.
St. Thomas More was chosen as the patron for this award because as a layman he worked with small groups of people, trying to integrate modern society and Church teaching.
Richard Clark is chairman of the permanent committee of the NFCCS, Senate Academic Commissioner, co-chairman of the YCS, secretary of the Bookmen, a member of “Who’s Who,” a member of the Juggler staff, and a member of the Wranglers.
George Dakoske is prefect of the Third Order of St. Francis, Senate spiritual commissioner, chairman of the Campus
Charity Chest, and a member of “Who’s Who.”'
James Massey was senior Retreat chairman, and chairman of the Engineering Section of YCS. He is valedictorian of the senior class and a member of “Who’s Who.”
Frank Tonini was last year’s Senate spiritual commissioner and a member of last year’s “Who’s Who.” He is the YCS senator and a member of the Third Order of St. Francis.
Gerry Pottebaum is president of the YCS, president of the Glee Club, and a member of “Who’s Who.”
Foreign Scholars to Lecture In Summer Liturgy Program
Three European scholars will lecture on liturgical subjects at Notre Dame June 15 to July 31, according to a recent announcement by Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., director of the university’s summer Liturgy Program.
They are Rev. Louis Bouyer, Catholic Pontifical University of Paris, France; Miss Christine Mohrman, Catholic Pontifical University of Nijmegen and Amsterdam University, The Netherlands; and Rev. Ernest Grieshaber, Karlsruhe-Knielingen, Baden, Germany.
Father Bouyer will lecture on “The Meaning of Sacred Scripture.”
Miss Mohrman, an authority on early Christian Latin, will show what early
Christian and Liturgical Latin is and how it has provided direct contact with the living Christian tradition and prayer for 19 centuries.
Fr. Grieshaber will lecture on Liturgical Arts.
New Chemistry Grants Set Up for Next Year $
Seven new fellowships have been established in the department of chemistry, it was announced this week by Dr. G. F. D’Alelio, department head.
W. R. Grace and Co., New York City, ' has underwritten one predoctoral and | three postdoctoral fellowships, the Notre ! Dame scientist reported, while single fel-s* : lowships have been established by:^ i Charles Pfizer and Co., Brooklyn, N.Y.; i the Foster-Grant Co., Leominister, Mass.; and W. W. Barton, Rockford, Ill.
Fourteen additional corporations, government agencies and organizations are currently underwriting research at Notre Dame through fellowships in the chemistry department, Dr. D’Alelio said.
Included are the National Science Foundation, the U. S. Atomic Energy^ Commission, the U. S. Army Ordnance W Corps, the National Institute of Health, 'The Texas Company, Eli Lilly and Co., E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Co., the Peter C. Reilly Foundation, Olin-Mathieson, Inc., Monsanto Chemical Co., Shell 1 Oil Co., Socony Mobil, Inc., Miles Laboratories, Inc., and the Chicago Show Printing Co.
Two other chemistry department fellowships have been established by Frank J. Seng, Chicago, Ill., and by C. Roy Me-Canna, Burlington, Wis., in memory of his father, Charles McCanna.
Jazz Concert Takes Place
Around Fr. Sorin's Statue
As a part of the Spring Festival, a Senate-sponsored jazz concert was held in front of Father Sorin’s statue last Monday evening.
Originally scheduled for the Library lawn, the concert started around 8 p.m. when Dick Miller’s “Sugarfoot Stomp- | ers” parked a rented piano and some drums in front of the statue and began blaring away.
Miller and his group, Bill Malloy, Jack Revord, Walt Jones, and Jack Potash, were soon joined by musicians returning from the Dining Hall where the Concert Band had just performed for an engineering convention.
By the time the concert broke up at,a 9:30 p.m., around 200 students had cir-" cled Father Sorin, and his group of about 15 jazz serenaders.
12
The Scholastic

•Heart Attack Proves Fatal to Dr. O'Grady; Bailey, Kennedy Win Philosophy Prof Taught Here for 30 Years Law School Grants
Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, 51, professor of philosophy, died suddenly from a heart attack last Monday afternoon. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1926, Dr. O’Grady was a specialist in ^psychology and semantics and the author of two college philosophy texts.
Born in Ottawa, Canada, he became an American citizen in 1941. Dr.
DR. DANIEL O’GRADY
Died Monday.
O’Grady received his Bachelor of Philosophy and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from the University of Ottawa, and his Master of Arts degree from ^he Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. In 1946 he was named associate editor of The Neiv Scholasticism, the official publication of the American Catholic Philosophical Association.
The noted philosopher joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1926, and was granted a three year leave of absence by the University to serve in the Aimy as a clinical psychologist and personnel consultant during World War II. He •ndvanced in rank from private, when ^he entered the Army in 1942, to captain at the time of his discharge. Part of his service was on the staff of the Adjutant General’s school at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.
Prof. O’Grady served as consultant at the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital, South Bend, and at Beatty Memorial Hospital, Westville, Ind. From 1952 to 1954, he served as secretarytreasurer of the Indiana Psychological .^Association.
lW Dr. O’Grady collaborated with the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., former dean of the College of Arts and Letters
at Notre Dame and now president of the University of Portland, Ore., in writing a philosophy book Introduction to Metaphysics, which is widely used as a textbook in many American colleges, in addition to many colleges and universities in England. Dr. O’Grady also wrote a textbook on cosmology, entitled: Cosmology: A Cross-Section, which was published in Ottawa, Canada. In connection with this work, he studied at the Dominion Astronomical Observatory at Ottawa.
He was a member of the American Society for Advancement of Science, the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, the Medieval Academy of America, and the American Catholic Philosophical Association.
POLITICAL SCIENCE MOVIES
The Academy of Political Science will sponsor two movies to be shown tonight at 7:15 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
The first film, “Phoenix, Ariz.— Your City,” gives a step by step picture of city operations from the part that the city council plays in shaping policies to the administrative functions of the city manager.
“Municipal Dividends” shows the beaches, harbors, a Miss Universe contest and a prize-winning Rose Parade float at Long Beach, Calif.
Both of the films are in color, and there is no admission charge.
BAILEY, KENNEDY, FR. CAVANAUGH
Law School grant winners congratulated.
William Bailey, Jr., of Wilmington, Del., and John Kennedy, of Minneapolis, Minn., have been named this year’s winners of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh scholarships to the Notre Dame Law School.
The Cavanaugh scholarships were founded by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, in honor of his predecessor who is now director of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Each year the University awards two three-year scholarships for study in the Law School, one to a graduating Arts and Letters senior and the other to a Commerce senior. These awards are given to students who have demonstrated exceptional scholastic ability.
In addition to making the regular application for the Law School and taking the entrance exams, each applicant was required to submit a letter to Dean John O’Mara stating his reasons for wanting to be a lawyer and why he thinks himself capable and deserving of aid for his law education.
Bailey, a history major, has been a member of the University Band for four years and served as prosecutor for the Senate judicial commission last fall. He is also the president of the Delaware Valley Club.
Kennedy, who is majoring in accounting, is vice-president of the Commerce Forum for this semester. He is a member of the Minnesota Club and has been named to the dean’s list three times.
May 11, 1956
13
Students Support Rough Marine Training;
Consider McKeon Affair Isolated Incident
Monday morning, at Parris Island, S.C., the huge, sprawling, Marine “boot” base, the court-martial of Staff Sgt. Matthew C. McKeon will get underway.
McKeon, a 31-year-old drill instructor with eight years of Marine experience, including combat in Korea, is charged with being under the influence of vodka when he led a night march that caused the death of six recruits.
On April 15, a Sunday evening around 9 p.m., McKeon led a platoon of 78 recruits from their barracks and into a marshy out-of-bounds area. He attempted to lead his men across a treacherous, tide-ripped creek with swampy, vegetation-grown banks.
In the ensuing nightmare, six recruits, unable to swim in the fast-moving water, drowned, although McKeon himself pulled one out to safety.
Because many of the Notre Dame students will serve time in the armed forces, either as officers or enlisted personnel, and will be involved in some way with the training of recruits, the Scholastic attempted to find out -what typical student reaction was toward the McKeon affair.
What Punishment?
In the light of what they have read concerning the march, students were asked their opinions on -whether McKeon should be given the “book,” the worthiness of the rough Marine hazing in training, and whether this is an isolated incident or -whether many such McKeon marches, although not ending in fatalities, are given to Marine recruits.
Some believed that the present “boot” training methods are unnecessary and should be revised and that McKeon ought to be severely punished for his actions if found guilty.
“All McKeon’s Fault”
Joseph Andrews, a junior off-campus business administration student from Hilo, Hawaii, declared that he felt “the sergeant, according to press reports, is to blame. Often this unnecessary hazing is done—this time it was fatal. The change in training that will be made won’t prevent it from happening again.”
Walt McNamara, accounting major from Trenton, N.J., and Walsh Hall, was of the same opinion. “It was a question of time before something like that happened. From what I’m told, this goes on quite a bit. The recruit training is too brutal; some of that is unnecessary. They should throw the ‘book’ at Mc
Keon if he was drunk although he was following the normal order of events.”
A sophomore political science student from South Bend, Ed Kellogg, stated that “They should realize they’re dealing with men and not animals. I don’t condone this type of brutal hazing. Most drill sergeants are better-trained and know better than to drink while on duty. The over-all program should be revised.”
Marine Training Adequate
Some were of the opinion that although McKeon was at fault for his handling of the 78-man platoon, the Marine training is quite adequate and necessary.
Jim Hyer, an off-campus sociology senior from Athens, N.Y., stated that McKeon apparently was “not fit to be a leader of men. From what I know, however, the Marines’ recruit training is still adequate—this is an isolated incident— nothing to get upset over. The press overplayed it.”
A Rochester, N.Y. off-campus marketing senior, Ray Schlitzer, stated that he felt “the recruit training program is all right—got to toughen them up through this hazing manner. The sergeant should be punished for drinking while on duty and for violating the regulations if he is guilty.”
Bruce Brown declared that the “recruit training, as it stands, is quite all right—it was an unfortunate affair—a (Continued on page 29)
FR. HESBURGH PRESENTS the O’Donnell Award to James Massey at the annual Presidential Review last Saturday. A spring downpour forced the ceremonies into the Drill Hall.
Debaters Close Season; ( ' Place in 11 Tournaments
Leonard F. Sommer, director of forensics, has released the final report for the 1955-56 debate season.
Forty Notre Dame students participated in 302 debates in which the Irish won 254- while losing 48. Since 1945, Notre Dame debaters have Avon 1,546A debates, dropping 316.	”
The highlight of the season was the ranking of Rick Ninneman and Dick Schiller as the fifth and seventh best individual debaters in the nation.
Notre Dame participated in eleven tournaments, held at: Purdue; Bradley; Morris Harvey, W. Va.; Butler; Illinois; Pittsburgh; Illinois Normal; Wisconsin State; Boston U.; Georgetown; and — Xavier.	W
In addition, the Irish debaters participated in the Tau Kappa Alpha regional discussion; Azalea Festival, Mobile, Ala.; national eliminations and finals, and the Heart national oratorical contest.
At the fourth annual University of Notre Dame national invitational tournament, the following schools were represented: St. Mary’s, Minn.; Butler; -Utah; West Point; St. Joseph, Pa.; Au-w gustana; Bradley; Dartmouth; Illinois; Kentucky; William and Mary; Millsaps, Miss.; Annapolis; Kansas State; Wisconsin State; Boston; Purdue; Loyola; Case; and Wilkes.
Indiana Professor Questions Wilson's Historical Position
Woodrow Wilson’s place in history^ “remains somewhat uncertain” largely because of the former president’s personality and “the continuing controversy over his ideas on foreign policy,” according to Prof. Robert H. Ferrell of Indiana University.
Ferrell’s views are expressed in “Woodrow Wilson: Man and Statesman” in the current issue of The Review of Politics, a quarterly publication of the University. His article and a companion essay, “Woodrow Wilson and^ the Democratic Party,” by Arthur S." Link have been published to commemorate the centennial of Wilson’s birth.
Wilson’s “inflexibility in small matters, his tendency to move into action without consulting all the individuals concerned, the insistence that personal loyalty meant absolute agreement, the inability to retire gracefully in the imminence of defeat, the deep bitterness and unforgivingness toward opponents,” evident when he was a professor and _ president at Princeton, became magni-* fled when he was the nation’s chief executive, Ferrell contends.
14
The Scholastic
YOU really have a Bog where 1_7 rocks grew”?, asked the young visitor to the campus early this spring. “Of course we did,” chorused the selfappointed before-game-pedestrian watchers of Badin. “What made them grow,” countered the lad, his face flushed from the spirited reception he was receiving. “Well, son, it is this way.” A veteran •of Bog-ball was speaking, evidenced by his rather grimy complexion and webbed feet. “The Good Lord blessed this spot called the Bog in many ways; each of them necessary to a rock Garden. Besides the rocks, mud to boulder size, there are two principal gifts which the Bog laid claim to. Rain and more rain. Added to this is the not too bountiful portion of sunlight and its odd size, which was too small for baseball and too ^large for an art studio. It was also too spacious for volley ball and too near residence halls for a stable.
An Intertesting Dialogue
The small boy was awed by the onslaught of facts upholding the dubious distinctions of the Bog. The Badinites stood around him waiting for his next query. None came.
Instead, the lad had a believe-it-or-not Wof his own. “I saw a car with a license sign saying that this is the Valley of Promise. Is that another of the Lord’s blessings,” he blithely asked? Hasty glances were exchanged all around and the Bog men nodded in approval. Not too hardy approval; but approval none the less.
Faces brightened when the lad asked, “What was the Bog ever used for?” “Why for Bog-ball of course,” shouted ^a voice in the background. The owner of the voice had twice been voted the dirtiest player, figuratively speaking, of the preceding week’s games. Bog-ball was the game invented for the Bog and it suited only the Bog.
Echos from the past relate that the Indians of the Sioux Bend tribe played the first of the Bog-ball games. Later years showed an improvement in the facilities for Notre Dame’s parody on baseball.
A sewer cover near the space between ™ Sorin and Walsh halls served as home plate. The University’s green thumb department supplied a third base in the form of a small maple tree. One fire hydrant served as the centerfielder and another as the catcher. Badin Hall provided the rightfield wall complete with a spectator porch.
Badin’s young visitor' began to realize that Bogball was different; it had to be. Even the players were different. They were a hearty bunch drawn from the tough middle group. The middle group were the athletes whose get-up-and-go never got them to the Rock or Cartier
by BOB TAYLOR
field but always seemed to leave them at the Bog. A real Bog-ballite though, would brace the cold of a new snow and let the books go uncracked for the honor of the Sorin Sweat Sox or the Badin Bums.
‘'It’s too bad you can’t play Bogball anymore,” broke in the lad, his spirits
Relic of the wars.
somewhat downtrodden as he gazed at the Bog laden with the Bookstore and Gilbert’s.
“Bog ball is not dead though,” injected a Badinite. He waved to the youngster to follow him and the crowd moved around Badin to the back of the shopping center.
Bogball Resurrected
The sound of basketballs in action greeted the visitor and his guides. The newly laid asphalt basketball coui-ts were teeming with budding Bob Cousys. A stocky blond “Mikan” hooked a quick two points through a hoop. There was no loud cheering following the basket, just the relaxed shuffle of loafers and white bucks toward the check line. An easy going version of basketball is being
the legendary bog
gleaned from the asphalt olympiad installed this past fall.
Gone is the tradition steeped Bog that was host to many a tilt in which both teams got a veritable, “dirty” deal. But, the spirit of the Bog could not be crashed by a steam roller or covered by the three inches of asphalt. The challenge to come out to the Bog is still heard in Walsh, Sorin, Badin and even as far off as distant Pangbom. It still carries with it the promise of sunshine, infrequently; rain frequently and a lot of fun always.
Already new traditions are taking hold of the new courts. The not too ivy-league roof of Gilbert’s is the basis for one. It decrees that the limber armed person who lands a ball on the roof gets it all by his lonesome. He might get a helping hand up to the roof but none down.
Paul, the shoe repair-man, is more than pleased with a new traditional club being formed on the courts of the Bog. It’s the, “I wore out two pairs of shoes in a week club” and it already has quite a few members.
The Student Senate’s gift of a basketball to each hall this year is a tradition in the making. And it costs only about two and one-half cents per student.
The announcement that the last great. Bogball teams were in 1953 proved to be premature. Rivalry between the Sorin-ites and the men of Badin was both heated and spontaneous during that spring. The rivalry spilled over into a series of thefts by the two halls. The thefts centered around an age-old bench belonging to Badin. Stolen by Sorin and then repossessed by Badin, the bench was taken out of circulation by the ad-, ministration.
But, the last Bogball game has not been played. Nor is it in sight. Revised and faster the game goes on. The Bog is still underneath, the rocks are still growing—and the asphalt is only three inches thick.
So take heart you Bogballites; the Bog will triumph yet.
May 11, 1956
Crehan leaves hot spot; Logan steps in.
the biggest job on campus
by PETE STURTEVANT	I
> !
ON election night the four candidates, along with the outgoing Student Body President, sat expectantly around the dinner table at the Morris Inn.
Over at the Student Center thirty members of the Blue Circle were busy separating the pink ballots from the rest and sorting them into rapidly growing piles. Students—candidates for office, their friends and supporters, and the just plain curious—wandered in and out of the counting rooms or gathered in front of the big election returns bulletin board near the main entrance of the Center.
At 8 o’clock the first returns were posted on the big board. No candidate had a majority. The leading vote getter was only thirty votes in the lead. The redistribution of the trailing candidates’ votes was made. At 8:30 the long awaited phone call came to Tom Crehan, the outgoing Student Body President. Crehan returned to the dinner table to shake the hand of his successor. Pat Logan was the new Student Body President.
Last Sunday, after a month of apprenticeship, Logan officially took over the gavel from Crehan, as Paul Kearney, Chief Justice of the Student Court administered the oath of office to him. His inauguration over, Logan was ready to begin working at one of the toughest jobs on the Notre Dame campus. As Student Body President he will be responsible for the success or failure of Student Government here at Notre Dame.
It shouldn’t take him long to find out that being Student Body President is a mixed blessing. He suddenly becomes responsible for everything from the dents in the dining hall potatoes to the conduct of Notre Dame students on football trips. His room becomes the center of activities for campus wheels, big and small. The professors start agitating for the month overdue lab report. The administration isn’t quite so sure that that cherished plan -will ibe acceptable. The student body gripes about paying the tax. That fellow he counted on to get the job done is good at thinking up excuses but not at much else. Logan will have many problems, big and small, but his biggest problem will be how to make student government work.
Student government in its present form is relatively new here at Notre Dame. This year’s graduating class is the first to have lived four years under the present system.
Caricatured candidates await election results with incumbent Crehan.
Based on the supposition that students have common goals, needs, and problems.:^ which can best be handled by an organi- "* zation which devotes itself to fostering the general student welfare, the student government performs a variety of functions. It represents the students to the faculty and the administration. It carries on an integrated program of student activities and coordinates the extra-curricular activities not directly under its sponsorship. Through organizations such as the National Student .^ Association and the National Federation -of Catholic College Students, it extends the voice of the Notre Dame student to the national student community.
During the past four years student government at Notre Dame has been constantly growing and developing. Its impact on the average student is probably most noticeable in its social program. The Senate sponsors weekly dances in the Student Center. It under-
16
The Scholastic
Logan takes oath of office.
writes the major class and college dances. It operates the Student Center through paid student center managers. ^It brings some of the away football Wgames to the campus via ibig-screen television. It sponsors outside entertainment. This year it has brought Ralph Marterie, the Harlem Globe Trotters, and the professional golfers Jackie Burke, Jr., and Jimmy Demaret to the Notre Dame campus.
The Senate has sponsored an expanded intra-mural athletic program, and has arranged for the awarding of the President’s Trophy to the hall with the ^best record in intramural competition. A series of movies and lectures have been sponsored by the Senate. Hall activities, as well as class and college activities have been encouraged by the setting aside of special funds to help finance them.
The past year under the Crehan administration has been one of transition from a Student Senate to a Student Government with three functioning branches. In former years the commis-Asions which act to execute Senate legis-^lation were composed primarily of senators. This year a strong and more efficient executive branch of government has been created. The commissions have been separated from the Senate. This year approximately 150 students worked for student government in these executive organs. The Senators have been freed to devote themselves exclusively to their job as legislators.
The Student Court, although still the •weakest branch of student government, has made great progress toward establishing itself as a valuable component of student government. This year the
court has handled thirty-eight cases— thirty-six more than had been handled in the two previous years. Court procedure has been developed on a trial and error basis, and has now been codified. Some progress has been made toward codifying Senate statutes and regulations.
Growth and Development
Where does student government stand today as a new administration moves in? Retiring SBP Crehan believes that the possibilities for further growth and development in the coming year is great. “This year we’ve completed the foundation for a sound student government and laid out blueprints for a stronger and more vital organization,” he said. This year the Senate has crystallized the experience of the past four-years by revising the Constitution, streamlining the organization of the executive branch of the government, and drawing up policy statements to guide future actions. “It’s up to Pat Logan and those who’ll be working with him next year to build something worthwhile on this year’s foundation,” Crehan added.
The man who’s going to have to do the building is a rather unique individual. Pat Logan was the first underclassman to serve as Social Commissioner. He first ran for office his sophomore year when he ran for Lyons Hall senator. He lost by ten votes. The following year he ran for Junior Class president. He lost by six votes. Student Body President is the first elective office he has held.
Logan attributes his election victory primarily to the vigorous campaign he conducted. He estimates that he personally visited 75% of the rooms on campus. He appeared several times on WSND’s “Meet the Candidates” series, and attended hall political meetings throughout the campus. In addition he had two men on each floor of every hall on campus working for his election.
* * *
Where does student government go from here? Logan has some definite ideas in mind about that. He plans to provide a greater quantity and quality of student government-sponsored activities. More emphasis will be given to entertainment for the stag fellows, and the social activities will be less formal. The Senate religious program will be expanded to include closed retreats at the new retreat house and trips to the Trappist monastery at Gethsemane. He hopes to establish closer contact between the class chaplains and the men in the halls.
Logan’s basic aim of providing a greater variety of activities so that everyone can benefit directly from student government will be implemented by
the importation of big name entertainment, by greater emphasis on the intramural spoils program, and by the sponsorship of activities of a more academic nature such as mock elections and a Model United Nations Assembly. He plans to keep the student body better informed on Senate actions and hopes to post the Senate agenda in every hall before the meetings. ,
In addition to strengthening the Senate program in existing areas, Logan plans to lead the student government into new areas of activity. “As we demonstrate our ability to act responsibly in the interests of the students and the University, we hope that the Administration will have enough confidence in us to allow greater student participation in the life of the University,” Logan said. He hopes that student government can lead the way toward strengthening the Notre Dame family by giving the students a bigger voice in the decisions which vitally affect him as a student and a member of the academic community.
A Student Voice
He believes that students should eventually have a voice on the important policy-making committees of the University. The possibilities of student participation in programs of curriculum planning and course evaluation should be investigated. Greatei- student participation in the religious program is called for. The jurisdiction of the Student Court should be expanded as it demonstrates its ability to act in the best interests of the University.
Logan believes that life in the residence halls is the center of the Notre Dame community, and that there is room for improvement in this area. Next year’s Senate should give serious consideration to a permanent hall residence system.	•
The coming year promises to be a
(Continued on page 32)
(Hogans laid
Body President is easy prey for callers.
17
May 11, 1956
The whole woi
More than 400 freshmen and their dates jumped on the social “Carousel” last Friday in their firs^ whirl at a college springtime formal. Avoiding puddles and small miasmic clouds, the frosh and their ladies wended centerwards to hear the most stimulating music of Dan Belloc and his bellicose blasters.
Rain, of course, upon leaving the center, nevertheless failed to place a damper upon the first thrill of late (2:00 a.m.) hours, a new experience for the frosh.	a
Led by Queen Lou Anne Monroe anc^ her chairman-monarch George Hahn to edibles, etc., before the deadline closed the first night activities.
Freshman military men abandoned their dates the following afternoon to display the local force of arms for the Annual President’s review. Held in the drill hall, because of . . . well, because of rain. Later, the re-transformed center, through the efforts of Manager Mike Wade’s wand waving, presented a be^ flowered Jazz Party.	W
Sunday, after the 8:00 o’clock Mass, the Frosh plus dates adjourned to the East dining hall for a mass Communion breakfast, graced by the speaking of Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University.
Additional grace for the local first year men was the first weekend-sunshine which has been observed in these parts for some weeks. The grass was green, the sky was blue, and the outer world struck for a ray of hope that the manj4^ big weekends following in the next three years might be as full and fruitful as the Carousel.
•i&t
jsmiles with you.
r

a whirl on
the carousel
photos by CHICK MARTIN
What lies behind that placid brow?
A touch of the plague.
It’s nothing really. Nothing!
This musical has some good dancing, buf® is too long and extremely boring. A good way to catch up on some lost sleep.
Hell’s Outpost is a western on the same bill.
at a Qlattce
Song of the South (starts Thursday) A-l. Here is my nomination for best acting job in a decidedly childish situation. The Negro who stars as Uncle Remus in this Disney semi-musical^.’ treats whimsical situations with a childinterest flair, while definitely keeping control of the situation in an adult manner. His stories about Brer Rabbit, Brer Fox, and Brer Bear are fine enter-
COLFAX
Birds and Bees (all week) B. The smirking little man, George Gobel, capitalizes on his television success by spreading his simple crewcut countenance out across a wide movie screen, and in color to boot. Sticking to the same type of role that brought him TV fame. He tends to get slapstick on occasion, but this serves to gloss over a lather sadly lacking story. George is aided immensely by the versatile Mitzi Gaynor’s dancing and acting, and by the appearances of David Niven. The title adds considerably to the appeal and Gobel fans should find much to laugh about.
GRANADA
Alexander the Great (all week) A-l. Alexander was once under Aristotle’s tutelage, conquered Greece and Persia, and was a forceful character throughout his life. Director Rossen tries to do justice to each of these phases in Alexander’s life, and this in itself is a kingsize task. Although Richard Burton is splendidly cast in the role of Alexander, the director faces the problem of whether to feature Alexander as a person or to emphasize his battles. The film tries to cover too much but the result is some superb war scenes. The film is backed by an extensive advertising campaign, and vivified by color and wide screen, but be wary of these historical spectacle films. They’re usually disappointing.
PALACE
Rock Around the Clock (Friday through Tuesday) A-2. Some talented dancers and singers along with very solid-rocking rhythm numbers are the stars in this smoothly executed film. The light story presents no problem as it is picked up and bounced right along in the rhythm of the songs as they slip into the pattern. Bill Haley and his Comets, of recording fame, along with the Platters, give good renditions to some popular songs.
Blackjack Ketchum (same bill) A-l. Howard Duff stars in this western, which has just an appropriate portion of all the elements which make up a good cowboy. Maggie Mahoney, a new beauty, gives a good account of herself. She is the only thing that is new as there is the usual inoculation of shooting, riding, rustling, and smooching. The title refers to the name of the hero.
Maverick Queen (Wednesday on). Barbara Stanwyck does a turnabout and stars in a western. Although she appears somewhat more at ease in the drawing room than she does in the saloon, she does a commendable job. Barry Sullivan captures her love in the guise of a gunman. He turns Pinkerton detective and the two dispose of the bad guys and embrace true love.
Steel Jungle (same bill) A-2. Perry Lopez really gets run through the meatgrinder while trying to get paroled from prison to be with his wife, who is expecting a baby. “The boys,” fellow inmates, make hamburger of Lopez for various reasons in this medley of sadism, double-dealing, and petty chicanery. The human punching bag is an unpolished performer but has potential.
RIVER PARK
Ransom (Friday and Saturday) A-2. This picture is a test of the success of TV shows expanded into movies. The entire stoiy happens in a matter of hours as a boy is kidnapped and returns to his parents. On the credit column of the ledger is found Glenn Ford, Donna Reed and good supporting players. However, the pic is too long and the material has been stretched dangerously thin. You be the judge.
Rage at Dawn (same bill) is another contribution of saddle-sore Randolph Scott to the theater’s confection counter business. A sure kid-pleaser.
Kismet (Sunday through Wednesday) A-2. The screen version of the stage show.
20
tainment for both young and old. you haven’t seen this story of the South, it is easily worth the money time.
If Old and
STATE
Fury at Gunsight Pass (through Saturday) A-l. A western starring David Brian and Richard Long.
Duel on the Mississippi (same bill) A-2. Lex Barker sheds his Tarzan shroud, exchanges his simian playmates II for Pat Medina, and comes down out of the trees in favor of the Mississippi River. Just an average picture.	j
The Tall Men (Sunday through Tuesday) B. Clark Gable and Jane Russell ■team up to head an all-star cast including Robert Ryan and Cameron Mitchell. The color production is excellent enter- , tainment. ,
Red Sundown (same bill). Dealing | with a professional killer western story, g with a fence war in the background, I this film gets a sterling performance * | from Rory Calhoun, and Dean Jaggar again submits another incomparable	I
characterization. But nevertheless, there	1
is only so much that may be done with a western plot, and most of it has been | done in other movies.	|
Lease on Life (Wednesday and Thursday) is an English film, reputedly very good, and starring Robert Donat. No more info has managed to make its way across the ocean on this one.
—Reviews by Terry Plunkett. 9
UNIVERSITY THEATER
Finian’s Rainbow, continuing through Sunday, Washington Hall, 8:15 p.m., big time on Broadway arrives at ND 9 years after. With George Kleindorfer, Jerry Dodge, Bob Vrancken, Sue Brown and Virginia Thomas, hit-crammed, dance sparked, laugh-studded, thoughtprovoking.
SENATE MOVIES	9
Student Center, Sunday, May 13; a free double feature showing of two short
The Scholastic
I 'A | Making advantage of the hospitality I of Mr. Jerome Vogel, Manager of the River Park Theater in Mishawaka and ND grad of the class of ’36, we gulped down a quick dinner, packed our press pass and hopped an East-bound bus. For a real “money’s worth” (especially on a pass) double feature; Love, is a Many-Splendored Thing and Three Coins in a Fountain.
(Q It isn’t often that one gets to compare end to end a couple of productions of such great similarity in quality and type. For th6se were both of the genus romance, species serious-dramatic. Both in Cinemascope, in foreign settings with careful attention to use of color- and setting; their similarities were on the whole greater than their differences.
But if I had to make a distinction be-Atween them, I would say that Three ^Coins in a Fountain had a rather thin plot (actually, almost three thin plots to the theme, “Get that man”) handled most adequately and occasionally with brilliance. Love had a plot of greater depth and challenge, and handled it
I films from the U.SjS.R. Isador An-I nesky’s Marriage, based on Anton Chek-R ^hov’s play The Wedding. This movie | was made in 1946 by the Russian art | theater and is a satirical jab at the B pomposity of a bourgeoise wedding. Also, I The Fish and the Fisherman, a color B animation cartoon, made in 1950, with I English voices and narration dubbed.
Shows all after-noon and evening till 8:30. About half an hour in length, j Washington Hall, Wednesday, May 16, ■ a Senate-sponsored double feature of j ^two popular and powerful films. John \ ^Steinbeck’s The Grapes of Wrath, the I fictionalized tale of the descent of the i “tractored off” Okies upon California, 5 greatly influenced the thinking of the American People during the days of the New Deal. Triple Academy Award winner, including best direction, Grapes was voted best picture of the year 'by the New York Film Critics.
Also, the film version of Robert Penn Warren’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, the King’s Men. This punch-laden (^picture swept the Academy Awards in 1949 and was named best picture of the year both in Hollywood and New York. Grapes of Wrath shown at 1:30 and 6:45, King’s Men at 3:45 and 9:00. Ad-
I mission 25c.
Washington Hall, Thursday, May 17, another Senate double feature, presents two of Hollywood’s most successful musicals, Calamity Jane and Desert Song, with Doris Day and Kathryn Grayson respectively. Continuous showings in ' (^afternoon and eve, Calamity Jane at 12:45, 4:15, 7:45. Desert Song starting | at 2:30, 6:00 and 9:30.
by JIM O’BRIEN
unevenly, at times with a triteness that made the reviewer wince.
For a quick plot sketch, Three Coins tells the tale of three American Secretaries in Rome and how they got theii man; one after her efficient and coldblooded scheming falls through, puts the game on ice by some pure honesty and reverse-english psychology. Another falls in love with poor-student-type, (familiar to all) in spite of self, and wins through the inherent difficulties to the final clinch. Third; long time secretary, in love with boss for 15 years, who learns he is dying, convinces him that life is w'orth living at, even for a year. (This last was more involved, and rather prettily worked out by Dorothy McGuire and Clifton Webb.)
Love . . . deals with Eurasian girl doctor widow who’s first allegiance since the death of her husband is to the suffering masses in China. Along comes cool, handsome, (married) Amei-ican war correspondent, and the inevitable affair ensues. Both realizing that they can’t get manned, the mutual attachment leads to some empassioned prose, following which the war correspondent is killed, and the Eurasian doctor is left to console herself -with her forgotten ideals, and a number- of memorized phrases from the correspondent’s correspondence.
To make up for certain rather painfully poor lines, ostensibly representing Chinese, the camera work was brilliantly effective, especially in the night scenes. Seemingly simple scenes took on breathtaking beauty, and the clumsy dialogue passed almost unnoticed.
In Three Coins, the insubstantial plor was well compensated by the fact that details of character choice, dialogue and acting were scrupulously exact and genuine; the story could be followed without interruption or distraction. Color and camera work were less obtrusive, but equally effective and well done.
The common element in both shows, by which the action of the plots was resolved is really the main point of consideration. If the word love were banned from the motion pictures, Hollywood would become a ghost town overnight. For love conquers all; this is the primary resolving principle of 75% of Hollywood motion pictures.
The Hollywood concept of love is the most important single property of screen
love: the scripter’s joy
writers; it is the be all and end all; the solution to all problems of plot; the unquestioned and unquestionable “open sesame” to the final clinch.
The painful familiarity of this phrase, at the sight of which all but the most easily moved movie goers reach for their coats, is a tipoff to the commonness of the solution. To many movie-goers, Three Coins was “super-colossal” because it closed with not one, but three clinches. The fact that the scriptwriters did not deem it necessary to follow in detail what must have been a highly complicated resolution of the problems of the plot, indicates their awareness of the power of the universal concept in the mind of the fan. Love conquers all, remember, and after 120 minutes, what can the principles do but fall into each other’s arms.
This is all very amusing to the detached (even cynical) reviewer, but the fantastic and feai-ful fact is that the movies, to a great extent, determine the attitude of society toward love and romance. I don’t want to start drawing a lot of sociological conclusions, a la Back Page, but I suspect that many young couples after a year of marriage find out that love doesn’t conquer all; at least the combination of physical attraction and clever dialogue which passes for love on the silver screen.
But the fact appears to be that it is easy to think of it. in this way; it is entertaining to watch, and after all, that’s what we’re all here for. As long as “love” makes it easy for the scriptwriter, and the housewife, and the young-in-love going steady, I guess it will remain on the cinema pedestal, the - most solid and ornate pedestal m the history of art.
21
May 11, 1956

by jim McDonald
Well, Jack, how do you like if?” ‘•I’m satisfied, Dad. I like it a lot, in fact.”
“Food okay?”
He laughed a little. “It’s not as good as Mom’s, but it’s all right.”
“How about the rest of it?”
“What do you mean?”
“Everything. The whole place.”
“I’m happy.”
“You still have your mind made up. You haven’t changed it?”
“No.”
“And you still think you’re doing the right thing. That it’s what you really want.”
“I’m sure. Sometimes you sit by yourself and you think about the way things used to be—how everything is outside and you maybe even wonder a little. A lot of guys do. But I still want to go through with it.”
“I still think you’re making a big mistake. You’re not cut out for that sort of life.”
“You’ve said it all before, Dad.”
“And I’m saying it again. You’ll never make a priest. After three months you should realize that. It’s not the type of life you’re fit for.”
“I'm getting along okay. Three months isn’t such, a long time. 'I’m just getting into the swung of things.”
“Then how can you know you’re doing the right thing?”
“How can you know I’m not! You’ve never even been there. You don’t know ■what it’s like. You don’t, even understand why I’m there. I have to find out. If I see it’s not for me I can always leave. I’ve said it before.”
“And I’ve told you . . .”
“I’d rather’ not argue about it!” He pushed back his chair, got up, and ■walked from the room into the kitchen. He hesitated, then started up the stairs to his room on the second floor. He could hear his Mother’s voice as he shut the door.
“His first night home and you have to talk like that! Why can’t you realize . .
The door was shut and the voice was gone and the room was in darkness. He walked across the room and sat on the bed. He reached over and turned on the lamp.
night
The room had not changed in three months. It was the same, perhaps a little cleaner. The pennants were still on the Avails. The autographed picture of Bob Cousy was still tacked to the Avail. The books Avere still in the bookcase, just as he had left them. His junior prom picture, Avith Janet beside him, Avas still on the dresser.
He stood up and Avalked across the room. He saA\r himself in the mirror and brushed a lock of hair back from his forehead. He picked up the picture and looked at it closely. She had on
a white dress. He could see his class ring on her finger. She Avas almost as tall as he. She had blonde hair.
He Avondered what she was doing now, and he remembered the night on her front porch Avhen he had told hei’ about the seminary. At first she had laughed and told him that he should not joke about things like that. Then she had realized that he Avas not joking and she
had just stood there and looked at hir^ for a minute. Then she had taken oft the ring and handed it back to him. He had not known Avhat to say and she had just looked at him. .She had said, “Kiss me goodbye, Jack.” He had kissed her goodbye, and then she had gone inside the house.
That Avas the last time he had eArer seen her. She liA-ed across the street. He A\rondered hoAv she looked and hoA-^ she Avas.
He Avalked over to the Avindow and pulled back the drapes and* looked closely out at her house. He could Avalk over and say hello and see how she Avas and Avhat she Avas doing and how she looked and Avho she Avas going out Avith . . .
It Avas Thanksgiving night. She Avould not be home on Thanksgiving night; not at 10:00 o’clock . . . unless she kneAvg that he Avas coming home.	"
He turned aAvay as he stiffened and wondered Avhat he Avas thinking of and that he should not be thinking like that. Things Avere different now and it Avas all OA-er betAveen them. It had to be—now.
He sat doAvn on the bed again and turned off the light. He lay back, put his hands behind his head and stared , up at the blackness and smiled. He thought about Avhat he had been thinking and he smiled: of all the Avays to begin a vacation; just what he shouldn’t be thinking of; on the first night home. £
“Jack, are you asleep?”	t
“No, Mom.”
22
The Scholastic
£ The door opened and she walked in and sat down on the bed.
“Are you angry?”
“No, I’m sorry I was; I didn’t come home to get mad.”
“You know how your Father is. He still can’t understand, that’s all. You understand, don’t you?”
I “Sure. I’m surprised he didn’t mention it earlier. Guess the football game •kept him busy. I understand how he feels.”
“It all seems so impossible to him. All his life he . . .”
“I know. It’s all right.”
“Come on downstairs now. Don’t be angry.”
“I think I’ll turn in, Mom. I’m kinda tired and I have to get up early for Mass tomorrow.”
“All right, goodnight, Jack.” She kissed him on the cheek.
“G’night, Mom.” She got up and i opened the door.
! “Tell Dad I’m sorry I got mad. Tell him I said goodnight.”
She nodded and shut the door.
He lay there for a minute and then he stood up and walked to his dresser. He undressed and put on his pajamas, slowly. He wondered how many times ^he had put on those pajamas, how many ^times he had slept in that bed. He walked to the window and looked out through the drapes again. Then he turned and knelt down beside the bed.
“I confess to Almighty God, to blessed Mary ever virgin . . .”
He stood up and looked at his watch. It was nearly 11:00 o’clock. He got into bed and pulled the covers around his neck. He closed his eyes and rolled over •on his side. He opened his eyes and then he closed them again. He rolled over on his other side.
She had worn his class ring for two years: his junior and senior year in high school; many days and many nights; the blonde hair that rumpled lightly on her neck; her eyes looking-up at him; shortening his stride so that she could keep up with him.
He smiled and rolled over on his back and stared at a ceiling he could not see. The darkness was all around him, filling ^the room with a heavy blackness from wall to wall and from ceiling to floor. It was like closing your eyes so that there was nothing but that blackness except when an image broke it and he could see someone or something and the blackness became the past: days of work at Kroger’s, picnics, movies, swimming in the lake, basketball games . . .
Bright lights beating down and a roar behind him and a helplessness inside him and the buzzer ending the game . . . shuffling sloivly off the court . . . pressed in
by shoulders and bodies of people and pushing his way through with his eyes on the floor . . . shoes dull against the shiny boards . . . siveat sticking his uniform close to his body . . . sitting on a bench in the locker room and staring at his unlaced shoes . . . nobody saying anything . . . then the nimble of a shower and then the stinging spray-pressure of the water on his back . . . dressing very slowly tuith the heavy emptiness inside him and his head filled and phlegm in his throat. . . Mort shaking his head and saying “Last game.”
■Janet leaning against the ivall of the gym . . . walking beside her to the car with Mort . . . Mort saying ‘see you Monday’ . . . not ivanting to reply . . . driving away in the late stillness . . . sitting in the car in front of her house and looking out the window . . . barely conscious of the occasional squeeze of her hand . . . replaying the game all over again and then blurting out everything—“My fault, all mine; couldn’t hold him; too damn fast . . .”
He got out of bed all of a sudden, flinging- the covers back. He stood in the center of the room, and then he walked over to the window. He pulled back the drapes, just a little—a crack, until he could see the street below and her house across the street like something in a movie.
It was raining, a lightly falling rain, almost a mist, falling out of an endless black sky onto the still earth and the cement of the street. There was a streetlight in front of her house and the rain made a cellophane sheet around the yellow glow and disappeared into the shadows and the trees and in back of the houses.
A car came down the street, headlights filtering through the mist and passed on. Another came down the street in the opposite direction. Then all was still again. He stood there and watched and the rain began to fall harder, a cadence crisply down upon the roof above him. Except for the rain all was still and he could hear his breathing. He closed his eyes for just a minute.
(Continued on page 33)
King Size Cheese Pizza ONLY $1.00 AT Albano’s
Every day of the week (except Wednesday) plus many other benefits for your purse.
All that is needed is an ID card to benefit from these prices.
Listen to this T-Bone Steak $1.25 Spaghetti Plate 75c Ravioli Plate 75c
Special rate for Notre Dame Club banquets.
See us first and save.
415 N. Michigan St. Phone: CE 30903
For Coming Proms . . .
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
222 Laurel
Special Student Rates
Why Not?
Drive a '56 Chrysler or-Plymouth home this Summer! Save the cost of freight to your home town.
BUY NOW!
See Jack Moulder, ’38
Moulder Motor
215 So. Lafayette, South Bend Chrysler—Plymouth—Imperial
May 11, 1956
23
YOU CAN BEST JUDGE WHAT IS BEST FOR YOU WHEN YOU HAVE A COMPLETE SELECTION
At the Campus Shop you can choose from a dozen or more nationally known Brand Name suits . . . and many many more famous make furnishings and accessories. Here you have a choice of many authentic interpretations of the current styles. Only with a selection like this can you retain individuality in your wardrobe.
24
The Scholastic
JfiUk Scuia
UNVEIL 1956 FIGHTING IRISH TOMORROW
Brennan Tests Promising Sophs Tomorrow As Irish Plan Revenge Against Old Timers
by JIM GOETHALS
A youthful ensemble comprising the new Fighting Irish varsity will be put I	to the acid test tomorrow in the Sta-
'	dium, when they "will battle the experi-
| enced graduating seniors and ex-ND s ,^tars in the annual Old Timers’ grid j Wlassic.
An expected crowd of close to 20,000 will view the game which was originated in the Rockne era as the finale to the Spring practice session. The starting time has been given as 2:30 p.m. and will, unlike last year, be played in the Notre Dame Stadium. Last year the Irish varsity team suffered its fourth defeat in the long series at the hands of a powerful squad led by former Irish Ogreat, Johnny Lattner.
After 20 days of painstaking work with the squad on Cartier Field, Coach S Terry Brennan remains non-committal about his first string team, saying, “Though I admittedly have more depth this year, the team is, on the whole, a much younger one than those of my pre
IRISH FIELD GENERAL PAUL HORNUNG '56 football machine in dress rehearsal tomorrow.
vious years as head coach. And because of this inexperienced youth plus keener competition for the open positions, we have accomplished more this year than last at this stage of the game. Yet to single out a starting team as definite would call for more time and practice.”
Prendergast Anchors Line
“In short,” added Brennan, “we could use about 20 more days of spring practice. But,” he continued, “we should give the Old Timers a tough time.”
In the line, the starters at end -will in all probability be experienced letterman Dick Prendergast and an impressive but unproven sophomore, Bob Wetoska. The latter has good size and speed and has shown himself a reliable pass receiver in practice.
At the tackles, a more difficult choice arises, although ponderous newcomers Frank Geremia and Angelo Mosca appear to be the most likely candidates for the starting positions. On the other-
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP
Varsity	Old Timers
Prendergast .....LE........  Wilson
Geremia _________LT.________ Nicula
Hedrick --------- LG_________ Bisceglia
Sullivan   —C ________________ Mense
Gaydos ............RG-- McMullan Mosca -----------------.RT.__ Lemek
Wetoska ---------RE_________ Kapish
Hornung ..........QB.........Carey Morse -...................LH_. Fitzgerald
Lynch -----------RH.:.... Hendricks
Toth ------------FB--------Schaefer
Kickoff Time—2:30. Notre Dame Stadium.
hand, experience gives the nod to sophomore letter-winner Bob Gaydos and junior Gene Hedrick at the guards. Both have invaluable game playing time under their belts and have improved through the sharp competition for their jobs this spring. Replacing graduating Jim Mense for the middle of the line post will be, from all indications, returning monogram winner Ed Sullivan. Lou Lon-caric remains in close contention for the center slot and will also see action tomorrow at this position.
Toth at Fullback
The starring backfield remains unchanged from last year, with one exception, and that being a change at fullback. In an attempt to dig up a replacement for the graduating All-American Don Schaefer, Brennan and his staff have had their eye on a 210-lb. hard-driving freshman named Ron Toth, and he may start tomorrow. Soph Chuck Lima may also see action at this position. The returning regulars will include Paul Hornung, calling the shots, and halfbacks Dick Lynch and Captain Jim Morse.	•
The Old Timers’ team, which is to be coached by the Walsh-Zilly-Landry combination, will be composed primarily of the present graduating seniors, which include, among others, Don Schaefer, Pat Bisceglia, Ray Lemek, Jim Mense, George Wilson, and Gene Kapish. Also there is a possibility that graduates Tommy Carey, Dan Shannon, and Minnie Mavraides will make a personal appearance in the game. Coach Brennan plans on bolstering the Old Timers’ squad with some of -the players on his squad.
May 11, 1956
25
HARRY SMITH
Continues to pace netmen.
Net Squad Faces Tests At Kalamazoo(Detroit
This afternoon at Kalamazoo, Mich. Notre Dame coach Charlie Samson sends his tennis charges against an experienced Kalamazoo College squad who tripped the Irish 5-4 last year and who are rated equally as formidable this year. To give a comparison of Kalamazoo’s strength, they whipped Tennessee A&I this spring by a 4-2 count while all ND could manage was a 3 to 3 tie last April 27th. Next Thursday Detroit University, who has never beaten an Irish net team in 14 matches, will provide the opposition.
Notre Dame’s first four tennis warriors stroked out victories as the Irish picked up their seventh triumph against three defeats over Purdue, 6 to 3 last Friday at the courts west of the Stadium.
Captain Harry Smith toppled th? Boilermakers’ No. 1 man, John Bartlit 6-3, 5-7, 6-3 in the featured match while second-man Chuck Vanoncini belted out a. lop-sided 6-0, 6-2 win over his opponent. Smith swept the first five games of his first set but when Bartlit found the range with deadly corner shots, the Irish junior was in trouble until the final set when he employed sparkling play to cop the last three games. Playing third man, Dean Richards gained a 6-3, 6-8, 6-4 victory. Jim Rich powered a straight set, 8-6, 6-4 win for Notre Dame. Bill O’Connor lost the only singles match to Righter of Purdue by a 2-6, 6-3, 2-6 score. The Irish clinched the nine-match contest when Soph John Metz captured the fifth Notre Dame victory with set scores of 6-4, 4-6, 6-3.
Allard, Cote, Lewis Pace Irish in MSU Win; Pitt Today, Indiana State Meet Wednesday
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be the scene of tomorrow’s action for the Irish trackmen when they take on the University of Pittsburgh at Pitt Field. Although Coach Wilson has not seen Pitt yet this year, he is well aware of the fact that they possess a good, solid team, as is evidenced by their defeating Army, one of the Eastern track powers, earlier in the season. Men like Herb Cooper, their ace sprinter, and Arnie Sowell, in Wilson’s estimation “one of the best half-milers in the world,” will probably give Pitt the edge on the track, whereas the Irish should dominate the weight events.
Wednesday, May 16th, Notre Dame will host Indiana, Ball State, Wabash, and Purdue in the annual state championships. Wilson does not anticipate trouble from Wabash, Ball State, or Purdue but feels Indiana will be the team to beat. The Hoosiers, paced by their
The top Irish doubles team of Smith and Vanoncini easily won their tenth bout of the season 6-1, 6-1.
On Monday afternoon, the netters dropped a 9-0 decision to a mighty Michigan outfit. Not only were the Irish shut out, but they failed to take a set from the Big Ten favorites.
For Smith, it was only his second loss of the season against nine wins. The doubles team of Smith and Vanoncini likewise dropped their second match of the current campaign.
Sailors Gain Reqionals; Race Today at Detroit
The Notre Dame Sailing Club qualified for the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Championship last weekend by routing teams from Wisconsin, Purdue, Washington of St. Louis and Marquette at Wisconsin. The Midwest Championship meet, to be held at Purdue, May 19 and 20, is in turn the qualifying meet for the Nationals.
The Irish sailors led at the end of the first day, over Wisconsin 33-29, and picked up another point on the field in the rain on Sunday.
Bernie D’Almeida with three firsts and two seconds was the high point skipper in Division A grabbing 28 points.
Ray Nelson in B Division had just enough to nip Purdue 26-24 with one first and four- seconds.
Tomorrow the club travels to the Detroit Yacht Club for a meet with Wayne, Detroit, Marquette, Purdue, Michigan State and Ohio State.
two sure point-getters Bell and Donaldson, are the defending Indiana Champions, having won the event for the past five years. However, this year the Irish should provide them with much bette1^ competition, as they did during- the in* door season when Indiana had to come from behind to win the last event and the meet by one point.
Saturday at East Lansing, Michigan, the Irish, paced by Bernie Allard, Jack Cote, and Aubrey Lewis, took,ten firsts out of the fifteen events to win a sur- I’ prisingly easy victory over Michigan |j State, 86%-54%.
Allard, although four inches below hi D previous high, took first in the high jump and javelin throw, and finished second	i
in the high hurdles, garnering 13 points.	>.
Lewis, competing in six events, took	I
second in the discus, javelin, 100-yard	-
dash, and 220 low hurdles while finish-	,
ing third in the 220-yard dash as he also	'
compiled 13 points. Cote won the broad	,
jump with a leap of 22’8%” and tied in the pole vault at 12’6”.
Byron Beams, in the shot put, ancA Bill Squires in the mile run, set meet	.
records. Beams’ toss of 52% feet sur-	I
passed the mark set by Delaney of N.D. in 1939 by over a foot while Squires chopped a tenth of a second off the time of Notre Dame’s Conforti who ran the event in 4:17.3 in 1942.
The Irish claimed all the points in the j discus and broad jump while firsts were | also taken by Bill Keegan in the 440,	|
Dale Vandenberg in the 880, and the^ [ mile relay squad of Lenihan, Bill Cope-* f, land, Foreman, and Squires in 3:24.0.	’
JACK COTE
Broad jumper sparks trackmen.

The Scholastic
Irish Nine Faces Michigan State Wednesday; Bujnowski, Symeon Star in Weekend Wins
Irish Golfers to Face Heavy Action Monday
Notre Dame’s baseball squad made it two in a row in last week’s action by edging Michigan 6-5 at home, then downing Western Michigan 7-2 on Friday ^.fternoon at Kalamazoo.
On May 16th, the Irish will travel to East Lansing to battle Michigan , State’s Spartans, coached by John Kobs. Michigan State compiled a 4-5 record over the spring exhibition schedule, and 1 have a hard hitting club with fair pitching. Leading State’s hitters is centerfielder Bay Collard who batted .421 on the southern trip while driving in seven ^•uns. Following- Collard are catcher ®Alan Luce, at .378 with eight EBI’s, rightfielder Frank Franchi, .364, and leftfielder Jim Sack, at .333.
A familiar name to Notre Dame followers is Spartan shortstop Earl Mor-rall, who was an All-American at quarterback during the grid season. Mor-rall is currently hitting at a .320 clip.
Coach Kobs’ biggest worry has been his infield, due to the loss of Big Ten —batting champion George Smith, and Wirst-sacker Charley Matthews, both of whom were signed by the Baltimore Orioles.
I Heading the Michigan State mound [ staff are seniors Ed Hobaugh, Walt ■, Godfrey, and junior John Davis. Hobaugh, captain of the squad, ran up a 1-3 record on the southern trip and in !	1955 had a 6-4 mark. Godfrey has a
□Dillon, Walsh, Press, Phy. Ed. Eye Interhall Softball Playoffs
Four games were played last Sunday in the Interhall Softball League which closed its regular season this past Wednesday. Breen-Phillips edged Howard 1-0, Alumni squeezed past Dillon (Blue) 7-6, B-P lost to Dillon 6-5, and Alumni routed Howard 9-1.
Weather permitting, the playoffs will begin next Tuesday. Seven teams, the winners of each of the leagues, will take ®bart in the single elimination series. Dillon (Green) with a 3-0 record is the only team assured of a playoff spot. They will represent Green Field in the Hall Division. Elsewhere in the Hall Division, Dillon (White) leads Bed Field with a 4-0 record. Badin is second with 3-1. Walsh (4-0) heads the Gold with Dillon (Black) in second spot. Alumni’s 1-0 log tops the Blue Field.
In the Club Division, Bochester and the Phy. Ed. Majors are tied for the ®ead in the Bed Field with identical 3-1 records. The Press Club with a 3-0 record heads the Blue while Capitol District’s 2-1 is tops in the Gold Field.
2-0 mark and has yet to be scored upon, while Davis stands at 1-1, with a 0.93 EBA. Coach Kobs also has sophomores Mills, Perranowski, and Meares, who have all pitched well in training.
On Thursday afternoon on the Cartier diamond, the Klinemen pulled a game out of the fire with two runs in the bottom of the ninth against Michigan. Trailing 5-4 going into the last frame, Jim Carideo walked and Ed Hurley powered a triple into deep light scoring Carideo with the tieing marker. After Michigan changed pitchers Cusack walked, and Nespo fanned but Elmer Kohorst drilled the first pitch to the fence in left driving home the winning tally. Although touched for five inns and ten hits, righthander Tom Bujnowski went the route to pick up his second win. Glen Girardin, the fourth of five Wolverine hurlers absorbed the loss.
The following day, sophomore Charlie Symeon allowed Western Michigan only five hits, as the Irish whipped last year’s runner up in the NCAA tournament 7-2. Outfielder Jim Cusack with two hits, led the Klinemen at the plate against four Western hurlers, who allowed 12 walks. The return game scheduled for Cartier Field on Saturday was rained out.
On Tuesday afternoon at Cartier Field, the Irish bombarded Purdue with 15 runs while hurler Bujnowski pitched shutout ball to pick up his third win and the fourth in a row for the Klinemen.
DILLON’S REICH SETS FOR THE KILL
Softball action heading into the home stretch.
The Notre Dame Golf Team, boasting a record of five wins and one loss, tangles with Iowa today at Iowa City. Coach Bucky O’Connor’s Iowa squad, composed of a strong contingent of lettermen, will be out to reverse last year’s loss to the Irish linksmen. Last Saturday the Irish squeezed by Northwestern, 15-12, on the Notre Dame course.
On Monday, the Irish return to the Notre Dame links for a quadrangular-match with Purdue, Detroit, and Wisconsin. Purdue, led by their junior ace, Joe Campbell, defeated the Irish earlier in the year, 29 %-6%. Irish coach, Bev. George F. Holderith, C.S.C., has rated Campbell the top collegiate golfer in the Midwest. The Detroit squad is composed mostly of lettermen, including Tom Watrous, their top golfer.
Wisconsin Tough
Lettermen also form the nucleus of the Wisconsin squad which won ten of 11 dual meets and placed third in the Big Ten meet last year. Topping the list of major lettermen returning are Co-Cap-tains Koger Bubendall and David Forbes, both juniors. Bubendall, No. 1 singles player, won the Western Conference individual championship and also qualified for the NCAA tournament match play, losing in the quarter-finals. Forbes, No. 2, tied for 17th in the Big Ten, but had a better dual match singles play record than Bubendall. Other lettermen include James McDonald, Marty Hammer, and Anders Birkeland. Promis-
May 11, 1956



The annual Old Timers’ game, conclusion to the gruelling weeks of spring practice, will be held tomorrow in the Stadium. Far from being Just the token spring contest that is known at some institutions of higher
learning and football, the Old Timers’ game is the climax and proving
ground of the hard work and determination that makes up the “Fighting
TERRY BRENNAN
Irish” football team. It is a tough contest because the hopeful prospects for the squad of the coming season are pitting their training and determination against men who have been great on Notre Dame teams of the past, and who are equally determined to make these youngsters live up to the standard.
As many new Notre Dame teams have learned in the past, the Old Timers’ game is often the roughest contest on the schedule. There is no reason to believe that this year’s game will be any exception in view of the fact that a mighty array of top football talent is returning from last fall’s squad to test the new product of Coach Terry Brennan’s efforts. Such proven stars as Schaefer, Bisceg-
lia, Mense and all the rest would be tough in any park, especially
their own, and will provide the toughest opposition possible for Brennan’s
charges tomorrow. In addition to the seniors who played on last year’s squad, there will undoubtedly be on hand some of the “old guys” who will appear suddenly in the locker room on Saturday to join the squad of veterans. Often they aren’t even expected, but always enough of the old familiar stars of Notre Dame football history appear in the contest to make it a real
“Old Timers” game.
Some Big Shoes To Be Filled
This year, as always, Coach Brennan isn’t exactly verbose about the way his team is shaping up and its chances for the coming season. Besides the traditional pessimism that is natural to Irish coaches, Coach Brennan has some real problems in the big gaps to be filled in the remnant of last season’s team. While most of his backfield is intact and possesses valuable experience, the fullback slot is liable to prove a big headache before the season has run its course. The reason for this is no great mystery of course, because no team could lose a fullback of All-American Don Schaefer’s caliber and not suffer some weakening.
But perhaps the biggest question mark is in the line. With end Dick Prendergast and guard Bob Gaydos the only returning regulars on the forward wall, the coaches have had to rebuild practically from the bottom. Guard Gene Hedrick and center Ed Sullivan are two others who saw action last season but the remaining slots are expected to go to sophomore end Bob Wetoska, and sophomore tackles Angelo Mosca and Frank Geremia.
Tomorrow will be the first test of Terry Brennan’s third aggregation and a good indication of next fall’s football fortunes. A prediction is always in order in regard to such events as these and while the smart money boys may ignore this, I’ll pick the Varsity over the Old Timers, 28-20.—J. N.
ing sophomores are Jackie Allen an™ Geoffrey Ames.
In last Saturday’s match with Northwestern, the Irish led the Wildcats, 6% to 2%, after the morning doubles matches. But after five of the six afternoon singles were finished, the match was tied at 12 points apiece. In the final match, however, Notre Dame’s Joe Mulflur finished with a 76 to win all three point.£ from Northwestern’s Rick Nelson to give the Irish the team battle, 15-12. The best round of the day was played by Northwestern’s Rudy Boyd, who had a 35-33—68' card. Joe Grace was low for the Irish with a par 71 round.
On Monday at the University of De-ti’oit, the Irish golfers came out on top by a 22% to 4% score.
CASTING TOURNEY
The first of two skish tournaments will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Casting Club on Sunday, May 13, at 2 p.m. at St. Mary’s Lake. The equipment will be furnished by the Casting Club. Instructions will also be given by Barney Van Leu, a member of the South Bend Bait Company. Each participant will be given a few practice casts to determine his classifi
cation, either A or B, before the actual competition begins.
Badin's McCarthy Tops Kuhn £ For Campus Tennis Crown
John. McCarthy of Badin hall walked away with the trophy in the interhall tennis tournament last Sunday defeating Dillon’s Bob Kuhn in a straight set 6-1, 6-3. The tournament was held in connection with the Student Senate sponsored “Spring Festival Week” undei- the ■supervision of Tom Guilfoile of the varsity tennis team.
McCarthy worked his way into th<A finals easily by beating Ron Smith of Fisher 8-2 in the first round which was played under professional rules to speed up the tournament. In the semifinal round he whipped Don Shoulberg of Zahm 6-1, 8-6.
Kuhn encountered some difficulty in the semifinals finally coming from behind to stop Alumni’s Jim Roach 1-6, 6-1, 6-3. Both Roach and Shoulberg will receive bronze medals for reaching the second last round.	A
One man was entered from each hall, each hall conducting its own tournament.
The Scholastic
28
Marines
(Continued from page 14)
part of the essential training of making men follow orders. The sergeant just made a serious mistake.” Brown, a Walsh Hall electrical engineer from Elmhurst, Ill., is in the NROTC and ntends to take his commission in the
Marine Corps.
Perhaps the most typical opinion of this group was that of Farley chemical engineer Tom McBride from Oak Park, Ill. “Just because some egghead gets drunk and messes around with a platoon is no reason to condemn the whole training system.”
Two seniors, Gerry Anderson and ^lerman Wolz, both agreed that McKeon is being used as a “scapegoat” in the affair because of the tremendous public reaction. They also both agreed that the Marine training is quite adequate although it is rough and rigorous.
Two AB freshmen were asked their-opinions on the incident. Both defended the recruit training methods. Ron Durant, from Rochester, N.Y. now living in St. Ed’s, and an ex-Marine sergeant with ®hree years of duty behind him, added that “it all depends upon the drinking —whether McKeon should be severely punished. It was an unfortunate affair.
He didn’t realize the danger he was putting his men in by asserting his authority. I don’t think, however, that the sergeant should be punished too much.”
Gerry Goodwin, an ex-Marine staff sergeant (the same as McKeon) who has had three years of Marine experience, agreed that the disposition of the case “depends upon the drinking. He was overzealous—made a serious error —knew better. It was an unfortunate affair. It’s quite evident, however, that the disproportionate emphasis placed on the event by the press has distorted its actual significance.” Goodwin hails from Cambridge, Mass.
From Berwyn, Ill. and Farley, AB-engineer Freshman Bob Vondrasek pointed out that “there has to be an example made to satisfy the public. Once he started endangering their lives like that, he violated a great deal of responsibility by drinking.”
From these different opinions, it is quite difficult to fix any majority student feeling from these typical comments. It can be said, however, that, 1) McKeon should be punished to some extent, 2) McKeon’s dr-inking should have a considerable bearing on the degree of his punishment, and 3) there is some question as to the need for the harsh Marine recruit training.
«loe Nabiehl’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty “Chicken In the Rough” '2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
*1.15
FISH, STEAKS, CHIPS
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving .
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
South Bend.. Indiana
An Ideal Place to Stay When Visiting at Notre Dame
Open to the Public
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
92 ROOMS AU WITH BATHS
•	GOLF PRIVILEGES	• BEAUTIFUL PATIO	• TERRACE DINING ROOM-—Air Conditioned
•	LARGE PARKING AREA	• RADIO IN EVERY ROOM	• PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS—Air Conditioned
• CIRCULATING ICE WATER DELICIOUS FOOD	DELIGHTFUL DRINKS
SORRY, NO PUBLIC SALE OF ROOMS FOR HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS x a . . :	"	;
)	PROMPT ATTENTION WILL BE GIVEN YOUR RESERVATION REQUEST
Owned and Operated by University of Notre Dame	ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager
May 11, 1956
29
in 3 seconds
no more
• runny liquid
• sticky cream
• messy fingers
At leading department and drug stores.
SHULTON
New York Toronto

•I
STICK DEODORANT
Quickest, cleanest deodorant you’ve ever usedl Simply glide stick under arms—it melts in instantly.
Contains THIOBIPHENE* the most effective anti-bacteria agent. It’s the New Kind of Social Security — gives you absolute assurance.
4 to 5 months' supply,	|OO
*Trodemark	I plus tax
Friendship Photos
Silk Finish Photos 2>/2x3'/2 in. 20 photos from your picture, or 25 photos from your negative. Minimum order SI.00
4c„ wR
WALLET PHOTOS, Box 470, Fostoria, Ohio
Sunny Italy Cafe
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
JACOBY’S
BRIDGE
NORTH
Spades	7	5 2
Hearts	J	2
Diamonds	K	J	9 7 6
Clubs	A	J	2
i,
!|
i i
I I
I 5*
i l t !
i
WEST
Spades Hearts Diamonds
Clubs
K J 3
A 10 9 8
8 4
K 10 8 5
EAST
Spa-les 9 8 6
Hearts K Q 7 5
Diamonds 5 3 2
Clubs Q 7 3
SOUTH
	Spades Hearts Diamonds Clubs	A Q 10 4 6 4 3 A Q 10 9 6 4	0
Bidding:			
West	North	East	South
P	P	P	IS
P	2D	P	P
I’			
Opening lead: King of hearts.
In this hand South in fourth position opened a weak hand because he had control of the spade suit, and also becaus<O his hand was so distributed that he felt he could safely pass whatever bid his partner made. When his partner’s response was two diamonds, he passed quickly and gracefully, feeling that a part score for his side would be made rather easily. This would have been the case, except for a good defensive play by West.
The defenders played three rounds of hearts, North ruffing the last heart let^ with the nine of diamonds. North now
drew trumps, ending up in his own hand, and then led a spade toward dummy, putting on the ten. West won the Jack, and now stopped to consider his next play. Although one more heart lead would force declarer to ruff with his last diamond, West would still be forced to lead clubs when he gets in with the King of spades. Furthermore, if declarer has the Ace of clubs, which he should have in view of his two diamond bid, it is® important for the defense to knock our this card before the spade suit becomes established. Therefore, he decided to lead a club. The only problem now was which club to lead. West finally made the right play of the ten of clubs. Declarer covered with the Jack, East won with the Queen, and a club return through dummy’s 9-6 set up a club trick foi- West when he got in with the King of spades. If West had led a low club in attacking the suit, North would have-made his contract by playing a low clul^ The Queen would still have won, but now North would have the Ace Jack over West’s King.
30
The Scholastic
OFFICIAL
Class Rings
University of Notre Dame
Manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Co.
the Authentic mark of a Notre Danie Alumnus
available only at the
Notre Dame Bookstore
M - Ute. - campM
Sayre Says Industry Needs Qualified Men
American business and industry urgently need men who can think logically and creatively and “who possess adequate management experience and skills,” Judson S. Sayre, president of the Norge Sales Corporation, declared here last Monday.
“Top management positions at fabulous salaries and stock incentives are going begging,” Sayre claimed, “because there aren’t men qualified in sufficient numbers to supply the demand.” It is largely up to our colleges and universities, he said, to teach people “how to think, how to do better thinking and how to think creatively.”
Sayre was the banquet speaker at the 45th annual meeting of the Central Association of College and University Business Officers at Notre Dame. More than 200 representatives of educational institutions in 30 states and Canada attended the sessions.
“We have no real difficulty in finding people of good character to fill jobs,” he explained. “Not much more difficulty is involved in finding people who combine with good character an adequate amount of relevant business experience and a pleasant personality. The real hitch is finding people who know how to use their minds.”
NSA Considers Applicants For International Seminar
Applications are now being accepted for the National Student Association’s Fourth Annual International Student Relations Seminar’ to be held this summer at Cambridge, Mass. Any Notre Dame student interested in participating in this program may obtain an application blank from the Student Senate office any afternoon, Monday through Friday, from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m.
The Seminar will be held from July 1 to August 31, the last ten days at the National Student Congress in Chicago. Fifteen full scholarships, including spending money and travel expenses, will be awarded to the successful applicants.
NSA is looking for graduate students and students planning to take up residence in foreign countries, as well as for undergraduates with an interest and background in international affairs. Previous experience in NSA is not a prerequisite. Knowledge of a foreign language is desirable.
Additional information can be obtained from Peter Sturtevant, campus NSA International Commissioner, in 201 Walsh.
University of Notre Dame BLAZERS
• Lightweight Wool
• Custom Tailored
• Full Range of Sizes
Just the thing to wear at your Dances and Parties
Notre Dame Bookstore ott-Ute-camfuii
May 11, 1956
31
TRA VELING DURING VACATION? Head for these
HILTON & STATLER HOTELS Offering SPECIAL STUDENT RATES IN NEW YORK WASHINGTON-BOSTON BUFFALO-HARTFORD • HOTEL NEW YORKER NEW YORK 1 in a room $5.50 a night 2 in a room $4.50 a night 3 in a room $3.50 a night 4 in a room $3.00 a night
STATLER HOTELS IN NEW YORK • BUFFALO WASHINGTON • BOSTON AND HARTFORD 1 in a room $6.50 a night 2 in a room $5.50 a night 3 in a room $4.50 a night 4 in a room $4.00 a night
W’ALDORF-ASTORIA and THE PLAZA, NEW YORK 1 in a room $8.00 a night 2 in a room $6.50 a night 3 in a room $5.50 a night
FOR RESERVATIONS write direct to Student Relations Representative at the hotel of your choice.
For faculty or group rates in any of these hotels, write Miss Anne Hillman, Student Relations Director, Eastern Division Hilton Hotels, Hotel Statler, New York City.
Conrad N. Hilton, President
Schiller Gets Doyle Award; Coffey, Curran Take Honors
Richard Schiller, this year’s president of the debate team, received the Doyle Award for public speaking at the annual banquet held for the debate team last week. Schiller is an AB senior from Aurora, Ill.
Patrick Curran, a Commerce junior from South Bend, received the Outstanding Debater Award for three years of outstanding service to the team.
Paul Coffey, a Commerce sophomore from Lorain, O., received the Joseph Conwell Award for outstanding service in his two years as a member of the Debate team.
Professor Leonard D. Sommer of the speech department announced that next year’s president of the Debate team will be Paul Coffey. Jack Martzell, a Commerce sophomore from Shreveport, La., has been appointed as freshman supervisor for next year.
Murray Selected Chairman Of Commerce Ball Next Year
Jack Murray, a junior from Detroit, Mich., has been chosen general chairman of the 1956 Commerce Ball. The selection was made by a committee from the Commerce Activities Council and approved by the Council at a meeting last Tuesday.
The date for the dance has not been selected as yet, but will be chosen before the end of the school year.
Those interested in working on a Ball committee are asked to contact Murray in 140 Pangborn as soon as possible.
The Biggest Job
(Continued from page 17) critical one for student government. Many of the structural flaws and procedural difficulties which have hampered past Senates have been eliminated. The burden of running the ever-expanding program of Senate-sponsored activities has been shifted from the Senators to a well organized executive branch of government. It remains for the Senate to prove that it can truly represent the voice of the students. If the Senate responds to the challenge with intelligent and responsible leadership, the coming year may see student government mature and develop into a truly vital force for making Notre Dame a better university. If the Senate contents itself with supervising the administration of projects-for-projects-sake, it can degenerate into an organization merely for providing ..the students -with-their. “bread and circuses.”
If Pat Logan has anything to say about it, the student government will reach maturity next year.
Save time on the Holiday.,.
FLY UNITED AIR LINES!
Whether you re bound for the ski country, sunny California, your favorite resort, or “Going Home,” you’ll save precious vacation time by flying United Air Lines. Fast, dependable, ’round-the-clock service to 82 cities coast to coast. Check the time you’ll save at your United ticket office or your travel agent!
UNITED
UBKAKY ad NU SUP We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
32
The Scholastic
!	SCHOLASTIC COLUMNS
Manuscripts for the "Back Page” and a humor column, such as "Entree,” for next year's Scholastic will | be accepted until May 20.
The humor column should contain ' humorous incidents relating to the : £ Notre Dame or national college scene, or both. The "Back Page" should attempt to correlate campus ! or current events of national interest to life at the University. Any suggestions, however, concerning format changes will be considered.
'I Each applicant for these columns / should submit at least three separate manuscripts.
! The Scholastic is also now accept-■ W ing manuscripts of fictional and satirical writing.
All manuscripts and queries should be sent to the Scholastic, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind.
Storage for Winter Garments
only $2.95
—PLUS CLEANING CHARGES
Night
(Continued from page 23)
w He heard the car coming down the street and opened his eyes and saw it pass on. Another car came and it stopped in front of her house. A dark figure got out and walked around to the door and opened it. A girl got out and it was Janet. They half ran, together, up to her front porch. He squinted a little and leaned forward and he saw them standing in front of the front door. Then he saw two heads ^|^raw together and two bodies merge to form one. They drew apart and she opened the door and went into the house. The dark figure trotted down the porch steps and ran to the car.
He heard the motor start and watched the car pull away. He looked at hex* house. He let the drapes fall back together and saw the darkness again. He stood there and then turned and walked back to the bed. He lay down and closed his eyes.
For all you can store in our special box
Mi L-*i*
II ISII I necessary to ship your winter garments home and then back to school again in the fall. You can store them in RUBIN CLEANERS SAFE, INSURED STORAGE VAULT. . . . Your clothes will be cleaned and HUNG in our storage vault. They will be ready when you want them. And you don’t pay until you pick them up. . . . The $2.95 pays for storage and insurance up to $150.00 in valuations. Excess values are 2% of additional amount. Arrangements can be made to have this storage picked up on campus.
CALL CE 4-3188
OR
STOP IN FOR MORE INFORMATION AND FURTHER DETAILS AT
Rubin Gleaners
217 E. JEFFERSON	CORNER LINCOLN WAY EAST
ON THE BUS LINE
Repercussion
(Continued from page 6) statement about not being able to teach Communism. They are, in my opinion, indirectly going into the back door to Communism, most of them without knowing it.
I hope I have not seemed illogical in my point. I may be, if I misinterpreted ^rour article.
Donald Lavey
514 Walnut Avenue Syracuse, N.Y.
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
602 S. WALNUT
D^ltWTURBOW
\0PT0METRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced
Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring m the Pieced — EYES EXAMINH) ----
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-6777
May 11, 1956
33
Bach

by Curt Matthews
the occupational hazards
£
of amateur students
Before I launch this treatise on how to get along with your plumber I think I’d best explain how I distinguish the professional student from the nonprofessional, or as the AAU would say, the amateur. The professional student is one who plans to make learning, or at least the atmosphere of learning, his vocation. Mentally, if not physically, he’ll never leave the Ivy halls. The amateur student on the other hand, which incidentally are much in the majority, is one who one day pulls his formal education to a screeching halt, grabs his degree, and rushes out into the world to continue his learning process only as a pleasant avocation.
Amateur students are confronted with a great many problems that never come up for the professional student. Professionals deal mostly with other professionals, or at worst pseudo-professionals, but the amateur must cope with professionals, other amateurs and a varied assortment of what might be called nondescripts.
It’s his contact with the nondescripts that bring out probably the most important occupational hazard of the amateur student. Many of these nondescripts are good, useful, talented, clear-thinking and worthwhile people whose good sense, experience, and well-grounded judgments are often more necessary to the scheme of things than any contributions the amateur student might make.
But, this fact of life is very hard for the amateur student, who has spent a lot of money and time on books and related things, and who is armed -with the invincible weapon of finality—the degree, to accept. •	«
34
As an amateur student one of the biggest and most useful lessons you can learn is the simple fact that not everyone who knows anything worth knowing must have gone to college and also that not everyone who has gone to college necessarily knows anything worth knowing. There are a great many things that simply cannot be taught academically. For- instance I think the best way to learn about the intricacies of the income tax system is to owe the government three, hundred dollars when you have only one hundred, and the best way to leam the problems of city sanitation is to live next to the dump.
Those who go to college should realize that the atmosphere they live in is actually quite unnatural. Not everyone is as interested in football, physics, English literature or formal dances as those in college may grow to think. There’s another world where people are more concerned with bills, babies, racing forms and union meetings and these people with their special talents can often be of great service to those who -want to leave behind the unnatural atmosphere of the college campus—if they are not too proud to accept the help. Not everyone goes to college—for which we should all be thankful.
Another occupational hazard of the amateur student is to look upon the one material proof of his academic achievements, the degree, as some sort of magic wand that only needs waving around to get results. People who fall victim to this occupational hazard could learn something from a man named Ted Williams, one of baseball’s greatest hitters.
Williams was fortunate enough to
have exceptionally quick reflexes, strong wrists and sharp eyesight and yet, when asked which of these contributed mosrt to his hitting ability, he said that it waS his willingness to stay on a baseball diamond from early morning till late at night that did niost for his hitting, and not his physical incidentals.
In the same way the “physical incidental” called a degree might help but it still takes a willingness to make a few sacrifices and, more important, a lot of work to get where you want to go.
This does not imply that a degree means nothing. Actually it means quitdj a lot. More than anything- else I think it means an individual possesses a certain amount of perseverance. It means he can put up with a lot of things over a period of time and not lose sight of just where he is and where he is going.
A degree means an individual has a certain amount of optimism. It means that he is willing to expose himself to a good many disappointments in the course of going through four years of term papers, exams, quizzes, projects and still not become disgusted enough with Iris own efforts to quit.
It means a person has had an experience of discipline, both of mind and of self. It means he has done and is capable of doing a good many things he would rather not do. It means he can concentrate both his intellectual powers and his physical energies. To immerse himself in a job until it’s completed.
A college degree is a better guide to personality than it is to intelligence-To forget this seems to be a growing! occupational hazard of everyone today, not just of students.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
4
11
!!
The new Arrow FREE-WAY puts "action" in a shirt
Here’s a knitted shirt just made for active sports (and lounging around, as well). The feather-light fabric is bias-cut for perfect freedom in any position. The back, cut longer than the front, lets the collar fit your neck just right. In 20 colors. Wear it correctly—with the Arrow Bermuda shorts (6 different colors)—and you’ve made the perfect choice for summer FREEWAY, $3.95. Shorts, $3.95 up.
—first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • SLACKS
Il
The new Arrow FREE-WAY is here!
There’s not a man on campus who can’t use one of these new action-back shirts. For tennis, golf or most any sport, the unique cut of the Arrow FREE-WAY prevents binding or straining — ever. (There’s plenty of style in these shirts, too.) In 20 smart colors—and we have most of them for your selection. Arrow FREE-WAY, $3.95.
GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)

to DM
1. SUPERIOR TASTE. L&M is good to your taste — its superior tobaccos, rich yet light and mild, are especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.
2. SUPERIOR FILTER. The flavor comes clean! Only L&M has the Miracle Tip—pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. L&M is quick on the draw, actually improves your enjoyment.
EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
KIN G SIZE ❖
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO



America's Best Filter Cigarette
© Liggett & Myexs Tobacco Co.

