The Notre Dame Scholastic
E Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing'"] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918. J
Volume LXVIII
October 12, 1934
No. 4
CELEBRITIES NUMEROUS AT FOOTBALL OPENER
FOUNDER’S DAY TO BE CELEBRATED BY UNIVERSITY TOMORROW, OCT. 13TH
The inauguration of Notre Danie’s football season for 1934 marked a general reunion for loyal followers of the Blue and Gold. Celebrities, alumni, and guests filled the boxes and reserved seat sections with an expectant, cheering assemblage, possessing all the before hand excitement associated with a football opener.
In the president’s box, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., had with him the Most Rev. B. J. Sheil, auxiliary bishop of Chicago, and his party. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Michael Dunn of Holy Cross parish, Chicago, also attended the game. From Chicago also came Mayor James Kelly and former Senator George Maypole. President D. B. Waldo of Western State Teachers College, made the trip from Kalamazoo to witness the game.
For the alumni it offered a happy opportunity to renew old friendships. William Cronin, ’28, secretary to the Hon. Frank C. Walker, Timothy Galvin, ’16, president of the Alumni Association, Francis Wallace, ’23, nationally known writer and novelist, Bernard Livergood, ’25, understudy to Coach Layden in the era of the Foui* Horsemen, Arch Ward, ’21, prominent sportswriter, John Doarn, ’29, football monogram winner, Paul Host, ’33, captain of football that year; James S. Kearns, ’34, of the Chicago Daily News and editor of last year’s Scholastic, and Frank LaBorne, ’34 monogram winner now coach of football at St. Phillip’s High school in Chicago, were among the many who returned.
Norman Ross, well known aquatic star of recent years, reviewed the game for the National BroadcastingSystem and Barney Ross, pugilist of repute, suspended activities to see the encounter.
Color for the game was supplie'd by the many guests from South Bend and vicinity. Mrs. Knute K. Rockne shared her box with friends from Chicago. Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Studebaker, Jr., were accompanied by their family. The boxes of Miles O’Brien, Frank Hering, Ralph Sollitt, and Thomas Hickey were filled with guests who lost no opportunity to applaud the contest.
Bucci Promoted to Chief Associate Editorship of Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
During the past week five men have been appointed to editorial positions on The Scholastic by Editor
John J. Moran He succeeds Bucci.
John D. Carbine with the approval of the Faculty Board of Publications.
Joseph A. Bucci of Amsterdam, New York, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was named to suc-from news editor to chief associate editor.
John J. Moran of New York City, New York, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters was named to succeed Bucci as news editor. Moran has been an active member of the news staff for two years. Clifford F. Brown, Norwalk, Ohio, and Andrew Hufnagle, Ridgewood, New York, were made assistant news editors. Both Hufnagel and Brown are juniors in the College of Arts and Letters.
Appointed associate editors were Roy 0. Sholz, Cleveland, Ohio, a senior in the College of Science; Robei"t Ervin of Jackson, Ohio, a junior in the College of Science, and Louis H. Hruby of Cleveland, Ohio, a senior in the College of Commerce.
Cyril F. Stroker of Waterbury, Connecticut, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, was appointed assistant sports editor.
Six new men were added to The (Continued on Page 7)	•
NOTRE DAME’S 92ND YEAR
By Clifford F. Brown
Founder’s Day at Notre Dame, celebrated every year on Oct. 13, in honor of the University’s founder, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., will be observed this Saturday. The anniversary is commemorated on this day because it is the feast day of his patron saint.
This year the student body will commemorate the ocasion by attending the anniversary Mass in Sacred Heart Church at seven o’clock. Breakfast has been scheduled for 8 o’clock. There will be no classes Saturday, in keeping with the traditional observance of the day.
51st. Anniversary of Statue -
Not only do we commemorate this anniversary, but Saturday, the day of the week dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, we celebrate the occasion of the 51st anniversary of the erection of the golden statue of Our Lady that graces the top of the Golden Dome on the Administration building. Father Sorin was ill during its erection, but there still remains a letter he wrote at that time in gratitude:
“How shall I express to you my grateful acknowledgement for such manifestations of filial love and devotedness as I have seen and read four or five days here at St. Mary’s? More than ever I am at a loss how to reveal the feelings of my heart. But in my inability to return you proper and adequate thanks, in words or in writing, I find quite a relief in looking through the window from the chair to which I am bound yet for a week or ten days—to the only object I can see when I raise my eyes up to the blue sky—the image of the Blessed Virgin, recently elevated two hundred feet from the ground, and enthroned, as we had so long wished to behold her, in all the splendor of a most glorious queen, taking possession of her precious domain.”
Not only did the erection of the
(Continued on Page 23)
October 12, 1934
One
Presidents Seek Elimination of Politics by Grab Bag Election
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TO BANQUET FR. O’HARA
GRAVEL LEADS MOVEMENT
By Paul Foley
A New Deal in campus politics, with no aces up the sleeves, is the goal of a proposal to be put before the President’s Council at their elec-
Philip Purcell Out of a hat?
tion meeting to be held Sunday morning in the Library.
In an effort to eradicate politics from the balloting a motion will be put on the floor which will provide for nominations by lot, each members name being put in a hat from which three will be drawn and votes cast for one of the three to head the Council.
The arrangement, undoubtedly the most novel innovation into campus politics since the Senior Class Mystery Man in 1932, will have the support of a group headed by Camille Gravel who successfully championed the cause of President Tom Proctor in last Spring’s heated Senioi' class campaign.
Sunday’s election will. be the culmination of much bickering and many sessions between the President’s Council and the S. A. C.
Difficulties arose when Tom La-Londe, Chairman of the S. A. C., appointed Phil Purcell as chairman of the President’s Council. When the Council objected to having its leader appointed by the S. A. C., a committee of two composed of Art Korzeneski and Emilio Gervasio was chosen to present a petition to the S. A. C. asking permission for the Council to elect its own President.
Korzeneski, who is president of the Wranglers, and Gervasio, head of the New Jersey Club, presented their case at a stormy session of the S. A. G., held last week.
After much argument, and hints (Continued on Page 5)
New Notre Dame Postoffice To Be Completed About October 15, Says Hickey
The new Notre Dame Post Office being erected south of Walsh Hall by Thomas L. Hickey, contractor, will be completed by October 26.
The project is ahead of schedule, despite delay during the laying of the foundations and a mistake in the tile shipment which halted the tile work for ten days. The building was to open on the first of November.
It is planned to officially open the gothic structure with appropriate ceremonies.
Metro, Conn, and N.J. Clubs Attend Communion Breakfast
Last Sunday morning, after at-teiiding the 8:00 o’clock Mass for theii parents, in a body, the Metropolitan, Connecticut, and New Jersey Clubs attended a Communion Breakfast in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall. The Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. spoke at some length on the significance of the Communion Breakfast at Notre Dame. He set forth the idea of family life as a main characteristic of the Holy Cross order, and pointed out how this trait can be shown at the University through Communion Breakfasts and similar activities of campus clubs, as members of the family of the Notre Dame student body. Father O’Hara also ‘said that such activities spread the true Notre Dame spirit. He illustrated this point by relating experiences winch he had, during his travels, with Notre Dame alumni. This year is to mark the beginning of a movement for the interassociation of campus clubs. Andrew Maffei, George O’Brien, and Emilio Gervasio, the presidents of the three clubs respectively also addressed those present. Photographs were taken of the group by the Dome photographer, Vittorio Ar cadi.
The Metropolitan Club is sponsoring a handball tournament, which is to begin in the gymnasium on Tuesday evening, October 16. This is for the purpose of instituting another movement for the purposeof starting athletic activities within the Club itself. President Maffei hopes that other campus clubs will follow this example and possibly start inter-club . athletics as well as religious interclub activities. The main purpose of the two movements mentioned is to have campus clubs foster other activities besides merely social ones.
South Bend’s Chamber of Commerce is going forth with its preparations for the testimonial banquet at the Oliver hotel on Monday night, Oct. 15, in honor of the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. The testimonial is in accordance with. the new policy adopted by the Chamber of Commerce.
Under its new program the Chamber of Commerce will honor every new Notre Dame administration by a testimonial dinner banquet. Such are the plans as disclosed by Mr. George Firmin, secretary of the Chamber. These occasions, therefore, will occur every three or six years, as the administrations change at these intervals.
Guest Speaker
At the banquet Monday night Mr. Meri Thorp, editor of Nation’s Business, a nationally known financial periodical published in the Capital, will be guest speaker. The Chamber’s president, Mr. Herbert Sharlock, will act as toastmaster. The list of honored guests will find Governor Paul V. McNutt of Indiana among its number. Leading industrialists of South Bend, and the presidents of all colleges in Indiana will make up the greater part of the notables that have received invitations.
The dinner, scheduled for 6:30 p.m., will be open to the general public. The price is §2.50 per plate.
St. Vincent De Paul Society Holds First Meeting of Year
The St. Vincent de Paul Society held their first meeting of the year in the basement of Walsh Hall Tuesday evening.
Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C., opened the meeting with a spiritual reading. In his address he welcomed the new members with a few words of explanation as to the aims and methods of the society. An invitation to join the society was extended to those majoring in sociology. Valuable experience may be gained by the individual social case work.
Father Kelley told of the distribution in June of some 300 pieces of old clothes discarded by the students and 60 repaired shoes. Many interesting stories were enumerated about the charity work carried on during the summer.
At the next meeting, which will be held Tuesday evening, at 6:40 at the same place, committees will be appointed to make collections of magazines and old clothes in the various halls on the campus.
The Scholastic
Two
' MAMMOTH PURDUE PEP MEET PLANNED TONIGHT
Sophomores to Hold Cotillion On Oct. 26; Mark Fisher to Play
The stage is set! After nearly a week of feverish activity, the Blue Circle is preparing this evening to handle the biggest pep rally in years. Late this afternoon a committee from
John Neeson He has the matches.
the Blue Circle visited the various halls to judge the wood piles collected , by each. This, in addition to the re-* suits of the hall decorations competition this evening, will determine which hall shall gain possession of the cup offered by the Blue Circle.
During the week a committee was selected in each hall to take charge of decorations, stunts, displays, etc. The rivalry between the different halls will come to a head this evening when the band, starting at 6:30, will lead the march from hall to hall as the decorations are judged. The residents of each hall will fall in line as the parade moves on and when all the displays have been visited the band will head for the monster bonfire to be held in front of the stadaium.
While the fire blazes brightly with the promise of an Irish victory over S’ Purdue on the morrow, a distinguished array of speakers will address the huge gathering from the platform erected on the east of the tennis courts. An amplifying system will carry the voices of Elmer Layden, director of athletics, Timothy P. Galvin, ’16, of Hammond, Ind., president of the Notre Dame Alumni association, and other well known persons to the large pre-game crowd which assembles annually to watch the rally.
The entire program for the rally was supervised by the Blue Circle under the guidance of Chairman Bill Miller. John Neeson was in charge of arranging for the speakers of the evening.
Linguistic Progress
African languages have been added to the curriculum of the Leningrad Institute of History, Philosophy and Linguistics. Some of the primitive tongues now offered to students hitherto have had no grammars or dictionaries.
Jerry Foley Chosen Head Cheerleader After Three
• Weeks of Difficult Trials
The makeup of the cheerleading squad for the ensuing school year has been announced as follows:
Thomas Jefferson Foley of Nash-ville, Tenn., a senior in the College
Jerry Foley
He cheered without eating.
of Commerce, will serve as head cheerleader, with Howard Barnett as his assistant. The remainder of the squad is made up of Andrew Hufna-gel, Robert Seigfried, Thomas McAlpine and James Bozza.
This selection of cheer leaders is permanent. Foley and his staff will lead the cheering at all the remaining home football games and at the various athletic events throughout the year.
The final choices were made after a series of trials which lasted three weeks and which included appearances before the Frosh convocations and at the Texas game last Saturday.
Knights of Columbus Move Offices to Walsh Basement
The Knights of Columbus recently moved their offices from the Main building to the basement of Walsh Hall. In conjunction with the new office will be a recreation room. Plans have been made to furnish the room with several lounges, a ping-pong table, and several card tables. All council members will have constant access to the recreation room, and officers have hope that the project will be a source of great pleasure to all members.
An important meeting will be held in the Council chambers Monday, Oct. 15, at 7:45 p.m. During the Lecturer’s hour, an athletic talk will be given by each of several members of the coaching staff and by Jack Led-den of the South Bend Tribune.
A large attendance is anticipated at this meeting because of the fine entertainment which is offered coupled with the fact that much necessary business will be completed.
TICKETS THREE DOLLARS
By Philip Welsh
Mark Fisher and his Edgewater Beach Hotel orchestra at the Palais Royale, the night of Oct 26, is the schedule for this year’s Sophomore Cotillion, it was learned early this week from Cotillion Chairman Leo Cormier. Fisher’s orchestra played for an entire year at the exclusive Edgewater Beach in Chicago, and is just now concluding a most successful engagement at Muehlbach Grille in Kansas City, where it attained great popularity. Reputed to have one of the most versatile musical organizations in. the country, Fisher was secured by Sophomore officials only after long negotiations.
The Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, and Mr. Paul Fenlon, chairman of the Faculty Dance Committee, have given official sanction to Oct. 26, the night before the Wisconsin game, as the date for the affair. Dancing will be from 9 to 1, 2 o’clock permissions being granted to students who attend. The Cotillion is open to Sophomore and upperclassmen only.
Wisconsin Game Tickets
Ticket price will be §3 per couple, tickets to be sold Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday the week of the dance. One day will be reserved for sale of tickets to upperclassmen, the other two for Sophomores.
The Notre Dame-Wisconsin football game the Saturday afternoon follow*-ing the dance will be one of the outstanding features of the week-end. For this event a special section will be reserved in the stadium for Cotillion-goers and guests; seats in this section may be procured by presenting Cotillion ticket and A.A. book, along with S3.30 for the guest’s ticket at the A.A. ticket office in the Main building.
Dome Pictures
Next week will be the final week for the juniors to have their pictures taken for the 1935 Dome. Pictures will be taken on Tuesday} Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday afternoons from 1:30 to 5:00 in the Dome Studios in Walsh Hall Basement. There is a fifty cent fee charged by the photographer.
October 12, 1934
Three
WALSH HALL TO NARK 2STH ANNIVERSARY
FRANCIS E, SCHLEUTER IS PRESIDENT OF SCIENCE ACADEMY
JACQUES MARITAIN TO LECTURE THIS MONTH
By Lindsay Phoebus
Twenty-five years ago, at the start of the first semester of 1909, Walsh Hall opened its doors to Notre Dame men. The corner stone of the building had been laid in May of the same year.
It was on May 11, 1909 that the building was dedicated to the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., who for twelve years successfully guided the destinies of the University, and of whom Bishop Spalding said, “It is worth coming three hundred miles to see Father Walsh smile.” In the corner stone, laid after the dedication of the hall, was placed a box containing medals, minor relics of the Saints, a list of the members of the Holy Cross congregation and of all the students then at Notre Dame, copies of the current issues of the Ave Maria and The Scholastic, and a parchment with the dedication inscribed thereon.
Father Walsh was the greatest builder and organizer the University has ever known. When first constructed, Walsh Hall was significantly unique in architecture and style, and was also higher than any other hall on the campus. The floors of the corridors and of the assembly room were made of mosaic tiling. Although the rear rooms were single, those in the front of the building were arranged in suites consisting of two bedrooms, one.off to each side of a study. There were also private baths.
Since the hall was opened to students, the following members of the Congregation of Holy Cross served as rectors:
1909-1914 Father Michael A. Quinlan, C.S.C.
1914-1915 Father George McNamara, C.S.C.
1915-1921 Father John Farley, C.S.C.
1921-1923 Father John Devers, C.S.C.
1923-1927 Father Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C.
1927-1930 Father James Stack, . C.S.C.	.
1930-1933 Father James Ryan, C.S.C.
1933-1934 Father William Moloney, C.S.C.
1934 Father Leo Heiser, C.S.C.
Father Walsh’s greatest work was the extension of the University courses to a wider scope of influence than had previously existed. In a recent interview, the Rev; John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. for fifteen years president of the University, said of Father Walsh: “He was one of the great builders of the University.
(Continued on Page 17)
Francis E. Schleuter of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a senior in the Pre-Medical Department of the College of Science, was elected president of the
Francis E. Schleuter A popular proxy.
Academy of Science at its initial meeting of the year last Friday night. Schleuter has been a member of the Academy every semester since his Freshman year, and achieved this high office of president by a plurality of votes over three other nominees. Other officers elected at this meeting were, Roy Scholz, Vice - President and Francis Dinnen, Secretary. Both of these men are seniors in the Science School. Members of the Executive Committee chosen by the Academy were, Fred Cox, James Coll, and James Pick. Vice-President - Shultz will serve as chairman of the committee.
Hold 108th Meeting
The Academy of Science has been in existence eight years, and the session Friday was the 108th consecutive meeting. This organization is one of the oldest on the campus and the only one of its kind. To be eligible for membership in the Academy, the student in Science must be at least a sophomore, and have had an 85 average or better the proceeding semester. In his address at the meeting, Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C. S. C., Dean of the College of Science and Moderator of the Academy, outlined the work for the year and urged all members to take advantage of the many opportunities offered them by the society.
At another meeting of the Academy held Monday night, Shultz reported the plans for the year as decided upon by the Executive Committee which met Sunday. The papers to be presented this year are to be such as to invite open discussion by the Academy. They must not take over twenty minutes to read. It has also been decided that each paper will be criticized by some designated sophomore. Robert Erwin, a member of The Scholastic staff and of the Academy, was appointed to report the activities of the Academy to The Scholastic.
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., announced this week that two distinguished lecturers have been scheduled to speak in Washington hall during the month of October. The first of these addresses will be given by Mr. H. T. Strong, outstanding physicist, who will speak on the topic “Polarized Light.” In this lecture, to be delivered, Oct. 22, Mr. Strong will demonstrate the effect of polarized light on the appearance of minerals by using “black light” apparatus.
Jacques Maritain, famous French Catholic philosopher, whom some consider the most important thinker in Europe today, will deliver the second of these lectures toward the close of the month. Before his conversion in 1905, Maritain was a brilliant disciple of Bergson. For several years he has taught Scholastic philosophy in the Institut Catholique at Paris. He is the author of several works which have gained for him international renown. Among these are The Angelic Doctor, Art et Scolastique, An Introduction to Philosophy, The Things That Are Not Caesar’s, and many others.
Interested in Catholic Thought
M. Maritain is the center of a group of young French philosophers, writers and artists who are intensely interested in Catholic thought and culture. These men are seeking to give expression to Catholic principles not only in philosophy but also in literature, painting, sculpture, and in the fields of political and economic sciences. M. Maritain’s home near Paris is the gathering place each week for this group of young savants who are effecting a true Catholic Renaissance in France.
In addition to his work in Europe, Maritain has of late become much interested in the progress of Catholic culture in the United States and Canada. Last year he was invited to speak at the University of Chicago and his lecture was so well received that he has been asked to return to Chicago again this year. Michigan University has also invited him to • address the student body.
This is M. Maritain’s first visit to Notre Dame. The subject of his talk has not yet been definitely decided upon, but most probably he wall speak on “The Historical Ideal of. a Renewed Christianity.”
Another noted lecturer, Mr. Francis J. Sheed, noted Catholic author and publisher, will also speak at Notre Dame on Sunday, October 14.
Four
The Scholastic
FR. STEINER, G. BLAIR ADDRESS ENGINEERS
ROY SCHOLZ ELECTED TO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA PRESIDENCY
WILUAN L. NEWBERRY EXHIBITS WATER COLORS
On Wednesday evening, October 3, the Engineers’ Club held its first meeting under the guidance of President Jerome Cushing. Following the introduction of the editor of the “Mecca” and of the officers of the current year, Rev. T. Steiner, C.S.C, the Dean of Engineering, spoke on ~ the value of the cultural courses “ taken by engineers. He stated the importance of adaptability, versatility, and a rounded personality which are derived from a liberal college education. Because an engineering education teaches one to “think through” a' problem, many engineering graduates frequently succeed when working in a non-engineering capacity.
He was followed by Mr. G. W. Blair, vice-president of the Mishawaka Rubber and Wollen Goods Co., who discoursed on the variety of rubber products. Of particular' interest was the display of ‘‘Chic” ।	women’s rubbers and the ease by
!	which they were designed. Various
i samples were passed around, inspect-i ed, and subjected to amateur tensite • tests by those who wished to retain ' the samples as souvenirs.
Roy Scholz, a senior in the College of Science, was elected president of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra last Tuesday evening at a regular
Roy O. Scholz
PRESIDENT’S COUNCIL
(Continued from Page 2)
at “Dictatorship,” the matter was referred to a committee who were asked to draw up a policy for the S. A. C.
The fight against the proposal was led by Senior Class President Tom Proctor, in spite of the fact that Korzeneski was one of - his chief supporters in last spring’s contest.
With a very evident desire to salve over the belligerent Presidents in order to gain further co-operation, the S. A. C. committee decided that the Council should be granted the right to elect its own president, but they reserved to themselves the duty of passing on the capabilities of the man chosen and reject him if they saw fit.
Regardless of the fate of the “grab-bag election” proposal the S. A. C. is determined to avoid any taint of politics in the President’s Council, according to Chairman Tom LaLonde.
“The Council,” he pointed out in last week’s meeting, “was formed as a supplement to the S. A. C. and has always functioned as a subsidiary of that organization. We are perfectly willing, however, to allow the Council to choose its own president providing, politics is not allowed to creep in and “ split the organization.”
Trumpeter and prexy.
meeting of that group in Music Hall. Scholz, who is a native of Cleveland, Ohio, has played first trumpet in the Symphony for the past three years.
Joseph Bucci, Arts and Letters senior, was elected to the vice-presidency of the group and will also perform in the capacity of Concertmaster of the orchestra, succeeding Joseph Petritz. The post of secretary is filled by Martin Hendele while J. Ben Beyrer succeeds Miguel Yriberry as business manager. John McNeil will assist Beyrer in his managerial work . Donald Draper and Robert Klaiber will have charge of the orchestra’s library.
According to an announcement made by Professor Richard E. Seidel, leader of the Symphony orchestra, the first concert of the year is to be presented in Washington Hall during the latter part of November. Students interested in symphony work may participate in the concert by reporting to Professor Seidel at the regular rehearsals of the group held on Tuesday and Friday evenings of each week at 6:30 p. m.
Several new numbers have been added to the Symphony repertoire including those which are to be selected for the November concert. Among them are: J. Hadyn’s “B Flat Symphony No. 12,” “Overture Stradella,” by F. V. Flotow, March from “Carmen” by G. Bizet; Tschaikowsky’s “Overture Minature,” and “From Foreign Lands ” by M. Morkowski.
Following is the present personnel for the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra of 1934:
A seven weeks tour of colorful Mexico during the past summer provided William L. Newberry, prize architecture student of the class of ’34, and now a graduate assistant in the Department of Architecture, with material for the interesting exhibition of water colors and pencil sketches now hanging in the Architecture Building.
Mr. Newberry’s 19 water colors of Mexican scenes give ample evidence of his development in water color technique. The promise of last year’s efforts has been realized with this summer’s work. He has painted Mexican landscapes, churches, buildings, and life in a bold manner and with a warmth of style. His color is full of life and spirit.
Perhaps the most characteristic of Mr. Newberry’s water colors is one of a Mexican market, hanging on the west wall. The point of view is unusual and modern; and the sketch is full of sunlight. Of the pictures of buildings, those of a pink church and an old Spanish mine, which hangs on the east wall side by side, are the finest.
The pencil sketches are of interest to the lay observer, and are characterized by a wealth of detail and intricate drawing.
In Mexico, Mr. Newberry was a member of a travelling party which included Harlan Thomas, head of the Department of Architecture, and Lionel Pries, professor of design, both of the University of Washington at Seattle; T. Bowyer Campbell, of the Department of History and John E. Miller of the Depai-tment of Architecture, both of Notre Dame. Extensive stays were made in Mexico City, Pueblo, Cholula and Guana-huato.
First Violins:	F. Schaeffer
R. Klaiber	L. Donnelly
G. Barber	Tympani:
Brother Linus	L. Bpyle
J. Bucci	Piano:
D. Draper	J. Kaufman
J. Desmond	R. Mullen
J. McNeill	Viola :
Second Violins:	J. Ben Beyrer
M. A. Hendele	Bass. Violin:
F. Karl	F. Joyce
F. Barbush	Clarinets:
W. Bernard	R. Trousdale
W. Sixsmith	F. Hurley-
A. Funaro	Flutes:
E. Cranin	Dr. Theodore Just
W. J. Ellis	Fred Schoenfeldt
U. Daly	Trumpets:
Trombones:	R. Scholz
Prof.. Norbert Engels	J. Murphy
Octoberl2,1934
Five
NEWTON D. BAKER IS HONORED AT DINNER
Mr. Newton D. Baker, former Secretary of War under President Woodrow Wilson, and at present one of the country’s outstanding attorneys, was a visitor to the University Wednesday evening.
Mr. Baker was tendered an informal dinner in the Faculty dining hall at 6:00 p.m. Present at the dinner were Frank Hering and Miles O’Brien, Lay Trustees of the University, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president, Paul Byrne, Rev. Gregory Gerrer, C.S.C., and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, vice president.
Through the efforts of Fr. Cavanaugh, Mr. Baker was brought to the University. They are very close friends. Mr. Baker promised the University that he would secure from the; F e d e r a 1 government suitable markers for the graves of the Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross who served as nurses in the Civil War. After the dinner the distinguished guest was escorted through the art galleries and other places of interest on the campus.
Armstrong Represents N. D.
At National Alumni Meet
James E. Armstrong, Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, represented the University at a conference of the executive committee of the American Alumni Council in Washington, D. C. on Sept. 27-28-29. The Committee of the American College Publicity Association, which, originated the movement, expressed interest and probable cooperation in the plans for a definite program to enlist public interest in higher education.
A Committee session decided that , Washington will again be the scene of the next national convention of the council. For three years Mr. Armstrong was national convention director of the council.
Rochester Club
A tthe first meeting of the Rochester Club, last Monday evening, a report of the Summer dance was given. It indicated a profit, which was used for the payment of a former debt. President John Gillooly stressed the idea of more campus activity for the Club. A banquet, planned for October 24 in South. Bend, will be arranged for the members of the Club. The Freshmen present were very cordially welcomed.
Six
“Hey fellas, look!” Here is Gerry Doyle, that Funny Fellow. This joker takes nothing seriously. Though a cartoonist of some note, he has no intention- of making this his life’s
work. If you want to make an impression on Gerry, ask him if he is going to be an artist.
Gerry is from Chicago’s south side and went to Leo High. He regrets, however, that he did not prep at Choate, for he figures such a background necessary to enter .gracefully into the swing of things here at Notre Dame.
Some crude fellows call Gerry a Finchley. He isn’t at all like that. He simply has an aversion for corduroys and is merely trying to influence the freshmen by being an extremist in the other direction. Do you know that he wore a reefer top coat away back in his sophomore year ? He was also the first to appear on campus with slacks that had raised seams.
Beats Purcell at Golf
Gerry is not at all sorry that he lost his job as editor of the Juggler, because now he can devote more time to his other interests. He is satisfied with his golf game—it is good enough to stop Purcell. He plays a fair game of touch football. Gerry dances like no other human in spite of the advice of his friends. He studies too— a magna . cum laude awaits him in June.
His trip to the Army game last year is considered, by Gerry, as one of his most interesting experiences. He was as impressed by the Jersey meadows as he was by New York. He says that he will never forget the Passaic. He has traveled westward also. Gerry spent last summer working in Yellowstone National Park.
ARCH WARD SPEAKS TO JOURNALISM MAJORS
“Newspaper work is a lot of fun and ever since I was a little kid I’ve wanted to do nothing else.”
Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, summarized his reactions to the journalism profession with this remark last Friday afternoon while speaking before a group of student journalists in the basement of the Notre Dame library.
Ward, a special student at Notre Dame from 1919 to 1921, was asked to speak before the news class by Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Journalism department, when he arrived on the campus ‘ Friday to cover the Notre Dame-Texas football game for his paper.
•A Sport Editor’s Day
In discussing the value of a college newspaper training, Ward said: “Everything you men learn here at Notre Dame is going to be worth while. . . At present you-may not appreciate the privilege of taking a journalism course, but as a supplement to a general academic education, you’ll find the training to be of real value later.”
To. clarify the real character of a newspaper’s organization, Ward gave a description of the Chicago Tribune editorial setup. . . then added an interesting summarization of a 24 hour day in the sports department, explaining in detail the many difficulties and complexities connected with the make-up process of a large newspaper’s sport page.
In concluding, Ward advised his listeners not to be satisfied with a job on a small newspaper, though he admitted, “trying to get a job on a big newspaper now is a very tough assignment, because of journalism’s financial retrenchments during the depression. . . and because of the fact that a reporter today usually stays on a big-time job all his life, once he gets it.”
Gerry has lived in Dillon, Morrissey, Alumni and now, Sorin. His present room, he insists, is the largest (from top to bottom) on campus. He is thinking of building a second .floor and taking in boarders. Gerry wouldn’t hesitate, only he is afraid of Father: Farley.
You know there is just a bit of friction between Gerry and the Sorin mailman. This strained relationship is noticeable to but a few. It’s your own fault, Gerry Doyle, you are not supposed, to be serious about anything.
The Scholastic
4

■» PATRICIANS COMMENCE
SEASON OF ACTIVITY
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
FATHER O’HARA GUEST
AT FACULTY BANQUET
The third weekly meeting of the Pati-icians, held in the Law Building at 6:30 last Wednesday night saw the inauguration of the society’s newly revised program arrangement. Dis-
Franklyn Hochreiter They call him “Toots.”
cussion of the paper “The Classics— Worthwhile?’ was vigorous both pro and con. Reports were made by the committees on membership and program for the year.
The period for reception of applications from students desiring membership in the Patricians was chosen last Wednesday, Oct. 10. It was announced by Franklyn C. Hochreiter, chairman of the membership committee, that all applicants would be notified concerning the time for their interview by the committee. Besides Hochreiter, the other committeemen are: Richard J. Ballman, John Gainer and Louis Grosso.
The program of meetings was then outlined by Clifford F. Brown, chairman of that committee. His aides are: John Gainer, John Clark and James Bookwaiter. Papers are to be . limited to twenty minutes in duration and will be followed by short written criticisms from various members, for the purpose of stimulating discussion. Every sixth meeting will be addressed by some member of the faculty or some non-student.
STAFF APPOINTMENTS
(Continued from Page 1)
Scholastic news staff. They are Paul Foley, Detroit, Michigan, a sophomore in Arts and Letters; Paul Biagoni, Chicago, Illinois, sophomore in Arts and Letters; Joseph Ratigan, Bordentown, New Jersey, a junior in Arts and Letters; Linsey B. Phoebus, Cumberland, Maryland, junior in Arts and Letters; and Frederick J. Shanley, South Bend, a senior in_ Arts and Letters; John S. Flannigan, Grand Rapids, Michigan, a senior in Arts and Letters was appointed to the sports staff.
October 1 2, 193 4
“Two successive shocks this week to the secret society system at Yale have raised serious doubts as to the suiwival of the junior fraternities, all of which are branches of national bodies which in most American colleges are represented by four-year chapters.”—The New York Times.
Also from the New York Times comes this:
“The five national fraternities on the Swarthmore campus are facing a severe test, inasmuch as only 27 freshmen out of a class of 87 joined the organizations in pledging yesterday. This is less than half of the number which the fraternities pledged last year, when 64 freshmen out of a class of 110 joined.”
“Rev. Coleman Nevils, S.J., president of Georgetown University, arrived in the city yesterday enroute to Tokyo, Japan, where he is to be the representative of President Roosevelt at the International Red Cross convention to be held next month.”
—Loyolan (Los Angeles)
“According to Earl Gordon, University employment secretary, the national government has increased its University of Missouri apportionment of FERA positions by 20 per cent. 352 students are being given relief work this year as compared to the 273 who were assisted in 1933-34.”
—The Missouri Student
“Approximately 52 per cent of the 1934 graduating class had secured jobs or were scheduled to attend graduate schools as early as last June 8, it was indicated by the director of placement. The 52 per cent represents 139 of the 269 men in the graduating class. Of the 139 men 101 had been placed on June 8 and 38 were planning to attend graduate schools.”
—Lehigh Brown and White.
“School authorities are still trying to solve the problems of the seating of students in the Auditorium at convocations and at chapel. At the beginning of each year the sophomores make the rule that the freshmen are required to take the front seats, or ‘take the consequences.’ The frosh take the seats furthest to the front. The rest of the student body sit in the rear. The result is that a gap remains in the center seats. As the school year passes on the frosh learn-to grab the back seats. . Then both front and center seats are vacant.”
—The Torch (Valparaiso)
The Faculty club tendered a dinner to the new administration of the University last night in the faculty dining hall. Professor Pedro de Landero, president of the club, welcomed the
Prof. Pedro de Landero He welcomed administration.
new officers on behalf of the faculty club. His remarks were answered by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University.
The diners were entertained during the meal by a group of string musicians. Following the dinner, Professor Richard Seidel and Professor Willard Groom rendered violin and piano numbers, Professor Seidel playing the violin with Professor Groom accompanying him. John Ryan, soloist in the glee club, rendered a few numbers for the gathering. -
Other officers honored by the club last night were the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president, the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, and the college deans, the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C.
These new faculty members: Mr. Flynn, Mr. Wilkins, Mr. Chapman, and Mr. Barry were also welcomed at the dinner.
Indianapolis Club
The Indianapolis Club of Notre Dame held its first meeting of the year last Tuesday evening with Patrick J. Fisher, president, presiding. Richard Delaney was elected secretary and John O’Connor was elected to the honorary freshman vice-presidency.
Seven
FR. O’BARA, WARD, HOST AT TEXAS PEP SESSION
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
HALL DEBATE COACHES NAMED BY WRANGLERS
To the snappy rythm of Professor “Joe” Casasanta’s music, the red torches of the Blue Circle, and the sweeping enthusiasm of the student
Walter O’Brien
He gave out torches.
body, the initial pep meeting of the year moved swiftly to a successful climax last Friday evening.
Supper was at 5:30, a half hour earlier than usual, so that the pep session would end relatively early in the evening. At 6 o’clock the band, in marching formation, met the student body outside the Dining Hall and led the parade across the campus to the Gym. There, after 2700 lusty voices had cheered them to an echo, the 1934 edition of the “Fighting Irish” listened while Tom LaLonde, S.A.C. president, introduced Elmer Layden. Athletic director Layden, exercised a coach’s prerogative and predicted defeat by Texas, with a brighter outlook for later in the season.
More cheers, more songs and then Paul Host, captain of the 1934 team, Dom Vairo, present captain, and Arch Ward, Notre Dame alumnus and well known sports editor, arose to address the cheering throng. They were followed in turn by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, who concluded the speeches for the evening. The band struck up the “Victory March” and the rally wound up with a great ovation for the members of the team as they left the balcony.
Cercle Francais Meets
Last Wednesday night at a meeting of the Cercle Francais of the University of Notre Dame, Cliff Welsh was appointed vice-president of the Cercle, to fill in the unexpired term of Harold May who did not return to the University this year. Plans for the coming year were discussed.
James A. Kauffman, a Senior, played two classical selections on the piano for the entertainment of those present. He also accompanied the members of the Cercle while they sang “The Marseillaise.” The Cercle intends to have a smoker within the next two weeks.
Eight
Fight, Tiger, Fight!
Led by a playboy, cheered by a couple of editors, blessed by Fathei' Farley and heaving chests heaving ’neath scarlet and bloody jerseys the Sorin tigers pranced down the porch steps last Sunday to battle with Lyons in a friendly scrimmage.
But wait! I’m afraid friendly is a misnomer. B r e en and “Roomy” Burns, ( a watch charm guard), grunted their ways through a stubborn sophomore line in a manner that belied only animosity. Butch Carey hit that line like one of Lawton’s pile drivers. It was truly sanguine.
The long slumbering tiger has at last awakened.
Who can hold Sorin?
Steak Fry—
Last week the engineers held their steak fry in the rear of the Law building. We just can’t wait for the English majors to serve tea and pass little cakes in front of the Main Building.
Concerning Table—
Names never phase us, but we have reasons for leaving this hero annony-mous. ... It seems that he and one of the shots of the senior class were moving from their garret in Howard to more spacious quarters in Walsh. A highly utilitarian bridge table was freighted across Badin prairie to the new atelier. It looked great.
Passed a few hours and their late rector paid them a visit. “That table,” he began, and pointed towards Howard.
“But Father,” pleaded our hero.
“On your back with it,” ordered the cleric.
“Aw, Father,” continued the student.
“No prayers,” commanded the rector, pointing west again, “Immediately!”
And thus began the curious procession of the likeable rector, followed by the small boy with the big table on his back, toiling from Walsh back to Howard.
Thoughts While Cutting—
Alumni lawn has been opened for the nth time. One word description of Mr. Brennan: sartorial. “Toots” Hochreiter’s late afternoon promenades with his feminine companions from the library. Professor Fenion’s ties. Football week-ends. Congratulations to Mike Santulli on his engagement. Elmo Lawton’s posted bonds. A slow ball pitcher’s explanations. “Sorry Boy!”
The Wranglers met in their regular session on Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the Law Building, President Arthur Korzeneski presiding.
The chief business of the meeting was the naming of the hall coaches by the chairman of Interhall debate, Robert Schmelzle. The coaches are as follows: Sorin, John Logan; Walsh, Richard’ Ballman; Corby, Arthur Sandusky; Alumni, Edwin Holman; Howard, Thomas Proctor; Badin, James Boyle; Morrissey, Franklyn Hochreiter; Lyons, Louis Hruby; St. Edward’s, John Locher; Dillon, John Heywood; Freshman, John Clark; Brownson, John Cavanaugh, and Carroll, Eugene Malloy.
Notices will be posted in the respective halls by the coaches as soon as the Varsity debate question, which will be used by the Interhall teams, has been decided upon definitely.
The speech of the evening was presented by Schmelzle on the “Need for a Brain Trust.” In the talk the speaker stressed the aid that such a body gives the chief executive, in-as-much as he is isolated from the people and finds it necessary to use such an instrument to contact public relations.
Schmelzle traced the advisory bodies comparable to the “brain trust” that have been used since Jackson and his “kitchen cabinet” in the early days of the last century.
The speaker for next week will be Richard Ballman.
October Devotions Begin
The October Adorations, the first in Notre Dame history are now in progress under the able direction of the Rev. Thos. Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the Engineering college. Father Steiner, a familiar figure at Sunday evening Benediction, has conducted the Adoration services for many years.
It was decided .to hold Adoration services in October when it was seen , in the Religious Survey that many of the students favored such a move.
The decision was a wise one for these services have been extremely well attended. 1
The Adoration periods of half-hour duration run •consecutively from 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 -p.m. with the exception of Saturdays’when they end at 12:30 because of the football games. There are no Adordtion services on Sunday.
At 5:00 p.mKthe day of adoration is closed with Benediction and the Rosary.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, Oct. 12
October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p.m. Purdue Pep meeting, gym, 6:30 p.m. Scholastic staff meeting, Ave Maria Offices after Pep meeting. Movie “You’re Telling Me” with W. C. Fields.
Saturday, Oct. 13
Founder’s Day, no classes. Football, varsity vs. Purdue,—Stadium, 2:00 p.m. Movie, “Melody in Spring” with Lanny Ross and Ann Southern, 6:45, and 8:15 p.m.
Sunday, Oct. 14
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. Elections, President’s Council, Library basement. S.A.C. meeting Library Basement 10:30 a.m. Interhall football, 2:30 p.m. Sorin vs. St. Ed’s, Morrissey vs. Alumni, Corby vs. Lyons.
Monday, Oct. 15
Distribution of Senior tickets, ticket office Main Building, 2:00 p.m. October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00; Blue Circle meeting Liibrary basement, 6:30 p.m. Chamber of Commerce Testimonial banquet for the Rev. John F. O’Hara, Oliver hotel.
Tuesday, Oct. 16
Distribution of Junior Football tickets, 2:00 p.m. October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p.m. Junior Dome Photographs, Walsh basement, 1:30-5:00; Symphony orchestra 6:30. Wranglers meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
Wednesday, Oct. 17
Distribution of Sophomore Football tickets, 2:00 p.m. October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p.m. Junior Dome Photos, Walsh basement; Patricians’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p.m.
Thursday, Oct. 18
Distribution of Freshman tickets, 2:00 p.m.; October Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00. Junior Dome Photos, Walsh basement.
Radio Announcers
The Notre Dame-Purdue football game will be heard by numerous people throughout the Middle West and as far east as Pittsburgh. Stations planning to broadcast the game are WSBT, South Bend, WKBF, Indianapolis, WBBM, Chicago; WHO-WOC, Des Moines; KBF, St. Louis, and WSW, Pittsburgh.
The game will be presented to the public by Pat Flannagan of WBBM, Len Riley WKBF, and Bob Kennett of WSBT.
October 1 2, 1934
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Fighting Irish
Well, we’ve cleared the first month of the semester and regimentation is taking place, life has settled down to a regulai’ routine, and the course of everyday procedure is once again beginning to run smoothly. That is, for everybody but Alberts.
We’ve been following the saga of Alberts off and on now for two years. Sometimes personally, sometimes by report, but no matter how we came by the news, there always seemed to be something doing with Alberts. He’s the sort of boy you can’t pin down to any set of rules. He’s an individualist, left over from the boom days, and he’s not going to be just another cog in the machine. If he’s going to have to eat cake, he’ll eat it alone, and with an icing of his own choice.
As a sophomore, Alberts kept fish —hundreds of them—darting and nibbling and splashing all over the room. As a junior he got rid of some of the fish and installed a tea service. The report came in that he baked apples in the morning. A lot more reports came in, too, each one surpassing its predecessor.
Now Alberts is a senior. We don’t know what he had done with the fish, the tea cups, or the baked apples. Perhaps they’ve all been thrown out to make room for the fireplace. At any rate, it’s a black one with chrome trimming. Hendele has one, too. Hendele is a disciple of Alberts. This winter they both plan to get in a good bit of curling up after brisk walks around the quadrangle.
•
Rattlesnake
A group of western boys were coming from the dining hall when suddenly one stopped dead in his tracks and held up his hand for quiet. He motioned to a nearby bush and gasped the terrifying words, “A rattler!” Warily his companions approached the bush and listened to a weird clacking, and agreed. A rattler, sure enough.
“Stand back!” he warned. “He might strike!” And the crowd grew bigger. And the uninitiated easterner listened for a second to the peculiar noise of the rattler, and then he calmly walked over to the bushes and spread them-aside. And out hopped a locust or cricket or one of those things that make the horrible noises.
O
And Still Another
We might as well get all of these out of our way at once. A late flash from our Room Investigator informs us of a party in Walsh who has a dog
for a roommate (We mean this literally). We’d tell you his name only it wouldn’t ’be quite fair. To the dog.
We’d give two points of our qualitative average to be around when and if Walsh Hall catches fire. There’s going to be some pretty rare creatures come flying out of that place.
Fifty-yard Line
We received our first call for Army game tickets the other day, and the unusual part of it was that the. people did not want seats on the fifty-yard line. They were very nice about it, writing that they hoped we wouldn’t be put to too much trouble, but would we please try to get the seats behind the goalpost, and oblige.
Why not, we said to ourselves in the way that we have, this should be easy and won’t Art Haley drop dead when he hears someone requesting seats behind the goalpost. It’s a story for the papers. He’ll get his pict’ure in the Tribune again. The newsreels will be around.
Into the ticket office we barged and self consciously told the girl what we wanted.
“You’ll have to take your chances,” she said, in a nice, friendly voice.
“You don’t understand,” we said. “We don’t want them on the fiftyyard line. We want them behind the goalpost. Behind, you know.”
“Yes, I know,” she said, “but we fill the applications as they are received, and if your section is filled up, you’ll have to sit on the side of the stadium.”
“You mean,” we said, “that we might have to sit on the thirty, forty, or even fifty yard line?”
“That’s right,” smiled the girl. “You’ll have to take your chances.”
You can’t win.
•
Duets and Doughnuts
America’s remarkable penchant for declaring every week to be National Something-or-Other Week, has at last struck home. Casasanta’s singing troupe, specializers in “Hole in the Doughnut” ditties, has received a tempting offer from a west coast baker who wants to paste their picture from here to there, as the opening gun in a National Doughnut Week campaign.
It’s a vast project that the baker man has in mind, and in the end will, it is hoped, prove conclusively that all college men are big and husky, all college men sing in the glee club, and all college men eat doughnuts incessantly.
Incidentally, N.D. will be made to stand for National Doughnut, and the world will be a better place to live in.
in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus FOUNDED I860
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John D. Carbine......................Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI---------------------Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN...................... LOUIS	H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY__________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr----------------------College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, II________________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY....................Graduate Assistant
Neius Staff
JOHN J. MORAN.............—.................News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN-------------------Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL------------------Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN...................  JOSEPH	RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER.............—...... .HARRY	A. BALDWIN
LINSEY PHOEBUS.........................FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY..........................IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGOINI.................CHARLES	A. LANDMESSER
PHILIP F. WELSH.--------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
• FREDERICK SHANLEY
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST_____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER...............-Assistant	Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER------------------ROBERT J. DONAHUE
GERARD SCHAEFER----------------'____JAMES McMULLEN
JOHN I. FLANAGAN....................JAMES	A. WALDRON
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY----------------------Graduate Manager
MEMSER
Associated (£oHegiate *$ress 1 ~	■'	A-vusweRs at - - -r
si934	JUMrst 1935^-
HAIXSOH	Wisconsin
October 12, 1934
FOUNDER’S DAY
Tomorrow is the feast day of Saint Edward, patron saint of the. Reverend Edward A. Sorin, C.S.C. Ninety-two years ago next month this young French priest founded a Catholic university in the midst of wild, unsettled Indiana. That small university, called Notre Dame, in honor of Our Lady, has grown until today it ranks as one of America’s greatest centers of knowledge and culture.
Notre Dame, tomorrow, celebrates Founder’s Day in memory of this French priest. Notre Dame men everywhere, students, faculty and alumni will pay respectful tribute to the courage, far-sightedness and industry of Father Sorin. It is fitting that they should honor a great man. But, in a way, it is rather futile to pay tribute to a man who has left his own memorial in the form of a great university.
Father Sorin struggled through poverty, famine and strife. Untold hardships blasted away at the optimism
Ten
of this priest starting a university in the wilderness. Father Sorin, with absolute faith in God and the future, struggled on. In the spring of 1878, just as the first light of success was breaking through the clouded skies, fire razed the finest building of the college group.
Tradition tells us that the reconstruction of the Main Building was started by Father Sorin himself before the bricks of the one destroyed had cooled. In that single act may be found the key to Sorin’s character, and, indeed, the key to the character of Notre Dame. In this spirit of adamantic courage and unfaltering faith in destiny is the explanation of how a little college in the wilderness became a great center of learning and culture.
The history of the university and the men connected with it is a story of epic proportions. Her students have taught the world the great lesson of daily communion; her scientists have blazed new trails in research; her faculty have been outstanding in cultural attainment; her priests have been a constant inspiration to everyone with whom they come in contact. Notre Dame’s future is secure as long as the spirit of her gallant first president continues undiminished.
ON MAGAZINES	$
A man is judged by his friends; a student is judged by his books. No one would be foolish enough to deny that there is a large element of truth in this statement. Probably even those in charge, of the cafeteria newsstand would admit its veracity.
And yet the proprietors of this newsstand have seen fit to erect in a public and conspicious campus location a magazine rack filled to overflow with such choice journals as Bill Barnes Adventure Stories and War Aces. To The Scholastic this would seem to be poor judgement.
The Scholastic does not, for a moment, insinuate that the reading of these magazines signifies a depraved taste. They may, although we think it highly improbable, provide excellent relaxation for intellectuals. The common consensus of opinion is, however, that, while Bill Barnes may be fit reading for a coal heaver, it is hardly fit reading for a university student.
It is certain that many football visitors share this common opinion of the pulp magazines. It is also certain that many football visitors, after a glance at the newsstand display, depart with a rather uncomplimentary opinion of Notre Dame’s intellectual life.
Many freshmen come to Notre Dame with the idea of throwing aside their Bill Barnes and taking up Harper’s. They labor under the impression that such magazines as Bill Barnes are not read by college men. Upon seeing the display in the cafeteria, however, their resolution to expose themselves to some worthwhile reading is shattered. In high school they had to hide Bill Barnes in their desks; ; at Notre Dame Bill Barnes occupies a prominent space in the only magazine rack on the campus.
Those in charge of the rack say that they are in business and that they must cater to the demands of their public. If they must sell the things let them be hidden from the public eye lest visitors, because of the unorthodox taste of a few, receive an untrue impression of Notre Dame’s intellectual life. The Scholastic notes that Time is not sold in the cafeteria. There is certainly a demand for it, but those in control of such matters have seen reasons for considering Time objectionable. It would be fortunate if those who considered Time objectionable would exercise their judgments on Bill Barnes.	9
T b e Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
BASKETBALL PRACTICE INAUGURATED MONDAY
By James Waldron
Facing one of the most difficult, yet attractive schedules in Notre Dame court history, Coach George Keogan of the Fighting Irish, had all
Coach George Keogan He builds smart teams.
candidates out for their first session of the season last Monday.
Dr. Keogan will have to resort to the age old “hat” trick and uncover replacements for the graduated stars of last year. They will have to be very good men to fill the shoes of allAmerican Ed “Moose” Krause, Joe Voegele, Ed Alberts, Leo Crowe, and Jim Newbold. This, by the way, is the first year in many that will not see the name of Crowe or Newbold up on the scoreboard.
A smile of satisfaction, however, lights up the countenance of Coach Keogan as he looks over the list of holdovers from last year’s varsity. Led by Capt Johnny Jordan, some of the stars out are the two “speed boys” Joe O’Kane and Johnny Ford, “Red” (Continued on Page 13)
October 1 2 , 1934
DEFEATED TEAMS STRIVE FOR FIRST WIN AS PURDUE AND IRISH TANGLE
Notre Dame in Quest of Tenth Victory of Series In Purdue Game Tomorrow
1896—Notre Dame 22; Purdue 28
1899—Notre Dame 10 ; Purdue 10 1901—Notre Dame 12 ; Prudue 6 1902—Notre Dame 6: Purdue 6 1904—Notre Dame 0 ; Purdue 36 1905—Notre Dame 0 : Purdue 32 1906—Notre Dame 2 ; Purdue 0 1907—Notre Dame; 17 ; Purdue 0 1918—Notre Dame 26 ; Purdue 6 1919—Notre Dame 33 ; Purdue 13 1920—Notre Dame 28 ; Purdue 0 1921—Notre Dame 33 ; Purdue 0 1922—Notre Dame 20 : Purdue 0 1923—Notre Dame 34 : Purdue 7 1933—Notre Dame 0 ; Purdue 19 Totals Notre Dame 243; Purdue 163 Notre Dame won 9, lost 4, and tied 2.
“Jameson, of Purdue, steps 45 yards off tackle for a touchdown before the game is two minutes under way.” Such was the manner Notre Dame and Purdue inaugurated their historic gridiron clashes beginning in 1896. The Fighting Irish, minus a scrub team to practice with, lacked offensive power and succumbed to a 28-22 score.
In 1901, they succeeded in turning the tables and outsmarted the Boilermakers to emerge victorius bj* six points.
Everything, was all in Purdue’s favor from then on until the season of 1906, when they lost out on the short end of a 2-0 decision. At tin's time Notre Dame came into its own, by chalking up eight consecutive games, to have its record marred only by the disastrous setback of last year.
In 1918 critics claimed the Irish had two teams playing at the same time; one being the immortal George Gipp, and the other composed of the remaining ten men.
Rockne had been intrusted with the guidance of Irish football destinies that year, and surprised everyone by producing a high powered grid machine. In the line of march they encountered Purdue and ran roughshod over them, making- four touchdowns while allowing the opposition to register but six points.
(Continued on Page 18)
LAYDEN CHANGES LINEUP
By Cy Stroker
-It seems to be a comparison, this coming game between the Notre Dame Irish and the Purdue Boilermakers. A comparison between a Horseman and a Mule. A comparison .
George “Mink” Melinkovich He scored last week.
between two teams defeated in their opening games by Texas clubs. A comparison between the “.touchdown twins,” Purvis and Carter, and the Irish halfbacks, Melinkovich and Pil-ney. A comparison between two inexperienced lines.
For tomorrow a team coached by a Notre Dame Horseman of that famous team of 1924 will meet a team guided by the outstanding guard of the same team on the turf that they both made famous ten years ago. It will be interesting to see if the Horseman can organize a team in such short order that can battle its way to victory against a team that has been carefully trained by the Mule, Noble Kizer.
Both squads played teams from Texas last Saturday under similar conditions and both were defeated. Jack Chevigny’s University of Texas eleven fought the Irish to a close victory in Notre Dame’s opening game
(Continued on Page 12)
Eleven
Fumbles Pave Way to Both Scores As Irish Drop Opener To Texans
RESERVES LOSE FIRST GAME TO NIAGARA, 136
MINK GETS TOUCHDOWN
By Joe Prendergast
Jack Chevigny and his band of Texas steers staged a 60 minute rodeo in the Stadium last Saturday afternoon that was both thrilling and devastating. The Longhorns from the
Jack Robinson
At home in Texas backfield.
Lone Star state upset everybody’s dopesheet, except Coach Elmer Layden’s, when they rode off with a 7 to 6 victory over the Irish.
Thirty-three thousand football enthusiasts sat through the afternoon’s proceedings and saw Notre Dame suffer its first loss in an opening game in 38 years. The last time the Irish fell was back in 1896, the Chicago Physicians and Surgeons ekeing out a 4 to 0 win.
Coates and Hilliard—Oh My!
Co-captains, Hilliard and Coates for the Texans, did everything possible in the way of beating Coach Layden’s boys that could be done. Bohn Hilliard scored his team’s lone touchdown and also kicked the extra point. Charlie Coates, center for the victors, was a fly in the Irish ointment all afternoon. When not bringing down runners, he was piling up interference, knocking down passes, and in general, proving himself to be a nuisance as far as Notre Dame’s victory hopes were concerned.
Both combines scored on costly fumbles. Fred Carideo fumbled the initial Texan kickoff which was eagerly pounced upon by Jack Gray, left end for the Longhorns, on Notre Dame’s 18 yard line. The first play of the visitors was good for six yards with Hilliard carrying the ball over his own right tackle. His next attempt on a reverse netted one yard.
(Continued on Page 15)
Noted Sport Scribes To Give Impressions Of Boilermaker Game
Notre Dame still holds its position among those colleges which are most closely followed by football fans throughout the nation. This fact becomes evident when one learns of the galaxy of sports writers that have sent in applications for space in the press box in the Stadium for the Purdue game. These writers come from the north, south, east and west. New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Indianapolis and Kansas City are all represented. Those towns which are not large enough to warrant a personal representative will get their information through the big newspaper alliances such as Associated Press and United Press, Universal News Service and King Features . Syndicate.
These alliances will be sending such well known writers as Paul Mickelson, George Kirksey and Davis J. Walsh. All the Chicago papers will have representatives here among whom will be Jim Kearns, last year’s Scholastic editor.
Other writers will be Wilfrid Smith of the Chicago Tribune, J. Gallagher of the Chicago American and Bob Husted, of the Dayton Herald.
PURDUE GAME
(Continued from Page 11)
on Cartier field. A strong Rice Institute team romped around Ross-Ade stadium in Purdue’s first game of the season to defeat the Boilermakers 14-0. Purdue’s All-American halfback, Duane Purvis, was unable to play against the Texans but will be in shape for tomorrow’s game with Notre Dame.
Purvis and his running mate, Carter, became known last year as the “touchdown twins” because, between them, they scored nine of the sixteen touchdowns made by Purdue in 1933. Carter’s specialty is running, that fact being well demonstrated last year when he ran 90 yards for a touchdown, while Purvis is quite adept at the art of snaring passes. The two will make a severe test of the Irish defense. Purdue is handicapped, however, by a new line which may not be strong enough to hold off the Irish • long enough for the touchdown twins to get started on their famous jaunts.
Notre Dame’s starting line-up will include three men who showed bril-
The Notre Dame “B” football squad lost its first game of the season to Niagara University last Sunday at Buffalo by the score of 13-6. Coach Bill Cemey used a total of 25 men during the game in an effort to stop the New York state club, but a series of bad breaks prevented the “understudies” from winning.
Niagara was the first team to score, when, after advancing the ball steadily down the field in the first quarter, Dunn, Niagara left halfback, took the ball around left end for a touchdown. Godfrey made good the kick for the extra point, bringing the score to 7-0. Notre Dame was soon given an opportunity to reciprocate when an accurate 30 yard pass from O’Brien to Happell was completed.
In three plays the Irish team brought the ball to the opponent’s three yard line and O’Brien took it over for a touchdown. The Niagara team made six more points shortly after a fumble on Heinle’s part lost possession of the ball for Notre Dame.
The “B” squad made a valiant attempt to even the score in the third quarter but a strong Niagara secondary prevented them from threatening the scoring zone. Schmidt, Notre Dame substitute fullback, broke loose for a 35 yard run but was called back because of an off-side. In , spite of everything, the showing of the “B” team was more than satisfactory. The blocking and tackling was superb and kept the Niagara eleven, which boasts of an overwhelming victory over Buffalo, this season, in danger of defeat.

liantly against Texas. Jack Robinson, whose wholesale tackles behind the Texas line showed him to be the same spectacular Robinson of two years ago, will start at center. Bill Smith and Don Elser, both of whom made great showings will be in at right guard and fullback respectively. Vairo and Millner will hold down the end positions; Schiralli, left guard; Michuta and Sullivan, tackles; Bonar, quarterback; and Melinkovich and Pilney, halfbacks.
The Irish have played the Boilermakers a total of fifteen times. Of that number, Notre Dame has won nine, tied two and lost four. Of the four lost, last year’s game was perhaps the most disastrous. Purdue fairly smothered the Irish in that tilt 19-0, and in order to regain some of its lost prestige it is essential that Notre Dame win tomorrow’s game.
Twelve
The Scholastic
CAPTAIN WELDON WINS FALL TENNIS TOURNEY
Sorin, Alumni, Brownson, Carroll Win Openers In Interhall League
By John L. Glanzner
Captain Frank Weldon won the Upperclassmen tennis tournament last Sunday afternoon by defeating Ed Buchard in a terrific contest 4-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-4. It was a duel from the baselines with Weldon’s smashing
Frank Weldon
The Captain led the field.
tactics overcoming Buchar’s steadiness and finesse.
Weldon, giant killer in the tourney, vanquished Bill Fallon, defending champion, in the semi-finals. Buchard and Joe Waldron battled for over two hours to gain a berth in the finals before Buchard won the fifth and deciding set.
Weldon, keyed up for the match, played inspired tennis to defeat the indefatigable Buchard who was the pre-tourney favorite to cop the championship.
Buchard Takes Early Lead
In the first set Buchard broke through Weldon’s service to win the tenth game and the set 6-4. Weldon won three games in the second set before Buchard came to life and unleashed a series of powerful drives and accurate placements to tie the score at four-all. Buchard’s game lapsed and Weldon put on pressure to win 6-4. Games went with service in the third set, until Weldon broke through in the seventh game and went on to win 6-4.
Buchard Falters
Both players seemed refreshed after the respite folio-wing the third set. Buchard went into the lead 2-1 by breaking Weldon’s service, but his game collapsed and Weldon won three straight games with the loss of only four points. Buchard suddenly found himself and rallied to trail at 5-4, only to have the Irish captain win the set and match when Buchard drove the ball outside after the game had been deuced four times.
Recapitulation:
Service aces: Weldon 6, Buchard 0. Double faults: Weldon 5, Buchard 9. Nets: Weldon 58, Buchard 66.
Outs: Weldon 51, Buchard 42. Points: Weldon 135, Buchard 126.
October 12, 193 4
Joyce and Donnell To Meet in Final of Frosh Fall Tennis Tournament
Play in the Freshman tennis tournament has reached the final round after two weeks of intermittent battling. The contenders for the crown are Cyle Donnell and Joyce, both prospective varsity men.
A tight duel is expected when the winner of this tournament meets Cap-taian Frank Weldon, recent winner of the Upperclass tourney, for the University championship.
Donnell of Freshman and Oklahoma brought a powerful service into play to down Selna 6-3, 7-5, in the semi finals. He stormed the net and varied his play with a bombardment of lofts and drives and soft tantalizing drop shots that barely cleared the net.	.
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 11)
Allen, and a really great guard, George Ireland, who played in every game last year.
Others who are expected to produce this year include Johnny Hopkins, Vic Mettler, George Bower, George Wentworth, Frank Wade, O’Connor, DeMotts and Danny Cunha. Many of last year’s Frosh team have also reported.
After the curtain rings down on the Notre Dame football season with the Southern California game, Dec. 8, Marty Peters and Don Elser will work out their kinks in preparation for the Northwestern game, which gives them only six days practice.
The Irish will play in every big mid-western city and travel east twice. On the first trip, Notre Dame tangles with New York University at Madison Square Garden, Dec. 29, and then will try to end the old year in a blaze of glory by defeating Holy Cross in the Boston Garden, New Year’s Eve.
A second Eastern trip will be made on March 9, when the Irish meet Temple at Philadelphia. One or more other teams will be met on the way back to school.
Keogan whose wizardry has given him an all-time" coaching percentage of .765 which is better than that established by any other major coach over the same period of years, will mould a team out of the rich material given him which may not be world beaters but will give every outfit on this T.N.T. schedule a tough game.
HOWARD AND DILLON TIE
By John I. Flanagan
The grand old seniors of Sorin opened their first season in several years of competition with a 13-0 victory over the residents of Lyons Hall. Their running plays brought them within striking distance of the goal several times, but fumbles nullified their fine marches. Finally Art Carey faded back and” threw a 25-yard pass into the waiting arms of lanky Ed Harold for the first touchdown. The try for the extra point was wide, but when both sides were off side Sorin was given another chance. This time Carey faked a drop-kick and hurled a bullet like pass to Harold for the extra point. Lyons fought gamely but they were not able to penetrate the senior’s goal line.
In the only other game that was played in this Group, St. Edward’s and Morrissey fought through 60 minutes of play and ended in a tie 0-0. Both teams played good ball and the result was due to the stiff defense they put up when their goal lines were threatened. The play for the most part centered about the 50 yard line.
Carroll Drops Freshman
Alumni won their first game by ■ virtue of a forfeit by Corby. The former has several members of the championship Lyons team of last year and promise to give any team a good battle.	'
In Group 2 Brownson copped high scoring honors for the day by defeat ing the inexperienced Off-Campus to the tune of 25-0. The Brownson lads showed much strength and power in subduing the Villagers.	•
The battle between Howard and Dillon ended in a scoreless tie. The game was listless throughout with neither team showing more than a flaash of brilliance. They both were decidedly lacking in the old scoring punch.
It took just four plays for Carroll to defeat Freshman 7-0. Pat Dizanzo, all-Interhall quarterback of last season, figured prominently in the march. He completed two passes, the second to Ed Boyle for the winning touchdown. Carroll outplayed the freshmen in every department of the game, and the score does not indicate the kind of game it was.
At 9:15 a. m. Sunday Sorin plays St. Edwards, Morrissey plays Alumni, and Corby plays Lyons. At 2:30 pan. in the afternoon Dillon plays Brownson, Off-Campus plays Carroll and Freshman plays Howard. There are only 12 teams competing this year.
" ‘Thirteen
INTRODUC ING
By Joe Prendergast
SO THEY SAY
In the fall of 1931 during one of the pre-season practice sessions, Nick Lukats, counted upon by “Hunk” Anderson as the team’s regular fullback, broke his leg in a pileup on an off tackle play. A few days later Steve Banas, Lukat’s understudy, smashed his finger. “Hunk” was in a furor. His two mainstays in the fullback post were on the sidelines indefinitely. On the squad that year was George Joseph Melinkovich, a promising left
son’s drastic change is now history, it being booked in the records as one of the smartest moves “Hunk” ever made.
During the season of 1931, Mink played in every ball game save one— the Army game. He garnered 30 points from his new position, climaxing his feature play by counting twice in the Pittsburgh tussle which the Irish won, 25 to 12. In the fall of 1932, this boy from Utah collected-
“A horde of madly charging, fighting University of Texas Longhorns shattered tradition and covered themselves with glory on Notre Dame field Saturday by battling their way to a perfect 7-6 victory over the Notre Dame Ramblers. . . . The defensive play of the Texas line was exceptional, and only late in the opening period and early in the second did the powerful Notre Dame backfield click.” —The Sunday American Statesman, Austin, Texas.
halfback from Tooele, Utah. The only recognition that George had received previous to that time was when he won a medal the previous spring as the best pass’ receiver on the squad.
“Hunk” deliberated the situation over in his mind and announced his decision. He was going to gamble on the ability of this sophomore left halfback to plug the gaping hole left because of injuries at the fullback ' berth. The result of Coach Ander-
48 more tallies, one six-pointer being that memorable 98 yard run he made against Northwestern on the opening kickoff.
At the close of the 1932 season, Mink was stricken with a kidney infection which was thought would put an end to his athletic career. He spent the remainder of that school year recuperating and the first semester of the next, returning to pursue (Continued on Page 20)
“Notre Dame’s failure to win their opening game can be placed directly at the door of an alert, hard charging, sure-tackling gang of boys who were well coached and showed no indication of being scared of the horses . . . . The Irish blocking and tackl-was weak as Coach Layden had predicted they would be.”—Bill Costin, The South Bend News-Times.
“The Longhorns of the University of Texas led by the brilliant Bohn Hilliard, stampeded through Elmer Layden’s first Notre Dame team today for a 7-6 intersectional victory before 33,000 fans. A brisk north breeze played havoc with kicks, and fumbles led to the scores of both teams.”—Associated Press, New York Times.
“Notre Dame’s work was spotty throughout. At times the Irish forwards filtered through the Longhorn wall almost at will to smotther the ball carrier. It was the wriggling, flashy Hilliard who, time and again brought the Texans back from dangerous positions. . . . Elmer Layden, former member of the famed “Four Hoorsemen,” watched his team overpowered by a fighting bunch from the Southwest coached by Jack Chevigny, who followed him only a few years in the Notre Dame backfield. . .”—Cincinnati Enquirer.
“Elmer Layden is a man of his word. He promised Notre Dame would play interesting football, that it would look good losing, that it would block and tackle.
“Taking the points, one by one, it is hard to conceive of a more interesting game than the one Notre Dame lost, 7-6 yesterday. Notre Dame looked good losing. The Irish had their old time poise. The line played good football and the tackling left nothing to be desired. Notre Dame’s blocking, however, must improve, and Layden is the first to admit this.”— Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
•a
By Edward J- Van Huisseling
AFTER REFLECTION
A fighting team had a fighting chance. That team -was Notre Dame. Campus enthusiasts who spoke in terms of victory early last week now realize, after reflection, that Elmer Layden was spreading no hear stories and that lais men had no better than a fighting chance against Chev’s stubborn crew.
But with that fighting chance there was the fighting team— Notre Dame. A team that fought through sixty minutes of devitalizing football; a gang of blue-jerseyed men who never lost their cool-headedness; a bunch of Irish that were a living example ofthe word “fight” and a constant threat until co-capt., Charlie Coates took the ball and lugged it to the dressing room. When a team gives such an exhibition, and that is the kind Notre Dame gave, post game gloom is bound to rise a few hours after the final gun has sounded. We’re still on the bandwagon and look for the smart Irish combine of last week to mow down some of the bigger foes yet to be met.
The High Spots—A couple naturals, Coates and Hilliard . . . The superb play of Jack Robinson . .- . Schiralli’s vicious tackles . . . Dom Vairo as an end and a leader . . . Elser and Carideo backing up that line and boring through it . . . Mi-chuta’s recovery of the important fumble . . . The first half offensive display by the Green . . . The equally powerful last half attack of the Texans . . . Layden’s promised lack of blocking by his men . . . An almost inflexible N.D. defensive forward unit . . . Three quarters without the anticipated Longhorn passes . . . Elser’s first jaunt with the ball—tacklers brushed off like flies . . . The surprise Texas defensive setup ... a real battle all the way.
•
ELSEWHERE
Every dog has his day and last Saturday the gridiron underdogs had theirs. Especially in the middle west was this the rule with teams, favored by everyone who ever saw a football game, amazing the sporting world with their defeats. Despite Nob Kizer’s boast that Rice would be easy, the Texans made it a complete day for the Lone Star state by taking the Boilermakers. Harry Kipke lost his important intrastate tilt to Charlie
October 12,1934
Bachman’s State team. Texas completed the South’s succesful venture into the North with its 7 to 6 triumph.
Not to be outdone, the ever puzzling Pacific coast elevens put another 'page in the books when St. Mary’s Gaels toppled a great California team and the weakened Trojans ate out of the hands of Washington State. The east had its mischief-makers too. An unheralded Ursinus troupe toppled Penn and Richmond sprang from somewhere to • win out over Cornell to complete one •, of the most disastrous days for the favorites since nobody knows when. No wonder the public was saying give me a heart to sing to and a wall to bang my head against.
WE PICK
Despite the wholesale slaughter of favored teams last week we fared fairly well. The tabulations show 31 wins, nine defeats, and three ties to bring the season total to 53 victories, 10 losses, and five ties. The percentage, excluding the ties, is .841. Counting the deadlocks the figures read .791. This week there are 40 scraps on the list.
WE PICK:
NOTRE DAME over PURDUE
Amherst over Union Army over Drake Harvard over Brown Colgate over St. Bonaventure’ Columbia over V.M.I. Syracuse over Cornell Dartmouth over Maine Holy Cross over Catholic U Temple over Indiana Navy over Maryland Yale over Penn Pittsburgh over Southern California Princeton over Williams Villanova over LaSalle Michigan State over Carnegie Tech Michigan over Chicago Illinois over Ohio State Iowa over Nebraska Iowa State over Missouri Kansas over St. Benedict Vanderbilt over Cincinnati Wisconsin over South Dakota State Alabama over Mississippi State Arkansas over Baylor Louisiana State over Auburn Duke over Georgia Tech Tulane over Plorida Georgia over No. Carolina Kentucky over Clemson Tennessee over Mississippi Oklahoma over Texas Southern Methodist over Rice West Virginia over Washington & Lee California over Pacific Colorado over Colorado Normal Stanford over Northwestern Oregon over Washington U.C.L.A. over Montana Washington State over Gonzaga
TEXAS GAME
(Continued from Page 12)
Then Pill Pitzer, fullback, made it first and eight to go for goal. On the next shift, Hilliard plowed off his right tackle to score. This same young man then kicked the extra point to give Jack Chevigny and his lads a 7 to 0 lead with the game two minutes old.
Michuta Drops On Ball
Notre Dame then took possession of the ball game and dominated the play until the half ended. On the Irish first march down the field, they started on their own 12 and drove to their opponents 48 yard line before punting. The second offensive thrust by the Laydenmen was inaugurated at midfield and came within 10 yards of the promised land. This time they relinquished the ball on downs to Texas. These drives occurred near the end of the first quarter and at the outset of the second quarter.
Midway in the second canto the Irish were recipients of the same sort of break that greeted the Texans earlier in the contest. Andy Pitney punted from his 38 yd. line to Baebel of Texas who received on his 10-yard stripe. Michuta came roaring down on Baebel, smacking him hard, causing a fumble. Michuta recovered and it was first and goal to go for the Irish.
George Melinkovich hit left tackle for seven. Carideo’s effort at center was futile. Pilney skirted right end to be forced out of bounds six inches from the goal line. “Mink” went over • left tackle for the tally. Wayne Millner attempted the kick for the point but it was wide of its mark.
In the third quarter Notre Dame again started what looked like a touchdown drive. From Texas 47-yard marker, the Irish maneuvered to the 20 yard boundary before an unfortunate fumble by Don Elser put the damper on this offensive movement.
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By James McMullen
GOOSE GOSLIN has one of the strangest hobbies of them all—driving nails in a plank. . . “There is nothing so satisfying,” says the goose, “as to wham a nail in straight with one whack of the hammer” ... It costs about $25,000 to take a football squad across the continent. . . That includes about 40 players and coaches . . . . FRED PERRY, world’s tennis champion, has some 60 tennis trophies, including spears and shields from Africa. . . An up-to-date lighting plant for night baseball costs 35,000 dollars. . . How many, please? . . . The sartorial effect of Dartmouth’s eleven is going to be slightly dazzling. The lads will wear skin-tight silver satin panties, Kelly-green jerseys and green and silver helmets. Legs will be bare.
Here’s a vital fact: the team of horses that holds the world’s weightpulling championship is named “ROCK” and “TOM” and are owned by Geo. Stattier of Piqua, O. . . “Rock” and “Tom” think nothing of pulling 3,600 pounds without switching a tail. . . STEVE DUDAS, one of the better young heavyweights, keeps in training by working as a bartender for his father in New Jersey. . . PA STRIBLING hasn’t even so much as dabbled in boxing since the tragic death of YOUNG STRIBLING. . . TOD SLOAN, immortal jockey, received a fee of $25,000 when he returned from England in 1900 to ride W. C. WHITNEY’S Ballyhoo Boy to victory in the Belmont Futurity. . . . JAMES LEE, a negro jockey, rode six winners out of six races at Churchhill Downs on June 5, 1907, the first American to accomplish such a feat . . . In Nicaragua they advertise their baseball games by standing a dummy
*7fie Quick/ieferenceBookS of Information on All Subjects Webster's Collegiate <1 he Best Abridged Dictionary
“The volume is convenient for quick reference work, and altogether the best dictionary for desk work of which I know.’"—Potvell Stewart, Dept, of English, University of Texas. Presidents and Department Heads of leadin Universities agree with this opinion.
The Largest of the Merriam-Webster Abridgments
106,000 entries, including hundreds of new words with definitions, spellings, and correct use;aGazetteer;a.BiographicalDictionary;
Foreign Words and Phrases; Abbreviations; Punctuation, Use of Capitals. Many other features of practical value. 1,268 pages. 1,700 illustrations.
See It At Your College Bookstore or Write for Information to the Publishers.
G. & C. Merriam Co
Springfield, Mass.
ball player against the lamp posts on the main corners. . . TOOTS DOUGLAS, who played football for Tennessee and Navy, once made a kick that covered 108 yards. . . Penn State College has a six foot, six inch giant Hawaiian on its frosh grid squad. . . The Buffalo Bisons beat the Baltimore Orioles in three double headers in less than 48 hours. The first was played at night and was followed by two afternoon twin bills . . . which reminds us—that the California scientist who brought a dead dog back to life ought to be valuable to the Cincinnati Reds baseball club. . .
DIZZY DEAN was a soldier in the regular army when he first attracted attention as a pitcher. . . I’ll bet that he and Pershing were the real winn-' ers of the great conflict. . . When the first baseball team was organized in 1845, a team had to score 21 runs, regardless of how many innings it took in order to win. . . Tennesee’s rampaging Frosh have been averaging five touchdowns an afternoon on the varsity in practise. . . BILL TILDEN defeated WALLACE F. JOHNSON at the Germentown Cricket Club in the tennis championship finals of 1921 in 44 minutes. . . JESS SWEETSER, WALTER J. TRAVIS, BOBBY JONES, and W. LAWSON LITTLE are the only Americans ever to win the British amateur golf championship. . . In a double header at Philadelphia EARL AVERILL of Cleveland batted 1,000 in nine trips to the plate. . . He walked 4 times in the first game and made a single, three doubles and a triple in the second. . . ARTHUR CLARKSON, sophomore right half back at Minnesota, kicks with either foot and passes accurately with either hand. . . But then there is FRAULEIN LISA GELIUS, who recently established a world record by tossing the javelin 37 meters with her right hand. . . She is also ambidex
trous, My! My! . . . The Giants failed to score a run for FAT FREDDIE FITZSIMMONS in four successive tarts at the Polo Grounds. . . Primo Camera is going to Buenos Aires. . . The Ambling Alp is training at Asbury Park, where MAX BAER prepared for their June party.
Holy Cross has dedicated its football season to the memory of the deceased JOE LOCKE, Notre Dame man, and formerly line coach there . . . DOC HART, Brooklyn baseball club trainer, has been training ball players since 1913, but has seen only three major league games during that time. . . That’s easy to understand— TERRY says the Robins aren’t in the big time. . .
BLUEPRINTS PHOTOSTAT COPIES
SCHILLINGS, Inc.
329 South Lafayette St.
Hbwortl; s
Arrow Shirt Headquarters
The ARROW MITOGA
Shaped to fit $2
Look!—it tapers in at tne waist. It conforms to the shoulders. It tapers with the arms. No extra folds of cloth at the belt-line. No bunching at the shoulders. No balloon sleeves. The Arrow MITOGA offers real made-to-measure fit at the price of a ready-made shirt.
Arrow Trumps $1.95
Maris Shop—Main Floor Separate entrance on Center Street
'S
Sixt e e n
The Scholastic
WALSH HALL
(Continued from Page 4)
Father Walsh was, without doubt, the most lovable man who was ever president of the University. He was president in my time, in 1886, and held the office for twelve years. He had a group of charms, gifts, virtues, and mental, moral, and physical perfections such as I have never known in any other man. He was one of
Hot under the Collar
Whether it’s the heat or the humidity, no amount of tugging and neck-craning will alleviate the torment of a shrunken shirt collar. Don’t wait until you get in a pinch like this. Try Arrow TRUMP today and discover America’s greatest shirt value.
Price, $1.95
ARROW SHIRTS
SANFORIZED SHRUNK
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC., TROY, N. Y.
the most versatile minds in the history of Notre Dame—a most attractive speaker with a kindly and beautiful outlook on life, a man who could walk into almost any class room, and conduct the class as well as its regular professor.”
Regarding the construction of Walsh Hall, Fr. Cavanaugh said: “Unscrupulous college students and their pitifully uninformed parents often gave as an excuse for sending their boys to state universities that no Catholic school had proper accom
modations. We decided to call their bluff. Practically one half the rooms in Walsh Hall were equipped with baths and toilets and all the paraphernalia of comfort, as it was considered in that day. Did that stop the boobs among boys and their parents from continuing to peddle around their grief? It did not. But, at least, it gave us what was then the best dormitory building in the country. There are more pretentious dormitories now, but there is none better suited foi' its purpose.”
।	1
!The
;	right start
|	for college j
Give yourself the right start for I college life with a man’s-size ij wardrobe. Our tip. Stock up ! with Arrow Shirts.	>
A brand-new assortment has just come in, including . . .
ARROW MITOGA, the form- i fitting shirt.	।
ARROW GORDON, the i smart, comfortable oxford I that won’t shrink.	I
I
1	ii
And the new ARROW MI- 1
TOGA Eyelet Collar—Tab j Collars are available, of I course.	j
Remember, our Arrow Shirts are Sanforized-Shrunk—guaranteed to hold the correct size always! All styles, all colors available. Prices	j
$2, $2.50, $3.50 i
I
MAX ADLER
On the Corner
October 12,1934
Seventeen
GLASSES Properly FITTED
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
In the two proceeding seasons Rock’s men held the limelight, by going undefeated. It was in 1920 that Gipp and his mates humiliated the orange and blue by a 28 to 0 count.
“Hunk” Anderson, the bulwark of the ’21 line, provided an added attraction by scoring two touchdowns against the Boilermakers in less than three minutes, covering a blocked punt behind the goal line and scooping up a fumbled ball.
The SAFEST QUICKEST AW CONVENIENT WAY TO CHICAGO
Elmer Layden was instrumental in a large part of the 34-7 victory of 1923. It was the year the “Four Horsemen” mounted their fiery steeds and galloped over Purdue with very little difficulty.
The dismal season suffered by Notre Dame last year, marked the first time in nearly two decades that Kizer’s proteges have been able to subdue the Fighting Irish.
Ride the
SOUTH SHORE
LINE
All-steel cars protect you from danger on this direct route to Chicago. Besides the safety and comfort of the South Shore Line, the low cost round trip fares save you money. Frequent service.
IT’S CHEAP, TOO!
from
SOUTH BEND
ROUND TRIP FARE
15-Day Return Limit
For more information, ask C. W. Veach. City Pass. Agt„ 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE
AND
SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
Marty Brill, Former Irish Star, Shines for Reading Pro. Keys
Marty Brill, who attended the University of Pennsylvania, then shifted to Notre Dame, and returned to help the Irish smear a Quaker eleven at Philadelphia, 60 to 20, is still playing football. In a recent 6 to 0 victory of the Reading Keys over Allentown, Brill galloped 25 yards through the mud for the only score.
You must go Formal . . . to the Cotillion
Why not go formally correct?
That means “Tails”—and Nash custom tailoring means style authenticity as well as a garment becoming to your individual posture and proportions.
There’s still time to fill Cotillion orders if you decide now. Phone us at 3-2644 or hail us on the campus.
And remember—we have the most complete line of suitings you’ll find anywhere.
Copyright 1934, The American Tobacco Company.
‘PAT” RIGLEY (’26)
GOLDEN RULE
o WASH p

I_______________________J
Eighteen
542 Associates Building.
“It’s toasted” h
J,	*1*
V Your throat protection — against irri
—against cough j
The Scholastic
I
INTRODUCING
Architects’ Club
Catalyzer
(Continued from Page 14)
his studies last January.
“Mink” is 22 years old, weighs 190 pounds and stands six feet, one inch. He attended Tooele High school, Tooele, Utah. Three years of football, captain his senior year also being picked by the sports writers as AllState left halfback; two years of track and two years on the basketball team are the athletic endeavours of our subject during his high school days.
George Joseph is the most widely traveled member of the current Notre Dame squad. Hawaii and Europe have been favored by his travels. “I have touched most of the 48 states. There are a few in the South which I have missed.” He will increase his tours this autumn by his touchdown jaunts up and down the gridirons of the country.
Mink is adept at broncho-busting, working for two summers on ranches in his native Utah. The past summer saw George on a tour of Europe. He spent a week at the famous springs in Carlsbad, Czechoslovakia — taking treatments for his sickness of the previous year.
Returning to school this fall our tourist weighed 194 pounds, eight pounds over his best playing weight. It was not long after practice routine had started that Mink was again called upon to fill a tough spot. The passing of Johnny Young during the summer left a large opening at right halfback. Coach Elmer Layden shifted Mink to this spot and from what he showed last Saturday against Texas there need be no more worry concerning right half.
George is a senior in the Physical Education school of the University and intends to increase the number of great coaches produced at Notre Dame upon graduation.
FOUNDER’S DAY
(Continued from Page 1)
statue of Our Lady take place during the lifetime of our beloved founder, but the erection of the Sacred Heart Church on the campus was accomplished as a result of his efforts in raising Notre Dame to its present position. The Church is now serving its 63rd year as a beautiful haven for the spiritual inspiration of the students.
Father’ Sorin’s missionary zeal brought him to this location in the Indian wilderness 92 years ago. He had only a few hundred dollars, but he courageously went ahead with plans for a school. We honor him because of this courage he had; because we still believe in ideals; because of his example in overcoming seemingly insufferable difficulties.
‘Twenty
At a meeting of the Architect’s Club on Tuesday Sept. 25, Arnold Hackenbruch, a senior was elected Master and Aaron Hamm also a senior was elected sub-master. Hackenbruch comes from Milwaukee and Hamm from Waverly, New York.
The business of the meeting con-, sisted of a discussion of plans for future meetings and the possibility of getting Chicago architects to speak to the members of the club.
The meeting was held in one of the classrooms of the Archictecture building.

Attention Soph’s//
Livingston’s correct University styled silk, lined Tuxedos.
The Cotillion is only two weeks away. How about a new “Tux” for this great once-in-a-lifetime occasion.
SEE THEM at the
' CAMPUS SHOP
Others at $35 - $47.50
SHIRTS-COLLARS-TIES VESTS-STUDS
ON THE CAMPUS AND AT 123.SO. MICHIGAN ST.
The first issue of the “Catalyzer,” published by the Chemists’ Club, will appear October 22. The officers of the publication for the coming school year are Harold L. Goebel, editor; John F. Walker, assistant editor; and Paul J. Doyle, associate editor.
This issue will contain a Freshman Page, which aims to acquaint the freshmen with the more recent discoveries in science. In addition an important article will appear, written by an alumnus of the department, along with the editorial, club news, and personal column sections.
The Scholastic