Hotpe JameMchokistic
UmII	23»a
DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER VICTURVS -VIVE- QUASI- CRASMORITVRVS
Vol. I/V.	October i, 1921.	.	No. 2.
0 THE “OLD BOYS”:
To the grads and former students of Notre Dame, who have listened with tense nerves and pulses running high to the results of the annual N. D.-Nebraska game in club rooms, newspaper shops and telegraph offices, year after year:
“We are sorry, but we can’t let you carry on in that well-worn fashion any longer. On October 27 the Nebraska football team will perform on our campus for the first time. Your place will not be in the club room, or the newspaper shop or the telegraph office, but on the sidelines at Cartier Field, with the blue-clad boys fighting there before you, and the whole student body cheering beside you.
“Will that one scene not be worth coming a hundred or ten hundred miles to witness and to join in? We are expecting you. This game has not been arranged for the benefit of the students here, but for the entire Notre Dame world, of which we have always considered you an essential part.
“We know that you have been planning to visit us for a long time now. Here is your chance to stroll down the “quad” again, past the grotto and the lake and over to St. Mary’s—your chance to see the faces of that happy bunch of fellows you left on graduation day. Come down and swap experiences. You may not have made a million—do you suppose we care for that? We want you and your “spirit.”
“Now for a few pointers. Send in your reservation for tickets early. This will facilitate matters for us in the office. Grandstand seats may be obtained for . $2.50 and box seats for $3.00. The reservation must be accompanied with the money. Make all checks payable to K. K. Rockne, Athletic Director, Notre Dame.”	.
K. K. Rockne.
We know there will be a crowd: but we want KOU.
I
I
18	Moure dame 5cbolasuic
“BE YE PERFECT.” (Matt, v., 48)
Sermon of Rt. Rev. Monsignor Francis W. Howard, of Holy Rosary Church, Columbus, Ohio, delivered during the Notre Dame
Summer School, 1921.
The bountiful Creator has brought into being a wonderful multitude and variety of creatures to each one of which he has given its special act, or form, or constitution. We call this constitution of a being, its nature. In every nature, moreover, there is implanted the impulse by which through an inherent inclination or propension its struggles onward and upward to the attainment and completion of all those operations which are necessary to achieve the end ordained for it by Him who gave it being. This is the law of perfection; a law obeyed by every creature that adorns this marvellous harmony which we call the universe.
Man is not an exception to this law. In every striving, in every act, he seeks his perfection. By the law of nature he seeks the perfection of the power of his nature, and by the law of grace he seeks a much higher perfection. “Be ye perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect.” This sublime vocation and destiny place us above the animate and the inanimate things of earth; nay, they place us, by Divine privilege, in a class apart from that vast multitude of our brethren who have not hearkened to the call of Divine grace.
In what does this perfection consist? What is the end and the law of human perfection? The answer to this question gives the true theory of life, and the real meaning of education. “Be ye perfect,” is the law of Christian education, as it is the law of the Christian life.
The great model of theologians, St. Thomas Aquinas, in one of his articles on the Creation of the world, discusses the question as to the meaning of that completion of the creative work, which is ascribed, in the Book of Genesis, to the seventh day. That the world moves on to a definite development is apparent, he says, from the multitude of individuals, and even of new species that appear in its progress. In what, then, does the completion or perfection of the world consist?
Answering the inquiry, he shows that there is a first and a second perfection. Perfection in the first place, is founded in the substance of the thing, and it arises from the integrity of the parts. This perfection is found in the fact that a being has everything that belongs to its nature and in the possession of all its parts or faculties. In the language of philosophy, this perfection is the “form” of the particular being under consideration.
The second perfection which results from the first, is found in the attainment of that end which has been determined for the creature by God. This consists in the operation, the working out of the nature, and its final or complete and perfect act.
This reasoning is applicable to the nature of man. There is a substantial perfection founded on an integrity of nature; and there is a second perfection which is realized in the attainment of man’s destiny.
Now in regard to this first perfection, the perfection of man’s nature, we find that there is much error and loose and indefinite thinking. The most popular theory of current sociology and of education is that man by nature has a principle of perfection, and that if external obstacles are removed, if the environment is sufficiently improved, he will move on from stage to stage of an undefined progress, to an unlimited perfection. The evolutionary philosophy that has so deeply tinctured the thought and opinion of our day, has given much vogue and popularity to this conception of human perfection and progress. The writings of Rousseau’ perhaps, have done as much to confuse the minds of men, on matters of social philosophy, as those of any other individual. It was his theory, “that there resides in man a power of instinct which directs him to his moral end as certainly as the reflexes of animals lead them to seek that which is good for their nature.” In other words, he taught —and his pernicious doctrine is echoed by a thousand voices today—that nature in man is perfect in principle and in integrity, and that by the sole aid of the powers of that nature, and through the orderly development of the faculties of human existence, man may rise to the most exalted heights of virtue and knowledge.
Hocre dame Schdascic
But reason, confirmed by experience and supported by the testimony of universal history, would forbid us to give adherence to such a theory; while our Christian faith teaches us that there is an original defect in man’s nature which arises from the fact that when the first parents of man lost the original justice in which they had been clothed, the loss of the supernatural gifts of that state left human nature in a wounded condition, and more enfeebled by this loss than it would have been had these gifts never been bestowed.
All his life, therefore, man must struggle. Reason must struggle to overmaster appetite and passion on the one hand, and must put forth constant effort to conform to the Divine will on the other. We cannot understand human nature nor can we explain human conduct unless we start with the doctrine of original sin, and the ignoring of this doctrine in the current writings on the subject of education makes these works untrustworthy as guides for us in this difficult subject. In his struggle for perfection, therefore, man must begin with a contest against a defect inherent in his nature. He deals with an imperfect instrument. This struggle must continue to the end, and genuine perfection cannot be attained unless nature is supported and assisted by Divine grace.
Now in what operation or activity is the proper act and perfection of man found? We live in an age when the production of material goods for the market is the dominant activity of man in all the nations of western civilization. The natural use for which goods are adapted is held in less regard by the stateman, by the industrial leader, by the producer, than the use of the goods as a means of exchange and of increase of wealth. The man himself in this industrial society is regarded as a producer. He is reduced to the status of a commodity, his energy is estimated in foot-pounds, he is a mere part of the vast productive and exchange system whose life-absorbing tentacles now embrace the human family.
Who is not aware of the evil influence of
T-E-A-M — every letter
19
this commercial conception of human life on modern education? How to make a living, how to gain money, how to secure a position, and how to grow rich are the goals set before the youth of our day. The serious attention of educators is directed to the task of making the youth of the land suitable parts of the productive system. Our universities are converted into higher departments of industry, schools prepare for the workshop, the factory, and the office, studies are not evaluated by the insight they give into the realms of truth, but by their economic importance.
There is small need to point out to you that the life is more than the meat, and the body more than the raiment. This commercial conception of life brutalizes and degrades the man; it demeans the dignity of human personality; it regards man as a thing, an instrument for profit and for use, and not an end in himself. This conception of life is unnatural and repulsive, and it is the duty of the enlightened educator to dislodge it from the domain of education. It has done too much already to debase the education of our country, and its influence has made the work of the Catholic teacher a more difficult task than it should be.
But there are others who rise above this materialism and seek the perfection of man in the acts of his nobler faculties. Some, for instance, would make the perfection of life consist in citizenship, and education in this conception is a training for citizenship. To be born as members of a great state is no mean blessing, and rational liberty and the perfection of the attributes of personality can be properly attained and enjoyed by men only under such conditions. But man cannot exist for the state. By nature he is free, and his ultimate perfection must consist in some act and end proper and personal to himself.
Neither can human perfection be found in a life of service to others of which we hear so much today. If all who stand in need of service were raised to the level of those who give the service, the question would still recur, in what does the true perfection
of it is in Notre Dame.
Nocre Same Scholastic
20
of human life consist? For this life of sendee, of humanitarianism, in a large part consists of ministrations to the corporal needs; while the noblest aspirations of the soul transcend the bounds of human aid.
Again, many see the perfection of man in the multiplicity and complexity of his activities. The largest life is said to be the goal of perfection, and the largest life is that which engages the greatest number of man’s activities. A popular definition of education is that it is preparation for complete living. Man is, indeed, a being of wonderful nature with many and diversified powers; but as in the universe we see that the less perfect ministers to the more perfect, the inferior is because of the superior, so the minor and inferior activities should be subservient to the superior activities of man’s nature. The true excellence of life is not found in abundance of energy, but in the energising of the highest powers of man’s nature. Life in its noblest aspect is simplicity, and the inferior activities of life are useful and worthy only in so far as their right and proper exercise conduces to the proper operation of that which is distinctive and most excellent in man’s nature. This is the complete life in the sense that it is the unfolding of the powers of man’s nature to their highest point; it is not the complete life in the sense of filling up the faculties of man’s physical and sensitive nature with the abundance of sensations. Hence on this theory of human perfection as disclosed by the sole light of reason, the impulses and passions of the sensitive nature must be subjected to the control of reason; the appetites must be curbed by the power of will, so that being exercised neither in excess nor defect, they may contribute to the virtue or the higher power of man; and in this way the virtuous man is trained and prepared to enjoy that noble felicity which is found in the exercise of the intellect. It is in this exercise of the intellect, in the study and contemplation of the Divine Cause of all things that, according to Aristotle, man’s natural perfection is found.
What a just and noble conception of human perfection, and what an admirable theoretical basis for a rational system of education! But, alas! how far have we de
parted from it in our feverish and tawdry life of today. Is there any system of secular education the world over, that is true to those ideals of human perfection that have been set forth by the thinkers of antiquity? Why can we not have some love of reason and its teachings, some rising above the materials and things of sense, in our life and our education?
Well, indeed, may we ask these questions. When men depart from the supernatural they will not be true even to the natural “From him that hath not, that also which he seemeth to have shall be taken away.” (Matt. xxv. 29.) “Be ye perfect,” said Our Lord. But why should the natural man, with none but natural motives to arouse him be perfect? Why should he struggle and strive when nature and love of ease assert their claims?
To put forth the effort to attain even the highest perfection that nature is capable of, is a task too arduous for man. To attain by the powers of nature the destiny God has given him, is a task impossible. There must be a higher motive, a powerful stimulus, a supernatural aid. The motive of man’s true and supernatural perfection is found in conformity to the will of God. This is the true end of man. Conformity to God’s will is the energising principle of human perfection. This is the true theory of life, and the standard of all true education.
What a splendid and noble vocation is that of the Christian teacher! - With what reverence he must regard the immortal soul which he is to aid in attaining these exalted heights! How superior is that perfection which he seeks to inspire above that which mere reason is capable of proposing. And how much superior should Christian training be to every system of secular education.
In every activity of the classroom the Christian teacher can lead the pupil from one natural perfection to another, can stimulate effort, inspire a love work, and a constant desire to put forth the greatest energy, by keeping before his children’s minds, the great ideal, “Be ye perfect,” for this is the will of God, your Lord and Creator. The true Christian teacher, therefore will nevet ignore the stages of natural periection. He will know that every natural activity has
Norre dame Scholastic
21
its place in the development of life. He will not confuse nor discourage the child ay presenting the highest motives in a way that is unrelated to the inferior motives. “This is the will of God, your sanctification,” says . St. Paul. It is the will of God that you abstain from uncleanness, that you avoid avarice, that you move forward from one stage of virtue and perfection to a higher step. The teaching of numbers, the lessons of grammar, the minute requirements of discipline, every activity of the school life, can be intelligibly related to the dominating and sublime motive of Christian perfection, the will of God, personal sanctification.
The teacher will not fail to keep in mind that the intellect is the noblest of our faculties, and that the perfection of the intellect comes from effort and struggle. Thle most important result of an elementary education is a fixed determination to struggle' to the end to obtain mastery of the will, and to urge the mind ever forward to. the attainment of truth. The joy of life is in struggle, not in comfort, ease and satisfaction. The teacher will not insist too much on the mere matter of habit formation and routine, but will endeavor above all to inspire in the child a noble love of excellence, and a desire for the things that are best. In this plan, in its motive, and in its ideal, in its simplicity and its intelligibility, does the superiority of the Christian Education consist. It is superior to the education of commerce and to the education of the State. It is 'the education that aims at man’s true perfection; it is based on the true theory of human life; it is the true idea of education; it is Christian Education.	.
In conclusion, I may point out to you that this message of Christ, “Be ye perfect,” which carries such a deep meaning for every teacher, is a personal direction to each individual soul. Each one is to seek his own perfection. In the degree that you have control over the appetites by mortification, and raise the soul to new heights of virtue by the practice of Divine love, to that degree only, do you become able to assist others to attain their personal perfection. What an
attraction has virtue for the soul of the child I How much is the teacher loved whose firmness is based on justice, whose emotions of anger are under control of the will. “Do thy work in meekness, and thou shalt be loved above the glory of men.” Learning is useful, training is necessary, but sanctity draws all hearts; and what is education but the influence of personality.
As religious teachers, you are ever to keep in mind the fact that the morality of the Gospel is supernatural, and, therefore, entirely different from a system of conduct based on ethical principles, or natural motives. If you love others because they love you, in what respect are you better than the heathen? If you salute others who salute you, do not the gentiles do this? -This is a natural morality based on motives that spring from sympathy, kindness or love of the brotherhood; and it is the morality of all secular life. .	-
' But your law of life is the law of perfection. It is the will of God, that you should aim at the perfection that does even the least of its actions from the supernatural motive of seeking to please God.
This reasoning applies as well to the work of education. If you teach the secular branches for success, what reward have you ? If you seek intellectual or professional formation and neglect those great spiritual treasures, the charter and traditions of your institute, your reward would not be different from that of those who teach in other schools. It is your glory that in all things, you seek-your personal perfection. “But we entreat you,” says St. Paul, “that you abound more, and that you use your endeavor to be quiet, and that you work with your hands, as we commanded you; and that you walk honestly towards them that are without; and that you want nothing of any man’s.” (I Thess. IV., 10,11.) There are no limits to that perfection to which you may aspire. Your proficiency shall not be found in the clamor and confusion of the world, but in the quiet of the interior life, in peace of conscience and intimate union with God. Your chief business is the salvation of your
Spend a few rocks on Rock.
’Sfie Moure ^ameSchdascic
r,
22
own soul. In thus seeking your perfection you will walk blameless before the stranger, and in seeking nothing of any man’s, you will have that sufficiency and contentment,, which are the basis of the liberty of spirit of the religious life. In the measure that you seek and realize your own perfection, in this degree will you enable your precious charges to realize for themselves the Divine Command, “Be Ye Perfect.” In this is the glory, the nobility and the reward of. the sublime work of Christian education in which you are privileged to labor.
THE BELLS OF NOTRE DAME.
GERALD J. HAGAN.
During the mass one Sunday a bell in the church tower rang out the hour of ten. There is nothing remarkable in this fact alone, for it is probable that thousands of other bells were doing the same thing in the same way and under more extraordinary conditions. What seemed remarkable to me was the fact that so few noticed the sound of the bell. Slowly and solemnly it spoke, as if it took pride in doing its task and in doing it well. Were this bell transformed into a person, I think that he would impress me as being a very sober-minded man, one who makes friends slowly and is faithful to those friends he does make.	'
I had just finished this reflection when the bell ceased tolling, and the silence which followed seemed to make more noticeable the fact that he was all alone on the outside, while those for whom he labored were on the inside, comfortably sheltered from the rain and, in all probability, giving him little thought. Thus he labors on through day and night for week after week, pausing only when silenced for the moment by the biting cold of winter. High in the tower he hangs, watching over his charges; telling them the hours and warning them to hurry as they enter the grounds late at night.
In striking contrast to this faithful fellow is the noisy, spiteful handbell, which parades up and down the corridors in the morning, seeming to take a childish delight in break? ing in on our slumbers., He does not seem to realize the importance of sleep, a subject concerning which great men have seen fit
to write, and a thing to which even the greatest are subject. One can imagine this bell sitting in the corner of the prefect’s room all night waiting for the first light of dawn when he can come rushing down the hall to take a malicious delight in waking us up.
No bell on the grounds seems more conscious of his responsibility than the six-ton bell which rings on Easter Sundays and on the opening days of school. He speaks infrequently, but his words are words of importance. He is a sacred task-announcing the anniversary of the rising of Christ, and the beating waves of sound pour forth from his throat in a solemnly joyful way to give his message to all who are listening for the first tidings of Easter. •
Up near the big bell I found the chimes, apparently the happiest of Notre Dame’s bells. Their music is clear and sweet, like the voices of children singing.
Such bells as these might as well be considered representative of people as lifeless bells. All kinds of men are typified by these bells, from those whose words are infrequent to those who rattle on to no good purpose. The judicious, the solemn, the happy, the malicious man—all these have representation in the bells of Notre Dame.
THE NYMPH.
Oh I have watched the sun slip down; the clouds all pink, the dome sweet gold—
And I have seen the mountain stand up sparkling in the dawn;
One morn I saw the silver frost on purple grapes and leaves kissed cold;
And I have seen a yellow rose, amidst a soft green lawn.
Now each is mine, And each a shrine, And to a shrine I take my love, I take my love, my love.
A glorious sun abides with me, to light my soul, to warm my heart;
A mountain charges me with strength, and I rise from the ground.
A silvery morn, a yellow rose—for me to love, with which I part
Because I cannot be a slave—I am not beautybound.
For wheresoe’er a fountain be
I take a sip to freshen me But-not to drown.
- For each is mine, and each a shrine And from each shrine I take my love, I take away my love.	E. V.
Noure Same Scholastic
23
HOLY SMOKE.
LIM’RICKS.
There was a young lady named Jones Who was good at rolling the bones; ■
She didn’t play dice—
That wouldn’t be nice—
But she danced the ’nes’ out of Jones.
***
There was a young fellow named Jello Whose face had turned a dark yellow; When I asked, “How come?”
He muttered, “By gum, Jello made Jello turn yellow.”
OPTIMISTIC TICKS.
Only 27,386,999 seconds until Christmas.
* ¥
The optimism and originality of our journalists is shown by the fact that they are studying to be printer’s angels. An angel can live on next to nothing, y’know.
The most unlucrative enterprise we know of, Mr. Gibbons, is expecting the prefect to sample a weird brand of humor.
All ladies on the faculty will please refrain from flirting.
A reward is offered for the Freshie who called it the O—liver Hotel.
***
It’s very easy to make a girl with pretty teeth smile; that’s why one with false teeth will always be true.
EYES.
Some people dote on eyes of blue And some like eyes of gray, Some love the soft brown baby eyes That open like the day
I can not tell what kind of eyes May grip the heart of you, But if you want to know my taste—
I like ’em black and blue.
I like an eye that has looked in Where angels fear to tread, An eye that has been all but knocked Out of a person’s head;
Others may choose to look into Peepers of softer hue,
But if you want to know my choice— - I like ’em black and blue.
BEESWAX	' "
He kissed the maiden on the cheek
And bravely smelt the fatal powder: The maiden said, while she did shriek, “The explosion next time will be louder”
THE POOR FISH.—A STORY.
BY LOUISA SIMPSON.
1,400 Words.—Usual Rates.
John Jones, a handsome dapper young man, had just come home from the ;K. T. Army. This, understand gentle reader, does not consist of noble youths who hold kangaroo courts and measure their fellowheroes for saddles; it is made up those gingerly inheritors of the golden spoon who are most ruthless in their desparate assaults upon the enemy, Time. No army in the world wears prettier neckties, and of none can it be said that it puts on a nicer complexion.
As I have said, John Jones, the handsome dapper young man, had come home from this army. He was called thither by a stern father who began life in the rear end of a Kedzie Avenue cafe— those who know Chicago will understand—and was winding it up by making a fortune out of beef tea. “More nutritious than soda water” was the magnificent slogan upon which the great commercial establishment of “Jones’ Beef Tea—from Young Calves” had been built.
It has been intimated, gentle reader, that Jones, Sr. was a stem man. Accordingly one is not surprised to discover that he eyed his son in such a way as to intimate that he would not make good, wholesome tea. “John,” he said, “you are a Jones.” “Yes Father,” replied the unfortunate youth. “Well, prove your worth,” continued the manufacturer. John turned his pockets inside out very obediently.
Three day later John was seated behind a great desk somewhere. There was nothing on the desk. There was nothing on John except the usual articles. There was nothing for to worry John. He was a major in his old outfit. He was going to school.
And the question is, “Where?”
—THE END—
CORRESPONDENCE.
Please rush that Summer School Thesis entitled, “Relations of the Areas of the Sixty-Four Triangles Formed by Forcing Points of Contact of the Inscribed and Escribed Circles of a Triangle.” It must be hot stuff.
***
And, 0 Holy Smoke, please have that guy campused or something who uses the word Frosh in this here city paper.	SILAS.
Our “Johnny” is no walker, but he hits the spot.
$fie Noure Same Schdastic
^otpejhmejcholastic
DISCE QUASI-SEMPER-VICTURVS VIVE- QUASI CRAS MOR1TVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LV.	OCTOBER I, 1921.	NO. 2
BOARD OF EDITORS:
Robert D. Shea, '22
Harold E. McKee, ’22
Karl Arndt, ’22
Leo R; Ward, C. S. C., ’23
Vincent EngeLs, ’23
Frank Wallace, ’23
J. W. Hogan, C. S. C.. ’25
R. M.. Murch, C. S. C., ’23 Edwin Murphy, ’23
Gerald Hagan, - ’23	-
Charles Mdlz, ’24
Frank McGinnis, ’24
ADVERTISING:
Aaron H. Huguenard, ’22 Charles Hirschbuhl, ’22
BUSINESS:	.
Paul Breen, ’23
We
“REMEMBER!”
know all these things and we are
happy to know YOU.
J. E. G.
ART:
H. W. Flannery, ’23
This coming section of the history of Notre Dame is going to be signed by YOU. The effort, the cheerfulness, the readiness which you give to the Roll Your Own. student life of this University during the coming nine months will have the same effect on that life as Sapolio has on a smoky windowpane.
We aren’t writing an “ad” for Sapolio, however; we’re campaigning for you. Because we believe that as an active member of any of the existing school organizations you can do a man’s work; because we are sure that as a student you -can serve yourself and the school alike.; because we are willing to bet that you Can help to achieve some of the things yet remaining to be done, we are glad to see that you are rolling up your sleeves.	.
The greatest gridiron squad in Notre Dame’s memory is getting your enthusiastic support ; you are behind the S. A. C. now and you will continue to be there; you are certain that the Faculty is doing its best; you are going to see that we are a lively group of workers for the expansion of Notre -Dame; you are ready to start that Players’ Club, that Orchestra^ that Glee Club, that Band, that Debating Team, in the only way —the steam-roller way.
On showing visitors around the campus, the Notre Dame man points with special pride to that imposing stone edifice known '	as Lemonnier Library. It
The Library is certainly not to be Habit.	denied that this building
is one of the most beautiful on the grounds, but it is to be feared that most of the students admire its architecture more than they do its. usefulness.
The acquiring of some habits is necessary to fill out the college man’s education, and one of these is the practice of spending some time each day in reading. If Bacon ever wrote a true sentence, it was that “reading maketh a full man.” Invariably, the well-informed person is One. who has a definite time set aside to spend among his books.
Students of Notre Dame, go over to th a Library and inspect it. There you will find countless works of reference, the better kind of fiction, and files of all the magazines. Get the habit of frequenting the Library; you will never regret it.	A. E. H.
The clever man is . one who can keep others from knowing that he is aware of his cleverness.
The poet says well that happiness lies all around jis, and why do most bf us always seek it abroad?

'Sfie Moure domeSdiokwcic
The greatest year of Notre Dame is the material-of her greatest yearbook. Indeed, the treasures which are to be stored away in the Dome during the com-Dome Duties, ing months are richer and . more numerous than ever before. But the Dome was never built in a day, nor- was a perfect Dome ever the work of a small board of editors. A school book must be the product of the cooperating efforts of the whole school. The Dome virtually transforms the school year into a book, and this mighty task must be shared by all lest some of it remain undone, for mere election, does not give to the Editor-in-Chief and his staff the power of performing miracles.	.
It is your book, so that if you find fault you are criticizing your own work which consists mainly in cooperation and support. Even if you are not a literary genius or a great artist, thank your stars and get busy. To be the greatest yearbook of the greatest year is the purpose of the ’22 Dome. If you are uncertain of this—do your share.
K. A.
.	IN MEMORIAM
The death of Dr. William Iverson Morrison (B. S. 1890), occurred at Fort Madison, Iowa, on August 2nd., the Feast of St. Francis, to whom he had always been singularly devoted. Though his life had been shadowed by sickness for many years, he was active in his manifold service to others until his death.
■ ■’ . - ***
Edward H. Gilman of Detroit, Mich., is another old student who was called by the Master during the summer. His death was a .deep-felt loss to his large circle of friends. “Warmhearted, generods, uncritical of others, he took life as he found it and made it rich—and ever gave more than he received.”
***
The sudden death of Robert Daugherty, (B. S. 1917), at Chicago" on July 17th., brought sorrow to his friends among the
25
Notre Dame faculty and alumni. His brilliant carreer as a student, and his progress . in the business world pointed to ft wonderful future, but he was taken away as he stood at its very door. Notre Dame remembers him as a gentleman whose exemplary virtues and congenial nature made him the friend of both young and old.'
. ***
- News has been received at Notre Dame of the death during, the summer of Judge John J. Ney at his home at Independence, Iowa, as the result of a paralytic stroke which had rendered him helpless a year before. Judge Ney received his degree (LL.B.) at Notre Dame in 1874, and did post-graduate work here the following year. That he was an excellent lawyer and active citizen is attested by his rapid rise in public affairs soon after he commenced the practice of his profession. His election to the office of mayor in 1878 was followed in 1884 by his appointment to the judgeship of the Tenth District. This he resigned in 1894 to assume the duties of professor in the Iowa College of Law. Four years later he gave up this position to devote himself to his large and enviable practice. Throughout his truly Catholic life success came to him in all that he did, for he was unselfish whether in the service of community, university or Church. The Press-Citizen of Iowa City pays the following tribute to this eminent son of Notre Dame:
“Judge Ney’s record on the bench was remarkable. Few, if any jurists in Iowa achieved the high distinction that he won, as a judge whose instructions were pre-eminently fair, well-grounded on the surest and safest of law; and clear and succinct to a remarkable degree, for the guidance of the juries; and the aid of the bar.
Phenomenally few reversals of Judge Ney’s rulings were handed down by' the supreme court of Iowa, during his more than a decade of service as jurist in the Iowa courts.	.
He won the warmest of places in the hearts of his clients, as an honorable, able and trust-worthy attorney; and in the breasts of a countless number^ of friends in other circles of life, regardless of his professional connection with these admirers of the man,-as a-citizen.”	.	..	.
R. L P.
. There’ll be no passing our Buch?’ on October 22nd.
26	Noure Same Scholastic
THE SNAPPY S. A. C.
Marion is not the only town in Ohio which can lay claim to a leader of a very important governing body. Hark I ye, to the stentorian plea of Logan. Frank C. Blasius, Jr., is the man and the Student Activities Committee is the body. Under Frank’s able helmsmanship,—he carried off the chairman job by the overwhelming majority of a unanimous vote,—the Committee has weighed anchor and is sailing along merrily on the sea of Student problems.
At the organization meeting and at the one meeting held since the nitial session, the Committeemen have shed their coats, rolled up their sleeves and plunged up to their necks into the consideration of weighty problems which confront the poor, downtrodden student. The “pep” meeting before the Kalamazoo game, which was made remarkable because of its substantial enthusiasm was the outcome of this diligent application.
A brief chronicle of other events which had their beginning in the “highbrow room” of the Library and record of the activities of this Committee is given here.
James Murtaugh was appointed Chairman o fthe Official Home-coming Dance Committee, and he promises men who remember with tears in their eyes the grand Returnback dance of 1920, that they will have even a better time this year.
All the out-of-town games will be given play by play on Cartier Field due to the diligence of the committee in arranging for the wires to be brought in from town. The student body is depended upon to send back to the team any message which may be necessary by its hearty response to the urge of the cheer leader.
Fo rthe purpose of ascertaining the fittest men for different activities on the campus the S. A. C. has devised the Student Record Card, large quantities of which were distributed in all the halls this week. The file of these cards will become a valuable record particularly of the Freshman classes. Until the present time it was practically impossible to get a “line” on the particular qualities of men in the first year which might make them valuable to various campus organizations.
Last year, the first year of a student gov
erning body at Notre Dame, proved the dire need of such a body at the University. For nine months the S. A. C. was a success. It did a number of things for the betterments of student life for which it received the earnest appreciation of the whole school. This year the Committee is out to do even bigger things. It has gained prestige on the campus and the students are placing their confidence in its ability, knowing that their sick will be presented in its most reasonable light. The Committee will give reanesetouniM The Committee will give earnest consideration to every and all petitions and it requests the good will and cooperation of every man in school.
Put confidence in your own representatives.
DEBATERS, ATTENTION!
Notre Dame debaters will engage this year in two sets of debates on the subject “Resolved: ‘That the principle of the closed shop is justifiable.’ ” The debating schedule has been arranged as it was last year, with three schools of each section going into action on the first Friday of March. In the Northern triangle Wabash, Valparaiso, and Notre Dame will hold forth, while the other schools which will be represented in their respective sections are Goshen College, Purdue, Franklin, Earlham, Butler, Manchester, and De-Pauw. On the third Friday of March Notre Dame teams will meet Indiana University and Indiana Central.
Effort is being made by Father Bolger to secure teams from outside the league to furnish additional opposition to the local orators. Detroit University and Ohio State have been invited to participate in dual debates arid it is probable that these schools will welcome the opportunity to avenge the defeats administered by Notre Dame last year.
The prospect for a successful team at Notre Dame is especially bright with every member of last year’s teams back at school and with growing interest in debating evidencing itself among the students who hav * not participated in years past. According to the state ruling, post-gra’duate students in attendance at the university are eligible


Noure dame Scholastic
to inter-collegiate competition. While expressing great respect for the prowess of the opponents to be encountered, Father Bolger is optimistic over the outlook.
G. HAGAN.
‘^MEMORY SKETCHES”—A REVIEW.
(TO FATHER P. J. CARROLL, C. S. C., BY R.E.M.)
“The vivid fancy of the Celt, it is his strength and his weakness.” This brief quotation from Father Carroll’s “Memory Sketches” is a fitting resume of the delightful and charming volume. The vivid fancy of the Celt and ordinary ability in narrative will make any story interesting, but let that ability be greater than usual, let it be the ability of the born story-teller, and the product of the happy union will be most delightful. In “Memory Sketches,” however, there is an aesthetic element, the charm of poetry. Father Carroll has already attained prominence in the realm of poetry, and in the present volume of prose there is not a character that is not rich with poetical thoughts and expressions. The obvious purpose of the “Sketches” is to please and to reawaken the sympathy of the reader for the people “back home” in the land of the Celt; “to quicken the pensive mood and the sigh for long ago.” Father John, the pastor at Gree-labeg, is the central character of nearly every story. He is a warm-hearted, gentle, and cultured priest, and above all a man of God. Around him are his parishioners, men and women of four score years and children still “in the classes,” interesting and pleasant people whose devotion to home and country is supassed only by the love they give to God. Round about is the land of memories, the hills of Ballyadan and the River Deel. Matthews says that “the story has always been popular; and the desire is deep rooted in all of us to hear and to tell some new thing or to tell again something deserving remembrance.” Father Carroll has done this and more; his picture of Irish peasant life will make known to the people of every nationality the untold needs of his heroes. They are the people of the hearth and the
27
field that everyone knows and for whom so many have only sympathy. And finally the book is personal—in full accord with the hope expressed in the foreword, the readers will unmistakably “see in my Father John, a Father John of their own; in the Deel gliding past Athery and Creelabeg, a Deel making music elsewhere; in the hedge, the garden, the bog-field in my small world, a hedge, a garden, a bog-field in the world where their young lives were lived.”
(Publisher: School Plays Publishing Company, South Bend, Indiana.)
QUOD IS ON THE QUAD.
Early last week Notre Dame received a visitfrom Judge Galen of Helena, well known Montana jurist. Mr. Galen graduated from Notre Dame 32 years ago and was pleased to have the opportunity to pay a visit to the school. While here he was a member of the “Fighting Irish” of that time and still carries marks of the historic encounter with the American College of Physicians and Surgeons. Judge Galen gave evidence of his faith in Notre Dame by bringing back his son, James, to complete his prep course.
On Monday evening, September 26, the Chemist Club held its first meeting this year. Plans were discussed which ought to make the club one of the most active organizations on the quad. The members desire to enroll every student of chemistry on the campus, and that means a crowd. The following men were elected to office: Arthur H. Val-lez, Pres.; Harry J. Hoffman, Vice-Pres.; George Uehlmeyer, Sect.-Treas. and Fred W. Glahe, member at large of the executive committee. Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, dean of the College of Science, was unanimously elected to the Office of Honorary President.
***
What promises to be the most decollette affair of the season is the Homecoming Dance to be floored under the direction of the Student Activity Corporation. The postmaster already reports congestion in the mails as a consequence of the bids and
“Hector” does’nt live in Troy; he’s right here.
r i
Notre dame Scholastic
;	28
;	counter-bids the Dance is inspiring. It is
.	reported one Corby “lion”	has issued applica-
i	tions to fifteen delightful	young co-eds,	two
1	of them N. D. co-eds.
;	V V
!	On Tuesday the S. A. C. held its election
|	of officers for the coming term, placing
I	Frank Blasius of Logan, Ohio, in the office
of chairman and Frank McGinnis of Toledo, 1	secretary. Charles Foley of Burns, Oregon,
’■	was made treasurer, but later withdrew,
■•j	having moved to the campus after being
elected to represent the Day-Dodgers. The :	office of treasurer will , remain open until the
■	next election.
; > $ $
■	A convivial entertainment, Wednesday
j	night, announced the opening of the season
f	at Badin Hall. Fr. Finnegan, at the be;	ginning of what promises to be the most
i	successful season since the inception of
Badin Hall, spoke in glowing terms of his
‘	hopes and fears for the year. A green haze
filled the atmosphere, much akin to the
i	lush color of the Spring lawn, and not un-
like the verdant appearance of Christmas
i	jewelry about the same time of the year. He
<	warned them against walking across the
i	campus on forbidden paths, which is the
i	privilege of juniors and upper classmen
only. He warned them against approaching too near the water’s edge. He cautioned 9 them to keep away from Corby Hall, and added an admonition urging them to keep i	away from dark places and never to be seen
s	after dark alone. It is hoped they are
!	avoiding all dire consequences by heeding
timely advice.
*** .
i	In the shortest time on record in the an-
i	nals of the university, Al Slaggert was de-
liberately chosen Grand Knight of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, by unanimous vote. On the sam'e ticket, Eugene Heidelman became Deputy Grand Knight without causing dissention. Frank Blasius ; was returned treasurer on the face of a spot-
■ less career. Financial Secretary is John R. Flynn, song-writer of note. Jas. Murtaugh was elected Recording Secretary; Steve Wilson, chancellor; Worth Clark, advocate.
• The guards are Carroll, Mclnerny and Welsh. The Grand Knight and chaplain
/ ■
were chosen to represent Notre Dame Council at the opening of the Gibalt Home in Terre Haute.
Louis Bruggner, much mentioned N. D. publicist, qualified in the semi-finals for Poetry, with a rating of “honorable mention” in the annual college anthology of verse, “Poets of the Future.” His winning effort was “To My Friend,” which appeared in the SCOLASTIC last April. Mr. Bruggner has been engaged for a series of lectures before the “Writers’ Club” which held its first meeting, Friday. His topic was “The Ko Koo Klan, Promise or Menace.” Harry A. Flannery, the celebrated pre-Raphaelite artist, presided. A pastel by Clifford Ward was assigned the honors of the evening.
♦**
The Scholastic has discontinued the practice of sending receipts, as the date on the address label—to appear soon—will serve that purpose. Please note that date.
E. W. MURPHY.
FAMILIAR FOLKS.
Richard “Dick” Daly, Journalism 1917, is now in charge of the rotogravure section of the Erie Dispatch. N. D.’s former basketball captain is still boosting hard for the old school.
One hundred and one class-enrollment cards have been made out for “journalists.” The total enrollment for last year was sixty-five. . .
Prof. Robert Lee Green, head of the Notre Dame School of Pharmacy, has purchased and taken up his residence in a pretty, new home in Edgewater. Dr. Frank J. Powers, attending physician of the University, is his near neighbor.
Vincent Engels, junior journalist, debater and good student, has been appointed Notre Dame sport correspondent for the South Bend News-Times. The veteran sport writer, Frank Wallace, his classmate, retains the rest of the sport writing in his capable hands. ■
Maurice Dacy, junior journalist, will be back in a week -or two. Maurice did “country” last summer, and became so interested in the mechanical side of newspaper production that he entered the Mergenthaler lino-
Nocre 6ame Scholastic	29
typp school in Chicago. His course being about completed, his friends will soon welcome him back.	'
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Breslin and little daughter, of Louisville, Ky., visited their son, Frank Jr., over Sunday.
James Franklin Adams, who gave up a lucrative and promising position with the Studebaker Corporation in order to attend the Notre Dame. School of Journalism, is the University’s newspaper correspondent in covering general news. He has had several years of newspaper experience.
Dudley M. Shively, LL. M., 1892, and Frank Gilmer, composing the firm of Shively and Gilmer announce that they have associated with themselves, in the general practice of law, Walter Arnold and M. Edward Doran, LL. B., ’20; and the firm will hereafter be known as Shively, Gilmer, Arnold & Doran with offices in the Farmers Trust Building, South Bend, Indiana.
From Joe Flick, student here during 191720, we have the following news: “Am glad to inform you that I have successfully passed the bar examination for which Notre Dame deserves all the credit. Now I am also’the father of a baby boy born a few days ago; this of course brings happiness to my wife and to all interested.”
Harry M. McCullough, ’20, in other words, “Mac”, is now associated with’ the banking firm of George M. Bechtel & Co., of Des Moines, Davenport and Dubuque, and as the Tri-City representative of their bond house, predicts 1921 a record year in that business.
On September 20 a banquet was held in Los Angeles by alumni and former students of Notre Dame for the purpose of organizing the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles and' of discussing means whereby such a club may advance Notre Dame interests in that section of the country.
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago, composed of alumni and former students of Notre Dame held its annual meeting for the election of officers on September 22. Tribute was paid Mr. Francis J. Hayes, the retiring president, for his efforts in behalf of the
club in general and the financial success of the Notre Dame-Northwestern game last year in particular. The new officers are: Harold Fisher, ’10, president; D. E. Hii-gartner ’17, vice-president; A. A. McNichols ’17, secretary; R. J. Dunn ’18, treasurer. The Board of Governors for the ensuing year includes Fred L. Steers, Tom Shaughnessy, Joe Sullivan, Leo J. Hassenauer, Walter O’Sullivan, Frank J. Hurley, James Sanford, Joe Pliska, and Alden J. Cusick.
.	FLANNERY.
WHAT’S WHAT IN ATHLETICS.
Crumpling Kazoo.
The annual fall examinations for Prof. Rockne’s class in football were inaugurated on Cartier Field on Sept. 24; and every student in the four sections came through with a passing mark. As was expected, the first test, that in Kalamazooks, was rather easy and the class earned a perfect mark of 56-0.
While a stiffer test is expected in the De-pauw mystery subject this afternoon the first real exam will come when Iowa is tackled at Iowa City next Saturday. From that time on the students of gridding will be subject to the real grind and all night pers and dancing classes have been discontinued until the exams are concluded by a test in Agriculture on Thanksgiving Day.
Although the opening subject of Kazooks was not considered important still it proved that Rockne has collected some very good students, several of whom have a possible chance of winning the scholarship prizes offered by the Walters, Camp and Eckersall, at the completion of the exams. Johnny Mohardt, who led the junior class in grid-ding last term, proved his ability to claim the valedictorian honors this year while Shaw, Capt. Eddie Anderson, Kiley, Hunk Anderson, Mehre, Dooley, and Wynne threaten to finish their course cum laude.
Coughlin, Larson, Cotton, Carberry, Voss, Thomas, Garvey, Degree, Walsh, Kane and other juniors continued to improve while the professor uncovered promising new students
If you’re in Rome, dont worry - • Come Home,
30
Tote Moure dome Scholastic
HOLDING 'EM.
in Desh, Lieb, Maher, Reass, McGivney, Smith, Cameron and Mayl. Desch, who has already won a scholarship in track, promises to become one of the brightest pupils ever turned out of the football class. Paul Cast-ner didn’t get a try on account of a wrenched groin which everybody hopes will be better soon.
So that all may determine the true merits of their respective favorites, we submit the following detailed account of the questions and answers of the complete examination in Kazooks: The notes were taken in the classroom and an apology is asked for those imperfections caused by the incredible speed with which some of the questions were answered.
First Half.
A big cheer from the student bleachers announced the coming of the Notre Dame team and Al Slaggert officially opened the season with a cheer for Coach Rockne. The )
newly numbered N. D. men scattered over the field and Al led another tremendous yell for the Kalamazooks. Eddie Degree amazes the fans with his punting, Coach Rockne appears with a raincoat, white-clad officials gather in the center of the field and the subs rush off.
A strong wind was blowing when Gaston kicked off to Wynne, who ran the length of the field a good 80 yards for a touchdown.
Shaw kicked goal. Score, N. D., 7, Kazoo, 0.
Garvey kicked over the goal line and the ball was brought to the 20 yard line. Taylor off left tackle for 3 yards but lost 5 when Mohardt made a pretty tackle. Gaston punted 20 yards, Thomas returned 5 to 50 yard line. Mohardt out on the' play but returned. Coughlin left end for 35. Mohardt around r. e. for 5. Wayne off-tackle to 2 yard line. Thomas sneaked through center for a touchdown. Shaw kicked goal.
Garvey kicked over the goal again. Ball in play on 20 yard line. Vroeg broke through left guard for 30 yards, Thomas stopping him. Coughlin intercepted pass. Mohardt around r. e. for 20 yard. Wynne 5 through center. Mohardt made 25 around end but was called back and N. D. penalized 5. Lieb in for Mohardt. N. D. ball on Kazoo 45 yard line. Lieb 25 around r. e. Coughlin in a sensational 20 straight through center. Wynne touchdown through center. Shaw kicked goal. Desch in for Coughlin.
Garvey kicked to Van Fossen on the Kazoo 40 and he was downed. Garvey has the boys scared. N. D. too anxious to get in. Garvey downed Taylor on a fake kick. Wynne intercepted pass on 25. Lieb drove through for 15 but N. D. penalized 5. Desch 25 around 1. e. Wynne made 10. Thomas sneaked through again for a touchdown. Shaw kicked goal. .
Noure dome Scholastic
31
Garvey kicked to Van Fossen who went 10 yards to the 30. Garvey nailed Casteel for a 5 yard loss, and reached around the end and clipped Taylor for another loss. Gaston punted 30 to Lieb who fumbled and Thomas recovered. Lieb 10, Desch 20 on a peach but was out on the play. Desch came back, Wynne 5 through center. Desch 15 through center, for a touchdown. Shaw kicked goal.
2nd team in. Lieb kicked behind goal. Ball on 20. Desch broke up pass. Hayden punted to Reass in mid field. Lieb 20 but penalized 10. Phelan through r. ,g. for 10. Bungled pass. N. D. penalized 5 off side. Kazoo received punt on own 30. Lieb made a pretty tackle. Vroeg, injured but came back. Lieb 10. Desch 50 for touchdown but ball returned to 20 yard line out of bounds. Reass 10 for another touchdown but ball brought back. Lieb 5. Reass through center for touchdown. Lieb kicked goal.
Lieb kicked to Hayden, who returned to 25. 3 line plays smeared. Fumble—N. D. ball on 10. Lieb hurdled through 8 for touchdown, but time was up and score didn’t count.
Second Half.
The first team went back with the exception of Thomas who was replaced by Mc-Givney. Vroeg received on .the 40 yard line and was downed there. Mehre batted down a pass. Wynne threw Coleman for a loss after the latter had received a pass. Kazoo punted to McGivney who returned 12 yards. Wynne made 5 and Coughlin 6. Mohardt darted around right end for a pretty 30 yards and a touchdown. Shaw kicked goal.
Casteel returned Garvey’s kick 5 yards. Kazoo kicked out of bounds on their 40 yard line. On the first N. D. play Mohardt stepped* out again for 40 yards and his second touchdown. Shaw kicked his 7th goal without a miss. Score 56-0. Garvey kicked to the 20 yard line and on the first play tore in and threw Casteel for a loss. Shaw deflected a kick which went out of bounds. Mohardt shot a 35 yard pass which Capt. Eddie took
with his finger tips—a wonderfully executed play which brought cheers. The third team went in and Kane made 10 and Maher 5. May! smeared two passes. Thomas returned to the game and tore off two runs for’ 25 and 10 yards. Walsh in at fullback2 and is pulling some deadly tackles. Kane continued his good work with McDermott making sizeable gains. •
In the fourth quarter the rain began to come rather heavily, the crowd began to leave and everybody but the players to lose interest in the game. Haying considerable work to do in other fields after the referee’s whistle we abandoned the attempt at play by play and must plead guilty to ignoring the efforts of those of the third and fourth string who finished the game. No more scoring occurred and the ball remained outside the danger zone of either goal.
LINE-UP AND SUMMARY.
KALAMAZOO	NOTRE DAME
Coleman______________1. e--------------Kiley
Doyle________________1. t--------------Shaw
Jacobs_______________1. g________H. Anderson
Clay_________________c.________________Mehre
Harder_______________r. g._____:_______Dooley
Gaston____________i__r. t______________Garvey
Malcomson (c)________r. e-----E. Anderson (c)
Casteel______________q._______=______Thomas
Vroeg________________1. h  __________Mohardt
Van Fossen___________r. h._'_________Coughlin
Taylor_______________f. b______________Wynne
Score by periods:—
Kalamazoo _____________________ 0 0 0 0
Notre Dame_____________________35 7 14 0
Touchdowns:—Notre .Dame—Wynne, 2; Thomas 2; Desch, 1; Reass, 1; Mohardt, 2.
Goals from touchdown:—Shaw, 7; Lieb, 1. .
Sir.
Substitutions:—Notre Dame: Lieb for Mohardt, Desch for Coughlin, Voss for Shaw, Degree for Dooley, Reass for Thomas, Larson for Mehre, Cotton for Garvey, Phelan for Wynne, Seyfrit for E. Anderson, Carberry for Kiley, Higi for H. Anderson, Flynn for Voss, Kane for Mohardt, Maher for Coughlin, Miller for Shaw, Smith for McGivney, Reagan for Larson, Cameron for Seyfrit, Mayl for Carberry, Brown for Higi.
Substitutions:—Kalamazoo:	Hayden for Van
Fossen, Spurgeon for Malcomson. '
Referee:—Costello, Georgetown. Umpire:—Gardner, Cornell. Head Linesman:—Wyatt, Missouri.
“I’ll do the best we can”—Hunk Anderson.
32
Howe dame Schokrecic
0, IOWA!
Unusual features are grouped around the Iowa—Notre Dame football contest to be staged at Iowa City on the afternoon of Saturday, October 8, as both teams are Western championship contenders entering their first important game of the year.
Iowa will meet Illinois on the Saturday following the Notre Dame encounter while the Iowa clash will mark the beginning of a series for Notre Dame unequalled in severity by any similar schedule in the country. Following Iowa, will come in the short period of 31 days, Purdue, Nebraska, Indiana, West Point and Rutgers.
If Notre Dame wins the Iowa contest, Rockne is assured of at least a fighting chance to pull his men through a clean schedule ; while a setback at Iowa will mean the first defeat which Notre Dame has suffered in three seasons and the ruination of the present promising year. The game will determine the real strength of the new men who have taken the place of Gipp and other stars lost by graduation.
Danny Coughlin, who has stepped into the place left vacant in the backfield by Gipp, was formerly a member of the Camp Dodge eleven and was a halfback on Eckersall’s second Western service eleven. Eddie Anderson, captain and possible all-American end of Notre Dame, was a prep school tiate of Belding, all-Westem end of the Hawk-eyes. Earl Walsh, Glen Carberry, Bob Phelan and Buck Shaw, the latter one of the best tackles in the country, are all residents of Iowa.
An interesting sidelight of the game will be tile clash between’Duke Slater, all-Wes-tern tackle of the lowans, and Hector Garvey, big tackle of Notre Dame eleven who is being boosted for all-Westem honors by
his admirers and whose meeting with Slater should result in a game-long duel.
INTER-HALL FOOTBALL SCHEDULE.
OCTOBER 2.—Corby-Sorin; Badin-Brownson; Carroll-Walsh. Free—Day Students.
OCTOBER 9.—Sorin-Brownson; Corby-Badin; Carroll-Day Students. Free—Walsh.
OCTOBER 16.—Badin-Day Students; Sorin-Walsh; Brownson-Corby. Free—Carroll.
OCTOBER 23.—Corby-Carroll; Walsh-Day Students ; Sorin-Badin. Free—Brownson.
OCTOBER 30.—Corby-Walsh; Carroll-Brownson;
Sorin-Day Students. Free Badin.
NOVEMBER 6.—Badin-Carroll; <Corby-Day Students; Brownson-Walsh. Free—Sorin.
NOVEMBER) 13.—Brownson-Day Students; Sorin-Carroll; Badin-Walsh. .Free—Corby.
TODAY’S TUSSLE.
The little battle with DePauw, which Car-tier Field is staging this afternoon, is likely to bring out some of the best that is in this year’s fighting Notre Dame team. While it is true that past history shows us always blessed with a wide margin in every contest with this Indiana school, things have changed. DePauw has opened a new athletic era with a football squad that seems to possess the best kind of material. This will not be the brand of tussle that Kalamazoo gave us last Saturday.
Notre Dame remains handicapped by the absence of Chet Grant, star quarter. This dodging driver is about ready to step into the game to the great delight of those who know that Ulysses Simpson had nothing on his little namesake; but at present Rock must confine his smiles to Thomas, Reass, and McGivney, every one of whom are good men and bid fair to develop into Napoleons of the pigskin.	Frank Wallace.
-----------------NOTICE——-------------------------
The game will be called at two-thirty, October 22nd.
Reserved seats are priced at $2.50; box seats will be held at $3.00.
Money must accompany reservations; a self-addressed, registered envelope will facilitate matters. Address: K. K. Rockne, Athletic Director.
i