Vol. XXL	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 24, 1887.	No. 3.
In Memoriam.
•p *
[Rev. Richard Shortis, C. S. C., who departed this life at Notre Dame, on the 14th inst., has left a record of most complete self-abnegation, and unceasing sacrifice in the cause of Christian education. Endowed with a rarely gifted mind, and possessed of superior accomplishments and culture, he has impressed an indelible mark upon the Institution with which he was so long and so intimately associated. The large number of pupils who for so many years have enjoyed the inestimable privi-leo^e of his valuable instructions, both from the altar and in the'class-room, will never forget the *	__ o
debt of gratitude they owe to him. Though words are feeble to delineate the grandeur of a life like his, a friend of olden days offers the following humble tribute:]
1.
His gentle soul has passed away from earth As unobtrusively as it had dwelt
In its clay tenement; his crown of worth Unnoted, save by angels. Time had dealt, , From year to year, most tenderly by him, And gladness, genial mirth, seemed as a part Of his benignant presence. Never dim,
They formed exhaustless sources in his heart;
i	That noble heart, so feeling and so kind,
t	So dutiful and of so lofty mould,
That deep contentment with his life entwined; Thus, even in age, that true heart grew not old.
11.
Now he has gone from his accustomed place ,	To never more return. How we are grieved
I	To miss the pleasant smile, the kindly face,
I	The cheerful words so sure to be received!
■	But we recall his austere, holy strife
For God and.for religion, and we know ThaLhe. will reap reward for such a life;
, And thereby find we balm to heal our woe.
Few are the.natures, delicate, yet strong, .Armed with the erudition of the world;
Endowed with gifts that to her ranks belong—
• Whose lives, like his, Religion hath impearled.
in.
Ah, what a beauty hovers o’er his grave, The sacrificial crown of innocence!
The memory of a hidden life, and brave,
Which spurned time’s hollow meed of recompense;
The nimbus of a soul all pure and true,
Who, on the earth, yet lived as angels live,
His one ambition every day anew
To give afresh, of life, al! life can give
To God, whose claims are to the world unknown.
So did his “ three score years and ten ” glide by
In holy service of his God alone;
Precious the death of those like him who die!
IV.
The slender, fragile form, so weak and bowed
—More from his life-long labors- than from years— We shall not see again, when night’s dark cloud Rolls from the east, and radiant morn appears.
The sacred Altar, its fair lights aglow,
No more will beam upon.those gentle eyes;
No more those pallid hands, so grave, so slow, Will offer up the Holy Sacrifice!
But we shall ne’er forget, while^ife shall last, The saintly Chaplain, who for years and years His heavenly influence round our earth life.cast,
A holy power to turn to hopes our fears.
v.
The “ Exaltation of the Holy Cross” *
Was time well chosen for his glad release,—
To us some compensation for our loss—
To him a pledge of endless light and peace.
Heaven rest thee, Father Shortis! Prayers of thine, Thy charity, unstinted as the rays
Of joyous sunbeams—’neath the “ Saving Sign ”— Have filled the golden measure of thy days!
We who now mourn thee hopefully await
Reunion in our Fatherland for aye.
Count we the mornings to that blissful date
When we at last shall meet in endless day.
* The 14th of September, Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, is the patronal feast of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
He does well who regards rather the common good than his own will.— Thomas a Kempis.
3+
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Anmont Scandinavia.
The history of many of the peoples who ages ago inhabited the northern parts of the European continent is almost clouded in oblivion. The reminiscences which the history of ancient Scandinavia can add to those of the other Germanic tribes, though they are of a somewhat later period, nevertheless are .clothed in the most antique character.* From the history of this country we can form a better idea of the manners and customs which existed before the Roman influence had taken its spread. As one of their own historians has remarked, their internal or social history resembles the physical nature of their country. In the north, as all well know, the geologist can read the book of nature without any trouble; but as he comes south he finds it covered with later alluvia. Here he must first remove the more modern deposits if he wishes to understand thoroughly the primitive state. In this comparison the Swedish historian, Geizer, has given great insight into many points which have a connection not only with his own country but also with Denmark and Norway. He has laid open to us the manners, customs, and religious rites of the numerous hordes of barbarians who inhabited the North, and who in the course of time moved down like a mighty avalanche, ultimately subverting the Roman Empire. They, however, in their turn succumbed to the influence of Roman civilization. Their influence, such as it was, combined with the civilizing principles of Catholicity, gave a grand and new impulse to the moral civilization of the world. The. Teutons, Saxons, Franks, Longobards, Germans and Goths were all akin in the principles of their language, customs and institutions. It is a subject worthy of some thought by those persons or peoples who have sprung from these ancient Scandinavians, and in whose veins runs the admixture of Northern blood.
The question—who were the earliest inhabitants of Scandinavia? is one more easily asked than answered. In many of the Greek and Roman writers there is frequently' made mention of the people who dwelt at the end of the earth, and these are supposed to be Scandinavians. These allusions are vague, and give nothing definite; however, the many conflicting opinions which many writers have put forth- are founded on the testimony of these writers. There is no doubt that the people of Scandinavia belong, to the great Gothic-Germanic stock, but when we begin to seek any farther into their origin we become confused. The opinion which assigns priority to the Goths, is one which is greatly disputed. Some modern writers give a.very early date as the time when the Goths became known in Scandinavia, but by others the time of their migration is assigned to more recent times. The Eddas' are the earliest-records of ^Scandinavian mythology, and are believed to contain not only’ the theogonv and cosmogony' of this people, but also the traditions respecting the first inhabitants. The Asas or gods
are represented as being in perpetual warfare with gigantic beings, called Thurser, Jetter, and Jbnter. These so-called gods were, in all probability, the earliest settlers, to whom great reverence was paid. However, these persons are not believed to represent the people in possession of this land before the arrival of the Goths from their original cradle in the centre of Asia. There are discernible traces of three different peoples} or at least grades of civilization. The most noted of the archaeological monuments of" ancient Scandinavian history are the graves. These queer structures are found scattered in every portion of the land. The difference in structure, the manner in which the bodies are disposed and the weapons found in these famuli, give us reason to make the distinction of three periods; namely, the age of Stone, the age of Bronze, and the age of Iron. These three ages of Scandinavian history are named from the material chiefly' in use in making their weapons. The graves, or mounds, as they' may be called, are not the same in all parts of the country'. In the southern parts the age of stone is more prevalent. From the fact that those ancient relics of this race of people are found to begin in the south and somewhat eastern part of the country, we are led to conjecture that the migration came from the East, the direction of the land of the primitive Goth. These sepulchres are some of large, others of smaller dimensions. They' are formed of large slabs, which on the outer side are rough and irregular, but on the inner side are sometimes quite smooth. In the smaller kind, the entrance is generally marked by small compact stones. In the larger kind the entrance is in an improved condition, being guarded by' one large stone. Some of these tombs will measure on the inner side 4OOX4OX 16. Many of them are divided into compartments, in each of which was placed one body. The covering slab is generally large, and by' some this was considered as an altar on which human victims were immolated. This, however, may be doubted, since in many of them this slab is quite pointed on the upper side. In some of these tombs the bones are in confused masses, from which we infer that they were buried in their natural state. There are also found utensils, such as flint spears, fishing tackle, etc., which show they had not advanced to any very high-degree of civilization. Some rude specimens of pottery are also found. We can see that the race were not altogether nomadic, but settled, as the number of bones found in some of these tombs prove. In those sepulchres there are found the remains of many species of animals, such as the horse, fox, elk, etc., which in our time are not found within a great distance of this region.
There is also another source from which we can draw great information of this people, separated from us by at least thirty' centuries: I mean the bogs. In the times of these people, those bogs must have been great marshes, and during the lapse of so many centuries have been carbonized. These marshes now yield up their contents, which reveal to man facts of great importance. In many of these beds are found the bodies of human beings, pre- ’
THE NOTRE dame scholastic.
served in an almost perfect state by a chemical operation of the bog-water. The remains are clothed in untanned hides of animals then inhabiting these regions. These hides are sewed together in a loose manner by straps of the hide itself. Although these antiquities may suffice to give tn son e idea of the state of civilization to which the people had arisen,yet it in no way affords us any certain motive of conjecturing who were the original inhabitants. The Finns and Celts were the two great races of this part of the continent. To neither of these can we trace in any degree the origin of the Scandinavians. From what Tacitus tells us of the manners and customs of the" Finnic people, and from what we have learned of the manners and customs of the Scandinavians, some antiquarians say we can conjecture the identity of race. To this, others make some very strong objections, saying that from the fact that we find many utensils of the ancient Scandinavians similar to those of the Finnic races, we make too bold an assertion when we say that the Scandinavians are of Finnic origin, without any argument to substantiate it. For we see in America many of those same utensils which are found in the Scandinavian tombs and bogs; we find them also in the Polynesian Islands. But could we be so rash as to assert that the inhabitants of these places were all of Finnic origin? From the fact that we find these utensils in almost every country, we may rather conclude that civilization follows, as it were, a fixed rule. There are now many things which militate against the hypothesis that the ancient Scandinavians were of Finnic origin; for we have seen that the Scandinavians were not a nomad race, but when the Finns were compelled to leave their lands, situated further south, and seek a settlement further north, they left behind them no such sepulchral monuments as we find among the Scandinavians; and consequently we must conclude that the latter were not of Finnic origin. Nor can we in any way suppose they were of Celtic origin; for the manners and customs of the Celts, to a great extent, were wholly opposed to those which we know were characteristic of the Scandinavians. Among the Celts the custom of concremation. prevailed. They built no sepulchres, noi‘ any structures to preserve the bodies of their dead. Even in the western parts of Europe, the land of the Celts, there are found traces of some of the Scandinavian people who had migrated into those parts while the Celts still inhabited them. In many other places on the continent where many Celtic tribes dwelt for a long time, there arc found no traces which would afford us any reason to believe that the Celts were the progenitors of the Scandinavians. As a general conclusion, from these few remarks on the first age, the Age of Stone, we may conclude that the original settlers of the Scandinavian peninsula were neither of Celtic nor Finnic origin.
The second age of Scandinavian history, known as the Age of Bronze,—so called from the very prevalent use of this metal in manufacturing their implements,—opens to our view some of the progress which this people had made in the social hab
its of life. Among the antiquities of this age we find weapons resembling swords, or rather the modern sickles, combs, pots, and in some places a rough imitati m of the shields. They no longer clad themselves in the untanned hides of wild animals, but there are found some specimens of woollen cloth of different grades. The swords are not very long —about two feet; they are double-edged, and are so formed as to be easily wielded. Sometimes they are found in a case resembling a scabbard. There are also found many ornaments which the young ladies of that time were accustomed to wear, such as amber ornaments, neck-chains, brooches and rings. Oneof thecharacters which distinguishes this age from the Age of Stone, is the mode of burial. In many of the tumuli there are found cinerary urns, in which the body was burned. They are enclosed in a sarcophagus of a rough kind. The sarcophagi are generally placed on elevations,and are found in most instances to be directed towards the ocean. This sarcophagi, as I have said, are roughly made, being formed from irregular blocks, and the whole covered with earth. It would seem that in this age they did not pay' so much respect to the dead as they did in the former. In order to bring about this change, many centuries must have elapsed, since among all barbarous or semi-civilized peoples the manner of burying the dead is most tenaciously held to. The change cannot be effected in a year, or in ten years, unless they are subjugated by a people who have a different mode of burial. Denmark and Southern Sweden are the parts in which the second age made the greatest progress. Some antiquarians in studying this age have found in many of the sarcophagi relics of the Age of Stone. From this, with too little consideration, they form the supposition that the people must have been divided into a richer and poorer class. This supposition seems to have no foundation whatever. For if the tombs in which the richer classes were buried can only be conjectured from the fact that we find those ornaments of bronze and gold in them, it does not seem consistent that the poorer classes could afford to bury in tombs which required a vaster amount of labor. It is an evident fact that the people of this second age were given to war. That they must have made great progress in naval tactics is evident from the great quantity of bronze, an alloy of copper and tin,-which they made use of. In all the researches which modern antiquarians have made, they have found • no traces of beds of these ores which could have supplied them with such vast quantities as they were continually using. From all this we must conclude that they imported it from some other country. When the Romans first invaded England, in 55 B. C., they remarked that the inhabitants of the southern countries were superior in civilization. Historians account for this by the intercourse which they carried on with traders whom the ores of this country attracted there. It is, then, more than probable that the inhabitants of Southern Scandinavia bartered with the Batons for tin, since among all countries the country of the Britons was called the “ Cassiterides,” or tin
36	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
islands. In order to carry on this trade, they must have had ships of large size. They must also have made some progress in the arts, since we find among the antiquities several clay mouldings on which the bronze articles were formed. It has been ascertained with sufficient certainty that the inhabitants of Scandinavia in the second age were of Gothic-Germanic, and not Celtic origin. I will not here endeavor to give any of the reasons which the defenders of this last opinion bring forward to substantiate their assertion. Oui' only source whence we can draw any information on which we may rely with any certainty, is the relics which remain of this people. One of the peculiarities of the second age is a new kind of sarcophagi, which have been called ship-mounds. These ship-mounds are so called from the resemblance in form to a ship. They are formed like the hull of a ship, and at the bow end is placed a large upright stone, which forms'the bowsprit in modern sloops. In the centre is placed another large stone corresponding to the mast, and several rows of small stones are supposed to represent oars. The most remarkable of these graves are those of the Vekings, whose deeds and skill in piratical art had made the name of the Northmen a terror to all the other nations of Europe. The most remarkable of these graves of which we have a full account is that of King Gorum the Old, whose reign may be considered as the beginning of the historic period of the Danes.
The luxury which has become so predominant in the latter part of the second and beginning of the third age, was most likely acquired by them during their piratical depredations on the more civilized countries. Their later mythology gives us further proof that their civilization was mainly from Eastern sources. At many of the feasts in honor of their gods songs were composed under the direction of Barge, the god of eloquence and poetry. Among the Scandinavians the bards were called scalds. The scaldic art thrived greatly in the Age of Iron. The Northmen, when they had learned to traverse the sea with greater security, made piracy their means of living. Through their contact with Christian peoples they became, in the course of time, imbued with the principles of Christianity, and not many years after made settlements, not only in England, but also in France and other countries. The cause which may be assigned for Iheir rapid, conquests in those countries is the upheaved condition in which the western states were at the time, and in some degree to the terror which the name "caused in all civilized'people. Through the indefatigable zeal of the missionaries of the Gospel, these piratical hordes became a good and industrious people.	L. J. E.
There is peace in power: the men.who speak With the loudest tongue do least;
.And the surest sign of a mind that is weak . , Is its want of the power to rest.
It is only the lighter water that flies ...
From the sea on a windy day;	.
And the deep blue ocean never replies To the sibilant voice of the spray.
. —John Boyle O'Reilly.
History and Biography.
Reading is a most useful exercise. Bacon once wrote: “Reading maketh a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an exact man.” In reading we should be careful in the choice of books. We should be careful not to bother our heads with novels and other trashy reading. We should choose a work upon history, biography, philosophy, religion, poetry, or something which will' benefit us, and improve our minds.
In reading we should be careful to avoid the habit of skimming what we read, as books perused in this manner are forgotten as soon as finished. There are liars among book-writers and authors, as well as in other professions; therefore we should not consider books infallible. On the contrary, we should be careful, in reading books, discussing politics or any disputed topic, not to believe implicitly every statement made by the writer.
Bacon writes: “ Read not to contradict, nor to believe, but to weigh and consider.” We should not read merely to profit by the thoughts and opinions of others, but also to lay a foundation upon which to build up our own edifice of original thought. Different books should have more or less study expended upon them according to their worth, for, as Bacon again writes, “Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested.”
A person who reads a great deal of- history, both ancient and modern, and reads it attentively, noticing carefully what may be called the causes and effects of history, becomes endowed with a kind of prophetic power. He is well acquainted with the measures and policy .of all governments up to the present period, and with the results of these different policies and measures. He is, therefore, capable of judging of the policy and measures of the governments of his day, and of the fruits they will _bear. God has given men freedom of will, and if I am acquainted with the results which have emanated from the exercise, in different ways, of that freedom of will by men and nations of ancient times, I am, to a certain degree, capable of judging what will be the results in the future of acts committed now, through the exercise of that freedom of will.
There can hardly be a measure introduced in governing a country of which there cannot be found something parallel, or nearly so, in history. To use a well-worn phrase: “History repeats itself.”
The study of history is like travelling. A person may travel for a lifetime and know very little of what he has seen. He has merely glanced at a few fine buildings and cities, admired the Alps, can tell you all about the beauty and grandeur of St. Peter’s, etc., but he knows nothing of the languages, customs, fashions, turn of thought, and character of the peoples and nations among whom he has travelled. So it is with . the study of history. A person may know: thousands of dates, circumstances, and dry details, but does he know anything concerning.the. languages, customs, fash-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
\ ions, and characters of these nations among- which he, like the traveller, has been sojourning? He knows the facts and events, but does he know the reason and cause of these facts and events? Does he know .what caprices, passions, or blunders of the governments or governed led to these events? He knows the dry details of a great revolution. Does he know what little events, incidents, and causes had been working upon the mind of the people for two hundred years, and which little things in time effected this great revolution? If he does not, he has not a thorough and useful knowledge of history. A true knowledge of history is a grand thing. What does it teach us? It opens to our view a scene commencing, and at first hidden, far back in the mist of ages. It shows to us the advance and progress of human knowledge. If we commence with the creation, and read and understand the history of the human race up to the present time, at first we behold human knowledge as a mere spark hard to be distinguished, hidden as it is in the appalling and dreadful darkness of ignorance. History shows us how this mere spark was ignited; how it grew gradually brighter and larger, and larger and brighter, until all other objects were rendered indistinct by its beauty and grandeur; how it spread like a great fire sweep-~ ing everything before it. As this sublime fire of •the human intellect’ advanced, men began to open their eyes, at first with difficulty, to the dazzling light of true knowledge. Still it advanced; the idols of ancient days began to melt and crumble before it.;
We learn from history that knowledge does not impede true religion, but rather aids it in its course heavenward, and that it is only ignorance, superstition, and fanaticism that disclaim God and true religion. Lord Bacon writes: “Histories make men wise, poets witty, the mathematics subtle, natural .philosophy deep, morals grave, logic and rhetoric able to contend.” Would you be wise? read history.
History teaches us mainly of nations, governments, and their progress; of religion, and the progress of knowledge and humanity in general. Biography, on the contrary, gives us a knowledge of men taken separately. That is of the nature, thoughts, aims and character of single men. By -reading biography, a person becomes acquainted with the aims and characters of great men—of men whose names shall live forever. We also see how these great men carried their aims into execution ; how they labored, studied and discplined themselves; never for an instant turning aside from the . one grand object of their lives; how their aim was to them truly a star in the East, never to be lost sight of.
• Biography teaches us that men of mediocre intellect who aim at great things generally fail, and that men of great intellect generally aim at small triumphs and accomplish great ones. Benjamin Franklin aimed only to become a comfortably situated printer, able to support his family, and purchase books to read during his leisure hours. He became, next to Washington, the greatest, most popular, and best known American of his time.
Daniel Webster wished to become a city attorney, and acquire some note, in his locality as a good lawyer. He became the greatest statesman, barrister and orator of his age. o	■
This, however, is not always the case with great men, many of whom aim from the start at the accomplishment of one great object; but we generally find that they had one great object in view, and not forty or fifty. After the accomplishment of the original object they may have aimed higher still, but generally with one object at a time.
This should teach us to judge carefully our talents and abilities, and then choose one profession, craft, or object, in which to succeed; rather choosing one requiring less talents and abilities than we possess, than more; and after choosing it, stick to it until success crowns our labor.
Biography should not be read hastily, merely noticing the triumphs of great men, and not the means used to accomplish these triumphs. We should not forget to notice the trials of great men, and the manner in which they bore them; their, mistakes, and how they could have avoided them.
If we read biography .carefully, we- shall be benefited and instructed; if otherwise, we shall be wasting our time and maiming our intellect. A careless and imaginative young'man reads a life of Napoleon, and immediately decides to become a great warrior and general, never stopping to think how Billy P-----blacked both his eyes and chased -him home to his ma not a week ago. In a few days he reads the life of Richelieu, Mazarin or Chesterfield, and decides that he was intended for a statesman. Yes! he feels it in his bones; he will become a statesman. But-—hold! he reads the life of Washington. After reading it, he ponders a while; when, happy thought!—why not, like Washington, be both? a -warrior and statesman j in truth, a combination! Done; so it shall be. And so on as he reads. No. 2 reads the life of Webster, Pitt or Fox, and keeps the whole dormitory awake every night for a week with his somnambulistic
. attempts at oratory. The next week, after reading .the life of Nelson or Paul Jones, he rolls out of . bed in the midst of a «salt-water” dream, imagines he has fallen from the maintop, yells “ Man over. board, pirates!” and gives a few. indistinct orders about “ throwing the powder overboard,” sets the boys in an uproar, and then wakes up to find that instead of an admiral or commodore in the United States Navy he is only a poor dreamer, who has not sense enough to set his mind down to one , commonplace ambition and drudge away at it until he succeeds^ '
Lucky is this poor fanatic if he is even then sufficiently awakened to view in a true light his thousand-and-one aspirations, any one of which would have been entirely too gigantic a task for his feeble brain to accomplish.
In reading the life of Benjamin Franklin and Adams we find that Franklin with his honest, straightforward and unsuspecting policy and dealing with France and England at the close of the American Revolution would have succeeded in having-Canada included in the treaty of independ
38	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ence had it not been for the interference of the envious, crafty, and self-important Adams. This man imagined that Benjamin Franklin was too honest in his policy towards France and England; that fair and straightforward dealing was out of question in treating with foreign nations.
Biography teaches us that the men most successful in gaining the riches of this life are not those o o	...
who inherit wealth, not those who acquire it easily, but those who acquire it by hard, steady labor, on the look-out for the pennies, but never losing sight of the pounds.	.
Those who inherit wealth generally abuse their inheritance, squander it, and often die poor. Those who acquire wealth with ease, spend with still more ease. Those who earn it by hard labor and toil know its worth. By this we do not mean that they are necessarily penurious, but that they live happily and give freely, but within their means. So it is with knowledge. It is true, knowledge cannot be inherited, but the talent to acquire knowledge can be. Where this talent is inherited, like inherited wealth it is often squandered. They know their ability to learn, and therefore abuse their talents. They form habits which ruin their constitutions and their intellects, and sometimes, like those who inherit wealth, die poor—in knowledge. Byron is a lamentable example of this. He inherited a grand genius and talents. Before he arrived at the age of thirty he had ruined both mind and body by his excesses, and died without learning what true knowledge and virtue are.
Those who acquire knowledge with ease soon abuse their power by wasting it. They merely skim what they read, and therefore derive no benefit from it. If schoolboys, they do not look at their books until class is called, and then read the lesson over’ on the way to the class-room, stumble through it, and forget it forever. They cram for a week before examination simply for the honors to be obtained, not for the knowledge, which they forget in a week. Those who acquire knowledge only by hard study are the persons who generally succeed in life. They cannot learn their lessons on the way to the class-room, but are obliged to drudge for hours to get them. Once learned, however, they are learned forever. Having to study hard, they have no time to dissipate, and, like more talented prodigals, ruin themselves.
Thus, from a more careful study of biography we learn how to judge of ourselves, how to govern' and discipline ourselves. We almost learn to read the secret thoughts of our friends and companions. We learn to judge of the conduct, understand the characters and abilities, the virtues, passions and faults of those with whom we are acquainted. We acquire a correct knowledge of ourselves and those about us.
From history we learn in the same way of our nation and people in general. How to judge and govern our nation. How to understand the conduct, characters and abilities, the virtues, caprices and faults of the masses of the people of our nation; and to have a just estimate of our national character and knowledge, compared with that of other nations.
Biography' gives us, to a certain extent, the power of judging the destiny of persons; history, the destiny of nations.
A. B. C.
Scientific Notes.	.
—An electrical lamp appears to have been invented which will burn for twelve hours, with the light of two and a half candles, at a cost of one penny. It has to be charged every twenty-five days.
—A monument to the distinguished Jesuit astronomer, Father Secchi, is to be erected at-Regio Emilio, Rome. The committee who have the project in hand have already received over 50,000 lire. They are drawing up a report of their labors. When it is published, the exact form which the monument will take will be decided upon.
—A telephonic apparatus, so simple in construction as not to cost more than half-a-dollar, has been invented in Paris, which can be fitted to the electric wire of the ordinary ringing apparatus at front doors, in interior rooms of houses, everywhere in short, where the ordinary electric buttons are used, by means of which it will be possible to give and receive instructions, to know who is knocking at the door, to communicate, in short, by speaking as well as by ringing.—Ex.
—Rapid photography has made great progress during the last ten years. Nowhere is it more apparent than in the photographing of projectiles. Photographs of the projectile from the pneumatic gun at Fort Lafayette, in New York Harbor, showed an apparent condensation of the air just ahead; and now,in some photographs of projectiles fired from a Werendler gun at Pesth, Hungary, with a velocity of 1,300 feet per second, the projectile appears to be enveloped in layers of air quite perfectly hyperbolic in form.	'
—The protection of vines against frost was effected in a most novel manner recently at a vineyard in Pagny, near the Franco-German frontier. The night of May 13 the temperature sank to 300 F. at 3 a. m. At that-time quantities of tar, which had been distributed to various points in tin boxes or poured on the ground, were ignited. Dense black clouds of smoke enveloped the vineyard, which, remained for more than two hours while the tar was burning. In the morning it was found that the experiment was a complete success, as not a single shoot was injured by the frost, while many vineyards in the vicinity not thus protected suffered considerable damage.
o	.
—The Roman soldiers, who built such wonderful roads and carried a weight of armor and luggage that would crush the average farm hand, lived on coarse brown bread and sour wine. They were temperate in. diet, and regular and constant in exercise. The Spanish peasant works every day and dances half the night, yet eats only his black bread, onion and watermelon. The Smyrna porter eats only a little fruit and some olives, yet he walks off with his load pf 100 pounds. The coolie, fed on
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
39
rice, is more active and can endure more than the negro fed on fat meat. The heavy work of the world is not done by men who eat the greatest quantity. Moderation in diet seems to be the prerequisite of endurance.—Scientific American.
College Gossip.
—There are 215 Catholic schools in New South Wales, with 25,000 scholars.
—During the past six months Harvard has received about $1,000,000 in endowments.
—The 17 Japanese students in the University and High School at Ann Arbor, Mich., have a society all their own. They call it Bungakukia.
—The new and large parochial school attached to St. Pius’ Church, Chicago, has been placed in charge of Brothers of the Holy Cross, from Notre Dame, Ind.
—Rev. Father Gmeiner, who for some years was a professor at St. Francis’ Seminary, Milwaukee, and who is also favorably known as the author of several Catholic works, has accepted the chair of Philosophy and Natural Science at St. Thomas’ Seminary, St. Paul, Minn.
—Prof. in Physics (explaining a complicated machine to the students): Please observe that the slender rod passes.over to the second or smaller wheel, etc.; while this (turning vigorously) is the crank that sets the whole in motion! (Laughter from the students).— Journal of Education.
—The Bureau of Catholic Missions among the Indians have under their control thirty-five boarding and twenty day schools, with an attendance of 2,190 boarders and 870 day scholars. The schools receive a subvention of $231,880 from the Government. The Government also furnished food and clothing for 400 boarding pupils at a cost of $30,000.
—Asolid silver hatchet, found recently in Sonora, will soon adorn the museum of Princeton College. It weighs a hundred ounces, and, as bullion, is valued at $ 1 an ounce. It is four inches long, wedgeshaped, and was evidently hammered by some primitive people. It was brought to San Francisco and purchased for $150 by Mr. Henry G. Merguard, who will present it to his Alma Mater.—Ex.
—The success achieved by the ladies at the recent B. A. honors examinations in the University of London is worth noting. From the results just published a special aptitude for language rather than for science must be inferred. In French four ladies have the first class to themselves, while male candidates are in the second and third classes. Five have obtained classical honors, one in the first class, three in the second, and one in the first place of the third. Three ladies have obtained honors in German and one in the third class in mathematics. A lady also has passed the Scriptural examination, gaining a first class arid a prize. —The Critic.
—The construction of the buildings .for the new Catholic University, the basis for which was provided by the dQnation of $300,000 by Mbs Mary
Gwendolen Caldwell, is about to be begun, on.the site purchased some time ago for the purpose, near the Soldier’s Home, in Washington. It will take about $175,000 to erect the first of the buildings— the Divinity building. This will be a massive structure of brick and stone. The central portion will be five stories high and fifty-five feet front, with wings on each side 10S feet long, making the total frontage 265 feet. There will also be an L wing on the left, 160 feet deep, and ultimately a duplicate of this wing on the right. When the plans are completely carried out, there will be seven buildings as follows: Divinity, law and letters, library,scientific school, observatory, medical laboratory, and lay dormitory. All will be after one general plan, and arranged around a botanical garden.
—Celebration of the Constitution’s Centenary by the American Catholic Historical Society of Philadelphia.—The American Catholic Historical Society, on the evening of Thursday, Sept. 15, added their quota to the incidents connected with the celebration of the centennial by appropriate notice of some interesting facts in connection with the part the Catholics played in the early history of this Republic.
In celebration of the centenary their rooms were crowded that evening. The Very Rev. Ignatius R. Horstmann, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Philadelphia, presided, and in an address, which was evidently meant to be merely informal and introductory, he gave many interesting details of the early history of the Church in America, and told his hearers, for instance, that just a century ago there were not thirty thousand Catholics in the whole country, and only twenty-five priests. There was the first bishop, John Carroll, who was raised in 1784 to the priesthood, and five years later was madeBishop of Baltimore; but he had to go to England to be consecrated, and that did not take place until 1790. The first meeting in Council of the Catholic Church was held in 17915 but the Church made little headway until after 1840, when the tide of German and Irish emigration set in, owing to the development of the country, and the progress of the Church became marvellous. Now, instead of having only twenty-five priests and no bishop, we have 7,658 priests, twelve archbishops, sixty-one bishops and at least 8,000,000 Catholics.
This excellent showing elicited hearty applause, at the conclusion of which the Chancellor introduced Martin I. J. Griffin, who has already made his reputation as a local historian. To his efforts, in a very large extent, is due the formation of this Catholic Historical Society. Mr. Griffin read a paper on-Thomas Fitzsimons, Pennsylvania’s Catholic signer of the Constitution. There were two o	,	*
Roman Catholic signers only; the other being Daniel Carroll, of Maryland. He dismissed the latter in a word, and confined his address to Thomas Fitzsimons, of whom he said even the place of his birth was in doubt, and of the papers that tell of his career few remain. Yet he was the foremost Catholic of his time.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, September 24, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate tor the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their (excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Sijo per Annum. Postpaid.
hAAxvss. EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
hour of class uniform in all the departments. It has an additional merit, inasmuch as it begins the studies of the day with that which is of prime importance—the study of religion—and serves to impress upon the whole student body a sense of the incompleteness of an education which is not based upon the development and training of the moral powers of our nature.
—The attendance at the University, which increases year after year, and especially the marked increase of the present year, intimates that the time has come for the completion of the original design of the University buildings by the erection of Library Hall. So think the authorities, as we learn that the plans of the new building are now in contemplation. It will be erected southwest of the main building, and correspond in general outline and design with Science Hall. It will contain the Library of the University, and at the same time be so arranged as to accommodate the Professors and students of the Collegiate Department of the Junior and Senior years. It is expected that with the opening of spring, work will begin, and the building be in readiness to be formally opened with the inauguration of classes in September.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and grad-uates of the University.
—It is but reasonable to expect that the general prosperity which marks the University should manifest itself also in the Scholastic—the College paper. The students of the current year not only surpass in point of numbers those of any previous years, but also compare favorably with them in ability, and by the exercise of perseverance and diligence may “beat the record” even in this regard. We may well hope, therefore, to have a large corps of brilliant contributors who will make the present volume of the Scholastic not only a fitting exponent of the standing of their Alma Mater, but also a paper of interest and instruction to a wide circle of readers.
—During the week a new departure was inaugurated in the Course of Christian Doctrine in the University, whereby all the classes of the course are now taught during the first hour of each day. The non-Catholic student who does not wish to attend any of these classes will employ the time in study. This arrangement introduces no new feature, except a change of time, and making the
—The thoughtful student will readily understand that for the successful completion of the work in which he is engaged, the surest means lie in order and perseverance. Order consists, first, in pursuing that course in regard to the work on hand that nature suggests. Thus, in the matter of studies, the student should pursue first those branches which are more easily understood, and which serve as an introduction to those of a higher grade. In the second place, the time for labor should be so regulated that one duty may never interfere with another. It is wonderful to see the amount of work that can be done in a single year by devoting even one hour each day regularly to that work. Besides, when a habit of order is once '■acquired, work becomes easy, and the student feels encouraged by the evident progress which his regularity enables him to make. The only additional requisite to success is -perseverance, which consists in a determined continuance of the work undertaken till it is brought
__	o
to completion. This supposes that no obstacle or opposition or difficulty will be allowed to cause discouragement or destroy the energy which marked the outset of the work.
Many persons wrork well for a certain length of time; but the moment they meet with opposition or any unusual difficulty, they give way to discouragement and abandon their work, and thus not only fail in that particular case, but encourage timidity in themselves and open the door for new and greater difficulties in-future undertakings. The true rule is: Never abandon what you have under- . taken to do, even should it become evident that your success will be but partial, for though you fail to attain the end proposed, you have still gained
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a victory by not allowing yourself to be discouraged; your work may still be called a success, for you are prepared to meet difficulties manfully, and may count on attaining your object next time.
How to Become a Good Student.
.Begin by acquiring the habit of study; or in other words, separate yourself from all that could distract you, and apply yourself seriously to the work you have taken in hand. This is absolutely necessary; unless you are heartily interested in your work, success, in any degree, is out of the question. Many who come to college actually spend half of the year in ruminating on the pleasures of the past vacation, and the other half in laying plans for the next; they are at college bodily, but in spirit they are far away. This is the class of students who are forever counting the days before Christmas or Commencement, and can always tell you on .what day .of the week an extra recreation will come. These drones lead the most miserable, aimless lives that can be imagined; and when they leave college, or are sent away, it is only to become worthless members of society.
Industry and perseverance are the first requisites for success in study as well as in everything else; ,jind it should be the first care of the student to form habits of these virtues, which will crown his studies with success and be the best guarantees for future prosperity. Nothing can be gained in life without labor; and the student who imagines he will ever become a learned man without real, hard, earnest study of course deceives himself.
Perseverance, too, is not less necessary. It is not sufficient to have begun well: the same persevering effort must be continued to the end. The student when entering college should leave to those more experienced and. enlightened than himself the direction of his studies, and should never quit those he has once taken up. The indiscriminate studying of one thing to-day and another to-morrow is one of the worst habits a student can form, and has filled the world with half-educated men. It always betrays a fickle disposition; and it is as trite as it is true, that a rolling-stone gathers no moss.
It should be the earnest endeavor of every student to make the best possible use of ■ every moment of time; and to accomplish this, nothing is more important than order in its distribution, allowing to each.study the amount it requires. No affair, however important it may seem to be, should be allowed to encroach upon the hours reserved for study; if this inclination is once yielded to, it is next to impossible to correct it, and the occasions for postponing or omitting a class or other duty will increase in proportion as the habit grows on us.
Everything has its proper time. The hours of recreation are necessary to afford the mind as well as the body the relaxation required. The bow that is always bent is sure to break, and experience
amply proves that those who study during, free time, have lost by it in the end.	’
Many students who have a just appreciation of time and money, study only those branches which they foresee will be of most service to them in future; their wisdom is to be commended, but it is to be regretted that so many others entirely lose sight of this, and after years spent at college are neither fitted for a commercial nor professional life. The fault, however, is invariably their own-, and arises from a want of system in study. .
Most young man who enter college expect to accomplish everything in a shorter time than that marked out. That which ordinarily requiies five or six years they hope to accomplish in three or four at most, and it would be useless to attempt to convince them of the folly of such an undertaking. “ Next to the demon,” said one of our former professors, with his usual earnestness, “ there is nothing I hate so much as this over-eagerness, which is beyond all others the fault of American students.” Festina lente! To commence at the beginning, and pass through in regular order each class, is the only way to obtain a thorough and solid education; and if this be wanting, nothing can supply its place. Wealth and position may command a servile respect while they last, but learning and culture are always and everywhere honored.	B.
Books and. Periodicals.
Capital and Labor. An Essay read before the Pastoral Conference of the First District of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind., by Rev. J. H. Oechtering, Rector of St. Mary’s Church, Ft. Wayne. Printed by Order of Rt. Rev. J. D wenger, D. D.
The great question of the day is here treated in a style characterized by originality, clearness, and incisiveness. The proper relations between the employer and the employe; the causes that have led, and do lead, to the various disturbances and crises in the social order; the only remedy for the evils that afflict society, are set forth’in this pamphlet, with such force of reasoning and practical application of plain and logical conclusions as must bring conviction to the intelligence, and appeal to the moral sentiment of every right-minded reader. Father Oechtering’s contribution to the study of the important and vital question of “Capital and Labor” commends itself to the attention of every intelligent man, and merits an extensive circulation.
An Abridged History of the United States.
For the use of Schools. By John R. G. Hassard, LL.D. With an Introduction by the Rt. Rev. J. L. Spalding, D. D. New York: The Catholic Publication Society Co., 9 Barclay St. 18S7.
The foregoing, as its title indicates, is a compendium of a larger work on the same subject, and one which for nearly ten years, ha.-, enjoyed high favor in the Catholic institutions of our own and other countries. Hassard’s “History of the United States” has merited and received the warmest praise, even from non-Cathplic teachers, by reason.of its many
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
excellencies. The work is characterized by clear and simple style, flowing narrative, vivid description of remarkable incidents, and the air of candor and truth that pervades the whole book. It was found, however, that in many schools the time of the average pupil was too short for a proper study of the mass of details in the larger work: hence the publication of the present abridgment in which the story has been made clearer as well as easier to remember, while nothing of permanent importance has been omitted. A particular and commendable feature of the work is that due prominence is given to the part which Catholic missionaries, explorers, soldiers, statesmen, patriots and scholars have had in the making of the United States.
—Donahoe's Magazine for October presents a very interesting table of contents, prominent among which is a well-arranged study of the life and work of Pope Leo XIII. The article is timely and appropriate by reason of the attention which the whole Christian world at present gives to the Supreme Pontiff happily reigning. Other articles in the number are, “ Ireland’s Vow”; “Change of Sentiment in Regard to the Irish “What is
O	_ J
Meant by Catholic Training?”’“ The Shooting of Stonewall Jackson,” etc., etc.	’
—The Catholic World for October contains a very clever article by Arthur F. Marshall, entitled “The Latest Fashions in Freethinking.” He distinguishes eight kinds of freethinkers, whom he classifies as follows: (i) the scientific or prove-everything freethinker; (2) the hypothetical or speculative freethinker; (3) the pessimist or gloomloving freethinker; (4) the patronizing, (5) the polite, (6) the pontifical freethinker; (7) the aggressive or down-with-everybody freethinker; (8) the Anglican or church-mantled freethinker. After considering Huxley, Darwin and some others of the leaders in the class of patronizing freethinkers, the author turns his attention to a more numerous body, as follows:
“ But, leaving these magnates of lofty patronage, let us -consider for a moment an inferior class of patronizers who possess all their presumption but not their brains. Patronage is not peculiar to the great scientists. It is a weakness of the ordinary English leading-article writer. The Times newspaper, which combines freethinking with Christianity —the freethinking having a generous proportion—assured us some time ago that 4 what little religion the Italians have they owe mainly to the teaching of the Roman Church.’ What little religion the Times has it owes mainly to the requirements of its subscribers. This, however, does not impair its keen judgments. English freethinking journalists (the Times is not exceptional) are always gracious, when they can be so, to the Catholic Church. Thus they insist that though the Church is and has been the bitter foe of religious liberty, progress, and enlightenment, it is useful from the antiquarian point of view, because in days that are long past it guarded literature. But in these days that amiable mission is over. And though, of course, we must recognize that the Catholic monasteries in the Middle Ages preserved for us the best literature of priniitive times, still, now that science and philosophy and (above all) newspapers are common property, the old religion is an anachronism and a stop-the-way. These journalists are even ready to write patronizingly of the ‘ modern attitude ’ of the great living Catholic writers; yet they warn them that, even with the best intentions, they ‘ do not understand the times ip which they live.’ Journalists understand the times—
and their readers; but such Englishmen as Cardinal Newman or Cardinal Manning, with all the editors of English Catholic periodicals, though they are men who deserve esteem for their abilities, are so far behind their times in practical knowledge that it is marvellous how they can manage to live in the nineteenth century. The readers, like the writers, of freethinking journalism say the same thing to our faces with gracious patronage: ‘ Really, I think there is so much that is charming in your religion. I have sometimes wished that I had been brought up a Catholic. To be able to believe in the divinity of your Church must be such a comfort and so quieting. Your unity, too. is fascinating; your church services are most picturesque; your discipline is so superior to anything Protestant; positively, if I were to believe in anything at all, I certainly should believe in your religion. But, of course, no man who is really educated, who knows physical science and modern philosophy, and who is thoroughly ‘ up ’ in both Spencerism and Darwinism, can help seeing through the 1 accidental phenomena’ of all this; and I am sure that you, though of course you are a sincere Catholic, must at times feel that, though your religion is a solace to you, it cannot hold water against modern thought. Whatever.there is of the beautiful or the reasonable, in any and all the forms of Christianity, there cannot be a question thatyo« have got; but Christianity, though it has served a good purpose, is now supplanted by pure reason—that is, agnosticism.’ ”
The Rev. J. U. Heinzle, S. J., contributes a learned and instructive paper on “ Galileo. Galilei and Dr. McGlynn,” in which, by an admirable presentation of the case of Galileo, he demonstrates the absurdity of the parallel sought to be established between Dr. McGlynn and the famous astronomer. A well-reasoned paper on “ The State and the* Land ” shows that the division of property into private ownerships and the eminent domain of the state, when both are rightly understood, are social forces which work together for the greatest good of the greatest number. An interesting article is contributed by the Rev. A. F. Hewitt, on “ How I Became a Catholic.” It describes his road through Puritanism and Protestant Episcopalianism to the Catholic Church—which he entered more than forty years ago. The poetry of the number is furnished by Louise Imogen Guiney in a translation from La Vita Nuova of Dante; and by Charles Henry Liiders, whose “Land of the Harp” is a fine specimen of descriptive verse.
—We have received from the publisher, Ign. Fischer, Toledo, O., a beautiful piece of music entitled “Morning Prayer, Meditation for Piano,” by John Wiegand. It is an attractive and showy composition of moderate difficulty, and we have no doubt it will give pleasure and satisfaction to both hearers and performers.
Personal
—Mrs. and Master C. Gavan, of Lafayette, Ind., were welcome visitors during the week.
—Hugo Rothert, ’86, paid a pleasant visit a few days ago, and entered his brother in the Senior department.
—Gus. Cooper (Com’l),’S5, is in business with his father, and superintends the Cooper Wagon Works of Dubuque, Iowa.	-
—-The many friends of John Fendrich (of ’84),
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
43
of Evansville; Ind., are pleased to hear of his recovery from recent illness.
—Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Healy, of Chicago, visited their boys at the-University during the week. Mr. Healy is a member of the well-known firm of Lyon & Healy, Chicago.
—Edgar J. Byrne (Prep, of last year) is doing well at Grand Rapids, Mich., and writes that he reads the Scholastic with pleasure, and takes a deep interest in the progress of Notre Dame.
—Ballard Smith, ’65, belongs to the Editorial Staff of the Netv York World. His recent interview with President Cleveland has added to his fame as one of the leading journalists of the United States.
—The Rev. Nathaniel Mooney, ’77, who graduated with distinction from the College of Propaganda, Rome, where he was ordained priest, has been assigned to duty at Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago. His friends here hope that he will soon find time to visit them.
—Mr. Frank Gliickauf (Com’l), ’72, of Gliick-auf & Neuhaus, Wholesale Jewellers, Chicago, visited the College this week. He was greatly surprised at the vast improvements made since his last visit. He found many of his friends to give him a warm welcome.
—A welcome visitor to the College on Sunday last was Mr. T. Lonergan, Superintendent of Boland’s Detective, Agency, Chicago, who came to enter his son in the Junior department. Mr. Lonergan was one of the most brilliant students of ’61, and subsequently became distinguished as a journalist in connection with the great Chicago dailies, to which he still finds time amid his other duties to contribute many a “leader.”
—John J. Coleman (B. S. and C. E.), ’78, has been appointed to fill the responsible and lucrative position of surveyor and general engineer of the “El Cristo” mine, in the United States of Columbia, South America. He leaves his present residence in Carlisle, N. M., towards the end of the current month, and will pass the winter between the tropics. Owing to the great altitude of the mine, the climate is mild even in summer, and delightful all the year round. It is said to be especially healthy. We trust our old friend will achieve new distinctions in the honorable post assigned him.
Local Items.
—Turn on the electric!
—440 students in the house!	■
—Be sure you write and go ahead. '•
—Music by the Band is next in order.
—Let a sense of duty, not fear, be the motive of your act.	.
—A “twirler from way back” makes things lively in the baseball field.
—All mail-matter for Notre Dame should be addressed simply, “Notre Dame, Ind,”
—The festive watermelon put in an appearance last week, and was received with favor.
—St. Edward’s Hall, with its connecting buildings, now presents a very imposing appearance.
—There are indications that the number of students will reach 500 before many weeks have elapsed. -
—New and improved steam radiators were received on Tuesday for the apsidal chapels of the church.	'
—The Minims now rejoice in the possession of a play-ground that-has been enlarged and greatly improved.
—The festive nimrod now taketh down his gun, hieth himself forth, and returned! with a certain—-je ne sais quoi.	.
—The two young burros make a “ noble” team. We understand they carried ofFa prize at the County Fair last week.
—The boat club has reorganized, and now the cry of “Stroke!” is once more borne over the sur-faceof the lakes.
• —Contributions to our “ local ” and “ personal ” columns will be cordially welcomed. Our “box” waves in the office.	■
—No first-class weather prophet would predict a storm for the week of the new moon. Hence the disgrace which attaches to Wiggins.
—The increase in attendance necessitated the ordering of new chairs and desks, which were received in great wagon loads during the week.
—Many improvements have been made recently in the grounds of St. Joseph’s Novitiate, adding greatly to the appearance of this delightful retreat.
—All parents desiring a weekly report of affairs at Notre Dame, with the “ Roll of Honor’’and “ Class Honors,” should subscribe for the Scholastic.	. ’
—Work on the cupola of the College of Music is progressing very rapidly, and will be completed in a few weeks. This addition is all that is needed to perfect the architect’s design.
—The shrine at “ Mt. Calvary” presents a beautiful appearance surrounded by the autumn-tinted foliage. The cross, however, is sadly in need of painting and general renovation.
—Master Willie Walsh, of Chicago, is the latest arrival among the Minims. The little gentleman’s father, Mr. William Walsh, was a student of the Minim department thirty years ago.
—Prof. Lyons has in course of preparation a new play, entitled “Columbus and the Discovery of America.” The play is historical, and abounds in many interesting scenes, which will insure its success.	‘
—St. Edward’s Day will be brilliantly celebrated as usual. It is hoped that the joy of the festival will be increased by the presence of our venerable Founder, though it is very probable that . the business of the Community will detain h:m in . Europe.

44	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—We are glad to note the improvement in health of Rev. Father O’Hanlon, the Professor of Dogmatic and Moral Theology and Sacred Eloquence in St. Aloysius’ Seminary.
—Our local “Glee Club” is evidently still in its infancy. Competent judges declare that their rendition of “Old Folks at Home” at a recent rehearsal was anything but the original .song. A little more practice, boys.
—Tuesday last was marked by the arrival of the 100th “ Prince.” Since then several more have been added, and there is every prospect that before the holidays the great fifty will be present to secure the Parisian dinner.
—Rev. Father Fitte, Superior of the Professed House at Notre Dame, removed from the College on Saturday and took possession of his new quarters on Mt. St. Vincent. His present position, we are glad to say, will not interfere with the direction of his classes of Philosophy in the College.
—The -personnel of the boat crews which will row the race on St. Edward’s Day is as follows: Minnehaha—C. Neill, F. Albright, F. Henderson, P. Brownson, C. Stubbs, S.Campbell and G. Houck^ Captain; Evangeline—J. V. O’Donnell, G. Ball, H. Luhn, F. MacErlain, W. Gordon, G. Craig and F. Fehr, Captain.
—A new, large and commodious building will soon take the place of the present Manual Labor School. The building will be of brick in color, to correspond with the other buildings, and will be furnished with all the improvements, rooms, appliances for the convenience and proper exercise of the various trades therein taught.
—During the week, Rev. President Walsh took occasion to address the students of the various departments, explaining the rules of the Institution, and giving many wise counsels in regard to the proper fulfilment of duties. The authorities are gratified to see the good disposition manifested by the students, which augurs well for the happy issue of the year. •
—At a recent meeting of the Lemmonier Boat Club the following were elected members: Messrs. J. Meagher, L. Meagher, A. Rudd, F. Barnard, A. Leonard, M. Crane, S. Campbell, J. Mithen, F. Albright, V. Morrison, P. Paschel, P. Brownson, F. Henderson, G. Ball,W. Gordon, J. Maloney, L. Chute, G. Cartier, O. Rothert. The Club is in a flourishing condition, and the prospects are bright for many improvements next Spring.
—Mr. Ackermann is continuing the series of mural paintings in the Junior refectory which were begun by his brother, the late Prof. Ackermann. Among the paintings recently completed are representations of the Piazza del Popolb^ the Capitol, the Ruins of the Baths of Dioceletian, the Church of St. Agnes, with street and adjacent buildings, etc. His son, who is assisting him in the work, has completed a painting of the Pantheon.
—At the meeting of the Senior Baseball Association, held last Thursday, the following officers were elected: Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., Presi
dent; Bros. Emmanuel and Paul, C. S. C., Directors; C. J. Stubbs, Secretary; G. Craig, Treasurer; J. Meagher, Field Reporter; T. O’Regan and J. E. Cusack, Captains of First Nines; J. Burns, Captain of Special Nine; F. L. Jewett and H. Hull, Captains of Second Nines. A large number was admitted to membership.
—The Moot-court of the Law Department will begin its regular work and be open for business next week. Prof. Hoynes will preside as Judge at its sessions. The following have been chosen officers of the court: P. E. Burke, Clerk; Wm. T. Akin, Deputy Clerk; Charles J. Stubbs, Prosecuting Attorney; Fred. L. Albright, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney; E. W. Britt, Sheriff; Wm. St. J. Tiernan, Deputy Sheriff; Charles Spencer and D. C. Brewer, Reporters.	■
—The Director of the Historical Department requests us to return thanks to Mr. E. Edgerly for a large box and several packages of valuable books received during vacation. Also to Miss E. Brent for a large box of pamphlets and books published by Catholics in the early days. Dr. John Gilmary Shea, Miss H. T. Reid, of Cambridgeport, Mass., Bro. Hilary, Mr. R. J. Toner, and others, have contributed several volumes each, for all of which the members of the Historical Department return grateful acknowledgments, o	o
—The old members of the St. Stanislaus’ Philo-patrian Society met last Wednesday evening for the purpose of organizing for the ensuing year. The election of officers resulted as follows: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J._ A. Lyons, President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President; Bros. Philemon and Lawrence, Promoters; T.Wil-banks, 1st Vice-President; H. Bronson, 2d VicePresident; J. McNulty, Recording Secretary; C. Ramsey, Corresponding Secretary; E. Doss,Treasurer; E. Glenn, Librarian; F. Wile, Historian; A. Schloss, ist Censor; T. Noud, 2d Censor; M. Quinlan, Sergeant-at-Arms; J. Casey, Marshall. Master E. Ryan was elected a member..
—From studies we have seen of the great allegorical painting, which will adorn the vaulted ceiling of the Dome, we may say that it will be a grand masterpiece of art, and will be certain to add not a little to the fame of our distinguished mastro^ Signor Gregori. Colossal figures, symbolical of Theology, Philosophy, Poetry, History, Science, Music, Painting, etc., are represented as receiving inspiration from the Seat of Wisdom—who occupies the centre of the composition, and is depicted with crown and cross, and overshadowed by the Holy Spirit in the form of a dove. When the studies for this remarkable painting are completed, Signor Gregori will at once begin the work which he expects to finish by the opening of Spring.
—The baseball season opened Sunday with a stubboni contest between the Mishawaka “ Stars ” and the “ Special Nine,” resulting in a victory for the “Specials” with the score 15 to 14. The “ Specials ” played a strong up hill game, and by terrific batting in the eighth and ninth innings, won the game. Ink’s pitching at critical points was
31
THE NOTRE dame scholastic.
superb, Burns’ timely hits, Cusack’s first base play and Cartier’s base running were features of the game. For the visitors, Schlinder excelled at the bat, and Needhem in left field made pretty fly catches.
Score by Innings :—i 23456789 Mishawakas:—6 4 o 1 o o 1 1 1=14 Specials:—o 0301116 3=15
—The first regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association was held Wednesday evening, Sept. 21. The principal business was the election of officers, which resulted as follows: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof.J. A. Lyons, President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President; Bros. Philemon and Lawrence,Promoters; W. D. McPhee, 1st Vice-President; R. Adelsperger, 2d Vice-President; C. Cavanagh, Recording Secretary; J. C. McGurk, Corresponding Secretary; W. Devine, Treasurer; M. O’Kane, Historian; V. Darragh, Librarian; W. McKenzie, Censor; D. Cartier, Marshall; W. Blake and E.Berry, Charges-d>Affaires. Messrs. B. O’Kane, L. Scherrer, W. Hackett, J. McIntosh, and W. Blake were admitted to membership.
—We are obliged to the Y-psilanti (Mich.) Sentinel for the commendatory notice with which it favors the appearance of our first number. Its praise we duly appreciate, but we think that we will not be misunderstood if we say that we reprint the notice especially for its instructiveness. The Sentinel says:
“ As the summer vacation draws to a close, No. 1, of Vol. 21, of the Notre Dame Scholastic comes to hand, and we welcome its reappearance. It is not a mere college paper, but a magazine of respectable rank, in which students may feel a pride to have their efforts appear. Admission to its pages demands, evidently, some considerable degree of merit in a writer, and care in composition. And this is absolutely necessary if college papers are to be of any advantage to students in the attainment of the art of good writing.”
—About three thousand two hundred copper, silver and gold coins and medals, from all parts of the world, and representing the centuries from the birth of Christ to the present, have lately been added to the numismatic collection. Many of the medals are very rare, and would be difficult to duplicate. Besides the above addition, several contributions have been made to the same collection by the friends of Notre Dame. Very Rev. Dr. Hortsmann, the distinguished Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Philadelphia, has presented five Turkish coins: four from Ceylon,seven from India, nine from Japan, eight Roman coins of the second century, and a large bronze medal of Our Lady of Good Counsel, struck by order of Archbishop Ryan. From Mr. H. Plato, of North Amherst, Ohio, have been received eight large silver coins of Spain and Britain, and three copper coins. From Father Sentient, of Philadelphia, has been received a large white metal medal of Our Lady of Genazzano, and from Rev. D. A. Clarke, of Columbus, a large medal of the Sorrowful Heart of Mary. Master Elmo Berry has given three foreign coins; Master J. Henry, an Italian piece, and Brother Emmanuel, two large silver coins from Brazil.
—The stained-glass windows that are now being-placed in the chapels, forming the extension to the Church of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame are even superior to- those in the main part of. the sacred edifice. Everyone who has seen the latter will say that our statement expresses a great deal. For years, the windows have been the admiration of every visitor, and the greatest praise has been accorded their beautiful design and skilful execution—a meed of praise indeed well merited by the artistes, whose fame and reputation are well established throughout Europe and America. But the subjects of the paintings for the new windows have admitted of a greater variety of figures for each, and have successfully called into exercise the wonderful resources of the Carmelite Nuns of Le Mans, France.
Those already placed in position represent the following subjects:
Chapel of the Holy Cross:—Stations, of the Cross. I, Jesus carrying the Cross; Jesus falls the first time. II, Jesus meets His Mother; Simon of Cyrene assists in carrying the Cross. Ill, Veronica wipes the face of Jesus; Jesus falls the second time.
Chapel of St. Joseph:—I, The Rod blossoming; Espousal of the Blessed Virgin to St. Joseph. II, Presentation of Jesus in the Temple; Vision of St. Joseph. Ill, The Flight into Egypt; Death of St. Joseph.
Chapel of Our Lady of Victory:—I, The Battle of Lepanto, fought under the Banner of the Blessed Virgin; The Battle of Tolosa; Victory gained over the Moors by Alphonso IX of Castile. II, Louis XIII of France before La Rochelle, making a vow to Our Lady of Victories; Louis XIII orders the erection of the Church of Our Lady of Victories and gives the plan to the Augustinian religious. Ill, Rev. Father Desgennette establishes the Archconfraternity; Our Lady of Victory.
The windows that are yet to be placed are the following:
Chapel of the Immaculate Conception :—I, Nativity of the Blessed Virgin; The Presentation of the Blessed Virgin. II, Assumption of the Blessed Virgin; Coronation of the Blessed Virgin. Ill, Proclamation of the Dogma— The Immaculate Conception.
Chapel of the Sacred Heart:—Gospel side—I, The Nativity; The Last Supper. II, The Agony in the Garden; The Crucifixion. Ill, The Taking Down from the Cross; Incredulity of St. Thomas. Epistle side—I, Repentant France makes a vow to build Montmartre. The Sacred Heart in glory surrounded by SS. Bernard, Francis Assisi, Augustine, Francis de Sales,'!'eresa, Catherineand Margaret Mary. Il, The Bishop of Belzunce consecrates his diocese to the Sacred Heart; Clement XIII. consecrates France to the Sacred Heart. Ill, Apparitions to St. Margaret Mary.
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Life of Cardinal de Cheverus, formerly first Bishop of Boston; life of Bishop Flaget, first Bishop of Louisville; life of Very Rev. Father De Andreis, first Superior of the Congre-gration of the Missions in the United States and Vicar-General of the diocese of New Orleans, secured by L. A.; two autograph letters of Cardinal Gibbons; three documents signed by Pope Gregory XVI, when Cardinal Capellari; document signed by Cardinal Barnabo; six-page manuscript, relating to the diocese of New Vork, written and signed by Rt. Rev. J. Dubois, third Bishop of that See; tinted lithograph of the first Bishop of Peoria; three photographs, from Rev. D. A. Clarke. Original correspondence between Archbishop Eccleson and J. Beauchamp Jones, of S.M. Visitor, of Balti-
46	.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
.more, with regard to a . public controversy, presented by P. J. McEvoy. Two documents written by Cardinal Gibbons, presented by Bro. de Sales. Communion and Confirmation pictures given by Bishop Cheverus in 1818, presented by Miss Elizabeth Florence. Curious old engraving, illustrating Life and Death, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop Maes. Letter written by Bishop Shanahan, presented by the Sisters of Holy Cross, Lancaster. Photograph of Bishop Hendricken; portrait of Bishop Dalton; seven documents by American Prelates, from the effects of the late Father Shortis; lock of hair cut after death from the head of Cardinal Barnabo,presented by E. E. Romanesque metal crozier used by Bishop Brutd, Bishop de la Hailandiere and their successors in the See of Vincennes; Bishop de la Hailandiere’s precious mitre of silver cloth, beautifully embroidered with gold and set with stones of various colors, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop Chatard. Interesting document from Rome with regard to the meeting of the Archbishops there in 18S3, received from Rt. Rev. Mgr. Bessonies. T wo interesting documents written and signed by Bishop Lavialle; picture of Bishop Lavialle; gold embroidered red silk sandals used by Bishop de St. Palais, presented by Rev. Father Pvthien. Freedom of the City of Rome, beautifully engrossed on parchment and signed by the dignitaries of the Eternal City, elegantly bound in red morocco with the Papal coat-of-arms stamped in gold, and bearing the great seal of the senate ' and people of Rome attached to silken cords and encased in silver, given to Bishop Henni, of Milwaukee, the sixteenth year of the pontificate of Pio Nono; Latin address, printed in gold, presented to Archbishop Henni on his Golden Jubilee; “Facts Against Assertions,” a work by Rt. Rev. J. M. Henni (Philalethes), the Bishop’s own copy with numerous corrections, notes and additions in his handwriting; several sou venirsof Bishop Henni; bound volume, of the Catholic Advocate for the years 1845-46; mitre of curiously-woven stuff, presented by Very Rev. Father Keogh. Pontijicale Roinanum, printed in 1683, used by Bishop McGill, of Richmond, and bearing his autograph on the title-page; manuscript of “ Catholicity in Kentucky,” presented by B. J. Webb, LL. D. White velvet sandals, embroidered with gold bullion and green silk chenille, used by the first Bishop of Wheeling, presented by Sister M. Rita.
Inks, Jennings, Joyce, Jacobs, H. Jewett, F. Jewett, Kerlin, Keating, Kehoe, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, Leonard, H. Luhn, A. Longmire, L. Longmire, Mulkern, T. Meagher, L. Meagher, McWilliams, McErlain, McDermott, Mackey, Monroe, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Maloney, Mithen, McDonald, McAllister, McCart, Mack, McAuliffe, McGrath, Melady, Neill, Nations, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, Nester' Newton, Norton, O’Hara, Orr, Pollock, Pears, Plato, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, Prichard, Preston, Roper, Rosenthal, Rochford, Reynolds, Rothert, Rudd, Stubbs, Scholfield, Sullivan, Schaug, Short, Stephenson, Sawkins, Spencer, Shields, Tiernan, Towle, Tudor, Velasco, Webb, Wall, Woods, Welch, Wagoner, Waixel, Chute.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Allen, Anfenger, Berry, Boyd, Blake, Boldric, Burger, Backrack, Brannick, Brady, Bombeck, Bronson, Beaudry, Cauthorn, Campbell, Carel-ton, Case, Carroll, Crotty, Cooney, Connors, Connelly, Chacon, Coad, Cooke, Cavanagh. Connors, Carney, Chute, J. Doherty, J. S. Doherty, J. Delaney, F. Delaney, Daniels, Davis, Devine, Darrah, Fitzgerald, Fleming, French, F. Flynn, J. Flynn, Falvey, Freeman, Frie, Galbreth, J. Greene,-T. Greene, Graham, Gonzales, Gray, Grossman, Girten, Grever, Garrabrant, Heller, Henderson, Hiener, Hagan, Howard, Hall, R. Healy, P. Healy,- Hillas, Hoerr, Hampton, Hughes, Hackett, Hake, Johnson, Jewett, Jackson, Johns, Kahn, Kutsche, Kellner, Kinsella, Kehoe, Lahey, Lane, McDonald, Moncada. Martin, McGurk, McMahon, McCormick, McGrath, McNulty, McKenzie, Mul-queen, John McIntosh, James McIntosh, Munroe, W. Merkle, E. Merkle, Monaghan, McGuire, Miner, McIvers, McPhee, Mooney, Martin, Nichols, Neef, Noud, M.O’Kane, B. O’Kane, O’Neill, O’Hearn, W. O’Brien, G. O’Brien, O’Donnell, O’Shea, J. O'Hara, Patterson, Paquette, Pritchard, Peck, Pfau, Pecheux, Quinlan, Reinhard, Rierdon, J. Rose, S. Rose, Reidinger, Rebholz, Ryan, Roth, Row-sey, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, Stephens, Senn, Shenk, C. Spalding, R. Spalding, Simpson, Silver, Smith, Talbot, Tewksbury, Thome, Walsh, Welsh, Wile, Wageman, Weldon, Wade, Wood, Wright, Wilbanks.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	.
Masters Ayre, Ackerman,-S. Backrack, H. Backrack, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Boettcher, Bekham, Barbour, G. Black, .Beerman, Blake, Bradley, Burns. Bates, E. Conners, C. Connor, W. Connor, Collins, Connelly, Cummings, R. Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, Crane, Durand, J..Dunn, F. Dunn, Jesse Dungan, J. Dungan. Davidson, Ddss, Li Dempsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, G. Franche, Ferkel, C. Franche, Flannery, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Goldmann, Grant, Hinds, Harlan, Healy, Hagus, Halthusen, Johns, Jenninngs, Jaramillo, Kerwin, Kutsche, Kinsella, Keefe, Klaner, Kehoe, H. Lonergan, A. Lonergan, Morgenweck, Maternes, Marx, A. Mayer, L. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mooney, Neef, Neenan, Nichols, O’Neill, Oppenhiner, J. O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C Paul, Plautz, Peck, Parker, Quill, Rogers, Ricksecker, Sweet, F. Smith, E. Smith, E. Savage, Seerey, P. Stephens, Scherrer, Tomkins, Taft, F. Toolen, Fred Toolen, Trujillo, W. Williamson, Wm. Williamson, Walsh, Welch, Witkowskey, Young, Zieman, Koester, Mott, Walsh. :
Roll of Honor.
. [The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has .given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
‘	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Messrs. Albright, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Barnes, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Blessington, Bernhart, J. Burns, C. Bush, Brownson, Brewer, Becker, Britt, Baca, E Burns. Baldrick, Boland, Campbell, Clark, J. Cassidy, W. Cassidy, Chacon, Cusack, Cook, Crane, Craig, Crill, Cartier, Donaghue, Donelson, Dempsey, Decker, Dore, Ewing, Eyanson, Francka, Fitzharris, Firickh, Fenton, Fisher, Fehr, Goebel, Gallardo, Gordon, Giesler, Henderson, -Higgins, . Hobart, Heinemann,, Howard,; Houck,
NOBLESSE OBLIGE. ‘	'
What is diviner than the peace of foes!	.
He conquers not who does not conquer hate, Or thinks the shining wheels of heaven wait • On his forgiving. Dimmer the laurel shows
On brows that darken; and war worn repose : Is but a truce .when heroes abdicate
To Huns—urifabling those of elder date .
Whose every corse a fiercer warrior rose. -
O ye that saved the land! Ah! yes, and ye , That bless its saying!. Neither need forget -
' The price pur destiny did of both demand— . . Toil, want, wounds, prison, and tile lonely sea !
Of tears at home;. Oh! look oh these. Arid yet— Before the human fail you—quick! your hand!
.	.	;—R.Johnson,inCentury.
tU£ Uotlili bAMii SCtiOLAStib	4?
Saint Jftary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The Senior department is so large this year that extra desks have been required in the study-hall.
—Miss Agnes English, of Columbus, Ohio, is a welcome visitor at the Academy. Miss Agnes came to enter her sister Jessie as a pupil.
—The Minims- and Juniors took the first long walk of the year on Sunday last, and returned laden with golden-rod and autumn-tinted leaves.
—The many students of the Art Department are already interested in their work, and all, even the beginners, show an application truly commendable.
—The French and German classes are very large this year, and the interest thus far manifested in the study of the languages promises earnest work.	.
—One of the special features of the celebration of last Sunday’s feast was a touching sermon by Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., on the Dolors of Mary.
—To Mrs. M. Ryerson, of Chicago, is tendered heartfelt sympathy in the loss of her worthy husband. To Miss Sadie Campeau, his niece, do we also offer words of condolence.	■
—The Holy Angels’ Sodality will be reorganized, and officers will be elected on Tuesday, the 27th, just in time to make preparations for the coming month—that of the Angels.
—The officers of St. Catharine’s Literary Society are, Miss M. Barry, President; Miss M. McEwen, Vice-President; Miss M. Allen, Secretary, and Miss E. Flannery,-Treasurer.
—Intelligence of the sudden death of Mr. E. Murphy, uncle of Miss M. F. Murphy, reached here last Friday. Sincere sympathy is extended to Miss Mary, as also to the other- relatives of the deceased in this sad bereavement.
—The reading in the refectory has commenced. The book selected for the present is “An Old World, as Seen Through Young Eyes”; and the readers are the Misses Horn, Murphy, Hummer, Snowhook, Moran, Van Horn, Sullivan, Carmien, Brady ,zGavan and Kearns.
—At the first meeting of St. Teresa’s Literary Society, composed of the Graduating and First Senior classes, the following officers were elected: President, Miss M. F. Murphy; Vice-President, Miss L. Van Horn; Secretary, Miss L. Trask; Treasurer, Miss E. Balch; Librarian, Miss E. Brady.
—St. Agnes’ Literary Society was reorganized on Tuesday, September 13. The members proceeded to the election of officers, which resulted as follows: President, Irene Stapleton; Vice-President, Ella Blaine; Secretary, Ottilia Knauer; Treasurer, Margaret Hull; Reader, Delia Rogers.
—Those who have practised painting for some
time show their clearer understanding of art by reviewing their early lessons in linear and aerial perspective. Now are they beginning to see that all efforts founded on any save first principles will prove waste of time, and only add to the amount of mediocre work so common nowadays.
—The arch, over the main altar in the Church of Our Lady of Loreto has been transformed, under the skilful brush of Signor Gregori, into a marvel of beauty. His gift to the church is a painting of the Eternal Father, with the figure of an angel on each side bending in adoration towards the altar; the whole is a fitting monument to the genius and liberality of the artist.
—The first regular Academic meeting was held on Sunday evening, Rev. Father L’Etourneau presiding. After the reading of the notes, Misses Carmien and Stadtler gave evidence of their thorough training in Elocution by reciting admirably. Rev. Fathers Saulnier and Zahm were present; the latter made some pleasing remarks, after which the visitors adjourned, and study was in order for the young ladies.
- —St. Mary’s tribute to Rev. Father Shortis will be a most grateful and lasting remembrance of him in prayer; while an earnest endeavor to practise the lessons he taught, by word and example, will evince the appreciation in which his humility and devotedness to duty are held by all who were ever under his guidance. In the death of Rev. Father Shortis St. Mary’s has lost a devoted chaplain, a kind Father and friend. May he rest in peace!
—Among the visitors during the past week were: Mr. J. Dempsey, Manistee, Mich.; J. W. Johnson, Peoria, Ill.; Mrs. A. M. Waterbury, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mrs. A. M. Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Mrs. J. Rennie, Stevens Point, Wis.; Mrs. D. C. Melay, Fort Dodge, Iowa; Mrs. F. Gavan, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. R. S. Campbell, El Paso, Texas; T. C. Anderson, Frankfort, Mich.; Wm. Sear, Bourbon, Ind.; Mrs. C. C. Carmien, Goshen, Ind.; Mrs. J. R. Terhune, Mrs. T. Hutchinson, and Mrs. M. Kinsella, Chicago, Ill.
Home Accomplishments-
By some our theme may be considered a contradiction of terms, for the very word “ accomplishments” suggests the idea of -restraint, of drill, of study, of resistance to nature, which seems incompatible with the refreshing and delightful pleasures of home. At the home fireside, if anywhere in the world, one should be free and unfettered. We will not contradict this assertion,yet will ask, who is more free than the adept in hisart? The accomplished tactitian will plan a battle and. win a victory, while a mere tyro is calculating the chances of defeat. :
One can scarcely imagine anything more un- . studied and charming than the confident execution of the adept in vocal or instrumental music; but the charm and the freedom are the products of long years passed in patient stud}’ and persevering
The noTre dame scholastic
practice. Accomplishments, far from curtailing that sense of rest and easy' satisfaction which makes one.“feel at home,” as the expression is, are, on the contrary, most perfectly adapted to promote that mutual confidence which is the key-stone in the arch of domestic affection, the crown as well as the foundation of home enjoyments.
As in the pursuit of any given acquirement native taste and aptitude are the surest guarantees of success, so a kindly, thoughtful, considerate disposition springs up in the genial atmosphere of a happy home. Theological dissertations and moral lectures are very good in their place, but a sweet and unobtrusive interest in the welfare of those whom we would persuade will often far better subserve the purpose. The young girl who possesses the art of interesting others, and who knows how to successfully divert the attention of her younger brothers and sisters, or any members of her father’s household, from harmful, or even indifferent associations outside,has at her command an accomplishment, a glorious fortune, which cannot be gainsaid.
Let home pastimes eclipse those offered outside of home, and what a series of misfortunes are forestalled! The intellectual satisfaction of one who has outwitted the syren of restlessness, which is ever promising to the young joys in the unseen future, and robbing the present of its advantages, must be great indeed; but the peace of an approving conscience will far outweigh that satisfaction.
Not to underrate the domestic virtues which provide the larder with choice viands, and by which the fireside circle is permeated with the wholesome atmosphere of thrift and neatness, there are, notwithstanding,some accomplishments which surpass even these. Self-abnegation—a blissful oblivion of whatever does not contribute to the advantage of every member of thebeloved household—though it be an accomplishment which requires incessant practice, yet its influence is like the mild spring shower to the thirsting fields after a drought.
Many who carefully ward off the approach of physical pestilence are, because of their insensibility, quite unmindful of a far more dangerous infection which may poison the very life current of happiness at its source. Had we known that the contagion was in the air, we might have prevented the disaster. Why did we not know ? We were absorbed in other considerations. But, in a world where perils are rife, why do we not foresee danger? Because of our apathy. Yet, surely, a loving Creator has not permitted us to dwell in the midst of enemies without providing us the means of self-defense. Far from it! God has given us in the stronginstinct, so to speak, of true devotion the needed protection. No bee-line was ever more direct than this, unerring instinct. When .faith directs its course, affection without guile, is possessed of a power beyond that of magic.
Watch the society belle, as she sweeps the chords of the harp with her graceful fingers, or touches the responsive keys of the piano. Listen to her melodious voice as she interprets the masterpiece of ^ome great poet-in. a thrilling song or recitation'.
Commend her for her skill, and praise her for her insight of the author’s motive; but if that hour a feeble mother be left at home to the care of servants, or an aged father be yearning for her companionship (of which her selfish love of pleasure has deprived him), behold how empty- her accomplishments appear!	'	...
In contrast, mark one less splendidly endowed, yet who has filled the measure of a more noble career; who has sacrificed her own pleasure to contribute to the happiness of parents, brothers, and sisters at home. Her devotedness has exalted her accomplishments, meagre though they be in the sight of the world, and no jewels can compare with the gems which adorn her soul.
Skilled in the art beyond price—the art shared with her by the angels of heaven, that of shielding others from perils and temptations—by promoting the happiness of others, she has most effectually ensured her own.
Bertha Kearney ( Class ’cP/).
Roll of Honor.
I’OR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Allen, Andree, Brady, E. Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Bescha-meng, Bourne, Bray, De Butler, Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Carey, Conners, Clore, Ducey. C. Dempsey, H. Dempsey, Davis, M. Desmond, K. Desmond, English, Earley, Flannery, Fravel, Fitzpatrick, Guise, Geer, Horn, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog Hellmann. Hyland, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron, C. Hurley, K, Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann. Johnson, Kearns, Kennedy7, Kohler, Kron, Latta, Leonard, La Berge, Murphy, N. McCarthy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, B. Morse, M. McCormick, M. McEwen, McNamara, C. McCarthy, Moore, O’Brien, Orr, Palmer, Prudhomme, Piper, Quill, C. Quealey, G. Regan, Rend, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Rowsey, Rannells, Reen, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheehan, Shields, Saviers, Schmauss, Sloman, Smith, Trask, Thompson, Terhune, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Wright,Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Voting.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, E. Blaine, Burdick, O. Butler, E. Burns, M. Burns, —. Burns, Campbell, Crane, Churchill, Davis, Dempsey, Dolan, Dryer, Foster, Fritz, Farwell, Hake, Hull, Hagus, Knauer, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Loonie, Mercer, McCormick, Miller, McCune, O’Mara, N. Morse, M. Morse, Newman, Quealey, Reed, Rogers, Reinhard,* Reevs, Rose, Simons, Smith, Stapleton, Wyatt.
ONE GOOD LIFE.
A sunbeam piercing the forbidden shade
Of some drear prison cell has often brought
Quiet to troubled spirits, and has made
Dark, morbid brooding change to peaceful thought.
So one good life will prove a guiding light, ■ •
To brighten paths weak'mortals oft find drear—
A beacon in the narrow way of Right
To lure the fallen to a higher sphere.
—The American