osaa
Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 9, 1884.	No. 22.
Historic Musings*
No. 1. Genius.
What is this Genius that men long to claim? A cloud, burnt to the heart by its own flame, Nay, a caged eagle, dragging at a chain, Yearning for freedom with a maddening pain. • And its jewels, that glitter like gifts from spheres Of light and joy, are but crystallized tears. Perjury, plunder, evil word and deed, Lying and cruelty, all these succeed.
But woe for those high natures that aspire. Whose lips were touched with consecrated fire! Pause, then, young dreamer, on whose fated brow The light of Glory’s choice is falling now. There is no laurel for the good and brave, No tranquil refuge but the sunken grave.
There Hate recoils, and Envy sheds her tears For the dead chief whom she no longer fears.
Marion Muir.
* Suggested by this eloquent passage: *
“ One may fritter awav his existence in chasing the follies of our day and generation, but if he will stop in his mad career to read an English joke, his attention will be called to the solemn thought that life is, after all, but a tearful journey to the tomb.’’—Bill Nye. of Baramie.
The French Revolution.
BY T. E. STEELE, ’84.
V.
The Legislative Assembly.
And now, kind reader, though we have been so long in the telling, let us pause for a moment to lookback over what has been told; let us say a few words of simple justice for the Constituent Assembly.* The members of the' Elcrs-Etat found in full sway the old regime j they left, but two years later, a wise Constitution for the governing of a 7	00.
* By a carelessness, which was primarily due to a misprint in our translation of Thiers, several dates were wrong by one year in our last paper. The death of Mirabeau, the Royal Flight and the sine die adjournment of the Constituent Assembly took place in seventeen hundred and ninety-one (1791)-
free people. They had ever displayed both courage and prudence; and the Constitution they brought forth, though destined after a few months of trial to fail, was perhaps the best that any body of men, under the circumstances, could have produced. Undoubtedly, their unwisest act was the clause forbidding any of their members to be elected to the new legislature—the first parliament under the constitution; a sacrifice mainly prompted by the highest patriotism.
In August 1791, the elections had taken place, and on the day following the adjournment of the Constituent Assembly, its successor was solemnly installed. Among their members were not a few destined to National prominence: Verginand, the brilliant orator of the -Gironde; Isnard, and Brissot, destined to speak often many things from the tribune; finally Danton, the “Mirabeau of the Sansculottes”—a big, brawny man, with fierce passions, and a great, bellowing voice; gifted with force and quickness of speech, ruling with careless supremacy the hearts of the people.
Robespierre, meanwhile, had retired to Arras; whence, having remained quiet some seven months, he returned to Paris. Linked with these two names in dreadful history is that of the journalist Marat—a deformed and hideous man living in a cellar, and clothed in rags, publishing papers and books advising that all persons not beggars be sent to the guillotine; promising, with two hundred mercenaries, to control the Revolution. Never were there three associates so widely different as Danton, Robespierre, and Alarat. The first with little of plan or principle leading the people to excesses, while himself a pensioner of the court; he relied for his supremacy on his eloquence at the coffee-house - and the Assembly. The second, when returning to Paris a simple citizen, lost neither energy nor power; he knew well what he desired for France, and how it was best to be accomplished, and his place in the Jacobin Club was worth to him immeasurably more than a seat in the Assembly. A neat, prim lawyer, he, neither eloquent nor brave; living in all the elegance he could afford, yet justly termed “ the Incorruptible.” How different from him the third, Alarat! It is said that at one time when there was considerable talk of making Robespierre, dictator, the slimy journalist called to see him. In a few moments they parted—Alarat full of contempt; Robespierre, of horror.	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
But behold, friends, our new Assembly is in session, and France, tilled with dismay, is all encompassed by danger—danger from within and without! The Assembly itself torn up into opposing factions; the king willing to execute the Constitution only to show its impracticability, and thereby’ establish the old regime. Meanwhile, between the thousands of emigres and the hostile foreign powers, France promised to become a second Poland. The king of Sweden had proclaimed himself the knight-errant of Marie Antoinette, and threatened, could he obtain assistance from Russia, to end the Revolution by a triumphant invasion. But the greatest danger was to be feared from Prussia, under whose encouragement the emigrants were preparing to lead an army to Paris. But, meanwhile, in all southwestern France the clergy were exciting the people against the Government. Commissioners sent by the Assembly accomplished nothing; and a terrible anarchy, with those who incited it friendly to despotism, reigned.
The Assembly, as an act of wise self-protection, now provided (Oct. 1791) that the priests who had refused to take the oath of civism provided by the Constituent Assembly, having since excited civil war, should lose their pensions, and, in cases of necessity, be punished by transportation and imprisonment. At the same time, by another decree, they provided foi the protection of Paris by 20,000 patriotic guards. To these two wise and moderate measures, Louis replied by his constitutional veto. Terror again seized the Parisians. Their city was unguarded; their legislature, powerless, their king faithless; meanwhile, the powers of despotism weie preparing to crush forever the new-born freedom of Europe. The whole court in correspondence with the emigrants, the king’s own brother one of their number; the Minister of Foreign Affairs a traitor or a fool; cartridges being secretly made by the Royal Guards; were these not sufficient reasons for terror?
But the crash was not yet to come. Aided by the king, and in spite of him, too, the Assembly proceeded to action. The army was increased and judiciously divided: Rochambeau, Luckner and Lafayette being placed in command. By the close of 1791, the energetic Minister of War, Narbonne, had returned to Paris, and France, he said, Was prepared for war. The year 1792 opened gloomily enough. The ordinary New Year’s celebrations were suppressed, and men anxiously awaiting what the year might bring forth. In the early part of March, Louis, having dismissed the popular Narbonne, was mortified by the impeachment of Deles-sart, his Minister of Foreign Affairs. It became necessary to form a new Ministry, and General Dumouriez was given the chief fortfolio. This man who, after Napoleon, was one of the most brilliant Generals France ever produced, had as yet attained little prominence; he was destined, however, to save the. Revolution, and to have the (for him) useless power of controlling it. From the .first he enjoyed the.confidence of the queen; biit his advice, unfortunately, she could not follow. His plans for the war were undoubtedly the very
best; neither Austria nor Belgium had yet prepared for war, and the most advantageous iposi-tions could be at once procured. The various French Generals, therefore, were hurrying forward to effect their capture, when some soldiers under Brinon, not seeing, but merely hearing of an enemy, shouted: “We are betrayed!” and fled. At the same time, some other soldiers of Rochambeau, hearing of their comrades’ terror, were also panic-stricken. When, therefore, by hazardous marches, the division under Lafayette had reached the rendezvous, they heard only of pain and misfortune, and they, too, were compelled to halt. So failed, and with so little reason, the brilliant plan of Dumouriez (April, 1792).
Among other members of the new Cabinet, was a patriot lately arrived from Lyons; a dull man himself, but .governed by his young and beautiful wife, whose salon was the political centre of Paris. They were both students of the new philosophy, and, though leaning towards the Gironde,* were favorably known to all. Their name—not unknown to history—Roland. Aleanwhile (May, 1792 ), things were going on badly at Paris. The two decrees already? mentioned, providing for the punishment of the clergy and the protection of Paris, were still nullified by the Royal veto. Accordingly, the majority of the Cabinet determined to force the action of the king, and addressed him a scathing—though, truth to tell, rather long-winded —rebuke, through a letter composed at one sitting by Madame Roland. Under the advice of Dumouriez, the ministers were dismissed,-and a promise given that the vetoes would be withdrawn. It was the failure on the part of Louis to keep faith that brought about the famous “Insurrection of the Twentieth of June.” .
It was on the morning of that famous day, that from the suburb Saint-Antoine there might be seen a large procession forming around a wagon, in which there lay a huge poplar tree—already christened a Tree of Liberty—and destined to be planted in the grounds of the Tuileries. At the same time, Saint-Morceau and all south-eastern Paris were sending reinforcements. At last the procession, now several thousands, gets under way; with San-terre, a huge butcher and valiant fighter, in the van. Above them are borne:many signs; among others, the bleeding heart of a calf, ’neath which is written, “Cceur d'Aristocrate!" Tricolored officials try to interfere; but what can they do ? Are not the people free to petition in any way they see fit? And now they have come to where the Assembly is sitting; where, entering, they talk some very plain talk, and are answered quietly enough. Whence, singing and dancing, they come again to the street and .‘march bn—-now thirty thousand strong. On to the Tuileries, where the gates swing open to receive them; where the tree is planted, the palace entered, and the doors to 'the royal apartments thundered down! Imagine that
* Feiulleants, Girondists, and Jacobins, were the names of the. three, parties who varied in their views as to 'what the nature of‘government should be. The'firsgaristocfat-ical; the second; republican; the third, dem'ocratic.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	339
crazy, drunken mob tilling the stately palace, searching for their king; imagine a door, heavily struck, then quickly from the inside opened, and before them, standing unattended and unarmed, The King! Here, then, ensues a pushing and scuffling, with Louis standing in the embrasure of a window, slightly protected by some National Guards. To the mob’s demand that he recall his veto, he calmly replies that this is neither the time nor the place, yet kindly adds that he is friendly to therri. Whereupon sanculottism proffers him a greasy red-cap, the badge of freedom, which he places on his head; and again a bottle of wine, from which he drinks. “Sire, don’t be alarmed,” says an old grenadier at hand. For answer, phlegmatic majesty places the soldier’s hand upon his heart.
For three hours so they stand, the king and the people; then—as all things must end—order is restored, and the Tuileries once more deserted. But in the midst of the danger the queen and the drtu-phin had been discovered, and both had assumed red-caps—insignias of freedom. At one time a republican deputy burst into tears, though he had been quick to say: “ It is true that I weep for the misfortunes of a beautiful and sensitive woman, the mother of a family; but do not misunderstand me: my tears are neither for the king nor the queen. I hate kings and queens!”
The next day considerable excitement prevailed, but the tide of favor set towards the throne.' Meanwhile, Lafayette hurried from his army to Paris. Arrived, he found the popular feeling strongly against him, and disgusted with the “Twentieth of June” and the apathy of the Assembly over the outrage, endeavored to persuade Louis to fly from Paris. At the sariie time, he determined to collect a force of Girondists, and capture the city; but only one hundred persons appeared the first night at the rendezvous he had selected, and on the second night, only thirty. He was therefore compelled, for mere personal safety, to hurry back to his division.
During all this time the Assembly were deliberating whether the country should be declared in danger. The passions of the debaters rose to fever heat, a number, both of Girondists and Jacobins, opposing the proposition. Owing greatly to the eloquence of Verginand it was finally carried, and the sad state of affairs solemnly proclaimed throughout the land.	-
And now another 14th of July has come—anniversary of the storming • of Bastille. And now again is there to be a federation—like the last, characteristic of Paris! Pdtibn, the last Mayor, having been removed, it was'determined tb"make the petition for his reinstatement, the upper thought of the day. Accordingly, no sooner did the king appear, than ah infamous crowd of both sexes set up a shout of “Pritibn or Death!” The “Tree of Liberty” was deeply planted, and the “Tree of Feudality ” burned. Meanwhile, the fickle people had ceased their insults, and now, as the day was closing, rent the air with Vive le Roil For ah Hbur king-and people deceive themselves; for brie
brief moment old-time dreams are dreamed again and, like sweet music heard in the distance dies away, they passed; and left king and people sadder and more hopeless than before.
And how, at the head of eighty thousand men, the Duke of Brunswick, in the name of the Emperor of Austria and the King of Prussia, is invading France. And even now, on the 28th of July, arrives at Paris his haughty manifesto, demanding all towns and cities, under penalty of being razed to the ground, to deliver themselves up; promising to all mercv from Louis, to whom he was to give back his absolute power. At once the greatest rage possessed the Parisians, and the friendly messages from the king were held up by deputies as frightful , examples of duplicity. On the 30th, six hundred men* “who knew how to die” arrived at Parish and that very night began a disturbance which ripened into the terrible insurrection of the Ninth of August.	.
Oh, who can ever hope to write the history of that night as it should be written; a night lurid-bright even in those frightful times? It was an • insurrection carefully planned of which Paris was well forewarned, and its one object was to gain by terror what prayer had tried to gain—the deposition of the king. The Revolution was now three years old, and what had it accomplished? In a fine palace at a great expense was kept a tyrant while many citizens were perishing. Noisy noblesse and clergy were hoping in one brief month to see re-established the old regime. A large foreign army was advancing, and the chief riiagist’rate of the nation hoped for its success. Three years of Revolution! Alas, they had been far too slow! Was France to go forward again, to cease the utopiari attempt to build up, and proceed with the great tearing down? Then it behooved her to abolish her king arid spend his enormbus income in bread, confiding the Government to resolute citizeris who, being of and from the people, might have their truest good at heart. Thoughts like these were upperrriost, mixed, too, with the love of excitement and the hope, some day, of plundef.y
On the 9th of August, the irisurgerits take their rise from the south-eastern part of Paris—the suburbs Saint-Antbine arid Sairit-Morceaiix. But, as on the 26th of June, they are sbori largely re-eri-forced, and march to where the Municipality .is sitting. Here, the city government is forthwith changed; and the precautionary orders of the legal Commurie repealed. Meanwhile the bells are ringing: from evefv church, and now from the TowriHall itself their bfazeri voices calling Pans, to arms! and all is fearful expectation at the palace of the Tuileries. .	.
Mayor Petibn, has retreated to the garden and refuses assistarice; Mordet has indeed ’ promised much, has given license to return force by force,
* Before sfartihg from Marseilles to Paris their'Colonel composed a hymn which they sang daily on their march, now world-known as “The Hymn of the Marseillais.
f- It should;-however, be borne in mind that these mobs were never dishonest; still practical Communism was sought by all the extrerne'Democratsof Paris.
34°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
but now a messaage comes, and he must go. Gone— could the court but know it—to death! Still there remain a thousand Swiss, besides many chivalrous gentlemen of France; and after all, it is now early morning and as yet there is no sign of ..violence. But hark! about five o’clock, is heard a terrible shout, Vive la Nation! and the mob is at the gates. Poor Louis slips down almost unaccompanied and reviews his troops; comes back, gathers silently together his wife and children, and departs for the Assembly. Meanwhile, the loyal Guards and gentlemen, shall they stand or fly? The Guards know only what honor tells them—they will stand. In vain are all entreaties from the crowd; they stand, “ a red pier in that sea of steel.” Random shots are too soon fired, and the conflict begins; right valiantly, too, do the Swiss maintain it, when a breathless courier brings the written order of the king, not to fire on'the 'people! What can they do but plunge into the crazy mob of thousands, and escape as best they can ? A few of them are brought for safety to the hall where the Assembly is sitting; here, in a little room, not far removed, sits Louis Capet, once King Louis XVI of France. The Temple Prison is to be henceforth the abode of himself and his family.
(to be continued.)
Daniel O’Connell.
History is the great recorder of many glorious names, but none should shine with greater lustre on its pages than that of Daniel O’Connell—the Catholic emancipator of Ireland. Bigotry in the past has done a great deal to shroud«his name in gloom, and consign it to the dark grave ’of oblivion. This century is called an age of enlightenment and of progress. What progress has history made? W’hy have so many historians, forgotten, or purposely neglected to mention his name? In mentioning o	o
the histoiy of Ireland at all, why do not historians say something of her eloquent and most devoted son ? - Is he not entitled by his devotedness to the cause of his countiy to stand side by side with any other great persoiiage of historical fame? The generals, warriors, statesmen and politicians of other countries have been lauded to the skies. Ireland produced men which have been equals to any, and still’ histoiy permits their memory to perish, by not only disdaining to praise them, but also forbearing to mention their names. She is afraid they may contaminate her pure pages, but she does not cease to lay before our eyes, the bloody, foul, and indecent incidents of a Robespierre, a Henry VIII, and above all, “ Good Queen Bess.” Were it not for the works of their fellow-countrymen, the student in search of knowledge would have a very poor opinion of the greatest sons of- Ireland.
.'Daniel O’Connell was born at Carhen, near Cahirciveen, on the 6th of August, 1775. His youthful days were spent at his birth-place. There are., some records left which tell us that he was a boy of more than ordinary intelligence and observation. We all know the state of Ireland at the
time when O’Connell was beginning his studies. We know the restrictions laid upon Catholic parents by the Penal Laws in regard to education. Time and again the schoolmaster was accustomed to station one bov on the road to watch, while hetaught his timid scholars, in order that on the least.alarm they might scamper off to a place of safety. ..	•
O’Connell’s uncle knew full well the desperate state of the times in ’which he lived. He knew, that his two nephews, Maurice and Daniel OCon-nell, could not receive a fitting education on account of the Penal Laws, and he wisely concluded to sepd them over to France where, they might enjoy the freedom of the benefit which was denied to them at home. When the subject of our sketch was studying at St. Omers, he distinguished himself by his proficiency in classical learning.
Next we find him studying law at Lincoln’s Inn • at England. The French and American Revolutions which happened at this time made a deep impression on all thinking minds, but on none with more force than that of O’Connell. We. indeed find men, such as Burke and Chatham,, who used all their abilities to avert the dreadful: catastrophe which could not but be the inevitableconsequence of that tyranny which was exercised; against a people who sought to escape it by leav-. ing their fatherland,.and fleeing to a new and more: prosperous country. It was all to no avail. We-know the result: America declared herself “free and independent.” This war with America taught England a lesson that even if she did hold the hio-hest ‘ rank among nations, she could, by the united force of a few gallant leaders and patriotic men thirsting to breathe the pure air of freedom, be humbled to the very dust. It was this war which prompted her to grant some alleviation to the starved and famishing people of Ireland.
In 1798, O’Connell made his first .visit to the famous city of Dublin. Little did he think of the triumph which would attend him on another entry he should make at a not distant period. Here he first heard Grattan and Flood as in England he had heard Pitt, Fox and Burke. Ireland had at this time her so-called Pailiament. But this Parliament was far from being entirely independent of English coercion. True it is that there were a few of its members incorruptible, independent and wholly attentive to Irish affairs, but the majority were imbued with a spirit entirely foreign to the-interests of their country. „
Ireland was never treated by England as a nation. England thought, by lowering the respect due to a nation which had produced, so many re-nowned.men, that she would raisejierself very high . in the estimation.,pf other nations;' but England never made a greater mistake. Irishmen have fought, and always will fight for and maintain their rights. They would prefer, death to the loss of their rights as a nation. And as they saw death and starvation staring them in the face, can we blame them when, in 1798, they rose up in rebellion? Listen to-the-words of Pitt, the English •	- _	- ,	<	*	o .
statesman, concerning his country’s outstretched ' but never satisfied hand.- He says:. “ Ireland long
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
34^
-felt the narrow policy of Great Britain, who, iuflu-•enced by views of commercial advantage, and stained with selfish motives, never looked on her (Ireland’s) prosperity as that of the empire at large.”	’	-
Such was the state of affairs when O’Connell commenced his public career. Pie saw his country torn by civil discord-. He knew that Ireland needed a strong hand to guide it through these turbulent times.
After four years of hard study O’Connell was called to practice at the bar. The first of his famous speeches was delivered in opposition to what was called the Union. This Union had for its object the affiliation of Ireland to Great Britain, and to form ii-n.sentiment and interest one united people. Pie '■was strongly attached to the Catholic Association. Me repelled with obstinate firmness every attempt tto secularize the Catholic clergy. The two great topics of interest at this time were the Vito and Maynooth College. The Vito was made by the •English Government to obtain the complete con-■trol of the Catholic clergy and to effect, if possible, 'their total estrangement from the Holy Sec. Maynooth College was primarily established for the education and training of aspirants for the Priesthood.
The English Government was anxious at this time that the college should be opened for the reception of lay students. As might have been foreseen, a dispute arose on this point, the Protestants maintained that the number of lay students should be increased; the Catholics declared that no lay-students at all should have been admitted. The fourth article of the letter written by the Protestant Bishop of Meath, in 1800, to Lord Castlereagh, and from which we take the follow-iing extract, will sufficiently show what the avowed object was in regard to Maynooth College. He savs:	■
J	.
’ “The doctrines taught at Maynooth were to be such as the English Government shall approve. The legislators of the day were quite indifferent to points of doctrine; the Protestant parson or the Catholic priest might teach what they pleased on such subjects; but Casar's interests were to be looked after very carefully. They were ordered to be the first object; for the test it mattered little.”
In 1S11 the English Government did its best to suppress the Catholic Association; but this Association had for its leader a man who could not be intimidated. O’Connell had by his eloquent speeches infused into his countrymen some of the sparks of equity and right which were burning in his own bosom. After a series of meetings lasting over 13 years, at which O’Connell always acted the principal part, we find him,’in >1827, opening correspondence with the Rt. Rev. Dr. McHale.’ O’Connell knew full well the value of the assistance of the bishops and priests. In June, 1828, he was elected as member from Clare to Parliament. He would not be allowed to take his seat until he had taken the test oath, or oath of supremacy. This he refused to do.
“Are you willing to take the oath of supremacy?” asked the speaker. .
“ Allow me to look.at it,” replied O’Connell.
The oath was handed to O’Connell, and he looked at it in silence for a few moments, then, - • * . * raising his head, he said: “In this oath I see one assertion as to a matter of fact, which I know to be untrue. I see a second assertion as to a matter of opinion, which I believe to be untrue. I therefore refuse to take this oath.”
It may not be out of place here to say a -few words on'the Emancipation Bill which was the subject of our hero’s continual meditation.. He so brought about affairs in order to effect its passage through both Houses of Parliament. To show the justification of this act,- we will quote the Duke of Wellington’s own words on the subject, addressing the Blouse of Lords, in 1829.	•
“ We must also confess that, without Catholic blood, and Catholic valor, no victory could ever have been obtained, and the first military talent in Europe might have been exerted in vain at the head of an army. Yes, my Lords, it is mainly to the Irish Catholics that we all owe— our proud pre-eminence in our military career, and that I, personally, am indebted for the laurels with which you have been pleased to decorate my brow. Whenever I meet with" any of those brave men, who, in common with others, are the objects of this Bill, and who have so often borne me on the tide of victory; when I still see them branded with the imputation of a divided allegiance, still degraded be- " neath the lowest menial, and still proclaimed unfit to enter within the pale of the constitution, I feel almost ashamed of the honors which have been lavished upon me.”
In 1840, the first meeting of the Repeal Association was held. This society had for its object the repeal of the legislative union between Great Britain and Ireland, and it was only by this means that the latter kingdom could obtain justices The three years, from 1840 to ’43, were spent by O’Connell in holding repeal meetings. It was estimated that at Limerick there was an assemblage of 100,000 persons who came to hear him. On October 7, 1843, a proclamation was issued declaring!’ these meetings- to have endangered the public peace, and in consequence, on’ October 14th, O’Connell and the chief ’ leaders were arrested, confined in prison, fined .£2000 and bound over to keep the peace for seven years. They were ' liberated September 6, 1844, by order of the Government. O’Connell was now over seventy years of age and this incarceration told terribly on the once mighty and unconquerable frame.
On the 26th of January, 1846, he bade adieu to the Irish shore, never to return. While on his way to Rome, sickness compelled him to stop at Genoa. He could proceed no farther. The cold hand of death ' was on his brow, and on the 15th of May, 1847, his soul took its flight to receive that reward promised to the good and faithful servant! Never again shall we hear that voice which could call together thousands of his fellowcountrymen. Thou art at rest, but thou hast left a nation to sing thy dirge. Never shall we forget thee. We shall apply to thee the words of thy fellow-countryman Robert Emmett—“The man dies but his memory lives.” Yes, thy memory will always and ever live in our hearts.	:	.
We cannot better conclude this short and impefy- . feet sketch of one of the greatest men of the 19th'' century than by quoting the mournful verses sung’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by his fellow-countryman, Dennis Florence McCarthy :
*• But can it be that well-known form is stark?
Can it be that burning heart is chill?
Oh! can it be that twinkling eye is dark,'
And that great thunder-voice is hushed and still? Never again upon that famous hill * Will he preside as monarch of the land With myriad myriads subjects to his will,— Never again shall raise that powerful hand. To rouse to warn, to check, to kindleand command 1
The twinkling eye, so full of changeful light, Is dimmed and darkened in a dread eclipse; The withering scowl—the smile so sunny bright, Alike have faded from his voiceless lips. The words of power, the mirthful, merry quips, The mighty onslaught and the quick reply, The biting taunts that cut like stinging whips, The homely truth, the lessons grave and high, All—all are with the past, but cannot, shall not die! ”
J. D. C.
* Tara.
Art, Music, and Literature.
.	—A new German translation of Burns’s poems
has just appeared in Stuttgart. It is reported to be an excellent one.
—The English translation of “John Bull et-Son He” has been selling at the rate of nearly one thousand copies a day since its publication in London.
—Now, that Paris possesses a statue of Alexandre Dumas, it has naturally occurred that Honore de Balzac ought to be commemorated in the same ' way. A statue of Beranger has already been begun, and is to be unveiled in July.
—Queen Elizabeth of Roumania has just given -	to the public a volume of legendary stories entitled
“From Carmen Sylvia’s Realm.” Queen Elizabeth is also the author of “Les Pensees d’une Reine,” and a volume of poems called “ Sturme.”
—James E. Murdoch, the Shaksperean scholar and actor, attained-on the 25th ultimo his seventy-third birthday. A reception was given in his honor at the Philadelphia Academy of Fine Arts, and elegantly bound’ copies of the Bible and of Shakspere’s works were presented to him.
—The Comical Poetical Collection is about to be :	_ published in England in monthly parts.' It will
;	consist of the parodies of famous English authors.
’	Each part will .present the parodies on a single au-
i	thor with bibliographical notes. ’Tennyson is to
1	lead the list. Mr. Walter Hamilton is the editor,
i	—Mr. Browning lately wrote this free and hasty
•	. translation of Horace in the album of a lady who
■	is renowned for her musical soirees:
I	All singers, trust me, have this common vice,
:	To. sing’mid friends you’ll have to ask them twice.
|	I£you don’t ask them ’tis another thing,	•
I	Until the judgment day be sure they’ll sing.
—The. Rev. F. Lawrence, C. P., is. rapidly becoming prominent.as a. musical. composer of no or-dinaiy, ability. His latest production is an 6 Sa-•	ItdarJSj the, music of which, while.pleasing, is of a
i	high order, and.must command, itself toall lovers
of good music. The opus is dedicated to the Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., editor of The Ave Maria, and a personal friend of the author.
—“The Jewel in the Lotos,” which lately appeared as a serial in ILippincotfs Magazine, has been presented in book form and is highly spoken of by the critics. National life, national habits, and a variety of historical information, are given in a very attractive manner. The author is Mary Agnes Tincker, one of whose former books, “ Signor Monaldini’s Niece’’—written anonymously— attracted great attention. Miss Tincker is undoubtedly one of our best American novelists; she writes stronger and better books than manv of those from the sterner sex that have obtained a larger share of attention.	’
—Tn Germany a new process of enamelling ker-amic articles has been invented. The glass, terra cotta, stoneware, porcelain, or similar articles are covered with a film, capable of conducting electricity, by painting the article with a solution of chloride of platinum oi’ nitrate of silver, and burning this in,, and then decorating as desired with enamel. This is burned in, and the article is afterward covered electrolytically with the metal. This covering does not adhere to the enamel, and by gilding, silvering, coloring, polishing, platinizing, etc., the metallic portions of the surface very varied effects are produced.—Home Journal..
—The Bishop of Newport and Menevia has written a Life of the late Archbishop of Sydney for the forthcoming number of the Dozmside Review. Few'more interesting sketches than this promises to be, have appeared of late years, which, perhaps, is not surprising, since Archbishop Vaughan must undoubtedly rank as among the five or six most interesting figures among modern Churchmen. Indeed, the interest of such'a subject, treated by such a writer as Bishop Hedley, is so great that we shall express only a generally felt desire, when we venture to hope that his Lordship will extend the present monograph of some twenty-five pages to the dimensions of a goodly volume.—London Tablet.
Books and Periodicals.
—In the current number of the Mzisical World is an interesting' article on Franz Liszt, the great . pianist, with a portrait of the famous old Abbd, and an engraving of his residence at Weimar.	*
Other excellent miscellany is also given, and the editorials, short and spicy comments, corresp'on-	!
dence. trade chat, etc., all maintain the usual high standard. The music consists of a song and chorus, entitled “In the Twilight I am Dreaming;” a ballad by Roeckel—“’Tis Darkest ere the Dawn;” a fine potpourri of melodies from the new opera, “ Lakme,” and a spirited March by Wyman.
S. Brainard’s Sons, Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.	=	I
— The Catholic Worldic>\N^x\.v.\v\;	' I
| an abl^and intei:esfing;articleby the.Re.v...George M.	I
THE ICGTEE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
343
Searle, on “ The Supposed Issue between Religion and Science.” The writer shows that the process by which reason discovers truths of religion, is “just as legitimate as that of the scientists, and quite similar to it.” and that “ the issue between Catholic religion and science. ... is the issue between a true science well formed and thoroughly elaborated through many centuries, and certain theories put forward indeed by scientific men, but with a confidence which is strangely in contrast with their usual deliberation and caution.” The other articles are; “The True Beatrice Cenci”; “Some aspects of the Negro Problem”; “The Youth of Pedro de Ribadeneyra ”; “A Haunt of Painters”; “Uncle George’s. Experiments”; “What Shall our Young Men do?” “An Answer to Neal Dow”; “Armine”; etc.
— The American Catholic Quarterly Reviezv begins its ninth year with a bright omen of success in the form of a blessing and words of encouragement from the Holy Father Leo XIII. The high standard of literary'and scholarly excellence to which the Review has attained, has made it well deserving of this distinguished acknowledgment, as it has made it an efficient agent in the service of the Church at the present day. The first number of the ninth volume contains the following articles: “Kant’s System of Philosophy,” Rev. Walter H. Hill, S. J.; “The Life and Times of Fred-crick the Second,” Prof. St. George Mivart; “ The American Republic and the Irish National League of America,” Alexander Sullivan; “Is it the Will of God that all Men Should be Saved ?” Rev. R. F. Clarke, S. J.; “The Chinese in America,” Bryan J. Clinche; “Puritanism in New England,” John Gilmary Shea, LL. D.; “The Impending Conflict in French Politics,” A. de G.; “ The Rights and Duties of Familv and State, in Regard to Education,” Rev. James Conway, S. J.; “ What did the ‘ Reformation ’ Reform ? ” George D. Wolff; “ The Spirituality of the Catholic Church,” R.
College Gossip.
—Yale has received $25,000 more towards a Chemical Laboratory.— Chronicle.
—A bequest of $10,000 has been bestowed on the Mt. Allison institutions by the late Z. Chipman, of St. Stephen.
—Mrs. R. L. Stuart visited Princeton Novem her 2d, and left the promised $150,000 for the new School of Philosophy.—Princetonian.
—An Astronomical Observatory is to be built for the University of Vermont by Lawrence Barnes, a Burlington lumber merchant.— Cornell Sun.
—Student, who has had to copy his compo.: “Prof., this was the regulation length, but it has shrunk horribly in the washing.”—Polytechnic.
—Dean (in Chapel, announcing)—“The Professor of Chemistry, who is unable to meet his classes to-day, requests the Senior class to take Arsenic.”-^Kenyon Advance.
—Albert E. Kent, of San Francisco, Cal., has increased his gift to Yale College from $50,000 to $75,000—this amount to be used for a Chemical Laboratory.— University Press.
—Nine American colleges have adopted the Oxford cap. This is well. Heretofore, the only thing that distinguished a college student from other people has been the bad spelling in his letters ■ home asking for money to “ buv books.”—Burdette.
—The following, from the Washington Hatchet of Dec. 29,110 doubt'proved interesting to a “select few” in Columbia College and the University of Michigan: “ The RngziirePs Washington despatches will hereafter be printed in SanshriftP
—The boy who returned home from school at a suspiciously late hour, on being called to account for his tardiness, remarked that he had done so well on his lessons that day that his teacher gave him an encore on his Latin recitation.— Columbia Spectator.
—The annual bowl-fight, a time-honored custom at the University of Pennsylvania, came near ending seriously this year. The police interfered, and, if the newspapers are to be believed, pistols were drawn. The Freshmen, while attempting to break the bowl on a hydrant, broke the hydrant instead, and got well drenched. It was an ugly affair all round, and it is not improbable that there will be no more bowl-fighting at the University.
—Shoo it toward the Wesleyan if you see a thing pacing along the street with a skull cap and a small cane, for it is one of the students. It may whine a little, but shoo it with a club and it will amble oft" like a second-hand thought with a broken leg.—Eye. Evidently, the writer of the above has been a Wesleyan student at some time or another.—TFes-leyan Bee.	-	-
The editors of the busy Bee evidently appreciate humor, even at the students’ expense. But, after all, it doesn’t hurt the students.
—Light is breaking. Read the following, from The Current. Mr. Wakeman’s new paper in Chicago :
“ The English Commissioner, sent to the United States to inquire into our educational system, reports that our High Schools and Colleges tend rather to unfit pupils for the active duties of American life. The accuracy of this conclusion cannot be successfully disputed. There is an immense demand, yearly becoming stronger, that the governing boards of the educational institutions of the land shall take steps to re-adapt them to the needs of the present age.”
BEWAILIXGS OF A BROKEX-HEARTED BARITOXE.
A las! alas! my cake is	DO.
My sun of life has set:
B ut could I keep a single	RE,
I might be happy yet.
C hanting an E’s no ease to	MI,
At upper notes to strain;
D oubtful of FA. “so near yet	FA,”
I strive for it in vain.
E ’en deadheads long have cursed my SOL, “Too flat!” “You’re old!” they cry.
F obis! old Sol sings by Nature’s LA, • So, how is that for high?
- G one are those I used to	SI,
A DO RE MI’ FA and near:
Naught’s left me but to drink—to die, My SOL LA Si’s my bier.
-	—Oberlin Review. -
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, February 9, 1884.1 - r
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art,--Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.	‘
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it: and, above all, ..
. Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jo for Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84. Jno. A. McIntyre, ’84. James Solon, ’84.
, C. F. Porter, ’85.
W. H. Bailey, ’84.
Elmer A. Otis, ’84.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
—The following extract from one of our exchanges merits careful reading:
“The college papers experience no little difficulty in obtaining sufficient matter for publication, and some of them even offer prizes for best contributions. It is hard to see why this should be so. There can be no practice of more after-use to college men than exercise in composition in the English language, and it is extraordinary that the majority of them do not try their hands at it. One would suppose that the college papers would have vastly more communications sent to them than they could possibly find room for, but the case is exactly the opposite. Other papers are constantly flooded with voluntary contributions, but in college, where it would be presumed all the students . would know how to write and would want to write, there , is evidenced an astonishing unwillingness to put pen to paper.”
_ ----------------------• -----------
—A recent number of The Polytechnic, which - we happen to take up, has a sensible article on
“ Billiards? in which the advantages and disadvan- -tages of this., particular pastime are- weighecl. Poly justly. inveighs against the false policy of . allowing amusements that are harmless in themselves, and capable of affording a''healthy -and
. profitable relaxation, to be made the instruments of the. devil bv tabooing them in moral circles and leaving them exclusively, to those who make a bad use of them. The writer in The Polytechnic says:
“If. our Christian associations and educational institu-, tions, instead of giving to the devil and the liquor dealers the .monopoly, of much that is in itself desirable, would
have billiard halls and bowling alleys in connection with their organizations, and give dancing parties under their own management, they would be able to teach the right, and beautiful use for which these were invented,,and by showing the young man that the wrong consists in the company and not in the game, arm him against temptations ■ which he must certainly meet.”	.
Hitherto this interesting game has been left too much to the control of bar-room keepers and. professional "amblers. If a young man yielded to the -solicitation of a friend to go and play a game, he was often thrown into vile and profane company to which many a young man could trace his ruin; This could easily be prevented. Ordinary billiard tables are costly, but a very cheap and serviceable article could be improvised, and the game made a -. captivating amusement for the home circle.
-Al-Last Wednesday, the 6th inst., was a fete day for the Minims, it being the birthday anniversary • of their venerable patron, Very Rev. Father Sorin. To fitly honor the occasion the members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association presented a pleasing little impromtn entertainment in their hall, which is said to be the finest at Notre Dame, and which on this occasion was most handsomely decorated. In the select and ci itical audience assembled at q a. m., we noticed the following guests from abroad: Mrs. Norfolk, Virginia, Ill.; Mrs. G. Lester, Vandalia, HL; Mrs. M. G. Curtis, Mrs. J. Taylor, Adrian, Mich.; Mr. Amoretti, Lander, Wyoming Territory. We give herewith the - .
programme:
Address..............................B.	B. Lindsey '
Song—“ Lo! we hail our Father dear! ”.......'....
By the Minims’ Orpheonics “ Somebody’s Mother ”....................J.	Wright
“The Blessed Virgin’s Knight”............M.	O’Kane
“The Glove and the Lion ”................W.	Devine
Song—“Gently, Lord, O Lead our Minims!” By the Minims . Anniversary Address..................B.	B. Lindsey
“Our Titles”..............................R.	Papin
“St; Hubert’s Last Hunt”.........:____B. B. Lindsey
Song—“ Why are Roses Red?”...............W.	Devine
Greeting to Very Rev. Father General......R.	Papin
The entertainment was in every respect a success and reflected the highest honor on the Sorins, who, as Rev. President Walsh remarked in his speech, gave promise of being elocutionists of whom Notre Dame could be proud. At the close, Very Rev. Father General arose, and in a few kind words thanked all who took part in the exercises and complimented them on their success. In referring to his early days at Notre Dame he said that the presence of so many promising, happy students was a striking contrast with the first college of forty-one years ago which began with one . student-^-a Minim—who.for some months was the Founder’s only pupil. ■	* . .
We congratulate Father General on the health and vigor with which he begins his seventy-first year, and in union with his youthful proteges we wish him many happy returns of this anniversary.
—The student at college lives in a little world of his own—quite distinct from that large, busy, toiling world outside, which he is preparing to .enter.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
345-
However, though distinct, these two worlds have, in the main, points of similarity which at once present themselves to the thoughtful mind, and of which the diligent student takes advantage in or-der the better to fit himself to occupy with credit his proper place in the world without. For it is during one’s college days those habits are formed which, according as they arc good and bad, will serve as the foundation of success in life or the reverse. Here at college the student lives in “society;” he lives with his fellows, and is daily and hourly thrown into intercourse with them. What better opportunity could be presented for cultivating those good habits, which arc necessary to success and happiness, as we live in social intercourse with our fellow-beings in a larger and broader sphere of life?
Habits of politeness or good manners at oncesug-• gest themselves as those which should be especially cultivated during our college days. The experience of the worldly wise confirms their importance and, necessity It is the man whose boyhood has not been neglected in regard to politeness, in regard to the cultivation of good manners, that is sure to sue-ceed in business, whatever employment he may follow. Our merchants and leading business men want polite men as clerks, book-keepers and assistants. The}’ know that their patrons—however great may be the reputation of the house—do not wish to purchase from men who are rude and vulgar. Besides, it is noticeable that those who are pleasing in their manners, courteous, affable and agreeable, are always looked upon as ornaments of the society in which they move, and are, too, the cause of much good, not only in a material but also in a spiritual sense; through them many good effects are brought about, for harmony and order follow in their train.
Opportunities without number are presented in college for cultivating these habits, and need no specific mention. Beside the Christian training received, which is the foundation of true politeness, the associations existing between student and student afford occasions for the constant practice of lessons inculcated. Let us learn now to implant deeply in our hearts the principle of politeness by charity, so that in'after-life we may be considered as Christian gentlemen, full of love and respect for God and our fellow-beings.
Exchanges.
—The essay writers of the Wooster Colleo-ian •J	Cj
show some good work. “A Study7 in Shak- . speare,” “ Educating the Senses,” and “ The Modern Novel” show much careful study, even though—as might be expected from student work —the writers’ conlusions are not always logical.
—The College Record, from the Merom Union Christian College, comes to us this month in a neat blue cover. The paper is much better printed than formerly. For our part, however, we attach much less importance to the appearance of a paper.
than to its tone and the thoughts expressed by its writers. The one is chiefly or entirely the work of the printer. The work of the writers, and the manner in which that work is done are the main points for consideration..
—The P hilomathean Review has a new and neat heading and has inaugurated a series of illustrated church articles. The news departments of the Review are now printed in smaller, but clear, type, in order to give additional matter. The Review contains a large amount of social gossip, carefully arranged. The best and most instructive part , of the paper for some time past has been theseriesof articles on “Parliamentary Law,” by Mr. Thos. E. Crossman, in which the rules governing and regulating deliberative bodies in general have o	o	o
been judiciously7 condensed.	;.
—A writer in the K. M. I. News asks: “Is. Kentucky7 evoluting at the wrong end or not? It is an infallible principle of philosophy.that-if we do not evolute at the right end we will evolute at the wrong one.” Some of these Kentucky people -have a strange method of expressing themselves, but the class in question is by no means a representative one. If one were to judge by7 the recent antics of the writers for the News he would at once say that Kentucky7 has been evoluting at the wrong end.- Wild fanaticism, frantic raving, bad grammar—and this from teachers in an educational: institution! . The writer says: “Let’s turn things ’ upside down in Kentucky. There is something wrong; there is a clog somewhere.” There.prob- ’ ably is something wrong—in the brain of the writer; but turning things upsidedown ordownside., up “in Kentucky” may not remedy the evil, but make matters worse. We advise “ A” to soak his head in rain-water for ten or fifteen minutes every . day7 for a week. He will then probably be able to . judge more calrhly, and to refrain from making an ass of himself. •	.
— The Polytechnic comes out with a handsomely7 engraved title-page, whether or not’ the work of home artists—like The Adelfhian—we are not informed. This number of the Poly is prodigal in cuts—not all engravings—from their prominence we should say7 they are bass-reliefs. Poly's poet gives co-educationists in general, and the Adelphians in particular, some hard knocks in chaffy poetry—like tarred and feathered snowballs they look soft but hit hard, and are likely to raise a blister if they don’t draw blood. “Rufied Grouse Shooting in the North” is described bv a contributor—a member of the Poly Gun-Club probably. “ The Professions.^. The Trades” is a sensible article—an exceptional thingin a college paper. Poly has hired a new cutter for its exchange department, as we see from the photo-engraving at-the head of the column, and this new. cutter cuts right and left among the exchanges. -The cutter has a savage appearance; his hair stands . out like porcupine quills, and he wields a pair ' of shears. In his shirt-sleeves, a huge paw grasping the shears', a savage glare in his eye, he looks like a rough’un, probably imported from the bbr- 4
346	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ders, and we have little doubt the exchanges will hereafter receive hard treatment at his hands unless they are able to take him in his own fashion. He has already cracked the Emory Mirror, sat down on the ’ Varsity., blown Laselle Leaves up the chimney, and jostled the Index into the waste-basket. Poly looks on quietly from her high perch, while the savage bruiser, shears in hand, vindictively glares at some new victim from his high perch on the sanctum stool. Sad is the fate of the Exchange Editor in , these degenerate times!
— The Haverfordian chronicles an important event in the history of the college journalism of our times—namely, a trial by fire of the college magazines, couriers, reviews, and journals of America. The Haverfordian does not state when or where the “ Holocaust,” as it terms it, took place. There is an air of mystery about the whole affair, but of . course the statements of The Haverfordian cannot be called in question, especially as they were given by an ej*e-witness. We were not at the “ Holocaust,” although The Haverfordian intimates that we were; some other member of our staff, or friend of our paper who had confidence in its merits, must have taken upon himself to represent us by proxy, and for the time being enjoy the hard-earned honors of the, Exchange-Editor. The result of the test was that The Berkeleyan was sadly though not seriously injured, the Swarthmore Phoenix lost its cover, but the articles inside shone with greater brilliancy than before, the Oberlin Review was almost fire-proof, the K. M. I. News disappeared and was never seen afterwards, the Hamilton College Monthly with its “ thoughts on ‘Noble Women’ and their elevation” came forth unscathed, the fire burning with greater brilliancy than before; Chaff, of the University of Pennsylvania, was found to contain some fireproof grain, but the illustrations were badly mutilated, one or two entirely obliterated. Illinls turn by lot came at a favorable opportunity, the fire burning low and allowing it to pass uninjured —partly owing to the change in heat,” says the chronicler. The fire was built up afresh—prob-ably because the Scholastic’s turn was near at hand. Res Academical led off. “ Where, oh, where,” says the chronicler, “are now all those studied sentences on ‘ An Adventure with a Skull,’ and that grand philippic against the foot-ball referee ! Gone, gone to seek the K. M. I; News ; followed by The Premier, with the same fate.” The Princetonian, University. Monthly and The Adetyhian came out uninjured. Modesty forced the chronicler to remain silent about his own paper, Tile Haverfordian, but of course-it escaped uninjured to tell the tale. Now comes the-ScHOLASTic’s turn—(confound the fellow who pretended to represent us, though; why didn’t he tell us of it? We might have soaked the- paper in some chemical solution to make it fire-proof. But it seems to have successfully stood the ordeal). We quote:
“Two waves produce a calm, two sounds produce silence, and we judge that two fires produce smoke, for when the fiery: [impudence!] Notre Dame Scholastic was put upon the flame, the heat ceased, arid -a dense- column of
smoke rose, to the sky, causing darkness for a few minutes, but when the Scholastic was taken off the fire blazed up again. The Exchange-Editor [confound the fellow! but we forgive him] refused to let our representative see it when it was brought back.”
The fire had no effect upon The Earlhamitc and the Wilmington Collegian. The Roanoke Collegian had been sent by mail, and miscarried— luckily, perhaps. The Sunbeam came all the way from Ontario, but was refused a trial on the ground “ that it was not American,”—those judges must have known as little about geography as many of the college essayists do of history: they probably couldn’t tell whether America is in the United States or the-United States in America. The chronicler says in conclusion: “It was found that the fire had been built upon The Argonaut, Harvard Advocate, Vassar M iscellany, and Bowdoin Orient. In the glow of evenino-. amid the cheers of all present, they were drawn -from the ashes unburned, and it was voted that in the coming year all should consider them as models.” What about the Herald- Crimson, Chronicle, Brunonian, Virginia University Magazine, Niagara Index, Cynic, Portfolio, Cornell Era. Targum, etc.? We are not told that they were present. Perhaps the committee of arrangements intend to prepare another fire for these.
Obituary.
. BROTHER ILDEFONSUS, C. S. C.
On last Saturday night, after a lingering illness, Brother Ildefonsus, long and familiarly known at Notre Dame, passed peacefully away from earth. For upwards of twenty-five years he had, been; connected with the College, acting as Prefect and in other capacities, and to many an old student., to whom his genial disposition had endeared him, the news of his death will be sad indeed. For the last few’ years his health, gradually failed, and at length the dread disease, consumption, developed itself. But through it all, his pleasant, good nature did not forsake him. His sickness was borne with heroic patience, and the certainty of death met with calmness and resignation. So that when at last he was called by his Maker he was found not unprepared. May he rest in peace!	•
Personal. .
—George H. Madden (Com’l), ’72, is a prominent Banker at Mendota, Ill..
—.Herman J. Childs (Com’l), ’73, directs an extensive trunk manufactory in Chicago, Ill.
—Among the welcome visitors during the week were Mrs. Adelia Freeze, of Fort Wayne, Ind., and Mr. Jacob Wile,,of Laporte, Ind.
—Henry Fitzgibbon, of ’62,—“Our Harry”— though prominent as a business man in Chicago, is more widely known as the Secretary of the Irish American Club in that city. -	"
—John G. Ewing, Esq., ex-City Solicitor of this city, has formed'a law partnership with ex-Mayor
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	347
Peters and Luke Byrne, Esq., of Columbus, and will locate in that city. Mr. Ewing is one of the brilliant and popular members of the Lancaster bar, and while we regret very much to lose him, we wish him success in his new undertaking.—Lancaster (.0.) Gazette.
^-Frank Phillips (Com’l), of ’So, is now occupying a very responsible position in the Fort Wayne (Ind.) Iron Works Co. It was a splendid tribute to Frank’s worth that in so large and extensive a firm, he, in a short time, should advance over the heads of those who were “years in the service.” But, after all, in the long run, “ talent tells.” Frank’s many friends here are gratified to hear of his success. •
—We clip the following from the South-Bend Times of January the ist:	. -
We learn from our townsman, Mr. T. E. Howard, that J. F. Beegan, of Fort Wayne, contemplates submitting his name before the next Democratic State Convention as a candidate for reporter of the Supreme Court. Mr. Beegan is highly spoken of as an industrious young lawyer and a careful student. He was formerly a student of Notre Dame University, under the instruction of Prof. Howard,, to whom he has communicated his purpose of presenting his name for the consideration ofthe nextState Convention.
—Our Catholic fellow-.citizens held a grand temperance mass meeting at their church in the Third \yard'Sunday night, when the church was crowded to overflowing with people who came to listen to an address by Rev. Fathei Walsh, President of Notre Dame University. A right eloquent address it was, and the effect of his counsels was made apparent in all the; old members again signing the temperance pledge for another year, and many new names were also added to the list. The temperance work of our Catholic friends is of a practical kind, and the meeting may be ranked as a most gratifying success.-—South-Bend Times.
—The last number of the Central Lazo Monthly —-a magazine published in Chicago—was gotten up almost entirely by7 Mr. William Hoy ne, our Professor of Law. Prof. Hoyne is not only- an able lawyer,, but has also been acknowledged by his brother editors and journalists of the leading dailies to be one of the best editors and journalists of our day. Prof. Hoyne abandoned journalism, in which he had been eminently- successful, for the practice of his favorite profession, the law. Notre Danie may well congratulate herself upon securing his services for the direction of the Law Course here, and the • students for having a man of such acknowledged ability as their teacher. Prof. Hoyne-made his classical-studies at Notre Dame, his Law studies under Judge Cooley, of the University of Michigan.	’
Local Items.
. —The Spring Dude is fast becoming a tough.
—Our friend John-wants to know if it’s yell-ociition.”
—The’ predictions of our astrologer are all being verified.	•
—The Scholastic Annual has been noticed lw the Spanish press. .
—The “Life of Joseph Haydn” is being read in the Juniors’ refectory.
—Rumor has it that the Philopatrians will burn Bertrand at a not very7 distant date;
. —The Euglossians have begun preparations for a series of spring and summer entertainments.
—To-morrow, Septuagesima Sunday, Mass No,
7 (p. 41) will be sung. Credo, No. 4. (p. 1061)
—Preparations for the building of the Junior’s wing are being made.- Work will commence soon. -
—Prof. Ackerman is displaying great artistic, taste and skill in preparing the scenery for Louis XI.	. ’	"	"
—	Sunday, the 3d inst., St, Blase’s day, the impressive ceremony- of the blessing of throats took place.	■-
—	The Band needs reconstruction of practice. Their playing on last Wednesday7 was very poor indeed.	-
—	Signs of an early Spring,—spring poetry, slush, colds, Guy- Fawkes, and a-decrease in the detentions.	;
—Rev. President Walsh treated the Sorins, and all who 'took part in the entertainment on the 6th, to a splendid lunch. '
—In honor of the birthday of their beloved patron, the names of all the Minims appear this week on the Roll of Honor.	-	-
—Now, that the examinations are over, the hard workers of last session are recuperating in the infirmary on a diet of tea and toast.	_
—The lectures delivered before the Geology ' - - *
Class by their Professor, Rev. A. M. Kirsch, are not only7 highly- instructive but very interesting.
—The members of the Junior Crescent Club were handsomely entertained-Saturday. evening, by Prof. Edwards. Good music was in attendance.
-	•.	' * '
—Rehearsals for Louis XI. are in active, prog- • ress. It is very probable that the play will, be given with better effect than any produced here before.	'
—To ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN	Know ye by these presents that the editors of the Scholastic are proof against bribery under any- shape or form.	--.
—The teachers in drawing remark that great progress has been made in those classes, and anyone visiting the Studio are proudly shown some fine specimens of art.	•	.
—The address to Very Rev. Father General on the 6th was delivered by B. B. Lindsey with a. grace and elegance that gave additional charm to the beautiful tribute. .
—Mr. Eugene Amoretti, of Landers, Wyoming Ter., has the thanks of the Curator of the Museum for several articles of Indian bead work and several Buffalo robes, etc.
.. —A grand winter banquet and festival' will-be given next Saturday night in the Juniors’ reading-
■ rooms. All who have-not received tickets should get them immediately from, the managers. J
—A certain student on visiting St. Mary’s last
34S	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Sunday, was asked by one of the young ladies if he sang in the Church, to which he responded, with a bland smile, “Yes,—like an alligator.” The young lady, no doubt thinking he said “ nightingale ” replied, very seriously, “ Oh, yes, indeed, you must.” (He evaporated.)
—A large variety of the latest and most fashionable gentlemen’s suitings have been lately received from New York, at the tailor-shop. Those wishing suits in the latest style can be served on very short notice. Bro. Augustus and his efficient corps of workmen are prepared to suit everybody. Don’t fail to call and see for yourself.
—A meeting of the Senior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, Feb. 3d, for the purpose of electing officers, Rev. Father Walsh presiding. The following were tlie officers elected: President, Jas. Solon;’ Vice-President, N.H. Ewing; Recording Secretary, W. Bailey; Corresponding Secretary, C. C. Kolars; Treasurer, C. A. Tinley; 1st CensorJ J. Hyde; 2d Censor, G. H. Smith.
—Never before for some years past has the skating been as good as this winter. St. Mary’s Lake has been for some time past like one vast sheet of glass, and everv “ rec” it is crowded with boys who wish- to participate in the healthful exercise. Some lively games of “pull away” and “prisoner’s base” make the exhilarating sport more interesting, and occasional hard knocks only serve to give variety to it.
—We have received a copy of Prof. Joseph A. Lyons’ translation of “ The Malediction,” a drama in three acts, adapted for male characters, with stage directions, cast of characters,, etc. It is published by the University Press of Notre Dame, Indiana, and will be welcomed, we have no doubt, by many of our young men’s Catholic associations as an excellent drama for presentation by them. — Catholic Fireside.	.
—We regret to have been deluded into the belief that the French Class had the best average as asserted in our issue of last week. We are requested to state that the Class of Descriptive Geometry, Shades and Shadows, and Linear Perspective, which threw into the shade any other mathematical Class in the house, had also the excellent average of 100. We hope that no one will take umbrage at the statement.
.—“Father, who is that small boy?” “That, my son, is the printers’ devil?' What does the little devil want, father?” “He wants copy, my son.” “Father, what makes that man tear his hair so?” “Because he is .the local’editor, my son.” “Do local editors always tear their hair, father.” “ Yes, my son, when there are no locals to write up.” “ Can’t editors always write locals, father?” “ Ah, my son that is the problem which the poor editoris trying to solve; come away, Johnnie.”—Ex.
-—The contest-for the “Mason Medal” among the Juniors continues with unabated excitement. The following “score” for the first session will be -read with interest; the figures indicate the number of times the names appeared on the Roll
of Honor, Class Honors and List of Excellence as published in the Scholastic:	.
F. Dexter, 32; F. Hagenbarth, 31; T. Cleary, 30; J.-McDonnell and J. Monschein, 28; F. Rogers, W. Schott and G. Schaefer, 27; E. Smith, W. Mug, J. Grothaus and E. Gerlach, 26.
—The yth regular meeting of the Orpheonic Association was held Thursday evening, Feb 7th. Officers for the second session were elected as follows: Rev. T. E. Walsh, Honorary President; Profs. J. A. Lyons and J. F. Edwards, Honorary Directors; Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., President and Director; Charles F. Porter, 1st Vice-President; F. H. Dexter,-2d Vice-President; Jas. Devine, Treasurer; J. S. Courtney, Recording Secretar;y; G. Schaefer, Corresponding Secretary; C. Cava-roc, Censor; E. Gerlach, Sergeant-at-Arms.
—UProf. J. A. Lyons, of Notre Dame University, : has issued a Scholastic Annual replete with useful and valuable information. In fact it goes further than most annuals or almanacs, and undertakes to prophesy as to the chief political and physical events of the year. We learn with much interest from its pages many details concerning the next President and the presidential election, which occurs, it appears, at an unfortunate season. A calendar, many interesting sketches, etc., go to make up a valuable little work.—North- Western Chronicle.
—The following additions have been made to the Lemonnier Library: Works of Rev. Arthur. O’Leary, O. S. F., London, 1782. This copy was presented by the editor to Rev. John Thayer, the distinguished Boston convert, whose autograph it contains. Usury, Funds, and Banks, by Rev. Jeremiah -O’Callaghan; Manual of the Art of BookBinding, by James B. Nicholson; Scott’s Practical Cotton Spinner and. Manufacturer. From- Mrs. V. S. Williams, of Baltimore, Anglica Not it ia, -or the Present State of England, by E. Chamberlayne, LL. D., continued by his son, Joseph Charm berlavne, Esq.,.London, 1707.	.	.
—At the 6th meeting of the Thespian Association, the following officers were elected-for the 2d session: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; E. A. Otis, 1st Vice-President; J. Solon, 2d Vice-President; C. A. Tinley, Treasurer; Wm. Bailey, Recording Secretary; D. Saviers, Corresponding Secretary; W. Johnson, Historian; J. Bannigan, Librarian; O. Spencer, 1st Censor; T. McKinnery, 2d Censor; S. Dickerson, Sergeant-at-Arms; W. E. Ramsay, Marshal; Albert A. Browne, Prompter; C. C. Kolars, Property Manager; T. E. Steele, J. Me Intyre, \V. W. Gray’ F. Gallagher, N. H. Ewing, Executive Committee; ‘Professors F. B/Devoto. ' and J. Kelly, Dramatic Critics.	'
—“ The Life of Joseph Haydn.” (A Translation from the German. Published by Prof. J. A. Lyons, Notre Dame, Indiana.) The volume is a beautiful tribute to the memory of a great man, and the translator has done his. work well. The sad part of the story relates to Haydn’s marriage, which was a continual annoyance to the composer. But what could a man expect who never bestowed
• ■ *
- MI
.1
; Ci 1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
349
the least study upon his intended wife? The reviews I have seen confine all their condemnation to Madame Haydn, who, like other companions . of great men,- probably had her own sorrows.
The same publisher sends the Scholastic Annual, noted for its astrologer, and “ The Malediction,” a drama intended for the use of schools.—Denver Inter- Ocean. •
—The 20th regular meeting of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society was held February ist for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing, session. The following is the result: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J; A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Honorary President; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter; F. Curtis, 1st Vice-President; C. Mason, 2d Vice-President; T. Cleary, Treasurer; J.-E. McGordon, Recording Secretary; C. Cavaroc, Corresponding Secretary; C. Muhler, Librarian; F. Rhodus, ist Censor; J. Nester, 2d Censor; L. Sherman, 3d Censor; J. Fitzgerald, Sergeant-at-Arms; S. Holman, Marshal; P. Yrisarri, and J. R. Devereux, Clerks of Court; J. Henry, 1st Property Manager; W. Wright, 2d Property Manager; A. Adler, and J. Garrity, Prompters.
—At the 22d regular meeting of the St. Cecilia Philomathean Association—Knights of'St. Edward —held February 2d, the following officers were elected: Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Perpetual Honorary Director; Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Honorary President; Prof. W. Hoy ne, A. M., General Critic; Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter; Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of Orpheonic Branch; D. G. Taylor, 1st Vice-President; W. Mugg, 2d Vice-President; W. P. Mahon, Treasurer; F. W. Dexter, Historian; J. Fendrich, Recording Secietary; H. Foote, Corresponding Secretary; C. Porter, Critic; J. McDonald, ist Censor; J. Smith, 2d Censor; Geo. •Schaefer, ist Monitor; M. Mulkcrn, 2d Monitor; F. Hagenbarth, Sergeant-at-Arms; E. Gerlach, Librarian; W. J. Schott, Clerk of Court; T. Cas-.sily, Marshal; J. Monschein, Prompter; C. Stubbs, and J. Devine, Property Managers-. Orpheonic .Representative, W. J. Schott.
—By far the most elegant thing of the kind we ■have lately seen at Notre Dame was a reception, on Thursday night, by Mr. J. F. Edwards, Professor •of History, to the Class of ’84. Rev. President Walsh, Fathers Toohey and Fitte, and Mr. Jos. 'Farrell, of the Law Course, were the other guests. An elegant repast was served according., to the. ’ following
MENU:
1	H nitres en Coquille.
Potage Sultane.
-	Timbales a la Parisienne.
Saumon, Sauce Crevettes. Filet de Bceuf a la Montmorency.
’ • Supremes de Filets de Volailles aux Truffes.
. .	Cotelette de Chevreuil sauce poivrade ■
Pain de Foies gras en Bellevue. .
Perdreaux.et Cailles a la Perigueux. . Salade de Romaine.
Petits pois a la Francaise.
Napolitain.	.
Madeleines Glacees.	.
Oranges, Raisins frais et Bon-Bons.
After.-which the following toasts were proposed and briefly responded to:
Our Host.—By Mr. Charles A. Tinley.	—
Our President.—By Mr. William H. Bailey. :
Our Alma Mater.—By Mr. T. Ewing Steele. ,	. .
The Class of Eighty-Four.—By Mr. James"Solon.
At the plate of every member of the Class was found an artistic menu, well worth cherishing as-an elegant souvenir of a delightful evening. ’
Roll of Honor.	- .
senior department.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Baca, Bowers, Barron, Becerra, Bailey, Browne, F. Conibe, C. Carroll, Coll, Cass. Jos. Cusack, Jno. Cusack, Crawford, Celia, Conway, Cussen, Dunne, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, Dolan. A. Dennis, Danielson, Ewing, Feltz, Fogartv, Farrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Fitzgerald, P. Frain, j" Frain, Fox, Gooley. Gonser, Goulding. Gonzalez, Geiser, Gutierrez, Gray, F. Gallagher, J. Gallagher, Galarnean, How--ard, Hofstetter, Hellebush. Hausberg, Hetz, Hamlyn, Johnston, Jackson, Kelly, Kavanaugh, Kaufmann, Kleiber, Lasley, Lucas, McGinn, Morass, McErlaine, Mahon, Me-' Kinnery, Mathers, Marquez, S. Murdock, Mittendorf, McIntyre, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, Jno. McCabe; McLaughlin, Mahoney, Madden, Morris, Neeson; Norfleet,. Muller, O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea. O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, O’Connell, Pour, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Quinlan, Rudge. Ryan, Rogers, Riley, Solon, Steis, Slattery, Spangler, Scholfieid, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, E. Smith, G. Smith, Sanchez. Tinley, Teasdale, F. Uranga, J. Uranga, Violette, Warner, Wilson, Whalen, J. Wagoner, T. Wagoner, Hyde, Zahnle.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Armijo. Adler, Arnold, Anchondo, Arkins, Berthelet. Barela, Brown. Baur, Benner, Breen. Curtis; Courtney. Crawford, D. Cartier, Chaves, Cavaroc, Cleary, Clarke, Costigan, C. Combe, Coleman, J. Devine, Doren-berg, Deaderick, Dexter, Ewing. Fehr, Fendrich, Fierro, Foster, Finckh, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grothaus, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, Hemisbaugh. E. J. Howard, Halligan, Houlihan, Hagen, 1 louck, Hagerty, Hilliard, Jensch. P. Johnson, M. Kelly, Letcher. R. Lewis, M. Loescher, Leony, Mul-kern, Monschein, Mullane, Miller, Mason,* Mahon, A. Moye, G. Moye, McDonnell. Marcotte, C. Metz, Mug, Muhler, McCabe, O’Brien. C. Porter. E. Porter, Pohl, Perley, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds, Sedberry, M. Scheuer-man, Schmauss, Schott, Schaefer. Stumer, Smith, Saunders, D. Taylor, Tarrant, Trepanier. Tewksberry, Thurston, E. Wile, P. Wagoner, W. Wagoner, Wabraushek, Weiler, Wright, Wilkes, Yrisarri, Uranga.
M IN IM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adams. Amoretti, J. Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman. Bunker, Boose, Butterfield. Brown, Benner, F. Coad, M. Coad, Cole. Cummings, Comings, Crawford, Curtis, Ciotty, Costigan, Devine, Delaplane, Dungan, Devereux, Dirksmeyer, Ernest, Fitzgerald. Fulwiler. Gar- -ritv. Grimes, Grunsfeld, Harris, Henry, C. Inderrieden, R._ Inderrieden, Johns, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, Kraus, La Tourette, Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey. C. Lindsey, Loya, W.' McGuire. T. McGuire, McGill, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, Morgan, McPhee, McVeigh, ?\Iorrison, F. Mullen, A. Mui-, len, W. McCourt.. M. McCourt, Murphy, Manzanares, _ Meehan. F. Nester, A. Nester, Noonan, Nusbaum, Nathan, Otis, O’Connor, M. O’Kane, Padden, D, Prindiville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Quill, Quinlin. Quiggle, Rebori, Stude-_ _ baker, -Stange. Saloman, Schmitz, Schoneman, Sokup,j Spencer, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Smith, -Tomas, Uranga, West, W. Welch, A. Welch, Weston,/' Wright, L, Young, C. Young, V. O’Kane.
* Omitted last week.
350	THE AfOTjR£ DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JRary's Academy.
One Mile' West of Notre. Danie University.
—Bulletins were sent out on Wednesday.
—The museum is indebted to Mrs. Barth, of Chicago, for the graceful gift .of grasses from the Public Gardens of Milan, also from the Alps— souvenirs of her six years’ residence in Europe.
—The sermon on the festival of the Purification was given by the Rev. Chaplain, and was appropriate to the day. Allusion was made-to the late strong impetus given' to the devotion of the Rosarv by the reigning Sovereign Pontiff, Pope Leo XIII.
—Grateful acknowledgments are extended to Mr. Singler, of South Bend, for the symbolic arches, one of which now adorns the statue of the Blessed Virgin, in the chapel. The fifteen tapers from the branches of the lily-plant represent the fifteen mysteries of the Rosary, and the white flowers and stars speak of the purity and exalted glory of Our Lady and St. Joseph.
—In the Junior department, the Misses Best, Bailey, Barth, Chaves, Durlacher, Dillon, M. Ducey, Duffield, Eldred, Fehr, Helen, Ella, and Sibyl Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen, Moshier, Morrison, Richmond, Rodden, Sfieekey, Snowhook, Stumer, and Wolven drew for the badge for politeness. Little Clara Richmond wears the coveted insignia, of the first of accomplishments. -
—The monthly Adoration of the' Blessed Sacrament was observed on Sunday, the 3d inst. It being the feast of St. Blasius—at whose intercession many throat diseases have been miraculously cured —the pious custom of all Catholic localities was followed, and the blessing of the throat by St. Blasius, Bishop and martyr, was publicly invoked upon those who presented themselves before the altar for that purpose.
—Another offering for Candlemas Day—twelve dozen paraffine candles, a memorial tribute to a “dear departed teacher,” who died last June, and whose festival was celebrated on the 2d inst.—was sent by Miss Mary Quill, of Chicago, to the twin Sister of the deceased. She closes her letter as follows:	'
“Trusting our dear Lord may be pleased with this little tribute of love to His Sacred Heart, in memory of one who so beautifully served Him on earth, and that she has been granted ‘eternal rest.and perpetual light,’ I remain,” etc., etc. .	.
—The exhibition in St. Luke’s Studio gives evidence of thorough culture. . The pupils of Prof. Gregori have produced some excellent work from models of heads, feet, hands, eyes, etc., etc. Solid, fundamental principles of art, take precedence over every other consideration in the lessons. Panels of- a--large size in oil composed, some of Golden Rod and Asters, others of Holly-Hocks, are very finely done. Some small panels in water-colors
of roses and pansies are admirable. Among other notable things in the Studio are some fine Lemoge vases and panels.
—TheJ recitations on Thursday at the soiree were greatly admired. Miss Munger rendered a selection from the 'Inter- Ocean, “ Kate Shelley, the Iowa Heroine,” by Eugene J. Hall, with excellent effect. Miss A. Murphy’s selection was Miss Donnelly’s “Pippo’s Vision.” The fine personation and noble elocution of the young lady was the subject of remark by all present. The essay “The Seen and the Unseen,” by Miss Johnson, received the following appropriate commendation from one who listened to it: “I know not which most to admire the grandeur of the ideas, or the beauty of the language.” The listener might J	o o	o
have been partial in her judgment, but the essay, as well as that from the German Class, by Miss Ginz, merited the close and respectful attention of all present.
—As usual, the closing examination of the Instrumental and Vocal Classes, assisted by the Elocution and Composition pupils, took the form of an entertainment. Visitors and professional musicians present expressed themselves delighted to hear what careful culture had done in drawing forth the inherent expression of music.
For the satisfaction of parents, a few words on the programme which appeared in last week’s Scholastic are given.
“Barcarole" a vocal trio by Campani, consti-. tuted a graceful opening. The fresh, young voices of Misses Reilly, Bruhn, and Neu led the audience to expect, not merely pleasing sounds, but the results of brain work. Miss Laura Fendrich accompanied all the vocal numbers -in her usual appreciative manner. Miss M. Beal rendered Chopin’s “Polonaise" in A[? with stirring exactitude; her playing of the long crescendo octave passage in the bass tested satisfactorily her. power and even- ’ ness of touch. The song, “Air and Variations,” by Proch, a difficult piece of vocalization, was ably sustained by Miss Bruhn. Her sweet, clear tones give promise of great brilliancy and future success. Tausig’s arrangement of Von Weber’s “ Invitation to the Dance ” was played by Miss J. Reilly, whose delicacy of touch brought to light, not alone Weber’s elegantly-rounded phrases, but also the intricate arabesque ornaments with which Tausig has surrounded them. This composition belongs to the modern classic school, and requires careful study to reveal its beauties. Miss Reilly showed herself equal to the.task: The next vocal number, also by Miss Reilly, was “ The Lost Birdling,” by Centemeri. This cavatina, in the florid,‘bravura ’ style, was given with a facility of execution which showed to advantage her marked improvement in . voice culture. Chopin’s “Concert Valse Etude" • arranged by Rafael Joseffy, in his brilliant but difficult mode of execution, proved that Miss Fendrich merits her position in the Advanced Course. Her technique is graceful, and under her fingers the varied expression of both masters lost none of their beauties.	. '.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
35*
A grand chorus from the Oratorio of “ Samson,” sung by the Vocal Class, closed the entertainment. The parts were well sustained; precise both in time and pitch, the voices resounded jubilantly, bidding fair to eclipse all former efforts.
\South Bend Tribune, Feb. ist.] •_..
St. Mary’s Academy.
CONCERT DAY AT THE CLOSE OF THE FIRST •	SESSION.	.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Adderly, Ashton, A. BabcoCk, Bruhn, Billing, Beal, Burgher, Call, Carney, Cirtcel, Dunn, .Dowling, Evarts, Fogferty, A. Gordon, Ginz, Gove, Gavan, Helpling, Heckard, Hetz, Keenan, Kearns, King, Keating, Kenny, Legnard, Lintner, Leahigh, M. Murphy, McCarthy, McHale, Neu, O’Connell, Platte, Quill, Reilly, Ramsey, Ryan, Reynolds, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scully, Sear, Todd, Tynan, Udall, ad Tablet—Misses C. Babcock, Black, Cummings, Campbell, B. English, Fendrich, Fitzpatrick, B. Johnson, Kearsey, Kearney, Munger, A. Murphy, Rosing, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Williams.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
ist Tablet—Misses Best. Bailey, Barth, Chaves, Dur-lacher, Dillon, M. Ducey, Eldred, Fehr, Halsey, Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, Lucas, McEwen, Moshier, Metz, Richmond, 'Roddin,' Shephard, Sheekey, Snowhook. 2d Tablet—-Misses ’Duffield, English, Moi risen, Murphy, Schmidt, Van Horn.
’	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ist Tablet—Misses Chapin, -M.‘Ducey,.J. English, L. Johns, V. Johns, Lindsey, Murray, Paul, M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss.	.	■
Class Averages.
Graduating Class—Christian 'Doctrine, 100; Church History,99; Composition,98;MentafPlulosdphy,94: General Literature, 97; ’Geology, 100; Trigonometry, 100; Book-Keeping, 99; Botany, 194;-Elo‘cutidn, 98.
ist Senior Class—Christian Doctrine, 99; Church History, 96; Logic; 96; Astronomy, 99; Composition, 95; Geometry, 96; Algebra,‘95; literature,"97; French History, 95.
2D Sr. Class—Christian -Doctrine, 9S; Bible History, 97; Rhetoric, .99; Modern ''History, 97; Composition, 93; Algebra, 94; Arithmetic; 92.	■	.
3D Sr. Class—Christian ^Doctrine. 95; Bible History, 95; Grammar, 94 ;■ Rhetoric,95; - Ancient History, 92; Philosophy, 93; Etymology, .97; ^Composition, 83; Algebra, 91; Arithmetic; 91.	'
ist Preparatory 'Cl-ass—Cathechism, 95; Bible History, 95: Grammar, .99; Arithmetic, 95; 'United States History, 91; Composition,'93; Orthography, 97; Reading, 9°.	'	_	:	.
2D Prep, Class—Catechism, .92; Bible History, 89; Arithmetic, 92;.Grammar,.93; Composition, 89; Orthography, 91; Geography, 92;' Reading, 89.
Junior Prep. Class—Cathechism, 90; Arithmetic, 94; Grammar, 90; Geography, 91; Orthography, 84; Reading, 92; Composition, So.
Elocution— Senior Class, 96. 'Junior Class, 92. Minim Class, 94. -•	,
German—ist:Class,<99. 2d - Class, .93. 3d Class, 91.
4th Class, 97.	•
French Examination poSfp'On'e’d.
Day before yesterday the Semi-annual Examinations at St. Mary’s Academy were finished, and Thursday was the closing day of the first session. It is customary at St.’Mary’s to ‘.give an entertainment after the examinations and before the beginning of the-new session. Consequently, yesterday afternoon was appropriately selected as the time.
The exercises took place in the upper hall of the Academy. The audience comprised students of the Senior classes, several of the Sisters, and a number of invited guests. As music forms a chief feature of this entertainment, the day set apart.for it is commonly called “Concert Day;” and, judged by the high standard of the exercises, the name is certainly appropriate. 'While it is true that those who participated are members of the Graduating Class, and consequently capable of exhibiting the range of proficiency to which students of the Academy usually attain, itis nevertheless surprising to witness under the circumstances so much genuine •merit as distinguished the exercises of yesterday. They lasted between two and three hours, and commanded undivided attention during the whole time. ^Herefollatvs the Programme as given last week.)
As may be noticed, the instrumental music rendered comprises chiefly classical compositions; and one makes but feeble acknowledgment in saving that they were faultlessly executed. Misses Fen-drich, Bruhn and Reilly acquitted themselves more than creditably, in vocal and instrumental music. Miss Munger chose “ Kate; Shelley ” as the subject of her recitation, while Miss Murphy recited: “ Pippo,” a touching incident of life, among the Tyrolean mountains. Both young ladies sustained their high reputation for elocutionary skill and dramatic power. Miss Johnson’s essay, excellent both in matter and style, was read with distinct enunciation. Much credit is due to Miss Ginz for the German essay,-so laudable in sentiment-and elegant in diction. At the conclusion of The exer cises, Rev. Father Shortis, of-the Academy, and Prof. Hoy ne, of the University, briefly felicitated the students and their instructors upon the high order of proficiency to which the entire entertainment bore witness.	:
■ The second session begins to-day and promises to be successful and prosperous both for the’ students and the Academy.	‘
We read in a Greek fable, that the.nightingale once-went to beg food from ah-ant. “ May I ask,”-said the ant, “what-were you doing the summer?” “ Singing,” said the .nightingale. “ Then you may dance during the winter” was the-cruel reply.	-	-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKENDORF, FLORIST.
■ ■■	. ■ - ■ . £
The Minim Department. f
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
.. ~r ALSO, .
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
EUGENE F. ARXOLD (Class of’78).	W. H. LANDVOIGT.
ARNOLD & LAND VOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Lay .
470 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON, D. C.
L 8. & M. 8. Railway.
Oh and after Sunday, Nov. 18, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.	.	.
10.54 a.m., Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m.
4.28 a.m^ Pacific Express. Arrives at Ij.aporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7^51 a.m. '	- '	;	’	--1
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. . Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, io.ii"a.m.
1.02 plm., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31- p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket AgL, Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
' P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
“ -This-is a separate Department in the Institution at Notre Dame, for boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in the primary branches is imparted. The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. The personal neatness and wardrobe of the pupils receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months
Drawing, Vocal’Music, Violin, and Piano, free in’ this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
• TRY WILLSEE BY EXAMINING 1 HlSMAP THAT THE
CHICAGO.ROCKISUND&PACIFICRf
Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West ■ by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It.connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Beclining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri River Points. Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
, , A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kanka-V k'ee.'has recently been opened between'Riehmond, ‘	, Norfolk,NewportNews, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Au-
„ gusta.Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Past Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at allprineipal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
Eor detailed information, get the Maps and Polders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
Vice-Pres, k Gen’l M’g’r,	Gen’l Tku k Pau. AgL
CHICAGO.