TRADITION SETS THE
FASHION FOR WELL-DRESSED
NOTRE DAME MEN
The straight-cut three-button fashion with
natural shoulders, pleatless, trousers well-dressed men
narrowed lapels and has been a choice of for three generations.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
And, it looks smarter today than ever. When you wear this ageless suit, go all the way back in tradition and fasten the top two buttons. Why not come in soon and see these classic Ivy League models? You’ll find your favorite colors in a fine selection of imported and domestic woolens ... by America’s finest makers.
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! “and, “Barefoot Boy with Cheek.'*)
IS STUDYING NECESSARY?
Once there were three roommates and their names were Walter Pellucid, Casimir Fing, and LeRoy Holocaust and they were all taking English lit. They were all happy, friendly, outgoing types and they all smoked Philip Morris Cigarettes as you would expect from such a gregarious trio, for Philip Morris is the very essence of sociability, the very spirit of amity, the very soul of concord, with its tobacco so mild and true, its packs so soft and flip-top, its length so regular or long size. You will find when you smoke Philip Morris that the birds sing for you and no man’s hand is raised against you.
Each night after dinner Walter and Casimir and LeRoy went to their room and studied English lit. For three hours they sat in sombre silence and pored over their books and then, squinty and spent, they toppled onto their pallets and sobbed themselves to sleep.
This joyless situation obtained all through September and October. Then one November night they were all simultaneously struck by a marvelous idea. “We are all studying the same thing,” they cried. “Why, then, should each of us study for three hours? Why not each study for one hour? It is true we will only learn one-third as much that way, but it does not matter because there are three of us and next January before the exams, we can get together and pool our knowledge!”
Oh, what rapture then
fell on Walter and Casimir and LeRoy! They flung their beanies into the air and danced a schottische and lit thirty or forty Philip Morrises and ran out to pursue the pleasure which had so long, so bitterly, been missing from their lives.
Alas, they found instead a series of grisly misfortunes. Walter, alas, went searching for love and was soon going steady with a coed named Invicta Breadstuff, a handsome lass, but, alas, hope-
lessly addicted to bowling. Each night she bowled five hundred lines, some nights a thousand. Poor Walter’s thumb was a shambles and his purse was empty, but Invicta just kept on bowling and in the end, alas, she left Walter for a pin setter, which was a terrible thing to do to Walter, especially in this case, because the pin setter was automatic.
Walter, of course, was far too distraught to study his English lit, but he took some comfort from the fact that his roommates were studying and they would help him before the exams. But Walter, alas, was wrong. His roommates, Casimir and LeRoy, were nature lovers and they used their free time to go for long tramps in the woods. One November night, alas, they were treed by two bears, Casimir by a brown bear and LeRoy by a Kodiak, and they were kept in the trees until midJanuary when winter set in and the brown bear and the Kodiak went away to hibernate.
So when the three roommates met before exams” to pool their knowledge, they found they had none to pool! Well sir,
they had a good long laugh about that and then rushed to the kitchen and stuck their heads in the oven. It was, however, an electric oven and the effects were, on the whole, beneficial. The wax in their ears got melted and they acquired a healthy tan and today they are married to a lovely young heiress named Ganglia Bran and live in^the Canal Zone, where there are many^pice boats to wave at.
.	© 1959 Max Shulman
And hen^s a wave at you filter smokers. Have you tried Marlboro—same fine flavor, new improved filter and better makin's—made by the makers of Philip Morris, sponsors of this column?
Scholastic
Vol. 100 January 23, 1959 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victunrs Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLACK
Editor
LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH..... WALT RUDGE....... JIM YOCH......... TEDDY THOMPSON. PETER HASBROOK.. CONRAD SUSKI..... BOB FANCHER...... DAVE SOMMER...... LYN RELPH........ ROY RUBELI....... BOB MARUYAMA..... CHAS RIECK....... FRANK DUDA.......
___News
____Copy .Features .....Sports
Editor Editor Editor Editor
.Business Manager ______Circulation ______Photography ______Photography
..Assistant ..Assistant ..Assistant ..Assistant
News News Copy Copy
.Assistant Features
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER—Ass’t Features
CHUCK MILLER. TOM ROSE_____ BOB SCHAEFER-BOB HORN_____
.Assistant Features ...-Assistant Sports ....Assistant Sports ..Assistant Business
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C. ..Moderator
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough. Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Rich Burke. Jim Byrne, Wade Clarke, Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Tom Marciniak, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Jim Lee, Pat O’Connor, Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and 1 Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for na-lional advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.


3

COMMENTARY
Dear Editor:
Congratulations to Dr. Seymour L.
Si Gross (Asst. Prof, of Eng.) on his fine contribution appearing in the January
*>.. 17th issue of America. •
In an article dealing with some popu-* lar conceptions of Catholic universities, Dr. Gross points out a few basic fallacies believed by some of our non-Catho-lie friends. By contrasting his experi* ences at Notre Dame with those at State schools, he shows that professors at i > Catholic institutions actually have MORE freedom than then* secularly em- , ployed counterparts.
Dr. Gross’s contribution will do much in abating the truth of Goldoni’s statement that “he who never leaves his * country is full of prejudices.”
Michael R. McKee,
♦	213 Badin

Dear Editor,
Supposing that you are belaboring under that false impression that one who is about to graduate has some sort of priority, I submit this repercussion which is actually a personal reaction to the verbal skirmishes you have thus far published.
In a moment of senior reflection — and I might interject that it took me quite some time to attain a reflective power, but then I wasn’t a junior until I’d been here for two years and a day, — I realized that at different periods of my enrollment I had been influenced by widely varying causes. I had been excited to cheer for different teams; I had been “reasonably” persuaded to stand behind
FREEDOM OF THE PRESS?: Last weekend we received a call from the St. Maiy’s Static requesting us to recommend a competent person who could give the Catholic viewpoint on the Marie Torre case. It seems that the editors at St. Mary’s received a mandate from above to write an editorial about the case. We have neither been delegated to write about it nor have we felt it necessary to go.to someone in authority to get the inside story on the “Catholic” viewpoint. Perhaps we should have; but the Catholic viewpoint is not something which should always be sought from the clergy. College seniors who have anywhere from four to fourteen years of Catholic education behind them ought to have the ability to arrive at a reasonable — which is synonomous with Catholic — view; or else the clergy ought to examine the traditional methods of educating the Catholic youth.
Marie Torre was the principal witness in a suit by Judy Garland against CBS. Judy claimed that in her column Miss Torre quoted a CBS official as saying that Judy had an “inferiority complex” and that she was “fat.” When she refused to divulge the source of her information, she was cited for contempt of court. This same Joan of Arc for the freedom of the press was later sentenced to a jail term. Involved is one key issue: must the press reveal the source of its information. To claim that there is complete immunity within the press is to enable columnists to print whatever they desire, true or false, attributing it to “an undisclosed source.” To maintain, on the other hand, that the press must reveal their sources would rob the journals of much political, economic, and international news which depends solely on informants who prefer anonymity for justifiable reasons. If one is looking for the ideal solution, all man’s troubles would be solved by charity, in this case the voluntary withdrawal of news items which, though true, might be detrimental to an individual. Unfortunately this cannot be expected in this world. The most reasonable position then would seem to be that which solved the Marie Torre case. The implication of Judge Ryan’s decision was that if a journalist refuses to divulge his source, he should be liable for whatever information is concerned. If he divulges, then the source is liable — an avoidance of the real issue, but a reasonable and practical solution.
i certain personages of political aspirations (I hope my choice of words do justice to their memory); I had been moved to consider particular pursuits as pernicious to universal knowledge; and I had i been encouraged to champion various ,, other causes which presently slip my I mind. Presently I’m even experiencing 1, some negative repeats of the first causes
I met here, e.g., recently I’ve been advised not to cheer different teams; I’ve been told that it isn’t mature; that it’s ) foolish.
In retrospect I realize that a majority । of the causes I was encouraged to follow — please note that I said “majority” i and not “all,” — and actually did follow have become personally meaningless, if not ridiculous. But rather than cast a parting anathema on causes and undergraduate enthusiasm, I would like to ! doff my hat to the authors of the verbal • skirmishes and “repercuss” all who were i indifferent to both sides. I am moved to do this (in self-justification) because those who do not go about following, perhaps even leading, causes of all sorts never acquire the opportunity to make fools of themselves, and by never making fools of themselves they usually end * up so foolish that they think all others are fools, when actually they are merely human. Humans err, the others are un-
THE SCHOLASTIC: Before we go any farther, allow us to offer oui* ’umblest apologies for being a day late last week but the exigencies of the South Bend (notice, we don’t call it Notre Dame) weather forced us to delay distribution until Saturday. Actually, last week’s issue and the distribution thereof was quite an interesting process. About noon Friday the editor returned from class to learn that he was being quoted on WSND as saying that the Scholastic wouldn't be delivered until the next day. He was pleased to find this out. After a few frantic phone calls he learned that only a Mack truck equipped with snow tires could possibly get the issue out before Monday. He was even more pleased. Come Saturday morning a number of Holy Cross Brothers, whom we would like to thank publicly, volunteered their time and labor to help us get the issues ready for distribution. Meanwhile, Connie Suski, the Circulation Manager, came up with the closest thing to a Mack truck, a jeep, and we were in business. The real hero, however, was the unknown headline-maker-upper who wrote the prophetic head for the news section, “Winter Ball ‘Snows’ Knights in South Bend Club Tonight.”
K. of C. BALL: Speaking of the Knights of Columbus Ball, we were very disappointed that St. Mary’s caused its cancellation by not allowing any students to attend. As far as we can see, and we understand Father Collins’ office was in agreement, there was no real reason for the cancellation. Granted, the roads weren’t in the best shape but since the bus company was willing to provide all the necessary transportation, it would seem that the extreme caution exhibited was unwarranted.
MOVIES: Perhaps the quality of students here has. improved in the past two years; but anyway it is encouraging to note the change of behavior during the free movies at Washington Hall. Although some irrepressible murmuring still accompanies the show and although the rush for seats is still to the swift, the regulars at the showings, especially members of the underclasses, should be complimented for demonstrating a certain maturity undetected in previous years. This will most .probably be the first year in which the Scholastic will not print that time-honored editorial which cites Notre Dame as the last citadel of free movies.
bearable.
Will Kilbourne, 308 Walsh Hall
PREVIEWS: As you’ll .notice, this issue is devoted to previewing a number of events that will take place early next semester. It’s unfortunate that we do not have an issue until February 13 since a number of important events will take place before then, so we’ve decided to include some of them (the Mardi Gras, the Marriage Institute) in this, our last issue of the fall semester. See you next semester.—S. & S.
January 23, 1959
5
1 Show Nightly at 7:30
2 Shows Sunday 4:00 &. 7:30
NOW* THRU JANUARY 28
SPECIAL STUDENT PRICE—.90
Beginning with this cover, the SCHOLASTIC abandons its traditional name plate for a new style. Under the new policy of varying the position and form of the SCHOLASTIC name, this cover depicts the head of Janus looking forward and backward over the school year. The black face depicts the death of one semester while the white one augurs hope for the new one.
This is the third cover which Jon Siddle has been commissioned to do for the SCHOLASTIC. The first cover of the year and the Halloween issue are his two previous contributions. Siddle is a senior fine arts major from Davenport, Iowa.
TGDM	/W»OUS
Q|.S|OH
EDS dEDdE CQQ
ED _____
EdDE
□□SEE
□EED
BHEO
□□□ _
BED EBEEC □□□ EEEHGD aEnCES DEEdEd nddEBO □BEDnS ESaEBS
U3MSNVTGDX
K3DL KROSSWORD No. 14
ACROSS
1. Esther Williams’ afterglow
7. Put on an act
13.	The guys who made it
14.	Kind of gal who makes it the hard way
15.	Guy who’ll make it in May
16.	Put in front of
17.	It’s usually right on top of you
18.	Low kind of heel
19.	Guided
2L Letter for crewmen?
23. It’s human
26. Does she give you your lumps?
29. River that sounds like love
80. That drivel you hand her
31.	One way to meet expenses
32.	Face the___: Kools are cooler
33.	You and me, kid
34.	Middle of
35. Kind of pot or session
37. Tear jerker
40. Soldier boys
43. Rockefeller hangout
45. Opposite of de starboard.
47.	Get through
48.	Real cool
49.	Kind of walker
brings bad lad?
DOWN
L Cummerbund
2.	Half of pleasure
3.	Fontanne’s youth
4.	Friend from Paris
6. Remember: Koris are _______fresh
6.	"This Gun For________”
7.	Dance of the 30’s
8.	Bottle hitters
9.	It’s not quite ample
10.	Specializing in digs
11.	Is there somebody_________1
12.	Peroxided
20. Twitches
22.	Hoop-motivated dances
23.	Cheer-leader talk
24.1 love Latin
25. It’s almost as cori as a Kool
27.	Sort of riope
28.	This is the thing
32. Big-date duds
35.	Sayonara folks
36.	Lighted, Koolly
87._____you try Kools, you’ll stay with ’em
38. Favorite Russian word at UJI.
89. They go around with ends
40.	Navy mascot
41.	My foolish friend
42.	Hdl of a river
44. Plural of 34 Across
46. Kind of pal
15
17
18
25
23
13
29
7	8	9	10	11	12
14					
					
			19		
ARE YOU KQDL1 ENOUGH TO KRACK THIS?*!
30
34
33
47
49
39
45
48
50
K®L
31
35
43
SWITCH FROM
KGDL
• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
• finest leaf tobacco	_
and the worldh most thoroughly tested, filter!
Omericti^ MosblMeslirng Cgoidfe,
ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTER I
32
The Scholastic
' schnee, eis, und
; scheistwetter
f
by JOHN BELLAIRS J
*
>
Last Friday I emerged from historic ' Sorin Hall to find the world wrapped in Hyperborean splendor. Besides, it was snowing. The virginal snow spread far h into the distance, disturbed only by an occasional arm or leg of some hapless > traveler. Across the way several playful students were burying someone in the snow, and as I passed he appeared to be going down for the third time. As ► I paused to contemplate the wintry beauty of the scene (having been dump-»i. ed into a snowbank by more playful students), I was fortunate enough to obsei-ve that phenomenon before which the Aurora Borealis are as Christmas f lights — the Notre Dame snow ploughs. There is nothing quite so thrilling as seeing a fleet of these Dreadnoughts sweeping the plain, transforming the snow-covered wastes into ice-covered wastes for the convenience of the stu-* dent. One of these ploughs stopped near me to polish a rather stubborn section of the pavement, so I rushed to meet him, hoping for an interview.
The operator of the machine was busy . spreading a fine coating of water over * the area he had cleared, and was waiting for it to freeze. I approached and ♦ asked him his name, and he replied: “My name is Barnabas Oldfield Czwyz, Serial No. Z3489560%, Company B, Army of the Main Quadrangle. My mis-
» ... . - - —
ATTENTION SENIORS!
* Mr. Quinn of the Guidance and Testing Department advises all students seeking admission to Law School that the final date for applications for the admission test is 1 February 7. It would be advisable that any student wishing to take the examination secure the bulletin of information and application forms soon. The test will be given at Notre Dame.
sion is to make walks and roadways impassable by coating them with a glistening sheen, to ran down students when I can, and to confound the enemy in all ways possible.”
I stood there awestruck by this testament to loyalty and honor and the American way. When I recovered I asked the driver about his plough. I discovered that the machine was a converted tank which had seen service at Chateau-Thierry. The blade was produced by the famous Skoda Munitions Works, and is weekly honed to razor-sharpness. All the drivers are either retired tank drivers or sports car racers who have been barred from the tracks because of excessive foul play. In years past it has been the practice to skim off the snow and leave the ice uncovered, but it was discovered that there was not enough native ice to render the sidewalks completely impassable. So now the drivers are equipped with water tanks, spray guns, and rotary buffers. As a result, once the ploughs have been through, only the most experienced senior can get more than fifteen yards without a fall, unless he travels on his hands and knees. This last mentioned method has been adopted by the prudent, and for this purpose the Bookstore is selling Knee and Elbow Pads for 23 dollars a pair.
The driver also mentioned with pride the great expense and research which had been devoted to the marble-like finish on the pavement between Gilbert’s and the Bookstore. This is the only place on campus which can give the student a good whopping fall in the summer months, provided there has been a heavy dew the night before. This death-trap alone accounted for over 15,000 Infirmary hours last year, according to the Useless Statistics report. The Infirmary hour is the unit which measures the success of Hie icemakers. The former unit, the Pratfall-Thud was discarded as being too inaccurate, since the only proof of real success is the sound of popping cartilage and gaily cracking bones.
The driver continued to describe in . sparkling rhetoric the ideal conditions for pratfalls. The sneaky ice or apparently only wet pavement seemed to him to be the most effective device. On thia type of ice the record pratfall was set by Melchiades Ogee last year. He emerged from Sorin one morning, fell down the stairs, and slid to the door of., the Rathskeller, where he was greeted by an emissary with a tape-measure and a silver loving cup. Other records in this field:
Most Profane Language Used on Single Fall—Canute Parviform, who slipped while carrying home twelve Dresden figurines, a complete set of Belique china, and a partridge in a pear tree.
Most broken bones (one fall)—Coriolanus Pawl, who slipped into the path of S a bus.
The driver paused for breath after re- dilating his fabulous tale, and suddenly he stood still as though electrified (electrify -/ someone someday and you will know -what I mean). He had spotted a student across the way. I saw him start his ; engine, race across the street, and neatly. ' j; sideswipe a student from behind. He . pulled out a gummed sheet on which were decals in the shape of students, and cut .one out. He wetted it and slapped it on the side of the machine with an . air of triumph, and put another notch. . in his steering wheel.	•
FM COMES TO WSND
To provide o suitable background for study during exam week, radfo station WSND is broadcasting FM music from 9 a.m. until midnight. Your favorite music, news,. and sports programs will resume on Wednesday, February 4. During Mardi Gras period WSND will cany remote broadcasts from the Drill Hall.	>
January 23, 1959

MIUMTURBOW \pPTOMKTRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS EYES EXAMINED CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
1345 E. Ironwood CE 2-5861 For Reservations
REMINDS YOU.............
A' 10% savings on your bill upon presentation of your I.D.
Special Rates for Parties . . . Banquets . . . Special Functions.
iQinm UBRIRlak INK SHOP

New Catholic Books’ Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
Have a HOW of FUN!
Trave! with fITA
Unbelievable low Cost
Europe
k 332 Sa. MicHfaa Aw. MC^Oicaga 4. MA 7-2557
Orient
$998
Atony fours induoa cuHaga credit
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
26ft Year
X Paul Sbkedt,* hair acfeniist, says: "Keep* your hair well-groomed longer!”
Valentine’s day is the time to deflate super-egos, let down your hair, unstuff shirts or, if you’re the gentle type, wax sentimental. In any case, we make it easy to do something, for our gift and card departments have a world of fun and favors you may select for this sweetheart of the day.
4
Jv$t a little bit* of Wildroot and... WOW*
^Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic
. FR. HESBURGH TO OPEN MARRIAGE INSTITUTE
* f
, ’The Partner’ Chosen h v For Feb. 4 Discussion
The opening talk of this year’s Marriage Institute will he given by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., on Wednesday, February 4. The subject; of Father Hesburgh’s speech is “Selecting a Marriage Partner.”
The Marriage Institute is an annual series of lectures given for those seniors contemplating marriage after graduation. The Institute was formed in 1949 “because it firmly believes that learning how to live to the fullest as a husband and a father of a family is a very important part of education today.” It is now considered one of the most important events of the senior year.
The chairman of the Institute is Joe Hiegel, while John Beliveau and Bill Zamarelli are publicity chairman and secretary, respectively. Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., is the advisor.
The institute is designed to take the place of the Pre-Cana conference required by many parishes before marriage. A certification of attendance will be given to everyone who attends all six lectures. This will be done by stamping the ticket each time a lecture is attended.
The main point of Father Hesburgh’s talk will be the all important need for compatibility on the part of the marriage partners. “There are elements in every person which adjurt to elements in other persons.”
Beginning with courtship, Father points out the factors which go into a courtship and what it is for. In his estimation, its first function is getting acquainted after* first coming to know a good many girls..
After this, the question is “how do you determine if she is the one girl for you and how do you win her love and make it permanent and make it a good, holy, and lasting thing?” As an answer he suggests the very general, but simple rule: “Is she good for you? . . . Does
Chicago Club Schedules "Semester's End' Dance
The Chicago club will hold its “Semester’s End Dance” oil Friday, January 30 at the Sheraton Hotel. Sol “Tiny” Hicks will provide the music from 9 p.m. until 1 am.
Tickets may be purchased from the hall representatives at the price of $4 for members and $5 for non-members. Co-chairmen of the dance are Buzzy Manning and Karl Bick, both seniors enrolled in the College of Liberal Arts.
January 23, 1959
she make you a better person?”
Using ten basic categories, which were derived from a survey, Father proceeds to enumerate the most important qualities under each one.
Moral virtue was found to be the most important thing a man looked for in a wife. Most important because it makes you “the kind of person you are.” Under this category, purity is the leading quality, especially for ND men for whom the Blessed Mother stands out above all other women. Akin to it is fidelity,
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.
President to open Marriage Institute
while unselfishness is the third important quality.
The second important category is love, for “love is the thing that makes you choose.” Father emphasizes the importance of this being a love founded on spiritual things, and not a love based on the phoney concept of the “great American romance. . . . Make sure it is love, make sure it is more than mere attraction, more than mere infatuation . . . more than lust. ...”
Next in importance is religion. Reemphasizing the need for compatibility, Father points out that this is the “one place where you don’t want disunion,” since it is a vital influence on the whole attitude in the home.
Other important categories which will be discussed are: philosophy of life, personality, domestic virtues, health, and education.
Following the opening talk there will be five additional ones. Three of them will be in Washington Hall while two are in the Engineering Auditorium. All of the talks will begin at 7:30 pm.
Press Receives Ford Grant For Third Consecutive Year
The Ford Foundation has awarded the University Press a $3400 grant “to stimulate scholarly publication in the humanities and the social sciences.” This is the third year in a row that such a grant has been given.
John Defant, director of the Press, said the grant would be used to underwrite in part the manufacturing costs of publishing two books during the coming year. The books to be published under terms of the Ford grant will be selected in the near future by the Press’s editorial board.
Four volumes, already published or in the process of publication, have received Ford Foundation support. Parochial School: A Sociological Study by Rev. Joseph Fichter, SJ,, and France and the European Alliance, 1816-1821, by Rev. Guillaume de Sauvigny have already appeared.
Scheduled for early publication are Soviet Policy Toward the Baltic States by Albert Tarulis and The Congress Founds the Navy, 1787-1798, by Marshall Smelser.
Architect Plans Mixed Music
For Church Organ Program
An organ recital by Michael Loris will be featured in Sacred Heart Church, Sunday, February 1, at 4 pm. The per- . forming organist is a freshman architecture major and his recital will.consist of music of the Classic, Romantic, and Mod- ■ em periods. The public is invited to the recital; no admission charge will be asked.
The organ used in the recital is a two --. manual instrument built in 1875 by Derrick and Felgemaker, and contains 36 ranks and 2029 pipes. It has mechanical action and slider chert, and is operated on a wind pressure of three indies. The organ is one of the largest American- built tracker organs in existence, and has a very good stoplist for the period of its construction.
ATTENTION JUNIORS!
Juniors who did not make an appointment for their DOME picture, sometime during the last three days, are to report, to the DOAAE offices tonight between 7 and 9 p.m. =	: j
Yearbook pictures must be taken by the DOAAE photographers. No ■ other pictures will be accepted for : use.	i
SNOW MEN AND EQUIPMENT WORKING
Excavation in progress after unseasonal (?) weather
Weather Causes Early Mid-Semester Break; Snowed Campus Relaxes in Nationwide Glory
Shortly before 11 a.m. last Friday morning, a series of warning bells sounded, marking the end of classes for the duration of what turned out to be the worst snowstorm Notre Dame has witnessed in many years.
The storm which caught everyone by surprise began early in the morning as the usual snow flui-ries continued the entire day dropping some 15 inches of snow on the . University’s grounds.
The decision to stop classes was made by Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University and Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president for academic affairs with approval of the president. It was felt that the classes should be cancelled in order to allow the professors and workers at the University enough time to' get back to their South Bend homes before Notre Dame was snowed in. Actually the University was never completely cut off from South Bend, but the buses and cabs did not run during the afternoon and late morning on Friday.
All offices and services at the University were closed down over the week end, and only dining hall employees and snow removal crews remained on campus. It was even necessary to make accomodations on campus for some of these workers.
Many professors were forced to abandon their cars on the campus. One of them managed to get to his South Bend home but the trip took two hours and another made the trip to Niles in five hours. Fortunately most of them
were able to get home before the snow made roads completely impassable.
Snow removal equipment worked all day Friday and into the night clearing paths around the University. One piece of equipment was bogged down in front of Dillon Hall when it missed a sidewalk.
By Saturday morning, however, most paths and roads on campus were sufficiently cleared to allow students to pass. The bookstore and library reopened to service the students. Classes and other activities at the University were not resumed because of still very limited accessibility to the campus.
The storm was the quickest if not one of the worst in Notre Dame’s history. No one in the present administration can remember cancelling classes for a snowstorm, although in the early days of the school it is unlikely that snow affected Notre Dame as much since most students and professors lived on campus.
In South Bend, Mayor Edward Voorde declared a state of emergency and called out extra equipment from construction companies to help dig the city out of the snow. South Bend’s schools were closed down before noon and most highways out of town were blocked for some time. Buses and cabs ran where and when they could get through.
The large snowfall at Notre Dame and South Bend received nation-wide publicity, although in some papers in warmer climates the storm was magnified to castrophic proportions.
Tickets to Go on Sale For Stage Production
Tickets will be sold daily starting .Monday, February 9, from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. at the box office of Washington Hall for the University Theatre’s production of Murder in the Cathedral. The sale will extend until the first performance.
Five week-end performances of the play will be given. The first two of these fall on Thursday and Saturday, February 12 and 14 and the other three are Thursday and the following two days of the next week.
The play deals with the events leading up to, and the martyrdom of Thomas A. Becket on the altar of the chapel at Canterbury. Earlier in life, Thomas had been a favorite of the English king Henry II and had been chancellor of the kingdom. But when the king, hoping to unite secular and spiritual authority, appointed Thomas archbishop of Canterbury, Thomas turned his back on his previous worldly life as chancellor and devoted his entire life to the archbishopric.
His piety and justice enraged the king and Thomas was forced to fly to France. Seven years later he returned, only to be murdered by four drunken knights who had misunderstood the king when he expressed the wish that Thomas no longer be around to bother him.
Vaults and arches make up the medieval-flavored set and the design and construction of this set is under the direction of Mr. Gilbeit Rathbun. Joseph " McArdle has designed the costumes which are being made up by Mrs. W. P. Walsh. Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., choir director, is readying the musical parts of the play. Fred W. Syburg directs the production and coaching of performers is under the auspices of Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C.
Rev. Peter Seisgood, O.S.B. plays Thomas, the four sneaky tempters played * by Robert Love, Neal Ball, John Smith, and John Toth. Gerald Broderick, David Barrett, James Cooney, and David McDonald are the knights.
Three priests of Canterbury are Leo Gorman, Charles McCarthy, and John Curtin; Bill Flaherty portrays a herald.
TICKET TROUBLES
Mardi Gras Ball tickets numbered 468, 469, and 479 were sold without the buyers’ names being taken. The holders of these tickets are asked to see Steve Smith in 107 Sorin. If the buyers are not listed, * the tickets will have to be cancelled. Also, those who desire to return their tickets may do so at the Mardi Gras office in the La-Fortune Student Center on these dates:
Monday, Jan. 26, 7 to 9 p.m. t Thursday, Jan. 29, 3 to 5 p.m.
Tuesday, Feb. 3, 3 to 5 p.m.
February 3 is the last day on which tickets may be returned.
10
The Scholastic
, P^Ui&AJ-

Mardi
Gras
Or Dance
> ; '*
Kathy McCoach
Marie O’Dea
Mary Ann Feeney
Renee Schneider
Nancy Pugh
Carol Ann Podesta
Mary Ann Sullivan I
January 23, 1959
Mardi will descend on Notre Dame, February 6, with a retinue of celebrities and celebrators that will squelch the exam anxieties and build up morale momentum for the new semester. The Field House will shudder to the beat of Dave Brubeck and his jazz quartet. Festivities in the transformed Drill Hall will supply campus charities with needed funds, and Sauter and Finegan will play a command performance for a queen and her court.
Miss Kathy McCoach, date of Mardi Gras General Chairman Tom Carroll, will reign over 700 couples dancing in a ballroom sometimes known as the North Dining Hall. Miss McCoach is a St. Mary’s senior in Commerce from Atlanta, Georgia. At midnight, February 6, she will be crowned by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University.
Her court will consist of six young ladies escorted by the members of the Mardi Gras executive committee. One of them, Miss Mary Ann Feeney, is the Mardi Gras chairman from St. Mary’s. Miss Feeney is a senior and a sociology major from Muskegon, Mich. Also attending the queen will be Marie O’Dea, fiancee of raffle chairman Paul Quinn, and a senior at St. Mary’s School of Nursing in Waterbury, Conn. Duncan La Vigne, chairman of the Mardi Gras Ball, will escort Nancy Pugh, a senior and a history major at St. Mary’s, from Toledo, Ohio. Renee Schneider, a senior at Rosai-y from Freeport, Ill., will attend as the date of Business Manager Wayne Faist. With her on the court will be Carol Ann Podesta, a senior Christian culture major at St. Majry’s from Chicago, Ill., and escorted by Publicity Chairman Brian Foley. Mary Ann Sullivan, a junior from the College of the Sacred Heart, St. Louis, Mo., will be the date of Carnival Chairman John Boyce.
The royal septet and their escorts will dance from 9 till 1 to the music of the new Sauter-Finegan Orchestra. Sauter, former arranger for the Benny Goodman band, and Finegan, at one time arranger for Glenn Miller, have combined their talent and craftsmanship in one of the most popular and accomplished contemporary orchestras. Although only a year old, the band, consisting of 14 pieces and a vocalist, has gained its reputation by such records as “Memories of Goodman and Miller.”
The band will perform from a Hollywood Bowl-type band shell facing a semi-circular dance floor. The decorations, supervised by Don Chmiel, will consist of flowers, including a large bouquet in the center of the floor, and lighting effects that harmonize with the predominate shades of the flowers. Hurricane lamps on every table will complete the night club effect. More complex decorations were rejected because of the limited time available to put them up and the technical difficulties involving the size and shape of the building. This is the first dance ever held in the modern North Dining Hall, which can accommodate over 100 more couples than the LaFortune Student Center. Contributing to the success of the ball are Steve Smith, ticket chairman, Bill Flynn, business manager, and Paul Anderson, in charge' of refreshments (served in champagne bottles), programs and favors. The Mardi Gras Concert chairmen are Pat O’Daniel, a senior, and Pat Hickey, a sophomore.
The queen and her court will no doubt join hundreds of other students in the Field House at 2 pan., February 7, to hear Dave Brubeck and his jazz quartet. But about them...
11
JAZZ COMES TO NOTRE DAME
by Jack Cahalan
“The music of this group is of an integrated quality such as few musicians have ever produced.” — George Avakian.
The Dave Brubeck Quartet has won every major award in jazz. They have been the most popular group in the world for the last seven years. And Brubeck himself is the most popular jazz musician since Benny Goodman. For these rea- ( sons, the Brubeck group is an excellent choice for the first Mardi Gras Jazz Concert.	4
As individuals, the members of the quartet are not without recognition. Paul Desmond is considered “the most lyrical saxophonist in the country.” Downbeat’s new drum star for 1955, Joe Morello, handles the sticks and brushes, while the excellent Norman Bates plays bass.
Although this will be his first appearance at Notre Dame, , Dave’s greatest triumphs have always been at colleges. He single-handedly made jazz popular on campuses and, for a A time, had a monopoly in the field. From campus concerts came such bestsellers as “Jazz at Oberlin” and “Jazz Goes to College” with classic recordings like “These Foolish Things,” and “Le Souk.”
Of all the reasons offered for the success of the group, the most often mentioned is their artistic and technical unity. ‘ The members eat, sleep, laugh and breathe together, and the music sounds like it: the rhythm section is sympathetic to the 4 soloists, while Brubeck and Desmond respond to each other’s ideas to the point where they improvise choruses of counterpoint together. This is all the more amazing when you consider' that the music is almost wholly improvised. Improvisation is not only at the core of Dave’s philosophy of jazz, but he personally feels he has said as much in particular pieces as in 4 “any symphony he ever hoped to write.”
Desmond’s is a floating, lyrical style which displays his ■* complete technical control of the alto in pure, full tones, especially in the high registers that he can inflect harmonically to any shade of meaning. His melodic ideas are usually developed in a briefer form than are Brubeck’s, but he also uses long passages, sometimes runs, sometimes passages based on a simple theme.	'
There are two kinds of jazz pianists, good and bad. A bad one has a left hand that contributes nothing to the whole y of the music. The left hand of a good pianist produces music which is an essential part of his improvisation. Brubeck is a great jazz pianist. Whether he is playing one of his smashing ten-fingered chords, composing a different melody in each hand, or simply accompanying a basic theme, the left hand is always there, always heard, always an essential part of the music.
The most important factor in Dave’s music is his method of developing choruses. A melodic idea for Brubeck is not something to be stated and then forgotten. His ideas are M always developed logically and climactically to a conclusion that is both emotionally stimulating and intellectually satisfying. This method achieves a “classical” effect and gives power and depth even to a simple theme. In jazz, Brubeck is unique for this style.
Many elements of “classical” or “serious” music find ' their way into Dave’s style. He might choose to swing in a strictly classical figure like the fugue; his melodies may * be reminiscent of 19th-century romanticism, or his harmonies may be from the 20th-century polytonal and atonal schools of Milhaud and Schoenberg.
From an artistic standpoint, however, this listener places him more in the blues tradition than in any one of the above. Not only does he play an excellent blues in the strict sense, twelve bars, flatted fifths, etc., but even when playing a k standard ballad such as “Don’t Worry ’Bout Me,” he can, with a chord or riff or rhythm, evoke as much of the real feeling of the blues as a Creole child crying on a curb in Storyville.
Many critics have disapproved of Brubeck: this is mainly for his rhythmic ideas which range from Bartok to Basie. When he approaches the latter, his ideas may be difficult to understand from a technical standpoint. But while the critics split hairs, the audiences never fail to get the message and return it through the Morse code of tapping their feet and clapping their hands. One thing he has never been criticised for, however, is his sense of; harmony. George Shearing described it in one word, “fabulous.”
The Scholastic
12

CHARITY—THE CARNIVAL’S CHIEF PURPOSE
Since Miss McCoach is queen of the entire week end, at 7 p.m., February 7, she will cut the ribbon at the entrance of the Drill Hall, scene of the Carnival games, February 7, 9, 10. There along a glittering midway, a combination of a gusty New Orleans street and an Old West gambling casino, will extend 32 booths, ten more than last year, there to help you double your money or lose your money, or in any case have fun. (If you don’t have any money, take your notebook. It’s a wonderful chance to study human behavior.) Since freshmen are wont to place their bets with old lockets and the family silver, as usual, there will be a man in a cage next to the door, to exchange your dirty currency and heavy coins for clean Mardi Gras bogus money, issued by Pat Gorman.
The booth design competition held by the Carnival Committee, under Chairman John Boyce and his aides, Art Disabatino and Dick Quinn, has effected more attractive and neater booths. They will resemble store fronts and business will be conducted through open windows and doors. One can see and hear many things along the midway, (and that’s an accomplishment in the Drill Hall): games of skill such as “drown your hall senator,” games of chance such as cards and dice, wheels and chuck-a-luck, (Russian roulette was ruled out; it cluttered up the midway), prizes, girls, laughs, and about four thousand other students. If lugging your winnings around makes you hungry, there’s the food booth run by the Italian Club; if you wrench your shoulder throwing balls at bottles you can relax and watch the nurses from the Holy Cross School of Nursing kick up their heels to the music of Gene Bertoncini’s Lettermen, each of the three nights of the Carnival, February 7, 9, and 10. Thanks to Mike Monti, entertainment chairman, the Lettermen and other campus bands will provide entertainment and background music each evening of the Carnival.
The first wheel-spin is at 7 pjn. February 7, and at 6:30 pjn. on the ninth and the tenth. The last throw of dice is at midnight, on Saturday, and 11:30 pan. on Monday and Tuesday nights.
January 23, 1959
Tuesday night, Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will draw the winning tickets for two 1959 automobiles. A Lincoln Capri will go to someone, (that’s a safe statement), and .a Chevy Impala convertible will go to some University’ student who sold at least one book of chances on the Lincoln. The student winning the Chevy, if on-campus, is not allowed to drive it to class. Some girl from St. Mary’s will win a complete spring wardrobe, personally chosen.
Charity
Can an event so entertaining be profitable? No, you say, judging by all the flat wallets. But cheer up. Maybe your younger brother will win a Student Government Scholanhip or a new paint job in LaFortune Student Center will be dedicated to you. Or better yet, perhaps your contribution to this pre-Lenten holiday will help someone whose entire life is one of necessary fast and denial. The girl pictured at left is one of thousands like her in-Holy Cross mission areas. She lacks warm clothes, nourishing food, and an education in even the fundamentals of reading, writing, ete. The missionaries of Holy Cross are giving their lives to help her, but it is not enough. With part of the proceeds from the Mardi Gras, hopefully $15,000, such people will be aided.
Under the administration of a student committee, this money will be distributed among foreign and American missions, and charities close to Notre Dame, such as the South Bend Community Chest, and Christmas parties for orphans in South Bend. This year the committee would like to choose a particular charity of concern to Notre Dame: the Congregation of Holy Cross, which would receive at least $5,000 this year and as much in the years to come. $10,000 of the proceeds will go to the LaFortune Student Center for out-of-the-ordinary expenses and improvements, which will keep the Center exceptionally comfortable and tasteful. This fund is also administered by students. Finally, the Student Government Scholarship fund will receive $12,000, which will be used for full and partial scholarships for incoming freshmen and deserving upperclassmen. A student enrollment committee assists the Office of Admissions in this choice.
The certain success of the Mardi Gras is due in a great part to Tom Carroll, his Executive Committee, and their committees. Tom is a senior commerce major from Great Neck, New York.
Cinderella
of the Mardi Gras
Once upon many a school year, there lived in the fair municipality of South Bend a homely widow and her two homely daughters. Incurable gamblers were they at heart, and found special satisfaction in the emotional outlet offered them by the Notre Dame Mardi Gras Festival. Every year they would open their dust covered tranks and fight the mothball vapors long enough to take out their special genuine Mardi Gras costumes. Frankly, they looked rather outstanding in those costumes, but it didn’t faze them a bit. They cast a bizarre figure even in everyday clothing.
The only one in the family who looked like the heroine of a fairy tale (and in all aspects was, so the story tells) was poor Cinderella. Her father had married this widow and afterwards took in her two daughters as his own for two reasons: so that his motherless Cinderella might have two playmates and the widow would stop nagging him about his frugal way with money. Well, the nagging finally did the widower in and the three wicked women finally got his money after all, so the poor man turned out a failure in housekeeping as a direct result of neglecting Home Ec 201 in high school.
Getting back to the story, it naturally came to pass that Cinderella didn’t get a red penny of her father’s savings and ended up doing housework for her stepmother so she might earn her allowance. This turn of events left her in no position to buy any of those ridiculous costumes and accompany her stepfamily on their yearly fling. So she just sat by her constant companion, the old-fashioned gas stove, and wasted away one night of every year wondering what useless prizes the others would bring home.
This night, though, she had special reason for bewailing her bad fortune. The word had been spread around, possibly by some St. Mary’s gal, that the Mardi Gras chairman had been unable to secure a date for the Mardi Gras Ball. The Grand Ball, the crowning event of the Festival, was to be held the following night and the chairman would be roaming the Drill Hall tonight among the booths looking for the right girl.
When the stepsisters left the house for the Drill Hall the night before the Grand Ball they naturally locked up all of Cinderella’s rags and left her in her petticoats, which wasn’t a very nice thing to do (though they weren’t supposed to be nice anyway).
“Let’s see you try to get anyplace in your petticoats!” the homelier one cackled triumphantly as they slammed
14
by Tony de Haro
the door on Cinderella’s face. Being unable to get any place except jail in her petticoats, Cinderella remained silent.
The stepmother had an unusual moment of kindness. “You shouldn’t be too insulting, you know. After all, she’s a good cook.”
“Are you trying to warp my character?” replied the daughter. “Don’t you know I’m supposed to be especially mean in this story?”
“Oh, have it your way!” exclaimed the disgusted mother. “But this isn’t exactly
what the author had in mind.”
They ended their small argument as they got into their reliable, economical Studebaker and sped off toward the Drill Hall.
Inside the huge building, all was gaiety and laughter — though an occasional poor loser claimed dirty play in an unbecoming way. As soon as the three women exchanged their American currency for the vanishing kind they use at the Mardi Gras, they set about the task of finding the chairman and nailing him down. They looked all over the place without success. Going so far as to peek into the racy St. Mary’s show in the secluded part of the stage, they finally found him carefully studying the prospects who upstaged one another in inhuman efforts to attract his roving eye.
Pushing her two daughters into sight, the mother gave them a last-minute briefing and then went off to spend her money before it vanished at midnight.
“Good evening, Mr. Chairman,” the less homely one managed to say.
“Good evening,” he replied as a true gentleman and, after looking them over with visible displeasure, turned around and walked away from them.	(
“Hey, Prince!” shouted a student from , the far end of the stage. “Come here! I H want you to meet a couple of girls!” Now, the reason why the student called him Prince was simply because that was the chairman’s first name. This gave rise to what had been the trite joke around campus the previous week — Prince Chairman is looking for his princess.	/
But that is immaterial. Prince Chairman went over, met the girls, and established an animated conversation. The homely sisters then followed their ( mother’s footsteps.
* * *
Meanwhile, back at the house, Cinderella heard a soft knock on the kitchen * door. She opened it and, lo and behold, there stood her Fairy Godmother in traditional costume. Naturally, Cinderella was much pleased to see her, especially since she had recently heard, no doubt from a St. Mary’s gal, that the old custom of fairy godmothers was being revived. Now she felt she could get to go to the Drill Hall after all.
“Naturally,” she said, “you have come to dress me in beautiful clothes, clad me , in glass slippers, and send me off to the Drill Hall.
“You’re out of your mind, kid,” sighed the Fairy Godmother. “I wouldn’t know 4 how to do it. You see, after all these centuries of inactivity my magic powers are very weak. And about the only thing that can start them again is a good hand of canasta.”
“But. . . ,” sobbed Cinerella.
“Hate to cut you short, but do you mind getting a couple of decks of cards? And stop blubbering. After all the misery you’ve been through I hoped you’d * be accustomed to getting the bad breaks.”	•<'
Cinderella, being nicely brought up, could not refuse her Fairy Godmother’s ' request and they played canasta until midnight, at which time the old magician promptly jumped on her pumpkinshell chariot and shouting “Hi-ho, Sil- ’ ver, away!” vanished into the unfathomable Indiana night.
♦ * *
At the Drill Hall, a series of events which would later make Scholastic headlines had been occurring so fast that nobody to this day knows exactly what went on.
It seems that Prince Chairman, somehow, chanced to see the homely stepmother shooting dice at one of the booths and ran over to her.
“You adorable creature!” he exclaimed in adulation. “Would it please you to be my Queen? Your way with • those dice has captured my senses!”
It would be an understatement to say * that the old widow fainted outright, but not without first throwing a combination which finally broke the house. When she regained consciousness, pandemonium reigned all over the Drill Hall floor.	I
The Scholastic	I
Several women were violently hysterical, I 4 and quite a few others had fainted.
The Student Body President, who had 1 i rushed Prince Chairman to an optome-’ trist right after the incident, climbed !1 m up on the stage and reported that Prince Chairman was suffering from acute my-opia which he had been doing his best to hide in order to get through ROTC > training. Naturally, he stated sadly, Prince Chairman would be removed without delay from the University and the surrounding countryside.
Quite low in spirits, the three women got into their reliable, economical Stude-* baker and crawled back home.
i From then on, they took to dreaming about next year and playing a game of bridge every night. Cinderella, indispensable to their foursome, found her fate in continual card playing until the day when Fairy Godmother could once more perform her- cute magical tricks.
No, this isn’t exactly what the author ) had in mind at all.
I
*
I
►
*
At the Movies
AVON
Around the World in 80 Days: (Jan. 23-30). Fine. A swell effort, but then so’s your old man.
COLFAX
The Inn of the 6th Happiness: (Jan. 23-27). “Sixth Happiness” is the tine (and therefore at least slightly plausible) story of a British servant girl who became obsessed with the idea that she should devote her life to comforting and aiding some of the unhappy people in China. Ingrid Bergman stars as the do-gooder who makes it. Good. Features one of the most extraordinary hegiras ever filmed. CinemaScope-DeLuxe Color.
The Sheriff of Fractured Jaw: (Jan. 28-Feb. 4). Kenneth More as the transplanted Englishman; Jayne Mansfield as the dance hall voom-voom. Both, fortunately, have been endowed with an ability to maintain (in this case) admirable aplomb, no matter how absurd plot complications are. And believe thee me, there are some absurd plot complications.
GRANADA
Auntie Mame: (Jan. 23-30). Rosalind Russell, an actress with a distinctively hep personality, glides through the title role. Film version of the best-selling novel by Patrick Dennis. Sparkles for 143 minutes, then passes by like a whoosh. Glib, uninhibited candor.
PALACE
I Want to Live: (Jan. 23-30). Compelling drama of the most vital sort. Susan Hayward stars as Barbara Graham, victim of a shattered home, herself, circumstance, and 'ultimately the San Quentin gas chamber.
This Angry Age: (Jan. 23-24). Legion of Decency rating: B. Far be it from me, this berating of a B rating, etc.
Escapade in Japan. Co-feature.
To Catch a Thief: (Jan. 25-28). Without qualification, the best movie I have ever seen. Cary Grant, Grace Kelly.
The Road to Bali. Co-feature.
Witness for the Prosecution: (Jan. 29-31). Witness, and the soul thereof. Clever. An extremely clever movie. Tyrone Power, Marlene Dietrich, Charles Laughton starred.
Five Steps to Danger. Co-feature.
STATE
Tonka: (Jan. 23-30). Finest entertainment of its kind. Kind of trite. Should be especially appealing to the youngsters.
—Lecil Starkloff
Prigram Havm Piaaist Tim
Once again I am confronted with a pianist. This one has a record behind him. As one reads through the record, certain words stimulate the ear — words like Kapell, Australia, Serkin, Town Hall. Add to this a rather fond remembrance of a 1957 appearance at Notre Dame, and your ear is set for great things, even great repetitions. I remember Joel’s Kapell-like Bach partita of ’57. After hearing him again, I am sadly reminded that Kapell has been dead six years now.
The program itself was of dubious merit musically. One is amazed at the autonomous absence of classical composers. Would that Haydn could find his
way into some pianist’s program some time. I suppose the only thing that will do it is a bi-centennial. I was sweetly satisfied to learn that the Bach partita is included on Joel’s Town Hall program. If he repeats his performance of ’57, New York is in for a treat. If he repeats his performance of ’59, Joel is in for a surprise.
The Debussy came off beautifully. I remember hearing the toccata performed in 1956 at Saint Mary’s by a student. I am sure that she is still a student. Jod’s reading was given a master’s touch.
Program presented by Joel Ryce, pianist, on January 13, 1959, in Washington Hall at Notre Dame, Indiana.
Suite: Pour le Piano------------------Debussy
Sonata (1941)-------------------------Copland
Ballade, op. 23------------------------Chopin
Elegy to Lina Ramann____________________Liszt
Hungarian Rhapsody XII------------------Liszt
The Washington Hall Baldwin barked Debussy blandly, never ceasing to retain that listless quality which earmarks Claude Achille.
Aaron Copland’s 1941 Sonata is the most disgusting piece of music I have ever heard in the modern vein. Three rather difficult movements were hodge-podged together in such a fantastic manner that the exposition section of the first movement came in at the close of the second. The cacaphonous clamor of Sacred Heart’s carillon is so much more ample for describing the thematic material that I am forced to admire Mr. Copland for one thing: he must possess a marvelous ear* in order to transcribe such trash. Joel did a valiant job of bell-ringing. My only regret is that the sonata was written in 1941 instead of 1981.
Chopin’s first ballade, the musical highlight (and lowlight) of the program, was disappointment personified. An overpowering left hand, a much-too-rapid tempo, and a general effect of nausea of the piece on the performer’s part served to suitably ruin the effect of one of Chopin’s better-written compositions.
Liszt’s music is rarely fit for hearing and never fit for reviewing. This pathetic madman, in collaboration with certain so-called masters of the Renaissance period, has reduced music to such a science that it becomes no more than a phagocytic exudite.
Joel tried to show us his musicianship. Had he a better program, he might have. Certainly his tone, which sounded like knotty pine, would have been far better had he included some tonal music. His commanding technique was dearly evident. Because of 1957, I know that he is a musician. Perhaps 1960 will make me see it again.
15
January 23, 1959
... As an RCA Engineer
Receive your MS in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering or Physics at RCA’s expense, through the RCA Graduate Study Program. At the same time, you’re beginning your RCA career as an engineer on a fully professional level, getting a head start in the field you prefer. RCA pays the full cost of your tuition, fees and approved texts while you take graduate study part time at the University ofrennsylvania or Rutgers University. Or, you may prefer a different path ahead ... RCA Design and Development Specialized Training. Here is another of RCA’s programs for careers, in which you begin by working full-time on planned technical assign-
ments. Experienced engineers and interested management guide your progress. You may receive assignments in design and development of radar, airborne electronics, computers, missile electronics, television, radio and other equipment fields, as well as in Electron Tubes, Semiconductors and Components. MS, PhD Candidates are eligible for direct assignments in the above mentioned fields.
There’s a lot more that’s extremely interesting about an RCA engineering career. You should have these facts to make a wise decision about your future. Get them in person very soon when an RCA engineering management representative arrives on campus—	e_l. -i 9
Right now, though, see your placement officer. Get squared away on a specific time for yourinterview. And get your copies of the brochures that also help to fill you in on the RCA picture. If you’re tied up when RCA’s representative is here, send a resume to:
Mr. Robert Haklisch, Manager College Relations, Dept. CR-11 Radio Corporation of America Camden 2, New Jersey
Tomorrow is here today at RCA
M0fO COPPOPAHON of AMEPfCA
i
HL
<1
.4)
i 1
16
The Scholastic
’ Fencers Set Record p	_
For Consecutive Wins
►>
Notre Dame’s fencing squad has set r a new Irish record for consecutive victories in varsity sports competition by i winning its 21st, 22nd, and 23rd straight matches over a three-year span last V Saturday in Cleveland against Case Tech, Fenn College, and Western Re-k serve University.
The win skein began with victories in F the last three matches of the 1957 sea. son and has extended through last year’s ■ undefeated 16-0 season and the first four meetings of this year’s campaign.
/ The previous record was set by the 1932-33 and 1933-34 basketball squads F which ran up a 22-game winning streak before being defeated.
F The next outing for the fencing i squad will be a home triangular meet » against Buffalo and Indiana Tech, 4 January 31. Buffalo gave the Irish their toughest match of last season when they lost by only one point, 14-13.
► Irish Coach Walter Langford said, though, that because of Buffalo’s losses J through graduation he doesn’t expect , them to be as much of a threat this as year. He feels the victory string should = be extended to 25.
T The Irish fencers won all three of last Saturday’s matches handily. They ► downed Case by a score of 17-10, met their toughest competition of the day in Fenn, whom they defeated, 16-11, > and overwhelmed Western Reserve, 20-7;
The meet scheduled with Oberlin College for January 16 was cancelled be; cause the Irish squad was delayed in the blizzard. This meet will not be re* scheduled.
Commenting on the over-all strength of the squad, Coach Langford said the fencers haven’t been overwhelming in * competition thus far, except in the foil division, which has won 30 of 34 bouts. In this class, Jerry Johnson and Jim Russomano are both undefeated, with t twelve and eleven victories respectively, and John Lauerman has a 7-1 mark. ► The only other outstanding record on the squad is Co-Captain Jim Jock’s 8-2 mark in the epee division.
This is a decided change from the previous five seasons when the epee division carried the strength of the team F but results from the graduation of several first string men from this division ♦ last June.
Langford stated, however, that he feels both of the weaker divisions will improve with practice, and he feels confident of a good season. The fencers will have three good weeks of practice ’ before they meet the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo., February 6, ► a meet he feels will be the first real test of Notre Dame’s strength.
He said the Irish squad will have an even chance against the Falcons and with expected improvement in the sabre and epee will make a good showing.
■ January 23, 1959
Hot-Shooting Irish Five Overpowers Loyola; Battles Illinois in Chicago Stadum Tomorrow
Last Saturday a determined Notre Dame basketball squad defeated Loyola of Chicago by a 88-61 score in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The Irish, connecting on 49 per cent of their field goal attempts, had four players scoring 17 points or better in their well-balanced attack.
The Irish, scoring almost at will, jumped away to a halftime lead of 4428 and rapidly pulled far out in front. At one point in the second half the Green lead was 71-41, the largest margin the Irish have held since their opening game of the season.
Coach Johnny Jordan started a lineup that had three men at 6-5, one at 6-7, and pint-sized Gene Duffy, 5-7, at guard. With Duffy doing some great feeding, Tom Hawkins, Mike Graney,
JOHN TULLY SCORES ON HOOK Red defends, two others watch
Tom Reinhart, and John Tully were able to score with ease.
This combination worked well together and provided a badly needed scoring punch for the Notre Dame squad.
Hawkins, returning to the line-up after a two-week absence, paced the Irish scorers with 26 points. Graney, Tully, and Reinhart hit for 17 points each.
The Loyola five was led by Clarence Red, a sophomore center who scored 21 points. Forward Al Norville contributed 18 points to the Loyola attack.
Tomorrow Notre Dame’s basketball squad will travel to Chicago Stadium to play an outstanding Illinois team. Illinois, with consistent scoring from guards . Roger Taylor and Mannie Jackson, also ' has John Wessels, a 6-7 sophomore center with a fine hook shot. An aggressive
defensive team, Illinois has averaged 25 fouls a game.
The Illini also boast veterans Govoner Vaughn, a 6-3 forward and number two scorer last season, 6-3 Bruce Bunken-burg, and 6-5 Ed Perry. In reserve, Coach Harry Coombes has 6-8 sophomore Vern Altemeyer, who can help on the boards against the taller Irish.
Illinois has been a surprise in the Big Ten so far 'this season and at present is in first place with a 3-1 record. They have only a 97-96 loss to Michigan State to mar an otherwise perfect record in conference play.
The Irish meet Xavier January 31 in another encounter at Chicago Stadium. Xavier is paced by veteran Hank Stein, an all-around performer at guard who was voted the most valuable player in the NIT last year. Joe Viviano/ 6-5 center-forward, is smart and aggressive.
Ducky Castelle, a 5-11 junior, and 6-8 junior Rick Piontek complete the list of returning starters from last year’s NIT champions. The fifth spot will be manned by either Charlie Phillips or veteran Ron Nicholai. Both Phillips and Nickolai are 6-9, giving the Musketeers a definite edge under the boards.
On February 2, the Irish are hosts to a fast-breaking St. John’s team. The Johnnies are led by jump-shooting Tony Jackson, a sophomore guard averaging 24 points a game. Guard Alan Seiden, a pre-season All-American choice, is the key ball-handler in St. John’s driving offense and is averaging 18 points.
Up front the Johnnies have back a trio that took down 612 rebounds last season. They are Lou Roethel, Dick Engert, and Bernie Pascal. All are around the 6-5 mark.
St. John’s is ranked in the top ten m the country. They have a good shooting ball club, can work the fast break to perfection, and are rugged around the boards.
The Irish leave after this game for their annual swing East. This year finds Notre Dame facing Canisius on February 7 and taking on Army at West Point two days later.
Interhall
The Interhall Basketball League is well on the way to another successful . . season with 55 teams entered in league ■ competition.	.	.
Lyons Red, Stanford White, Keenan ~ White, and Farley White have all won . three games and dropped none; Howard White, Stanford Blue, Stanford Blade, . : Zahm Orange, ■ B-P Green, B-P Blue, . and Pangbom Gold have all won tww .; while losing none.
There are no games scheduled until after the semester break.	si
~ ’ - 17 X
TIME OUT
Concerned followers of the Notre Dame basketball team could not help but be heartened by the team’s performance against a visiting Loyola team in the Fieldhouse last Saturday afternoon.
With senior scoring ace Tom Hawkins, apparently fully recovered from his ankle injury, leading the way with 26 points, the Irish never were in trouble in their 27-point win ovei- the Ramblers. Perhaps more significant than Hawkins’ explosive return to the line-up (he scored on seven of his first nine shots) was the balanced scoring which backed Hawkins for the first time this year.	.
The return of Hawkins to the line-up certainly must have had an uplifting effect on the players and the team as a whole. The presence of Hawkins himself did not account for the team’s phenomenal shooting in the first half when the squad hit 19 of 32 shots, but the defense seemed alert, and the rebounding was the best by the Irish in the Fieldhouse to date.
Certainly instrumental in the impressive show of rebounding power was Mike Graney, who has averaged 20 rebounds a game in his last three games and is finally playing up to the capabilities he displayed last year.
INTERHALL FEATURE
Perhaps now is the best time, now that the team has won a really solid victory, to proffer some amateurish observations about this year’s team. The time is moi,e propitious, now that the team has looked good, since these observations should not be taken as complaints because of the failure of the team to attain the places set for them by some before the season started.
First, the insertion of Tully in the regular line-up has proved a successful move. He has shown determination and aggressiveness under the boards and has taken a good deal of the rebounding burden off Hawkins.
Second, if Graney continues to play as he has in the last few games, he will contribute greatly to any success the team may have in the final seven weeks of the schedule. His rebounding and shooting were certainly factors last Saturday.
Third, Gene Duffy showed his ability to move the team last Saturday. The Irish moved the ball quickly, especially on fast breaks, and Duffy’s ball-handling and dribbling accelerated the Irish offense to a point where repeatedly a man would be open for a shot. However, Bob Bradtke cannot be forgotten; his outcourt shooting in the first part of the season was one of the few bright spots.
It seems that these two men could be used as the situation demands. As long as Duffy is able to clear the big men for shots and as long as the other four men are scoring, the fifth man need not score. This was shown against Loyola. But, when the defense can effectively stop the front men, Bradtke’s outcourt shooting would seem to be the answer.
McCarthy for reinhart
Last, Tom Reinhart has not hesitated to shoot whenever he has had a good opportunity and sometimes when the opportunity is not so good. When he is hot, as he was against Loyola in the first half, he is valuable. But too often, when he has not been able to find the range consistently, he has persisted in shooting his jump shot instead of passing up the shot in favor of a pass.
It would seem that Reinhart would be just as valuable as a spot player when he is not hitting. In his place I would suggest Emmett McCarthy who started at the right side position at the beginning of the season. While he did not score often from that position, it was at that time that the offense consisted pretty much in trying to force the ball to Hawkins, and the right side was neglected.	i '	.
McCarthy displayed a lot of fight and desire while he was playing, and he could be an active scorer now that the attack is more diversified.
OBSERVATIONS
Watch for a feature in this column after the holidays on one of Interhall basketball’s most colorful teams, Pangborn Red, and its even more colorful coach, Walter Reynolds “Red” Farley.—T.T.
Schedule for Open Bowling	l J
(OPEN TO THE PUBLIC)	\
Mon. through Fri._12 noon to 5 p.m. 1 Friday._________evenings after 9 p.m. |
Sat. and Sun.____12 noon to midnight m
However, because of semester exams, j die alleys will have open bowling from , § noon to midnight every night from Jan- : uary 19 through February 3, with the exception of 6:30-9:00 p.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays.
Tankmen Seek First Victory Against Ohio U. After Exams
The Notre Dame swimming team is idle until February 7 when it takes on the Ohio University tankers at the . Rockne Memorial Pool. In this meet the Irish will be seeking their first win of v the season. On February 14, the swimmers will entertain Bowling Green in ,yt another home meet.
So far this season, the swimmers have < ( compiled an 0-2-1 record. They opened the campaign with a 43-43 tie at Chi- J cago University. Since then, they have lost to the Detroit Institute of Tech- < nology by a score of 55-41 and to the North Central Teachers, 54-32. Another < meet, this one against the Indianapolis , Athletic Club, was scheduled for Thursday, January 15, but was called off because of bad weather.
Several men have turned in consistently fine performances for the Irish. 4 Among them are Paul Chestnut, Jim Carroll, Tom Londrigan, Dick Nagle, Jim Garrity, Dick Katis, Tony Haske, and Bill Cronin.
Chestnut and Carroll give the team a , one-two punch in the diving competition. r Chestnut is undefeated so far this sea- " son. Londrigan and Nagle, the team cocaptains, have done well in the distance events, Garrity and Katis in the 200-yard backstroke, and Haske in the butterfly. Cronin specializes in the 50- and 100-yard freestyle events.
Tyler Jr.'s Basketball Picks
TOMORROW
St. Louis over Drake	1
Purdue over Ohio State
Auburn over Georgia	'
Akron U. over Heidelberg	;
LaSalle over Canisius
Cincinnati over Xavier
Dayton over Louisville
Georgia Tech over Tennessee	'
Northwestern over Iowa
Michigan State over Minnesota *' St. Bonaventure over St. Francis
Notre Dame over Illinois
Next Week
Xavier over Notre Dame
Upset	"
■ Notre Dame over St. John’s	.
last Week	4
13 right, six wrong, 68 per cent
Totals To Date
30 right, nine wrong, 77 per cent
u
The Scholastic
Mixed Kegler League Starts Next Semester
Under the direction of league secretary, freshman Barry Merrill, the Notre Dame-St. Mary’s mixed bowling league will kick oif its new season at one o’clock on the afternoon of February 8. At this time the members will organize into teams, and the first match will be held.
Anyone interested in joining the league may contact Merrill, 251 Farley, or sign the sheet posted on the bulletin board located near* the bowling alley office.
Those who signed up previously must signify their continued intention to bowl by checking their names on the list on the bulletin board.
Should any bowlers have a preference as to teammates, either from Notre Dame or from St. Mary’s, these preferences should also be conveyed to Merrill as soon as possible.
.	AREA CLUBS
Capital District “B” ......... 11-1
Detroit Club ................. 11-1
* Fred Hoey, 169-161-164 — 494; Keith , Hauge, 167-153-165—485; Jim Kehrer, '	188; John Dwyer, 184.
s Averages: Fred Hoey, 157; Tim Taylor, 153; Mike Canavan, 152.
*	CLASSIC
। LaSalle Hotel....................40-12-
Project Construction..........36-16
Pat Heenan, 185-196-207 — 588; Ted ( Nekic, 185-218-181—584; Frank Preben-J da, 212-181-191—584; Mick Redohl, 172208-204—584; Stan Pecora, 231; Ray : Grubbe, 215; Ray Stefani, 214; Tom , Tafelski, 213; Fred Kleiderer, 212; '■ • Maury Lafere, 205; Tom Erbs, 200;
Denny Panozzo, 200.
' A Averages: Ted Nekic, 193; RayGrub-1 be, 187; Pat Heenan, 181.
KAMPUS KEGLER—RED
' Holy Rollers “A”............39%-12%
Detroit Club “A”..............38-14
* Jerry Cangiano, 230-201-184 — 615;
John Curran, 191-145-197 — 533; Bill Dowdall, 192; Denny Leo, 192.
, Averages: Earl Mossner, 175; John Curran, 174; Jerry Cangiano, 174.
KAMPUS KEGLER—WHITE
' St. Louis Club............. 36-16
Holy Rollers “B”...........33-19
. Fred Hoey, 219-174-226—619; Fred O’Connor, 131-157-210—498; Dan Lyons, 197; Ed Ferrara, 196.
Averages: Fred Hoey, 169; Jerry Albers, 167; Bob Kriner, 164.
KAMPUS KEGLER—GREEN
*	Strikers____________ 28-16
K	Fighting Five_________________28-16
I	John Burns,	159-193-180—532; Charles
5	Leipold, 187-184-158—529;	Mike	Auth,
I 192; Guy Tevis, 187.
Averages: Fr. Shea, 180; Fr. Bren-• nan, 170; Fr. Baxter, 169.
January 23, 1959
uo sun nm’
A column of incidental intelligence by JocJrev brand
"HAIL FELLOW WELL MEI"
We consider this description a compliment today, but it didn't start out that way at all. The original is in Jonathan Swift's, "My Lady's Lamentation."
"Hail, fellow, well met. All dirty and wet;
Find out if you can. Who's master, who’s man."
SKANTS® brief
BRAND
Talk about originality! Jockey brand has created a new kind of brief-brief! Called SKANTS, this new brief is bikini-cut—high at the sides, low at the waist. Made of 100% stretch nylon, SKANTS provide maximum comfort and freedom of movement with minimum coverage.
Ask for Jockey SKANTS at your favorite campus store. . You can get 'em in colors, too (red, black, maize, light blue, light grey) as well as white. Get the genuine. Look for the famous Jockey trade mark!
"WOLF IN SHOT'S CLOTHING"
Bible scholars know that this expression wasn't bom with Red Riding Hood. It's from Matthew, VII, 15:
"Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.’"
"IM't HAD A UTILE LAMB"
If you think this familiar poem is authentic Mother Goose, think again. Nobody knows who wrote Mother Goose, but your librarian will tell you that Sarah Josepha Hale composed the stanzas about Mary and her academic lamb way back in 1830.

[
Gross Says Catholics
“The literature professor in a Catholic college is less restricted (especially on an undergraduate level) than is his counterpart in the state university.” This is the opinion expressed by Dr. Seymour L. Gross, assistant professor who received his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in 1954, in last week’s issue of America.
His reason for this statement is that “students in a Catholic university operate in a stable philosophical and theological environment, [and] there is less danger that they will confuse poetic assent (the sensitive response to the experience of a piece of literature) with an acceptance of its underlying philosophy, and so are less apt to be deflected from literature’s humanizing values by a fear of ‘moral corruption’.”
“No literature teacher is ever really free, no matter where he teaches. But surely the professor who has to thread his way through groups of students made up of everything from militant agnostics to Protestant fundamentalists is, by the very nature of things, a good deal more inhibited than the man who teaches groups of students who not only are
Have More
certain of what they munity, but who also

Freedom
believe as a com-have behind them
the tradition of having compassion and understanding for all those who struggle in worlds other than their own.”
In speaking on social consciousness and manners, Gross comments: “I am convinced that the professor at a Catholic university has much greater freedom to express his personality than does his opposite number at a non-Catholic institution — even if he is eccentric and does not as yet have tenure! . . . because personality quirks tend to be seen in their proper perspective.” He goes on to explain this further: “I think it is a truism that in social units in which there is no genuine religious center, social conformity becomes a moral imperative.”
“Conversely, in a religious community, such as a Catholic university, a man can be what the students call a ‘queer duck’ without fear of disciplinary action because there is no insidious confusion of manners with morals. Since the community can rely on a firm bedrock of moral attitudes in its members, it does not interpret personal oddity or
social peculiarity as an indication of moral breakdown. It can afford to be relaxed, tolerant and amused, knowing, as it does, where a man stands on the essential matters of the human spirit.”
On the other hand, at a secular university, “A kind of academic version of ‘what will the neighbors think’ sets in.” He then cites three actual examples of this: “I know for a fact that one young instructor at a state university was told by the head of his department to take sun-lamp treatments; another was told to cut off the beard he had grown over the summer vacation; and another was not hired (I heard this with my own ears!) because he was as ‘bald as a billiard ball.’ ”
Gross intends his article partly to refute popular misconceptions of a Catholic university. He closes his article by saying that he is not sure how effective he has been but hopes that he has given an accurate picture. His parting thought on the position is: “In any event, this peculiar academic situation [that many professors unacquainted with the Catholic college situation should have such misconceptions] is simply another reflection of the truth of Goldoni’s remark that ‘he who never leaves his country is full of prejudices.
H
4
1
A'
Jr

4 i

W)
di
use
to get a bettor shovel
Quicker ... closer ... smoother ... no matter what machine you use. 1.00 plus tai
p*E*ELECTRIC SHAVE EOTlO"

PRE-ELECTRIC SHAVE LOTION
SHULTON Now York • Toronto

r1-
4
1 "3
20
The Scholastic
, Welfare Group Asks Change f In Administration Car Policies
| Pangborn Hall Senator Jack O’Brien, who seems determined that his Senate student welfare committee lives up to . its name, introduced to the Senate last ' Monday a resolution asking the admin>’ istration to extend car permissions to noon on Sunday instead of Saturday at 12 noon.
:	There was little debate as no one op-
posed the motion, but O’Brien’s answer to a question about leaving the Mardi Gras Ball out of the resolution evoked expressions of annoyance from a few of L the senators, notably Junior Class Prexy Ed Butler.
> O’Brien said that the major reason i for not including the dance was the fact most of the out-of-town girls had hotel rooms for this dance and thus were near {>. the bus lines. The raison cl’ etre for the resolution is the inconvenience and expense caused by the lack of bus trans, portation between the homes where the ’ : girls have rooms and the campus.
Also, the Mardi Gras committee felt I that the students with cars might not be too anxious to attend the carnival on ► Saturday night. John Hayward, senior class president, spoke in favor of leav-' ing the Mardi Gras out because he felt to include it would weaken the Senate’s position.
Secretary Bruce Babbitt, presiding in t place of President Shaul and Vice-President Graham, who were absent on busi-► ness, announced that there would probably be a report next meeting on the fate of the resolution on partisan political clubs.
Crane Day, social commissioner, told the Senate that the Kingston Trio would appear at Notre Dame for a two-hour concert on March 13. Day also received a $250 appropriation to engage folk singer Guy Carawan for the April 11 Bohemian Party. Carawan has appeared k in the Moscow Folk Singing competition.
Sophomore Senator Jim Twohy, get-_ ting little response from the rest of the senators, offered to make an effort to get information out to the students explaining the implications of the new grading system.—Jim Byrne.
Skiers Depart Thursday To Resort on Snow Trip
l’ Not having had enough snow around here, the Ski club will depart next week ► on its mid-semester trip to Caberfae, Mich.
Buses will be run next Thursday and Friday. They will leave at 4:15 p.m. and return to campus Sunday night. The price, for those leaving Thursday is $26;
’ Friday is $21.
These amounts will include room, > board, and insurance. Ski instruction by several members of the club will be available free of charge. A ski meet is scheduled for the week end, and more than 2,000 people are expected at the winter resort.
January 23, 1959
Cotter Elected President At ND Alumni Gathering
In a meeting held last week end, the executive board of the Notre Dame Alumni Association elected William E. Cotter, Jr. of Duluth, Minn., president of the alumni group. Also elected were three vice-presidents. .
Mr. Cotter, who is an assistant to the vice-president of the Oliver Mining Co., now holds the same post held by his father 21 years ago. Cotter, a graduate of the class of 1941, succeeds Francis Layden of Evansville, Ind., as president.
Newly elected vice-presidents are Jules de Lavergne of New Orleans, Raymond Durst of River Forest, Ill., and Leo Vogel, Pittsburgh.
Re-elected along with the new officers was James E. Armstrong, executive secretary of the Alumni Association for the past 33 years.
Father Keller Discusses Role Accountant Plays in Economy
“The Economic Outlook for Accountants” was the subject of a talk given Tuesday night by the Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., nationally known member of the University’s economics faculty.
Father Keller, who has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1934, is a consulting economist for the American Economic Foundation and is a member of several advisory boards for economic groups. He is the author' of several books including The Case for Right-To-Work Laws'. A Defense of Voluntary Unionism published in 1956. He also wrote several ai'ticles in defense of right-to-work laws which appeared in nationally known periodicals.
The Tuesday speech was given before the South Bend chapter of the National Association of Accountants.
NEED A JOB?
Applications for positions on the SCHOLASTIC news staff are now being accepted. Freshmen interested in this extracurricular activity may apply with Ron Blubaugh in 309 Pangborn.
This should be done before February 4, which is the date of the first assignment meeting of the second semester. News stories and beats will be given out to members of the staff at this time.
This is the 91st year of publication for this, the oldest student publication on campus which has been a major part of the school scene. During each of these years the SCHOLASTIC has increased its scope, coverage, and circulation.
Five sophomore positions as assistants to the department editors will be open to these who apply and show journalistic apptitude. Selections will be made in May of this year.
EUROPE
Dublin to the Iron Curtain; Africa to Swedes. You’re accompanied—not herded around. College groups- Also shorter trips $724 - $1390. EUROPE SUMMER TOURS
255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Pasadena, Cai.
HAVE BUSES . . .
WILL TRAVEL . . .
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs
Group Movements of all types -
Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bop.
263 Dillon	Ext. 631
CHARTER A —
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University ham Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Bacfin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum al three lines is necessary and all advertising nut be presented by Sunday night preceding pubficatMM.
SERVICES
Enjoy an Irish Terrier Puppy. Same brand as the Notre Dame Football team mascot. The only love money can buy. Where else can you get six to twelve years of devotion loyalty and companionship but from one of Kelley’s Irish Terrien. Shipped exp-ess or by air express. Write Kelley’s Kennel, Huntley, Illinois. Prices from $75 to $150.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
RADIO CORP. OF AMERICA —B.S. candidates.
February 12. see page 16.
C. Columbus, world traveler, says: "My hair looks great since I discovered Wildroot.”
Justalittiebit of Wildroot and...WOW!
21
37^
Back Paift
la
si
blue books!
by DICK DONOVAN
'4
This weekend an annoying but essential element of the University stampedes into prominence, the semester examinations. Since the University requires that the results must influence the final grade (possibly by as much as 50%), the pressure exerted upon the student is immense. When the results are posted, students cautiously or confidently approach the wall, retreat in triumph, indifference or dismay. When Academic Affairs issues the official announcements, the cycle is complete.
There are various by-products of this frantic period ranging from Dean’s List to a one-way ticket home. One of the infrequent results is knowledge. Most students consider examinations a necessary or unnecessary evil and review the semester’s material simply to assure a representative grade. Thus the end of this period of intense intellectual activity is not knowledge for the sake of knowledge, but knowledge for the temporal purpose of grades. Most students religiously pursuing their work during the semester are more successful than those who have fallen behind, but there are those talented few who have the unique and rewarding capacity for “cramming” for the finals. But after this academic gluttony has ended, tranquility returns and women, athletics and The Kingston Trio dominate the conversation. To the unobservant critic, the chaotic normalcy of college life has resumed, at least until the first of June.
But examinations do contain positive values. The halls resound with heated controversy over Plato, St. Thomas, Hawthorne and analogue computers. While the totality of a subject may not be digested in this period, foundations may be laid and curiosity aroused for further study. Minds are alerted, sensitive to the distinctions between the Ententes, or between the members of the
22
halogen family. But, as mentioned previously, this grasp is not solid and is released soon after the examinations end.
All of this helps to illustrate the distinction between marks and knowledge. The voracious reader who is an engineer* may not profit academically from his reacting, but will undoubtedly become a better engineer as his breadth of knowledge is increased. The history major auditing a course in French Literature may suffer slightly in one course as a result of it, but will be a better and more understanding student of history.
Success on. examinations should be coveted and striven for, but not made an obsession. Although an outstanding academic record assists greatly for placement in industry or graduate school, it is far from the only measurable criterion. The Graduate Record Examination, Law School Admission Test and National Science Awards emphasize reasoning and general knowledge rather than specific information. This is not meant to imply that grades are not important, universities and companies notice them immediately, but they must be kept in the proper perspective. Success in examinations is not equivalent to success in life and students must remember that academic success in college is relative and subject to the whims of the most capricious professor. Success in a - course should not be judged by the grade received, but upon the knowledge obtained. This is not quixotic or idealistic. Few athletes are able to capitalize on their reputations after graduation and students may not depend upon their reputations in. order to progress. In industry, athletics and, most importantly, life, the individual produce. Academic success is transient and often unreal. Why do universities require letters of recommendation for graduate work?
Simply to insure a more accurate por- 1 trait of the student; marks are a part, i but certainly not the whole.
William James once advised a pros- 4 pective teacher:	.
Prepare yourself in the subject so well ' that it shall be always on tap; then in the classroom trust your spontane- 4 ity and fling away all further care.
If this is the ideal for the teacher, then an application of this theory should control the student. The student may not trust his “spontaneity” and “fling away all further care,” because he is not the master but the apprentice. His success should not be evaluated on an examination necessarily restricted because of time and space, but to the degree of progress he has shown. The Humanities, by the very nature, deny exact evaluation and it is exceedingly difficult to give a student an exact grade. But there is a more general question. Should an individual mind be graded in comparison with others. Ours by nature is a competitive society and practicality demands some standard of judgment, but the essence of my argument is that there is no standard by which the student may be absolutely judged. A professor will have a fairly good indication of the student’s capabilities, but the student himself un- . derstands his progress and should be disappointed, satisfied or elated because of it. Obviously some students would not care, but the grading system used by some departments, with respect to the senior theses, might prove effective. A student’s work would be either acceptable or unacceptable, and this perhaps would be a more universal standard. ' There would be no honors or Dean’s List, it is true, but the real students would have the same knowledge and satisfaction and possibly humility.
. The Scholastic
A Campus-to-Career Case History
He sells ideas-to sell
communications
John 0 Neil likes the interesting contacts his job gives him. At left, he talks with Bill Shaw, Manager of radio station KSFO, about the baseball reporting service John helped develop. At right, he discusses a private-line telephone service with R. E. Kaehler, President of The Pacific Coast Stock Exchange, San Francisco Division.


San Francisco baseball fans don’t know it, but they’re indebted to John R. O’Neil of the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company.
John made it possible for them to get , up-to-the-minute reports on Giants baseball games last season. He sold radio station KSFO on the idea of recording inning-by-inning announcements using automatic answering equipment. Fans would simply dial an advertised phone number. The service began last August, and was a big hit.
That’s an example of the kind of creative selling John does. “We really sell an idea and then provide the equipment
John O’Neil is one of many young men who are finding interesting careers in the Bell Telephone Companies. Find out about the opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
TELEPHONE COMPANIES
to do the job,” is the way John puts it.
John joined Pacific Telephone after graduating from the University of California with an A.B. degree in 1956. He wanted to work into management through Sales and was impressed with the training program and advancement opportunities offered by the Telephone Company.
“As a Telephone Company salesman, I deal with owners and managers of toplevel businesses,” John says. “Every contact is a challenge to solve a communication problem or to sell an idea for better service. What’s more, I’m getting valuable experience that will help me move ahead in the telephone business.”
WIN T FOUR 1959 THUNDERBIRDS I
Just 25 words will win America’s most wanted car ... or one of 1,032 other exciting prizes!
CONTEST RULES
4 1959 FORD THUNDERBIRDS
1st to 4th prizes
Four-passenger hardtops. America’s most individual car.
8 RCA COLOR TV SETS
5th to 12th prizes
Your passport to the wonder world of Living Color! Installed free.
B MEN'S WARDROBES TAILORED
Complete outfit - suit, sport coat, two pairs of slacks . . . superbly styled from fine materials, with the hand-tailored touches that count.
16 HAMILTON ELECTRIC WRIST WATCHES 21st to 36lh prizes
The watch the world is talking about. Powered by a tiny battery that lasts for months.
1,000 FAMOUS FALCON PIPES
37th to 1036th prizes
Featherweight, 1 ounce. Patented
moisture trap—smokes bone dry. Finest imported Briar.
$2,000 FOR RETAILERS
Ask your jobber about these awards. And get the display racks to boost your sales of House of Edgeworth contest brands.
EDGEWORTH READY-RUBBED in the famous pouch of blue. Cool, slow burning white burleys! holiday pipe mixture—A blend of 5 great tobaccos with a flavor men relish and an aroma that women welcome, too. EDGEWORTH EXECUTIVE MIXTURE— Most luxurious tobacco you can smoke! No added aromatics. Also EDGEWORTH JR. . . . HI PLANE . . .
EDGEWORTH SLICED
1.	Simply complete this statement in 25 words or less: "It’s pipe smoking time all over America because . . .” Write your entry on an official entry blank or one side only of any sheet of plain paper. Be sure to print your name and address plainly on your entry. You may enter as many times as you wish, but each entry must be accompanied by either an empty pocket size pouch, or the printed insert from medium or large size tin of any one of these six pipe tobaccos: EDGEWORTH READY-RUBBED, EXECUTIVE MIXTURE, EDGEWORTH SLICED, HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTURE, EDGEWORTH JR., OR HI PLANE.
2.	Mail your entry to: Edgeworth Contest P. O. Box 82-C Mount Vernon 10, New York
Entries must be postmarked not later than midnight, March 31, 1959. Be sure to use sufficient postage.
3.	Anyone living in the continental United States, its territories and
OFFICIAL ENTRY BLANK (Use plain paper if desired)
MAIL TO: Edgeworth Contest P. 0. Box 82-C
Mount Vernon 10, New York Send with each entry an empty pocket size pouch, or the printed insert from inside a medium or large size tin of any of these 6 fine pipe tobaccos: EDGEWORTH READYRUBBED, EDGEWORTH EXECUTIVE MIXTURE, EDGE-WORTH SLICED, HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTURE, EDGEWORTH JR., OR HI PLANE.
Entries must be postmarked not later than midnight March 31, 1959.
Print Your Name__________
Street Address
City_________
possessions may enter except employees of Larus & Brother Company, Inc., and its advertising agencies and the families of such employees. Each entry must be the original work of the contestant submitting it and be submitted in the contestant’s own name.
4.	Prizes, as listed in the contest announcement, will be awarded to the best entries judged by The Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation on the basis of originality, sincerity and appropriateness. Duplicate prizes in the event of ties. Decision of the judges is final. Only one prize will be awarded in any one family.
5.	All entries become the property of Larus & Brother Company, Inc., to use as it sees fit and none will be acknowledged or returned. Winners will be notified by mail. Full list of winners will be sent approximately six weeks after close of contest to anyone enclosing a self-addressed stamped envelope with entry. Contest subject to all federal, state and local regulations.
ENTER AS MANY TIMES AS YOU LIKE! GET MORE ENTRY BLANKS AT YOUR DEALER'S . Complete this sentence in 25 words or less "It’s pipe smoking time all over America because _________________________________
Zone