

LOVE IS 
Love is a giving thing, so give the gift of love · 
•.. a Keepsake diamond ring. · · Choose from perfect solitaires, beautiful matched sets and trios. Modern and traditional settings 
in precious 14K gold. Keepsake, · there is no finer diamond ring. 

Top lo bollom-LADYLOVE, RACHEL, LADY VALLl;Y, BRITTANIA .. T:M R~g. A.H. Pond Co, Find your Keepsake Jewelers In the Yellow pages or dial free 800-243-6000. In Conn. 800•882-8500. 
I HOW TO PLAN -~~-~~--~~-GAG EM ENT AND WE~~~-~~~-_-.-1:. 
Send new 20 pg, booklet, "Planning Your Eng-egement and Wedding" plus full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for onlY 35;, F-74 
Nam•·------,.,,,---==--------'-------­
tPleas! PnntJ 
Addr111----------------------­
Cltv•--------------'-----'--'----'---­
Stat••----------Zip,_____________ 
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y, 13201
'------------------------------···.........,____________________.. 
. .
~ ~ 

HO~ 
YOU 01N SPREAD 
lflE ME$AGE . OF LO\IE ... lflE 
LO\IE OF CHRISf FOR ALL PEOPLE. 
Have you ever considered the priesthoocl as a way to serve people? The Paulist Fathers are a small community of American priests,-Prcigressive, searching, young and energetic, they form a religious family. 
A Paulis! is a man of the Spirit, a man of his time. He rejoices in the signs of hope around him and celebrates with the people he .serves . 
. Every Paulis! is a missionary: in the pulpit, or parish house, on the campus, in the inner-city. He communi• cates with the spoken word, the printed page, and with contemporary media. His mission is to all of America. 

· His message is love; th·e love of Christ for all people. 
For more information send for The Paulis! Papers Write to: Father Don C. _Campbell, Room 100 


PAULISf 

FAlflERS 
415 WEST 59TH ST., NEW YORK,N.Y.10019 

You'llnever knowhowmuch good you can do until you do it. 
· ·. You can help people. Center in your town. Or 
In fact,there's a crying write:"Volunteei,' need for you.Your talents. Washington, D.C. 20013. You.r training. Your con-· It'll do you good to . cerns. They make you see how muchgood you 
· valuable to your business. can do. ~...t:) · They can make you price-. V less to your community. .Volunteer. 
Ifyou can spare even · The National Cent~~ a few hours a week, call for Voluntary Action. the Voluntary Action .. 

----= 

Editor 
James Gresser 
Art Director 
Bill Weyland 
Production Manager 
John Phelan 
Managing Editor 

Sally Stanton · News Editor Jane Thornton 
Arts Editor 
Katy Sullivan 
Sports· Editor 
Bill Delaney · 
Assistant Art Director 
Thomas Waldoch 
Business Manager 
Sarah Bartzen , 
Advertising Manager 
D. C. Nokes Circulation Manager . Paul DeBacco · . 
Staff 
Mike Karels, Steve Slater, Jean deSmet; · Dave Beno, Peter Fitzgerald, Ron Rundstedt, . Karen Higgins, Tara Carey, Mark Lupino, John Kenward, Mark Ondash, Dave Dreyer, Connal McGee, Don Pausback, Laureen Goers, John Harding, Mike West, Mike Sarahan, Mark Hopkins, Larry Stanton, Regina Fink, John Whalen, Mary Digan, Tom Birsic, Eileen .O'Grady, Jim Wiehl, Michael Casey, Sue Rohn, Jack Pizzolato, Bill Gonzenbach, Bill Brink, Frank Coughlin, Neil Gillispie, Leo J. Mulcahey, Don Reimer, Deborah DeLorenzo, L. Bums, Kathy McElroy, Dave Miller, Andy Winiarczyk, Jorge Lopez, Mike Zengel, Dan Adler, Gil Zachary, Theresa Stewart, Annemarie · Sullivan. Art & Photography Mike Madden, Ed Brower, Ted Kerin, Bill Foglia, Joe Kuspin, Tom Burke. 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do notnecessarily represent· the opinions of the University of Notre Dame; its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly . during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from · the ScHOLASTic. Please address all manu­scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Ind • .46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 
copyright© 1974 Scholastic/ all rights· reserved / none of the contents may be re­1>roduced without 1>errnission 


Volume 116, No. 3 October 4, 1974 Notre Dame, Indiana 
HEADLINER 

6 Ireland -The cns1s and tragedy ofthe civil war in Ireland as seen by an· American. 
FEATURES 

4 Cincinnati Ballet -·Preview of the appearance of the celebrated dance troupe at ND. 
10 Photography -A one man show by one of the pioneers of p~otography as an. art form. · 
14 .Housing -.. The problems facing the student when there is not enough on campus'housing. .. . . . .. 
17 Population-· Prof. Barrett's view of the World )>opula­tion Conference which he attended. · · 
22 Academic Code -A review of the new standards set . · forth by the administration. 
27 . Omens-· Signs of a football weekend that wasn't quite right. 
,. . 
28 Sideline View -The observations of Coach Pagna of ND football and its players. 
REGULARS, 
13 Coming· Distractions. 18 Book Review~ 19 People at ND. 20 People Behind· ND. 21 Week in Distortion. 26 Irish Sport Shorts. 30 The Last Word. 
Illustrations: Photos on 4, 5, courtesy of the Cincinnati Ballet / Photos on 6, 7, 8, 9 by Andy Winiarczyk / Photos on 10, 11, 12 by Minor White / Photos on 
15, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 27 by Ed Brower/ Photo on 16 by Harry Busch/ Photos on, 26, 27 by Zenon Bidzinski / Photo on 28 by Bruce Harlan / Cover by Joan· Bonnifer f All artwork by Weyland. · 
The··cincinnati 




Ballet 


"The Cincinnati· Ballet Company · • itself tells us· tliat American dance energies are to be found not only_in 
. the great theaters and opera. houses . of the world but also o_n . campuses, at educational institutions willing to nourish both art and artist and to permit the dance creator' to adven­ture, as do astronauts, into that end~ lessly marvelous realm of sp~ce that is the dancer's horizonless world." · -This comment from Walter Terryof the Saturday Wor:ld Revi~w ex:. presses the vitality of the.Cincinnati Bal_let Company. Currently in · its twelfth season, Cincinnati's resident professional repertory ..dance,. com­pany consists of twenty-four dancers who perform a diversified repertoire of thirty. ballets and modern dance works. : ' · · : _ The: Ballet. Company, sponsored. by Dance and Drama Series of the Cul­tural Arts Coinmission,-will be·. per­. forming· in. O'Laughlin Auditorium (Sairit Mary's Canipus) at 8:00 p.m., Monday, ·. October ':21."" Tickets are $3.50:for . adults . and .$2.50 for: stu-' ·dents ·and will be available .at ·the Ci\C office. begimiing October. 7. One major classical work and,one major modern dance work will be in the program., . Last summer, one. major _classical work appeared· ·on · CBS television wh~n the'. Cincinnati . Ballet : Com­pany" performed Stravinsky's .''Fire-· bird.'.' Thi/Cincinnati Post exclaimed, «CBC's Fii-ebird -performance sur­
, passesaliexpectations." JainesWierz­bicki, music critic_ of the Post/ said, "A ball~t · company · can' be· proud · when it develops one excellent set of soloists. But when it. comes. up with . two "sets, each one as impressive as the other, it ought to ring, bells>and · tell' the world about it." I saw-this .. performance on TV th~s summe.i; and was ,amazed at how .interesting· and . exciting ballet can be·. ' -­
THE SCHOLASTIC 


Under the artistic direction of David McLain, wh'o has previously held positions with the Rober_t Jof­frey Ballet Company and Americ:m Ballet C~nter, the present season.not only includes "Firebird,''. but also the wcirid premiere .of .the : multimedia ballet, "Et Cetera/ Electr,onic music, projections of . crystal photomicro­graphs against the white-clad figures and earthy blue-jeaned dancers cre­ate ':a fascinating. audio and visua~ adventure,'' according·fo Gail Stock~ holm, .Cincinnati Enquirer ... : · 
.In 1973-74, the.Cincinnati Ballet Company appeared in fulfresidencies through the . Coordinated Residency Touring Program ~f the National Endowment for the Arts, Washing~ ton, D.C. The residencies· _included a one-week .. return . engagement . ·to America's ol,dest dance festiva.l, Ja~ cob's. Pillow in Lee, Massachusetts, and two-and-a-half· weeks i~ ·:the Virgin Islands and Puerto· Rico. 
The dancers of the Company._are 
extensively _trained in both ballet and 
modern . dance techniques through 
t_he Co_mpariy's . official school, ·th_e 
University . of . Cincinnati . College 
Conservato~y of . Music, whose · dis­
tinguished . faculty includes . Dame 
Alicia Markova, D:B:E., Miss P .. ·w. 
Manchester, . Oleg , Sablir1e, D~vid 
Blackburn, James Truitte and others. : McLain~ who . is also . national . cliairma.'n of the Conferenceon Ballet 
"Da!lle Alicia has . made her four young charges look good in 'ii:· most difficult, stylistically de man ding ballet." · ,.-· · 
The . Cincinnati -Ballet Company uses. ballets from the. international repertoire of Balanchine, Doiin, Hor­ton, Louis Johnson, Markova, Sab­line, Truitte,.and Tudor, plus· works created -by David. McLain, · Cincin­m:i.ti's artistic__director. Ranging from classical ballet t_o modern. dance, their. specialties include multimedia 

in, Higher Education; has aspecial .. baHet aria' ~outh Amer_ican s_amba... 
wing of ballets ·created by the. iate Lester. Horton, one .of the· West Coast's most renowned dance figures. Balancing the repertoire, Dame Ali­cia Markova brings her very.special brand of classicism to bear on' his company with. Anton Dolin's. recrea­tion of the celebrated Victorian Pas de Quatre. Walter Terry of the Sat­urday . World .Review comments, .. Deborah -~Jmvitt,>.' Villag~ -Voice (N.Y.), .called the 9ncirmat~ Ballet Company; ·~str(?ng, ,vivid J elo­
• I• 
quent and stylish . , . . feverishly bright.:.,.: -:In!).ture:an_d skillfulper:­formers." Don't miss the' Cincinnati Ballet Co~pany, Mo~day,. Oct. 21, at O'LaughUn Auditorilllil. ·, 
-Theresa Stewart­


Northern Ireland 

Livin.g at War 


At first I looked upon going into lin to Belfast-was fast approaching. they loved dearly. The mourners Northern Ireland as a-mad lark-an The last twenty-four hours before stared out the . windows looking experience ·that would provide me the trip was consumed by insomnia numb. When this rolling hearse with dozens of stories, that, at the born of nervousness. I wrote six let-stopped at Great Victoria Street Sta­very least, would help to relieve the ters, which I instructed a woman in tion all of its occupants were im­tasteless drudgery that is the North Dun Laoghaire to mail if I did not mediately searched. Welcome to Dinirig Hall. However, from the return (a very real fear at the tiine). Belfast. . 
·15th of July onward I started. fo Boarding the Belfast train at Con-Though I tho~ght the good sister view the journey in a different light. nolly ·Station in Dublin I searched just a bit too melodramatic I, fol­Fro'm that day on in County Sligo, for a friendly face. Believing I had lowed her instructions to the letter. in smail cafes· and shops; in crowded, found one I sat down next to a nun Soon I would find out that the nor-' noisy pubs, by lakes arid mountains . named Sister Philomena. In her aged mal tone of conversation in Belfast immortalized by . William . Butler . hands was a worn copy of War and is slightly louder than the dropping Yeats, I met hundreds of temporary .Peace. We quickly became friends of a pin.. Complete surprise greeted exiles from the six counties of Ire-and discussed the beneficial effects me as the door . of . 19 Tullyinore land under British rule. · literature could have ori people. She Qardens swung open'. All at once I 
For the Twelfth of July brings, .· asked me where I was getting off tried explaining that I had nowhere aboufan incredible dichotomy among and I·said Belfast. Sister Philomena to go, that Sister' Philomena told Northerners. To the Ulster Loyal-looked upwards to heaven as if to me to come here; and, if it weren't ists it touches off a fortnight of cele~ . ask God why did he create . such too -much not to :{urn ine away. _I bration to commemorate the victory inad creatures. . felt Hke Joseph. checking out. the of William of Ora·nge (a Dutch · · "Do you have any friends or rela-Bethlehem Hilton. Mrs.. Gatt said Protestant prince) over James II of· 'tives in Belfast?" I could stay as long as I wished pro-' England (a Catholic monarch) at "No, Sister." . . . . vided I was willing.to share a room the Battle ofthe Boyne in 1690. For "Do you have any place to stay?" with her son; Billy'. 'At this point' I the Irish Catholics it serves as a· "Not as of yet." · · wouldn't have minded ·sharing a reminder of something they would "Oh; dear· God!"· she exclaimed. room with a gorilla ·so long as he just as soon forget. "Give me a piece of paper." was reasonably friendly. A feeling 
So they leave their homes in exo-Quickly. she wrote out an address of relief and quiet happiness swept dus-like numbers and head for some she knew well-The Gatts, 19 Tully-over me as if a cool breeze had point in the Trish Republic. As one more Gardens, Andersontown. touched me. For eight days I was woman from Derry put it, "When Speaking quietly she added, "The part of the community, and I came 
·the drums get noisy we get out." Gatts are friends of mine. Tell them . to feel that I was a member of the Each ofthe· exiles comes. equipped you met me and I gave the address Gatt family. I shared many of their with dozens of tales of the ''Trobles." . to you. .They'll take you in. When hopes, their fears, their confidences, I,t is common to hear of people being . you get off the trairi look for a black · and. their dreams. During that time taken awai in the night and re-. taxi. Whisper to the driver 'Ander~ I came to feel that I, too, was under turning months, sometimes . years sontown.' . Once you're·. -i~ide say . siege. Whatever political opinions. I 
. later; bizarre, unexplained shoot-· quietly 'Tullymore Gardens.'''. -may.have had wc:iuld'.not have mat­ings; and people being tortured by She told me that ·she was getting tered to the troops. In their eyes I the Royal Ulster Constabulary and -off. at. Dundalk (last major town iri-. had chosen my side simply by living the_ British Army. One tends_ to-· side the Republic), where several wUh an Irish Catholic family~ Some­question the sanity_ of those who nuns would be waiting to take her . how_ I had become part"of the name­venture North out of a sense of curi-to' Downpatrick, because they · less;_ faceless enemy that the British osity: .._ thought it was unsafe to get off in Army hated . 
.. Soon Sligo, as well as a heist of Belfast. Her premature . departure : The most unnerving thing (for other peaceful places, passed into did wonders for my nerves> The · someone not used to it) in the Ari­.the misty recesses of my memory. whole mood of the train seemed to The moment of.truth--or putting it .. change abruptly at Dundalk .. Those. · .. . undramatically, the train from Dub~ that remained after we pulled out of 
the station were silent, almost som­. ber. It· was as if a:11 concerned. were -. • heading for the funer_al of someone 
THE . SCHOLASTIC 
"It suddenly occurred 
to· me that I might 
as well have told them 
.that I was running guns

dersontown section of Belfast was the. constant presence of the Royal' 
-for the Irish RepublicanBlack Watch Regiment. They were 
Army."

in jeeps, armored cars, at barri-, cades, on foot patrol, and in "Silver City." Silver City, ·only a block away from my "home," was an impreg­nable-looking combination· of barbed wire, corrugated steel, and concrete blockhouses. It was one of the homes of "the laddies from hell," the ap-. pelation that the Black Watch had for me to stop. Then four· soldiers been known by for centuries. It was in full battle dress started ,running quite _normal to look out your· wins towards. me at top speed. dow at breakfast and see them • "Hands up,JJwas the simple:order. crawling around in your back gar­I was spread-eagled' against a , wall; den stamping out the loveliness that One searched me from top to bottom: was once a rose. The Scottish troops Another ·started leafing. through 'my · have acquired areputation as "Cath­notebook; The first .· thirig· • that· olic haters" which is richly deserved: aroused his suspcion was logically The Black Watch has to be one of enough the first· page. It contained the · few units of the British Army a poem by.William Butler Yeats en­that looks forward to its tour of titled "The Lover Tells of the Rose duty in Northern· Ireland .. It is ob­in His Heart." The soldier refused vious that anyone wearing-a Legion to believe that it wasn't some sort of Mary pin· is a terrorist. Since of code. So he radioed back to local "A-town," as Andersontown is some~ Army headquarters the entire poem: times· called, is the. home of Irish The absurdity of the· situation · did Catholics, · every resident · of :, the not upset me nearly as much as the neighborho_od was automatically sus-fact that he read the poein so poorly.
pect.• . , · ·,. .,. ;-.:, · Poor old Willie Yeats must. have 
One afternoon I was · walking been doing somersaults in· Drum­along the Glen Road when someone cliffe Churchyard when he heard speaking in a Scottish brogue yelled this rendition. (Obviously the soldier_ 
t·,,/:. ;\:•,;.:_,,.  
r."". ··:~_::­ 
,:;,.  . . .  ·1':.  
_· .,·  ,_J ~ ..  
I ~ ·. -1,:,r..  
'  ~;'  '-#,ie:.. . .  t  ,· '>/' ­( ~· ~ ,.., '"·';,a• .  

OCTOBER 4, 1974' . 
had never heard Professor Garvick "perform"· while -reading Yeats.) 

· While this Rhodes Scholar . was butchering verse, two of his compan­ions held SLR's '(British' semiauto­matic weapons) a few inches. away frorri· the back of my neck. ,I ·never realized that I looked dangerous enough to meritthe attention of four of these brave souls:• (By. the way, it's quite' easy to be, brave when there ·are •four_· of you armed to· the teeth watching one unarmed · per­son.), ,·: 
"What are you doing here?" "Just traveling around Ireland." "Where are you staying?" 
j'With afamily on.Tullyniore Gar­

dens." "How do you know them?" '!They happen to be friends of a 
nun I met on the train from Dublin.". 
It suddenly occurred to me. that I might as well have told them that I was running guns for the Irish Re­publican Army. 
"Why do you have a camera at your side?". 
Replying _very . nervously I said, "Well• I'm an American. And all Americans have cameras.'.'.· 
It·. was ·as if we ·were born with Kodaks dangling from .our tiny necks.·. 
"If you want to getin trouble just point the ca~era ·at something." The next day I was again stopped. 
_This.time I was held by two of them for thirty minutes. They claimed they ·had· orders.· to stop all foreign nationals · except _those holding British passports and hold them un­til it could be proven that you hadn't so much as committed'a traffic viola­tion anywhere in the world.· After a ·barrage of questions I waited, for the soldier to .receive word f~om somewhere that I wasn't a complete incorrigible. After waiting for what seemed ·like. an eternity (actually closer to fifteen. minutes) I said to the soldier: 

"Yet in the midst of this 
. raging torment that afflicted 
the city there was an island 
·of calm."' 
tired. I just hope I live-to see peace break out." 
Her son, Billy, was an art teacher for the secondary schools in the area as well as being a professional artist. Upon his canvas, the day T arrived, was a harbor and the people. that lived on. -its edge. N~ storm-was brewing on the water. It was as if the picture summed ;up the. hidden hopes of Billy and all those he cared for. · 

, The person who made, 19 Tully­more Gardens. complete · was Mary Grant. ·Mary was. boarding· with Mrs ... Boyle, who . lives across the · street from the· Gatts, and was Billy's fiancee. She entered ,the con­vent at a very early age and was planning to live out-her life··as a nun. Yet she would soon find,that ·it did not bring her fulfillment. How:-. ever, ,it not being :in· her natureto 
· let people .know what; her problems were, she remained where she was. It wa·s the remarkable Sister Philo­mena who finally convinced her that . 
. she could do more for God outside the walls of a convent than with-. . jn. ,.Then she saw to it that Billy and_ Mary were. virtually thrown . . into each others arms. __ . 
.'' . 'Mary Grantwas perhaps the mo.st perfectChristian I have ever met. Anger never crossed her mild coun­
.tendance. She sp:>ke ill ~rno one. I remember one -night· her talking about the Rev.· Ian Paisley, an ex­tremist Protestant leader, . who was slightly less civilized than Attilla the Hun and whose politics lay somewhere to the right of Mussolini.• "I'm sure once you get to· know him he isn't such a bad old fellow." 
Late at night the coal fire would · "If I was that desperate of a char­
acter I'm sure you would have found 
out by n·ow.'' 
· "If you were that. desperate,.of a 
character l. would have shot.you.by 
now.!' .. ·, 

A short :while·later I received his final·.query. · 
"Do-you· have transport?"• · 
."No. I'm walking." · 
An angry, skeptical . voice de­
manded, "Are you telling. us· the 
truth?" 
By this time I was very tired1 and 
very irritated. ·In a typical example 
of Irish bravado (and personal in­
sanity) I replied:­
"! really_ wouldn't ·walk but my 
Rolls Royce is in the shop ·right_ 
now." 

: Let it.suffice to say that they did · not see the humor in ·that ·state­ment. · ·:, 
Yet in: the midst of•this raging 
torment that afflicted the city there 
was an island of calm. It was the 
Gatt '. household.. iNo matter'·,how 
much violence swirled around them 
there was: a sense of . peace: that 
dwelled withinthe home unmolested. 
Originally the ·Gatt ;family .con~ 
sisted of Mr. Gatt (who came from 
the.island of.Malta), .Mrs. Gatt (a 
Belfast native) and nine children. 
When Mr.-Gatt:"' died, · one by one 
the children were married and left 
home. Then Tony entered the sem­
!nary and all that was left was Mrs .. 
Gatt; her son, Billy, who was in his·· 
late twenties; and Patsy, the family 
dog. 
' Mrs. Gatt is very active in parish 
affairs including helping to run a 
youth club. Amidst all the angry 
rhetoric a sticker on the lapel of her 
coat asks. the simple rhetorical ques­
tion, ,What Price. Peace?. She re­
members as a young girl being 
burned out of her house by the B-
Specials,, the reserve . arm of . the 
Royal Ulster .Constabulary in 1921. 
Etched. across the vivid· landscape 
that is her mind is the memory of 
her father. ·O(an Irish Protestant) 
coming home with tears in his eyes. 
He tried to. explain ·that he. no 
longer. had a · job at the shipyards 
(Belfast's. largest employer) be­
cause he had been driven out of 
work for having . a Catholic wife. 
To the Unionist.mob that was a sure 
sign -of disloyalty to the: newly .ere­
ated state of Northern Ireland. 
. /'Andrew, I've. been through the . troubles twice;. People have no idea of: what. it's like: But I've grown 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

:i 
i 
I 
warm our very hearts. Mrs. Gatt would be preparing tea and biscuits for all of us. And Billy would paint songs across the canvas . of his twelve-string. guitar with Ms Mary by his. side. This portrait of serenity was a scene'oufofa novel which I had written: . . . . . 
Not only. was I made to feel at off and over ~ur heads .. Behind tlie home ,py the Gatts, but I was be­· safety of :our shields a lot of the. friended by many of the young lads_ started throwing _rcicks at the 

people of: Andersontown. 'I was one Army. They charged. We retreated. 
of the few l(Yanks".. they had ever . We charged. They retreated. The 
met..They feit ,that' I.was genuinely Army,only captured . one of us .. My 
interested in;~them. '·They were ·al­cousin ·seamus tripped and a's'natch 
ways concerned for. my safety be~ squad'. took him. By the way, Sea~ 
cause I went into sections of Belfast rrius is, six." ·. _ . . . . . .· 
where they would never go. . . . Later in the week some of my 
~-number of: t~em invited· in~ friends decided to take me to alocal 

into a home one afternoon. The first iiub. Now this pub seemed to be 
thing·that one of the girls. did \vas· straight out of a Humphrey Bogart 
put a single on.the record player:·1t movie.. From the. street. it looked 
..y_as ."The Night.That Chicago Died.'.' just Hke an old house..:only if you 
Just as the song began there was a were a local would you· know other-. 
soldier silhouetted against the wi~­wise. As you opened .the door you 
dow. If this had occurred in a movie were met by a curtain of blankets. 
I would have thought it was· alt It gave the customers a degree · of 
terribly symbolic. privacy and. helped to deflect bullets. 
The best story I heard there was when the Army decided· to shciot up 

told to. me by a 17-year-old named the neighborhood. Go five feet; turn 
Sean. He was describing "The Battle · to your right, push . aside another 
of Casement· Park." ·. . . 
"About eighteen months ago the 

Brits took over Casement Park. This. 
is where we all play Gaelic football, 
hurling, and camogie. .They turned .· · 
the thing into a bloody armed_camp 
and we couldn't use it. Our parents 
begged and pleaded and requested 
that the. troops give back the park 
to us. They just laughed at ourfolks. 
"Taigs (slang for Catholics)

So one Sunday, when normaJly w:~'d have our matches; a . group · of us 
will be shot." 

were standing around an' someone 
·"Expletive deleted

suggested we have a go:at Casement. About a· hundred of us charged the : 
.·.·._the Pope." 

place and started, ripping the .cor-/ · 
rugated'fencing down:. They opened. 
up on us'with rubber bullets, which 
will-break your bones if you're hit · 
with them; ·But we used the fencing ·as shields and the bulle.ts bounced Liam told .'~e __that somebo.dy was shot and killed°th'ere last' year. ("No, L_iarn.. r'·ii ~ove,_clowri. It VfOn;t .b_e any problem:'.') Going downstairsJo pick up several,bottlesof Harp lager for my friends, I. noticed 'that .the backdoor ·was' constantly .left open. 

I . was informed that . in case' of a raicf'an·y· of the ii'boyos"· (Nortlie~ Irish Catholic slang for the :IRA) or ,ariy 'men ori the run could ieave quickly. · · . . . . . . ._ . · Yciurs truly 'decided that no trip to Belfast ·would be complete with~ out a visit to :the Sharikill, the toughest Protestant·. neighborhood· iri N or.thern Ireland. I looked :-~t.my street mapand startecl to head in the . proper direction from whafs left of downtown Belfast. .The street was filled with people ·and· no street sign was in sight. I asked a woman what street I was on and she said, "This is the Shankill." The tone of voice seemed· to say "Abandori hope all ye who enter here." Written. on the walls were the slogans.that have made· the Shankill the tourist at­. traction it is today. "Taigs (slang for Catholics) . will be . shot." "Expletive deleted the Pope." '"Ul­ster forever," "Up the UDA · (Ulster Defence Association).11 The shops 
. and homes . were bedecked'. with: British.Union Jacks, the,RedHand (provincial flag), and the· Vanguard banner · (belonging · to an extreme Loyalist group). In one of the back streets there_ was a painting on the wall of WHliain ofOrange.. Someone 
.(Continued on pag~ 24/ 
·g 


Photography As Art 
.. There are those who .will question the exhibition of a· series ofphoto­graphs under the title "Art Gallery," those who will maintain that photog~ raphy is a skill not an art, and as such, can be learned and practiced by anyone . who has the money to .. purchase sophisticated enough equip­ment; This is a debate that has gcme on almost since photography began; certainly since it first began to be proposed as anothe~ :of 'the •"Fine Arts." It is probably the most writ­ten about question in photography_: and particularly insofar as photo­realism is · concerned."; This is .the school .of the "straight-shooter';_:_the photographer/artist who alters noth­ing in development, ..· who simply chooses a subject..and· photographs it as he finds it. The catch, however, lies in the term "simply." To the photo-realist the judgment.•. of what 
subject to shoot, in what :·light and from· what angle marks the· differ­.·. ence between art and snapshot. To him, it ·is. the recognition and judg­ment of beauty that is Art,not the mechanics of creation; the crucial moment is that of decision, not that of. the . opening .and closing ·of a shutter.. Generally; it is this view: point that has come into widespread acceptance; the . creative photog­rapher today, in. most circles, is recognized for what he actually is_: an artist of the first order. Never~ theless, there are. still those who refuse to believe that even the best photographs of the best photogra­phers are that 'much different' from the snapshots you or I produce with a 'pocket Instamatic.For these skep.: tics. there can be no better demon~ stration of photography. as art than that found·. in the. =works of Minor 
White: 
Minor White is a distinctly Ameri: can artist. He has probably done as much or more, in his ..66 years (born 9 July 1908 in Minneapolis, Minne­sota)>as any marl, alive 'Or dead, to establish photography as· avibrant, living .Art-both . here and· abroad. His work is strongly individualistic, as easily. recognizable . a·s, say,. a painting by Rembrandt or a sculp­ture by ·Rodin (not such· farfetched comparisons as ·might at first be imagined!). To one ·who is experi­e'nced .to any extent with his photos, friere . is ·· no mistaking :: a· "Mirior 
White" for. the product ofany other man. The artist: himself expresses it thus: "Ever since the beginning, caniera: has pointed at. myself.". In Minor White's art we see avision; it is an. Americian vision,· but a vision tainted . by othe:r. expE.?riences and other worlds. Searching for a com­pariifon, one··-can only call to mind the feelings evoked in the early works of Faulkner, the distinctly American world, grim and with an atmosphe"x-e of decay; 'containing a separateness and a touching of some­thing beyond~in a sense, an almost mystic consciousness. It is not the best of comparisons, yet the feelings are akin. 




-·-One can pick up this feeling most directly from such works as "Win­dowsill Daydreaming," dated in 
OCTOBER 4, 1974 
1958. · This i is actually part of a ·sequence of photos,:-entitled "Sound of One Hand Clapping," inspired· by the now-famous Zen Buddhist koan. But· in· spite of ·these mystic "East.:. ern" overtones,· the aura is Ameri~ can, :and strongly so. There is the characteristic use-of strongly· con­trasting light and dark areas, the perpendicular· lines that mark· --al: most all of White'.s photos, but there is more. The majority of his "peo­ple"-oriented ·works· project ·a poi­gnant atmosphere. of desertion-'-not rej~tion, but abandonment, such.as follows age: His subjects, in this photo and in others (see: "Interior_ ~fl:. of a ·Church," "Tracks: and:Build-.._ ing") are worn, tired; decayed, in the Faulknerian sense-the seeming . side-products of a speeding ·civiliza­tion.!_ His doors are closed, his wall stark and naked. Even the open window looks out on a blank, worn walL There is a nostalgia · in his_ work, and a search to come to terms with a world that seems empty and abandoned. The simple , liri_es and contrasting light serve only to em­phasize this, his subjects -to . under­score it. It is an American feeling and an American search. · 
A somewhat different feeling is 
projected . in his "nature".-oriented photographs-a rugged appreciation of natural beauty, .a truly American love· of scene and country. There is the s1:1-me loneliness, perhaps, and the same search for understanding, yet his· appreciation _.of_ ·deserted .beauty comes through even stronger. In works such as "Blowing Snow on Rock" from 1966 we sense the explo­sive qualities of nature-the over­awing and uncontrollable presence of the world that surrounds man. There is a stillness in .the change, and it is.not.a violence ofaggression that is portrayed; rather/it is avio~ ·tence·ofbeauty, neither harmful nor good, but part of -the body of fact that makes up nature. in ·inany'of . his nature. photographs· 'tliere is a quality: ofchaos, a jumble of sub­}ect;light, and form that leaves the viewer 'searching for a· pattern: or for a clue to order. It is.this search itself, perhaps, and not its sol(lt:ion, that is the key to approaching the 
work of Minor White. · ·· .. ,, 
·. Much more will be obvious from viewing ·the works of Minor 'White on exhibition at the Art··Gallery. -He works, for example, in sequenc~ series: of photos -related· closely: to one another-a,' concept which he _was ·instrumental · in -introducing. And through his• work there rims a strong 'sexual ''tension__;_;_a sexual im.agery that becomes obvious when a 'number· of :his 'photographs are viewed together. ·He achieves a· rare combination of' strength and -soft~ ness that must be. seen and studied to fully be appreciated. Theworkof Minor -White can 'overwhelm an in.:. dividual, · can. change. ·completely the 

conception a person takes in with 
··him of photography. It can leave a person feeling empty, at times it can leave him looking for something, not certain of what it is, certain only· that it is missing. .The work, when seen, may not_. be loved, but its significance and importance as creative art will come through. It.. can ·overwhelm, it can educate. It 
. is, above all,· art that can open new . horizons. . And it · is the · product of a creative art that should settle, once and for all, loved or hated, the ·· question · of photography as :Fine 
Art... . 
·· (The .Minor White Exhibition wiU open October 6 in the East Section of the Notre Dame:Art Gallery and will.remain on exhibit until Novem­ber 24. It wiil include many of the artisfs prominent 'works.) 
-Peter Winkler 
.. . ' 

Imposed l\lorality? 
Sir: 
What with· the University's stance on expelling .. students for violating the prem~rital sex .p.rec.ept of the Church (represented.by the sex rule here on campus), should not students 
. who take .the name of· God in vain also be . excluded fro'm this commu­nity? Catholics here know that their religion makes distinction between two types ofsin-mortal and veni~l. . The two transgressions listed· above would be· classified as mortal sins. The Church does not, to my know!~ edge, judge degrees of mortal sin, at least in cases where the sin is com­mitted willingly by both parties and does not .violate anyone's rights. If it is such a sin, judgment beyond its being a mortal sin should be left to God.. In that case, then, both the for­nicator and the blasphemer should be banished from this voluntary society. 
This school .claims to be a univer­sity; open to those of allfaiths, be­liefs, philosophies and walks of life. .What then of those who are not Catholic, riot Christian and espouse no other established religion? In this group might possibly be some who · not only con_done premarital sex but see it as a very-positive good. Per­haps the University is correct in making Catholics (and others whose faiths coincide on this· issue) abstain from the mortal sin of premarital sex as per their religious beliefs,· but if we· are to believe Notre Dame truly a university, we. cannot stand for its trying to impose. morality on 
· those wh_ose · faiths and/or philoso­phies of life, through the free choice of life~style a university is supposed to accord, differ from Catholic stan­dards of what is moral and what is not. 
Tom Sheridan 
Not tlie Last Word 
Sir: 
l just got a copy of Scholastic. Your descriptions. of the meanings between idols. and heroes are good ("The Last Word," Sept. 9), but cer0 tainly there are more than two types of public figures. Five pages of your publication concern Nixon. He is sti~l a public figure, but he is neither idol 
· nor hero. What about the likes of Hitler and Stalin? Your classifica­. tions cannot be' "the last word.'' 
... 
Martin Baron · Editor, The Brown and White ­Lehigh,University. 

Gallo Responds . 
· Sir: · · We have received a . copy of the September 9 issue of the Scholastic and note the full-page ad headlined, "America's Farm Workers Are Ask­ing You .To Boycott Gallo Wines.'' We feel that you would not have run such an advertisement if all the facts · of this controversy had been at your disposal. In an attempt to bring to the stu­dents of Notre Dame a more factual and fair . presentation, we have marked the ad to point out where the. truth· lies, and enclose it for your publication. · 
Ernest Gallo · \ 
E. and J. Gallo Winery 
(Ed: note: Scholastic ha.s donated magazine space in pa.st issues to pub­licize the wine boycott by the United 
· Farm Workers .of America. Having considereciMr. Ga~l_o's objections, we still feel that ·he does not adequately counter the : statements of the UFWA.). 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


l\lUSIC 
. Oct. 9-Srimati, Indian musician .and artist, Library Auditorium and _Lounge, 8:15 pm. Oct. · 11.:_Gordon, Lightfoot,· ACC, 8:_30 pm. Tickets . $6.50, $5.50, $4.00. 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
· Oct. 5-Conference on American Catholicism. Oct. 9-Air Systems Seminar. 
ART 
Notre Dame Art Gallery 
Oct. 6-Nov. 24---2-Bill -Kremer,·a one-man show of recent ceramic art scuiptures by a' member of the Notre · Dame· Art'Department, Gallery 1~ · Reception..;.:;.oct. 6, : . 2-4:30. -· · Oct. 6-Nov. 24-,-Minor White, the internationally known ·teacher and photographer, demonstrates his· mastery...in capturing_ the spirit of American life~-, 
Gallery 2:· · · 
Oct. 15-Nov. l~pus Donatelli. ·100 enlarged photo~ graphs by Clifford West ·of the Reriaissance sculptor Donatello's ·pulpits· in·: the·· Medici· Church· of San Lorenzo, Florence. Galiery·3; . . 
St. l\lary's 
Oct. 1-2~Eugene Atget:· Paris Photographs (1900­1925). MainMoreau Gallery, ·12-5 daily except· Mondays: ·. ' Oct. 1-2~Configurations of Form: New drawings by Sister Cecilia Ann Kelly. Hammes Gallery, 12-9 . · · 
every day; · · . · · ·. · · · . Oct 1-2~Paintings by Harriet Rex-Smith, 12-9 every'-'' day, Little Theater Gallery. · Oct. X-28-,-Watercolors by' Gertrude: Harbart, Photo Gallery; '12-9 every· day. . . . . 
FILMS 
Oct.: 5, 6-"Play Misty for Me," ,Engineering Audi~ presented by the Minnesota Cl~b. .Times to be 
announced. . . . . · Oct. -7-"Hamlet," Engineering ·Auditorium, presented by the Cultural Arts Commission.·· Times to be : ·· ·· · announced.,· :.: 
.... . .· ·. ; . . Oct. 9-"Carnal Knowledge," Engineering Auditorium, presented by the Minnesota Club;· Times to be 
. announced. · •. · · o'ct. 10, 11-"Siddhartha," Engineering Auditorium, presented by the Cultural Arts Commission. Times tO be announced. Oct. 15, 16-"Shoot the Piano Player," Engineering Auditorium, presented by the Cultural Arts Commis­sion. Times to be announced. Oct. 17, 18---"Slaughterhouse Five,". Engineering Audi­torium, presented by the cheerleaders. Times to be an­nounced. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIDl\l. (232-6954) 
· Oct.· 5.:__David 'Carridine and Water; in ·concert. · ·oct. 12-Comedy: "Move Over, Mrs. Markam_;, · Oct/i~Karate Expo. .· ' . : . ' .. 
. . . ..-~-~ ":'.' 
.. 

SPORTS . Oct .. ~Women's Tennis vs. Lake Fore~t College··~nd . . the University of Toleµo, .2:00 pm; Oct: 11-Soccer "B". vs. Marian, 7:30 pm. 
Oct. 12-,---Soccer "A" vs.-Wisconsin (Madison),.7:30-pm._ Oct. 12-Lacrosse: Alumni game..5:00 pm. Oct., 15-Soccer "B" ·vs. Goshen JV, 4:00 pm. Oct. 19-Rugby "A", "B", "C" vs. John Garron.. 
OTHER DIVERSIONS 
Oct. 5, 10-12...:._"Look HomewardlAngel," ND/SMC. Theater Production •by Ketti Frings. O'Laughlin Auditorium,·8 pm ..·. :.":· Oct:··9-Paul· Soglin, ·Mayor of-Madison;-Wisconsin; · Library• Auditorium, 8 :pm. · ..... 
Oct: u~Midsemester Reports ·of: Deficient: Students.­
.. Oct -14-,-Lecture: Abigail McCarthy, Washington, D.C. Library Auditorium, 8 pm. . . . Oct:. 16-Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture Series: 
Eli" Ginzberg, Director/Conservation of Hunian ·Re­sources, Columbia University-"The Role of· Values·· 
..: in National Economic Policy," Library Auditorium ·and Lounge,·3:30.. pm. _ · ·· .._.. Oct; 15i lS-:-:.Rusty Rhodes: "Who·Killed JFK?," 
·washington Hall, s· pni. · Oct. • 16_:J'ohn Conway, President of. Common' Cause,·,· · ·GI'ace To_wer Well,_2:30 pm."'· ..._ -..~;:: ·: ..;.:;John A:-Harding ·· 
.. 



Facing the.Dilemma 
' ~ . . . ~ 
of Off Campus .HouS.ing 
One out of four Notre Dame un-fact remains that. it is not possible reason was given by sixty-nine pe:..·~. dergraduat~ ·students lives. off cam-for everyone to ·live on campus, nor cent. of the students who responded.. pus. The ·problems of these students does every~ne want to, The 5,100 Sixty-one and fifty-eight percent, re­have become apparent of late to the beds for 6,800 people leave about spectively, cited "the need for. University. There is now, for only 1,700 students who must find their cha11ge~• and '"the, desire. for more the third year, a director of off-cam-· own housing, cook their own meals,~ . respmisibilityJJ. as reasons, for "Ieav­pus housing, in the person of Father ·and do their own laundry. There is ing the campus. TheJiall lottery, by Thomas Tallarida, C.S.C. The new-a need for these students to be forcing or "scaring" ·a student off ness of this office. indicates that brought into the mainstream of Uni-. campus, was reported t~ be a cause Notre Dame is tacklingthe plight of versity life. _fortwenty-seven percent ofthe stu­the off-campus student· seriously for The vast majority of these stu-dents._ Less than five percent moved; the first time.· · _dents are juniors· and·seniors. About off because_ they were married. ­
There are many reasons for a stu-one third of the junior class and two : In the last few years, there·have dent to move off campus, and many thirds of· the senior class are off not been enough students moving off. reasons that make it difficult. One -· campus. Freshmen must live· on ·campus voluntarily to· meet the ne­problem involves the off-campus stu-_campus unless their homes are near-. cessity for :1,700 off-campus beds. dents' lack of participation in the by. Any sophomore who desires to :.T}_lus .the University adopted a hall full life of the University; another live ·on campus is assured of a room. lottery last .year in order to make_ has to do with costs and housing con-However, junior and senior rooms people leave ·the campus.' _ · ditions. These are complicated prob-are subject to their availability. . . . Father Mulcahy explained how lems, but hopefully solvable. FatherTallarida sees three reasons last year's lottery._ worked. .The 
The number -of undergraduates for students to move off campus:__ housing office figured the number of living on campus is approximately "There are students who have been beds in each· hall..which \11.'.0Uld _be 5,100-75% of the total undergrad-forced off; there are students who , avaHable.for juniors-and seniors-to­uate population.-Father Mulcahy,· -want to leave the University-'-the be. Then, for.. each hall, ·two-Jists, the .director of on-campus housing, concept of privacy or they don't like one·for· the seniors·and one for the explains, "The University insists that the regulations; and there is a cat-juniors, were given to each rector. it's basically residential. You're miss-egory of. students who are respon-(A •third ·list of sophomores~to-be ing something .if you're not on sible-they're looking forward to was .made up in case. the halls de­campus. The chances of meeting moving off campus, taking on some-cided to have room picks using th~se_ other people are very much a part of i thing new · instead of somebody lists.) These lists had the names of Notre Dame. You just can't do.that putting things on a platter. It's a -the,students of a-class iii· the hall off campus."· Of course not. Notre good way for them to grow." Ac-selected and put in random order by Dame is a self-contained University. _cording to a re~ent poll conducted by . a computer. Sixty percent'-of the The life of a student is centered Father James Shilts, former director beds . available in the hall were al­here. He eats, sleeps, and studies _on of off-campus housing (as reported lotted to the juniors-to-be at the top campus. He can see movies, plays, in The Observer), · the most fre-of the list, and forty percent of the 
·-concerts, and athletic events here. quently given reason for students beds to the ,seniors-to-be. All of the opportunities and joys of moving off campus was to escape, When someone decided to move Notre Dame are on campus. But the campus rules and regulations. This off. campus, his name was crossed· 
14 THE SCHOLASTIC 
i, 
off the list, and: that bed was as­signed to the . person next in line. All students who didn't t1,1rn in their room contract cards by April · 15 were assumed to be moving off. 
After April·· 15, the lists would show the people who would be forced off campus. But· Father Mulcahy said, ''.It turned out that we didn't force anyone off campus." However, some people who were low on their lists decided that if they wanted good housing for the next year, they would have to commit themselves be­fore it _was certain that they were forced · off. These people were "scared". off campus because they did ·not want to risk being forced off and having all of · the good housing ~!ready taken. Mulcahy continued, "All those who for­got to turn-in their contract cards were eventually given rooms, but not necessarily in the dorm they wanted. Everybody who · really wanted to get on; who was stubborn enough to wait it out, got on. We will probably use the same system next time.'' 
Fr. Tallarida 
OCTOBER 4, 1974 
Inflation is hurting the off-campus student. Father Mulcahy . cites a movement this year across the na­tion back to on-campus living be­cause of the rising costs for tuition, books, food, and good housing. 

While off-campus students can eat at the dining halls or the Huddle, food prices aren't reduced for them. There are plans, however. Student body president, Pat McLaughlin, en­visions a nonprofit wholesale food mart for. the off-campus student, lo-. 
cated on campus. 
The housing situation can be, and is being dealt with, by the University right now. Under the leadership of_ Father Tallarida, houses and apart­ments are being evaluated, and these evaluations will be made available to students. Tallarida said, "The sixteenth of September, we're· start­ing to visit the big proprietors, those that have more thari one dwelling, and we will evaluate these under the new format we have drawn up/' 
This new format checks for the following things: stove and refriger­a tor, carpet, whether the utilities are 
..1 
~ 
-~ . 
' 
'.'. .
ffl
-:..;;.,:~-~-; 

furnished or not, whether the house 
or apartment is furnished or not, . air conditioner, washer and dryer, . whether the house or apartment is 
on the bus line or not; private bath if 
apartment, how many months re­
quired by the lease .and amount. of 
the deposit, the number of bedrooms, 
kitchen, living room; bathroom, 
shower or bathtub, dining room, 
basement, storage space, whether 
there is parking on or off the 
street, and date available. Other 
considerations include the nearness 
to the University, the quality of the 
neighborhood, rent per student, and· 
c,1ny possible discrimination on the 
part o~ .the landlord; Then the in­
spector grades the residency: supe­
rior, good, fair, or unacceptable. The 
University will not include unaccept­
able residences in its list of avail­
able housing given to students. 
These inspections will . hopefully 

~orce landlords· to maintain in good 
condition their housing,-while keep­
ing costs down. Since July, Father 
Tallarida estimates that he has 
saved the students about $8,000. He 
sees one ·of the evils of the housing 
situation to be that soine landlords 
charge illegally by the head instead 
of a flat rate. But Tallarida warns, 
"The thing is a two-way street. 
· You can use the influence of the University to improve the quality of housing, but let's not kid ourselves, a lot of University students are highly irresponsible. The irrespon­sibility of students is forcing land­
--lords to_· increase the price of their particular rent, and also to stay away from the aspect of furnishing utilities. So if a student were . re­sponsible ..." 
Some are and some are not. "A lot of proprietors are very ·happy to get Notre Dame students.· Many praise 
. Notre Dame students for their con­duct and the way they keep up the property, and show · respect for the elderly." On the other hand, Father Tallarida has seen senseless dam­age: holes in walls, stained furni­ture, and wrecked rugs. He sees students "establishing a . milieu whereby certain proprietors wonder about the Notre Dame student."· 
Campus View is one noticeable trouble spot. Campus View is an apartment complex which was due to be finished before the fall se­mester began. Father Tallarida re­flects that this goal was unrealistic. 
Jt ,:..
,I ., 
·. •i·\ _ 
. :
\! 
, . -.': , · 

i.!{ . 
\ ~ · ·,
••,'.. fj 
\ \'. tt}J
' ·r \l J 
·,:\L:·a j.\.l . i, \J l! 
\ ;f ·il 
)i.·•.·; -:) 
. 1 :i 
1. t 
'c:if.\ .·:1 ,jff ,;j 
r . .. 
improving · off-campus conditions without the help of students. He would like to see the student gov­ernment handle complaints between students and landlords, and between students and students. That, has never been done.. It' would be an education .. for ·student governrnent. Pat McLaughlin is willing to help solve the problem. McLaughlin is cooperating fully with Tallarida, and, says that Father "is. doing a fantastic job." · . . 
Two major problems ~hich:the
student governi:nent and housing office have no way of solving con~ cern crime and•. psychological services. . . 
To alert students to crime, Tai­larida plans to takea good look at the regions .whe,e ,off-COmpus,-stu, 
::i:sst~~:~t!e!npi~!~\?ib0:~~t::~ thievery in particuiar areas. He 
~:y:u~h~~~~:~:tg·a.studentca~ do 
·-·-'The only way 'an off-campus stu­dent arrives at psychological services is by walking in himself, self-refer­ral;. in a hall, the rector, an R.A., or· fellow resident can refer a· stu­dent. Tallarida says, "There were more ·self-referrals coming in from off campus than coming from the 

. . . . ·.-~,z/·"' .;l' ··sM \\JrniI:J 
Campus View ·Apartments ­Only a ,few of the units were com­. will h~ve a heavy concentration of 
nti•~ campus last year. Self-referrals iri



_)~lJill !~z~::::::;,:·,:::.d:-:.:: 
plete, and none ·of them were fur­nished. So the students temporarily occupied Stoneridge, sleeping· ·on mattresses on. the floor until their Campus -View furniture arrived .. The students: and their furniture were moved back tq Campus View as each unit was completed. . 
There were to be fifty-seven units at Campus View, with four students per. unit. Forty students have can­celed, and only· forty-seven units will be completed.. Tallarida sees Campus ·. View, . despite its current problems,· this way: "Campus View is a plus for the students, because it students, and . have· common ·facili­ties. But right now it's not finished. I think I would ratherhavestudents . somewhere close to the University, where they can get gciod housing, but also participate in the life of the University.". · · . '. . Tallarida_ continued, ''The people there are asking: Can we have a Campus View football team, hockey team;· basketball team? Can we have· the campus . ministries say Mass there on Saturdays or Sundays? Can we invite professors, have a fellow­ship program? .That is in the offing." .·. Father Tallarida cannot continue . 
.!!t~~r!ii~~:r::~ ·c1:h:~~~c:!~~! 
student. If the. student ·government succeeds in creating some· kind of f<>od cooperative, then there will.be. the beginnings of leadership; com.; municatfon; and some structure.with 

which off-campus students can deal with their problems. What is needed is leadership from every ·off-campus . 
· area, with, a system ·for these repre-. 
senta.tives to meet, discuss their prob­lems, and get things done. With off­campus students in constant Ji:im­
-: municatfo_ri _with the. representa­tives of.. their particular region, the.re wiir be :greater progress in at~ tempting ·to ·solve· their mutual problems. -­
--:-Mike Zengel;" Dan Adler .. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
had been : fairly well sold on the catastrophic Malthusian . concept which predicted a • dwindling source of world subsistence that would soon be stripped away by an exploding · increase in .world. :population. Pro­fessor Barrett emphasized that the accuracy of ' this concept could be


Population 
argued and that, indeed, it readily :. !.\ r . . . . : ~. ~ :~ . ~·-was so argued at the conference. 
· Briefly, he · cited the overwhelm­ing potential of Arab oil to provide the nitrogen -substance needed to

.co11ference
.. . ... . . . ,., ' .·. . .· . . . . . . . . . ·;. ~· . 
produce:· fertilizers..· Secondly,·•·. he 

proposed that a continuance in the : ··,'If . all _the' del~gates would please vened in Amsterdam;· wher~ human production , of new breed "super listei(in Ori 'their ·headset monitor, rights ·and the · quality of life were grain" arid ,technologically improved 
we could ·commence with:each. dele­review~d with • respect to overpopu­strains-of-rice and·. corn could• deter the· gloomy :Malthusian· prediction of
gate presenting his or li~r natiori's lation. Now; in' Bucharest, for the opening'_ ,remarks .. to._ this' plenary first time in history, the .. Uriited mass ~ starvation arid political up­assembly: In acc~rdance with your Nations had•. come together_· to ·make heaval.· His third example concerned 
the · energ~, ·potential of nuclear

preconference briefing, we ask that a combined study of those four sep­you stay :·within··· your : apportioned arate regional topics. . .. power. With the t~hnology and re­15:minute·· time ·limit:" With such a ·-Dona.id Barrett, a professor /of. sources · now ; · available, • the •·: only 
statement; ,·_ the.;;· Worid··: Population sociology liere· at Notre a: Dame;· \vas thing lacking is the decision : for its Conferen.ce came 'to' order ori. a hot in Bucharest' to attend the confer­implementation. ·Dr.'· ·Barrett con­August . day in Bucharest, Rumania. ence .. Serving as. a.technical. advisor cluded that consensus could have it All ~orld. nations had been invited.. on ciernography;··Professor 'Barrett -that even though'scarcity-is a prob~ 
lem and that scarcity could be an

For the next two weeks; six-man assisted the delegation representing even larger problem in the future,
delegations from over 133 nations the Holy See. In having been asked would me!:f in sweltering,· congested why _he in particular had been ap­there could be much more confidence groups, -· in -hope of dra~ting a· pointed to his position, he suggested placed -on:· present amf future· tech­
nology;. He then turned his thoughts·plan of action that would solve· that the reason could have been his 

.the problems of world oyerpopula~ 
to the principles and objectives of tion. To point out the possible anx-the conference. ious coricern with ·which 3the dele~ The major' concern'.-for tempering gates viewed the problems confront-the ·world birth rate was that no 
Jng :them;•it may need only be ·said . . . nation should J:ie. coerced or duped that in-thetime·thaUt:took to con" _into·•adopting policies contrary to elude the preliminary statements 1of · social . , or. political . interests .. In-each delegation,' there had been over ; stances of overzealous programs in . 675,000 ·new-members born.-into the Brazil and Argentina,· which caused human· race.' Race,. indeed!·: . the-deaths .. of. several people, were . 
The United Nations had held four cited as · examples .of programs . preliminary, world regional confer~ · which had in common an all too ,ences,':·each gathering , information.· prevalent·> characteristic -of mis­'On separate major ·concerns ·of over~ understanding· and subjugation of . 
population. In 1972; worldwide gov~ · people . whose neither interest nor ernment .-officials had-· assembled in will-had been invoked. He went ori Gairo ,.. to;, deliberate the~ political to-propose that the intentions of the problems 'created-by overpopulation· Donald: Barrett' :. United States merit~d questioning. in-such areas as Africa. Later,that ·:·.·:. . According .to Professor '.Barrett, ·same year.:another conferencei'this -previous· participation in the -Papal ..the conference :-was subsidized; for . time· ·in-Honolulu, ·attracted ·experts · .-Coininission ·on -Birth Controi: ·Also the ··greatest part,.-by .·:the United· who studied the. family systems among the Vatican delegates were a States. In comparison· to -.the' over alterations 1>rought. on by overpopu-notable economist, physician; genetia $65 million provided by the :United .lation.· In•1973, Stockholm had been · cist, geographer, 'international Cath-States/· Sweden·;, was . the second_ the· lbcatiotj for the Third Regiorial olic organizations administrator and largest co-ntributor · with -its $25­. World Conference. In· this meeting, a representative from· the• Vatican million -funding.· Consequently, Pro­world'-l overpopulation· was 'consid--. Department of State~--· · fessor .,·Barrett· said that-, he was ered ·in light of its responsibility ,, ·In giving ·his account of the con-· appalled· · by .the dummy'-: voting for environmental deterioration and ference, -Professor :Barrett claimed that -the United States:: delegates the depletion of natural resources: that before the• conferenc·e took were able to ''animate, direct, and The firi.i.l -.preliminary meeting con-place,· the' :population -Commission controt"-. This,-however, was not his· 

.i7 
. I 

largest complaint concerning the 
U.S. delegation. He regretfully sug­gested that the United States delega~ tion may not have pursued the true interest of the world population. Rather, they pressed• for an assur-. ance of their own economic and po­litical interests. This type of atti­tude, which was also seen among other delegations, was remonstrated by the Vatican delegates as being incompatible with any sincere pur­suit of love for humanity. 
There were several other -events in the conference that Professor Barrett felt were worth noting. The delegations from Russia and China­two nations which could have made great contributions to the confer­ence -were often preoccupied with blocking, screening, exhausting, and objecting to each other's attempts to offer constructive efforts towards the development of solutions to the problems of world overpopulation. 
.Professor · Barrett . recalled that perhaps the most flagrant example of a complete lack of . cooperation 
came in the absolute refusal on the 
part of Asian delegations to allow 
the Israeli delegation to participate 
in any of their meetings. 
There was also a situation that 
Dr. Barrett told about that he said 
was very instructive, while it was 
unfortunate in respect to its having 
deterred a unified conference effort. 
He explained that several African 
nations respectfully submitted their 
refusal to consider those matters 
having to do with further Hberation 
of women. This, they said, could 
totally. destroy their society which 
allows little or no women's rights 

as, say, the Americans know them. According to Professor Barrett, one of the most striking._ conflicts experienced in the conference was the objections raised by the delega­. tions from Uruguay and ·Argentina. They claimed that their nations pos­sessed large tracts of uninhabited, 'undeveloped territories. Their objec­tions centered around the consensus . of many conference delegations that rigorous international methods of 
slowing the world birth rate be em­ployed. This, the two South Ameri­can delegations argued, was in direct opposition to_ their own national in­ter:est They also declared that they would resist and resent any inter­vention by other nations who pro­posed implementation of stringent plans of birth control, family plan~ ning, or mass immigration from overpopulated areas to Argentina and Uruguay. 
The two-week whirlwind confer­ence left a lot of rubble where_ pre­conceived concepts, intentions and ideals once endured. When the final draft of the conference's Plan of Action is published, it may be found that Dr. Barrett's suspicions will be confirmed that little more. than an awakening of nations·-to the com­plexities of · world overpopulation may have. been accomplished. No cures. Little agreement. More, under~ standing. ·Mostly._ a· concern. to com­municate with other n:ations . 
-Dave Miller 


It may be safely said that autobi­ographies do not engender much en­thusiasm; the reasons for this are too elaborate to allow an exposition here. Yet, occasionally an· autobiog­raphy is .written which is a bless0 ing to the literary world. Malcolm Muggeridge's The Infernal Grove is just such an autobiography, and it is well worth reading. · 
Malcolm Muggeridge is, among other things, a British journalist and critic. He is something of an intellectual outcast, _one of those unique individuals who, as he ad­mits, is. not tolerated by the Left or the Right, but is, by no means, a moderate. Yet, he is extremely con­scious of himself and of his times, and his writings clearly reflect this awareness. His thought, distinct and formidable, is a peculiar blend of nihilism, skepticism, and an honest Christian individualism. Among _the many sources from which he draws his inspiration, Augustine, Blake, Tolstoy, Dickens, Kierkegaard, and Solzhenitsyn rank high. As one would _expect, Muggeridge repeated­
18 
ly denounces the myths of political demagoguery, superficial intellectual­ism, and materialism-especially scientific materialism. 
Muggeridge's slender volume reads like a picaresque adventure novel. The author travels in every direc­tion-sometimes a journalist, some­times a civil servant, other times a 'secret agent in Her l\fajesty's ser­vice: With a· sweeping style, Mug~ geridge describes the crumbling bu­reaucracy of the League of Nations, the steaming editorial room of a British paper's foreign office in Cal­cutta, a few vivid ·impressions of the Russians after his adventures in Moscow,. the grim oncoming of the Second World War, his -own intri­cate, fascinating adventures as a spy-an .account that reads as well as a novel of .John Le . Carre, and, finally, ·an unusual but impressive account of the restoration of Europe after the war. Within these personal wanderings and recollections, one catches glimpses of the more not­able intellects of the time-Greene, Waugh, Mauriac, Gide, Hemingway, 
.·, 
Weil, and many others :·who have 
left an indelible mark on our con­
temporary culture. .The book pro­
vides a panoramic· vision of the 
times without . neglecting notable 
particulars or essential detail. 
Besides being an · excellent per­
sonal 'account of a man · arid his 
times, the narrative is fortified with 
a fine· prose style, a. style adept -at 
blending a dramatic narrative and 
expanding imagery. to produce a 
deep, vivid, intoxicating literary ex­
pression of the personal wanderings 
and,beliefs of.a true man. One can 
only hope that this work becomes a 
model for future autobiographies; if 
nothing else, The Infernal Grove will 
rally enthusiasm from the intelligent · reader. · 
Title: The Infernal G_rove,: Chron­icles of -Wasted Time: Number 2 · Author: Malcolm. Muggeridge Publishers: William Morrow & Com­pany, Inc. Price: 7.95 · 
-Gilbert Zachary 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

e 
,.,, ""'• ,, .;. _-,,, .,,.,.. ,· ·. ' ;,....-~-• ' ~-~~~M< ,,,-.•~~•-•~•--•-••••••=••~•-•••••~•.-.,•-:«••------••--r•~~--~-•·..--••·----·-•C"••••----c•-•••·•,-••~•••·•••--,,-c••·-•--·-••--­
• 

l: P!!.OP,l~)ath:N p 
.ii ._ . _ _· ...__· 
_ . _.._. ____ . __ . _.-. 
I,_ ,•• .• _ _. •••--•~.,., ··••--k •.~ -• · ••••-• -, •-S-. U•• •-. . ~-~--•~•.c~ "•--­
/ ­

The question mark of the week is reseryed for the whereabouts of Notre. Dame's· legendary. Stripper. Througl10ut last week's disastrous game, thousands of' students ,anxiously awaited· the fulfillment of .•Irish tradition· in the form of a home opener· victory· and the appearance of the Stripper. Both events turned out to be nonevents, leaving many poststreaking-era stu­dents in a state of bewilderment and confusion. Losing the game was stunning, but:.having no. Stripper• was' curious. The· meteorological conditions·· were.· tolerable for.his traditional garb, and certainly the students could have used a rallying point for some additional spirit 
.and enthusiasm. Yet there was no stripper to be seen.· Some hypothesize that he may have sold his student ticket to an alumnus ·or merely overslepFthe game. From what is known of his character, however, it is· highly unlikely that he would commit either of these_ cardinal sins. The only reasonable explanation ·which offers us any condolence is that the disheartening per~ formance of the team dampened his _spirit and quelled his enthusiasm .for disrobing. If . this is . indeed the answer then there is little doubt that against Rice we will see him rise above the crowd to again model his traditional fall birthday suit. 
Call Thad? This mysterious message began cropping: up last week on the doors of Farley and Breen-Phillips hall residents. Girls throughout both halls found the message left on their memo boards and many were puzzled as to who.exactly Thad might be. Curiosity was further devel.oped when one of the signs held up by.the students at the Purdue game read, "Call Thad." By the. week's end the message was still unsolved, but many . believe it to be some sort of emergency distress signal .to be used only in times of great danger. This theory has· gained popularity and leads many to believe that· Notre Dame has a new· champion of justice and the 
OCTOBER 4, 197 4 · American way: Thad. So keep in mind that when you find yourself in danger, when you're threatened by a stranger, when it looks like you will take a lickin', if there's no one else to turn to~all Thad??!!! 
A large part of the excitement and ·spirit generated :at each' Notre 'Dame home game is a· result of the stimulus provided by the Fighting Irish Marching Band. ·. Directing the motions of that band is therefore an im­portant assignment, and no one appreciates that more than this year's druni major, Tom Burke. Tom, a junior mechanical engineering major, has been with the band since his freshman year and only earned ·the top spot after competing against several other candidates last spring: His job· as a drum. major is one of motion ·and precision coordination. Tom leads the band whenmarch­ing on and off the field and directs their rriotion during performances. In addition to· his other duties, Tom is also chairman . of the show. committee· which is re­. sponsible for arranging and puttin·g together the half­time shows given at each home game. The stereotype image of the drum major's position being one primarily of showmanship is only partially justified, for many people fail to realize the work and effort Tom and· the entire band ..put into each performance; Leading a marching band is hard work and time-consuming, yet 
· the excitement and thrills coininencing with the striki_ng up and stepping out from Washington Hall offer a just reward. · · · 
-Those who have been following former President Nixon's illness may have noticed that the distinguished physician attending Mr. Nixon, Dr. John C. Lungren, is an honored graduate· of Notre 'Dame. Dr. Lungren g·raduated with the class· of '38 and fast year served as president of the Alumni Association. 
•;._Tom Birsic •· 

.!·1Pec,ple"B8hind NDil
.._....~..

--• .,,._..,._____, ___, __,....,._ ,.' , J '-~ -~,-,_,,..,.;__, ••.,_.,._, ' .... -~,.....~~._ .. ,,,.,, 

Moving the Mail 
In 1851, the · Brothers of· · Holy master and is in charge of making ·v begun to implement a new system, Cross opened the first post office at up schedules, supervising operations Area Mail Processing, The system is Notre Dame. Today, that office is in the mail room and making sure designed to speed mail delivery and still in operation, a tangible witness the mail flows smoothly. fully utilize South Bend's mechanized to their work for man. In the words . Service. is provided -to the entire post office. As a .. sectional center, of Brother Francis Meduri, assistant Notre Dame-St. Mary's community · S_Quth Bend's office will take over postmaster, "Here is where we. put by the campus office. All of the em-the sorting and processing of all Jesus' Good .News to the test .... to ployees have·. passed · civil service mail from its 46 associate post of­show that Christianity is avery vital exams and. are members of the fed-. fices in the area.: Incoming mail will part of our daily liyes.'.' Thesalaries eral government. They . ·include 7-, still be sorted by the. respective of­the Brothers receive as civil servants brothers and · 4 laymen.•Judging fices. For instance; at Notre_ Dame, are freely contributed to the Midwest by the amount of mail processed .. the, incoming :mail is initially put I>rovince -to be used in the .best in--through. this office, Brother Francis · into one of 80 breakdowns, later,to terests of their order.. states ·that Notre Dame is. "com-.-be distributed to any of the 20 resi-
This apostolic witness was. begun · · parable to. a city of 50,000." During dence halls or 600 departments in the by Fr. Edward Sorin, who,,with the , the peak months of operation;which · post office itself;· · help of Congressman Patrick Henry,· . are September through January, ap--, The post office at Notre Dame is persuaded President Millard FiHmore proximately 400,000,· letters · leave ·just a-1.ittle bit _c:,ut ofthe ordinary. to establish Notre Dame as an offi~-;Campus. per month.. Ironically, the It is not merely a government ·ser­cial. U.S. post office in January of-·:amount of incoming. mail~-is not vice, but also a place where men like 1851. Fr. Sorin was appointed post-nearly that. much, averaging about Brothers Ramon and -Francis .put master at that time and remained in 200,000 . per. month., -Beginning in .,their· Christian ·, commitments into that position until 1893, a total of . February of this year, the office has . practice. . '. ,. 42 years. :Prior to 1967, when the present building was constructed, the . post officewas located in the Knights of Columbus Hall and an even earlier location was in a small building just ==::!'­to the right of Fr. Sorin's statue. 
Brother Ramon-· Purzycki, post-•, · 
;~~~:rio~:t: ;~:!ef::a:~~/:r~:r~!. r~_--_rf_;_n_:;..:_,_.· Inn on Notre Dame Ave. He has been ~Iii 
· in the postal_ service at Notre Dame for over twenty-five. years . and in 1967 had the distinction of being appointed postmaster by President Johnson . 
.Assistant postmaster, Brother Francis' Meduri: spent. a number . of years working at the Ave Maria Press on campus before joining the ·· post office in 1967. As. assistant, he · is directly responsible to the post-


r·---~--"--. ---·--------~-------·--=--------·· ·-.~~ -~-... 'l
l Week-· In ··Distortion;_,,-,. ..--·• . ....• .. l 
4

t..,·, .._,_,.· ,.,~. , ....•':~.·_ ··....~---~---·_,-L--.-·--·~..:..~-~z.c.:.,.,.;,.~..:.:-...~·~~:.:.:...~~:... · _.. -~. ·,_·~~ .-.>;_, >"':-··,:/··<·.. ·.-:· . ·~s·· . ~'.,:• ..... :-:.. _.......,,.,.) 

· .By virtue of my. position· as Scho­lastic columnist, I am-often privy to certain information of which .most collegiate plebians •are ignorant .. On occasion .. though, ;,my munificence prompts me to share my knowledge with all of you out there. Now I can say .with some · degree of assurance that few ·of us · have given any thought to that bleak and formi­dable reality· known as an "EXAM­INATION." Finals surely are of no concern to us now, However, mid­terms loom up in the not-too-distant future, and must be contended with in some way before the ·vacation break. 
· • Through some discreet snooping and information -leaks, we've stumbled upon some potential essay test·· questions which ·professors·.• in the various disciplines might spring on the unsuspecting student,... Lest you be caught unaware, we've 'de­cided to pass· these on to you. In the event that your major is not_ in­cluded in this offering, consult -your department ·chairman.· 
Pre-med-You have been provided with a razor blade, a· piece of gauze, and a bottle of Boone's Farm. Re­move your lab partner's appendix. Do not·· suture until' your work has been inspected.'You have 15 minutes. 
Political .Science-There is a red telephone on the desk beside you. Start World War III. Dial direct. Re~ port at length on its sociopoHtical effects, if any.· · 
History-Describe the history of the. papacy · from its · origins to the present, concentrating specifically, but not exclusively;. on the social, philosophical, and religious impact on Europe, Asia, and Africa. Include a short list of American popes. Be brief, concise, and specific. 
Biology-Create life. Estimate the differences and similarities in · sub­sequent human cultures if this form of life had developed 5 billiori years earlier, with special attention to the American political scene. 
· · l\lusic-Write a piano concerto. Orchestrate it .and perform it with a .. flute and drum. You will find a piano· under your seat. 
Sociology-Estimate the sociolog­ical problems which might accom­pany. the end of the world. Con­struct ,an experiment to test your 
theory. . Public Speaking :-2,500 riot­crazed Pygmies ·are storming the classroom. Calm them. You may use any ancient language except Latin or Greek. . Economics -Develop ~ realistic plan for ·refinancing the national debt. Trace the possible effects of 
your plan in the following areas: Cubism, the wave theory of light, provincialism, .occultism. Outlirie a method for all'• possible points of view. Point out the deficiencies in your.point of view, as demonstrated in your answer to the last question;_ 
·Engineering -The · · disassembled parts of· a high-powered· rifle have been placed on your desk. With them you will find an instruction manual,· printed in Swahili. ·In ten minutes a hungry Bengal tiger will . be ad.: mitted to the room. Take whatever action you feel appropriate. Be pre­pared to justify your decision. 
English -Trace .the ·history of English literature from Beowulf to the present. Discuss the symbolism used by each author. 
·Accounting -Prepare ·. a balance sheet for and audit the books of Richard M. Nixon.· 
l\lanagement Science _:.... Define management: Define .science .. ·What are their similarities and differ~· ences? Create a generalized algo­rithm to optimize all manageriarde­cisions, assuming an 1130 CPU sup­porting 50 terminals, each terminal to activate your· algorithm, design the· communications interface and all· the necessary control programs. 
Philosophy_;_; Sketch the develop­ment of human thought; estimate its significance. Compare and con­trast with ·the · development of any other kind of thought. 
Physics -Explain the nature of matter. •Include in your answer ·an evaluation of ~he impact of the de­velopment· .. of mathematics on science, and science on mathematics. 
Epistemology -Take a position for or against . the• truth; Prove ·the validity of your position.. 
General Knowledge -Describe in ­detail. Be objective and specific.· 
Extra Credit -(For-All :Disci­plines)· Define the ·universe. Give three examples. • 
(Inspired by M. T. Hynak) 
·_-John M. Murphy 

Academic Code: Problem or· Solution? 
Recollections of registration day bring to mind the long lines, the bored faces, and an enormous stack of beige pamphlets bearing the in­scription "The Academic Code." Knowing that plenty of free time was available, it seemed that it was my duty to become acquainted with the rules governing my pursuit of knowledge. and wisdom, so I read it with some· care. It soon proved to be boring reading as most of it was merely a_ restatement of what I already knew to be University pol­icy, but. I was more than_ a little surprised that some of the proposals which had seemed only tentative last semester had been approved just as soon as most students had left for the summer. The. two most controversial sections were section 9.1, entitled Class Loads, which reads: 
Except by recommendation of the 
department chairman and with 
special permission of the_ dean of 
the college, the undergraduate 
student in the Colleges of Engi­
neering. and Business Administra­
-tion may not register -for more 
than 18 _hours of credit work in a 
semester; _the undergraduate in the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Science, a.s well as students in the Freshman Year of Studies Program, may not register for more than 17 hours of credit work in a semester . . . Additional tui­tion. will be charged at the rate per credit hour for overloads. · 
And the new requirement for Dean's Honor List stated in section 21.1: 
·The Dean's Honor List includes those students who carried at least 12 graded credit hours in the previous : semester_ and . who 
-achieved at least a 3.4 average in that semester. Many people had protested last 
-semester over the new rules, and I found that ·the situation had not changed much over the summer. Typical of the opinion of many stu­. dents concerning the course load pol­icy was the reaction of Linda Slaughter, a junior in accounting: "I would like to get more out of my education than my 18 hours of ac­counting and I don't see why the University wants to limit what I wish to learn." Most who disliked the regulation thought that the Uni­versity not only:-.wanted _to discour­age a student from learning more/ but also from graduating -in.· Jess than four years. , . 
The decision to raise the require­ment for Dean's List caused disap­pointment to many who had grade point averages between 3.25 and 3.4. The distinction of being on Dean's List is one that is valued. when the time comes to apply, for medical, law, .or graduate_ school, and it seemed that once again a less than reasonable edict had been handed down from above to bother the stu~ 
dents .. 
.
Father James Burtchaell provided a few answers when asked about the code, as he had served.as chairman of the executive committee of· the Academic Council when the code was approved. In reply to questions · about limited class loads, Burtchaell _explained that, in the past, students have been overloading when reg­istering, thus artificially increasing the teacher load and costing , the University money. In . addition,· in past years st~dents have increased 
. in the practice of .picking up more class cards than they need when registering, then choosing from that . collection those they like. This closes 

. courses to many people who have a sincere desire to enter a particular course, but do not have the desire to hinder others. While the reasoning up to here is easy to ·· understand,.'. and accept, · something enters which is debatable. According to Father. Burtchaell and Dr. Frederick Crosson, Dean .of the College of Arts and Letters, the aca­demic . experience here at Notre _pame is such that the greatest bene­· fit is derived from a four-year pro~ gram,_ and that taking· many hours to be able to graduatein three years spreads the resources ·of a· student too Jhin to be able to give sufficient attention to each course. I reminded Dr,.Crosson that some.people do not have enough money to go through here in four years, and he replied that alternative methods ·are being developed -to aid those who would like to shorten their college careers and cut costs. Among those were increased-use of credit by examina­tion and advanced placement tests, · as· well as _a plan . to allow students ·to attend a less expensiye college in their ·home states for a semester or a year in an exchange program. · In spite of the reasons given -for imposing a limit and a charge for _ extra courses, -the issue .is_ not com-, pl~tely decided. Father Burtchaell infotjned me that he intends to pro­pose to the Academic CounciL that it postpone the additional tuition charge until fall of next year to give . the idea more thought. It is_ there that the matter rests for-now. Concerning the . second point of contention, the raising of the Dean's List required grade point, Crosson said that in the late 60's, 30% _of the students in the College of Arts and Letters had the necessary grade point for Dean's List, but that last . semester_ the figure reached 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

60%. Both Burtchaell and Crosson expressed the conviction that the Dean's Listi was a distinction and tliat by definition it should include a minority of the students. This has changed somewhat· since through­out the University a trend has con­tinued over the · 1ast few years of grade inflation~ The University-wide average' ha.s been increasing by as inuch as a tenth of a grade point a year and is causing concern to those who fear that the qtiality of Notre Dame's edticational system will be questioned by postgraduate insti­tutions· as ,being too lenient. Using Dean Crosson's terminology, grades have become· a"national currency," and we cannotafford to let it gefde~ valued,. since those who · suffer the most· will be the 'students who wish to enter law, medical,· or graduate school. The .trend seems to spring from the increasingly easier grading by .professors, for while the College Board scores are very much. the same on -the average from year to year for entering freshmen, grade point averages continue climbing. ·· 
Overall, in reading the Academic Code, one can only judge that it is as: good as can be expected, keeping 
. in mind that it has been successful thus far in preserving academic 
. order: .It even gives students some­thing to look forward to: under. the right conditions,· a graduating senior can be exempt from his his finals. Small comfort, but one to be.enjoyed as long as it is there. 
· . .....,.Jorge Lopez 
,Portrait of Heaven No. l · Heaven is an all-night radio station broadcasting from some­place' near Salt Lake City where God. speaks to you in a mellow, heavy, Fl\l voice and tries to rap with you about a really fine con­cert he attended where this · 
.far-out guy from Nazareth gave off some pretty strange vi­brations• 
. 
OCTOBER 4, 1974 
F~· >..·..-~ · ·•· ··· ~ < . ~--.•... ·· ·w > · " · · < c-· · ·undergra ! >8.2· F;orpurposes.of class ra~k,the"student's cu~nu-· ·. · mari of]I taii_~e 'average. wiH be used·.· and . shall. include all . ·. Second-! l courses talen at the •University for which a. grade · · ·MBA co t \Vas·received:and credit given: ... . . ·.' restricted f · th~-~600,;
l Cl~s·Loads. ,,, ·. . ' > . . ' ·.. ' I t'g.1. Ex'~ept by recomme~dation of the dep.,irtrr1en t : ·. .· qianges l i .. chairman:and,with ·special permission of'the dean 'flj A J !,, of the·· college/the ·u11dergraduateistuden(1in'the' rses: tl'. Col~ege.s 'of E#girieering 'a'ncl. Business ;f\dminis,tra--'d~l: Ltip~ :may np_t registrr}or,p:ip:re than.rn hours.pf >,. l ! ,credit worl<. ~n a semester;. the undergraduate. stt1-. A s 
j. dent: in the ,Colleges, of Arts and Letters. and . fir~tsevej j•·· Science, as. weU as the: students in_ the Freshman 
iF'Yfaf:oc Studies, Progra111, _mayno~register ~or 
(•more than 17 hours of credit work m a semester. 1-)fh~se iliiixima exclude c~urses' in Air Force·'Aero.;·. mester:A
r 
. " . . . .,. . . 

f. 
sp~ce, Milita:ry, and Naval Studies. Additional appr~vctl)I· tuition· will be charged at the rate per credit hour from:c.cl~ 


. . . ' ~ 

1 f. . 1·
t , . or over oads. ·• willfaill
h .· ·... . . l 
up to o
' . j 

F. 9'.2, Ari\_ uncl(!rgrad~ate degree-seeking'· s~ude~t 
•carryi,rig_f . ··an 12:h1:>urs, ofcredit in ·.·a ·given semester , redpart•. time•..Students already : enrolled· iversity who wish to·. convert .to 
ent' status' must request such dean of (heirrespective college. t be· made during a regular 
dule· of the graduate s~u.; 
ours of coursew:orka ···• 
urs.may....be. at..··•.the 500-· --ij 
: credit · hour ·1oad for :
.·-: .. '·:,-:·: ,;_;_' .._,:>.~ .. :,.......···<•i 
Portrait of Heaven No. 2 . Heaven is a greasy diner serv­ing up hamburger deluxes to go with greasy, salted fries on.the side, and a thick malt -I mean a malt, no skimping on the malted. . The Coca-Cola. sign out front says it's open 24 hours a day, but closed on Christmas on ac.; count of it's the owner's birthday. 


(Continued, from page 9} 

was staring at me when I pulled out When you leave the Diamond (cen­my Instamatic to take a photo. I tre of town)._you 'pass through a asked ifhe minded me taking a pie-'maze.-of British Ar!DY checkpoints ture of the wall and he said,-"Not and into the Bogside, the most fa: at all..Just as long as you're not a mou~part of what came to be known Catholic_or something like that. _We as Free· Derry.. The -first : thing. you shoot them." notice : as you . pass. through . the 
I felt like somebody., who _, wan-courtyards~. of Rossville. Flats js a dered into a Ku Klux Klan meeting memorial to. the. 13 peopl~ qf the --~~--­
. . ' by mistake. . area who were murdered on Bloody .... '. . -.. . . From the Shankill I ,crossed over Sunday:_ (Th.at .is .the. desigriatiori . ;·:. .": ' . . .• ..: .. ipt(f ·the Falls.· whic~_-is an Irish-given to the day .when British para~ . Catholic_ stronghold. -A number of troopers opened fire on a. crowd of streets between the two serve as an civil . rights_ imarchers , killing 1~ eerie no-nian's-iand .. In. the midst of. and wounding 17.) .,None_ of :those all the' bricKed-up houses'. there is a in the march ,i11:ciuding the· _vie~ set of.· Ar:niy ·barracks and ·block-tims were armed.. Two. hundred houses in order to keep watch on the yards away is a w~ii with tlie' fa~ 
. Falls. I decided when I was_ \Vithin mous sobriquet, "You Are Now.En~ twenty feet of one of the .block~ tering Free Derry/' When tliei Royal houses that it ·would make a great uister' Constabulary .and the B~Spe­photograph for the newspaper back cials tried to shoot up the-Bogside in. in· Pennsylvania that!was working August, 1969,;Jhe residents of the for.• DetectingO:a . soldier inside I . Bogside, . the.' Creggan; Brandyweii;­calculated when he viould:be looking--and Shantallow·· set' tip.'iLsystem of · in the opposite direction. Quickly barricades -·a:rourid ·'the')1rea . which extricating my camera from beneath then became known 'as Free Derry. 'my sweater, Itoo~_the snapshot. The When yoii_taketlie''roacl'.fc(turn up.· 
·. · soldier heard _the caniert click and, into. the_ C_reggan you see· a'. picture though realizing that <it doesn't on _the, \vall _of, a':siiadowy _figure ' sound anything like a.rifle, he peered cllltch~ng .a subma¢hin~·;·guri. '"Join out , of the slit in .the concrete. .We the IRA'~ is the' message; Other ·slo­stared· at each ·other for about five ·gans follow.: This i'billb.oard''/~nds seconds.. He ;looked 'at. me<.and. witli'the sobering thought, "Inform­saw a frightened flgure'.holding a, e~s wmBe'Shot." '. --·· . .
y,••. 

'camera. And' then he opened fire Walking..past the 'tiny houses and . on· me. It was ~ quick burst of four . overcro~ded apartmeiits 'arid a· half-, or five bullets. I'm no.t certain do~eii A~my patrols T\vas 0~ th~ . _whether _the soldier wanted.to hit me~' iong, :winding' road thafenters' the 
and missed . ( after all L.do present cr'eggan '~ousing' Estate;.. Realizing . , a. small target) or if he just:wanted ' -that it.might' be wise if I knew my .. . . to scare the hell outof me:<But be-way: ar~und I asked '"a middle~aged 
· lieve me he scared the hell ou·ti of man for --directions. He turned out me.. I st_arted running down the ·to-be John McCrystal, chairman of street and every door seemed to the Creggan' Tenants Association. beckon. me to -come in. Diving into Asking Mccrystal.·if he _knew his the.last one I thanked the peoplefor way around,_the Creggan is like ·ask­opening .the door. Since they didn't ing Tom Clements ·and Greg Collins know me I .couldn't figure out why if-they-know how to-play football. they let me in. _He •showed·· me ·the:: community 
A man of about 45-explained, ·centre that he was so very proud of. "Well, we figured if the British . Mr. McCrystat' ,told me .that the Army 'was shooting at you, you :c~eggan ~ad 16;000.peopl~, the iarg-: couldn't be all bad." ·est youth population per household 
As if I hadn't tempted fate enough :in either-Ireland or Britain/ancfthe 

I decided ten days after I left Belfast lowest crime~ rate· (not. considering to reenter tlie Six-Counties. I. was 'political "offenses)'.: That i's' 'an '-the planning to stay in Derry two ·days. 'more remarkable when· you ·consider 
tr ·:· ·.···········G.'-···,J._:H-·.
. . . In no · place has 'there: been such a that -a· policeman -hasn't s·ef ·foot in. 
rejection of the British authorities the Creggan'since'Augtist 1969. ' 
. . 
. .. ' .. -..~. by the Irish popuiation as a whole. · . He took me down into the Bogside.
. ·,. . -. ·-·..~ .~ ; ·, . -· . . ... 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

in his car, and pointed out where raise a warnin' when the Army they you could. And you did! Together we each of the marchers died on Bloody come in." shall see the day when Long Kesh Sunday..He knew all 13 victims. Around 4:15 A.M., a block away Concentration Camp is burned to the· Vividly he recalls seeing a person from me, a gun battle started _up ground~and the cages are r~duced to bleeding to death near Rossville between the Provies (slang for the ashes." Flats. A friend, Bernard McGuigan, Provos) and the Brith,;h Army. At The most poignant story I heard raced into the street to retrieve the first one heard the sharp crackle of in the North was told to me by a wounded person. "Don't shoot. For about 8 Thompson submachine guns 19-year-old girl from the Bogside God's sake, don't shoot," he (the Provos'). The very noisy reply named Maura. "It's been a year to­screamed. A fusillade . of bullets was . several dozen British SLR's. day since Liam and I were engaged. ripped him to.shreds. · People looked at each other, crossed We-would probably be married right 
While rounding a corner in the themselves, and prayed for "the now except for the fact that Liam Creggan a young man with medium-lads." .:. The ·gun battle went on is in Long Kesh Concentration length black hair tipped his cap. Mr: through the night providing a noisy Camp. ,When the troops came in the McCrystal gave him.the thumbs-up lullaby.· · morning of internment people knew sign. In a matter-of-fact · tone he Later there was a· large· anti-in-they had to do something to give our stated, "Remember the lad who ternment march. Starting in the men a chance to escape before they nodded to me? He's the Provo (Pro-Creggan it wound its way through were 'lifted.' We needed barricades. visional IRA) Chief-of-Staff in the Brandywell and ended up in Liam hijacked a double-decker bus Derry. Kind of like a public figure "Free Derry Corner" at the base of and put it in the street. The Brits up here." the Bogside._ The mo.st memorable swore they'd get him. He was al-
He promised me that there would of the speakers was Mrs. Maire ways a step ahead, so last year in be plenty of excitement that night Drumm: Vice-President of the Sinn August he proposed. Four ·days since it would mark the 3rd Anni-Feiri. Party. She had all the in-later he was arrested. He'll be there versary of Internment (when British flammabiUty of a petrol bomb. for eight more years because of that tro~ps 'fir.st arrested people on the One was certain that ·one day she bus." . basis of suspicion).. At midnight_ would .. acttially ignite and her Tears started 'to pour out of those there was·an open~air concert spon~ bright, '_terrible. flames would con-lovely ·brown. eyes and you knew sored by the Prisoners Dependents . slime' every British outpost in the she would wait. Fund (there are 1400 people interred ... North like a purging sword. The next day I 'left the North. for or in jail on political charges) ' "Thre_e years ago I asked you to . the final time this summer; I ca.me featuring .rebel. songs. At 4 A.M. get off your knees and get out into · away with a deep admiration and people pou·red into the. streets for the streets.. And you· did! I asked love for those people. Life is very "bin-lidding.'' The ·words of a 'p6pu-you to go on rents-and-rates strike; difficult for them and yet they carry lar song came to mind. "and it was And you did! I asked .you to resist on in the midst of turmoil. They screa1:1, bang, shout. You've got to. ,the ~nny' and the RUC every way are good people. 
'. .-Andy Winiarczyk 

Portrait of Heaven No. 3 
Heaven is reachable oniy by 
car. To get there you follow 
Route 80 West: It is surrounded 
by Howard Johnsons and 
Stuckeys. Hojo colas for. every­
one and a free box of candy with 
your fili~ups; · · 
. The rates in Heaven are pretty 
good arid Holiday Inn ,vill call 
ahead for you to.reserve a room. 
The food is'allrigl1t a.nd there is 
miniature golf for the kids. All .major credit cards are acceptable. 
. -:­


.. 
,,.,..,..,.,;i'"":"""',,.""'<i."'":'"",-;"",1"".'"".::"".,1 

. . . Varsity Hockey Coach . Charles "Lefty" · Smith with the Irish' in second. Michigan State is cited as opened the first day of preseason training on Septe~:::. Notre Dame's primary rival in the Midwest this year. ber 8, with 61 skaters vying for positions on the:teani.. The nationally . ranked· Spartans and the Irish will Theicers.iricluded returning monogram winners, junior. clash. over the weekend of October 5, with ND hoping varsity hopefuls, freshmen recruits and walk-ans... . _. to regain the number one spot. Other prominent meets 
..The NCM Champions from Minnesota will 'be the' . · include· the_ ·Timmie Arigsteri· Regatta ·.in Chicago. at first. test. for the team, in an exhibition game at the. Thanksgiving,. along w~th'_ the Dougl~s: C1:Jp scheduled ACC on Friday; October 1s; with the face~off scheduled .in . California • during: late October. The·. team hopes to for 7:30 p.m. The regular season opens a week later at _be sailing until June, "not in_ a. regular' regatta," says Wisconsin; and Smith's contingent is hoping to ·improve·. Marek, "but in the national finals." OIJ.)ast year_'s 14-2_0-2 overall season, postirig_an 11-16-::"L .. ·: · · · .. · . '. .. . ·: . . , . . mark in th~ tough WCHA. . . , The addition of such teams· as· East Stroudsburg, 
·.. Eleven lettermen return from the '73-'74 squad,. in:, Montclair . State, · Wisconsin-Parkside, . and Indiana eluding Pat Conroy, Les Larson'. Jim Augustine,. Pat .:~ ' .State to 'the Notre Dame footbali. schedule would signify Novitski, Paul Clarke, and Brian Walsh, last year's·:_· a drastic :de-emphasis. But' in. wrestling it means just WCHA_ Rookie-of-the-Year. The situation at goal is . the reverse, a significant upgrading iri the ·caliber ·of wide open, with Thom McCurdy and Dave Caron re-competition. That second-year coach°Fred Pechek has turning _with junior varsity experience. Rookies· Len.• .·:_added"these nationally regarded teams is indicative Moher and John Peterson (probably the most highly :: th~t Notre Dame intends to assert herself on the mat. recruited goaltender on the North .American Continent <Leading. the irish · on the grueling schedule are re­last year) will also give-Smith an· added assurance he , turnees ·Dave Boyer, Fritz Breuning; John Dowd and will need in the months to come. . (after football) heavyweight Mike Fa~nirig. Pat McKil-
The . home portion of the schedule commences on , leri and Pat Landfrid are among the talented new­Friday; November 1, against Colorado College. Season·. · comers Pechek has to work with;· so the future .of the. ticket applications may .be picked up atGate 10 of the Irish :Matmen is definitely on the rise to bigger. and 
. ACC between .9 and 5 on weekdays; Tickets for the . better things. . ... •.' : . · . . . . . exhibition against Minnesota are. not included in the . 0 • season. package, but may be purchased at the same . . . Quote-of-the-Week: -ag~ii{ . goes :to fullback" Toin 
outlets.· . . ·, Parise onhis comment after' the N6rthwesterii''game. ·Parise, a man never at loss for words, described-his as~ . A.hoy ~ates! The Notre· Dame SaHing Club is sign~entori the last·Notre:·Dame offensiye"play versus 
·. steering toward another winning year, -according'. to-..the Wildcats: "You ali remember'that I fell while exe­·racing team captain Bruce Marek. Ranked secon~ : cuUng that complicated play. Well, it was'.11i(part of my· . among the forty-three _teams in' the Midwest, the.Irish · , plan ·10. have the entire·Northwestern ,defense._key. on sailors return this year with four' seasoned skippers. . . m·e. While· I did my impersonation of awhale doiiig Marek heads the list, followed by senior Jon Makieiski the backstroke, Terry.Eurick sriuck right behind their and ·sophomores Buzz Reynolds and Dave Constants. defensive line for the ·score. You· know, it's ·au for the. Competition got under way on September 21 as ND ;: team, and all that junk." Thank you· very much, Toin. · 
. hosted a twelve-school regatta at_ Diamond Lake in· 'Again:·. :. · · which Florida .State carried away first place ·honors/ 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


"You know, God works in strange ways," commented a dejected Marv Russell after his Fighting Irish had been stunned by upstart Purdue, 31-20. "We started out at a dis­advantage, but we never gave up. It was . a series of _strange -turnovers arid plays that killed us." _ 
The entire Purdue weekend was a strange two days to say the leas~. It was -raining throughout Friday's final warm-up for the encounter with the Boilermakers, and those of us that .were there felt bad omens in the offing. The sky was grey and foreboding,, and the wind whipping around, · reminded me of the future days autumn brings: It really didn't feel like a good -day to do anything -except to .go back to -the dorm and sleep:_ Friday afternoon definitely was a bad omen for the game, then some 22 hours away. 
Friday night _offered the campus their first home pep .rally-a _gala affair _in Stepan with a 15-minute fireworks display immediately after­wards.. _Co-captains . Clements and Collins said a few words;the starting offensive and defensive -lineups were introduced, and Ara spoke. For the first time in my three years at Notre Dame, Ara actually sounded as if he was really psyched. Clements and Collins talked for -over five minutes, something that -· the huge _ crowd couldn't believe. Even the PA system worked for the entire rally, a .new first. Yes,_ there were some w_eird happenings some 15, hours away 
-from game time, · 
Saturday was_ the first home foot­

ball game for Notre Dame, and all 
the ingredients making up an Irish 
football weekend were there: all the 
old alumni, ·hot dog stands, a few 
bands in front of the· dorms, and 
some pretty girls, giving the fresh­
men their first glimpse of the true 
Omens of Disaster 
Not~e Dame weekend. Perhaps if-the alcohol rule had been enforced, and ·the girls were missing, things may have been different. But the campus really was hopping. Again, this was an omen of disastrous things ·to 
come.-, 
Fifty-nine thousand and seventy­five screaming_partisans--filled forty­four-year-old Notre -Dame Stadium Saturday, pitting the Boilermakers, an inexperienced, y o u n g : team, against last year's National .Cham­pions, the Fighting Irish. Purdue's Coach, Alex Agase, had never beaten his former teacher, Irish mentor Ara Parseghian. Purdue had·stopped the Irish string of 39 games without a defeat in 1950, in_ 1954 had stopped Notre Dame after a 13-game streak, and in 1967 gave the Irish their first loss after eleven games. ­
Purdue was again .the spoiler for 

the Irish on Saturday. In the space 
of eight minutes,-Purdue put 21 
points on the scoreboard, on a 
fumble recovery,-an interception, and 
a sweep. By the end of the first quar­
ter, Purdue led 24-0, that total repre­
senting the most points ever scored 
against theIrish in a first quarter. It 
was an omen of things to come. 
Try as we might, we could never 

get untracked after those first eight 
minutes. Notre Dame had to abandon . 
their game plan and play catch-up 
football, something the Irish are:not 
used to. Clements tried to rally the 
Irish, -but nothing could help. The 
Irish "D" played one of their finest 
games that many could rer;nember, 
but the brilliant play of Greg ColHns 
(who was in 28 tackles) and Marv 
Russell couldn't do everything. 
Omens can be good or bad ­

Purdue weekend resulted in the lat­
ter. Michigan State, up in East Lan­
sing, can be the good omen we des­
perately need. -Bill Delaney 
27 


f 

From the Sidelines 
It has been observed often that experience is a great teacher. · Un­fortunately, · sometimes the "great teacher"· furnishes a scar to impress the'.mind for long periods of time. Because it would be a very dull exis­tence if we -all learned and reacted the same way, the ingenuity of peo­ple divert their attentions, their tal­ents, likes . and dislikes in multi­faceted directions: 
A football-player; any athlete; or any person learns from all the ·sum total of his or. her experiences. I . would not belabor the point that the doer: or: participant learns, in microcosm form and in time, what the real game of life has to offer. on a more grand scale. I might suggest . also, that vica·rious ·learning.. is a major contributing factor since we cannot possibly experience every~ thing by ourselves. 
With this . in mind; I have been asked to write . my observations about the young men that take to the football· field for -the University of 
_Notre Dame. Are they students first? 
Do -they''blend; add, contribute to 
the ,University community and to 
themselves?· I have always assumed 
positively that they did, and -far be­
yond the · hackneyed colloquial 
phrase · of · "building character," _ 
though I am certain that happens twenty coaching seasons and eleven as a player, a hard introspective look at what has transpired within "gridiron mania" ·has· impressed me deeply. 
There are sad;-tearful, almost tragic circumstances when one wit­nesses the misfortune cif ·an injured player. There are · cries skyward, "Where is justice now?" 
A good illustration of the latter is to behold asparkling athlete such as Notre Dame's Tim . Simon. coming off a · freak summer accident · in which he lost the: use • of ohe eye. Knowing the anguish and the adver­sity he suffered through, and watch­ing him_ return -to :ran practice was a reward in itself. At the end of one week · of . practice, Tim' had suffi­ciently gained on the "syndrome of setbacks." To---say it plainly, he "wowed" ·us·. ·_ Returning punts· in' practice scriniinages, exploding with zigzag thrusts ·and electrifying ·the defense whenever called upon, · Tim was on his way back. It was one of those punt returns/in one· of those scrimmages where he tore the liga­ments of his right k~ee. 
-Another· moment at a later time: Greg Collins and Drew Mahalic, two parts' of a three-man 'linebacker team, wept openly in the Georgia Tech locker room .· for the·-loss of ­came to the• University for a total education. Football was the inedium of their particular skill. It is only a means, .but while they ·are caught up in it at this phase of their~lives, an· important ·one. · ' -What of educaiion? Education? What kind? About life or people or wizardry with nu.mbers orelectron­ics or chemicals? Education at best is a nebulous word. Can one person ever be totally educated? Can any­
. one· in the sixty or. seventy imniea­surable years allotted for normal lifetime internalize all knowledge? 
More realistically,~_ we follow a lead, a bent,_ a talent; and in the small sphere or spheres of this. in-_ 
· tensified scope, · become aware of values that: _are unJversally sought and found· and paid, for! All of us enter phases in our lifetimes. We start out with uI," grow somewhat to "we," and if we are very big, 
...,understand the '_'aU" concept .. 
When I was 20 .· and in a stage of Hfe where my intell~ct got its sui:-­face scratched; I knew everything there was to.know. The second stage came .-in my · 30's. ·. I got ·shook...:..: doubted-grew ·puzzled and unsure. The 40 stage,. though not much for my vanity, is· a lot easier to ·come to grips} with, "I know that I don't 
-know-anything with· certainty!" 

also. · their 3rd part, Sherman Smith; The test fobe,-the textbook, the Through the· course · of nearly M_ake no mistake,.all of these men laboratory, all discovery points of 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

magnitude, -could ~ever totally allow one the knowledge of camaraderie; loyalty, team unity, aching pride. 
Normal logic 'fails when one understands ."I must lose myself, so that I can find .myself." To become a part of.·a team that represents a , university;" .to receive the accolades, the criticisms,·tiie pressures, and the 
.praisE!-,-:--8.re points of a ·great learn­ing experience. To· become. a part of something bigger than any of the parts .is what being a team member is all about. There are rules; break them and you cannot be 0 a part of. .i(all: It:is nor easy; one cannot buy, cajole; charm one's way! The-way 
· . is paid for dearly. The price is effort, tenacity,: hard knocks, ·durability_., loyaity. A kind· of.· "Hang "in there; Baby, because this .is what we're ·made -from" philosophy pervades. · · . Athletics IMPOSE ADVERSITY~ Everyday one·. practices against this diabolical friendly· enemy. Pity those that practice•little·o.r never for they 
-. ' . -. ""'"' -. . . --· . , , .
i.i..

:_;~~>1_f_•. ~~.'.i_:_:.:'._:.;.t.·.;~.-~,trr.~.:.~L.·_~-~-.i.X.i.L.,.;.;:.;i.·•· · 
will fall prey to all the ·modern escapes. 
Adversity does form ~•tough" peo­ple. Not "a tough," but mentally tough people who can·· grasp tough going resiliently and bounce·. back 
"One thing endures .. character." 

with high performance; "Tough peo­ple" never quite say ."uncle." ,The extra research hours, thelast-minute grind, :the selflessness·· of parents; reflect ·tough· people with.· a charac­ter that only· God's design could elicit from such avaliey of .tears as life's· clouded paths; 
When I view life this way, I am 

.proud of the contribution athletics makes to those that support it. I am more-proud ·of the athletes and the University for holding the class­room to allow it. 
Perhaps Horace Greeley under­stood life best, when on his deathbed he uttered. these classic lines: 
"Fame is avapor. Popularity an accident Riches take wings 
: Those ~hat cheer you today: Will curse you '.tomorrow . . One thing endures.-~ .·character." 
-The University of Notre ·Dame transcends seasons_ and injuries; •·It encompasses au·· of us·· fortunate enough to be· a part of it The open secret of Notre Dame is .that it is a place of character and a ·great experience in, life-one of· the·better ones! .. 




"1'1··· 
}~~a~: 
.. ~-.,.. 
---~ 
-.,:·~-~: ~-=" :. ~ . 

i>i."= )>·:."':?,·~:·:~~ft' 
7


·· ~ --..·;''••&;§fit~~i1~113,., ·-~122.:~-,­
.,...=--...·......·.::;···""·......--;"'"'/,.,. :~1 

29. 


As hackneyed as the subject may be, coeducation must still remain a topic of concern ·and, more than ever, action. The future of coeduca­tion is as precarious now as it was during the merger talks with St. Mary's. The effects of decisions made today are as important as those which converted the first men's dormitories· for women's· use, forcing men off campus. · 
As it is, Notre Dame is not co­educational. We have on this campus a small group of students who are conspicuous not because ·of their value as people of ·academic .and personal quality, but-only b_ecause · they are· women. Though the im~ provement over past years cannot be denied, it's almost like having ' two schools on the same campus. 
Personal interaction between the · 
· sexes is still defined solely in terms of parties and dates. At those par­ties, the men grow angry with the women either for being !oo few or · too aloof. The girls, on the other hand, justly complain of going to.· parties where they are seen as com­modities and denied respect. . 
Outside of parties and brief ex­
. posure to . one another in the class­room (still plagued by the "give­us-tlie-wo.man's-point-of-view" syn­drome), there just aren't enough opportunities for people to get to know each other on a personal level. 
Though the problem may be a sociopsychological one, rooted in the bizarre experience of Catholic, monosexual high school education, 130 years of tradition and a myriad of other causes; and while the prob­lem will never be solved until stu­dents open their own minds to more normal attitudes, some of the solu­
by Jim Gresser 
tions must be more concrete. Places 
and situations must be developed 
conducive to personal interaction 
not restricted by sex. To borrow , 
from Dean Macheca, Notre Dame is 
faced ~ith a challenge to be creative 
in its-social life. Clubs and volunteer 
services offer this . type of inter­
action to a certain extent, but this 
student body needs much more. 

The problem also translates into a 
question of. numbers. No normal community can grow where the pop­ulation is so off balance; and it is .. foolish to talk about any ratio as 
desirable unless it is an even one. 

Cloak-and-dagger-type negotia­
tions, a la Henry Kissinger, may or 
may not be the way to run a coun-­
try. But it's certainly not the way 
to run this University, especially. 
with regard to.coeducation. 

We must decide now what our 
commitment, as an entire communi­
ty, to coeducation is~ Is it a glorified 
tokenism or is it P. ·commitment to 
a .balanced, normal human com­
munity?. ' 
Unfortunately, nobody seems to know. 
.It has been reported recently that the University administration plans · to.increase the female enrollment to 
1500 by the fall of 1976. Great. But 
then what? The plan is to "reevalu­
ate" coeducation at that time. 

.. That kind of planning reeks of 
secrecy and bureaucratic foot-drag­
ging and is simply .unacceptable. 

Granted that coeducation cannot 
be accomplished in a hasty, slip­
shod way, on the other hand, it 
should not be forced to remain in 
painful growing stages for an undue 
length of time. And, again unfortu­nately, that seems to be. what we can expect. 

So many . questions should be brought out into open discussion now. For example, how are we going to house • even those additional women to be enrolled by -1976? Should new dormitories be built, 
.·or is conversion of. male dorms the answer? Are the men dedicated enough to coeducation to give up another . dorm? Which one? Are women going to be .forced off cam­pus? Are we going to seriously and maturely con.sider the possibility of coeducational housing? 
Beyond these considerations, are we going to consciously maintain some abnormal, arbitrary male­
·· female ratio ·permanently? Or are we going to admit .. people to this University because .they are quali­fied indiyiduals, regardless of sex. 
All these questions. should be dis­cussed by students, faculty and ad­ministration ;-and the· time to begin is right now. It would be a great mistake if some decision were offi­
cially dumped on this community before a break or at the end of a semester when nothing could. be 
done.. · Specifically, what is needed. is .. a commitment from organizations like the Student Life Council and stu­dent government to examine the 
. situation and inform the students as to what is being· planned, what is being done, and what can be done. 
Our commitment to coeducat.ion should be .a complete one.· After open, frank discussion among all segments of the University, we·. should move· toward the fulfillment of that commitment without useless, harmful delay. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


\ 
' 
ff You've Read ThisAdvertisement, PleaseReadThisiA ....:.=: ent 
After suffering for years 0 
·Naf tr~e. We were 11t110118 the ~r,rsf-6«ek tM l'fb7-fo s~n ~ C0'11frod' wi'!lt +he Un/fed hrm W(JTkers Um'm. And 6wfhe,; (J1U 200 
Hear-raum,>f workers were ILmcms the laAi" 06 45,ooo UFWA workers fo ~ed . 
fl,,of ·/Ml/on. · 
nder unspeakable living nd working conditions, 
erica's farmworkers 
me together in the 19 
Also not f(l,(e. 7he majori~ form a union. a uni 
would fight for th "6 CUl' WO'f'kers seleclecl and articulate 
needs..

fhe. TeaM1sh.rs fo repremJ·. 
union was the 
Farm Workers 
theh'I i.-t1 e.xo.Jltl lhe sa.111e 
a (UFWAl. and , w~ #ie majori1M s~e.c-fed leadership · 
ns improved .
the. UFWA 14'1 l9'61-·6tl 
ally. A little too -~ • ~ pr~eHdin~ .IA.4 wl-Mi ally to suit some ''\ · ­ewers. and when -.ueA-fe.d sf3na,(1U'e ca.,rclv. t racts expired last /r•. • 
N0Htin3? NoH,in3 e-xcept a. contra.et Hta-t metde ow.-r-. wo-rkus Hie h~huf.palcl in 
·Hie Con+inet1trd Un/led 
Sfufe4., Nothi73? ExcepJ o... .. pl11n -Hi~ ao.v~ flttm paJJ 
fi6e cinst.tra,,,ce, ·pa.1'cl ~eolfl, i-vts l,(J'evtt, e, po.id. pe,,,s,mi plaM, po)d vo..c.aiicmtv, .._....._ pa.icl. holt'claas, palcl ""4,~ >,,"'""""!!'!""""-iid. Q.f,i,(.~ iMsiu-amce be,,,fb-, M'lol pa-lJ /,I.NI e,wipl"lJm e,n,:t 
b&.1e(,it.4.,, 
W~ A.fJret..De,_motmetJ u,whrd We hcwe cJw°tfS' 6MJ(lf'ed 6ret, · 
ii~ cJ,( tt-6out. '71te workers chos-e sun/, lEficuftJ-supuuiAed a,nc/ fftw-own Unicrn tulrl we ruptd tcrtcdltJ wipcvfw eJee:fion4,.. thw-d,o<,ee,. 
You should also kriow that Gallo Farm Workers 
· earn from $2.89 to $3.75 ptr hour. The average 
worker earns $3.30. The average Gallo Farm 
Worker. earns $7,785.00 a year. Gallo seasonal 
workers average· $278.00 per week. All this, plus 
. the above-mentioned fringe benefits. 
We are distressed that there has been so much 
Tne.f'e are 2,300, ooo 6arm 

·w'atker.r ui Hie Unifed Sfalu­}t/1/J,. Huu, 101000 o6 lh8"n 6G{o113fc Hie UFWA .. 
We haue alw"tJS' SUfporfed briniM8 o.ll ~riwHU('ai Work~s wncler -11,e Nalitmo.l LaJ,ar ReJaJi0114 lld; w~iJ, 
su.a.ramtee4-seu~ WM 
e/ecl;'011s(fr~kers. 11-ie 
.UF'WA oprosu, bri~,5v.18 ~mi 
workers UMde.r #iw fld' ..
. Andre. Eden 
Rossi. Red Moun· nd Paisano are all by Gallo.and should 
ided. America's workers have broken backs for hundreds Bogcoff~~ g~(o w:11es CMJ 
s to put food on . Now they're on~ hwt ot.1r. workers. We. 
o do some• 
. ? · a.-re doi~ M-rnudi M we CCXM n, pi.tsh (r fet3~fa.fi011 to prouic/e 6ree, seuei, le3~ll3-s-upervi.6ecl o.¥Jd · total//j impa.d,a.,{, eJediot1S. 
Cai,'torniaA. p~t;c..ide cC1>1frofs . OM. -Hie stric1e.it !NI -Hie tlal,:m. Our pQ(;tiJdi c0'11frol4. CU'€. 6o..r sfri<tu--tha.-n +hose qS Ca.l~o-rrti~. A~ +11f.tj 1Ue e..viflorced • · .. 

Nv+ l,w.e. WlrAi /iitfe violence No UFWA 5r}mpatliiz..e.r 
O~WMC~~ WM 61K'ec:{, 
UFWA sw,,po.thizus. 
· misinformation about our farm workers and our · position. We hope this sets the record straight. If you would like to know more about the boycott of Gallo Wine, write to: Ernest & Julio Gallo,. c/o FACTS, P. 0. Box 1130, Modesto,· Ca. 95353. 
~~ ~~­
/ 
, ... : : . 
,,__ 
. 

Want yOllr familY to know wh(lt'sreally :_ happening at ND? 
send ·them·· 
SCHOLASTIC 
· · an~. get news analysis, in-. depth sports,· the Juggler and. .-­the Foo.tball Review. For . _only $s~oo 
. . NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC NOTRE DAME; IND~NA 46556 

. . , .
~ 

Plea~e send. me a. subscription to SCHOLASTIC i~~ . .. : ... years at $5.00 a year. . 
·.-J -:~ ~· \: ... · I "am ~11closing $ ... :;_._.,...;~,~;......... · . ················::.''.~~~~\ ..........::....:.CHECK _;: 
, _. 

. -. . 
Name-......................:·~ .... ·.. · .... -................................ -.... : .. ·. .-·.. 
·~ ·; 


Address ............ · ................ ' .... · .............. _....... · ..... '.:···········-'· ........ ·· .........................· ...... ·----._· ---·------·---" ·. ' .......::..:·..:. _______ --···· ·. 
, . . .. 
-~ 
City'' .. ·.......... : ...... ."' ........ -· .......... ·'·.· ..... ········:·········· ... .-· .. -'. . . State .................. ·.... J .'...-..._..........Zip ..... ,· 







