Nolte jbame
SCHOLASTIC
No. 8
September 8, 1944
Vol. 82
Civilian Field Day Sunday
Rockne’s Life On Air Tonight
o
Professors, trainees and "civies" rest after a hearty picnic lunch at the Lake Christiana grounds.
^he SYotre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ, Editor-in-Chief
JOE THORNTON	AL BROTEN
Associate Editor, Marines Associate Editor, Navy
EDITORIAL STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN -	-	- Managing Editor
BILL WADDINGTON -	-	- Sports Editor
DICK MURPHY -	-	-	- Circulation
BOB O'TOOLE	-	-	-	Promotion
COLUMN ISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -	-	-	Observations
LIEUT. J. J. COLLINS -	- Know Your Navy
JIM CASEY -	-	-	The Green Banner
JIM HECK ----- Introducing EMMETT HASSETT -	- The College Parade
BLAIR NATTKEMPER -	- Man About the Campus
PETE BROWN -	-	- Pressbox Splinters
HARRY LEBIEN -	-	- The Periscope
ARNIE SKLARE -	-	- The Gabby Gizmo
CONTRIBUTORS
DON MURPHY	GEORGE KRAUSER	BILL LESSARD
jack McCarthy	JOHN FEENEY	C. STONEBARGER
JOHN BUTLER	GENE DIAMOND	J. KLOCKENKEMPER
TOM DINGES	BILL BYINGTON	ART WAGNER
JIM CAREY	D. NUECHTERLEIN	L. HERGSTEIN
DICK GORMAN	JOE HAMMOND	JIM FOY
JACK CAHILL	S. B. STOCKWELL	BILL OVER
DICK MELLETT	J. S. HAMEL	JIM SOMMER
JOHN MORRIS	A. E. FUSS	AL KOHN
TOM McNALLY	R. L. VOSBERG	GUY WILSON
JACK MILES	TOM SHANAHAN	GEORGE NUTIL
JAMES KEENAN	RONALD BYERSMITHROBERT MOLNAR	
GEORGE DESPOT	HARRY SEMONSMA GREG HALPIN	
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
EDITORIAL
Overseas Christmas Gifts
Our brothers are across the seas fighting a bitter war alongside our best friends, our room-mates of past semesters, our buddies of just a short time ago. Theirs has been a bitter time because of the hurting vagueness of too long in the lines, the everlasting alertness, the noise and fear, the cell-by-cell exhaustion, and the thinning of the ranks as day follows day. With every passing week there has been the constant march into eternity of each small quota of chances for survival. These are the things that have hurt and destroyed; these are the things that crippled. But our dear friends and our brothers have gone back to these things because they are good soldiers and have a duty they cannot define. Their only reward is to know that they are missed, and that they are remembered. We at home must not fail them in this.
It is not easy to concentrate on Christmas gifts in the midst of warm weather .here at home but we must recognize the need; we must want our close friends who are away from home to know that they are not forgotten. Any small useful gift of remembrance will serve the purpose.
Mailing Starts September 15
This year the Christmas mailing period for both Army and Navy personnel overseas is September 15 to October 15. After October 15 no gift parcel may be mailed to a soldiei’ without the presentation of a written request from him.
The great demands upon shipping and the need for giving preference to arms, munitions, medicine and food is the prime reason for this early mailing date. Moreover, gift parcels must travel great distances to reach oversea-forces, and frequently the transfer of large numbers to new stations necessitates forwarding of the packages.	i
It is not a pleasant thing to visit a postal concentration ; center and see the numbers of Christmas parcels which will never reach servicemen because of faulty wrapping. Post • office personnel have orders to do everything they can to effect delivery of such gifts. But too frequently, nothing j can be done.	i
Rules Are Simple	j
It is unfortunate that anyone has ever mentioned that j the’size of a shoe	box is the approximate limit	for	packages	■
intended for gift	mailings overseas. Unhappily	many people	i
become convinced that a shoe box is the best possible con- I tainer. These gifts must travel far, with shipping space ? crowded. If the gifts are to be protected in transit they must s be packed securely enough to take plenty of rough handling * —a shoe box is certainly not strong enough.	j
It is to be remembered that: (1) parcels must not exceed i five pounds in weight, and must not be more than 15 inches	:
in length or 36 inches in length and girth combined; (2)	i
parcel must be marked “Christmas parcel”; (3) not more than one parcel may be mailed in any one week to the same I member of the armed forces by the same mailer; (4) perish- | able goods, intoxicants, inflammable materials such as I matches or lighter fluids, poisons, and anything that may 1 damage other mail are prohibited.	S
Make it a really merry Christmas for your friend or youi’ § brother or that ex-roomie of yours overseas by sending him fl some small token of remembrance. Do it right away.
—Al Lesmez	3
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 82
SEPTEMBER 8, 1944
NO. 8
Student Council Field Day This Sunday
Phomp Race Revealed as Main Event; Large Student Crowd Expected to Witness Program
BY ROBERT RIORDAN "Scholastic" Managing Editor
All indications point to a big day on the Notre Dame campus Sunday when the civilian students vie for honors in Cartier Field and St. Joseph’s Lake in the Student Council-sponsored All Civilian Inter-Hall Field Day. The committee in charge has announced that the main event of the =^^=^^^=^=^===========— day’s activities will be a Phomp race, which has-been long shrouded in secre-
cy.
Following an afternoon of track, field, and swimming events, each civilian hall will present stunts in Washington Hall, starting at 7:00. Individual awards will be made to winners and a plaque is to be awarded to the hall team garnering the most points throughout the day.
Opening the activities of the day -will be four softball games in Cartier Field to be followed by other such outstanding events as a 60 yard dash, a bicycle race, broad jumps, high jump, and a tug-o’-war.
The Phomp race, which will conclude the Field events, is expected to draw many within the green fence of Cartier Sunday afternoon. Although few of the details have been disclosed, the committee has assured students in attendance the thrill of a lifetime. According to latest word from Sorin “smart boys,” the favorite Phomp will be the “Sorin Solon” and all Sorin will be on hand to back their prodigy.
An interesting note on the tug-o’-wai’ is the fact that one of Breen-Phillips’ young stalwarts bragged to some Sorin-ites, “Our team could pull any Sorin team anywhere, any time, even if they were all trying to sleep on Sorin’s porch.” To this a Sorinite yawned and replied, “Yeah, you and what tank division?”
St. Joseph’s lake will play host to six w’ater battles following the program in Cartier Field with such events as swimming while carrying a dry towel which
must stay dry, kicking a soccer ball while swimming, and a ten-man relay, topping the bill.
A full evening of entertainment is in store for all who are at Washington Hall at 7:00 wThen each hall presents stunts for the amusement and amazement of all. The civilian dance band will be on hand to provide music for all, and from all appearances, the band will definitely be in the groove Sunday night. Long hours of practice have produced a really top-sounding band, and this debut may -well be the starting point for a campus career of the band.
“Gentleman Jim” Casey has been appointed master of ceremonies for Sunday evening, and those who know Jim will affirm the claim that everyone is in for a side-splitting evening.
Team captains Bob O’Toole, Sorin; Joe DeLia, St. Ed’s; Joe Cannavo, Breen-Phillips; and Bob Warrick, Carroll; expect to have full entries in every event. According to one of the St. Ed’s hopefuls, “After Sunday afternoon St. Ed’s will again be known as the Athletic Club. You can reasonably expect St. Ed’s men to win more than half the scheduled events with comparative ease.”
Details for the program have been worked out with the cooperation of Mr. John Scannell, director of the Physical Education department, and supervision of the events will be in the hands of Mr. Scannell and members of the Phy Ed department staff.
(Continued on page 15)
Life of Rockne on
WGN Program Tonight
The inspiring life story of Knute Rockne, called “the greatest football coach of all time” by experts, will be dramatized on “Freedom of Opportunity” Friday, Sept. 8, on WGN (720 on your dial) and the Mutual network from 7:30 to 8 p.m., (CWT).
Bust of the late Knute Rockne
As a student at Notre Dame, Rockne distinguished himself in chemistry and as a football star. Following graduation, he stayed on at the University as a chemistry instructor and assistant football coach.
Rockne became head coach at Notre Dame in 1918 and held this post until his untimely death in an airplane crash in 1931. His was the distinction of attaining the highest place in the sport and holding it over a period of years. He won fame for his insistence on good sportsmanship and his ingenuity in football strategy. During the 13 years he served as Notre Dame’s football mentor, Rockne teams piled up a total of 105 wins, 12 losses and five ties.—Harry Seimonsma
3
Washington Hall Drama Disproves Old Theory
Last Saturday evening it was finally proved conclusively! College men are not college men.
Whenever the cartoon is flashed on the screen at the Washington hall weekly performance there is always a loud, youthful acknowledgement in thanks for the entertainment in store. Loud enthusiastic applause greets the Walt Disney tickler each week (when there is one) and the hall rocks with uncontrolled delight.
That this spirited approval of the cartoon is a product of college men has always been denied. Instead, the local element of neighboring youngsters from Dogpatch who usually infiltrate the ranks have always been blamed for the healthy outbursts.
But last week this theoretically pleasant possibility was proved false. No other than Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, stood guard at the side door, while one of the Brothers policed the front door, making quite sure that none of the neighboring kids attended the showing. The watch was so keen that some of our younger looking freshmen with peach-fuzz on their young faces had a serious time trying to prove that they are actually students here.
Since there is no question that the few seats occupied sparkled with college material, and that the heretofore suspected noise-makers were outside pouting at the fact that the University did not grant them entrance to the weekly show, it remained only to see the outcome when the cartoon was flashed on. A standing question of three, semesters hung on the balance of that outcome. Then it happened.
The air rocked with clapping, stamping, whistling, “whoops” and “whees,” while old Washington hall laughed at its exposed secret.—A. L.
4
Silver Star Awarded;
Father Barry Wins Honor
Captain Joseph D. Barry of Syracuse, N. Y., chaplain in the 45th Infantry Division, has been awarded the Silver Star for gallantry in action.
Disregarding intense enemy fire in an engagement near San Stefano, Sicily, Chaplain Barry aided and comforted the wounded-- and administered last rites to the dying. He refused to leave the danger zone until all casualties had been removed to safety, and he later led a search-party into mine-infested fields to recover the dead bodies of his fellow soldiers.
Captain Barry entered the service in 1941 and has seen much fighting in the European theater of operations. Once conducting Mass in an open field in Italy, he saw his congregation scattering rapidly and soon learned the cause. The Luftwaffe was making one of its few raids. He made his way to the nearest foxhole, but returned sometime later to contipue offering Mass.
Having been graduated from Saint Lucy’s grammar school and Holy Rosary High school, Captain Barry went to Notre Dame where he was ordained into the priesthood. He served as chaplain for some time in Abilene, Texas before going overseas.—Dick Mellett
Mechanicals and Aeros
Hold Picnic Together
The scheduled picnic of the mechanical and aeronautical engineers proved to be a great success with “plenty” as the keynote of the entire affair. At the start there were plenty of cars and plenty of picnic-goers (even a civil engineer came along).
School work wasn’t forgotten entirely as Mr. Rohrbach took a group of mechanicals to inspect the Corliss engine at Hoosiers (many samples were acquired for future reference). At the picnic grounds the theory of pumps was expounded thoroughly as there were two specimens on hand with which to work.
Sandwiches, cakes, cookies, cokes and fruit abounded. There were plenty of interests for everyone. The Aero engineers finally managed to win from a determined Mechanical nine in the picnic softball game. John Parchem helped the Aeros out with a home run with bases loaded.
This picnic was well planned, well organized, and was really enjoyed by all. A lot of credit and thanks must be given to Bill Meier for his efficient work, and to Mr. D. C. Ford, who did a swell job in providing “eats.”
Civie-Weekend Planned;
Expenses Covered by $5
General Chairman Jim Casey announced this week that the Student Council - sponsored Civilian Weekend will be held October 6th and 7th. Centered around the Tulane game, the weekend features a semi-formal dance Friday night, and the price of the bid, which will cover both events, is S5.00 a couple.
“We’ve had to overcome some formidable obstacles,” Casey said, “but we
have gotten together a weekend that is sure to please every pocketbook on campus, and things will come off in old-time style.”	•
Festivities will get under way early Friday night with a pep rally at the Fieldhouse. Chairman of this affair is “Buzz” Hassett, who has gotten his committee together and promises to start the weekend off with a bang.
The main event on Friday’s calendar will be the semi-formal dance in the Rockne Memorial. Music Chairman Tony Bristol, senior in Commerce, has kept mum about his activities but plans to sign a band early next week.
Saturday afternoon will find the dance-goers and their .guests in a special section at the Tulane game, first.home contest on the Irish 1944 schedule. The price of admission to the game for both students and guests is included in the bid.
Saturday night the traditional Victory Dance will be held at the Indiana Club, and this affair will be open to all on the campus.
“The most amazing thing about the whole deal,” Casey said, "is the price. Five dollars pays for both dance and football game, cheap at twice the price.” He also pointed out the fact that this will be the first weekend-dance during the football season since 1942. He promises all the trimmings of these popular affairs of the past will be found come Oct. 6.—Bob O’Toole
Father Fitzgerald Serves as Arbitrator Chairman
During the summer, at the invitation of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation and the International Association of Machinists (AFL), Father Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C., served as chairman of the Board of Arbitrators in a case involving the interpretation of the seniority clause in the contract between the company and the union.
Hearings on the case were held in Buffalo, N. Y. A direct application of the decision, which was made a short time ago, will take place during the coming period of reconversion. Father Fitzgerald is a member of the Department of Economics and is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and of Harvard University.
"Scholastic" Photo-
Contest Starts
Plans have been completed for the exhibition of both prize-winning and honorable-mention pictures entered in the Scholastic Photography Contest in the display cases on the first floor of the Notre Dame library. In this way every one will be able to see the top pictures entered, instead of just the prize-winners printed by the Scholastic. This display of the photographic talent on the campus may act as an added incentive to all entrants to get some novel shots of the old favorite models on the campus, as well as to induce them to find good subjects for their lenses elsewhere.
As the deadline approaches—it’s only two weeks away—the committee wishes to remind all that there is still plenty of time to find that prize winner. It must be in the Publications Office in the Main Building no later than Friday, Sept. 22, 1944. All types of photos are eligible for entry into the contest. If anyone is in doubt about something, he can consult the copy of the rules which is posted in his residence hall.
Final plans for judges will be announced next week in the Scholastic. Final results will likewise be carried in the Scholastic as soon as possible after the close of the contest. At that time all photographs and negatives will be returned to the entrants.
❖	“SCHOLASTIC" WRITERS ❖ •J.	___________ ❖
❖	The Editorial Board's temporary ❖ ❖ office is now located in Room 123 of ❖ Walsh Hall. All manuscript should <• ❖ be directed to this address.	❖
OBSERVATIONS
BY LIEUTENANT S. L. BEATTY, USNR
1.	November Fleet Quotas for V-12 Units: ALNAV 124 announces that approximately 1,000 enlisted men will be the number to be divided among V-12 Units on 1 November, 1944. None of the 1,000 men assigned will be premedical or pre-dental. At the Pre-Midshipmen’s School, commencing 1 September, 1944, at Asbury Park, N. J., candidates for V-12 from the Fleet will be given academic refresher courses, at the end of which a qualifying test will be given. Men who fail during or upon completion of this training to demonstrate requisite scholastic aptitude or background to carry on in V-12, or who fall below officer standards physically, or in conduct or aptitude, will not be assigned to V-12 Units on 1 November, 1944, but will be returned to general service.
Candidates, to be considered, must be on active duty, male citizens of the U. S., less than 23 years of age on 1 Nov. 1944, unmarried and agree to remain unmarried until commissioned, unless otherwise separated from the program. They must be high school graduates or have been in attendance at or accepted for admission by an accredited college or university. Their high school or college transcript must show successful completion of courses in elementary algebra and plane geometry. Additional courses in mathematics and physics are desirable.
The applicants must have passed the old General Classification Test (O’Rourke) with score of 85 or higher, or the new GCT, Forms 1 and 2, with a score of 58 or higher.
The physical requirements are: height, minimum 5 ft. 5% in., maximum, 6 ft. 4 in.; vision, 18/20 in each eye correctible to 20/20; color perception, normal; weight, in proportion to height; teeth, 20 vital, serviceable, permanent teeth, including 4 opposed molars, 2 of which are directly opposed on each side of dental arch, and 4 directly opposed incisors.
Men who have previously been separated from the V-12 program or from reserve midshipman training must have completed six months sea duty before reapplying for the program. .
2.	New Requirements for Pre-Theological Candidates: Civilians and enlisted personnel who have been awarded a baccalaureate degree by an accredited
college are still eligible to make application for theological training in the Navy V-12 Program. Apprentice Seamen, Class V-12 and V-12(S), who have already been tentatively accepted as pre-theological students may still qualify for theological training. All others, however, including officers, enlisted personnel, and civilians must have successfully completed the requirements for a baccalaureate degree at an accredited college.
3.	New Office of Naval History Established: The Office of Naval History has been established directly under the Secretary of the Navy. Admiral E. C. Kalb-fus, USN (Ret.), has been designated Director of Naval History. He will coordinate the preparations of all histories and narratives of the current war-time activities in the naval establishment.
4.	Quotations from Secretary Forrestal: “Our submarines are now sinking five times as many ships as they did at the beginning of the war. ... A new record in shipbuilding was established in May 1944, when 400,000 tons of new naval vessels were completed.”
5.	Largest Naval Academy Class in History: The largest Naval Academy class in history — 914 — was graduated on 7 June at exercises addressed by the Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal. He compared the U. S. Navy of 1845, the year the Academy was established, with the present fleet of more than 1,000 combat ships, and emphasized the Navy’s part in the war.
While the Academy is 99 years old, this was the 104th graduating class in wartime. Among the 914 graduates were 160 who entered the Academy from enlisted grades of the Navy. The largest previous class was 766 in 1943.
6.	U. S. Navy to Train French Service Women: Members of the French Navy’s Services Feminines de la Flotte on duty in the U. S. are being trained by the United States Navy in schools established for the Women’s Reserve of the U. S. Naval Reserve. Under a recent agreement between the two Navies, a small group of French women officers and enlisted personnel will receive U. S. Navy training, either at the U. S. Naval Training School (WR), The Bronx, New York, or the U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School, Northampton, Mass. The French Navy has nearly 2,000 women serving in North Africa.
5
From Private to Major is Record of N. D. Man
Advancement from private to major in less than three years and participation in 22 missions over Europe without as much as a serious injury is the record of 25-year-old George Bartuska, now on brief leave from the army air forces.
The major who worked his way through the University as a life guard, has received more awards than he particularly cares to remember and right now he is itching to get into one of those new B-29’s which have raided the Japanese mainland. Up to now his sorties have been in Flying Fortresses.
His record of advancement is typical of a hero’s • role. He enlisted Sept. 24, 1941, as a private; advanced to the ranks of private, first-class, in December 1941, was made a sergeant in March 1942; appointed aviation cadet June 1942; a second lieutenant November-1942; a first lieutenant in March 1943; a captain in October 1943; and a majorin March 1944.
During those periods he distinguished himself on numerous raids, especially over Germany -where flak and German fighters were major worries on every mission. Once on a raid over Bordeaux, France, every man in his plane was seriously wounded and it was he who took over the controls and brought the ship back home safely.
His flying- exploits have instilled in him the desire to remain in the armed forces even after the war.
“Combat flying is where you really have to be on your toes but the thought of getting hurt r-arely enters your mind because you are so busy trying to pick .the enemy off first,” says the former Notre Dame man.—James Keenan
Two Win Scholarships
Two scholarships sponsored by Mr. Arthur J. Schmitt of Chicago, for study of electrical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, have been awarded to students of Fournier Institute, Lemont, Hl., it has been announced by the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. Chicagoans William Dwyer and Harold Unger are recipients of the award.
Scholarships, presented to high ranking graduates of Fournier Institute, may be accepted now or on completion of military service. An all-expense scholarship was awarded to Mr. Dwyer; Mr. Unger’s covers tuition, matriculation and special fees.
"Scholastic" Homeless
The long series of obstacles which began plaguing the Scholastic about a year ago continue to test the patience and adaptability of each of the staff members.
This week the office of the local newsmagazine was occupied by the disbursing office of the navy, and new quarters had to be sought. Temporary refuge was found in the offices of the Irish Pennant, NROTC publication, on the first floor of Walsh Hall.
This marks the third time the office has been forced to change in less than a year’s time. All the trouble began when an arsonist successfully set fire to the building just north of the Administration building, the then “home sweet home” of the magazine. The B-X room in the Main building was then used as an editorial office, but the cramped space forced new centers to be sought. The large room in the basement of Walsh Hall which had previously been used as the office of the Dome, was ideal for the new office. The “morgue,” or collection of cuts which Scholastic uses fit very nicely around the walls, and together with the many desks, typewriters, and lamps, an exceptionally well situated and well-furnished editorial room was enjoyed.
The present location in room 123 of Walsh hall will serve for the present; any further change will be reported in this magazine so that the staff will be able to keep in touch with the editors.
Red Cross Blood Bank
The Student Council is conducting a drive on campus to secure donors to contribute to the Red Cross when the Mobile Unit is in South Bend October 3-13. Applications may be obtained from the Prefect of Discipline’s office.
Although the war in Europe is rapidly nearing its climax, there is still an urgent need for blood plasma to be used
by doctors in many ways to aid wounded men.
Red Cross officials have asked that particular emphasis be given in securing donors from the civilians, because past records have shown that servicemen are already under considerable strain and often their blood is not suitable for use. It is also asked that men over 21 be given first consideration although anyone from 18-21 may contribute, provided they have parent or guardian’s consent.
Band Begins Practice
For Football Season
Under the able guidance of director H. Lee Hope, the University band is preparing for its autumn activities, holding four practices a week in Washington Hall. Plans, while not definitely completed, are being so formulated as to give the band-members a full schedule for the coming months.
Notre Dame grid fans will again be entertained by the band which, as a marching unit, will number approximately 100 pieces. Many new maneuvers and novel formations have been planned and
the band will present a number of them at each of the four home games. As usual it will also furnish music for all the pep rallies. In addition there is the possibility that the band will travel to one of the games away from home.
The garb of the musicians, as last year, will be mixed. Because of service regulations, the Naval Trainees and Marines will wear the uniform of the day. Attire for the civilians will be the regular University band uniforms.
Marine Jim Kress returns for the third consecutive year as drum major. The band will also sport a number of baton twirlers who have not been chosen as yet.
The V-12 unit, which functions as a part of the University band and is composed of about 64 men, will continue to play each day for chow formations. However last Wednesday’s concert was the last one the band will give this semester.
Because the band’s plans are still in the embryo stage.rno further information is available at this time. Watch the Scholastic for additional details.
6
Huddle Investigated
By Student Council
By George Despot
Prompted by numerous complaints, particularly from the new students, the Student Council has recently staged an investigation of the conditions existing in the Huddle.
The Student Council appointed a committee consisting of Jose Cardenas, Joe Canova, and headed by Bernie Slater. A meeting was held between the committee, the Huddle management, and Father Kehoe, prefect of discipline. The com-mitte laid the complaints before them but Mr. Ernie Howard of the Huddle stated that the disagreeable conditions were due to a lack of help. Workers are not available and it is necessary to employ 12 and 13 year-olds. We know the efficiency of this group but they are the sum total of the applicants for the job.
According to Mr. Howard the solution to this problem lies in the student body. The Huddle is asking for student labor. If a student has but a few hours free a week, there may still be a position for him in the Huddle. The pay is the standard rate of the University, 60 cents an hour. All who wish to apply for a job should see Mr. Howard. He is usually found in the Huddle in the morning, the Golf Shop in the afternoon, and in the Zero Deck store in the evening. “If the students want a better Huddle it is up to them to install the improvements they desire,” Mr. Howard concluded.
Wranglers Open Drive
During the past week, The Wranglers, announced the opening of its regular semester membership drive. Due to restrictions placed upon the V-12 students, making it impossible for them to take part in the activities of the organization, qualfication for application has been restricted to civilians and members of the NROTC. Interviews will be held in the library of the Architecture building on Thursday evening, Sept. 14, at 7:30. Those who are interested in applying should contact Joseph Pequigney, 301 Sorin hall, before the date set for the interview.
The Wranglers is oldest student discussion club at Notre Dame. In the last two semesters it has met every second Thursday evening, although this policy may be abandoned in favor of weekly meetings later in the fall. At each meeting a paper is read by one of the members, on any subject of his choice, which is followed by criticism and discussion from the group as a’ whole.
Blues to Do Away With Whites; Misery in Store
By SEAMAN GENE DIAMOND
Leaves had been changing to the dark pastels of autumn and were falling; the afternoon was setting higher in the sky; the mornings were crisper with the suggestion of impending frost. They were the silent harbringers of the passing of a season.
The death knell for summer was not officially and emphatically sounded, however, until Seaman Figliggie and his
Warning
Civilian students and campus employees are warned not to spread any malicious rumors concerning the sanity of V-Twelvers without the express permission of the Uniform Of The Day Committee.
Merely because seamen may appear in formation on a dry evening in customary foul weather garments is no sign that mental strain has done its worst. Merely because seamen may appear at a succeeding muster in dress . blues and flat hats should be no cause for comment.
Or—just because all of the swabbies turn out in undress blues, watchcaps, leggings, and peacoats on one of the season’s warmest evenings should be no reason for alarm.
Actually, the reason for the unique formations has been to determine what the average seaman needs in the way of clothing for the weather ahead. For the benefit of pessimists, it may be added that the UOTD committee does not expect sub-zero weather until after the V-12 Maneuvers.
numerous counterparts staggered across the campus, engulfed in a heap of blue flannel.
The time for the change to blues had been growing nigh. Those ugly whites which to the average frame hung like the tree-sloth hangs to the teakwood tree— those exasperating whites which held such a magnetic attraction for dirt and made each seaman an old Irish washerwoman by avocation—were about to be cast aside.
It was with grim satisfaction that Figliggie gazed on his blues and rejoiced in their boundless capacity for hiding dirt. He fondled that impressively singular white stripe and pictured himself attired at last, in a garb that could compete with
Marines and Middies. Ah, but be careful, Figliggie, all is not gold that glitters.
First, there was that flat hat, for example. Of course, a flat hat can never be really flat and once you start to shape it, your troubles really begin. You can allow the edges to sag, if you wish, but in no time you’ll look like you’ve borrowed a cocker spaniel’s ears for the occasion.
Or you can be “fleety” and prop up the front and back with a clothes hanger, but here there is the danger of producing that overbent effect which results in a headgear which closely resembles the Bonhomme Richard in full sail. After several such experiments, you’ll soon become convinced that the one place to effectively wear a flat hat is at the bottom of your seabag..
Then there is that fabulous dress juniper. They tell you that it is just long enough to blouse over the second button, but this is a carry over from the days of high button shoes. After the jumper is folded up from the knees, the general impression is that each seaman carries a tire about the midriff.
There arc other features about this blue get-up. The watch-cap, for example, which likens every cranium to Denny Dimwit’s. Or the peacoat with its hyphenated length and a collar which has the same dimensions as the tarpaulin which covers the Yankee stadium.
So don’t rejoice, Figliggie. Your transition from Good Humor man to funeral director is not all for the best. The crux of the matter is that Lord Nelson was no such stylist as Hart, Schaffner, and Marx and the result is year-round uniform misery.
Navy Dances Again
The second of the series of barracksdances was held in the Rockne Memorial last Saturday evening with the popular V-12 dance band furnishing the music. Approximately 135 couples attended.
Heading the committee which had charge of all arrangements for the dance was Seaman Bernard J. Kerns. Assisting him were Samuel Gorbacz and John J. Wren.
Included among the guests present were Comdr, and Mrs. Walter S. Gabel, Lt. and Mrs. J. J. Collins, and Lt. (jg) and Mrs. Bradford Lamson. Mrs. Lam-son was Guest of Honor, making her first official visit to the Notre Dame campus.
The familiar figure of Seaman “Dutch” Crask led the “Commanders” in their second appearance in the “Rock.” The three singing stars — Ray Leliaert, Ken Barry, and Bob Churney — took over in the absence of Bing Crosby.
7
Sorin Sub "Celebrities"
“O’Ruhk!! Wheah ahh ya?”
With this pathetic cry (the type given by the Phomp when looking for its mate) we begin a brief narrative of the solitude of Sorin Sub.
If you lived down there you’d hear that mad, banshee-like wail quite frequently! But you needn’t lock your doors and climb down the nearest rat hole—it’s only Walters calling for his pal.
You must keep in mind that characters of only the highest caliber inhabit the commodious apartments of the Sub. Take for example “Jumbo” Cauley. He spends more time on his back than “Little Joe” Kelly, and that’s a lot!
Immediately adjacent to the Cauley-Surkamp mansion we find “Red” Gutow-ski and Pete Berezney who have more snapshots of beautiful women in their room than any other “subee.” They are sorry to say all the women are paper dolls which they call their own—hmmm. Have you by any quirk of fate noticed the intricate system of towels, shirts and dirty pajama tops around the pipes which keep these boys frob being flooded out? A brilliant engineering job! *
We can’t justifiably overlook our own “Queenie” Castro who runs a very close second to Gypsy Rose Lee. Come on down some Saturday evening about 11:50 and see for yourself!!	-
Have they ever considered that handsome, rugged, debonair, man about town F. Wimple Gushurst for “Man About Campus?”
Not wishing to incur the wrath of “Tree” Adams in any zvay, we shall merely say that he and Pat Filley live down here. After all “Tree” is only a foot and a half taller than I—what could he do to me?
Al Schaeffer, whose receding hairline is a constant source of worry, is the “money changer in the temple”—I mean the Sub. If you would like some sug-’ gestions on how to refinance yourself or unfinance yourself—see “Busy Little Al.”
Then there’s Paul Wood, who insists he will solve the biological problems of the world by finding how the atoms of the body rearrange — very scientifically and based on Dr. K. Campbell’s lectures on molecular rearrangement. (Gads, that sounds good, doesn’t it? Oh!!)
Have you by chance come back on the last N.D. bus? Possibly you have heard some incoherent raving and ramblings? In all probability these sudden emotional outbursts in foreign tongues can be ascribed to the carefree gentlemen from South America! The noisiest of the whole bunch is “Mike”!! Sounds like he is tearing down the place when he bangs into his cell.
8
Obstacle Course, Rugged Builder of Men. Continues at Blistering War-time Pace
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
"Scholastic" Associate Editor
Overheard on the sidewalks of South Bend one day recently was the opinion of one lady of the city who said: “My, those sailors from Notre Dame certainly do look healthy, in addition to their being so intelligent.”
What this prompted was a search to determine what made the typical N.D. seaman so healthy. Naturally, the search culminated over beyond the Biology building among the ropes and hurdles of the obstacle course.
On any nice day, the average spectator may turn out to see Uncle Sam’s budding officer - candidates racing through the course, eager to complete it and get a second opportunity to run it during the period. In fact, it has been noted by some instructors that certain men are so eager to run the course a second time, that they omit a few of the first obstacles and start with the ropes. Chiefs and NCO’s, however, scorn this practice.
Let us look at a typical group of “ob-staclers” as they make their merry way to the course. First, they start out from their mustering area, where they try their best to convince the instructor that life would be much more pleasant if the trip weren’t made. Naturally, the instructor gets a kick out of these arguments, and to show his rugged individualism, he orders, “Six times around the track,” or he just snarls.
Since the men find that they have no alternative, they resign themselves to another cruise among the obstacles. It’s “double time” over the course, with the Chief or NCO acting as traffic cop at the intersection.
Ai-rival at the course finds all of the men eager and raring to go, with a few of the “stars” edging their way over towards the tree in the direction of the ropes. This has proved quite unsuccessful, however, in most instances. The instructor usually reserves the first few seconds at the course for his personal speech to his men, giving them the old pep talk. It usually goes like this, “Let’s get in there and fight, men. Any men caught “efoing” (which in navy lingo means “neglecting certain obstacles”) will be running this thing all day.”
With the word from the instructor, the first two men are off (they travel in pairs, in order that each man will act
on his honor.) They leap over the first obstacle, shoulder roll under the second (if the Chief is looking), and hurdle the next. Then the next pair leaves the starting line. ■
After clearing the first few obstacles, the ten-foot wall appears to give complications. If only it were built of glass, the ascend-descent could probably be avoided, since it could be determined whether or not suspicious eyes were watching.
After going around the wall and through those parallel bars, alias “sliver slabs,” and after trotting by the dilapidated cabin, (which it is rumored may be converted into a clubhouse for all men who volunteered for the paper drive), the ropes are at hand. Once across the ropes, down the ladder, down the ravine, under the bar, over the bar, etc., the course spends itself and the V-twelver is safe back at the starting line. If the Chief O.K.’s his credentials, he may sit down under the tree for a couple of minutes before the trip back to the mustering area.
This course, then, is one of the main reasons why Notre Dame seamen are so healthy. If any marines have benefited from the activity, it is something worth investigating.
Two Profs. Appointed
To Special Committee
University professors in electrical engineering, Mr. Harold E. Ellithorn and Mr. John A. Northcott, have been appointed to special committees in the American institute of Electrical Engineers, it was announced this week.
Mr. Northcott, who will serve his third term as member of the Committee on Education, has also been added to the Committee on Student Branches. He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1936. He is a native of Winton, N. C.
Elected to membership on the Committee on Communication, Mr. Ellithorn, who has been a member of the University faculty since 1940, is a grad- j uate of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., and of Harvard University, where he received his M.S. His home was formerly in Detroit, Mich.
THE WGSOCFSWMATPT? IS FORMED
Tragedy has struck this bleak little Indiana mining town! Flags throughout the city of South Bend were at halfmast as all the eager young ladies went into unconsolable mourning at the news that there would be no Marines at ND next term. Some of the lovelies formulated a petition and amassed ten million - signatures in protest. The group calls itself W.G.S.O.C.F.S.W.M.A.T.P.T.? or WHO’S GONNA SAVE OUR CHILDREN FROM SWABBIES WITHOUT MARINES AROUND TO PROTECT THEM? As their striking young spokes. woman, Miss Consuela Schleppkiss put it: “Thay, I’d rather thtay home than date thome old thwabbie!” Now ladies, please!
FIGHTIN' FOR THE RED ROOSTER
Now that Drill Competition is over with,, and the boys know which is the best drilled company—(I mean, which company won the competition) everybody seems much relieved. But one question has yet to be answered: Did Hank Lawiki take the company Sergeant literally when he said “Fall in,” or did he just trip? Gosh, we sure wish we knew' ’cause that interpretation might present a knotty problem on some other commands!
How would you like an All-Marine Happy-Hour? All of the fellows with any kind of talent who would like to help get up a show, please say so, and we’ll see what possibilities there are. (Note to Joe Thornton — please don’t come around!)
A SHOT IN THE ARM—TWO IN FACT
We’re pleased to say that there were only two casualties when the Marines had their booster innoculations recently. One of the Pharmacist Mates tripped over “Greek” Stavridis and accidentally shot himself. And the other casualty—? Oh yes, Vogen got a cinder in his eye walking over!
Over The Hill:
Some narrow-minded persons might have thought Bill Bruck was going AWOL when they saw him trying to climb over the fence at the extreme end of the golf-course. But those peo
ple couldn’t hear him mumbling: “Mr. Daniels said I’d find that spot if I read the compass correctly, and darn, I won’t stop till I do — Gee, this field-work in May Reading is hard!”
ON THE AIR
Harry “Mark Time” Petrey had an offer to enter the legitimate stage after his startling performance on the Studebaker broadcast from the SMC. He played the balcony scene from you know what play and was hailed as the most remarkable Juliet since Myrtel I. Butt played it in 400000 B.C.
Bob “Slender-One” Watt, on the same broadcast announced that, before the war, he held a job with two-thousand men under him. Now it comes out that Watt used to mow lawns in a cemetery!
SOME CLIPPINGS
It’s been every Marine’s dream to work out some device for procuring haircuts gratis, since the heat on long bangs and wind-blown pompadours has been on. Jim Kress has at last found a way! Naturally, we don’t want to involve Jim inextricably, but it might not harm anyone to merely mention that this whole business centers around a certain Elkhartian baton-twirler who twirled for the crowd at a recent bandconcert here, and her papa who is a ton-sorial artist on campus. Yes, Jim knows where and how to get clipped!
FOR MARINES ONLY
Everyone wishes to know which illustrious Marine had a demerit card lifted from which illustrious officer for the illustrious offense of “having run-down heels.” — Mr. Banashek knows, but won’t talk!
Has Sergeant Tarro showed you the latest photos of “the heiress to the Tarro millions?” Well, you’re the only guy who hasn’t been cornered by the proud papa yet!
Say, I’d better shove-off before one of these guys catches up with me. But, as we say in ND circles, “Don’t think it ain’t been charming!”
USMCAS, Cherry Point, North Carolina.
24 August 44 The Notre Dame Scholastic University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana
To the Editor:	'
Via the grape-vine the ND Scholastic has reached two of its former readers (?) who are now battling the rebels in North Carolina swampland.
In the issue of 21 July 44, we read with interest an article on page 16 which reviewed V-12 marine life at ND-since its inception last 1 July 43. This article, written by George Nutil, commented upon many of us who shipped out to other stations for “further training.” However, we feel slighted to a small degree, in that the author failed to mentior those boys who could not wait for the blanket separation at the semester’s end.
With seabags on our shoulders last February 14th, four of us former ND men and three of our colleagues departed, washed out, voluntarily resigned, were scuttled or . . . accepted an invitation to shove off (as you wish). Among us were such campus instigators as Bill (“The Beard”) Mahon, and Harold (“Dutch”) Schultz.
Although we do miss “The Week” we find “Gabby Gizmo” novel and amusing. It reflects such characters as “Mickey Rooney,” “Gunny,” “Terrible Tarro,” “Joe,” and “Banislouse.” We loved them all.
To all the boys we’d like to say “Hello” and wish them a good tour* of duty.	•	.
Till we meet again,
Pfc. Bill Mulcahy	•
A.E.S. 45-Bks. 208
A.E.S. 43-Bks. 215-Combat Cond.
Chuck Rooney
USMCAS, Cherry Point, N. C.
P. S. Best of luck fellas. . . . We feel you need it more than we.
9
Garry Addresses Group
The newly organized Economic Round-table held its first meeting at the Town Club Friday evening, Sept. 1. The meeting was conducted by Chairman Jim Clynes and Mike Gariy spoke on “Present and Post War Control of Inflation.”
Mr. Garry showed that there has been •an enormous increase in our invisible money supply, due to governmental borrowing from the banks, a condition which has caused every modern disastrous inflation. To decrease this huge amount of purchasing power, adequate taxes should be levied.
He then went on to prove that it would be of little benefit to increase the tax rates on corporations and the higher income group, and if we are to avoid the perilous increase of our money supply during the war the only large sources left are the incomes from §10,000 down particularly those below §5,000, for they receive the greatest share of our national income.
Everything possible should be done for industry’s swift reconversion to peacetime production in order to increase the supply of available goods and thereby absorb part of this excess purchasing power.
Mr. Garry pointed out that price control, in effect, is an economic stabilizer for producer, seller and buyer in wartime—when pressures from all sides tend to force costs and prices up. He believes that it -will be absolutely necessary for the continuation of price ceilings and rationing for some time after the war.
A short business meeting followed, at which plans for the year were discussed and a membership committee was appointed.
A Letter to the V-12 Men
Interested in the V-12 Ball
Casey Speaks to Forum
Jim Casey, man-about-campus senior, majoring in Business Administration, addressed the Commerce Forum on Wednesday evening, Sept. 5. His speech was awaited with anticipation by the members; Mr. Casey failed to disappoint any of his listeners. His subject was “Is the Middleman Indispensable in Business Life?”
Mr. Casey developed his topic by pointing out the pros and cons in regard to the middleman’s place in the business world. His audience was kept amused with witty quips and humorous anecdotes, for which he is so well known in his weekly column. After the conclusion of his discussion, he successfully defended the statements he made and answered all questions that the Forum members offered.
10
Dear Mac:—
This is the second letter to be put before you, and the purpose is to acquaint those interested with the facts of the forthcoming V-12 Ball. Every semester since the V-12’s conception at this University there has been a V-12 Ball; it has been a gala affair. A name band is secured and the Navy drill hall is decorated as a fitting place for the occasion. The dances have all been successes, and good times have been had by all.
Last semester the idea was brought forward to have more than just a dance; this idea met with instant success, and the first “Weekend Maneuvers” was created. This encompassed the dance, a review, a picnic, a show, and a tea-dance. This semester the plans for the weekend run somediing like this:
FRIDAY EVENING—GRAND BALL
As before the Grand Ball will be the number one attraction of the week-end, and will be held Friday evening, September 29. Little need be said about the Ball, as it is known to be a swell affair. It may be said, however, that this semester the Ball is going to be even better, the decorations more lavish, the refreshments more tasty and plentiful, and the band sweeter and smoother.
SATURDAY MORNING—MILITARY REVIEW
Saturday morning a review has been planned. The idea may not meet with your 100% approval, but the little gal will be here and she will get a thrill out of seeing her gyrene or swabbie march across the field.
SATURDAY EVENING—“ANYTHING GOES”
On Saturday evening, September 30, the drill hall will be the scene of the navymarine show, the likes of which has never been seen on this or any other campus. As the Ball is to be characterized by military formality, the V-12 show will be known for the lack of formality.
More money has been awarded for this production, and this unit has been scoured for talent. It may be said that the show “anything GOES,” is not to be confused with the “Happy Hours” held on the campus of late. Nothing like the show of September 30 has been presented before. Following the show a dance is to be presented for all in attendance. The “Commanders” will headline the show and play for the dance. For fun and entertainment it’s the drill hall that night! Remember Mac: “anything goes.”
Sunday morning and afternoon has been left open for your own amusement. The churches of South Bend will welcome any and all who wish to attend the services.
Regarding the matter of cost; the ball tickets will soon be on sale for $4.00 and will include a ticket for admission to the V-12 show “ANYTHING GOES. ’
Now, the idea of liberty and security watches may be bothering some of you. All who wish to attend the ball and show may do so. Liberty will be granted all those attending the Ball after their last class Friday, September 29, until 0230 Saturday morning. Saturday liberty will begin after the review and extend until 2200 Sunday, October 1.
Room reservation and information regarding accommodations may be had by contacting the Housing Committee chairman, Cavanaugh Hall.
With your co-operation we will try to give you the best week-end ever spent at Notre Dame. S’long for now,
N. J. Boswell, Ball Chairman.
J. A. Schneider, Week-end Chairman.
11
Ed McKeever, Amiable Master From the Oil Country, Hopes to Strike it Rich This Fall
W SPCI
BY BILL WADDINGTON "Scholastic" Sports Editor
Coach Ed McKeever, that sweet-talking Texan, who would make his character complete with a big sombrero, creaking leather chaps, a picturesque neckerchief, shiny spurs and a pointed pair of six-shooters, is polishing off a new pair of African ivories over in his Breen-Phillips rendezvous, trying to load them with the right kind of stuff that will give about ten straight passes between now and Dec. 2.
Head Coach Ed McKeever
After watching Frank Leahy come through with nine successive good throws last season, but failing to make his point, which was ten, in his final roll, Ed has decided that he has learned a sufficient amount of the technique to move right into big boots and into the big ting.
The playing plot with a big green covering will have to find McKeever chucking from one end to the other, getting over the midway line to make the tosses count. In the backfield he will have a quartet of dotted potency called “little joes” and his line will have to be a “natural” every time. As goes the forward seven, so come the whole eleven.
His lingo will necessarily similate that of a conoisseur of the art, trying to talk his implements of play into getting “that pair of shoes for papa.” Every other strategist in the play will be tossing his chips against this man from the cattle country, hoping that he won’t be victorious at every turn of the galloping dominos. One rule alteration is that when
Ed shoots a pair of sixes, it won’t be “craps” for his connotation of “box cars” will be an aggregate of beef ready to rope and ride the opposition who question his authority.
Riding Right With Him
One thing for sure is that Ed will have his home crowd fully behind him and backing him to the limit. Ed may have a defective product at the outset with which he is supposed to gain his laurels, as most of the top-notch materials have gone into another game, but you can bet your greens that he’ll make the best of conditions at hand. Even though he does slip upon a roll or two, that same confidence of the home crowd and cross-country rooters will wait till he gains the toss again and they’ll be with him stronger than ever, riding their hopes on a “come bet,” one that will come laden with “greenbacks,” the Fighting Irish variety.	•
The taste of triumph will not be new to the lad from just above the Rio Grande. In the absence of Frank Leahy, who missed three possibilities during the ’42 campaign, Ed sided in at the table, took over the master-mentor work and eased out a trio of nifties just before the big boss returned to the scene of activity. He may not have to go “north or south” figuratively to make his point in the ensuing round of action, but he’ll travel both North, South, East and West to reap the pots of glory.
If the executing touch will follow out the lines as prescribed by pre-game enlightenment, then let the blocks fall where they may. Every attempt will be a question mark with the consequence to “do or die” at every stand. The Smokey men will meet him first at Pittsburgh, then the Southern boys from the Crescent City will make the jaunt northward where Tulane will display their talents. The “Big Red” will be host to a setting in Boston as the Hanover, New Hampshire lads from Dartmouth move over to make a killing. Harry “the Horse” Stuhldreher brings his boys to the local arena Oct. 21, before the Irishmen make the trek to Champaign, to take on a bunch of well-educated Illini. Then moving right near the country’s financial deposit at Washington, McKeever will display his wares against the big guns of the Navy at Baltimore, with an eager eye on the lucrative prize.
(Continued on page 21)
Summer Boxing Show;>( For Fieldhouse h if
BY JAG "Scholastic
4c
5p<
As a result of the elimination bouts
held Wednesday and Thursday afternoon in the boxing room of the fieldhouse, 30
Faithful Daily Workouts. . . .
contestants have advanced to the semifinals of the Summer Boxing Show. Major Ernest Jones, newly arrived executive officer of the Marine Corps Detach-
I i t
I (
c c Q
1
f t I e
r F a b e a
12
RTS fT
fpemi-Finals Billed
I
hippy Hour Wednesday
Ci dcGRANE
tiq Sports Writer
ment, demonstrated his support of athletic participation by his men as he acted as a judge for the events.
Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the physical education department, and director of the show, has announced that the semi-finals, Wednesday evening, Sept. 13, would take the place of a Happy Hour for Naval and Marine trainees. Civilian students have been invited to attend as well and there will be no charge made that evening for either servicemen nor civilians. The finals will be held one week later, Wednesday, Sept. 20, but at that time there will be an admission charge of 25 cents. Any profits from the affair will be turned over to the V-12 welfare fund which is for the benefit of trainees who need money in emergencies.
Santos, the Master
In the musty atmosphere of the boxing room this week, more than 60 young men paid a silent tribute to Sgt. Joe Santos and to his assistants who trained the i- boxers for the show. Every man who r. entered the ring was in condition to fight :-1 as was evidenced by the noticeable ab->■	(Continued on page 19)
With Three Weeks To Go, Irish Gridders Begin Drills for Opener with Pittsburgh
BY GEORGE KRAUSER “Scholastic" Sports Writer
Last Monday the Irish pigskinners opened a month of intensive drill to prepare for the Sept. 30 curtain raiser with Pitt’s Panthers. With some 150 aspirants out for the coveted eleven position on the first team, Coach McKeever commented that “all players are welcome to try out for the squad and none will be cut.”
Irish Gridders Have What It Takes!
The bright summer sun has kept the weather too warm for heavy scrimmage so the Irish donned sweat shirts and shorts and devoted the week to running through signals. Last Monday was given over to the newsreel photographers as the gridders strutted for the flashbulb brigade. Probably the most photographed object on the field was the size 8% helmet of John Adams, the 6'7" giant of the Irish squad. With Steve Nemeth and John teaming up for a bit of horseplay by trading helmets, the photographers were given a bit of novePv to add to the regular shots taken of the five coaches and the whole Irish squad.
Play Old Rules
When confronted with the question of whether the new Eastern rules concerning the running of opponents’ fumbles and passing anywhere behind the scrimmage line would affect the Blue and Gold, Ed replied, “It will not affect Notre Dame in the least. Since we did not get a vote in the rule making, we’ll abide by the old rules.”
Since the conclusion of the summer sessions, the squad has lost the services of Joe Bartos, Lorain, Ohio freshman,
who has transferred to Annapolis, and Don Doody, V-5’er from Chicago transferred by the Navy. “The loss will be felt by the team,” stated Coach Ed, “as Bartos was coming along very well and Doody had good speed and running ability.” The squad was bolstered somewhat by the return of Frank Endress, erst
while fullback candidate.
Ray Nolting, who helped with the Irish backs in the summer' drills, has joined the Chicago Bears in their training camp and thus has finished his work with the Notre Dame squad.
With no members reported injured or ineligible, the practices have been proceeding according to schedule. Tomorrow the gridders plan to begin in earnest with rugged scrimmages and long workouts looming in the not too distant future.	.	‘
❖ Starting in the Sept. 29 Edition ❖ ❖	of “Scholastic"	❖
❖	“THE SHILLELAGH"	❖
•I* (Sequel to “Bearskin")	❖
Each week, this prominent grid	au- &
❖ thority will put the “foot" in foothall ❖ ❖ —appraising the Irish gridiron activ-♦I* ity from week to week. For the inside •I* dope, don't fail to get SCHOLASTIC ❖ and read “The Shillelagh." First ap- *!• ❖ pearance. Friday, Sept. 29, at no ❖ ❖ extra cost to you.	❖
13
Klinemen Wind-up Summer with Mediocre Record; But There's Always Next Spring
BY JOHN FEENEY “Scholastic" Sports Writer
Coach Jake Kline’s baseball squad has closed the books on its informal summer season, owning a .record of seven wins, six losses, and one tie, for a .536 percentage.
Most of the N. D. losses can be attributed to lack of experience and capable reserves. The Irish had at least one noteworthy distinction—in 14 games they were never shutout.
• Despite handicaps, the pitching staff held up well. Workhorse Paul Lammers checked in four victories and a pair* of defeats, while Jack Barrett, Gifford Rich, and Eldon O’Brien each won one.
Notre Dame opened with an easy 12-4 conquest of Baer Field, a task it later duplicated, 10-5. The next day General Electric of Fort Wayne proved too strong and blasted N.D., 9-1, but the Golden Domers recovered to trample Ft. Sheridan, 7-1; Plymouth Athletic Club, 9-2; and Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. (Hammond, Ind.), 12-7, before deadlocking with the South Bend Knights of Pythias, 3-3. Bunker Hill squeezed out a 5-4 verdict next and the Iowa Preflight flashed power in conquering the Klinemen, 10-2. The Irish regained their stride to whitewash the Plymouth Athletic Club, 12-0, and then broke the earlier stalemate with the Knights of Pythias, 3-1. A dismal three game losing streak concluded the season as Bunker Hill, the
The Notre Dame Nine Closes Another Season True to the Notre Dame Spirit
South Bend Hoosier Beers and George Williams College of Chicago each tripped the Blue and Gold.
Baseball Coach Jake Kline
George Williams College of Chicago, combining two hits with a pair of walks and an error to shove across three runs in the fourth inning, pulled an upset by outscoring Notre Dame’s diamond aggregate, 8-4, at Cartier Field on August 26.
The Golden Dome lads, playing their last game of the summer, registered once in the opening frame on singles by Tree, (Continued on page 22) •
War Bonds Galore
As the result of a recent war bond drive on campus, sailors and marines of the V-12 unit now have a total cash allotment of $17,037.50 set aside each month in bonds as their additional contribution to the war effort. This official announcement was made this week by Lt. (jg) Bradford Lamson, war bond officer for the unit.
This total sum is allotted by 92% of the men in the seaman branch and 88.9% of the men in the marine branch. Of the 1319 seamen, 1190 are subscribing to a regular war bond allotment; whereas, of the 184 marines, 164 are taking out war bonds monthly.
.	—Al Broten
"Maneuvers" Statement
Balance on Hand 22 February..............
Receipts:
V-12 Ball 26 May 1944
Ticket Sale _______________ $2,709.00
V-12 Picnic 27 May 1944--------- 148.50
Credit on Paint Return ----------- 4.23
V-12 Moving Picture Receipts 67.20
Total Receipts __________________________
$240.20
2,928.93
Total ..................................... $3,169.13
Expenditures:
V-12 Ball
Orchestra $1,004.00
Refreshments ---------------- 194.12
Police 	5.00
Decorations _________________ 609.46
Favors  333.88
Checking _____________________ 23.90
Flowers ______________________ 43.50
Printing:
(tickets, Invites,	etc.)__	74.90
Publicity ____________________ 55.65
Refund (Geo.	Nesbitt)_______	3-50
Pillow __________________.’._	4.00
Miscl. (Ball) __________________ 36.87
Total ....................   2,388.78
V-12 Maneuvers  371.10
V-12 Tea Dance ---------------- 62.00
Executive Committee Expenses
Fr. Keller (supplies) ________ 9.27
Bagby 	18.50
J. Collins Expense ----------- 4.05
Baton _______________________  3.50
Drum Head ____________________ 4.85
Film 	15.75
Poles _______-______________ 12.00
Guidons_____—_______________ 150.30
Music ________________________ 8.88
Projector 	35.00
Total  262.10
Recapitulation:
Total Cash ’-----------------------------$3,169.13
Expenditures:
V-12 Ball $2,388.78
V-12 Maneuvers -------------- 371.10
V-12 Tea Dance---------------- 62.00
V-12 Executive Committee_____ 262.10
Total Expenditures -------------------- 3,083.98
Cash Balance --------------------------- 85.15
Outstanding Bills: G. E. Meyer & Son ......_________ 2.25
J. J. Collins, Lt.. USNR______	4.90
Outstanding Checks:
No. L21 dated 14 June to Sam Moon 	8.00
Total Liabilitties_____J____________ 15.15
Assets consisting of Cash (in	j
bank) 30 June 1944 _____________-___ 70.00	-
14
Langfordmen Take Detroit Club, 8 to 1;
Lawrence Beaten for Second Time, 9-0
BY JIM CAREY "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Jaunting over to Michigan, August 26, the Irish tennis machine overwhelmed the experienced Detroit Tennis Club, 8-1. The triumphant courts-men won every point except one of the doubles matches.
Continuing his smashing court play, Charley Samson rumbled on to victory by defeating Gibson of the Detroit aggregation, 6-4, 6-1. Consistent playing won the second point in the personage of Irishman Bill Tully. Bill downed Sin-gelyn, 6-2, 6-3, and then sat back to watch his teammate Jerry Evert conquer Fox, 6-2, 6-4. ROTC man Jim Griffin commandeered the fourth singles match by a 6-0, 5-7, 6-1 win over Doeg of Detroit. Notre Dame’s Sandy War-shawsky, a native of Detroit, garnered the final marker by sandwiching Weiner, 2-6, 6-2, 6-4. "
That dependable Sammy Tully clique came through again to win the first doubles tally for Notre Dame, ruining the hopes of Michigan’s motor city duo, Gibson and Beyer, 6-0, 6-1. The only black mark against the midwest champions was scored as Jim Griffin and Sandy Warshawsky were soundly thumped, 6-1, 6-2 by Dams and Hedges.
Whitewash Lawrence
Playing host to Lawrence College, the Blue and Gold racqueteers registered
another perfect victory of 9-0. This marked the second meeting of the two teams this summer; previously the Appleton, Wis., combine had bowed to the Irish by a similar score.
Charley Samson grabbed off the first score by breezing past Dick Flain, 6-1, 6-0. Jerry Evert, playing with a painful case of boils, chalked up the second score at the expense of Wisconsin man, Dickinson. Seaman Bill Tully watched the Irish eyes smile when he crushed the efforts of Lawrence’s Boone. Bud Herman aided the Golden Dome cause by letting Jim Griffin win in two shutouts, 6-0, 6-0. Sandy Warshawsky cut himself a piece of shutout pie as he posted two blanks beside the name of Van Goetham of Lawrence. Carlos Rad-riquez, a South American, made the singles finale as he folded up under Ed Kukuk’s 6-4, 6-2 strain.
Notre Dame mastered the doubles situation by not allowing a lone point to the visitors from Appleton, Wis. Tully and Griffin scored identical wins of 6-1, 6-1 over Dick Flam and Dickinson. Then Joe Wood and Bart O’Brien put the luck of the Irish to use and licked Bud Herman and Boone, 6-2, 5-7, 6-1. Scoring the last point by virtue of a 6-1, 4-6, 6-0 margin, Ed Kukuk and Warshawsky wrote finis to the Lawrence efforts.	_
The match with Lawrence completed the summer schedule for the tennis squad, However, Coach Walter Langford reports the possibility of one more match with the South Bend Tennis Club.
STUDENT COUNCIL FIELD DAY
(Continued from page 3)
When asked about the prospects from Carroll, one man said, “Personally, I think that Carroll will go through that field day like Patton’s army went through France. We’ll have so many points you’ll need an adding machine to keep track. If you have five fingers you can keep track of the scores of the other halls. We already have the spot picked out where we are going to put the plaque.”
All any Sorin men would reveal concerning that hall’s prospects was a . yawning “We’ll win.”
Yes, Sunday will be a big day on the Notre Dame campus.
By PETE BROWN
A few weeks ago Manager Charlie Grimm of the Chicago Cubs was answering questions for the wounded veterans at Gardiner General hispital. One of the veterans asked him if the Cubs would finish in fourth place.
“We have two chances, the way I look at it,” answered Grimm. “If Mel Ott’s leg keeps him out of the lineup for the remainder of the season, we might make it. But the only sure way is for us and the Giants to get rained out of every remaining game. If that happens we’ve got them sure.”
They then asked him about Lou Novi-koff. Grimm’s reply was.
“He’s just confused. He has a bad habit of not going back to the wall on balls hit over his head. You know that the walls of Wrigley field are covered with lovely vines. Well, every morning I walk out there with Lou, and I touch the vines', pull at them, stick my hands in them and rub my face in them. I tell Lou that the vines are Chinese Wistaria or Swiss Offenschloss. They ain’t poison ivy. They ain’t oak. But poor Lou gets confused and forgets. And when the next ball is hit out there, he keeps as far away from the-vines as we are from first place.”
The Boston Yankees of the National Pro League have come up with a player named Ted Williams. If he is just as handy with the pigskin as the other Boston Ted Williams was with the wood and horsehide for the Red Sox, the people of Boston may see some good football.
Tom Coates of St. Paul is being boomed as “a mighty mite” in the Minnesota backfield. Mighty mites in a Minnesota lineup are a far cry from the days of the Golden Gophers of Bernie Bierman. There is a story about the manner in which Bierman used to get his players from the farms of Minnesota and the Dakotas. When he would see a likely looking boy plowing a field, he would ask how far the next town was, and in what direction. If the boy just pointed, he would go his way. But if the boy picked up the plow and pointed with it, he would be in the Minnesota lineup inside of two years.
Dyche Stadium seems to be a jinx to the All-Star game. Since the event was moved to the Evanston site a year ago, (Continued on page 22)
15
All-Star Grid Game Hasn't Changed-lrish Still Fill the Bill With Talented Action
BY BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
Creighton Miller, John Yonakor, Bill Huber, and Corwin Clatt, Notre Dame’s representatives in the Chicago Tribune’s 11th renewal of the All-Star game in Dyche Stadium, Evanston, ten days ago, played a typical “Fighting Irish” brand of football as they formed the bulwark of the All-Star attack.
Carrying forward the same fighting spirit that had made them such valuable assets to the varsity teams of ’42 and ’43, the trio of boys that saw action in
the contest, Miller, Yonakor, and Huber played equally well on offense and defense and definitely outshone the other contingents who were representing other major universities.
Miller, who caught Glenn Dobbs’ initial forward pass over the goal line while just toeing the out-of-bounds line, was the first man to hit pay dirt for the evening. The maneuvers that led to this score were practically all dependent upon “Big” John Y’onakor who was used in the role of a great receiving end, a target who was made the object of Dobb’s spot passes over center. Yonakor figured in at least a half dozen completed tosses of the evening and the All-Star rooters in the stands, as well as the Bears’ diehards, were getting concrete evidence as to why “Big John” was chosen on numerous All-American teams last year. Besides abetting the offensive cause, Yonakor put forth a stalwart stand at the flank, the Bears finding it tough to sweep his end.
Miller, who was the starting choice at fullback along with Y’onakor at right end, was welcomed by Head Coach Lynn Waldorf, Northwestern grid mentor as a great defensive back. Knocking down several passes by quick-thinking and thorough timing, Creighty gained the nod of the 50,000 spectators who watched the contest in a constant heavy drizzle that started with ten minutes remaining in the second period. One of the many opinions of those who witnessed the contest was that the attempts to go through
16
the line and around the ends by the Stars were too infrequent. Everyone seemed to be very much agreed on the status of Creighton Miller who was not only kept from playing the safety positions on punts but who was also denied the toting of the pigskin, the kind of play that made him America’s standout back of ’43. He ran the ball for gains of 10 and 15 yards respectively, the latter play being called back, but successive opportunities were never afforded him. Even when the rain loomed as a great threat to the excellent passing ability of Dobbs, the Stars did not turn to a ground attack but rather remained airminded and consequently had a few of their “wet” passes intercepted which hindered their cause greatly.
Bill Huber, although he did not start, came in at an end position and was on the receiving half of a few of the Col-legiates aerials. He was playing his second All-Star game, having been a starter in last year’s contest which saw the Stars defeat the Washington Redskins, 27-7.
When called upon, the Blue and Gold boys were right there, displaying all the prowess that has been so phenomenal in Irish grid history. And despite the setback, 24-21, football, a la Fighting Irish, was put on dress parade by a quartet named, Miller, Y’onakor, Huber, and Clatt.
Co. M Wins Honors
That red rooster, emblematic of the station marching championship, which had become a hereditary possession of members of Company G for ten months, has finally taken wing and moved from its familiar position in front of Alumni to Zahm Hall. This came as the result of the victory of Company M in closeorder drill competition among companies of the seaman unit.
On August 22, 23, and 24, the first, second, and third battalions, respectively, met to decide battalion honors. Each company followed a pre-arranged routine consisting of falling-in, taking a muster, executing facings, flank, column, and oblique movements, close march, and finally a compound movement — “left step, right step, to the rear, march.”
A judging board consisting of Sergt. Rockwell, Corporal Pesta, and Sergt.
Tarre of the Marine Corps, and Chiefs Clark, Norris, and Hutnick of the Navy were placed at various points about the drill field.
In the first battalion competition, Company M emerged victorious with a total of 421 points out of a possible 500. In secoond battalion competition, Company G won a close decision from Company H with 416 points. Company D gathered the highest total in battalion competition by nosing out Company H of the third battalion with 424 points.
When the battle was waged for regimental honors, Company M scored the victory with an aggregate of 424 points. Company G was second with 408 points, followed by Company D with 390 points. Judging this event were Comdr. Walter S. Gabel, Major Jones, and Warrant Officer S. Banashek.
In charge of the rooster company formations is Corporal Pesta of the Marine Corps. Supervising the drill competition was Mr. Banashek, station drill officer.
Further competition is being planned for the near future with the possibility of open challenge competition during the review on the week-end of the V-12 ball.
—Gene Diamond
Voting Made Easy
In an effort to furnish all eligible men of the Notre Dame V-12 unit with . the necessary opportunities for votingin the general November election, officials of the unit have, during the past month, passed along to the men the information needed by them in order that they might take advantage of the privilege. ’
“The Navy is making an all-out effort to insure every man an opportunity to vote,” stated Lt. (jg) Bradford Lamson, voting officer. “Any man having a question concerning his voting qualifications should obtain that information from this office.”
On the basis of ballot cards handed out to eligible men, a total of 350 men in the unit fulfill the voting requirements. In 47 of the states, men must be at least 21 years of age; in Georgia, the age minimum is 18.
According to the voting officer, Room 105 of the Law Building has been set aside for balloting purposes. Any man wishing to cast his vote without any out- , side distractions may use this room for ■ that purpose.	i
5
All barracks officers are qualified to ,? sign the ballot cards, which must be sent ; to the required state as a request for a i ballot.—Al Broten .	!’
I
Library Continues as Center of Reference;
Modern Novels Popular With Civilians
BY GREG HALPIN
New students at Notre Dame, both civilians and servicemen, are quickly learning a lesson in study that has been taught ever since the beginning of the University over one hundred years ago, that is: if you want to study, go to the Library.
Therefore any night during school week, men can be seen clad in sport shirts, grey-blue, white and khaki, ascending the steps of the Notre Dame Library headed for a reference room and silence. Inside they will find cool, well-lighted rooms stacked high with reference books which contain information on almost any subject they wish to delve into. They will find a Library staff ready and willing to help them get the book they want and get it quickly.
Meeting Spot for Scholars
When the war came to Notre Dame in the form of the V-12 and midshipmen units, the facilities of the University shifted to meet the new demands placed on them by the servicemen. But not so the Library. There a shift wasn’t necessary. For even before the war, the books which were in the white stone building were mainly reference with a minority of well chosen current novels
on hand for anybody who had the time to read them.
’ Student demand through the years has always leaned toward reference books because they helped in studies. This is now true in the case of the Navy and Marine trainees. Civilians have recently swung towards fiction and are placing a heavy demand on current novels.
Leaders on the civilian hit parade of fiction books are stories of the second world war, which are popular, according to Library authorities, because the men they tell about are so close to the average Notre Dame student. Books such as “They Were Expendable,” “Queens Die Proudly,” “Tarawa,” and “God Is My Co-Pilot” are the most popular. Recent best sellers in the pure fiction class, however, are forcing the war books to give up at least a portion of the spotlight. “The Robe,” “A Tree Grows In Brooklyn,” “The Song of Bernadette” and others are daily requests.
Among the authors Lloyd C. Douglas runs as top favorite, pushed there by his last work “The Robe.” Willa Cather, long a Notre Dame favorite, still retains much of her charm for the readers.
Navy courses cause the servicemen to flock to the reference rooms which are well able to supply them with the information they seek. This does not prevent a few from getting a little fiction reading, however, so with the civilians, they help keep the Library’s supply of novels active.
The University Library was opened in 1917 under the direction of the late Rev. Paul Foik, C.S.C. In 1922 Father Foik left and Mr. Paul Byrne was placed in charge and has been there ever since. It is not an easy job at all. There are over 200,000 volumes housed in the Library with an under-manned staff of 16 regular workers assisted by 7 part-time student helpers. Add to this the greater number of men using the facilities of the building and you can see why Mr. Byrne has a job on his hands.
And so when lights go on and the noise starts, the man with work to do jams his books under his arm and heads for the mecca of the studious — the Notre Dame Library.
University Golf Open Goes to Fitzpatrick
Jack Fitzpatrick, freshman from Akron, Ohio, not only honored himself by being the leading individual point-gainer for the 1944 Notre Dame Intercollegiate Golf champions, but added more prestige when he won the University Open championship during the summer.
Freshman lack Fitzpatrick
Fitzpatrick, who annexed 26^ points as his individual match total as compared with his nearest rival’s 19%, was one of the steady linksmen on the Fighting Irish aggregate of ’44, coached by Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C. In winning the University Open, 72 hole medal play, Jack pounded out scores of 72, 70, 71, and 66, the final 18 being five under par for the William J. Burke Memorial Course. His total of 279 lowered the record for the event formerly held by Tommy Sheehan, 286 made in 1938.
Jack’s team mates who competed against him were not able to get below the 290’s. Jim Bessenfelder came home with 294; Jim Clynes amassed a total of 297; Mel Wilke had 303 as did Tom Handion; Tom Kennedy went the 72 hole route in 308; Dick Seidel totalled 309; Bob Terry checked in with 310 and John Cawley completed the field of nine with 321. Fitzpatrick now has his name engraved on the plaque that is encased in the “pro shop” in the Rockne Building.
Law Club Holds Picnic
The Notre Dame Law Club will hold a picnic tomorrow at Dean Manion’s home. The main event of the day will be the baseball game between the upperclassmen and and the lowerclassmen.
17
THE GREEN BANNER |	BY JIM CASEY	C
^XXXXXXXXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZXXt
WHAT'S A PHOMP?
Sunday tells a story. Has St. Ed’s hall the stalwarts of the old St. Ed’s A.C. of old? Will Sorin hall be out in front when that long-awaited phomp race takes place? Which of the Freshman halls will predominate in the water and field events? What do you think of Gravel Gertie’s chances in the 50-yard dash? In the event that you don’t take an active part in Sunday’s drama, come out to watch your representatives put on a real show for your enjoyment.
St. Ed’s aggregation promises to be a strong one. Athletes with proven reputations will be on hand to represent the hall. Among them will be Frank Rug-gerio, Bob Cianchetti, and Elmer Angs-man in the 60-yard dash; Mike Tez-lowski, John Angnone, Joe Delia, and Chuck Sead will use their weight in the tug-of-war, while Bob Welsh will heave the medicine ball. Sorin is keeping rather silent on the total number of athletes she is putting on the field. And, if rumors are not too deceiving, we’ll see such huskies as Mike Manzo, Pete Be-rezney, Jim Clynes, Walt McDermott and others, all ready to face any opposition in the tug-of-war. As any fool can plainly see, it looks like a real battle. You’ll be sorry if you aren’t present.
THERE GO THE POINTS
So far this week, we have been lucky at the dining hall. Imagine—steaks on Monday, and food the rest of the week! Oh, surely the good times of yore are returning. We don’t know how much connection this has to do with Hany Ryan, if any; but Hany is now a member of the dining hall staff—in a very menial capacity, perhaps, but nevertheless he is on the staff.
THE PENALTY OF THE PRESS
If you have a spare moment, wave a blotter at Bill Waddington these days. He is slowly thawing out, and dehydrating himself after the deluge at the All-Star game. Bill, trusty sports editor that he is, sat through the downpour that SCHOLASTIC readers might have a first-hand account of the fray from the pen of the master sports mind of the campus. We, who do nothing more than rib our fellow journalists, sat beside him that night, with a big raincoat over our heads, and observed the misery of
18
the man at his task. And it didn’t help matters at all, either, when the final points were tabulated, revealing that the Bears had won. Waddington’s profound knowledge of football, and his ability to prognosticate outcomes of such contests are just about equal to his uncanny ability at Washington Park outcomes. Yep, he lost a bet. But then, added Waddington, “There are other contests coming up. Don’t forget that.”
SHALL WE DANCE?
As you have probably noticed elsewhere in this issue, another dance for civilians is in the offing. It will be held on October 6, in the Rockne Memorial. And that is not all—because after the game on the following day, another dance will take place as part of the football game week-end. Nothing too elaborate, you understand—just another Victory Dance; but one that will be very much worthwhile. Of course St. Mary’s will be back on the local scene (there’s an idea for you, Egbert!) with high hopes and late permissions. The very thought of the “Rock” sends the more romantic souls skipping through the woods to the suburb in the west. Come along, Egbert, and see what the fortunes of war bring us this fall.
Venezuelan Priest Speaks to La Raza Club Here
For many years Notre Dame has been a favorite calling point for distinguished visitors from the Good Neighbor lands of Latin America. Thursday evening, August 24, another name was added to the list of callers. Rev. Juan Francisco Hernandez, of Caracas, capital city of Venezuela, a priest outstanding in Catholic social work in his country, spoke in the Law building to members and guests of La Raza club, the Spanish-speaking students of the University, on the subject, “Social Conditions in Venezuela Today.”
Father Hernandez’s multiple social activities well equipped him for his talk. In Caracas he is chaplain of two city hospitals, chaplain of one large Boy Scout troop, professor of ethics and member of the Technical Council of the School of Social Service of the Ministry of Health, and co-founder, professor, and chaplain of the National Nursing- School.
This extensive experience, added to years of study and reading, are the source of Father Hernandez’s numerous books on social topics, particularly on the Boy Scouts and the nursing profession. His visit to the United States is the outcome of these studies. He is spending two months studying social institutions in the United States under the sponsorship of the Office of the Coordinator of InterAmerican Affairs.
Father Hernandez prefaced his remarks by referring to the disastrous 30 year reign of General Juan Vicente Gomez, “Tyrant of the Andes,” the ruthless dictator, who from 1905 to 1935 administered Venezuela and its people as a landowner might his own land and cattle. The cruelty of his regime, asserted the speaker, has yet to be known at large. Today, Venezuela is only beginning to recover. It is 50 years behind in social legislation and democratic life. Among the many problems that it faces, three are outstanding: education (less than 35% of children of school age are in school); health and sanitation (particularly against malaria, syphlis, and tuberculosis) ; and agriculture. Venezuela, a nation almost 100% agricultural, has seen its laborers drawn from the farms and its agricultural wealth and needs neglected, due to the foreign utilization of labor in the exploitation of oil. Venezuela ranks second to the United States among the oil producing countries of the world.
Points such as these raised interesting questions from the audience, and discussion lingered on long after the speech had ended. Father Hernandez enjoyed the evening, and his entire stay of several days at Notre Dame. Since 1939, when he met His Excellency, Bishop John F. O’Hara, D.D., then president of Notre Dame and head of the Catholic Social Service Commission to Venezuela, and Father Cunningham, member of the Education Section of the Commission, of which Fr. Hernaandez was one of the Venezuelan delegates, he has looked forward to this visit to the United States— and to Notre Dame in particular. Notre Dame in turn was happy and honored to have him as its guest.
BULLETIN!
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will present the plaque to the winning hall team in Sunday’s Field Day, according to word reaching the SCHOLASTIC just before going to press. The presentation will take place at the conclusion of the program of stunts which is scheduled for 7:00 Sunday night in Washington Hall.

P&uAc&pe.
By HARRY LE BEN
COMPANY "M"
In more ways than one this amazing company is showing itself to be the leader on the campus. We think they deserve a blow:
By now everyone has recognized the Red Rooster, signifying the Regimental Drill Champs, as being the exclusive property of these residents of Zahm Hall. Much to the disgruntlement of several members of “G” Company, so we are told, it was won in the interbattalion competition several weeks ago. Watch them swing down that long stretch in front of the band some noon; they really look sharp.
Secondly, (at least when this goes into print), they keep their record clean and remain undefeated in softball.
Thirdly, they again step out in front and tomorrow will throw the first-company party, upon the success of which depends the holding of similar affairs by other companies. The happy dqin’s will take place complete with dates, chow, etc.
Lastly, and this is a special note to all you mighty engineers: the company is composed mainly of Supply Candidates.
Anybody able to match ’em?
MUSTER ANNOUNCEMENTS
(Unexpurgated)
July 32, 1944 Bee Sea.
* To be read at noon muster.
1)	0615 Health Club Members; Notice! There will be an important meeting behind the stadium next Saturday morning. Ludwig Bott's proposition to dynamite the stadium will be discussed. Vitamin pills and water will be served. Don’t miss!
2)	It has come to the notice of the V-12 office that some men are tying their shoe strings without leaving the customary 1 2/8" overlap on each side. Chiefs and non-coms will see to it that this is immediately corrected and all offenders reported.
3)	LOST: A fifty dollar bill between San Diego and South Bend. Finder please return to V-12 office. No questions asked. Reward: one bus token!
4)	There will be a meeting with the course officer in the gear locker of the Law Building next Sunday of all prospective V-5 candidates. Please attend if you can meet these requirements: Be 5' 6 15/47" tall; weigh 168 lbs.; have a 98 average; be perfect physically. Time: 0225. Will both men be prompt.
5)	There will be a review and inspection by the battalion staff of the fourth squad, second platoon, Company R, next Saturday morning at 1115. Leggin’s and dress greens (Friday’s whites) are uniform. Be on time.
6)	Important!
A special clothing muster will be held today at 1920. Any men not in correct uniform will be reported. Uniform will be. arctics and brassards. Any needed clothing will be written on supplied cards, and then cards will be tom up. You didn’t actually think they had the' stuff, did you?
7)	The following are excerpts from a letter received from the South Bend Chapter, Local 529, We Love Horses Of America League:
“Pleace receive the deep-felt thanks of all the horses and member’s of our little group. The V-12 seamen and marines did an excellent job cleaning up our farm.”
8)	Marines who signed up for the Marshmallow Roast and All Day Sucker Feast will meet at the Main Gate near the telephone pole, 1700 that date. (How are we supposed to know what the date is? Don’t you guys know nothing?)
9)	FOUND: Two skunks, eight dead rats and fourteen broken light bulbs in my bed. Owners may call for them in person. No questions asked.
Arnie Sklare
10)	Softball tonight:
0310: Company Y vs. Company Q on 1st pool table, Zahm Rec Room.
0625: Company A vs. Winner of St. Louis-New York tilt on 5th deck Main Building.
QUOTATION OF THE WEEK
From “The United States Navy, A History.” Page 173: “One ship, recently purchased, had been saved only by throwing her battery overboard. Another, with a battalion of marines aboard, was with difficulty kept afloat until the marines had been removed.”
Just a matter of removing the dead weight!
OPEN LETTER
To all Eager Beavers on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday:
You can talk, It may be fun. But I’ll just walk, And you can run.
THINGS AND STUFF
NOTICE: To lovers of the fine arts, we of Alumni are featuring for a limited time only, Fronk “Of course, of course,” Kelley. You are invited to attend a series of lectures by Mr. Kelley on the subject: “Why That Dirty Mouldy Jordan Is The Laziest Guy In This Hall.”
WANTED: A maid for light housekeeping. Will receive wages in Demerit Cards. Hours reasonable. Inquire, Jack Young.
Don’t speak too harshly with the janitors over in Alumni or they might quit. Cleaning on the first deck halted last week while a seaman was drafted to clean a spot off the floor.
SUMMER BOXING (Continued from page 12) sence of the usual abundant TKO’s and one-sided contests in the quarter-finals. That they all were in shape to perform creditably for three rounds is alone praiseworthy, but Santos’ charges were more than simply that. Most of them showed remarkable improvement in just a few weeks under his tutelage. Joe, himself, was visibly pleased with his boys and promises a good card for the finals.
NROTC SIGNS McINTYRE
It was officially announced on Thursday of this week by NROTC dance officials that Hal McIntyre and his celebrated dance band had been selected to play for the coming affair scheduled for October 6. According to Chairman Johnson, the signing of McIntyre marks a-new high in NROTC social affairs.
When Mark Twain was asked by a young lady if he liked books he replied: “Well that depends! If a book has a leather cover it is valuable as a razor strop; if it is a brief work it is useful to put under the short end of a wobbly -table; “A book with a clasp can’t be beat as a missile to hurl at a dog; and a large book like a geography can be nailed over a broken pane of glass.”
—Bits Out of Life
19
College Parade
We bring you a student poll. — with reference to the presidential elections in November entitled “Dewey. ... Or Do We Not? . . .” The statistical analysis shows how the votes distributed their 38 and 52 per-cent favorite candidate vote over Dewey and Roosevelt, along with their reasons.
ROOSEVELT
Experience as war leader..........26%
Present situation demands him.....10
Past record for 12 years.......... 6
Best man for the job.............. 4-
Favor his foreign policy.........—	4
All others ....—.....-............ 2
Total Roosevelt vote..........52%
DEWEY	’
Change needed in office..........12%
“Roosevelt too old”.............  6
“As long as he’s a Republican”... 6
Was a good D. A.................. 4
Don’t know why...................10
Total Dewey vote..............38%
RETURNING VETERANS
With plans for reconversion of various kinds flying thick, an article from Time magazine gives a good idea of some of the difficulties involved in the problem of servicemen returning to college campuses in America.
The article states that by the statue of the Trojan on the University of Southern California campus, a group of male students meets almost every day. One of them occasionally taps the toe of his artificial leg with his cane, another awkwardly tries to hid the shiny black glove that covers his artificial right hand .... This group is different from the other students—proud, reserved, mature, cliquish, hard to know.
4*
READJUSTMENT HARD
The men by the statue are the vanguard of the legion of World War II veterans soon to return to U. S. campuses, and they and the university are having a hard time adjusting themselves to each other. Other colleges and the veterans appeared last week to be solving the problem more readily, but for all of them it is tough.
All 80-odd student veterans have had trouble with fraternities. To many of them fraternity folderol seemed childish, their members immature. When they formed their own club, fraternity pride was hurt, and hostility has developed. Notices handed in to the Daily Trojan
20
have been “somehow misplaced.”
But the veterans’ chief gripes are about university insistence that they follow a regular routine. They revolt at such required subjects as “Hygiene and Health,” “Behavior of Modern Society,” and others, believing they have learned a lot in this war and these subjects are either old stuff or a waste of time.
A man too weak to turn over in bed without help because of rheumatic fever contracted in the New Hebrides, or a man who had lost a leg at Oran were required to take the regular gym course.
These veterans do not expect the university to turn itself inside out for them —all they ask is a little understanding of their special problems. Men just learning to write left handed, or others with similar injuries would like to be considered when it is necessary to take class notes.
ALL WILL FACE IT
This problem will face nearly every college and university in the United States, and it will be up to the administrations of those institutions to see to it that consideration is given these men. They do not want to be babied or pitied —just understood and considered.
The many institutions whose enrollments have been depleted by men leaving for the service, will find themselves facing an entirely different group when these men return to college. It will take an administration with foresight and understanding to face and solve this problem. If they fail, many of the things for which men have been wounded and killed will be lost because America’s
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
PLAIN "T" SHIRTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
THE HUDDLE
youth who left for war will not return as America’s youth, but as America’s men. Educators must see this and act accordingly.
—Bob Riordan

iHOLD THAT HAIRLINE! I
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL : SUCCESS DEPEND ON : YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS 2 APPEARANCE. LET OUR E
TRAINED GRADUATES E EXAMINE YOUR HAIR £ AND SCALP. .. TREAT E THE REAL CAUSE OF E RECEDING HAIRLINE. E FREE EXAMINATION. E TREATMENTS $1.00. E
Phone 4-1481	=
I HARPER METHOD MEN’S SHOP I
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
CANDY
TOBACCO
PIPES
STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
Snider Reviews Dali at Bookmen Meeting
Salvatore Dali, regarded in art circles as the outstanding contemporary exponent of surrealism in art, was discussed by Marine Pvt. Robert C. Snider for the Bookmen on August 30. Few persons out of the art field profess an accurate insight into the significances of surrealistic art, and so Snider prefaced his paper with an objective survey and explanation of the field, before dealing specifically with Dali.
The reviewer pointed out that the surrealist achieves his effect and notoriety by the essaying of what is essentially an aesthetic shock. There is the attempt to express the subconscious mental activities by presenting images without order or sequence, as in a dream.
The discussion hinged upon Dali’s recent novel Hidden Faces, the story of which deals with a dying Europe, especially a decadent France. Snider brought in reproductions of Dali’s paintings, and also copies of correspondence which Dali has had with the Art Institute in Chicago. With the survey of the surrealistic art field, the review of Dali’s book, and the reproductions, Snider did an admirable piece of work in further clarifying for the Bookmen what is truly an enigmatic studv. The copy of the novel was placed in the Bookmen’s library.
The Bookmen’s library is expanding, with each member loaning for the general reading of the other members, as many volumes as he feels disposed. Arrival and Departure by Koestler, So Little Time by Marquand, Man the Un-knotvn by Carrell, Leave Her to Heaven by Williams, and The Judgment of The Nations by Dawson are some of the more recent contributions.
Plans for the club’s picnic were rounded-off before making further arrangements for the open-meeting of the group to be held in October. Dr. Waldemar Gurian will address the club at that time. Faculty members, students, and all visitors who wish to attend, are welcome to hear Prof. Gurian discuss the subject of F. Dostoievski’s probing novel entitled Possessed. Notices will be posed later.—Arnie Sklare
tune in oil, come down from Evanston to claw away at their share of success. Then, on Nov. 25, the Texan will take his seasoned tools down to match the offering of old-timer Bill Alexander of the Georgia Tech Engineers who are always dead set on engineering some sort of a deal, employing all the tricks of the trade by which to lure a choice morsel of victory into their ring of prestige. The home site for the final meeting will find Ed shooting the works. Great Lakes, who

M M H M
H
M M
McKEEVER PLANS AHEAD (Continued from page 12) The “big city boys” from New York will • await the arrival of the Blue and Gold, who play the game incognito, donning Green and Gold, in an effort to throw-off the Army militarists who have the extravaganza won in blueprint propaganda. The Wildcats, who didn’t make their for-
M H M M X
grabbed the bag in the final second of play last year, will have to come prepared to part with a large portion of their ill-gotten gains for they are the guys that Ed’s “gunnin’ for.”
Donuts will get you dollars that when the curtain is raised on the grid season, the South Bend institution with McKeever calling the tosses will have a substantial say in who’s going to be who in ’44.
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
• There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
JOSIE and JIM'S
fUNNY ITALY
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE

CAFE
PLACE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!


21
New Athletic Field
Nearing Completion
Notre Dame rumor mongers, discouraged and dejected, are today in search of new fields of exploitation because Lt. (j.g.) C. L. Brewbaker had with an authoritative revelation cleared up the question of, “What are those chu'lian Seabees doing south of the main tennis courts?"
The field, according to Lt. Brewbaker, which is now in the process of construction will eventually be used by the University and the Navy as an over-all site for all physical education and extracurricular sports, which are now forced to all parts of the campus because of lack of space.
Before this announcement was made, there had been many reasons advanced for the operations in the Stadium vicinity. Some maintained that various construction projects were to be carried on out there for the recreational benefits of ex-Seabees now in V-12 training. Others had claimed that facilities were to be constructed there for post-war use in re-teaching to servicemen the ways of civilian life.
Then there were the unconventional few who had heard that Chief Broderick was going to open a finishing school for Waves (Say, have you heard “DeMille” teaching naval law in naval organization class??)
However, the vicious rumors have now vacated the scene and only the dust is left to filter over on the campus greens.
—Al Broten
KLINEMEN END SEASON (Continued from Page 14).
Ciszczon and Mayo. The Chicago club knotted the count in the second but the Klinemen once more grabbed the lead in
* Stationery with your insignia
* Toilet Articles
* Greeting Cards
the next as Albert survived on a fielding bobble and Ciszczon and Balbierz poked out one baggers. Then came George Williams’ three-run splurge which put them ahead to stay. For good measure the winners added two more in the eighth. N. D.’s final threat netted a lone counter in the seventh on Mayo’s second blow, a fielder’s choice and an error.
Frank Ciszczon, Dick Balbierz and Jack Mayo divided six of the losers’ eight hits evenly and Jack Tree and pitcher Eldon O’Brien supplied the other’ two. Third baseman Bell belted three for four to lead George Williams.
A game carded for Labor Day against the Twin Cities Independents team at Benton Harbor, Mich, was cancelled.
The score:
George Williams .........012 3 00 02 0—8
Notre Dame .............. 102 000 10 0—1
Kiekknenn and Weidner; Albert. O'Brien (4) and Rebman. Laurita (3).
Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
PRESSBOX SPLINTERS (Continued from page 15) there has been nothing but rain during the contest.
All-Star game announcer Harry Wis-mer had a field day messing up what he was trying to say. He had Bill Huber, former ND end, an alumnus of North Dakota. Pretty close, but not close enough. Later in the game, according to Wismer, Billy Hillenbrand threw a pass to, of all people, Billy Hillenbrand. He cut across the field and was brought down by the Bears. When he got up, he was Charlie Trippi. Not many men can accomplish a feat like that.
Don Hutson of the Green Bay Packers is pulling an old stage act. Two years ago was to be his last season, but he saw his way clear to play just one more season. After last season he retired. Last week “Curly” Lambeau, coach asked to have Hutson reinstated so that he could play ball next year.
I. W. Lower Co.
DECORATORS
128 North Michigan Street (Across from the Frances Shop)
$ OFFICER'S - PAK
Navy or Khaki Weight under 6 Pounds
$21.30
(Tax included)
* Bookends
* Notre Dame Jewelry
* Souvenirs
* Pillows
HansA Ri ntzsch
Carries necessary uniforms and accessories.
NAME IN GOLD FREE
Also available at PARKER-WINTERROWD. Inc. 115/2 N. Main Street
EMPTY TOILET CASES Genuine Leather $1.00
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
Noble Jba/tte Nookiio^e
Badin Hall
[3
22
Fourteen-Day Leave and Month's Pay....
By DON NUECHTERLEIN
This week we thought that it might prove interesting to find out what the gobs around here would do on a leave if it were given to them. So we proceeded to barge into rooms and get the name and company number before they said, “No.” Then this question was put to them: “If you were given $50 and a 14 day leave, where would you go and what would you do?”
Our first victim was a blonde-headed chap from Co. N named Bill (wee-wee) Phillips. The first thing he said was “One hundred dollars would be better.” Well, we won’t disagree with him on that. Bill said the first thing he would do would be to leave Notre Dame and go back to the University of Minnesota to see his old buddies. Then he would go home and spend some time harvesting. He claims that it’s great farming land up there.
Naturally he wants to see his girl, but he adds with a gleam in his eye that he would take out a different gal every night. We wonder why it is that these guys can’t stick to one gal. It must be the sailor in them. As for spending money, a town close by offers an excel-
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BENO. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER, M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D. D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND, IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS 406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
lent chance to dispose of any excess currency.
When we approached Dale Worfel of Co. 0, he was in the midst of studying for a chemistry test. Dale says that he wants to live his whole two weeks as a hermit at a little cabin in Traverse City, Mich. Dale wants to do a lot of trout fishing. Of course, he says he’ll need a little allotment of gas.
As provisions, he wants plenty of apple pies, navy beans, and a cache of beer. This is Dale’s idea of a perfect two week’s leave. We forgot to ask him how he’d spend his money, but it almost seems certain that some charity would add to its funds. Where else would it go?
Don Spraight of Co. M would go home to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and spend the whole leave there. He has a pretty girl who would take up most of his time. He wants to sleep later than 0600 and get a taste of some of Mom’s good old homecooking. He’d like to spend the days fishing and swimming in some lake near home. Dancing would be his night time pleasure. If things got dull in Cedar Rapids, he’d take off for Iowa City. He claims that it could very easily take care of his money.
When we visited Warren Wenger, he and his roommates were in the midst of a heat-power assignment. When he heard the question he scratched his head a moment and then replied. He’d like to go home to Elkhart for a few days. Then he’d take his girl to Chicago for a whirlwind tour. Places of interest would be plays, night clubs, and River View Park. After he had spent all his money, he would spend the rest of his time at a lake near home. Above all, he’d like to forget about the navy.
Dick Myers of Co. A would head straight for Altoona, Pa., to see the folks. Then he says that the next stop would be Washington, D. C. to see his girl. When we asked him how he managed during the day when she would be working, he replied that she works for his brother and that he could fix it up o.k. Dick would do plenty of roller skating and bowling, his favorite sports. When he would get spare time, if that were possible he’d like to try his hand at a little fishing. He wants to sleep until 1100 every day and just loaf from then on. A few plays and stage shows and a cruise down the Potomac in the moonlight appeal to him for night activities.
As for George Redmond of Co. B, he would head straight for his home in California. There he would visit “the boys” back at Fresno State College and go out and take in the town with them. He wants plenty of good food and also plenty of sleep. On the way back he’d stop off in Benton Harbor to visit a little “chick.” George wants gas galore, because he likes to drive.
Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years.
$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell
$2.50
at the Bookstore
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE
at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of
Desirable Gifts
on display.
Use our lay-away plan.

Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
,/> f„ NIX
7ml VITAMINS
HIGH-POTENCY TABLETS
VITAMINS A-D-Bx-B2 (G)-C-B6
E-Niacin-Calcium Pantothenate
As Dietary’ Supplement ONE TABLET A DAY Will Supply the Full Daily Minimum Adult Requirement of the Vitamins of Which the Requirements Are Established.
Each small Nine-Vitamin Tablet Contains—
AS MUCH “A” as 4 Pints Whole Milk
AS MUCH “D” as 1 lb. of Butter
AS MUCH “C” as 2 ozs. Orange Juice
AS MUCH “Bi” as 35 ozs. Raw Cabbage
AS MUCH “B2”
FOR ADULTS
OR CHILDREN
as 40 ozs. Raw Green Beans
AS MUCH “Bg” as 30 Grs. Brewer's Yeast AS MUCH NIACIN as lb. Lean Meat AS MUCH CALCIUM PANTOTHENATE as 150 Gms. Carrots
AS MUCH “E” as in 5 mgm. wheat germ oil
90 TABLETS™ 83.50
23