THEM AU!
Philip Moums . „
leading brond to t en9es ony other na *® suggest this test
I HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF SMOKERS, who tried this test, report in signed statements that PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
1 Light up a Philip morris. Just take a puff— DON’T INHALE—and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it?
—J
SMB

- A
2 Light up your present brand. Do exactly the same thing—DON’T INHALE. Notice that bite, tHbt sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself. Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . Philip Morris is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
M2®!MBEirefS hangover k~"" "o“ “«>«>« mm",.

SPHIUP MORRIS
2
r
The Scholastic
YEARS AGO
----By PAUL ZALECKI, ’53-
Fifty Years Ago
From the March 3, 1901, Scholastic: Brownson Hall defeated Logansport’s crack basketball team 27-12, during the week. . . . Dr. DeCosto, a Catholic convert from Anglicanism, lectured at Notre Dame on the “Future of Catholicity in America”. . . . During the week the Whitney Mockbridge Company presented a program of classical music and singing at Washington Hall. ... 14 students entered the preliminary tryouts for the University debating team.
Twenty-five Years Ago
From the March 5, 1926, Scholastic: The Irish eagers defeated the highly touted down-staters from Flanklin, 4019. . . . The Notre Dame swimming team defeated Indiana 37%-31%, for their fifth straight victory. . .. Brother Leo, C.S.C., received a blue ribbon and five hundred dollars at the International Livestock Exposition in Chicago for his prize hogs. . . . The University closed a seminar in education with a demonstration of a self-directed class in social studies presented by the eighth grade pupls of the Lakeville Indiana School in the Library’s journalism room.
Ten Years Ago
From the Feb. 28, 1941, Scholastic: The Notre Dame basketball team defeated Georgia Tech 53-42, but lost to Butler 54-40, to end a winning streak of 11 games. . . . The University of Chicago swimming team defeated Notre Dame at Chicago 47-28. . . . The University “A” and “B” debaters won the eleventh annual Manchester tournament by taking 19 out of 22 debates. . . . Under the direction of Daniel H. Pedt-ke, head of the department of music, the school symphony orchestra was scheduled to present a concert at St. Angela Hall, St. Mary’s College, the following week. . . . The Irish Fieldhouse was to be the site of the Central Collegiate Indoor Track and Field Meet the following Friday and Saturday. The Central Collegiate was organized in 1927 by Knute Rockne, Ralph Young, of Michigan State, and Con Jennings, of Marquette. . . . The Indiana track team defeated Notre Dame 56 2/3 -47 1/3. .. . Breen-Phillips won the interhall track meet with 30 points. Zahm was second with 14.
■	Natural beauty! . . . that’s what a man goes for ... in I
shirts, too. Not a stitch showing on Van Chick... I ■	collar, cuffs and clean-cut front are as pure and stitch-	I
less as nature meant them to be. In whites, colors or	■
|	novelty weaves, Van Chick is the new style sensation.	|
!	9 Van Hensen	J
■	"the world’s smartest” QI I ■ I 10	|
B	PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.	"

Make GILBERT’S
your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
GILBERTS
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
Mar. 2,1951
3
comfort
then
you'll always have the
seat
Arrow
cut for
comfort . . . roomy.
No irritating center seam .
Shorts. They're full
S? who
in the house with
labeled. See ft ft
them today!
comfortable in an
position. {’^nfohized-
ARROW >	•
mkiw UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Make GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
—but Cigars are a Mank Smoke!
GILBERT'S
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
You need not inhale to enjoy a cigar!
CIGAR INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC.
The Scholastic
A# JACK JAAmW&Kf
Top of the Week
It’s Bengal Bout time again . . .
Have a Smoke
The following is the second release by the Cigar Institute of America, Inc.:
Harvard undergrads have petitioned In vain to lift the ban on entertaining female visitors in their dormitory rooms. Their plea to the effect that “if we can’t have the girls in our rooms we 'have to take them out which is some-
slip ND miniatures on bare third finger, left hand, play rabid games of Blackjack and Seven Card Stud, rush for their hats and coats when the overhead lights begin flicking off and on.
If the St. Mary’s Rec closes after Lent, a few more wallets and pocketbooks will be minus more green stuff and everybody will have to be out in the warm, intoxicating Spring night air. Who can wait for Easter?
The 22nd
Downunder Moanings
When Juggler co-editor Dave “Kiwi" Yerex wrote his little piece about Americans in general and ND students in particular, little did he know about our little escapade with the Bengal Bouters which was reported in the same issue last week.
If what we did, for only a short time, wasn’t participant sports, we seek something more participating. Maybe vitriolic Dave considers participant sports to be Wranglers meetings or seminar courses.
When any of the Juggler editors place even one foot on the threshold of athletic endeavor, their criticisms of non-participants will carry more weght.
Bottom of the Week	,
. . . gone are the days of the bloody feuds between heavies Roemer and Cif-elli.
thing we can’t afford,” ivas regretfully turned down by Dean Robert Bender.
However, the Harvard plight has not gone unnoticed. The Cigar Institute of America, a trade organization intent on popularizing perfectos on the campus, had a suggestion to make which could not' only “take the sting out of the edict but open up new avenues of pleasure for the undergrads.”
' The organization sent a quantity of cigars to the boys along with the Kipling admonition which not only pooh-poohed eight o’clock curfews but pretty well relegated women in general into a not so special category. “A Woman Is Only a Woman—But a Cigar Is a Smoke!”
At last reports, the cry at Harvard had been changed to “Bring on the dames—and more cigars!”
This promotion of cigars can go too far, we think. Imagine any undergrads at Notre Dame petitioning the school for permission to entertain female guests in the residence halls.
The state of Nevada this week ratified the Constitutional amendment which will limit all future presidents of the U. S. to two consecutive terms of office. It is now part of the law of the land.
This sad state of affairs seems to us to be rather discriminatory. What if another Roosevelt came along? On the other hand, what if another Truman came along?
Another bad feature of the new amendment is the way it will effect the younger generation. What little boy will want to grow up and be president if he can only look forward to a maximum of ten years employment? If the little boys follow careers along the lines of something like “Hopalong Cassidy” or Milton Berle they can be assured of employment as long as television is around and we’re afraid we’ll never get rid of it.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
So. Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry, Gift Items
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Memento Homo
While cigar smoking and the subsequent after-effects may appeal to some ND men, nobody has to worry about having female guests in the campus halls at ND, not when St. Mary’s opens up their “Rec” on Saturday nights and Sunday afternoons.
The “Rock Rec” is a strange combination of cellar and steam pipe reposito-rjr equipped with a variety of chairs and tables, a juke-box, ping-pong table, and empty Coke cooler. In this engaging atmosphere, St. Mary’s girls’ dates
Sunny Holy
A Notre Dame Tradition
"Rosie’s.” Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
Mar. 2,1951
5

MARCH 2
COLFAX (through March 7)—Humphrey Bogart finally gets a role that fits him correctly, in The Enforcer (Legion of Decency Rating A-2). He doesn’t have any extra-curricula love interest to muddle up his acting, and so gives a characterization that ranks among his best.
GRANADA (through March 4) — Anyone interested in finding out why Charlie Chaplin is considered one of the all-time great comedians can find proof in City Lights (A-2), a re-release of one of his oldies. The Second Face (B), with Ella Raines and Bruce Bennett, is the co-feature.
AVON (through March 6)—September Affair (B) was produced with such technical polish that it looks like a much better picture than it really is. Jean Fontaine, Joseph Cotton, Jessica Tandy and Francois Rosay are all fine performers but they can’t quite hide the fact that the story is a rather soppy soap-opera. The two most interestingthings in the film are the beautifully realistic shots of Italian scenery and the plaintive rendition of September Song by Walter Huston.
Vol. 92 March 2. 1951 No. 18
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor KENNETH A. THOREN '51
Associate Editors WALTON R. COLLINS '51 JOHN H. JANOWSKI '51
MARCH 3
WASHINGTON HALL—Jack Carson dons a white suit to play the title role in The Good Humor Man. It is supposed to be a comedy but not much of it comes off.
MARCH 4
PROGRESS CLUB—The Aquinas Lecture Series will present a talk by Dalma Hunyadi, a member of the staff of Cardinal Mindszenty’s newspaper, reporting on conditions behind the Iron Curtain. Tickets may be purchased before the lecture begins at 8 p.m.
MARCH 7
AVON (indefinite run)—I’d Climb the Highest Mountain (A-2) won’t, be included on any ten-best list at the end of this year, but it is one of those films that offers a maximum of pleasant entertainment. The story of a young minister and his wife and their experience in the hills of Georgia, it stars William Lundigan and Susan Hayward.
MARCH 8
COLFAX (through March 14)—Betty Grable and Dan Dailey must be two terribly hard working people because Call Me Mister (B) is still another of their frequent co-starring musicals. As a critical comment— this one isn’t much worse than its technicolored predecessors, nor much better, either. The only new spark of life is given to this series by some wonderful clowning by Danny Thomas.
MARCH 9
LAW AUDITORIUM—The fifth session of the 1951 Marriage Institute will present a talk by Dr. Sherman L. Egan on The Medical Aspects of Marriage.
PALACE (through March 15)—Three Guys Named Mike is a fresh and happy comedy about air line hostesses, employing the services of Jane Wyman, Van Johnson, Howard Keel and Barry Sullivan. This quartet goes out of its way to amuse the audiences — but they succeed without ever over-doing it. The co-pic is Highway 310 (B), a typical second feature thriller, with Steve Cochran in the leading role.
JOHN J. POWERS '52_________________News
ROBERT G. FINNEY '53______Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE '51_________Features JOHN F. MEANEY '52________Sports
JACK R. VARLEY '52 Assistant Sports WILLIAM H. FRASER, '52______Photography LEON GARDNER, '52___________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER_____________Advertising
WILLIAM J. HOSCHEIDT '51_____Advertising
ROBERT WILDEMAN '51...........Circulation JAMES ROGERS '51 Circulation
DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator NEWS STAFF: Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Don Carbone, Pat Carrico, Dick Cody, John Corrigan, Valentine Chun, Carl Eiberger, Tom Godfrey, Dave Hayes, John Kelly, R. O. Murphy, Walt Murphy, Pat O’Malley, John Quetsch, Dave Quinn, Bill Rady, Berry Reece, Neil Scarlett, Ken Stead, Paul Zalecki and Ron Zier. SPORTS STAFF: Bill Brien, Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Joe Deiss, Jack Economou, Roger Fernandes, Bob Froelicher, Mort Kelly, Bill Londo, Fran Meaney, Bill Riley, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rust and Joe Straub. FEATURE STAFF: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, John Chevanne, Jay Conlon, Frank Haendler, Harry Siemonsma, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF: Gordon Brickson, Paul Fitzgerald, John Kinville, Charles Lenz, Harold Munger, Charles F. Murphy, Jr., Al Muth, C. Douglas Powers, Berry Reece, and Jerry Sheehan.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The , Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This week’s cover boy is Dominic Napolitano, a familial- face around Notre Dame’s Department of Physical Education in the past 20 years. “Nappy” intends to celebrate his anniversary by turning out another game batch of Bengal Bouters.—Photo by Jerry Sheehan, ’54.
6
The Scholastic

One of the Finest
Bill Moore is a member of the Senior Class — but he won’t be graduating this Tune. The reason is he was unable to return to Notre Dame last Fall. He is no longer here but he is still remembered as a wonderful guy by all his friends — and that includes just about everyone who ever met him.
He was a quiet, sincere sort of fellow. He had a diffident personality that was contagious and you liked him the minute you were introduced. Bill went out for base-
three years he was here.
ball the
He was the athletic type who spent a great deal of time down at the Rock. Like most Seniors, Bill was looking forward last Summer to his final year. He was anxious to return and had great expectations for the last semesters.
Then he was struck with poliomyelitis while working with some kids at a camp. Both his legs were paralyzed completely and Bill was told he wouldn’t be able to go back to Notre Dame.
Many others in Bill’s position might have tossed in the chips. But he was made of stronger stuff. He knew from the start he
would lick the attack and that he would be returning to his school sooner than most people thought possible. His faith in God’s help never wavered. Despair was something for the weak, o
A few months after the initial attack Bill was sent
to the Georgia Warm Springs Foundation. He made wonderful progress in battling the polio. Characteristically, he spent some of his time helping the other patients. One of his extra endeavors was the editorship of the Foundation’s newspaper. Bill had no sooner rejuvenated it when he received some wonderful news — he was far
enough along the path of recovery to be dismissed.
Last week he returned to his home in Bardstown, Ky. The next trip he plans is one to Notre Dame. Bill isn’t completely well yet. He recently wrote the Scholastic: “As for walking, I do that with the aid of a brace on my left leg and two crutches. I haven’t built up any walking endurance yet, but I expect to do that when I get home, a little at a time.”
And Bill hasn’t forgotten the ND friends who have helped him: “I wish (to) thank all those who have lent
their moral and spiritual support which has pushed me so splendidly on the road to recovers'.”
Our Lady, our school and every student who knew Bill can be proud of him. He has shown us, in particular, how small our cares and worries are in comparison to the load which he has had to cany these past few months. And by the manner in which he has accepted these hardships he has given us an example to follow and imitate.
Bill Moore is a real Notre Dame man -— let us all hope and pray he will be able to return as soon as possible.
Chalk One Up
One of the annual signs of life from the Knights of Columbus is their sponsorship of the Bengal Bouts. Since right after the Christmas holidays many of the Knights have been laboring on the week long bill of bouts set to start next Monday night. As always, every detail for the bouts has been carried out with expert skill. Fine discretion was shown when the committeemen were' chosen. Each of them has done a fine job.
Prognosticating is a dangerous pastime but when the odds are so high in your favor it’s hard to pass up — right now there isn’t a doubt in the world that next week’s Bengal Bouts will not be an all-out success. The fights, themselves, should be as good as ever and the receipts will go, again, to. the worthy Bengal Missions cause.
Nice going Knights of Columbus — it looks as if you’ve done it once more.
Congrats to ’Nappy1
Various groups have sponsored the charity bouts over the past two decades, but it has always been Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano who has been the dominant figure connected with their annual presentation.
His association with the bouts started before he even graduated. And except for a few years spent in the service, he has continued this association without a break. Each year he has trained ND men for the fights with the laudable intention of producing good boxers and not bloody maulers.
His record is proof enough for the fine work he has done. The Scholastic salutes “Nappy” for the years, months, and weeks he has given so unselfishlv to the Bengal Missions cause and to the cause of better boxing .on the o
Notre Dame campus.
Mar. 2, 1951
7
can Aaue up
$1000* a* atuuuzllif!
SlgUNE, Tueshav
Efficient reading ability—important for business and professional men—is even more important for college students.
. cborgb s. speer
b
Chicagoan Informs n I
SLOW READING iniiTA —
* If you read an average of four hours a day for 252 days, that’s over 1000 hours of readng. If you value your time at $2 an hour (many figure more), your reading time has a value of over $2000. No matter how fast or well you are able to read now, by improving 100% you save half of this figure. Most important, you get more out of your college education, too.
' George S. Speer, director of psychological services of the Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, said here Monday that slow reading is a liability which can cost a businessman $7 a day or more. He was talking at the Oliver hotel luncheon meeting 'of the South Bend Association of Commerce.
He revealed statistics showing that in an average group of 'businessmen,, such as he was addressing. the ^average reading rate is about 250 words a minute, seventh or eighth grade level. He said reading skills can be improved through training go that this person can read at least twice as fast, up to 1,200 words a minute with diligence. The monetary , loss he cited, was based oh time lost at the businessman’s hourly wage rate, time lost'in slow reading.
Slow reading becomes more of a liability in view of the Increased demands for more and more reading in everyday living ajjd understanding, he pointed out The training which Speer advocates is that given by the Foundation for Better Reading, which-, established a center; in_Smith earlier f q ' tlu6year,StanleyGould,manager • of the cehter here, was introduced at the luncheon. ’ .	■
Find out how easily and quickly you too can double your reading capacity. A special tuition discount is available to Notre Dame faculty members and students who register for the course IMMEDIATELY.
FOUNDATION FOR BETTER READING
(next to Aquinas Bookstore)	Phone 3-0077
The Scholastic
114 E. LaSalle Avenue
8

VOLUME 92. NUMBER 18
MARCH 2, 1951
Father Woodward to Talk on Military Morals; Student Council Fixes
Three Other Service Lectures Will Follow Dance Dates Mix-Up
To give a clear and concise picture of military life in contrast to the civilian, Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., will discuss the Moral Problems of Military Service this Sunday in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:30 p. m. His talk will introduce three other panels planned to cover the armed forces in general and the various services in particular.
During the last war Fr. Woodward spent six years in the Army, and served in the artillery, in Army hospitals and prisons, and on the staff of Lt. General Grunert, of the Eastern Defense Command. In his capacity as a chaplain, he enjoyed extensive personal contact with enlisted personnel of the Army, Navy, and Air Force. He also assigned and supervised the ministrations of Catholic chaplains in the area from the Azores to the Arctic, which included some 250,000 troops.
The panel discussions will treat the Army and Marine Corps, the following Sunday, March 11, the Navy on Monday, March 12, and the Air Force on Wednesday, March 14. Each of these programs will begin at 7:30 p. m. The first two will be held in the Engineering Auditorium, and the last one, in the Vetville recreation hall.
Former chaplains, faculty members who had military service, other veterans, and representatives of the military programs on campus will take part in the panel discussions. They will base their talks on specific problems of the armed forces and on questions the students might have concerning the advantages, life, and programs of the various services.
1951 Laetare Medal
The 1951 recipient of the Laetare Medal, awarded annually by the University to the outstanding Catholic layman in the United States, will be announced this Sunday.
According to tradition, which dates back 68 years, the name of the 1951 Laetare Medalist will be kept secret until Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. Actual presentation of the medal will be made at a time to be determined by the recipient.
REV. THOMAS CADY, C.S.C.
Opening of Soph Retreat Tomorow Evening at 8
Sophomores will open their Lenten retreat tomorrow evening in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel at 8 o’clock with a conference by Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C. retreat master. All upperclassmen who have not yet made a retreat are welcome.
After the first conference, the group will proceed to the Grotto for the rosary, then to the main church for confessions. The confessionals to which the priests will be assigned will be announced at the Grotto.
Beginning at 8 a. m. with Mass and Communion, Sunday’s services will include a conference at 10 o’clock, a holy hour at 11, and another talk by Father Cady at 1 o’clock in the Cavanaugh chapel.
Weather permitting, the Stations of the Cross which close the retreat will be held along the lake. Those present will then receive the papal blessing.
March 10-11 will be the date of the Freshman Retreat.
The Student Council Monday night settled the dates for the Senior Ball and Junior Prom. The Seniors will hold their ball on May 11 and on that evening dance to the music of Johnny Long. Just two weeks earlier, April 27, the Junior class will hold its prom with Harry James as bandleader.
The Senior representatives on the Council who have preference, picked the May date mainly because of the tradition in past years that the Senior Ball be the last major dance in the Spring, usually in May. The Juniors took the earlier date because it was the one on which Harry James’ band was available and it followed the tradition of having the Junior dance in April.
To make room for the Junior Prom, two dances already scheduled for April 27 were switched—the Law Ball to May 4 and the Engineers’ Ball to April 13.
A committee consisting of John O’Connell and Jim Mannion was appointed to investigate the possibilities of having fire drills in the residence halls, followed at a later date by drills in other campus buildings. The committee will make a report on its findings at next week’s meeting. Father Kehoe mentioned during this discussion that the University had taken measures to protect the Main Building against fire, and that a new sprinkler system was scheduled to be installed in the near future.
John Broderick questioned why there was not a dominant flagpole on the campus. It was brought out that since the cost of erecting a new flagpole is high and since there is at present a pole behind the Drill Hall, there was no immediate need for anothei- one.
Name Committee Heads
Committee chairmen for the semi-formal Frosh Dance, set for May 4, were selected last week. They are: decorations, Tom Murphy; publicity, Tom Schoen; arrangements, which includes sub-committees for transportation, tickets, favors or flowers, and lodging of dates, John Keenan; entertainment, Dave Gallagher; date bureau, Dick Del-monte, Walter Vaughan, and John Bier-bussi; and financier, John Kostinas.
Mar. 2,1951
9
ST. MARY’S PARTY
The second Sunday Party will be held at St. Mary’s from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m. this Sunday. The lounges will be open for card-playing and singing, the Rectangle will be available for smoking, and the social hall for dancing. An entertainment, similar to that at the first affair, will be given at 3:30 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. Jackets and ties are de rigeur.
Engineers Draft Plans For Mid-April Formal
The traditional Engineers’ Ball will be held on April 13 at the Palais Royale. Music will be furnished by a popular band to be selected in the near future.
It will be a formal dance, extending from 9 p.m. till 1 a.m. Bids will be priced around §3.80. All attending will have 2 o’clock permissions and may obtain car permissions. The dance is open to engineers only.
A committee of six, headed by co-chairmen Joseph Lotta and Bernard Lavins, will manage the affairs of the dance. Roy Strickfadden, Fred Cauf-mann, Chuck Lensenmeyer, and Tom Moorman complete the committee. Other members will be selected in the near future.
Jill Harris, of Hamilton, Ohio, the guest of co-chairman Joseph Lotta, will reign as queen for the evening.
French Author to Discuss U.S.-European Relations
In a lecture scheduled for 8 o’clock tonight, Bertrand de Jouvenel, noted French critic and author, will speak on “The United States and Europe.” The discussion, one of a series being presented by the Committee on International Relations, will originate from Room 102 of the Law Building.
Mr. de Jouvenel, who comes from a family distinguished in French diplomacy, is an acute and sympathetic critic on American and British economic and political life. Two of the author’s more celebrated literary works are “On Power” and “Problems of Socialist England.” The latter is a critical examination of the conflicts in British Labor’s search for a democratic and secure society.
This evening’s lecture is part of a program being conducted by the Committee aiming at a complete and integrated study of the relations between Democracy, Religion, and World Order. The Committee, inaugurated in 1949, has as its three-fold objective, the promotion of interest and knowledge of international affairs locally, the expansion of the International Relations program at the University, and a solution of the complex problem of the relations between Democracy, Religion, and World Order.
The members of the five-man committee are: Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Dr. Stephen Kertesz, and Dr. F. A. Her-mens, all of the Department of Political Science, and Professors M. A. Fitzsimons and W. O. Shanahan, of the Department of History. Speaking on behalf of the members of the Commit-
CLUB PRESIDENTS
All club presidents who have a bill to submit to the Mardi Gras Committee for expenses incurred for their booths, must submit them to the committee no later than Friday, March 9.
Bring all bills to Room 254, Dillon Hall.
tee, Professor Fitzsimons acknowledged: “We are particularly grateful to the Notre Dame Foundation, whose success makes possible an ever-increasing number of University research projects.
Harry James to Play For Juniors April 27
Harry James has been engaged to play for the Junior Prom, which has now been definitely scheduled for April 27, according to co-chairmen Chuck McCarthy and Bill Toohey.
Originally slated for April 13, the dance was switched to the later date in order that Harry James and his famous band would be available. The change was made possible when the date of the Senior Ball was moved to May 11, in keeping with the tradition that the Ball be the last major dance of the school year.
The Prom will be held in the Rockne Memorial, and bid price has been tentatively set at §7.50. The early activity of the various committees is evidenced by the fact that favors and programs have already been arranged, and the entertainment is in the advanced-planning stage. The theme for this event has not been selected as yet.
SPRING IS DANCE TIME at Notre Dame, and Junior Prom Chairmen Chuck McCarthy and Bill Toohey (left) and Engineers' Ball Chairmen Joe Lotta and Bernie Lavins (right) vie with one another and produce post-Lenten’s best dance.
10
The Scholastic
Air Cadets to Dance
At Annual Ball Apr. 20
With good weather and a dry field, the ship will be back in the wild blue by the middle of this month, the officers report.
Campus NFCCS Adopts Constitution
Notre Dame’s AROTC men will hold their annual Air Cadet Ball April 20, chairman Tom Digan announced this Week.
Gene Hull’s orchestra has been engaged and the Palais Royale has been selected as the site. The cotillion will last from 9 to 12:30, and there will be 1:30 dormitory permissions.
All members of both the Air ROTC and NROTC units are eligible to purchase bids, which are tentatively priced at $3.60. Although the hop is to be formal, uniforms have been designated as proper attire, and no corsages will be worn.
Similar dances were held by the entire Air ROTC unit in the springs of ’48 and ’49, but since this is the first year the Air Cadet Club has actually functioned, it is consequently the first time for the affair to be sponsored by the club. The Student Council will not be responsible for a loss nor receive the profit from the dance, added Chairman Digan; a profit will be used by the club to sponsor a large, end-of-the-year smoker for the Air Cadet members during May.
Chairmen of the committees are as follows: business manager, Jack Lambert; publicity, Bill Hagan; finance, Sommers Brown; band, Jack Carey; printing, Ed Burke; tickets, Dave Schoen; date bureau head, Danny Hardin; transportation, Ed Duggan; and decorations, Tom Regan and Dick Cas-tellini (co-chairmen).
New Officers Are Elected
To Pilot Glider Club in Spring
Four new officers have been elected to Notre Dame’s Glider Club at the first official club meeting of the semester. The officers are Peter E. Skerrett, president; Richard A. McMillen, maintenance engineer; Richard D. Hardin, secretary; and Edmund J. Gohman, treasurer.
The club’s glider has been put into readiness for launching. Mr. R. S. Iken-berry, moderator and instructor of the club, has completed repair on the ship’s wing tips with the help of a group of club members.
The construction of new launching equipment is nearing completion. Within . the next two weeks, the winch will be ready. Through the efforts of the main-tainance engineer, who designed and directed construction of the winch, the glider’ will now be able to attain new and greater altitudes.
Add Oil and Gas Course To Law College Subjects
A course in the Law of Oil and Gas has been inaugurated for the Spring semester of the 1950-51 schoolyeax- in the College of Law.
The new course, which will be offered annually, was inaugurated because of the growing importance of this branch of the legal field.
In addition to using a casebook, the course will feature audio-visual aids designed to furnish a background to some of the factual problems involved. Also highlighted in the course will be the appearance of various well-known petroleum experts in both the legal and engineering phases of the subject.
In preparation for the course, Professor Robert E. Sullivan, a member of the Law faculty, spent the summer of 1950 and will spend succeeding summers in the Southwest, conducting research into legal and practical problems involved in the petroleum industry.
Seniors Take First Crack at Steps
NO LONGER RESTRAINED by age-old tradition, the Class of '51 parades proudly down the steps of the Administration Building during Washington Day ceremony.
By a unanimous vote of the member clubs, the NFCCS Apostolic Chapter Monday ratified its constitution, which a special committee had revised two days before. Several minor changes and clarifications were made in the old document, which had been temporarily approved last semester.
The clubs also declined to accept any commission from the sale of subscriptions during the Press drive, deciding instead to turn ovex- that percentage to the buyer in the form of a discount.
Using the Apostolic constitution as a model, the International Relations wing of the NFCCS began work Wednesday on its own constitution. The chapter meeting was. under the direction of the newly-elected officers, Chairman Emmett Cater and Secretary Adolfo Calero.
Formation of a Science Chapter has been delayed until this evening, when representatives of the campus science clubs will meet with the Student Engineering Advisory Board in the Engineering Building.	.
Mar. 2,1951
II

given
United Beach, cities, honors
characteristic devotion of is more eager to talk of
him Mr. Kormendi smiles simply “It is not import-
and remarks ant.”
With the an artist he
States: in Milwaukee, Palm Chicago and many other leading Unable to remember all of the
I 0 those who presume all artists ha' shaggy long hair and erratic perso alities, Eugene Kormendi, sculptor l world-wide reputation and Artist 1 Residence at Notre Dame, would 1 something of a surprise.
Mr. Kormendi is a mild-mannerec very genial gentleman with the genuin. sort of friendliness that makes “plain folks” feel at home. A caller at his home on Washington Street is received 1 with warm European hospitality and is J sent away with a sincere invitation to j “Come again. We are always glad to J see you.”
But, whether Mr. Kormendi displays it openly or not, he is an artist, and a very distinguished one. His articles and biographies have appeared in numerous periodicals here and abroad. His work has been exhibited in nearly all the larger cities of the United States and Europe, earning him many high awards.
These honors include the Silver Medal from the International Exhibition at Barcelona and the gem of Hungarian awards, the Polonia Restituta. Aside from these he has received prizes in the
Artists
Are Born
his work. His most important accomplishment is a statue of Queen Elizabeth of Hungary which he did in Hungary some years ago. He has also done war memorials in that country and a giant statue of the Blessed Virgin. Mr. Kormendi’s latest work was done in Fort Wayne where he contributed eight figures for a newly-built chapel adjacent to the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception. He also carved a figure of Christ giving a blessing from a huge stone pillar in front of the chapel.
Mr. Kormendi was born in Budapest, Hungary, where he spent his early life and studied at the College of Industrial Art after finishing high school. In the following years he was located at various universities throughout Europe, developing and perfecting his art.	Q
“I studied at Paris, Rome, Berlin, and g many other places,” Mr. Kormendi re- ii calls. “It is necessary that one study I) and discipline himself constantly if he is to develop his art. A good priest and a good artist are much the ssme. Each is always pursuing his work.”
In the first world war Mr. Kormendi
By HUGH SCHADLE, ’52
served in the Hungarian army as an army sculptor. He did numerous portraits of many of the leading Hungarian generals, and at one time was working
12
The Scholastic
deep in Russia when the Hungarian forces had penetrated into that country. After the war he continued studying and working in Europe until 1939, when he came to the United States.
“My wife and I came to America as visitors. While we were on the ocean we heard that the German armies had marched into Poland. After I had been received at Notre Dame as an artist in residence, we decided to stay. We have been here since that time.”
During his eleven years at Notre Dame Mr. Kormendi has taught several students who are now prominent sculptors, while continuing his own work. He now teaches a few regular classes for students of architecture.
There were several interesting comments Mr. Kormendi made on art in general. Asked the very prosaic question, “Why is an artist an artist?” Mr. Kormendi explains that art is simply a means of expression.
“A man is either an artist or he is not,” Mr. Kormendi declares. “One cannot be taught to express himself through art. If he is a born artist, it will ‘come out.’ But art can only be cultivated arid disciplined arid never literally ‘taught’ as one may be taught the multiplication tables. Just as the best gardener cannot grow peaches on a pine-tree, so the best teacher cannot make an artist of a person who has no native ability.”
Mr. Kormendi further clarifies the artist’s position by mentioning the primitive arts.
“The primitive artist could have had none of the formal training which is given the artist today. And yet the primitives have created great art . . . beautiful art. The basic necessity for art is native ability and not formal training, although technical discipline and formal training are certainly important.”
He makes distinctions between the art of the sculptor and other of the Fine Arts.
“I think it may be said that the sculptor, or the painter, does perhaps require more technical training to develop
(Continued on page 16)
AT LEFT: Sculptor Eugene Kormendi views the statue he completed for the College of New Rochelle. TOP RIGHT: President Truman receives Kormendi plaque in recognition of haven found in U. S. by displaced persons. BOTTOM RIGHT: Workmen place 22-foot high statue of “Christ, the Light of the World," done by Kormendi, in its niche in front of the NCWC Building, Massachusetts Ave., Washington, D. C.
Mar. 2,1951
Musical Cast Chosen; Powell in Male Lead
A cast for Mr. and Mrs. Broadway, the original musical comedy soon to be seen at Washington Hall, has been chosen from the 90 who answered last week’s notice for tryouts.
Jack Powell has been named the male acting lead in the show to be presented April 16, 17, and 18. Powell, who -will play the part of Keith Newton, a Broadway producer, last appeared with the University Theatre in Shadow and Substance. The role of the male singing lead will be filled by Jack Broderick, a Glee Club soloist.
Miss Jane Sparks will play the female lead. It is an acting and singing part, since she will appear both as Newton’s wife, and as the star of the “show within a show.” Miss Sparks is a member of the Presbyterian Players of South Bend.	.
The principal supporting roles will be handled by Jack Kissell, as the agent, George Gleason, and by James Goodwin, as Wolfgang Clime, the pretzel-baker angel of the show. Lou Garippo will play Max, the stage manager. Garippo had the leading role in last year’s Uni-versty Theatier production, A Gentleman from Athens.
A chorus, of 20 was also selected at the tryouts. Many of those chosen have
WND INTERVIEWS Buddy Powers and Bill Carey, director and co-author of student musical, “Mr and Mrs. Broadway,” during casting try-outs backstage.
had previous dancing experience, but all will be instructed in the routines by a choreographer.
Dome Award Committee Named by John O'Brien
Editor of the 1951 Dome, John E. O’Brien, appointed a committee last Friday to select the four outstanding Seniors to receive the Dome Key Awards for 1951. Each year Dome Key Awards honor four members of the graduating class for noteworthy participation, contribution, and accomplishment in campus activities, athletics, and scholarship.
The selection committee is composed of six Junior Class members. Besides O’Brien, serving as chairman, the committee includes James Garvin, Student Council secretary; John Powers, News Editor of the Scholastic; James Mutscheller, 1951 football captain; James Mannion, Junior Class president; and Joseph Conlon, managing editor of the 1951 Dome.
The chairman stated that the committee will soon decide on a definite system of procedure and qualifications to guide their selections, which will take into consideration every field of university activity. The four outstanding Seniors honored with the Dome Award are to be selected, according to the citation in the yearbook, “on a basis of intellectual achievement, con
tribution to the student body and University, and the embodiment in them of the ideals of moral, responsible leadership.”
Last year’s recipients of the award were Edmund G. Farrell, Joseph S. Herrington, Russell E. Skall, and John W. Thornton.
Job Placement Office Announces Interviews
Mr. William Dooley, director of the Placement Office, has announced additional job interviews for next week.
There will be representatives here from the United States Steel Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.; General Electrical Corp.; Hazeltine Electronics Corp., Little Neck, L. I.; Monsanto Chemical Company; Touche, Niven, Bailey and Smart (Certified Public Accounts), Chi. cago, Ill.; General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.;; Boeing Airplane Company, Seattle, Wash., and the Chrysler Institute of Engineering, Detroit, Mich.
On Monday Mr. F, B. Lafferty of ( U. S. Steel Company will interview <1 Mechanical ElecfTieal fijnl and Metal-I lurgical Engineers, general Electrical representatives will interview Chemists and Chemical Engineers on Monday and Tuesday, the Hazeltine Electronics Corporation will also be here Tuesday.
J. E. Russell of the Monsanto Chemical Corporation will see Chemists and Chemical Engineers on Tuesday and Wednesday. Mr. Laubei* of Touche, Niven, Bailey and Smart will speak to Accounting majors on Wednesday.
On Thursday Mr. R. J. Canning of the General Electric Company will be available to interview Commerce graduates and a representative of the Boeing Airplane Company will see Engineering graduates on Thursday and Friday.
Mechanical Engineering graduates can see Mr. Bogan of the Chrysler Engineering Institute on Friday.
Dr. Sherman Egan to Speak On Marriage Medical Side
Dr. Sherman L. Egan, of South Bend, will discuss “The Medical Aspects of Marriage” at the fifth session of the Marriage Institute next Friday.
Dr. Egan received his medical degree from Northwestern University. Following his internship, he studied on a fellowship at the Mayo Clinic. In medical school he was a member of Phi Beta Kapa fraternity,
Rev. Robert Lochner, C.S.C., director of the Institute discussion is scheduled to allow for a longer discussion period.
14
The Scholastic
Twentieth Year of Charity Bouts Expected To Provide Over $5000 for C.S.C.*s in India
By CARL EIFERT, ’51
Boxing is different at Notre Dame. Unlike most big universities, Notre Dame doesn’t have an intercollegiate boxing squad; other universities don’t help support missionary work either.
Funny as it may seem, boxing at Notre Dame owes its existence to the greatest name in football. Knute Rockne, as athletic director, began organized boxing for the first time at his alma mater in 1923. It got off to a slow start. In ’24, ’25, and ’26 the University sent a fistic team into the camps of other colleges, such as Navy and Pennsylvania. But the future of the team was limited. The uncoached 1926 squad lost all six of its matches. After that, the pugilistic art was confined strictly to intramural tournaments.
Later the S.A.C. (Student Activities Council) took over the tourney and sponsored a boxing show in the gym for all the students to see. The annual event drew large crowds under the S.A.C. until 1931—at that time the interest began to slip.
Then in 1932 the Scholastic decided to supply a little vigor and incentive for boxing at Notre Dame. The final matches in the yearly tourney appeared
to be a great opportunity to promote clean sport—and a little money for the deserving ND grads who were bringing Christianity to the pagans of India. All the priests and Brothers in the Dacca Diocese were members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and had studied at Notre Dame in their college days. So, the Scholastic charged a 25 cent admission fee for the bouts and began what was known as the Scholastic Boxing Show.
The first year found 2000 fans laying down their quarters for ducats. The Bengal missionaries benefited from the $450 that was sent to aid them in overcoming the travel-slowing floods of the Ganges which forced them to use boats on their trips to save souls. Many would help them to put up shelters to protect themselves from snakes, wild animals and the tropical sun. They needed, and still need, money to send their priests and catechists from their centers to the Mohammedans and Hindus, whom Christ wants in His Church.
The first promoter of this student sponsored and directed boxing show was Billy Magarall, a fighter of some repute on campus. He supervised the entire
show. He even wrote publicity. On February 12, 1932, he ushered in the first of the nineteen uninterrupted years of boxing.
Success in 1932 led to a growing Bengal Bouts. Boxing skill and gate receipts rose. In 1934 the heavyweight winner, Max Marek, went on to win crowns in the CYO and AAU tournaments in Chicago. There he beat a newcomer to the fight game—a fellow known as Joe Louis and later as the Brown Bomber and world’s champ. Max did all right for himself, too, gaining a reputation as one of the ten best heavyweights in the country. He was aiming at Jimmy Braddock’s title when he was whipped by Bob Pastor in one of Mike Jacob’s challenger tourneys at the Garden.
The Bengal went on like “Topsy”, each year getting bigger and better. Honorary referees and judges were chosen to be cited for their work, in boxing, sports or among youth. Jack Elder, former Athletic Commissioner and Notre Dame football and track star, was one of the first to be so honored. Max Marek came home to the Bengals for another honor. Other celebrities to appear at the annual charity bouts include: Danno O’Mahoney, one-time world’s wrestling champ; Arthur Donovan, dean of the referees; Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune sports editor and father of the Golden Gloves; “Tuffy” Griffith, former heavyweight contender; Elmer Layden, former head football
Mar. 2, 1951
15
I
I
coach at Notre Dame and Commissioner of Professional Football; “Packy” McFarland, former Illinois Athletic Commissioner and lightweight and welterweight champion; Barney Ross, another one-time lightweight arid welterweight titleholder, was here twice; Frank Leahy, Notre Dame’s head coach; Tom Kenneally, former Golden Gloves winner; and Tony Zale, former world’s middleweight champion. Zale was also the first winner of the Bengal Bout Award for outstanding work among boys. Last year, Bishop Bernard J. Sheil; Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago, became the second winner of this award which takes the form of a plaque. Bishop Sheil founded the CYO and its boxing program.
This year the third annual Bengal Bout Award winner will be John J. Contwey, executive director of the Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau.
There was a time when only the finals were open to the public. In 1940 Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano, professor in the Physical Education Department and director of instruction for the Bengal Bouts, decided to open up the “prelims” to the fans. “Nappy” has been connected in some capacity with the bouts since his undergraduate days in 19-31, except for the war years of 194344-45 when he was in the navy as boxing instructor at the Iowa pre-flight school.
In Napolitano’s absence, Marine and Navy trainees took a major part in the Bengal Bouts. They were trained by Chief “Robbie” Robertson, an All-American at Southern California in 1942, and Sgt. Joe Santos, who fought professionally in the East under the name of “Bill Marshall.”
In 1946 the Bengal Bouts were given to the Notre Dame Council 1477 of the Knights of Columbus to promote. Under their direction the Bengal Bouts have been able to do more than ever for the 100 or more Holy Cross priests, Brothers and Sisters in India. In the last two Bouts, receipts have been sent to Bengal.
Let other schools keep their intercollegiate boxing teams. Here at Notre Dame, we’ll help keep the missions.
Artists Are Born
(Continued from page 13)
his art fully than does the musician, for instance. It is important that the musician have an ‘ear’ and an instinct for composing. There have been many child prodigies in the musical field while there has never been one in the field
of sculpture. In both the arls a native ability Is basic, but the sculptor requires a longer period of training and discipline before his art reaches greatness. Both the painter and the sculptor must spend a great deal of time learning what might be called the ‘instruments’ or technique of their art”.
Concerning modern art Mr. Kormendi judges the new abstract school to be very “interesting.”
“Modern art,” he says, “is concerned principally with the outline of form and lines in the model. The field, of course, is new as a trend in art, and one cannot say just what it will develop. But I find abstract art a very fascinating study.”
With regard to the future Mr. Kormendi is completely satisfied with Notre Dame.
“This is our home now. We enjoy travelling over’ the country occasionally but I plan to stay at Notre Dame and continue my work. Notre Dame has a very good atmosphere and spirit about it and I am quite content here.”
(Mr. Kormendi was recently honored by a lecture given by the prominent Dr. Dudley Craft Watson on his work. The lecture was delivered at the Art Institute of Chicago, Sunday, Feb. 11.)
Makes a Man Love a Pipe and a Woman Love a Man
The Thoroughbred of Pipe Tobaccos Choice white Burley • Smooth and mild
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
OUR SPECIALTY
V2 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Gobs of Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.15
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT "Chicken in the Rough" 213 N. Main Open Sunday
16
The Scholastic

rars
Bengal Battlers Start Swinging Monday
ND Host to Track Championship Tomorrow; Ten Colleges to Vie for CCC Titles in Gym
Fifty Fighters Aim For Campus Crowns
The championship indoor track meet of the Central Collegiate Conference will be held tomorrow in the Not.e Dame Fieldhouse with the preliminaries in the afternoon, and the finals in the evening starting at 7:30. The afternoon preliminaries, starting at 1:30, will consist of trials in all running events up to the half mile and some of the field events, and will be used to reduce the entrants from the ten schools to a select field for the evening finals.
Michigan Normal, on the basis of the seven first places it took in its dual meet last week with Notre Dame, looks like the favorite to cop its first CCC title since 1933. Notre Dame and Marquette will be close contenders, and individual stars from Bradley, Wayne, Western Michigan, Butler, and DePaul will steal plenty of laurels from the bigger schools. Drake and Oklahoma have been known to attend the meet, and will be contenders if they show.
The meet which will be held at Notre Dame for the first time in years, may become a permanent South Bend fixture if things come off well tomorrow. In recent years it has been held in Michigan State’s mammoth field house, but since the Spartans dropped out of the Central Conference this year to enter the Big Ten, the meet has had to search for a new home.
Notre Dame has won 14 championships in this meet, but the now departed Michigan State Spartans have won the past four. Knute Rockne, back in the days when he doubled as football and track coach, was one of the founders of the meet in 1927, and it has been held every year since then with the exception of the war year of 1944.
A good cross section of the individual favorites has already put in an appearance at Notre Dame in the three indoor meets held so far this year with Michigan Normal, Marquette, Western Michigan and Bradley.
Some of the better opponents have been Western Michigan’s Russ Gabier and Marquette’s John Stearns who put on a thrilling mile race here; Bradley’s hurdler Philbee; Marquette’s shot putter, John Vishnevsky; and quarter milers Stanley McConner and Wardell Gilliam of Michigan Normal and Axel Johnson of Marquette; Michigan Normal’s Ben Moring and Ed Aylmer have looked good in the distances.
Half miler John Mohar looks like the only Notre Damer who will be a favorite for a title. John hasn’t been pushed by anyone except fellow Irishman Vai Muscato this year and hit a sensational 1:56.4 last week. John Worthington has yet to lose here this year in the broad jump, but will have to leap a little farther than he has been doing to take a title tomorrow. The same goes for high jumper Al Kohanowich who is also unbeaten here.
Buck Ewing has fared no worse than second in any of the 60 yard dashes in the meets to date and will be another point getter for the Iri-h tomorrow. Anyone of a quartet of Notre Dame quarter milers—Jim Bollas, Norm Fel-tes, Jack Wagner, or John Hastings— may figure prominently in the 440, and
(Continued on page 18)
By BILL RILEY, ’52
Six weeks of intensive training will be capped by five nights of top-flight boxing next week as over 50 Bengal bouters square away to decide championships in seven divisions. It will be the 20th renewal of the Irish fistic carnival, started in 1931 by Dom'nic Napolitano, still coaching the embryonic John L’s.
During the four weeks of sparring, rope-skipping, bag-punching and shadow-boxing, while ex-champs and newcomers have been swapping punches, several “men to beat” have gained the attention of ringside spectators.
In the top-interest heavyweight division, the field is wide-open, since both Bill “Zip” Roemer and Gus Cifelli, last year’s finalists, have gone the way of graduation. Top candidates for the heavy crown now include two former gridders and last year’s light heavy champ. Billy Flynn, or rather, William James Patrick Flynn, most Irish of the fighting breed, and Dick Cotter, called by the coaching staff “one of the most courageous lads ever to play for Notre Dame,” are top men in the division according to pre-fight ratings. Ready to k. o. either one of them and move into the top spot is Joe O’Brien, who last year outclassed the 177-pounders. Also a candidate is freshman Fred Poehler, who has shown a startlingly fast right hand in fieldhouse workouts.
Probably the next most impressive division, and the one most likely to be split, is the 167-pcund group. This bunch boasts a returning champ, Indianola, Mississippi’s Aaron Dyson, and two finalists, Joe Brown and Frank Hamilton. Brown lost a tough one to Vic Roblez last year in a lighter division, when the shadow-like Victor kept away from Joseph, and Hamilton dropped his in the same division that he’s fighting in this year.
Sal Fiorella will be defending his
Mar. 2,1951
17
127-pound crown, and looks like a pretty good bet to keep it. The diminutive New Yorker, who fights a cagey, counter-punching battle may find tough resistance from Geary Becker, a freshman with a whirlwind style.
Two returnees from last year’s battles will fight it out for the 177-pound light heavyweight throne that Joe O’Brien vacated by moving into the heavies. Pat- Dunne, a stubby Irishman from Salt Lake City, and Bill Kramer will be strongly favored to meet with a resounding smack when Saturday night finals roll around.
John O’Brien, who last year outfought Georgie Chopp in one of the most thrilling slugging matches on the five-night card, is expected to add the 147-pound trophy to his 137-pound championship this year. His chief opposition will come from two Bengal rookies, Bernie Boute and Pat Riley.
Meanwhile Chopp is top candidate for the 137-pound crown. However, Leo Hickey, a veteran of past fistic wars, and John Lucey, a hard-punching rookie will be tough competition.
Track
(Continued from page 17) as a mile relay team they should repeat the thrilling race with Michigan Normal in which the Michiganeis clinched the dual meet by overtaking ND on the last lap. The time of that race was only a second behind the CCC and the Notre Dame Fieldhouse record.
Connie Tetrault and Harry Snyder of Notre Dame are outsiders who could surprise the favorites in the mile, and the same goes for Ben Almaguer in the two mile.
Last Saturday, Notre Dame dropped a thrilling 56-48 dual meet to Michigan Normal in a meet that wasn’t decided until the last lap of the last event— the mile relay. It was Notre Dame’s first track meet loss of the current season, after two wins.
Michigan Normal started off with a bang and piled up a bulge on ND that reached 14 points at one time. Notre Dame cut the margin down to 51-48 in a last minute flurry of activity and looked set to win by a 53-51 score when her first two runners piled up a 15 yard lead on Michigan Normal in the Mile relay. But Michigan Normal’s last two quarter- milers, Wardell Gillian and Stanley McConner, ran 49 second quarters, caught the Irish, took the five points for the relay win, and won the meet by the large looking margin of 5G-48.
The real story of the Michiganer’s win was the seven clear first places they took in their early rush. Notre Dame didn’t take an event until late in the meet when Sophomore Ed Powell
came through with a high hurdle win for his first varsity triumph, and John Mohar followed with a half mile triumph. Soon thereafter Leo McKillip took the low hurdles with Powell second and John Worthington copped the broad jump to revive the Irish hopes. During the early Michigan Normal scoring flurry Al Kohanowich did tie with two opponents for the high jump win.
ALMAGUER LEADS, but MN man wins.
The opponent's really had to work for most of their wins. This was especially true in the 440 where Wardell Gilliam of Michigan Normal just nipped Irishman Jim Bollas at the tape and had only a few yards on John Hastings. Con Tetrault and Harry Snyder were a close second and third in the mile and were in contention all the way. Bob Toneff was third in the shot, but less than a foot behind the winner, and it took the judges several minutes to decide that Buck Ewing had lost to Jim Bibbs, Michigan Normal’s standout sprinting star, by an eyelash in the 60.
Not quite so close were the two mile where Ben Almaguer and Bob Fieler were second and third, and the pole vault, where Tom Hinkes and Phil Car-naggio took the place and show honors.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS Mar. 2—FENCING at Mich State
3—TRACK, CCC Meet, here 3—BASKETBALL at Marquette
3—FENCING at'U. of Detroit 5-7—BOXING, Bengal Bout prelims
8—BOXING, Bengal Bout semi-finals
10—BOXING, Bengal Bout finals
Irish Face Marquette In Season's Windup
Notre Dame’s final game of the cur-rent cage campaign rolls around tomorrow night when the Irish tangle with the Marquette Hilltoppers at Milwaukee Arena. Tap-off time is set for 8:30. Coach Krause leads his charges for the last time and is seeking his 99th victory as an ND hoop mentor.
The Hilltoppers have not fared too well this year and, in an earlier contest with the Irish at the Fieldhouse here, they absorbed a crushing 82-56 defeat. But, with the friendly home court of the Milwaukee Arena and the urge to make their sign-off of the ’50-’51 season a winning one, Marquette could possibly cause ND some trouble.
Since the bulk of the team’s chances rests on the shoulders of the Sophomores, it appears that Marquette’s trouble is lack of experience. .Coach Chandler is evidently pleased with the progress his boys are making, however. Said Chandler, “We have improved through practice and development at least 100% since the start of the season, and we haven’t yet reached our peak.”
Taking the court the last time for Notre Dame are Seniors Dan Bagley, Marty O’Connor, and Neal Fichtel. “Big Dan” has been a terror on the hardwood all season and in the previous game with Marquette he dumped in 15 points. Of course Dan’s high mark was in the memorable St. Louis upset where he came up with 31 points to tie the all-time ND single game scoring record.
Marty O’Connor is noted for his hard-driving, aggressive ball playing. He is well-regarded by the Marquette coaching staff who see in him the key to the Notre Dame offensive. On their last visit the Hilltoppers were high in their praise of the 5’11” guard who directs the Irish floor play.
Neal Fichtel, always calm and unruffled, will probably see a good deal of action in Milwaukee. The 23 year-old Navy veteran will be earning his second varsity basketball monogram.
Notre Dame has the edge in season’s performance and general experience, but Marquette has shown indications of coming fast. The chances are good however that the “hot and cold” Irish will have one of their warmer nights. Certainly, they will have the incentive for going all out. The Seniors want to wind up their college careers with a' win, and all would like to present “Moose” a victory as a parting gift. Whether Marquette will comply gracefully or not is another question. The Irish didn’t fare too well on their Eastern swing, dropping games to Canisius, 60-53, NYU, 87-72, and Penn, 71-60, the first ND loss in the 15 game series.
The Scholastic
yrjMnfws
Ay JMK
Parry and Reposte
Juggler Co-Editor Dave Yerex, New Zealand-born and bred, jumped to the pages of the Scholastic last week to take an honorable and good-intentioned swipe at the whole American system, as mirrored at Notre Dame. While these statements of Mr. Yerex’s are his own opinion, some can be logically and factually refuted in whole or in part.
Mr. Yerex decries the lack of student participation here at Notre Dame, saying “most students . . . simply do not want to put in the time and effort to gain the enjoyment derived from sporting activities.” Most here can mean anything from 51 to 99 per cent. He may be right if he dees mean only 51 per cent, and we could agree with him, but there are no figures to back either of us up. Yet, it’s very possible that we both could be wrong. It would be nearer the truth to say that most students do participate in- one form of sporting activity or another. There are such a variety of sports here that full participation in some is practically impossible. The more popular sports, such as basketball, football, baseball and softball get a big play, mostly on an informal basis. It would be next to impossible for the sport situation here to parallel that in New Zealand, even if that system could be proven to be better.
Right now, for instance, basketball is the big thing and you can drop over to the Rock any afternoon and count the large number of fellows draped around the court waiting' for a chance to play. The very fact that the intramural facilities are already over-taxed prevents greater participation in sports than we have now. How many students can afford to go over to the Rock and wait a half hour or an hour for a chance to play? Many do, but many more can’t let that time go to waste.
Mr. Yerex is right when he says that the general condition of sports in this country is unhealthy, but bigness does not necessarily mean that the sport is diseased. .Notre Dame travels in high circles athletically, and yet sports here are clean.
Mr. Yerex is wrong when he unqualifiedly says that spectator sport predominates in this country. It may ap-
pear so if you base your presumption on such things as the huge crowds that attend each football game. Sports, as a rule, are limited to youth. Yet, many older people participate in sports suited for their age such as bowling and golf. And the rigorous training demanded of some sports prohibits universal participation. Not every young executive can play football on a weekend but he can shoot 18 holes of golf or bowl a few strings. A Notre Dame student can, and does, the same thing. For proof, drop down to the Bowl-Mor any Sunday afternoon and watch the 35 teams of the Kampus Keglers in action. And when Spring comes, and the golf course is in shape again, count the fellows waiting to tee off on the first hole— 7:30 or 8 o’clock any Sunday morning would be as good a time as any.
As for the matter of ND athletes being mainly one sport men, Mr. Yerex hasn’t been properly informed. Many American sports are almost around the year sports, such as football, basketball, track, and even baseball. They “never try” another field simply because they haven’t time for it. Bob Williams, Marty O’Connor, Vai Muscato, Chet Ostrowski, Jack Neumayr and many other varsity men were all-sport stars in high school, but college is a different thing. The stiffer competition of college sports demands that they stick to one sport and one only.
Mr. Yerex believes that the main purpose of participating in a sport is for the enjoyment gotten out of the participation, but we here in America believe it’s more than that. The whole idea of
sports competition was summed up very capably by Father Cavanaugh, and although it’s been quoted many times in the past, it won’t hurt to quote it once more if just for Mr. Yerex’s
benefit. Fr. Cavanaugh said, “We shall-
always want Notre-Dame men tn nl«v to win so long as there is a Notre Dame ... to win cleanly according to the rules . . . because Notre Dame men'
are reared here on the camnus in this spirit, and because they exemplify this spirit all over the world, they are the envy of the nation?*
And so, touche to you, Mr. Yerex.
ND Sharpshooter Wins Championship Third Time
A Notre Dame Senior has captured the individual championship in the William Randolph Hearst Naval ROTC Rifle Competition for the third straight year.
Donal J. Murphy, a member of the Notre Dame Naval R. 0. T. C. unit from Hawthorne, N. J., fired a score .of 198 out of a possible 200 in the Hearst matches to win the title. Murphy also won the national individual title in 1949 and 1950.
In team competition, the Notre Dame Naval R. 0. T. C. squad placed a close second to the University of Washington’s naval team which won the title over a field of 88 Naval R. O. T. C. teams. Washington fired a team total of 947 out of a possible 1,000, while Notre Dame’s future officers were two points behind with a score of 945. Notre Dame had captured the team title in 1949 and 1950, and this year’s second place score of 945 bettered by 21 points the Irish’ winning score of 924 last year, when they beat the University of Washington by three points.
In addition to Murphy, the Notre Dame Naval riflemen include James W. Hartman, of Vanderlip, W. Va.; Francis G. Brickson, of San Antonio, Tex.; William K. Hayden III, of Highland Park, Mich.; and Wayne A. Six, of Quincy, Ill. The team is coached by Capt. John M. Daly, U. S. M. C., and commanding officer of the Notre Dame Naval R. O. T. C. unit is Capt. T. F. Conley, Jr., USN.
Hawkeyes Lose to Fencers; ND Meets Spartans Tonight
Notre Dame’s fencers . traveled to Iowa City last week to -match weapons with the Hawkeye swordsmen and handed the lowans a 15-12 defeat in a close, very well played match. The victory brought the season’s percentage to a respectable .667 with four wins and two losses. ,
Notre Dame came out on top in foil 7-2 and 5-4 on epee. Nick Scalera and Ernie Franzgrote continued their winning ways as each won his three bouts. However, Iowa took the sabre 6-3, despite the fact that this is only the second year of intercollegiate fencing .competition for the Hawkeye'.
Tonight the Irish will lock foils with Michigan State at East Lansing. A tough contest with the Spartans is expected because of their strong team and the fact that they won a victory over Illinois, a club which subdued Notre Dame earlier this season.
Mar. 2,1951
19
Campus Organizations Back Catholic Magazine Drive
Subscription sales opened this week for the NFCCS-sponsored Catholic magazine drive, as salesmen from the Liturgy Club, K of C’s, Third Order, and YCS began a door-to-door canvas of the residence halls.
The campaign committee has set a thousand subscriptions as its goal in the drive, which covers 21 different Cathoilc periodicals and the daily newspaper, The Suh Herald.
At a meeting of the salesmen Monday evening, Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C. S. C., stressed the importance of their efforts in combating the effect of secularism on Catholic thinking and in helping to improve the conditon of the Catholic press.
A 20 per cent discount is being offered to the buyer on every subscription. Orders may be placed with the hall salesmen or at the sales booth in the Dining Hall lobby.
Three Men Place in First Gymnastic Meet for School
The Notre Dame Gymnasts journeyed to Bloomington, Ind., to compete with Indiana and Michigan State last Saturday. Against the tough competition of the long established Big Ten Gymnastic teams, the Notre Dame gymnasts managed to place three men. Bob Riley, Bill Santini and Jack Wenning placed in the Horizontal Bar, Tumbling, and Trampoline events respectively. This showing in their first meet was much better than was expected.
The next competition for the gymnasts will be against the South Bend Turners on March 29th at 8:00 P. M. Any students or faculty members who wish to witness the competition are invited to come to Turner Hall, 503 N. Michigan St., on the above date.
Hawaii Club Elects Officers For Spring Semester Term
The Hawaiian club of Notre Dame, the Kamaainas 0 Hawaii, recently held their club elections for their officers for the Spring semester. The voting for almost every office was close. On three occasions the voting on the first ballot was so close that the Hawaii lads chose to vote again on the leading candidates.
Walter Tagawa, ’52, was elected the club’s president after a close race with last semester’s Hawaii club president, Ray Petrous, ’53. Lincoln Yamamoto, ’52, was re-elected vice-president of the Kamaainas.	.
20
In the balloting for the club's secretary and for their treasurer two Freshmen, Vai Chun and Dick Murata, won out. Vai was picked as the club’s secretary on the second ballot by a single vote.
On the first voting for the Kamaainas treasurer, Harvey Lung, ’52, Ronald Wong, ’53, and Dick Murata, ’54, were tied. On the second ballot Murata was chosen by three votes.
Local Economics Group Takes Part in Conference
The Economic Round Table participated in the Midwest International Relations Conference last weekend. Nearly all of the major universities had delegates at the Conference, which was sponsored by the Carnegie Foundation, in Chicago.
Two men from the Notre Dame discussion group gave talks at the meeting. John Comerford spoke on German rearmament, and Tom Carroll discussed the Schuman Plan.
Also attending the Conference was
HOW ABOUT YOU?
Learn the secret to good times and popularity quickly,.. come to Arthur Murray's
Don’t let good times pass you by just because your dancing’s poor. Come to Arthur Murray’s now and discover how quick and easy it is to learn to dance all the latest steps. Thanks to Arthur Murray’s exclusive teaching method (perfected by 37 years of
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 East Wayne Street	Phone 2-3339
Professor William Downey, club moderator and professor of History, and four other members of the local organization.
Library Displays Selections From Catholic Publications
For the final week of Catholic press month the library is displaying representative selections of Catholic periodicals, books, and publishers.
To show the activities of the Catholic newspapers and magazines the library has on exhibit copies of Commonweal, The Catholic Digest, Columbia, and Thr Catholic Worker. Also featured are some of the publications of the Ave Maria and Notre Dame University Presses — The Ave Maria magazine, The Review of Politics, and Notre Dame 100 Years.
The final case of the display gives a sampling of various Catholic presses, such as the Catholic University of America Press, The Bruce Publishing Company, and Sheed & Ward.
teaching experience) you learn the key to all dances your very first lesson. Then watch those invitations come your way...because good dancers are always in demand. So come in or phone now. Have the fun and good times that make people happy.
The Scholastic
Religious Instruction Started by NFCCS
Plans for reestablishing the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine were made this week at a meeting of the Apostolic Chapter of the NFCCS. Under this program, volunteers from Notre Dame give religious instruction to public school children in South Bend. A call for volunteers for this purpose will be issued and then these men will be taught how to teach.
The annual May Day observance by the whole student body was discussed. A chairman for this gathering is to be elected in the near future. The celebration of Corpus Christi was also considered.
Another teaching program will be launched in the next few weeks. This one is to teach craftsmanship at the Logan School for Retarded Children. Volunteers from the student body will handle this assignment, too.
Date Announced for Fifth Annual Vocation Institute
The fifth annual Vocation Institute will be held July 19 to July 22 at the University of Notre Dame, according to Rev. John H. Wilson, C. S. C.
Father Wilson, in announcing the fifth annual Institute, said that practical means of discovering, guiding and preserving religious vocaticns will be discussed at the Institute.
Several sessions of the 1951 Institute will be devoted to the discussion of special phases of the integrated plan for festering vocations which was worked out at past meetings. Particular emphasis this year will be given to the demonstration of practical techniques of vocation recruiting. Also stressed will be the need and method of spiritual guidance and personal interview.
Full information concerning the Institute may be obtained by writing Father Wilson at Holy Cress Semmary, Notre Dame, Indiana.
------------------—----Dentist
DR. RALPH BERMAN 408 Platt Bldg., 105 W. Wayne St.
Hours-. Mon. 9-12 Thurs. 9-12 & 1:30-5 Fri. 1:30-5; Sat. 9-12
PHONE 7-1409
Res. ph. 2-6697
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A RARE opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to
SPANISH STUDENT TOURS, INC.
500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
We carry a large showing of fine Watches and Jewelry . . .
We maintain a complete Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
DON’T let those stripes fool you. J. Paul was no prisoner of love! His hair looked like a tiger rag, and he was feline mighty low. But did Sheedy buy a wig? No' He's not a cheetah! “I hate to be catty,” his roommate said."but evenan ugly puss looks better with Wildroot Cream-Oil! Non-alcoholic! Contains soothing Lanolin! Relieves annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the fingernail test!” Sheedy got Wildroot Cream-Oil, and now he has every girl on campus waiting in lion for a date! So, be cagey... get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil Hair Tonic at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And ask your barber for professional applications. Then you’ll be the cat's pajamas. But don't delay'. Meow is the time!
Ill SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
HEALTH SPOT I
I m ' 1 f If L ‘"J^1 "U I J ■!!	—
MCN WQMCN AMD CNILDMD
209 West Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen, Mgr.
sk of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N.Y.
-OIL
■HLDROOT
CtOCMMHUl
uutvtuaiaus
Aquinas Library
and
Bookstore
YOUR CATHOLIC SHOPPING CENTER IN SOUTH BEND
110 E. LaSalle
Mar. 2, 1951
21
Av
‘Juggler’
The Winter issue of the Juggler, which came out last Friday, should categorically be read by everyone who calls himself “educated.” It’s a wonderful little volume.
Surprisingly enough, on the basis of past experience, the non-fiction in this Juggler far outstrips the fiction. This is somewhat of a reversal of the usual pattern.
The two short stories proper are good stories. They were written by the editors, and both editors are good writers. “Gilat Stacey—Genius” is a fine study of a man who lives in his own “reality.” The story is obviously Yerex —which means that it is mature, sympathetic, and technically good.
Walt Clements’ “Two Houses, Three Blocks Apart” deals with just about the same theme—the man who creates his own private world—from a little different angle. It is also good. But it is not steady. It is good in flashes— in words and moods. As a whole, we thought the story was a bit amorphous and unconvincing.
Four sketches round out the fiction department, and each of them has value and merit. Particularly good are Jim Kingsley’s “A Spot on the Glass,” and Hank Cushing’s “The Bereaved.” The latter is a delicately pleasing piece of writing.
The poetry section includes an extremely good humor verse and a couple of equally good and fresher- poems. One cannot but admire John Engels for consistently turning out the only contributions in the poetry field used by the Juggler. He is the mainstay, apparently, of the poetic muse on campus. But he is good.
The Cap and Bells section is particularly outstanding in this issue. Jack Ward’s satire on the monkey who was educated is a delightful takeoff and a pointed commentary on contemporaneity. The fantasy is put into the “broad smile and war-m glow” class by Chuck Lenz’s sketches.
But what is by far the best writing in the Winter Juggler is the pair of essays. It is here, and we would also include the Cap and Bells, that the nonfiction outdistances the fiction and makes the Juggler such a fine offering.
Richard Stevens’ essay on Aldous Huxley is the most superb piece of critical writing we have read in many moons. His analysis of Huxley, and through him of Huxley’s (and our own) world is little short of great. The writing is clear, ordered, sympathetic, graceful and entertaining. And the analysis itself should be read by everyone, familiar- with Huxley or not.
Joseph Sunega’s Essay “Clotilde” is another extremely fine analysis of the works of Leon Bloy, particularly, as one would suspect, of The Woman Who Was Poor. While Sunega’s writing and method matched that of Stevens, we felt that his analysis was a bit more arbitrary. There was a little bit of the form imposed from without, which is another way of saying prejudice, in the essay. Which does not really de
1 teaspoonful in a cup, add piping hot water and stir.
In flavor, price, convenience, you’ll find it’s a real eye* opener. The 4-oz. jar makes as many cups as a pound of ordinary coffee, yet costs at least 20(5 Jess. Get some today ... for pure coffee enjoyment!
More people drink NESCAFE than all other Instant Coffees!
*Nticaft (pmMKtfNES-CAFAY) btksuc!KtnrefisttrHtn4i-mritafniN(stitCMnMy,lK.t(Mnit(itssaMi<ctff(tm4Ktwkick
COFFEE CUM UWPE
Boning up? You’ll cram more study into each night session by taking time out (just seconds!) for the quick "lift” of Nescafe*.
No coffee-pot. No grounds. No brewing. Yet Nescafe makes roaster-fresh coffee... right this minute! Simply put
right this minute... roaster fresh/

tract from the fact that the essay was a good one and even a great one.
On the strength of these two essays particularly we recommend the latest Juggler. The book reviews are good, as usual. But the critical writing, plus the romantic fantasy in Cap and Bells, are of a quality of writing seldom surpassed in the Juggler or anywhere else.
Through No Fault
The students who must take a day
off and go to Indianapolis or home to take a physical examination for the Army have nothing to say about the matter. They have to do it.
They are refused cancelled cuts because they are not away on “University Business.” We completely miss the logic of such a policy.
The Last Word
Much praise to the Prefect of Religion for providing an early Mass for the physical examinee contingent last Tuesday.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St J. M. S. Bldg.
22
The Scholastic

THE DE FONT
DIGEST
A’^wawsvavaf AM.. Vk.  M . V... ...... AS . AMA ASW .	M.MAW ". AM «A Xw SASSA....s...........A ...... A...... ■ ■aa....»..-.a.‘..>l
With silica, water and imagination Du Pont scientists have found
How to Tame Slippery Floors
Teen-agers in high schools used to have great, if hazardous, fun running and sliding on newly waxed corridor floors. Of late many of them haven’t been able to do that. For numerous schools, as well as office buildings and institutions, are now using waxes that have been made skid-resistant.
The product that is taming slippery floors is "Ludox” colloidal silica —adapted by Du Pont chemists to floor wax through cooperative research with the wax industry.
If you mix plain sand with floor wax, you’ll have an anti-slip surface, but it would be unsightly and thoroughly' impractical. With "Ludox,” you are using a water suspension of invisible colloidal silica particles less than a millionth of an inch in diameter.
A problem child
"Ludox” was quite a problem child to scientists who developed it. For instance, research men had to know how silica would act in the presence of floor wax. So they turned to the electron microscope and learned that the little silica spheres attach themselves firmly to the surfaces of wax spheres five times their size.
But it was also necessary to find out how "Ludox” affects a waxy film
“Ludox" particle* (dark, in this electron photomicrograph.) surround the larger wax particles throughout depth of film. Magnified 25,000 x.
Du Pont "Ludox" makes floor waxes harder as well as safer. Other wax qualities—gloss, freeze- and water-resistance, leveling—are unaffected. It is now used by many manufacturers.
after it is laid down on a floor. While a polished waxed floor looks smooth enough, it is actually a series of hills and valleys and these irregularities have an important bearing on the behavior of a surface.
Working with a waxed surface presented difficulties. The electron microscope functions only if electron beams can pass through the membrane upon which the specimen is placed. And electrons can’t '-'see through” a floor!
Study in duplication
Often, problems like this have been solved by preparing a thin replica or copy of the surface for examination in its stead. However, the conventional method for making a replica—
Cross-section of wax film shows how pressure of foot pushes the hard "Ludox” particles into the wax, causing a snubbing action.
the one frequently used in studying metals—requires solvents. These would dissolveandruina wax surface.
So it became necessary for the chemists and electron microscopists to develop an entirely new way to make a replica of a surface. This they did, as part of a research program that lasted several years.
With it some remarkable pictures were made. They showed that many "Ludox” particles stay at the surface of a wax film, even though they are denser than wax. As you walk on a floor, your shoe presses the tiny silica particles down into the wax spheres that make up the film- This sets up a snubbing action which keeps you from slipping.
Much more could be told about Du Pont research on colloidal silica. For example,' chemical and mechanical engineers had to develop manufacturing equipment, including a specially designed ion exchange column. Organic and physical chemists used research findings to formulate better waxes, as well as silica-containing adhesives and anti-slip treatments for rayon fabrics. Like practically all Du Pont achievements, "Ludox” is the result of close, continuous teamwork of men and women trained in many fields of science.
DID YOU KNOW ...
it costs more than $10,000 on the average to provide the tools, machines, factory space and working capital for an American worker. Du Pont’s average operating investment per employee is $17,800.
RES. U.S. PAT. OFE
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEAf/STtr
Entertaining, Informative — Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
Mar. 2, 1951
23