1'MS bo ok not to be ^aken from the Library
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
V
V.
Commencement Number
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
June 3 1 9 3 2
Coffee and ^ea ^Merchants
“Quality Produces”
est Coffee Company
SNew ^ork City, SV.
Chicago, Illinois
4
We Supply The Dining Halls Of University of Notre Dame
June 3, 1932
One
Hello Men!
Smith ’s Cafeteria 11! E. Jefferson Bind.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Men’s $8 to
Formerly Selling
$8 to $10
Crawford—
Osteo-Patik
others we
cannot
-advertise
$10 Oxfords
$4.85
■ Practically all sizes and widths in lot. You’ll probably buy 2 or 3 pairs. For the young man as well as the older man.
All sizes in others at $1.85, $2.95 and $3.85.
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Hail and Farewell...
(With a Bow to the Editor) « « «
HERE, now is an extraordinary advertisement that is really not a selling message at all .... we worry not at the moment whether we sell a sock or a tie or a suit. But, on with our story. It’s simple. It should be concise.
To the seniors who have been our business friends—the proverbial handshake and Godspeed, sincerely and honestly meant. To the underclassmen who have seen us this year and whom we hope to see again next year —happy, lazy days this summer. To the rest of Notre Dame—let’s get acquainted sometime. You’ll find us friendly folks, and if you insist on buying our merchandise, we believe you’ll agree with the satisfied thousands who are our regular patrons. “Hail and farewell!” .... till Fall.
« « «
One Ttar JdKb O/noltei/!
813-815 S.MtCh^ai St.
Be Notre Dame minded—ask for Bill Cerri, '32
Two
The Scholastic
JUNE AT NOTRE DAME
/\ RecentView of Notre '	' Dame, Painted This Year
In the Late Spring. The Artist Portrays the Main Building, Sacred Heart Church, and a Portion cfthe Historic Quadrangle.
AVE
ATQUE
VALE
June 3
1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
I	I I	_	E nt er e d as second-class
I he Notre Dame scholastic zr
-	#	ing at special rate of postage.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Crus Moriturus section nos, October s. 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
FOUNDED 1865
Neil C. Hurley__________________________Editor-in-Chief
Henry B. ASMAN_______________________Managing Editor
WHJLU.M W. Corr___________________Departmental Editor
Associate Editors GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN.........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITCHELL TACKLEY, Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT DILLON
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT RAY WATERS PAUL FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors JAMES CARMODY...............The	Week
JOHN PICK...............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.............Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS..........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK EDW. VAN HUISSELING JOSEPH KURTH
Features Staff
WALTER JOHNSON	Features Editor HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ	LOUIS HRUBY
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN...........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J, NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, Jr.......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS.........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
JUNE 3, 1932
Number 28.
SUMMARY
COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM
NEWS
Graduation of 527 Seniors will climax active and varied week-end program. Owen D. Young will
deliver the commencement address----------- 5
“Abraham Lincoln,” starring Prof. Doyle, scores great success in first two presentations--------- 5
Honorary degrees will be presented to Bishop Cassidy, Owen D. Young, Martin H. Carmody and Sergius P. Grace__________________________________— 5
The Scholastic voted best of college weeklies in contest at the University of North Carolina-:- 7
FEATURES
Men About Campus—Ed Britz sure can sell ads; Loras
Lane is unofficial guide at the Commerce building and rules the Commerce Forum-----------------------------12
More Men About—Frank Oberkoetter’s camera gets a write-up; Gerald Conway is really a “shot” in addi-
tion to being circulation manager of the Juggler-13
SPORTS
Irish trackmen down the Army by 68 1-3 to 57 2-3 on
Cartier field as Alex Wilson wins three events---20
Baseball team wins and loses on road; Northwestern, wins by 10-3, but Captain Palt limits Western State, to four bingles in 2-1 battle-------------------20
Michigan State closes baseball season here Saturday on Cartier field; Irish out to avenge previous defeat; Palt, Kozak, and Russo in last game-------21
Vince Fehlig downs Montedonico by 2 and 1 in 36-hole finals for Notre Dame school championship-------21
Athletes have good year in various branches of sport_22
FRIDAY, JUNE 3
Alumni Registration, Alumni and Dillon Halls for Campus Residence. Alumni Office for Senior and General Registration.
The Alumni Golf Tournament will open Friday on the William J. Burke-University Golf Course.
12:30 P. M. President’s Address to the Class of 1932 (Private).
3:00 P. M. Meeting of the Local Club Council.
6:00 P. M. Reunion Dinners (Private Arrangement).
7:00 P. M. Concert by the University Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:15 P. M. The University Theatre presents John Drinkwater’s “Abraham Lincoln,” Washington Hall.
SATURDAY, JUNE 4
Alumni Registration will continue as above.
Alumni Golf Tournament will also continue.
8:00 A. M. Reunion Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church.
9:30 A. M. Last visit of the Class of 1932, Sacred Heart Church (Private).
10:00 A. M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Honors, Washington Hall. 12:00 M. Luncheon, Commerce Alumni, University Dining Halls.
2:00 P. M. Baseball, Michigan State College vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field.
4:30 P. M. Dedication of the John F. Cushing, C.E. ’06, Hall of Engineering.
Address: the Honorable Sergius P. Grace, New York City. _ 6:00 P. M. Annual Alumni Banquet.
7:00 P. M. Concert, Studebaker Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:30 P. M. University Glee Club Concert, Washington Hall.
SUNDAY, JUNE 5
8:30 A. M. Academic Procession, Main Building to Sacred Heart Church.
9:00 A. M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church.
, Celebrant, the Most Reverend John Francis Noll, D.D., LL.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Baccalaureate Sermon, the Most Reverend James E. Cassidy, D.D., Bishop of Fall River, Massachusetts.
Music, the Moreau Seminary Choir.
Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior Flag.
11:00 A.M. Raising of the Senior Flag, Main Quadrangle.	.
Music by the University Band.
12:00 M. Notre Dame Council 1477 K. of C. Luncheon. Lay Faculty Dining Hall, in honor of Supreme Grand Knight Martin H. Carmody. Visiting Knights may procure tickets.
4:30 P. M. Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium.
Commencement Address, the Honorable Owen D. Young, New York City.
Four	The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
James Carmody
Good-bye; so long; see you in the bread-line.
ISITORS to the campus surprise us constantly by displaying unusual interest in the buildings and the surrounding terrain. To us who have been here for four years at least the prospect is not new and does not always please, but that is our fault and not that of the architecture. We are used to the facade of the church and the towers of Sorin and the jumble that is the exterior of Washington hall that they no longer make any impression at all, good
or bad; visitors and their interest snap us out of our habit of indifference almost enough to make us want to see what the inside of the Engineering building looks like before we leave. Having no interest in ohms and the like, we doubt, though, that we’ll be able to summon the energy.

SuNDAY is the great dividing line for the present crop of graduates. It is the day which prevents a man from saying any longer, “I go to college.” The great difference in the two doesn’t seem at first apparent, but it is there, nevertheless. While one is still in college, he can answer questions as to what he will do in the world glibly, and can paint rosy pictures of his coming success. The question to the grad, though, is “What are you doing ?”; and unless he is one of the lucky and can work for his
father, he is bound to choke on the answer. Sunday is an important day, all right, all right.
-----------
During the second performance of “Abraham Lincoln,” last Sunday, events had progressed to the point where Lincoln was to be shot by Booth in the theatre box. Now as the shot is fired, Stanton, in the box with Lincoln, is supposed to cry, “Catch that man!” Inured by all the rehearsals to the tensity of the moment, Stanton was this night a little forgetful, and as Booth stepped into the box and the shot rang out, he jumped up, looked at the President slumped in his seat, and cried out, “Wow! He got him!” So real was his surprise and his movements that no one suspected that the action was supposed to be anything else. ---------------------------
T HIS is a paragraph of thanks to all the long-suffering persons who have bothered to read this stuff during the year. We can even forgive those who were outspoken in their dislike, just as long as they read enough to form a dislike. It’s been no easy job, trying to keep the by-line at the head of the column to impress the friends at home, and it’s been harder to keep from being banal and mawkish. Hardest of all is trying to get a job on the strength of having written this every week. We want to thank Neil Hurley for the great pat on the back last week, and there are no strings attached to the statement. We mean it, even if there’s nothing in it for us. So long; see you in the breadline.
June 3, 1932
Five
honorary degrees io GRADUATION OF 527 SENIORS TO CUMAX DE PRESENTED10 FOOR	y^D ffEEK.END PROGRAM
Bishop Cassidy, Young, Grace, Carmody To Receive LL.D.
SPEAKER
OWEN D. YOUNG TO TALK
Four national figures will be presented with honorary doctor of law degrees by the University of Notre Dame on comemncement day, tomorrow, it was announced by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C. president.
Owen D. Young, New York, who wil deilver the commencement address, is to receive one of the awards.
Martin H. Carmody, New Haven, Conn., supreme grand knight of the Knights of Columbus; Sergius P. Grace, New York city, noted electrical expert, and the Right Reverend James E. Cassidy, D.D., bishop of Fall River, Mass., will also receive honorary diplomas.
The graduation of the class of 1932 marks the annual alumni reunion, with registration and a golf tourna-
(Continued on Page 15)
“Abraham Lincoln" Wins Plaudits of Critics;
Professor Albert Doyle Stars In Leading Role
The University Theatre, with Professor A. L. Doyle in the lead, will present John Drinkwater’s historical drama, “Abraham Lincoln,” in the final performance tonight, June 3.
In previous performances the University Players have been lauded for having achieved perhaps the finest production of the past few years. The work of Prof. Doyle in particular is outstanding, which, of course, is not surprising to those who may have seen him as Stanhope in “Jopmey's End,” or as Brutus in “Julius Caesar.”
Characters Well Portrayed
Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, of the faculty of St. Mary’s college, has the part of Lincoln’s scheming wife, presenting a faithful picture of that proud woman.
Prominent among the undergraduate members of the cast are Joseph A. McCabe, John Finneran, Thomas McKevitt, and George Higgins—all members of the President’s cabinet.
In the early productions of Abraham Lincoln, the work of Thomas
The Honorable Owen D. Young, who ivill deliver the commencement address here tomorrow afternoon to the 527 graduating Seniors.
Stritch, playing Mr. Custis, and of Frank Denney in the part of General Grant, was given favorable comment by the campus critics.
While the local production of Drinkwater’s great dream is not the first to be given by a collegiate organization, it is hoped that the University Players may do as well with this year’s play as with the production of “The Merchant of Venice” at the previous commencement.
A Fine Presentation
Opinion among the members of the cast is that the audience at Commencement, being far more pleasant to play to than any group of undergraduates, will this year see one of the finest dramatic productions that Notre Dame has offered in the several years since the amalgamation of the several campus groups under the guidance of the University Theatre.
The production is under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Department of Speech, with Fred Eisenmann assisting him.
Engineering Building Will Be Dedicated Saturday; Class Day Exercises at 10:00.
The Notre Dame graduating class of 1932, composed of 527 Seniors, will take their places inside the gymnasium here on Sunday to receive their last reward after four years of study.
Owen D. Young, chairman of the board of the General Electric company, and internationally known financier, will deliver the commencement address.
Exercises On Saturday
This will climax a weekend of activity that has already begun as The Scholastic goes to press this noon.
Among the more important events of the ceremonies, will be the dedication of the Engineering building on Saturday at 4:30, with Sergius P. Grace scheduled to give the main address.
The class day exercises and the awarding of honors will take place in Washington hall at ten o’clock Saturday. This will follow the last visit of the Class to Sacred Heart church at 9:30.
At the ten o’clock session Frank O’Malley and William Kirby will deliver their talks to the graduates.
Mass At Nine
The Solemn Pontifical Mass will be held in Sacred Heart church at 9:00 o’clock Sunday morning, with the Most Reverend John Francis Noll, D. D., LL. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, as the celebrant.
The Baccalaureate sermon will be preached at this time by the Most Reverend James E. Cassidy, D. D., Bishop of Fall River, Mass.
Music for the occasion will be by the famous Moreau Seminary choir, under the direction of the Reverend James Connerton, C.S.C.
The raising of the Senior Flag, which was presented by the class at the Washington Birthday exercises, will take place immediately following (Continued on Page 8)
Six
The Scholastic
Scholarship Winners Are Named Today by Faculty
LIST IS COMPLETE
Hallinan, Himbert, Schaller, Burns, and Scanlan Are Among Winners.
Awards and scholarships announced today by the Reverend William Mo-lony, C.S.C., are printed here in full:
The Breen Medal for excellence in Oratory, presented by the honorable, the late William P. Breen of the Class of 1877, is awarded to Mr. George Bently Ryan, El Paso, Texas.
The Meehan Gold Medal, the gift of the late Mrs. Eleanore Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, for the senior who wriets the best essay in English, is awarded to Mr. Francis Xavier Nulty, Brooklyn, N. Y.
The Electrical Engineering Medal, presented by Dr. Jose Angel Caparo, Sc.D., of the Class of 1908 ,in memory of his father, for the best record in all courses prescribed in the four-year Electrical Engineering Program, is awarded to Mr. John Maurice Scanlan, Indianapolis, Ind.
The Dockweiler Medal for Philosophy, founded in memory of his deceased father, by Mr. Isadore Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, California, for the best essay on some philosophical subject, senior year, is awarded to Mr. Paul John Hallinan, Painesville, Ohio.
The Lehn & Fink Medal for Pharmacy, awarded annually by Lehn & Fink, wholesale druggists and manufacturing chemists. New York City, to promote the advancement of pharmacy, for the senior in Pharmacy who has the highest general average in his work, is awarded to Mr. Norbert Casper Schaller, Dyer, Ind.
The Meyers Burse, thirty dollars in gold, founded in 1920, by a gift of five hundred dollars from Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Meyers, of Paducah, Kentucky, as a memorial to their deceased son, J. Sinnott Meyers, of the Class of 1920, for general excellence in the Department of Journalism, is awarded to Mr. Arthur Louis Himbert, Rock Island, III.
Two money prizes have been offered for distribution among the monogram men who have achieved the highest academic excellence. The first is a prize of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, given by Mr. Francis Earl Herring, of South Bend. Indiana, A.B., 1891, LL.B., 1902.
The second is a prize of one hundred dollars, donated by Mr. Leroy Joseph Keach, of Indianapolis, Indiana, LL.B., 1908.
The prizes have been combined and are awarded as follows:
A prize of seventy dollars to the Sophomore Monogram man with the best average for the Freshman and Sophomore years to Mr. Charles Augustus Finkel, Clifton, New Jersey.
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Junior Monogram man with the best class average for the Freshman, Sophomore and Junior years to Mr. Charles Joseph Jaskwhich, Kenosha, Wisconsin.	.
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Senior Monogram man with the best average for the Freshman, Sophomore. Junior and Senior years to Mr. Henry Clay Johnson, Kent, Ohio.
A number of public spirited citizens of the city of South Bend have co-operated in the establishment of money prizes of fifty dollars each and twenty-five dollars each. The prizes are for members of the senior class and are awarded as follows:
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Albert Russell Erskine, President of the Studebaker Corporation, for excellence in Machine Design, to Mr. James Joseph Yoch, St. Louis, Missouri.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Miles W. O’Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works, (Continued on Page 10)
S.A.C. Concludes In Fine Style— And All Is Well
The Student Activities Council at Notre Dame was organized a few years ago, and outlined for itself
John Kramer
Gives his successor a boost.
three objectives. They were: first, to provide an effective channel of communication between the undergraduate body and the University authorities; second, to exercise a general supervision over student activities, organization, traditions, and customs; and third, to crystallize and make effective the sanest of undergraduate opinions.
“Not So Bad”
The S. A. C. this year functioned with these three purposes always in mind. They accomplished much and earned the unrestricted confidence of the entire student body. They are to be congratulated!
An innovation, and one which received the praise of everyone, was the establishment of information booths at the railroad stations to aid the newcomers to the University. Thus the incoming freshmen last fall became acquainted with their student governing body before they had even seen the University. '
Abolish “Hello Week”
The direct result of this measure was the abolishment of “Hello Week,”
' (Continued on Page 15)
THE TEXT OF O’MALLEY’S VALEDICTORY SPEECH
Complete Address Is Printed Below; Given Today.
By Francis J. O’Malley
Very Reverend President, Members of the Faculty, Classmates, and Friends:
To become a real partaker in the life of a college or university is perhaps as happy a lot as ever falls to a young man. It gives freedom but not too much; it gives pleasant surroundings, it blends, as has often been said, the inspiration of a great past with the keen interest of the present.
Like A Room of Mirrors
Above all, a man, by entering a college or university ordinarily becomes a member of a society eager to appreciate his successes, ready to sympathize with his disappointments. As in a room full of mirrors, every object is indefinitely repeated, so in the life of a university a man’s own life is intensified.
One prominent in the variegated activities of his school has power that is not immoderate, responsibility that is not crushing, opportunities for success and distinction in many fields.
Who can wonder then that to many men their college years are the happiest period of their existence, when there are round them, “Strong affections binding fast the flying terms with links of gold”?
For four years’ residence in a great university has been our privilege. Whatever our gifts, our views, or our tastes, w’e have found here a place to display them and probably someone to appreciate.
A Process of Formation
Here we have undergone a process of formation; here we have been educated, that is, our whole minds and hearts and souls have been awakened; our education has not been one of mere information, of unordered, uncritical learning; it has been one demanding the exercise of our personal powers, intellectual and spiritual.
Scholarly teachers, kind directors, and sympathetic friends have aided us in the production of those indispensable accomplishments, those specific capacities which constitute the equipment necessary for authentic success
(Continued on Page 14)
June 3, 1932
Seven
GORMAN JUGGLES THE USUAL BOUNCING BALL
And the “Juggler” Finishes Its Greatest Year.
“Scholastic” Wins Title Of Best College Weekly In U. S.
ANNOUNCE RATING
By J. Donald Sullivan
Under this year’s Funny Fellow, Bob Gorman, and his capable managing editor, Paul Hallinan, Notre
Bob Gorman
His record: eight great issues.
Dame’s comic monthly, the Juggler, continued its outstanding accomplishments. With a tradition of many years of success behind it, the Juggler added new laurels to its trophy chest.
Last yeai- the Juggler won first prize in the National College Comic contest for excellence of art work. This year the Funny Fellow placed first in the Mid-west section of a contest sponsored by The Scholastic. The national winner has not yet been announced, but the Juggler is making a strong bid for the honor.
Not Traditional, At All
Bob Gorman, editor-in-chief, offered a radical departure in the traditional presentation of each number of the Juggler. In place of the former Freshman, Football and Christmas numbers were the Autumn, Hollywood and Winter performances.
After the Christmas holidays the Current Events, Publications and Humor numbers appeared. Then came the traditional Girls’ number, and the season closed with the Reunion number.
The year ushered into prominence new gagmen whose sparkling wit helped to make the publication a lively one. Tighe Woods, Harry Burchell, Leslie Raddatz, Joe Degnan and Robert Cahill joined John Murphy, Don (Continued on Page 10)
Boy, Chalk Up a Strike For Eddie Massa’s Lawyer
By Mitchell Tackley
The Notre Dame Lawyer, quarterly publication of the College of Law, has successfully lowered its curtain for issues, appearing in November, January, March and May, were released by the lawyers.
Edward C. Massa, editor of the publication, is to be congratulated for the splendid work brought out by the Lawyer. Joseph Moran headed the managerial staff. Others on the staff included John A. Bitter, advertising manager; Harry A. Busscher, assistant editor; and Joseph F. Deeb, asist-ant business manager.
Circulation Over 500
During the past year the circulation of the publication has indfeased to over five hundred. The magazine is distributed among the leading law’ schools of the country and can be found in the offices of many prominent attorneys as well as various libraries.
Contributors of the year include nationally known celebrities in the field of law. Professor John W. Cur-ron of the College of Law, De Paul University, wrote an article, “Trusts for Masses,” which created considerable attention and comment. Attorney Edward Cohen, New York City, and Attorney-General James M. Ogden, of Indiana, also contributed.
Students Write
Student articles were interspersed throughout the magazine and are a fine representation of the work of the College of Law. Outstanding among the writers of this department are John Ruberto, Phillip Konop, Edward C. Massa, John Fetzer, and Thomas Reed.
A department of recent valuable decisions and one of book reviews were also contained in the Lawyer.
National Contest Shows Notre Dame To Be Leader In Publication Field.
The Notre Dame Scholastic was judged the best college weekly in America this week in a nation-wide
Neil Hurley
His paper won a national title. contest sponsored by the North Carolina Daily Tar Heel.
Word of The Scholastic’s success reached the publications office yesterday.
Sixteen papers were placed in the first class, with The Scholastic, leading the field. All were judged on a point system involving heads, news content, style, make-up, editorials, sports, features, and columns.
Almost one hundred college newspapers were graded, and included every important and major weekly in the country.
Pittsburgh In There
Other universities w h o received honors in the Class A ranking are the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Utah, Denver, Boston, Tulane, Duke, and Tennessee.
In the Class B ranking the following colleges were among those awarded recognition: Carnegie Tech, Cincinnati, Rice Institute, Mississippi, Williams, Maryland, Detroit, St. Louis, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and Amherst.
The honor paid to The Scholastic is the greatest award that can be made to any undergraduate publication.
The Scholastic
Eight
HALLINAN WRITES ON SPECTATOR ACTIVITY
It Seems As Though The Club Has A Heritage.
By Paul J. Hallinan
The Spectators have a heritage which they guard jealously and grandiloquently. It’s a rather intangible affair, more of an abstraction than anything else. It can be glimpsed, perhaps, in the bottom of their unique tankards if your eye is good. It has been bequeathed to them from the eternal sessions held by other men in other times; greater men, maybe, but not more eager.
Has Fine Heritage
The heritage concisely is this: the right, and the fact, of speaking your mind on this or that in the presence of those who gather for just that sort of thing. For the Spectators, considered collectively, is simply Dr. Johnson’s coffee-house circle; the jovial assembly of the Bound Table, or the happy student-throng of old Heidelberg, brought up to date. Without, officially, the ale, the mead and the beer of these historic groups, the Spectators approximate rather well the vigor of their discussions.
Someone long ago, ignominiously, dubbed the Spectators’ 'Meetings "glorified bull-sessions.” The philistine saved himself by that qualifying adjective “glorified.” For what session, be it in the dirty depths of Sorin or the suites of Dillon has ever heard New Humanism thrashed about by friend and foe; English Nonsense verse solemnly quoted; or democracy subjected to such trenchant criticism that Alexander Hamilton’s heart would have been warmed had he be come a Spectator instead of wasting time with his Institute.
Stephan Presided
Edmund Stephan has been president; John Pick, secretary; and the rest of the club this year was recorded as follows: Kenneth Kreps, Nicholas Kalmes, William Blind, Paul J. Hallinan, Robert Filnt, James Danehy, William Dreux, Daniel Rolfs, Frank Fallon, Walter Johnson, and Patrick Corcoran. The meetings as usual were held each Thursday evening at eight o’clock; two talks were heard, each followed by a vigorous
(Continued on Page 9)
PREXY
Eddie Stephan, a junior, who has just turned over to John Pick the gavel of the Spectators’ presidency. Stephan was appointed to the editorship of The Scholastic last week.
GRADUATION OF SENIORS TO CLIMAX WEEK-END
(Continued from Page 5)
the Mass. With the graduates standing about, the University band will strike up the national anthem as the flag is slowly raised.
Other activities of the week-end include band concerts on both Friday and Saturday nights, a Glee Club concert in Washington hall, and the presentation of the University Theatre’s production, “Abraham Lincoln.”
At 12:30 on Friday, the Reverend Charles L.-O’Donnell, C.S.C. will open the ceremonies with a private address to the Seniors.
From this moment on, the activities will be crowded together at short intervals, both for the graduates and for the alumni, the visitors, and the parents of the outgoing Senior Class.
N. Y. Alumni Club To Fete Metropolitan District Grads
Word was received this week from John E. Kenny, president of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York, that his organization has planned a welcome for the graduating seniors of the Metropolitan District. The alumni club also anticipates with much pleasure having the graduates as guests at the Hotel McAlpin on June 16, at 6:30 p. m.
COYNE WINDS UP FIRST YEAR AS DERATE COACH
Kirby’s Sharp Tongue, Quick Wit, Aid In Great Season.
By Ray Waters
When William Kirby and James Boyle travelled to Cleveland, April 26 to meet the Western Reserve debaters in a radio discussion they brought to a close a season of seven engagements. It was the first season of Professor William Coyne’s coaching career.
The records show that Notre Dame won one and lost two of these encounters. In a dual meet with Purdue, victory was divided; early in the season the University of Florida defeated Notre Dame in Washington hall.
Has A Good Record
To pass judgment from such a tabulation would be to belie the true merit of the coach and the squad alike. Listed with the victory and defeats are four no decision debates. What the change in the scoring column would be had there been four, more decisions will never be known; but it is not presumptuous to say the victory column would have been extended.
The forensic squad of 1932 upheld the tradition of excellent Notre Dame debating teams. Under the direction of William Coyne the men carried to the rostrum the same fiery speech and impressive determination that is characteristic of Notre Dame debaters.
William Coyne Is Coach
Late last fall William Coyne, formerly varsity debater and at present speech instructor at the University, was appointed to succeed the Reverend Francis Boalnd, C.S.C., who for a number of years, guided the destinies of Notre Dame debating.
The call for candidates was answered by a score of interested debaters, veterans and novices alike. After a few. weeks of pruning, the squad was chosen. On the list were found the names: . William Kirby, James Meehan, William Darrow, Joseph Becek, Hugh Fitzgerald, Walter Johnson, Thomas O’Meara, Roger Brennan, James Boyle, Arthur Cline, William Murphy; and Arthur Sandusky.
The season was about to start; the (Continued on Page 28)
June 3, 1932
Nine
SCRIP, IN SWADDLING GARB, MAKES LAST BOW
McCabe Is Disappointed, But Satisfied, Too.
By Paul Foley
Garbed in what Editor 'McCabe terms its “swaddling clothes,” Scrip completed its third year as the campus literary organ. Three lusty issues resplendent in their brilliant colors attest the strength of the infant publication.
This year’s Board of Editors was led by Editor-In-Chief Joseph McCabe, a native of North' Attleboro, Massachusetts, and a senior in the Arts and Letters school. The editor’s associates were Frank O’Malley, John Cooper, and Frank Nulty. Last year’s editor, Louis Brennan, of O’Brien fame, held the post of managing editor.
Many New Writers
In addition to the previous contributors, Mattingly Spalding, Louis Brennan, Frank O’Malley, and Joseph McCabe, Scrip boasts many new converts to the campus literary ranks. Kermit Escudier, a fourth year journalist from Louisiana, was one of the recruits to appear for the first time this year, his initial offering being “Those Brutal People.”
Charles Sheedy also made his debut as a Reviewer under the McCabe regime, his name first appeared under a review of “Only Yesterday.” Outside the ranks of students, Scrip boasts of contributions from Professor Charles Philips, and the Reverend Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., both members of the English department.
Quality Is High
Concerning the merits and trials of his own publication Editor McCabe wrote the following statement:
“The contributions to Scrip this year have been small in number but of a quality that was high and consistent. Much has been said, of both a serious and a pseudo-humorous nature, concerning the size of Scrip and its few delayed appearances. Perhaps the comments were ‘apropos’ or perhaps the editor’s comment, (here reserved) was justified; in any case the editor feels that there can be little complaint with the finished magazine once it appeared.
“Considered as a whole,” he con-
(Continued on Page 28)
NOISE-MAKER
Vigilius Phillips, who has guided the destinies of the band this year as the group’s president. He will be on hand this zveek-end with his boys in the annual concert.
SPECTATORS ARE ACTIVE
(Continued from Page 8)
discussion.
Facts vs. Ideas! That appears on the Spectators’ questionnaire, and it was the crux of the year-long discussion. When James Danehy stated that operas sung in foreign tongues were absurd; when Dan Rolfs evaluated Willa Cather; or Cy Kreps, Eugene O’Neill; when President Stephan insisted on the indispensability of the Art of Thinking—the battle raged over that ground. Did the speaker’s facts as presented, stand the barrage of ideas from the club members?
Wide Range of Topics
From the militaristic point of view adopted here, it will be assumed that the club is essentially a vigorous free-thinking aggregation. That is correct. Each of the members contributes his ideas on any given topic, and the list of subjects is attractive: “England Facing Her Economic Crisis” (Stephan); “An Analysis of Pantheism” (Kreps); “Are We Absurd?” (Kalmes); “Ford and Gandhi” (Dreux); “The Negro Problem” (Rolfs); “Religion and Fear” (Pick); “Answer to Religion and Fear” (Danehy); “The Japanese Situation” (Fallon); “Sex and the Movies” (Flint); “The Parochial Schools” (Corcoran); “A Change in the Calendar” (Johnson); and “Is Caricature Art?” (Hallinan).
AS USUAL, THE GLEE CLUB HAS GREAT YEAR
Radio Boadcasts, Trips, Local Concerts Are Features.
Throughout the country, Notre Dame has always been noted for her splendid Glee Club. The “Irish Singers” are always linked together with the “Irish Fighters.”
Engagements of the Glee Club are contracted for as perpetual annual events. Early last fall, even before completing the organization, of the; group, Prof. Casasanta was requested to bring his singers to Chicago to present a program over a national hookup for the Armour Hour. The program won the appraisal of many notables.
Sings At Games
Not only on the stage have the gleesters distinguished themselves. Inaugurating a new system to improve unity in singing on the football field, the members acted as a choral group, of leaders at one of last year’s games.
Competing with six universities in an inter-collegiate contest for choral organization held at the Circle Theater, Indianapolis, the Notre Dame Glee club won the first prize. Letters of commendation constantly poured into Director Casasanta’s office for the numerous concerts given in the vicinity of South Bend.
Trip East A Success
Forty members of the Glee club journeyed East this spring to present a series of concerts in New England states, and New York. The route taken was the same as planned for 1931 but postponed at that time because of the untimely death of Coach Rockne.
In Milford, Mass., the home of Casasanta, the “Singing Irish” sang Guenod’s “Second Mass” on Easter Sunday morning. The regular concert program was presented that evening in the town hall.
Other points on the itinerary included Boston, Mass., and Utica, N. Y. After returning to the University, the group left for a week-end trip to several cities in Michigan.
For the unparalleled success of the Glee" Club, Professor Casasanta is given full credit. His dauntless spirit and tireless effort well deserves the acclaim of the entire University.
Ten
The Scholastic
TEXT OF CLASS ORATION GIVEN TODAY BY KIRBY
Speech Given Before Graduates In Washington Hall.
Reverend Fathers, Classmates, and Friends:
While my greeting is general, I wish to speak particularly to those boys with whom I have lived and worked for four years, and with whom tomorrow I graduate. For this is our Class Day, and I am charged with the responsibility of striking a common chord amongst us, that we may see just where we stand today, and whither we are going.
Have Ability
We have the ability, I believe, to take our places in the world of men. For several years we have studied and worked to develop the qualifications necessary for our choesn fields. The work, though largely theoretical thus far, will prove of intense practical value to us when the opportunities arise for its application. ’
Our necessary period of probation and development over, we receive tomorrow the seal of Notre Dame’s approval upon our work. We have met rigorous qualifications to earn our degrees, and it indicates some measure of efficiency to finally attain that certification.
Education Just Starting
But no matter how fine our school, or how intensive our study, our education has but commenced. A school can do so much, and no more. One of the reasons why Alexander the Great was so eminent was that he had Aristotle as his personal teacher.
And one of Aristotle’s most important lessons to Alexander was that there is no royal road to learning, tha tis, no single road, and no easy road. Alexander became the Great through experience, and even the finest tutor of his time, and one of the greatest minds of all time, could not have supplied him with that.
Experience must be acquired by the individual. We will lem as we go along, if we keep our minds open, and our present abilitise will be vastly increased by our experience to come. With the talents we now possess and with those we shall gain, we must make our way. Towards what shall we aim?
(Continued on next page.)
WHRU U FT !
Frank Oberkoetter, zvho is quite a man with the camera, has his innermost secrets laid bare in The Man
About the Campus column this week. (Story on page 13.)
“JUGGLER” IS BEST EVER
(Continued from Page 7)
Sullivan and Joseph Dempsey of last year’s staff.
The art work excelled in many respects the championship calibre of last year’s presentations. New talent in the form of sketches from the pens of Vincente Singson and Leo Beaulau-rier were added to that of Art Editor Joe Lopker, Frank Conboy and Art Becvar.
Graduation will take its toll of Juggler stars. Gorman, Hallinan, Murphy, Sullivan and Conboy will be graduated tomorrow. . So will Joe Lopker, but we understand he will return for higher education next year and will again be available to a grateful Funny Fellow.
The old stars will pass on, but the new ones, under the guidance of Joseph McCabe, Funny Fellow for 193233, although not a member of the staff this year, will carry on and attempt to preserve the praise-worthy record of the Juggler.
REQUIESCAT IN PACE
The Scholastic joins the entire Notre Dame student body in offering its sincere sorrow to the parents of Gerald DuWan, who was fatally injured in an automobile accident this week.
AWARDS ANNOUNCED BY FR. MOLONY TODAY
Complete List Printed In “The Scholastic.”
(Continued from Page 6)
South Bend, Indiana, for excellence in Mechanical Drawing, to Mr. Gerald Richard Hodges, South Bend, Indiana.
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. John J. O’Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works, South Bend, Indiana, for excellence in Shopwork, to Mr. Harry Charles Burger, Rittman, Ohio.
Twenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Gallitzin, A. Farabaugh, Attorney-at-Law, for High Legal Scholastic Achievement in the College of Law, to Mr. Joseph Alfred Moran, Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The Hoynes Award, established in January, 1926, by a gift from William James Hoynes, LL.D., Dean Emeritus of the College of Law. The income from this fund, amounting to one hundred dollars, is awarded to the members of the graduating class in the program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws, who has the highest average, in scholastic grades, application, deportment and achievement, together with fitting qualifications for admission to the bar and to the practice of law. This prize is awarded to Mr. Malcolm Edward Trombley, Mt. Clemens, Michigan.
Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, Illinois, A. B., 1904, has made arrangements to offer an annual prize of two hundred dollars to the Senior Monogram Athlete who has been adjudged most exemplary as a student and as a leader of men. This prize is awarded to Mr. Thomas Ambrose Burns, Rochester, New York.
Fifty Dollars, offered annually by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, to the student who graduates with the highest scholastic average for the last three years of the college course in which he is graduated, is awarded to Mr. John Henry Wilson, Chicago, Illinois.
The Architectural Medal, presented by the American Institute of Architects to each of the member schools of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture, to be awarded to the student graduate who has the highest average for the entire course, is presented to Mr. Paul Edward Flanagan, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
For additional prizes, the American Institute offers two copies of Henry Adam’s book, St. Michel and Chartres. The books are awarded as follows:
The second prize to Mr. Clifford Francis Hyland, Rockford, Illinois.
The third prize to Mr. Leonard Joseph Blommaert, Chicago, Illinois.
The Kervick Gold Medal for Drawing— awarded in memory of Andrew F. Kervick, to the student in the Department of Architecture whose work in freehand drawing is of exceptional merit, to Mr. John William Jauch, Niles, Michigan.
The Kervick Gold Medal for Architecture— awarded in memory of Nellie Wynn Kervick, to the student of the Junior Class whose work during his first three years in architecture has been of exceptional merit, to Mr. Louis Reuben ■ Chreist, South Bend, Indiana.
The Ralph Thomas SoIIitt Prize:
Fifty dollars, given by the Ralph Sollitt and Sons Construction Company, of Chicago and South Bend, and awarded annually to a regularly enrolled student in the Department of Architecture for the best design submitted as a solution to a special architecture problem assigned in the scholastic year, to Mr. Thomas Paul Galbraith, Gillespie, Illinois.
The Gertrude S. Sollitt Prize:
Fifty dollars, given by the Ralph Sollitt and Sons Construction Company, of Chicago and South Bend, and awarded annually to a regularly enrolled student in the Department of Architecture for the best work submitted as a solution to a special structural problem assigned in the scholastic year, to Mr. Felix George Frank, Brooklyn, New York.
June 3, 1932
Eleven
RADDATZ AND CO. EDIT N.D.’S BEST YEAR BOOK
Presenting The “Scholastic” Trophy
Photography And Make-up Feature 1932 “Dome.”
By John Conley
The ultimate goal of perfection in yearbooks was reached with the edition of the 1932 Dome. Superior art work, brilliant writing, biting satire, and clever photography all combined to make the book pleasing both to the eye and the mind. Furthermore constant leafing through of the volume has in no way changed our opinion.
Innovations
Innovations put into this year’s book by the capable editor, Leslie Raddatz, include the trick photos introducing each new section, a sports section that doesn’t remind one of a rogue’s gallery, a very, very complete dance section with a special emphasis on the guest division, a calendar of events of the school year, and a complete reversal of the trite method of handling the snapshot section which might have had its conception in a house of many mirrors.
All these factors are combined to make the Dome a craftsmanlike job.
The rich leather cover emblazoned in the lower right hand comer with the seal of the Universiyt lends a brilliance, sophistication and dignity to the Dome such as is befitting a Notre Dame yearbook.
Dedicated To Father O’Donnell
The book is dedicated to the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and accompanying the dedication there is a bust of Father O’Donnell drawn from life by Arthur Becvar.
All the writing in the Dome of ’32 was well done and easily read, which in truth is an accomplishment in itself. Such campus writers as Edmund Stephan, Lloyd Teske, Paul Hallinan, Cleve Carey, John Pick, and Arthur Sandusky contributed brilliantly and voluminously to the book. Others performed minor menial tasks for which there is little reward.
Assisting Editor Raddatz were James Clark, managing editor; Cleve Carey, campus editor; Edmund Stephan, sports editor; Lloyd Teske University editor; John Pick, dramatics editor; Paul Hallinan, satire editor; and John E. Conley, organizations editor.
Henry B. Asman, managing editor of The Scholastic, is shoiun presenting the Scholastic trophy to Emerit “Mike” Moore (right), winner of the Handicap Golf Tournament. Richard McMonagle, runner-up to Moore, is shown on the left.
The Text Of William
(Continued from Page 10)
The present unsettled conditions show us plainly how meaningless are the titles of leadership which the world bestows in finance, business, and politics. Leadership, to actually lead, must be progressive and productive of good results.
No Leadership
Our sorry plight is a sad attestation of the fact that we do not have leadership, we merely have control of wealth. This control, wielded by hands either incapable of using it or by brains unable to direct, turns upon its masters and destroys them.
Today, the futility of mere control of wealth, of power, of influence, is shown in its bald emptiness. Without true leadership, control is mere dangerous than it is useful, for it directs us into paths of error and ways and times that are gloomy and disheartening. Control, power, strength, are all chimerical unless under proper and true leadership. If you doubt, look about you, and see what mere power has brought to the nation and to the world.
We in our lives may attain control over some power, some wealth, but that power will turn on us and de-
Kirby 9s Class Oration
stroy us unless we properly guide it. Leadership is no less necessary for individuals than for nations. It is a problem of changed numbers, but not of different importance, for there is no MAN, there are simply MEN.
There is no composite whole, there are just component parts. You and I must supply leadership to our lives, not just order our days so as to attain control over tangible property. Lack of leadership can not be atoned for by substitution of control of wealth in the individual any more than it can be in the state.
One of Loyalty
Our problem of leadership to ourselves is simply one of loyalty—loyalty to self and to God. We all know what our end in life is, and we are not faithful to ourselves if we do not move in undeviating pursuit of that end.
The loyalty to which I refer is not selfishness. It is simply a realization of why we are here, where we hope ultimately to arrive, and how much we must live to reach that goal. It is a true, honest, sincere loyalty that never swerves, never compromises, is always sure, firm, and noble. It is not such a delusive matter of convenience as condones graft and (Continued on Page 15)
Twelve
The Scholastic
Men About the Campus
ACTIVITY? SAY, MISTER, WATCH N.D. KNIGHTS!
This u'eek four campus Seniors are honored with positions in the Man About The Campus column. Two will be found directly below this space. The other two are printed in the opposite space.
James Collins Leads Council To Great Year.
By Roy Sholz
Ed Britz has, among other things, a shiny, bald head, with a miniature crop of short, curly hair that has
Edmund Britz
Knows and minds his business.
long since lost its foothold on Ed's scalp.
He has, too, a cultivated business initiative that was instrumental in selling- two thousand dollars worth of advertising for the Dome last year. And which last Fall accounted for the financial success of the $2.00 Football Review (on sale now at some news-stands for fifty cents, or what have you.)
Good Natured, Clever
Intermixed with his financial turn of mind Ed has a generous good nature, a clever, unusual manner of salutation, and an ability to be present when things are happening.
He is majoring in journalism and dreaming of advertising days after the graduation exercises tomorrow. He is a disciple of all the current magazines, reads religiously each day from good books, and writes exceptionally well.
The Scholastic reporter interviewed Britz in his spacious boudoir in Sorin palace, found that Ed is interested in the theatre, likes musical comedies, and thinks that Sylvia Sydney is perfection personified.
Famous, however, for the above in-
(Continued on Page 17)
By Joe Degnan
Heavy business men, serious faces, prosperity cigars—the South Bend Chamber of Commerce—decided not long ago that the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce ought to be abolished. A few days later Loras Lane gathered his group of campus thinkers into a meeting of the Commerce Forum and talked things over, finally to decide that the Bureau ought to remain. The Bureau remained.
Whether or not President Lane, called “Lupe” which is said to be derived from the Latin of “wolf,” had much to do with this little decision we can only conjecture. But you have the facts.
Hails From Cascade, Iowa
You may have seen the young man acting as head of the reception committee and unofficial guide at the dedication of the Commerce building. The fact is he’s in that very same capacity ever since. Ask all the grammar school kids in Mishawaka who have been touring the campus lately.
Cascade, Iowa, is the city, town, or place, which sacrificed one, two, or three of the Lanes to Notre Dame. Lupe is the third. Cascade has been letting the great go for years. They gave Red Faber to the- “Big Circuit.” Lupe says that Red, too, is popular in Cascade.
In his own silent, insinuating way Lane admits that he is now tied down to eleven or twelve women. As to types—well he speaks Spanish fluently. As to entertainment—well, he doesn’t hold hands.
Despite the facts that he has had dates in nearby cities, he remains unscathed and superficially normal. Lupe himself is in doubt about the mental side. But he still speaks a pretty good brand of English.
President Lane of the Iowa club, we might add, lives in the room once occupied by Hunk Anderson and later by George Gipp.
Along the walls of Sorin sub are ancient pictures of ancient men. These men were once editors of The Scholastic. Just now they are cari-
(Continued on next page.)
By Michael F. Wiedl
Quite limited was Reverend Michael J. McGivney’s conception of the growth of his infant organization
James K. Collins One Grand Knight.
when he cloaked a few fellow-associates in the Knights of Columbus garb at New Haven, Connecticut in 1882. Since then the progress of this Catholic Laymen’s institution has spread throughout the American continent. Here at Notre Dame, we find one of the strongest Knights of Columbus councils in the United States.
Council No. 1477
The local council is Number 1477. Since its foundation on April 22, 1910 the Notre Dame Knights have been engaged in numerous undertakings. This year their activities have in no respect been hampered; in fact they form a knightly spectacle of serene array as they silently and martially now form memories.
Under the guiding hand of Eli Abraham, financial secretary, a Scholarship fund has been established for the future knights. From the organization of the society, one of its outstanding aims has been establishing aid for the education of young men. Now the local knights have undertaken the sponsorship of such a project.
The Building Fund which originated ten years ago is steadily pro-
(Continued on Page 28)
June 3, 1932
Thirteen
ACTORS SNARL, LAUGH CRY IN VARIED SEASON
Men About The Campus »
Theatre Scales New Dramatic
Heights—T ackley.
This week four campus Seniors are honored with positions in the Man About The Campus column. Two will be found directly beloiv this space. The other two are printed in the opposite space.
By Mitchell Tackley
New dramatic heights have been scaled by the University Players this year in one of the organization’s most
Roger Bierne
He’ll be back again.
active season. Under* the capable direction of Professor Frank Kelly, elements of melodrama, comedy, and the splendor of a mighty dramatic biography summarize the activities of one of the most talented group of actors ever produced at Notre Dame.
“Gold In The Hills”
Opening the season with a typical 1890 “mellerdrammer,” “Gold in the Hills” or “The Dead Sister’s Secret,” the University Theater immediately won the favor of the student body. Because of its sparkle and zest, the production was given three performances, all of which were attended by capacity houses.
Outstanding in the cast of this “mort-gage-on-the-homestead” play was John Leddy who convincingly portrayed the role of Jack Dalton, the man who had an honest heart beating “neath his flannel shirt.” Franklyn Straud was excellent as the father, and Bill Walsh won the hisses of all as the villainous Richard Murgatroyd, instigator of “there’s dirty work afoot.” Miss F. Theresa Chisholm was perfect as the pure and innocent “Little Nell.”
Second on the program of the Uni-(Continued on Page 29)
By Louis Hruby
“Whruuft!” goes a photo-flash bulb, and Frank Oberkoetter has another subject photographed to add to Iris collection which now numbers in the hundreds.
We say this in all seriousness, because “Obie” is probably the most efficient photographer on the campus. His views of the scenic wonders of the United States are really superb! But -why shouldn’t they be; he’s travelled throughout the nation to get these excellent “shots,” and proudly displays them to his friends.
Hopes To Be Portrait Artist
When he finishes his A. B. course (economics maj'or) he intends to further his activities as a portrait artist. Frank hopes to gather enough good pictures to enable him to compile a book, classifying them according to the different character studies.
His home is in Bloomington, Illinois, and his high school was St. Mary’s of that city. He was editor of the yearbook, The Trinitas, but has since abandoned the literary field in the quest of photographic laurels.
At Notre Dame Photographer Oberkoetter played in the University theater, and sang with the Glee club. Notable among incidents connected with the latter mentioned activity, was his difficult task in keeping track of Paul O’Toole while the club was on tour. Ha!
Speaking of tours reminded him to mention that he served as “executive secretary” of the National Catholic Student tours, and “had hoped” to make the European trip this summer. He hastily added the “had hoped!”
Frank was very much in evidence at the Senior Ball and all festivities of that notable week-end. A young lady from St. Louis was his guest at the dance.
catured in fine style. John Held would be proud of the j'ob. Putty, well moulded, furnishes them with something rare in the way of facial expression.
By Joseph Degnan
Gerald Conway in the commencement initiations has added to his given titles the middle cognomen of
Gerald Conway The rap should go.
“Shot.”
The rap should go.
For Jerry, in every sense of the word, is a truly Man About The Campus.
He’s not the boisterous, vote-getting, hand-shaking type. But he’s the kind of individual about whom Notre Dame can be pleased to send into the world.
He’s got class, intermixed with a generous dose of sense and business ability, that almost gives him the Midas touch.
He sent ' the Juggler circulation soaring this year, when he stepped into the manager’s job.
He was chairman of the best of the club dances, when the K. C. Formal, under his complete leadership, was voted the best of the popular-priced Spring affairs.
He was elected to the presidency of the Minnesota club and sent that organization sky-rocketing. ,
Jerry, all in all, is the sincere type of leader* that revives one’s faith in the advantages of the extra-curricular activity. There’s dignity about his actions and a non-affected ability to do things quietly and easily, without causing a furor or campus storm.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Text Of Francis O’Malley’s Valedictory Address Given In Washington Hall Today
(Continued from Page 6)
in the world and beyond the world.
Notre Dame has made us expert in the art of behavior among men and in the art of behavior before God. She has endowed us with a rational selfassurance, with an irrefragable stability, and with an unerring confidence in the operations and destinies of the universe and in the actions and intentions of those who live in it.
Notre Dame Impresses Character
Notre Dame has impressed upon us a character—the power of self-knowledge, self-reverence, self-control thru responsiveness to motives, values, and ideals that find their deepest and only enduring sanction in profound and fully realized religious convictions.
Our intellects have not been disturbed by the censorious yelpings and curious animadversions of pseudophilosophers, or by the deadly complacencies and smoth artifices of false prophets of modernity.
Sound and positive instruction has ingrafted our minds with a sane philosophy that can answer the supreme question of whence we come and whither we go, and knows what bearing these questions have on the vital social issues of the hour; we are possessed of the true rationalism that can prove that we have in spiirtual and immortal soul, that there exists a personal God Whose All-wise Providence directs the affairs of men, and that the only ultimate reason-why for duty and moral obligation is the will of the same personal Creator.
Living, Moving Fabric
Our knowledge is the ennobling and happy certitude that our world is not the upshot of a bargain of dog-fight, but that it is a living, moving fabric woven in the looms of a Divine Weaver, and that man who lives in the world is not merely a fragmentary cog in the vast machine of the cosmos, moved by the force of relentless law, but that man is a free agent accountable for his defalcations and aberrations.
For our own lives too, Notre Dame has furnished us with the power to realize—that is, the ability to discover, to experience, and to define the complete force of every fact of the intellectual glories of the cultural
tradition of civilized man, through visualized proof of the proposition: Civilization is religious faith, religious faith is civilization.
Such an awareness is truly a fiddlebow sweeping the loose sands, the confused passages of every man’s life into a unified pattern. Thus by her teaching, Notre Dame has fortified our minds and souls, strengthened our hearts and our wills, and justified our own purposes as individuals and as members of society.
Accomplishments Are Distinctive
For four years these sureties and their significations have been developing within us, just as for almost a century Notre Dame has directed a similar development in the minds and souls of countless other young men.
Still the distinction of Notre Dame’s accomplishment is not alone in her individuals to be glorified or marred by them. Notre Dame’s achievement is also that of a vast and comprehensive conception sustaining without failure, the trial of a long and hazardous execution and fulfilling always the hope and promise of thebeginning.
Notre Dame’s greatness is the greatness of the perfect life she wishes ardently for her students. The strength which is working out her purpose shows no hollowness or exhaustion.
Living Energy of Notre Dame
The living energy of Notre Dame, her aim to unfold a strong character in the lives of those so fortunate as to come to her are revealed abundantly in the completeness, unstudied and instinctive, with which she holds together dissimilar and uncongenial materials, and forces the most intractable, the most unaccustomed to submission, to receive the color of the whole.
The nobility, the indomitable spirit of Notre Dame, her orderly and unmistakable onward march and her constant progress upward, manifest their intensity even in apparent failure.
It was her high-minded founder who rose from the discouragement, the vivid horrors of ruthless flames to the ineffable joy of new success and fresh strength, a man whose powers and sympathies failed him not, even in his hard but not unaided (Continued on Page 27)
CATALYZER HAS YEAR OF UNUSUAL SUCCESS
Joe Toussaint Hears Claps Of Readers Many A Time.
The Catalyzer, which is essentially an undergraduate publication, is the only technical periodical at the Uni-
Joseph Toussaint
Edited “Catalyzer,” chemical jntbli-cation, with success.
versity. It is edited by the Chemists’ Club, whose members consist of students in the Departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering. The Catalyzer is the connecting medium between graduates, undergraduates, and faculty members of these departments.
Written By Alumnus
The main feature of each issue is contributed by an alumnus who has become an expert in his respective field. Consequently, his work is not merely a summation of references or a compilation of book material, but frequently a dissertation on his personal research, amplified with practical experience. The articles are often of great value to the undergraduate.
It is customary that some special feature of minor importance appear in each issue. Through this medium the Catalyzer endeavors to make known advances and accomplishments, peculiar to science and engineering, at the University.	•
Personal Column
Alumni news is very aptly considered in the personals. Through this channel the graduates of yesterday are kept in contact with their former undergraduate chums. The personals also, serve to make known the advancement of alumni in their respective fields.
June 3, 1932
Fifteen
TEXT OF KIRBrS SPEECH
BUSY BUSINESS
AWARD HONOR DEGREES
Talk Given This Morning To Graduates and Friends.
(Continued from Page 10)
crooked dealings for temporary profit, nor is it an excuse for paying starvation wages in order to boost dividends.
You are not loyal to yourself when you rob the gullible or starve the weak. You are dropping principles for convenience, and trading leadership of self for control over inanimate metal.
The thought comes strongly to my mind, and I suppose to yours, too, “I wish I were the man my Mother thinks I am.” I wish I were worthy of her faith in me. Every boy’s Mother sees great things in the future of her son. Here we have acquired another Mother, Notre Dame, and she, too, has high hopes for us.
Our blood Mothers and our adopted
Shown Aims In Life
Mother have combined to show what should be our aims in life and how best to attain them. Shall we fulfill their ambitions by disregarding their teachings? We can be the men they believe us to be and the successes they hope we shall become only by adherence to standards and principles acceptable to them.
The same is true in regard to the individual’s judgment of his own life —if he isn’t loyal to what he knows to be the best for himself, the right thing to do, he cannot be a success to himeslf, no matter how spectacularly his possessions appeal to the world.
Loyal To Self
If he isn’t loyal to himself, he cannot help discerning his own infidelity and recognizing that what he possesses is traitor’s money, like Judas Iscariot’s thirty pieces of silver. Many men, realizing how treasonable they have been to themselves, are today following the horrible example of Judas and flinging themselves to death in their despair.
Defeated will be those of us who play traitor to ourselves. But successful will be those of us who know on reutrning home from our tasks well done that we have been honest and loyal. If we completely realize the capabilities of our minds and the responsibilities of our souls, it will
Loras Lane, a business man ivho was paid the trade compliment of elec-tior to the Commerce Forum presidency. (Story on page 12.)
not greatly matter whether we work in a bank, a governmental office, a factory, or in a ditch.
We are here not to accumulate control of property, but to lead ourselves. We have the knowledge essential to enlightened leadership. We have the aptness and will acquire the experience, to get along in the world.
Our human nature, with its constant urgings, will supply our ambition with all of its necessary incentives. The world is before us, and as long as we remain constant to ourselves and to God the fight will never sicken or dismay us, though it may try us severely.
Bend Ourselves With Valor
We must bend ourselves with free valor against our tasks, and the instant we do this, our whole souls will be composed into a kind of real harmony; doubt and sorrow will be stilled. The blessed glow of perseverance in us will be as a purifying fire, wherein auu poison will be burned.
We shall be happy because at peace with ourselves. We have our norms of living and of conduct in life. Thrice blessed we cannot ask any other blessedness. We have our real work, our life purpose: we have found it and will follow it, protected and guided in our designs by the daystar of heaven, Notre Dame.
Owen D. Young Heads List of Dignitaries.
(Continued from Page 5)
ment slated for the first day. On Saturday, June 4, there will be a reunion mass for deceased alumni, celebrated in Sacred Heart church.
Francis J. O’Malley, of Clinton, Mass., leads his class with a four-year average of 96.4 percent.
. The local council of the Knights of Columbus, No. 1477, will luncheon Sunday noon, honoring their supreme knight, Martin H. Carmody. The dinner’ also recognizes the golden jubilee of the Order, being celebrated this year.
A baseball game between Notre Dame and Michigan State college is on tap for Saturday, June 4, for the entertainment of the guests on the campus.
S. A. C. DOES THINGS
(Continued from Page 6)
long the subject of criticism of com-pue leaders.
Perhaps the most important function of the S. A. C. is the ocnduction of class elections. This, in itself, is an enormous task. The Council has always tried to keep elections and campaigns honest and above-board. The smoothness with which the elections were run off this year attests to their earnest effort.
The Student Activities Council is composed of nineteen members, ten of which are seniors, five juniors, three sophomores, and one freshman. Last spring Herbert Georgio was elected to the chairmanship of the organization, and when he withdrew from the University, John Kramer was chosen ot fill that responsible position.
Apologia Pro Sua Vita
The Scholastic regrets that all deserving organizations could not be featured in this issue, usually devoted to a summary of the year.
Any group whose feelings might be injured can re-read their article in the Dome.
After all, The Scholastic is not a year-book, the editor declares with a sneer.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
Diamond Jubilee Meeting Features Year In Academy
PATRICIANS ACTIVE, BUT DISGUISED BY NEW NAME
14 ARE GIVEN KEYS
Old Classical Ass’n. Changes Title and Has Great Year.
Werner, Crawford, Catizone Are Officers; Papera, Asman and Sullivan On Committee.
By Henry B. Asman
The year just closing was marked by the celebration of the seventyfifth anniversary meeting of the
John F. Werner
Presided over a jubilee.
Notre Dame Academy of Science on May 23. On this occasion, the Very Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States, spoke to the members and presented the Key to fourteen of the group who had satisfied the requirements as outlined by the Constitution.
Meetings Every Two Weeks
John F. Werner, New York, served as president of the Academy during the past year. Myron Crawford, Cleveland, was vice-president, and Roy Catizone, Saginaw, Michigan,, secretary. The executive committee was composed of Henry B. Asman, Louisville, John Papera, Newark, and Walter Sullivan, Auburn, N. Y. The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., is Moderator.
The Academy held regular meetings every two weeks throughout the school year at which papers were read by members on scientific subjects of interest to the group as a whole. Several open meetings were held during the course of the year.
Jugglers Blare Their Horns To Greater Sounds
Heralded with “Al Stewart and his Notre Dame Jugglers,” any form of entertainment during the past year was sure to have met with success. Under Stewart’s capable direction, the group has become very popular.
Many campus appearances have been made by the Jugglers. Participation in the major productions of the University Theater, in the “Gold and Blue Revue,” as well as in The Scholastic Movie and Stage Show for Bengal, evidenced the high quality of the musicians.
The orchestra played on the S. S. President Taft of the Dollar Line last summer on its trip to the Orient. This summer the musicians will go to Ireland, England, and France, where they will attend the World’s Eucharistic Congress.
The personnel includes: Leonard Kenkle. George Bryan, David Mae-dell, Joseph Argus, Robert Filson, James Bordeaux, Charles Morris, Paul Guamieri, and Al Stewart.
At these noted speakers of South Bend, Chicago, and Indianapolis, as well as members of the faculty were presented.
Membership in the Academy is limited to students in the College of Science who have completed their freshman year and have a scholastic average of at least 85 per cent. The average must be maintained if membership is to continue. The Key of the Academy is awarded to those members who have been in the Academy for three consecutive semesters and have presented a paper of merit at a regular meeting.
Keys were presented this year to Henry B. Asman, Rollin G. Bunch, Roy J. Catizone, Myron F. Crawford, James P. Danehy, Anthony Grasso, Charles O. Kroncke, James F. Sac-careccio, George Seelinger, Edward G. Siegfried, Arthur Tutela, Casimir Vaikasas, and Fred Weniger.
The Patricians have for their object the production and sustenance of a genuine interest in classical arts
Francis O’Malley
Would get a smile out of Virgil.
and literature at Notre Dame. The organization meets every Tuesday evening during the year to hear speakers on various pertinent topics and to hear reports and papers in the field of classical studies.
Varied Interests
Such variegated subjects as the literary moods, influences, and literary technique of the Ancient Greek and Latin writers, Hellenistic Art and Culture, English literature and the Classics, Comparative studies of Ancient and Modern Architecture, Classical Music, and Current Literature of the Classics were discussed by the members this year.
The club does not restrict itself solely to the consideration of the great books and great authors of Greece and Rome, but also gives not a little attention to the great classics of other nations: Shakespeare, Dante, Corveitle, Goethe, Cervantes, as well as Plato, Virgil, Homer, and Saint Augustine, constitute a group of literary Titans to whom the Patricians look with interest and admiration.
Every effort is made to acquaint the members with some of the methods and results of classical scholar-(Continued on Page 29)
June 3, 1932
Seventeen
STRIKE UP THE BAND!
AND HANK THOLEN DOES
Hitzelberger Wins Plaudits For Prexys’ Council’s Work
Plays For Football Games As Well As Many Concerts.
By Mitchell Tackley
From the one hundred and twenty-five aspirants who turned out last September for the many tryouts, Pro-
String Ensemble Now Is The N.D.
Symphony to You
GROUP IS ACTIVE
Passes New Regulations To Take Effect Next Year; Carey New President.
Henry S. Tholen Struck U2> the band.
fessor Joseph J. Casasanta picked eighty-five who have outdone the work of previous organizations in the history of the University.
With Henry S. Tholen swinging the baton, the bandsters clashed through the autumn season rendering excellent playing as well as perfect formations. During the entire home football season the band performed admirably. Newspaper comment indicated well the high calibre of the University bandmen.
U. S. C. Game Features
Outstanding in last fall’s performances was that at the U. S. C. game on Nov. 21, at which time a pageant was presented under the direction of Professor Casasanta. The maneuvering, from the heralding of trumpets to their flourish, displayed fine technique and excellent direction.
During the latter part of the season Notre Dame’s marching band became the concert band. Early in December, a series of concerts began and continued throughout the year until spring. Several outdoor pro-
Director Richard Seidel has transformed what has been previously known as the Notre Dame String Ensemble into the Symphony Orchestra. With its many additions, the orchestra has developed to a point where it can be favorably compared with any other such collegiate organization.
During the course of the year, Prof. Seidel has diligently rehearsed with the group on such classical masterpieces as Beethoven’s “First Concerto,” and Isenman’s “Dramatic Overture,” with amazing results.
The first spring concert of the orchestra given a few weeks ago was very enthusiastically received by a large group of listeners. Lovers of good music at Notre Dame are anticipating the coming season of the orchestra.
MAN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 12)
cidentals, Britz reached his zenith this Spring with his own letter to The Scholastic against the price of Senior Ball tickets.
Ed knows the stock market, knows the present and past quotations, and is a pretty good guesser on those of the future.
There’s a pretty fast-moving brain whirling about under that crop of nonsensical hair and the wide open spaces of Ed’s forehead.
grams were presented both at Notre Dame and on the St. Mary’s campus. According to custom, the band also participated in the blossom festival at St. Joseph, Michigan.
To describe the ability of the musicians playing in the band would be very difficult. To those who understand music, the mere mention of the fact that the band has mastered such a selection as Schubert’s “Ave Maria,” is sufficient. Casasanta’s boys are good!
By John A. McElligott
The Presidents’ Council will continue next year to have complete and absolute control over all campus clubs and organizations, subject to the approval of the University authorities by means of a new constitution which is to be formally accepted by the Council of 1932-33 at the first meeting in the fall.
New Constitutions
This constitution is but one of the accomplishments of this year’s council which was headed by that “President of Presidents,” Charles Hitzelberger, who gained his membership and finally the chief office of the organization by his election as prexy of the Utica, N. Y., club. The other officers were: financial secretary, Philip Conboy, president of the Auburn, N. Y. club; recording secretary, Regis Kuhn, president of the Physical Education club.
The first meeting of the year was held in September in the north room of the library. At that time all city, state, and other clubs on the campus were rechartered. Other meetings were held on the average of one every three weeks.
Two New Regulations
Two important regulations were made by this group, who have ever been working to strengthen club-life at Notre Dame. The regulations are as follows: (1) Every campus organization must hold at least two regular meetings a semester or forfeit its charter; (2) Beginning September, 1932, no city or state club will be permitted to function unless it has a corresponding alumni club at home. (Exceptions to this rule will be allowed only in cases where it is absolutely impossible for a club to have such a group).
Tn the social side of campus life the prexies were not found wanting. They held two banquets during the (Continued on Page 29)
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE LAEALL
John Pick
Winds up a year of watching the collegiate horizon.
LARGER DIPLOMAS
Students in the College of Law at the University of Arizona have presented a petition to the president asking that graduating seniors of the college be given diplomas of a larger size and of a more suitable nature for framing. As it is a custom among professional men to hang their graduating certificates on their office wall, the Arizona school’s sheepskins were found to be unsuitable for framing. The diplomas of other schools are approximately three
times the size of the ones issued by the western university.
ONE GRADUATE
Compare our number of June graduates with that of Ashland college where just one student is receiving a degree at the regular commencement exercises; he also will attend the usual baccalaureate services.
PROFESSORS* DELIGHT
A professor at Trinity college of Hartford, Conn., states that such answers as the following relieve the dullness of marking examination papers:
“Since women can vote, voting has ceased to be a privilege.”
“When someone applies an epitaph to you, it is sometimes very hard to reply.”
“The average man is rather below normal.”
“When it says here, ‘Compare the civilized communities,’ would it be all right to take the United States?”	-
TERM PAPERS
Term papers have been substituted for final examinations at St. John’s college, at Annapolis.
EIGHT MONTH BATTLES
Once upon a time the directors of Oxford university voted against putting baths in the men’s dormitory quarters because the students were there only eight months of the year.
DANGER ALLAYED
A Lafayette professor who found a bomb on his door-step called in police to investigate. They arrived with “grappling hooks, buckets of water, long-range shotguns, and other paraphernalia for the painless dispatch of bombs.” Upon dissection, the bomb yielded one and one-half alarm clocks and two tubes of tooth paste.
DANCING COACHES
Ohio Wesleyan University athletes are taught tap dancing to develop rhythm and coordination. The course is compulsory for those who want to become coaches.
BEARDED FRESHMAN
One freshman at the University of Utah has been exempt this year from any hazing. The gentleman is seventy-five years old.
ATHLETES SUSPENDED
In order to find out whether a college can exist without athletics, the administrator of St. Francis College has decided to suspend all athletic activities next year.
STU MOONING
An engineering student at Ohio State University plans a trip to the moon in a rocket of his own invention.
NO STARVATION
To determine how cheaply and how well a typical American family can be maintained during these economical hard times, five Carnegie Tech women students are living on a 20-cent-a-day diet for a period of two weeks.
June 3, 1932
Nineteen
EDITOR*/ PAGE
THE LAST WORD
The year for the present editorial board is over. Graduation day tomorrow will cause an irreparable break in a great staff, which will send some excellent and courageous writers from the gates of Notre Dame, and will shove into their positions a new and enthusiastic group of capable men to carry on The Scholastic’s traditions.
The present regime, turning over the editorial swivel to hard-working Eddie Stephan, leaves with no regrets for its actions.
It has not been a year of peace and tranquility for Scholastic editors. Yet it has been a year of mettle-testing, as it were. One where at times the staff was forced to face grim criticism for their editorial policies.
Yet through all of the storm and furor the staff remained firm, sticking to their ideals and fastening their hopes on a future and a greater Scholastic and a better Notre Dame.
It was this determination to avoid hypocrisy, and to speak its mind when it was certain of its ground and the righteousness of its claims, that marked the staff of 1932 as one of the greatest in The Scholastic’s history.
Yet through the dark clouds that many times threatened, and sometimes poured, the staff can look back with inestimable pleasure at a few great successes, which The Scholastic is proud to have sponsored.
. They can be proud, indeed, of the boxing show, the swimming meet, the tennis tournament, and the handicap golf meet, which ended last week, and the Bengal stage show and movie.
By reason of these* enterprises more than $400.00 was turned over to the Bengal Mission fund, or representing a Scholastic contribution or more than one-fourth of the total of $1,500 sent to the missions this year.
At those events at which there was no admission charge or entrance fee, The Scholastic stood all of the expense, but turned over to charity the profit that it made on the financial successes.
All in all it has been a great year, made the better for the difficulties and the editorial battles.
The Scholastic of 1932 is proud, in a way, of those battles; regrets none of them, and let’s its record stand on the twenty-eight issues that dropped at your door each week.
. V
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS
The present graduates are fortunate to leave the cloistered gates of Notre Dame with the ringing words of Owen D. Young resounding in their ears.
Mr. Young, whose name has recently been withdrawn from the presidential possibilities at his own request, will have something worthwhile to say to the out-going Seniors.
The graduates should profit by his advice, should find that it will ring true by his experience as an executive, a political leader, and a business man.
V
A CORRECTION
In last week’s editorial of thanks the name of William Corr, Scholastic departmental editor, was omitted from the list.
The Scholastic regrets its error, takes this opportunity to make amends.
Corr has served for two years as a Scholastic executive, has been faithful, clever, and hardworking.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SPORTS ♦
Army Is Defeated In Track Meet
Notre Dame Surprises With 68 1-3 57 2-3 Victory; Alex Wilson Is Star
BALL TEAM DIVIDES TWO GAMES ON ROAD
Canadian Wins 220, 440, 880 Events; Darling, King, and Egan Also Count Heavily.
By James S. Kearns
Led by Alex Wilson, acting-captain in the absence of Bill McCormick, Notre Dame registered the biggest surprise of the present track season last Saturday when they turned in a 681-3 to 57 2-3 victory over the Cadets of the United States Military Academy in a dual meet on Cartier field. It was the first defeat of the year for the Army in dual meet competition.	'
Wilson Wins Three
Wilson contributed 15 points to the Irish score with firsts in the 220, 440, and 880-yard events. In each race, the slim Canadian Olympic star was well in front of his . nearest challenger, and was going away from the field.
Opening the afternoon’s scoring with a first in the 100 by Joe Egan, Notre Dame stepped into a lead that they maintained throughout the 14-event program. Egan’s time in the century was very slow- because of the strong northwest wind that swept up the straightaway into the face of the runners.
King Wins Mile
Following Egan’s win, Eddie King collected the second of Notre Dame’s eight first places with a 4:24.3 performance in the mile. Running second to Graham of the Anny at the three-quarter post, King turned in his final lap in 61 seconds to win handily from the cadet miler. Joe Young, Notre Dame sophomore, was third.
Jack Price, football captain at West Point last fall, came through with the first of the expected Army
triumphs in the weight events. The husky gridder copped the shot put with a toss of 44 feet. The cadets scored a slam in the discus throw.
Wilson was pressed for scoring honors by Eppler of the Army who took firsts in both hurdle races and a third in the broad jump. Bob Darling of Notre Dame was in third place by virtue of wins in the high and broad jumps.
Notre Dame’s widest scoring margin was reached at the completion of the 440 when the Irish were out in front by a 40 1-3 to 22 2-3. A landslide of Army markers in the two mile, discus, and low hurdle events brought the invaders
within three points of the Irish at this junction before Bob Darling and Wilson resumed activities.
The upset of Gene Howery in the two-mile run by Slade of the cadets within three points of the Irish at this was the most unexpected Irish loss of the afternoon. Running the first six laps clad in a heavy sweat-shirt, Howery trailed the cadet by several yards when they were a half-mile from home.
One, Two in 880
Wilson completed his big afternoon in the final track event when he copped the 880 in the comparatively fast time of 1:57. King of Notre Dame was second, gaining his eighth point of the meet, and Graham of the Army third. The eight points picked up in this event (Continued on Page 30)
Wins From Western State, 2-1; Loses To Northwestern.
Gaining revenge for a previous setback suffered at the hands of Western State Teacher’s balltossers, Notre Dame defeated the Hilltoppers by a 2 to 1 count Monday afternoon at Kalamazoo. Captain Charlie Palt was on the mound for the Blue and set the home team down with four singles.
Irish Score First
Palt was opposed on the mound by Vic Neigenfin who was responsible for the Notre Dame defeat on May 4, on the Cartier Field diamond. Neiginfin was no puzzle to the Irish batsmen Monday, however, and he was slugged for eleven hits including doubles by O’Neil and Kane.
Notre Dame opened the scoring in the third when Palt singled, was sacrificed to second by McGrath, and came home on Kane’s single. This concluded the scoring until the ninth when each team scored once. O’Neil, playing first for Notre Dame, opened the inning with a double. Palt got a hit to the pitcher and when the latter erred, O’Neill scored and Palt went to second.
Teachers Get One
Two errors by Notre Dame infielders in the last half of the ninth placed Captain Palt in trouble, but he came out with but one run being scored. Thomas was safe on O’Neil’s error and Johnson got a life when Kane fumbled Jthe next ball. Pellegrom sacrificed and pinch-hitter Quiring came through with a single to score Thomas. Nieginfin went out to Palt but Berkhousen walked to fill the bases before another pinch-hitter, Phelps, grounded out to second.
Palt, O’Neil, Kane, and Devore led
(Continued on Page 31)
June 3, 1932
Twenty-one
TENNIS SQUAD LOSES Michigan State Baseball TO MICHIGAN STATE ™ DI „ o .
—	1 earn rlays Here Saturday
Powers Wins Lone Notre Dame Victory In Singles.
1932 CHAMP
WILL END SEASON
The 1932 tennis season was closed very inauspiciously last Saturday afternoon on the local courts when the Blue and Gold net team lost to Michigan State by an 8 to 1 score.
Following the matches Louis Chreist, South Bend, a junior, was elected captain of the Notre Dame team for the 1933 season. Chreist won the fall tournament held by The Scholastic last September, and has held the No. 1 position on the varsity team all spring.
Sweep Five Singles
The Spartans mowed down the Irish squad with almost monotonous regularity as they swept through five singles matches and three doubles. The lone Notre Dame victory was scored by Ed Powers when he downed Pinneo of the Green team by 6-2, 8-10, 6-2.
In the feature match of the day Chreist lost a hard-fought three-set struggle to Loose, top man for Hie Spartans. The scores were 10-8, 6-1, 6-4.
Fehlig Defeats Montedonico For ’32 Golf Title
Taking an early lead and maintaining it throughout the match, Vince Fehlig, No. 5 varsity golfer, defeated Johnny Montedonico, 6 and 5, last Sunday for the University championship and permanent possession of the Livingston cup which goes with the title.
Fehlig opened the 36-hole tussel with a win on the first green. Montedonico squared the match on the second, but the champion came back to win the third and fourth to go two up. From that point to the finish on the 31st green, Fehlig was never less than two up on captain-elect Montedonico.
Fehlig Four Up At Nine
Beaching the turn in the morning round in 39, Fehlig had a four-hole advantage over his opponent. The margin grew to five on the tenth hole but Montedonico rallied at that point to hold off the rout with a series of halves. Reaching the 17th, Fehlig
Vince Fehlig, who defeated Captainelect Montedonico for school golf title.
was only four up, but he won the home hole to stretch his margin to five when the pair halted for lunch.
Montedonico won the opening hole of the afternoon round with a four to Fehlig’s five, but the leader came right back to reverse the score on the second hole and regain his noontime lead. From there to the finish the winner’s lead remained about the same, varying between four and six as Montedonico won enough holes to keep the afternoon round even.
Five Up At Twenty-seventh
Fehlig was still five up at the end of 27-hole as Montedonico won the last one of the out nine. A win on the 11th and halves on the 12th and 13th holes gave Fehlig the championship on the 31st green, 6 and 5.
While neither golfer approached his top form, the match was evenly fought throughout with the exception of the first nine in the morning (Continued on Page 31)
Spartans Victors In First Game At East Lansing; Capt. Palt To Pitch Last Game.
The curtain will be drawn on the 1932 baseball season Saturday afternoon when Coach George Keogan’s charges cross bats with the Spartans of Michigan State College. The umpire will call “play ball” at 2:00 o’clock, Central standard time.
The embroglio on Cartier Field will mark the second between the two teams this season. Notre Dame was defeated by a 5 to 4 count at East Lansing two weeks ago, and will be out for revenge Saturday.
Last for Kozak, Russo
An added incentive for victory will be the fact that Captain Charlie Palt will be pitching his last collegiate game. The season, thus far, has been a sort of off-and-on one for Charlie, showing one three-hit and one four-hit performance along with two or three unfinished games. Saturday’s game, however, should find Palt at his best, and if this is so, the opponents are in for a tough afternoon.
In addition to Palt, George Kozak and Al Russo, both outfielders, will be playing their last game for Notre Dame. They are scheduled to receive their diplomas Sunday afternoon with the class of 1932. Coach Keogan is fortunate that graduation will rob him of so few of his stars. The Blue and Gold should be represented by a well-balanced and experienced team next spring.
Starting Line-up
Although Keogan has not announced a starting line-up for the game with the Spartans, it is thought that the following men will take the field for this last battle: Kane, shortstop; Devore, left field; Russo or McGrath, center field; Kozak, right field; Shee-ketski, catcher; Powell, second base; Cummings, first base; Palmisani, third base; and Palt, pitcher. The State starting line-up is unknown.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
ATHLETES HAVE A GOOD YEAR
1931-32 Seasons In Review Attest To Success Of Notre Dame in Sports
Basketball Team One Of Best In Country; Football, Track, Golf Also Show Well.
By James S. Kearns
Sports Editor, The Scholastic
It’s an old commencement number custom of The Scholastic to present reviews of the various Notre Dame sports seasons. Being a most orthodox respecter of customs, we are sticking quite close to tradition in this final issue and are giving here a rather general panorama of the 193132 sports year.
Viewed as a whole, the Notre Dame athletic system functioned most successfully. The football team, the first of a new era, won six out of nine, the basketball squad was acclaimed as one of the greatest in the country and in Notre Dame history. Track, still in its outdoor season, has had one of the greatest years in Irish annals.
Spring Sports Successful .
Spring sports continued on the high plane established in recent years, with golf, tennis, and baseball all having successful if not all winning seasons. Interhall, that species of athletics so popular on the campus, has unquestionably enjoyed its greatest year.
Since there is no need to preface the stories of the staff members on each of the branches of sports, we have nothing further to offer here than whole-hearted praise for the athletes of the past year, sincere best wishes to those of next year, and a well meant bon voyage to those Notre Dame sports figures who will march across the stage in the gym Sunday for their final bow in the collegiate spotlight.
FOOTBALL
By T. Edward Carey
Notre Dame’s football team in 1931 was one of the greatest ever turned out as a Fighting Irish eleven, despite the fact that its record is indicative of anything but that. The team had more speed, power, ability, and reserve strength than any Notre Dame outfit in recent years, but in
explicable circumstances brought about two defeats that put the team among the also-rans.
Six victories, two losses, and one tie is a good record for any team
Tommy Yarr Captain of Football
playing the dicult schedule that this 1931 eleven did, and that it lost the national championship in the last fif-ten minutes of the second last game shows that it really was among the foremost teams of the past season.
The Ramblers opened their first season under Coach Anderson against Indiana at Bloomington, and despite a sluggish start in the blazing sun, scored once in the second quarter and three times in the 'second half, to crush the Hoosiers, 25 to 0. March-mont Schwartz began his season as the greatest of All-Americans by leading the Notre Dame attack, and scoring the second touchdown. Joe Sheeketski got the season’s first marker by scoring on a seventy-yard run.
That twenty-first victory so elusive to all Notre Dame team, proved a stumbling block for the gridders in
their next game, when Northwestern’s Big Ten champions held them to a scoreless tie on the rain-soaked gridiron at Soldier field, Chicago. 70,000 people witnessed this gruelling contest in which both team futilely played for the breaks through all four quarters.
Battle of Fumbles
It was a battle of fumbles with the ball to slippery to handle, and four times Notre Dame ball-carriers fumbled with a clear field in front of them. The Ramblers outrushed Northwestern 106 yards to 81, but only once seriously threatened the Wildcat’s goal.
Massacres of Sport was the title of the next contest in which touchdowns reached their production peak for the season. Notre Dame ran up their largest score in five years to crush a strong Drake team, 63 to 0.
The Pittsburgh Panthers were the next to fall, losing 25 to 12, in one of the bitterest contests of the season. Coach Steffen of Carnegie Tech, speaking at the annual football ban-kuet said, “Few people realized what a great team you defeated out here last October 24.” The Panther’s powerful line almost succeeded in stopping the Rambler attack, but Schwartz uncorked a series of passes that dazzled the Pitt defense and though the visitors scored twice Notre Dame was never in danger.
Schwartz Gains 188 Yards
With Marchie Schwartz gaining 188 yards from scrimmage, and the entire squad enthusiastic about giving Carnegie Tech its annual licking, Notre Dame trounced the Skibos, 19 to 0, in the next game at Pittsburgh. The Ramblers scored all their points in the first half, and were content with stopping Carnegie in the second.
An undefeated Pennsylvania team came west for the next game, and was walloped, 49 to 0. The Fighting Irish had another of those rare days when every play works, and so diversified was their attack that every one of their seven touchdowns was scored by a different ball-carrier.
Notre Dame had difficulty with Navy on the following Saturday, winning a nice quiet game, 20 to 0, at Baltimore. Schwartz again was in the van; Koken did some nifty passing; and the 62,000 spectators tried to guess how large a score the Ram
June 3, 1932
Twenty-three
biers could have run up if they cared to.
The Trojans of Southern California came next. For three quarters it looked like another Notre Dame victory. With two touchdowns marked up and every threat of the Trojans checked in its infancy the Fighting Irish had a right to be confident.
Fourth Quarter Los?
But Southern Cal began a fourth quarter drive that will go down in football history. Two touchdowns and a field goal kicked in the last minute of play gave them a 16 to 14 victory over the Ramblers and a chance at the national title, which they afterwards won.
The cause for the Irish downfall has never been ascertained. Some say that it was the Trojan’s superior weight and the Rambler’s crippled reserves; others that it was the three hundred yards of penalties that Notre Dame drew while U. S. C. was being set back but five; but whatever it was it cannot alter one of the greatest football spectacles of all times, a game so sensational that the 55,000 spectators sat awed in their seats for ten minutes after the game was over. This defeat was Notre Dame’s first in three years. .
Army Wins 12-0
The historic Army game at Yankee Stadium closed the season. Army was alert and fighting, while Notre Dame was sluggish and demoralized. And Army won, 12 to 0. A surprise pass accounted for Army’s first touchdown, and a thirty-yard run by Stecker gave them their second. Notre Dame just couldn’t get started, and lost their first game to the cadets in four years.
It was a long, hard season, and the Ramblers, new coach and all, made a record that many teams would envy. That they didn’t win the national championship after such an auspicious beginning is mitigated by the fact that had they won it, it would have been for the third successive time—and you, and you, and you know that no team can go on winning forever.
BASKETBALL
By Joseph A. Morper
When the 1931 edition of the Notre Dame basketball team trotted out on the floor to engage Kalamazoo College in the first game of the season, few
critics thought that the aggregation of stars would click.
It was practically the same team that had only a fair year the previous season, and Coach Keogan had a tougher schedule. Twelve players were used to down Kalamazoo, 37-7. Adrian College was next and fifteen players saw action in the 37-13 victory.
With these two games over, the team was defeated by Indiana. It was a slow contest with the Irish in the van at half time, 9-5. Indiana heaved
Norbert Crowe
Captain of Basketball
in enough long shots in the second half to win, 23-18.
Purdue administered the second and last defeat of the Irish. Although All-American Wooden was held to one field goal, his mates gathered enough points to down the Blue and Gold eagers, 32-24.
On December 21 the long victory march of the Irish got its start against Northwestern. Al Schumacher personally accounted for this 32-25 victory, dropping in five points in the last minutes of the game. The return game, played on New Year’s eve at Evanston, was another thriller. This time it was Moose Krause, playing his first game as regular center, and Dick Davis, who starred. The final score was 21-20, in Notre Dame’s favor.
In the first game after the Christmas holidays the team bowled over St. Thomas, 34-19. Michigan State, the
next, victim, produced some fine play but lost 28-25.
Probably the best game played all season was the one against Marquette on January 12. Krause stamped himself as a great center in this 41-31 victory by garnering 17 points. Pennsylvania was the next victim before 7,000 fans in their huge Palestra. Captain Crowe and Joe Voegele contributed 14 points to aid the Irish in theii- 32-25 victory.
N. D, 25; Pitt, 12
With Pittsburgh the next opponent the Irish piled up a 25-12 score. Ironically enough, the count corresponded to the football result. Bill Newbold, Norb Crowe, and Ed Krause kept the victory string intact in the rout of Iowa, 33-18. The Hawkeyes put up a good fight, but their best was far from the brand of ball displayed by the Irish.
In the return game against Pitt in the steel city, the Panthers learned that rough playing doesn’t pay—especially against Notre Dame. Ed Krause led the assault from the free throw line and sunk eight of the Irish free throws, to assure the 26-19 victory.
Ray DeCook and Johnny Baldwin were absent for the next game with Syracuse. The Orangemen’s tactics before the game made them look like pro’s, but when Norb Crowe, Voegele, Krause, Schumacher et al got started they left the floor defeated, 26-18.
Western Reserve Beaten
Western Reserve likewise felt the sting of defeat, and now the only thing the rooters were interested in was the score. And in this case was 32-25. The Butler Bulldogs were next. In this game Voegele scored 11 points in the last ten minutes to give the Irish the victory, after they had been behind, 30-22.
That pesky team from East Lansing, Michigan State, followed. They lacked that little something which changes defeat into victory and the final score read Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 20.
Army Invades South Bend
For the first time in nineteen years of competition an Army team invaded South Bend. Cadet Stecker and his cohorts were not treated as guests, however, and the Irish victory string remained unbroken with the 41-23 downfall of the West Pointers.
A six day rest came as a welcome breather before the Marquette game in Milwaukee. Although the game was
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
tied at 21-all and only seven minutes of play remaining, the Eamblers put on pressure and won, 37-26.
Butler closed the season at Notre Dame the following week. The first half ended with Notre Dame leading, 18-6. A short spurt at the start of the second period brought the Bulldogs within striking distance, but at the end the Irish were controlling the ball with the score 28-23 in their favor.
Captain Norb Crowe, Newbold, DeCook, Burns, Johnson, and Schumacher ended their basketball careers in this game. At the annual banquet Johnny Baldwin, star guard, who was sick most of the season, was elected captain of next year’s team. Two members of this year’s team made the Indianapolis- Star's all-state team. They were Ed Krause and Ray DeCook. Krause made practically every All-American team picked and was acknowledged as one of the outstanding players in the country.
TRACK
By James Pick
Coach John P. Nicholson’s 1932 aggregation of thinlies is now competing at the tail end of an exceptional season. Tonight, in Milwaukee, the Irish will defend their C. I. C. title for the third consecutive time. Next week a group of Notre Dame’s weekly stars will compete in the National Collegiate meet at Chicago.
On February 6, Alex Wilson, middle distance ace, retained his championship in the classic Millrose “600” in New York, and with it gained permanent possession of the Wanamaker trophy. Wilson edged out such stars as Bernie McCafferty, of Holy Cross, Eddie Roll, negro Olympic star, George Bullwinkle, and Lazio Barsi, heralded Hungarian runner. The Notre Dame relay team placed third when the members found difficulty running on a board track.
Victory String
The Irish squad travelled to Iowa City and won their first dual meet by a 51-35 score. On February 20, the Blue and Gold was host to Butler, but sent the Bulldogs back home at the short end of a 64-22 count.
The following Monday, Wilson and Captain Bill McCormick travelled to New York for the National A. A. U. meet. McCormick, who found himself inexperienced on the boards, was eliminated in a trial heat by Emmett
Toppino who later in the evening won the 60-yard dash. Wilson emerged far more glorious than his teammate when he won the 600-yard crown byinches in a final lunge at the tape. He defeated Roll again, as well as a field of collegiate runners composed of Blake, Lamb, and Sandler.
Bill McCormick
Captain of Track
The Blue and Gold thinlies finally settled an old feud with Illinois by emerging victorious in a dual meet for the second time in seventeen years. Coach Harry Gill’s men could not cope with the Notre Dame track-sters and consequently lost 54%-40%.
The following week Marquette University invaded the Notre Dame gym, but suffered the same fate as the mini, losing 50 1-3-40 2-3.
Alex Wilson led the Irish to their sixth consecutive championship in the indoor C. I. C. meet. Notre Dame topped the field of teams with a score of 26 7-10. Michigan Normal was second, and Marquette third.
During the Easter vacation Captain McCormick scored a win in the 60-yard dash in an invitational meet
in Chicago. The relay team competed in Cleveland, but was again handicapped by running on a board oval- without spiked shoes.
The outdoor season found the squad slow in reaching perfect condition, but by the time of the Kansas Relays, the Irish were prepared. The two-mile relay team composed of Young, Roberts, King, and Wilson placed first on a rain-soaked track.
Relay Team Victorious
A group of Notre Dame relay teams had a most encouraging day at the Drake Relays. The two-mile team set up a new meet record of 7:48.8. The victors were Young, Roberts, King, and Wilson. The one-mile quartet was also a winner with Kelly, Obergfall, Scanlon, and Wilson exchanging the baton. The medley relay outfit composed of Kuhn, Little, King, and Howery placed second to Indiana in a race which brought a new American collegiate record home to the Hoosiers.
The grand season was touched by a tinge of defeat at the hands of Michigan State College when they eked victory out of Notre Dame by a halfpoint, es^-es1^.
The next week Notre Dame travelled to Pittsburgh and tamed the Panthers to the tune of 73-53.
In a meet with West Point which had Coach Nicholson worried, the Irish came through to defeat the Army Cadets 68 1-3-57 2-3.
Stars Developed
The team possessed a remarkable group of persistent point men. Captain Bill McCormick of the indoor squad, and diminutive Alex Wilson, the blonde Canadian Olympic and Notre Dame star, featured every meet. McCormick handled the 60-yard dash to perfection, except when meeting his mental foe and recordmaking adversary Ralph Metcalfe of Marquette. Wilson was always capable of two and, at times, even three first places in a meet. Bob Darling was one of the most consistent high jumpers Coach Nicholson has yet developed. Bob could be counted on to make 6 feet 2 inches at any time. Gene Howery was a valuable man in the distance runs, especially indoors.
The squad was well fortified with a band of middle distance men. Jack Scanlon, Charley Kelly, Regis Kuhn, Louis Vettel, Fred MacBeth, and Rudy Orergfall all do better than :50 in the 440-yard dash. In the half
June 3, 1932
Twenty-five
mile Coach Nicholson had Joe Young, Brant Little, Ray Troy, and Clyde Roberts. All these men can shift from the half to the mile in case of necessity. Eddie King, a sophomore, has already proven himself to be a veteran in the mile run. Huller, Egan, Gough, Bradley, and Dilling proved themselves valuable men in the sprints.
Rohrbach, Slattery, and Behrman are Nick’s pole vaulters. Finkel, a sophomore was the outstanding weight man. Dames, Groves, Krause, and Christman aided in the field events.
BASEBALL
By Joseph A. Morper
Tomorrow the Notre Dame baseball team will be out to break even in the games played this season when they face Michigan State in the last game of the season.
Because Coach Keogan concentrated his time on the basketball team and inclement weather kept spring practices down to a minimum, the team which faced Wisconsin on April 15 was green and inexperienced.
Notre Dame used three hurlers in that game in an attempt to stem the tide of Badger hits, but their trying was in vain, and Wisconsin left with a 10-3 victory.
Renew Old Rivalry
On the next day Captain Charlie Balt pitched one of the best games of his career to blank the University of Chicago, 3-0, in the first game played between the two schools in over twenty years.
Three practice games were then played with the teams from South Bend. The Irish won two of these contests.
In the return game played with Chicago on Cartier field, the teams battled all afternoon to an eleven-inning 6-6 tie. Western State Teachers College then won a close 4-1 game, and Northwestern was defeated the first of the annual home and home series 5-3 in a hard rain.
Michigan State were hosts to the Irish for the next game, and maltreated Palt for a 6-2 victory.
A weekend of baseball was scheduled with Iowa for May 20 and 21, and both teams made in just that. Ed Lagger won his third straight
game in the Friday contest 7-5 when his mates gathered 15 hits while he was holding the Hawkeyes to stx blows. Iowa turned the tables in the Saturday game pouncing on Palt for extra base wallops and a 5-4 victory.
Irish Drop Two
On May 24 the team travelled to Madison for the second game with Wisconsin. Although the Ramblers made nine hits off four Cardinal hurlers, and Lagger only allowed four scattered blows the Irish had to be content with a 5-4 loss.
Northwestern evened the two game home and home series last Saturday when they chased Lagger from the mound with a barrage of hits, and continued their uprising against Del Prete to win, 10-3.
On Monday the team journeyed to Kalamazoo to do battle with the Western State Teachers’ nine. Captain Palt turned in another of his almost perfect days holding the Teachers to four hits. He would have had a 2-0 shut-out but for errors.
for a late
THERE’S nothing better than a bowl of
crisp Kellogg’s Corn Flakes just around bedtime. Delicious and satisfying! Those
toasted flakes are so easy to digest, they invite restful sleep. How much better
than hot, heavy foods. Try it at a campus restaurant.

CORN hakes
TENNIS
Michigan State administered a beating to the Blue and Gold net team Saturday on the university courts in a match that marked the close of the season. The totals showed the Spartans on top, 8 to 1. It was the second defeat of the Irish by State in a week.
In gaining the victory, the Lansing squad swept the three doubles matches and won five of the six singles encounters. Ed. Power- accounted for the lone Irish win of the afternoon when he outpointed Pinneo, 6-2; 8-10; 6-2.
Has Fair Record
. The statistics reveal that the Irish squad captured four meets this spring while losing five. This does not seem to be a very striking record, but it was all of that. At the beginning of the season an entirely new team faced the trying schedule. The only man left from the team of 1931 was Cap
$
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
tain Borda, who was forced to leave school because of illness in the family. With this as a starting basis, things looked very gloomy but the green team soon began to show form and continued to improve with experience. Before the proceedings were halted in favor of the summer -^cation, many remarkable performances were turned in by the local players.
Western State, 7; N. D., 0
Western State Teachers’ College opened the activities here on April 23 with a rousing 7 to 0 victory over the Irish. O’Hanlon was the individual star of the inexperienced Rambler crew. Although his flashy playing did not bring him a victory he forced his rival, Nellis, to the limit before he was defeated.
A week later the Northwestern Wildcats clawed the Irish into submission, 5 to 3. In this encounter, Louis Chreist, winner of the Scholastic’s fall tennis. tournament, teamed with Dick Kelly to form a doubles team which won the first of its many sparkling victories of the year. Kelly also won his singles match from Olson, 6-4, 6-0.
Win From Detroit
On May 6 the Blue and Gold racquet wielders broke the ice and romped to a 4 to 1 win over Detroit U. In this contest, which was abbreviated by rain, Staley, Chreist, and Meade scored victories for the Irish, while O’Hanlon lost another decision by a narrow margin.
The following Wednesday, Chicago played host to the Ramblers on the Midway and sent the locals back with a 6 to 0 beating. The loss was not so glaring due to the fact that the Maroon bunch were Big Ten champions in 1931. The Chicagoans administered straight set whippings to all their opponents except Meade and Meyer who combined their talents in an effort to turn back Schmidt and Reis.
Two More Victories
From this point the Irish went on to defeat Detroit and Indiana State Teachers’ College by the scores of 4 to 3. Michigan State closed the year by smothering the fast stepping locals twice, 7 to 2 and 8 to 1.
The outtsanding work of the year was turned in by the brilliant doubles team of Chreist and Kelly, who tasted defeat only twice during the season. This midget team returned volley for volley with the best of them to score
many brilliant wins over outstanding stars of the Middle West.
Dick Kelly stood a head above everyone else on the Rambler troupe
Louis Chreist
Captain-elect of tennis.
in the singles department. Kelly seemed to delight in losing the opening set of his matches and then come from behind with accurate and heady play to win.
Captain Carl Meyer, elected midseason, and runner-up in The Scholastic fall tournament, also deserves unlimited praise for his work this year. He climaxed his success with a win over McAlpine, one of Indiana State Teachers’ bright spots.
Meade, Staley, Power, and O’Hanlon completed the personnell of the squad which will be back next year to continue where they left off.
GOLF
Viewed in comparison with the undefeated records of the past two years, the season of the 1932 golf team was undeniably a come-down. However, comparisons are inevitably unfair to one of the parties and to open a summary of the recent golf season with an apparently derogatory remark is grossly unfair to Captain Bill Redmond’s niblick swingers.
The difference between this year’s squad and those of the past two years is the age-old difference between good teams and great teams. And
the latest edition of the links team was just as surely a good team as the others were great.
Green Team
When the year opened there was little hope for a maintenance of the victory streak built up by the preceding squads. Captain Redmond was the only returning member. John Gostisha, a senior and a promising golfer, was the only other upper classman to rank in the first five.
Vince Fehlig, a sophomore, who had finished second in the University championships a year ago and second in the fall medal play tourney was ranking No. 1 when the team opened the season with Valparaiso on the William J. Burke course. Redmond was at No. 2, Johnny Montedonico, another sophomore, at No. 3, Bill Veeneman at No. 4, and Gostisha at No. 5.
Valpo was conquered 17% to % for the 18th consecutive Irish victory. Fehlig had low score with a 76. The Notre Dame team average for the day was 79% strokes a round. Play-iny Loyola the following week, the divot drivers rolled up another topheavy win 16% to 1%. Redmond was at No. 1 for the meet, having beaten Fehlig in the challenge round. Fehlig, stationed at No. 3 led the squad in scoring with another 76.
Veeneman At No. 1
Bill Veeneman, the third of the sophomores, continued his drive during the challenge matches of the next week to gain the No. 1 post which he retained for the remainder of the season. Playing their first matches of the season away from home, the Irish beat Detroit 10% to 7% and Michigan State by a score of 13 to 5. Fehlig had low score at Detroit and Captain Redmond led the shooters at East Lansing. The Notre Dame team average hovered a fraction under 79 for the trip.
Returning to the Notre Dame course for a match on Ascension Thursday, the Irish went down to defeat for the first time in three years of dual play when Purdue sent a team from Lafayette that managed to scrape out a 10 to 8 triumph. The locals returned to their winning ways, however, two days later when they held off an Iowa challenger with a 14% to 3% trimming.
The final dual meet of the schedule took the squad to Pittsburgh for a match with the highly rated Pitt
June 3, 1932
Twenty-seven
squad. Playing under a new scoring system involving only 18 holes of play rather than the usual 36 and giving a point for each match instead of the Nassau scoring system employed in the Middle West, Notre Dame met its second defeat of the year by a 4 to 2 score. Had the tab-
William Redmond
Captain of Golf
ulating been done under the Nassau system, the Irish would have been on top by a 10 ot 8 margin.
The closing gesture of the season was the Indiana State meet at Greencastle. Vince Fehlig, who seemed unable to hit his stride during the week, lost enough challenge matches to cost him his place on the team as John Gostisha replaced him at No. 4. Fehlig, however, was entered in the individual title play.
Redmond State Champ
Trailing the leading Purdue team by six strokes, Notre Dame lost the state team title for the first time in three seasons. Captain Bill Redmond maintained the tradition of a Notre Dame individual champion when he led the field with a 148 for the 36 holes. Other Notre Dame team members’ scores were: Veeneman, 159; Gostisha, 166; Montedonico, 166; Fehlig, competing as an individual entrant scored 151 to finish third, behind Redmond and Tom Lyons of De-Pauw.
At the close of the year, John Montedonico, a sophomore from Memphis, Tenn., was chosen captain of the team for next year. Montedonico is one of the most dangerous competi
tors on the squad with a short iron game that is one of the best shown here for some years.
Individual scoring records for the season together with the final rankings of the year are as follows:
Fehlig (No. 5), 77.54 (13 rounds).
Text Of Francis O ’Malley’s Valedictory Address
(Continued from Page 14)
or ungladdened struggle, until there came that restoration to surety and peace which can change even this life into a paradise, and reverse the doom which makes sorrow our condition and genuine laughter unnatural.
Emulate Father Sorin
Father Sorin looked upward; in the alembic of her chastening wisdom, Notre Dame teaches her men to look upward, upward to God and in this instruction chiefly consists her might’ and her superiority. She leaves to us an inheritance the most precious. She does not leave that uncertainty which bewilders, warps, or turns us in upon ourselves in distress or gloom or selfishness; but she leaves us that assurance which makes us true and makes us hopeful.
We See Our Lady
We see perfectly all salvation because we see Our Lady. She has made clear to us the composition of life and the nature of true primacy, and by her we have understood and will ever understand, that we desire from life and from creation not repeated, futile things of everyday, not the mean content or discontent of average, helpless souls, but unmatched moments and exceptional deeds, and all that cannot happen every day, and rare experience of earth’s chosen men in which we cannot by our intermitting and narrow powers share unless they are held sublimated and embodied in truth and hope and rational understanding.
Charm in University
So, in our comings and goings amid the active life of our college days, we happen upon the lasting life of the university behind her life ephemeral. Behind her pageantry of academic, artistic, and merely normal activities, behind study that becomes her youth like a dream and the dreaming that makes all things golden, behind the careless luxury of years of promise and good-will, behind her gifts of friendship and happiness, there is an enduring secret charm.
Redmond (No. 2), 78.21 (14 rounds).
Gostisha (No. 4), 80 (5 rounds).
Montedonico (No. 3), 80.08 (13 rounds).
Veeneman (No. 1), .80.25 (12 rounds).
Perhaps no one may describe the real worth of Notre Dame; like things of beauty, she eludes to tempt men still. There is symbolism in her towers and in the Golden Dome that is her shrine, when it rises clear and shining into the blue, and even more ■when it lifts itself half-veiled in haze or cloud of opalescent rain.
Hard To Vision
The uninitiate, the stranged, may come at last upon the view of all the white glory of her city, and try to understand, but even as they gaze mists obscure the vision, for that is the way with the secrets which inspires her life. It can be learned only by living in it, and can be told only to those who have truly seen.
Particularly in these troubled days, is it necessary to see steadily and clearly; when great and increased is the multitude of undecided souls, who pass their days in doubt, when men worship the heroes and notions of the hour and pursue unceasingly a banner which whirls round with every breath, and when the world is immersed in a flux of errors, it is well to learn that “in most instances, current opinion leans to false,” and to discover before too late the treachery of the Siren’s glance.
See A Vision
Wise now the warning to look only to the truth-speaking eyes of Notre Dame and to attempt naught without her aid, which is needed as wings for flight. But true, too, the promise that with her aid, we can stand, if need be, alone, and bravely and humbly can cross the “dark wood” and climb the steep ascent until our eyes epen upon the Vision that never fades.
And thus we, the members of the Class of 1932, make our Valedictory, acknowledging our inestimable debt to Notre Dame, expressing to her our sincerest gratitude, and accepting from her our common heritage. We go away, but we shall return here to find ourselves, it will be so easy to get lost in the world.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
PROF. COACHES DEBATER
(Continued from Page 8)
seasonal topic was announced: “Resolved, that the United States should adopt a compulsory, nation-wide plan
William Kirby A Veteran
of control and distribution in the major basic industries.” As yet the schedule had not been fully arranged. This was due to the delayed appointment of the new coach.
Open Season Over WGN
On Jan. 28, William Darrow, a veteran, and Joseph Becek, a freshman member of the squad, opened the season by engaging in a radio debate with the Kent Law College in Chicago. Over Station WGN they upheld the negative side of the question: “Resolved, that the World War debts should be cancelled.” This was the first of a series of no decision arguments. It was the only one in which the governmental control topic was not used.
Idle Until March 11
The team then remained idle until March 11 when a negative team composed of James Boyle, Thomas . O’Meara and William Kirby met a trio from the University of Michigan in Washington hall. The question discussed, was that of government control of industry. This debate was the first between the two universities. It was another of the no-decision variety.
A few days later Notre Dame travelled to Coldwater, Michigan, once more to stress the inadequacy of the governmental control of industry. On this occasion a two-man team composed of James Meehan and William
Kirby represented Notre Dame. Again no decision was rendered.
On March 31 the same team of Meehan and Kirby debated the University of Florida representatives on the economic question. The audience rendered the decision. Florida won the debate, convincing the audience that such a plan is needed. '
In a dual debate with Purdue, held April 15, a Notre Dame victory in Washington hall was offset by a defeat at Lafayette, Indiana. A negative team of Becek, Meehan and Kirby won the decision of Professor McBurney of the University of Michigan, who acted as judge. The arguments of Hugh Fitzgerald, Arthur Sandusky and William Darrow at Lafayette, which favored the adoption of a plan of economic control, were not strong enough to gain the decision of Professor Sanford, of the University of Illinois.
The season closed with the debate in Cleveland over Station WHK. This last engagement is also listed in the no-decision column.
“BABY” SCRIP PROGRESSES
(Continued from Page 9)
tinued, “the year was disappointing, undeniably; but the cause is not a lack of talent so much as a lack of
Joseph McCabe
Wishes successor luck.
either energy or initiative on the part of the campus literati. That this is not merely theorizing may be seen in the last issue of this year. Here are names that have never appeared before, and they are all represented by capable stories. John Pick, D. J. Rolfs, Bernard Cousino, Samuel Hyde, Tighe Woods, and
Lloyd Teske” Editor McCabe enumerated, “and there are other names too whose appearance is still a novelty: Cornelius Laskowski and Paul Hallinan. 1
“In closing, as he closed the last issue of Scrip, the editor is duly thankful that the magazine appeared at all, and wishes it better fortune for the coming years.”
K. OF C. GROUP ACTIVE
(Continued from Page 12)
grossing under the managing of Professor William L. Benitz. This year several reports have been issued in
John Cahill
Is new Grand Knight.
accordance with its procedure. To date, §37,200 has been massed toward this end.
As has always been the custom, several Old Clothes campaigns have been launched. This year Charles Fess, chairman of the drive, reports very favorable donations.
Dederich Wins Contest
In the Letter Contest sponsored by the Santa Maria there was much interest manifested. Charles Dederich’s letter, winner of first prize, was very unique and interesting in all respects.
The spiritual activities were administered by the Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., the chaplain. Each meeting was opened and closed by his blessings.
The State Convention was attended by several of the local knights. James K. Collins, Grand Knight, was chosen to represent the state at the National Convention to be held in Washington, D. C. during the month of August.
John J. Cahill acted as General Chairman of the annual banquet which proved to be one of the outstanding in the chapter’s history.
Jan Garber’s orchestra played for
Jzme 3, 1932
Tzoenty-nine
the Knight’s Spring Formal which was held at the Palais Royale, May 6. Under the guidance of General
John Witliffe
He gave good lectures.
Chairman Gerald Conway, the dance proved to be one of the high lights of campus social activities.
To prove that play is also a constituent of the chapter, the Knights journeyed to Indian Lake, May 22, and indulged in mirthful frolic. Joseph Nugent had all in readiness, and provided entertainment for all.
The appearance of the Santa Maria, the Knights’ yearbook, proved a very appropriate conclusion for the activities of the year. Paul Hallinan was editor-in-chief.
Under the capable leadership of Grand Knight Collins, and his assistants Wittliff, Abraham, Becklenburg, Clark, Maloy, Streb, Cary, and others, the Notre Dame Knights have enjoyed an enviable year.
THEATRE HAS BUSY YEAR
(Continued from Page 13)
versity Theater was the presentation of three one-act plays of Irish nature. Fittingly, the days of these productions was March 17. Two of the plays were written by Lady Greg-fikyyi^and one by W. B. Keats.
In ‘"The Rising of the Moon,” George Higgins scored heavily and “stole” the show from the rest of die cast. The theme of the play was a typification of Irish home life. Vigil-lius Phillips, veteran actor of the campus, also took part.
“The Hour Glass,” a dramatization of the false philosophy of the wise man and the fool was more serious in nature than the others. The wise man was exceptionally well portrayed
by Bill Walsh, and the fool by James Carrico. David Powers appeared as the king’s son.
The evening’s perforamnce was brought to a close with an uproarious farce, “Hyacinthe Halvey” in which Joseph McCabe captured all acting honors. Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, and Miss Charlotte Mourer gave flaw-, less performances in the supporting cast.
As a fitting finale to the theater’s successful season, Prof. Kelly chose the immortal Drinkwater drama, “Abraham Lincoln.” As a commencement play, the selection of this mighty historical dramatization was excellent.
Heading the cast of fifty-four players was Professor Albert Doyle in the title role. Others who took prominent parts in the play were Frank Denny, Mrs. Katherine Basler, Miss Margaret Burroughs, George Higgins, Frank Straud, Vigillius Phillips, John Ryan, Thomas Stritch, Joseph McCabe, and Frank Oberkoetter.
PATRICIANS ALTER NAME
(Continued from Page 16)
ship, and to achieve this goal the Patricians study the renowned books
Raymond Geiger
The Patricians zvill miss him.
and the illustrious accomplishments of the authors and artists of the past.
This year Frank O’Malley was president and did much to stimulate the activities of the society. John .Pick was secretary. The seniors in the club included Louis Brennan, John Cooper, George Cullinan, Raymond Geiger, Vincent O’Neil, Donald McManus, Paul Hallinan, Frank Oberkoetter, James Meehan, James Carrico, and Edgar Melchione.
Next year the executive duties of the group will be administered by Robert Flint as president, and the office of secretary will be filled by Raymond Waters.
“HITZY” WINS PLAUDITS
(Continued from Page 17)	’
year. One on Oct. 27 at the Northwest Inn at which the Reverend John J. Reynolds, C.S.C., was the main
Al Seymour
He arranged for the food.
speaker. The other was a larger affair and was one of the outstanding campus-organization events, considering the speakers of the evening, who were Prof. Clarence Manion, Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C., Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Prof. Charles Phillips, James Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni association, and Joseph Deeb, president of the 1931 council. Al Seymour was chairman.
To Have Board of Directors
But the greatest work of the year is probably the new system which has been w’orked out by these men. First of all, a president is to be elected as is the rule now. Then he will appoint a board of directors, consisting of six men. These six will be chosen by taking one from each of the following groups; 1) small city clubs; 2) large city clubs; 3) state clubs; 4) scholastic organizations; 5) an S. A. C. representative who is a member of the Presidents’ Council; and 6) one editor from the Board of Publications.
“We hope to see in the years to come that this new board will live up to the purpose for ■which it is intended,” stated Hitzelberger. “We have established it with the idea of furthering the harmony between the Council, the S. A. C., and the various publications, and all student organizations by giving each one of them a representative.”
Thirty
The Scholastic
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
Without a question interhall athletics enjoyed its greatest season in 1931-32. John Fredericks held the reins during football season and did a noble job of it. When he left, Charles F. Weiss was put in charge, and no one will deny the success of the basketball season, the swimming meet, the track meet, the golf season, and the baseball season.
However Weiss and Fredericks did not do their jobs alone. A word of praise must go to Anthony W. Wirry, Frank Buhl, and Don Martin, all junior managers, who in turn were aided by Claude Lewis and Ed Fisher, sophomore managers, and Ray Oakes and Vinnie Gorman, frosh managers.
FOOTBALL
Although Mike Crawford ran ninety yards for a touchdown in the closing moments of play, the six points thus gained were not enough for Walsh to win the Interhall championship from St. Edward’s, who had previously crossed the seniors’ goal line twice.
In the second quarter after a series of driving plunges by Jim Newbold, Schinkowitz crossed the goal line and St. Edward’s went into the lead,, 6 to 0. Again in the fourth quarter, Tim Maloney tallied when he went outside end for eight yards.
With but two minutes to play, Miller kicked off for the “Minims” to the Walsh ten-yard line. Crawford picked up the ball at this point and weaved and dodged his way down the field aided by the perfect blocking of Flo McCarthy and Bennie Mikes.
INDOOR TRACK
Lyons won the interhall track meet, amassing a total of 23 5-6 points to lead their nearest rivals, Dillon, bv seven and one-third points. Sophomore placed third with 15 1-3, Carroll fourth with 15 markers, and Off-Campus fifth with 13 1-2 points.
Van Petten led his team to victory with two firsts. These came in the mile run and the 880. He ran the first distance in 4:57 and the half-mile in 2:08.5. Lyons scored again the shot put when Jack Robinson and Charley Huisking placed first and second in the shot put. The remainder of the winner’s points came when Jim Loney tied for first in the pole
vault and tied for second in the broad jump.
Charles F. Weiss
Directed Interhall Sports
SWIMMING
Pete Dorschel scored two firsts, one second, and was a member of the winning relay team to win the interhall swimming toga for Lyons. Pete established the only new record for the evening performances when he won the 40-yard back-stroke in :24.2,; the previous record, one of long standing had been :24.4.
Dorschel also won the 100-yard back-stroke in the excellent time of 1:10. 2. His next scoring effort was in the plunge event. Second place was the best he could do, Burns of Brownson winning with a plunge of 43 feet 11 inches. Burchell won the 100-yard free style event, to aid Dorschel. Other stars in this meet were McCarthy of Lyons, Farrell of Dillon, and Moore of St. Edward’s.
BASKETBALL
Lyons won their third straight in-terhall championship when the heavyweight representatives of that hall won the title in their division of the basketball league, by downing Off-Campus in the final game, 22 to 18.
Behind at the half, 10 to 9, the Lyons men led by Hubert Gildea and Irv Hall displayed enough fight to go on. and win. Gildea gave Coach Reggie Kuhn a lot of heart dips when he decided he wanted to shoot fouls one-handed. Fortunately he was successful.
The lightweight division was won by Carroll who won their seventh straight game by downing Badin in the finale, 20 to 17. This game was hard fought from start to finish and the outcome was in doubt up to the final whistle.
GOLF
Dillon entered their name for the first time in the list of interhall winners when led by Cole they won the golf crown from Alumni, 12% to 5%. Cole, No. 1 man for the freshmen established a new low for the 1932 interhall golf when he shot an 78 to beat Tony Pugliese. Henry of Dillon was the only man on his team to lose his match. Henry lost to O’Brien, 3 and 0.
Bob Morrissey and La Londe tallied 7 points in their singles and double matches to cinch the victory. In the last foursome Moore and Powell could only gain two points.
BASEBALL
St. Edward’s won the last of the 1931-32 interhall championships when they annexed the baseball crown for the second straight year. Howard were the victims in the final game, losing 2 to 1 in a pitcher’s duel between Schinkowitz of St. Ed’s, and Tobin of Howard.
The winning hurler allowed but four hits and doubled in the seventh inning to bring in the winning run. Other stars for the winning team were Licalzi and Krause.
IRISH OUTSCORE CADETS
(Continued from Page 20)
left the Irish two and a fraction markers away from the meet victory. Darling’s first and Eddie Gough’s second in the broad jump sent the local score well over the required total.
The summaries:
100-YARD DASH —Won by Egan (ND); Fuller (A), second; King (A), third. Time, .:10.6.
MILE RUN—Won by King (ND) ; Graham (A), second; Young (ND), third. Time 4:24.8.
SHOT PUT—Won by Price (A) ; Finkel (ND), second; Armstrong (A), third. Distance, 44 efet.
220-YARD DASH—Won by Wilson (ND) ; Egan (ND), second; Schrader (A), third. Time, :23.3.
120-YARD HIGH HURDLES—Won by Ep-pler (A) ; Fagan (ND), second; Poredon (ND), .third. Time,, :16.
POLE VAULT—Won by Behrman (ND) ; 'Slattery (ND), second; Rohrbach (ND), Abell - (A) and Martin (A), tied for third. Height, 11 feet, 8 inches.
440-YARD RUN—Won.by Wilson (ND); King (A), second; Kuhn (ND), and Oberg-
June 3, 1932
Thirty-one
fall (ND), tied for third. Time, :50.3.
TWO-MILE RUN—Won by Slade (A) ; How-■ ery (ND), second; Starbird (A), third. Time, 9:55.4.	.
DISCUS—Won by Armstrong (A) : Moore (A) and Smoller (A), teid for second. Distance, 126 feet, 6 inches.
220-YARD LOW HURDLES—Won by Ep-pler (A) ; MacBeth (ND), second; McConnell (A) third. Time, :25.5.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Darling (ND) : Moore (A) and Moorman (A) tied for second. Height, 6 feet, one inch.	.
880-YARD RUN—Won by Wilson (ND) ; King (ND), second; Graham (A), third. Time, 1:57.
JAVELIN THROW — Won by Jablonsky (A) ; Lankenau (A), second; Krause (ND), third. Distance, 183 feet, 10 inches.
BROAD JUMP —Won by Darling (ND) ; Gough (ND), second ; Eppler (A), third. Distance, 22 feet, 1% inches.
I FEHLIG GOLF CHAMPION
!	(Continued from Page 21)
I ,	--- : = z .	- . - ,
I1 when Fehlig built up the lead that ; carried him through. The two players figured prominently in the tourney a year ago when they were freshmen. Larry Moller, last year’s winner, eliminated Montedonico in the semi-finals and smashed the course record in the process. He came back the following day with more excellent golf to beat Fehlig by a wide margin in the finals.
BASEBALL TEAM WINS AND LOSES ON ROAD TRIP
(Continued from Page 20)
the Notre Dame sluggers with two hits apiece. Palt, in addition to limiting the Hilltoppers to four bingles, struck out nine men and walked but one.
The box score:
Notre Dame	ab
McGrath, cf ................4
Kane, ss....................5
Devore, If .................5
Kozak, rf ..................4
Lomasney, rf................0
Sheeketski, c ..............4
Powell, 2b .................4
Palmisani, 3b ..............3
O’Neil, lb .................4
Palt, p .........................
Totals
......................36	2	11	44
Western State	ab
Berkhousen, ss ............4
Woods, 2b .................2
Hanna, 2b .................2
Decker, cf.................2
Koch, cf...................1
Denna, 3b .................4
Thomas, c .................4
Johnson, lb ...............3
Pellegrom, If..............4
Mason, rf .................3
xQuiring ..................1
Nieginfin, p ..............4
R H C Oil 0 2 6 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 19 0 0 3 0 14 1 2 16 12 4
R H c 0 0 12 0 0 3 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 10 2 0 0 16 0 13 0 10 0 1 0 0 0 4
’Phelps ....................1	0	0	0
Totals .....................35	1	4	45
xQuiring batted for Mason in ninth.
’Phelps batted for Hanna in ninth.
Score by innings:
Notre Dame _____0 01	000	00	1—2	11	4
Western State ..0 00	000	00	1—1 4	1
Errors—Kane (2), Palmisani, O’Neil, Johnson. Two-base hits—O’Neil. Kane. Bases on balls—off Palt, 2; off Neiginfin, 1. Struck out —by Palt, 9; by Neiginfin, 1. Left on base— Dame Dame, 8 ; Western State, 10. Umpires— Cleary and Elliott.
NORTHWESTERN, 10; N. D., 3
Coach George Keogan and his Irish ball-tossers journeyed to Evanston last Saturday and were given a sound beating by Northwestern’s Wildcats. The final score was 10-3. Farber was on the mound for Northwestern and limited the Blue sluggers to eight hits, most of which came after the home team had piled up a substantial lead.
Dagger, big sophomore twirler, started for the Keoganmen but gave way to pinch-hitter Russo in the sixth and was replaced on the mound by Louie Del Prete.
Northwestern scored three runs in the third to take an early lead and
This SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY
IN PERSON!
THE FAMOUS SCREEN STAR
JACK MULHALL in a Comedy Skit “When Johnny Comes Marching Home" and other big RKO Acts and on the screen
KAY FRANCIS in "Street of Women"
R K o
PALACE
Theatre
SATURDAY
ALL SEATS UNTIL
6 P. M.
35c
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
ALLERTON HOTEL.
Ki
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in. Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—$10.50 to $25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL
, Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
was never headed. Remus, second-baseman, cracked out the first of his three hits, a single to start the rally and three more hits by Sullivan, Buesch, and Potter, followed after the two were out.
The Wildcats registered two more in the fourth, two in the fifth, one in the sixth, and two in the seventh, to bring their total to ten.
- Notre Dame Rallies
Notre Dame scored once each in the sixth, eighth, and ninth. Hits by Kane and Seidl, and an infield out brought in the first, while another hit by Seidl, followed by a walk, and an error registered the second. '
Kane, Seidl, and Palmisani led the Notre Dame attack with two hits apiece. Cummings and Powell divided the other two when the big guns were silenced.
The hitting of Remus featured the contest. A home-run, double, and single in four trips to the plate rewarded his day’s efforts. Buesch and Potter, Wildcat outfielders, also gained three bingles apiece.
Box-score:
Notre Dame (3)	ar	h	o
Kane .........................5	2	0
Seidl, cf.....................5	2	1
Devore, If ...................3	0	1
Kozac, rf.....................4	0	1
Powell, 2b ...................4	1	2
Sheeketski, c.................4	0	6
Cummings, lb .................4	1	10
Palmisani, 3b ................3	2	0
Dagger, p ....................1	0	1
Del Prete, p..................2	0	0
O’Neill, c....................1	0	1
’Russo .......................1	0	0
Lomasney, If .................0	0	0
Totals .......................37	8	23	11
Northwestern (10)	ab	h	o
Sullivan, If .................5	2	0
Bueseh. cf .................. 5	3	1
Potter, rf....................4	3	0
Evans, c......................4	0	3
Auguston, ss..................2	■	1	5
Culver, lb ...................4	1	16
Remus, 2b ....................4	3	3
Mellin, 3b ...................4	0	0
Farber, p.....................4	0	1
Jindrich, rf .................1	0	'	0
A
3
2
0
0
2
2
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
A 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 5 7 0
Totals
......................37	13	29	15
’Russo batted for Lagger in the sixth.
Score by innings: Notre Dame ............0	0 0
0 0 1 0 11—3
Northwestern
......0 03 221 20 x—10
Runs — Sullivan, Buesch (2), Potter (2), Auguston (2), Remus (3), Kane, Seidl, Palmisani. Errors—Northwestern, 4 ; Notre Dame, 1.’ Two-base hits—Potter, Cummings. Three-base hits—Remus, Auguston. Home run—Remus. Sacrifice hits—Sullivan, 2 ; Remus, Kane. Double plays—Auguston to Remus to Culver; Mellin to Remus to Culver. Bases on balls— lagger, 1; Del Prete, 1; Farber, 3. Struck out —by Farber, 3 ; lagger, 6; Del Prete, 2.
To MEN only!
NO NEED to park a “Girls Keep Out” at the top of this advertisement. They’ll shy off quick enough when they find out what it’s about.
For it’s a strictly masculine privilege —solace, satisfaction, retreat, call it what you will—the joy of smoking a pipe!	-
It’s the smoke “for men only,” any
She likes to see him smoke a pipe
girl will agree—one of the few rights the women haven’t crowded us on. And the only smoke for men, many a thoughtful smoker calls it. For the deep consolation and rare comradeship of a mellow, richly aged pipe are something every man does well to know.
And you taste the rich satisfaction of pipe smoking at its best when you fill up your bowl with Edgeworth. There’s a tobacco that’s made for a pipe. Cool,
dry, slow-burning. Blended of fine,
mellow,full-flavored hurleys.
You’ve a rare smoke coming if you’ve never tried Edgeworth. You will find Edgeworth at your tobacco dealer’s. Or send for special free sample packet if you wish.
He needs his pipe
Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d
St., Richmond, Virginia.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AU sizes, 15^ pocket package" to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
When You’ ve Left
The Shadow of
The Dome
. . . . and Notre Dame is a cherished memory, let the undergraduate publications keep you in close touch with campus news, thought, and humor.
You’ll appreciate more than ever getting the football news, written by Notre Dame men, week after week in the sparkling pages of the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC—full thirty issues mailed to you for three dollars.
And the JUGGLER—leader of the college comics of America— will keep you in good humor eight months of the year, delivered at your door by Uncle Sam for only two dollars.
Of course, if you want to complete the cycle of your Notre Dame reading we can offer you SCRIP, the literary quarterly (one dollar the year), and our “finest and most expensive publication,” the annual DOME (traditionally priced at five dollars).
Drop in at the Publications Office, 232 Main Building — the Graduate Manager will carefully take your mailing address for your subscription.
❖	❖ ❖ ❖
KEEP NOTRE DAME-MINDED
With
The Scholastic, The Juggler, Scrip and Dome
❖	❖ ❖ ❖
Board of Publications
AT THE UNIVERSITY	NOTRE DAME, IND.
KR. PAUL BYRNE,
LIBRARY,
N3TRE PASS,
IND,
...ALL YOU COULD ASK FOR
© 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
