Vol. XXII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, December 15, 1888.
No. 17.
The Poet’s Now.
BY MARION -MUIR RICHARDSON.
The poet once saw in his song	.
A mighty ministry,
And voiced through tumult, guilt and wrong The Gospel of the free!
He missed the golden gift that kings
Cast to the servile hind,
But his strong fancy spread her wings In realms above mankind.
On him the camp-fire shed its light, The peasant with his herds
Might learn his music on the heights
Like Walter of the birds.
He reigned within the hearts of men
A king without a crown;	'
The songs he sang-in sorrow then
Like pearls are handed down.
To-day the Singer skims the seas
That roll beneath his prow, The notes that humor souls at ease
Are all he offers now.	- -
He careth not that on the shore
Earth’s weeping toilers dwell, And, ah! the springs of Life no more
Are vocal to his spell.
Content if in some magazine
His silver strains are stored,
The polished shells that might have been
The trumpets of the Word! .
The pen he wields may be, indeed, A marvel for its grace;	.
But Genius, with a broken reed, A mightier truth could trace.
Virtue never grows old; Age adds to its freshness and power, and each increment is the lease of a new life.
The Yellowstone Park.
BY A. F. Z.
III.—From the Firehole Valley to the Norris Geyser Basin.
Firemen are not all constant quantities. Some are economists, some are distracted, some lazy, some tired or unwell. They often fail when we most need them", having no pressure when we want unstinted steam.. And as it is with firemen, even so is it, in a more tantalizing degree, with many geysers. They are quiet as poets, or quakers, until the spirit moves them; and no amount of wheedling will make them budge. But when they do begin to move, it is with the spontaneous, uncontrollable fire of a poet or quaker in action. This is especially true of the . big ones. The Giant and the Giantess are now registered on the bulletin board of the hotel as rising to the height‘of 250 feet, but neither has operated since last spring. I cannot, however, pass them over quite in silence, as their names alone plead our attention—names that are now as celebrated as those of the Grand or the Strokr of Iceland.
The Giant has a cone which resembles the stump of a hollow elm or sycamore broken off obliquely by a storm. We looked for the broken piece, thinking it might be cemented on, but it seems to have been dashed to pieces and swept away. The orifice measures seven feet across, and emits a column of water of equal thickness which, it is said, doubles the size of the Firehole River. While weAvere observing it the pressure increased rapidly, causing the water to toss violently within the cone and to give off im-

THE NOTRE bAME SCHOLASTIC.
■ mense clouds of steam. All about the base
little geysers were playing actively like children beside their great parent. But after a time the pressure diminished, and deprived us of one of the grandest spectacles we had hoped to see. We were content however. No tourist sees more than half the geysers operate, unless he chooses to remain in the park many weeks.
The Giant is noted rather for the volume of its flow than for any other peculiarity. If, as reported, its column really measures seven feet in diameter by two hundred and fifty feet high, the gevser is well worthv of its name. The me-chanical energy of such a flow would be equiv-
alent to that of more than 130,000 horses! The operation of the Giantess, as usually depicted by eye-witnesses, would represent a far greater power. The area of its orifice is something like 400 feet, and a column of water having this base and an altitude of 250 feet is equivalent in mechanical energy to more than 1,500,000 horses! The flow of this geyser has probably never reached so great a magnitude, but it is nevertheless stupendous. The Grand, similarly estimated, would indicate almost two million horsepower.
But the climax is attained in the proportions given for the Excelsior. We are told that the eruptions of this geyser in February 1880 be
came frightfully violent, causing the earth to rumble, and filling this immense valley of many square miles with dense vapors. It continued, says the report, to increase in magnitude until its power became almost incredible, sending forth at times a compact body of water 75 feet in diameter to a height of 300 feet, “rendering,” says Col. Norris, “the Firehole River—here nearly 100 yards wide—a foaming torrent of steaming hot water, and hurling rocks of from one to one hundred pounds in weight, like those of an exploded mine over surrounding acres.
A fountain 75 feet in diameter and 300 feet high! What a manifestation of power inconceivable! In magnitude it would rival the dome at Washington; in volume it would equal a river of four miles an hour 5000 feet wide and 20 feet deep; in mechanical energy it would measure more than 20 million horse-power. All the steam fire engines in the world would not throw one half the stream, nor could a chain of horses ■ reaching thrice across the Union do one third of : the work. The great falls of the Yellowstone itself would not measure one tenth the power.-
It is certainly impossible for an observer to : realize the enormous energy of any of the larger geysers. The flow of the Grand, for example, as described by Lieutenant Doane, would be 1 nearly ten times that of the St. Joseph River; I and the Excelsior at its maximum, if perpetual, ! would double the Missouri all the way to Omaha, i If St. Joseph’s Lake were completely dry, and ' from its bottom a geyser like the Grand were i suddenly to break forth, the entire lake should be filled in less than ten minutes. The Excelsior, as described above, would fill it in less than one minute with its incredible flow of 4,500,000 gallons per second. Should such a stream well up from the central fountain of the lawn, it would in an instant roll its billows splashing against all the surrounding buildings, flooding every campus and the neighboring fields. In less than five minutes we should see deep channels cut down the hills, and the lakes without bound, sweeping in a tremendous torrent through St. Mary’s, valley, tearing out trees with a crash, and filling all the country with such thunder and confusion of sounds as no storm ever sug-gested. Immense clouds of steam would rise up from all the land like smoke from forest fires filling the sky; immense waves, chasing and over-leaping waves like, flames, would rush galloping down to the river as mountain torrents ' rush when the clouds break—torrents that bear away lightly the heaviest timber and debris and huge dark rolling sand bars. The river itself would overflow its banks and run sweeping
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
around headlands until the hills could be heard falling in land slides and all the country along its course should be in uproar. Half an hour more would see all the bridges swept away, and the front billow of this raging flood rolled over into Lake Michigan. The dam at Niles (if Niles has'a dam) would be no more. In a few days the effect could be noticed on all the lakes and even at Niagara. But as our chief landscape
GIANTESS GETSER IN EBOTTION gardener would not be guilty of turning on so much water at once, we need not apprehend the consequences.
I may add also that the Excelsior, if it ever attained such mammoth proportions, can at best be but intermittent and irregular. Two or three of the greatest geysers, it is true, sustain their flow for some hours consecutively, but with greatly varying strength, now rushing up in a massive column, now spurting unsteadily.
As a final example of these displays on a large scale, I will here quote Mr. Langford’s lively description of the “Giantess.” This, if we may credit the guide-book, plays once in four days and for twelve hours continuously, while no other one operates more than three hours at a time, and few of them more than thirtv minutes. Though the figures of the guidebook (written by Mr. Winserin 1883) differ from those of the subjoined description, we must remember that Mr. Langford wrote in 1871. We quote from his article in Scribners Magazine of that year:
“No water could be discovered, bur we could distinctly hear it gurgling and boiling at a great distance below. Suddenly it began to rise, boiling and spluttering, and sending out huge masses of steam, causing a general stampede of our company, driving us some distance from our point of observation. When within about forty feet of the surface it became stationary, and we returned to look down upon it. It was foaming and surging at a terrible rate, occasionally emitting small jets of hot water nearly to the mouth of the orifice. All at once it seemed seized with a fearful spasm, and rose with incredible rapidity, hardly affording us time to flee to a safe distance, when it burst from the orifice with terrific momentum, rising in a column the full size of this immense aperture to the height of sixty feet: now through and out of this vast aqueous mass, five or six lesser jets, or round columns of water, varying in size from six to fifteen inches in diameter, were projected to the marvellous height of two hundred and fifty feet. These lesser jets so much higher than the main column, now shooting through it. doubtless proceed from auxiliary pipes leading into the principal orifice near the bottom, where the explosive force is gre ater..This grand eruption continued for twenty minutes and was the most magnificent sight we ever witnessed. We were standing on the side of the geyser nearest the sun, the gleams of which filled the sparkling column of water and spray with myriads of rainbows, whose arches were constantly changing—dipping and fluttering hither and thither, and disappearing only to be succeeded by others, again and again, amid the aqueous column, while the minute globules into which the spent jets were diffused when falling sparkled like a shower of diamonds, and around every shadow which .the denser clouds of vapor, interrupting the sun’s rays, cast upon the column, could be seen a luminous circle radiant with all the colors of the prism, and resembling the halo of glory represented in paintings as encircling the head of the Divinity. All that we had previously witnessed seemed tame in comparison to the perfect grandeur and beauty of this display. Two of these wonderful eruptions occurred during the twenty-two hours we remained in the valley. This geyser we named the ‘ Giantess.”’
The most striking and interesting cone in the valley is that of the Castle. It measures twenty feet in height, and stands on a mound of equal altitude. Though not of the first magnitude and not celebrated for its flow, the Castle sustains a beautiful column of one hundred feet. It operates at intervals of 48 hours. The cone bears some resemblance to the ruins of an old castle
276
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
It is composed of stalagmite of a grayish white appearance glazed over with a silicious beadlike deposit which sparkles intensely in the strong sun light. We climbed to the top of this old “roarer” and looked down its throat. The
water was in violent ebalition, rumbling, tossing and splashing restlessly. The walls of the throat • are scintillating, very even and hard, but coarse as sand stone. Dull, explosive sounds are frequently heard, and the water is at times thrown several feet above the orifice. Once as our cler-
ical friend was peering boldly and irreverently down the mouth of this venerable old fountain, the water shot up so suddenly as to throw him
scrambling down the embankment. (See illustration, page 274.)
By the side of this mound is Diana’s Pool, one of the prettiest springs conceivable. It is like a little fairy palace decorated with the most enchanting forms and colors. The walls are of lobed misses like cauliflowers of the most delicate silky appearance, all the margins are of shining silver bead work, and the paths winding away on all sides are of the richest hues of ochre and aniline. The central court of this little pal-, ace is of clear deep cobalt blue through which . the bright sun streams incessantly variegating the corners with light and shadow. Sometimes the upper surface of the pool is blown into rip
ples, whereupon a myriad little rainbows are seen chasing one another fleetly and nimbly about the court. All the fairies, mermaids, nymphs, and other creatures of fable, have dwellings assigned them here at appropriate places. It seems also to be the headquarters of the old original hell-fire boss himself. Half the numerous structures about here bear his name in large bold letters like a caveat.. His chimney is a cylindrical mound arched over at the top and having an opening at either side. His punch bowl is a most elaborate work of art handsomely painted, scalloped and covered with sparkling bead work. His stairway is not so attractive, but no doubt answers its purpose just as well. A large portion of his household goods are found
I in this valley, and the greater part of the remain-i der on the Gardiner River.
> It was reported that the Splendid would oper-i ate at three o’clock, and, as every one was deter-| mined to see it, a large audience assembled promptly at the hour. But the actor was late. We waited patiently half an hour, but no appearance. Then half another hour we sat on a log in the shade, but no performance, and the assembly broke up in disgust. Some then betook them to wise discussions; others went to gather strawberries and fight mosquitoes; others to ramble among the springs. But for three hours we kept a sentinel on duty to signal the time of eruption. All without avail, however; the gevser was unfaithful. This heightened our veneration and affection for the never-failing old fountain at the head of the basin. After seeing a number of displays, one becomes, as it were, a geyser connoisseur, and his curiosity to see others keeps growing like that of a stock man at a cattle show or of a philosopher among the everlasting shows of humanity.
In our rambles we came upon a high cone, called the Pyramid. It is noted for its magnitude, being nearly twice as high as the Castle. It is very symmetrical and handsome, steams a little at the top, stands in an eminent place, and looks like a grand feeble old patriarch of geysers. There seems to be no limit to the magnitude attainable by this incrustation. It ceases only with the life of the spring itself; but why does the spring or geyser die out? Is the flow stopped by internal obstruction? Does it alter its course and break out elsewhere? Or do the internal fires themselves fail? Qui en sabe?
Some of the party in their rambles came upon a place called “Specimen Lake.” It is a small basin of one or two acres covered with an overflow from hot springs. It is paved with an elastic cream-colored fluid which has solidified beneath
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	277
into basaltic forms resembling carrots or the roots of monster teeth. After spying about in every direction to make sure that no soldiers were on the alert, they each gathered such a quantity as would just fill two large pockets, and sneaked off. Presently some others of the-party were observed to sidle around quietly and .alone to pilfer some for their collection. And so it appears ever}'- Philistine who visits our great national pleasure ground must purloin for himself a little private collection for his “cabinet.”
Finding that the Splendid was not in a humor to play, we abandoned it, and, collecting the party, went down to the Saw Mill. An elderly lady who had walked from the hotel, a mile distant, in eagerness to see the Splendid perform, was prostrated by the intense heat and had to be escorted home; but the others showed no signs of fatigue. The Saw Mill is a little irrepressible geyser whose column measures about six inches by six feet, and plays apparently once every two or three minutes. All the other geysers have in them something of stateliness, solemnity, grandeur, magnificence and power, but this is a little jumping-jack that seems to be mimicing the others. As you approach it, the water shoots up and plays gleefully a few seconds, falling into a smooth, shallow, circular temfoot basin. Then of a sudden the play stops and the water all rushes gurgling and sucking down the tube. Then you turn round to view some of the neighboring objects, and behold it springs up beside you again, spouts for a moment, and hurries back into its hole again. It reminds ont of a silly young dog that runs out to bark for an instant in the cold and again quickly hies him back to the straw to warm up for another sally. As no name or sign-board could be found near it, the question was what to call it. One person proposed to name it the “repeater,” another the “perpetual motion,” another the “little fool,” not knowing its name until after consulting the map. For my own part I was occupied in measuring with my eye •the proportions of its orifice, and dip of the basin with a view to making one. I tried to induce the Louisville whiskeyman to build one in his yard in place of the usual fountain. It would be so. nice for the children to play with, and paddle about in taking shower baths in stead of squalling in the streets. It would not cost much to sustain it, say about a dollar and a half a day, and it would be so instructive. But he said that he had no stomach for any second-class imitative art; and when his children were old enough he would fetch them all out
to see the “genuine article.” Rethought it would be a good investment. '
The Lion and Lioness play at intervals of a few hours and the Cubs very frequently. Near these is the Sponge Geyser, named after the peculiar appearance of its mouth. This is a cone the size of a large ant-hill whose orifice is covered with a brown jagged formation like sandstone pricked and punctured with the minutest delicacy. Both in form and color, it is a perfect pattern of new sponge of the finest texture. A little to the north is a very beautiful thermal spring just flush with the surrounding earth. It is an irregular, star-shaped opening through the white incrusted earth whose overreaching stratum reminds one of treacherous ice branching over an unfrozen spot in a lake. Its water is of a rich azure enlivened by deep shades and shadows The perspective of these deep subterranean grottoes and caverns is truly wonderful.
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
Law.*
.	BY E. CHACON, ’89.
Law is a term familiar to everbody; yet there is no subject, perhaps, concerning which so many different notions are entertained. It is of vital importance, therefore, for us to pay more than ordinary attention to it. The progress of the physical sciences, the infidel tendencies of the age, the radical theories of men of letters, all tend to uproot the true and only foundation of the Law. For God, an eternal matter is substituted; for an eternal, immovable Law, the evolutionists have accepted the sophistical theories of blind chance; and error, like a manyheaded monster, threatens to overwhelm truth.
First of all, Law is the rule of what is right in action; it is the measure between’ an effect and its cause, and it is suggestive of order and authority. Order itself pervades the whole system of created beings, and the laws of the universe are determined according to the number of species. To prove our proposition, we will unfold the different notions in regard to the physical, moral and social orders; deeming it necessary to acquaint our readers, as much as possible, with the whole nature of the subject.
In the material order, we have a physical law which is defined to be the rule of motion followed blindly and unconsciously by matter. It is
* Thesis defended before the “Circle” of St.Thomas’ Academy, Thursday evening, Nov. 22.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
the inflexible canon by which the cosmos moves in one vast harmonious whole beautiful to behold. But matter of itself does not possess motion. This we will prove by pausing to discuss for a moment the essential properties of matter.
Matter is contingent. The simple fact that we may conceive of a body existing otherwise than it is without being altered essentiallv, alone suffices to confirm this statement. In the planetary system, for instance, we may conceive of the sun in an inverted order with the earth; yet, under the hypothesis, the sun would remain as the source of light, giving us warmth, and ripening our fruits. Moreover, if matter were necessary, its essential attributes would be none other than unity, simplicity and unchangeableness. But matter is multiple, since the substance of a gold coin is not the same as that of the veal brought to our table. If simple, it could not be divided, but its'very disposition renders it subject to an indefinite division. Its continual changing, moreover, has merited for its law the name of “constant and uniform development of created substances.”
What else remains that may suggest to us even the shadow of a doubt concerning the contingency of matter? Apart from the above considerations, the world cannot deviate from a determined course. The sun cannot cease to rise' in the east; nor can the liquids refuse to seek their own level. There is a wonderful harmony, moreover, existing among all the laws of the universe: each is subordinate to the other; and each is compelled by an irresistible neces-; sitv to remain al wavs the same. The tides of the ocean do not rise and fall by chance; there: is a force that moves them, and this force comes from a certain relation with the moon. The moon in turn is moved by a greater force, and so on indefinitely until there is no other alternative left but to admit the mutual subordination of the laws of matter. But here is the point at issue. If matter and its law be dependent and contingent, it is absolutely necessary that an infinitely wise ruler should have arranged them after giving them existence; for they cannot have this of themselves. They cannot give themselves a law, much less can they have been the cause of their own being. Hence, the dogma of miracles is by no means opposed to reason; for if an infinitely wise God watches constantly over the universe, He, at times, when the welfare of some higher creature requires-it, . may suspend, or even destroy, the physical laws.
This brings us to the next part of our thesis, namely, the moral order, and the law that" animates it. Mari is different from matter; conse
quently the law he follows is different from that of the latter.' His is a law of the intellect and of the will, the rule of human conduct prescribed by the Creator, and discoverable b)^ the light of reason.. But first let us inquire, what is the end of man: Is he to live and die -like the beast without reflecting on his existence? Is he to rise and fall like the plant, or to remain insensible like’the stone by the wayside? Far other than this .is man’s end; for what is that feeling which makes him yearn after the supernatural, if not the echo of another life? Man, therefore, is called to be eternally happy; and he must attain his end by a moral rule conformable to his nature. Now, on what does the morality of this rule depend? Some say that it rests on utility; others that matter alone, is its foundation; and others still assign it to the empire of reason. .	.
In the first place, the utilitarians begin by saying that morality consists in the more or less fitness of the means we make use of to attain happiness. By happiness they mean simply a material satisfaction, though many of their modern leaders have pretended to make it a quiescent state of the intellect Now, this theory contains a solecism, if we may so speak; for it is evident that what is useful to-day may not be so to-morrow. Money, for instance, is a useful thing, so much so that a man can purchase by it the dearest of pleasures which the world can afford. But suppose we use that money to the detriment of our health, after that we have no more use for it, because it can no more purchase’us the welfare it caused us to lose.
Next in order come the positivists in general. They hold that matter being absolute, there is nothing above it; consequently- the laws, too, are material, and morality depends on the conformity of our actions to the requirements of material, nature. For the sake of argument, let us suppose that such is the case. But matter changes; it assumes, new forms every day, and if its essence were to serve as the.basis of morality, man’ s'nature would be identical with that of matter. But the material and the human species can never be identical with each’other, for who can conceive.of. a.man subject to the laws of growth from the soil like a plant, or of a plant reasoning like man?.	-
. Kant, last of all, comes forward maintaining that the human reason.makes the law. In other -words,, he. teaches that its morality depends on opinion, j But .opinion, we know, changes ac’ cofding'tacircumstances. The boy, for instance, has opinions that he.will, reject in .two or1 three years more; consequently this system, too, falls
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
279
short of solving the question under consideration.
In view of these things, we hold -that the morality of the law depends on the distinction of good and evil. And it is absolutely necessary that it should be so, for how, otherwise, can we account for a moral end set apart for man alone of all the creatures under the sun. Moreover, does not every man believe that he must do right and avoid wrong? And what can this mean but that everyone instinctively believes in the sanction, which is nothing else than the reward or punishment of our actions. God, therefore, in creating the world, has shown infinite goodness by giving to each species a rule conformable to its nature. To matter’he has given a constant and uniform development, whilst for man he has laid down a rational can an; and the two combined go to lose them-selzes beneath the throne of their Maker.
The existence of the moral law being unques-tio Table, an objection might here be raised. Is not this law subversive of human liberty? If man be free to act as he pleases, what need is there of his having a rule laid down for him? The objection is, by.no means, unreasonable, and we will answer it by distinguishing between the-liberty of motion and the responsibility of action. Man, indeed, has freedom to act: He can do whatever he wants to, but he may do; or not do, certain things; and having once acted, he is no longer free as to the results. If a man takes poison, the fact of his being sorry afterwards does not change the effects of the poison. And so it is for everything that a man may deliberately choose to do. .
At this juncture the social order is suggested to us as necessary to complete the considerations of Law. It is foreign to our purpose,-however, to enter into the discussion of society here; and we will take it for granted that man is a social being. As such he has rightsand duties which he can never neglect without incurring, the censure of authority. Now, in the social state, a man’s liberty has to be regulated in a way that it may not interfere with the welfare of others. These regulations are the human positive laws, which derive their authority from the common consent of the people. Matters, however, that are odd from the very beginning, and not made so by compact, come under the cognizance of the natural law, and such positive enactments as are declaratory of it. These do not derive their obligation from the people; but they come from God who is the sovereign or-dainer of all things. Now sovereignty is a power absolute in -itself; therefore, when laws are enacted by a sovereign, if they are conformable
to reason, none of the subjects can disobey them without incurring a penalty.-
The notion of rights in societv, and the conviction of every man that he is in duty bound to abide by the law of the land, cannot arise from a general agreement of individuals; for if it were so, man could change rights and duties to suit his purpose, which is repugnant to government; this is anarchy in its inception. -
From what we have stated heretofore, it is apparent that the existence of laws in the universe is undeniable; but shall we impute them to the chance of. casualists, and then rise with the evolutionist from forces to forms until we arrive at a deified humanity with the materialists? Shall we conceive of law rising gradually from a vegetating chaos, and adapting itself to the different beings of the universe? If this is the case, wherefore should man, the epitome of perfection, bend the knee to an invisible power that commands him to obey the law? Wherefore should matter always follow the same course, if there is nothing beyond it? But lol there is a God above matter and man. There is a personal God, all-wise, all-good, and alljust, who from eternity intended to create. He knows the nature of everything that had to come from Him. He knew the slightest feelings that would dwell in the human heart, as well as the admirable organism of the smallest animal; consequently, He also had a law guiding Him in all his works, and that law, says the Angelic Doctor, is the perfection of the Divine Wisdom according to which it is directive of all action and motion.
SO MUCH MAY BE DONE. .
There is much that may be done While the glittering life sands run; If ye be but earnest minded, If ye go not weakly blinded By gay fashion’s heartless folly, Or a selfish melancholy,	.
By a momentary pleasure Or a love of ease and leisure;' Lured not by flitting beauty From the narrow path of duty, Much there is that may be done By an earnest minded one..
There is much that may be done	-
By a gentle, loving one! .
Her’s sweet mercy’s prayer to breathe;
Her s the manly brow to wreathe In fadeless garlands from above, Gemmed with the dew of heaven’s love: To soothe the careworn, troubled breast, _ To guard the weary pilgrim’s rest, ' To close the eyes of age and youth, To whisper of celestial truth;	-'
Much—ah, much!—may e’er.be. done: .. - . By a gentle, loving one!	—W, K Journal.
28o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WE WE SCHOW
The French Government to Very Rev. Father General Sorin.
tbrrn 5aturhag Curing Ecnn Eimr at X. D. (Hnibrrsitg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame. December 1ft. 1888.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has entered upon the twenty-second year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
- All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of tliose who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,	'■
Old Students should take it.	।
Terms, $1.30 per Annum. Postpaid.	■
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, J
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—It- is worthy of going on record that the issue of “tariff reform” raised by the-Democratic party, upon' which the late Presidential campaign was fought, has met with the sanction of the people of the United States. Cleveland’s popular majority over his opponent is in the neighborhood of 100,000. However the electoral vote may be, the vote of the people is evidently for “reform.”
—The prospectus which our esteemed contemporary the Ave Maria has issued for the coming year gives evidence of the marked prosperity that constantly attends the direction of this excellent periodical, whose object is the propagation and spread of devotion to the ■ Blessed Virgin Mary among the English speaking people. Its fame has now become worldwide and correspondingly the number of its subscribers is increasing. The maintenance of the standard of literary excellence for which it is so well known is assured by the galaxy of contributors which includes the best Catholic writers in the English language. To realize this, one need but cast a glance at the many good things for mind, heart and soul, which the “announcement for ’89” promises to the readers of our Lady’s Journal.,
Letters received during the week from the French Consulate at Chicago have informed Very Rev. Father General that the Government of France, desiring to recognize in some manner the year of his Golden Jubilee, had appointed him to an office of honor expressive of the success and glory with which he had accomplished a part of the mission to which he had devoted his life. It was a very graceful act on the part of the French Government and reflects credit upon the Ministry. No son of France, who has cast his lot in other climes, has ever shed more glory and renown upon his native land than has the revered Founder of Notre Dame. We are reminded of the eloquent words of Archbishop Ireland in his Jubilee sermon of last August:
“He came to us from France. I thank thee, fair France! We owe to thee our political freedom. Lafayette and Rochambeau were partners with Washington in liberating us from the yoke of foreign oppression. We owe to thee most saintly and bravest missionaries, heralds of the faith to our forefathers, when few others dared to penetrate the wilderness, founders and Fathers of the Church in America. I need not go back to the heroic wanderings among Indian tribes of a Jogues, an Allouez, a Marquette. I have but to recall names which in tender love and gratitude living generations yet murmur,— Cheverus, Flaget, Dubois, Brute, Loras, Cretin,—names made to be immortal in the annals of America. France is the mother of missionaries. Asia and Africa and Ocean-ica, no less than our own continent, have been watered by the sweat of their brow, and their labors for God’s glory are in His eyes a perpetual prayer that France may be saved and be forever Catholic among Catholic nations.”
How worthily our beloved Founder is ranked amongst those distinguished sons of France, the great works that he has accomplished give of themselves, most striking evidence; and the recognition of this fact on the part of a foreign government, is none too great or unmerited. We give herewith a translation of the official letter of the Consul and the document from the French Minister. The letter reads as follows: "Office of the French Consul, .
Chicago,
“ Chicago, December 8,1888.
“Very Reverend Superior-General:
“The Government of France which follows with interest the progress of the work which you have established, and to which you have consecrated, with so much success, a life of labor and devotedness, takes occasion of the celebration of your Jubilee to present its acknowledgments of the services which have been rendered by you and your faithful co-laborers in North America for the good of education and to the honor of your native country.
'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
281
“On the motion of His Excellency, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have been named Officer of Public Instruction, and I have been charged to inform you of the appointment. It is most pleasing to me, Very Rev. Superior-General, to be assigned the duty of making known to you, on this occasion, the action of the French Government. I hasten to send you, with my personal congratulations, the Diploma of the distinction which has been conferred upon you.
"As to the insignia mentioned in the message to me, I shall have the honor of forwarding them to you as soon as they are received.
“Accept,Very Rev. Superior-General, the assurances of my respectful consideration.
“Edmond Bruwaert.
'	“ Consul-General''
The following- is a translation of the “Dio
ploma”:
“Republic of France.
“ department of public instruction and of ' FINE ARTS.
‘.‘The Minister of Public Instruction and of Fine Arts, “According to Article 320 of the decree of the 17th of March, 1808,
“According to the Royal ordinances of November 14, iSh« September 9, i3’5, and November 1,1845,
' “ According to the decrees of December 9,1850, April 7, December 27,1866, and September 24,1887,
“Names:
' Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Priests of Holy Cross, Officer of Public Instruction.
’ “Done at Paris this 27th day of October, 1S88.
. “[Signed] E. Lockroy,
“ Minister of Public Instruction and Fine A rts."
Rev. President Walsh, in the name of the University and Faculty, has sent a cordial letter of thanks to the consul at Chicago and through him to the minister at Paris, expressing their high appreciation of the honor which has been paid to the -Founder of Notre Dame. The act of the French Government may well be considered not only as a personal tribute to the .worth of Very Rev. Father General, but also as a mark of appreciation of the good work in which the University is engaged, and of which Father General is the Founder and is still the guiding spirit.	•
The Microscopical Society and Micrometry.
On last Tuesday evening a session of the Carnoy Microscopical Society was held in Science Hall. A synopsis of a communication on Human Blood was presented together with some interesting and instructive remarks, regarding the magnifying power of microscopes and the process of the.measurement of microscopic objects. The statements of the latter article were accompanied with appropriate illustrations, and
explanations of their value in microscopical measurement. A sketch, of the process of micrometry may be of interest to those who are advocates of that highly useful and charming branch of Science—Microscopy.
To. determine the magnifying power of the oculars and objectives, an instrument, called the micrometer, is used. We distinguish two kinds of micrometers: the ocular micrometer and the objective micrometer. The former consists of a glass disk, on which is marked 5 millimetres divided into 50 equal parts; each one of the divisions is therefore one-tenth millimetre. To use it, it is inserted into an aperture in the ocular. The objective micrometer is a slide on which is traced a millimetre, divided into 100 equal parts. This is placed on the stage. Perhaps the best method of determining the magnifyingpower of the “ocular,” is as follows: The ocular micrometer is placed in position, and by holding in the right hand, at the height of the objective, a ruler divided into millimetres, with the left eye we look at the micrometer, and with the right eye and the divided ruler, the graduated micrometer and some division of the ruler are made to^poin-cide upon the retina. It is easy to see, now, how many divisions of the micrometer are required to cover one division of the ruler. For example, it is found that one division of the micrometer exactly coincides with one division of the ruler; the ocular magnifies 10 times, because it magnifies one-tenth millimetre at the point in making it equal to one millimetre.
The magnifying power of the objective is obtained by employing two micrometers, both placed in position, i. e., one in the ocular, the other on the stage. We then focus and observe how many divisions of the objective micrometer are required to cover all the divisions of the ocular micrometer, namely, 5 millimetres by the value of the divisions of the objective micrometer. For example, suppose that 40 divisions of the objective micrometer cover all the divisions of the ocular micrometer, in this case the magnifying power would be,
_	. 40
Cmn —----mn = 12.=;. J ioo----u
that is, the objective used would magnify 12.5 times.
By means' of these results, the total magnifying power of the microscope is easily obtained. It is well known that this magnifying power is equal to the magnifying power of the objective, multiplied by the magnifying power of the ocular. Thus if the ocular magnifies 6 times and the objective 20, the total magnifying power will be 120 times, .	...
282	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame defeats Harvard School.
The noon train on the 6th inst. brought the members of the Harvard School football team of Chicago who had arranged to meet the Notre Dame eleven on the college campus that afternoon. The field was in prime condition, the weather was all that could be desired, and when game was called at 2 o’clock, the students, to the number of five hundred, and many outsiders from South Bend and neighboring towns had assembled to see the sport. The contest promised to be exciting, and exciting it was; for the visitors were the champions of Illinois, and the home team held the championship of Indiana. The players were:
Harvard School—Donnelly, centre rusher ; Mar-rener, Hoyle, Peebles, McDermid, Wright and Fair, rushers; Bert Hamlin, quarter back and captain; G. Hamlin and Ritchie, half backs ; Sargent, full back.
Notre Dame—Fehr, centre rusher; Sawkins, Melady, Mattes, Meagher, Hepburn, and Springer, rushers; E. Coady, quarterback ; j. Cusack and H. Jewett, half backs ; Prudhomme, full back and captain.
Fred. Jewett was referee and C. Peacock, of Chicago was empire.
Harvard had the east goal and also the kick off. Bert Hamlin, who is a member of the Chicago University team, caught the ball after it had been dribbled along and went for the home eleven’s goal. He was tackled at the 25 yard line, the players lined up, the University rush line went through their opponents, Springer obtained the sphere and carried it back into the centre of the field, Notre Dame’s ball. The ball was passed to Jewett who was downed by Hamlin, and Harvard soon got the leather on a foul throw. Then Hepburn, by a fine rush, got the ball; it was passed afterwards to Prudhomme who got it across the Harvard line. There was some offside playing somewhere, and there was a claim of foul which was allowed. Notre Dame’s rush line, which averaged 173 pounds, was altogether too much for their opponents, whose average weight was little over 150. The Harvard men played strongly, but by bad fumbling were driven back till forced to make a safety, and the score was 2 to o in the home players’ favor.
The ball was brought out, Notre Dame’s men resumed their former tactics, and twenty-five minutes after the game was begun, the Harvards .were pushed over their line, and another safety touch-down followed. The combination of leather, rubber and wind came out again, and things got warm around the west goal till some one punted the ball, and Hepburn, who is a player
from “away back” 01- some other place in Texas, got hold of it and got a touch-down which was four points more. Prudhomme failed on a try for goal. All this time Fehr, the heavy centre rusher, had been busy brushing off a few players from Chicago who were disposed to bother him, and he too made a touch-down and patiently held the ball while his captain kicked out two more points making the score 14 to 0 in favor of home talent. There was only 8 minutes left in this inning, and nothing was accomplished in that time.
The second inning opened up well and was exciting.for the first 12 minutes during which time Mattes was disqualified; the tackling was all that could be wished for, and Fehr, ably assisted by his worthy aids, Sawkins and Melady, made a touch-down, and Prudhomme a goal kick. After that the playing was not so good, and although the ’varsity eleven had the ball at Harvard’s goal most of the time they failed to score. The ball was placed across the line several times, but nothing was allowed for it, and when time was called the home team had won by a score of 20 to 0.	.
The team work of the Chicago’s was much better than ours, but their rush line was so weak those behind could do but little. Had it not been for our rushers we are inclined to believe that Harvard would not have been so badly “in the soup.” Donnelly and B. Hamlin carried away the honors for the visitors, while the rushers and Prudhomme did most of the work for Notre Dame. Jewett did not have many chances but played well when he did. The tackling was vicious, but there was no slugging.	-
After the game the Harvard boys partook of a late dinner and took the evening train for Chicago, sorry that they had been beaten, but pleased with their reception, and leaving behind a most favorable impression.
Books and Periodicals.
—Most people have heard of the disturbing influence exerted on the compass-needle by the various masses of iron on shipboard, but few have any idea how the trouble is remedied. The whole subject-will be explained in a copiously illustrated article, entitled “The guidingNeedle on an Iron Ship,” by Lieutenant Commander T. A. Lyons, in the January Popular Science Monthly. “Science and its Accusers” is the title of another article in the forthcoming number, in which the author Mr. W. D. Le Sueur, affirms that science is simply truth, and, while men and theories may properly be criticised, opposition to science is absurd and vain.--In
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
283
the same number Mr. E. R. Shaw will tell how he made geometry a pleasure to his pupils, using the “Inventional Geometry” prepared by Herbert Spencer’s father.
—Scribner's Magazine completes its second year and fourth volume with a Christmas number containing nineteen interesting articles in prose and verse-twelve of them fully illustrated by well-known artists and engravers. Among the artists represented are Elihu Vedder, J. Alden Weir, W. Hamilton Gibson, John La Farge, Robert Blum, George Hitchcock, C. Jay Taylor, and M. J. Burns. The number is rich in beautiful decorations and pictures. The literature deals with unusually attractive phases of life and art especially fitted for the Christmas season. The fiction includes stories of adventure and sentiment; the general articles treat of stained-glass windows, the Adirondacks in winter, and Botticelli; there are several elaborately illustrated poems; and Lester Wallack’s reminiscences are concluded. Robert Louis Stevenson, H. C. Bunner, Will H. Low, Rebecca Harding Davis, and Hamilton Wright Mabie are among the contributors.
—The Christmas number of St. Nicholas is a veritable Santa Claus pack in the way of good things for you ng folks’ reading: stories, sketches, poems, jingles, and riddles. They may find in it a humorous account by Mr. Frank R. Stockton of “The Curious History of a Message,” in which a Christmas gift and a telephone each has an important share; or, if they wish to have a glimpse of a Christmas in a foreign land they .have only to read Professor H. H. Boyesen’s -account of “Biceps Grimlund's Christmas Vacation,” a more exciting one than which it would be difficult to imagine; or, again, if the hearty merry-making of old England is more to the ■taste , of the young readers, they may not only read, but also render, Mr. Charles A. Murdock’s play, “A Sixteenth Century Christmas.” The author of “Little Lord Fauntleroy” also begins a new story in this number, and although it.will not be so long as was that famous chronicle, no one who read “Little Lord Fauntleroy” will care to leave unread Mrs. Burnett’s new story, .“Little Saint Elizabeth.” Mrs. Holman Hunt, the wife of the English artist, contributes a story, “The Silver Heart; or, Faithful Leo,” which is a tribute to the faithfulness of our friends, the St. Bernard dogs.	•
-----The contents of The Popular Science Monthly are always sure to arrest attention. The December number opens with a curious study of “The Psychology of Deception,” by Prof. Joseph Jastrow, showing the manner in which the mind is led into error. The tricks of conjurers and popular delusions illustrate the author’s explanations. Intentional deception in the form of campaign lying is the subject of a scathing editorial entitled “A Test of National Morality,” in which a much-needed lesson is drawn from .the forgeries and falsehoods, of the presidential
campaign. In “New Light on a Lunar Mystery/ Garrett P. Serviss gives a recently discovered explanation of some brilliant spots of light seen on the moon. Dr. C. C. zXbbott presents some of his entertaining observations of animal life in an illustrated article on “The Pine-Tree Lizard.” Dr. J. M. French points out some of the causes of the terrible death-rate among young children, under the title “Infant Mortality and the Environment.” “The Origin of Forest-Groupings” is treated by the Marquis de Saporta; and there is an interesting contribution to the subject of animal intelligence .by Madame Clemence Royer on “Animal Arithmetic.” A sketch is given of F. A.Vulpian, the distinguished French physiologist, with a portrait. The second editorial calls attention to “Work at the Lick Observatory,” and a variety of interesting items fill the other departments.
—The Century for December, if not strictly speaking a Christmas number, is still a Christ-masy number, opening as it does with a frontispiece picture, “The Coming of Winter,” by Mary Hallock Foote, and containing a number of fullpage engravings of sacred pictures by the old and little known Italian master, Duccio, in the Gallery of Italian Masters which is now one of the most valuable features of The Century. In addition to this there is a western story in verse by James Whitcomb Riley, entitled “Last Christmas Was a Year Ago”: and still further a Christmas editorial. But the two contributions having perhaps the highest importance are the instalment of the Life of Lincoln, entitled “ First Plans for Emancipation,” arid the paper by Mr. Kennan in which he graphically describes “Life on the Great Siberian Road.” In the Lincoln Life are printed for the first time two letters by Lincoln, to the Editor of the New York Times and to Senator McDougall, in favor of the “plan of gradual emancipation with compensation.” A number of other original Lincoln MSS. are here for the first time given to the public, including the text of the first draft of the Emancipation Proclamation. This draft is endorsed in Lincoln’s own handwriting as follows: “The Emancipation Proclamation as first sketched and shown to the Cabinet in July, 1862.” In Mr. Kennan’s paper, among other matters of novel interest, is given a description of the singing of the Exiles’ Begging Song.
OOO	O
Local Items.
—Next Thursday.
—Happy Christmas.to all!
—It was an appeal to the intellect.
—St. Cecilians this afternoon in Washington Hall.
—The Junior second elevens are quite amusing if not skilful.
o	*
—“The Recognition” at Washington Hall o	o
this afternoon at 4. ■	-	.....
THE NOTRE DA
ME SCHOLASTIC,
—Champions of Illinois and Indiana! Michigan is next on the list/ .
—Leave orders for your Scholastic before going home for the holidays.
—Grand temperance rally to-morrow night. The holidays are approaching.
■ —There will be an entertainment by the St. Cecilians this (Saturday) evening.
—The members of the Literature class are reading Shakspeare under the direction of Prof. Egan.
—’89 returns thanks to Prof. J. F. Edwards for his kind remembrance of the class last Wednesday evening.
-—With all due respect to the genius who proposed the present University cheer it is not a good one, or at least a better one could be had.
—The South Bend dailies and the Chicago Times had full reports of the recent football game. The other Chicago papers had shorter telegraphic reports.
—One hundred incandescent lights made Sorin Hall look brilliant for the first time on the evening of the 6th inst.- The electric plant worked to perfection.
—The music rendered by the college choir under the direction of Prof. Liscombe at the Mass on last Saturday, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, is deserving of all praise.
—We understand that a football team will be organized in South Bend at the earliest opportunity. We trust the^r eport is true, as it will afford our special el^veh'an excellent chance for practice.	'
—While extending/congratulations, we sincerely trust that nobody’s cranium will be swollen to an abnormal size on account of the recent victory. Keep in good condition this winter, and be ready for more work next spring.
—Notre Dame and South Bend may well be proud of the record made by the University Eleven yesterday in an excellent game of Rugby with the Harvard eleven. Champions of Indiana now, they will soon be champions of the Northwest.—South Bend Tribune.
—Improvements have been constantly made in the Minim reading-room till it is surpassed by no apartments in the University, for the comfort and elegance of its arrangements. The library contains many interesting books, and is being added to as fast as circumstances will permit.	‘
—The students going home for the holidays will leave by th e various trains on next Thursday. To one and all we extend our cordial greetings of “A merry Christmas and a happy New Year,” with the fond wish that all will return promptly in time, and fill our “box” with lots of “personals” and other contributions.
—We have it from reliable authority that the band has been started. We congratulate the band, and hope it will succeed. There is only
one thing harder than running a college band, and that is running a college paper. We sympathize with the band, and it has our best wishes for success. Success is a good thing and we believe in it. Nothing succeeds like success.
—Our local Nimrod rejoices in the possession of a new canine which is warranted to score up more game in a day than he could eat in a month—which is saying a good deal. We welcome the “dorg,” and trust that he will live a more decent and respectable life than the lamented “Nep” who was banished on account of a too free-and-easy disposition. We hope he will behave himself and—(We came very nearly saying subscribe for the Scholastic.)
—soiree held in the reception room of the main building Saturdav evening was well attended by the members of the literary societies and others, and was quite a success. The programme as published last week consisted of declamations, and vocal and instrumental music. All the performers did well. Among those taking part were J. Reinhard, F. Jewett, W. Roberts, R. Sullivan, W. Lahey, C. Ramsey, J. W. Meagher, H. Smith, H. Greeneman and G. McAlister of the Philharmonics, and J. McIntosh, L. Monarch, J. Toner, E. Berry, J. Sullivan and D. Brewer of the Euglossians.
—The Minims have two hard-working football elevens. J. Seerey captains one team, and his players, including substitutes, are: Masters V. Kehoe, F. Dunn, Wilson, Franche, Miner, Dempsey, Bates, Koester, Kaye, Fanning, Parker, Snyder, C. Franche, S. Webb. Captain John Cudahy numbers among his regular team and substitutes the following: Masters Kane, Downing, Lansing, Johns, Marx, F. McDonald,-Toolen, Dungan, Stone, Roberts, R. Webb, Hamilton, Mayer and Barbour. The boys ’ play a hard game, and there is great excitement on the grounds when one takes place.
—Last Saturday, the Festival of the Immaculate Conception, was duly observed at Notre Dame. Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers Stoffel and Robinson as deacon and subdeacon. An appropriate sermon was preached by Rev. Father Stoffel.. Prof. Liscombe directed the college choir, the members of which gave proof of excellent training. The music at the Mass in the morning and during Vespers in the afternoon was of a high order of merit, and executed in a manner that lent additional solemnity to the devotional services of the Church. We are glad to see the choir in such a good condition this year. May it long continue!
—The Junior Rugby teams played two interesting and exciting games last week, the scores •being 8 to o on two touch-downs, and 10 to o on two touch-downs and a safety, both games in favor of Captain McGrath’s eleven. The players on the winning team were: L. Chacon, Darcy, Ramsey, Peck, Shear, P. Fleming, F. Pritchard, rushers;. Moncada, quarter-back; J. Ernest and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLAStiC.
^.zxCx^zx,half-backs; McGrath captain and/zzZZ-back. The other eleven were: S. Fleming, captain; Krembs, J. Mooney, Frei, Wile, N. Davis, Scherrer, rushers; Lamont, quarterback ; McIntosh and Dinkel, half-backs; Hinkley, full-back.
—There were three interesting games of handball in the Senior gymnasium on the afternoon ‘ of the 9th. The players on the winning side were: Messrs. D. Sullivan, E. O’Brien and C. Brown; the losers were: Messrs. McHenry, John Lyons and Joe Lyons. The games were hotly contested, and showed to good advantage the skill of the contestants. The winners secured two games by scores of 22 to 6, and 22 to 18. Their opponents captured one game by a score of 22 to 18. Oiving to our lack of knowledge of the technical points and plays of handball, we are unable to give a more detailed report.
—Many of ourreaders willbegoing home next week. In case you do not see us again before the Yule-tide festivities set in, we wish you a merry Christmas and a happy New Year. We have enough confidence in you to know that you have the ability to enjoy yourselves, and will do so as only college students can. We can only say “be good." If you wish to make a choice Christmas gift to your friends we can say that we have on hand a few bound volumes of the Scholastic which no family can afford to be without. If you wish to start the New Year well—why, subscribe for the Scholastic. We have but little interest in this matter at all. We are simply giving you good advice. Subscribe for------- well, you know the rest.
—The football elevens sat down to a spread in the Senior refectory Thursday evening, The toothsome turkey was the main subject for dissection and discussion, and the way the boys made touch-downs and goals in quick succession was a caution. It was a question as to who made the best tackles, but an impartial observer says that Sawkins and Fehr rather bore away the honors of the occasion, though it is safe to say that all did justice to the delectables. After the supper the players were the guests of Prof. Edwards and the Crescent Club in the Senior reading-room where they tripped the light-fantastic and listened to sweet strains of music from the Crescent Club orchestra. The supper was under the supervision of Bro. Paul, the able and efficient director of the Rugby Association. The genial President of the organization was missed, but he was unavoidably absent.
—On November the 30th, Very Rev. Father General established in the Minim department a new society,entitled the “Society of the Best Pupils of St. Edward’s Hall.” Each member receives a certificate of admission by which he pledges himself to be, while a student here, a model to his companions, and to prove himself to the end of his life an honor to his Alma Mater and her devoted friend. Each member inscribes hi$ name in a magnificent book, entitled “ Me
morial Register of the best Pupils of St. Edward’s Hall.” That the new society will create a spirit of emulation and be productive of the happiest results is quite evident.
The following is the result of the election of officers: Very Rev. Father General Sorin, C. S. C., Rev. President Walsh, C. S. C., Directors; Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spiritual Director; Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Promoter; Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., President; H. Mooney, 1st Vice-President; F. Evers, 2d Vice-President; Charles Connor, Recording Secretary; C. Franche, Corresponding Secretary; B. Bates, Historian; J. Cudahy, Librarian; J. Dempsey, 1st Censor; V. Kehoe, 2d Censor; J. Seerey, Treasurer.
—The nth regular meeting of St. Aloysius’ Philodemic Society was held Saturday evening,. December 1, Rev. President Walsh presiding. After the regular preliminary business of the society the remainder of the evening was taken up by an extemporaneous debate on the question: “Should the victors take the spoils,”—in which all members present took part. The principal speakers on the affirmative side were: Messrs. E. Larkin, V. Morrison, M. Dore and R. Nations. On the negative side were: Messrs. T. Goebel, H. Brelsford, W. Larkin, D. Barrett and W. Morrison, who being at liberty to speak on either side chose the negative. The debate was ably conducted on both sides each member having succeeded in bringing forward many forcible arguments and upholding his side of the question to great advantage. A marked improvement on other attempts at extemporaneous speaking was noticeable in almost every member, and showed that during the few months since the society’s organization the members have received no little advantage. At the suggestion of the Rev. President it was decided to give a public debate some time during the present season. The honors of the debate were given to the negative side.
—Law Department:—P. Burke, Law ’88, has contributed an article on the “Notre Dame Law School” to this month’s number of the Columbia Law Times, the leading collegiate journal of law in the United States.—F. Albright, Law, ’89, has returned and resumed his studies.—At the solicitation of the attorneys, the case of Sands vs. Lake Shore Railway Co., has been postponed till after the holidays, when it .will come up before Judge Hoynes as the first thing on the docket.—The question, “ Resolved that the policy of annexation as applied to neighboring states is judicious and beneficial to the best interests of the country,” was discussed at the regular weekly meeting of the Law Society Wednesday evening. „ The speakers for the affirmative were: Messrs. Pope, Brady,Schmitz, and O’Donnell; for the negative,Messrs.McWilliams, Tarrant, Gallagher and Brewer. The debate was decided in favor of the affirmative.—Those having cases in the Moot-court should be prompt in getting them to trial.—Mr. Schmitz surprised
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the boys-Wednesday evening.—The next meeting of the Law Society will be called at the discretion of the President. There will be no debate next Wednesday night, as some of the members will leave for home probably that afternoon.—The number of references to Texas reports in the lectures on criminal law are remarkable to say the least.—The Quiz class was started last Saturday. All should make it their object to attend this class, as a great deal of benefit may be derived from it. The class comes at haff-past five o'clock.—A number of outsiders listened to the debate Wednesday evening.
—The Holy Land.—Rev. Father Zahm,Vice-President of the University, had arranged to give a short lecture on the Holy Land before the Archconfraternity lastSaturday; but it being impossible to have it at the time chosen, Monday evening was selected, and all the students and members of the Faculty attended. The lecture took place in Washington Hall, and was illustrated bystereopticon views. The first scene shown on the curtains was Joppa, and this was followed by views of the scenery along the road from Joppa to Jerusalem; the Church of the Crusaders now in ruins; the west gate of Jerusalem; . the city as seen from the Mount of Olives; the Garden at the Mount; the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and St. Ann’s Church; the place where Christ was scourged; the place of the Last Supper, now a mosque in which building is the tomb of David strongly guarded, and having been seen by but two or three Christians; the narrow streets of Jerusalem; the “Ecce Homo,” whcve Pilate stood and uttered those memorable words to the people; the Stations of the Cross; the Pool of Bethsaida, the Jewish and other quarters of the city: the beautiful mosque of Omar, on the sjte of Solomon's Temple, covering one-sixth of the city; its colonnades; the wall where the Jews stand every Friday and mourn their downfall: part of this wall being, as tradition says, a portion of the wall of Solomon’s Temple; Zion’sgate; Damascus’gate; the cave of the prophet Jeremiah; the tomb of the Judges, and that of the kings of Israel: the Valley of Josaphat; the Church of Our Father at the Mount of Olives—the walls of this church having the “Our Father” written on them in thirty-three different languages; the tomb of the Blessed Virgin; the tomb of St. James; Potter's Field; the tomb of Abraham; the tree of Abraham; guarded constantly by Russian.soldiers; Church of the Visitation; Bethlehem; Church of the Nativity; the Dead Sea; the tomb of Elias; the Jordan; the tomb of Lazarus; the Church of the Annunciation; Nazareth; Mt. Tabor; the place which witnessed the conversion of St. Paul; Damascus; Sidon and other places of interest, together with charming views of famous statuary, concluding with Michael Angelo’s masterpiece, a representation of the Patriarch Moses which elicited rounds of applause. The lecture was interesting and instructive, and was thoroughly enjoyed by all present.
We trust we may have another similar lecture from Father Zahm in the near future.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
’	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Akin, Alvarez, Burns, Bombeck, J. Brennan, Burger. Blessington, Bruggemann, Brewer, H. Brannick, Barret. Burke, Bronson, Beckman, Brelsford, C. Brown, Brady. Blackman. Crabb. Cassidy, S. Campbell, Chacon, Jno. Cusack. Jos. Cusack. Cullen. Cavanagh, T. Coad}’, P. Coady, Chute, W. Campbell, E. Coady,Tlacey, Dore, Delaney, Darragh, Dougherty. Dwyer, Eyanson, Freeman. Finckh, Fisk, Fehr. Ford. Grange, Goke, Goebel, Jno. Giblin. Gallardo, Garfias. Gallagher, Hepburn, W. Hacket, Healy. Hayes, Hermann, Howard, Hempier, Hoover, Hill, Hummer, Henderson, Jennings, Karasvn-ski, J. Kelly, Knight, Kenny. Kohlmann, Knoblauch, Lane, Lahey, Lesner, Lozana, Lappin, F. Long, L. Long, E. Larkin, W. Larkn, H. McAlister, G. McAlister, J. McCarthy, Mackey, Mattes, Madden, McAuliff, McKeon, J. T. McCarthy, McGinnity, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, L. Meagher, W. Meagher, Melady, McCune, Nicholl, Nester. O’Flaherty, E. O'Brien, W. O’Brien, O’Shea, O’Connor, O’Donnell, Paquette, Prichard, Prudhomme, Pim, Robinson, Roberts, Richardson, Schmitz, R. Sullivan, J. B. Sullivan, Stephenson, D. Sullivan, T. Smith, Toner, Woods, J. Walsh, Webb, C. Youngermann, F. Youngermann, Zeitler, Zeller, Rothert.
’ JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, J. Allen, Adler, Adams, Aarons, Berry, Bombeck, Bates, Beaudry, Brady, Blumenthal, Bradley, Bailey, Baltes, T. Cleary, S. Cleary, Cunningham, J. Connors, Covert, Case, J. Connolly, Chacon, Collins, Cauthorn, Glendenin, Chute, N. Davis, E. Du Brul, 0. Du Brul, Dunn, W. Devine, A. Devine, Dempsey, Dar-roch, Dinkel, Elder, Flannigan, T. Falvey, S. Fleming, P. Fleming, C. Fleming, Frei, Foley, Fitzgerald, Greene, Garrabrant, P. Healy, Heller, Hesse, Howard, Hinkley, Hoerr, Halthusen, Hughes, Hannin, Hanrahan, Hague, Heintzen, Hof-'mai, Heard, Hennessy, Hammond, Ibold, Erwin, Jewett, Krembs, A. Kutsche, W. Kutsche, Kehoe, Kearns, Louisell, Moncada. Mahon, Maher, Maurus, Monarch, Malone, Morrison, J. Mooney, C. Mooney, Merz, McPhee, J. McIntosh, L. McIntosh, McIvers, McMahon. McGrath, McCartney, Merkle. F. Neef, A. Neef, Nockels, Nester, O’Neill, G. O’Brian, O'Mara, O'Donnell, P. O’Brian, Peters, Priestly, Populorum, Pecheux, F. Peck, Prichard, J. Peck, Palmer, Paquette, Powers, Quinlan, E. Roth, I. Rose, S. Rose, Reinhard, Riedinger, Rowsey, Ramsey, C. Schiilo, F. Schillo, Sheehan, Sutt.er, Schultze, Stanton, Sullivan, Spalding, Shear, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, Smith, Silver, Talbot, Toolen, Tetard, F. Wile, Wright, Weitzel, Williamson. B. Wile, Wilbanks, Young.	‘	.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters.Ackerman, Bates, Blake, Barbour, Ball, Bruel, T. Burns, J. Burns, E. Bryan, Bearinger, Brown, Connolly, Cornell, W. Creedon, F. Creedon,- W. Crawford, A. Crawford, Cohn, C. Connor, W. Connor, Crandall, Cudahy, Crane, Downing, Durand, Duquesne, J. Dungan, Jas. , Dungan, Dorsey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, Dench, E. Elkin, M. Elkin. G. Evers, F. Evers, G. Franche, C. Franche, Finnerty, E. Falvey, Foster, Fanning, Grant, Greene, Goodwillie, Gregg, Goodman, Girardin, Hendry, Hagus, Hamilton, Hinds, Hedenbergh, Heckler, Johns, Jonquet, Kane, C. Kfoolman, Kirk, Keeler, Kaye, Kehoe, Levi, Livingston, Londoner, Lonergan, J. Marre, A. Marre, Maternes, Marx, Minor, McPhee,-Mattas, C. McDonell, F. McDonnell, McDonald, McGuire, Mooney, Montague, .Mayer, McCarthy, Miller, Marr, McLeod, W. Nichols, C. Nichols, Neenan, O’Neill; Oppenheimer, Plautz,. Parker, Pierce, L. Paul, C. Paul, Ricksecker, Roberts, Seereyi Snyder, Seidensticker, Stone, Stephens, SteinemanXToolen, Trujillo, Thornton, F. Webb, Wever, R. Webb, Washburne, Wilcox, Wilson.' ‘ -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	287
St. Man’s flsademy.
One Mile Wes I of Notre Dame University.
—After the Mass on Monday last, the Children of Mary repaired to the presbytery, where they partook of the “Pilgrim’s breakfast”—a custom observed each year on the day which commemorates the translation of the holy House of Loreto.
—It was a source of joy to all to learn that the French Government has sent a diploma to Very Rev. Father General, appointing him an “Officer of Public Instruction,” as a recognition of his labors for the past forty-six years, in the cause of education.
—The Children of Mary held an election of officers on the Sth. Those temporarily elected in September were almost unanimously reelected; they are as follows: President, Miss A. Donnelly; Vice-President, Miss L. Meehan; Secretary, Miss M. Clifford; Treasurer, Miss C. Moran; Librarian, Miss A. Riedinger; Sacristan, ' Miss E. Coll.
—A letter from Col. Elmer Otis conveys the circumstances of his daughter’s death. Marie died with the most Christian sentiments in her heart and on her lips. Married but one short year, it was hard to give up all, and yet her last prayer, and the one she endeavored to make h^r afflicted husband say, was: "Not my will, but Thine be done.” All old pupils are exhorted to remember her in prayer.
—Saturday, the festival of the Immaculate Conception—St. Mary’s special feast-day—was celebrated with great solemnity. Solemn High Mass was sung at S o’clock by Rev. Father L’Etourneau: Rev. Father French was deacon and Rev. Father Saulnier subdeacon. Rev. Father French delivered a beautiful sermon on the Immaculate Conception. At five o’clock in the evening Benediction of the most Blessed Sacrament was given, followed by the singing of the Te Deum.
—The second number of Rosa Mystica was read on Sunday evening by the Misses S. Campeau and E. Flannery. The paper was well edited by the First Seniors, and was read with good effect by the above mentioned young ladies. Very Rev. Father General complimented the young ladies, and afterwards made a few feeling remarks on the Feast of Loreto, exhorting all to avail themselves of the privileges accorded those who visit the Chapel of Loreto at St. Mary’s.
—Before the High Mass on the Sth, fifteen candidates were received as novices into the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The ceremony was most impressive, and was, performed
by Very Rev. Father General, who also said the Community Mass at 6 a. m. The postulants entered, attired as brides; after making known their desire, the habit and veil were given them, and they left the church to don the sombre robes of a religious, the choir singing the psalm, In exitu Israel defEgypto; in a few moments they returned as Sisters of the Holy Cross. The following are the names of the new novices: Miss Dougherty (SisterM. Inizetta), Miss Egan (SisterM. Mida), Miss Naughton (Sister M. Ariel), Miss Carey (Sister M. Eustolia), Miss Corbiel (Sister Mary Ernestine), Miss Hartnett (Sister M. Charlotte), Miss Dorley (Sister M. Georgetta), Miss Haber-bush (Sister M. Florence), Miss Langley (Sister M.Teclita), Miss Weivel (Sister M. Angelique), Miss Quinn (Sister M. Claudia),. Miss Duffy (Sister M. Cherubim), Miss Franks (Sister M. Pudentia), Miss-E. Zahm (Sister M. Angeline), Miss Riordan (Sister M. Marguerite). Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau, Saulnier, Zahm, French, and Prof. A. F. Zahm of the University, were present at the ceremony.
The City Streets.
The quiet of the country seems to foster a spirit of thought; yet while viewing the world in the crowded streets of a city our mind is concentrated on all we see, and instinctively we moralize. But what are our thoughts on such an occasion? Here in America, where men-are supposed to be on an equality, are found numberless cities of great beauty and magnificence. Take, for instance, the metropolis of the West. On entering it we are struck with the massiveness of the buildings; we admire the broad streets so smoothly paved; we are carried away with the excitement of the inhabitants, for evidently they seem determined to accomplish a great amount of work (or to enjoy the greatest amount of pleasure, if they are simply amusing themselves) in the shortest possible time. These same admired streets are lined with large business houses, some sombre looking, others bright, filled with all that is beautiful in art. and one is bewildered by the almost interminable line of windows ablaze with life and color. We grow weary of the ceaseless buzz of business, and turn from these streets to the elegant homes of the owners of these emporiums.
We drive along charming avenues lined with beautiful houses, whose lawns of vivid green are, in truth, refreshing to the eyes; we speed over smooth boulevards, through lovely parks, where the flowers are blooming in profusion; a perfect vista of them extends before us. At times we pass by streets where all does not seem so charming; we do not turn that way, for we do not wish to see' anything- that would detract from the view before us, so we dismiss them from our minds.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
We pass on; it is now evening. On our homeward wav darkness begins to fall, and, behold! everywhere there is a blaze of light. Even a more beautiful and brilliant effect is produced now than when the sun shone on the city. Through long windows of sparkling glass we see the rosy glow of tinted lamps, a glitter of bric-a-brac and mirrors, and the elegance of heavy curtains. All seems enchanted, and we envy the joyous inmates of these happy homes.
Perhaps on our way we may glance into a ^ball-room where all seems joy and gladness. The people we see are evidently perfectly happy; contentment is written on every countenance, and the surroundings tend only to increase it. Music and laughter here prevail—yet shall we look into their hearts; shall we change all into sorrow, arid show forth the empty pretense of joy? It is not so with all, yet we know from the history of human hearts that it must be true of a number; there are souls whose depths are as dark and obscure as some of the streets we are about to enter. Yes, let us find our way down the dark streets where poverty, misery and crime find an abode; we will see the unlovely part, though we shrink from it. How surprising it is! Who could imagine that such numbers of people are able to live in so narrow a space. Yet here we see but a tithe of the wretchedness arid misery of the world. Hundreds are crowded together where none should live. Such misery, such suffering, such poverty, and such sorrow, we can scarcely comprehend. Is it any wonder that there exists so much wickedness, when the children who grow up here are surrounded by vice? If we could only do something; if jealousy and ambition were not so strong within us, how happy the world might be. But as long as “human nature is human nature ” some will suffer for the happiness of others.
We go through street after street of this description, until we are obliged to turn away sick at heart with all we have seen, and censuring wi.thin ourselves the owners of the magnificence we.pass. The}7 say it is not their fault if poverty exists in so great a degree. No, indeed, it is not their fault,.it is their ambition that blinds them. It is the fault of a system by which many serve a few, by which for one happy home, a dozen perhaps must be sad.
. ’ Some day the oppressed portion of humanity jvillturn as the worm when trodden upon, and ignorance when desperate is a difficult thing to subdue. There is much strength in the words of John Boyle O’Reilly, when he says:
"'Beware with your classes! Men are men, and a cry in * the night is a fearful teacher;
When it reaches the hearts of the masses, then they need but a sword for a judge and a preacher.
Take heed, for your Juggernaut pushes hard: God holds the doom that its day completes; . .	"
Jt will dawn like a fire when the track is barred by a barricade in the city streets!”
Kathleen L. Gavan (Class ’89).
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Ansbach, Anson, Ash, Andree, E. Balch, Bub, Barry. Bates,T. Balch, Burton, Bloom, Beschameng, Bogner, Butler, Brewer, Barron, Bush, AI. Beck, C. Beck, M. B. Clifford, E. Coll, Campeau, Currier, Compagne, M. Clifford, M. Coll, Cohn, Clore, Connell, Canepa, Donnelly, Ducey, M. Davis, Dempsey, Dority, D. Davis, Dorsey, M. De Montcourt, Flannery, Fursman, Gavan, Grace, Geer, AI. Gibson, N. Gibson, Gordon, Harriman, Hertzog, Hammond, Harlen, AI. Horner, I. Horner, Hurff, Healy, K. Hurley, Hepburn, Hagus, Harmes, AI. Hutchinson, Huber. Haight, Haney, Hellmann, Irwin, K. Johnson, N. Johnson, Kingsbury, Koepplinger, A. Keeney, Lawrence, Linneen, Ledwith, Meehan, McNamara, Moran, Aloore, Alarley, Aiiner, C. Alorse, McCarthy, Merce*r, McCune, H. Nester, L. Nester, Nacy, Norton, Nicholas, O’Brien, Prudhomme, Paul, Quealey, Reidinger, Robinson, Roberts, Rentfrow, Rend, AI. Smith, Spurgeon, Schrock, Simpson, Saviers, Schiltz, Taylor, Thayer, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Van Riper, M. Voechting, Wagner,Wright, Wehr, Waterbury, Waixel, Wilkinson, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A'lisses Bloom, E. Burns, AI. Burns, Burchard, M. Campbell, Churchill, A. Cooper, E. Cooper, R. Campbell, M. Davis, Dexter, Dempsey, Dolan, Dreyer, Farwell, Goke, Griffith, Hull, Kaspar. Kloth, Kelso, Lauth, Alarks, M. AIcHugh, Miller, AlcGuire, Northam, O’AIara, Patrick, M. Patier, Reeves, Regan, Rose, Rowley, Rinehart, M. Smyth, J. Smyth, Scherrer, Sweeney, M. Schoellkopf, I. Schoellkopf, Stapleton,Thirds, A. Wurzburg,N. Wurzburg.
Al INIM DEPARTMENT.
A'lisses Ayer, Crandall, B. Davis, Griffith, Palmer, S. Smyth. N. Smyth, Scherrer.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Alisses Balch, Bub,Clifford. Coll, Donnelly, Ducey, Hertzog, Meehan, McNamara, A'loran, Reidinger, Rend, Smith, Van Horn.
ist Senior Class—Misses Barry, Bates, Campeau, Davis, Dempsey, Dority, Flannery, Hammond, Waterbury, Wright, AI. Horner, Hutchinson.	S
2D Senior Class — Alisses T. Balch, Burton, Currier, g English, Fitzpatrick, Fursman, Griffith, C. Hurley, K. £ Hurley, I. Horner, Irwin, N. AIorse,Moore,O’Brien, Papin,	®
Quill, Van Alourick, Wehr, Prudhomme.
~3D Senior Class—Alisses Arnold, Ansbach, Bescha- 1 meng, Caren, Compagne, Crane, Clarke, Daube, Davis, p De Montcourt, Geer, Grace, AI. Gibson, N. Gibson, S Haight, Kingsbury, Linneen, Lawrence, Marley, K. g Morse, Aiiner, Nester, Nelson, Nacey, Piper, Quealey, 1 Taylor, Schiltz, Stapleton. .	J
•ist Preparatory Class — Alisses Butler, Brewer, 1 Clifford, Ledwith, Studebaker, Churchill.	g
2D Prep. Class—Misses Andree, Barron, Clore, Con-
nell, D. Davis, Flitner, Keeney, Lewis, McCarthy, Rine-	S
hart, E. Dempsey, A. Wurzburg, Patier, I. De Montcourt,	J
Regan, Spurgeon, Van Riper, Zahm, E. Burns, A'L Burns, Lauth, Ernest, Kelso, R. Campbell, Hull, Kahn.	8
3D Prep. Class—Misses Ash, Bush, Crabbe, Dorsey, ® Hagus, McCune, Paul, Rentfrow, Canepa, Koopman, g Wilkinson, Burdick, AL Campbell, Pugsley, O’Mara, N. J Wurzburg.	S
Junior Prep. Class—-Misses A. Cooper, Dexter, L. Dreyer, Kloth,- Northam, Papin, AL Smyth, Barry, N. Burchard, Griffith.	■	■
ist Junior Class—Alisses E. Cooper, I. Schoellkopf, Goke, A'l. Davis, B. Davis, Kaspar, L. AIcHugh, Patrick, Palmer, Rowley, Moore, McGuire, S. Smyth.	.
2D Junior Class — Alisses AI. AIcHugh, A. Papin, 1 Regan, Sweeney, N. Smyth, J. Smith, Scherrer, V. Kelly.
’ elocution. •	■
ist Class—Misses.Donnelly, Hertzog.	;
2D Division—A'lisses Currier, Lawrence, Taylor, Ar- : nold,-Saviers, Hamilton, Hellman, Prudhomme, Wehr,	:
Hurff, Clarke. — •	■ • -	’	=
2D Class—Misses Hillas, Rentfrow,Voechting, Ernest,	;
Grace, Simpson, Norton, Crane, Robinson, Farwell, Hepburn, McPhee.	.	;