'	■	^'G Cbe
Dotre Dame Scholastic
nisceovAsi sempeR-victvrvs- • vive-qvasi-cras-moritvrvs- .
Vol. XLIX.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, January 22, 1916. ' /No. 17.
A Kerry Lad.
BY SPEER STRAHAN.
(^ONE is the flower of youth from these Kerry hills, The fairest bloom of Erin’s chivalry;
And now above his grave the dawn-wind thrills With wilding grief of his young memory.
The knightly lad with beauty in his eyes
Was the unchanging sweetness of one heart, Till silver bugles flared in Flemish skies
And he longed for the colors and the soldier’s part.
Valiant he rode away, his brave heart burning,
When the east grew golden with the waking light, A laugh in his violet eyes, his young face yearning. This Kerry lad .who kept his sword star-white.
He went, the flower of youth from these Kerry hills, The whitest bud of Erin’s chivalry;
What wonder o’er his grave the wild wind thrills, And the eyes of Morning weep his memory!
■ The Know-Nothing Movement.
BY EDWARD G. GUSHURST.
EVER the same, religious prejudices which were born in the various countries of the world at the time of the great * Protestant . Reformation, have risen time and time again to attack Catholicity with all their pristine vigor. Wherever the Church has chanced to be weaker, it has suffered religious persecution and passionate hatred. Accordingly it is no wonder that our country, too, should have passed. through the fires of religious intoleration. From the year of 1834 to i860, the Church was the target of an organized influence whose direct purpose was to exclude. all Catholics from participation in the privileges of. citizenship. .
. This movement, however was not the first
of its kind to be instituted in this country. Previous to the adoption of the Constitution, there existed upon the statute books of almost all the colonies, laws restricting the rights of Roman Catholics. Even after the Revolutionary . War in which the struggling colonists had been aided by a foreign Catholic nation, the same religious bigotry towards the faith of France was very manifest. It was, however, less pronounced than it had been before.
With the adoption of the Constitution, the old question of religious toleration arose, and the principle of free pursuit of worship was incorporated into the Federal Constitution, which declared: “That no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust in the United States.” A few years later an amendment was added which stated that “ Congress shall make no . law’ respecting an established religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
Although, then, the national government had • restricted its powers with regard to the principles of religious recognition, the individual states had reserved the right to regulate conditions of worship within their own boundaries. For this reason it took many years before the provisions restricting the rights of Catholics were swept from the statute books. In New Hampshire we find provisions existing in the state code disqualifying Catholics from holding, office even as late as the year 1877.
Except for a few years during the administration of Adams, the old anti-Catholic . prejudice slept during the whole period of years, from 1780 to 1830. During Adams’ term, two measures were adopted which may - well be called the beginning of the later Native American Party. These measures were the Alien Law, which gave the President-power to expel from our shores any immigrant whom he thought dangerous to the country; the second law . required a residence of fourteen years in the United States before one could obtain papers
266	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of naturalization. These two laws were passed because the increasing number of foreign immigrants, most of whom were Catholics, introduced a disturbing element into political calculations.
Owing to the Irish famine, immigrants from the Emerald Isle began to flock to this country. Having been persecuted in Ireland on account of their religious belief, they hoped that in coming to America they would be^granted political equality and freedom of . worship according to the American principle of government. As a consequence almost five million Irish settled in America prior to 1850. As a result of this fact,. there began in this country a movement which aimed to limit the rights of foreigners, especially of those- adhering to the Roman ’ Catholic' creed. This movement became known as the “Native' American Party.”	.	'
The different portions of the nation looked upon immigrants from various points of view. In the north, one of the . favorite arguments was that the Eastern coast was becoming a depository for the riff-raff of Europe. The better grade of immigrants were migrating farther west, and consequently the eastern cities were receiving those men whom revolution had cast out of the“ old wor]d—men hungry for power, restless men, many of whom were outcasts and criminals, all seeking shelter and protection from the United States. On the part of many citizens, it was merely a feeling of interest in the nation’s betterment that prompted them to denounce the arrival of such lowly characters on our shores; but- for the most part, such fears were overdrawn, and the real cause of uneasiness was the rapidly increasing Catholic population.	.
It was but natural that the political organizations of the time should seek to obtain- the influence of' the foreign vote. The two great parties had contended for y^ears with alternate success, the alien vote holding the balance of power. It was ' only when, this great immi- . grant element became recognized as a distinct power that the Native American Party was established.
The Southern States looked upon the gathering crowds of foreigners from an entirely different. point of view1 than did the North. The majority of the. cotton states had no fault to find with the Catholic, portion of their population, but they feared immigration and favored legislation against it. For, because
of the institution of slavery in the South, the immigrant did not wish to place himself on the same level with the slave, and accordingly remained in the North. This made the South- -erners realize that if immigration continued _ to increase in the same ratio as heretofore, the ! Northern representation in Congress would - • grow too rapidly and thus extend the power ■ of the North in an alarming manner. They understood that with the Western expansion in the North, due to the increasing population, _ the number of free states would gradually be added to until the South would be unable •- ) to meet the North on an equal footing. The . Southerners also' appreciated the fact that the majority of foreigners were opposed to slavery, •and as a consequence would support any party _ which represented opposition to it.
Having noted the various reasons why the *• further growth of immigration was not encouraged, and the causes for the rise of hatred toward the- alien in the various sections, it will be well to glance- at the results which followed these numerous anti-foreign agitations.
As- it .was the Northern States which were ~ most influenced by the great influx of- immigration, so also was it the North that was most thoroughly Protestant. The ministers preached incessantly against the ever-expanding power of the Pope. Preachers harangued, from the ’ pulpit against “Popery,” and the press followed suit in denouncing the foreign element, with special • reference to the increasing number of Catholics ’ and their ever-growing political influence. In the. beginning the agitation was ‘ directed against foreigners in general, but the } rapid multiplication of the Irish population, r which brought so many newcomers to our *	।
cities, the overwhelming percentage of whom - > were Catholics, gave the movement a different . : aspect, and the foremost excitement was directed . toward the Irish Catholics. .	.
The Native American papers of the time published the vilest calumnies- daily, ^together ) with the most ridiculous lies and most senseless ' s charges concerning the Church and her teach-	j
ings. ’ This material was presented in such a	|
sarcastic and'vehement manner, that its vulgar "comparisons and cunning phraseology pleased /-<■ the multitude and made a deep impression . f upon- them. One of the favorite methods employed by the preachers and the press during '	'
the period of the Native American movement to increase the excitement and bitterness ।
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	•	267
g • against Catholics, was a constant repetition °f charges against Catholic priests. According $5 to these sources the Catholic priest held undue influence over the political views of their parish-i ioners. This was especially urged against the 1 Irish ministry. The preachers denounced Catho-It
| * lies as agents of the Pope, they claimed that they were held body and soul by the Pope f through the agency of the priests. The Church 1 - was represented as the enemy of liberty, as the x	promoter of calamity and misfortune, as selfish
j	in her aims and purposes: it was said that the
| - Pope through his secret emissaries, the bishops and priests, was plotting the overthrow of the V .American government, and that he intended to make a Papal state of America. Any false-X hood was not too low or debased to be published f by the official organs of the party, or too 1 « vile or depraved to be delivered from the { pulpits by the Protestant preachers of the land. ?	Urged on by these religious fanatics and by
i the prejudiced anti-foreign and anti-Catholic press, the people began to malign the Catholic bishops and priests, to ridicule their religion, 7- and to commit deeds of violence against the lives of their faithful.
b The eleventh of August, 1834, marked the H	beginning of the. wholesale slaughter and
€	destruction which was to follow in the wake
of the Native American movement during the next quarter century. On that eventful night :	in Charlestown, Massachusetts, the Native
1 ' American mobs, goaded on by rank falsehoods and the foulest calumnies of - professional bigots, besieged the convent of the Ursuline 7"' nuns, who, it had been reported, had maltreated £ one of the occupants of the convent. As a L result of these false reports, the infuriated mob I flung itself upon the dwelling1 of these helpess women and innocent children, forced them to leave their rooms in’ the middle of the night to behold their home robbed of its petty valua-bles and razed to the ground. The barbarous fiends who had committed the deed stood by $ rejoicing in their devilish work.
I	In 1S36 a book was published-gifted with the
lurid title, “Awful Disclosures.” Maria Monk, T*	a girl of evil character, was sent by her mother
r	to an .asylum in Montreal which was- under
j	the care of a Catholic sisterhood. . Shortly
| v	after, she escaped from the institution and fell
I	into the company of the Rev. J. J. Slocum,
1	" a renegade preacher; who, with others, pub-
I	lished ’the supposed narrative of Maria Monk’s
horrible experiences as a nun in the Hotel Dieu, a nunnery in Montreal. Ministers * recommended the book from the pulpit and praised its authors. After an investigation the whole of the Maria Monk episode was however proven false; the evil character of the girl was shown, and her accomplices - were treated no less roughly; the Rev. Slocum was denounced by the Protestant sect to which he belonged nominally as a degraded scoundrel; and later, the conspirators wrangled over their ill-gotten gains. Although .the incident was proven untrue in every detail, its evil influence can be felt even at the present time.
In 1840 in New York, a controversy arose with regard to the schools. Although they were * supposedly non-sectarian, the Protestant scripture was read and commented upon daily in the class-room. Archbishop Hughes asked that the Catholic schools be placed upon an equal footing with the Protestant institutions, that the Catholics, who were paying their share of the taxes, be allowed to share equally in the education provided.- The Archbishop was then accused of attempting to withdraw the Bible from the public schools, and ever afterward this was used as an argument against the Church.
The real warfare which occurred during this period took place between the years 1843 and 1844, at the time- when the Native American Party was at the height of its power. In 1844, in Philadelphia, during the course of a Native American- demonstration, arms were used by the conflicting parties, and in the fight one young American was killed. This episode marked the inception of the terrible riots in Philadelphia; They lasted three days and during this time many persons • were killed on both sides. The house of the Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin, St. Michael’s Church and St. Augustine’s Church ■ and rectory, together with the valuable library of the Augustinians, were impiously destroyed in the turmoil which also produced the ruin of many homes occupied by Irish families.
Previous to the Philadelphia riots, Archbishop Hughes had warned the Catholics -in New York to keep their peace, but after these disturbances when asked to warn the Irish, he replied that “Tf a single Catholic Church were burned in New York, the city would become a second Moscow.” At this time in New York, the Native American mobs, urged on by the
268	.	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
anti-Catholic press, clerical fanatics and Bible bigots, intended to reproduce the destruction perpetrated in Philadelphia. The authorities in New York—although they shared the Native American feeling—feared the terrible riots as previously pictured by the Archbishop should any disturbance be caused by the Native Americans, and consequently managed to disperse the mobs and restore order in the city. Had these bands attempted to destroy any ' Catholic property, every Irishman in- New
York would have fired his own house and thus destroyed those of the “Anti-Popery” brethren.
Behind all these demonstrations directed against the foreign and Catholic elements in . our population, there was that rising movement known as the Native American Party. As has been stated, the primary aim of this party was to exclude foreigners from an equal share in citizenship. The principle of the organization, like that of the Know-Nothing Party which' followed, was, first, the proscription of those professing the Roman Catholic faith, and second, the exclusion of all foreign-born persons from positions of trust and. emolument under the government of the United States. The party adopted the slogan, “Americans only shall
- govern America.”	•
This Native American party originated in 1835, ^s foundation being associated with the name of Samuel F. B. Morse, the inventor of the telegraph. During the year 1834, Morse published twelve letters which he signed with the pen-name “Brutus.”. These letters were later issued under the title, “ Foreign Conspiracy against the United States./’ This book found numerous readers prior to i860, and .the sentiments expressed therein were eagerly grasped. As a result of this work,. a. Protestant organization was formed to oppose . the Catholics, mostly Irish, who were arriving daily on our shores. .	. .	.	... ■ .	.
The two great political parties, realizing the strength of the foreign element, made bids for their support. The vast majority-of the Irish immigrants, owing , to . their great veneration of Andrew. Jackson,. who was of Irish descent, joined the Democratic < Party. Consequently,- the Native Americans lent their -support to the Whig organization. j
In; 1835 Monroe was nominated for Congress -on the platform: “Blevate no. person of. foreign birth ’-to; any office: of hqnof, trust, or profit in the United I States. ” IMonroe, - ho wever,
although -in sympathy with the movement to make it more difficult for foreigners to become naturalized, refused to favor any movement to threaten the rights of foreigners already _ i settled in this land. Although Monroe’s nomi- ’ v nation was endorsed by the Whigs, the Demo- .
cratic ..party polled about three-fifths of the . |j vote.	-	.	|
Because, then, the greater portion of the	|
population had affiliated themselves with the	|
Democratic party, the Whigs rather favored	?
the position taken by the Native Americans.	i
In 1844, Henry. Clay, in a letter to a friend, r_. I wrote: “There is a general tendency among	4
the Whigs to unfurl the banner of the Native	J
American Party.” Clay Himself, while in some _ ways also an admirer of the movement, did	•
not desire that either faction should absorb	i
the other. When in 1840 the Catholics of New	[
York asked that their schools receive their	|
share of the school fund, both political parties	j
arrayed themselves against them. The case	’
was then appealed .to the legislature. It was	■
on account of this appeal that the second '	•
period of strong and bitter anti-Catholic prejudice began. This it was that culminated in . the New York and Philadelphia riots. Bishop	1
Hughes, realizing that both parties had taken	I
stand with the . Public School Society against	|
the Catholics, decided to put up a Catholic	|
ticket in the election of 1841. The Archbishop desired to prove to the two great parties that	।
the Catholics in New. York field the balance * ” f of power. The plan worked 'wonderfully, for	I
at the election the Whigs won by a small	f
majority. The numbers and unity of the
'	*	\ c
Catholic vote so influenced both of the parties	j
that they were ready to grant concessions.	I
On-account of the increased favor shown the	!
Irish and Catholics by the Democratic Party, the Natiyist moveriient took on new vigor. During , the. years 1843 -and 1844, it reached	[
the very, height pf its power. Iri New York the Nativists nominated. James Harper for	I
mayor of the city. The Whig element lent	I
their support . and. Harper .was elected. With-	I
this, election,/the second . -alliance between the	|
Nativists arid thej Whigs was cemented.
Again v in- the election of 1844, . which was	—;
also the Presidential-'election, .the Whigs sup- .	‘
ported Ahejdbcar.legi^slatiye, ticket proposed by	.
the/Na^	a resffit their canffi	.
were elected. Nevertheless,-Polk, the Demo-	.	<
cratic-fcandid^^	$
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

York City by several thousand plurality over Clay. After this defeat the Whigs dropped the Native Americans from their ranks. During this same time there was a strong Nativist feeling aroused in Philadelphia over the school and Bible questions. In the city of Philadelphia riots followed the controversy. During this time the Nativist Party played an important role in local politics, but as a national power it had very little influence;
Just at the moment when the American Party appeared to be assuming a place of national importance, it received its deathblow. Polk had polled only 5106 more votes than Clay in New York State, but this gave him the entire thirty-six electoral votes from that State, and of course the Presidency. The loss of this vote for Clay was attributed to the Catholic defection from the Whig Party.
The Nativists held a convention in 1847, recommending Zachary Taylor for President. Owing, however, to the fact that the Mexican war came into prominence at this time, and also to the fact that the_ Whigs had withdrawn their support from the Nativists, the Native American Party, as such, disappeared from politics. With the decline of this party there . sprang up all over the country a number of secret organizations, whose* membership was restricted to native-born Americans. These societies held in their control a great amount of influence over the political field. And when in 1852, on account of the defeat of General Scott for President, and because of the discord in the political parties due to the Kansas-Nebraska struggle, defeated Whigs and rebellious Democrats became disgusted’ with the two old parties. These discontented politicians flocked to join the ranks of a new organization which was being formed by a coordination of the secret “Native American” societies. And thus remarks Bishop Spaulding: “The most un-American and disgraceful party which has ever blackened our political record was accordingly organized.”
' This new party which later became known as the “Know Nothing” Party, held to the same principle as that of the old Native Americans, namely that, “Americans only . shall rule America.” They also maintained that all foreigners should be excluded from - office. Added to this program as an incentive calculated to lead many to take - an active part in the movement was the anti-Catholicr feeling.
•As the Nativists aimed primarily at the foreign element in general, the Know Nothings made their chief attacks on the Catholics. Another cause which persuaded many to join the new movement was the secret political influence it wielded during its early years.
The various secret societies which comprised; this new party were formed during the years 1845 . and 1859. Organizations were set up in all the larger cities. In Pennsylvania we find such orders _ as the “United American Mechanics,” and the “American Protestant Association.” In Philadelphia the order of the “Sons of America” was instituted in 1845 and it soon spread into New York. In the latter city the “United Americans” were established in 1845, and in 1850 there came the “Order of the Star Spangled Banner.” All of . these societies restricted their membership to native-born Americans, and held to the former Native American principles. In 1852 the order of the “Star Spangled Banner” and the society of “United Americans,” perhaps the strongest of the secret organizations, combined to form the Know-Nothing Party.
{Conclusion next week.)	.
A Song of the Sentinel. "
Oh, the stars are cold to-night, Mary mine! Mary mine!	.
In this brief suspense of fight,	.
Mary mine! Mary mine!	'	,	.
In this pause, ere red to-morrow. .	■
Bursts with burning, rains with sorrow,—	.
Thoughts of you sweet raptures borrow,. -Mary mine! Mary mine!	T
Does a voice sound in your ears, ..
Mary mine, Mary mine? . .	. .
Quelling all your girlish fears, .	.
Mary mine, Mary mine?	■	..
Does a soldier lad come leaping " ..	.
’Cross the meadows, love-tryst keeping, .
Soothing all your maiden’s weeping, ,	.
Mary mine, Mary mine?	<
I kept watch an hour to-night,	;
Mary mine! Mary mine!	. J ;'
While the laddies ceased their fight, - :, ' Mary mine! Mary mine!; ■ , . . ' '
But ere yet the watch was through, :	;	“7
Past the lines my-spirit flew, V -
And my lips kissed lips of you, ; '. /	- y f
Mary mine! Mary mine! \	; O'P: ~.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
270
Bein’ Boys.
Oh, the dreams of those swift days,
When our limbs and hearts were strong, And the years went merry by
Like the lilting of a song!
Through the rush and roar and strife,
That swirl thick around to-day,
I can hear the old wild laughter
Of the Juniors at their play.
I can hear the swings a-creakin’
And the 'third team’ playin’ ball, And the captains callin’ signals
On the gridiron in the fall.
Oh, to cast away the worries
That to-day mix with our joys, And to live one sweet, swift hour
On the campus 'bein’ boys!’ j G.
Bibbs, With a Record.
BY F. JENNINGS VURPILLAT.
' Perhaps you noticed last week in some of our great dailies considerable comment on the death of one John Bibbs, a distinguished attorney. I saw it in the Templeton Times, the deceased’s home paper. The comment was especially interesting to us for two reasons. Bibbs was a graduate of Notre Dame noted for having offered Brother. “Deep” a fortune if he would undertake the management of the Philadelphia. Needless to say, Brother shunned the seduction of the shekeled serpent and stuck to his place at the Rockefeller Hall stand. The other reason for our interest is Bibb’s reputation in his profession, for it is a fact that he never in all his practice lost a case.' However, he came near losing one, and it is the story of that incident which the obituary called to mind.	-
After leaving Sorin with his LB. B., Bibbs married into the profession and settled-down in Templeton. He rented window space in an office building, bought from the Salvation Army Store a table and a camp stool, stacked up his N. D. text-books arid secured a bust of Blackstone and a spittoon -with. a record. Exteriorly he hung up a shingle with the remarkable notice thereon:	J
THE LAWYER WITH A CONSCIENCE-
This, with Bibb’s singular personality and five years of waiting, secured him a considerable practice. In due time he added to his library row,after row of dust-collecting tomes, and he recaned the old camp stool to enthrone thereon a dimpled stenographer. He no longer. needed his shingle; besides a nor-wester had sadly deranged it and Bibbs split it up into smaller shingles and applied them to the little Bibbs. He swore off Florida Manures and smoked genuine' Havanas. His office came to have an individuality or, as Templetonians called it, an atmosphere; not that it needed ventilation as most lawyer’s sanctums, nor that it was mostly hot air or an ill wind that blew nobody any good; - it was Bibb’s personality. He was a J. Rufus Wallingford of the legal profession, and because he was never known to be. on the side of anything but a sure thing, and never lost a case, he was famous .in his district.
One evening as Bibbs was leisurely reading in his office, an anxious looking individual entered. After the customary exchange of weather reports they settled down to business.
“My name’s Jackson,” began the visitor, “I’m vice-president of the First National at Slatterville. I’ve got a very difficult case, but a very profitable one for the right man. They tell me you’ve never lost a case.”
“So they say,” said Bibbs nonchalantly blowing a whiff of Pittsburg at Blackstone. “What’s the case?”
The other looked cautiously about the room and leaned toward the lawyer: “I’m charged with murder.”
“Well, then you’ve got a pretty good chance of batting 400 in the Celestial League,”' smiled Bibbs. “But.-why are you here? Have you escaped?”
“No, I’m out on bail—some bail too— $15,000, but I can afford it.”
“But tell me of the case,” urged the lawyer. Jackson detailed his story. .He had resolved to make away with an old rival and enemy; a banquet at which both were guests,- furnished him the opportunity. He put poison in his victim’s wine. He was seen in the act, was betrayed by pretended, friends and arrested. His trial was to take place in a month. Jackson declared his case was hopeless, indeed, but that he would plead not guilty and avail himself of all the delay: the law might give so as to defer the gallows.	,:

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“I was told that if I could persuade you to accept my case, I’d have some hope. If you will defend me I’ll give you $25,000.”	•
Bibbs only observed the cobwebs in a corner and said nothing.	■ -
“$50,000,” ventured the banker.
Bibbs studied the ceiling. indifferently. He "thought that a little hesitation would pay well. It did.
“I’ll give you $100,000 if you’ll take the case,” declared the other, rather earnestly.
“Softly, my friend! Why, you’ll bankrupt yourself.”	•
. “Well, it’s the price of my life. It’ll be worth nothing to me when I’ve stretched a rope.”
“Right you are. Well—I’ll consider it. But since you admit your guilt, haven’t any sort of alibi, and there were witnesses of the deed, I don’t see how you can expect to win.”
The client dejectedly twisted his gloves. Bibbs was engrossed in deep thought. He took from his desk a bunch of spearmint, shared it with Jackson and began to chew like a gristmill. He had kept up the habit ever since acquiring, it at the meetings of the old Kentucky Club. At last he brightened up with an idea.
“Have you that poison?” he asked.
“Yes, but not with me.”
- “Do you know what it was?”
“No, I bought it of a druggist. The wretch is one of the chief witnesses against me.”
“Well, I think our case rests on that poison. You see how it is. You poisoned old Gates or you did not poison him. See? Now, you were seen to give him something; it was poison or it was not poison. Get me? You bought a substance which is known to be poison. Now we’ve got to prove that poison is not poison. It’s all very clear. Do you think we can do it? ”
- Bibbs had a hopeful and confident smile. Not so, his client, who couldn’t see through it at all. -
“Well, anyway, you bring me the stuff as soon as you can. In the meantime I’ll consider the case.”	.
Several days later Jackson returned with the poison. The next day Bibbs went to a physician.
"Doctor, here’s a substance which they, say is poison.”	.
The physician smelled of it, examined it closely and ventured a minute.taste of it.-
“Yes, it is a very deadly poison; mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate.” .
<271
This 'was little encouragement, but Bibbs was undaunted.	.	.	. :
“Doctor, is it possible for anyone to take it without any harm residting?” •	' '
“Hardly?’ He thought a moment. ' “Well, yes, he could if his stomach were prepared for it.”
“How long would it take to properly prepare; the stomach for it?”
“About two weeks. But the subject must be in perfect health.”	.
Bibbs was delighted. They discussed the composition of the poison, its effect on wine, its antidotes and treatment. The lawyer went away satisfied, leaving, the doctor, pledged to secrecy. .	.
• ■ • • • • • • • • ' '
Bibbs, took the case. There were only three persons who could see that there was any case- at all; they were the. lawyer, the doctor and the defendant. There was no doubt that the hitherto unbeatable lawyer stood to lose a case at last. Consequently there was a crowd of interested spectators in attendance at the trial. Their expectations were realized. Jackson could make no defence at all. Everyone said, that he might as well have confessed, so clearly was his guilt established. It remained only for' Bibbs. to make his closing, arguments to. the jury. By clever arrangement he brought, it about that his address should come immediately after the noon recess. He dined under the special, auspices of the doctor: a simple and strengthening meal it was: milk and eggs with a dessert of albumin tablets. The latter he had been taking continuously during the trial. Specta-:. tors said he.looked bad and needed the.pills to steady his nerves. When court reconvened after .dinner Bibbs was anxious to begin. -
“Gentlemen of the Jury; I will be brief, very .-brief. I have here the substance-which, is said to have been the instrument of John Gates’ death. Now I have made a remarkable; discovery. This did. not cause the death; it is-neither poison nor mortal!” .	. .	\	-
‘ ‘ Absurd ’ ’ muttered the prosecutor.. “ You’re a liar, ” declared : a partisan of the deceased. Everyone sneered. “Prove it’’cried a spectator. There was such a clamor- and turmoil in the courtroom for a time that it required all. the efforts of the judge and bailiffs to restore order. Bibbs continued:.	A.. ..	_ . .
“Of course I expect to prove my assertions. If you will only calm, yourselves, I will .do -so. Now, this is the substance in question, is it not?Y
272	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
All assented, when the druggists and a doctor had examined it. “Very well; to.prove it is not poison I shall take it myself.”
And before anyone could prevent it he had swallowed the entire contents of the vial. Then occurred another moment of tense excitement and disorder. The court was over-awed, dismayed, expectant. Some women among the spectators shrieked; several fainted. Bibbs was not the least ill at ease. “Friends, in order to prevent a scene in case the so-called poison kills me,.1 shall leave the room.” ’
He entered unmolested a small antechamber off the courtroom. Several men plucked up courage enough to rush after him, but the spring lock barred the door in their faces. Within, the doctor was ready with his stomach pump. “Work fast,”- smiled Bibbs. He did so and in a few minutes the patient re-entered the courtroom. The assembly could scarce believe their eyes, when they saw he was unharmed. The silence was broken by Bibbs, himself.
“ Gentlemen: I close the case for the defence.”
The jury were in consultation but five minutes when they returned a . verdict of acquittal. Bibbs had established a reasonable doubt. A veritable pandemonium followed the reading of the verdict. It .was a memorable day for Templeton and furnished a topic for gossip x for months to come.	*
Bibbs was the richer by $100,000 and still enjoyed his record of having never lost a case.
The Necklace Thief.
BY B. W. MCDONALD.
It was about the latter part of March, I remember, when I had just returned to New York, that I dropped around to see my old friend Sherman May and found him once more on the trail of those who break society’s laws. I found him as F had left him, a few months ' before - seated in a big arm-chair before a fire in the grate, and playing his old' violin which was his one hobby. After a cordial greeting and the usual formalities, I. inquired as to how his work was coming along. >
“Well, I have a little case at present, which, if we can bring it to a'successful conclusion, will net us twenty-five hundred' dollars - apiece, ’ ’ he remarked. .	:	■	\	‘	-
, “ But, ” I remonstrated, “ I did not know that you had; a partner/,’/' 7 x:
“My dear Doctor, I have no partner of course, but you can be of assistance, if you , will be so kind, and will share equally in the returns.”
While we were arguing over this point, the	|
bell rang and May went to the door, returning	j
with Madden, a Central Office man, whom I	"J
had met on previous occasions at May’s	|
apartment.	.	|
“You might begin over again,” May remarked । to Madden, “for the benefit of the Doctor	|
here, who has been kind enough to offer me his	|
services.”.	,
The gist of his story was that a valuable , j necklace had been stolen from Mrs. R. V. ( Whitcome while she was entertaining for Von | Steuben, the celebrated German violinist, who was the social'lion of the hour in New York. I Mrs. Whitcome did not miss the necklace till
1 after dinner, when she caught a glimpse of	1
herself in a mirror as she was leaving the	I
dining-room with the ladies. She was certain	j
that she had it on when she sat down, and had	J
not missed it till then.	'
Thinking that it must have slipped off,	z- =
and not wishing to disturb her- guests, she told .. ; no one except her husband. The}'' thought that it would turn up, but no trace of it was found and they appealed to the city detective bureau. As the gathering had been composed j of the best families in New York, it was hard v i 1 to believe that one of the guests had stolen it. _ ;
Madden, who had been put on the case,	•,
could make no headway and brought it to the <> attention of May, who had solved problems	I
for him several times before. As Madden	J
finished talking he handed May a list, saying, . i, “There is the list of the people who were'present.	*
Mr. Whitcome did not want to give it to me at -first, but I showed him that it was the only way to get a start on the problem. He said that he	*
could not believe any of the servants found	।
the necklace and kept it, as they had all been	s
■ in the family’s service for a long time and were	j
thoroughly honest.	,
“It certainly was a select, party,” remarked x- / May as he glanced over the list. I know all	•]
of-these/people by-name at least, except this	,
man Partlidge. Who is he?” ’	1	__
I “We have not been able to find out much .
about' him, ” answered Madden, ‘ ‘ and we have / been trailing him'ever since the theft on that '	< ip
. account, but so far'"have.not-been able to -get .j' : anything.oh him.’/He has been connected-with	‘'j
-	' 7- '/ - -/..• ■	. -"5
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the best class in New York, however, since his big deal on Wall Street a short time ago.” ' After Madden’s departure May turned to me.
‘‘You know L. J. Douglas, do you not?” he asked.
‘‘Yes, indeed, he is a very good friend of mine,” I answered. .
‘‘Well, he and his wife are entertaining for Von Steuben to-night, and the same crowd that was at Whitcome’s home will be present. Your assistance in this case will consist in arranging for our presence to-night at the reception.”
So saying, he ushered me out, telling me that he would call for me that evening.
As we came in that evening, Von Steuben was playing one of May’s favorite airs, and he stopped long enough tp comment on the wonderful technique of the musician. We glanced around and discovered that, according *to the, list which Madden had procured, the gathering consisted of nearly the very same people. I had been warned by May to keep my eyes open, and in particular not to let Partlidge out of my sight the whole evening. As the evening wore on, Partlidge seemed to become more and more nervous and I began to think that here, after all, was the offender.
Nothing happened till shortly after the refreshments had been served. Then May appeared and informed me that again it was a necklace, this time belonging to the hostess, Mrs. Douglass. However nothing was said to the guests, although her husband made a careful search of the room where it was supposed to have been lost. After much coaxing, Mrs. Douglas had persuaded Von Steuben to play again and we entered the room as he was playing once more the air which had attracted the favorable comment from May earlier in the evening.
After he stopped, Mrs. Douglas told the men that her husband wished to see them for a moment in the drawing-room, and, together with the others, we went in. When they had all been seated Mr. Douglas arose.
“I have a very painful duty to perform,” he said. ‘‘There has been a very valuable necklace stolen, and, leaving the. women out of. consideration, I am convinced that the . thief is in this room. I would like to .-ask that every man in the room be searched:”
Partlidge, <who had become very excited, leaped to-his feet. “I: object to any such
L-	i ..
2 73
indignity,” he cried angrily, “ and. I think That I voice the feelings of the others.” TTN
I could not but admire the nerve of the man who thus hoped to: preserve> his secret; but before Douglas could answer him, May jumped ‘ to his feet.	‘
“I think that I can spare that by pointing out the criminal at ofice,” he remarked, and as Madden and another detective entered the room, he turned to Von. Steuben and said, “there is your man!”	-	'
The detectives handcuffed the . musician, . but the search of his clothes revealed nothing.
“Bring in his violin,” commanded May.
Taking it in his hand he shook it and peered into it, but could find nothing, and his face fell. But as he rubbed his hand over its surface a small box shot out of the end and fell to the floor. Picking it up, May opened it and dis-: closed the necklace to the astonished crowd.- ,
Once more we were in May’s apartment-.
“ I think that we have an explanation coming,” said Madden.	. '
“It is very simple after all,” expostulated May. “You remember the tune from Carmen which Von Steuben played early in the evening and which he repeated later. That is one of my favorite pieces, and as I am somewhat of a violin player myself, I noticed that there was a change in tone when he played the second time, such as might have been caused by something. in the instrument. What could there be. in the violin except the necklace, and so I felt pretty safe when I denounced him.”
“But how about Partlidge?” asked Madden and myself in the same breath. ’	.
“I made some inquiries about him, and found . out that his mother has been very ill and that, . no doubt, was the cause of so much uneasiness on his part. The twenty-five hundred will come in very handy, will it not, Doctor? ”. J
Just for a Day.
Just for a day to drink from thy sweet eyes—'
-The light of love that wells up from thy soul,
Just for a day to live beneath thy smile, •*:	: ,
When all around me clouds of'sorrbw roll. / J
Just for a day to be with thee alone, -
When all the world is robed in sombre grey, I should not fear the tempest of the years ' '
If in thy heart I bloomed—just for a day. .	.. ;;
Andrew Moynihan.' -
274	THE NOTRE DA
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Publisheii every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
-	Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, Indiana
XLIX.	JANUARY 22, 1916 No. 17.
Board of Editors.
TIMOTHY GALVIN, ’l6	SPEER STRAHAN,	’17
RAY HUMPHREYS, ’l6	LOUIS KEIEER,	’16
EUGENE MCBRIDE, ’16	D. EDMONDSON,	’18
HOWARD PARKER, '»7	ARTHUR HUNTER,’16
HARRY SCOTT, ’18
Mr. Joseph Scott Lectures.
Mr. Joseph Scott, of Los Angeles, on Friday, January 14, gave one of the most enjoyable and beneficial lectures that the University has been privileged to hear in some time. It is safe to say that no one in his large audience of young men could have failed to glean from his remarks some thoughts of lasting value. Mr. Scott covered a multitude of topics, illustrating each point with a relevant story or an occurrence from his own experience. He compared physical and moral bravery, and showed that while the former was undeniably worthy of honor, the latter better becomes the man. Sound advice concerning honesty -and other desirable qualities, was lightened and yet more deeply impressed by frequent humorous touches.
Friday’s talk was quite up to the very high standard which Mr. Scott set for himself at the graduation exercises of last June. _ ---------------------.
“Rejuvenation.”
Clare Vaughn Wales’. Lyseum Players presented “Rejuvenation” in Washington Hall, Monday afternoon. 'The.play itself purported to be a dream, but on the whole it was somewhat of a nightmare to the audience. The deep and absorbing plot circled around that grand old theatrical standby, the Elixir of Youth. . This production probably would make a deep and lasting impression staged before a Ladies’ Temperance League or the Needles and Tongues Society, but it is. decidedly out of place in any other atmosphere. Such exhibitions teach tis
. -	!
ME SCHOLASTIC	I
-. ■’
one thing, however—as long as we retain our nerve there is no excuse for starvation.	I
Clare V. Wales in the leading role rejuvenated to. everyone’s satisfaction, thus infringing on May Robson’s domain. Had the audience not been so hasty in leaving before the epilogue ~k we might have seen her pushed about the' J stage in a baby-buggy. Mr. Hobe Greenleaf recited his lines in a manner that would delight any self-respecting Chatauqua assemblage. His .portrayal of the silly Englishman made the	I
type appear even more inexcusable than it	."1
usually does, and caused us to wonder what	3
had happened to the customs officers the day	|
he got through. Mr. Glen Taber was billed as	~ *
“Robert Harper . (a bunch- of brains).” We presume that his brains were so well bunched j as to hamper their action. Only in this way can his performance be reasonably explained. -Before .Miss Ninita Mayne essays the role of young woman again she would do well to indulge in one of the pills that restore adolescence with such ease and facility.
To the surprise of all no attempt was made . •to sell the Youth-Restoring Globules between .J the acts. -	*
Personals.
—Frank T. Taffe (former student) has been elected' secretary of the Cohoes Republican Company publishers of the (Cohoes N. Y.) —Daily Republican.
—Mr. John Devine (LL. B., ’12)—every-	*’
body knows John,—has announced his candidacy for the nomination of county prosecutor of St. Joseph County subject to the Republican H primaries of March 7.	.
—Mr. Thomas . Mackin (former student) paid a visit-to the University last Wednesday. Mr. Mackin is now a member of the deacon class of St. Mary’s Seminary at Baltimore | and will be ordained in a short time. .
~ ^—In accordance with his. promise given during " his lecture here a few weeks ago, Prof. Michelon has.. presented to the library of Notre Dame three volumes J of “Lives of the Saints,” in French, which, he obtained while fighting in 1 the trenches in France. ...	!
—Rev. Father Howlitt; who has just finished ~ a; life of Father Nerinckx, visited Notre Dame the past week, in order to consul^ the Archives of -Notre; Dame for material for a short histor-
'■ V
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ical sketch which he is preparing upon the life of Father Stephen Badin.
I -•
!	—The marriage of Mr. Walter Clunim
(old student) to Miss Winefred Monighan was celebrated on the twenty-fifth of November .	in St. Lucy’s Church, Austin, Texas. WaHer
f'	and his bride will be at home at 580 Iowa
St. Oak Park, Illinois after February 1.
—On Tuesday, December 28, Miss Lorraine Vandenberg was united in marriage to Mr. Dominic Callicrate (C. E., ’08) in North Powder, Oregon. “Cal” will be remembered by old students as a star football player and , later as a very successful coach at Columbia University in Portland, Oregon. Mr. and Mrs.
1 Callicrate have been at home at 734 Amherst ty St. Portland, since Jan. 3.
—From the Davenport Democrat we copy the following interesting item which shows enthusiasm along the right line. We hope that others will imitate the Tri-City boys’ example in organizing Notre Dame Clubs wherever it is possible to do so.	.
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS BANQUET AND ORGANIZE.
■	There was a gathering of Tri-City students of Notre
1—	Dame University at the Davenport Commercial
'	Club Thursday night for a dinner and reunion, the
r '' affair having been the inspiration of Frank Andrews, Jr., of Rock Island to get together the Tri-City boys who claim Notre Dame as their Alma Mater.
Attorney J. F. Murphy of Rock Island and Attorney ' J. P. Meersman of Moline, with Prof. Edward Maurus of Notre Dame, were the principal speakers. There were also toasts by several of the other guests.
. > Resolutions were adopted to form a Tri-City organization of graduates of the University, and Mr. Murphy and Mr. Meersman were made a committee to perfect plans of organization.	•
। !X The guests of the evening included, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Meersman and Prof. Maurus; the Daven-porters, Erich H. DeFries, Harry McCullough and Joseph W. Lewis; Frank Andrews, Jr., Francis Ralston, T. McEniry, Joseph McGinnis and Frank V. Marshall of Rock Island, and Francis King of Moline. • ---------------------------------------
Local News.
<7	—The sale of tickets for the Military Ball:
closes January 26 by Faculty ruling.
—Arthur Hughes, editor of the 1911 Dome, ~ has returned to the University to study law. • "/	—The Military Ball posters are out and
because of their size cannot fail to catch the eye-	=
’ -^-The home of Mr. Knute Rockne, assistant
coach of the Varsity, was visited by Mr. Stork during the holidays. “Rock” has not decided what position the newcomer will play when he goes to college.	.	-.
-----Ice harvesting on the two lakes was inaugurated this week under the direction of Brother Leo.	,
—The Day Students are preparing to put a debating team into the forensic arena. They have arranged contests with the men of Holy Cross and Brownson Halls.
—Owing to the fact that the M. A. C. basketball game was played on the 19th of January, the Day Students have postponed their second dance until the 23 rd of February. The dance will probably be given in Place Hall.
—Mr. Arthur Hayes (Ph. B., ’15) had a short story in the current number of the Eagle Magazine. This story, entitled “Bigger Game,” was a prize winner for Mr. Hayes in the Eagle Magazine contest last spring.
—The Juniors and Seniors are requested by the 1916 Dome board to have their individual pictures taken for this year’s Dome. The, McDonald studio is open every day and the pictures are to be taken before February the first.	’	'
—The University has received the memorial of the California Academy of Sciences expressing the regrets of its members to the University in the loss of Dr. Edward Lee Greene. Dr. Greene was long an active member of the Academy.
—Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., on his return recently from New York City proceeded to Chicago where he lectured at Holy Name Cathedral. He was accompanied west from New York to South Bend by members of the New York Club.	,
—The Brownson Literary and Debating Society have elected, the following officers for the second semester: Albert Ramaccotti, president; Sylvester Mersh, vice-president; William Curley, secretary; Vincent Giblin, sergeant7at-arms; B. Heffernon, chaplain. .
—At the regular meeting of the Day. Students’ Association, held Monday noon,’ James Emmett McGuire was unanimously chosen captain of the Day Students’ basketball team. Mr. McGuire is a senior and is now playing his second season with the Day Students...
—Captain Stogsdall has added a very inter-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
esting feature to the military program at the University. Each week the officers will spend an hour in the study of military' maps put out by prominent army officials. The class will convene in the gymnasium at six-tliirty every Monday evening. .
—The Freshman Lawyers met during the week to make plans for a get-together meeting and banquet. Tom Healy, whose home town is Ft. Dodge, la., is head of the first-year barristers. His assistants are F. Walsh, vice-president; James Cook, treasurer; T. C. Kelley, secretary; Frank Holslag, historian.
—The Church Unity Octave was observed again thisyrear in all the halls of the University. Among the special intentions that those who made the Octave were requested to pray for was that the great old-world war may soon cease, and that with the return of peace to the nations Christian unity may triumph. over heresy and schism.
—St. Joseph Hall elected its basketball and track captains Monday night. Columbus Conboy was named leader of the hall quintet, and Albert Freund was chosen to lead the St. Joseph men on the track during the coming season. To Steve McGonigle, of Belvidere, HL, fell the appointment of official custodian . of athletic paraphernalia.
—Fifty candidates for the debating team met in Sorin Law room on Thursday evening, January 13, in response to Father Bolger’s-call for debaters. Places were drawn by lot for the first set of preliminaries, which will be held about the middle of February'. The question this year is: “"Resolved, that the Federal Government should give financial aid in the upbuilding of an American merchant marine.”
—The business men of South Bend have been invited by Father Schumacher to attend the lectures of Mr. Savay on Foreign Trade. Great interest has already^ been aroused among the students in this set of lectures, which they regard as a rare opportunity'- to learn from an expert in this line. - So far there are onty three universities in the country'- that are giving a course in this very important subject. Harvard and Columbia in addition to Notre Dame, are training young men for this promising field of work. .	•
—Tickets for the Military7- Ball of February 2nd may be bought from the news-stand, and
from Emmett Walter, T. Royhans of Corby', Dick Dunn of St. Joseph, John Blackwell of Brownson, E. Vincent Mooney of Sorin, and Austin McNichols of Walsh Hall. The affair will be formal and all cadets will wear their uniforms. The Collegians’ Orchestra, augmented to ten pieces, will play the program of twentv dances.
—Dominic Bucalict, a landscape gardener at Notre Dame for the past five years, succumbed to pneumonia at St. Joseph’s Hospital South Bend, recently. Dominic was a very' exceptional man and was an expert in his line. He made a special study7- of his profession in Austria, his native country. He spoke fluently' seven languages, and it will be remembered he addressed the Polish people of South Bend last summer in their native tongue. His passing cannot fail to grieve his many7- friends.
—Mr. John Henry7- Zuver, editor of the South Bend News-Times, has obtained the permission of Father Cavanaugh and Father Schumacher to supplant the regular Junior and Senior Journalism classes for the next two weeks with a short course in practical journalistic work. Mr. Zuver will keep the class record and all absences will be reported to the University.
The young men will be assigned to various posts in “covering” the revival campaign in thirty^ South Bend churches. They7- will be responsible for two feature articles and many' news stories daily. The remuneration given will vary7- with .the excellence of the work produced. The writer of the best feature story^ will be paid at the highest rate offered by this paper and the work of the other men will be rewarded proportionately. The work will be entered into with zeal by the students, who. have not had an opportunity* for work of this nature in previous years.
Season Opens with a Victory.
An overwhelming victory7- at the expense ol Lewis Institute marked the opening of the basketball season, Dec. 15. The team was in good condition and the men seemed to have the team work down pretty7- well in spite of the fact that they had never played together in a regular game before. Capt. Daly7- and Fitzgerald are the only monogram men left, but the other three men who make up the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
• first team have won distinction in Interhall circles. “Chief” Meyers played with Walsh two years ago when that team won the pennant in the Interhall race, and Tom King and , McKenna will be remembered as the stars of the Interhall league of last year. The men .. showed in this first game that they will undoubtedly be able to make a strong team; for they showed they are on their way to developing the team work which is all that is needed to make a winning team out of these men who have already proved themselves .. individual stars.
The first half was a walk-away for the Varsity who piled up close to forty points to the visitors’ - five. The regular line-up was left in during the . whole half and the Lewis men were unable’to stop the flood of baskets made by all five of the men. Capt. Daly looked like a veteran forward in shooting goals and in covering the floor, and appeared as much at home in his new position- as he did last year at guard. Fitzgerald also made some nice shots and seems to be a good man to play under the basket. The other men also showed up to good advantage, as the score indicates.
In the second half the second team was sent in and the two teams played about even; the game ending 56 to 19. Of the second string men the ones who showed up to the best advantage were Cassidy of last year’s team „ and Ronsetti, another new man. The chief fault to find with the subs was that there was too much individual playing and not enough , team work, but this is due to the fact that the men are unaccustomed to playing with one another; for in practice they play with different men every day.
Judging from this game, however, the prospects for the coming season are very bright; ... and as the men play together more and more they will very likely form an unbeatable combination, for all that could be suggested now ,4> is more playing together.
Varsity Wins Close Game.
r ' Kalamazoo College put up a great game against the Varsity basketball team in the | first, athletic contest of the year on Wednesday k night. The Michigan team proved exceptionally strong in the second half and came within two points of overcoming the lead which Notre
Dame had accumulated in the first half. The final score was 23 to 21.
The team work and passing of the visitors . was good throughout the game, but they were weak in shooting, missing many baskets in the first half. They were handicapped also by the fact that the Notre Dame team played a splendid "defensive game. McKenna and Keefe worked well at guards and broke up the . passes of their opponents with, a frequency that must have been very discouraging to the ■Kalamazoo rooters. Captain Daly was also a power on the defense. “Dick’s” experience at guard last year enables him to come down the floor and help out in the defense of his own basket whenever the enemy become dangerous.
The Varsity offense was as weak as the defense was strong. Of course the team work was weakened by the fact that Tom King, who has been playing guard regularly, was kept out of the game on account of sickness. Keefe played a strong game, but naturally could not get into the team play as well as King. Still this is an emergency for which the team ought to be prepared. The shooting was far below the standard displayed in the Lewis game. Daly led.with four baskets, although he was covered by the opposing guards better than our other men. McKenna dropped in two baskets on. difficult shots, giving further evidence that he will be able to take care of- the runningguard’s position. Meyers jumped well and showed improved form in all departments of the game, although he missed numerous easy shots. Fitzgerald as usual took care of the free throws in good style and dropped in three field goals. However, “Fitz” discounted his good work by futile shots from the middle of the floor that were all too numerous. Only -one of these shots was effective and many of them were wild; hence to the onlooker they seemed a mere waste of good opportunities to score. Summary:	.	.	;
Notre Dame, 23. .	. Kalamazoo, 21.	.	•
Daley	Left Forward	Taylor-	.
Fitzgerald	Right Forward	MacGregor
Meyers	Fausch.-
Center	"	, '"	.
Keefe	Hartman
'	Left Guard	'
McKenna	.	Pyle
Right Guard	.
Field Baskets—Daley, 4; Fitzgerald, 3; McKenna, . '	- :
2; Keefe, 1; Taylor, 4; MacGregor, 2; Fausch, 2;	:
Pyle, 1. Free throws—Fitzgerald, 3; Fausch, 2;	'
Taylor, 1. Referee—Miller.	■
THE NOTRE. DAME SCHOLASTIC
Lake Forest Wins.
For the second time in as many years Lake Forest defeated Notre Dame in basketball in the local gymnasium to-day, winning by a score of 30 to 24. The visitors’ spurt at the end of the second half, coupled with the absence of Captain Daly, Notre Dame’s star forward, lost the game for the Hoosiers. Coleman for Lake Forest and Fitzgerald for Notre Dame were the stars.	•
Absence of team-work, especially in the last part of the second half and the absence of Capt. Daly caused by the injury he received earlier in the week, were responsible for the Varsity meeting defeat at the hands of Lake Forest here last Saturday night. The visitors had a good team and clearly outplayed the Captainless Gold and Blue team. Daly has been holding the men together all season, • and his.individual playing as well as his teamwork has featured the previous games; so when the other men were without his services, they forgot all the team-work they knew. The first half was a better exhibition than the second for the men played together better; soon as the “Foresters” got the advantage of a two-point lead in the last of the second half, the men started running wild without the slightest attempt at team play. •
Daly’s injury necessitated the changing of the line-up. in so short a time before the game that the men had very little time to practice together; and this fact explains, to a great degree, the lack of team-work.- In giving . excuses, however, we must not detract from - the playing of the men from Lake Forest, for they undoubtedly have one of the best teams they have ever had. Their team is much better than the one which defeated the Varsity last year; and there is reason to doubt that the Varsity would have beaten them even with Daly in the game. Stokes, their center, and Coleman, a forward,-deserve special mention for their basket-shooting ability. The former .. caged four baskets and his team-mate went one better running up a total of five. These • two. men seem able to shoot from any position or any angle; and gave'the . local guards no
end of trouble. Coleman added to Uis teams even’.with the. sixth Day Student, but by some, total by throwing six. fouls. .	■ great sprinting managed to beat him to the
For the Varsity Fitzgerald led the scoring tape, and win. for Corby.	1 ,
with a total of sixteen points, ten of which were thrown from the foul line and the remaining six from his three baskets from the field. Meyers caged two and McKenna and Ron-chetti, who. replaced Meyers in the last few
s

minutes total up piled by
of play,. each got one, bringing the to 24, just 6 points below the total Lake Forest.
SORIN AND BROWNSON WIN.	*
. The Inter-Hall relay races were started again last Wednesday night between the halves of the N. D.—Lewis game and Brownson and Sorin came out winners. Brownson defeated St. Joseph first, and in the following race Walsh met. defeat at the hands of Sorin’s team which was. gathered together rather hurriedly just before the starting gun sounded.
Brownson’s victory was somewhat eas}^ as Barry, the last Brownson runner, finished yards ahead of Fries of St. Joseph. The men who gained most for Brownson were Mulligan and Burke whose gains made the rest easy’ for the . other runners. The Brownson team appeared in uniform purple track shirts with a white “B” on the breast and presented a very pleasing appearance. ।
The Sorin—Walsb race was closer, Baujan finishing only, a short distance ahead of Healy, Walsh’s sixth man. The race started by Gargen crossing the tape slightly ahead of Flward, but Slackford gained part of it back and. Hayes put his team ahead by besting his man by a good-margin. Baujan, Sorin’s last runner, took the stick ahead of Healy, and the Walsh man could not make up the handicap; so Baujan led him to the tape.
, *** •


' Interhall Relay Races.
- St. Joe and Corby came out victorious in the relay races which were run Saturday between the halves of the Lake Forest basket-ballgame, the former beating out Walsh and the latter defeating the .Day Dodgers. Both races were close and both may be said to have been ' won by. the last man to run; for Freund, who crossed the tape winning for St. Joe took the -stick after the fifth Walsh man had started Healy, on. the last lap. Meehan started about
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Safety Valve.
|	. If you have ears prepare to freeze them now. .
? . *** ’
I* ■ The numerous cases of grippe in our neighboring - cities is a warning to us to use a preventive if we would escape the dread affliction. - The following _> suggestions which have been made by Dr. Evans and others may prove useful. .
i. Leave your windows wide open and turn off the steam.
|	2. Sleep with no other covering than a sheet.
| _	3- If possible, procure an electric fan and turn it
on your bed.	’
4. Take a cold bath, three times during the night. 5. Have an ice-bag handy in case of catching fever.
6. Eeel your pulse, if you have any left at 3:00 , ; A. M. and should it register over forty, eat six ham I . and egg sandwiches.
>	7. Be cheerful, smile and do not complain. '
8. Don’t call the doctor at night as - he may be
.	sleeping with his window open.	•	.
। ***
I
;	I blow my soup at dinner till it splashes in my eye,
I tell the folks to keep their knives whenever we have pie
,	. I play upon an ear of corn as though it were a flute
! And all the ladies frown at me and murmur, “ Oh, the brute!” *** - ■
DEFINITION.
.	STUDENT.—“from the Anglo-Saxon stu or stew,
meaning meat cut up and mixed with potatoes, and the ' Latin ''dens-dentis meaning tooth or one possessing teeth, hence an eater. A student therefore is an > . .. eater of stew.
7	* * *	• . ■
r' , '	' DIARY. .
Monday—I brought my high school diploma up to my professor and I also showed .him my medals for deportment and elocution and my gold, certificate for piano playing. He was so pleased’ with everything that he put my name on the Delinquent List. ■ / •	Tuesday—We went to see a play in Washington
I- Hall that was wonderful. An old woman camejout on the stage, stamped her foot and closed all the ? saloons in town. Then she took four Elixir tablets, became a howling infant and had to have a nurse. An Englishman who looked like a donkey—no, that’s
. wrong, I apologize to the donkey—fell in love with a ~	. girl who had red paint on her face, and this girl cried
. . like an old gate for her grandma, and that’s all.
Wednesday—It was an awful cold night and I :	kicked the clothes loose from the bottom of my bed,
( but I decided to freeze rather than wake myself up I by tucking the clothes back under the mattress/-., :•
Thursday—I went to the dentist and he has a ।	. drill that has military at N. D. backed off. the ice-box.
£ . - ' ’ *** ' ' ’ ’ ' ’
. - It would appear that some college students get the
, . grippe just to talk about.it. ;	’
. * * , - ***- • • - '
What has' become of the-student who used to buy ’ his own tobacco and work out his own law cases?.
' ■ * * * ■ ■ '
• . No man is a hero to the telephone collector.
279
What makes the authorities think a fellow can’t be thirsty after ten;o’clock P. M.	? A
-	* * * / .	. - - - -
And many a student is thankful to the janitor, for leaving his window open so he can crab about the cold. ■ .	***	:"	‘ ■
COLLEGE MOTTO.	. ~
Knock and the boys knock with you Praise and you’ve “pulled a bone.” .	:
*** - _ £
Dear Father:—	-
I have been holding something-from you ever since -I returned to college and my conscience. has given me no rest until I made up my mind to write to you. I have decided to get married. I can live this life alone no longer. I was captivated during the Christmas vacation and at the.first glance I knew ! must follow the star.- I met her at Mulligan’s wake. We sat in the kitchen together from nine P. M. until two-thirty A. M. At eleven, o’clock the youngest Mulligan girl made sandwiches and this wonderful being who has • a wonderful bean reached over to the side table where the sandwiches had been placed and procured, one for me. When I finished it she got me another—I had * seven sandwiches before the plate was ever put on the dining table and. I ate six more at the meal. Now . father unless I am completely .mistaken, this shows a friendship for me which surpasses the ordinary. I could tell by the very look in her eye that she either adored me or had conjunctivitis. I am her magnet, drawing her across the vasty desert we call life. Would that I could draw money as easily. She gave me sen-sen and gum out of her muff as we sat there in the stillness. She let me smell her handkerchief which . had oil of cloves on it, and gave me a hairpin as a keepsake. She asked me to remember not her beautiful face nor her glorious golden hair which looked like compressed sunshine, but the rare qualities of her soul which vibrated like ether waves in. a bell .jar and rang out a message of love for me. She loved me better than massage cream, better than talcum powder, better than tooth paste. She let me feel a wart, on her finger and confided to me that she had a corn on her second last toe which she paired5 with a safety razor. She told me her aunt had an ingrown toe nail, that her father’s brother was conductor on an ice wagon and that eggs had risen from twenty-four, to forty cents a dozen. She let me whisper in her mouth and told me she used camphor ice for chapped lips. “Does love need more proof?” she exclaimed even as they do in real shows. . Then she took one of the puffs from her hair and placed it in my hand, she took out both sets of teeth and put them in my coat pocket, she reached , for her glass eye—^'Enough!” I cried, “enough, I: amyours forever;”. Father I want -your consent and your business and your money • and in return, you shall have my esteem.
Sincerely,	John. .
- ' ' ■ *** ' . _ , .
It’s a queer day in-’the school life of the. son of-an old graduate when some professor doesn’t.tell him he’s not the student his father was. ~	.	- *	7
~ .***■ , . .
And violet scented epistles written on baby blue . stationery often contain rank spelling.
2 So
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SOME MINOR SPORTS AT OLD ND