^Winston!
WINSTON is the cigarette selected by Capital Airlines to serve passengers aboard the new Viscount.
^Vinston changed America’s mind about filter smoking! This cigarette gives you real tobacco flavor — the full, rich flavor real smokers want. You know what they say: “Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!”
Winston also brings you an exclusive filter that really does the job. It filters so effectively that the flavor really comes through to you — smoothly and easily. Have fun — have a Winston!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
I
at Gilbert’s Campus Shop
Leather Bound
$15.95
$12.50
I Charge Account
PAY
SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Athletic Ivv League trousers with pleatless front, tapered bottoms, belted back. Charcoal grey. Charcoal brown. Charcoal blue, Cambridge blue or Stone grev.
February 1st
March 1st
April 1st
NO CARRYING CHARGE
CORDUROY SPORT COAT
Natural shoulders . . . Soft textured corduroy in Charcoal grey, Varsity olive, Chamoise beige or Saddle Luggage . . . trimmed in matching calf. A new Iw League model . . . perfect for all casual wear.

Imported FLANNEL SLACKS
Open a GILBERT’S
^GILBERT'S
October 14, 1955
Win a brand new
STUDEBAKER!
Yes, to celebrate the opening of Gilbert's Campus Shop Wilson Brothers and Gilbert's are going to give some lucky Notre Dame Man a brand new 1955 Studebaker Champion! Come into the Campus Shop for details TOMORROW!
Home of Wilson Bros. Skipper Sportswear
' The Scholastic |
by William M. Malloy

hoosier poet rises to the call
CONGRATULATIONS this week go to Mr. W. Martin Coady, winner of I the first Entree poetry contest. Winning this week, of course, makes him ineligible for contesting in the next two weeks. His poem was selected as the best entered (with ten cents reading charge that some entries did not have) from many fine poems. Honorable mention as close runner-ups go to Dante Alighieri, Homer and Sappho (not Jethro). The competition was ambitious but the winner was incontrovertible.
As winner, Mr. Coady receives my praise and gets his dime back; however, I get to keep the other one.
The poem is singularly amazing for-its originality, genius, and above all, its reverence for nature. It kind’a puts you right there at the scene and, man, that’s what gets you down. If read aloud with care for the new style in rhythm, balance, and emphasis, you can A; literally feel the organized proportion. Coady’s technique seems to create a new kind of action by making use of varied vowel sounds. By following a dull vowel sound with a sharp vowel sound you get a wonderful stress effect. Thus “pudgy” produces a thrill that is almost narcotic.
In the first few lines Coady masterfully states a problem that might, to a less skilled critic than myself, pass unobserved, so subtly are its implications. Behind the superb words walks the — power of a gigantic brain whose genius W'will, without doubt, leave tradition with a highly satisfactory Christian (see p. 11) influence.	■
After reading the Coady poem I felt that I would like to visit him. He looked exactly as I had imagined him. He was graceful of stature, straight as an epicycle, and covered with delicately rippling muscles. But he had a kind and gentle eye that humbly drew me to him. Nor was it without the familiarringing symbol of intelligence that I Ahave seen about the campus—i.e., hornrimmed glasses—and they were perfectly set upon his sensitive face. Here, embodied in this youth, if indeed it was
embodied anywhere, was the form of a greek god.*
When I asked Mr. Coady what he thought of other modern poetry he said, “It’s all right, but I like mine better.”
“That’s understandable,” I encouraged ; doubtless, he was a little shy. Then I began to interview him:
Q: Where are you from, Mr. Coady? A: Kokomo, Indiana.
Q: Well, what’d’ya know, Joe? From Kokomo, whoop, hia ha!
A: If you’ll excuse me I must . . .
Q: How long you been writing poetry? A: Not very long.
Q: Are you married?
A: No.
Q: Who will get the Republican nomination?
A: I don’t know.
Q: Are you going to continue writing poetry?
A: It depends.
Q: On what?
A: Things. Now if you’ll excuse me I have work to do.
Mr. Coady seemed to be very pleasant although I do feel that he was a bit inept in some of his views. Later, however, he began to colloquilize:
Q: What do you think of evolution?
A: Nothing.
Q: You know that we descended from an ape?
A: Did you really? Why didn’t you tell me? I should rather think you ascended from one.
With Coady we must remember that here and there does not matter, we must be still and still moving into another intensity for a further union, a deeper communion with nature: As Coady said the other day, “In my end is my beginning.”
And now with great pleasure may I present the work of W. Martin Coady.
* Probably Bacchus.
THE MUSHY MEN
We are the mushy men
We are the pudgy men
Lumped together
Tummies filled with pudding. Mmmmm.
Our syrupy voices, when
We blubber together
Are sticky and globbery
As soggy washrags on wet mud Or duck feet on the shore Of Jelly lake.
Butter without bread, cream without coffee
Peanut butter sandwich, tummies without Turns.
Those who have taken
With sour stomachs, bicarbonate of soda '
Remember us—if at all—not as strong
Hungry men, but only As the mushy men The pudgy men. '
V
Here we go round the pizza pie Pizza pie pizza pie
Here we go round the pizza pie At six o’clock in the evening.
Between the meat
And the potatoes
Between the dressing
And the dumplings
Falls the gravy	•
Pass the peas.
Between the cherry
And the sundae
Between the apple And the strudel.
Falls the Ready Whip
I am very full.
I am
Pass the .
I am very
This is the way the meal ends This is the way the meal ends This is the way the meal ends , Not with an erp but a burp.
• October 14, 1955
Parker-Wintenwd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115'72-117 ¥2 No. Main St. UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early "" means better service.
Parker-Winterrowil
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115'/2-117'/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Consult my campus representative:
JOHN E. KUHN, 308 Pangborn
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 97 Oct. 14, 1955 No. 3
Dice Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
JOHN ADAMS Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor ED JOYCE ...................Copy	Editor
BOB KAUFMAN.........Production Manager DAVE KUBAL .........Assistant	News
DAVE THOMPSON..........Assistant News
JAMES McDONALD .........Assistant News JIM O’BRIEN   Co-Feature Editor JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN...........Art	Editor
KEN WOODWARD...........Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator
DAVE DAVIN Sports Editor
JOHN GLAVIN..........................Assistant Sports JOE NORTON..............Assistant Sports
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
INVENTORY
■	Page
Entree ...................... 5
View ........................ 7
Campus Scene ................ 9
Folio ...................... 15
At a Glance................. 20
Showcase ................... 24
Irish Scene ................ 25
Time Out ................... 28
Back Page _________________  34
On the Cover Cartoonist Bob Miller does a self-study on the rigors of European study coupled with the inevitable tours, visits and wanderings by an American with one short year in “the old countries.”
^fARLtSS^OSDICK a
by AL CAPP
IF YOUSE CAN LICK OUR-cHuCKiE
QUQHf MY SHREWD LEGAL SENSE TELLS ME THIS FIGHT IS~GOl-P.?-NOT ENTIRELY FAIR//— BUT— J

<51
o

-NEAT HAIR, (WITH W/LDROOTCREAM-
OIL) GIVES ME CONFIDENCE? r-*

S31
SJj
..J

CONTAINS NATURE’S
LANOUN.?-RELIEVES
DRYNESS.7-REMOVES
LOOSE -uGh.1*-DANDRUFF.?-GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL K CHARLIE.?
BUT, DAT WOULD BE ILLEGAL-MY NAME IS .ARTHUR.?

‘WO
0:


ONLY A CREAM DRESSING GROOMS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY! I
ABSOLUTELY NON-ALCOHOLlC.WITH NATURAL INGREDIENTS. BUY AMERICA'S f ~zuRAVORrrEy)
rOM|(
WILDROOT
6
The Scholasti^.
I
tradition
There is probably a lot to be said for traditions in col-_ lege life but from my point of view there is more to be said against them. Someone is no doubt saying. “Why old Notre Dame is steeped in tradition. Speaking out against it is akin to blasphemy from a Notre Dame man!”
As a matter of fact, I’d even like to take issue with the point that Notre Dame is “steeped” in tradition. How many honest-to-goodness traditions can anybody actually list off. “Undergrads don’t use the Administration Building’s front steps.” “Sing the Victory March after every touchdown and game, come what mav.” “Welcome the team back after a loss.” “Mass and Communion on the days of games.” These :^are about it—I hardly think this relegates Notre Dame to the ’“traditional school” class. And I’m rather glad we aren’t.
Without adding myself to the long list of those who have misquoted Cardinal Newman’s University work. I’d like to postulate that a university is a living thing made up of many and varied cells which are bom, reproduce themselves, and die out. Like any other living thing the university either grows or it dies, it doesn’t remain static.
Notre Dame, too, is a living thing—fortunately, it is still growing rapidly, not only in numbers but in stature. When new and advantageous avenues keep opening up in ever increasing numbers, the administration is free to take them. -Why? Because it isn’t bound by a lot of stodgy custom. A W'few people might show up to say, “Why, it’s always been that way ...” But their case never holds much water.
A few traditions like the ones I have listed above are | really good in themselves. They contribute much to the feel-I ing of oneness that is so essential to a university like Notre Dame. And, they’re good because they don’t hinder in any ,! way the natural growth of the University. Those that do [ should be chalked off, in one quick stroke, to progress.
h And so, as I said before, I’m glad Notre Dame isn’t a i “tradition” school, even though it may appear to those on the outside that it is. What they see in action is not tradition but Notre Dame “winning over all,” in everything it r.does. It does this not with some sort of set pattern that is put into play as soon as a situation arises, but with ingenuity, good old-fashioned ingenuity. This, to me, is the character of Notre Dame.—J.A.
October 14, 1955
hazing
The thought of holding a “hell week” here at Notre •
Dame has always held a certain appeal for us ever since we made it through that first, big year of college. Fellows attending other schools have told us of the great time they had initiating some particular group of “greenies”—in most cases, freshmen. And we’ve often imagined ourselves as the prime perpetrators of a hazing to end all hazings. You don’t have to possess an especially fertile imagination to conjure up some magnificent possibilities for an “Open Season on Freshmen” week at this University.
But Notre Dame never has, and never will, go along with the idea of hazing. We’ve argued this back and forth in our mind: “A little initiation ceremony never hurt anyone. It’s a good way to deflate the ego of the guy who has the know-it-all attitude. Besides, anvthing for a laugh is OK.”
During our high school davs we were on both the “give” and “take” ends of initiations that were fairly spicy. But we felt that they were harmless and a lot of fun.
Regardless of how appealing the notion of a “hell week” may seem, however, we still have to admit that the University has a point when it frowns upon such a thing.
Why should this be so? For one thing, there is a greater gap to bridge between high school and college life than between grammar and high school. The biggest factor, though, is the unfamiliarity of the environment for a fellow who’s away from home for the first time. There are a lot of other things, too. that are different. It’s kind of tough not to be able to sit down to Mom’s home cooking; Dining Hall meals will never be a suitable substitute. You’re confronted with a sea of new and strange faces and personalities—a few of which rub you the wrong way no matter how hard you try to like them. Sometimes the rooms leave much to be desired; they’re crowded, the beds sag, the clothes lockers won’t allow you to hang a pair of trousers straight.
The courses are more difficult than you had expected; and the profs may seem much too pedantic. That first pop quiz leaves you with that utterly helpless feeling. Phy. ed. classes on chilly Hoosier mornings brush away those sleepy-time cobwebs in a not too gentle fashion.
All these things may seem insignificant right now, but they’re blown up to matters of much consequence when a fellow’s away from home for the first time. That’s why an over-ambitious program of hazing and initiation would certainly not help the newcomer to effect a smooth transition to university life. “Hell week” would not be just the harmless. hilarious situation it was back in the home-town high school.
Some may think it’s going “soft” to carry out an extensive orientation program for freshmen and to provide a so-called student advisor for every six first-year men. We upperclassmen would relish working off. a little excess energy by making a goat out of the unwary freshman. •
But we can’t see any benefit to be derived from a real old-time hazing. It just doesn’t fit into the picture. We think Notre Dame is a better university without it.—P.L.
7
Employment Opportunities in VENEZUELA with
Creole Petroleum Corporation
An Affiliate of Standard Oil Co., (N. J.)
Representatives of Creole will be on the campus on
Monday, October 24
to interview unmarried graduates with majors in ENGINEERING and GEOLOGY
See your Placement Director for interview schedules
MORE DATES
while
Learn the new steps now
MORE COMPONENTS
MORE FUN

%
I 5? 5


PARTY — DANCE EVERY THURSDAY
Arthur Murrays pre-season rates are in effect!
OOD dancers are always in demand You will tie, too. once you've had a '■ourse at Arthur Murray’s. Your expert teacher-partner will show you the famous Arthur Murray Magic Step Ahich makes it easy to Waltz. Fox Trot, Tango. Rumba and Samba. From your first
lesson, you’ll be dancing with new sureness and grace. It’s tun at Arthur Murray’s and there’ll be a world ot dancing fun ahead for you Come today to your nearest Arthur Murray studio from 10 a. m. to 10 p. m. for a free dance analysis. Visitors are always welcome.
ARTHUR
120 E. WAYNE
MURRAY
Phone CE2-3339
The Scholastic
OamfMl Scene
CULLITON NAMED NEW DEAN (IN COMMERCE CHANGE
;• - .
Former Dean McCarthy Assumes Emeritus Post;
' College Outlines New Long-Range Program
“No one at the University is better prepared than Dean McCarthy to develop new lines of contact that will highlight the mutuality of interest that exists between industry and its source of well-prepared manpower,” Father Hesburgh declared. “He is well known and highly respected in America’s industrial world, both from his work in the field of business education and from the many positions of trust he has held and now holds in manifold business and governmental groups.”
“At this moment in the historical de-
Dr. James W. Culliton has been appointed dean of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, announced last Tuesday. Culliton succeeds Dean James E. McCarthy who was named dean
emeritus in charge of College of Com-I amerce development.
i Dr. Culliton joined the Notre Dame ' faculty in September, 1951, as a visiting professor from the Harvard School of Business Administration. Since 1952 he had served as director of the University’s Program for Administrators.
. From 1937 to 1941 and again from 'i 1944 to 1951 Prof. Culliton was an ; associate professor at Harvard University where he received his master’s dell gree and doctorate. He took his under-11 ^graduate work at Canisius College, Buf-/ falo, N. Y. During World War II he i was executive director of the Post War
of purpose and dedication to a better America.”
The establishment of a College of Commerce development program was recommended by Dean McCarthy and his faculty in a recent report, Father Hesburgh said. The report stressed the need for developing new and increased sources of financial support so that the college may reach its full internal development, he explained. He cited improved facilities, a library, and faculty development as essential to the continued academic improvement of the college.
velopment of Notre Dame’s College of Commerce, the University is fortunate in having Dean McCarthy dedicate himself to this newest step forward towards the fullest development of the College of Commerce whose growth he has guided from its earliest years.”
Dr. Culliton is the author of several publications of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Among them are: Writing Business Cases, The Management of Marketing, The Use and Disposition of Ships and Shipyards at the End of World War II, and Make or Buy. ‘
A native of Buffalo, N. Y., Dean Culliton is married to the former Jane K. Hogan of that city. They have four sons.
( Readjustment Committee of the Coms', monwealth of Massachusetts. He also taught for one year at Boston College
11	(1941-42).
College’s Tremendous Growth
i During the thirty-two years of Dean I McCarthy’s tenure, the enrollment of Notre Dame’s Commerce School has i j^rrown from less than 400 to more than J i 1,500 students, making it the largest * I college at the University. At the same i time the college’s curriculum and facul-f ty were greatly expanded.
I1 “Notre Dame men everywhere are indebted to Dean McCarthy for his gener-j ous and devoted service for so many years,” Father Hesburgh declared in J' naming him to the new post. “We wish * him continued success as dean emeritus ' in promoting the College of Commerce । ^development, which will make possible &Mhe full fruition of his life’s work: the ® presence everywhere in industrial affairs K of highly competent Notre Dame men K Wh°se knowledge is matched by integrity
S October 14,1955
DEAN EMERITUS MCCARTHY AND DEAN CULLITON A change in Commerce.	.
9
Students Journey to Campus Polls Thursday To Elect Hall, Class, Senate Representatives
in order of his preference by placing “1” before his first choice, “2” next to his second choice, etc., for all candidates. The winner will, therefore, receive the majority of the votes.
Election of Hall Officers, Hall and Off-Campus Senators, and Freshman Class Officers will be held next Thursday, the Blue Circle elections committee announced this week.
Nominations, which opened Oct. 5, close at 4 p.m. Monday. All undergraduates are eligible to vote. Candidates must be able to serve one full year, have a satisfactory discipline record and have a minimum accumulative average of 80 per cent.
Polls will be open in the residence halls from noon to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 6:30 p.m. Off-Campus students will vote in the Bus Shelter from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and from 3 until 6 p.m.
Depending upon the adoption of various types of Hall Constitutions as many as 82 newly elected officers will fill 60 hall offices, 15 Senate positions, four Freshman Class vacancies, and three off-campus posts.
The three Off-Campus Senators selected will represent individually the South Bend residents and all off-campus
Indiana Scientists Here For Annual Conference
More than 300 Hoosier scientists are expected to attend the 71st annual meeting of the Indiana Academy of Science at the University of Notre Dame tomorrow.
They will be welcomed to the campus by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, who will address the opening session in Washington Hall at 9 a.m. Also scheduled to speak at the general session is Dr. Charles Bram-bel, head of Notre Dame’s biology department, who will discuss “What Is a Biologist?”
Dr. A. H. Meyer of Valparaiso University, president of the Academy, will speak on “Societal Responsibilities of Academies of Science at Mid-Century” at a dinner-meeting of the Academy this evening at the LaSalle Hotel. New officers of the Academy also will be elected at the dinner session.
The Indiana scientists will spend the bulk of their time attending seminars and technical sessions in the fields of anthropology, bacteriology, botany, chemistry, entomology, geology, physics, psychology, zoology and plant taxonomy.
The Academy’s executive committee was scheduled to meet at Notre Dame yesterday and several hundred members of the Junior Academy of Science will meet on the campus tomorrow.
10
students.
The official nomination blanks may be obtained at the Student Center, or at the election committee headquarters, 425 Walsh. A candidate running for a class office must secure 50 names and addresses of his electorate; residence office seekers need 25 names and addresses on their nominating blanks.
Tuesday, the freshmen had the opportunity of learning the various phases of student government when the Blue Circle and the Student Senate visited them in their hall lounges. The three basic points taken up were an explanation of the relationships and operations of the. various parts of student government, an explanation of the preferential ballot, the form used in all campus elections, and a question-and-answer session on how to conduct a campaign.
The individual upper classman halls will hold their own meet-your-candidate forums sometime next week. These will be led by the various provincial governors appointed and approved by the Senate in order to set up new hall constitutions.
The Senate approved a model hall constitution and submitted it to the various halls through the governors for local approval. Each hall accepted, or amended and then accepted, the constitution to fit its needs, during the past
The preferential ballot to be used in the election requires the voter to choose
The Scholastic
t
CHAIRMAN KUBAL BRIEFS COTILLION COMMITTEE Sophs set to ‘Weigh Anchor' Oct. 28.
Bid Sales Completed; Sophs Await Cotillion
With the ticket sale having been completed this past week, Cotillion-goers need only sit back and await the sophomore weekend beginning Oct. 28.
Festivities will get underway Friday evening with a bonfire and pep rally to be followed by the Cotillion.
The theme, “Autumn Flagship,” will be carried throughout the weekend. The Student Center will be decorated in a “seagoing” style while Blue Barron with his music of “Yesterday and Today” provides the entertainment. The Barron and his orchestra have played most of the big hotels of the country and the major colleges of the East.
Cruising Down the River, which held the national spotlight a few years ago tops Barron’s list of hit tunes. Notre Dame’s own dixieland group, Dick Miller and his Sugarfoot Stompers, will supply some up-tempo entertainment during the intermission.
The Notre Dame football team will take the spotlight on Saturday afternoon as they tangle with the Navy.
To add to the color of the weekend, all of the residence halls will compete in the annual decorations contest.
Memory books containing pictures of the festivities will supply the remembrances for the weekend.

&
su
£
• i

New Recreation Facilities Near Completion; Basketball, Tennis Courts Readied For Play
ment. Dr. Scannell said that he has long been aware of the great need for additional student recreation facilities and hopes this current program will be a step in the right direction.
by RAY WALSH
'll’ In order to provide better sports I aB facilities for students, the University is । y j now constructing several new outdoor uf recreation improvements.
' | Located directly to the rear of the J	new Romy Hammes Shopping Center
‘ will be three full size outdoor basket-|	ball courts entirely for student use.
’	According to the present plan, each
I	residence hall will be given a basket-
ball with which the members of that particular hall may play. The courts 9 are now in the process of being lined so they should be available for use in the very near future.
* Operations are underway to provide six additional tennis courts located west ’ of the Stadium. The eight clay courts i will be given a special resurfacing and j another eight courts are to receive a | layer of concrete. The six new courts ' will be constructed of a very new surfacing material expected to practically eliminate “wet courts.”
Drainage facilities will be employed to such an extent that a morning’s rain
should find the courts in dry, playable condition by afternoon.
The varsity tennis team will use these new courts for match and practice play. The tennis courts will be in use by physical education classes at times but are open to the entire student body. Seven volley-ball courts are in process of construction also to be located east of the present courts.
North of the Rockne Memorial, behind Lyons Hall, will be located an additional basketball court and two handball courts.
These outdoor student facilities are just the beginning with more scheduled to follow. Responsible in great part for this construction is Dr. John Scannell, head of the physical education depart-
Lawyers Schedule Ball At Country Club Nov. 18
The Notre Dame Student Law Association has scheduled its semi-annual I Law Ball for the evening of Friday, I ^Nov. 18, at the South Bend Country f Club, from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m.
:	Chairman Jack Palmer, a Law School
• senior, is expecting 75 lawyers and their • dates to cavort to the music of a local dance band, which will be selected at a ‘ later date. A second attraction of the , weekend will be the Notre Dame-Iowa football game on Saturday, Nov. 19.
i Men in charge of the various dance * activities are Joe Gallagher, general j manager, and Gene Volk, chairman of ! A the ticket committee. Pat Foley and ‘ Ed Mraz will handle publicity, Paul
Krause and Jim Coryn are in charge of football tickets, Jack Roberts and Otto Hilbert will handle transportation, and Ed White, Jack Rosshirt, and Ned Griffin have been assigned the Blind Date Bureau. Jim Sullivan is in charge of baby-sitting, for the sake of the many potential lawyers who are encamped in Vetville.
The Student Law Association, under the management of President Jack Thornton, sponsors two Law Balls each year, one in the fall and one in the spring.
October 14, 1955
K. of C. AWARD
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus was awarded a plaque at a state-wide meeting in Indianapolis.
The plaque was presented to the Council for placing first in the state of Indiana in the point of insurance membership.
Edward Dowd, of the Indianapolis K. of C. presented the award to James Olin, grand knight of the local Council.
Justice Clark to Preside At Sixth ND Moot Court
Supreme Court Justice Tom C. Clark will be one of three federal judges presiding at the sixth annual Moot Court competition of the Notre Dame Law School, October’ 25, according to an announcement by Dean Joseph O’Meara.
Also hearing the final arguments of a hypothetical case will be Judge Potter Stewart of the U. S. Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, Cincinnati, and Judge W. Lynn Parkinson of the U.S. District Court for Northern Indiana, South Bend.
The four Notre Dame Law students. who are finalists in the campus competition are: Ronald P. Mealey, Ridgewood, N. J.; Edward J. Griffin, Knoxville, Tenn.; William P. Fagan, Newark, N. J.; and Edward F. Broderick, Morristown, N. J.	,
The two students rating first and second in the competition will receive the Manion Award, established in 1950 by Clarence E. Manion, former dean of the Law School. They will also represent the Notre Dame Law School in the regional round of the National Moot Court Competition to be held in Chicago Nov. 17-19.
The Moot Court finals at Notre Dame will be held in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:45 p.m. The public is invited.
But daddy, “When are they going to kill the Christians?”—Voltaire
11
KAMPUS KWIZ’ IN SESSION
Local scholars vie on WSND.
Foreign Trends Topic At World Trade Meet
The department of marketing of the j College of Commerce sponsored its • eighth annual Notre Dame World Trade Conference last Tuesday, under the general chairmanship of Prof. Wesley C. Bender.
“The Next Five Years in World | Trade” was the conference theme. Its -purpose was to develop trends in the { field of foreign trade. Those attending [ received the opportunity to discuss and | exchange ideas concerning this con- : stantly fluctuating field.	:
One of the aims of the conference ‘ was, in the words of Prof. Bender, “To : help stimulate the students’ interest in the broad problems of world trade, and to provide an opportunity for students ’ majoring in foreign trade to meet men i actively engaged in world commerce.”
New 'Kampus Kwix' Dominated by Sorinites; Turn Back Three Foes on ND Panel Program
Assisting in the planning of the conference was the World Trade Committee, composed of: Clarence Ruethling, | assistant vice-president, First National | Bank of Chicago; Martin Plotnick, pres- i ident, Martin Plotnick Co. of Marine J
Do you know how many men there are in the Notre Dame Irish Guard? Or who founded the colony of Georgia?
These are samples of the questions that Al Riley, moderator of WSND’s Kampus Kiviz show has thrown in the first three sessions of the new program.
The idea for the show was an outgrowth of Notre Dame’s competition last year on the ABC Network’s College Quiz Botvl against Mt. Holyoke College. In that engagement the Irish were defeated.
Jerry Hornback, program director of WSND, conceived the show in order to stimulate interest in a question-answer panel show.
On the initial broadcast a Sorin Hall foursome of John Meagher, Jack Crutcher, Pete Keyes, and Bert Millen scored a 610 to 555-point victory over Fisher. They also downed Dillon 640 to 105. This past Tuesday night they defeated four Breen-Phillips scholars by a 585 to 575 count.
As the show gains interest around the campus, Hornback and Riley hope to present a team from St. Mary’s in competition with the local scholars. They also hope to stimulate competition by extending an invitation to groups of South Bend high school students to participate on the program.
Starting last Tuesday with the Sorin-B-P contest which originated from the Student Center Amphitheater, each team was cheered on by a studio audience. This was the first time in the his
12
tory of “The Student Voice of Notre Dame” that live audience participation has been used.
Next Tuesday evening the same Sorin foursome will meet the Morrissey team to continue the battle of the brains.
Bridge Meet Scores Posted; Open Gerity Tourney Sunday
At the weekly duplicate bridge tournament held last Sunday in the Student Center the following pairs compiled the top scores: North-South, John LairdJack Casey; G. G. Meisels-H. R. Heich-elheim; Bob Binder-Ron Vardman; East-West, Pat Bradford-Pat Snyder; Bob Berschinski-Tom Betterton; and Norm Wendrowski-John Turley.
It was announced that one of the Gerity Awards, a desk calendar on green onyx base with suitable engraving, will be put in play beginning this Sunday. The award will go to the pair maintaining the best average in five of the next eight Sunday sessions. Those playing in more than five sessions may discard their low scores. Each member of the winning pair will receive a trophy.
Bridge lessons will be made available in the Student Center beginning next week. Students interested in beginner classes or advanced classes should register with the Manager of the Student Center, or attend the first meeting at 4:30 pan., next Monday in the Center.
Insurance, Chicago; Robert Larracuen-^ ta, president, United Export Corp., South Bend; Manuel Perez, vice-presi- ' dent, Miles Laboratories, Pan-American, I Inc.; C. A. Lott, express manager, I South Bend Lathe Works; J. R. Al- | varez, express manager, Tyler Fixture 1 Co., Niles, Mich.; R. W. Bruce, manager, | Mid-West Division, American President | Lines; Prof. Herbert Bott; Prof. Le ? Clair Eells; and Prof. Thomas Bergin.
The newly established Propeller Club of^ Notre Dame also helped with the ar-W rangements for the conference.
Among former alumni attending were: Robert Riordan, chairman of the morning panel, a former faculty member; R. J. Sadlier, vicerpresident, Johnson & Johnson International; and Charles Collins, vice-president, National Carloading Corp.
I Fl i $
8
THEATRE TICKET SALES
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University Theatre, announced that the Washington Hall box office will be open during the coming week from 2 until 5 p.m. for sales of season tickets for their three productions during the year. Season tickets are priced at $4 for orchestra seats and $2.50 for balcony seats. Students, employees, and faculty members may purchase orchestra seats for $2.50 and balcony seats for $2.
%
The Scholastic
Senate Seeks Capable Student Leadership; Sets Up Undergraduate Training Program
In order to provide more capable leadership in student government and student activities a program of student leadership training has been set up by " the Student Senate.
Commenting on the need of such a leadership training program Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., said, “The value of having active leaders among the student body has been recognized by the Administration. There is a vast pool of men with leadership qualities here at Notre
a.....................................
Senate Elects Murphy To Treasurer Position
Jerry Murphy, AB junior from Peoria, Ill., was elected treasurer of the Student Senate last Monday night at the Senate meeting. He replaces Frank Pedace who resigned two weeks ago.
At the meeting Tom Crehan, Senate _ president, announced the appointment "of men to the various Senate Committees. He also appointed three of the five Student Activities Court judges.
Appointed as chairman of the finance committee was Bill Warren. He will be assisted by Jim Kennedy. Pete Campbell was named chairman of the policy committee. His assistants will be Bob O’Malley and Vic Clesi. The new student welfare chairman is John Gschwind, assisted by Jerry Brady and •Frank Pedace. Named as chairman of the rules committee was Jerry Massey. Phil Agee was appointed chairman of the temporary constitutional committee.
Assisting Agee will be the present members of the stay-Senate. For the present time Agee will also work with Massey and the officers of the Senate on the rules committee. Crehan also appointed Karl Martersteck as parliamentarian.
Named as judges at the meeting were waul Kearney, Jon Konzen, and Joe Mulflur. Kearney will be the chief justice of the Court.
It was also announced at the meeting that at the present time the Senate constitution is being codified.
Dick Lewis, campus clubs commissioner, announced that applications will soon be accepted for club charters. The charters will be issued on a temporary basis until January. At that time permanent charters will be granted to clubs
•vhich meet Senate requirements. These permanent charters can only be lost through a Student Activities Court ruling.	- -
Dame. It is a part of the University’s duty to develop these qualities so that in later years those same men may be competent Christian leaders.”
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident of Student Affairs, also commented on the program, “The concept of training for Christian leadership at Notre Dame is as old as the University itself. In this training for responsible
FATHER HESBURGH, C.S.C. . . . leaders for tomorrow . . .
Christians, the extra-curricular activities of the students have a very important role to play. These activities offer a variety of opportunities for the fostering and developing of responsible leadership and responsible ‘fellowship’ among the students.
“The growth in responsible leadership evidenced by the ever-increasing number of worth-while activities carried on by the various student organizations is a matter of pride to all of us here at Notre Dame.” Chairman of the leadership program is Jerry Murphy.
Last Tuesday evening candidates for all freshman offices met with theii- provisional hall governors and other representatives of student government. The candidates were informed of the duties and responsibilities of the position they seek.
After the elections there will be a special meeting for the elected men. The meeting will further orientate the new officials in regard to their respective jobs. Lectures will be held to augment the meetings with the purpose to acquaint them with the various phases of administrative procedure.
The final goal in the program is the
establishment of a civil service for student government. The men participating in the program will form a corps from which Senate appointments will be made.
“This year we are going to emphasize actual working in leadership in place of lectures,” says Murphy. “This change from the theoretical to the practical should be more beneficial not only to the students themselves, but to campus government as well.”
Invite Upperclassmen To Enter IRC Ranks
An invitation to apply for membership in the International Relations Club has been extended to all sophomores, juniors, and seniors. The club welcomes all students interested in current affairs and willing to discuss these topics.
Acting as moderator of the IRC this year is Leopoldo Corbaci, of the de- . partment of economics, who succeeds John J. Kennedy of the department of political science. Tom Mullen, finance major, is the club president.
Included in this year’s program are occasional meetings and joint meetings with St. Mary’s College. The club will also send delegates to the regional and national conventions of the International Relations Clubs.
Topics for study and discussion at club meetings are completely open to the choice of the members. At each meeting one student presents a paper concerning some problems or phase of international relations in which he is particularly interested. Following the paper, discussion is open to all members.
Address all applications to Membership Chairman Joe Joyce, 130 Dillon, before Oct. 24.
WSND Says Jill Corey May Appear Here Soon
There has been an indication from the office of Pat McCarten, WSND station manager, that Miss Jill Corey, popular young recording star, may visit the campus in the near future.
Miss Corey is presently featured on W[SND every Monday through Friday at 10:30 p.m. Old Gold Time With Jilt. Corey is transcribed especially for collegiate radio stations throughout the: country.
“Miss Corey’s appearance will be a facet of a concentrated effort on the part of our station to bi-ing top-notch recording stars to the campus for ‘live’ shows,” said McCarten. “Since we began Jill’s 15 minute show this October, the response to her particular style has been tremendous.”
13
October 14, 1955
Applications Due Nov. 15 For Club Charters; Commissioner Will Serve in Advisory Post
Campus Clubs Commissioner Dick Lewis has set Nov. 15 as the final date for all applications for charters by both new and established clubs on campus. All clubs are to register their officers at the Senate office in the Student Center as part of the application for the charter. Clubs without a charter are not allowed to meet.
Applications for charters will be ready by Oct. 15. Clubs will then function until January, when the charters will be reviewed. Charters granted at that time will be of a permanent nature. Such charters cannot be revoked unless the student government proves that the club has failed to accomplish the task for which it was instituted.
Presidents of all campus clubs should
Police to Crack Down On Student Hitchhikers
As a result of negligence on the part of Notre Dame students in conforming
to a city ordinance, a change in South Bend policy for hitchhiking announced by the University and South Bend Police Department week.
the
•was the last
Previously, the city of South Bend had allowed hitchhiking within the city limits if the person seeking the ride remained on the sidewalk and did not interfere with traffic. The present policy, as stated by the Motor Vehicle laws of the state of Indiana, will prohibit all hitchhiking under penalty of severe fines by the civil authorities. Under such conditions the student apprehended for “hitching a ride” will be booked by the city police and his fingerprints will be sent to Washington, D. C., as part of his permanent record.
University policy, as defined in the Student Manual, calls for a proportionate penalty for hitchhiking in the area of the University.
This change in South Bend law was brought to the attention of the University in a letter from Richard Gillen, chief of police. Among other points in the letter were reports of ride-seeking students blocking the street and piling into cars that slowed down to turn a corner.
According to Rev. Charles I. McCar-ragher, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, the University has not been in favor of students hitchhiking from the downtown district. Certain cases which might have been injurious to the physical and moral welfare have been brought to the attention of the University.
submit their own names and that
of
their club to the Senate office as soon as possible, in order that a Clubs’ Advisory Board, composed of club presidents, may be elected.
Clubs formed after Nov. 15 can apply for a charter which, if approved, will be granted at a later date.
To form a new club, a group must organize, write a constitution, and apply for a charter. A constitution will be available to all clubs as a reference guide.
The Senate has nothing to do with a club’s internal policy. The Commissioner plans to set up a movie booking agency for all of the clubs, and to begin a training program for members of each club in the use of movie projectors, which are owned by the Student Senate and rented to the clubs at a reduced rate.
Other plans include the inauguration of an activities calendar containing all club meeting dates and events, and the classification of all clubs according to purpose. Inter-club events are to be vigorously promoted, especially among the smaller clubs.
This is the first year of the existence of a separate post of campus clubs commissioner. Previously this position was held by a student Senator. The
I
ENGINEERS, SCIENCE MAJORS
A representative of the Du Pont Company will be on this campus
October 21
to interview Bachelor and Master degree candidates majoring in
Chemistry
Chemical Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Contact your placement office for an interview appointment
<p®>
■rs.u.s..*T.orr-
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
purpose of this post is, as Lewis stated, “To coordinate and advise all clubs, to act as a link between them and the Senate, and to advise the Senate as to the 1 needs and desires of the campus clubs.”
Gen. Sarnoff Presents ND
With Colored TV
Brig. Gen. David A. chairman of the Radio America and a leading radio and television
Receiver ij
Sarnoff, board
Corporation of • pioneer in the I industry, has
donated a 21-inch RCA Victor color television set to the university. The set has been installed in the Student Center’s recently dedicated Smith Amphitheater.
General Sarnoff was here at Notre Dame to receive a honorary Doctor of Science degree and to deliver the major address at a special exercise marking the dedication of WNDU-TV.
Official announcement of the Sarnoff
<

gift was made this past week by Rev.
James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice president for student affairs and by Center Man- j
agei' Mike Wade. The new color receiver was installed Thursday afternoon, Oct. 6, and the first program viewed on
3
3
it was the “Shower of Stars” production j that evening.
Although the set is designed for black W and white viewing as well as color re- t ception, the receiver will be used, tern- J porarily at least, for only color telecasts. [ The center managers are the only ? authorized persons designated to adjust f the tuning mechanism on the new set. j
I z I i V s ?
1
14
The Scholastic
^oliA
europe a la
Senior Robert Miller returns to the Scholastic staff this year after a hectic year in Vienna. According to the tale he tells Father Sheedy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, he studied hard at the University there, but somehow he seems to have managed to hit a phenomenal number of countries and cities on and around the Continent.
/ft Jto*	4c M/Jty 9/9
15
the purpose of entertainment*
In this column two weeks ago, some convincing things were said about popular music. The article challenged the caliber of the numerous pop tunes being composed today, and concluded that most of what is passed off as music is nothing more than irritating confusion.
Some may say this is only one man’s opinion, and that an equally valid argument can be made in the other direction. This may or may not be so. What I think is more important, however, is the question that is raised about the purpose of entertainment.
This question has particular importance in. a large mass culture such as ours. In a society enjoying more and more leisure time, this question of entertainment becomes highly relevant.
Let’s take the case of movies. Here is a form of entertainment solidly entrenched in the American way of life, and indeed, one of the most gigantic businesses in this country. Hundreds of movies are produced yearly, and as they try to keep telling us, “movies are better than ever.”
Movies are made in such a way that they appeal to as wide an audience as possible. Producers try to determine the great common denominator of the American mentality, and proceed to direct their work at this level.
There is nothing wrong in this, to be sure. The great Greek dramatists always took a story well known to the citizens, and then molded their plot around this. It is commonly known that Shakespeare wrote with the common man in mind, and he admitted quite frankly he wrote plays in order to make money.
There is nothing reproachable in gearing entertainment to a mass audience. But there is something to be said against placing before the public entertainment that is nothing but a trick, a delusion.
I think it is precisely this that characterizes so much present-day cinema. Audiences are led to think they are being entertained, when in reality they are only being duped.	.
The tricks employed by movie producers are many. And it must be granted some of them are clever. CinemaScope, stereophonic sound, “filmed in the wilds of Africa,” “five years in the making,” “cast of thousands”—these are a few examples of the enticements offered.
The movie-goer is drawn into the theater on the basis of such claims (and is often driven out by the very same ones). He sits through two hours of something “gigantic,” “unbelieveable,” and “shockingly real,” though he is often at a loss to say what this something was.
We are witnessing in our day a great emphasis on the “Spectacle,” with little attention paid to the plot, the dialogue, or the characterizations. The technical excellence of movies today is unsurpassed, while their artistic and esthetic perfection is lamentably weak.
This is unfortunate, since we now possess the mechanical know-how to produce first rate works of art.
Movies appeal to the great desire to escape from the hum-drum of the workaday world. They provide a diversion from things more immediate and pressing. This is all good, since any form of legitimate entertainment necessarily has this character.
But the problem is precisely in this: Where are movies taking people in their desire to escape and find diversion? Into a world of genuine sensibilities and human experiences, or into some utterly unreal and false cave, wherein lurk the twin monsters of absurdity and confusion?
If movies are to be a genuine form of entertainment, they will have to do more than simply rely on the spectacular and extravagant. These externals will never compensate for the much more fundamental demands of plot, dialogue, and character.
If these are abandoned for the sake of something pretentious that will catch the eye, then movies do not entertain at all, but simply contribute to the superficiality of today’s mass culture.
The problem of art and entertainment
in a mass culture is a very thorny one. Producers are dubious about making^ really good works of art for the simple^ reason that they may not sell.
And yet the more they attempt to satisfy the interests of the common man, the more inferior becomes the art. And the saddest fact is that elevating man as Greek tragedy did, only immerses him more deeply in his own mediocrity.
The answer to this is not developing a stuffy intellectualism in entertainment. This kind of snobbish hypocrisy does — more harm than good.	q
An art based on the feelings and sensibilities common to the public is still possible. This does not demand some sort of shabby compromise of principle.
But it does demand a greater realization that all men, no matter who they are, are interested in what is real and
genuine, and not hollow.—Richard
THE SOUTH Edwin Hammes
in what is false and C. Clark.
Concerts*
BEND SOMPHONY, conducting, opens its
season at 4 p.m. Sunday in John Adams Auditorium with Van Cliburn as piano soloist. He will perform Tchaikovsky’s Concerto in B-flat Minor. The orchestra will present a Haydn symphony.
Lectures
HISTORY—Prof. Carlton Hayes will conclude his lecture series next week*^' speaking on “History and the Humanities” Monday, “History, Science, and Religion” Wednesday, and “Is Clio a Lost Lady” Friday. The lectures are at 4:30 p.m. in 104 O’Shaughnessy.
Exhibits
ART—Peruvian pottery display continues in the University Art Gallery, O’Shaughnessy Hall. Hours, 2-5 weekdays.
SCIENCE—Exhibits in all branched of science began today and will continue tomorrow in 244 Nieuwland Science
The Scholastic
20
Hall. They are in conjunction with the Junior Indiana Academy of Science, meeting today and tomorrow on campus.
Sessions
. The 71st annual meeting of the In-j diana Academy of Science is being held •j today and tomorrow on campus. Infl -^eluded are seminars and technical ses-i Wsions on anthropology, bacteriology, bot-K any, chemistry, entomology, geology, y physics, psychology, zoology, and plant taxonomy. The places, Nieuwland Sci-1 ence Hall and the Biology Building.
&adio-TV Highlights
WSND (640 k.c.)
Around Town, 12:30 tomorrow; No-1 ^L,re Dame vs. Michigan State, 1:30 to. morrow; Ave Maria Hour (life of St. / Jane Frances de Chantel), 12:30 Sunday; The World This Week, 8 p.m. Sunday; Boston Pops, 9:30 p.m. Sunday; Kampus Kwiz (Sorin vs. Morrissey), 8:30 p.m. Tuesday; Front Office, 7:15 p.m. Thursday; Meet Your Opponents (Purdue), 5:30 Friday.
Afternoon Concert (3:30 weekdays) and Invitation to Music (6 p.m. week-^lays) feature classical music.
: -.Showtime (1:30 weekdays and 9 p.m. Sunday) features Till the Clouds Roll By Sunday. The Student Prince Monday, The King and I Tuesday; Bloomer Girl Wednesday, Oklahoma Thursday, and Good News Friday.
WNDU (1490 k.c.—ABC)
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 1:30 tomorrow; Football Final, 10 p.m. to-Jfcnorrow; Tex Beneke, 1:15 Sunday; Sa-<:red Heart Program, 8:15 p.m. Sunday; Hour of the Crucified, 9:15 p.m. Sunday; Voice of Firestone, 7:30 p.m. Monday; Rhythm on Parade, 8:30 p.m. Thursday.
Out of the Sack, 6 a.m. to 7:30 a.m., Monday through Saturday. Paul Harvey News, noon, Monday through Friday; 8 p.m. Sunday. Concert Minia-j tures, 1:15 p.m. Monday through Friday.
j ♦ WNDU-TV (46, NBC)
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 1:30 tomorrow; Perry Como, 7 p.m. toI morrow; Your Hit Parade, 9:30 p.m. tomorrow; The Catholic Hour, 12:30 Sunday; Wide, Wide World, 3 p.m. Sunday; TV Playhouse, 8 p.m. Sunday; Producers’ Showcase (Cyrano de Ber-i gerac), 7 till 8:30 p.m. Monday; ND-i MSU Filmed Highlights, 8:30 p.m. Monday; Fireside Theatre, 8 p.m. Tuesday;
। ^Screen Directors’ Playhouse, 7 p.m. '^©Vednesday; Greatest Pro Football High-|lights, 10:30 p.m. Wlednesday; Ford I Theatre, 8:30 Thursday.
I October 14,1955
1
Movies
AVON
The Dam Busters (ends Tuesday); A-l; Warner (British); R. Todd-M. Redgrave —A noisy war drama of men dedicated to country who fly out to destroy strategic German dams. Strictly a man’s movie.	-
The Shrike (begins Wednesday for 10 days) ; A-2; Universal; J. Ferrer-J. Allyson —A serious, intense, dramatic screen study of a man caught in a mental web with his estranged wife as the spider. Brilliant performances made it one of the year’s most awarded movies. A rare psychopathic treat.
GRANADA
To Hell and Back (continues two more weeks); A-2; Universal; CinemaScope; color; A. Murphy-M. Thompson—The gripping story of Audie Murphy, hero of World War II, and his war on a drudging, personal basis with its very human heroism, sentimentality, pathos, and absence of sensational military might. From the heart and to the heart.
PALACE
The Bar Sinister (ends tomorrow); A-2; MGM; CinemaScope; color; J. Richards-J. Lewis—The story of a dog’s life during hard times on the Bowery as told through the eyes, ears, and mouth of the dog. It’s different, anyway. Svengali, colorful and classic, tops the main attraction by a long way. A really fine British movie.
Footsteps in the Fog (Sunday through Wednesday); A-2; S. Granger-J. Simmons —A venture into horror in the grand manner with sets and photography used expertly to present brooding evil in a somber London of the early 1900’s. A near classic jolter. Special Delivery, a pleasant comedy-drama about a foundling baby in a U. S. embassy behind the Iron Curtain is the co-hit.
Stage Show (Thursday only) features Chuck (Maybelline) Berry and his trio, Buddy Johnson, the Nutmegs, Arthur Prysock, the Four Fellows (Soldier Boy), AI Savege, the Spaniels (Goodnight, Sweetheart), Ella Johnson, and Queenie Owens in a “Rock and Roll” attraction. Cesar Romero in Shadoiv Man is the film offering.
RIVER PARK
A Prize of Gold (ends tomorrow); B; Columbia; color; R. Widmark-M. Zetterling —A trivial love story and a plot for larceny on a grand scale, brings everybody to a bad end. A big nothing. The End of the Affair, the co-hit, outranks its companion feature with a generally absorbing, toned-down-translation of Graham Green’s novel.
The Kentuckian (Sunday through Tuesday); B; United; CinemaScope; color; B. Lancaster-D. Foster—A knowing account of frontier days in Kentucky filled with authentic pioneer touches of manners and morals. It’s disappointing. House of Bamboo, presents a high melodrama set in modern Japan.
The Little Fugitive (Wednesday only); A-2; Burstyn; Richie Andrusco—An art film that is a simple but amusing and moving tale of a little Brooklyn boy’s adventures at Coney Island. Its great appeal is the usual candid quality of its sevenyear-old star. Well worth it.
East of Eden (Thursday through next Saturday); A-2; Warner; CinemaScope; color; J. Harris-J. Dean—The recent death of young Jimmy, whose brilliant potential was first displayed in this movie, brings Eden back to town. Fine directing makes it dramatically powerful, sincere, and compelling. Fitting epitaph. The Son of Belle Starr is the detracting West era melodrama co-feature.
STATE
Bob Mathias Story (today and tomorrow); A-l; Allied; B. Mathias-W. Bond— The life of the hero-athlete who won the Olympic Decathlon twice, his home setting, personal life, and moments of glory. A sports classic. Relentless, a real oldie, is the cohit.
The Last Command (Sunday through Tuesday); A-l; Republic; color; S. Hayden-A. M. Alberghetti—A well-built, rapid, actionful account of the Battle of the Alamo, simplifying the complicated events leading up to the legend of heroism, which legend comes in for its expected amount of exploitation a la Davy Crockett. A solid production. The Kentuckian makes a twin South Bend appearance as the co-hit.
Killer Bait and Boys Prison (Wednesday and Thursday) are strictly filler material.
WASHINGTON HALL
Hansel and Gretel (6:40 and 8:25); A-l; Myerberg; color; A. Russell-M. Dun-nock—One of the world’s most famous, popular, and delightful folk tales comes to the screen via a new and fascinating technique—electrically controlled animated puppets. You’ll be surprised.
21
‘a dialogue socrates on football
——;
by William M. Malloy	i
$TERMS:
Football: the divination of the spiritual into the things of sense.
Principle: football imitates nature by natural selection.
Socrates: who meets his friends early one Sunday morning by his recently finished sculpture of a bust of Io, the greyeyed goddess of cows.
Hercules: a friend of Socrates.
Simplicio: a friend.
SOC: We are gathered here by your request so as to learn the nature of football. Would you say that was a fair statement of the purpose of our gathering, Hercules?
HER: W,hat do you mean, Socrates?
SOC: I mean that we are here to consider the nature of football and what are its effects on those that participate in it, whether by playing, the most noble, or by teaching it, which is second in nobility, or by watching, which is ignoble ... is that not true Hercules?
HER: I still do not understand.
SOC: And now, Simplicio, would you consider football an art such as painting oi- sculpture, or rather as a skill such as gymnastics and warfare?
SIMP: What?
SOC: Would you consider football a skill or an art?
SIMP: Truly, Socrates, I would consider football a skill. What would you consider it?
SOC: For my part I do not know. But if it is agreeable with you I should like to question you about it, rather than be questioned and for this reason: that I do not know much about the subject, but rather do I wish to learn. However, because you have asked me, I say that football is, in my opinion, neither a skill nor an art but rather a kind of knowledge and is concerned with knowing.
SIMP: Knowledge?
HER: Knowledge?
SOC: Please, Hercules! Now then, what do you say is the good of football?
HER: To win, Socrates!
SOC: Exactly. And is it not the man who has the most knowledge that wins the game, or is it the man that has the strongest body, or what do you say? ■ SIMP: Both, Socrates; it takes a strong body also; I mean you take some people, they only think that the mind is important and they go around telling everybody about how. . .
SOC: Stick to the point, Simplicio,
October 14, 1955
the important thing is the knowledge, for it is through knowledge that. . . .
SIMP: I am sticking to the point!
The body is also important.
SOC: It is not!
SIMP: Listen here, I suppose you can play a game of. . .
SOC: You’re crazy.
SIMP: You wanna bet?
SOC: How much?
SIMP: Anything you want.
SOC: Perhaps, Simplicio, you are tired and would like to rest a bit while Hercules takes your side for you. And now, Hercules, would you say that a team that knows the other team’s plays has a very good chance to win?
HER: What do you mean, Socrates?
SOC: By the powers, Hercules, who has the better chance to win; the team that knows what the other- team is going to do or the team that doesn’t?
HER: The former.
SOC: And this is true because of knowledge?
HER: I think, Socrates, that this is true.
SOC: Then they will win because of knowledge?
HER: Yes.
SOC: Then football is concerned with knowledge. And now, are you acquainted with the way football came about? Perhaps you know the myth.
HER: No, Socrates, we do not know it, but would be delighted to hear it.
SOC: Of course. Well, it seems that (so my uncle said), after the Demiurge bent the Great Animal into shape
the seven unequal circles around the earth grew discontented. They took it upon themselves to wander over the earth in search of adventure. Now when they got here they split themselves three times, three being the perfect number-divisible only by itself and unity. The first of the three sevens became the first line, and these combined with our four-elements as the backfield and thus, the first football team. This was done in respect to the earth, for, after all, it was her territory. But the other two sevens j'oined together and made the second football team for they lacked respect for the changing elements as they were of the unintescence and did not change.
HER: But two sevens are fourteen,
(Continued on page 31)
23
by John Quagliano
John Quagliano, from Brooklyn, Neiv York, is a junior in the general science course. He has decided, at the urging of prominent scientists and science teachers, to forsake the field of research and make his way in the jungle of advertising. His first publication in the SHOWCASE, John feels that “The Hard Way” may be a pump-primer to an outpouring of similarly lackluster literature.
Norman Wends was a dreamer. That’s really not so bad, though. Every college joe has some dream or other. Maybe they want to get a home-cooked meal at the dining hall, or make the football team, or marry a St. Mary’s girl. Some might even want to graduate Magna Cum Laude.
But Norman’s dream was something special for, you see, he wanted to be a brain surgeon. He could see himself now, his cold eyes glaring from above the bandage-tight face mask at the patient that only he could cure; the pretty nurse ready to hand the gleaming instruments. . . . Oh, you’ve seen the movie, too.
From the looks of things, it wasn’t going to turn out that way, though. You see, Norman Wends was a pre-med freshman who wasn’t going to study.
One afternoon in early October, Wends found himself in a second-hand Chicago bookstore. He was browsing when he chanced upon a little volume that had slipped behind the row of books on the shelf. There was no telling how long it had been there but it was thickly covered with the dust of decades, badly scuffed and water-stained. The binding was faded to that nondescript muckle-dun which only a really old book can hope to attain. A mouse had lined its nest with a generous portion of antique paper from one of the corners and the ancient buckram of the binding had peeled away in places. It had a musty odor that was quite indescribable so there is not much point in trying to describe it.
Norm peered at the cover; couldn’t make out a thing, and turned to the title page, holding it close to his myopic eyes. Painfully, he vocalized the archaic script of the title, stumbling over the unfamiliar spelling:
the hard way
“Ye compenndyum of fpellf and charmf for ye fummoning of Daemonf and Impf and fitchlike creaturef of ye Pitt as compiled by Charlemagne von Kendrick, Highe forceror to Hif Gra-ciouf Majefty, Wilhelm I.”
Down at the bottom of the page, the date: 1671!
Norman Wends trembled so violently that he almost dropped the book. A cloud of fine dust arose from it and made him sneeze. His thick horn-rimmed glasses wobbled on his stubby nose. He fought to gain control of himself but there was a decided bob to his adam’s apple as he approached the proprietor.
Fortunately, that gentleman was deep in the arcane calculations of choosing a three-horse parlay from the next day’s lineup at Santa Anita.
“How, uh ... , how much for the old book?”
Norman managed a fair note of indifference, hoping against hope that the price wouldn’t run to more than the 78 cents he had on him. What if someone else were to come in and recognize it for the alltime bargain that it so obviously was? Oh, perish the thought!
“Huh?” grunted the bookseller. “Ahh . . . take it for a buck.”
“Give yah fifty cents for it.”
The man grunted again, anxious to return to the calculations on the relative velocity of the various nags.	‘
“Sev’nyfi’ sense!” he articulated around the cold, acrid stub of his cigar.
Norman Wends counted out the nickels and dimes and pennies with palsied fingers, dropping a few and scrabbling about for them in the dust beneath the book-racks. He slid the remaining three cents into the pocket of his splashed sportcoat, grabbed the book and headed for the door.	!
“Hey!”	'
Wends’ heart lost the beat. He had
bobbled it.
“Huh?”
“Yah forgodda salestax.”
“Here you are.” ’
“You want it wrapped.”
“No. I’m going to read it on the South Shore.”	.
He ran, as fast as his white bucks W could carry him, for six blocks, before he settled down to a hasty walk—puffing like a senior at the Rock. He still couldn’t believe that the book was his. There must be something in the book that would get him through school without any of that studying nonsense.
* * *
Back in his room at school, after night check, the door locked and the . shades tightly drawn, he hunched over the book, tediously spelling out words. The mouse had nibbled enough from the corner to effectively censor all but the very last spell in the book. This was entitled “Fpell to fummon Ye Talented Young Giante, The Wifh Granter.” But Norman didn’t mind. He didn’t want to demolish enemies or win at scrabble. All he wanted was for a demon to grant him three wishes.
He had a tough time getting all the O materials together. The worst was the mould from the mummy-wrappings, but the dried bat’s-bladder wasn’t much easier. There wasn’t any in the Zoo lab. Have you ever tried to buy bat’s-bladder (dried) at the Walgreen’s drugstore? The looks they give you. . .
But he was spurred on by the chance to fulfill his life’s dream and he managed somehow. At last every single thing specified was at hand in ample supply. He’d even made up a special stick of chalk in chem lab according to the magic w formula in the book, at the expense of flunking three lab tests. After weeks of hunting and preparation, he was worn out. but soon he could loll in the sack.
With the chalk, he carefully drew the pentagram on his roommate’s rug. He touched fire to the mixture of powders with the cigarette he’d just grabbed and squatted back on his hunkers to recite the incantations he’d practiced so faith-1 fully. . .
In the days to follow he was to do 04 this hundreds of times . . . but nothing ^1 ever came of it except a few pink slips I in the mail.	I
The Scholastic ■
24
S(XM
SPARTAN VETERANS LOOKING FOR IRISH SCALPS
Tackle Norm Masters, Capt.-Guard “Buck” Nystrom, Quarterback Earl Morrall, and Fullback Jerry Planutis.
•Notre Dame Risks Perfect Slate Against MSU
Nation's TV Eyes Focused on East Lansing As Irish Battle Spartans in Game of Week by JIM GOETHALS
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish invade ♦ East Lansing tomorrow where they will encounter the revitalized Michigan State Spartans before an overflow crowd of s-«ne 52,0C0 at Macklin Field Stadium. . The entire nation will view this great , grid classic color-televised from coast to. coast over NBC’s “Game of the ; Week.” Kickoff time will be 2 p.m., EST. ! The Notre Dame-Michigan State ;	rivalry began way back in 1897, and
!	since then the Irish have built up a 16-
l 5 -advantage. But in recent years, the ; Spartans have gained much respect from |i Notre Dame, whipping them in 1951, 19-'I 52, and again in 1953 to earn the longest | current winning streak against the Irish, j However, last year the Brennan charges ! avenged the losses with a 20-19 victory.
To date, the Fighting Irish are unbeaten, untied, and unscored upon. They I smashed SMU 17-0, Indiana 19-0, and managed to overpower an experienced Miami crew 14-0 last Friday night to
extend their overall winning streak to eleven straight games. The Irish would like nothing better than to convert Michigan State into their twelfth victim.
Coach “Duffy” Daugherty’s squad, on the other hand, has won two and lost
one. They ripped Indiana 20-13 in the season opener but were stopped by powerful Michigan 14-7 the following week. Last Saturday the Spartans recovered in impressive fashion to romp over a touted Stanford team in an intersectional dual, 38-14.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
MICHIGAN STATE NOTRE DAME
Lewis .......... LE	.... Prendergast
Masters ________ LT	  Edmonds
Robinson ....... LG	  Bisceglia
Badaczewski .... C ....    Mense
Nystrom (C.) — RG _______ Gaydos
Haidys ......... RT	(C.).. Lemek
Hinesly ........ RE	  Kapish
Morrall.......QB ....... Hornung
Kowalczyk.......LH _______ Lewis
Peaks .......... RH....... Morse
Planutis ......_FB .... Schaefer
Kickoff—2 p.m. EST
Radio—WSBT TV—WNDU-TV
Tomorrow against Notre Dame, the Spartans, as in past years, will employ their “Munn system” offense which essentially is a blend of the single wing and tight T formations. This system has earned the reputation of being the most complex in college football today. This multiple offense was first successful with Michigan State’s former “pony field” which gained national honors for them a few years back.
Bossing this diversified offense will be veteran Quarterback-passer Earl Morrall. He is an excellent ball handler and a sharp passer. To prove his ability, Morrall almost single-handedly stopped Stanford last Saturday when he completed three of four passes for 96 yards and a touchdown, while toting the pigskin across himself for another.
Filling the shoes of the graduated All-American Leroy Bolden very ably at the right halfback slot is triple-threat Clarence Peaks. According to Coach Daugherty, “Peaks can do anything.”
Last season, Peaks led the Spartans in nishing with an average of better than seven yards per- try on 45 carries. However, his talents are not confined to just running. He has proven himself to be a fine blocker, a powerful kicker, a fixture at safety on defense, and a fairly good passer. Now only a junior, he has All-American potential.
Walt Kowalczyk, who was named the outstanding frosh prospect last year by State, will start at right halfback. He
25
October 14,1955
has great speed, power, and savvy in addition to being a defensive standout.
At fullback will be rugged, hard-running Jerry Planutis. Planutis has plenty of speed and due to his spinning, faking and sure-fingered ball handling, he fits well into the Spartans multiple offense unit. In addition to these talents, he is their extra point specialist. The husky vet compiled a creditable 4.5 rushing average last year and has been pegged by experts as the most underrated football player in the entire Big Ten.
John “Big Thunder” Lewis and Jim Hinesly will man the end positions for MSU. Lewis, the colossal left end, snagged ten passes for four touchdowns last season. Utilizing his size, he can really ramble with the ball. Hinesly, the speedy, deceptive right end has a pair of good hands and rarely misses one coming his way. He is the favorite target of Morrall.
Nystrom,—Three Year Regular
Capt. Carl Nystrom, the “take charge guy” and fiery leader of the squad, will occupy the right guard post. Nystrom moves well on offense and is a rock in the center of the line on defense. He was shifted to the line two years ago from fullback due to a brisk blocking ability and toughness on defense. Embry Robinson, another rugged performer, will start at left guard.
Burly Tackle Norm Masters looms as the top lineman on State’s squad and the best Spartan bet for All-American and All-Big Ten honors.
“He’s potentially the best tackle we’ve had at State since Don Coleman,” Coach Daugherty claims. Masters at 225 ’ pounds is the biggest man on the MSU line and the heaviest Spartan tackle in years. But despite his size, he has speed, making himself an asset on both offense and defense.
Holding down the first string right tackle post will be Leo Haidys, while Joe Badeczewski, a two year veteran will operate at center, rounding out the Spartan starting lineup for tomorrow.
Irish Tame Hurricanes
The Irish remained undefeated as they took to the air for a 14-0 win over Miami last Friday night before a capacity crowd of 75,685 fans in the Orange Bowl at Miami.
The win gave the Irish their third win of the season and their eleventh in a row under Coach Terry Brennan. The Irish have yet to be scored upon this season.
Quarterback Paul Hornung again led Notre Dame as he threw two fourthdown touchdown passes for the game’s only scores. The first came in the second period when the Irish, starting from
26
their own 39, marched to a first down on the Hurricane 15. With fourth down and four, Hornung fired a pass to Gene Kapish in the end zone for 6 points. Don Schaefer converted and the Irish led 7-0 at the end of the first half.
Midway through the third period, Captain Ray Lemek recovered a Hurricane fumble on the Miami 34. Notre Dame’s ground attack faltered and again on fourth down Paul Hornung stepped
CLARENCE ‘HI’ PEAKS
From “Ponies” to "Mountains.”
back and lofted a 30 yard pass to the 2 where Aubrey Lewis snared it and stepped into the end zone with the second Irish score. Schaefer’s conversion made it 14-0. In the fourth period, a clipping penalty nullified another Irish score by Jimmy Morse who intercepted a Hurricane pass and raced 65 yards down the sidelines to paydirt.
The Irish victory was sparked by the clutch passing of Paul Hornung, the consistent running of Fullback Don Schaefer, and the brilliant defensive line the Irish threw at Miami whenever the Hurricanes got inside the 15. Hornung completed 5 passes in 13 attempts while throwing for two touchdowns. Schaefer again led the Irish ground attack as he crashed for 69 yards in 17 attempts. Most of Miami’s yardage was via the air route as Hurricane quarterbacks completed 12 out of 13 passes. In total yards gained, the Irish outcharged their opponents by 8 yards. However, the Irish were penalized 95 yards.
Sailors Take Opener; Next Regatta Sunday
The Notre Dame Sailing Club opened its season two weeks ago winning the Wisconsin Invitational at Madison, Wis. The Irish scored 72 out of a possible 80 points in the ten race meet. Wisconsin placed second with 61% points [ and Marquette was third with 57 points.^ T’ Other teams in the regatta were: I Wayne, Washington, Purdue, De Paul, and Illinois Institute of Technology. i
Members of the Sailing Club who 'j made the trip were: Ron Meissner, Mike Murray, Pete Raffetto, John Brandt, Lou Morgan, Ray Nelson, Bernie D’AI- I; meida, Harry Murphv, and Mike Crowe. r
Diamond Lake, near Cassapolis, Mich., -a '! will be the scene of a round-robin sail-^ f ing meet sponsored by Notre Dame this Sunday afternoon. Teams entered be- f sides the Irish are: Northwestern, Chicago, De Pauw, Purdue, and Indiana. The N.D. Sailing Club will furnish the crafts for the competition.
The Club will travel to Ohio State, Oct. 22, and to Purdue, Nov. 5, for other : meets. The Midwestern Post Season j Finals will take place at Ohio State,, a i Nov. 25-27. The Irish squad placed third^ 1 behind Cincinnati and Ohio Wesleyan in the post season finals last year.
Three new MIT Tech-Dinghy boats have been obtained by the Sailing Club. The boats were purchased with the proceeds from this year’s summer storage which was handled by the club.
Officers of the club are: Ray Nelson, commodore; Bob Sayant. vice-commodore; Pete Raffetto, fleet captain;-^ Giles Gallant, secretary; and Ron Meis-^ sner, treasurer.
Freshman tryouts and intra-club regattas are held every Sunday, except when a meet is scheduled, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at St. Joseph’s Lake. Jack Sheehy, publicity director of the club, has invited all freshmen interested in joining the Sailing Club to be present at these meets or to attend the club’s weekly meetings held in Room 209 of the Engineering Building on Wednesday nights.	j
Thurn Wins Golf Tourney Defeating Grace, Syron
Finishing with a 74, Charlie Thurn won the University Golf Tournament with a score of 288. Joe Grace and Lloyd Syron followed Thurn with totals of 289 and 290, respectively.
Thurn coupled rounds of 74-68-72, along with his closing 74, for his even^ par 288. Last year’s winner, Tom Gar- । side, finished with 305, 17 strokes behind 1 the winner.	I
The Scholastic
^Harriers Face MSU After Double Victory
Navy Continues Undefeated, Unscored Upon To Loom as Stumbling Block in Irish Path
Running in a rather unusual “double” dual meet in Chicago, Notre Dame’s
by JACK GRADY
cross country team opened its season last Saturday with victories against the University of Chicago Track Club.
Bill Squires and Dick DeCamillo finished in a dead heat running the four miles in the time of 20:59.5, to pace Notre Dame to its double win. Other Notre Dame finishers in that order were: Ed Monnelly, Capt. Jim Daly and Dale Vandenberg.
The Irish beat Chicago University 15-48 and the-Chicago Track Club 23— 34. The track club, boasting some very ^fine runners, placed second in last year’s National A AU meet.
With one victory under their belt the Irish will journey to East Lansing tomorrow to take on the Michigan State harriers. Spartan Coach Karl Schla-deman is very happy about the crosscountry situation there. He has a potent one-two punch in the persons of Henry Kennedy and Selwyn Jones. Both these men are Canadians and were members hif Canada’s British Empire Games Team.
Kennedy, predicted by many to pace MSU to Big Ten, ICAA and NCAA titles, has run the fastest four miles ever turned by a State athlete—19:42.2. Jones, still in early season form, is a little off this scorching pace.
IRISH DEFENSE REFRIGERATES MIAMI (AP wirephoto)
Mense and Schaefer crush Scarnecchia in 14-0 victory
October 14, 1955
While the Irish were enjoying their easiest Saturday afternoon of the season four of their future opponents were going down to defeat with Michigan State, Navy, and Iowa emerging victorious.
At East Lansing, Michigan State bounced back from last week’s defeat at the hands of Michigan to down a shaky Stanford eleven 38-14. The precision passing of signal-caller Earl Morrall and the running of left half Clarence Peaks, who scored twice, proved too great an obstacle for the Californians. Both teams rolled up 269 yards on the ground but M.S.U. picked up 191 yards through the air by completing seven of eight passes while holding Stanford’s aerial attack to 24 yards. Morrall, having his best afternoon of the season, completed four passes in as many attempts, one a 49-yard payoff pitch to end Johnny Lewis.
Purdue was knocked from the ranks of the unbeaten by Wisconsin by a 9-0 count. Before a homecoming crowd of 45,000 Jim Haluska of Wisconsin completed 14 of 18 pass attempts for a total of 136 yards. The Badger's TD came by virtue of a punt partially blocked by end Jim Reinke. Wisconsin took over on the Boilermakers 35-yard line and
five plays later back Charles Thomas smashed over from the five to make it 6-0 with three minutes left in the half. The Badgers added three points later in the third period by virtue of a 20 yard field goal by Paul Schwaiko.
Lennie Dawson, Purdue’s quarterback, connected on 18 out of 32 pitches for 138 yards but confined his aerial activity for the most part to short lobs left and right and spot passes over the line.
The Midshipmen rolled to their third consecutive win by blanking Pittsburgh 21-0 to remain undefeated, untied, and unscored upon. George Welsh, Navy 160-lb. quarterback divided the running chores among his three other backs and then took pot shots at them through the air to score Navy’s two touchdowns in the second and third quarters. The Middies tallied again in the last quarter after recovering a blocked kick on the Pitt three yard line.
Pennsylvania extended their losing streak to twelve in a row as they went down to defeat before Princeton 7-0, although the Quakers played their best game of the current campaign. Steve Sebo’s men had an 85-yard run nullified and were stopped while knocking at touchdown’s door in the final period. Tommy Morris scored the lone touchdown in the third quarter climaxing a 59-yard drive by the Tigers.
Dick Young hit Tommy Orr with two TD passes in the second quarter to lead Georgia to a 28-7 victory over Noi'th Carolina. North Carolina had jumped to a 7-0 lead in the first quarter without running a play when tackle Jack Maultz-by blocked a punt and end Bill Frye scooped it up and romped 23 yards for a score. It was the Tarheels second defeat in three starts.
A battered and bruised Iowa eleven dumped Indiana for its third straight loss by a 20-6 score. All the scoring was done in the first half of the game as quarterback Ploen threw two payoff passes. Indiana’s tally came in the first quarter on a Milt Campbell to Pat Fell-inger pass play.
Highly ranked Southern California was handed its first defeat in four outings by Washington in a Pacific Coast Conference game at Seattle. Washington scored with six minutes remaining to be played on a play which covered 80 yards, to register the game’s only tally. On his own 20, quarterback Steve Roake threw to end Jim Houston who was hit hard on his own 45 but lateraled to end Corky Lewis who romped the remaining 55 yards to the score.
27
GENE KAPISH
Irish End Scores His First ’55 TD
Time Out . . . for me to answer a couple of questions posed last Sunday by the Sports Editor of a Chicago daily. He wants to know if Notre Dame is really as good as the scores of its first three games.
Irish Ground Attack Rolls Over Opponents
Looking at the statistics of the first three games this season the Irish show a strong all-around defense despite a somewhat mediocre pass defense, and a good, balanced running attack.
Notre Dame has outrushed its opponents 730 to 367 yards, carrying the ball nearly twice as many times, for a 3.8 rushing average. Paul Hornung, Don Schaefer, and Aubrey Lewis have carried the bulk of the load with averages of 5.2, 3.7, and 3.2 yards per try, respectively. Schaefer leads by far in total carries with 56.
It’s a different story in the passing department, however. Irish opponents have thrown 63 passes, completing 31 for 341 yards, more than 2% times as much as Notre Dame has gained through the air. The only bright note here is that Notre Dame has three touchdowns via the air route while holding their opposition scoreless.
The scoring is veiy well balanced with Hornung leading with 15 points. End Gene Kapish and Aubrey Lewis are the two additions to this department, each tallying against Miami. Five others have one touchdown apiece and Schaefer has picked up five evtra points.
SCORING
	TD	PAT	FG	Pts.
Hornung ..		 2	0	1	15
Reynolds ....		 1	0	0	6
Prendergast		 __ 	 _ 1	0	0	6
Morse 			 1	0	0	6
Kapish 			 1	0	0	6
Lewis 			 1	0	0	6
Schaefer 			 0	5	0	5
This editor first throws in some statistics, which I think answer his questions, but anyway—between the three of Miami, the Irish opponents have fumbled nine times and lost the ball seven of those times. And the three foes have completed 31 of 63 passes, to Notre Dame’s nine completions in 30 attempts. Of all the completed passes against the Irish, they are yet to be scored upon. So, oui- friend asks, “How long can this go on? Is Notre Dame really that good or is the luck of the Irish doing it all?”
What I want to know, is there such a thing really as luck? Who would call it luck that the Irish have only completed 30% of their aerials, yet have won three games by shutouts? Yet their opponents have almost a .500 average and no black marks on their side of the score sheet.
I wouldn’t and, in fact, can’t think of this as luck. I’ll call it heads-up ball playing, the
result of many hours on Cartier Field, head knocking and almost endless drilling, tireless drive and the will to win against aerial circuses, bigger lines and “drive” series or what have you. It’s the old story of “If you won’t be beaten ...”
them, SMU, Indiana
The questioning editor saw the game last week and now wants to credit Notre Dame’s wins on the “luck of the Irish.” Well, I think it’s about time that people stopped taking pokes at a bunch of fellows who know nothing but hard work on the football field from Sept. 1 until the end of November.
In the Miami game I wonder if he saw Miami’s amazing “drive” series ' kind of throw a rod. Miami ran most of its ground plays into Notre Dame’s right side, to little avail. Did he happen to see a stubby little guy backing the Irish line on that side? Pat Bisceglia happened, by luck, of course, to smash those drives by Bosseler and the rest of Miami’s fine backs. Sure he did.
No, it’s far from luck that Bisceglia, for one, played a bang-up game both ways. You don’t stop 200 pounds of charging fullback by saying, “I play for the Irish who are traditionally lucky.”
Bisceglia has been in the habit of foiling many backs of all sizes for a couple of years now. The fire-plug guard repeatedly spelled Lemek last year and this season has been in the starting line every game. It’s not luck that^ puts him at the right place time after time, but uncanny savvy. To date he1 has been one of Coach Brennan’s “take charge” guys.
If it was luck that made Notre Dame win, then it shouldn’t be hard for the other team to get luckier. But I, for one, wouldn’t want to pull on a Michigan State jersey tomorrow afternoon and try my luck. And I don’t think that editor in Chicago would trade his press box pass for a Spartan suit either.
Notre Dame will win as long as they play like Notre Dame—hard, smart, and to win.
* * *
Tomorrow the Irish will probably be facing the toughest test to date up at East Lansing. With around 200 seniors to holler them in, they’ll add another notch on the shillelagh, at the expense of Michigan State, 27-14.—D.D.
28
The Scholastic
The Role of the "Greenies"
by JOE BRIDE
Staunch followers of the football fortunes of the University of Notre Dame realize that 1955 could be a lean year for coach Terry Brennan. The success of Brennan’s second Notre Dame squad would depend largely on the skill and football savvy he could breathe into a group of untested sophomores. Sophomores would have to fill many of the gaps in a line that had been 6/7 graduated and sophomore backs would be in strong positions for the spots vacated by Ralph Guglielmi and Joe Heap.
After three games Notre Dame’s “green” line, with three sophomores in starting roles, has held the opposition to exactly zero points. This “green” line has enabled the Irish backfield, with a sophomore replacement for Heap to scamper for forty eight first downs and 50 points.
Three Sophs in Line
In the line the three sophomores who have received starting assignments, are Dick Prendergast at left end, Ed Sullivan at right tackle, and Bob Gaydos at right guard. Prendergast, a six-two 192 pounder from Homewood, Ill., paced the squad in playing time for the first two games and after the Miami contest ranks only a minute behind team leader, center Jim Mense. In the Indiana game iPrendergast latched onto a Paul Hornung pass for seven yards and a touchdown.
^•Gaydos is a small but rugged guard from Donora, Pa. At the beginning of fall practice he was battling with heavier and more experienced men for the starting right guard position. He won the job as a result of determination and defensive skill. He has been in the starting lineup for each of the three Irish games to date. Bob’s savage de->fensive work at the vital middle guard position is a strong reason that the Irish opponents have not scored. In the Indiana contest, Bob recovered a Hoosier fumble on the seven yard line which led to the second N. D. touchdown.
Ed Sullivan must qualify as the smallest tackle in majoi- college football. He’s six-foot tall and weighs 190 pounds. At the present time he’s the number two right tackle behind Irish captain Ray Lemek. When Lemek was injured in .the SMU contest “Sully” was in the lineup for the remainder of the game and as a result was the starting right tackle in the Indiana tilt. In spring
practice “Sully” was a center, but due to the wealth of material at that position he was shifted to tackle where he was a certainty to see more action.
Centei- Al Francis and Guard Gene Hedrick are the two other sophomore linemen who have appeared on the gridiron this fall. Francis ranks as the number three center and appeared in the opener with SMU. Hedrick is the number two left guai;d behind Pat Bisceglia. “Gino” is the defensive right middle linebacker for the Irish and handles the defensive quarterback chores for the second unit.
In Terry Brennan’s backfield two representatives from the state of New Jersey are the only sophomores who have seen action. Aubrey Lewis from Montclair and Dick Lynch of Clinton have been in the lineup for 149% and 64 minutes of playing time respectively.
Lewis has been the workhorse of the Irish halfbacks and is considered by many to be the top sophomore sensation of this fall. He scored his first touchdown in intercollegiate football against Miami last Friday and his playing time more than doubles that of any other halfback. With 4:45 left in the third quarter and a fourth and nine situation facing the Irish, Lewis faked his way to the Hurricane 2 where he took a
SOPH STARTERS IN BRENNAN’S SECOND YEAR
Bob Gaydos, guard; Aubrey Lewis, halfback; Ed Sullivan, tackle; and Dick Prendergast, end.
Paul Hornung pass and bulled across for the score. Aubrey's outstanding speed is an asset on both offense and defense. He leads the team in pass interceptions with three for 38 yards, and also in kick-off returns with 2 for 58 yards. He ranks third in rashing with 121 yards in 38 attempts for a 3.2 yards-per-carry average.
Lynch Ranks Third
Lynch ranks third in playing time for halfbacks behind Lewis and Jim Morse. He has carried the ball 11 times for 74 yards. ■ This gives a 6.8 yards-per-carry average which is more than enough to earn him the team leadership in that respect. In the Indiana game he entered the line-up early in the first quarter and was a top offensive threat throughout the game, carrying for three first downs, including one 18 yard run.
Three other sophomores who rank high on Coach Brennan’s list are: quarterbacks Harold “Bud” Trapp and Carl Hebert, and fullback Chuck Lima. All three were members of the 39 man traveling squad which made the trip to Miami. Lima was the star of last spring’s Old Timers game, leading both teams in rushing, while playing for the old timers. He has been hampered this fall by a bad knee.
October 14, 1955
29
ENGINEERING SENIORS...
North American Aviation Los Angeles will interview here October 18
Cramming for Exams?
Fight “Book Fatigue” Safely
Your doctor will tell you—a NoDoz Awakener is safe as an average cup of hot, black coffee. Take a NoDoz Awakener when you cram for that exam ...or when mid-afternoon brings on those “3 o’clock cobwebs.” You’ll find NoDoz gives you a lift without a letdown... helps you snap back to normal and fight fatigue safely!
U ..t.35c XToSTi s 98<
Dorms) 60 tablets—
NO^OZ
AWAKENER!
SAFE AS COFFEE
SUNNY ITALY
A Notre Dame Tradition “Rosies”—
Here you’ll always enjoy the
Italian accent on Fine Food
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles Avenue
Introducing the
Pizzaburger exclusively in South Bend at Eve’s Cafe Edison at South Bend Ave
also serving the finest
STEAKS	CHOPS
CHICKEN SEA FOOD
Short Order Dinners
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
DAVIN’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Texas Christian over Texas A & M UCLA over Stanford
Wisconsin over So. California West Virginia over Wm. & Mary Yale over Cornell Arkansas over Texas Georgia over Florida State Minnesota over Illinois Baylor over Washington Georgia Tech over Auburn Iowa over Purdue Ohio State over Duke
Penn over George Washington Kentucky over Mississippi State Navy over Penn State
Percentage to date—.720, including two ties.
Schedule Interhall Meet For Cross-Country Hopefuls
Leo McEvoy, freshman track coach, announced that the third annual intramural cross-country track meet will be held on Sunday, October 23, on the Notre Dame golf course at 11 a.m. All stu-^ dents are eligible for the event except those who have received freshman track numerals or varsity monograms.
Medals will be awarded to the winning hall and also the top five individual runners in the one and one-half mile race. Coach McEvoy also announced that the top freshmen in the race will comprise the Notre Dame freshman cross-country team for the coming season.
Everyone interested in trying out~ should report to Coach McEvoy at the golf course any weekday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. A medical slip from the infirmary will be necessary.
New Commander Appointed To University NROTC Unit
Capt. T. L. Green, USN, has bee?^ appointed the new commanding officer-of the NROTC unit at Notre Dame. Besides Captain Green’s appointment, the Navy also announced the appointments of Lt. John H. Sullivan, USN, as gunnery and sophomore instructor and Lt. Comdr. Rev. Richard L. Heyl, USN, as chaplain. Father Heyl is presently doing post graduate work in penology at Notre Dame.
The addition of 141 freshman contract and regular students has been complete^ by the NROTC. These additions bring-the approximate total of NROTC students at Notre Dame to 385.
30
The Scholastic
I
$ .
!	Dialogue
(Continued from page 23)
Socrates, and there are only eleven on a football team.
SOC: Three were referees. Now the ' two teams met on a plain about twenty I hoplight lances in length. At each end ! I —.of the plain there was an area of about ^'Wfour lances in length, and this was di-!■ vided in strips according to the Pythagorean proportion and on this was erected right angled parallelograms known as goalposts. Both teams fought long and hard and when the final quarter was Iover the quintescence team beat the elements eleven to seven because the elements were forever changing their position; and that was the first football ^game.
w HER: Were there any spectators there, Socrates?
SOC: Just a few lotus-eaters and the gods. The Myth, Hercules, shows clearly that from the beginning football is concerned with knowing.
HER: How is that, Socrates?
SOC: Why I’m surprised, Hercules, i Did you not say that the team that knows what the other team is going to «do is better prepared?
, HER: Yes.
! SOC: And in the myth the team of the elements lost because it was forever changing and did not know what it was doing?
HER: Yes.
SOC: And the point of football is to win?
HER: Ahaaa. . .
SOC: And when attacking, the team that wishes to win should keep the other ^;eam in ignorance so that it may surprise the rival when attacking?
HER: I guess so. . .
SOC: But my dear Hercules, is this noh the very opposite of what we have been saying?
HER: How so, Socrates?
SOC: Why did we not say in the beginning that football was concerned with knowledge?
HER: We did indeed.
SOC: But now we find that the truth ^is that football is concerned with ignor-Uance, nay, even might it be called the science of ignorance.
SIMP: And for my part may I also congratulate you on this discovery, Socrates, for it was indeed brilliant.
SOC: Nothing, nothing. But now if you would be pleased to join me in some wine we might celebrate this discovery and talk of some ideas I have on being.
HER: But Socrates, do you forget that today is Sunday?
SOC: Not at all, we can take the f ferry up to Macedonia and get three-two.
HER: Oh, Socrates, you think of everything!
October 14,1955
Joe Nabicht’s Restaurant
213 N. Main Open Sunday
Our Specialty "Chicken In the Rough" % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
91.15
FISH, STEAKS, CHOPS At Prices You Will Appreciate
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Serving ND Students and Faculty for the Eighth Year
AQUINAS
UBR1RY and BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE2-1202 South Bend, Indiana
EDDIE'S for the very finest STEAKS and CHOPS STEAK HOUSE 602 S. WALNUT
• 1.000 suits in stock
• All the newest styles
•Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•No Deposit for ND Students
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including tux shirt, $55.50
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL 107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
UHDfRW
... the development of NUCLEAR AIRCRAFT at CONVAIR-FORT WORTH As an integral part of General Dynamics Corporation, CONVAIR offers you an opportunity to enter the Applied Nuclear field or the fields of supersonic aircraft, J missiles, weapon systems and other developments in the Nation’s aerial defense and commercial aviation
Career opportunities for Engineering and Physics Graduates at CONVAIR are attractive because of the wide diversification of fields, the excellence of working conditions, and the assurance of financial reward.
Exam Dates Announced By Law Testing Service
The Law School admission test, required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on the mornings of Nov. 12, 1955, Feb. 18^. April 21, and Aug. 11, 1956.	\
A candidate must make separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of each whether it wishes him to take the Law School admission test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised ordinarily to take either the Nov-ember or the February test, if possible.
The Law School admission test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. It cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a bulletin of information.
Bulletins and applications for the test should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Administration Test, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J.
Completed applications must be received at least ten days before the desired testing date in order to allow Educational Testing Service time to complete the necessary testing arrangements for each candidate.	~ )
A CONVAIR representative will visit your school October 27. For information contact your Placement Office or write to H. A. Bodley, CONVAIR Engineering Personnel Dept., Fort Worth, Texas.
A DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION FORT WORTH, TEXAS
ROCCO’S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 — 1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 ajn. —,12 Midnight
D*RW TURBOW \0PT0METRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS ---
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces"
--- EYES EXAMINED -----
207 W. Washington
Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Over 300 Students Take Part In 1955-56 Reading Program
Approximately 300 students are currently enrolled in the Developmental Reading Program, Dr. R. D. Willemin, program director, announced recently. The program, a three-hour a week noncredit course, was developed to help students improve their reading habit^ thereby aiding their comprehension and increasing their vocabularies.
This semester’s enrollment represents an increase of one-third over last semester. In the last three years more than 1,100 students have participated in the program. The cost of the program is $30.
Students wishing to enter may do so by contacting Dr. Willemin, room 240 Main Building, or the dean of their respective college.
The faculty this year consists of Dj£ Willemin, head of the department, Mr. C. Birder, assistant, Mr. R. Stevens, and graduate student Jack Guthrie.
The Scholastic
32
^Book Exchange Nets $8,000 in Recent Sales
During the recent fall semester rush the Student Book Exchange disposed of a total of $8,246 worth of texts, it was announced this week by B-X officials.
A ten pei- cent service charge is (^placed on books which are handled by the B-X, an organization operated un-[ der the responsibility of the Young Christian Students Association. The : service charge covers the cost of expenses involved in running the B-X and for other YCS functions on campus.
Each week the B-X will be open from 1 to 3 p.m. on Wednesdays, and from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. on Thursdays.
Books bought for the fall semester “courses and not needed can be redeemed
at the B-X upon presentation of the sales slip any time until Jan. 5. Books that have been bought previously will be cashed against demand.
At the present time the B-X is under the management of John O’Rourke, a senior in the College of Science. The assistant manager is Bill Twomey, a sophomore engineering student.
UIMTTE
208 E. Jefferson. Ph. CE 3-0969 welcomes you to Notre Dame and South Bend
$ WASHING AND DRYING AT REASONABLE RATES
^olored Hose Washed Free
You’ll go for those steak specials every Tuesday and Thursday at. . .
house of pizza
1003 N. Notre Ave.
October 14, 1955
Hack Pa^
by Curt Matthews
quality: the classic
IN COLLEGE many of us first start to recognize the classic. I’ll bet when you saw that word “classic” you immediately thought of symphonic music or Greek literature or maybe Italian art. But, I like to think of the classic as including more than merely great works of fine art.
To me the classic is anything of worthwhile quality. Quality in the sense that it has a certain depth not found in the everyday things we see being accepted on all sides as worthwhile.
I don’t think many people today have a very good idea what real quality is. Listen to any show that features popular music and it’s almost a certitude that some song written in a smoke-filled bar on the back of a dirty menu in twenty minutes, will outsell anything a Rodgers and Hammerstein or a Ross and Adler spent five years putting together.
In fact, if the bar-room ditty didn’t start selling of its own accord, the publisher could just start telling people it was written by a Skid-Row derelict on the back of a dirty menu and that alone would probably be enough to make the song a bestseller. To many people today those facts would seem to give the effort depth, enough depth at least to carry them through the first thirty-four hearings. After that who cares—some other derelict will have had his twenty minutes of inspiration by then.
Let’s look at today’s reading matter. Make a list of the ten books read recently by this thing we call the “average” person and you’ll probably find some paper-back mystery outranking a Marquand or a Faulkner or a Wouk. I don’t mean to imply that Ross and Adler or Marquand and Faulkner are to be considered the great artists of our times.
34
What I’m saying is merely that in spite of their selling, these men have more quality than usually can be appreciated by the average man who seems to prefer The Yellow Rose of Texas and Mickey Spillane.
The classic, that certain quality we find in some things,- has depth. So, the enjoyment we can cultivate for the classic likewise will have depth.
At a certain point in our intellectual development, I think we start to reach for the classic. Quality isn’t really comprehensible to a child. To enjoy quality requires a certain amount of maturity and understanding. When we begin to have this maturity and understanding we naturally begin to fill the more pressing requirements of our taste with things from a higher shelf. The classic isn’t something we have thrust at us from every side. It’s something we seek to fill a need. We go looking for it.
Once this appreciation of quality is solidified in our tastes, it will begin to reflect itself in every judgment we make. The ads in Sports Illustrated or The New Yorker or the political comments in our daily newspapers will begin to have new meanings for us. We begin to see them in a new light. We start to recognize the certain tone good quality has, or at least we recognize the lack of that tone.
In spite of those who may say what is the fashion, or what may be forced upon ■ us by popular opinion, or what the efforts of mass advertising may come to, we begin to require depth or quality before we are much impressed or moved.
Recognizing and wanting the classic can be a wonderful defense, too. We can sort of remain outside this mad scramble of everyday life with its new
Yelloio Rose of Texas every third month. The classic—quality in things, and things with quality—this is always in style.
I think after a year or so in a college atmosphere many of us begin to see the^ shallowness of much around us that goes under the name “popularly accepted.” After a while what we see every day just doesn’t fill our new needs. We have to go outside the “popularly accepted.”
As I said before, the classic requires a little maturity and understanding to be appreciated. Perhaps not enough people have developed that maturity or understanding. Maybe they haven’t made a sincere enough effort to stay.-^ away from the shoddy and thus have made the shoddy the popular, the accepted. Their market has perfected the product.
I recently read an essay by a French literary critic, Charles Sainte-Beuve. In the essay Sainte-Beuve says, “The works of the day are romantic, not because they are new but because they are weak, ailing, or sickly. Ancient works are not classical because they are old, but because they are powerful, fresh, and healthy.” He was comparing classical^ literature to romantic literature. I’d like to shift his statement a little and apply it not only to literature but to the general, overall tastes of people today. And I think every word of Sainte-Beuve would still have a useful meaning.
An example of this would be something as uninvolved as what we do on a date. Most of us run off to some form of entertainment that can’t furnish half the pleasure or enjoyment as the person or persons we are with. However, they^ often get second billing to a lot of bright^X lights and loud noise that masquerades I under the name “entertainment.”	1
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS I
New high grade in shirts
By any test, this button-down Arrow shirt rates 100 % ... from the exact flair of its medium-spread collar and lustrous fabric to its rich window-pane checks and solid colors ... all-but-endless wear and stitch-for-stitch value.
Question: why not pick up a few right away: Checks and solids in broadcloth, $5.00;-white, $3.95.
Oxford, white and colors, $5.00.
- first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
For 100% smartness...ARROW
What’s our formula for a shirt selection that looks best on you?
Plenty of authentic white Arrow button-downs with medium-spread collar, plus the same shirt style in colorful window-pane checks and solid colors! Oxford, white or solid, $5.00 . .. broadcloth in white, $3.95, checks and solids, $5.
<9
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)
__thanks to the Miracle of
Notice the extra flavor that
SMILE IN YOUR
SMOKING!
1GAR
xvrr A MYERS TOBACCO co.
best F°P
Enjoy a Cool Mildness
impossible before


Get truly modern cigarette enjoyment! With electronic accuracy. Accu-Ray checks and controls the making of your Chesterfield. For the first time you get a ...
J, PERFECT-SMOKE-COLUMN-FROM-END-TO-END !X
comes through. Yet because this measurably better cigarette smokes more slowly — you enjoy a cool mildness never possible before.
So put a smile in your smoking! Buy Chesterfield! Smoother ... cooler ... best for you!

Chesterfield
Made the Modern Way _ with
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.