
. I 
\ '.,; .. 1, . ~~.... '-l~~:'·. , '·_)~f./:/:l.~~--: .! 
~-~-:. . -~ 
, . '\i 
-' J~•:-.r., . ' ?' ,,._"~~·,\.• •. : .;+ri~}~r 
.·'.:i,:;.· 
C •.. 

,·{;i~: ... 
.. ~ ','. 


52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend, 272-5478 
You know we offer the finest steak and prime rib selections anywhere. But now there's a . · catch.,. oi.Jr Fresh Catch of the Day. (Varies with the season.) 
So whether you're after seafood or beef, or incomparable beef and seafood combinations, ·we're ready for you, and always at down to earth prices. Catch us soon! Call for reservations. 

o Continental Restaurant Svstema 1978 

Begin Your Engineering Career 
at 


-e,&i' p..l'i'~~(\ 
American Can is one of the top 100 companies in the nation. We are a diversified, international, consumer­oriented corporation.· 
We have opportunities for engineering graduates in 
Research and Development, ·Manufacturing Operations, Graphics Technology, Systems Engineering and Automated Manufacturing Systems. · 
. Individualized development programs offer you an oppor­tunity to learn through "hands on" involvement in either · 
: project engineering at one of· 
· our technical centers or in · manufacturing 'engineering_ at one of our plant locations. After completing the pro­gram, your career can pro­
.· gress to more advanced · aspects of engineering or to management. · 
We are interested in ME, EE, and Chem E, especially if you have courses in com­
. puter sc_ience or systems engineering. 
·Make a date to see our rep­resentative on campus ... or write College Relations, 3B9, 
·American Can Company, Greenwich, Conn. 06830. 
dur representative will be afyour College . 

November 13, 1978. 


. . · An equal opportunity employer 
,I 
l
I 

.;.'mhe c?ipol11gg 
•,' '·'·.· ' ; •, 
. On .October 6, 1978, SCHO­LASTIC published an article en­titled , Autumn .Wonderland by Philosophy, Professor Joseph; W.• Evans. On October· 9, Pro­. fe~sor Evans expressed his dis­
pleasure; and unh3ppiness at ._the editing ofAutumn :Wonder-· .land in one of his classes; 
·. sc1-10C\sTic apoiogiies. to • ~rofe:sse>(Evans for, publishing• 'what· he ·-felt Ylasa ··compro­.mis,e~, _\lers.iriQ _of·_ ,his, contribu;; '. tion; ltwas·never SCHOLAS".'..­,TIC's · intention to·..• ; publish .. a· 'piece that{would be_ offensive 

Illustrations: Mike Cantwell, 6, 12, 13. . Photographs: Jake Morrissey, 4; Paul Joyce, 7, courtesy of Notre Dame Magazine; Jeff Huhta, 8, 9; Phillip Johnson, 14. Cover:· John Egart. 


scholastic· 
Vol. 120, No. 4, Nov~mber 3, 1978 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 

4  Make a Movie, Direct an Education  Mark Hommes  
and Mike Haggerty  
5  Letters  Tom Soma  
6  Portrait of a Gallery  Kim Gumz  
8  Running in the Shadows  Mike Kenahan  
REGULARS  
9  Perspective  Elizabeth Donovan  
10  Gallery  Dan O'Connell  
Jeff Anderson  
Susie Meyers  
Tom Aleto  
12  Fiction  John Maddog Muldoon  
13  Book Review  Dave Satterfield  
14  The Last Word  Jake Morrissey  

Editor· 
John Morrissey 
Managing Editor 
Theresa Rebeck 
Art Director 
Mike Cantwell 
Production Manager 
Bernie Valenti News Editor . Elizabeth Donovan 
Culture Editor 
Dave Satterfield 
Sports Editor 
Mike Kenahan Fiction. Editor · · Tom Balcerek 
Copy Editor 
Bob Southard· Layout Editor · Lisa· Hartenberger 
Photography· Editor 
Phil Johnson . 
Business Manager,;!> 
Kimberlie Gumz 
Advertisement Manager 
Marcy Weigle 


Advisory Board 
Elizabeth . Christman, Mario Pedi; Thomas· Werge,' ·Thomas· Jemielity, John' Miriam Jones, S.C. 

Staff , Cynthia Dykhoff, Keith Caughlin, Ken Scarbrough, Eileen Durkin, Eddie Holden, Betsey Sheridan, Sonia Chopko, Clay Malaker, Bob Barnes, Mike Brennan, Mike Greene, Tom 
Lucid, John Cassidy, Jeff Young, Greg Vansueh, Paul Theil,. Kevin McCarthy, Sue Micinski, Mary Clare Toffanetti, Bill Scholl, Jim Trausch, Mike Walsh, Craig Smith, Greg G. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik, Sea~ F. Faircloth, Paul Hurley. 
Hall Representatives: . Eddie Holden, Mark Sniegowski, Sean Berry, Brad Engelland, Keith Caughlin, Ann Gleason, Sonia Chopko, Bill Swift, Craig Smith, Kevin Courtois,· Glenn Killoren, Dave Bartish, Lisa Jaquez, Mike Szkrybalo, John Ryan, Mary Fran Welch, John Cuckovich, Greg G .. Gregory, Leo J. Mulcahey, Dave Mayernik. · 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or· the student 
b~~ .. . . . 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back issues. are available from Scholastic.· Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. · copyright © ·1978 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. · 

La Senora: "How . . . how dare you say that!" , 
La Empleada: "Would you have bothered to. toss the child his ball if you hadn't been dressed as a maid?" 
La Senora: "We're playing a 
game." La Empleada: "When?" La Senora: "Now." La Empleada: "And before?" La Senora: "Before?" La Empleada: "Yes, when I was 
dressed as a maid.•." La Senora: "This is not a game. It 
is reality." La Empleada: "Why?" La Senora: "Because it is." La Empleada: "A game ... a 
game larger than cops and robbers. Some are called,to be cops, others to be robbers." 
From the back of the classroom the professor shouts, "Fenomenal! " and signals the camera man to stop filming. Is it an acting class? Well, not exactly. It is Spanish 215, and the professor is Dr. Albert H. LeMay. Spanish 215 is an innovative course which incorporates study of the Spanish language with videotaping and evaluation. During the course of the semester the student will make 
·four television presentations: two textual analyses of literary texts, one creative skit, and one short, one­act play such as the scene just filmed. 
·Professor LeMay's use of the videotape as a learning tool began three semesters ago, born out of a creative desire to continually chal­lenge students and himself to greater academic excellence; "Television is an effective tool," he explains, ('as it individualizes instrucUon, 'drawing 

.. _ the student out and forcing. him to perform. TV can be instrumental in identifying the student's abilities as 
well as his weaknesses. It develops 
poise, confidence, and self-image." 
Convinced that the most important 
academic learning occurs in the 
classroom, LeMay believes that "as 
scholars ·and teachers we are called· 
to constantly review, re-evaluate and 
redefine our teaching approaches. We 
have a captive audience, but that 
doesn't mean we have to make pris­
oners of them. Learning and the 
development of the person are en­
hanced by creative . teaching tech­
niques." 
The training of skills, however, is 
only part of what LeMay sees as the University's responsibility to the stu­dent. Another, perhaps more impor­tant aspect of the University's mis­sion is the formation of a caring, concerned, and questioning student body. "Private universities," he notes, "because they are so homog­enous, tend to be cultural and social islands. The student body is largely unaware of the world outside the ·university campus. It is often diffi-· cult to see where and how students are learning about real life situa­tions." LeMay attributes the neglect of this second aspect of the student's formation to the conflict between the ·University as a business enterprise and the .University as an institution of higher learning. "The University is-or should be-first and foremost ~tudent-centered," .he explains. "The faculty's role is to encourage the stu­dent's collaboration in the educa­tional process, to direct the student and to stimulate intellectual growth. The administration must continually 
· seek to employ imaginative ways to assist the students and faculty in . promoting the quality of University .life. But th~ administration is some­times hampered in this role in that it must insure a sufficient income to 
provide quality education. The great­est problem for the professor is to try to bring No_tre Dame's business interests in line with the students' and faculty's goals." 
LeMay compares this struggle ~e­tween academic goals and business interests to the struggle between the spirit and the flesh. "We must ele­vate the spirit and the intellect," he insists. "We must work for quality· in our lives." LeMay uses the word "quality" not in reference to crea­ture comforts but rather to a human­itarian commitment to other people. "We must work collectively, as a community, to build a more equitable world-to help ourselves and future generations." He maintains that, "whether life is a dream or not, whether God exists or not, our mis­sion is to do good.'' 
"We must encourage students to learn about life off the island, so .as not to be isolationists. We should be a people who dare to reach· out, search and explore new worlds.'' Having traveled extensively through Latin America, Western Europe and the Eastern Bloc countries, LeMay is disturbed by the American tendency . to disregard other cultures. •~we at Notre Dame are so isolated in our comforts that we fail to see the urgency of desperate situations such as the poverty of life in the develop­ing countries. We should work to create a new, more aggressive policy of education and action· on behalf of Third World peoples.'' 
"This school's philosophy does in­deed stand for a moral commitment, though at times it may seem to be purely rhetorical, purely cosmetic." Our mission is to be aware of issues· on a mor;µ basis and, as a commu­nity, deal with questions of justice and peace.'' 
SCHOLASTIC 
LeMay's sense of involvement is reflected in his active participation in campus and community affairs. Con­vinced that students should be the primary concern of faculty and administrators, LeMay actively searches to work with committees that are student-oriented. A former member of the Campus Life Council, LeMay is currently chairman of the Standing Committee on Student Af­fairs in the Faculty Senate and a member of the LAPEL Advisory Board. Sensitive to the needs of the South Bend community, he also works with VALE, a South Bend task force on Value Assessment of 



Letters. 

Portrait of a Gallery 
by Kim Gumz 


You might as well intone nasally from atop a soapbox, "Visit your art gallery, you naughty Domer you," and then go on to deliver a lengthy harangue on the pitfalls of attending a major university with a soon-to-be major art museum without ever set­ting foot in said place. The students here seem to be forever chastised for one thing or another: we're either too rowdy or too pacifist, too serious or hopelessly immature. We're fre­quently accused of becoming Notre Dam~locked, becoming so involved in this "community-in-itself," that affairs of the nation, the state, and particularly South Bend are virtually ignored except for occasional trips to the Mall, or going to the movies or the bars._ This would reasonably lead one to suspect that students are totally immersed in the. campus as a place to eat, sleep, study, and have some fun. But this also does not mean that Total Notre Dame In­volvement means Total Notre Dame Knowing. There are many experi­ences and things to do and places to go on this campus which are ignored; one of these places is the Notre Dame Art Gallery. In a way, the .near­sightedness we're accused of some­how manages to glance over the Gallery, a place which the outside world does not. As the plans for the . new addition to the Gallery are com­pleted, · and ground is broken, the -awareness of the high quality of the collection at the Gallery by art au­
thorities is increasing and the repu­
tation grows. But, if you were awake 
as you read that last sentence, a key 
phrase should have jumped out at 
you, one which you either conscious­
ly or unconsciously took to :1J1ean 
"not me"-that's art authority, and 
that's not what you have to be to 
enjoy the art collection here at Notre 
Dame. Visiting the Gallery is a pain­
less, fifteen-minute escape from the 
confines of quad living. 
Historically, it is known that a small collection of paintings was present when the University was founded, although it is suspec!ed that none of the paintings were <partic­ularly important works of art. This · suspicion arises from the fact that when a fire in 1879 wiped out the small collection, the one painting which was saved was one of the special paintings in the collection and was thought to be a Van Dyck. · It wasn't-thus leading one to think that maybe what we had wasn't so 
great back then. 
However, by 1917, a collection had 
been built up again, "a collection of 
twenty-five canvases by notable 
painters, fourteen original drawings, 
and three pieces of bronze.'' Who 
these "notable painters" might have 
been, we will never kno_w, because 
in that year the first major art pur­
chase by the University was made, 
increasing the collection by one hun­
dred and thirty-six paintings. These 
paintings, however; were not differ­
entiated from the original forty-two 
at the time. 
By 1925 the collection consisted of some two hundred and twenty­four works, and was kept in four rooms of the library, which were called the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. By 1934, over three hun­dred pieces were part of the collec­tion, and finally in 1952, the collec­tion had become large enough and important enough to require special attention. Plans· were made to in­. elude a special wing for an art gal­lery in the riew building of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, O'Shaugh­
nessy Hall. 
The gallery which was built was 
essentially just that: an -exhibition 
hall consisting of one long, large gal­
lery, with smaller rooms off to the 
sides. This format permitted show­
ings of the small University perma­
nent collections as well as the travel­
ling and special University showings 
in the larger rooms. But in the 
twenty-six years that the Gallery has 
existed, the collection.has grown by 
such tremendous numbers·that many 
fine pieces, which deserved to have a 
continuous display, had. :to be kept 
in the vaults . below, . with only 
periodic showings. 
The problem was solved in 1976 
with the 2-million-dollar endowment 
from the late Fred B. Snite of Chi­
cago, along with various other en­
dowments. Construction on thistwo­
story Snite Museum of Art should 
SCHOLASTIC 


begin soon, wj.th foundations being laid over the winter, and a tentative move-in date of spring 1980. By the time of completion, the exhibition space will have been quadrupled, and the collection, which has since grown to over 7000 pieces, will have more of the display space it needs. What this will involve, according to a Uni­versity press release describing the construction plans, will be a museum "containing more than 52,000 square feet ... (the museum) will include an 8400-square-foot gallery for the Art of the Americas, four galleries measuring 3000 square feet for the University's collection _of Ancient and Medieval Art, Renaissance through 17th Century, _18th and 19th Centuries, '. and 20th Century. Also included will be a museum library, a drawing, graphics, and photog­raphy exhibition,· storage, and study area, and a space for the decorative arts.. A 325-seat auditorium for the fine and performing arts will be suit­able for art lectures, chamber music, poetry _recital, _small theatrical pro­ductions and films.n.. 
Well ... that's all fine and dandy, of course, for all the artsy types who drift notoriously around the cam­pus, much to the ··amusement .of knowing (and practio:i,l)·undergrads. It's also great for. the alumni wlio come back-lo_oks real good, makes 'em. proud or Our, Lady, and it im­presses conventioneers who . come here, and hopefully:~ealthy conven­tioneers. are seduced by our beauty and good tast~dnto giving t~eir,mas­,sive life savings to the Campaign for Notre Dame;. but the fact remains that a large segment of society is not benefiting from what the University owns, and it ain't South Bend, kids. 
What the University of Notre Dame has now is a nice gallery; small, with good shows on .a regular basis, easy to get through with a good look-see in a matter of fifteen 
. to thirty minutes .. What we will soon have is a major college art museum. The key word here is "museum": now pieces from the permanent col­lection of the University will be dis­played continuously, as .well as rota­ting shows of University pieces and traveling ar( shows. With this ar­rangement, according to Stephen Spiro, curator of the Notre _Dame Gallery; a student will be able to examine various types of art, con­trast . them against other periods of art if they wish, or against similar pieces .on loan from other museums, and will then be able to gain a much better understanding of a single work or of an entire period. 
However, what Spiro and Charles Geoffrion, Publicity Director for the Gallery, are both concerned aI?out is the apparent lack of interest on the part of the students, who do not come into the Gallery unless a rare show interests . them,, or a class requires that they go. Both men feel that this is ultimately a self-defeating action for the student, as well as something which would actually seem ,unchar-, 
. acteristic. By and large, the average Notre· Dame student, as._ we ~ave heard continuously, is upper middle 
class, indicating a life-style which should have introduced him t~ the · fine points of life, and one of those being an appreciation of art. ·But this does not seem to be so. Notre Dame students,· for the most part; lack any great understanding of art, and many are quite ignorant of it. Classes such as .Art Traditions are 
:
popular because they fill the Univer­; 
sity Fine Arts requirement, but are 
often not taken until late in one's 
college career, with the students 
entering· with no prior knowledge of 
art appreciation. 
But it doesn't have to be that 

way-enjoyment of art does not have 
to• come out of art classes and lee-· 
tures. Art is a sensual experience, 
a personal experience between_ the · · 
viewer and the art object. It helps to 
know who .the artist was, what his 
best years were, why he painted in 
only lavender, and all the other in­
numerable details available about 
the artist, but that is only interesting 
as long as the viewer wants to know. 
Avisit to the Gallery should be noth~ 
ing more than a critical viewing of 
what one really just likes or dislikes, 
for-whatever reasons. In a way, it 
could almost be a practical experi­
ence, as Charles Geoffrion points out. 
After all,·. in a few years, everyone 
here will ·· have attained his wealth_ 
and stature, and when it comes time 
to display one's inestimable taste and 
discrimination,, sad-eyed puppy dogs 
from K-Mart just don't cut it. 
-Nonetheless; the Notre Dame Art 

Gallery is currently running lwo fine 
shows: Edward Weston's "Gifts to 
His Sister," a display of 125 prints by · : 
this important photographer, as well · 
as a _showing of -Robert . Leader's 
"Marinescapes,". recent paintings by 
one of Notre. Dame's art professors. 
Other shows later in· the semester 
will include the "Nature of. Nar­
rative," as well as aspecial show of 
the work of Hans Hoffman. In addi­
tion to these shows are various exhi­
bitions of works owned by, the Uni­
versity. 
· Take· the time to· stop in at, the 

Gallery, sometime soon, but , do it 
with an open mind and operi feelings. 
It's_ one of -tliose easy emotional re­
sponses; and makes appreciating the 
finer things .in life_'a' natural Notre 
Dame phenomenon; .. 
· 'Kim Gumz is Scholastic's Business 
Manager.· 
7 


True, he is not one of the top Notre Dame· runners,· but he lets everyone know ·he's around just by his hard work. For Mike, there is no public­ity or fanfare. He doesn't travel to away meets. He doesn't even have a varsity locker. There doesn't seem much for him to gain. But, oddly enough,· he· says he does get some­thing out of it all. 
Mike, a· junior Government major and a cadet in the Marine ROTC pro­gram, says he loves to run, especially in · races. "I like running against people.· I like the competition," he says with a quick, jumpy delivery. "Head-to-head competition has to be one of the greatest things in· the world. I don't run for the notoriety." 
Notoriety was never the ·prime motivational factor in Mike's deci­sion to run distance. In high school, the Hazlet, New Jersey, native origi­nally took up running because he felt he needed to get a varsity letter in a sport in order to be seriously con­sidered for an appointment to West Point. 
Mike never received his letter but he did begin to take to the sport. "In my senior year I was just beginning to like it, and during the summer before college I got to like running more and more." 
By the time he arrived at Notre Dame, Mike was running eight to 
ten miles a day and was . obviously 
hooked on the sport. "I've learned to 
love running. You have to be in it 
because you love it." . . 
Mike will be the first one to admit 
that he is a long way from making 
the varsity team, but he still finds "a 
source of pride" in his connection 
with the Irish track teams. ··"At 

Notre Dame I'm not competitive in . 
the ·sense that I'm one of the top 
seven, but I'm alw~ys corripeting," 
he proudly asserts. "I never thought 
in my wildest dreams that I'd run for 
Notre Dame-it has been a tremen­
dous experience." 
The fact that reality is hard for -Mike doesn't get him down. He 
knows there's a great heed for im­
provement . if he ever plans to run 
varsity .at Notre Dame, and he 
strives each day to reach that goal. 
"I want to be a good runner, and_I'm 
going to keep on running until I am. 
I just want to run and run well" 
Joe Piane, Mike's cross country 
coach, is impressed with his attitude. 
"Mike is very dedicated. He realizes 
he hasn't yet reached his potential, 
that -he . has a. long way to go, and 
he works very hard to improve him­
self. He's improved every year." 
Piane states, ·in his soft-spoken 
manner, that he is happy to see any­
one who likes to run come out for the 
team. He encourages anyone who 
likes to run, like Mike, to· stick with 
it even if they can't make the var­
sity: But Piane notes that he allows 
only the· committed-runners to work 
out with the team.. "I wouldn't let 
Mike work with us if he. didn't put 
out and work hard, and he knows 
the situation." · 
Running with the varsity team is 
no joy ride. In order to keep up with 
the big men, Mike logs -· ari'ywhere 
from 80 to 85 miles per week, 'devot­
ing 15 to 20 hours .of his time to 
running. Besides the afternoon 
workouts with the team, he is also 
required to run five miles a day on 
his own-,-rain or shine. 
Collegiate cross country races are · five · miles long.. The top runners average a little over four and a half minutes for each mile. Recently, Mike ran his best time ever for cross · country. In last month's Notre Dame Invitational he was timed at 26:29, bettering. his previous best by 27 seconds. Typically, Mike was still unhappy. "I was disappointed; I wanted to run 25: 50. Coach Piane says that for me to be a contribution to the team I have to be in the top 
12. He wants me to hit 25: 50 by the end of the year. That means I've got• to cut 39 seconds off my ,time, which won't be too easy," Mike admits with ·an·anxious grin. 
Surprisingly, Mike doesn't have 
any awkward feelings about his posi­tion on the team. He asserts that his 



Perspecti\1e 
by Elizabeth Donovan

teammates are "the best bunch of guys you'd want to meet. They're 1------------------------------­

never condescending or patronizing toward me. The only time they would get upset with ·you is if you weren't doing the work." 
Senior co-captain Steve Welch says that he admires Mike. "Mike O'Don­nell works very hard. Sometimes he attempts to go beyond his limitations to keep up with the front runners and that takes some guts." Welch adds that Mike and the other non­varsity runners are a "big part of the team." 
Welch, a Business major from Hannibal; Missouri, explains that "there are quite a few in Mike's position, who work very hard and do all the same· work as everybody else, yet have to settle for self-satis­faction as their reward." The cross country co-captain concludes that "the benefits that Mike gets are not traveling and dressing for the big meets but, rather, his are interior benefits." 
Mike O'Donnell 
Mike agrees. "At the end of the· season I can always look back and say, 'I've improved, done. as. well as I could and never let anybody down.' It's like what my dad tells the neigh­bors about me back home, 'He runs, he's no star, but at least he tries.' " 
Mike Kenalian, ai senior American Studies major from Providence, Rhode Island, is this year's Sports Editor of Scholastic. 
"There's no reason for it, it's just 
our policy." How many times have 
you run into this brick wall of bu­
reaucracy? During my four years 
here I've tangled with· Andy Frains 
and cashiers and maids, and I've de­
cided that no one really knows why 
things are the way they are. Policy 
exists for policy's sake. Citing policy 
is the easiest way out; it defies ex­
planation for the word itself crashes 
down with a final and authoritative 
blow. Don't fight it. That'_s life in 
the big city, they say. Maybe ours is 
not to question why, but yet I 
wonder.: ... 
Why after four years of Arts and 
Letters· courses am I urged by the 
Placement Bureau not to "turn your 
nose up at selling insurance"? It 
happened on Arts and Letters Career 
Night in September. We were there, 
loaded with idealism and ideas of 
teaching, writing, government and 
social work. We were met head-on 
by Leland Steel, IBM, and Sears Roe­
buck. Luckily, most of us have more 
steel than Leland. We could not be 
coaxed to "join IBM's family of 
300,000." We left the meeting un­
charmed by big business and un-. 
changed in our plans. Do they tell 
chemical engineering students to 
consider selling insurance? Doubtful. 
Why tell us? 
There's another little matter that's been bothering. me lately. Yes, I know it's trivial, but ... Why does the University invest money in com­.panies doing business in . South Africa? How odd that a university on one hand profits from under­developed countries, then turns around and sponsors a "Third World Awareness Week.'' One week aware­ness, fifty-one weeks exploitation. Concern for Third World countries is fashionable; it's distressing to see Notre Dame fall so far behind the 
times. 
Now I don't mean to be picky, and I know thatmistakes sometimes hap­

. pen, · but why do the · doors in O'Shaughnessy open into the hall­way; and consequently into the faces of the unwary? Many a time have 
· I worn home a cup of coffee that had moved with lightning· speed from hand to shirt as someone opened a door.• There's got to be a reason be­hind this one. I can't believe it was planned this way... 
Being a full-blooded Irishman, I cannot·really claim expertise in the field of Italian· cuisine. But there are a ·few things that I do know. By definition, spaghetti is long, thin, and 

.famous for being .the only food you can legitimately play with to get on your fork. The dining halls have destroyed the fun of spaghetti; they've cut it up into small, manage­able, ·boring, bite sizes. Why this perversion? Perhaps cutting our food is the final fulfillment of the "in loco parentis" policy. 
Maybe I've had unreasonably bad luck, but as each new semester be­gins, I always wonder why every book I need is a brand-new, revised, updated, and more expensive version of·· a book used just last semester. Some may say that theories change as knowledge increases, thus the need for a new edition of a certain book; But do the facts change enough to justify buying a new text each semester? Why not stick with an older textbook which has depreciated 

. in cost but .not in ·value? .Financial independence is not a fact of life for most ND students. It's maddening 
. to have to buy a new text for each course. It's even more maddening when you buy ·a new book, use it for one semester, then.fry to sell it only to discover that it, too, is out of date. Who needs a Math 104 book for their permanent library? 
Little mysteries make life sweet; 

Justice. begins at home. So let's -"policy" is the king of all mysteries. not allow ourselves to look like fools:· I· do have one final question, one explain the policy which, on game.· which is shared by all dining hall weekends, forces students to move patrons, one .. which. has puzzled me their cars from D-2 to the quagmire for a long time. Roseanne Rosanna that is Green Field. Students have Danna, the unabashed voice of paid for the right to park their cars America's thoughts, echoed my senti­in the paved lots. Would it be unjust ments exactly when she pleaded to to demand a rebate for giving up know "Why can't they make a ham­what is rightfully ours? burger without toenails?" Policy? 

Gallery 



Jeff, Susie, Dan, and· Tom's photographs were done as -assignments for Photography I, an introductory photography course offered by the A~t. Department.· · 
•·· 


Toni Aleta 



Sentence: 73 / 34 
A boy approximately seven and three-quarter years old was sitting on the curb in front of his apartment building with the pre-Bozo Circus sun warming his shoulder blades and sending an occasional. chill up and down his back underneath his torn Cubs Power T-shirt that smelled like his father when he came home from work at dinnertime when Andy Griffith was on, be­cause he had to dig through his father's shirts and boxer shorts to find it in the hamper and sneak it out of the apartment before his mother saw him because he had worn the shirt for three days in a row and his mother said .that people would start thinking that he was so poor, he only had one shirt, but he didn't.care because the Cubs won four in a row and besides he only had two cents in his pocket from the Coke bottle he took back to Mike's Liquor Store and Mike said that it was a real neat shirt and he told Mike he was going to wear it until the Cubs lost and Mike said hell that won't be long and laughed and he just said see you later and when he stepped outside it was so hot it was like the air hitting him, so he went and sat on the curb and was watching ants going in and out of the cracks and r~ membered the time Brian O'Malley made him eat an ant when he was about five and it really didn't taste like much except that it was salty and real gross like the part of the scab he had just picked off his arm and was chewing,,when Mary Ellen who he was mad at all week because when he was on vacation the week before in the Wisconsin Dells which were really cool because it was just like the wild West with cowboys and Indians and stagecoaches and bad guys and tons of horses, espe­cially since him and Mary Ellen used to play cowboys and Indians all the time, but since there was no one to play with while he was gone, she started playing with Danny Mitchell in his tree house that his brother built in their backyard and they started their own stupid little club called the Monkees and sang that stupid song on that stupid t.v. show "here we come, walking down the street" and had secret passwords and secret hand­shakes and stupid everythings, so when .he came back with real Indian moccasins and a headdress and,, an almost real, rubber tomahawk and a sheriff's badge to go with her great cowgirl outfit, he didn't know what was going on and Danny just laughed and called him stupid for not knowing the secret password andtold him to go play Indians with the little kids, because they were stupid just like him and he got so mad his stomach felt like it was in his throat and choking him and he said yeah and pushed Danny and Danny said yeah and pushed him back and because the new moccasins were so slippery, he slipped and fell on his back and Danny laughed and said he was so stupid he couldn't even stand up and even Mary Ellen laughed and he just got up and walked down the alley and he was so mad he stopped by McDonald's garage that smelled and was full of flies because they didn't have tops for their garbage cans · 
by John Maddog Muldoon 
and threw the badge into the yard full of dandelions and real tall grass so she could never find it in a million years and his eyes got real hot and his nose got real wet and gooey and he ha,d to keep sniffing up and then he thought he was going to cry and he ran home be­cause he didn't want anyone to see him and when he got home -if kept getting harder and harder to keep sniffing up and he started choking on all the snots and his eyes kept hurting more and more and no matter how he tried to hold his breath they kept getting wetter and he didn't want his mother to see him crying be­cause he was getting too old to come running home · crying to mom, so he opened the door of the shed on his back porch and curled up on the floor between the cushions of the porch furniture and the barbecuer and kept saying, I am not stupid, I am not stupid, but it didn't stop the tears and he just laid there and let the water roll out from his eyes and down his nose and mix with the snots and sneak into the corners of his mouth and taste salty like ants and he tried to wipe it away with his arms, but they got all sweaty and covered with sawdust and blue paint chips and they got into his eyes and· nose and made him cry· more and start to sneeze so he just stayed there and cried and thought of all the fun him and Mary Ellen used to have until he.stopped and took a few deep breaths and his eyes felt real cool and his chest sort of ticked a little and made him hiccup and sent a few chills down his back, but it didn't matter anymore, Danny and Mary Ellen could have their stupid club and he wiped himself _off, went iriside, put on his Cubs Power T-shirt and watched them beat the Reds 4:3 and he pretended that he was Bobby Murcer and hit a game-winning home run and Danny and Mary Ellen came up to him for an autograph and he would say don't be so stupid and just walk away and never talk to them again, no matter what, until Mary Ellen came walking down the block, wearing her red cowboy hat and said hi, whatcha doin' and he said oh nothing just picking a scab and staring at ants and she said well do you want to play and he said well what do you want to do, I don't have a backyard with a tree or a big 
: . brother to build a tree house and I don't know any secret passwords or the· words to that stupid Monkee song and she looked real sad and he just started to smile, but stopped and kept chewing. a piece of his sca_b and she just sat down next to him and stared at the ants and after a while he said why don't you go over to Danny's isn't there a secret meeting or something and she said oh Danny's a big jerk, all he does is boss you around and he only does what he wants to, not like you, I hate him arid he started to smile again, but stopped and started to pick at the scab again, but it started to bleed and he finally couldn't stop smiling anymore and he jumped up and said o.k. then, c'mon, let's go to McDonald's yard, I lost· something there. 

ences. Prep school deans, prostitutes, wrestling coaches and their daugh­ters, baby-sitters, dogs, and students are all a part of Garp's world. One of the most interesting characters is a transvestite named Roberta Mul­doon, formerly Robert Muldoon, a tight end for the Philadelphia Eagles. One of Garp's closest friends, Roberta, in a moment of seriousness, 
. admits to Garp, "I didn't know what shitheads men were until I became a woman." Later in the book, Garp is forced to dress as a woman so he can hear his mother speak at a femi­nists' rally where his mother meets her death at the bullet of a crazed male. Garp is not so much amazed at the killing or at the fact that his identity .is eventually revealed as he is at the fact that someone attempts to seduce him. 
In turn, Irving creates a magically imaginative world in Garp's literary works. These works are spiced with gypsies, perverts, detectives, hotel inspectors, unicycling bears and even a man who walks· on· his hands. (In­cidentally, the hand-walker -dies while riding down an escalator when his• tie gets caught in the crack at 
, the bottom of the ride. Death by strangulation. And no one will get off the escalator so they rhythmically take one step up and back to avoid stepping on the dead man.) · It is episodes like these when it becomes difficult to separate the real world of. Garp from his literary world. The escalator episode is so tragic· yet comic, illustrating Irving's uncanny ability to bind such imaginative ab­surdity with real tragedy and create reality. Garp creates a forceful, grip-
The World According to Garp, by John Irving, published by Dutton, 437 pages, $10.~f 
Born to the·· first true American feminist and fathered by a wounded, incoherent and nearly bulletless. World War II tail-gunner, T. S. Garp grows up an average American writer who never quite writes his masterpiece and never quite attains any sense of happiness in his short and explosive life. But the tales he creates and participates in are sure­fire material to make The World According to Garp the pick of the fiction crop in 1978. 
Imagination. Therein lies the trademark of ·John Irving's work. Never before have I read a book filled with such imaginatively character~ · ized people and such strange and absurd situations. But Irving shows an ability to transform all of the absurdity into a clear picture ·of a harsh reality often found in current society. At the book's end, I was convinced that reality is even ·more bizarre and unpredictable than Ir~ ving or Garp could possibly create. 
The novel is the saga of one man and the illustrious cast of characters that stumble in and out of his fated life. Garp, mothered and raised by Jenny Fields, who becomes the first real feminist after publishing a very popular and anti-male autobiography entitled, A Sexual Suspect, must carry the burden of· her· book on his back throughout all of his life. 
During his active and literary life, Garp encounters every type· of . per­son imaginable, either through his own work or through actual experi-

Book Re'7iew 



Carp 
by Dave Satterfield 
ping and actually chilling tale involv­ing a dog and a cat for the sole pur­pose of teaching his children not to tease each other or run in the streets. The power of the tale is astonishing. 
On the jacket of Garp's · third novel, oddly entitled, "The World According to Bensenhaver," the pub­lisher writes, "this is the story of a man who is so fearful of bad things happening to his loved ones that he creates an atmosphere of such ten­sion that bad things are almost cer­tain to occur. And they do." This is Garp's world; he is fighting to no avail and he knows it. 
Irving has created a marvelously imaginative and original novel that deals head-on with issues such as marriage, families, feminists, and most apparently, sexual roles and death. This novel is a soap opera· saturated with heavy-duty detergent and enough humor to keep the reader laughing through much of the trag­edy, evidenced in full by the Ellen J amesians, a society of women who attempt to befriend Garp's mother. Ellen James was an eleven-year-old girl who was raped; her abductors cut out her tongue so she couldn't tell anyone who they were. Little did the bozos know, eleven-year-old girls 
.can write. So a society of women formed, cut out their tongues and adopted Ellen James as their idol, much to Ellen's disfavor. 
It is difficult to determine where Irving aims, or even what he reaches in The World According to Garp, but in attempting to discover what it is, I thoroughly enjoyed every moment. 

The· Last Word 
It has been a little over two months since this year's Scholastic editorial board has taken charge of Notre Drune's oldest publication, and with the jobs have come certain real­izations· concerning the state of American journalism and its obli­gations. 
The more astute observer, for ex­ample, might have noticed that Scho­lastic this year is a different maga­zine than it has been in past years. There are more pieces of student fic­tion, more reviews and editorials that have not appeared as frequently in recent years. This can be_ traced to the fact that each year. brings with it a new Scholastic editorial . board and.staff which.attempts to respond to different needs in. its readership, most notably the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. _ 
Responding.. to these different needs is the goal ofall publications. Each magazine, each-newspaper, at­tempts to publish a well-written, imaginatively designed entity. There have been successes . and· there have been failures in this constant striving for ..something better, something more interesting. , __ 
These successes _and failures_ are gauged by the response.which publi­cations receive. from its· readers, be they alumni. and :students,_ as in Scholastic's case, or. people from all strata of society, as in the large nas tional news magazines and news­papers. _Criticism, both -positive and negative, is.extremely important to. a publication and its staff because· it acts as a _signal of what should be continued and what should be scrapped for. something different. It is not an easy job;• . An • obvious area in which publi­cations are constantly trying, to im­prove is writing. Most editors realize that there are almost unlimited re­sources that can be tapped, to the mutual gratification of both parties. The news reporter, feature or edito­
by Jake Morrissey 
. • 11•···.'.'.1 
--·· ' ~-;,: l 
' ...... --~,--; 
~ ;/;-~-~,. 
,:,--::.,,-,,..,,.,·'.•-/'·_,;~l~,~~t 
rial writer, orshort fiction writer is responsible to neither the admin­should all be encouraged and steered istration, nor the faculty nor outside as. the publication quests· for .this special · interests to. print a word of journalistic nirvana. what they "ask." A publication must 
What is written, however, is just print -what ._it feels _to be .the best as important as the mode in which writing, photography and artwork, it is presented..It is my firm belief not because someone has "requested''­that a newspaper or magazine hasa . it, but because ·it_is the best. "Best" duty to print the truth, be it the facts does not mean_the prettiest picture in a news story orthe feelings of a orthe cutest story, but a feeling that reviewer, fiction writer or editorial moves-its reader or viewer. The writer. This-stance could pose more "best'' photographs, for exrunple, are than its share of discomfort to staffs ·. not always of little chHdren. Itis the because it demands to be taken se-printing of this variety and diversity riously, it cries out to be carefully that helps to give a publication Hs considered. It is a fur,damental prin-scope and quality; it printed is not ciple that each_ news reporter, each to improve the image of the editorial editor, each . essayist, must decide board. A publication .must not be for himself or herself where he or afraid to print something for. fear she stands in relation to this idea. It of incurring someone's wrath, nor is a concept that startles and ques-should Jt be afraid of editing or tions, but after having thought it out deleting altogether a piece.._These to his or her satisfaction, he or she procedures may not be a way of is a better reporter and writer for-it. winning friends and influencing peo­
--Because of -this quest for truth, ple, but those are the risks that must publications such as Scholastic must be taken if.one is to produce a maga­remain aloof from outside forces. It zine of quality. 
SCHOLASTIC 

TESTYOUR E.O.(Economics QuolienU True False 0 0 (1.)Lessthanfourper cent of the U.S. labor force are agricultural workers. 0 0 (2.) Today, the U.S. ranks third in international trade. A special booklet on our American Economic System can help you improve your . E.Q.. For your free copy, write · "Economics; Pueblo, Colorado . 81009. . ANSWERS: (lSJ!.:J).:fC: .rl The American Economic·System. We should oll leom mo,e obOlA il. . ""'@1'·-~-='u~""9Ca.nc•-~ ~• &USOepc,t"""dConvnoKe AMERICAN ECONOMIC SYSTEM NEWSPAPER AD NO. . AES-77-874[C]-1 COL. ·  
Prof. A. R. Black-~· .. SMC 284-4948 


1979 St. Mary's College· 

SUMMER PROGRAMS 
[L@~[ID@~ ..· . 
Travel in Ireland-Scotland-France May 22-lune 22. 


OO@i~ 

Travel in France-Germany-Switzerland June 20-July 19 . 
CLASSES .AVAILABLE IN Art, Business,: History, ·1talian, lit. 
--·· <. ,. ·: • ., 
mm[?@ 







