HIGH LIGHTS
Student Trip Plans Founder's Day Schedule Seniors Hold Meeting Georgia Tech is Test Interhall Football Opens Dilemma Solved
VOLUME 75 NUMBER 3 OCTOBER 10, 1941
FATHER SORIN—Notre Dame's Founder
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.m.s. bldg. south Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING.
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building Telephone 4-360
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING . FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M.D.	M.D.
Phone 3-2805
Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X‘RAY EXAMINATION hours BY APPOINTMENT
609 J.M.S. Building South Bend. Ind.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
«3-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574 >
BELL
SYSTEM
for utmost service to the Nation
In these critical times, communications play a vital part in defense. Here is how the Bell System is organized to meet its great responsibility.
American Telephone and Telegraph Company coordinates all system activities, advises on telephone operation, searches for improved methods.
24 associated operating companies provide telephone service in their respective territories.
Long Lines Department of A. T. & T. interconnects the 24 operating companies, handles Long Distance and overseas service.
Bell Telephone Laboratories carries on scientific research and development for the system.
Western Electric is the manufacturing, purchasing and distributing unit.
Highly trained through many years of working together, these Bell System companies provide a nation-wide, unified service. Never have the benefits of this system been so dear as today when the country is under pressure.
COLLEGE
October 6, 1941 Breen-Phelps Hall Dear Mom and Dad,
Send my collapsible kayak by express as soon as possible and also ten dollars (10.). I have had several unexpected expenses over this past weekend and all on account of the weather. It is still raining as I am writing this letter and I am prepared to vacate to the third floor at any minute.
I know you are wondering what my unexpected expenses are so I will try to account for them. Well, it has been raining here for four days. Last Friday it rained off and on all day and once I was caught between classes without my raincoat. One pair of pants cleaned and pressed. Then, of course, as you probably know, it rained Saturday at the football game. One pair of pants cleaned and pressed. I had a swell seat on the ten yard line but there was a senior next to me who kept mumbling about waiting until Thursday to get his ticket. It sure started out nice Sunday but I was caught again walking home from South Bend. One suit cleaned and pressed. I kept my raincoat on all day today but I tripped and fell in a mud puddle while running between the Rockne Memorial and the Biology Building. One pair of pants cleaned and pressed. You can see I have accounted for much of the expense. I’m getting worried because the lady at the dry-cleaning office says they are rushed and I won’t be able to get my clothes for some time. I’m running out of pants.
A senior told me that it soon will be all flooded between Walsh and Badin Hall, that’s why I want my kayak. The bookstore is giving out free book covers and I want to get some. Expect to hear, from you soon—your son who is all wet these days. Love, —Dil Pigle
From the U. of Oklahoma's "Covered Wagon"
“Let’s say you’re a first year girl. You aren’t on your own stomping grounds anymore, and they do things differently here. First, the men here (or is that splitting hairs?) differ considerably from those you played with in high school. Since you’ll be on the defensive most of the time, it might be wise to develop some new techniques— the better to combat tactics much more offensive than those you got a taste of at home.
PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
“To help you take the first few of the major hurdles, the Wagon herein offers several courses of action which you may take on various occasions, depending upon which works out best for you. Try them, when the time comes, and then drop us a card telling us some of the results.
“What to do:
If he tries to kiss you:
a.	Giggle and ask for a cigarette.
b.	Burn Him with a cigarette.
c.	Brush the dandruff off his coat.
d.	Give up.
If he doesn’t try to kiss you:
a.	Say prunes softly.
b.	Lean forward, moisten your lips and, in § husky voice, murmur inaudibly.
c.	Kiss him.
If he gets drunk:
a.	Find someone to sober him up.
b.	Find something for him to pass out on.
c.	Find another date.
If he offers you a drink:
a.	Pour it into a potted plant.
b.	Pour it down his neck.
c.	Gargle.
d.	Gurgle.
e.	Giggle.
If he asks you for a date:
a. Be damned sure you take it.”
"Hedy Coed" Has Low I. Q.
In what is probably one of those “I got stuck with a blind date” moans, a writer on the Duquesne Duke lashes out with a bitter attack on the mentalities
. ... It seems this little man went to market. . . .
of women in general. Here’s a short sample of the tirade.
“Betty Coed may have lips of red and eyes of blue, but it’s a long debated question as to what lies between those pert little ears. Some scientists contend that it may be the first and only PERFECT vacuum, but to listen to some of their patter at the football games, we’ve often wondered if it isn’t just sawdust.
“The coeds may be divided into two classes: those whose talk is IDLE chatter, and those whose talk is IDOL chatter. Last Friday night we sat behind Betty Coed’s cousin, Hedy Coed. ...”	'
❖
Attitude of Submission
A blunt question, “Do. you think the United States will stay out of war?”, received 87 percent ‘no’ answers at Loyola University in New Orleans. Commented the Loyola Maroon which conducted the poll:
“The Maroon does not believe students are ones to whitewash their opinions drawn from everyday observation. It believes that students were answering the question sincerely, that they made no attempt to dismiss the idea of this nation’s entrance into war as ridiculous, and that these students are awaiting the day that this nation’s entrance will become an actuality.
“But regardless it is an unhealthy attitude and leaves the way open for insincere and scheming men to lead a tractable public already convinced that there is no alternative but war. . . . Even if a person believes the United States is headed for war, he cannot be firmly convinced and be without any hope. . . . An answer of “yes” would be far more truthful. It would place the nation on a more firm footing to retain peace.”
3
THE WEEK
By JIM O’LAUGHLIN
NEXT WEEK
By John A. Lynch
Top of the Week:
“Tech’s Wrecks”. . . .
Victory Views:
And the rains came. . . . 3,000 colds reported last Sunday. . . . “Week” receives 200 complaints about the cooling system which wasn’t at the Indiana Club .... usual shortage of cabs after the dance. . . . Paul Neville and Jim Duggan summoned Sheriff Molnar who obligingly played chauffer. . . . Fred Trenkle last seen “thumbing” back to Altoona, Pa., after two blind dates at the “Rock”. . . . Coffee Shop gets particular. . . . Top honors for this one: Two middle-aged gents replaying the game in the LaSalle lobby. “Put me in, coach,” one would yell; the so-called coach would wrap a towel around his playmate’s head and push him on the elevator. Then the process would be reversed,—yes, yes, strong cokes they serve nowadays! ....
"And That Rule Book Ain't Foolin' " ....
A freshman trio from the Bronx was overheard discussing plans for the Christmas vacation:
1st Freshman: “Say, where do we get the “Pacemaker” around here?”
2nd Freshman: “Well, I’m not sure, but I think we can catch it at Elkhart.” 3rd Freshman: With a puzzled expression, “We can get the train right down at the South Bend station where we came in.”
1st & 2nd: Obviously peeved at their friend’s ignorance, “Oh no we can’t, that’s in the restricted area!”
Dirty Shirts....
Everyone has heard the old story about the fellow who threw his dirty laundry into the trash chute by mistake. But here’s one for the books. Paul Knowles, who had just picked up his clean laundry at Badin Hall, was approached by a newcomer who seemed very disturbed. “Hey, where did you get your laundry? I turned mine in over two weeks ago, and haven’t been able to find it since.”
❖
Famous Last Words:
“She’s not so beautiful, but she really has a swell personality.”
4
"Class B"—Not Selective Service:
A sad-looking Negro was down at the train station bidding some of his friends good-bye. The trainman noticed him and asked:
“Aren’t you coming along too?”
“No sir,” replied the Negro, ‘Tse a class B nigger.”
“What do you mean you’re a class B nigger?” queried the trainman.
“Well,” he said, “I be’s here when they leave, and I be’s here when they come back.”
Odds And Ends: *
Loose hairs in the food. . . . motion seconded to buy a bottle of “Wildroot” for the cooks. . . . “secret” practice can be viewed from the Chemistry Building, Breen-Philips and trees bordering Car-tier fence.... Professor Thomas Stritch wrote “The Week” back in 1934. . . . “Walgreen’s” sells a magazine. . . . An obliging “Rockette” offered Lee Burby a bid to the Inaugural Ball last week winch even included the loan of a set of “tails” .... no more giant milkshakes at the “Huddle” .... “Santa Maria,” K. of C. publication, will have a column entitled: “Kewanna Kaleidoscope,” written by none other than Michael Leo Hines! .... Doug McDonald promenaded in a Homburg, last Sunday. . . . Irish go 95 yards the wrong way. . . . Newsreels proving last Saturday’s judges were all whistle and little 'eye— .... Seniors held “pow-wow” Tuesday nite. . . . “Namebands” discussed; then they decided on Senior Ball band. . . . Freshman: “Who’s this girl they call ‘Rosie’?”. . . .
1—2, 1—2, Hike!
Father Mullahy was explaining to his Rational Psychology class how to look up references in St. Thomas’ works. “For instance,” he said, “the first number applies to the book, the second to the question, the third to the article— etc.”
“Now,” and he called on one of his students, “what would you do with 2, 4, 7?”
The student thought a minute, and then said: “I’d give it to Mr. Leahy!”
❖
Bottom of the Week
Baltimore!
SATURDAY, OCT. 11
Morning classes suffer week-end emigration.
Georgia Tech vs. Notre Dame, at Atlanta, broadcast over WSBT, 960 on your dial, 1:45 p.m.
Victory Dance, Indiana Club, sponsored by the Modernaires, orchestra music by the Modernaires, 8:30 p.m.
Movie, “The Devil and Miss Jones,” Jean Arthur and Charles Cobum do the celluloid capers, “March of Time,” 6:40 and 8:50 p.m.
SUNDAY, OCT. 12
Columbus Day, yacht races in Badin Bog, weather permitting.
Regional meeting of the National Federation of Catholic College Students, Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Movie, “Flight Command,” in the air with Bob Taylor, Ruth Hussey and Walter Pidgeon, cartoon and news, 6:40 and 8:50 p.m.
MONDAY, OCT. 13
Founder’s Day, classes adjourned.
Solemn High Mass, the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., preaching on leading events in the development of Notre Dame, especially dealing with the hardship of the early days; Freshmen urged to attend, 8:30 a.m.
St. Mary’s takes a holiday—too.
Notre Dame Radio Club begins regular broadcasts, Newscast by Jim McDonough and Vail Pischke, WSBT, 8:45 p.m.
TUESDAY, OCT. 14
Notre Dame Speakers Bureau meeting, Corby Hall, 7:15 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 15:
Economic Round Table membership meeting, ask George York, 256 Alumni for time and place.
Knights of Columbus Freshman Frolic, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
THURSDAY, OCT. 16
Sportscast by Jack Morrison and Dan Gentile, from the Engineering building studio, WSBT, 8:45 p.m.
Wranglers Society membership meeting, notice of location will be posted on bulletin boards, 7:30 p.m.
FRIDAY, OCT. 17
Soulful sophomores look forward one week to their Cotillion.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered an second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
October 10, 1941
Number 3
TO BALTIMORE WE GO!
Illinois and S. C. Ticket Sales Show Increase
If you know anyone in or near Baltimore, Md., and you’re making the student-trip to the Navy game you can start making plans now to see them at at the time sandwiched between the schedule of activities for the trip just announced this week.
The group of 300 students will leave South Bend on a special train of the Pennsylvania line, Friday, Nov. 7, at 5:15 p.m. The train will arrive in Baltimore at 8:30 a.m. Saturday, Nov. 8. Special busses will meet the train there and take the students to Church for Mass. After the game Saturday afternoon, all the members of the trip will meet in Pennsylvania Station in Baltimore to board busses for Washington, D.C. where the students will be delivered to their accommodations at one of Washington’s first-class hotels—The Annapolis, located at 12th and H streets. Traveling time from Baltimore to Washington is one hour and 15 minutes.
On Sunday morning, Nov. 9, busses will transport students from the hotel to the Franciscan Monastery for Mass, followed by breakfast in the dining hall of the Monastery. After visiting the various
Reclining seat deluxe
points of interest at the Monastery, the group -will visit the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception and follow an extended tour of all points of interest in the Nation’s Capitol which includes the embassies and legations of the foreign governments, through Rock Creek and Zoological Parks and Georgetown to Fort Myer and Arlington Cemetery where they will see the tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the Memorial Amphitheatre. From thence they -will go on over the Mt. Vernon highway. Returning to Washington, the group will stop to visit the Lincoln Memorial, the Capitol building, Congressional Library, Pan-American building, White House, Washington Monument and will arrive at Union Station about four p.m. Sunday afternoon.
The students will then leave Washington at 4:30 p.m., we hope, and arrive in South Bend at 6:30 a.m., Monday, Nov. 10.	'
The total ticket cost has not been announced but is not expected to exceed §25, including railroad fare, transportation and room in Washington, and ticket to the game.
Anyone wishing to see either the Georgia Tech or Northwestern games against Notre Dame who does not already possess a ticket will have to be satisfied with a radio re-creation, according to Bob Cahill, director of ticket sales.
All seats have been sold for these two contests, the Tech battle being tomorrow, and the Northwestern encounter still a month away. However, on reports of last Tuesday, it was still possible to obtain tickets in all prices for the Carnegie Tech game in Pittsburgh.
Advanced sale for the Illinois battle is well ahead of the corresponding period before the Indiana game which brought 40,000 fans out into the rain. All reserved seats for the Army contest are gone, but box seats are still available. The only ducats available for the Navy game are the §1.67 variety behind the end zones.
By present indications, the Southern California battle should see more than 50,000 fans in the stadium. There are no box seats available and advance sales are well ahead of a corresponding period of two years ago.
The next home game for the Irish will be Oct. 25 with the Illini. It will be the only other 1941 home game besides the Southern California battle which will end the season for the Gold and Blue.
—Don Murphy
Next week the Scholastic will begin printing letters received from students on matters pertaining to the student body. All students are asked to cooperate by sending in their contributions to The Editor, 225 Walsh Hall. Letters must be signed, though the writer may specify if he wishes his name withheld from print.
5
This heritage which is Notre Dame.
6
ADMINISTRATION
FOUNDER'S DAY CELEBRATION MONDAY
For more than three quarters of a century, Notre Dame has honored its founder on the feast day of his patron saint. St. Edward’s Day, which this year comes on Monday, Oct. 13, has from well nigh time immemorial been the day chosen to pay tribute to the piety, faith and courage of the man who wrought a university in a wilderness.
‘Time immemorial,’ in this case, refers to the fact that as early as 1868, The Scholastic Year, as it was then called, devoted a large portion of its eight pages to a stirring account of St. Edward’s Day, Oct. 17, 1868. Replete with a Thespian Society and a Cornet Band, Notre Dame undergraduates of that day presented a program in Washington Hall, which according to the Scholastic writer of the time, “. . . elicited continual applause from the audience and a handsome compliment from Very Rev. Father Sorin at its close.” The day has always been a free day or holiday for the students. In former days, as we have seen, it was the occasion for elaborate celebrations. Before the death of Father Sorin in 1893, the day was marked as one on which the achievements of the past were reviewed and hopes for the future cited. During the afternoon there were various interhall athletic events, and in the evening, Washington Hall saw throngs of students gathered to honor the men who founded Notre Dame.
This year, Founder’s Day will be marked by a solemn high Mass on Monday morning in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will be the celebrant, assisted by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as deacon, and Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., as sub-deacon. A sermon on the significance of Founder’s Day and its past history will be preached by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C.
Students, especially the freshmen, are urged to attend the ceremonies this year, in the hope that they will share in the rich and colorful background of the University. It is felt that students of the twentieth century Notre Dame know too little of the Notre Dame of the horse car and gas light era, and of the men who struggled and fought the cause of Catholic education on the mid’ die western frontier.
This struggle to found a University on a northern Indiana prairie began nearly a century ago, when Father Edward Sorin and six Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross arrived on this spot in November, 1842.. With §400 and a world of faith and courage, these men * assumed their task. The great monument that is Notre Dame today bears striking testimony to the prayers and planning and labor which these men poured into their- work. The Notre Dame men of today may look around them, on Founder’s Day, at a living, growing tribute to the courage and faith of that little band that braved the wilderness to found this university.
Not only do we commemorate this anniversary, but Saturday Oct. 11 will be the 58th anniversary of the erection of the heroic statue of Our Lady that graces the top of the now famous Golden Dome.Father Sorin was ill during its erection, but there still remains a letter which he wrote at the time to express his gratitude:
“How shall I express to you my grateful acknowledgement for such manifestations of filial love and devotedness as I have seen and read during my four or five days here at St. Mary’s? More than ever I am at a loss how to reveal the feelings of my heart. But in my inability to return you proper and adequate thanks in words or in. writing, I find quite a relief in looking through the window from the chair to which I am bound yet for a week or ten days — to the only object I can see when I raise my eyes up to the blue sky — the image of the Blessed Virgin, recently elevated two hundred feet from the ground and enthroned as we had so long ago wished to behold her, in all the splendor of a most glorious queen, taking possession of her precious domain.”
This letter of Father Sorin’s expresses the character of the man more completely, more concisely, than any number of words written in later years could hope to do. Here we see the simple faith and piety which was his driving force. To this man and his Christ-like courage we owe this graceful campus and its magnificent buildings. In a word, to Father Sorin we owe the University of Notre Dame.—Robert E. Brooks
A.S.M. Announces
Schedule for 1941-42
The first meeting of the American Society for Metals, held Oct. 8 in the Engineering Bldg., featured a talk by Mr. R. L. Heath of the Allison Engineering Co.
Mr. Heath’s talk, illustrated with lantern slides, was on the subject of “Aircraft Engine Materials.”
The f o 1 lo w i n g speakers and schedules for the year have been an-
R. L. heath nounced by Mr. A.
R. Troiano, professor of metallurgy at Notre Dame, and chairman of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals:
Nov. 12.—H. W. McQuaid, Cleveland, Ohio, assistant chief metallurgist of the Republic Steel Company, will discuss “Making the Most of Carbon and Low Alloy Steels.”
Dec. 10.—C. A. Zapffe, Columbus, Ohio, research engineer of Battelle Memorial Institute. Mr. Zapffe will speak on “Hydrogen in Iron and Steel.”
Jan. 7.—An officer’s program will be held. This program will be addressed by Mr. Bradley Staughton, dean of engineering at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., and president of the National American Society for Metals. The public will not be admitted to this meeting, but other meetings are open to all interested persons.
Feb. 11—A joint meeting will be held with the Michiana chapter of the American Foundrymen’s Association. The speaker will be B. H. Booth, Jackson, Ohio, a metallurgist with the Jackson Iron and Steel Company. Mr. Booth’s topic will be “Silvery Pig Iron.”
March 11—N. B. Pilling, Bayonne, New Jersey, director of research? -laboratories of the International Nickel Company, will speak on “The Applications of Research in Nickel Alloys.”
April 8.—H. H. Harris, New York City, will speak on “Industrial Use of Heat and Corrosion Resistant Alloys.” Mr. Harris is president of the General Alloys Company.
May 13—The annual business meeting will be addressed by V. 0. J. Homerberg, of Cambridge, Mass.—Bill Rogers
7
PHYSICS DEPARTMENT
Those of us who feel a deep curiosity about matters scientific will be interested to know that a long-standing problem of physics has been solved on this campus. Notre Dame’s physicist, Eugene Guth advanced a reason for the elasticity of rubber, when he addressed fellow scientists at a .symposium held at Chicago University, Sept. 22-27. The entire program was sponsored jointly by the University and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, on the occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the college. Titled, “New Frontiers in Education and Research,” the meetings unscrambled many moot questions of chemistry and physics.
In laymen’s language, here is Professor Guth’s brief abstract from the detailed paper he delivered at the symposium, concerning the problem of the elasticity of rubber and of rubber-like materials:
“Why is rubber so elastic? This is a problem which baffled scientists for a long time, and it was not until recently that an explanation could be offered for the peculiar properties of rubber. Everybody knows that a rubber band may be stretched to about tenfold its original length. Still, after releasing the stress, it will come back to its original length. Another peculiar property of rubber is not so well-known, but is just as easily demonstrated . on a rubber band. Stretch a rubber band quickly and put it against the upper lip; it feels warm. Conversely, if a rubber band is kept stretched for a little while and then the stress is released quickly, it feels cool. This heat generation by the stretched rubber gives a clue to the explanation of rubber elasticity. It is similar to the heat generated if a gas is compressed by a piston in a vessel. Now it is well-known, that if a gas is kept at a constant volume in a vessel with a piston, the pressure on the piston will increase proportionately with the temperature.
“New careful experiments carried out by the associates of the author, Professor R. L. Anthony and Mr. R. H. Caston, at the University of Notre Dame, gave the following result: If a rubber band is kept stretched to a constant length and heated, then the stress in the band will increase proportionally with the temperature. This experiment shows very strikingly the “gas like” nature of rubber elasticity. Curiously enough, rubber possesses at the same time the properties of a solid, of a gas, and even those of a liquid.
“The gas-like nature of rubber elasticity is the reason that the air in tires, tubes or balls harmonizes so well with
S
SOLVES OLD DILEMMA
the surrounding rubber material, for the elasticity of rubber and air is of a similar nature.
“How can these peculiar properties of rubber be traced back to properties of the fundamental constituents of rubber, the rubber molecules? This has been worked out jointly by Professor Hubert M. James of Purdue University, and by Mr. Guth. The molecules of rubber are like long flexible strings or filaments. If one throws a flexible string into the air it will land in a curved, coiled-up form, rather than a straight form. Similarly, in an unstretched rubber band the rubber molecules will be coiled up. Stretch-
SAVINGS ACCUMULATE IN N. D. CREDIT UNIONS
“It’s main purpose is to encourage thrift,” said affable Bob Olsen, familiar to those who frequent the caf, speaking of Notre Dame’s first credit union, “but of course it also gives the members the opportunity of borrowing on their own savings. By doing this they are saved from paying high interest rates elsewhere.”	-
“The University of Notre Dame Dining Hall Employees’ Federal Credit Union” is the official name of this thriftencouraging organization. The union was organized in March 1939. Latest figure releases show that $13,304.50 has been loaned out since the Union began. Important to note, moreover, is the fact that only one loan (of $16) has turned out bad to date. Bad loans are taken care of out of a fund which is set aside from each year’s profit.
Union Run by Federal Rules
The Union was organized under Federal supervision and must abide by Federal rules. Any dining hall employee may join the Union. To join an employee needs only to purchase a share; shares sell at $5 a piece. Members may put in as low as 25 cents on a payday or may buy as many shares as they like. Dining hall paydays are bank days; then money may be put in or loaned out. The shares are invested in government bonds and at the end of each year all profit above one per cent is divided among the members according to the number of shares they own. Significant note—two per cent was paid the first year; four per cent last year.
Members of the Union elect a Board of Directors of five. These in turn elect a Credit Committee of three and a Supervisory Committee of 3. The Directors run the organization as a whole; the Credit group passes on all loan applica
ing the rubber actually stretches its long flexible molecules from the more probable curved form to a less probable straight-ened-out form. The extensibility of rubber, then, is traced back to the extensibility of the rubber molecules themselves. The retractive force in stretched rubber which causes it to snap back; if the stress is released, is explained in a way similar to the tendency of the gas molecules to expand.
“Among other things, this theory of Prof. James and of Mr. Guth explains the peculiarly shaped stress-strain curve of rubber. Thus, the experiments and the theory as reported actually solve the puzzle of rubber elasticity.”
—Tom Clemens
tions; the Supervisors audit and check the books.
Man-with-the-most-grief is Bob Olsen who holds the dual position of treasurer and general manager of the Union. The • entire membership of the Union represents more than 90 per cent of the dining hall employees.
Next Step: Faculty Credit Union
This summer another Federal Credit Union was organized at the University. This Union is open to all members of the faculty and office and administration employees. It is organized along the same lines as the Dining Hall Union, but of course is still in a more formative stage. President of the Faculty Union is Mr. Willis Nutting, professor of history; secretary and general manager is Mr. James Corbett, professor of history and associate University archivist.
—Robert LeMense
Faculty Members Meet In General Assembly
Last Wednesday afternoon at 4:00 in the auditorium of the Law Building all of the faculty members of the University gathered together for the first time this year in the opening general assembly, held in accordance with the statutes of the University. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, addressed the group on “The Faculty and The Future of Notre Dame.”
Father O’Donnell formally introduced to the general assembly those members of the Notre Dame faculty recently engaged as well as the Commandant and Assistant Staff of the new Department of Naval Science and Tactics. During the course of the assembly other official announcements were made by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies.
COMBINE PRIZE MONEY FOR NEW ESSAY CONTEST
Behind last week’s routine announcement of the annual history essay contests, lies a real news item.
Before this year, the Father Charles O’Donnell and the Charles Phillips prizes each carried awards of $25. This year they have been combined to form one prize of $50 for the winning essay in the contest now designated as the Father Charles O’Donnell and Charles Phillips History Prize with this year’s topic as follows: “The Catholic Church as the Patron of the Renaissance in the 15th Century.” An apologetic treatment of this subject is expected although it should be drawn from a historical and factual background.
As in other years, the remaining prize
TECHNICAL TRAINING COURSES UNDER WAY
Final plans for the new defense training program for industrial workers were set forth at a meeting held at the University at which the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., “institutional representative” and co-ordinator of all defense activities, outlined the class schedule. Representatives of chambers of commerce and industries from most of the cities in the vicinity of South Bend attended.
Classes were started on Oct. 1, bulletins and application blanks having been in distribution since Sept. 20.
Defense workers of all types from this rich industrial area are now having an opportunity to improve their technical knowledge and skill. Over 60 college grade courses are offered in the enlarged ESMDT (Engineering, Science and Management Defense Training) program, including the engineering and machine operation courses which were offered last year; special work in aeronautics and electronics; physics, mathematics and chemistry. Cost Accounting, production and supervision, and personel management are also new features of the program.
During the current school year three complete courses of 12 weeks each will be offered. The first has begun, and the second and third are to begin in January and April, respectively.
In addition to Father Trahey and other University representatives, there were in attendance at the meeting B. P. Des-enking, of Buchanan, Mich.; Mayor R. G. Van Deusen, of Buchanan; F. A. Miller, of the Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Manufacturing Co.; Nelson E. Miles, of the Schult Trailers, Inc., Elkhart, Ind.;
is the Msgr. Frank O’Brien Prize which carries an award of approximately $35. The topic, always dealing with some subject relative to the Northwest Territory, will this year have the title, “Catholic Education on the Frontier — Notre Dame before the Civil War.” This topic was chosen with an eye toward fostering a knowledge of the history of Notre Dame in view of the centennial.
Father Thomas McAvoy, head of the history department, points out that early announcement of the topics is being made in order that research may be done and some time be spent in preparation of the topics, which are of such a nature that they require considerable work.—T. Weber	-
E. L. Bach, executive secretary of the South Bend Association of Commerce, and George Horst, of the Kawneer Co., Niles, Mich.
The following cities, including the industrial area dominated by each have indicated interest in the program and will probably soon be actively engaged: LaPorte, Goshen, and Michigan City, Ind., and Dowagiac, Mich.
—J. H. Johnston
Typing and Shorthand
Offered to N. D. Men
Announcement has been made that the typing and shorthand classes inaugurated last fall for Notre Dame students will be continued again this year at the South Bend College of Commerce.
The classes are to be held every Monday and Thursday evening beginning next Monday, Oct. 13. The instruction will begin at 7 p.m. South Bend time and there will be two periods.
Those who desire may take either the shorthand or typing work, or both. The instruction will last nine weeks and then an advanced course will be offered after Christmas vacation. Students may register any time before 7:40 Monday night in the offices of the business college, 212 S. St. Joseph St.,
John O’Dea, popular' senior of last year now in the navy air corps, was instrumental in getting the classes first started. There were nearly 50 in the opening section a year ago.
The rates have been reduced for Notre Dame men. They are $10 for one course or $15 for both courses, as stated in an advertisement in this week’s issue of the Scholastic.—Lenon Kelly	'
Bishop O'Hara, Very
Active Military Delegate
One of the most difficult tasks to assign to any reporter is that of following in story form the whirlwind path and extensive accomplishments of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., former President of fhe University of Notre Dame and now Military Delegate. However, an occasional report suffices to give the impression of the tremendous nation-wide task he is carrying out. The example given below alone is slight, though multiplied over by every state in the union, it reveals the extensive diocese of Bishop O’Hara.
Recently Bishop O’Hara dedicated the New Army Chapel at Fort Sheridan, Ill. Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., Archbishop of Chicago, officiated at the dedication before the Mass. Ecclesiastical and Military Dignitaries assisted at the service.
Reyniers Addresses
Chicago Biologists
Professor Reyniers
Last week during the celebration of the Golden Anniversary of the University of Chicago, attended by Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University president, and Notre Dame faculty members, Mr. James A. Reyniers, associate professor of biology, addressed the sub-committee on intramural aerobiology of the National Research Council. The title of his address was “Air Borne Infection and Its Control.” On Wednesday, Sept. 24, Mr. Reyniers had delivered a paper at Chicago on “The Control of Cross Infection in Hospitals by the Use of Mechanical Barriers and Air Conditioning.”
9
A Case For Notre Dame
By REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
Vice-President of the University and General Chairman of the -Centennial Committee.
I take for granted that Notre Dame men are convinced, beyond the need of demonstration, that the philosophy behind education at their University is singularly capable of preserving all that is best in the American form of life. There seems to be a feeling abroad that, great as Notre Dame has been through her years of struggles, she is today at the threshold of her golden era of influence. I wonder, however, if there is an intelligent unity of opinion among Notre Dame men as to just what is required if Notre Dame is to fulfill her special destiny?
Notre Dame has enjoyed for the last 15 years almost unique success in football. Our teams have been supported by hundreds of thousands of spectators, and successive generations of students have gone away from the campus strongly suspecting, I fear, that from the football revenues gold bullion was being hoarded in some hidden vault on the campus. A program of building, amounting to more than seven million dollars, had to be carried on in order to make the transition within 15 years from a smaller institution of learning to a large university with an enrollment that tripled within a period of 20 years. The building program became for many merely another link in the chain of evidence that Notre Dame was rich and getting richer year by year. In the face of these conditions the case for endowment at Notre Dame must be explained thoroughly to every member of the Notre Dame family. It doesn’t matter so much whether the member of the Notre Dame family is in a position to give, but he should at least have the facts and be disposed to speak out when necessary/
Has Notre Dame been making a million dollars a year on football? The year just ended is among the best we ever had. Gross receipts were slightly less than $525,000, and actual expenses for carrying on the intercollegiate and interhall athletic programs amounted to slightly less than $313,000, leaving a net to the University of approximately $212,000. Far from getting a million dollars from football, Notre Dame, then, actually received $212,000, or something less than a quarter of that amount. But is there not, besides, some net return on
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
the general operations of the University exclusive of football? There is. The net is something like $160,000, for. the last fiscal year; which means that altogether the entire net was about $372,000. Out of this entire net there is a depreciation reserve set up for the replacement of buildings and equipment, which are either becoming obsolescent or wearing out through daily use. This reserve amounts to something like $150,000, leaving only about $222,000 available for the construction of new buildings, for the development of research and of the graduate departments, and for carrying on the various forms of social security which have already been introduced.
What has actually been done with such an amount of money year after year for the last 15 years? Along with the building program amounting to seven million dollars, Notre Dame has continued, from its annual resources, to strengthen all undergraduate departments and, at the same time, has developed seven graduate departments at the University. Anyone familiar with educational work understands immediately that graduate departments, with relatively high-salaried professors who teach
comparatively few students who cannot themselves pay their expenses, are a heavy financial load. For this important reason, Notre Dame’s policy, like that of the California Institute of Technology, has been to concentrate on few departments in which the doctor’s degree is offered and to make these departments the best possible with the men and money available.. Since the success of graduate work depends very largely upon the quality of the professors and of the staffs devoted to research, I may mention certain outstanding men on the various graduate faculties at Notre Dame. The-faculty of philosophy is especially notable for the variety of training which its members have received. These members have been trained in the principal Catholic universities of the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Belgium, and Italy. Professor Yves Simon, the author of several significant works is an outstanding Thomist. He was formerly on the faculty of the University of Lille in France. Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Doctor Francis McMahon and Doctor John Fitzgerald are rising young philosophers of note on the faculty. This current year the University has added to the staff, Professor Paul Vigneux, internationally known for his studies in the history of philosophy, and until recently director of the School of Higher Studies at the University of Paris. On the faculty for graduate work in politics there are Doctors Waldemar Gurian and Ferdinand Hermens, both authors of several important works. Professor Hermens’ latest study in proportional representation is very soon to appear. On the faculty of biology there is Doctor Theodor Just, outstanding botanist, editor of The Midland Naturalist, which was founded by the late Father Nieuwland in 1926 and which is today acknowledged in most countries of the world as one of the better learned journals in the field of botany. On the faculty for graduate work in physics there are Doctor George Collins, now engaged in government research, Doctor Eugene Guth, Doctor Edward Coomes, and a Holy Cross priest, Father Henry Bolger. Busy in metallurgy are the experienced and scholarly Doctor Edward G. Mahin and his gifted
10
young assistant, Doctor Alexander R. Troiano. In mathematics there is Doctor Karl Menger, formerly head of the department of mathematics at the University of Vienna and acknowledged as one of the great mathematicians of the world. Working under Professor Menger are Professors Arthur Milgram and Paul Pepper, young American mathematicians of extraordinary promise.
I might go on to tell you of the important researches which are being carried on under the able leadership of Dean Henry B. Froning in the Department of Chemistry. The researches which were begun by Father Nieuwland in Organic Chemistry are now being advanced by Doctors Vogt, Hennion, and Campbell, and the researches in Inorganic Chemistry are being developed by Doctors Hamill, Baldinger, McCusker, and Brother Columba, C.S.C. I might allude to the probems in micrurgy, in germ-free research, and in research on cross-infection, occupying much of the attention of Professor Reyniers and his skilled assistants. Research is costly. Doctor Collins has constructed a huge gun for the smashing of atoms. The gun cost about $40,000 in material and labor. There are important researches in economics being conducted by Father Keller. One report on these researches in economics, that on National Wealth, has been published. Other studies are to come later.
May I develop a little further one point I am trying to make? The salaries of professors of graduate work are high; researches are costly; scholarships must be offered for qualified graduate students ; certain expensive publications must be fostered by a university engaged in graduate work. Notre Dame finances four learned publications out of current funds. These publications are The Midland Naturalist, the Publications in Medieval Research, edited by Father Moore, The Revieiv of Politics, and The Mathematical Colloquium. It is not healthy, even if it might be done, to continue graduate work out of current funds because the salaries of graduate professors, necessary scholarships, research projects, and learned publications demand annually a huge, definite sum of money. When they are carried on out of current income which is sensitive to wars and other changing factors, the whole program rests on an uncertain foundation which may be shaken seriously even in the next few months. •
There are 134 colleges and universities in the United States which possess two million dollars or more of endowment. Among these 134 colleges are some that you have hardly ever heard about. Yet Notre Dame, possessing a national
reputation, is not among the 134. Notre Dame’s endowment is $1,010,000, as compared, for example, with Harvard’s $144,000,000, with Yale’s $101,000,000, with Columbia’s $70,000,000. Is Notre Dame’s position clear? Besides the needs of the graduate departments and of the expensive projects undertaken in research, Notre Dame must within the next 10 years go much further in such matters as group insurance for protection, in case of sickness and death, of both faculty members and employees. Notre Dame must do more in lay teacher pensions, and in other forms of social security. The remodelling or replacement of the hugh main building, the construction of a residence hall for graduate students a structure for the College of Arts and Letters hardly need be mentioned to establish the urgent case for endowment at Notre Dame.
All Notre Dame men know that already phenomenal results have been obtained chiefly because thousands of well-trained religious have in the last century taught and worked at Notre Dame, without salary. Their combined effort has counter-balanced the almost unrequited need for cash. Notre Dame enjoys good will, precious and world-wide; a matchless spirit inspires faculty men, alumni and students; Notre Dame has advanced far in her building program, in attracting outstanding men to the faculties. The next significant step in the natural order, in the history of Notre Dame, will be, it seems to me, the acquisition of a large endowment. There must be intelligent unity and constant cooperation on this point. A neighboring university has within 20 years increased its endowment by $40,000,000. With an accurate understanding on the part of Notre Dame’s faculty members, alumni, and students, with the united effort which will follow such an understanding, a similar amount of endowment can be attracted to Notre Dame within the next 20 years. If it comes, all of us know what an influence Notre Dame will exert in this land of America which we love. The opportunitv of Notre Dame must be spread abroad, that this institution may continue to reach out to its goal as the educational pride of America and the strongest bulwark of defense for the American and Christian way of life.
Statute Standardization Bill by Prof. Kearney
Several weeks ago Mr. James J. Kearney, University law professor, appeared before the National Conference of Commissioners of Uniform State Laws in Indianapolis, Ind., to present a statute he had drafted for a committee
of the conference which was to make uniform the construction of all statutes.
The conference has drafted and presented many statutes to the different state legislatures from the start of this century; but on this particular occasion the conference employed an outside expert draftsmen to perform-the needed research and writing of the«proposed law.
Alumni Make Plans
For Centennial Year
Little noises, that will swell, as time goes on, into the big boom that Notre Dame alumni plan to make during the centennial year, were heard over the campus last week.
On Friday, Oct. 3, a meeting on the University campus of the officers and directors of the Notre Dame National Alumni Association was presided over by the group’s president, Hon. Harry Kelly, Secretary of State in neighboring Michigan. Among those present were Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president and vice-president, respectively, of the University; J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations; and representatives from the larger Notre Dame Clubs — New York City, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Detroit, Chicago, St. Joseph Valley, and Indianapolis.
Father O’Donnell outlined the present status of the University and summarized a statement which will be sent to all Notre Dame Alumni. The association is discussing a program of expansion to conform to the University’s centennial activities and subsequent developments.
—Charles J. Patterson
Rev. John A. O'Brien
Speaks in Indianapolis
Requests for reservations came from distances of 50 miles when Rev. John A. O’Brien, Oxford scholar, member of the Notre Dame faculty and noted Isolationist, spoke in the Calebs Mills Hall in Indianapolis, Ind., last Thursday, Oct. 2.
In his speech Father O’Brien stated that repeal of the Neutrality Law by Congress would be another step toward war and urged American people to thunder their protest against the administration’s efforts to change the neutrality law despite the wishes of 83% of the people.
11
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus	Founded 1867
John A. Reilly, Editor
Thomas V. Powers William Scanlan .. John Dinges_____ William Baader ..... Jack Sprague ___
.Managing Editor ____Promotion ____Sports Editor ____Art Editor .....Campus Editor
Mark McGrath ................  Administration	Editor
Don Heltzel...........................Feature	Editor
Ed Drinkard ......................Staff	Photographer
Elmer Silha ............................Advertising
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C..........Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
STUDENT TRIP CONTROVERSY
We are not aware o£ the method employed in selecting the Navy game at Baltimore as this year’s student trip. Our announcement o£ the decision in last week’s Scholastic was secured from reliable sources. The subsequent unfavorable reaction which swept over the campus proved that a vast majority of those affected by the decision had not been consulted, and obviously were not in favor of such a proposal.
It does not belong to the Scholastic to attempt an outline of student procedure to secure a decision favorable to the majority of undergraduates. Such a course of action should reflect the machinery of the Student Council, the Discipline Office, and others directly concerned with student welfare and activities. The Scholastic merely reflects student opinion and reaction. Above all, the Scholastic disclaims any right to accept rebukes for news articles which react unfavorably upon its readers.
THE PEP RALLY AGAIN
Last week we asked for student cooperation at the pep rally to eliminate—at least to minimize—heckling. We were present at the rally on Friday night and the improved attitude of the student body was distinctly noticeable. The “Quiz Kids” were few and far between. Let’s keep that spirit going for the remainder of the season.
However, even though the student body improved its manners and performed its part nobly last Friday night, the pep rally must be labeled an obvious failure, due to the delayed appearance of the speakers. Pep rallies are by nature sporadic affairs. Once started, they must be cumulative, lest they die of malnutrition. Last Friday’s affair literally starved for almost half an hour while cheerleaders peered gloomily down corridors, only to turn back again and shrug hopelessly at the non-appearance of the expected guests. Even the lilting “Hut Sut” began to pall after its fifth rendition. When the team and speakers finally straggled in there was hardly any interest left—much less enthusiasm.
Such poor timing is indicative of a lack of co-ordination on the part of those who conduct the rally. May we suggest
12
that the next time they do their part by beginning the rally on time and speeding up its tempo generally. Let’s have no more of such pauses—they’re really not refreshing.
FATHER SORIN'S DREAM
From a log cabin on the Indiana prairie to the Notre Dame of today. That is the physical realization of Father Sorin’s dream of a hundred years ago. The hardships and sufferings which were undergone to make that dream come true are recorded in the annals of the University. The accomplishment—as we see it today—is almost as incredible as the courage and steadfastness required to effect it.
But buildings and mere physical growth represent only the superficial elements of Father Sorin’s idea. Its true manifestation is the spiritual treasury created by the thousands of Notre Dame meh who carry with them when they leave the campus, that indefinable but imperishable character which stamps them as Her sons. That is Father Sorin’s idea in its very essence.
For Father Sorin was ever a builder of men. Minds and bodies, not mortar and bricks, were his material. He made himself personally responsible for every student so that each might in some measure share in this heritage which is Notre Dame. So well did he succeed in this aim that after his death the students themselves largely assumed the responsibility of passing on this legacy to generations of students yet to come.
Wherever the true Notre Dame man goes—there is Notre Dame itself. Were every foot of this campus to be destroyed completely, Notre Dame would still live in the hearts of those who, having known her, love her. The Notre Dame legend and ideal can never die. Such is the permanence of Father Sorin’s work.
We would do well to remember, then, at all times, that we are co-heirs to this priceless heritage of a truly remarkable man. Father Sorin founded much more than a university. He established a way of life which strives to combine the academic, social, and religious aspects into one complete whole. The result is Notre Dame.
CAMPUS NEWS
SENIORS HOLD SUCCESSFUL MEETING
New Program is Promising
At 7:40 p.m. last Tuesday night some 500 purportedly-dignified, draft-eligible Seniors walked out of moldering Washington Hall, confident that the job of planning and directing the activities of their last academic year at Notre Dame was in good hands. They had just seen a tall, stout, sandy-haired man call the
jim o’neal first assembly of the Senior class to order with the request that he be allowed to speak and informally to them. They then listened while he made good that promise with a genial informality that shortened the distance between this unusual speaker and his audience.
As he began, the speaker expressed his gratitude and that of Vice-President Paul Patten, Secretary Pete Moulder and Secretary Walt McCourt for the strong student support in the election of last May and asked for the cooperation of each student, especially that of the defeated candidates, in the task of directing a successful year of Senior activities. Posing the major premise that much of the Senior year is a success if the Senior Ball is successful, the speaker appealed to the now fully-attentive audience for contribution of ideas and suggestions for the Ball week and for Commencement week. Again the speaker emphasized that the Senior class officers desire to follow closely the plans suggested by each and every Senior. He announced the distribution in the near future of ballots by which the student choices as to time and temper of arrangements may be known.
As the speaker moved to the subject of a dance band, those in the audience mused gleefully over Dorsey Bros., Goodman, Kayser and dozens of “namebands.” The voice from the speakers rostrum and the very able person behind it made no announcements as to choices but indicated the Ball budget could be balanced so as to afford the extra ex
penditure necessary to procure a first-class dance band that is popularly known to every student. On this point, suggestions and aid in the contacting and selection were invited.
The speaker put aside his informality to participate in the very formal business of drawing for the door prize, a postage-paid ticket to the Ball, which went to lucky James E. Diver, Bridgeport, Illinois.
That finished, the speaker thanked his audience and walked away from the rostrum. He had not introduced himself to the audience but everyone knew that it was their choice for president of the Senior Class—Jim O’Neal!
"They Is All Important" On Football Special
Easing unheralded into the spur track in back of the Notre Dame powerhouse, the “Ed Gould Notre Dame Special” arrived here last Saturday noon with a large group of Chicago boosters for the Irish-Hoosier football classic. The crack
New York Central “5298,” straight from La Salle Street Station, disembarked its passengers before a welcoming throng of one reporter, a photographer, two men, and three newsboys.
A Windy City grid fan made up for the lack of fanfare by smashing a coach window.
Passengers, stepping out into a slight drizzle, were directed to the stadium by the newsboys, who offered their papers with the explanation that “it’ll be wet in the stadium.”
Fans scurried to the stadium but train employees could spare time to talk for publication. A chef on the diner bemoaned the fact that he couldn’t attend the game. One of his colleagues volunteered the information that “Notre Dame should win.”
A porter on the thirreen-car special, queried as to whether or not any “important” people were on the train, proved master of the occasion by replying that “they is all important.”
It was the same old story of special trains arriving. Men and women hopped off and departed for the stadium, but the proof that the fame of Notre Dame extends far and wide came when two dashing Casanovas beat the reporter to the punch by asking a simple “Where is St. Mary’s?”—Dave Condon
13
McDonough Went, Saw And Had a Good Time
One day last week there arrived at the Scholastic offices a yellow, two-page report on the New York activities of one James McDonough, Notre Dame sophomore extraordinary, who had cracked for a brief spell into a big-time Broadway show: a spot on Fred Allen’s “Texaco Star Theatre.”
The report, issued by Columbia Broadcasting System’s propaganda bureau, detailed Jim’s visits to “such glamor infested places as the Stork Club and Lindy’s in the hope of seeing some celebrities.” The report went on: “He did not recognize any W-K’s in either place.”
A Scholastic reporter, supplementing CBS’s special bulletin to the paper "with an interview in 325 Morrissey, McDonough’s abode, discovered that Notre Dame’s talent star did meet or see some of the current glamour crop haunting the bright way.
At the Stork Club he ran into Betty Grable, there for the evening with George Raft. At Lindy’s were Jack Benny and Dennis Day and “a bunch of critics.”
The reporter learned further that he attended an Eddie Cantor rehearsal, saw Fred Waring’s show and the “Voice of Firestone” before appearing as a guest on the Allen broadcast.
At 9 p.m. Wednesday he took the air with the rest of Allen’s outfit, explaining to an estimated audience of 20,000,000 people that he had been elected by 3,000 Notre Dame students as the most talented individual on the campus. Notre Dame students who listened to the broadcast were doubly certain their choice was correct after McDonough finished his repartee with Allen and swung into a monologue from the picture “Knute Rockne—All American.” Among the audience sitting in on the show were McDonough’s parents who came from Chicago and Greg Rice, Notre Dame‘s great distance runner.
Back home in Indiana, McDonough wasn’t allowed to forget his broadcast. Fan letters started dropping at the door of the Morrissey Hall room and by last Tuesday had reached the total of 15. Prize exhibit is one from a self-styled “fellow performer,” a three-foot-eleven-inch midget weighing 90 pounds who thinks Jim shows great promise.
Jim, who is the least bit near-sighted, quiet and unassuming, is currently piling into the books to make up for lost time. Campus radio fans will have ample opportunity to. hear him through the year as he is director of “Radio Stage,” star attraction- on the bill of fare provided by the campus radio club.
Leahy, Glee Club Guests On Stern's Radio Show
Last Saturday night, Notre Dame talent took to the air lanes for the second time in a week — a week ago it was Jim McDonough, sophomore talent-elect who was the guest of Fred Allen on the Columbia network. Last Saturday night it was Head Coach Frank Leahy and eight members of the Glee Club over the National Broadcasting network. The coach and the octette of James Purcell, James Treacy, Doug MacDonald, John Henneberger, Bob Fountain, William
.. .Mr. Stern was lavish with praise...
Scully, Anthony Donadio, and Kevin O’Toole were guests of the Colgate Sport Show which is masterfully directed by Bill Stern, N.B.C.’s ace sports commentator.
Coach Leahy and Mr. Stern had much to talk about for both had several hours previous taken active parts in the production of the Indiana-Notre Dame football game, the former responsible in great part for directing the actions of the Fighting Irish and the latter responsible for bringing these actions to the great American radio public. Mr. Stern complimented the coach on the performance of the Irish varsity and expressed belief that this year’s Varsity squad appeared to have all of the prerequisites for a championship team, ruggedness, a deceptive offense, and a fighting spirit characteristic of great Irish teams.
The octette provided the musical background for the program. Mr. Stern was lavish with his praise of the men’s work,
saying, “I’ve worked with college Glee Clubs all over the United States, and I think Notre Dame’s is one of the finest I have ever heard. It’s really a pleasure to listen to it.”
The broadcast was the first of a series of presentations fr^m the campus studios of WSBT, South Bend, to be aired over a national hook-up, this year.
Prof. Pedtke Plans
"B-team" Glee Club
From Sept. 22 to Sept. 25 inclusive even the most casual observer could notice the excitement that prevailed in and around the campus “Tin Pan Alley,” where Mr. Daniel Pedtke, director of the Glee Club, was holding his own private registration day. The long lines of pink-cheeked freshmen stood before his door from 1:30 to 5:30, and one by one were admitted to the sanctum-sanctorum. It was here that many of them were told the long-expected words, “I’m sorry, but not all of us have just the right kind of a voice for choral work; why don’t you try out for foot-ball?” and it was here, too, that still others were told that they were in.
But to most of the young Crosbys came the words they hoped for and, at the same time, dreaded, “I’ll let you know. Watch the bulletin board.” They waited and finally the notice went up. Of the 420 who tried out 106 were asked to call again. Of these, 44 are accepted as members of the regular Glee Club. The other 66 are to make up the first “B Team” Glee Club in the history of Notre Dame.
Professor Pedtke saw in this type of club an opportunity to hear the voices of those who did not make the “first team” under conditions a little more conducive to good singing. He realizes that many of the boys have good voices but for one reason or another they didn’t make their best showing in the individual try-outs. This way he won’t lose any of the good voices he might have lost had he ji^t released them. '
The “B Team” will meet every night at 6:30 in the Music Hall under the direction of Father Gallagher, C.S.C.
—Frank King
"Scrip" Awaits
All students interested, in submitting manuscripts for the first issue of the student literary quarterly, Scrip, are asked to do so to Charles J. Kirby, 340 Alumni before Oct. 18.
14
Gene Schumaker Newly Elected S. C. President
As the result of last Monday’s election of officers, Eugene Schumaker, habitant of Sorin Hall, will guide the destinies
E. SCHUMAKER election he served
of the Student Council for the ensuing year. Gene, a popular figure at pep rallies and other campus gatherings, was vice-president of the council and also served a s Junior class president last year. Previous to his as acting president
during the Council’s activities at the beginning of the “41-42” school year.
Other officers elected at Monday night’s gathering in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial are: Walter Jones, vice-president; John Gilbert, secretary; and Jerry Feeney, treasurer.
Charles Tobin, a senior representative from the College of Arts and Letters, opposed Schumaker in the presidential race. John Anhut, a representative of Lyons hall, provided opposition for Gilbert, Engineering representative, in the balloting for secretary. Feeney, representing the Villagers club, and Jones, from Dillon, had clear paths in their respective races, running unopposed.
Schumaker, who appeared as acting president at pep rallies and at the Frosh Convocation, announced that one of the Council’s steps would be to better acquaint the student body as a whole with the activities of the Student Council. Schumaker also stated that an attempt would be made to cement better relationships between the Council and student body in order that both might work for the mutual aid of the school.
Formerly known as the student Activity Council, it was reorganized a few years ago and is now known as the Student Council, although, council officials pointed out, it is still called the S. A. C. in some circles.
Twenty-seven members comprise the council. Three of these members, presidents of the senior, junior, and sophomore classes, are advisory members. The actual membership of the council is made up of representatives of the various colleges in the university, delegates representing the fourteen halls, the president of the Villagers club, and one member elected by the Villagers club. The election of freshmen hall representatives is held in December. Other hall representatives are elected the first
week in October, with the positions from the various colleges being filled in the spring via the ballot method. Annual election of officers is held in October, following the hall voting.
An official of the council pointed out that with the council as a medium between the student and faculty, any member of the student body coming before the school board for disciplinary action has the right to have a member of the council defend him.
Other functions of the student governing body include the handling of the student trip, which this year is being
HOW NOT TO PREPARE
While the echoes of the final “amen” of evening prayer are still reverberating around the walls of the study hall, you dash up to the Brother’s desk to procure that which is as necessary for your attendance at Saint Mary’s Inaugural Ball as your tux — a “midnight permission.”
That accomplished, you run downstairs, open your locker, and lay out the tails that you borrowed from a pal, and stiff shirt, studs, and tie that your pal borrowed for you from his pal. After getting into your tux pants, which are one of the few unborrowed things in your outfit, you spend five minutes rummaging in your locker for socks. It turns out that the only clean ones you possess are of a brilliant shade of green and yellow and full of holes besides. This necessitates a trip into an adjoining locker room for the purpose of borrowing some less colorful hosiery.
Having thus succeeded in garbing the lower portion of your torso, you start on the upper and more difficult half. Lack-
THE RAINS CAME
One student finally despaired. Standing near the center of the main quad, he lifted his face to the slate-grey skies overhead, beseeched: “Turn it off!”
But Jupe Pluvius failed the plea, he didn’t turn it off. The skies continued to pour forth.
As rainy days succeeded each other Notre Dame students turned sad and frustrated eyes to their clothes hanging damp and losing their press in lockers. Towels were soggy. Formals, suits just back from the cleaners, ties, shirts, accessories — everything wilted under the moist onslaught.
Students encountered difficulty in get
directed by Bob Richardson, a law school student, and the organization of campus clubs, which is done through the council.
The president of the council, according to a spokesman of the organization, must be a senior, while the vice-presidency must rest with some member of the junior class. The secretary and treasurer positions are open to any politico in the organization.
Activities of the council to date, (besides the election) include the Freshman convocation, pep meetings, and the judging of the primaries in the recent Fred Allen talent contest.—Dave Condon
FOR THE INAUGURAL BALL
ing a friend to act as a valet, you are faced with the difficult task of getting into a stiff shirt by yourself. First you laboriously insert all the studs and the cuff links. Then you hang the shirt on the door of the locker, and from a crouching position attempt to rise into it from beneath.
This technique proves disastrously inefficient. In some way a stud has got caught in the place where the collar button ought to be, making it impossible for you to get your head through. Nor can you get your hands through the cuffs. There you are, helplessly encased in starched linen, unable to move for fear of wrinkling the shirt or break- ' ing your neck.
Luckily your smothered appeals for aid are heard by a passerby in the corridor, who comes to your assistance. With his help you are all decked out and ready to leave at 8:30, the hour at which the dance was scheduled to begin.
—Jack Anderton
ting out of their rooms in the morning: doors had swollen tight against their frames from the moisture in the air.
Sloughing back and forth from room to class-room, students soon found it necessary to roll their pants to their knees, thereby exposing many a hairy, bony, unbecoming leg.
As the rains held out, raincoats began to give under the strain. Cheaper models were discarded the first day, other rainproof stocks soon fell by the wayside. The rains kept falling. Some students gave up the unequal battle, walked to class without their protectors.
Finally, last Tuesday, Jupe turned it off.
15
INTRODUCING - - ----By RAY DONOVAN
“Watch out, Army! The little round man of Notre Dame is on the loose again.” This undoubtedly is the watchword around New York and West Point as the Cadets begin preparing for their traditional annual gridiron battle with the Fightin’ Irish. For it was this same little man, Steve Juzwik, who grabbed moral victory from the soldiers in the waning minutes of last year’s contest when he intercepted an Army pass and
Should a group of Steve’s friends find a lull in the activities and desire a little piano melody the gridman also finds time to tickle the ivories a little. This, along with the opera and fishing, constitutes one of the little man’s chief hobbies. Some of you Cub fans would like to be in the Irish halfback’s shoes during the spring and summer months, for Steve lives just a short distance from Wrigley Field.
Although Steve must carry 185 pounds on his 5:8% frame, his maneuvering on the gridiron challenges that of a tightrope walker. Fans and students who witnessed his act while dancing along the west sidelines, only allegedly to step out of bounds on the four yard line Saturday will attest to the fact that Steve is one of the most agile backs of recent years on the Blue and Gold squad.
Fair warning should—and is—being served opponents lying in the path of the Leahy machine that Steve Juzwik, who received honorable mention on several prominent All-American teams last year, is again this fall one of the most talked of backs in the midwest—and this talk is backed up ably by performance.
zig-zagged 80 yards for the only score of the game.
Steve Eobert Juzwik, born in Gary, Ind., moved to Chicago with his family in 1926 and can thus be called a true native of the Windy City. He chose Notre Dame after starring on the DePaul High eleven for three years, and' describes the 1936 DePaul team as one of the best in the city. This outfit, as Steve pointed out, lost a close battle to • Leo High for the right to battle the winner of the public school league in the annual charity classic in Soldiers’ Field. In his senior year the Irish right halfback captained both the DePaul grid and cage squads.
In his sophomore year low - waisted Mr. Juzwik was kept out of the Notre Dame starting lineup
only by the presence of southerner Lou Zontini. He did, however, gain necessary experience, and provided opposing teams with plenty of headaches., Coach Waldorf of Northwestern* will admit to one serious mistake made by his Wildcats in their 1939 battle with Notre Dame, and this consisted in letting this stocky lad get hold of the ball late in the second half. For it was Juzwik who set up the Irish touchdown,, the only one of the day.
While in high , school Steve modestly admits earning some 10 monograms in football, basketball and track. The youth’s leadership abilities are ably shown by the fact that he .was elected to the presidency of his senior class at DePaul and also to the presidency of the commerce class of which he ‘was a member.
During the past summer the stocky lad worked side by side with Captain White of Indiana university, against whom he performed when the Irish were hosts to the Hoosiers in the stadium last Saturday. Both men, along with Mike Kelly, monogram winning catcher on Jake Kline’s baseball squad, worked at a munitions plant in Wilmington, Ill.
After graduating with a physical edu- . cation degree next June Steve plans to play a little more football and then settle down to a coaching job. If he decides to play professional football Juzwik will be the second Notre Dame back in two years to follow this course. Milt Piepul rejected an offer to coach in a Chicago high school this year in order to sign a Detroit Lion contract.
DOWN THE ALLEYS
Notre Dame’s Downtown Bowlers started the 1941-42 newly formed league in grand style with eighteen teams participating.
Fourmy led the parade with a blasting 205 for the Lions. Sturm knotched second spot with a 195 average to lead the Tiger outfit.
Bud Gans reports that a trophy will be presented to the leading squad at the end of the season. Medals will be awarded to the second place outfit. The league, which bowls every Thursday noon at the Bowl-Mor alleys, has completed its entry list.
Leading Bowlers and Handicaps:
Team	Bowler	Av. Hdcp.
Lions Fourmy _____________________205
Admirals ----------Dillon ________188
Moose _____________-,Gulyassy _____187
Wolves ____________Fayette _______187
Indians ___________Trimborne _____185
Boozers ___________Muench ________181
Four Strikes ______Gans ___________169	1
Hangover A. 0. ____Smith __________160	10
Them Bums _________Conley _________157	13
Gashouse Gang _____O’Reilly _______149	21
C. Choo Choos _____Kelsey _________149	21
Maulers -----------McDonald _______146	24
99’s Ward _________________________144	26
O’Brien’s Follies _Burkhart _______143	27
Team Standings
Team	won
Maulers _______________ 3
Four Strikes  3, Lions  3
Indians  3 -
Hangovers  3
Maulers ______________  3
Admirals. _____________ 2
Them Bums _____________ 2
Wolves  1 O’Brien’s Follies _____ 1
Tigers ......._________ 0
Boozers  0 C. Choo Choos__________ 0
Gashouse "Gang ________ 0
'99’s ....;_____:_______ 0
TOTAL
LOST HANDICAP
0	53
0	46
0	40
0	75
0	80
0	144
1	18
1	99
2	47
2	147
3	42
3	73
3	111-
3	141
3 ..	146
16
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
DIXIE BOUND IRISH SEEK TO SWAT YELLOWJACKETS
Daring Georgia Tech Team is a Real Test for Irish
Frank Leahy and his undefeated Notre Dame team, going on the road for their first intersectional grid contest, left the campus yesterday morning for Dixieland and Georgia Tech. This afternoon the team was slated to work out at Grant Stadium where an overflow crowd of 30,000 will witness tomorrow’s fray.
Drubbing a hapless Chattanooga team, 20-0, in their initial start last Saturday, the Engineers can be counted upon to provide plenty of trouble for the Irish. Coach Bill Alexander, one of the wiliest mentors in the game with 30 years of coaching experience behind him, has promised to make good use of the rule change allowing the ball to be handed forward.
Some of the threatening names stricken from the Tech roster by graduation are those of end Rob Ison; Fullback Ray Goree; guards Neil Cavette and Bob Aderhold and tackle Al Muerth.
Bosch—145 lbs. of Dynamite.
The pass conscious Yellow Jackets will have Harry Arthur in the wing post vacated by glue-fingered Rob Ison, last year’s All-American candidate. His battery mate will be none other than that cannonading cracker, Jolting Johnny Bosch, 145 pound senior triple-threat star, whose very presence in the lineup is as foreboding as rain on one’s wedding day. Bosch rose to stardom in his first collegiate appearance, when he made more yards passing than did the entire Notre Dame team.
Sophomore Dave Eldredge, Al Faulkner, and Ralph Plaster round out the backfield.
Yellowjackets Take to Air.
In two games against Arizona and Indiana the Irish have shown a disturbing tendency to relax on pass defense. Such a condition had .better not manifest itself against Georgia Tech, a club which passes fast and often.
Hoosier* captain Gene White, who has opposed Minnesota, Nebraska, Texas and Northwestern, steadfastly maintains that the Irish are the most vicious blockers he ever encountered.
-	—Frank L. Kunkel
•
. Strong, Tricky "Ramblin' Wrecks" Brew Trouble for Invaders
By Paul Platzman, Sports Editor
'	. “The Georgia Tech. Technique” .
The Kings of Razzle-Dazzle will reign at Grant Field Saturday in Tech’s major intersectional tilt of the season as the yellow-jackets battle Notre Dame. Swami sports writers are ••
gazing into the depths of their crystal balls for a line on the game, but even Omar wouldn’t dare put his finger on anything definite; not -with the Jacket’s sophomore backfield. •
Coach Alexander is stewing woe for the Irish invaders. The Old Man of Football is going to pepper the game with red-hot sophs and a score of seasoned vets. Sophomores Faulkner, Cogburn, McDonald, Eldredge, and McHuch will keep the cauldron boiling in the backfield. These boys are out to show their colors. In the line, star sophomores Ryck-ley, Jordan, Helms, and West will carry out a tough assignment.'
Will Feed Sophs to Irish.
The sophs are going to be thrown in right and left to save the stronger portion of the Varsity from a maximum of injury. Last year an unprecedented number of hospital cases riddled what might have been another Orange Bowl team. The benching of such ace-pigskinners as Wright, Ison, Bradford, and Pair kept Coach Alex’s Voodoo in an anemic state. This year reserve material for Tech may not be available and football men are not immune to sprains, strains or what-have-you. If history doesn’t repeat, Tech is slated for a trip on the bandwagon. A fast backfield and an invulnerable first-string line will see to that.
Tech Has What it Takes	’
The Engineer’s first-team lineup is as strong, speedy, and snappy as they come, inside and outside the SEC. Attention will be focused on Ralph Plaster, last year’s rising sensation as a backfield plunger. Center Hugh Wright is out to pin an All-American tag on his 210 pounds of brawn. Little “roundman” Johnny Bosch with End George Webb as his target brings visions of another Thompson-Mizell era of Tech football. Bosch’s passes are as deadly as a six-shooter. Anderson and Sanders will do the tackling chores for the afternoon. Jack Jordan and Wex Jordan, no kin, will guard.
Anything Can Happen.	'
The Yellow Jackets are out for Notre Dame gore. The Fighting Irish have always received a stiff fight from those spunky lads from the Flats. The coming tussle is no exception. The Jackets are known as a team of variable quantities. They could throw a game to some small non-contender and it wouldn’t be an upset. Then they might about face and give a crackerjack outfit like California a good kick in its collective pants and it still wouldn’t be considered quite an upset. Tech’s flashiest attacks are as devastating as a package of dynamite, yet duds have been known to fall. For the winner of Saturday’s game toss a coin. It’s the surest method of selection where Tech is a party.	-
It will be a staggering blow to the Sunday morning strategists if tomorrow’s tussle isn’t up to par, but the opinion is that the “sold-out” stadium will be treated to a show that even the Dodgers would have been proud to put on. New rules, new formations, new everything except the name football is in store for the Notre Dame-Tech encounter.
■ .	•	' / 17
CROSS COUNTRY SQUAD PREPARES FOR FIRST MEET
With two weeks of preliminary training behind them, Coach Bill Mahoney’s cross country squad has settled down to the grinding task of preparing for competition. The first meet, a dual contest at Michigan Normal, is just two weeks away. Coach Mahoney is trying to find a fourth and a fifth man to go with his big three, Frank Conforti, Ollie Hunter, and Tony Maloney. The four leading candidates for these two spots are Walt Barry, Bill Reilly, Bill Kelly, and Walt Brehmer, all sophomores. Time trials next week will probably decide which two of the four will complete teh five-man team.
Coach Mahoney has announced the regular handicap meet will be held about the first week of November. This inter-
COURY WINS GOLF TOURNEY; FEHLIG, FISHER, FOLLOW
Turning in the third lowest card in the history of the tourney, John Conry, a senior, won the University Open Golf Championship tournament, concluded on Sunday, Oct. 5, with a 72 hole total of 291. The tournament was played on the University course.
Second to Conry was Gene Fehlig, who turned in a 296 card. Tied for third honors were Bill Fisher and John Harrigan, who turned in totals of 297.
According to Father Holderith, C.S.C., University golf coach and winner of the spring faculty tournament, this is the first time that the top four club swingers have all toured the layout under 300.
. Conry made a dramatic finish in his drive for the title. A strong wind hampered play Sunday, but Conry, blazing down the home stretch, birdied the final three holes. Teeing off into the wind on No. 16, 578 yards away, he scored a birdie four; coming on to tally one under regulation figures on the shorter number 17 and 18. He finished his final 18 with a 75, for an aggregate 291 in tournament Play.
Only two other winners in the medal play tournament, Tommy Sheehan with 286 in 1938, and Bud Donovan with 290 in 1936, have brought in lower totals than Conry’s.
Sun gold trophies were awarded the champion and runner-up, with the third and fourth place winner each receiving gold key rings.
- In addition to winning the championship cup, Conry will have his name engraved on the William J. Burke Mem
18
squad meet, in which the varsity and freshmen compete, will conclude the fall outdoor training. The squad, with the exception of the cross country team, will then have approximately three weeks lay-off — until the Arts of December when the indoor season starts.
The freshmen tracksters have had but a week’s practice thus far and of course Coach Mahoney has not been able to tell just what kind of a frosh squad he will have. All the distance men, halfmilers, milers, and two-milers, are training cross country. The sprinters and quarter milers are working out on the Cartier Field track, practicing starts and sprinting. The field event men and hurdlers are concentrating on form.
—Bill Reynolds
orial trophy, “which is displayed in the golf shop.
Father Holderith, commenting on the play, stated that he was “very well pleased with the results of the tournament” and said that it would give his “a very good idea about the possibilities of our 1942 team.”
Other scores in the tournament, aside from the four top men, include:
Dick Whiting, 302; Jack Hedges, 310; Ed Schleck, 310; Tom Nash, 313; Mel Wilke, 317; James Wolff, 320; Paul Malloy, 321; Sanson, 353.—Dave Condon
Southerners Extend Bid;
Juleps Not Forthcoming
The Fighting Irish visit to Atlanta, Ga., where the Hibernians are scheduled to collide with Georgia Tech in one of the nation’s major football classics, will not be all work and no pay — if the Georgia Tech Newman Club can help it.
Southern hospitality at its best has been extended the Irish (which means all football players, faculty members, and students, making the Tech trip) in the form of a bid to attend an Open House at the Newman club on the eve-, ning of Oct. 11. This invitation for Notre Dame grid heroes to warm their feet, before the Tech hearth is highly regarded in social circles in view of the fact that delegates to the national Newman club convention, held this summer in Atlanta, reported that treatment accorded visitors in that sector is super par excellent.—Dave Condon
Fencing Practice Underway Soon
“Choose your weapons” will be the charge flaunted by potential Notre Dame fencing team enthusiasts when the annual call is made, Oct. 20, for the freshman and upperclassmen. Coach Walter Langford hopes to come up with some startling material in an effort to replace the three seniors lost through graduation and the captain-elect lost to the Army.
Last Year's Stars Gone
Captained by Jack Gaither, the 1941 fencing team gave Notre Dame its best season in years. Starting off with very meager material which seemed green and inexperienced, the Irish went on to surprise themselves and others by winning seven out of their nine bouts; losing only to Ohio State and Illinois by thin margins. Jack Gaither and Russell Harris were the two greatest fencers Notre Dame ever haad, if you would believe the words of Coach Langford, who certainly should know. “Harris set a new Notre Dame record by taking 39 out of 50 bouts, thereby shattering the record set by Kevin Kehoe in 1936, who won 38% and lost only 13%, to lead the undefeated Irish team that year. Gaither and Harris were the backbone of last year’s great squad. Their loss leaves us in a bad spot.”
Lou Peck Called to Army
Besides the loss of kingpins Gaither and Harris, Jim Corbett was also taken via the graduation route. This year’s Captain-elect Louis V. Peck of Montpelier, Vermont, who was a reserve officer in the armed forces, was called into the service only two weeks before he was to return to Notre Dame. He is soon to be stationed at the U. S. army garrison in Puerto Rico.
Coach Langford feels a bit consoled by the fact that has four lettermen returning from last year’s team. These are Mike Humphreys and Herb Melton in saber, Frank Veit in epee, and Jim Madigan in the foil. These men will have to' go some to duplicate the feats of said Gaither and Harris, who were invaluable in that they participated equally well both in foil and epee. The Irish fencing schedule this year will be similar to last year’s with possibly the exception of Washington University, St. Louis, which may not be included. Coach Langford is seeking to schedule a bout with Northwestern University to fill the vacancy. There will be four other bouts with Big 10 opponents: Chicago, Wisconsin, Illinois, and Ohio State. The others are Michigan State, Cincinnati, and Marquette University, the latter meeting the Irish twice in the season.—John Powers
TWELVE INTERHALL TEAMS CLASH SUNDAY
New Rules Announced
Sunday will mark the opening of the schedule for the third season of interhall football since its revival on the campus. Teams from 12 halls are expected to compete for the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell trophy, won last year by St. Ed’s.
Rain Hinders Practice
The intense rainfall of the last week has kept the hall elevens from getting in as much practice as was anticipated. This has also resulted in a quandary for the schedule makers. As the rain has kept all teams idle, there is no definite way of determining how many squads will be fighting for the trophy. Without a definite indication of the number, no complete schedule can possibly be made.
However, Dr. Handy, interhall football head man estimates there will be two six team leagues with the following halls being represented: Cavanaugh, Brownson, Breen-Phillips, Zahm, Badin, St. Edwards, Howard, Dillon, Walsh, probably Alumni and Morrissey, and possibly Lyons or Sorin. Despite this unpredictability, all teams will have games scheduled for Sunday. The time and place will be made known to the players through their coaches.
First Downs to Settle Tie Games
Several important rules are announced for this year the most important of which was sorely needed at the conclusion of last year’s playoff. It is this: In case of a tie game, the victory will be awarded to the team with the largest number of first downs gained in that game. The need for this rule will be quickly admitted by anyone who remembers the Dillon-St. Ed’s championship battle of last year. These teams were champions in their respective leagues, met in the stadium last Thanksgiving Day wearing the uniforms of their bet-‘ ter-known brethren, the varsity. For the first half, Dillon cavorted the length of the field at will until they came within the St. Ed 20 yard line. Here, either their offense would bog down or the St. Ed defense would brace. This continued and at the game’s end the score was just what it had been 60 minutes before: 0-0. At this point it was suggested that it be decided by the number of first downs, or that an extra quarter be played. Both these were refused. It was finally decided by the flip of a coin; happily for St. Ed’s, and most unhappily for Dillon.
Another rule which was brought to the front during the week was the fact that
a player must reside in the hall for which he plays. It was asked if there could be a combination of players from two halls which did not have enough for a full team apiece. This was refused to insure victory for the one hall that has the best array of talent.
Another important rule is the one concerning forfeits. If one team does not show up at the appointed place and time, while its opponent does, the game is forfeited. No arrangement between the members of the teams to play at another time may be made without the sanction of the officials.
It was announced that Keith O’Rourke, Irish track star, would assume the duties of chief trainer of the interhall players.
—Coleman McGuire
Labor Unions Question For Varsity Debate Team
From Director of Debate William J. Coyne, comes the announcement of the 1941-42 intercollegiate debating question
William J. Coyne
as chosen by the National Association of Teachers of Speech. “Resolved: That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States. —Constitutionality Conceded.” With this question are included certain necessary definitions: “It shall be understood that the word ‘regulate’ shall mean at least: (1) requiring incorporation of unions; (2) fixing responsibility for the acts of unions and the acts of their members during strikes and picketings; and (3) regulating the use of their funds, requiring them to make an official accounting to their membership for all income and expenditures and to return to their mem
bers all excess at the end of each fiscal year.”
Varsity squad tryouts will he held some time in November; the exact date to be announced later. A bibliography will be available within two weeks, at the library, for interhall debaters or for any who wish to work on the question.
Hard-to-replace this year are smoothspoken Milt Williams, fiery Tom Grady, and handsome John O’Loughlin, all members of last year’s “A” squad who graduated. Also gone are Fred Holl and Tom McGee from last year’s “B” squad. Only “A” squad veteran will be Bill Meier; returning “B” men are Ed Meagher and Mark Lies. The varsity squad compiled a .736 average last year.
—Robert LeMense
"Not Great, But Good"
Cage Team, Says Keogan
When asked about the outlook of the 1941-42 basketball team Coach George Keogan said, “We won’t have a great team, but we will have a good team. It is difficult so early in the practice season to say just what a team will do.” In re-gaard to the sophomores Coach Keogan declined to comment about them saying, “Sophomores are an uncertain element on any team, and until they have proven themselves we say very little about them.”
He went on to point out that “losing a 300 point man like Captain Eddie Riska from a team that averaged 1,000 points, we lose 30 per cent of our scoring punch, which is nearly impossible to replace. But don’t overlook us; we will have a good team.”	.
Freshmen will be called out early next week. After the squad is picked, practice will be held upstairs in the field-house, under Frosh Coach Al Del Zoppo.
Three Footballers Elected To Monogram Club Offices
The gridiron scored a grand slam last Tuesday when three of the Leahy lar-rupers were elected to the offices of the Notre Dame Monogram Club. Hercules Bereolos, popular right tackle of the Irish, was elected president; Bob Hargrave, fleet quarterback from Evansville, was named vice president, and Larry Sullivan, tackle from Brockton, Mass., was made secretary-treasurer.
The initiation ceremonies will begin Monday and continue until the Sunday ritual. However, there will be only one. day of real hazing, the remainder of the week being devoted to testing the mental capacities of the prospective members.
19
JCCWin TPLINTCW
FROM THE PKETJ BOX
BY BILL SCANLAN
NO DOUBLE WINGBACK FOR JACKIE
Glenn S. (Pop) Warner made the double wingback football system synonymous with Ernie Nevers and Jim Thorpe but Notre Dame’s namesake John Andrew Warner, Jr. shuffles into the Irish manner remarkably well. . . . His power drives against Indiana looked like two wingbacks crashing the same hole. . . . And he knows his teammates wear gold helmets when he drops back to pass. . . . Question of week—how many times did the Irish penerate Indiana’s 26-yard line without scoring?—You won’t be wrong if you say seven—twice in first two periods, three times in fourth.
HOOSIERS NOMINATE ‘BIG DIPPER’
Hoosiers of the Irish football squad nominate the Big Dipper, F. Owen Evans, Jr., .for the nation’s Top Scorers club. . . . Looked like a major constellation as he sparkled in and over- Bo McMillan’s “pore little boys” (some weighed but 230 or 240), for three touchdowns Saturday, with a lot of other big Hoosiers knocking down Hoosiers up front. . . . Best individual scoring mark since Marchy Schwartz of 1929 .... From Evans to Mike Hines, them boys sure “get themselves a Hoosier.”. . . . The squad’s Indiana club also claims Pat Filley, Bob Hargrave, John Kovatch, Joe Laiber, George Murphy, Wally Ziemba and Hercules Bereolos.
BEST SINCE 1938—STERN
“That’s the best Notre Dame team I’ve seen since 1938,” Bill Stem, ace 14-year vet of NBC sportscasting, remarked after Saturday’s game. . . . “Why, it’s their pep, vitality, wide-awake play and their ability to keep fighting when breaks go against them,” he explained. . . . Bill pointed to Halfback Angelo Bertelli and Ziemba and Bernie Crimmins of the line as the top performers. . . . And nominated busy-but-gracious Joe Petritz, University generalissimo of sports press accomodations: “without doubt the best publicity director in the country.” .... Stern feels Joe Louis may be beaten some day, “but by whom I don’t know.” .... He thinks Billy Conn will never achieve the distinction.
THEN CAME DAWN. . . .
William Kelly, South Orange, N. J. senior basketball manager whose journalistic aims angle at a foreign correspondence position, was the speaker: “Hey, Jim Kelly, tell those fellows to get into the stands where they won’t interfere with practice. . . . Who do they think they are, anyway?” .... Kelly-the-soph dashed off to present Kelly-the-senior’s dogmatic orders when a natily-attired naval R.O.T.C. officer emerged from the straggling crowd of 150-odd students to start drills by demanding, “Attention!” .... He got it—from future ensigns, and managers too.
LINE BLOCKS WITH BERTELLI FLINGING
Pass-pitcher Angelo Bertelli, a baseball catcher in Springfield, Mass., last summer, increased his throwing record to 18 completions in 28 tries, for 278 yards. . . . That, coupled with returning a kickoff and general ball-lugging duties, amounts to 330 yards,, or an average of 10 yards per try in 33 opportunities. . . . Check the middle of the line—Brutz, Maddock, Ziemba, Crimmins and Capt. Lillis—with assists on those passing figures. . . . Bert looks like a St. Mary’s blind date he’s so lonesome when he stands back locating receivers.
WALSH—HALL OF CHAMPIONS
They’re calling Walsh, traditional haven of Father Jolin Ryan’s “Gentlemen,” the “Hall of Champions” these days. ... 11 men and a coach from last fall’s co-•champion Dillon and St. Ed’s interhall football teams are taking orders from Dynamic .Joe Ragolia and Bill (Maybe I’m a Draftee) Regan. . . . Roll call now includes: John Kilbane, Red Hagen, Andy Cherney, Hugh Mallon, Jess DeLois, all of St. Ed’s; and Matt Byrne, Jim McNulty, Jack Clarke, Vince Daigler, Ed Geraghty and Tom Johnson, Dillon’s “alumni.” .... Coach Ragolia engineered St. Ed’s successful campaign a year ago. . . . Don’t bet too much against Howard or Brownson halls. . . . And •Coach Bill Stewart’s toughest job as Dillon mentor is cutting the squad.
ASKING FOR THAT SOUTHERN STYLE
Some Peaches—Notre Dame 32, Georgia Tech 13.
WHAT ABOUTSPORTS?
By "Red" Lonergan
1.	Who is. credited with the invention of the single and double wingback?
2.	Is it true that no professional team has ever won the title of champion undefeated and untied ?:
3.	Who was Yale’s famous end who claimed that no one ever’ gained a yard around his position, in spite of his scanty one hundred and fifty pounds?
4.	Who was called “The Thunderbolt of “Twenty-Six”? Hint: he was a famous mid-west back.
5.	What renowned colored singer was selected on one of Walter Camp’s AllAmerican teams?
6.	How did the Rules Committee and coaches try to put an end to Rockne’s avalanche of victories? -
(Ansivers will be found in “advertising” this issue.)
Where's Your Place?
Six correct -----------------------Athletic Director
Five correct Coach Four correct Player Three correct ----------------------------Substitute
Two correct Water Boy
One correct --------------------------Cheer Leader
None correct---------Monday Morning Quarterback
Rockne Memorial News
In the annual Freshmen Swimming Meet, held in the Rockne Memorial Pool, on Tuesday evening, Oct. 7, the races were all evenly contested. Outstanding events of the meet was the Low Board Diving, in which the medalists were chosen after much deliberation on the part of the judges.
Events and winners were:
50 yard back stroke: Brown, Carroll, Marbach. 50 yard breast stroke: Ames, McCoy, Culhane. 200 yard free style: Watter, Hanolan, Heffernan. Low Board Diving: Zilly, Murphy, O’Leary. 100 yard free style: Webb, Culhane, Costello. 75 yard medley: Canden, McCoy, Ames.
The 50 yard free style event was postponed till Wednesday, Oct. 8.
❖ * *
Mr. Mills, director of the Rockne Memorial, announced that the fall program of events is already under way. All are invited to work out and to get in condition.
In a few weeks a Singles Handball Tournament will be held. Also a Squash Tournament for the Freshmen is planned to be run off before Christmas.
.20
Indiana Between Half
Play Defeats Irish
It was all Indiana at the stadium last Saturday. Two of the state’s best football teams met on the gridiron, the weatherman came through with traditional Indiana weather- and while the representative from the north, Notre Dame, took the verdict over the downstaters on the gridiron, the honors between halves went to Indiana University’s marching band. If you were a Hoosier, you couldn’t lose.
Grey skies hung low over the stadium as some 45,000 fans wrapped themselves up in rain-coats and sloshed their way to their seats. Just as the red and white clad Indiana band appeared the rains came. As the band lined up on the field it looked like Notre Dame teams of old— the players kept coming and going. Once lined up they hiked down the field, wheeled around in front of the Indiana cheering section and played the school song. A few more maneuvers and they were off the field as the game got under way.
At the half Indiana was scoreless, until the band marched back on the field. Spectators brought their noses from behind rain protectors again and decided the Hoosiers really had something.
The musicians wheeled and caracoled about the field in one of the best exhibitions any visiting band has made at the local plant. Best round of applause went to the outline of the state of Indiana enclosing a block “I” to the south and an ND to the north.
K. C. Alleys Renovated
Action in the Knights of Columbus Bowling League will be delayed for at least two weeks because of equipment difficulties. Tom Halligan, director of the league, plans a general reconditioning of the K.C. alleys which are located in Walsh Hall basement. The billiard tables will also be renovated as a result of last season’s heavy play.
Only K.C. men will be allowed to bowl in the league. An 18-team competition is anticipated with teams bowling afternoons and evenings on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.
Any Knights interested in joining the league should communicate with Tom Halligan, 353 Badin Hall.
Litizzette Presides
Over Academy of Politics
The first meeting of the future leaders of our country, our Senators, Congressmen, and perhaps even Presidents, will be held on Thursday, Oct. 9, at 7:30 p.m. The man behind the gavel will be Stanley Litizzette, president of the Academy of Politics. He will be aided and abetted by Jesse Sutherland, the vice-president.
At this meeting plans for the coming year will be announced. Next week the club plans to formally open the year with a banquet. During the year, the
group intends to have a series of papers written by members of the group. There will also be several lectures given by members of the politics faculty.
The faculty board of advisors will be composed of the Rev. Francis C. Boland, C.S.C., Mr. Paul C. Baith, and Maurice L. Petit.
Anyone is eligible to join the dub. It is composed chiefly, however, of students who are majoring in politics. They are the active members and are the ones who do the voting. At present there are about 15 active members. The members who are not majoring in politics are known as the associate members. They take an active part in everything but the voting.
The aim of the Politics Club, as stated by Mr. Litizzette is, “to bring about close reunion and a stronger bond between students exhibiting active interest in political ideals.”—Harry Osborne
Helen Jepson to Grace
Notre Dame Music Week
Every year Notre Dame makes a significant contribution to the South Bend Symphony season by bringing to South Bend a top-ranking guest soloist. This year the appearance of Helen Jepson, soprano, as guest soloist in the final concert of the season, May 4, during the celebration of Music Week at Notre Dame, was announced by Mr. Frank Lloyd, Comptroller of the University.
Yoo Hoo! Montanansl
Members of the Montana Club and aspirants are asked to keep their eyes glued on the bulletin boards for the place and exact time of the first meeting next week. The club, which last year totaled 20 members, aims to create lasting friendships among the students from this state.
President Roy Murray, aided by Joe Alard, vice-president, and Dan Hagen, secretary - treasurer, plans an active year, with Communion breakfasts and down town suppers each month heading the list. The first festivity is planned for the Southern Cal weekend, when many Montanans will be here for the game. As always these visitors will attend the Communion breakfast and enjoy the hospitality of the students from their state.—Dan Downey.
CHALLENGE!
The St. Louis Club challenges any group of soccer players to games on Sunday mornings. For further details get in touch with Ed Manglesdorf, 123 Walsh Hall.
PARKER - WINTERROWD announces
2nd Annual Scorecast Contest
Find your Ballot, complete with instructions, inserted in this issue of the SCHOLASTIC
1st Prize — ADLER-ROCHESTER $55 Suit or Overcoat
2nd Prize — ADLER-ROCHESTER $45 Suit or Overcoat
Ready-made — Made-to-Your-Measure — Custom Tailored
PARKER-WINTERROWD 115% - 117% North Main Street (Upstairs)
Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
See our campus representatives:
CAPTAIN P’AUL LILLIS LARRY KELLEY	NELL J. McCARTY
321 Alumni Hall	233 Walsh Hall	115 Sorin Hall
21
A UNIVERSITY IS BORN
Cross, Father Sorin visioned the large mission fields of Indiana. His fervor was
Ninety-nine years ago, Nov. 30, 1842 —Feast of St. Andrew the Apostle—the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the University of Notre Dame, celebrated his first Mass at Notre Dame in the little log chapel on the snow covered banks of St. Mary’s Lake.
This primitive church had been built
Attention Students
Reduced prices at all times to students!
AL WISH’S PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
Open every night except Monday. Matinee Sunday — 2 to 5 p. m.
Make money on your parties here.
“I DROPPED it!” “WHAT?” “My WATCH”
1. "Pop” Warner.
PETERS, Watch Maker 102% N. Michigan Street Over Clark’s Restaurant
Notre Dame STUDENTS!
A 9 weeks’ course in Shorthand and Typing is now available to N. D. men—beginning Monday Evening, October 13. Classes Monday and Thursday, 7 to 9 p. m.
$10 for either subject $15 for both
❖
REGISTER NOW at
South Bend College of Commerce
212 S. St. Joe St.' South Bend
by the Rev. Stephen T. Badin, a missionary to the Pottawatomi Indians in the year 1830 and was being used to serve Catholic trappers and farmers when Father Sorin came here in 1842.
In 1906, the present log chapel, a replica of the original, standing between the Mission House and Morrissey Hall, was built. Hidden behind a score of modern structures, the Log Chapel is a campus shrine still in daily use to which hundreds of Notre Dame alumni return annually.
Not only is the Log Chapel an object of pilgrimage to the thousands of visitors who come to the Notre Dame campus annually, but it is also an historical landmark.
The story of Father Sorin’s journey to the scene of his first Mass at Notre Dame is truly one of many hardships and trials. Possessing courage and faith, Father Sorin, accompanied by six Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, scorned many dangers and obstacles before he finally reached the desolate banks of St. Mary’s Lake where his labors were to give first form to a great center of Catholic Education—the University of Notre Dame.
From the outset of his ordination as a priest in the Congregation of Holy
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE.
Be Popular!
Learn to Dance the Latest Steps NEW CLASSES IN BALLROOM DANCING STARTING NOW
CALL 3-3396 — for Particulars
MARIE BUCZKOWSKI
SCHOOL OF THE DANCE
Palais Royale Ballroom	107 W. Colfax
kindled when Bishop Hailandiere of Vincennes, Indiana, appealed to Abbe Moreau at the original mother-house of the Congregation at Le Mans, France, for missionaries. He at once offered himself for the work.
On August 8, 1841 a zealous band of missionaries, including Father Sorin and six Brothers, sailed for America. They arrived in New York a 'little more than a month later on the 13th of September.
In a few days they started for Vincennes where the Bishop stationed them at St. Peter’s, one of the oldest missions of the diocese. After about a year’s stay here, Father Sorin began making plans for the building of a college to carry out the great work he had in view.
Bishop Hailandiere at first frowned on the idea. There was already one Catholic college in Vincennes, and he feared that another could not be supported. But at the urgings of Father Sorin he consented to give over to the community, the section of land he held on the St. Joseph River on the condition that they found a school within two years.
Father Sorin at once took up the suggestion and on Nov. 16, 1842, with seven Brothers, he departed to take possession of the newly selected home. It was one of the severest winters in the history of the United States. Snow 15 inches deep was reported as far south as Georgia.
For ten days, through uncleared and interminable forests, the brave men fought the bitter weather. They struggled on: some were on horseback; some were with the ox team which hauled their modest store of supplies.
Met at the outskirts of South Bend, then a little town of scarcely 800 people, the little band was guided through the woods to the shores of St. Mary’s Lake by Alexis Coquillard, the son of the founder of South Bend.
The missionaries found the small mission house not large enough to accommodate them and were forced to return to
22
South. Bend for lodging. On the 29th. of September, they returned to Notre Dame to formulate their plans for the work to be undertaken.
The next day, November 30th, in the little chapel where the Indian missionaries had so often celebrated Mass, Father Sorin offered his first Holy Sacrifice at Notre Dame.
With but the small capital of $400, their own zealous efforts, and the help that might be given by neighbors, the young community made plans for their college, church, and novitiate, all of which Father Sorin deemed necessary even for the beginning.
The builder of the original log chapel, Rev. Stephen T. Badin, who purchased the land on which Notre Dame now stands, from the Indians, had the distinction of being the first priest ordained in the United States. The ordination ceremony was performed by Bishop John Carrol at Baltimore, Nov. 25, 1793.
Father Badin then took up his newly founded mission in Kentucky. There he labored for 56 years and was celebrated as the “Apostle of Kentucky.”
During these years, Father Badin was invited by the Rev. Gabriel Richard, vicar-general of the Bishop of Cincinnati, to come and look after the abandoned Christians of the St. Joseph’s Valley.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
ooo
120 S. Main Street
Father Badin extended his missions over northern Indiana and southern Michigan. He purchased the land about Ste. Marie des Lacs and gave it to the Most Rev. Simon Brute, Bishop of Vincennes, through whom it was dedicated to Catholic Education.—George Haithcock
Father Wm. Craddick to
Attend Regional Meeting
The National Federation of Catholic College Students was organized in 1937 at Manhattanville College, New York City. A group of students representing colleges and universities in the New York metropolitan area agreed that there was a definite need of a unification of Catholic student forces. With this in mind the organization was started and is now doing great work.
The organization is divided up by regions, such as the one of which the Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature is a member. This region is the Fort Wayne Region and is composed of eight schools, including Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich.; St. Thomas Aquinas, Grand Rapids, Mich.; St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Terre Haute, Ind.; Marion College, Indianapolis, Ind.; St. Francis College, Lafayette, Ind.; Saint Mary’s of the Lake,
Holy Cross, Ind.; and Notre Dame.
The First Regional Council- meeting will be held at Nazareth College, Oct. 12th, at which meeting the by-laws of the region will be voted upon and the date of the Regional Congress in the Spring will be set.
Attending this meeting from Notre Dame will be the Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., who holds the position of regional chaplain of the organization; Louis Kurtz, regional vice-president; and two delegates-at-large.
Bi-Mii Brhies
1	listiictiii
It’s a man’s world today. And these are comfortable shoes for men who do things, shoes that revel in rough weather. But they also win you admiring glances from the gentle sex. See these handsome, husky Crosby Squares now.
As seaa la Ufa aad Esqaira.
Black dress shoes correct with Tails or Tux — at Kuehns
28
Prof. Flynn Speaks
Professor Frank T. Flynn, Head of the Department of Social Work, on Monday October 6 addressed the Catholic Social Workers Guild of Chicago at the initial meeting of the year held at the Cenacle. Professor Flynn’s topic was “The Catholic Social Worker’s Role —A Realistic Appraisal.”
COME ON OUT. SON...
Here's a schedule you can remember!
Many a good man has found himself behind the eight-ball because of an inability to remember train schedules. But with the South Shore you take your cue from your watch — when it says "half-past" you know there's a train leaving for Chicago.
That's a fact: trains leave South Bend every hour at 30 minutes past the hour from 7:30 A. M. until 9:30 P. M. Two early morning trains, at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Two late evening trains, at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too!
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
Use the Infirmary
It's There for You
That handsome building behind Zahm Hall, at which you’ve been gazing since your arrival, rates formal introduction to freshmen every year. Even though many a student is sentenced to solitary confinement within its walls, it’s not an ultra-modern jail, but merely the Student Infirmary.
Right now the Infirmary might well be called Notre Dame’s fifteenth residence hall, for its present inmates consist almost entirely of those who have not as yet obtained a room in one of the regular halls. As far as patients are concerned, the building is empty. Only ten names now decorate the sick list.
Besides Dr. James E. McMeel and Dr. Joseph R. Caton, the University Physicians, the Infirmary boasts quite a regular staff. Sister M. Agnesina is the new superintendent, with three Holy Cross nuns and two registered nurses on constant duty. Any new students who have a phobia of medical affairs will find that their fear fades into faith when they become acquainted with this branch of the Welfare Department.
Dr. • McMeel announced that 150 freshmen failed to return completely filled out the medical sheets sent them this summer. The various tests required by the University, he added, will have to be taken by all these students in the near future. But don’t wait till they call you before you drop over. If your little toe aches after a fast game of soccer or a sniffle signifies an approaching cold, take the trouble to the Infirmary and have it treated by expert hands.—Daniel Downey
Official Jewelry
Salesmen Open Fire
Containing a complete line of official Notre Dame jewelry in addition to key chains, belts, buckles, girls’ jewelry, etc., the official Notre Dame jewelry salesmen have just completed a canvass of the Freshmen halls in order to acquaint the newcomers of their services.
In addition to this, many of these salesmen have signs posted at important places on the campus for the convenience of the students. Among those in the group are Jack Garvey of 369 Alumni and Hans Helland of 302 Dillon. They number about seven in all.
They have proved to be very popular among the students, and have provided very good service. Their biggest business is around Christmas time. There is no other official Notre Dame jewelry organization on the campus.—Bob S. Olivier
A fact that may be either well or poorly known about the Notre Dame campus is that the present Naval R. O. T. C. course offered on campus is the first military or naval instruction that has been part of the school program since World War I.
FORB HOPRlHS
DRUG STORE
Your friendly DRUG Store in the Oliver Hotel.
STUDENTS!
Make us your Off-Campus Headquarters
Try our delicious food at budget prices.
4. Herb Joesting, Minnesota’s All-American Fullback.
Need DRUGS? Prices to meet your purse.
FREEMAN SHOES
Brown—Cordovan Saddle
Always a campus favorite — with extra thick red
rubber sole.
Plain dull calf or patent leather formal shoes.
Florsheim Shoes—09.50 and up 3. Frank Hinkey.
MAIN AT COL PAX
For Men and Young Men
24
Future Plane Builders Plan for Activities
The potential builders of America’s future commercial and military aircraft turned their minds to other things last week when the Notre Dame student chapter of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences held its first meeting.
The registration of all new and old members in the club was conducted, and if the activities for the coming year are to be measured according to membership numbers, the club should have a very busy year. Naturally, the men most concerned and confident that this will be so are the club’s student officers. They are: John L. Hoelscher, chairman; William F. Ungashick, vice-chairman; Robert S. Mullaney, secretary-treasurer.
Plans for a fall football tournament among the club members are already well under way and enthusiastic competition is anticipated. The Junior- engineers seem to have the most power and
• Buy yourself The University Gab—a brand new LEE Water-Bloc* that costs only $5. You’re in one of the smoothest hats you ever wore (with matching gabardine band and brim binding) . . . you’re in style with your hat and in clover with the gals!
LEE
HATS
358 Fifth Avenue, New York
* Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Found only at ... .
5 K*TZ
1 V FO/? MEN AND I ^YOUNG MEN
MAIN AT COLFAX
offer a strong threat to the dignity of the proud Seniors, but the potentialities of the dark-horse Sophomores and the unknown gridiron abilities of the Freshmen are not treated lightly. Also on the list of fall activities is a smoker which will be held in late November or early December. This affair has proven very popular in past years and it is hoped that its success will be continued this semester.
"Tex" Wants Action
In past years the Texas Club has been a very loose organization, banding together seldom more than once during the schoolyear. According to “Tex” Adams, the club this year is planning a little action, as befits a crowd from the Lone Star- State. All students from this area are urged to respond to the notice of the first meeting which will be held in the near future. Election of officers will take place, and plans for the year discussed.—Dan Doivney
“The MEN’S Corner”
SOUTH BEND'S FASTEST GROWING STORE FOR MEN
RECOMMENDS
THE "FIRST NIGHTER" FOR THE
COTILLION
A Smart Suit of TAILS $35
The
TUXEDO
at
$30
And All The “Fixings” to Complete The Formal - - - -
Manhattan
Dress Shirts, $2.50 ■ $3.50
Swank and Hickok Jewelry
Formal Vests
Formal Ties
Florsheim Dress Shoes
MAIN AT COLFAX
25
Metallurgist's Role
In Aviation Industry
The way in which mass production of military aircraft engines became possible, ingenious design of parts, and the non-metallic materials used in engine manufacture were described for more than 200 members of the Notre Dame chapter American Society for Metals by R. L. Heath, of Indianapolis, chiet metallurgist for the Allison Engineering company, at a monthly meeting in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering last Wednesday night.
“The mass production of military aircraft engines,” Mr. Heath said, “has become a . relaity although the quantities involved and the methods of production differ somewhat from those in the automobile industry due to difference in the character of the product. The automobile industry has contributed its specialized knowledge of production tooling, broad experience in the procurement of materials and small parts in quantity, and an organized factory system. A constant flow of large quantities of interchangeable parts made from uniform, standardized materials is essential to any large production effort.
“In the design of an aircraft engine weight is kept to a minimum by the use of thin sections, light strong alloys, hardening treatments, and the mechanical ingenuity of the engineer. Frequently the sections of parts are as little as oneeighth inch while heavy sections seldom exceed three-quarter inch. Such parts lack the stiffness usually present in other machines and we may think of their behavior in service as similar to that of a fishing rod during the maneuvers necessary to capture a fighting game fish. The fishing rod is light and deflects under load but it does not break or snap off in the hands of a skillful fisherman because the stress is well distributed throughout the length, and the materials used in a fishing rod have a good combination of toughness and strength.
“The Aeronautical Material Specifications published by the Society of Automotive Engineers were prepared to meet the specific requirements in the aircraft industry and these standards in them-
“Here’s That Band Again”
DICK JURGENS
and His Orchestra on
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25
8:30 to 12:30, at the
PALAIS ROYALE
ADMISSION:
Advance, per Person $1.10, tax included.
selves represent a substantial contribution to the interests of National Defense. While these specification numbers are used on hundreds of drawings on aircraft engine parts, the control of these materials actually is accomplished by careful methods of inspection, identification, and processing in the manufacturers’ plant.
“Molded synthetic rubber parts are used for sealing gasoline, lubricating oil, ethylene glycol, and also to insulate ignition cables. The non-metallic gasket
Learn to Dance!! Improve Your Dancing!
CLASS OR PRIVATE INSTRUCTION
We teach thorough foundation and the newest steps in Waltz, Fox Trot, Rumba and Conga.
Call 3-4079 for particulars
MAXENE MOLLENHOUR
SCHOOL OF DANCING
Indiana Club 320 W. Jefferson South Bend, Ind.
5 60T
THE DUKE
Dowlas Shots
$440 . $5.50
Custom and Normal Treds, $7.50
Ask the salesman to tell you why Douglas "Down-to-the-Wood—Vp-to- ■ the-Anh”construction assures perfect fit and ’ comfort
210 SOUTH MICHIGAH STREET
Open Saturday Evenings
materials for aircraft engine use usually consist of synthetic rubber impregnated with long fiber asbestos. Gaskets must withstand heating and the solvent action of gasoline, hot oil, and ethylene glycol.”
The speaker closed by describing the important position held by the metallurgist in the aviation field which promises to become one of the largest in transportation. “Here,” he concluded, “the metallurgist can find an unrivalled field for the exercise of genius and human endeavor.”

Well-dressed college men
know that the new fall styles by Douglas are "tops”. Featuring up-to-the-minute designs in snappy blacks and mellow, military tans, they’re easy on the eyes, the feet and the pocketbook. Come in today and try on your choice of one hundred good-looking styles. See for yourself why Douglas Shoes are America’s leaders in style and value.
26
Former N. D. Student
Wins Wings in the Army
Word has been received here that Robert E. Daley, formerly of Niles, Ohio, and a Notre Dame student from 1937 to 1939, has received his wings and a second lieutenant’s commission in the United States Army Air Corps.
Lieutenant Daley graduated in exercises held Sept. 26 at the air corps ad-
SAY/ my ^AlNFAIR LAUGHS a rain/
MAX
SELECTED by COLLEGE STYLE BOARD
This English knee-length, topqualify, 'gabardine, showerproofed by Cravenette has the nonchalance that does things for you! Talon fastener on fly front. Slash-through pockets. Railroad stitching on cuffs and bottom. . Full iridescent lining. Sizes 32 to 44. Regulars or longs.
NO

First Choice of RAINFAIR'S College Style Board ZIPRAIN
ADLER
South Bend, Indiana
vanced flying school at Barksdale field, Louisiana. He has been assigned to the air force ferrying command at Pendleton, Ore.
Appointed an aviation cadet in February, 1941, Daley received primary training at Sikeston, Mo., and basic flying at Goodfellow field, San Angelo, Texas. He was sent to Barksdale field for advanced training on July 15, 1941.
—Dave Condon

Bob Quentell.. .So. California John H. Sanders.......Cornell
Wm. B. Smith.............Duke
Daniel H. Huyett... .Michigan William Belden... T.... Texas
What the Well Dressed
Cotillionite Will Wear
What kind of a shirt do I wear with tails? What kind of links and studs?
What kind of a vest? It’s Cotillion time
fellows and here are the answers, approved by Emily Post, Beau Brummel, and Lydia Pinkham:
bold tabs.
Full dress tail-coat— trousers same material —cut medium wide.
Waistcoat—white pique or washable fabric — single or double-breasted.
Hat—silk or opera.
Shirt — plain white with full stiff dickey.
Collar — wing with
Tie—white bow of plain or figured pique.
Gloves—white kid or silk.
Shoes—patent leather oxfords or gun metal. .
Jewelry—-mother of pearl or platinum buttons and links — pearl or enameled
Tuxedo Coat—peak or notch lapel— trousers same material.
Waistcoat—black silk or plain white pique.
Hat—black Homburg or opera.
Shirt—white ribbed—semi-stiff front.
Collar—wing with bold tabs or turned down soft.
Tie—black silk or satin bow, plain or figured.
Gloves—white kid or silk.
Shoes—patent leather oxfords or gun metal.
Jewelry—mother of pearl or platinum buttons and smoked pearl or onyx studs.
RECORDS, 15c
7 for ^1.00
All Big Bands and Artists Large Selection
POP'S RECORD SHOP
232% S. Michigan, 2nd floor
27
Battle of Bands in Third Week
The scene of the hattie of football teams moves to Atlanta but there’ll be no lack of combat on the campus as the “battle of bands” goes into its third week. First round winner in “the fight thus far is Bob Richardson’s Modern-aires who have two Victory Dances and the St. Mary’s Inaugural to their credit and another Victory Dance at the Indiana Club in prospect tomorrow. Relatively unaffected by these advances and still rated as a strong contender is the talented aggregation known as the Cavaliers, which is under the leadership of Jack Molloy.
This week, in the first of two articles revealing some of the color and brilliance of the contenders in this all-important battle, the Scholastic goes into the rehearsal room with that popular all-student musical organization, The Cavaliers, the band that plays that “Modern Design in Rhythm” music. Organized last year, Molloy’s band, known then as “The Midwestern Orchestra,” became known publicly when it accompanied the University Glee Club on their Eastern tour, providing musical background for “The Song of the Free,” now a Notre Dame classic. The band played for impromptu dances along the route through Binghampton, N. Y., Montclair, N. J. an3 Boston, Mass.
This year, the Cavaliers organized in what they say are “newer and bigger” ways and anyone who has heard them playing from Badin Recreation Room or from the Campus studios will agree. The members of the orchestra furnished a list of semi-classical arrangenients, the more familiar of which are “The World is Waiting for the Sunrise,” “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes” and “Evening Star.” Two of the original compositions that are especially worthy of note are “Skoo-gum B’Googie,” by Bill Binet, which is two beats and four stumbles ahead of
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
any boogie-woogie composition on the market, and “Five Sheets in the Wind,” a delightful skip-glide number by Floyd Richards.
The interesting music for which the Cavaliers are responsible is rivalled only by the interesting personnel of this new 12 piece dance band.
Jack Molloy, leader and piano player for the group, was one of the three entries in the recent Fred Allen contest, hails from New Rochelle, N. Y. and is known as “Boisterous” to his friends.
Johnny Kelly, drummer, once played with Tommy Dorsey, is one of the better known campus composers, goes by a host of nick-names some of which are “Snuffy” and the “Green Midget.”
John Fry, bass and third trombone in Molloy’s famous trombone trio arrangements, is a bacteriologist of the Junior variety, boasts of having used at least a mile of adhesive tape playing bass.
Tom Horak, first trombone and “sweet” player of that section, contributes his interest to all forms of music, and turns out dazzling arrangements of old classical numbers for the band.
Floyd Richards, Walsh Hall journalist, is second trombonist, who when he isn’t babbling about Farmington, N. H., idolizes “anyone who can play his horn in the shape it’s in.”
Will Binet, second trumpeter, used to attend parties at Judy Garland’s house,
THE
H U D D Lt
WE CARRY Not only DR. GRABOW and
HOLLYCOURT Pipes but also KAYWOODIE YELLO BOLE DUNHILL SASIENI and many others
5. Paul Robeson, All-American End at Rutgers in 1918.
BRUGGNER'S CIGAR STORE
IIO N. MAIN ST. (Opposite Oliver Hotel)
W ...LET THE marines tell you
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
DR. GRABOW
Is Mechanically
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
DuGRABOW
Dr. Grabow _______________$ 1.50
Yello-Bole Regular....... 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial _____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless _____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ____ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran ____ 5.00
Hollycourt .............. 3.50
Sasieni _________________ 5.00
Comoy _________________   5.00
2. Yes.
There’s only one correct way to “break in” a pipe.. that's by smoking it. Only Dr. Grabow pipesarepre-smokedwithfineto-bacco (Edgeworth) on Linkma’s mechanical smoking machine.
MADE BY M. LINKMAN & CO., CHICAGO MAKERS Of Hollycourt PIPES
NO BREAKNGN NO BITE NO BITTER TASTE
DR. GRABOW'S PATENTED CLEANER
28
V-167
v
iol
ft
No Cramming Necessary! For swell flavor and real chewing fun-the answer is delicious
Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum
s'$5*
Ei
Mi

marvels at the technical possibilities of Harry James’ “Carnival of Venice.”
James Walsh and John Solon, trumpeters from Streator, Ill., arrange for the band and try their best to duplicate the tooting of Ziggy Elman.
Richard Brydges, first sax, does well in his position during the winter, plays semi-pro baseball in the summer and claims he is still looking for a squeakless clarinet. •
Joseph Sullivan, known affectionately as “Black Joe,” is second saxaphone player and his idol in the musical world is George Auld.
Thomas Richards, third sax player, has finally consented to agree with the rest of the nation that “swing is here to stay” and that in the meantime, he’ll stick with Joe Cassasanta.
Bill Capello, fourth sax player, is a Brooklynite, Dillonite and also a Tony Pastorite.
Academy of Science Expecting Big Year
According to all indications, the Academy of Science is expecting the biggest year in its history due to the greatly increased interest in this organization by the students. .
In order to be eligible for membership, it is necessary to have a scholastic average of at least 87%. In addition, each senior must present a paper of scientific interest before he can receive his pin.
At the first meeting to be held next Monday an election of officers is to be held, and plans will be discussed for the coming year. These meetings, held twice monthly in the Biology Building, usually include a talk by some well-known professor or doctor. Among the speakers this year will be two Notre Dame professors, a well-known doctor from Chicago, and various professors here from time to time.
As usual, the club will be under the expert direction and supervision of Dean H. B. Froning.—Bob S. Olivier

1

It’s
The Karmelkorn Shop
Main and Colfax Streets
/or
BETTER CONFECTIONS
Freshly Salted Nuts Candy
Caramel Apples	Popcorn
29
MUSIC
By J. R. C
MARION BIDDLE HORN
Dancing School
Harry James’ “Basin Street Boogie” has no musical relation to the “Basin Street Blues” but it has a tricky bit of piano which makes it good boogie woogie. The reverse side, “Call It Anything, It’s Love,” offers the great trumpet of Harry and some fairly good lyrics. Another which is as good a recording as any of the number: “Music Makers,” “Montevideo,” reverse, is also worth having around.
And speaking of boogie woogie, or boojie woojie as some would have it, Larry Clinton features an unusual style for a Clinton piece in his “Bach to Boogie,” with a string background that is withal solid and lilting.
Since coming to Cleveland in 1933, Artur Rodzinski has slowly but surely raised the artistic standards of the Cleveland Orchestra till today it is foremost among the 16 major symphony orchestras. His latest single record success is Sibelius’ “Finlandia,” as good a recording of this immortal piece as any other. The .uniquely original style of Sibelius surges through this tone poem more strongly and emotionally than any
Enroll for BALLROOM CLASSES or PRIVATE INSTRUCTION BY APPOINTMENT
224 J. M. S. Building
Phones: 4-1438 and 4-4922
FREE Book Covers . •. yours for die asking at the Notre Dome Bookstore
A really nice cover for any or all of your textbooks.
N. D. Pillows—for room decoration or utility, or as a perfect souvenir gif t.
New stock of PENNANTS and ANIMALS in Blue and Gold, with the ND Monogram, will be in soon.
One-Hand Filler.
COPR. 2941, THE PARKER PEN CO.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin
Maxima, $10 Major (illut.) or Debutante, $8.75
Junior or Sub-Deb, $5 Writeflne Pencil* to match, $3.75 to $5
Parker’s Blue Diamond on the pen is our Life Contract unconditionally Guaranteeing to service the pen for the life of the owner except for loss and intentional damage, subject only to a 35c charge for postage, insurance, and handling, provided complete pen is returned for service.
To moke your Pan a selG-cleaner, use Parker Quick, the amazing new pen-cleaning ink, 15/
BY PARKER S BLUE DIAMOND
Room to SUPER-CHARGE with a Third More Ink than average of three well-known sac-type pens, due to Parker's patented One-Hand Sacless Vacumatic Filler GUARANTEED LIFE CONTRACT
Try yourself on this Quiz:
1.	What Pen has, and always has had, the Clip that’s right at the top, thus holds it low and unexposed in the pocket ?—trimmest for civilian dress and uniforms.
2.	What Pen has the “One-Hand” SACLESS Filler, making room to SUPER-CHARGE with a third more ink ?
3.	What Pen has the lubricated Point of 14 K nonbrittle Gold, tipped with “oil-smooth” Osmiridium that won’t wear scratchy as long as you live?
4.	What Pen has the TELEVISION barrel that SHOWS when to refill?
5.	What Pen is styled of shimmering Pearl and Jet RINGS—voted the winner of the beauty contest by men and girls alike?
College men and women must know all the answers bjecause you buy more Parkers than any other make.
Well, see these latest and most attractive Parkers for [[ Jj school priced at $2.95 and $3.95 for the Parker Duofold, $5, $8.75 and $10 for the Parker Vacumatic. Don’t make /f I the mistake of buying ANY until you’ve tried Parker’s /

30
"Get Set" for those Formal Parties
GILBERT'S OWN
TUX TAILS
*23. 50 ’28. 50
Top Hats and all Formal Accessories
6. In 1927 the rules committee pushed through the rule which stated that there must be a pause of one second between the final • shift and the centering of the ball, an attempt at stifling the famed Notre Dame shift. They made their first attempt to harness his system in 1924.
TUt MOOtHtf
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
other of his great works. True inspiration forged this masterpiece. The specialty of the Cleveland orchestra under Rod-zinski is Russian work in particular and this month’s Columbia Masterworks release numbers among its Rodzinski recordings: Tschaikowsky’s “Marche Slave”; Tschaikowsky’s “1812 Overture”; Dmitri Shostakovitch’s “First Symphony in F Major,” a great modern symphony done in the traditionally brilliant style of the Russian Composers.
And still the parade of classics continues. There is Jan Savitt’s latest Victor, “Afternoon of a Fawn.” This favorite Debussy is treated not at all out of its original likeness. Jan Savitt and his Top Hatters show their versatility in this ten inch, double-faced number. Others among Jan’s classical repertoire: “Prelude to Carmen,” “The Sorcerer’s Apprentice,” “La Cinquantaine.” One of his best popular recordings, however, appeared a month or two ago. On the one side: “The Things I Love” and on the other side, the haunting, lilting “Manhattan Sunrise.” Savitt’s band is one of the best all-around bands making the circuit today and we may expect many more excellent recordings from this source.
The latest of the appeals to promote closer South American relations: “Is There a Latin in the Crowd.” But this record by Al Donahue just doesn’t appeal. The reverse side of this record is much the better, with the vocal by Pat Kaye in “I Sing a Hymn to Her.” Those who liked Alvino Rey’s “If Its True” will also like the latest Yvonne King feature, “Jealous.” “Don’t Take Your Love From Me,” the other side, is fair but not the best recording of that number. “Rockin’ Chair” is rather an unusual Krupa, one that is worth hearing even though the rockin’ chair is rather lost in it all. “Tunin’ Up” is a cute little mix-up and like the other side is quite away from the usual Krupa, although the drums do get a blow.
John Bisese to Head
Old Dominion Club
John Bisese, Harry McKnight, and George Kelly were chosen as president, secretary and treasurer, respectively, of the Old Dominion Club in the first meeting of the year for the Virginians. Plans for the coming winter, which include a Communion Breakfast in the near future, were outlined by President John Bisese.
Tom Morrison, retiring president, commended the members on the choice of officials, and urged co-operation with them in all activities.
Club membership, which included 14 last year, now has risen to 17.
—J. H. Johnston
Only VICTOR ^RECORDS
bring you. the great symphonies performed by the World’s Greatest Artists
- 'A
Great Musical Masterpieces by Famous Conductors
Arturo Toscanini—Magic Flute Overture (Mozart) with BBC Symphony Orch. 2 sides . . . $1.00
Leopold Stokowski—Symphony in D Minor (Franck) with Philadelphia Orch. 12 sides, in album . $6.50
Serge Koussevitzky—Peter and the Wolf (Prokofieff) with Boston Symphony Orch. 6 sides, in album $3.50 The World's Greatest Artists are on Victor Records* To hear Victor Records at their best,plafthm on the new RCA Victrola*
SPECIAL Gift OFFERI
, The makers of Victor Records are celebrating the greatest year in their history with this sensational
1 gift offer on these two great Victor Red Seal Records, No. 18220 and No. 13830.
Buy either one for I Get the ether um
>122 | free
Two for the Price of Ooe!
Both brand «ew 12" Victor Bed Seal liecorda! This offer is for a limited time only X
Eugene ORMANDY and tbe- great Philadelphia Oi*

1*220.
eheatra playing Fl
Arthur FIEDLER
Largest Record Dept, in Northern Indiana
RODINS
132 NORTH MICHIGAN
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
31
because they’re MILDER COOLER and BETTER-TASTING
You’d enjoy reading “Tobaccoland, U.S. A.,” or hearing a lecture on Chesterfield’s can*t-be-copied blend of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos ... but the best way to learn about Chesterfields is to try ’em. You’ll find more cigarette pleasure than you
ever had before
Copyright 1M1. trccETT It Mtems Tobacco Co.
You’Kioin the millions who say WITH ME IT’S CHESTERFIELD