

Can't figure out what to write? 
Please send_ years of Scholastic to: Name:___________ Address:__________ City:_____State:_Zip:___ 
Please make checks payable to : 
Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is a check fpr $20.00 x _ years = $_ 
more 120 years, Notre Dame's excuse not to write home. 

-

cholastic 
On the Write Track Junior faculty members are involved in a constant struggle to attain a position of tenure at Notre Dame. by Kathleen McKeman/ Page 6 
Sports A Work of Art Art Lambert, head coach of the women's volleyball team, has created a team with unlimited potential.· by Kevin Boughal/ Page 30 
Sportsweek A roundup of lesser-known varsity sports, featuring Athletes of the Week. Page 33 
Disce Quasi Serilf)fJr Victur11s Vive Quasi Ciasi Morit11ips · 
, . '' ., .. 
Founded ·1as1 
:·:··:·,:··:.·:=:,.:-:.-:.-::·.-=._._.·:-·:-, 
E~itor I~ <:hi.er.:.\ •·• 
·Kathleen·· McKernan 
Mlin~gin~ ~Jit()r:<••·•··. 
Terry Lynch 

Eclitorial Staff: .....•• ..• . . . Departments .sports: Kevin •. Booghal/.·.. ·• A~~ls.tant: Jim f.-1a~gio 
r • <</ >• 
On Other Campuses Parietals make the news ... on ANOTHER campus./ Page 4 }~ew.s:.Andy Hi.lg~r.;Mi~t=J..Vji~.b.er· >· · 
Week in Distortion Power naps and roommate antagonization are the keys to serenity./ Page 5 "Copy: Joe Malql'ley < : · ·· Music Green clawed its way over Scruffy the Cat at last week's Theodore's show./ Page 34 ·•f.e13 t~res: tv,a.ggi~fSj~g~f< Final Word Jason Mitchell writes about contribution and success at Notre Dame./ Page 38 Departments: Al11y \A/el:ler
Producllon: · Coming Distractions A list of what's going on, both here and in the area./ Page 35 Systems Manager: f'v1a.t(La.ngie Ernie Pook's Comeek "Don't Bug Me"/ Page 40 Graphic Arts Manager: Vivienne Life in Hell Padilla · Photo As~t.· Manager: {:huckHay Ad Design: Ros Winner . 
Editorial ;.e:u:s1~_Ef_s·~--= :=·.:,::·-,:_.,,--:-:::::--rt-=:=·::·__ .:..:: ____ •·_:·: 
~anager:Vjeiyheeffoh{ : O••••·••·•·· 
AdverUslng:.Di;;inn13l3illi11gs;:t(ejtji·,··.
Publish or perish: a necessary evil Common sense is needed in the age-old hunt for tenure. 
•Jraupman.
Pa e39 

October 6, 1988 

Letters 
Editorial on Police Tactics Lauded by Victim's Mother 
Dear Editor: 
Your editorial about the use of dogs by the South Bend police in dispersing students at off-campus parties ("Take the bites out of law enforcement," Sept 22) was directly to the point. 
The police report filed was filled with false allegations. All the witnesses to this incident agree that Tom Abood did nothing to be arrested; at no time did he resist arrest; the release of the dog by the police officer on our son was barbaric conduct that ~hould not be allowed to be repeated in the future. 
It was our hope that the Notre Dame community would be as outraged as our family was over the attack of the police dog on our son, Tom Abood. Your editorial has gone a long way to share concern for the safety ofstudents, and to encouragestudents, faculty and administrators not to let this inci­dent fade away without doing something positive to change forever the way the South Bend police treat Notre Dame students and alumni. 
Thank you for taking up this challenge; please don't stop until there is a change for the better for all of the Notre Dame family. 
Very sincerely yours, Camille and Maryalice Abood_ Lansing, MI 
Editor's note: Michael P. Barnes, the prose­cuting attorney for St. Joseph County, has declined to file formal charges against Tom 
. Abood and has stated that, in his judgment, there was no probable cause for his arrest, nor the arrest ofThomas Fink, who also was involved in the incident. 
=;
:. '.' ':__ -:: ··,-,/i:i;:i '_._. ::·_::: __ '_/::-:;: ::, <-. ::,\::::: \·\:=: ;:; :,::::; t1.::)i\/:_:=··t:::/-i _·_:.,.: ::: ::•i: \::_:.::_: ,:· t::-::: ::·;::>:-:._:::' :·..·-·::}:-:;.::-: 
iut~~rs -to ;scllglf!~J~c..111ll;[ B~ 

t)JPe,..d•.f11d.in?lude.~~rY~t~r's••n~wi,.. · 
~q9res·s..·an9••·BM9g.~·g~mB9rr'1fgtx.cr-•.
~i.~ s.~9e11t~ ~~.ggJg .~~!~se, •.}ll~if Show Off Your Bad Attitude With A 
:t~af.~ s5~Q9f ~-9;•rr-~tJf.R~v..r~sM·i.~:
fu~IT1ber.s/··•.slfoµld;iJJ~l11.d~h'.tli~ir:(·c1~½i SCH LIS HEll TmSHIRT -
OtherStunning Designs: 


:phftiBe~t~:.~11•1~~~f§~#~.r!?~§iffe.~~~?.. II 
WORK IS HEll
ti~mes····•·rYiM;"b~x~.i~7:ij[llPOil ify·?. 
8 UIFE IN HELL /Th,• Clfls.,·io
q1.1~§t.•• in•• •.. se~t11P-•••!Il§ta!l.C.y§_;•·i••··•·i·•·•·.•·•·••·i.>·•·•·i/·<··· 
• DONGO
Schplas.fi5re~7~7.s.•tg~.p$etJgE~% 
• I SWEAR TO GOD
ject···.lettyrs•.tfi~~i.ff7;:li~~~8M~:•··•qr.···•91Jr I DIDN'T DO IT 
·~pyP.x••·· BY ithy••l~rY~; .g~· m~i J..T~ite~i 
~t!t.es~ .~~~8t~sf.iffi<~l§.?t~t.M.;.~1.f.tt*t.

?Hryri~.t~~tRf~~i!g~t;811·~,~Ming;
irrRr·~·~B~i~Pg?1.~~.fi~~}~~~;;•~~q~j§~J
g{'spct.c~ltl11it~tiBn~~i~.?~B:lr§fi.s. 8.clBT ·II()tp~t:~µ-je.ner~·f~X~i¾7@.:i::··.·•·<•··•··••··•··•···•·· 
. Send to:
·f\.qdress•.·•all•··qoi:t~~pp11cle11c~to.:··• 
., .;.-._,-•-,,,-._.--·::.:·:.;.._,.:·... , Life in Hell P.O. Box 36E64 
..The;i<lii~i\7:ti••·•·• LA, CA 90036 ·.· Scholastic < 
··· ·· ·1,~F()HJJJ·<ffeflt~r't ···~kitf~ pifili~~;fo~ 
Scholastic 
Dear Readers, 
Since the "Day in the Life" series ofbooks ofphotographs began a few years ago, Time magazine, Life magazine and other maga­zines have featured excerpts. The photo­graphs are ofpeople working and playing, of people of all classes, races and ages doing what they do in a typical day in a particular country or area. 
The book publishers set a certain date, hired a team of professional photojournal­ists, gave those photographers film and transported therri to a wide range oflocations in order to capture that chosen date on film. The photographers were given free rein. They all were chosen for a strong journalis­tic sense and were given enough film to shoot pictures of whatever caught their fancy. 
These books prompted Scholastic to try the same thing here at Notre Dame, only on a slightly lesser scale. We could not find hundreds of professional photographers on this campus and even if we could, we could not afford to give them unlimited rolls of color film. So, we decided to work the Day in the Life project the way the Brown Daily Herald handled its. The average student, faculty member or university employee would be our professionals. 
On Tuesday, September 20, 1988, 23 Notre Dame students set out with rolls of 15 expo­sures ofblack and white film. Their only re­strictions.· as to subject matter were: "No Dome shots" and a request to keep the muggingoftheirsubjectstoaminimum. We did not assign any photographers to take a certain image. The attitude was that we would work with what our photographers produced. 
The rolls were numbered and names as­signed so that when we chose the photo­graphs that were to be printed in the maga­zine, the photographs that are in this 40-page issue, we would have no idea who took the pictures. 
There were some unanticipated problems. First, the fact that we were working with amateurs produced photographs that were not consistently very technically solid, so a great image would not necessarily look so great when it was printed in the magazine. Second, a number of things became clear about Notre Dame students. A lot ofstudent life centers on the omnipresence of schoolwork. And student thought most defi­nitely centers on students. 

We received three pictures that included a faculty member and only slightly more that included other university employees. That was a bit of a shock, but maybe it shouldn't have been. Not assigning a broader perspec-
U. S.-Soviet Rhetoric: Not Worth Your Time 
Tonight at the Joyce Athletic and Convo­cation Center Phil Donahue, host of the na­tionally syndicated Donahue television talk show, and Vladimir Pozner, Soviet televi­sion commentator, will deliver a joint lecture entitled "U.S. -Soviet Relations: Two Jour­nalists' Views." 
The program is sponsored by the Ideas and Issues Commission of the Notre Dame Student Union Board as an event in the University's Year of Cultural Diversity. 

There is some value in members of two nations with starkly contrasting political, economic, and social philosophies joining together in "dialogue." It just seems un­likely that anything meaningful will result from this discussion. 
One thing will probably happen, however: at the end of the program Phil will turn to Vlad, pat his shoulder as he shakes his hand, and turn and wave to the audience. As Phil's chest swells to the size ofhis head he will un­
tive encouraged a narrow, very specific one, that of the students. Although this may not be an group photo essay that shows the es­sence ofNotre Dame from an objectiveper­spective, the student perspective is very clear. Kathleen McKernan Editor in chief 
doubtedly be overwhelmed with a wonder­ful feeling that he has, indeed, contributed to the propagation of world peace. They will try to leave everyone with the impression that what the world really needs for its salva­tion is a couple of "journalists" swapping rhetoric. At least you can count on Vladimir staunchly defending the party line. Do­nahue, on the other hand, will surely admit that there are "some problems" with Ameri­can foreign policy. 
It's too bad Donahue no longer has a show. I liked him better squeezed right between "Love Boat" reruns and "The Dating Game" where he belongs. His audience, typically bored, middle-aged housewives curious to see what the cause ofthe afternoon is, will be unsure of what exactly to expect. He'll probably still be sensitive, but sensitive in even more ofa bleeding heart kind ofway. I wouldn't be srnprised if Phil employs that age old argument for peace: "Why can't we all just love one another." 
If you feel like you absolutely must see him, save your money and hang out on the third floor of Zahm. · The discussion seems pointless, and not worth your time ormoney. 
Mike Farnan Executive Editor 
October 6, 1988 




On Other Campuses 
-

0
1rror, Mirror On the.Coast 
Parietals and the alcohol policy make the news ... onANOTHER campus 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
Parietals relived in Boston! Boston University has enacted a new policy restricting overnight guests, visiting hours, and alcohol consumption in university dormitories, the 
College Press Service reports. Under the new rules, which will take effect in the spring, students are no longer allowed to have overnight guests of the opposite sex, members of the opposite sex are also prohibited from visiting dormitories after 11:00 p.m. on weekdays and 1:00 a.m. on weekends. Additionally, students who are oflegal drinking age (21 in Massachusetts) are allowed to enter a dorm with only a six-pack ofbeer at a time. The policy comes at a time when many universities are attempting to establish regulations to curb the widespread struggle with the issues of alcohol use and security on college campuses. When confronted by opposition, Boston Univer­sity officials said their reasons for the institution of the policy was that they were merely trying to help students study .... Ever heard of abolishing homework? 

Certainly not 'just like mom used to make'Students at the Uni­versity of North Dakota at Grand Forks were treated to a less than home-cooked meal last week. The Chronicle ofHigher Education reported that shortly after having eaten at the university's Wilker­son Hall cafeteria, 275 students became very ill. The food poison­ing outbreak is being investigated by technicians at a state labora­tory to identify possible contaminants in food samples taken from the cafeteria .... Time would probably be better spent investigating recipes and competence of the cooks. 
Kansas can't play (or at least it is going to be very difficult). Kansas University is going to have trouble fielding a football team for the remainder of this season. As of last week, the University Daily Kansan reported, the team had already lost 13 players. Well, not really lost or misplaced. Instead, the team's deficiency of players is aresult of 11 scholarship athletes quitting forunexplained reasons and two players suffering season-ending injuries. Pcda Samuel, one of the team's tri-captains, said, "This has been happen­ing all year. We don't have time to be thinking about what people are doing to the team. Wejust have to keep on going strong and stay together as a team." ... That is the problem to begin with, Peda. 
Room service, color televisions, swimming pools, jacuzzis ... Isn't that what freshman year is made or? Of course not, right? Well, for some freshmen across the country these are just common characteristics of their residential life, at least temporarily. It is common practice for colleges and universities to over admit and promise housing to more students than there is space available. Usually what happens is that enough students decline to enroll or choose to live off-campus to avoid any major overcrowding. This year, however, some universities are paying (literally) for their overcommitments, The Chronicle of Higher Education reports. The University of Miami, for example, has been forced to lease out about 80 rooms at the luxurious Biltmore Hotel (where a double room regularly goes for about $125 a night) for some freshmen. 
More questions were raised about the Chicago Board of Education's principal exam administered by the Education Testing Service last month, the Chicago Defender reported. Sources said that the exam was graded on the curb .... Isn't that when you throw the papers across the sidewalk and the ones that land closest to the street get the highest scores? 
At New York's New School for Social Research a class was held to explore student apathy, the Brown Daily Herald reported.... Nobody showed up to register for it, so it had to be cancelled.II 
Week in Distortion/ Joe Maloney 
Just Sleep It 
Off 
From power naps to antagonizing your roommates, senior Joe Maloney offers a few of his own helpful hints for eliminating academic drudgery 
A s the weekend approaches, many of us anucipate the relief 
of the mental strain which has ac­
cumulated over the course of the school 
week. For some, that intellectual stress has 
come in the form of fervent studying and 
genuine concern over grades. For others, 
however, it has resulted from the creative 
agility necessary for inventing clever, time­
consuming schemes to avoid fervent study­
ing and genuine concern over grades. 
There are obvious solutions, involving the wholesome and responsible consump­tion of alcohol while seeing how many people can be crammed into an enclosed space. Due to financial considerations, however, and the hypothesis that such ac­tivity, ifprolonged, will not beconducive to the Whole Health of the individual, some alternatives should be investigated. 
Most students eventually find thatpower­napping, while sometimes inevitable, is relatively uninteresting. A good way to combat this dangerous conclusion is by setting up with a heavy, dull tome of a textbook in some comfortable place, say, in bed, and then deciding what's interesting and what's not. Compared to reading He­gel, a good spell of unconsciousness can seem like a carnival. 

Advancing slightly in the spectrum of consciousness, we have repetitive movie watching. Comedies are the runaway best choices for this category, and comedies starring Chevy Chase or the Monty Python crew are untouchable. Until you can recre­ate Chase's exact inflection when saying "Can I borrow your towel? My car just hit a water buffalo," you haven't seen Fletch. And until you can, with a partner, recite the whole grim reaper scene, you haven't experienced The kfeaning ofLife. 
Ifthese activities don't seem intellectu­ally challenging enough, you can perform mental gymnastics by arguing with your roommates. Usually a few weeks of living with the same person or people will exhaust all creative debate centering on politics or religion. Let's face it, you' re eitheraliberal or a baby killer. You either believe in transsubstantiation or you're a pagan. We're born into these positions, no amount of rational argument will change our atti­tudes. Besides, these topics tend danger­ously to dovetail with what we're actually supposed to be studying, so they are best avoided. 
But this does not, by any means, deplete the range of issues which can be debated among roommates, or sectionmates, or whoever happens to stroll into your room. Some lively topics include hygiene habits, snoring, height, haircut, lack of musical taste, sleeping habits (see above) and the old standby, casting aspersions about their family members' reputations, to name only a few. 
A popular variant on this theme focuses on distracting your rommates from their studies. Ifone ofthem is typing a paper into a computer, tell him that someone down the hall wants to talk to him. While he is out, make clever additions to his paper that will provide shocked amusement to whomever grades it, while silmultaneously teaching the value of proofreading. 
Finally, ifsheerantagonism isn't enough to satisfy your redirected intellect, try solv­ing some university generated conun­drums. Here's a good one: At a university that has grudgingly acknowledged its amazingly miserable lack of opportunities for healthy male/female social interaction, why was it decided that students would be better off with half as many SYR's which have been modified already to limit the presence of alcohol? 
Ifyou grow tired of grappling with that one, stay tuned. There's rarely a shortage of mind-bending university decisions to distract students; they are graciously pro­vided as material for one of the healthy alternatives to schoolwork. And ifyou've made it this far in this column, you are a prime candidate for the creative aversion of everyday academic drudgery.II 
Joe Maloney is from Lombard, IL. This is the only time his opinion will be seen in Scholastic...maybe. 
October 6, 1988 
ONTHE 
RITE 

Junior faculty members are involved in a constant struggle to achieve a position oftenure 
BY KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
he different standards that exist
T 
across the departments make fac­
ulty promotional decisions very frustrating, according to oneassistant profes­sor who asked not to be identified. "What is unfortunate is that they don't spell it out on paper. It is often unclear what the standards are from year to year," the professor from the College of Arts and Letters said. 
Tenure, which the faculty handbook de­scribes as "permanence of appointment," is the goal of every faculty member who teaches full time at Notre Dame or any uni­versity. For the average student, the concept is nebulous; but every faculty member, ac­cording to University Provost Timothy O'Meara, knows what he or she must do to obtain a permanent position. Finding the proper balance between teaching and re­search responsibilities is the key. 
O'Meara most recently sent a letter to the faculty five years ago, explaining the proce­dure concerning appointment and tenure. 
"While a general plan is followed in male­ing all these decisions, it is impossible in a university with interests as varied as ours to adapt the plan in exactly the same way to every individual case. After all, research and scholarship mean one thing to a mechanical engineer, another to an artist, and yet another to a chemist. Quantity is measurable -all it takes is the ability to count; quality is not -it requires human judgment. [Our tenure pol­icy] should be regarded as a general descrip­tion rather than a blueprint for every single case. Such blueprints cannot exist nor can they be drafted for a university in pursuit of excellence." 

One aspect that plagues junior faculty members, however, is that it is not always easy for them to tell just what is required to obtain tenure, or to get the initial three-year renewal. One professor said that in large departments, the teaching responsibilities are very heavy, especially when the junior faculty teach very large introductory courses with many students or when they are required to teach new courses. "Courses take a long time to develop," that professor said. 
The academic hierarchy is often difficult for the neophyte to sort out, and most stu­dents give few thoughts to the academic pressure that their professors not only exert, but find themselves under. To comprehend this stress, it is first necessary to understand a little of the academic titles and what they signify. Assistant professor is the title for what is also called a junior faculty member. He or she is hired to be a full-time professor. In addition to assistant professors, adjunct professors and instructors also exist. The difference between an assistant professor and an adjunct, or part-time, professor is that assistants are on what is called the tenure track. He or she plans an academic career, and is striving to obtain tenure. 
O'Meara, in an interview, explained what tenure means to a newly-hired faculty mem­ber: "Basically, let's take a person who's just completed the Ph.D. Let's take a person who'sjuststartedoutanacademiccareer. J\n appointment is made for 3 years. There is a review after 3 years. By and by, that reap­pointment is reviewed. If you are renewed, you have tenure." 
Permanence of appointment means two things for a professor. First, it represents job security. Professors with tenure know that they will not be fired or laid offunless they do something specifically prohibited in their contracts. Second, it preserves academic freedom. In other words, professors can express an opinion that may be unpopular with diminished worries of penalty. 
Above assistant professor are associate professors and full professors. The univer­sity also has endowed chairs, who are profes­sors whose salaries come from a private endowment. The university currently has more than 100 endowed chairs, with approxi­mately half of them filled, according to O'Meara. "Ultimately, our objective would be that every professor is endowed." 
"We look at the quality. Quality of your role as a teacher, your teaching, your re­search, your scholarship." 
"For teaching, we look at your role in the classroom, your effect on students, and your ability as a teacher of graduate students. We evaluate teaching through a reputation within the department, the computerized TCE (teacher course evaluations), letters sent to the chairman of the department. They form a mosaic, form a pattern that is consis­

tent." 
In his 1984 letter, which he says he is in the process of revising, O'Meara writes: "Notre Dame is a teaching-and-research university with high aspirations. It is not a college. Therefore Notre Dame must excel not only in teaching but also in research. And so every successful candidate for reappointment, pro­motion or tenure must have demonstrated the talent, energy and commitment to be strong as a teacher and strong as a scholar as well. . .. My own involvement with tenure decisions at Notre Dame over the last six years has shown me how very capable our newly-ten­ured faculty are at meeting the dual and inseparable responsibilities of teaching and research." 
"In any promotion decision, we must judge not only past achievement but also future potential. Past achievement is important, but primarily insofar as it provides evidence of more and better things to come." 
"The kind of things that we look at are teaching record, and important factors are course evaluations and internal assessments of teaching, through word of mouth," said Gerald Jones, chairman of the physics de­partment. "The range.of courses taught and type of courses taught become important." 
"In departments which have experimental research going on, grants become important. 
That kind of research is so expensive, you have to have external funding. An important consideration for tenure is then theirability to attract external funding. They need is to do their jobs. 
"We have to look at 'Is a person productive and can they continue to be productive?' For an experimentalist, the ability to get grants is an absolute prerequisite," Jones said. 
O'Meara spelled out the general necessi­ties for all the departments in order to obtain tenure, and also discusses the inherent diffi­culty in that kind of decision-making. 
"The most important thing to do when you're a young man or woman is to establish 
I' 
yourself as a teacher and scholar," I O'Meara said. lie explained that some do other service to the university such as serving on departmental committees. 
"There's no easy way to make tenure deci­sions. This is a period of trial. It's not tenure that creates tension; it's whether or not you get it. 
"Periodically, I go over and look at the list of people who received tenure. Looking at the people who are known for the strength of their scholarship, I think most of them are among the best teachers in the university. It's not a zero-sum game. · For every gram of teaching, you have to take a: gram ofresearch. Both of those things are necessary. Ifprof es-sors stop research to simply teach, they will get stale. What we try to emphasize is that one stimulates the other." 

The chairman of the math department, Andrew Sommese, is frank about the situ­ation in his department. "There is a dearth of people to hire. We hire part-time people in order to cover all the teaching. " He also touched on the question of teaching as op­posed to research. "Teaching is important. Say there's a great researcher, but a terrible teacher. He probably wouldn't be tenured." 
"But, we can't afford to hire somebody who is not a great researcher. It's easier to· teach than do research. You wantto be a great university. You don't get that way except by doing research." 
''English is horribly understaffed," said Joseph Buttigieg, chairman of that depart~ ment. "We're at least six people short. Right now, when we hire someone, if that person fulfills the expectations as a teacher and scholar, he or she will get tenure." 
Buttigieg makes a point of saying that when the department hires a new group of assistant professors: "All of them are tenure-able. If someone gets turned down, it is because he or she did not do as well as he should have. The university does not have quotas." 
O'Meara also said that typically the recom­mendation the department chairman sends to the provost's office for a given re-appoint­ment is the one that eventually will be fol­lowed. 
:/t~n1n~.ti:.i~ ~~~~!~1~::.~~f 
ilerstaffed; ' . e.atleastsix 
B~~#I~~*ef•········ ···\t••·l¥1~:l;~~~,•.••·
when•>we••·····•·••hirie·· •...~.@.~.~g~,r .~~<• tli1~·· .. ~t~~r••i··· 
·· ulfills...• ,theii 
·~~B~tt,i~~P
a:ttd<schol · 
i~~'.ll~~iji
j.}()~g~ 
:t.~#l!.'..
~~iii~t. 
The major aspect of controversy surround­ing tenure and promotional decisions is not in the aspects of the decisions themselves, ac­cording to Philip Quinn, O'Brien professor of philosophy and chairman of the adminis­trative committee of the faculty senate. Quinn's problem with the tenure process is a little different "Tenure procedures are well­known. Everybody knows all the steps. But once the promotion dossierleaves the depart­ment, the whole process is very secret. There is no faculty input. The candidate has no rights. 
"At every other university, there is faculty participation beyond the department Tradi­tionally, this has been a very authoritarian institution, and you can see that in the way the decisions are reached." 
Even the assistant professor who cites problems with changing standards for con­tract renewal and tenure, agrees with the major aspect of the tenure situation at Notre Dame. "It's a Russian roulette game every­where, but it doesn't seem as horrible here as it is everywhere." II 


Scholastic  
Notre Dame's Student Magazine is currently seeking applications for the position of: Assistant Business Manager All interested should contact Wei Chee Toh at the Scholastic office. Phone: 239-5029  


D 
I 
THE LIFE 
The following 20 pages depict A Day in the Life of Notre Dame. One Tuesday-ordinary, grey, drizzly -perhaps all the more typical for its dullness. It is a day viewed through the eyes of 22 Notre Dame students. Students are the primary focus, the tellers of the day's activities. They get up, go to class, eat, play and relax. · The pictures reveal what's important, what's not and whafs often overlooked. Professors, classes, staff and the ubiquitous administration are conspicuously absent, while various forms of studying abound. 
'I
Scholastic thanks the students whose efforts, time and photographip skills produced the material 'I ; I for this issue: Jennifer Wilmoth, Ed Palmisano, Jack L. Langenberg III, Marc B. Cerrone, Kimberly S. Miller, Mike Payne, Joe Minadeo, Cindy Petrites, Cathy Baytion, Joe Herman, Mimi Devlin, Tammy Houseworth, Bill Leheny, Kevin Walsh, Christopher K. Brown, Timothy P. Deeihan, Gretchen D. Ariz, Elizabeth Baytion, Chhomroth Un, Peter J. Gillen and Allan Lim. 
Many Scholastic staff members also worked overtime putting the issue together, especially Mari Okuda, Chuck Ray and Kerry Sieger. 
Maggie Sieger Features Editor 


Mike Payne 

10 



Ed Palmisano 
12 


Ed Palmisano 

October 6, 1988 



I ; ., 
,, 
Joe Minadeo 


Scholastic
14 
--. . 
< --,
:.,~ --/---¥·__ :_:, . -· ___::.. :..........------~-'"---__ -. ~~ _' ,:~ ,-,·-t '";:-,-:-~ ··:;.-r~ ~~::--rr, ··:? :~-; ~:-:" -.-.---:-· --~ ~~,;.--:-'~~ '_:;r:r_ c__,~';l-'_, -,~? ·_:?f"-..,,,:j;,'.,~,~-!-'.' ; 


Joe Herman 
15



16 
Scholastic 
• ____
_~, -~-------•• _ _:_,, ____ .c::,·==--:..'"·"-_::._--•·.-· _, ......_,,; :-·-;· .. --.. --·-· ,._ · ,____:_ ..._-,.;·.f=·•1r,;·:·,: 0 >,.-•_~.'-_~:1:--:."''.,/_1·.-.:·_<: 
1 
r, ;-~ :. "'-• • _..,.. , 

Tammy Houseworth 
Joe Herman 




Bill Leheny 


18 
Scholastic 

/ 

Timothy P. Deeihan 




20 

Peter J. Gillen 

Joe Minadeo 

CindyPetrites 

22 
~ 
---' -' --. --' -,~ ,~ ' -­

Elizabeth Baytlon & Chhomroth Un 

Timothy P. Deelhan 
Scholastic 

Jennifer Wilmoth Allan Lim 
Allan Lim 

Ed Palmisano 


Allan Lim 

Gretchen P. Ariz Kimberly S. Miller 

Mimi Devlin 
the lei!!m!i1!':S !l~l!1i!ii:! \i'ie!!i~;i;iil}!;f., :Pi~'!,~i. !~!.t~! '!f,1.,!~i,F. a.:\so tli~ 0.~m~ ,!:lttii.i!i.ifi!" !,eJHler iii!! ,::figs, 

T he Notre Dame women's volley­ball team has been accing, spik­
ing and digging its way to the top in the North Star Conference for the last two years. But head coach Art Lambert was not satisfied with two consecutive conference championships. He felt it was time lo move on. So this year, Lambert's team moved from the North Star Conference to the Midwest­ern Collegiate Conference. The change allows the team to compete as an independent because there is a two year waiver before they have to start officially competing in the MCC. As an independent, Lambert assembled a schedule that is the volleyball equivalent of the Irish football team's schedule. The volleyball team plays nine of the top 14 teams in last year's final national top 20. Included on the list arc Pacific, Stanford, Texas, Kentucky and Western Michigan. "I don't think playing the tougher sched­ule has had a negative effect on the team because you have lo build each year," said Lambert. Because of the caliber of the teams on this year's schedule, the Irish do not expect lo do as well as they did during the last two seasons. They do, however, expect to ac­complish their ultimate goal: national rec­ognition. "We have more talent and experience this year, and we're ready for a tougher sched­ule," said senior middle blocker Mary Kay Waller, one of the five returning starters from last year's 30-9 team. "We're a bcllcr team than we were last year, but the sched­ul.e is twice as tough. We needed the tougher schedule to get noticed." The volleyball team has had a rocky start because of their tougher schedule. The team kicked off the year against Indi­ana and easily defeated the Hoosiers in three games. A volleyball team wins a match if they win three out of five games, so by winning in three games, the women's vol­leyball team swept three straight games and won the match. Then the competition got tougher and the women lost to Stanford (last years runner up in the NCAA) in four games, and Bowling Green in five. The middle of September saw the team in 
a three-game losing streak. This Irish had lost only 16 games in two years and was starting the new season with a 4-5 record. But the women came back lo win the last four, including a decisive victory over Western Michigan, oneoflastyear's top 20. 
"At first the losing streak was hard to adjust to," said Maureen Shea, senior middle blocker/outside hitter. "We wercn 't used to losing. But we've started to get our confidence back.'' 
Even though the losing streak was tough, the team came out of it with a sense of togetherness and self-confidence. 
"I think we arc on a roll now," said Lam­bert. "Now (the team) has a better picture of what they have to do and what they can do." 
"We always stayed together during the losing streak," said Tracey Shelton, the sophomore outside hiller from Texas. "I think the losing streak was positive because it made us come together as a team. Now we take advantage of practice. We know that in order to do well in the matches, we must practice hard.'' 
Waller agrees that the losses were disap­pointing but they were not for naught. 
"The streak was kind of disappointing, but I'm totally optimistic about the future," said Waller. "We couldn' l get a group of six who could play well together. We just had to get our own act to­gether. Now, we don't even look like the same team. Wc're so much better.'' 
Fbrturiately, the schedule is made up so that the tough teams are spaced apart. The next few games, however, will be more than a little challenge for the Lambert's squad. The women will go on the road and play Kentucky, which is ranked in the top ten, and Pacific, last year's NCAA champion. In fact, the next five gavcs arc against teams that arc ranked in the national top 20. 
Even though the other teams arc well known powerhouses, the Irish are no slouch team themselves. The players have discovered that although the 
compcllllon is good, the highly-touted 
teams are not unbeatable. 
"We have not really been satisfied with 
our performance against the bcller teams 
because we know we can beat those harder 
teams," said Shelton. 
The return of five of last year's starters to 
this y~'s squad means that the team has a 
tremendous amount ofexperience. Zanctte 
Bennett, Whitney Shcwman, Shea and 
Waller have all lettered in each of their last 
three years. Bennett, Waller, and Shea were 
voted to the All-North Central Region 
teams. 
Bennett, senior outside hitter, was named the Most Valuable Player of the North Star Conference for two years straight and is Notre Dame's career leader in kills with ·1075 over the last three years. Sheleads the team in kills again this year with 158. Ben­nett is fourth on the team in games played this yearwith44, first with service aces with 16, fourth in digs with 101 and second in 
blocks with 55. 
Waller, senior middle blocker, finished 
seventh in the nation last year in blocking 
average and also was invited to practice with 
the American National Volleyball B-team 

31



Mary Kay Waller and Zanette Bennett go up for a block at a recent game. 

last summer. She was chosen as one of 15 college players in the nation to play on the team and had the opportunity to meet and play against the members of the National A­team which represented the United States in Seoul. 
"It was great experience," said Waller. "The members oftheB-team got to practice with and live with the members of the A­team. These were girls ( on the A-team) I had always looked up to. We also got to play the West German National Team." 
The idea of the program was for the younger players to see how the national program works. From the women who participated, several will go on to represent the United States in international and Olym­pic competition. 
Up to the Butler game Saturday, Waller ranked third on the team in games played with 39, second in kills with 137, second in service aces with 10, and first in blocks with 68. 
Shea wasvotedNotreDame's Most Valu­able Player by her teammates last year. She ranked second in games played this year with 40, third in kills with 105 and fourth in blockswith29 going into the Butler game on Saturday. 
Shewman,a senioroutsidehitter, has been a strong player this year after being slowed down last year with a knee injury. She is fifth on the team in games played this year with 38 and she has been in 12 of the 13 matches played. She also leads the team in digs with 135. 
Kathy Cunningham, a junior outside hit­ter, is fourth on the team in kills with 57, third on the team in service aces with 7 and fourth on the team in digs with 90. 
Although the seniors are the core of the team, the underclassmen are very talented. In fact, this year's recruiting class was ranked fifth in the nation by American 
. ''We.colildn't geta grgup 
9f six who. coulcl play .w~Ii . · together. W~jµstlladto get 9~r.9wn·acttogether. Now; we dona evenlooklikethe ·· .sam~ tealII.' We'r~ so triuth 
' 
,,·:=. 
II~r 
Volleyball magazine. 
"The underclassmen are all going to be really good," said Shea. 
Julie Bremner, a freshman right side hit­ter/setter, has really produced for the team during their first 13 matches. In her first season, she leads the team in games played this year with 47 and is second on the team in digs with 134. Up to the Butler game, she ranked fourth on the team in service aces with seven, first on the team in digs with 122 and third in blocks with 48. 
"Julie Bremner has been a big bonus to our program," said Shea. 
"The freshmen are awesome," said Shel­ton. "They could end up being just as good as the seniors are now. It's not going to be easy to fill in the senior's shoes, but with the leadership they left behind, I think (the underclassmen)°can do it" 
Shelton, a sophomore outside hitter, came off of the bench and played in her first · collegiate game this year. She recorded a team high 15 digs and ten kills against Purdue. 
Sophomores Rachel Hall, Chris Rosso, Colleen Wagner and Amy White have all made important contributions to this year's team and will really be looked to in the future. 
In the freshman class, Joanna Bruno, Christine Choquette, Katie Kavanaugh and Jennifer Slosar have all come with excellent credentials. 
The women's volleyball team has a week to relax before it takes to the road and starts on one of the hardest parts of its schedule. 
Although the women's volleyball will not be able to coast to victories like it did in the past, the women can feel confident that every game they do win, they earn. And even more importantly, they learn.II 


COMPILED BY JIM MAGGIO
s rt wee 


The Irish men's Great Lakes Evansville. quette on Sunday. SUSIE Oct. 11 at 7 p.rn. Stadium. ATHLETE OF..... THE WEEI< ZANETTE. ,..._ ..·.·..... B~nnett, a• sen~ standing .match  

soccer team (10-0-2) remained 
Notre Dame (8-5) extended its winning streak to 
undefeated last week, posting a 2-0-1 mark by defeat­
four last week with three impressive victories, defeat­
ing Bowling Green 2-1, Detroit 3-1 and battling Wis­
ing Northwestern 12-15, 15-8, 15-13, 15-10, Butler 
consin to a scoreless tie. Sunday's tie with the Badgers 
15-2, 15-2, 15-8, and Western Michigan 15-8, 15-6, 
15-8. .
extended Notre Dame's unbeaten streak against Great 
Lakes Region opponents to 18. 
COLLEEN WAGNER recorded a career-high 17 
TaEWE 
D .A
i 
GAIRRETT 
Last week's efforts earned Notre Dame its debut in 
kills in the Northwestern match, while ZANE'ITE the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America 
Ge~ter,1'fY; paced the men's cross country
BENNETT tallied a season-high four service aces 
poll, ranking 20th in the nation. Soccer America has against Butler. 
terun to itsJirst Natiorial Catholic Champi­
the Irish in the 13th sloL The Irish travel to Lexington, KY on Saturday to 
onshipj11four years, tying teammate Ron 
Notre Dame faces a pivotal matchup this weekend battle the eighth-ranked Kentucky Wildcats. Match 
Markezk;h fo{ first place with a time of
as they travel to Akron on Sunday. Both the Irish and 
time is 7:30 p.m. the Zips are vying fcir a NCAA tournament berth in the 
2Liz39_;iGarrett is areturning All-America 
Region along with Indiana and 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team won the National Catholic Championships last week for the first time in four years, edging out defending cham­
The Notre Dame women's soccer team (8-3) de­pion Loyola. feated Saint Mary's College 4-2 last week in their DAN GARRETT and RON MARKEZICH tied for first-ever varsity matchup, then saw their six-match first-place honors with a time of 24:39, while TOM winning streak come to an end in a 2-1 loss to Mar­O'ROURKE (25:13) and MIKE O'CONNOR (25:30) The Irish men's golf team faces a busy week of 
took sixth and eleventh place, respectively. competition next week. They begi,, on OcL 9-10 at the In the Saint Mary's contest, the Irish stormed back Freshman MIKE DRAKE rounded out Notre Buckeye Fall Classic at Ohio State's Scarlet Course in from a 2-0 deficit with four second-half goals to put Dame's top five, finishing 26th (26:08). Columbus, Ohio, featuring the best teams from the Big 
the game out of reach. MICHELLE RICHARDS, The Irish will host the 33rd annual Notre Dame Ten and Mid-American Conferences. 
ZILVTI1S, KATIILEEN BIRMINGHAM Invitational tomorrow afternoon at the Burke Memo­Notre Dame next competes in the Midwestern Col­and JOY SISOLAK each scored one goal, while rial Golf Course, beginning at 2 p.rn. legiate Conference Championship at Fort Benjamin MIMI SUBA earned two assists. Harrison in Indianapolis. The tournament will be held 
Notre Dame hosts Calvin College on Saturday at 1 OcL 10-11. p.m., while Northwestern comes to town Tuesday, Both games are at Moose Krause 
Notre Dame took sixth place in the 19-team field at the National Catholic Championships last week at Burke Memorial Golf Course. Providence took the The Saint Mary's tennis team continued its out­overall team title, followed by Boston College and St. standing, undefeated season (16-0) with three more Thomas. wins in match play last week. They trounced Tri-State 
The top finisher for the Irish, senior captain THER­9-0, defeated Taylor 7-2, and routed the College of SL ESA RICE, placed ninth overall at 18:44. LUCY Francis-Joliet 9-0. SARAH MAYER remains unde­NUSRALA took 12th place (19:12) while LINDA feated in singles play. FILAR rounded out the top fifteen with a time of The Belles will attempt to extend their unbeaten 
19:19. record today at home versus SL Francis-FL Wayne at The Irish will host 15 visiting schools in the Notre 3 p.m. They take to the road Saturday against Wheaton . . . Dame Invitational tomorrow at the Burke Memorial. College and Tuesday at Manchester College. 
Starting time is 1 p.m. BENNETT:> : SMN'f}\11,4..RY'S SOCCER 
. .....:: ' 
The Belles' soccer team (5-3) dropped three tough iorfroni·Sai}AntorrioiTX, pJ~y~diin~Ji) The Notre Dame women's golf team completed its matches last week, losing to nationally-ranked Wis­.• f<Jr .•·th~\JIOil}yn'f"Oll<!Y::· first fall season last weekend at the Michigan State consin-Milwaukee 1-0, Notre Dame 4-2, and Siena Invitational, finishing tenth out of 12 teams with a Heights College 4-0. The Wisconsin-Milwaukee
,ballteam against Butler. she hit<833 
1052 total. Ohio State won the tournament with a 903 match was decided with 30 seconds remaining in the ·against the Bulld6gs ~d re<;orded as~~ total, followed by Northern Illinois (929) and Wiscon­second overtime. son-high fourservice aces tolead the Irish. sin (958). TRICIA TROESTER and KA TIIY REV ANE each toJns:2, 1s.:2, 1s-s victory} ··· · · · KRIS LAZA led the way for the Irish with rounds scored goals against Notre Dame, ending the Irish 
of 87-84-84 for a 255 total. HEIDI HANSAN fired shutout streak at five matches. rounds of 91-89-82 for a 262 while PANDORA Saint Mary's travels to Wheaton College on Satur­FECKO chipped in with rounds of92-87-86 for a 265. day, then returns home on Sunday to host Indiana 
University at 12 noon. 
33
October 6, 1988 
Music/ Heather Ingraham 

And the Winner Is ... 
Little guys deserve more credit, and Green proves it by dethroning the headline act, Scruffy the Cat 
I t's nice to see the little guys win. Who would have thought that an open­ing band could so thoroughly unseat the headliners? That's exactly what Green did last week., in a free showcase at Theodore's sponsored by the S.U.B. They blew Scruffy the Cat right outofthe cat box before a large, enthusiastic audience. It was great to see people responding to an un­known band: Ifmore people would experi­ment with bands they don't know, I could die happy. Maybe the audience reacted so well be­cause Green invited them to. No bigattitude problems here: Green didn't waste time be­tween songs or talk down to the audience. Good covers, namely "For Your Love" and "Crazy Train" (although the latter left much to be desired). Extra credit is also given for being so good-natured about the audience, certain members of which had somehow mistaken Green for a hardcore band and were thrashing madly about in a "pit" in front of the stage. Scruffy the Cat, on the other hand, were obviously Big Guys. They started their set by telling people to "dance nicely" or they would stop playing. For crying out loud, it wasjusta bunch ofkids working offenergy. Yeah, they looked pretty lame (your grand­mother could probably slam harder than they did) but no one was getting hurt and it was harmless. It's possible that "no slam­ming" is Theodore's policy -after all, their "no admittance without ND/SMC ID" pol­icy excluded all the kids from town who have provided the vast majority ofthe audi­ences atprogressive shows. You canbetthe university would have let them in ifthis had been a paid admission concert; but still, Scruffy's attitude made it clear they 
wouldn't be half as patient as Green about having their mike stands knocked down. 
In fact, most of Scruffy's set seemed to center on audience disinvolvement. I don't think they ever even looked at the crowd. It's tough to like a band with that kind of attitude -especially a band that plays to mostly college audiences. Chances are, the band is either pandering to drunken colle­giate wackiness, orexploiting the confusion and sensitivity that go with trying to make sense of this world. Stuffy the Cat's card­board-stiff attitude was clearly reflected in their lack of energy. Eventually people started to drift outside, although not nearly as many as should have. 
It's disheartening to see a band like Scruffy doing so well on college charts when so many honest, hard-working bands are not Take Riflesport, who have some­how escaped the widespread recognition usually given to bands from Minneapolis. 
hair catches fire in church (and the priest who puts it outwith holy water), a girlfriend whose demeanor has suddenly turned cold, and heartfelt bewilderment at the world we live in. 
Riflesport has put out four records (Voice ofReason LP, Complex EP, a single with their cat Walter on the sleeve, and the recent White LP), all ofwhich are captivating and accessible. For those of you who won't listen to anything you can't dance to, try "Box ofDirt." While R;ifl~sport's sound has changed considerably over the years, be­coming fuller and more powerful, the enthu­siasm and intensity still show through. And as far as audience involvement, how many other bands do you know that celebrated their sixth anniversary by baking six huge sheet cakes and giving big slices to the audience? "Little guys" like these deserve much more recognition. Leave your Stuffy attitudes at home.II 

sport is one of the consistently 
best bands I know: Humorous, 
sensitive, and thoughtful, they 
have a delightful perspective on 
life's little oddities, and they play 
first-rate music. 
With their newest record, Todd 
Trainer and Flourare finally gain­
ing recognition as one of the best 
rhythm sections in rock Gerard 
Boissy's kind-of-loopy, kind-of­
wiry guitar lines spring between 
the bass and vocals in a spry mix 
ofdistortion, power, and simplic­
ity. J. Christopher's singing is 
brightandclipped, audible butnot 
overpowering the music. Sub-""R"'-i-fl-e'--sport are, from left to right: J. Christopher, . jects include an altar boy whose Flour, Todd Trainer and Gerard Boissy. 

., 






















Dimensions," by Dr. Samuel I. Goldberg,
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs at
THURSDAY, OCT. 6 
University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. 
8p.m and 10: 15p.m. in the Cushing In room 226 of the Computing Center and 
Engineering Auditorium. 
Mathematics coli·.··· 
Mathematics Building at 4:30p.m. "Vanishing of Cohomology", by Prof. Jon 
F. Carlson of the University of Georgia. 
FRIDAY, OCT. 7 
At 4p.m. in room 226 of the Computing 
Center and Mathematics Building. 
Mall at 4:30p.m. 
Friends of the Snite Museum of Art 
Mary Poppins at 8p.m. and 10:15p.m in Lecture "An Examination of the 
the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Drawings of Tiepolis--Giovanni-Battista and Giovanni-Domenico," by Dr. 
Thomas J. White Center On Law and 
The Funeral, sponsored by the ND · 
Adelheid M. Gealt, interim director of the 
Government Lecture "Waiver, Capital 
Communication and Theatre Department. Art Museum at Indiana University, 
Punishment, and the Jurisprudence of 
Two Japanese television actors find Bloomington. In the Annenburg 
Juvenile Justice," by Professor Franklin E. 
themselves obligated to arrange a Auditorium at 4: 15p.m. 
Zimring, University of California, 
traditional Japanese funeral in Juzo Itami's Berkeley. At 12 noon in the Law School 
newest film. The film is witty, but even Reilly Center Undergraduate Series 
Courtroom. 
more profound in its consideration of Lecture "Quack .Medicine and Orthodox 
tradition and social change.At 7:30 and Medicin~ in Early Modern England," by 
9:45p;m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Roy Porter, Wellcome Institute for the 
Professor Bill Miscamble speaks on History of Medicine, London. In room 
"Australia: Yesterday, Today, and 118 Nieuwland Science Hall at 4:15p.m. 
Tomorrow"at 12:15p.m. in the ISO 
Barry Manilow "Big Fun Tour de Force" lounge. 
at 8:30p.rh. in the Joyce Athletic and Student Union Board/ Year of Cultural 
Convocation Center. tickets: $15.50 and Diversity Joirit Lecture "U.S.-Soviet 
$17.50. Relations: Two Journalists" Views," by 
Dancers from the Hawaii Club and the Phil Donohue, host of the Donohue TV 
Asian American Club entertain the 
Formals,:Ba11s'andAI1::Ha11.senii.;FormaJ.s program and Notre Dame grad, and 
lunchtime crowd at 12 noon on the 
Naval Ball Vladimir Pozner, Soviet television 
Fieldhouse Mall. 
The Trident Naval Society sponsors the commentator. Ticket prices: $6 for the 
Naval Ball at 8p.m. in the South Dining general public, and $4 for University 
Hall. faculty, students, and staff. At 8p.m. in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation 
Sophomore Formal Center. 
The Sophomore Class sponsors a formal at South Bend's Union Station from 9p.m.to la.m. 
Department of Engineering Graduate Seminar "Chemical Engineering Aspects 
Lewis Hall Formal of Environmental Assessment," by Prof. Ralph H. Kummler, Wayne State 
SATURDAY, OCT. 8 
University. In room 356 of Fitzpatrick She's Having A Baby is showing at 9 
Examination ·• '' Graduate Record Examination from 8a.m. 
Hall at 3:30p.m. 
and l lp.m. in Carroll Auditorium on the to 3p.m. in the Cushing Engineering 
Matherriatics Callo ufum
Saint Mary's College campus. 
Auditorium.
"The Siu-Yau Mori Theorem in Odd · 

35




ego, and soul. Fosse's breathtaking dance 
Tickets are available at the JACC box 
numbers are brilliantly staged, and Roy Saint Mary" 
pffice, the Lafortune Box Office (239­
Scheider performs with unaccustonmed University· 
7442) and O'Laughlin Auditorium(284­
vigor and nuance in the demanding role ofat lp.m. 
4626). The concert begins at 8p.m. in the 
Fosse's alter ego. 
JACC. 
Notre 
MONDAY, OCT.10 

Core Course Lecture at 7p.m in Calvin Washington Hall. 
at Ip. 
Les Carabiniers at 7p.m. in the 
Annenburg Auditorium. Directed by Jean­
Luc Godard, this effectively stupid and 
ugly parable about the stupidity and 
ugliness of war tells the story of two 
South BendArea 
gullible clodhoppers who set out to fight for their king in exchange for "all the Food and desserts from many 
Musica.l Entertainment 
treasures of the world." 

countries(catered). Cultural entertainment Outdoor concert 
and music start the evening. An Americ Steel Band from the Roberto Clemente 
You Only Live Once at 9p.m.in the 
music survey complets with six different High School of Chicago. On Saturday, 
Annenburg Auditorium. A beautifully
dance contests. Door prizes. Free. From Oct. 8 at 3:30p.m. on the Shrock Plaza at 
crafted drama about ex-convict Henry 
9p.m. to la.m. in Stepan Center. 
Goshen Plaza. 
Fonda who tries to go straight but finds that fate is against him. 
Symphony South Bend Symphony 
Bull Durham at 8p.m. and 10:lSp.m. in Orchestra with Tsung Yeh, conductor and 
TUESDAY, OCT.11 
the Cushing Engineering Auditorium. 

Lorin Hollander on piano. At 8:15p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
'formaJ.~;1Balis'.@d·-All;ij:~1l-S~inJForm~ls 
Hall President's Council Meeting at 
Howard Hall SYR 6:30p.m. in Morissey Hall. 
St Ed's Hall SYR 
secial Events> 
Knott Hall SYR 

Femwood Nature Center sponsors a Slide Two Weeks In Another Town at 7p.m.in 

Program by the Femwood Nature 
the Annenburg Auditorium. An ambitious 
SUNDAY, OCT. 9 
Photography Club at 8p.m., Friday, Oct. adaptation of the Irwin Shaw novel that 
7. Also, a Weekend Naturalist Program­revolves around the problems of the cast 
Let's Look For Leaves at_2p.m. on and crew on location producing a film in 
Saturday, Oct. 8, and a Fall Color Canoe Rome. A fine cast including Kirk 
Trip from 9:30p.m. to 3p.m. on Saturday, Douglas, Edward G. Robinson, Cyd 
Oct. 8. Charisse and George Hamilton and the cinemascope frame provide an optimum 

Theater
Mass with members of Emmaus, a 
forum for director Vincent Minelli's self­
TheLittle Foxes presented by the South community with the mentally 
reflexive and lushly melodramatic look at 
Bend Civic Theatre at the Firehouse handicapped. At Moreau Seminary at cinematic art Theatre on 701 Portage Ave. At2p.m. A coffee hour will follow the mass. 
8:30p.m. through Saturday. All That Jau at 9p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Winner of five academy 
Sing For Your Supper, a Rodgers and awards, Director Bob Fosse's 
Hart Musical. At the Theater Wing of
Cultural Diversity present Miriam 
autobiographical musical is a Felliniesque 
First Prebyterian Church on 333 W. 
Makeba, her troupe, and Hugh Masekela. 
backstage drama-a masterpiece of dance, 
Colfax at 8p.m.on Saturday. 

36 
Scholastic 
, ----~ . . ·---­
~---~ ,_-•~ -• --~ --.::~-> _,..::,.,_ •-n ---••, --~ ~ > ,• < i
~-­


FORUM Theaters Heartbreak Hotel 1:40, 3:40, 5:40, 7:40, 9:40 Betrayed 1:30, 4: 15, 7:00, 9:25 Dangerous Love 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
100 CENIBR Coming To America 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:15 Married To the Mob 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 
SCOTTSDALE MALL TIIEATERS Who Framed Roger Rabbit 1:45, 4:00, 6:45, 9:15 Heartbreak Hotel 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
TOWN AND COUN1RY Gorillas In the Mist 2: 10, 4:50, 7:30, 10:00 The Last Temptation of Christ 2:00, 5:00, 8:15 Dead Ringers 2:20, 4:40, 7:05, 9: 15 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST Big 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Young Guns 1:15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:30, 9:35 Who Framed Roger Rabbit 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 Kansas 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 A Fish Called Wanda 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 Nightmare On Elm Street IV 1:15, 3:15, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST Eight Men Out 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Cocktail 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Die Hard 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 "Art and Law" Hear about art and the legal system from an artist who found out the hard way. At4p.m. on Friday, October 7 in the school auditorium of the School of the Art Institute of Chicago on Columbus Drive and Jackson Boulevard. For further information, call The Visiting Artists Program at 312-443-3711. 


Joe Segal's Jazz Showcase features Dizzy Gillespie through Sunday Oct. 9. With Sam Rivers, Ed Cherry, Ignacio Berroa, and John Lee. On Oct. 11-16, the Jazz Showcase features Kenny Burrell. At the Blackstone Hotel, 636 S. Michigan Ave. Call 427-4300. 
The Holiday Star Plaza theater and 
Resort presents Salsa! Salsa! on Friday, Oct. 7. With Celia Cruz, Tito Puente, and Johnny Pacheco. On Saturday, Oct. 8: Let the Good Times Roll with Bobby Rydell, Jay and the Americans, Leslie Gore, and More! Ray Charles is coming to the Holiday on Sunday, oct. 9. Locatcdjust45 minutes south of Chicago's loop, call (312)734-7266. 
At the Vic, Johnny Winter will be appearing on Saturday, Oct. 8 at 7:30p.m. Basia with Dan Siegal comes to the Vic on Sunday, Oct. 9. 3145 N. Sheffield at Belmont. Call 472-0449. 
Park West features Carla Bley and Steve Swallow Duet on Thursday, Oct. 6 at 7:30p.m. Steve Forbert will be appearing on Friday, Oct. 7 at 8p.m., and Tommy Conwe1! and the Young Rum biers on Tuesday, Oct. 11. 
The Cabaret Metro features Firehose, Screaming Trees and Snake Trainon Friday, Oct. 7. Camper Van Beethoven, the Royal Crescent Mob, and Walter Salas-Humara on Saturday, Oct. 8. Wednesday, Oct. 12, The Farmers, Glass Eye and Nightmare will take the stage. 3730 N. Clark. Call 549-0203. 
Biddy Milligan's brings you Albert King on Friday, Oct. 7. Eddie Kendrick will be appearing on Saturday, Oct. 8. 7644 N. Sheridan. Call 761-6532 for information. 
Orphan's Lounge features Loose Change with Bad Examples on Friday, Oct.7 and Bonnie Kloc on Saturday, Oct. 8 at 8 and 9:30, Betsy and the Boneshakers at 11:30p.m. 


37

Final Word 
To Be A Domer 
Contribution is the key to succeeding at Notre Dame, and enjoying it 
BY JASON MITCHELL 
A difference of three years be­tween my younger brother and myself yields "interesting con­versation" whenever I'm home for breaks. "Why do you want to stay in the midwest?" he asks. My brother is a passionate believer in no other school except UCLA. He con­siders it lunacy for me, a native Chicagoan, to attend school in Indiana. Inquiries ofthis type were, and continue to be, taken in stride. However, last spring, as my fresh­man year drew to a close, comparable ques­tions were raised by my mother and by myself regarding the desire to weather Notre Dame in spite of the challenges and occasional disappointments. Even during the restoration of my academic standing, the answer still eluded me. The "portraits" painted ofthe University -the golden statue of Mary graced by soft shades of dusk; the candlelit, solemn con­fines of the Grotto late on a snowy evening; and most notably, grins on the faces and chills down the spine of the students as we "Wake Up the Echoes" on football week­ends -inspire us during the finer moments here. But in the volatile moments, or in conversing with non-"Domers", such uto­pian references become hallucinatory. Not surprisingly, perseverance for Notre Dame has to be driven by more than "University portraits." "Life's challenges provide an opportu­nity to achieve a certain level of character which is a manifestation of excellence." All of this from the simple philosophy of a certain finance major who, in response to rhetorical questions and looks of dillusion during my freshman year, said: "Notre Dame builds character." And, although it does provide numerous opportunities for building character, a Notre Dame student is ostracized often for choosing to attend Notre Dame (sometimes by younger broth­ers and/or sisters, or members of the press who are tired of hearing about our university). Bewilderingly, in spite of all of the things we complain about, we continue to accept the challenges of Notre Dame. 


Acknowledgement requires little ef­
fort, and rationalization simply broadens perspective. Only in exercising the "charac­teristic" potential do we begin to erase that stigma, and contribute to the University of Notre Dame. Alas, perhaps this is the motivation of the Notre Dame student: contribution. No idealism here: The age of the young urban professional is said to be gone, but it is long from forgotten. How­ever, if all that were desired in life came down to monetary gain, other options for an education could have been pursued: Per­sonal alternatives included Harvard, Prince­ton and Dartmouth. 
Implementation ofthe alcohol policy here appears to have dismissed student contribu­tion to the Task Force Report entirely, inad­vertantly reducing the concept of "motiva­tion through contribution" to an immature and unrealistic ideal. In two other situations, however, the above mentioned reducto ad absurdum would not be applicable. Contri­bution was clearly evident in the concern 
, expressed and in the efforts exercised for the 
·· victim of the keg-throwing contest last spring and the victim of the auto accident this fall. Not all situations lend themselves to true contribution, but we should capitalize on the ones that do. To express with conviction "I have some­thing to contribute to the University," lends spirit to a place unquestionably adorned with tradition: from the paternalistic conso­lation and instruction of Knute Rockne to the solemn address given by Franklin D. Roosevelt to commemorate the opening of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse in 1938. At that 

time, the privilege and opportunity of con­tribution fueled the emotions of a society immersed in a depression and subse­quently, a second world war. Decades later, the elations for the Irish remained vibrant as the nation initiated the turbulent 1960s with the inauguration of John F. Kennedy. His inaugural address, modified for reference, captures the motivation for · Our Lady: The world is very different now. And yet the same beliefs which were held by those before us are still valid -the belief that the opportunities of moving forward come not from good fortune but from the 
Hand ofGod. 
Let us not forget that we are the heirs of what those before us hadfoughtfor. Let the word go forth from this time and place, to friend andfoe alike, that possibilities have been presented to more mature individuals -born in the latter half ofthis century, tem­pered by collegiate experiences, disci­plined by hard and bitter episodes, each of us proud ofour heritage -and unwilling to permit the slow undoing of what we have strived for. 
AsknotwhatNotreDamecandoforyou, 
but what you can do for Notre Dame. 
In 100 years of"shaking down the thun­der," the same principle has remined para­mount: contribution. Perhaps the answer to the question of, "Why are you at Notre Dame?" will no longer be, "I don't know." Maybe now it can be, "I have something to contribute to the University." This is what it means to be a Notre Dame student...to be a "Domer." Ill 
38 

Editorial 

Publish or perish: A necessary evil 
Junior faculty lead stress-filled lives, but the stress is unavoidable -and is indeed necessary ifNotre Dame has aspirations to become a top-flight university. Some may describe the process as "Russian roulette," but it remains clear that the vast majority of people up for tenure after 6 years at the university do receive it. The department chairmen all say that they have no one who is not tenure­able, it is just a matter of the faculty member's living up to expectations. That sounds reasonable, as does the administration's refusal to make a university­wide "checklist" for promotion decisions. The best we can do is ask the chairmen is frankness concerning what is necessary for promotion within their departments. And, if the standards change, or will be changing, they should tell their assistant professors. But junior faculty should use their common sense. If the conventional wisdom in some department is that thirty-seven and a half published articles is the minimal requirement for the granting of tenure, don't stop at number thirty-eight Do more. And then, do play the games. Recognize that politics are involved. Don't let "them" find excuses not to rehire you. All this stuff seems obvious; if lowly students can figure it out, it shouldn't be hard for those of you with advanced degrees.to fathom. Students, be aware of the pressures your professors are under. And if one particularly inspires you, do write a leLLer and tell the department. Research is easier for those in the ivory tower to judge than quality of teaching, so if you get a genuine teacher among the researchers, let his or her boss know that there's a live one out there. A good blend of teaching and research goes into the making of a college professor; only through communication and common sense on all levels can we be sure that Notre Dame is progressing in its goal to improve its reputation as a research institution without losing those who can most help students. 
-Scholastic 
39
---l • • -­

Ernie Pook's Comeek 

I ! 
I II
I: 
I 

1to's Geo llG e? : -==--:::::...
·--------­
P;r-i;;·iE"' =­
}h-..o!i/!JI 
~rA~E 
0 

.. ... . -.... 
SO THEN MA'Jf,oN~E SfA/lTS 
SCR.f.A.Ml"/b ''MOM! MO/II! II AND NiAP..L.!JS OPr:NS TI{E AND YELLS OVT ,,·My N/\/11€ 
,ANO I CoNTROL THE W0ltL.D OH MY VTE~l4S -'" AND HAPPENED AFTEfl Tl-\Ai THING MIJ /WNT SAID WHeN SHE CAME 1l\E ~M WM 'Foll ME ll) Go HOME. 
' 
40 
Scholastic 
~ ~ ~ ~
~-· -"' . . ­
--~---------_..::: ,---~-~-~-=:...:_:_..:..=...._· __ ,,-__-.,_ ~-= -~-:' --""' ,-'cC .... ,-•.'~-~-~--;,,, ~ ... ••,,, -:, .• 0 ~-A;-;:." • ..., 

IS TV THE. COOLEST INVE.tJTION E.VE.R ~NVENiE,t:,'? )~~ou[)  
11' A1..1..0ulS SE.-JE.R.AL PeOPLE. l.l)HO l:IAT'e 6AC.~ CTTHEliS GUTS 1'0 SIT f)EACE.'\:UI..\..'? T~ IN "THE. SAMe l:l0ON\ /ll/n--,,,..,,.,, FoQ.. ':IE.ARS ON e...io wl'THovT Mi.Hl..O\:Jt1N6 E.AC.t\ 0-tl-\E.Q..  
EDUU\T\ONA T~  

0 0 
&e.TT1.JG SIC.I:. o,.ic, WATCHINC, OA',TIN\E. 1'V w11..1.. 01-11..!::I M.6.1<:E ':::lOU SIC.l<l::.Q.. 
Ct+PrPi-fR 5 jOUR PAL t\-\E.. TV SET 
How Ct..OSE. SHOUL.O .You SIT To TH~ lV? 
AS CLOSE. A$ ~Ou CAN 6E.T. ( RE.s,1.lG !:)O<JR. E ,e.BAU.S o..:i Tl4E.TY s~e~ t=<:>R. Plw\..O.X-,tO PER.1oos ~':I l1£Su1.,, ,., '>14•1~.) 
1s s1:rr0R.OA~-MoR11111JG 'TV PROOf= il-lP:r ADUt,TS HATE. C.H 11..DR.Er.l? 
T v.llST THE. DIALS 
UNTIL E.1/E.R.~Tl--!u.lG GETS f.\1..1.. WAVj ANO PE.OPt.S'S $\c:IN C.01..0R \S PUR.PLe. 
PRE.Tc.JO ':10U AR..E. oiJ M»RS. 
CD Tl)~N OOul >J '1'Hc'T\/ ,:WO \..IS.~ F'oR. Si~ i.JO\S'ES OU1'i10£. 
@ w~ <:,oo ~ A ST~E. NOISE,, TUQ..J o...) lll\..1.-"Ttl.~ \,.l(i)t\1'$ t..J ~E. 1-{0USE,, 
® 001-l'T 60 IN~ BASEM&rr. 
@) LIE. IN BEx:, Aultlt::e AU. i.llGITT. 
\ S THE.RE. At-1~'1'\'\\"1 E, A> ENGQ.0SS1rJG Ac; 'TV '? 
WHY IST\l'"T\4E. BE.S, P~L 0\: AL\.'? 

BULK RATE US POSTAGE 
PA ID 
Notre Dame. Indiana Permit No. IO 
Miriam Makeba and Hugh Masekela From Paul Simon's Graceland tour Come to Notre Dame Sunday Oct. 9, 8 p.m., Stepan Center Student tickets ONLY $4.00! 





