Make friends with WINSTON

» ..
R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
Enjoy finer filter smoking!
Switch to WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
LIKE A
CIGARETTE
WINSTON
SHOULD'
TASTES GOOD'
K I “ G
Find out how good filter smoking can be! Make your next pack Winston ’ You’ll like the flavor, because it’s full and rich-tasting. And just as important — you’ll like the exclusive Winston filter that lets the flavor come through for you to enjoy. Try Winston for finer filter smoking.
3

PROBLEM: To evaluate the all-round career
advantages offered by the ividely diversified
activities at Divisions of North American Aviation, Inc.
FIRST STEP: GET THE FACTS in man-to-man
interviews, on campus November 12
As a graduate in Engineering, Physics, Applied Math, or allied subjects you need complete, factual information to help you make a sound decision in choosingyour career. Get the facts in a
AUTONETICS
of his specialty in one week than in a year of “conventional” practice.
3 g
£
I
4 «
man-to-man interview with our representative. Let him tell you about our unique placement and training devised to help your potential develop rapidly in a company where continued expansion has doubled the number of employees in 5 years. Your possibilities are wide and varied, as you will see from these brief notes on the 4 Divisions:
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL is pioneering in the creative use of the atom. If you are able to meet the high requirements for this work, you can help introduce a new industrial era. Atomics International is designing and building varied types of nuclear reactors, for both power and research, with the practical experience gained by 10 years in the field.
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING
Long range missiles, including the intercontinental SM-64 Navaho, present problems of the


ft &
&
&
&
AUTONETICS creates automatic controls and electro-mechanical systems of a highly interesting nature. Work includes research, design, development, manufacture and testing; you will become a part of the latest advances in inertial navigation and guidance, fire and flight controls, analog and digital computers.
ATOMICS INTERNATIONAL
most fascinating nature. Speeds, ‘ materials and functions now being dealt with were only theoretical a few years ago. The work is vital; the opportunities for you, as a creative
engineer, are correspondingly great.
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY
ROCKETDYNE
ROCKETDYNE is building power for outer space—large,
liquid propellant rocket engines. The Field Test Laboratory in the Santa Susana Mountains is the most complete rocket engine workshop in the free world. Here a man meets more aspects
Make an appointment American Representative on campus. OR WRITE: Mr. J. Kimbark, College Relations Representative, Dept. 991-20, North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif.
NOW to see North
MISSILE DEVELOPMENT






Si


&
NORTH AMERICAN
AVIATION, INC.


November 2, 1956
3
YOU CAN TELL BY HER EYES
WHEN YOU WALK IN THE ROOM
Yes, you con check your appearance by the look in her eyes. When you’re well-groomed women and men, too, admire your good taste and good judgment. The well-dressed man always puts his best foot forward ... socially, in the business world on the campus.
DRESS RIGHT
You can't afford not to!
The Scholastic
BUY WHAT YOU NEED NOW . . .
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
The Campus Shop is filled with the newest Ivy League fashions in suits, sport coats, shirts, neckwear, slacks . . whatever you need is here! Get what you want, when you need it, and use your Campus Shop Charge Account. Pay one-third in February, one-third in March, and one-third in April. Naturally, there’s no carrying charge to pay. So come in today and ...
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can’t afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame
November 2, 1956
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 98 November 2, 1956. No. 6
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
ONLY EDGEWORTH IS CUT THIS WAY TO SMOKE
81010 DEGREES COOLER
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
Do you want cooler smoking too? Then do as smart smokers everywhere have done—switch to Edgeworth and prove the difference with your first wonderful pipeful. No other tobacco can duplicate the Edgeworth cut, because it’s actually “ready-rubbed” by an exclusive process. See in the picture what a difference this makes. Edgeworth’s even-sized chunks (Picture C) burn slow and cool, with never a touch of tongue bite.
EDGEWORTH’S SPECIAL BURLEYS
experts agree that white burley is best of all for pipes. But Edgeworth looks for a certain type of white burley, grown on well-drained land on sunny hillsides, just like fine wine grapes or fine coffee. Then these special burleys are aged for years before blending. This is another reason Edgeworth smokes cooler—8 to 10 degrees cooler by actual test.
EDGEWORTH’S EXCLUSIVE wraparound pouch is heat-sealed. Moisture can’t get in—freshness can't get out.
No one in over 50years has ever equalled Edgeworth’s way with tobaccos. Tobacco
MADE BY LARUS & BROTHER CO., INC. RICHMOND, VIRGINIA
EDGEWORTH
AMERICAS FINEST
PIPE TOBACCO... CANADA'S FINEST TOO!
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER .........News Editor^
JAMES McDonald ..........Copy Editor
DAVID KUBAL ..........Feature Co-Editor JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS.......Assistant News
JIM DULAN ........... Assistant	News
JOE HEIMOSKI..........Assistant News
BOB VONDRASEK..........Assistant News	1
HARRY McKEE.................Assistant	Cop^.	I
MARSH PIDGEON.........Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr. HARRY CONLON............Business Mgr.	>
JOHN GLAVIN............Sports Editor
BOB EARLY...........Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK.....Assistant Sports	'
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for nationalp advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.it 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
INVENTORY
View ............. ..........
S 1
Escape .......................     9	-
Campus Scene......................11
Features ......................... 14
Irish Scene .................... 25
Time Out......................... 28
Movies ......................... 30
Back Page ...................... 3^
6
The Scholastic
Viout
complicated man
Two weeks ago I was afforded the opportunity to interview Vice-President Richard M. Nixon at Cor-
• nell University in Ithaca, N. Y. Forty-two college editors had been invited to appear on a nation-wide television hookup with the Vice-President to match wits with him in an actual press conference.
The questions were not rehearsed beforehand. The Vice! President was not briefed as to the content of the editors’ ' J^lquestions. He answered everything in an almost uncanny method. The queries ranged from citizens’ rights under the Fifth Amendment to Nixon’s opinion on Sens. Jenner and McCarthy.
Mr. Nixon is a brilliant speaker. Possibly in another 20 years he will rank as one of the greatest in our history. But his oratorical talents are not the only facets of his personality ; which intrigued the college press.
1 Like any successful politician, Mr. Nixon has a fluent
: delivery. However, there is one thing in particular which I found of great interest while I watched the Vice-President ^glibly parry the efforts of the student editors.
/ When answering the question Mr. Nixon has that rare , faculty of being able to talk around the question while at the same time conveying the impression that he is actually replying directly to the questioner.
On a campaign tour such as Mr. Nixon was conducting in the Cornell area, one might expect the professional reporters covering the Vice-President to have an insight into 1 his personality and philosophy.
But I found this not so. Not one of the newsmen I spoke ^>>^vith was willing or able to make an objective analysis as to ' what Nixon really was like. Many said he was an extremely complicated individual and left it at that. A few were bit-1 terly opposed to his political beliefs, and, consequently stated I that insincerity was his dominant feature.
; This factor of insincerity was not confined to the profes-i sional news reporters alone. After the telecast a number of the student editors stated that no matter how the VicePresident acted or what he said, he impressed them as being insincere. However, it is significant that not one of them ^ould state exactly why they were so affected. He was f friendly, mentally amazing, they said, but something about his manner just didn’t seem real.
I myself was unable to make a definite judgment as to the Vice-President’s sincerity. However, I cannot condemn Mr. Nixon because some feel, yet are not able to explain, this factor of insincerity. Rather I find myself in the same boat as the professional reporters.
The Vice-President is indeed a very complicated individual.—C. McK.
nationalism erupts
The recent upheavals in Poland and Hungary are strong indications that the Soviet octopus is losing its grip on the countries it swallowed up following World War II. The very fact that these open rebellions could take place and manage to continue for even a short time lavs bare fundamental weaknesses in the Russian plan.
The Russians must have thought it a very- simple maneuver to swarm down on those helpless, war stricken nations after Germany’s defeat and force them into their “satellite” system. And indeed, the first part of the plan involved little difficulty. Welcoming the Russians as liberators, the Poles and the Hungarians and the Czechs and the rest of those ravaged peoples found quickly that there was only to be a change of tyrants. But as the Russians had foreseen, no resistance was possible.
So the Soviets tightened their grip, installing their puppet governments and building up armies and terrorist police forces to keep those peoples in check. Since the War, with the exception of Tito’s successful attempt to break with Moscow and have Yugoslavia for himself, that iron grip has held firm. And chiefly responsible for its strength was the terrorism of the Stalin regime.
On the surface, the Soviet maneuver seemed to be operating smoothly. But underneath, in regard to the second part of the plan, the indoctrination and incorporation of those captive nations into the Soviet system, the plan has never seen much success. And here it is that the fundamental weakness of the idea becomes evident.
For the Russians have never been able to break the spirit of nationalism in the nations they control by force. They have failed to overcome the pride and the patriotism that, stem from the cultures of these peoples. The Poles and the Hungarians have resisted the Soviet system culturally from the beginning of the occupation. They are intensely proud of their ways of life and will never accept any distortion of it to fit the Russian plan.
And fundamental in their ways of life is religion. The Poles are 90% Roman Catholic and are militantly devout. Catholicism is an integral part of Polish life and culture. Hungarians are 70% Catholic. Both Catholics and Protestants in Hungary have always been intensely devout. The Russian attempt to crush religion in these countries through the banishment of cardinals and other religious leaders has only infuriated the Poles and Hungarians and has confirmed their determination to throw off the Soviet yoke.
The purging of the dead Stalin and the departure from his terrorist methods has been an attempt by the Russian leaders to pacify these peoples and win them over to the Soviet communist idealogy. But it is now evident that the iron hand cannot be lifted without all that pent-up bitterness and hatred of Russian domination erupting. The spirit of nationalism in Poland and Hungary can never be crushed. The Russians are now faced with the problem of whether it can again be controlled.—J. N.
November 2, 1956
SHOCKED SENIOR	;
Editor:
At the Oklahoma game last Saturday, the student body of Notre Dame exhibited to the world one of the most shocking displays of student spirit I® have seen here in four years. An out- \ played and outmanned but Fighting Irish team was sadly let down by the student body.
In the Ivy League schools, students go to the games for diversion, not to back their team. It appeared that this general attitude prevailed in the Notre Dame stands, commencing shortly after the opening kickoff. In front of me, in ® the senior section, the social lions and self-styled big men on campus had a tete-a-tete, showing more interest in a bag of popcorn and the Saint Mary’s section (which they were observing through field glasses) than in the game on the field.
It seems we have here at Notre Dame quite a few of the “rank and file” college men, the state school type, who are pointing with pride to their school when®, we are winning, and would prefer to T| forget about it while we’re losing. Because of this attitude, they take little away from the University, and contribute even less to it. They take too lightly, or completely forget, the responsibilities which accompany the honor of being a Notre Dame man. A true Notre Dame man does more than just attend classes here; he is part of Notre — Dame, making the old traditions of^«£ Rockne and the Gipp live. He has ■ certain duties, one of them being to help the team in his own way by a fierce loyalty, win, lose or draw. Such was certainly not the case Saturday afternoon.
No Notre Dame man can be ashamed ■ because of our loss to Oklahoma Satur- : day, or to Michigan State the previous week, or to Purdue or Southern Metho-® g dist. We can be justly proud of our m team whether in defeat or victory. But ' when our own student body becomes the । fair-weather friend, loyal in victory and | forgetful in defeat, then Notre Dame i will be shamed and the Victory March
(Continued on page 34)
126 N. Michigan, South Bend CE 2-1202
8
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
ON THE COVER: Walt Kelly’s fabled^J character from the Okeefenokee y Swamp, Pogo, comes to the pages of the SCHOLASTIC through the courtesy of Walt Kelly and the efforts of Bob Colaizzi who adapted the material for our use. The strips reproduced in this issue are taken from “The Pogo Party,” Kelly's latest tale of Pogo’s cam-® paign.
The Scholastic
^by Bryan Woods
under the dome: in film
UNDER THE GOLD ON THE DOME
The story of a clean-cut, red blooded ■ American teenager who makes good at college. Starring Rock Susquehanna and a cast of thousands. (Originally James Dean was to have the lead, but unfortunately . . .) Produced in glorious Nothingoramic Siestavision with Stereophonic sound and smells (for that real dining hall atmosphere that we know and love so well). Script by Alfred E. Neuman from a book by ^’Miguel Cervantes. A Frank Skellington, Ltd., production.
The picture opens with our hero (Rock Susquehanna) descending from the South Shore and being greeted by the mayor and prominent members of Faculty and Administration. He is driven out Notre Dame Ave. preceeded by a police escort. He is deposited with due ceremony on the steps of Zombie .^Hall which we learn is to be his home under the Dome for the next year.
The next scene introduces the guys whom our hero is going to grow to know and love for the next four years. There is Joe, son of a coal miner; Percy, whose father is a billionaire and who wants to know if he can have a cot for his valet in his room, and Tex. (Every .movie has to have a Tex, doesn’t it?) J^There is even a dastardly villain who walks out in the middle of “Knute Rockne, All-American,” thus showing his true colors.
The next hour of the picture is devoted to showing our hero living the life of a typical student, dating a typical St. Mary’s girl (Gina Lolla-^brigida), attending typical classes taught by typical profs, (Walter Pid
geon, Spencer Tracy, Humphrey Bogart) receiving sage advice from a typical janitor, (Pat O’Brien) and even engaging in typical high-spirited horseplay in the halls after lights, so typical of red-blooded teenage college boys.
All goes well until the spring of his junior year. In a moment of weakness, not fully realizing the terrible significance of his actions he uses the front stairs of the Main Building. He is seen and recognized. Word spreads like wildfire. Even his best friends ignore him. His sweetheart (still Gina) won’t even admit she knows him. He goes home for the summer hoping all will be forgotten, but next fall it is worse than ever. He is heartbroken. How can he show the guys he really is a true blue Domer? What to do? Enter his old pal, typical janitor, Pat O’Brien. Pat advises that he throw himself on the mercy of the students and plead for forgiveness.
The following Friday at the pep rally, he begs the master of ceremonies to let him speak. His appearance is greeted with hisses and boos. Finally they let him speak. With tears streaming down his face he admits his error and begs for one more chance. With a great roar the students signify their approval and afterwards our hero is mobbed by his former buddies. They carry him on their shoulders over to the Student Center for a tearful reunion with his true love (yes, it’s still Gina.) The next day the team, fired by his example, scores a smashing win over Bub Wilkerstone and his Okefenokee Schooners. Our hero’s cup is full. The team has won and he is once more “One of the Domers.”
The End
THE OLD METAPHYSICIAN
What’s that you say, bub? The par-lay cards looked so easy last week that you bet 20 and now you can’t afford train fare to Michigan City, much less Pittsburgh; and your room-mate donated your new overcoat for use in the hall decorations; and you ended up getting §5 for your foui- Oklahoma tickets; and you need all your credits to graduate in June and you just F.A.’d your second subject; and your best girl just invited the guy next door home for Thanksgiving, and when you asked for your miniature back she said she lost it? Is that what’s troublin’ you bub? Well say, that’s a shame, isn’t it? But why bother me, I’ve got my own troubles.
GUESS WHO DEPARTMENT
What campus marine, presently residing on third floor Alumni, was recently found at four in the morning hiking through the shallow waters of St. Mary’s lake with his locker strapped to his back?
IN ANSWER TO REQUESTS
To the many who have requested that I print their names too. Fellows, send in a dime and a stamped return envelope. I won’t print your name, but I will send you a map of the campus to help you to find youi- way to the bookstore where you can purchase a Student Directory. Not only will you find your name in there in real live PRINT, but also those of all your friends. And you can get extra copies to send home to mom, dad, and all the gang.
November 2, 1956
9
10
The Scholastic

Seem
MR. AND MRS. LAFORTUNE
Student Center’s benefactors
LaFortunes' Gift Aids Remodeling of Center
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. LaFortune last Friday evening fulfilled their promise of last spring to assist in financing Mthe remodeling of the annex to the La-( Fortune Student Center.
On Friday evening, Mr. and Mrs. LaFortune handed Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, a certificate for 1000 shares of Gulf Oil stock. The stock sold on the market that day for §112 a share, which means the gift represents a donation of at least §112,000.
The LaFortunes were impressed by ' the fact that the students of Notre Dame had raised $17,000 towards completing the annex through profits from the 1956 Mardi Gras and by the promise of Emmett Malloy, chairman of the 1957 Mardi Gras, to do as well or better this year.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, introduced ^tMr. and Mrs. LaFortune at the Sopho-' more Cotillion and announced the gift to the Notre Dame students.
This latest gift to the University brings the total contributions 'by the LaFortunes to $300,000. In receiving the gift from the two benefactors, Father Norton expressed the hope that ^the renovation of the annex would be completed by Christmas.
PROF. KERTESZ CONDEMNS RED ACTIONS IN HUNGARY
Former Diplomat Urges Session of Security Council 'To Support Fundamental Freedoms, Civil Liberties'
The armed intervention of the Red Anny in Hungary warrants an urgent session of the United Nations Security Council, a former Hungarian diplomat, now teaching at Notre Dame, declared here last week.
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, chairman of Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations and onetime Hungarian minister to Italy, asserted that this “clear-cut violation of the peace treaty should be brought before the Security Council by the United States and Great Britain.” This is the least the western powers can do, Kertesz said, “to support fundamental freedoms and civil liberties against the ruthless intervention of a foreign power.” Both the peace treaty and the U.N. charter provide a basis for such western action, he said.
Kertesz is the editor of a timely new book, The Fate of East Central Europe: Hopes and Failures of American Foreign Policy, published recently by the Notre Dame Press. Fourteen other political scientists and Rep. Alvin M. Bentley of Michigan are contributors to the volume which traces U.S. policy toward Poland, Hungary, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Bulgaria, Albania, Finland, Austria, Yugoslavia, and the Baltic states.
“The present riots in East Central
PITTSBURGH STORY
In next Friday’s issue of the SCHOLASTIC, a guide to the student trip city will be featured. The article will include a rundown of restaurants, night spots, and other points of interest in the Smoky City. The issue will be delivered shortly after noon so that those making the trip will be able to use the story as a guide for the weekend.
Europe, especially in Poland and Hungary, are symptoms which demonstrate the deep anti-Russian and anti-Communist feelings of the population,” Prof. Kertesz asserted. He said that the almost one-hundred-million people who live in this strategic area “belong by history, tradition and way of life to the western world.”
According to Prof. Kertesz, the communization of East Central Europe has . been resisted by “the Catholic and Protestant churches with their centuries-old roots in the west, the peasantry with its enduring will and capacity for independence and survival, and the proud nationalism of the captive peoples.” •
“Despite ruthless Soviet policies,” Kertesz said, “results of bolshevization have so far been limited and superficial. One cannot change the spirit of nations overnight,” he said.
DR. STEPHEN KERTESZ
Urges U.N. action
November 2, 1956
11
THE NIXONS
. . . A smile and a handshake . . .
Nixon Speaks Here on Foreign Relations; 'Actions, Not Words,' Says Vice-President
Vice-president Richard M. Nixon, shaking in the Drill Hall last week, asserted before 2,400 Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College students, that “the kind of people we are is even more important than what we say” in the struggle for peace.
His speech was part of a six-hour visit
Debaters Visit Campus For Midwest Tourney
Debate teams from throughout the midwest are visiting Notre Dame today and tomorrow for the regional tournament of the Tau Kappa Alpha National Debate society. The tournament is based on discussion rather than debate. The problem under discussion is “Should the United States discontinue direct economic aid to foreign nations?”
Today, the representatives, including 24 Notre Dame students, are working in discussion groups at the Student Center. Tomorrow morning, a mock congress will be staged by the conference participants. Certificates and plaques will be awarded to those outstanding in the discussions.
Next weekend Jack Martzell, Paul Coffey, Pat Curran, and Robert Dempsey will participate in the annual University of South Carolina tourney in Columbia. They will enter contests in debating, extemporaneous and impromptu speaking.
12
by Nixon to Notre Dame and South Bend, midway in a campaign swing through Michigan and Illinois.
Urging them to “strike down prejudices,” Nixon told the students that “all the laws in the world won’t buy recognition” for the dark-skinned races. It must, he said, “come from the hearts of our people. Remember, we must always hold this nation as a nation that practices what it preaches.”
Nixon-told the students that on trips he has made around the world he has disregarded warnings that he would lose face if he shook hands with persons of humble stations in life.
“I found,” he reported, “that a smile and a handshake got exactly the same response as they do in the United States.”
Nixon’s train had arrived at Union Station late in the afternoon from Niles, Mich., en route to Chicago.
Following his speech, Nixon received two or three minutes of enthusiastic applause from the audience. Waiting for the applause to subside after his 30-minute talk, Nixon brought his wife, Pat, to the front of the speaker’s platform. The clapping continued until Father Joyce moved forward to dismiss the meeting.
After speaking in the Drill Hall, Nixon walked to Cartier Field with Edward Krause, University athletic director, to watch the Notre Dame football team practice.
Student Panel Slates Honor System Study
“An Honor System—To Be or Not To Be,” will be the subject of a NSA —sponsored panel discussion to be held in the little theater of Moreau Hall at St. Mary’s College, on Wednesday, Nov. 14, at 7:30 p.m.	,
Four panelists, two from St. Mary’s ft and two from Notre Dame, will discuss ■; the pro and con issues of such a system. I Following the discussion, there will be I questions from the floor.	I
The purpose of this affair will be to I investigate student opinion concerning I the practical application of such a I system at both St. Mary’s and Notre I Dame. Both schools hope to begin some I sort of honor system next year, if the^ I idea is acceptable to both student bodies.* > I For this reason, all students are urged I to attend this discussion and to take an I active interest in the feasibility of such I a program.	I
Such a system would aim at instilling I a strong moral character in the in- I dividual students, both now and in later I life. It would greatly affect the whole I lives of the students on both campuses. I According to Bob Kiley, NSA regional^, I chairman, such a system would: “Definitely present a personal challenge to 1 each and every student, the outcome of I which will have a lasting effect on the I character formation which he will carry I with him throughout his life’s work.” I
Preceeding the discussion, Kiley will talk on the NSA, and its ideas of an honor system. Next he will briefly explain the various types of honor systems. Jerry Murphy will act as the panel^v. chairman. Discussion coordinator for yj St. Mary’s is Judy Hankes, and for ' Notre Dame, Tony Yurchak.	■
Annual Monogram Dance Set For North Carolina Weekend
Teamwork will be 'switched to the ; Drill Hall by the 70-man Monogram > Club on Nov. 17, from 8:30 p.m. to^W^ 11:30 p.m. in the annual Monogram y Club Dance.
Music will be provided by Ed Pistey’s ' band and comic reliefs by monogram clowns. The dance will be jointly sponsored by the Student Senate and the Monogram Club.
Joe Morelli, chairman of the dance, expects an 1100 couple crowd and has^. , set the price of bids at $1. “This wilk-be the last home dance of the ’56 foot- ’ ball season and coupled with the AB Ball crowd we feel confident that the dance will be a success,” Morelli said.
The Monogram Club will sell bids a week in advance in each hall. Tickets will 'also be sold on-Nov. 15 in the base- , ment of the Dining Hall.	f J
The Scholastic
4
General Ticket Sale Scheduled for Nov. 12-18
For University Theater's 'Death of Salesman'
Berrigan, Kent Win Moot Court Contest
General ticket sale for the University Theater’s production of Death of a Salesman, will begin Nov. 12 and continue daily through Nov. 18. All seats ,^are reserved.
’	" Tickets can be purchased from 3:30
1<’ to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 9 p.m. at the Washington Hall boxoffice. The admission price for students, faculty and personnel of the University, and St. Mary’s girls is $1 for orchestra seats and $.75 for the balcony.
The Arthur Miller play, the first theatrical production in the newly re-^decorated Washington Hall, will be pre-Z New Film to Portray
Lives of ND Students
Movie producers and cameramen arrived on campus recently to begin filming “The Notre Dame Story,” a halfhour production the University plans to distribute to television stations, Notre / ulame clubs, and other organizations ' throughout the country.
The film, in 16 millimeter color, is designed to bring a fresh view of the rapidly changing campus to Notre Dame’s friends and alumni, according to Rev. Thomas O’Donnell, C.S.C., vicepresident of the Notre Dame Foundation.
“It will also serve,” he said, “as a graphic introduction to the thousands / of friends, parents and prospective students who have not visited the campus.”
Present plans call for the film to be premiered at the 34th annual universal Notre Dame night next spring.
The movie is being produced by Owen Murphy Productions, Inc. of New York. Murphy, a 1915 graduate of Notre i Dame, is directing the early steps in ’ ^.he new film.
The movie will depict student life and f activities at Notre Dame, and will include pictures of residence halls, classes, athletic contests and social events.
Filming will continue at various intervals throughout the year in order to capture the different seasons and activities.
o	STAG NITE
Bob Byrnes' combo will provide ■; the mood of progressive jazz tonight for “Stag Nite" in the Rathskeller 1 of the LaFortune Student Center be-1 tween 7:30 and 9 p. m. Students • with dates are invited.	Refresh-
_ ments will be served. Admission ' V®will be $.25 per person at the door.
sented at 8:30 p.m. November 14 through Nov. 17. There will also be a Sunday afternoon matinee at 2:30 p.m., Nov. 18.
Death of a Salesman is the story of the last 24 hours in the life of an aging salesman who is the victim of his dreams, whose aspirations for himself and for his two sons are far from accordance with reality. The salesman’s illusions of grandeur and his credo that “personality wins the day” lead him to bitter disillusionment and mental unbalance.
In the University Theater’s production of this play, George O’Donnell will be seen in the role of the self-deluded salesman, Willy Loman. This role was created on the Broadway stage by Lee J. Cobb, and portrayed in the film version by Frederic March.
Phil Donahue and Dan Fenone will be seen as Loman’s sons, and Carol Ann Cruise will portray Mrs. Loman. Other lead roles have been assigned to Reg Bain, Paula Lawton, Bob Sasseen, Mike Sophy, and Mike Kennedy.
The preparations for the play are reaching their final stages under the direction of Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C.
Monday is the deadline for the purchase of season subscriptions for all three of the University Theater productions. Subscriptions cost $2 for balcony and $2.50 for orchestra seats. Although the subscription sale has been brisk, there are still seats remaining.
MOOT COURT HNAUSTS Kane, McLauglin, Berrigan, Kent
Patrick Berrigan, Lewiston, N. Y., and Wayne Kent, Evansville, Ind., both seniors in the Law School, won the Clarence E. Manion award in the seventh annual Moot Court competition held in the Engineering Auditorium Oct. 24. Next week they will travel to Chicago to represent Notre Dame in the regional eliminations.
On November 8, Berrigan and Kent will argue the respondent’s case in Chicago. The case to be argued involves a plea of insanity as a defense in a criminal prosecution.
In the second round, Kent will work the petitioner’s side with Lawrence Kane, Jr., Cincinnati, law senior who will alternate with Berrigan.
Scoring in the Notre Dame finals was based on an absolute scale of 100 points for each of the three categories: preparation of the brief, oral presentation, and answering questions. In addition to the Clarence E. Manion award, Berrigan and Kent each received cash prizes of $100 from the Notre Dame Law Association for their high point totals. The second-place team of Kane, and William McLaughlin of South Weymouth, Mass., received $50 awards.
Judges for the final round were the Hon. John M. Harlan, associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States; the Hon. Charles E. Whittaker, judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and the Hon. Charles J. McNamee, judge of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.
A November 2, 1956
13
POGO PARTY
From “The Pogo Party.” Copyright, 1956, by Walt Kelly. Repro-	.
duced by courtesy of the author. Simon and Schuster, publisher.
14
The Scholastic-

WKMIObOP
NORTH AAKOTA.
.	----*----*< x KIN SOUTg THE
> BY 0EOB6E y. WEU6 .' ROOO \ MAIL 6OOP A6 '	601TA REMEMBER MOV FRIEN0E AW9QW’" ASK
WHEN IT COME 10 CABINET POSTS J ME WHAT'S THE POSTMASTERS	-------------
UKtAfM&Kf I REPLIES'.
★t/MCOLN, NtWBIMSKA!* eiSHroN-rug
TELL.
WO help him ^oodjnwrour^y-\MORE0y not candidate al I EEiN' HEGE, homef^mheve to help him K
1 THUNK OP must all join \ helpin' him ^Gfce$^gadt )AKes VW ite candidate.{PlU, PSACOH fldphim!
Indeed! ^9yBElN'$ECESlAl^^X/^rc01ih, opJS&H'I \0f$WTE^2HlM0E\7tlxwihiof beinq2^U.I J '	THUNK OF]
------	1	ITMAr.W.
oorng attend
November 2, 1956
15
16
The Scholastic
I£00,MO,JN A ELECTION
W^fS«5^^5<l^NGAG|, flA0y«Pl00&£
NOU GA<0»7Ar/"NOIU POPULATIOM 1 -- PI0UREGGMOU/1UAT CHURCHY
wmai
WW?
I punnoasmou ought ro IGNORE1UG HERE p©H M& AM' $EMU»tf GAMWK Of cuuaw MOWIN' HOW A specific GAMI# UNrr OfyO public ig thinkn' £ASnfiP"'
IGA MERE UNPfCILHOMTH Of THE VOTING POTENTIAL Of THE country countin' tuetleg, Cwwcm CHURCHY IE ONE OF), POGG	_
chicle AN'BAB* efOBRG,^ M9F NWB20UG GEGMEMf.

BUGG AIN’T u^uAuuy resibterep voterg.
^gggaPgMPMWrvgrg, AN'I SBPUEG^OfMM
BJGlBte- WOU&OT 21 epioS&A 'l&QQa EACH •WgY SHGAMF \DTE-AN' vor» apa bloc ‘non
IGWlTE NONEOFMX aWlNEW BUT WHATG YOU P0IH-?
YOU'CE KIGHT-V WEteE, RUN ALONG, WHY T TALLIN PON'TYOU?-W6'RE 'ABOUT HOW
I TO SIT YOU BUByMEN/ ELECTED.
ACTUAL If you
(BOTAGOOPPO6ON J YOUCGiPE rfe DUE * BELONSlNGTOAfiCOP MOSE-ALLCANPinATEG
GHOULP HAVE OOGS WITH THEM
November 2, 1956
17
The Democratic Party And The College Man
by PAUL M. BUTLER
Chairman Democratic National Committee
Both political parties are making an unprecedented effort in this Presidential campaign to recruit young voters. Governor Adlai Stevenson, the Democratic candidate, is spelling out the details of the “New America” which he believes can be built for the benefit of the coming generation. The Republicans have shown theii- interest in young voters by adopting the slogan, “Party of the Future.”
It seems to me that before a young American decides between the two— before he picks the party to which he will attach his loyalty and devote his energies, he should consider two questions:
If he is interested in participating in politics, he should ask himself which party offers him the best chance to do something in public life.
And, if he is interested in politics not as a participant, but as a responsible citizen and voter, he should ask himself which party offers himself, his family, and his community the best opportunity for a better life in the years to come.
REAL SOCIAL PROGRESS
I believe that the Democratic Party provides the best answer to both questions. Of course, I am prejudiced. I have worked in Democratic politics in South Bend and Indiana since my graduation from Notre Dame. I lived through the 20 years of real social progress under Democratic Administrations. I believe that past performance is the best basis on which to judge what may be expected of a political party in the future. The record of the Democratic Party in its 164 years of existence established it as the party more completely serving the general public interest.
The Democratic Party, historically, 18
has been the party of the people—open to all citizens of the Republic. Formed in revolt against the aristocratic practices of the early Federalists, it has led the movement toward voting rights and political participation for all. From
PAUL M. BUTLER
Demo Chief
Andrew Jackson to Al Smith to Harry S. Truman, it has repeatedly drawn its leadership from the humblest levels of society. And it was the party which gave successive groups of immigrants their first opportunity for political leadership.
The Republican Party, on the other hand, has drawn its leadership primarily from the ranks of the well-to-do. This is evident in the make-up of President Eisenhower’s Cabinet. But the Democratic Party has diversified its leadership. While Republicans seek
their financial contributions primarily from big business (and thereby become indebted to it), the Democrats are financed (although not so lavishly) by the small contributions of many citizens.
YOUNG LEADERS	£
More and more, the Democratic Party \ has been drawing its leadership from ' among the young, vigorous leaders of political affairs in the nation. The two youngest Congressmen, six of the seven youngest Senators, and the youngest state legislators in thirty-five states are all Democrats. Those of you who saw the two national conventions this summer must have been impressed by the contrast between the youthful leadership of the Democratic Party and the older leadership of the Rebublicans.
But in the Republican Party, the only younger man of leadership rank is the Vice President, Richard Nixon, who, in my opinion, can hardly be considered a credit to youth in politics because of the way he has consistently abandoned prin- i ciple in favor of partisanship and politi- _ 1 cal advancement.
Just a few days ago, the New York wj Times reported highly placed Republican ( leaders as saying, in regard to their < chances for victory in the coming elec- ' tion, “Only Ike can save us.” When a party is so 'bereft of leadership that it must put all its electoral hopes on a man 66 years old it can hardly lay claim to be the “party of the future.” Were $ I a young American, I would look twice before casting my lot with a party that had made so little room for the abilities of young men.
When America wants to stand still, it usually turns to the Republican Party, for the Republicans are the party of standstill government. The conservative elements that dominate the Re- *
The Scholastic I
^publican Party like the status quo. They have translated their tastes into political theory by assigning a relatively weak role in government to the Presidency, the office on which a modern day America must depend for leadership in all major fields. But when Americans want to move forward and improve existing • conditions they have invariably turned
^to the Democratic Party.
RICHEST COUNTRY
I think most Americans will agree with me that today is a time to get things done. No thinking young person will go along with the Republican campaign theme: that all is as well as it could be in America. In this wonder • age, in this richest country in the world, J <^we need not have the slums, the chronic }' unemployment and the pockets of pov-5 erty that now exist. Our system of medical care does not have to be such that a family of average income is bankrupted if hit by heavy illness. We need not be lagging behind the Russians as we are in the building of defenses and the training of technicians. We need not have such overworked, underpaid teachers, or a third of our children •going to school in buildings classed as firetraps. Our farm program does not have to be so heartless that it causes farm income to drop while the income of most of the othei' people in the country goes up. America is too rich a nation for these things to be going on, and they would not be going on if we had a government that cared enough about people to do something about them.
Instead of trying to develop our ^natural resources for the fullest use of { all the people, the Eisenhower Administration has stunted power development, and in some cases actually given public resources away to private interests.
The increase in membership in our unions has come to a halt, under the constraints of certain sections of the Taft-
Hartley law.
| The increase in the number of new ’.''"businesses entering our free competitive ? enterprise system has been drastically j cut, due to the Administration’s bias ‘ toward big business at the expense of । small business. You may be interested
to know that if you are intending to go
I,® has only a
:	into 4 business for yourself upon gradua-
tion from college, the Department of ! Commerce predicts that your business 50 percent chance of lasting ■f two years, and only a 20 percent chance of surviving for ten years.
J And the cause of equal rights for all | Americans regardless of color, a cause which might have made remarkable i gains after the Supreme Court’s decision 4 to outlaw segregation, has been set back ^^ure the President of the , - United States to endorse that decision
and to use the prestige of his office to call together leaders on both sides to discuss ways and means of carrying it out.
These are just some of the effects of the national standstill that has taken place at home under the Republican Administration.
In summary, then, the issues of the current campaign are just contemporary aspects of the traditional differences between the Republican and Democratic parties. A young American citizen, deciding either a preference for this election or a party affiliation for the years to come, can best make up his mind by asking himself these questions:
Does the coming generation of Americans want to grow up in a country that is fulfilling its economic potential in a way that gives the maximum of good life to all its citizens? Or will it be content with the economy that has been stunted by lack of development and the forays of special privilege?
And does the coming generation of Americans wish to entrust its hopes for world peace, with all 'that means to themselves, their family and their future, to just one man who rejects new approaches to unsolved problems? Or will it put the hopes for peace in a kind of foreign policy which takes a long, hard look at the realities of the world situation, and then devises policies to fit the need?	.
If young Americans will ask themselves those questions, and above all fulfill their responsibilities as citizens by informing themselves on the issues, then
FINNEGAN, STEVENSON, AND BUTLER Plan program for ousting of lke.-;.-h
AVE AND ADLAI
All’s well that ends well.
I believe that they will cast their lot with the Democratic Party.
In the words of Franklin Roosevelt, “America will find that your fight against selfishness and injustice against oppression, and, above all, against war, will take you into a man-sized straggle. I am telling you this not to discourage you but to stimulate you. Our fight— yours and mine—is to keep democracy safe by keeping it moving.forward.-; - In such a fight, it is an unhappy place to be on the sidelines. - x - -
To the young people of America, I say: “Join with us: ours is the real straggle to continue and preserve democracy in America.”	-
November 2, 1956
a
19
The Republican Party And The College Man
by LEONARD W. HALL^
Chairman Republican National Committee
Our President stated in his acceptance speech in San Francisco this August that the Republican Party is the Party of the future. This is true for two reasons. It offers young Americans the best opportunity to participate fully and responsibly in the political processes of our great democracy, and its principles and policies offer the best stimulus for young people looking ahead to a promising future. This is realized by young voters according to the most recent public polls which show college voters and others in the age group of 21 through 29 supporting President Eisenhower over his opposition.
Why does the Rupublican Party offer the best opportunity to participate fully and responsibly in the political processes of our great democracy? Because it has officially extended such an invitation. In September of 1955 every Republican Chairman signed a pledge in which he
agreed to bring in a person from the ages of 21 through 29 to be an assistant to the Rebublican leadership from the precinct to the state level.
This was not a meaningless gesture on their part because good progress has been made with the Precinct Assistants Plan in many of the states. In addition, necessary reaffirming decisions to carry out the program have been made in about one-half of the states. For a new idea in politics this one has made remarkable progress.
Since 1952 the state leadership of the Republican Party has changed hands in over half of the states. One-fourth of the State Chairmen are under the age of forty. Within the past year two persons who had been serving as Young Republican State Chairmen have become the Republican State Chairmen.
In every state the Young Republicans have an organization at work training future leaders and assisting the Party organization. Under the Young Republican National Federation a college organization flourishes throughout the nation, and students are constantly encouraged to direct their talents toward political responsibilities.
A national leadership training program for young potential leaders was established in Washington, the first session of which was held in January . of 1956 and the second in June, 1956. Therefore, by virtue of their unique political training, many Young Republicans are being called on to provide. leadership and give the necessary political answers in their communities.
The Young Republican National
Federation is working vigorously in every phase of our political life, and in its program there is room for every person between the age of 18 and 36 to work and add his bit to make democracy live. This is why I say the organization of the Republican Party is now geared to meet the ambitions and abilities of

HALL AND DEWEY
Behind Nixon all the way
20
The Scholastic
MESSRS. DEWEY, NIXON, HALL Conference before battle
young people who want to participate - actively in politics.
tv W The achievements and attitudes of this Republican Administration attract youth for many reasons. Space does not enable me to elaborate in great detail, but I do want to mention some of the things that cause the alliance of young people with the Republican Party.
NEW TAX POLICY
No group is more concerned about a i ^government which fosters ambition. £	" Some of you may recall the days when
’ you could only work half a summer be-J cause you’d otherwise earn more than *	$600 and thereby lose an exemption for
your parents. This is no longer- the - case. Now you can work all you want to and make as much money as you can to support yourself. So long as your parents still continue to contribute the a	major portion of your needs, they can
a -	claim you as an exemption. Most of
you young people want to support yourselves as fully and as early as you can, ’ and this tax policy furthers your am.	bitions.
! Take the field of agriculture. The opposition favors a policy which would leave us at a stalemate. The bill they tried to pass this year encouraged production, featuring the incentive of fixed price supports, while it discouraged proUr duction with the soil bank provision. » This would have achieved nothing. The President had the political courage to veto this bill, and finally a bill was passed which encourages reduced production of those crops now in great surplus and widens authority to dispose I of existing surpluses.
This is the only way to turn the trend toward a favorable free and open market , for the farmer, a market that will enable him to obtain his price on a free enterprise basis with a minimum of control. This has always been a basic and vital principle in America, and it is one we must recapture if the individual farmer or worker or businessman is to realize ^.-his full capacity by application of good old-fashioned American industry.
We hear much talk these days about the aid to education bill. The opposition never points out the differences between their bill and that of the Republican Administration.
We have always believed the federal government should take leadership where necessary on the basis of need, and we have consistently stressed that the state and local community should do all they possibly could to take care of their own affairs.
The opposition wanted a bill that would distribute funds according to school population, not need, and nothing was written into their proposal to guarantee maximum state and local participation. These are important fundamentals about which the opposition says nothing in their attacks.
American youth want a government in which they can place their confidence to plan for the future. This means a government whose philosophy is concerned with unleashing the full creativity and ambition of every American rather than one that falls back to centralized planning to provide all remedies.
The Republican philosophy centers on the dignity and value of every person. We can best provide for our own needs, and in the process we will contribute substantially toward providing better living conditions for our neighbors and all of oui- fellow mankind.
We believe that what makes a man little is to make government big and, as government grows bigger, men become
THEY LIKE IKE!
Pretty faces help draw the vote
smaller, until soon the government is all powei-ful and the man is insignificant.
Finally, every man can safely plan ahead with confidence when his government successfully promotes peace and prosperity at the same time. Until this Administration took over we had not experienced this kind of America for' two decades. Many people had begun to lose then- faith in the free enterprise system. The opposition’s record on wax- cannot much encourage us, and their candidate’s present course at best can only confound our hopes for a stable future.
WORLD RESPECTED LEADER
Who would think of exchanging a world respected leader and the greatest living authority on the pursuit of peace for a man yet untested in these matters? Furthermore, the opposition candidate’s call for-an end to major bomb tests and his inference that the end of the draft could be just around the corner only serve to weaken the progress we have made and the defense posture we now maintain. This and their record do not indicate that under the Democrats we could expect the kind of world stability out of which the confidence of American youth is bom.
Therefore, it is even more imperative^ because of the reasons stated, that every person in our country fully realize what the Republican Party offers the young American.
November 2, 1956
21
Are you gonna take that back?
A toast to us
SOPHOMORE
Photography By Jerrold Hliton
He said a profile!
22
The Scholastic
They're toasting with real coffee!

, dOTILLION
Let’s sit this one out!
November 2, 1956
Personal Interviews
ON CAMPUS
Tuesday, Nov. 6
Exceptional care is exercised to make certain that each new employee is assigned to the job
CONVAIR
for which he is best qualified, depending upon his interests and education.
FORT WORTH

A major project here is the B-58 long-range supersonic bomber. Convair is responsible for all systems development as well as the air-frame of this newest all-jet bomber. In addition, within the aircraft industry, Convair, Fort Worth, has a commanding lead in the field of
nuclear research development of craft.
and the design and nuclear powered air-
Convair has the greatest diversity of aircraft projects in the country — to offer you the unlimited career you seek.
College graduates are permitted to further their education at
DISCUSS THESE AREAS OF WORK —
• with engineers from our Engineering Department
either TCU or SMU at company expense, provided their grades are average or better. Personal recognition and advancement, based strictly on merit, provide an incentive for rapid professional growth. In short, it is a policy of long standing at CONVAIR-FORT WORTH to emphasize the importance of the individual.
The Convair engineering department is a real "engineers" engineering department — imaginative, energetic, explorative. You will discover top-notch engineering facilities, excellent working atmosphere, salary, personal job advantages, opportunities for continuing education.
For Personal Interview Appointment Consult Your Placement Office
CONVAIR
FORT WORTH
FORT WORTH, TEXAS
A Division of General Dynamics Corporation
24
The Scholastic
J>uik Scomo
ONE OF THE FOUR THEY STOLE
THOMAS UPENDED BUT TOO LATE
McDonald dropped after gain
Sooners Romp
ONE THE IRISH DID STOP
November 2, 1956
25
Brennanmen Journey to Baltimore Tomorrow For 29ft Meeting With Once-Beaten Middies
by PAT DeFOE
Tomorrow afternoon, the Fighting Irish will invade Baltimore’s Memorial Stadium for the second road game and sixth contest of the season of 1956. The opposition will be provided by the Naval Academy in the 29 th renewal of this yearly rivalry which has seen the Irish come out on top 24 times with one game ending in a 6 all tie. Notre Dame has won the last ten in a row including last year’s homecoming game which they won, 21-7.
The Middies thus far this year have a 4-1 record losing only to Tulane while the sophomore studded Irish have won but one out of five. Last Saturday, Navy routed the University of Pennsylvania, 55-6.
BEAGLE AND WELSH GONE
Coach Eddie Erdelatz lost eleven monogram winners from his 1955 team which sported a 7-2-1 mark. Included among these was All-American end Ron Beagle and first string quarterback George Welsh. The Academy, however, has ten lettermen to bolster this year’s squad.
At one end is Pete Jokanovich, a junior from Los Angeles who improved enough during spring practice to take over the number one left end spot. Jokanovich caught four passes in 1955 for 73 yards.	'
The other end of the line is held down by captain Earle Smith. Smith missed spring practice due to a knee injury but was back in top shape for Navy’s opener
NED OLDHAM
Powerful Navy halfback
against William and Mary. In the 1954 season he caught 15 passes for 195 yards and four touchdowns. Backing up these two wingmen are sophomore John Kanu ch and senior John McHugh.
Tony Anthony and Bob Reifsnyder will share left tackle duties for the Middies. Anthony is a 212 pound junior from Erie, Pa., who was used sparingly by coach Erdelatz last season.
On the right side of the line Jim Martinez, from Frackville, Pa., will start. He will be backed up by junior Bill Meisel.
The starting guard slots will be occupied by Jim Hower, a senior from Chicago, and another" junior, Bob Caidwell, from Walton, Kentucky. Hower alternated at right guard last year with Tony Stremic who was injured during spring practice.
In the center of the line is Wilson Whitmire a senior from Coronado, California who stands 6-2 and weighs 198. He is the only two year letterman on the squad and is Navy’s best center since Dick Scott was All-American in 1947. He is big and rugged and is the team’s best linebacker.
There are five returning monogram winners in the backfield including four halfbacks. Two of these, Ned Oldham and Chet Burchett will start tomorrow.
Oldham, a native of Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, is the Academy’s best back. Last year the 170 pound junior carried 56 times for 404 yards and scored 26 points, 14 on PAT’s. He also grabbed nine passes for a total of 149 yards. Ned is a very capable man on defense in addition to being the best blocker on the squad.
NO PEP RALLY
At the beginning of the season, the Athletic Department and Coach Brennan requested the Pep Rally Committee not to have a rally for every game.
The Committee decided that there would be no rally this week because the team is leaving on Thursday which would mean having the rally Wednesday. The Committee figured that the rally might not be effective three days before the game. Also, many are leaving early for the game and some students will be going home Wednesday for the Holy Day.
There will not be a rally for the Iowa game either.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NAVY	NOTRE DAME
Kanuch ..........L.E...... Prendergast
Anthony _________L.T.......... Geremia
Stremic -........L.G.......... Hedrick
Whitmire  .......C_____________ Sullivan
Hower  ..........R.G___________ Ecuyer
Martinez  .......R.T....... Nagurskirj
Smith (C) .......R.E.......... Myers'"
Forrestal .......Q.B...:.... Hornung
Oldham __________L.H..........   Lewis
Gober ___________R.H. ..... (C.) Morse
Monto ___________F.B............. Lima
KICKOFF—1:00 p.m., C.S.T. TELEVISION—WNDU-TV.
The other halfback, Chet Burchett, is a small but elusive speedster from Baytown, Texas. Last season Burchett picked up 235 yards on 60 carries and caught nine passes for an additional 131 yards. He also scored two touchdowns.
The other returning halfbacks are seniors Paul Gobert and Ed Malynn.
Vince Monto, a senior and native of Wilkes Barre, Pa., is the starter at fullback. He is a 5-11, 203 pounder who
D
won a letter in 1955. He took the ball
50 times last year for 231 yards and two touchdowns. He also returned two
kickoffs for 46 yards. Monto is backed by Shane Daniels from Mariemont, Ohio, a 190 pound junior who saw some action in 1955.
At quarterback will be the Middies’ top passer, Tom Forrestal, who came off the JV squad last year to spark Navy Tl to a 33-0 win over Penn. Their best all-around quarterback is Dave Flood who played halfback and quarterback at Notre Dame in his freshmen year.
26
The Scholastic
MIDDIES GAIN TIE-.
IRISH GAIN REVENGE
Notre Dame and Navy have produced some thrilling- football straggles with the 1937, 1945, and 1946 games being the most important from the Irish standpoint.
In 1937, ND, then coached by Elmer Layden, scored nine points in the final ! quarter to top the Middies 9-7 in Notre j TDame Stadium.
j Eight years later in Cleveland’s Mu-I nicipal Stadium, the Irish scored in the ■ first quarter, outplayed the Midshipmen ; for 53 minutes, gave the Navy a touch-■ down, fought to the Middie six-inch line I with seconds remaining, and came out of the contest with a 6-6 tie.
Both teams were undefeated going-into this game, and the Irish dominated ^the scene from the outset. Midway in the first period, fullback Frank Rug-gerio intercepted a pass and Notre Dame had a first down on the Navy 33.
RUGGERIO SCORES FOR IRISH
Elmer Angsman and Ruggerio carried it to the four yard line in nine plays and Ruggerio carried it over. The j conversion was missed by Stan Krivik. | Throughout the game, Notre Dame j "controlled the temper of the contest and it was not until 53 minutes had elapsed 3 that Navy could dent the scoring column.
At this time, Irish Quarterback Frank Dancewicz intercepted a pass by Hunchy Hoernschmeyer and returned to the Notre Dame 46.
On the third play, Dancewicz attempted a pass, and Clyde (Smackover) Scott intercepted for Navy, returning it ? ♦,60 yards, giving the Middies the tying touchdown. But Jack Currence missed i the conversion and it was a 6-6 game : with seven minutes remaining.
; Following the kickoff, Dancewicz ; couldn’t move Notre Dame, and Hoernschmeyer and Tony Minisi failed to stir Navy.
j Notre Dame took over on their own j 40 with George Rattei-man now at the > ^ quarterback spot. On the first play Ratterman was tossed for an 11-yard -! loss attempting to pass. On the next play, Notre Dame was penalized five yards for being offside.
Then, Ratterman threw a 16-yard pass to right end Bill Leonard who raced to the 17. Navy was penalized five yards 1 ♦■for too many time outs.
Dancewicz, now back at quarterback,
pitched a 12-yard aerial to Phil Colella who gathered it in on the goal line. But, according to the field judge, he was forced out of bounds on the one foot line.
Only seconds remained. On a quarterback sneak, Dancewicz was stopped • eight inches short of a touchdown. There was time for only one more play.
DANCEWICZ FAILS
Again, Dancewicz attempted the center of the line, and again Navy held. When the lines unscrambled, the ball was six inches from the goal line and the game was over.
Thus, the Irish who had missed on four scoring opportunities were forced to a 6-6 tie, the first in the long series.
Notre Dame was a 28-0 victor the following year in Baltimore. This win must go down as the most satisfying of the 24 wins the Irish have scored over Navy.
The war-loaded Navy team had dumped ND 32-13 in 1944 and forced them to that 6-6 tie in 1945.
In 1946, the contest was all Notre Dame, and Coach Frank Leahy gave notice that Notre Dame was back on the football glory trail.
From that victory, the fifth of the season, ND tied Army, 0-0 the following week, won three more contests, and amassed the 1946 National Championship.
The game was never in doubt with the Irish scoring once in the first period, twice in the second and once more in the final.
The Middies were able to put on a sustained offense only once. At the outset of the second half they marched 70 yards to the Notre Dame one. But, at this point the Irish defensive trio of linebackers, Jim Mello, George Stroh-meyer, and Marty Wendell, dug in and stopped the drive.
The only other time the Middies visioned ND territory was due to a couple of fumbles by Red Sitko on the 24 and 30 yard lines early in the first and third quarters. But, the Middies again couldn’t capitalize as the tough Irish defenders held.
The first Notre Dame score came with precision, by virtue of a 60 yard drive.
Johnny Lujack, Bill Gompers, Gerry Cowhig, and John Panelli moved to the Navy 31 in nine plays.
The Navy defense then stalled the
HALFBACK TERRY BRENNAN One of many leaders in '46 game
' Irish on downs, but on their first offensive play, the Middies fumbled and Cowhig recovered. On the next play, Cowhig dashed 31 yards to score. Fred Earley made the first of four conversions.
In the second period, Notre Dame marched 86 yards without relinquishing the ball. Terry Brennan ran for two first downs on third down situations and passed for another.
Substitute right halfback Floyd Simmons scored from the. four and Earley again converted.
Before the period ended, Notre Dame and Simmons had again entered the scoring column.
The Middies drove to midfield but a jarring tackle squirted the ball loose from Bill Bartlett .and Simmons recovered.
Simmons picked up 22 yards on five carries and then bounced over center from the one for the tally. Earley again converted.
ZALEJSKI MAKES FINAL TALLY
The final score came late in the fourth period as Ernie Zalejski intercepted a , pass by Reaves Baysinger, returning it to the Notre Dame 44. Zalejski picked up six yards around left end, then a first down on the Navy 40. Frank Tri-pucka carried to the Navy 21 for another first down. Zalejski carried around right end to the one, and Gompers-scored. Earley’s conversion was good.
The Irish asserted their supremacy which was briefly tarnished by the war period. The Navy was never in the ball game and Leahy’s lads were vastly superior statistic-wise.
Notre Dame rolled up 444 yards on the ground and in the air to Navy’s 139, making 27 first downs to the Middies’ eight.—Joe Bride
November 2, 1956
27

TIME OUT
Everyone claimed that after Michigan State and Oklahoma had taken their cracks at Notre Dame, there would be no doubt in anyone’s mind about who would be the top team in the country. Oklahoma’s win coupled with the Michigan State loss to Illinois will most likely give the Sooners the Number One rating at the end of the year and the third leg on the O’Donnell Trophy.
At the beginning of the year we said how ridiculous we thought the polls were. Just how can anyone say that the Sooners are any better than the Spartans? Granted, the Sooner line looked more convincing against the Irish than did the Spartan front men but the Michigan State backfield gets this writer’s vote as the best in the nation.
I am not alone on this idea either. I talked with Harold Keith, Publicity Director at Oklahoma. He said that the scout who covered the Spartan-Irish clash claimed that MSU had seven Clendon Thomases. You can argue it from now till the end of the season but no one will ever really know.
At any rate, the Notre Dame club is the victim of circumstance. It is highly probable that the locals will wind up the season with the worst record in the school’s football history which dates way back to 1887. The Irish have had only three losing seasons, two of them coming the first two years we played a schedule. The other year was 1933 when Heartly (Hunk) Anderson’s squad won three, lost five, and tied one.
LOSE TO MICHIGAN THREE TIMES
In 1887, Notre Dame played one game, losing to Michigan 8-0. The following year they played three times, losing twice to Michigan by scores of 26 to 6 and 10-4. They defeated the Harvard School of Chicago, 20-0.
In 1933, Notre Dame suffered four consecutive shutouts at the hands of Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Navy and Purdue. The following week they beat Northwestern, 7-0, only to be shut out again the next week by Southern California. Incidentally, that was Anderson’s last season. Elmer Layden took over in 1934.
Maybe the trouncings the Irish have sustained will be enough to help them overcome the second part of the schedule but with games against a much-improved Navy club, a powerful Pittsburgh team which must rate as one of the best if not the best in the East, an improving North Carolina team, an Iowa club that has Rose Bowl fever and a good Southern Cal team, things don’t look so good.
Tomorrow, Navy will want to do what four clubs have already done. Could be, they might do it. Tyler says stick 'with the Irish for this one. PREDICTION OF THE WEEK: Notre Dame 20, Navy 14.
NEW CONFERENCE IMPRACTICAL
One of the newspapers last week came out with a story about the proposed coast-to-coast conference which would include Notre Dame, Oklahoma, Michigan State, Pittsburgh, UCLA, Southern Califomia and the three Service schools. It must be a publicity man’s dream and nothing -will ever come of it. One school that is emphatically against it is Oklahoma. Harold Keith mentioned to us that the Sooners are veiy happy in the Big Seven Conference. There is much tradition and many rivalries in other’ sports other than football in the Big Seven and Oklahoma doesn’t want to give them up. He claims that Oklahoma will never leave the Big Seven. What would happen to UCLA and Southern Cal if they bolted the Pacific Coast Conference? I doubt that they would be able to fill their schedule for other sports. And why should the service schools join when they would most likely be the weak sisters because they do not recruit as much as the others? Two years ago, Maryland would have jumped at the opportunity to join such a conference. Just look at them now. They would never be able to hold their own. This is one idea which will get junked right away.—J. G.
MIKE HAVERTY THIRD
Noses out Loyola man in quadrangular
Victorious Thinclads Face MSU Monday
This Monday at 4 p.m. Notre Dame’s cross-country team, winner over Central Michigan, Loyola and Bowling Green in a quadrangular meet here last Friday, gets a crack at Michigan State, last yearis NCAA champions, at the Burke Memorial golf course.
The powerful Spartans have their top three runners of last year back, Selwyn Jones, Henry Kennedy and Norm Denslow plus a top sophomore prospect, Ron Wheller. Irish coach Alex Wilson states that Michigan State is undoubtedly the best team in the country. The meet will be an extra long, five mile affair and Captain John Michno is expected to lead ND in their upset bid. Last season at 'State the Irish triumphed, 28-29.
Central Michigan fell 'before Notre Dame 21-38 and Loyola and Bowling i Green were soundly defeated by lopsided 1 18-43 and 15-48 scores, respectively, last Friday. These wins give the Irish a strong four wins, one loss record.
John Michno, sailing to his second individual win of the season, captured first place for Notre Dame in 20:36. He was challenged by Jerry Host of Central Michigan in the stretch but pulled away to win. Mike Haverty, Irish sophomore, "’outdistanced the rest of the pack to win third place and after Loyola took fourth, Dale VandenBerg of Notre Dame finished fifth. Wilsonmen Ed Monnelly and John Burns came in a tie for seventh place and ninth through eleventh spots were monopolized by ND thinclads Stan Wegizymowicz, Billy Newell and Neil Wallace, in that order.
28
The Scholastic


baseball Drills End for Forty Candidates;
Solid Nucleus Raises Hope for Good Season
Fall baseball drills for more than forty aspirants ended last week after a full month of workouts. Coach Jake Kline has used the opportunity afforded by the warm weather to get a closer look ^.t some of his sophomore candidates, as rwell as to round his returnees into physical condition. .
Heading the list of eight returning
Cavanaugh, Zahm, Dillon Lead In Interhall Football League
Cavanaugh and Zahm in the East and Dillon in the West remained unbeaten ^iast week, as they rolled to their second triumphs in the interhall football league. Dillon paced the week’s activities with a 33-0 romp over Sorin. Frank Leahy passed for two touchdowns and Specs Rogers ran 20 and 25 yards for two more scores.
In the Eastern half of the loop, Cavanaugh squeezed by Farley 6-0 on a 15-yard pass from Tom Hirons to Tony .Shelloup, late in the fourth quarter. Zahm smashed Breen Phillips, 18-0, on the hard running of Norbie Shew who scored on runs of 50 and 65 yards and on a five yard plunge.
In other games, the Off-Campus eleven returned to form by smothering St. Ed’s, 18-6. Keefer romped over for one marker and Nick Castro passed for the final scores. Artie Boyle passed for St. Ed’s only score, the play covering 60 yards. |A'lso, Lyons tripped Howard, 13-0, on the running of Van Der Ahe who scored both touchdowns.
A TOUCH OF ‘THE MASTER’
Dillon’s Leahy chased by Sorin’s Kilbourne and Wojcik
lettennen is All-American, co-captain Elmer Kohorst, now in his third year with the Irish. Kline looks for another banner yeai- from the blond backstop who last year led the Irish in hitting and RBI’s.
Switched to first base to replace graduated Mike Lesso is Jim Cusack, the other co-captain. Cusack was second in batting last year while patrolling the outfield for the Klinemen. The keystone corner will be in very capable hands in the persons of returning lettermen Ed Hurley and Jim Carideo. Third base, due to the graduation of Rhodes’ Scholar Don Sniegowski, will be the only position wide open in a well experienced infield. However, returnee Joe Genesser is one of the men who could fill the slot. Other infield candidates showing promise include Jim Cullen and Steve Johnson, as well as sophomores Murphy, Layden, and De Lamielleyre.
With the graduation of last year’s captain Dan Nespo and the moving of Cusack to the initial sack, we find two of the outfield posts vacant. Returning letter winner Bob Senecal should hold dowrn one of the posts, while the other two will be filled by returnees Bud Ahern and Joe Brennari.
“With more depth in the pitching department, I feel certain we can improve on last year’s mediocre record,” Kline stated. With returning monogram men Tom Buj nowski and Junior Charlie Symeon, added to Hank Bretting, Paul Besser, Ron Jebavy, and a crewr of sophomores, Kline hopes to produce a competent, winning mound staff.
Five-Game Statistics Show Hornung Ahead
For the fifth consecutive week, Paul Hornung monopolizes the individual Irish statistics, leading his teammates in passing, rushing, punting, scoring and total offense.
Saturday afternoon Hornung gained seven yards on the ground to boost his total rushing yardage to 244 yards in 47 carries for a 5.2 per carry average. He completed eight of 13 passes good for 68 yards, raising his passing yardage to 595, and his total offense to 839 yards. He has been forced to punt twelve times, covering 442 yards, for an average of 37 yards. In the scoring department he has scored two touchdowns and kicked seven extra points for a total of 19 points.
Captain Jim Morse continues as Hornung’s leading target, snaring five aerials last Saturday good for 48 yards to boost his season total to 14 receptions for 278 yards. However he slipped down into a third place tie with Chuck Lima in rushing, Lima picking up 34 yards over the weekend to tie them both at 84.
Aubrey Lewis is second in rushing with a total of 161 yards gained in 24 carries for an average of 6.7 per carry.
As a unit the Irish have amassed a total offense of 1,599 yards to their opponents’ 1,794, gaining 701 of these yards through the air while permitting the opposition 476. Opponents have crashed the Irish line for 1,318 of their yards, while the Irish have been held to 898 yards on the ground.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK Notre Dame over Navy Syracuse over Penn State Yale over Dartmouth
Army over Colgate Clemson over Virginia Tech Georgia Tech over Duke Mississippi over LSU Southern Methodist over Texas Texas A&M over Arkansas Michigan State over Wisconsin Missouri over Nebraska Ohio State over Northwestern Oklahoma over Colorado
So. California over Washington St. UCLA over Stanford
Oregon State over Washington Tufts over Amherst
Miami over Florida State (tonight) Air Force Acad, over Colorado St. ' Michigan over Iowa
LAST WEEK:
13 Right; 7 Wrong.
SEASON:
74 Right; 25 Wrong; 1 Tie.
Pct. .748.
November 2, 1956
29

At the Movies
COLFAX
STUDY IN EUROPE
Spring Semester 1957 5 months for
$1195
INCLUDES:
*	Selection of 25 English taught courses at the U. of Vienna.
*	Special German language instruction geared to a speaking knowledge.
*	Social and cultural activities, Jectures and forums while studying at the U. of Vienna.
*	Study tours lasting a total of 2 months. England, Belgium, France, Italy, Yugoslavia, Switzerland, Germany, Austria.
*	Living in a Viennese home.
*	Balanced, home-like meals with IES.
*	Personal orientation and advisorv service from IES office.
*	Round trip ocean transportation.
Group sails February 8, 1957, on Cunard Line ss. Saxonia.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Dec. 28, 1956
Mail coupon for free brochure. THE INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES 35 East Wacker Drive, Room 1376 Chicago 1, Illinois
name		
address		
city	zone	state
school		
M<WTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
-- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Leneea Duplicated "Bring m th» Pwew?
— EYES EXAMINED --
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
A Classified Section appears in the SCHOLASTIC for the convenience of readers who wish to buy, sell, rent, etc.
Teenage Rebel. (A-2) Ginger Rogers, Michael Rennie. This story is so hot that the column would bum up if I said anything about it. At least that’s what the producer says. The teenage rebel is a girl and some old man betrays her for some old lady. The only thing that saves this movie from complete disaster is when Joe Rohs drives his Pontiac through a plate glass window.
Summing up: Hardly worth the dime it costs me to see it.
GRANADA
Betiveen Heaven and Hell. (A-2) Robert Wagner, Terry Moore, Broderick Crawford. If you think purgatory is between heaven and hell you are mistaken, the South Pacific is. At least for Bob Wagner it is. Bob is sent to a jungle outpost during the war for hitting an officer. While in the jungle he learns something that he never forgets—he can’t act. Terry Moore has absolutely no business in the plot, but is there only because she has a
contract to do three movies a Summing up: With guys
The Rack. (A-l) Nov.
©
year.
like this on our side, how did we win?
AVON
f
2-6. Paul Newman, Wendell Corey, Clement
Atlee. Paul Newman got courtmartialed as Rocky Graziano, this time he beats the rap as Clarence Maddern. This is probably the best movie showing
at the Avon this weekend.
Rebecca. (A-2) Nov. 6. reissue of a movie that is so direction of Alfred Hitchcock
up to the reputation of Oliver’s first wife, Rebecca.
Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine. This is a good that it hasn’t been on TV. Under the Miss Fontaine is driven crazy trying to live
STATE
Macumba. (A-2) Nov. 2-3.
Co-hit: Man-Beast (A-2).
Mr. Roberts. (A-2) Nov. 4-7. Henry Fonda, James Cagney, Jack Lemmon. A very good show if you haven’t already seen it.
Co-hit: Never Say Goodbye. (A-l) Rock Hudson. Not so good.
Dallas. (A-2) Nov. 8. Gary Cooper, Ruth Roman. A reissue in breathtaking black and white.
Co-hit: Distant Drums. (A-2) Gary Cooper, Mari Aldon. Anothei- reissue.
PALACE
Back From Eternity. (A-2) Robert Ryan, Anita Ekberg, Rod Steiger. It's the same old story of the plane crash and how to get back to civilization. I don’t know why they want to get back with Anita aboard but they do. The tom-toms are getting close when they get the plane fixed, but they don’t have enough room for everybody so they don’t take the bad guys.
Summing up: They should have taken the bad guys, they’re better actors.
Co-hit: Beyond A Reasonable Doubt. (A-2) Dana Andrews, Joan Fontaine. A very interesting movie about how circumstantial evidence leads to a conviction of murder.
RIVER PARK
Searchers. (A-2) Nov. 4-7). John Wayne.
Co-hit: There's Always Tomorrow. (A-2) Fred MacMurray.
D-Day The Sixth of June (B). Robert Taylor.
Co-hit: Revolt Of Mamie Stover. (B). Jane Russell.
WASHINGTON HALL
Seven Cities Of Gold. Saturday. Two Showings: .6:30 and 8:40 p.m.
£


i-
30
The Scholastic
\VSND to Aid Group In Weekly Program
Student radio station WSND will serve as a sponsor for a South Bend Junior Achievement company, it was announced this week by Fred Corkill, station manager.
The campus station will advise “Rad-co,” a company formed of South Bend high school students interested in radio programming and business operations. The company is affiliated with Junior Achievement of South Bend, part of a nation-wide movement to acquaint high school students with business management and finance.
Corkill said that WSND had agreed ■^o furnish three advisors from its staff to aid the radio group. There will be a business advisor, a sales advisor, and a programming advisor.
The group will probably produce a half-hour program to be aired over WSND once a week, Corkill said, and would use the facilities of the campus station for the purpose. The company would also sell the program to a sponsor and handle the business details.
W WSND also announced that splitprogramming will be resumed Monday. This entails the simultaneous broadcasting of one program to the Notre Dame student body and another program to St. Mary’s College.
The “Dixie Special” will be the program beamed to St. Mary’s, and will be slanted to a feminine audience. It will be heard at St. Mary’s while Notre Dame students will be hearing “Relax” ?over the same frequency from 5:30 to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday.
NAVY TV-CAST
There will be a large screen TV-cast of the Navy game, tomorrow in the Drill Hall. Doors will open at 12 noon, one hour before game time.
Tickets may be purchased at the door for $.50.
Annual Drive Opens For Wilson Fellows
The national Woodrow Wilson Fellowship program has launched its annual campaign to recruit outstanding young men and women for the college and university teaching profession, it was recently announced by National Program Director Richard C. Boys of the University of Michigan.
The program seeks out the most promising college graduates throughout the country and offers them a year of graduate training in any of the humanities or social sciences.
Wilson fellows are permitted to study at any graduate institution in the United States or Canada. While they are sometimes given an opportunity to do a limited amount of teaching, they are under no obligation to enter the profession of teaching. The committee in charge simply asks that they give serious consideration to its possibilities.
Fellowships are awarded upon invitation only, following nomination by members of the profession. Recipients are guaranteed an adequate living for a
year, with minimum restrictions as to the way in which the year is spent.
The fellowships are financed jointly by the members of the Association of Graduate Schools and grants from the Carnegie Corporation of New York and the General Education Board.
The Woodrow Wilson Fellowship program was inaugurated on a national scale in 1952 and the program has increased the number of fellowships every year.
This fall, 151 Wilson fellows are studying in 45 graduate schools. Two Notre Dame graduates, Gerald Massey and John Meagher, received Wilson Fellowships last year.
Deferment Test Slated For Students on Nov. 15
The Selective Service College Qualification test will be given on Nov. 15 at 8:30 a.m. in Room 250 of the Administration Building.
The results of this test will be sent directly to the draft boards where the examinees are registered. The test can be taken only once, and the boards will base their actions on the‘results of the test.
The test is given twice , each year, and will be given again on April 15, 1957. Application blanks for the test may be obtained from the department of guidance and testing or from the office of military affairs, which are located on the second floor and the ground floor of the Administration Building, respectively.
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE. Columbus 1. Ohio. Leading independent research organization employing 2600 has openings for engineering and physical science graduates B.S.. M.S. and Ph.D. level. Excellent career opportunities. Unusual tuition-free graduate study program. Interviewing date November 8. See your placement officer today.
PHILLIPS PETROLEUM. Friday. Nov. 9—Place-ment Office.
DETROIT EDISON. Friday. Nov. 16—Placement ' Office.
CONVAIR. Tuesday, Nov. 6—Placement Office.
NORTH AMERICAN, Monday, Nov. 12—Placement Office.
JACK & HEINTZ, Wednesday. Nov. 7—Placement Office.
WANTED
WANTED—A chest of drawers. See Dave Samuel-k son, 344 Farley Hall. If not in, leave note. ““" 'NEED four tickets for Notre Dame-Iowa game. Call Trigon Corporation, AT 7-3315.
rvirma
“Take A Day Off and Go To The Office.”
November 2, 1956
51

French Award Thorlet Prize to Rev. Gabriel For Book on Mediaeval Student Life in Paris
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame was awarded the Thorlet Prize of the French Academy this past summer, for his latest book on Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris. The prize was presented by Maurice Galy, acting cultural counsellor of the French Embassy in New York.
The book explores subjects such as the liturgical, intellectual, administrative, and economic life of a mediaeval college in early fourteenth-century Paris. It contains detailed information on student life in mediaeval Paris. Fr. Gabriel includes in his book French and Latin documents that have never before been edited, among which are the original statues of the college. These documents give intimate glimpses into the life of students in the Middle Ages.
Fr. . Gabriel also compares the teaching methods, discipline, and cus
toms of the Ave Maria College with those of other colleges in Paris. Many of these practices are illustrated within the Chatulary of Ave Maria College, which is unique, in that it contains 33 miniatures representing various occupations of the students. Reproductions of the original engravings are included in the book.
Director of the Mediaeval Institute since 1952, Fr. Gabriel has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1948. He was a professor at the University of Budapest and director of the French College in Hungary. Later he was professor at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto. For a year, he was a member of the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton, N. J.
His most recent scholastic distinction is his appointment as a member of ihe International Free Academy of Science and Letters, Paris.
Student Trip Begins Friday; Game to Draw Group of 580
Five hundred and eighty students will leave on the Student Trip to Pittsburgh at 3:30 p.m. this coming Friday afternoon. Buses will leave from the Circle . to take them to the Pennsylvania Railroad Station. They will arrive in Pitts-^> burgh at 12:30 a.m. Saturday morning.
Accommodations have been obtained at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel in downtown Pittsburgh. The post-game dance on Saturday evening will be held in the Pitt Room of the Penn-Sheraton, and a blind date agency, in cooperation with Mt. Mercy College of Pittsburgh, has been , arranged for the dance.
Mt. Mercy College has extended an invitation to all ND students to attend the 12 o’clock Sunday Mass on their campus. After the Mass there will be a brunch and a mixer. The returning train will leave Pittsburgh at 10 p.m., E.S.T., and arrive in South Bend at 5 a.m. Monday morning.
in top condition. 1.00 plus tax
I
AFTER SHAVE
LOTION
SHULTON New York • Toronto
32
The Scholastic
Visa Officers to Hold Conference Nov. 17-18
The regional executive committee of the National Student Association will meet here on campus on Nov. 17 and 18, Bob Kiley, regional chairman, announced this past week.
The executive committee, representing all the schools in the Indiana-Ohio region, will discuss activities for the coming year and plans for the regional assembly which will be held at Notre Dame from Nov. 30 to Dec. 2.
The executive committee, elected by the regional assembly, consists of the following officers: Bob Kiley, Notre ; Dame, regional chairman; Jon Boss, Penison, vice-chairman of student af-•xairs; Robert Meserve, Oberlin, vicechairman of international affairs; Jim Steintrager, Notre Dame, vice-chairman of educational affairs; and Ann Hopkins, Ursuline, vice-chairman of student government.
These officers will preside over the 80 to 100 delegates from some 25 schools । in the Indiana-Ohio region when the assembly meets at the end of November.
The most important problem which the "assembly will discuss will be how to [ make the region take a more active part I in the national association. Also to be ' discussed will be academic freedom, military situation of the college student, educational travel, and foreign exchange • programs.
The campus office of the NS A, located in the basement of the 'Student Center, -will be open from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m. on i O^uesday, Wednesday, and Thursday.
Tony Yurchak, who is in charge of arrangements for the regional assembly is looking for office help. Anyone interested in such an activity may contact Yurchak alt 335 Walsh or in the NS A office.
Marketing Club Maps Plans *por Films, Speakers, Trips
The Marketing Club, with a record membership of 127, began planning semester activities this week after completing their seventh annual green hat sale.
Proceeds from the hat sale will go to defray costs of the club, finance a spring field trip, and support other activities.
Plans now under way include procuring marketing films and guest speakers , for the meetings, and setting up club smokers.
Officers are Frank Hennessey, president; Jerry Thees, vice-president in charge of programming; Bill McGowan, vice-president in charge of membership; Mark Maley, secretary; Paul Heer, treasurer; E. J. McCarthy, faculty moderator.
November 2, 1956
DoVbaKhow Howto teftCoodTunt?
If you really want to get more fun out of life... to enjoy the thrill of meeting new people . . . making new friends, then decide right now to pay a visit to Arthur Murray’s. Learn about our exciting Student Parties at which you meet new people, dance with many different partners in a gay, informal atmosphere. Learn, too, about our new quicker way to improve your dancing, the Arthur Murray Magic Step method. You’ll be surprised how quickly and easily you catch on to the latest popular steps. You start dancing right away, at the very first lesson.
So stop passing up good times. Come in today and see how much more fun and new popularity can be yours when you learn to dance the Arthur Murray Way. Arthur Murray Studios,
"It’s fun for us, too, to help shy people quickly develop into popular dancing partners with complete confidence,” says Joyce Lyons.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. Wayne St.	CE 2-3339
Detroit Edison Co.
ELECTRICAL POWER
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Research and Development Plant and System Design Equipment Engineering Planning for Growth Purchasing Sales
Electrical • Mechanical ENGINEERS
Reserve Your Appointment Time at Placement Office to See Our Representative
Friday, Nov. 16
33
OFFICIAL
Class Rings
University of Notre Dame
Manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Co.
the AUTHENTIC mark of a Notre Dame Alumnus
available
ONLY at the Notre Dame
Bookstore
Moot Court to Begin Eliminations Monday
Undergraduate students from the Law School will participate this Monday in the first three rounds of a series of eliminations in the junior competition of the Moot Court.
The top two teams at the end of the series will appear in the Notre Dame finals in the eighth annual Moot Court competition for the Clarence E. Manion award next October.
Of the three rounds to be held at 7:30 p.m. Monday in the Law Auditorium, two will involve corporation law, and one labor law.
Students arguing questions on corporation law will include: Eugene Waye, John Rigby, Donald Very, William Engel, Edward Malapit, Raymond Tam, Robert Levi, and Leo Souza.
Prof. Robert Rodes, a corporation law specialist from the Notre Dame faculty, Robert Gorman, editor-in-chief of the Law Review, and Chester J. Allen, South Bend attorney, will be the judges for the first section.
Second section judges will be: Prof. Bernard Ward, a Notre Dame faculty member teaching corporation law; Vernon Teofan, case editor for the Lawyer staff; and Robert Grant, an attorney in South Bend and teacher of legislation on campus who has served as a member of the House of Representatives.
Arguing labor law will be: Raymond Drexler, John Murray, Charles Roemer, and William Thompson.
Judging this competition are: Assistant Dean John Broderick, an authority on labor law; David Barnes, a law student and executive director of the Moot Court; and L. C. Chapleau, a South Bend attorney and past president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association.
Repercussions
(Continued from page 8) will be meaningless.
Many criticisms have been and are being leveled at the team, our team. Some of them are justified. But it cannot be said of them that they quit. The student body did!
Are our football opponents to relax in the knowledge that they’ll be playing only eleven men, or pause, as in the past, in the realization that they are up against five thousand? Is the team to be cast off in defeat, or cheered up by the cheering throngs chanting the Victory March? Is the Notre Dame spirit lost?
Saturday’s performance calls for an apology. This time it should not be made by the team .
Michael McIntire
234 Walsh Hall
“I WON’T WEAR A THING BUT TOWNE AND KING!”
says A. L. HAYFEVER, canpus palitician
WHITTIER, ILL., Aug. 30-When cross-questioned by Dean, A. L. said, “In an election year, you have to have coordination. I was just coordinating the sorority vote? He has his finger in every pie, his eye on the polls and his foot on the ladder. “Every politician has to have a trade mark;’ says he. “Mine’s coordinated knitwear. Get a load of this set..!’	'
Coordinated set, by TOWNE AND KING: Long sleeve, V-neck pullover; coarse gauge, with contrasting stripe; 36-46 ... 12.95
T&K’s original “HOT TAM” to match... 3.95
T&K’s original ‘‘NEKKER’,’ to match ... 4.95
$
TOWNE AND KING, LTD. Coordinated Knitwear
595 Broadway, Redwood City, California
muiw LIBRARY ail BONK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
34
The Scholastic
%

for the graduating E. E. and M. E.
A JACK & HEINTZ REPRESENTATIVE
WILL BE ON CAMPUS
WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 7
Check your placement office NOW for complete information concerning interview time and place
Jack & Heintz:
An internationally known designer and manufacturer of electric systems and components for aircraft and missiles; also a leader in the development of customized electric motors to meet special industrial and commercial needs.
Openings:
Excellent opportunities now open to electrical and mechanical engineers in:
• RESEARCH • DESIGN
• DEVELOPMENT
• MANUFACTURING
• SALES
• FIELD SERVICE
Training:
52-week rotational program to acquaint engineers with all J&H operations . . . engineering, manufacturings sales and service.
Subsidized Advanced Study:
Jack & Heintz pays for study toward advanced degrees which can be won at such nationally known technical schools as the Case Institute of Technology and Fenn College, both within a few miles of Jack & Heintz.
Special Opportunities:
J&H also has need for a limited number of men with majors in aeronautics, industrial engineering, engineering administration, accounting and industrial management.
ACT NOW!
Contact your placement office for a Jack & Heinz Interview!
November 2, 1956
Conway Chosen Chairman Of '57 K of C Bengal Bouts
Terry Conway has been announced committee chairman for the 1957 Bengal Bouts, which will be held March 25, 27, and 29.
Those assisting Conway are: Tom •O’Donnell, business manager; Pat Snyder, town sales; John Slevin, campus sales; Jim Ulrich, publicity; Tom Judge, programs; Jerry Wells, patrons; John Woulfe, program salesman; Joe Reich, banquet; Chuck Grace, concessions; and Mark Maley.
Purpose of the bouts is to raise funds for the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, India.
ENGINEERING ADDRESS
The Engineering Advisory Board will present Mr. T. A. Boyd of the General Motors Corp, this afternoon at 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. The subject of Mr. Boyd’s speech will be: “On Being an Engineer.”
ONLY PEN WITH A BUILT-IN SPARE REFILL' A cNew EiperbMate
YOU HAVE
2 POINTS
2 INK
AND TH EYRE PIGGYBACK!
only at
Notre Dame Bookstore On the Campus
Dr. Schmitt, Catholic Psychiatrist, to Lecture On 'Emotional Problems of Children' Tuesday
The graduate and undergraduate Sociology Club of Notre Dame has announced that a lecture by Dr. Robert Schmitt entitled, “A Psychiatrist Looks at the Emotional Problems of Children” will be delivered in the Law Auditorium at 7:45 p.m. on Tuesday. The faculty and student body are cordially invited. There will be no admission charge. '
Dr. Schmitt received his pre-medical training at Boston and Amherst Colleges and his medical training at the Stritch Medical School, Loyola University, Chicago. He interned at St. Mary’s Hospital in Evergreen Park, Ill., and later did advanced work in internal medicine at Hines Veterans Hospital, Hines, Ill.
His studies in the area of psychiatry were completed in three years at the Clinical Institute in Psychiatry at the University of Michigan.
Presently, Dr. Schmitt has offices for private practice in Michigan City, Ind.
(flUXHMIl)
In addition he is chief of adolescent service at Beatty State Hospital, Westville, Ind., as well as a member of the psychiatric staff at Mount Mercy Sanatorium, Dyer, Ind. In research, Dr. Schmitt has been working for the pas*^ three years on the new “tranquilizing drugs.”
Dr. Schmitt, presently the only Catholic psychiatrist in Northern Indiana, is currently lecturing in the sociology department of the University on “Sociological Psychiatry,” and will lecture next semester on the “Sociology of
DR. ROBERT SCHMITT . . . emotional problems . . .
the Child.” This represents the first time in the history of Notre Dame that a psychiatrist has been on the faculty staff.
The talk and discussion by Dr. Schmitt, is the second of a series planned for this semester by the Sociology Glubjj; The first was given by the Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., chairman of the sociology department ait Loyola University of the South, lecturing as a distinguished professor in the sociology department at the University. Father Fichter spoke to the members of the Sociology Club and their guests on “The Methods of Science.”
In addition to a series of lectures^' several other plans are being worked out by the club. These plans include visits to Indiana State Prison, and the St. Joseph’s County Detention Home. The elub has already begun its annual survey of recent graduates showing vocational opportunities in various fields of sociology.
36
The Scholastic

Opportunities
t ENGINEERS
and other
) TECHNICAL f GRADUATES
Phillips Petroleum Company, one of America’s great integrated oil companies, has positions open for engineers, chemists, physicists and virtually every kind of technical graduate at the Bachelor, Master or Ph.D. levels.
Representatives of
PHILLIPS PETROLEUM COMPANY
will visit your campus on
Friday, Nov. 9
YOU ARE INVITED to make an interview appointment with your Placement Office. Or, for further information, write:
D. R. McKeithan
Technical Employment Consultant Phillips Petroleum Company Bartlesville, Oklahoma
37
Rack Pa^e
by Joe Taft
a day of reckoning
A recent deluge of bold type statements has challenged the contents within many green hats and a few green helmets on the Notre Dame campus. The Chicago Sun-Times, ever the patron of back paged pertinent questions, has sought to soothe Notre Dame's four week headache. Student government prescriptions have been issued under many doors. This public indoctrination has given us more than an excuse to remove our green hats or helmets and attempt to coordinate our signals. Why are the local and national linotypists singing this dirge? The only inference we are able to derive from this caustic salvo is that a losing football team means a loss of the real Notre Dame spirit.
WHO SHALL WE BLAME?
Rallying to this vocal chord cause our last two pep rallies have approached the greatness of a Cecile B. De Mille production. These last two en masse marathons have shown our authoritative critics that the spirit is willing but the team is inexperienced. Our rally speakers have stretched our vocal chords by pleading for the return of the real Notre Dame spirit and the real Notre Dame man. These speakers have told us of the intangible attributes of the real Notre Dame man—attributes like loud cheering and “tough get going” type football. These rally speakers have inspired and 1 believe, disillusioned our gridders and rooters. They have pleaded for the real Notre Dame man but who is he? According to these masters of emotion, the real Notre Dame man must be some sort of a steel cheering machine. I don’t think that this is a very intelligent basis for judging a Notre Dame man.
WHERE MAY WE FIND
THIS INDIVIDUAL?
From Facts For Freshmen through four years of the Student Manual to the latest testimonial of Fortune magazine’s successful grad we are constantly indoctrinated by this phrase ... a real Notre Dame man. What are the mysterious ingredients that compose this individual? The administration does not tell us what he is—it tells us what he doesn’t do. Obviously he is some sort of a su perman type—the type who is horrified by the thought of intoxicating liquor's and spirits, the type who never complains when the lights are turned out at eleven o’clock and he brushes his teeth with shaving cream, the type who never looks at parlay cards—the type of individual who speaks no evil, hears no evil nor sees evil. Using these critera as a basis for judging a Notre Dame man seems to undermine the real idea.
WHO THEN IS THIS PERSON?
If we use these two qualities, a cheering machine and a Student Manual machine, to judge a Notre Dame man we are, I believe, completely missing the point. Why don’t we call this public-created individual a Noter Doter? This seems to be an appropriate name for this automaton. A Noter Doter must be the person who cannot help himself after Thursday. He becomes so excited by the opposing team’s scouting reports, pep rally posters, local and national sports editorials, victory dance blind dates, sign out cards, et al, that he cannot help but rattle his silverware on his plate and throw bread each Friday evening. The memories of this automaton should be very hazy after a few years. He will be able to remember the excite
ment of being a screaming participant at pep rallies. He will remember how hoarse he was on Sunday morning. But are these ticket stub type reveries sufficient to justify his four years at Notre Dame? I don’t actually believe that this can be the case.	%
WHAT SHOULD A ND MAN BE?
The real Notre Dame man, I believe, may remember the won and lost schedules of his athletic teams, but his responsibilities should go furthei- than this. He should first of all become an individual. He should be able to see the Noter Doterism in the proper light—g-■light that does not shine merely on hi^ disciplinary and vocal chord record. These are definite and necessary phases of his education; he should respect these traditions and rules that guide his four years here, but he should go much further than this. He must regard the University as a molding factor in his life. He should attempt to take everything he can from the University—_ everything that can extenuate his exists ' ence as an individual. Through the courses of his formal education he should attempt to grasp the universality of knowledge and attempt to apply it to his own life. Through a wider grasp of the ■Christian traditions he should have his faith and knowledge strengthened into a mold—an individualistic mold that shows him the way and the truth to fuller life. The University definitely has the means of attaining this mold if the individual is willing to jell himself into it. If the individual attempts to grasp these basic essentials of an education he will find a fuller and a happier life—he will know himself and have thex tools to know life.
38
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
I
a
How to get off
to a flying start
The way to keep moving in free-and-easy comfort is to start with Arrow underwear. This popular Arrow Tee Shirt and Guards won’t bind or chafe, won’t sag. When you consider their fine-spun fabric and their perfect fit (that “gives” with every move you make), you know that you’ll have it pretty soft. Pick yours today.
Tee, £1.25; Guards (knitted briefs), £1.20
ARROW
SHIRTS • TIES HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
Free-swinging comfort from the word "go'
Eight o’clock class or 4 o’clock lab, you can take them in your stride with these Arrow Ties and Guards. Any position you’re in, this all-knit underwear assures you soft yet firm comfort. And the Tee is as right for sports as it is for underwear. We offer you a wide assortment of Arrow underwear.
Tee, $1.25;
Guards (knitted briefs), $1.20
I

GILBERTS
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend