COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSI
The Height of---------------
One day an excessively large elephant came upon an undersized mouse.
“Boy, you’re small,” said the elephant. “Why you’re the most insignificant thing I’ve ever seen.”
Every so often some inane lad will accuse us of writing the “Weak.” Well, them’s fighting words. So then comes a lengthy dissertation on what we think of him or anyone else who would even read that drivel let alone try to lay the blame on us. Usually it doesn’t take long to convince the individual that we are not responsible for that “bottom in col-umnistic effort.”
Well anyway, the point is that the accuser soon finds out about the Parade. The rest is inevitable. First, he wants to know if we get a paper from such and such a college or university—seems as though two of his best friends go there. Then, of course, he’s always interested in the publication of the school the “one and only” goes to. Also he’s probably read .some particular college magazine at one time or another and he’d sure like to see another issue. But, at least, all of these questions vary from man to man.
There is one question, however, that is never forgotten. Everybody wants to know about the paper published across the way. BMOC, LMOC, and MMOC— they are all interested. Don’t get impatient. Yes, the Parade does get' a paper from St. Mary’s or rather we did get some papei^from there or.___Well, the story is that it’s called the Static and is published monthly by the Journalism Department of the college. After the Parader had long given up hope, three issues showed up one day. These were carefully mounted under quartzite glass and are now exhibited to the curious for a nominal sum. One big operator who prefers to remain anonymous offered an enormous sum for one of the copies but the Parader felt that it would be unfair to the student body as a whole to retire such an interesting object to a private collection.
One fellow, in a surly mood, offered to bet that more issues of the Static would be forthcoming But promptly backed down when five or six men 'rushed to cover the bet. One fellow claims he has a friend on the staff and-can get one any time he wants but his roommate says he has never seen him with a copy of the paper. But enough of this....
❖
Sad Story
Eleven men present at a Scholastic staff meeting—notice of the meeting was printed in the Scholastic!!
Surgical
They call them the Tonsil sisters because everyone’s had them out.
Odd Jobs From Here and ....
When God gave out noses,
I thought he said roses,
So I said, gimme a great big red one.
Conductor—How old is your little boy? Fond Mother—Four.
Conductor—How old are you my little man?
Little boy—Four.
Conductor—Well, I’ll let you ride free this time but when you grow up you’ll either be a liar or a giant.
Missing!
Symbol of victory in the football games between U. of Detroit and Wayne University is an automobile wheel with a new tire. Recently the wheel was removed without authorization from the U. of D’s trophy room. The Varsity News hinted that some Wayne pranksters may have stolen the wheel but the editors of the Wayne paper agreed to cooperate with their rivals in the search for the trophy. The new tire makes the culprit a federal offender—practically.
“Yeah, I know,” said the mouse, “I’ve been sick.”
Ill-Logic
A wise man is a thinker. A thinker speculates about various things. A speculator is a gambler and to gamble is foolish. Therefore, it is folly to be wise.
A joke is a gag. A gag is that which is stuffed into the mouth preventing speech. Therefore, what this country needs is a better type of gag for all would-be comedians.
—Maroon Bee
Sad Blow to Socialites
The cancelling of Northwestern University’s Junior Prom rated a page one story in the Daily. The university administrative body supervising student activities did away with the annual dance by ruling, out all off-campus dances during the war. The Prom is usually held in downtown Chicago. The Prom was first exempted from the ruling, but later difficulties in orchestra booking caused the council to cancel it too. The general ruling on off-campus activities caused quite a stir on the Northwestern campus with most of the club and fraternity heads registering a protest against the ruling.
2
THE WEEK
BY J. Q. O’CONNELL
Top of the Week:
“This beautiful Assembly Hall....”
Personal to Jim Fayette:
Gus Hardart wants to know, please, should he throw away his ticket stubs from the Carnival Raffle, or has he still got a chance, maybe?
Coming Events Cast Their. . .
No, not dice, Gifflesbury — shadows. And that’s what was going on last Sunday. A coming event was busy casting its shadow. Of course, officially, it was the University’s 96th, or 97th, observance of Washington Day, and the Flag Presentation in our Assembly Hall was the real ceremony, but, Gifflesbury, old boy, how did you like the feel of that mortar board on your head, huh? Ah, it won’t be long now. We know how you hated to turn the outfit in, because we also had trouble with that brand of mathematics, but don’t worry, Gifflesbury. The final performance, we hear, will be much simpler. They’re going to eliminate the refund.
One of the high-lights of the program, we thought, was that stellar performance by Chairman C. Martin Kearney, alias “The Great Stone Face.” Chairman Kearney, from his keystone position, managed to convey, with complete aplomb, that bland benevolence for which he is justly famous, and although his duties entailed considerable responsibility, no one can say that he got excited or lost his head.
While Chuck performed on the stage, his last year’s room-mate, Big Jim McNulty, was holding his own, down in the audience. Big Jim accidentally wore his cap backwards all through the festivities, and as he marched in, several of the young ladies present, noticing the “widow’s peak” effect, mistook him for Robert Taylor.
Motive for Mayhem Dep’t.
As things stand now, members of the Golf Team who had planned to attend the Senior Ball, will have to enjoy the goings-on through the courtesy of Western Union, or something. Schedule makers have the lads cavorting on distant fairways, over the crucial week-end.
Good-Bye, Mr. Griffin!
The gripe of the week comes from the C.P.T. boys, who claim that flying an
airplane out at Bendix has become more complicated than driving a car. Whenever a C. P. wants to take off, he first must taxi out of his hangar ( of course in the airplane, Gifflesbury!) to the temporary control tower, then cut his engine, go inside the tower and report who he is, where he is going and why, and the time within five minutes at which Ke will return. He may then be on his way. If he is not back at the specified time, a squadron of speedy pursuit ships, with machine guns chattering, zooms up and simply shoots him out of the sky. This little disciplinary measure has been employed nine or ten times now, with good effect, and, as Fledgling Birdling Emmet Griffin says, the C.P.T. boys are finding it an awfully good lesson in punctuality.
Look, Mr. Leahy!
During the week we sunk our talons into No. 3, Vol. 1, of the Irish Pennant, an admirable little publication for local admirals. Although we were not able to batten our hatches down on all the salty sailor jargon, landlubbers that we are, we could understand a very interesting report on the R.O.T.C. Rifle Team. It seems the Rifle Team has already taken on Minnesota, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and West Virginia, with Michigan, Yale, Northwestern, and William Randolph Hearst yet to go. And to think this is the first we heard of it!
The Winter Carnival
No doubt you have all heard of the recent Winter Carnival across the way. Silly as the thing sounds, we report with good authority that it was a complete success. The entertainment, and the refreshment, the music and dancing— everything was first rate—and, except for the bars on the windows, and the well - placed machine gun nests, one might have thought one was at some elite and exclusive country	club.
Arrivals:	From:
S. S. McKenna	Chicago
S. S. Heekin	Cincinnati
Departures:
Only the Shadow knows!
Bottom of the Week:
All that meat, and no chocolate cake!
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Despite the fact that this type of sentiment rarely comes to our desk, and that the Editors would relish accepting these plaudits, the Scholastic must direct these letters and the messages they convey to the Notre Dame Student Commission For Decent Literature, which has solely been responsible for remembering the NJ), men in the armed forces.
<«
February 16, 1942 Dear Sir:
I take this opportunity to thank the Scholastic for sending me copies of. said issue. I do not know whom I am thankful to. The Scholastic comes but it does not say from whom.
I attended Notre Dame in 1938. Have worked at the Laboratories of Bacteriology as a technician for six years. I have followed the Scholastic while at Notre Dame and have always enjoyed it. Being away from home and receiving the Scholastic brings back many happy memories.
Take it from me, the Scholastic makes life down here a bit more pleasant.
Yours very truly,
(Signed) Pvt. AI Lorenc
Hq. Co. 152 Inf. (R) 38th Division Camp Shelby, Miss.
February 9, 1942 Dear Sir:
Thanks (however late) very much for the Scholastic. It is very kind and very thoughtful of you to keep Our Lady’s men-at-arms in touch with home folks through your column.
What really brought this out, though, was a nostalgic prod from the pen-and-ink, column 3, page 14, Number 13, Volume 75 (February 6, 1942) (see cut). It looks suspiciously like one of my own done ’way back when Harry L. Flannery, former CBS Berlin correspondent, McElroy (of blessed memory), Obie O’Brien, Father Lange, C.S.C., myself, and others were doing such things for the Dome, the Juggler (ever hear of it?), the Daily (three days a week), et cetera. The mystery is not that it could be, but how you ever found the plate in the Morgue! We never could find anything we wanted in it.
Keep up the good work.
. Sincerely,
(Signed) Robert B. Riordan, Major, Field Artillery, Purdue University, Dept, of Military Science and Tactics.
3
"SURSUM CORDA"
An address delivered by the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., President, at the exercises commemorating Washington's Birthday, Feb. 22, 1942.
"Just a year ago today your immediate predecessors at Notre Dame—the Class of 1941—presented an American flag to the University in keeping with our time-honored custom. On that occasion I told the Seniors that their horizon was different from that of any class during the last twenty years; that the world which awaited them was uncertain and chaotic. Your outlook differs but little from theirs. The world is even more chaotic, but, in a way, it is no longer rmcertain. The issue has been determined. Now, at any rate, we know the magnitude of the task that lies before us. We are face to face with the awful reality of a war that has been forced upon us—a war that ■will determine, once and for all, whether man is a child of God with God-given rights, or a creature that exists only to serve the ends of a man-made ideology.
“In war and peace, I am happy to say, your class is in the best Notre Dame tradition. More than once since Pearl Harbor you have given evidence of your quality. You have the same devotion to ideals, the same clarity of vision, the same firm faith in your church and your country, the same willingness to serve in a just cause that has characterized Notre Dame and Notre Dame men for 100 years. It is an attitude toward life and its problems that we of Notre Dame who see succeeding generations of students come and go have come to expect from young men who are a part of Our Lady’s school. I can pay you no higher compliment than to say that Notre Dame is proud of you.
“Let us turn back the pages of history as we assemble here today to perpetuate a ceremony rich in tradition, beautiful in expression, and trenchant in meaning for all of us.
“The world is at war. The United States is party to that war. We can not delude ourselves with the belief that recent setbacks suffered by our armed forces and those of some of our allies have not been serious. The outlook is rather bleak at present, if not actually dark. Yet, inevitably my thoughts go back to Washington at Valley Forge when our forefathers were sustained only by their faith in their leader, just as he, in turn, was buoyed up by his faith in his cause and in his God. Our national fortunes • were at their lowest ebb during that tragic winter of 1777.
4
“The British under Howe had captured Philadelphia despite all that Washington could do to prevent its falling into his hands. The defeat at Brandywine, on Sept. 19, had been followed a few weeks later by another defeat at Germantown. Shortly afterward, Washington retired to Valley Forge, a dark, cold hollow near Philadelphia. The winter was bitterly cold; there was almost no shelter to speak of. The remnants of Washington’s army were in rags, hatless and bootless. The men were half starved, and hence a prey to all the diseases that starvation brings in its wake.
Eev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
“Meanwhile, Congress was helpless because it could not provide the funds that would relieve the suffering. When, in desperation, it issued paper money which had no specie to back it up, there was born a phrase that is still in common use: ‘Not worth a Continental.’ Washington himself observed: ‘It took a wagonload of Continental money to get a wagonload of supplies.’ Congress itself was not without its faults. At times it was shortsighted and carpingly critical. Some of its decisions were almost monumental in their stupidity. Washington himself finally came under attack as the Conway Cabal sought to replace him with General Gates, who owed his one success to the military genius of the unfortunate Benedict Arnold—and, sig
nificantly, this happened on Washington’s 46th birthday.
“Yet, despite cold, sickness, famine, and hardships of all kinds, a better army emerged from winter quarters at Valley Forge. The American patriots had conquered foes more dangerous than any that the British could put in the field against them. And it should be remembered that in the darkest hour; when England offered to negotiate peace on any terms except acknowledgment of American independence, the offer was flatly declined.
“There stands today at Valley Forge an Arch of Triumph. On one side- are the words:
“ ‘To the Officers and Private Soldiers of the Continental Army. Dec. 19, 1777— June 19, 1778.’
“On the other side are Washington’s, own words:
“ ‘Naked and starving as they were, we cannot enough admire the incomparable patience and fidelity of the soldiers.’
“So it has been with other wars that we have fought. There have always been moments of indecision, there have been misunderstandings and reverses — and usually these have come at the beginning. It may truly be said of our country that we are slow in starting, but strong in finishing. But even now, in this second World War, we must be careful not to let a smugness and complacency creep over us. Victory can not be bought cheaply. We will experience many hardships and heartaches before peace is restored, and only the wilfully blind or the inordinately proud will think otherwise. The strong man is the humble man; the strong nation is the humble nation. Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
“War is a scourge from God. It should bring us to our senses in recognition of the nation’s ills. Our heritage from the Founding Fathers is Christian. If only our spiritual growth had kept pace with our material progress! In the brief span of little more than a century and a half the United States has become the richest nation in the world by applying man’s ingenuity to nature’s gifts. But in our development too many of us seem to have forgotten what our ancestors know so
(Continued on page 23)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
FEBRUARY 27, 1942
Number 16
SAINT PATRICK'S DAY WILL OPEN. ACTION ON ELEVENTH ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS
St. Patrick’s Day, honored day for Notre Dame’s gallant galaxy of nice Fighting Irishmen, or Irishmen by association, signals the 1942 fighting explosion on the campus. The 11th annual University boxing championships, the Bengal Bouts, get under way that Tuesday night on March 17.
For three nights, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, March 17, 18 and 19, entrants from the eight weight divisions universally recognized by the Amateur Athletic Union, will vie for the right to compete in the finale, Saturday night, March 21.
Chance for Light Men
Dominick Napolitano, chief instructor and matchmaker for the tournament, this week announced that only two entries have been received in both the 120-and 127-pound division. A total of 65 men have already reported but others are welcome in the two lowest weight classes. Mr. Napolitano urges all campus battlers interested in earning the right to win a boxing sweater to report immediately.
To date, the 135-pound division title looms the most uncertain, and it appears likely to be the section which will furnish the best competition for the championship. Alumni hall’s Dan Canale, titlist in the 127-pound ranks a year ago, probably won’t be able to meet that weight requirement, and may step up a division. He will be hard pressed by such favorites as Joe Farrell of Morrissey hall, and John Atwater, Brownson’s latest stalwart.
No Maguire This Year!
Another wide-open battle looms in the 145-pound division since the withdrawal from the University a year ago of the best fighter in Bengal Bouts history. Jim Rice, red-headed finalist from Walsh hall, Mario Massulo of St. Ed’s A.C., Kermit Rousseau and Walter Romito, a pair of Badin battlers, and Jack Padon, newcomer from Zahm, are the leading threats.
The campus-wide ticket campaign,
headed by Student Council President Gene Schumacher of Sorin hall, swings into action soon. Proceeds of this affair, for the 11th year in a row, go to the Bengal Missions of India.
| NEXT WEEK |
Tonight: Deep-sea diving expert, Max Nohl, lectures at Washington Hall, 8:00.
SATURDAY, FEB. 28:
Great labors with sabres. N.D.’s fencing team will not be foiled by Ohio State.
7:05 p.m. WSBT, “Air Forum.” Discussion of a current problem of interest to students.
• 7:00 p.m. Abbot and Costello — riot plus — in “Hold That Ghost.” Irish bas-ketballers roll on over Michigan State at Lansing.
SUNDAY, MAR. I:
Freshman and Senior on cigarette fast. Both break fast early: Senior breakfasts late.
MONDAY, MAR. 2:
Representatives from Naval Aircraft Factory interview Senior Engineers.
TUESDAY, MAR. 3:
WSBT, 7:45 p.m. “Men of Tomorrow.” A program that is not the least like its title.
WEDNESDAY, MAR. 4:
Economic Round Table.
THURSDAY, MAR. 5:
4:15 p.m. WSBT, College Sports Cast. Jack Morrison and Pete Moritz.
FRIDAY, MAR. 6:
“Campus Quiz.” Girls from South Bend versus student representatives.
Seniors! Know Your Latin?
Apply for Scholarships
Five 8300 prizes will be offered to seniors at the University of Notre Dame and several other colleges in the United States, that are members of the American Academy in Rome, Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C., head of the department of classics, announced this week.
Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C.
The cash awards will be made upon the merits of a competitive examination in Latin and Greek. Father Gorman said that as the test would consist mainly of Latin, students with two years of Greek and three of Latin should have sufficient knowledge of the language to participate.
The prize money however must be used next fall in graduate work in any school -in the country which the winner chooses to attend. This is the first year that these prizes have been offered and the money is being supplied by institutions in the United States. Application blanks may be obtained from Father Gorman at St. Edward’s hall.
Foreign Students Say
Latin America Friendly
If the sudden attack on our far eastern possessions did nothing more to the American people, it brought home the necessity of closer union of ideals be-tween the United States and Latin America. The problem of bettering Intra- Z ? American relations has suddenly become f ; acute, due to the strong influence of un--: ' ■ Z-
• -5
desirable European nations in South American countries.
One very positive step toward betterment of relations has been taken by a Catholic organization, the Pax Romana. Under this, a program has been arranged whereby students of the two Americas are exchanged by Catholic colleges and universities in each. In this country, Notre Dame was one of the first universities to see the advantages of such a policy and has provided a number of South American students with Scholarships. At present, there are four holders of these scholarships: Eduardo Al-cayaga -of Chile, Clarence Finlayson of Chile, Armando Pacheco of Brazil, and Joseph Aponte of Puerto Rico.
The purpose of this exchange-student plan, as expressed by Eduardo Alcayaga, is “To strengthen the cultural relations between North and South America, and to provide for a better understanding of the language, religion, and customs which go to make up the difference in our ways of life.” Mr. Alcayaga, who was a Spanish professor in Santiago, Chile, before coming here last year, expressed the belief that the exchange of ideals through the medium of students was the best possible way to acquire a mutual knowledge of the problems confronting the Americas.
When approached with questions concerning the attitude of South America as a whole both toward the war and the policies of Argentina and Chile, the Latin American students stated that, like all North Americans, the vast majority of South Americans were in sympathy with the allied cause. Mr. Armando Pacheco of Brazil said: “All Latin America was most solicitous for the cooperation of Argentina in the Pan-American conference, since, economically, this country is strongest of the group. The opposition encountered was not the reflection of popular sentiment, but merely of a few pro-German government officials.”
In speaking about the position of his native country, Chile, Mr. Alcayaga deplored Chile’s aloofness at that time. “But since then, a new election has taken place, with Mr. Juan Antonio Rios, president, and Mr. Juan B. Rosseti, secretary of foreign relations, both of whose political lives have always upheld freedom and the interest of civilization and humanity.”
, Father O'Donnell to Address the Cook County K. of C's
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, will be the principal speaker at a banquet Sunday evening at the Palmer House, Chicago, following the exemplification of the
Fourth Degree of Cook County Knights of Columbus. Philip C. Nilles, master of the fourth or patriotic degree of the order, will initiate several hundred candidates in the presence of army and navy officials and other- dignitaries.
Other banquet speakers for the occasion include Leo M. Flynn, state deputy of the order, and Timothy P. Galvin, Hammond, Ind., supreme master of the fourth degree, and a Notre Daine classmate of Father O’Donnell. Judge Victor A. Zuris, of the Municipal Court, will deliver “The Impressions of the Day” address, and Judge John F. Bolton, of the Superior Court, will eulogize the late master of the degree, Joseph A. McMahon.
ANOTHER NOTRE DAME SOLDIER DIES
The Navy department yesterday notified Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Clarke, 7758 Constance Avenue, Chicago, of the death of their son, Francis Xavier, when the naval supply ship Pollux, went aground on the Newfoundland coast. 200 other seamen were dead or missing as a result of the terrific storm which sent the ship crashing against the grim and rocky coast. Ensign Clarke, aged 24, was graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a B.Sc., in 1939. Later, he completed a course hi Business Administration at Harvard University. He was commissioned in the Navy shortly afterward. Yesterday, the Navy department in Washington had identified 189 men and officers as lost. The Pollux was part of a large American convoy, the destination of which was not disclosed. Only one life boat from the Pollux made shore safely.
Smith Explains Failure of
Defense Mediation Board
“I am completely in favor of this plan for meetings of students and teachers. I think they will provide an excellent means for promoting good feeling between them,” asserted Mr. E. A. Smith, principal speaker at the Student-Teachers meeting, held Monday night in the Rockne Memorial. Lounge. Mr. Smith spoke on the closed shop issue and its relation to the war.
In his talk, the third of a series of informal discussions, Mr. Smith stated the case both for and against the closed
shop, which he maintained is “one of the most vital issues affecting labor.”
He advocated “the maintaining of a firm and consistent policy on the closed shop issue,” pointing out that “the Defense Mediation Board failed because of its inconsistency in granting a closed shop in one case and outlawing it in another.”
Following Mr. Smith’s talk an open forum -was conducted and those attending questioned the speaker on subjects related to his talk. Because of the popularity of the first two meetings the Student-Teachers Meeting is to be a regular campus activity held each Monday in the Rockne lounge. Mr. F. J. O’Malley is scheduled to be guest speaker at the next meeting.
The Pinkerton's of N. D.
Saved Lincoln's Life
Roy Grumbine
The Notre Dame Library has recently acquired from the Chicago Pinkerton Detective Agency a little known first edition, concerning a perilous phase of Abraham Lincoln’s life. It was purchased as an addition to the Library’s biographies of Lincoln.
In its intimate pages are revealed the difficulties which the President, under the protection of Allan Pinkerton, a member of the Federal Secret Service, encountered on his inaugural journey from Harrisburg, Pa. to Washington, D. C. Mr. Pinkerton, the founder of the far-famed organization which bears his name, was charged with the safe keeping of Lincoln from Feb. 22 through Feb. 23, 1861. Before the convoy left Harrisburg the Federal Agent learned that conspirators had laid a carefully planned trap which they had hoped would end in the death of the illustrious traveller. But through the actions of Pinkerton, the President reached Washington the next day unharmed.
It was from recollections and papers left by Allan Pinkerton on this incident, that the Pinkerton family gathered the material and consequently published the book, the same privately printed first edition which is now a part of the library. They lengthily entitled it a “History of Evidence of the Passage of Abraham Lincoln from Harrisburg, Pa., to Washington, D. C., 22nd and 23rd of February, 1861.”
Of particular interest is the fact that two sons of the patriot Pinkerton, William and Robert, attended Notre Dame. They were enrolled in 1860, William leaving the year of his father’s daring escapade, to join the forces of the United States, and Robert following in 1863. Two years after the Civil War, Robert alone returned to complete his courses.
6
AoHusuAfaattoH. NeuA. >	,	-	,	.	,
,fl!=:==^SV
FATHER O'DONNELL, CAPT. DEWITT CARR AND BERNARD MARBACH SPEAK ON WASHINGTON DAY
At 4 p.m. last Sunday in Washington Hall there was observed the 97th annual Washington Day exercises. Instituted by Father Sorin, founder of the University, in the last century, the exercises are traditional with Notre Dame.
Chairman of the assemblage was Charles Kearney of the College of Arts and Letters. The exercises opened with a processional by the Symphony orchestra and were followed by an address by Bernard Marbach of the College of Science. His subject was “Washington and Hu
Pres. James O'Neal (right) congratulates Class Orator Marbach after his address.
man Freedom." James O’Neal, president of the Senior Class and a member of the College of Arts and Letters, then presented the flag to the University. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, made an address in acceptance of the flag.
Immediately following the “Caliph of Bagdad” by the orchestra, Captain De-witt Carr, executive officer at Great Lakes Training Station, Glenview, Ill., then gave his address. The observance ended with the audience singing “The Star Spangled Banner.”
Professor J. P. Nash Leaves
To Experiment at M. I. T.
National defense has claimed another Notre Dame faculty member with the announcement by the University of a leave of absence for John P. Nash, Ph.D., instructor in mathematics. Dr. Nash has been asked to cooperate in government experiments in the radiation laboratories of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Dr. Nash received his bachelor’s degree from the University of California in 1936, and then became a fellow of Rice Institute for four years, during which time he received his master’s degree and his doctorate. In 1940 he joined Notre Dame’s faculty of mathematics, which has achieved international recognition under the leadership of the eminent Austrian scholar, Dr. Karl Menger.
Dr. George B. Collins, distinguished physicist of the University and a leader in the development of the experiments with atomic disintegration at Notre Dame, is also at M. I. T. on leave of absence to do government research. He is assisted by one of his outstanding student physicists at Notre Dame, Alex-ander Petrauskas, who assisted in the construction of Notre Dame’s electrostatic generator.
Deep-Sea Diving Expert
To Lecture Here Tonight
Charles Kleibacker
Max Gene Nohl, foremost authority in America on deep sea diving and a noted photographer, will lecture tonight in Washington Hall. In conjunction with his lecture he will show his collection of movies.
Mr. Nohl, 28, is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and has invented many pieces of diving equipment. Among these is the “self-contained” helium diving suit, the first important development in this field since 1837. By means of his invention Mr. -Nohl was able to descend 420 feet in' 1937, shattering the 22-year record of Frank Crilley, U. S. Navy diver.
Other inventions which Mr. Nohl has to his credit are the diving lung, a 14-pound midget diving apparatus used, in rescue work and submarine escape, and the powdered diving shell, “the world’s smallest submarine.” He has also built numerous underseas cameras and hel- .. mets.	'	. -
FIRST FILIPINO TO BECOME AMERICAN CITIZEN IS NOW CORBY HALL EMBROIDERY ARTIST
WILLIAM B. GUYOL
Last Saturday I met one of the greatest artists of our day and the first Filipino to gain citizenship to the United States, Pastor Villaflor, who lives in Corby Hall. He came to this country in 1900 through the help of Father Vatt-man, an American missionary stationed in the Islands. As we talked of his arrival in the United States, Pastor pointed to a sculptured head of Lincoln hanging in his room, and told me “Teddy” Roosevelt had given him that upon his arrival in Washington. He spoke also of breakfasting with the President at the White House; and how, on becoming a citizen, he cast his first vote in a presidential election for his famous friend.
He has studied many types of fine wearing, embroidering, and needlework, on his two journeys around the world. His technique of blending choice Chinese silk with delicate shadings, and his own designs won laudations and awards at the Chicago and St. Louis Fairs.
Pastor showed me a kimona that he had made; and when I looked at it so admiringly, he told me to put it on. I studied other examples of his work. At present he is working on a Roman chas-
THE UNIT OPERATIONS LABORATORY
TOM DEGNAN
When the new addition to the Chemistry building was built to house the department of chemical engineering, a large'two story section was allotted to a new kind of laboratory, the Unit Operations Laboratory.
The science of chemical engineering was founded when it was discovered that almost any process in chemical manufacture can be divided into certain fundamental operations, arranged in various orders according to the product made. Some of these operations are distillation, drying, crystallation, gas absorption, humidification and extraction. In investigating a new process evolved in the chemical laboratory1', the chemical engineer builds a pilot plant consisting of a series of unit operations on a small scale and makes runs with a few hundred pounds of material. In this way he can make changes and solve problems at small cost before the plant is built.
The A. I. Ch. E. recommends that universities granting degrees in chemical engineering offer a laboratory course in unit operations to supplement the theory course.
uble that he expects to finish within a year. Some of the vestments that are to be used during the centennial services were made by him over a three and one-half year period. His other accomplishments include a teaching knowledge of French, Spanish, German, and Latin; with equal facility he can play the piano, guitar, organ, and violin. Pastor attained some of these in his studies at this University in 1904.
He has painted with oils on velvet and other cloth, but he says “Anyone can paint. You take your paint, and if you make a mistake, you cover it up. But it is not so with my beautiful work. Once a bad stitch is taken—that is all. If it is wrong, it is too bad. So I do not like painting.”
Pius X, Leo XIII, Roosevelt, Taft, Wilson, Cardinal Hayes, Cardinal Mundelein, and other dignitaries were numbered among his friends.
He likes Spanish music, auction bridge, and news broadcasts, the latter of which he listens to until late at night. “I used to do my work at night, but no good any more. The tear roll down my cheek and the eyes puff up.”
Notre Dame’s laboratory has been built up partially through purchases and partially7 through the efforts of students doing their bachelors and masters theses. The laboratory is under the supervision of Dr. R. E. Rich, and it is he who is largely7 responsible for its rapid growth. Adjacent to the laboratory7 is a well equipped shop to make possible the building and further improvement of the equipment. •
During the past several years, those students building equipment have had the valuable sendees of Louis Jaquay and William Marshall.
Students taking the courses have almost complete freedom to use the equipment as they see fit and to improve upon it in any7 way. Some of the equipment now in service includes a vertical, long tube evaporator, a dryer, a forced draft tower, a rotary dryer, a filter press, a wet wall ammonia absorption tower, a fluid flow apparatus and a bubble tower. In addition to all this Louis Jaquay is at present building a fractional distillation apparatus.
Motion and Time
One of the additions to the department of mechanical engineering is the new series of courses in motion and time study. The courses were inaugurated by Prof. C. Robert Egry, associate professor of mechanical engineering. The classroom study, which consists of lectures and motion pictures of actual motion and time studies is augmented by a series of practical laboratory7 experiments. These illustrate the various classes of body7 movements involved in factory operations performed by workers, elimination of tiring or wasteful motions of workers, and the possibility7 of increasing production with decreased effort through use of special equipment such as tables, chairs, bins, and other accessories.
The importance of this subject is evidenced by the fact that it is being taught under government auspices to the men enrolled in the night Defense Classes. The men taking these courses are practical engineers who are daily confronted by the actual problems of production, . which this study strives to help them solve. The need for the application of motion and time studies in industry has been forcefully illustrated in the present war effort. Its actual value to the effectiveness of America’s productive effort cannot be overestimated.
A.I.E.E. Hears T. L. Millard
The South Bend Section of The American Institute of Electrical Engineers held a meeting last Wednesday, Feb. 18, in the Engineering Building. The guest speaker of the evening was T. L. Millard, General Electric application engineer for the central district. Mr. Millard’s topic was “Modern Industrial Distribution Systems.” He discussed the different factors which determined the type and quality of the system to be used in a given factory or centralized unit. These factors were grouped in order of importance into: safety, reliability, good regulation, low cost and flexibility of operation.
A comparison of costs of modern systems was made to that of the old type. The speaker also outlined a distribution system which would be very satisfactory for present-day defense plants. This plan made use of about 50 per cent of the total rubber and copper that would ordinarily be used.
Mr. Millard illustrated his talk with slides of different equipment used in distribution. Following the presentation of the speech, an open discussion on the subject was held in which many questions were answered.
Plans were made at the meeting to arrange so that Mr. David C. Prince, president of The American Institute of Electrical Engineers may address the local section in the near future.
8

N&cuA.
ST. ED'S. HALL GETS REPRESENTATIVE ON "DOME" AWARD GROUP AS STORM BREAKS OVER SELECTION
ran’ and St. Ed’s didn’t even ‘get to the post.’ We were scratched.”
Ward Menard, 217: “After reading the
Last week, as far as St. Edward’s Hall ' was concerned, something was rotten on the Gold Coast. The smell reached across the Main Quad to the scarred but proud walls of the stronghold that is St. Ed’s A. C. Within there was anger and injured pride. Reason: St. Ed’s had no representative on the committee of Juniors chosen to pick the annual Dome award winners.
To Editor Hillebrand it was nonsense....
To the men of St. Edward’s this was the great insult. Long distinguished among the Notre Dame family as individuals bearing a stamp and tradition peculiarly their own, with a history akin to that of Notre Dame herself, the men of St. Edward’s discovered on Friday, Jan. 27 that they had been left out of the picture. On the committee were ten men from Dillon Hall, two from Howard, none from St. Ed’s. Muttered resident John Russell: “The score read, Dillon 10, Howard two, St. Ed’s—scratched. The boys from Howard, I understand, thought they got a fast shuffle. Maybe so, but St. Ed’s wasn’t even dealt a hand. Little wonder—Dillon did all the dealing.”
The basis of picking the committee departs from the usual form of previous
years. Up till the present the committee was composed of representatives from the Dome, the Scholastic, Junior class officers and other outstanding third year men. However, according to good authority, previous committees did not function properly, thus the change made this year.
But to St. Edward’s the basis of the choice was no salve for their wounds. A round-up of the opinions which came into the Scholastic office after the announcement last Friday follows:
Sam Meyer, 122: “My opinion after reading the Scholastic is that the Juniors from St. Ed’s must be black. I think we are justified in at least being represented by one individual in picking the Dome award winner.”
George McQuiston, 411: “Doesn’t seem very fair.”
Jim Delaney, 415: “What’s the story on this? They kind of overlooked St. Ed’s.”
Pat Donovan, 415: “Dillon! It’s Dillon, mostly Dillon.”
Elmer Peterson, 311: “In the language of the horse race, Howard was an ‘also
But not to St. Ed's board of strategy, Muellman, Meyer, Earley, Florence, and Corrigan.
Scholastic it is my opinion that the boys from St. Ed’s aren’t wanted, or that the fellows on the other side of the
campus don’t know there are also juniors in St. Ed's. Why not give us a break?”
Frank Dudley, 307: “Quite a bit of partiality shown toward Dillon. Fellows from St. Ed’s could have been chosen
who are really the leaders. It was a raw affair.”	.
Bill Stewart, 109: “I don’t think it's fair. We should have distribution. There are some pretty good men over here too.”
“Buck” Meuleman, 134: “As a group, they’re a good bunch. But how come St. Ed’s isn’t at least represented. Seems like we’re left out in the cold. They haven’t hit a medium of the students. T could say a lot more, but....”
Bill Earley: “I think they should keep politics out of the thing. They must have had the meeting at the Oliver Coffee Shop and picked the fellows as they came in the door.”
Harry Wright, 115: “Terrible! Why isn’t there a student vote? Why are they all from the same hall? A committee should pick them.”
Bob Corrigan, 104: “It seems as though St. Ed’s should be represented.”
The storm broke with the last issue of the Scholastic in which a story was printed of the committee selection. A paragraph within the article read: “Joseph Hillebrand, Toledo, Ohio, editor in chief of the 1942 Dome, together with his staff, has selected the group of representative juniors who will, in time, select the outstanding seniors of 1942.” St. Edward’s thought they read between the lines when they recalled that Hillebrand is a Dillon man. To Editor Hillebrand the inference was nonsense. Said he:
“The committee is entirely representative. There are four men from the Dome, and two men each from the different colleges. The men were chosen because of their marks and the fact that we thought they got around enough to be able to pick the outstanding seniors.”
To the offices of the Scholastic the complaints finally came to roost. The matter was taken up by Scholastic’s editors and this week the committee of 12 became a committee of 13. Added to the original list was a representative from St. Edward’s Hall, Jim Walsh.
"Bulletins" Mystery Solved
N. D. Preps for Mid-Sems
Dave Condon
For about the past four weeks the whereabouts of the Notre Dame semester grades were about as definite as the movements of the Japanese fleet. Then, in. a splendid coup, designed to overshadow the President’s February 23 speech, the “little brown papers” were released. This ended all rumors that the grade slips had been conscripted by the government to chart the movements of the Third Alaskan Army.
With the release of the brown slips there is expected to come a bevy of letters from Hometown, U. S. A., and students are running around the campus muttering, “But gee, dad, that teacher doesn’t like me,” in anticipation of a few calls from the pater.
With the shock of the semester grades just about absorbed and peace almost restored on the home front, it was discovered that the mid-semester exams are creeping up faster than the aforementioned Jap fleet streaking for cover.
A tentative announcement. from the office of the Director of Studies lists Monday and Tuesday, March 9 and 10, as days for the mid-semester exams.
Which will mean that the boys will soon be whistling “Those Pink Slip Blues” and commence thumbing through a volume of “Joe Miller’s 1000 Best Alibis.”
Just to keep the record straight, the office of the Director of Studies has chosen the period from March 11 to 17 for pre - registration for the summer semester, and the period between March 23 and 28 will find students pre-registering with the secretary and making reservation of rooms for the summer and fall terms.
Librarian says Classics
Are Shunned by Students
Ted Weber
Do Notre Dame men read books not required of them by their professors? If they do, what do they read—popular
fiction, contemporary authors, non-fiction, or the classics?
In an effort to answer, these questions were put to Mr. Bill Setty of the University library force. Here are his answers:
1	.) Notre Dame men do some outside reading.
2	.) Fiction tops their reading list.
3	.) Established classics of literature have not caught the fancy of Notre Dame men.
In proof of his first statement, Mr. Setty pointed to the fact that popular, fiction is in constant demand and that . many books have waiting lists. Besides fiction, non-fiction interpreting national and international events-and histories and biographies are drawn on very steadily.
The number of books of fiction in the library is, of course, very small when compared to books of other types. Most ... popular of those available are: Random
Harvest, Keys of the Kingdom, Saratoga ’ Trunk, and Oliver Wiswell. Books by Wolfe, Roberts, and Cronin are constantly popular. Another type of fiction that evidently appeals to Notre Dame men is the work of established contemporaries, typified by Willa Cather. Her books are seldom on the shelves. Fiction with a deep meaning and requiring interpreta
tion by the reader holds little popularity on the campus.
The traditionally popular western and mystery novels maintain their rank; of , popularity on the campus.
When the Irish student turns to heavier reading he is likely to choose a book on the lines of Berlin Diary by William Shirer. The.percentage of available books if this type is relatively small but the demand is steady. Biographies and histories round out the non-fiction reading list.
When classics were mentioned Mr. Setty smiled as he pointed out that few students read unless required. “If in February a student draws out a classic for the first time, we know his professor has assigned it. On the other hand, we recognize the few persons who draw these books out rather regularly. But they are in the minority.”
Third Issue of 'Irish Pennant'
Published Last Week
Late last week the third issue of the Irish Pennant, publication of the Notre Dame N.R.O.T.C., appeared on the campus. The magazine, a 23 page mimeographed issue, shows considerable improvement over the original issue. The cover design, executed by Louis Borghi, represented George Washington with an American flag as background.
Lead articles of the issue were Washington Day at Notre Dame, a sketch of Lt. W. S. Howell and two stories, one of Military Ball now in planning, and the other of Captain and Mrs. Burnett entertaining the battalion officers at their home. Also in this issue were three cartoons drawn by Bill Dougherty.
Joseph Conerty is editor-in-chief of the magazine and assisting him are Vincent Bitter, Louis Borghi and Charles Lyden. Contributors to this issue were: Charles Lyden, Art Hayes, Bill Wicks, Frank Crowley, Charley Noble, Ed Singelyn, Roy Grumbine, Spanish Burton, Jack Houghteling and Robert Bobbett. Faculty. advisor is Lt. T. Black, Jr., U.S.N.
Debaters Leave For
Manchester Tourney
Early this morning the eight members of the varsity debating squad and Debate Coach William J. Coyne left for North Manchester, Ind., to participate in the Manchester College tournament. This event is often called the largest debate tournament in the world. Over 200 colleges and universities, principally from the Midwest- but with scattered repre-
10
sentatives from all over the country, enter each year. The tournament started at noon today and will end at noon tomorrow. Each team participates in an average of four debates. The question this year is “Eesolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.”
The “A” members who made the trip were: William Meier, Mark Lies, Joseph
"SCHOLASTIC" TO BE PUBLISHED THROUGH SUMMER "DOME," "SCRIP" TO APPEAR EACH SEMESTER
BILL CLARKE
With the advent of the three semester system at Notre Dame it has become necessary to plan a revision of the publication set-up. It is evident that to get a complete news coverage of the entire schoolyear the Scholastic will have to be published during the summer months. Also with an eventual three graduations a year it will be necessary to change the publication set-up of the Dome.
From now on the Scholastic will be published weekly during each of the three semesters, according to Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor. Under the new plan the Scholastic staff will be appointed each semester in order to introduce new talent to the magazine each four months and thus maintain an experienced staff. The men on the staff who show promise will thus be able to advance faster.
The size of the Scholastic will depend on the amount of news at the time. Some weeks, possibly, it will be limited to a mere 18 or 20 pages, while at other times it may be necessary to extend it to 36 or more pages. At present there is plenty of paper on hand to keep the Scholastic in its present form, but it may be necessary in the future to publish it on a rougher paper, depending on the paper shortage.
As yet nothing definite has been decided on the future fate of the Dome. One of the best plans suggested thus far is to issue the yearbook every time a class graduates. In a short time a Senior class will be graduating every semester and this will mean the publication of three Domes a year. Obviously each issue will be much smaller than the Dome that is now issued. For instance, the May issue will include the activities of the basketball and baseball seasons, while the December issue will include only the football season. There is a possibility that the faculty section and the club groups will be omitted. Thus, each issue -will be limited to a possible 100 pages or so. Then, at the end of the year, the three issues may be bound
Tracy, and James O’Dea; “B” squad members were: Robert Galvin, William Lawless, John Utz, and Robert LeMense. The Manchester tourney is the first intercollegiate test for the squad this year.
Next Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Engi' neering Building auditorium the negative “A” team will meet an affirmative team from William and Mary College. All are invited to attend.
together to give a unified review of the year’s activities.
The literary quarterly, Scrip, will no longer be issued as a quarterly, but will in the future appear once a semester. This will mean that students will be getting their Scrip only three times a year instead of four times, as has been the case.
Second "Lawyer" Has Two
Outstanding Articles
The second issue of volume 17 of the Notre Dame Lawyer contained two outstanding articles: /‘The Provision for Attorney’s Fees in Negotiable Instruments” by James M. Ogden, president of Indiana Law School, and “Aristotle’s Conception of Justice” by Antone-Hermann Chroust and David L. Osborn, two research students of the Harvard Law School. Besides, there was an interesting section termed the Notes. These Notes were seven articles written by various Notre Dame Law Students.
This review is published in November, January, March, and May by the-law students of the University, and it is chiefly a subscription magazine. The Lawyer is exchanged with corresponding reviews of 65 other university law schools in the United States; and before the present war, issues were distributed in every major foreign country.
The March edition will be somewhat on the same basis, whereas the May issue will be devoted entirely to the four lectures recently given here by Roscoe Pound, former dean of Harvard Law School.
This year’s Lazuyer has the following editors: James Neu, editor-in-chief; William Syring, business editor; Richard Swisher, note editor; John Verdonk and James McGoldrick, associate editors, and John Hackett, James Diver, Leo Linck, John Killen, and James Danner are contributing editors. The faculty advisor is James J. Kearney. •
PETE MOULDER advisor is Prof.
Prof. Gurian and Student
Moulder Talk at E. R. T.
The guest of honor at the meeting of the Economic Round Table last Wednesday, was Dr. Waldemar Gurian. Peter -
Moulder gave a talk on, “The New British Empire.”
The Economic Round Table meets once weekly to discuss current world affairs and problems. Various papers are read and discussed. The faculty William Downey, head
of the department of economics.
The Economic Round Table is affiliated with the National Association of International Relations Clubs.
Last Saturday evening four members . of the club appeared on the Student Forum Of The Air. They discussed, “Economic Co-operation Between the United States and South America.” The four men are Roger Young, Peter Moulder, Vincent Hogan, and Jack Ryan.
At the last two meetings Jack Ryan and Mark Leis gave talks. Ryan spoke on “Price Control” and Leis discussed. “A Peace Plan After This War.”
A new membership meeting will be held in the near future. The Economics . Round Table is open to sophomores, juniors, and seniors who have a good scholastic record and the ability to discuss . current affairs.
Two Students Entered in
National Radio Debate
Entered as representatives of Notre Dame, William Meier and Francis R. Fox are preparing their entries in the national intercollegiate radio prize debate sponsored, by the American Ecb-nomic Foundation.
Prof. William Coyne, debate coach, announced last week that the boys would represent the affirmative and negative respectively of the debate topic, “Does Youth Have a Fair Opportunity Under Our American System of Competitive Enterprise?”	.	•
Briefs must be submitted by March 1; Prizes will -be awarded for the best briefs submitted. Preliminary debates on, . Blue Network stations will determine semi-finalists. Final briefs are to be sub- . mitted by April 10, with additional prize -.. stimulus for these, and the final debate .. will be held on May 10 over the Blue.' Network on its “Wake Up, America!” .. feature.	/
Birder Assigns Leads For "Pinafore" Show
Frank King
Professor Cecil (B. de) Birder, head of the Department of Speech, and producer of the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta,	Pinafore, has the organiza-
tion well under way, and last Monday announced the list of principals in the play.
Anthony Donadio, who last year won the applause of all for his performance in The Gondoliers, will play the part of Ralph Rackstraw, a common sailor desperately in love with the captain’s daughter. The captain’s daughter, Josephine, the feminine lead, will be played by the producer’s daughter, Joan, who did a grand job as Gianetta last year. Josephine, who is engaged to Sir Joseph
Porter, (Dave Curtin, a new-comer to the ranks of the Savoyards), is really in love with Ralph.
Jerry Heinlen, Glee Club soloist, plays the part of Captain Corcoran, Josephine’s father. Buttercup, a ship peddler at Portsmouth, is to be played by June Anderson, a South Bend lass, and Hebe, Sir Joseph’s first cousin, will be played by Agnes Haney, who did such a splendid job of portraying the part of Tessa in last year’s Savoyard production.
William Z. Murrin will play the part of Bill Bobstay, Boatswain, while Richard Conrady will take the part of Bob Beckey, the Boatswain’s Mate.
James Purcell, president of the Glee Club, who is really as nice a fellow as. you’d want to meet in real life, plays the part of an absolute stinker, Dick Deadeye. It seems that the utmost in joy for Mr. Deadeye is to make others unhappy.
In addition to the above there is also a large supporting cast of both girls and boys. The girls are all from South Bend and environs. Here are their names: Margaret Calloway, Alma Schellinger, Ruth Baumbach, the Misses Marilyn and Mary Nelson. In addition, there will be a special dance number included in the program by a dancing specialist.
What would a musical show be without an orchestra? John Sheedy, president of the Symphony Orchestra, reports that all the boys are ready to give their fullest support to the production. :
12
"Washington and the Navy"
Remarks by Capt. Dewitt Carr, Executive Officer of Great Lakes Training School, to the Senior Class, February 22, 1942.
“Father O’Donnell, Reverend Fathers, Distinguished Guests, and members of the Senior Class!
“We celebrate today the memory of a great man, the Father of our country. It is fitting at this time that we pause and consider why this man was able to lead his country through trying times. For we are again faced with difficult problems. There is a crying need for leaders such as Washington.
“You men are going to live through difficult times—the sort that make strong leaders. Upon the educated young men of this country lies a burden of responsibility to help our people through adversity. I can think of no better method of preparing oneself for what the future holds in store than by studying the life of George Washington. Here was a leader who possessed not only the technical genius for waging war, but who also had the basic qualities of leadership necessary for success in any field of endeavor.
Washington a Naval Genius
“Washington’s contributions to the U. S. Navy, have never received enough emphasis, so great were his successes in the field. Captain Dudley Knox, the naval historian, has written a book entitled, The Naval Genius of George Washington. Again and again Washington stressed the importance of sea power. For example, in a letter to the French General Rochambeau in 1780, he declared: ‘In any operation, and under all circumstances, a decisive naval superiority is to be considered as a fundamental principle, and the basis upon which every hope of success must ultimately depend.’
“Washington -was the father of the U. S. Navy, in addition to being father .of his country. In 1775, he arranged for the fitting out of small vessels. This so-called Washington’s fleet furnished a large part of the Continental Army’s supplies until Congress followed his lead and created the Continental Navy.
“In 1780, Washington, realizing that nothing could be done until he had Naval superiority, sent a special mission to France to plead for substantial Naval assistance, France at the time being at the height of her sea power. It was Washington’s strategy in using the French and American land forces in a major attack only when a superior naval
force was available and his joint operations with the fleet of Admiral de Grasse that brought victory at Yorktown.
He Knew a Big Navy Meant Peace
“Through Washington’s military and political career he insisted on a National Navy, realizing the limitations of State Navies and privateers. In his last message to Congress he pleaded for a well-equipped Navy that would ‘secure respect for a neutral flag’ and that might ‘even prevent the necessity of going to war.’
“Washington’s aggressive attitude and his insistence on preparedness are a lesson for us today. We of the U. S. Navy must acknowledge his foresight and his place in our Naval history. He was far ahead of the times in grasping the implications of sea power. But the greatest reward that can come from a study of his life is an observance of his great strength of character. It is, not enough that a Naval officer be a skilled mariner.
“Washington had the great qualities of leadership, unquestioning patriotism, courage, honor, and lofty ideals. His personal leadership kept the fight going for many years and was responsible for the fortunate cooperation of land and sea power at Yorktown. His force and determination triumphed over the discouragements of Valley Forge. We need such men today. Other leaders in the cause of the Colonies may have possessed certain individual qualities of Washington to a greater degree, but the fact that he deserved to be commanderin-chief was never questioned. His strength of character won the love of his soldiers and the confidence of his countrymen.
Navy Needs Men Like Washington
“You may well draw a lesson from Washington’s perseverance. The greater the obstacle, the more sure was he of the worth of his cause. The Navy wants men who can see above-the discouragements of the present to ultimate success.... men with a ‘do or die’ attitude. There is no substitute for courage.
“Washington had other qualities which help a man toward success in all walks of life. He was a positive person, ready to assume responsibility for decisions. His integrity and honor were above ques-
tion. Men felt instinctively that his cause was a just one.
“Benedict Arnold’s defection was one of the rare instances where Washington’s insight into character broke down. His justice in his dealings with subordinates was another quality that brought him respect and esteem.
“However, the quality that brought him success more than any other was his faith—faith in his God, faith in his fellows, and faith in the cause for which he strove. In the most trying times he could always find solace and renewed confidence through the medium of prayer. Deep in the heart of all Americans is the picture of George Washington kneeling alone near Valley Forge—asking Divine assistance for his cause and rededicating his every effort to it.
His Faith Inspired Others
“His faith in his cause spread. His own loyalty won for him the loyalty of others. Today we need the Americanism of Washington. His patriotism was of the highest order. His criticisms were constructive rather than the type that lead to discontent. Today there is too much of the latter.
“In times like the present the nationalistic spirit is fired. It is a good sign. Patriotism is a vitalizing force. America needs the full support of Americans.
“But let this patriotism be the real patriotism of Washington. Let all follow his example in dedicating their lives to theii' country. The heroes of the present war are men who firmly and unhesitatingly believe in their cause.
“The American people are a peaceful people. However, they are to be reckoned with •when aroused. Washington stirred them by his strength of character. Let us again receive an impetus from this great man.
“Washington had an abiding and moving faith in the future and destiny of America. To survive today we must have a similar faith in our country. The way is hard. The news is often discouraging. However, with heads high and with the knowledge that our cause is just, we shall march forward to victory. The future of the country for which Washington gave every ounce of strength is at stake. It is most fitting that many of our future officers in the United States Navy will come from a university whose graduates have earned the respect of men in all walks of life for their character.
Notre Dame Trains Navy Men
“Notre Dame is a training ground for leaders of the Navy. Many of you have received instruction aimed to make good Naval officers. Notre Dame may well be proud of the officer material she has giv-
(Continued on page 22)
rCOOP’N JPLINTEKJ
FROM TRE RREJJ BOX	|
by BILL SCANLAN
ARCH WARD SUGGESTS BEHR FOR BENGALS
Arch Ward, the nation’s No. 1 promoter of Golden Gloves, All-Star football and baseball, Silver Skates, and so on for the Chicago Tribune, suggests Johnnie Behr as a possible honorary Bengal Bouts referee. . . . Arch adds: “Johnnie for many years has been the coach of the Chicago Golden Gloves squad, as well as serving as head coach of the American Olympic boxing team in 1936 . . . also we are going right ahead with plans for the 1942 ALL-STAR football games.” . . . Good news, no doubt, for Capt. Paul Lillis, Steve Juzwik, Bob Maddock, Bernie Crimmins, Jim Brutz, John Kovatch, Bob Hargrave and other seniors who will play an important role in the nation-wide voting poll next summer for spots in the starting lineup at Chicago next August.
DONNELLY RETURNS TO ATHLETIC OFFICES
Energetic John Donnelly, Notre Dame’s efficient football manager of.1937, succeeds Bill Sullivan as No. 1 secretary for Coach Frank Leahy. . . . Before Sulivan arrived last spring, Donnelly was pinch hitter. . . . Later he joined the staff of J. Arthur Haley in the University’s Department of Public Relations. . . . Sullivan now receives his mail in Washington, D. C., where he’s slated for a Naval public relations post. . . . Tommy Nolan, 165-pound Bengal Bouts champion from Minneapolis, Minn., has a recipe for getting into shape in a hurry: Leaving Badin hall at 7:59 and running across the snow-capped Bog to an 8 a.m. class in the Administration Building. ... See him in action any Monday, Wednesday or Friday.
MIKE CARR HANDLES BASEBALL DETAILS
Chief manager for Coach Jake Kline’s baseball forces this spring is Mike Carr, Sorin hall senior from Indianapolis, Ind. . . . He’s been watching basketball center Frank Quinn a long time. . . . They both attended Indianapolis Cathedral high school. . . . Aims at a career in sales work after being graduated from Dean James E. McCarthy’s effective course in Business Administration by way of the Commerce school. . . . Mike’s favorite baseball story recalls Iowa’s series scheduled here in 1939. . . . Snow forced cancellation. . . . On May 1-2. . . . And he experienced his most embarrassing moment refusing a couple of unknown visitors admittance to football practice at Cartier field. . . . They were Parks Johnson and Wally Butterworth of the popular Vox Pop radio show.
McNAMARA FIRST BENGAL BOUT VICTOR
Bill McNamara, Father Bernard McAvoy’s Badin Hall entrant in the Bengal Bouts, notched his first triumph when he successfully met the challenge of Ed Drake, Sorin senior, for a two-mile unrehearsed, un-practiced race Saturday afternoon along the cross-country route. . . . McNamara, showing the .benefits of Bengal training under Trainer Nick Napolitano, beat Drake to the tape by 15 yards. . . . Drake lives in No. 13 Sorin sub, same room once occupied by Frank C. Walker, present Postmaster General of the United States and father of Tom of Alumni hall. . . . Scoring must run in the family. . . . Last year Steve Pavela, Brownson hall freshman, tallied 452 points to run his four-year total at La Crosse, Wis., Aquinas high school to 977. . . . Steve’s brother, John, currently sets the pace in La Crosse scoring circles with a 10-point average per game. . . . Steve is a member of the Irish frosh cage squad.
DOVE, WRIGHT MAY BECOME FOOTBALL GUARDS
All-American Left End Bob Dove and Quarterback Harry Wright may find themselves at the guard posts on the 1942 Notre Dame football team. . . . “Roundy” Coughlin, the ex-lawnmower pusher who quit being a janitor to write sports, with and without correct English for the Wisconsin State Journal, home town of the University of Wisconsin, Madison, has a good word for Bernie Crimmins, our All-American guard. . . . Writes “Roundy”: “I seen Bernie Crimmins in the East-West game. Man alive, what a guard. I never thought he was that good as I seen him at. fullback before. I put down Bernie Crimmins and Butch Levy of Minnesota as the best guards I seen this year easy. In fact, I never seen any better. Crimmins was all mud from head to foot in the East-West game. But the way that guy Crimmins was. *-stopping those West plays was a sight to see.” . . . The Syracuse U. Daily Orangei ^ Scholastic files of 1931 reflect, once stated: “They say that all you have to pass to -, get by at Notre Dame is fifty yards.” . . . They never dreamed of Angelo BertellL
TOMMY MILLS SETTLES IN MEMORIAL AFTER A GREAT COACHING CAREER
JACK DENNISTON
That distinguished looking, well-set, elderly gentleman, with the slightly bald head and dark rimmed glasses you often see at the Rockne Memorial Building is Thomas E. Mills. Since his appointment on March 1, 1939, as director of the Memorial, aggressive, thorough, and competent, “Tommy” Mills has reigned with marked success. For over two years now he has offered an attractive Interhall sports program to both students and faculty, which all will agree is as fine an Interhall program as any college can offer today.
Mr. Mills entered Beloit, then the best small athletic college in the Middle West, back in 1901. Size didn’t handicap the athletic “Tommy” ZMills, for within a year he was the regular plucky halfback on the Beloit football eleven. In ■ his senior year Beloit dropped close games to Michigan and Wisconsin. The Golden Gophers of Minnesota squeezed past Beloit, 6-0, but on following Saturdays Mills led them to a win over Northwestern and an astounding tie with Chicago, both of whom were then “football giants” of the country. That spring Mills captained and coached the baseball unit with remarkable success. Notre Dame and the Big Ten actually feared the Beloit nine in those days. “Why all we had to do was to go out and ‘warm-up’ an hour before the game and we’d have the game,” chuckled Mr. Mills, reflecting how they had their opponents “buffaloed.”
Upon graduation he accepted a position as a Speech instructor at Rockford (Hl.) high school. This was only temporary, for in 1907 Mills took liis winning personality to the University of Wisconsin. In his sophomore year he won the school Oratorical Contest. While a junior he organized the “Little Theatre Movement” which included such celebrities as, Hamlin Garland, Professor Dickinson, Professor Leonard, Mrs. Sherry, and Zona Gale. The death of his father in his senior year nipped a promising law career, and young Tommy was forced to. go to work. That fall the principal of the Rockford High school took him along to Omaha, Nebr., where for the next four years he was head of the department of speech in an Omaha high school. Here he produced all the' school’s plays, taught dramatics and oratory plus work-
14
ing with the football team. Some of the boys who learned how to block and tackle on his State Champions were Elsworth Moser, Jimmy Gorder, Dutch Platz, Leo Klein, and such Western Conference officials as Perry Graves, Bill Knight and Tony Haines.
Brings Joy to Creighton
In 1915 he succeeded Harry Miller, father of Tom and Creighton Miller, present members of the Notre Dame squad, as head football and basketball mentor at Creighton University also in Omaha. Here in four years his basketball outfits amassed a terrific record of 72 wins out of 76 contests. In the same span his gridiron lads annexed two undefeated seasons. The star on these teams was Gene Leahy, brother of Frank Leahy. Besides this he toiled as a speech instructor, produced the University’s plays, as well’ as scheduling all the varsity’s athletic opponents.
Continues Record at Alma Mater
Beloit, entering the Mid-West Conference in 1920, cast their eyes around for a football coach. Mills’ record at Creighton drew the attention of the athletic board like a magnet. So Mr. Mills returned to his Ama Mater. For six years . Beloit dominated the conference, winning four consecutive basketball titles— 42- straight games without a defeat at one time. Matching this, the football eleven took the League’s football laurels for three years, winning the title each time. In the fall of 1925 Notre Dame was host to the Mills coached Beloit eleven. . The Irish won 19-3, but the “old-timers” are* still humming about that game. “Some say this was the best small college team ever seen on Cartier Field,” Mills mentioned with just pride.
Caught Rockne’s Eye	.
- Rockne recognized that Mills was a competent coach, so in the fall of 1926 Tommy Mills took his' place alongside the great Rock as first assistant. Christy Flanagan, Bucky Dahman, Jack Chev-igny, Marty Brill, Tommy Yarr, Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Joe Savoldi, John Colrick, Jack Cannon, Bucky O’Connor, and Frank Leahy are just a few. of the N.D. men Mills tutored. “I :
. hate to pick the best team that repre-. sented N.D., but that ’29 outfit was just. about tops—-they had everything,” coni- i mented Mills.
When spring blossomed forth he assumed the role as coach of the N.D. baseball nine. He rates the battery pair of Ed Walsh, pitcher, and Billy Sullivan, catcher, both sons of the famous Chicago White Sox battery duet as standouts on the Notre Dame diamond. “Red” Smith, now line coach of the Green Bay Packers, who had a short stay with John McGraw’s Giants, along with Steve Ronay and Elmer Best, Mills ranked as outstanding N.D. moundsmen.
In the winter of 1930 Mills left Notre Dame for Georgetown, to reign as grid chief for three years. There he caught Georgetown on the rebound from a “deemphasizing campaign” and produced winning gridiron outfits there. Frank Leahy’s first coaching post was an assistant under Mills at the Washington, school. In ’33 he became head of the Speech department and head of the football team at Arkansas ’ State but two years later he dropped the southern school in favor of a NBS radio show. Five nights a week he conducted his “air-show” of general sports facts. 1936 found him back under the Golden Dome, this time as a Speech teacher. He conducted the Washington hall regular dramas until he took over the administration of tile “Rock.”
In a way he is really connected with the present coaching staff having instructed E. McKeever, when he was a freshman at N.D., and Frank Leahy held down a tackle spot on the great Irish ’29 team. Tommy, also has done some extensive scouting; from 1926-1930 he was the Irish chief advance man* and is still carrying on in the last few years an extensive portion of these duties.
. . Is Happy in the "Rock"
, In answer to the query, “Mr. Mills, do you miss being out on the field as a coach,” Mills replied. “Sometimes I have a little hankering when I see Frank Leahy out there at practice but I know and feel that the Notre Dame football team is in wonderful hands. I guess I’ve mellowed with the years, but I’d rather just sit at the “Rock”, and watch the boys come and go, getting their exercise, than to be coach of any school in the country. Coaching is a very hazardous job, filled with the bitter and the sweet. Many Sundays .1 met the newspaper boy at the front door—while other Sundays I-hid when I heard his footsteps. All in all I’m glad to see. the coaching duties resting , on the shoulders of the younger boys.”	:'
. Sb move over Rockne, Georg Gipp, you Four Horsemen and make room for a real “Notre Damer”—Thomas E. Mills.
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
IRISH CAGERS HOPE FOR NATIONAL RANKING AND A WIN OVER MICHIGAN STATE TOMORROW NIGHT
Faught May Boost His Scoring to 200 Circle
- John Powers
The result of the basketball game tomorrow night between Notre Dame and Michigan State at East Lansing will determine to a great extent whether or not the Irish basketball team may be ranked among the leaders of the nation. With a respectable record of 13 victories in the last 14 starts, the Irish will be attempting to stretch their consecutive victory chain to nine straight victories at the expense of the Spartans.
Bobby Faught, high scorer for the Irish, has another chance to boost his total number of points scored into the charmed “200” circle. After scoring only eight points in the rout over Western Reserve last Saturday night, Faught had a better turn of. luck on Tuesday night-when he sank seven baskets and two free throws to get 16 points and run his total for the season to 183 digits.
In their first appearance against the
Irish on Jan. 24 in the fieldhouse, the Spartans were nosed out 52-49. Boasting an ordinary record of 14 victories out of 20 starts, the Spartans are definitely harder to handle on their home court since they have won 10 out of 12 games played at East Lansing. A crowd of more ' than 8,000 is anticipated to witness this ■ final game of the season for the Spartans. Gerard, Aubuchon, Burk, and Patterson will be playing their final game for Michigan State. In the game here, . Gerard accounted for 21 points, Aubuchon got 13, and Patterson made five.
In a hectic high scoring contest before 5,000 fans in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse, the Irish swept to their eighth straight victory on Tuesday night when they defeated a fighting Butler quintet, 57-54. Although they came out on top in total points scored, the Irish had to concede the top performance of the evening to Capt. Wilbur Schumacher of the Bulldogs who sank goals from all points on the floor to harass his Irish guards and gather 23 points for the night’s game. Schumacher seemed to benefit from his earlier game with the Irish, which Butler Avon at Indianapolis by the score of 49-43 on Jan. 17. In that contest,
he gathered 21 points for the high scoring honors of the evening.
Niemiera initiated the scoring with a free toss and then combined with Bobby Faught who sank two baskets and a free toss to give the Irish a seven point lead before Butler could get a score. Over two minutes of the game had elapsed before Schumacher came to life to sink two long shots and give Butler its first points. Deputy of the Bulldogs followed suit with a goal to bring the Bulldogs within a point of tieing the score. This was the closest- Butler ever managed to come to the Irish in the entire game.
Niemiera tipped one in from under the hoop to ease the tension until Deputy countered with two free tosses. Then Niemiera, Kuka, Faught, and Rensberger broke through the Bulldog defense to get baskets and place the Irish in a comfortable lead. Schumacher managed to get 13 points in the first half but his teammates couldn’t keep up with him
and the Irish rested comfortably at the-intermission with a 33-21 lead.
Bobby Faught hooked a basket from, the sideline to start the scoring in the second half. Faught, Quinn, Curran, and Niemiera came through with successive two pointers to boost the Irish into a 43-28 lead early in the second period. Then Willie Schumacher got to work and whittled down that lead to read •52-48: with a few minutes remaining in the contest. Cy Singer flipped through a basket and free toss which was nearly-matched by Baumgartner’s goal. Niemiera sank the final Irish basket while the Bulldogs hooped two more baskets before the final gun. Bobby (Wliat! Again?) Faught was high point man for the Irish with 16 points but was" pushed by Niemiera who scored 15 points.
Western Reserve
The Irish accumulated their highest number of points of the season in defeating Western Reserve, 70-39, before 4,000 fans in the Fieldhouse last Saturday night. In the course of the game, every member of the Irish basketball squad saw some action and 14 out of the 17 men scored points. The game was
close only once, in the first four minutes of the game, when Reserve drew up to an 8-7 count with the Irish. The Irish pulled away fast to rim the score to 16-7 and from that time on the points mounted. The score at halftime was 36-19. The second half saw the appearance of more reserves from the Irish benches and the Reserve boys just could not keep up with
the fast breaking Irish quintet. It was in this game that Nate Messinger, colorful referee from St. Johns, made his initial appearance on the home court. Whenever the game lagged, he managed to keep the interest up with his speedy hops up and down the sidelines and his dramatic personal depictions of the fouls in the game.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
Jack Denniston
enough money to buy the Columbus Club in the American Association. After building the team up to a big attraction he sold it to the St. Louis Cardinal farm system-for a nice chunk of money.
The syndicate controlling the Cincy Reds then called for MacPhail’s assistance. He came and took over a liability that would have made Mike Jacobs’ hair stand on end. At the time the boys were trying to convince the home fans that there could not be a poorer team, not even the lowly Phillies were as bad. As far as ability goes, the Reds could not
Badin ended St. Ed’s domination of Light League II with a stunning upset 34-26. Berg and Nickson carried the scoring attack for the speedy scoring sophs. Lyons kept in the race by doubling Howard Hall’s 15 counters while knocking the Juniors farther back. Breen-Phillips by downing Cavanaugh still retains a mathematical chance to tie for the title. In Light League I, Carroll drubbed Walsh 53-15. Thomas continued to pace Brother Justin’s boys, notching 22 points. Brownson and Morrissey kicked Dillon, last week’s leader, out of the running. Brownson dropped the vaunted juniors 53 to 28, while current leaders, Morrissey squeezed by them, 24-13.
Heavy League I found Lyons and St. Mary’s both winning their games, the latter downing the Navy 39-14, while Dehner with 20 points paced Lyons to a 52 to 24 win over the Off-Campusers. In Heavy League II, St. Ed’s with Rymkus doing the scoring, and Ziemba displaying his defensive class, coasted to a 37 to 14 win over Morrissey. Cavanaugh stopped Badin cold, 60 to 26.
30, Howard 15; Breen-Phillips 32, Cavanaugh 30.
Heavy League I: Carroll 46, Breen-Phillips 29: Navy ROTC 46, Breen-Phillips 31; Alumni 32. Howard 26; Carroll 27, Off-Campus 21; Lyons 52, Off-Campus 24: Alumni 53, Zahm 22: St. Mary’s 39, Navy ROTC 14.
Heavy League II: Brownson, default from’ Sorin: Morrissey, default from Sorin; St. Ed’s. 37, Morrissey 14; Cavanaugh 60, Badin 26.
Schedule for week of March 2
Monday, March 2—Light League 1:7:30, Morrissey • vs. Brownson. Carroll vs. Zahm; S :30, Alumni vs. Walsh, (HL2) Brownson vs. Morrissey.
Tuesday, March 3—Heavy League 1: 7:30, How-
ard vs. Lyons, Alumni vs. Carroll; 8:30, Mary’s vs. Breen-Phillips, Dillon vs. Navy.
Wednesday, March 4—Light League, II: 7 Badin vs. Sorin, Cavanaugh vs. Lyons; S Breen-Phillips vs. Howard. (HL2) Sorin vs. Ed’s.
Thursday. March 5—Heavy League II: 7 Law Club vs. Cavanaugh, Badin vs. Walsh; S
st. .
:30, :30, St.
:30,
:30,
Dillon vs. Howard, HL1) Alumni vs. St. Mary’s.
I WHAT ABOUT SPORTS? |
By Red Lonergan
The standings:
Heavy League I
Heavy League II
Lyons__________6
St. Mary’s____5
Dillon ________3
Carroll_______3
Alumni 3
Breen-Phillips _3
Navy ROTC_____2
Zahm__________2
Off-Campus____2
Howard__________1
0 0
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
4
St Ed’s.-- Morrissey — Cavanaugh .. Walsh----- Badin----- Brownson -- Law Club .... Sorin -----—
’ W
____5
____4
„...3
9 ’
.1
.0
o i 2 2
3 3
3 5
Light League I'
Light League II.
L
1
’ 1
1
	. W	L	- ' - .	W	
Morrissey		4	0 .	Lyons — -—-—		4
Brownson.	1 , !	l 1 ■ 1 1 3	1	St.Ed’s ...........	._.4
Dillon 				—3	2	Badin 2		.....3
Carroll	-		2	-Breen-Phillips	:	2
7fl}?m 				 ?	3 .	Sorin •		__1
Walsh			_1	3 ..	Howard..			1;
Alumni ~		__.„0	4	- Cavanaugh .....	.0
Results
of . Last Week
3
3
4
even beat rugs. But MacPhail went to work and in one year so many fans came that the spiders just gave up sunning themselves in the seats as they had in days of yore. He had so much success at Cincinnati that the owner of the Brooklyn Dodgers asked him if he would consider promotion in the Brooklyn cause. , The only reason why Brooklyn had not gone on relief by the time MacPhail got there was that the lists were filled. How the genius did it, we don’t know, but breathing space was at a premium in Eb-bets Field in one season. That was the year that Adolph Mustache got mad at them for swiping all the headline space in the papers. The following year the Daffiness boys led both league in attendance.
There have been many Barnuns, Rickards, and Jacobs, but we doubt if there will ever be another Larry MacPhail. . The other aforementioned gentlemen have put over great fights, circuses, and what-not, but MacPhail puts on great fights, three ring circuses, track meets, . bingo games/ and double features star- < ring the famous wacky Brooklyn Dodgers. In case you didn’t know, the main feature is the double-header, starring -
. It has been phenomenal showmanship that has. brought, improvement at all these places, not so much the changes in players. He was the first to introduce night games (at Cincy); the first to send his team by plane; first to use girl ushers, and the first to send good northern steaks by air to his team in Florida. If he acquires any more screwy base runners like Gee Gee Walker he can introduce donkeyballs to the big leagues with no loss to himself nor to the team " either. •	•	"
- ' Sports Quiz
l.	Who invented the center line in basketball and for what reason? -
2.	What makes chess different from any : . other game? .	'.	.
the Dodgers. .	. ■	.	. ,
Larry is a native of Cass. City, Mich., an alumnus of Beloit College, Michigan, and George Washington University. He	......
has added a law degree to his regular	' 4. How much do the boxing gloves used .
college degree, something else he collect-	; in championship matches weigh?
ed at George Washington. After college 5. Why is fencing so called? .
he tried promoting the American cause
. 3, Who were the , last . to fight for the world heavyweight title under
... Queensbury Rules? . ;	:
in France by being on the spot.. He served with distinction in the Army, and
was active in the famous group that was
Light League. L Morrissey. 24, Dillon 13Car- , : going .to Holland, to kidnap Herr Kaiser roll, default from Alumni; Zahm, default from : shortly after his self-exile.	; J
Walsh; Zahm,*default from JAluinni ;~f Brownson ’ -	' ' • .	'	. • ’	-	.	.
53, Dillon 28; Carroll 53, Walsh 15.^ *.	.	- When the war ended MacPhail pro- :
Light League ii/Badin 3L st. Ed’s. 26; Lyons, moted investments. till he had collected.
6, Who . introduced ice; hockey to. the United States?.
. (Answers on page ....) /	,
.. Iowa State college . recently: held . a three-day school for electric meter testers and meter repairmen.	7
16
Frosh Cage Squad Builds Prospects For Next Season
Bill Boss
Coach George Keogan needn’t frown too pessimistically at the current collection of Freshman basketballers when he calls for capable varsity prospects next fall.
Although this Frosh gathering doesn’t compare with last year’s parade of first year stars it holds seven or eight potential varsity men. Since his New Year’s Eve injury in the Northwestern victory, Ralph Vinciguerra has replaced drafted Coach Al Del Zoppo.	,
Among the more proficient lads to cavort in the old Frosh gym is rugged Bill Davis, guard, from Hyde Park high, Chicago. Bill is a clever floor man and exceptionally strong on the defense. He has a deft shot, styled “a la Singer,” from mid-court.
Leo Klier, tow-headed brother of former Irish cage great, Gene, promises to carry on when Cy Singer leaves off. Seemingly octopus - armed, Klier fires wild unorthodox pushes that plop through the strings with remarkable consistency. Leo was a member of the Washington High outfit that last year snatched the Indiana state crown.
Rosedale, Long Island’s Bernie Rutledge is a determined ball player as Metropolitan cage backers have known for a long time. Bernie’s greatest chore in Eastern circles was scoring 17 points in an exhibition game last year against Clair Bee’s L. I. IT. National Invitational
pitcher to come out of central Illinois in the past few years, which won’t provoke Jake Kline a bit. Ray Duffy, a transfer from John Carroll, is banking for a forward slot and the vray he dips the ball through from the corners, should
DATES!
FOR
THE
llth
ANNUAL
make the grade. Jim Whalen, altitudin-ous center from movie-famed Wapako-netta, Ohio, and effervescent “Red” Fo~ ley of Flatbush are scratched with has-ketball prowess and may develop into capable performers. John Creevey will;
BENGAL BOUTS
ON
MARCH 17 - 18 - 19 - 21
AT THE GYMNASIUM
GET TICKETS FROM YOUR HALL REPRESENTATIVE
title winners. Scoring 17 points may not sound like a great accomplishment but with Dolly King, LJ.U.’s famed Negro ace, guarding you it’s an extremely difficult play. But he didn’t bother Bernie.
The diminutive blond grenade from La Crosse, Wis., Stevie Pavella, may be handicapped by a distinct lack of height but the ball plays a sweet melody against the net when he springs up and fires with a smooth overhand motion. A modest lad, Steve thinks little of the 34 points he scored in one game at the Loyola tournament in Chicago last year.
Another Sobek Coming Up
Finding scoring range often in weekly practice engagements with the Varsity is Luke Newbold, a burning coal of southern Indiana’s basketball hotbed. Joe Sobek, a deceptive floorman and brother of George, is ready to carry the family name on the Notre Dame court next year. Pete Fierstein from Marmion Mil-, itary Academy is not only a heady guard on the hardwood but is rated as the best .
Tweeds, Shetlands, Flannels
— We have all of these fine materials in a। variety of colors, MADE TOrORDER for you — or ready-made — or custom tailored.	...
We have your size in our large stock of READY-TO-WEAR suits and coats. Over “one thousand swatches of various colors and fabrics from which you may select your own garment — MADE-TO-YOUR-MEAS-. URE or CUSTOM TAILORED. ■	>	.
. Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers.
PA R KE R - WIN T E R R O W D
I15^2 - 117% North Main Street (Upstairs)
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives:'
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS •; 321 Alumni Hall .
. LARRY KELLEY 334 Alumni Hall
neil j. McCarthy: 115 Sorin Hall; .
17
M ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”	Michigan at Washington
H's ADLER'S for
ARROW WHITES!
South Bend’s most complete stocks of Arrow White Shirts. All collar styles are included in our wide assortment.
^rrow white is right!
Trom sleeping through class to dating a blonde, ;an Arrow white shirt is correct for every occasion.
Arrow Hitt: a fine lustrous broadcloth with nonwilt, starchless Aroset collar.	.
.Arrow Hull: long-pointed collar and that new low slope make Hull a- honey for comfort!
.Arrow Gordon: oxford cloth and button-down collar make Gordon everyone’s favorite.
-Arrow Sussex: low, wide, and handsome — in‘ fancy patterns, too.
All are Mitoga tailored and Sanforized labeled . (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Begin your col-
lection of Arrow whites today! •
be bidding for a position if football doesn’t claim him first.
Tom Sheehan, stocky Irish center, was signed by the Boston Red Sox last semester and will see no more collegiate service. He is a baseball catcher.
Although this squad is a reputable aggregation and a quintet that, when it is clicking, can give the varsity a run for its money, it is handicapped by lack of height which makes good pivot and backboard play almost an impossibility. They are extremely weak beneath the basket especially on rebounds.
The complete roster follows: Herb Coleman, Bob Craddock, John Creevey, Bill Davis, Ray Duffy, Pete Fierstein, Tom Foley, James Gallagher, Leo Klier, John Leslie, Jack Leahy, Bill Mahoney, Luke Newbold, Jack Nolan, Jim O’Brien, Ray O’Connell, Bernie Rutledge, Steve Pavella, Joe Sobek, Jack Thornton, Jim Whalen.
Let freedom ring on Uncle Sam’s cash register! Buy U. S. Defense Bonds and Stamps.	-
Mt
O • o
w OF COLLEGE MEN SAID "
in a recent survey of 90 campuses, that they prefer Arrow Shirts to . all other brands. Must he because Arrow is a swell shirt, n’est-ce-pas?
How about treating yourself to an Arrow Hitt or Hull or Gordon or Sussex today?
Rose and Katz
HOME OF .NATIONALLY ACCEPTED MERCHANDISE
A R R O W -	■>
38
Fencers Face Ohio State
In Last Home Meet
' Hopes of the Notre Dame fencing team for an undefeated season were “blacked out” last Saturday when they bowed to Chicago by the score of 15 to 12.
Through the combined efforts of Drag-stedt and Siever, the Maroons jumped out to an early 7-2 lead in the foil bouts, despite two victories by Jim Madigan who showed great improvement in marking up a total of four wins. The Irish gave the Big Ten champions a much stiffer battle in the sabre bouts before they succumbed 5-4. Siever of Chicago was again the “big gun” as he regis- , tered two victories in three matches. Captain Veit and Jim Madigan teamed together to record four of the six epee victories, but the Chicagoans staved off the rally by clinching the meet with three close wins.
Maroons Lineup Toughest to Date
Chicago placed a much stronger lineup against the Blue and Gold than had been employed thus far this season. A close study of the score reveals that the visiting Irish lost every bout that was extended. to the final “touch.” This is definitely not a characteristic of the 1942 team and. they are determined to prove this statement tomorrow evening when they are hosts to Ohio State.
Having, whipped Chicago by the decisive score of 17-10, the Buckeyes are set on breaking the jinx that the Blue and Gold fencers hold over them when they visit the fieldhouse. Ohio State has yet to win a fencing meet on the home floor of the Irish. Previous experiences in this series discourage predicting a winner on the basis of comparative scores. When these two teams meet all. other records can be thrown out, but it can be pointed out that team spirit will play a great part in the success of either team.
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
: Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
The belated comeback in the sabre and epee bouts further - proved to Coach Langford that Veit’s squad really has some, great spirit and will be out for a close, but decisive, victory in their last home appearance. .
THE
Bowling Finals Sunday;
Birren, Sobek Lead Stakes
The championship of the All-Campus League will be decided this Sunday, March 1, at 1:00 p.m., at the Walsh hall Rec. The winner of the night league, Sonneboms, will bowl against the winner of the day league, The Champs.
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
A Slight Disagreement
Sonneborn’s captain, Joe Pahner of Sorin Hall, states that his team is all set for the championship match this Sunday. The Champs, led by big Nib Trimborn of Lyons, says that it is in . “the bag” for his boys.	.
On the P. M. winners’ roster are. G. V. Funk, G. Barsa, R. Flynn, and Palmer. The day winners , team consists of Cy Tlusty, Dick Flee, Tom Halligan, and Capt. Trimborn.
At the close of the Campus League two weeks ago, the high individual average title was won by Thomas Fourmy, a sophomore from Lyons hall. His winning average was 178. Following are the final standings of the All-Campus League:
Night League	W	L	Day League	W	L
Sonneborns 		.15	3	Champs 			12	g
Alley Rats 		.13	5	Knights ——		10 .	5
St. Ed’s A. C.	12	6	. Hot- Dogs			 9	6
Aero’s 		.. 8	7	Gaels 			8	T
Admirals 		. 8	7 .			
Hy Marcs 		.14 ■	1			
Dr. Grabow $1.50
Yeflo-Bole Regular______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ----- 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ____4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran	5.00
Hollycourt _____________ 3.50
Comoy __________________ 6.00
Corncobs._________10c and 25c
OH JoHNnY-WHaT * PIPE!
All members of the league that finished the season are asked to come to
Db.GRABOW
I THE Pie-SmokeO. PI PE I
Full Line
DR. GRABOW PIPES
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
-
Walsh Rec. this Sunday to receive their medals and trophies.
After a week-end of continuous firing on the Walsh Rec. alleys, Don Birren is leading in the singles, and George Sobek and Don Birren are leading in the doubles.
Sunday night in the sweepstakes standings found Birren from Lyons hall leading the singles and sharing the doubles with Walsh’s George Sobek. Don, an art student, fashioned games of 189, 282, and 222 for his big 693 series. Previous to bowling his singles, he and Sobek had put together series of 587 and 612 for the lead in doubles of 1199. Another group of bowlers will conclude the sweepstakes this Saturday and Sunday.
The leaders are as follows:
Singles	Doubles
Don Birren 693	Birren-Sdbek-----1199
Tom Fourmy________615	Klee-Heagney ----1182
Richard Klee 614	Halligan-Gans ---1155
Ted Smith_________ 595	Fourmy-Trimbom 1149
J. Boyle 595	Fayette-Tlusty-----1138
Golden Dome of Boston to go "Gray" to Foil Raids
BOSTON, Feb. 18—As being too good a target for enemy bombers, the gold-covered dome of the Massachusetts State House will be painted a war-time gray.
The last coating of gold leaf laid upon the famous Beacon Hill landmark before the re-valuation of the dollar cost §11,000.
The State Superintendent of Buildings conferred with Governor Saltonstall today before announcing the project, for which a contract soon will be awarded.
Nine fellowship students are among 135 Latin Americans enrolled at Louisiana State University.
❖
Approximately 70,000 college students this year hold scholarships valued at more than §10,000,000.
Billions for Allied victory ... or for tribute to dictators? There is only one answer: Buy U. S. Defense Bonds and Stamps.
BENCH CHATTER
Jim Brutz and Herky Bereoios
THE HEART'S THE THING
It took Unde Sam’s X-ray machine to find out that Lou Rymkus had an enlarged heart, but we here at Notre Dame have known that for a long, long time. .	-	• •
THESE PRIORITIES
The track team felt the full effect of the priorities when they made their recent trip to Ann Arbor. The trip was made in one of the local-run busses.
ST. MARY'S TAKES A BEATING
If you should see Vic Gulyassy doing quite a bit of bowling these days down at the Bowl-Mor, you need not worry about who is footing the bill. AS it seems Vic has located a St. Mary’s lassie who plays him—WINNER PAYS. Vic happens to be a member of the K. of C. bowling teams. And it is rumored that Vic is not of Scotch extraction.
J
^”For complete refreshment
give me Coca-Cola,-the real thing
Pause
Go refreshed
You trust its quality
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 110 < Beyer Avenue
WAS IT PEGGY?
Steve Juzwik, following two consecutive dates with Peggy, made his dancing debut to the music of Warpy WATERFALL, in the vicinity of Youngstown, Ohio. Steve’s impressive dancing steps brought about interviews by many jitterbugs. “Where did that step originate?” asked one enthused individual. “Oh—Ah, Coach Ed McKeever taught us to cross our legs and twist our hips, when protecting on pass defense.” Very good recovery, Steve, but I happened to be a bystander; and will you please explain that one step where you end up falling on your back.
There's something pleasantly exciting about icecold Coca-Cola. Delicious taste that charms and never cloys. Refreshment that brings a happy aftersense of thirst contentment. You trust the quality of die real thing •••Coca-Cola.
20
HOPING
IF (no objections from this corner) Notre Dame were to turn co-educational tomorrow, Jake Kline, Irish baseball manager need not worry about bolstering his pitching staff for the years of ’43 and ’44. At the Carnival a few of the boys had their eyes on a couple of co-eds pitching baseballs at Hitler and his bums. They pitched all strikes according to these scouts. (They are listed as A-l scouts on our list).
SINCERE APOLOGY
Your correspondents were out on a week-end and we were unable to prepare for publication the START TODAY EXERCISES as announced last week. We are both campused now, so we will have more leisure time to do our journalistic duties.
Answers
1.	Mrs. Abbot of Smith College proposed the center line to eliminate roughness. •	'
2.	It is the only game involving no element of chance.
3.	John L. Sullivan and James J. Corbett on Sept. 7, 1892.
4.	Four ounces. ■	.
5.	Because it is the art of fence-defense, or offense.
6.	Mr. Sheerer, a Johns Hopkins student from Montreal introduced the game to this country.
Bowlers Will Contend
For Several Cash Awards
Campus contenders for bowling honors will be pleased to hear of the generous offers of the Parker-Winterrowd tailors to high men in the tournament of March 1, to be held in the Walsh Hall Rec.
To the contestant making the highest score of the tournament, the company ■will present a $10 merchandize certificate applicable to such articles as a tailor-made suit or coat. Similar $5.00 awards will be made to each man of the winning team, which means that it will be possible for one man in the tournament to ■win two prizes totaling $15.00.
Parker-Winterrowd, located at 115%-117% North Main Street (Upstairs) is a name familiar to Notre Dame students and alumni not only for the excellence of its apparel, but also for the cooperative spirit it has displayed in fostering University events. Recent-example was the War Charities Carnival, which had P-W to thank for printing the raffle tickets.	■
SAM'L SPIRO & CO
nj Feature
Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
Be FAIR to yourself, and give Manhattan’s famous Duke shirt a chance to prove itself to you. White as snow in sunlight, smoothly tailored, well-fitting—here’s a shirt with personality! It never stops fitting you correctly because it’s Size-Fixt (average fabric shrinkage 1% or less). It doesn’t bunch—because it’s Man-Formed.The collar conforms smartly to your neck, because it’s CollarPerfect. We’re asking you to try the
Duke. Won’t you say "yes”?
THEY BELONG IN YOUR WARDROBE
31
NO BLACKOUT
...lor industrial research!
Ln these critical times engineers at Western Electric are at work harder than ever develop ing advances in the art of manufacture.
These are being applied in producing the latest types of military communications equipment—now being turned out on a large scale for our fighting forces on land, at sea and in the air
AU this is in addition to our greatly increased job as manufacturer, purchaser and distributor for the Bell System. Meeting the abnormal telephone needs of America at war is a tremen dous task, complicated by shortages of many materials. Even record-breaking production cannot fill all civilian requirements now, for Uncle Sam comes first!
"WASHINGTON AND NAVY"
(Continued from page 13)
en the Navy in the past. More and more young men will receive here their indoctrination into the ways of the Navy. They will be given in a short time training in leadership such as is given to midshipmen at Annapolis.
“The Navy and Notre Dame are engaged in a joint project. With the facilities offered by this great university the Navy hopes to build men of character, who will go forth with the qualities the Navy has traditionally considered essential in a Naval officer. Under the Golden Dome of a University well known for the character of its men, they will learn to be worthy of the Navy blue.
“In the past, the Navy and Notre Dame have met on the athletic field. At Great Lakes we respect your basketball team. The victories of that team were not won with muscle and skill alone. It is the will to win which makes champions, just as it was the will to win that made Washington the great leader and successful general that he was.
“And so, my young friends, you are about to step out into a world that is torn apart in a vast struggle for the supremacy of the democratic form of life, for the survival of all those things that we hold dear and for which our forebears shed their blood; for the survival of Christianity and the free worship of God in whatever manner we choose. Do your part in whatsoever place you best fit and can do the most. The outlook at the moment is dark, with few light spots. But if, like Washington, we have faith in God, believe in the justness of our cause, put every ounce of our physical strength behind our every war effort, live clean and wholesome lives, we cannot lose.
“You are leaving Notre Dame shortly to take your place in the line of battle— either as civilians or in the armed forces. Let the teachings of your noble president and his staff ever be before you, and may you ever render service as Notre Dame would have you. May God bless each and every one of you.”

Western Electric
. . . is back of your Bell Telephone service
Dance to the Music of HAL LEONARD and his
Trianon Ballroom Orchestra at the
PALAIS ROYALE
Friday, February 27th
Admission 60c per person—tax included.
22
"SURSUM CORDA"
(Continued from page 4)
well: that God exists both as an immanent force and as our Father in Heaven. Now, with humility in our hearts, let us determine to accept sacrifice, suffering, and affliction as we organize our manpower and resources in our march onward to victory—to God’s peace. This, I take it, is the meaning of the words: ‘The ultimate strength of a nation is in the things of the spirit.’
“I know that it is not easy for you to
Never mind dat “Uncle” stuff—say
19 Trains a Day!
When you’re squeezed for time, it’s a good thing to know that the South Shore offers hourly service to the heart of Chicago.
Just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A.M. and 6:50 A.M. Thereafter, from 7:30 A.M. until 9:30 P.M., trains leave every hour at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P.M. and 12:00 Midnight.
Easy to remember? It’s a cinch,! For detailed information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111.
contemplate your future in the light of the war. But during your four years under the Golden Dome you have sought the truth too diligently to close your eyes to this one great reality in which there is so much at stake. And- we must be realists. Our country is at war. Our country is in danger. We must face these facts as we rearrange our lives to do what we can to achieve victory. It is time for action. Institutions, like individuals, must make the required sacrifice, and Notre Dame accepts the challenge.
“With these thoughts before us, I accept this beautiful flag of our country, so graciously presented by your president. It means more to us than ever. It is your flag in a very special sense, and has a signficance that none has had since 1918, when another War Class sat where you are sitting. You have given this flag to us for safekeeping, and Notre Dame will guard it for you until victory is won.
“In three short months—perhaps sooner—you will leave Notre Dame. I know that you will be worthy sons, and that you will not forget the lessons you learned here. If you are tempted to become discouraged, as you may be; if the problems that confront you seem insurmountable, as they sometimes will; if you are called upon to make the supreme sacrifice, as you may very well be—let the words of the preface of the Mass, Sursum corda—lift up your hearts— bring you the peace and strength that this world can not give.
“Sursum corda—lift up your hearts to God as you march along the road to a modem Calvary, knowing that His Divine Son gave us an example for imitation and guidance.
“Sursum corda—lift up your hearts as you pledge allegiance to our country, through our Commander - in - Chief, in answer to the call of the armed forces of the United States.
“Sursum corda—lift up your hearts as
you prepare to protect the sound principles which constitute our heritage so that their true light may again be reflected in our lives and in the lives of those who will come after us.
“In this hour when all Americans must unite in defense of everything that we hold dear, may this flag and this ceremony be symbols of a re-dedication of ourselves to our three inseparable loyalties—God, Country, Notre Dame.”
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR, ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg. South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Beno. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON.
M.D.	M".D.
Phone 3-2805
Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
TO CHICAGO
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
95
Plus Tax
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M .S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. Rose. d. d. s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. .
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Fhone 3-2574
23
Over 90,000,000 is Basketball's yearly attendance... tops for any American sport...and this year marks the celebration of its Golden Jubilee. The game was founded by Dr. James Naismith and had its modest start in 1891 in Springfield. Mass. Such popularity must be deserved
Copyright 1942, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
for Cooler Smoking
lliat’s what millions of Chesterfield smokers get every time they light up...and that’s why these millions are saying Chesterfield gives me more pleasure than any other cigarette I ever smoked.
Make your next pack Chesterfield and you too will enjoy everything you want in a cigarette...made to your taste ivith the Right Combination of the ivorkfs best cigarette tobaccos.
Every time...