THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
Indiana
December 1, 1944
i
Football Issue
Next Week
Tomorrow the eyes and ears of the nation will turn again toward the famous gridiron at South Bend.
(See page 12)
^he ^otre Qiame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1SG7
THE STAFF
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
Council to Encourage Seal Drive
A campus-wide drive sponsored by the Student Council for the sale of tuberculosis Christmas Seals will begin Monday night in all civilian halls under the direction of co-chairmen Jim Donnelly and James Clynes. Hall representatives will be in charge of individual halls. Floor representatives will canvas their floors beginning Monday night and wholehearted support of all is expected.
A preliminary goal has been set by the chairmen of a 25-cent purchase from every student, and bulletins will be posted in all halls noting the per capita sales in each hall.
All proceeds from this drive will be turned over to the St. Joseph County Tuberculosis league for disbursement. Five percent of the money will be sent to the national organization, 12 percent will be sent to the state organization, and the remaining 83 percent will remain in the county to finance the cause locally in this fight against tuberculosis.
The use to which the funds thus obtained will be employed is an important one. Fundamentally, tuberculosis-control is the same in war as in peace. Basically these are: find the sick, treat the patient, restore his earning power, prevent the spread of the disease, and keep the family together.
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	-	-	- Navy Associate Editor
ROBERT RIORDAN ----- Managing Editor BILL WADDINGTON ------ Sports Editor BOB O'TOOLE ----- Circulation Manager

COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY JOHN POWER -BLAIR NATTKEMPER HARRY WALTERS GEORGE KRAUSER ART WAGNER -
-	-	- Observations
-	- The Green Banner
■ Man About the Campus
- The College Parade
Splinters from the Press Box
-	- Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE DESPOT FRANK GRIMALDI HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR CHARLEY LAPP
BOB COCHRAN
JIM FOY
GREG HALPIN
ENRIQUE LULLI
RON BYERSMITH MICHAEL MORANG JOE BRESLAW BOB CLEARY NEIL BROSCHA
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
Turkey
and Holly
THEY only ccme once a year— 1 turkey and holiy, cards and cranberry sauce!
and
Christmas Seals
And only once a year do you get a letter enclosing the seals that save life — Christmas Seals.
Answer the letter! Christmas Sea's make possible the year-round fight against Tuberculosis and are your gift to all humanity.
What better way to remember His birthday?
. Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of_ Collegiate Digest Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor. Administration Building. Notre Dame, Indiana.
BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS!
The National, State and Local Tuberculosis Associations in the United States
L
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
DECEMBER 1, 1944	No. 3
Father O'Donnell Outlines Post War Plans
Frank Lloyd Resigns;
Other Officers Change
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., this week announced the following changes in University personnel:	.
Mr. William Broderick, chief accountant of the University for many years, was appointed to succeed Mr. Frank Lloyd as comptroller of the University. Mr. Lloyd’s resignation because of failing health, becomes effective Dec. 15.
Mr. Herbert Jones, who has been connected with the Athletic Association since 1927, and who has been business manager of athletics for the past few years, was appointed to the newly-created office of business manager of the University.
Mr. John Donnelly, formerly secretary to athletic director Frank Leahy, and for the past three years secretary of student accounts, now becomes business manager of athletics, succeeding Mr. Jones.
Successor to Mr. Donnelly’s office of student accounts will be filled temporarily by Miss Anne Stroyna.
Victory Dance Ends Season Tomorrow Night
Tomorrow night, following the Great Lakes game, the always-popular Victory
Dance will again highlight the social scene. This dance, which has become an integral part of Notre Dame tradition, will climax the week-end’s festivities.
To insure the success of this dance, the A.I.Ch.E. has appointed John Caron
as general chairman. Caron has secured the well-known Progress club for the site.
The committee in charge reports that the dancing will begin at 8 sharp, and will feature excellent music.
Ticket chairman, Jim Retter, warms all students that the ticket sales will definitely be limited to 250 couples. Tickets are available in the halls, from representatives whose room numbers are advertised on each hall bulletin board. No tickets will be available at the door.
This dance will be the first social event of the semester and the last victory dance of the season. So civilians and servicemen are urged by the committee to start the semester and end the football season by celebrating at the Progress club tomorrow night at the A.I.Ch.E. Victory Dance.
IMPORTANT REGULATIONS
People are apt to judge the student body and Notre Dame by their observations of the conduct of individual students. It is very important, therefore, that the individual student realize that his conduct for good or for bad reflects not only upon himself, but also upon his fellow students and the University. Consequently, loyalty to them demands that he should never prejudice the good name of the entire student body or Notre Dame. For this reason, the following regulations should be strictly adhered to.
1)	Students attending dances approved by this office (Club. Victory, Co-hop, Parish. and St. Mary's College dances) must wear shirts with collars and ties attached, and suit coats. Sport shirts and jackets of any kind are not permitted.
2)	Students who travel on University business (for example, to engage in athletic contests) must wear presentable clothes.
3)	Students must attend Mass on Sunday in their best attire.
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Brochure Presents Proposals for Future
The University has issued an attractive brochure entitled “Foundations” in which it presents some of the plans in prospect for increasing the efficiency of the University and widening its sphere of sendee among young men of the country. According to the brochure several buildings are part of a carefully proposed plan. Among them are a fine arts ’ building to house a separate school of fine arts, a graduate residence hall, a chemistry building ard a union building.
A library building ta take the place of the present structure erected in 1917 and which has been outgrown is also a part of the plan. The library and the Wightman memorial art gallery now housed in one building are so encroaching on each other that the library staff is hampered in its work and the gallery has become unduly crowded. With the erection of a library building the present library will be devoted almost exclusively to the gallery.
The University student loan fund annually receives small amounts. The University hopes that this can be increased so that greater service can be given by it to young men who need financial assistance in obtaining a satisfactory education.
Council Stages Pep Rally and Bonfire Tonight
The last pep rally of the season will • rock the rafters of the field house tonight at 7:30 as the student body gathers for their final burst of pre-game enthusiasm. Topping the program for the evening, according to plans under the direction of Student Council vice-president, Richard Martin, will be a mammoth bonfire in the field immediately south of the field house. All indications point to this being the biggest and best rally on campus in many a day.
3
'Scholastic's1 44-Page Football Number Out Next Thursday; Contains Complete Record
The annual Football Number of the Scholastic, the oustanding issue of each autumn, will appeal- on campus next Thursday evening, according to Bill Waddington, Sports Editor of the local campus news-weekly.
“Neither pains nor expense have been spared,” said the sports editor, “to make this issue bigger and better than its predecessors. In fact, we have encountered a considerable amount of both pains and expense. But we feel that the splendid showing of the Fighting Irish, this fall, has warranted every ounce of energy that is going into this attempt to do them justice. True, they have been defeated. But that fact is not so important.
They have even added to Notre Dame tradition, for the very good reason that no other Notre Dame team has ever been called upon to face the odds that this year’s team encountered. And for that very reason, if for no other, they are deserving of high praise; and most certainly have won the admiration of every man on campus, no less than the millions of sport lovers throughout the world. All in all, the “teen-age” varsity has accomplished wonders, and we’re proud of them.
The Football Number will be approximately forty-four pages. There will be pictures and biographies of all coaches and players, action shots of all the games, a squad photo, All-American selections, a complete record of Notre Dame football throughout the years, tips from the sports world, opinions of the experts, comments from leading sports authorities throughout the country, a full account of each of the ten games played, satire, humor; and other-data pertinent to the 1944 grid scene, including the band, the ushers, and all that goes into the smooth staging of an exciting afternoon in the stadium.
Because the issue will make splendid reading matter for every football enthusiast, the Scholastic is anticipating a large sale of the Football Number on campus and throughout the nation. Every subscriber will receive his copy at no additional cost, but extra copies will be available at the cafe, bookstore, and Publications Office at 25c the copy. Foran additional five cents, the Scholastic will mail a copy to men in service, as Scholastics sent by anyone other than the publisher must go as first class mail.
Extra copies will also be available in downtown South Bend at hotels, newsstands, train stations, and drug stores.
4
Radio Club Starts Work
This week, in the basement studios of Washington hall, the Radio club held its first meeting of the winter semester.
With many prospects for the future, the club sent out a call for writers, actors, announcers, and engineers to handle the various needs of the organization.
The meeting opened with a short talk by Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., faculty advisor, who told of the possible radio time that has been offered to the club. Two South Bend stations and one Fort Wayne station have offered time. As yet, nothing is certain.
The highlight of the meeting was a
N.D. Entertains Midwest College Delegates for "Inter-American Affairs" Session
BY ENRIQUE R. LULLI
The week-end of Dec. 9 and 10 is the date set by the executive committee of the commission on Inter-American Action for its meeting this year here on the campus of Notre Dame.
The first organization meeting of this Inter-American institution was held in Chicago last Oct. 12 and was attended by many student and faculty representatives of most of the Catholic colleges of the Chicago area.
Election of officers was held and Joseph Menez was unanimously elected chairman; Bob Hasset, vice-chairman^ Miss Delfina Vergara, corresponding secretary, and Jean Tobin was elected recording secretary.
The second meeting of this year will be held at Notre Dame; a program of activities has been set up by the committee on arrangements. This is the realization of a long projected organization which owes its birth chiefly to Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C. of Notre Dame, Dr. Paul S. Lietz, director of the Inter-American Institute, Loyola University (Chicago), and to Sister Mary Celeste, O.S.M., of St. Xavier College, also in Chicago..
This meeting will be sponsored by the members of two clubs on this campus, La Raza club and the Inter-American Affairs club.
The program which has been set up is mainly a religious affair and not a social one, for its occasion is the celebration of the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe,
talk by Mr. Paul Larmer, a graduate of Notre Dame now studying here in the College of Law. Mr. Larmer, after his graduation from Notre Dame, broke into the field of radio writing and has written material for some large programs such as Burns and Allen and later went to Hollywood to write for pictures. One of these pictures was “Stage Door Canteen.”
Mr. Larmer told the boys the “ins and outs” of radio writing. He told them that upon graduation they would have no time to waste so if they were interested in radio writing their chances of success would be helped greatly if they knew the inside information. Mr. Larmer offered his services to the club to help them in the preparation of material for broadcast.
Meetings of the Radio club will be held every Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the basement of Washington hall. All who are interested are cordially invited.
although entertainment has been provided for the participants. On Dec. 9, two moving pictures will be shown of two Latin American countries. The sound track is in Spanish, but English titles are provided. Following the movies, a dance will be held in the Rockne Memorial with music supplied by the civilian orchestra from the campus. The patrons for the dance will be Mr. and Mrs. Ferdinand A. Hermens, Mr. and Mrs. Walter M. Langford, and Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Corona.
On Dec. 10, the group will meet again, this time in the Sorin hall chapel where services will be held and a sermon delivered by Father Jacobson, S.J. of Loyola University, after which the group will have breakfast in the cafeteria.
Finally, the group will pay a visit to the Grotto where songs and prayers will be offered. Then a special tribute will be paid to the greatest American convert and thinker, Orestes Brownson, (whose life is treated elsewhere in this issue).
This will be one of the most important meetings that has taken place on the campus in several semesters, according to Father Cunningham, not merely because of its size but because of its effort in promoting an Inter-American spiritualism by which the 25 million Catholics of the United States are bound to the Catholics of all Latin America, another attempt to unite the peoples of all the Americas in an everlasting bond of Catholicism.
Freedom for Individuals Stressed by Msgr. Sheen
Secretary of State Hull Remembered at N. D.
“Freedom is the bulwark of the nation,” Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, D.D., of the philosophy department of the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., said in his address to an audience of about 2500 in the navy drill hall last Friday night.
One of the major problems which will face the American representatives at the peace table will be the definition of freedom. Outlining differences in types of freedom, he pointed out that freedom from things is negative and would not result in a lasting peace; it would merely free people from fear or want. Stressing the point that freedom must be properly conceived, he said, “Giving the people of Europe freedom from dictation is not going to be the answer, but freedom for individuals to develop themselves and then’ lives is the answer.”
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, introduced Msgr. Sheen.
Robert Riordan Elected
to Council Presidency
The Notre Dame Student Council elected Robert Riordan, senior from Solomon, Kans., president for the present semester at its organizational meeting last week, succeeding Harold Berliner. Other officers elected were Richard N. Martin, junior from San Diego, Calif., vice-president; Jim Donnelly, senior from Jamaica, N. Y., secretary; and John St. Germain, sophomore from Montclair, N. J., treasurer.
Following the election of officers, the council opened its semester’s activities by taking preliminary steps toward sponsoring a gigantic pep rally to be held tonight in the field house and in the Chemistry field. Richard Martin was appointed to head the committee in charge. Outstanding as feature of the rally was to be a bonfire to be erected and burned in the Chemistry field.
At their first regular meeting last Monday night, plans were made to conduct a campus-wide drive for the sale of Tuberculosis seals. Under the direction of co-chairmen, Jim Donnelly and James Clynes, the drive will be handled in all halls by the student council hall representative.
The results of hall elections were as follows: Sorin, Frank Linehan; St. Edward’s, John Castelli; Breen - Phillips, John H. St. Germain; Cavanaugh, Mike Davlin; Zahm, Philip Luppi and Donald
The resignation of Secretary of State Cordell Hull, early this week, brought back to the campus recollections of his Commencement visit in 1934, on which occasion he received the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, from the University.
The 73-year old statesman gave as his reason for resigning from the Roosevelt cabinet the fact that he has been in ill health for some weeks, and that this reason alone motivated him to resign his post in these important times. He regretted that he was compelled to lift his hands from machinery now being as
Cordell Hull when he visited Campus in 1934
sembled to perpetuate peace. Nevertheless, the veteran Tennesseean promised to remain in close touch with the president, acting as an advisor on foreign policies. Hull, following doctors’ orders, was convinced that remaining in office at this time would but retard complete recovery if he continued to bear the responsibilities of his cabinet portfolio.
Lately, Mr. Hull had been actively immersed in plans to prevent Germany from threatening the world again, and to re-establish western hemisphere solidarity broken by Argentina’s refusal to join in defense measures against the Axis.
Mr. Hull is one of the three members of President Roosevelt’s first cabinet still at their same posts after 12 dramatic
W. Rosenbach, Carroll. Other council members are James J. Clynes, Economic Roundtable; Enrique Lulli, Inter-American Affairs; Jim Donnelly, Commerce Forum; Francis Fitzgibbons, Bookmen; Al Lesmez, Scholastic; Jose Cardenas, La Raza; Richard N. Martin, Wranglers; Earle Pye, Mass club; James Ret-
years leading through depression and war. The other two are Secretary of Labor Perkins and Secretary of Interior Harold Ickes. Mr. Hull, is, perhaps, better known abroad than any other American official after President Roosevelt. His resignation will be taken as a sharp blow in foreign capitals throughout the allied nations, where he is looked upon as a devoted democrat and master statesman, slow-speaking and quick-thinking product of a rugged American way of life.
When Chairman Connally, of the senate foreign relations committee was told
of the resignation, he said: “It is tragic that Secretary Hull is retiring. He has made a great secretary. His outstanding achievements toward world peace remain a monument to his service. The nation and the world have suffered a tremendous loss in his resignation.”
The University’s decision to award Mr. Hull an honorary degree, was based upon the recognition of his achievements to promote international peace which gave evidence of his intelligent efforts at the London conference, in 1933, and the Pan-American conference at Montevideo, Uruguay, in the winter of the same year. Students of political sci-• ence had long regarded Mr. Hull as the most ardent Jeffersonian among New Deal Democrats, and a thorough student of international problems.
ter, A.I.Ch.E.; Robert Riordan, N. F. C. C. S.; Richard M. Sadowski, Knigkts of Columbus; Arthur C. Sartore, A.S.M.E.; Bernard J. Slater, Glee Club; Robert M. Snyder, Aero dub,; Harry B. Surkamp, A. S. C. E.; Melvyn Tomber, Vllagers club; Richard E. White, Electrical Engineers; and Paul Delker, Catholic Action.
5
Major Hinkle Thanks His Friends
Italian Children To Receive Christmas Candy at
Last semester, with the shipment of nearly 100 boxes containing a total of approximately 450 pounds of soap and candy to Major John V. Hinkel for distribution to Italian children at a Christmas party which he and his fellow officers have planned, the Scholastic drive for soap and candy ended.
Under the direction of Miss Marguerite Varga of the Publications Office, the drive gained momentum and was climaxed by feverish work in packing the collected items for overseas shipment.
This week, the University received a letter from Major Hinkel thanking “his friends in America” who have responded so generously to his plea. Since it is addressed to all who helped in the project, the Scholastic takes pleasure in printing it here in its entirety:
Dear Friends:
This letter, written from the heart, is addressed to all of you folks who have responded so nobly and generously to an appeal to help a group of American soldiers give a Christmas Party for some needy Italian kids. We soldiers are taking this means, therefore, to express our sincere appreciation.
Some six weeks ago the undersigned officer wrote to twenty close relatives and friends in America asking that each contribute a five pound box of candy or soap for this party. Without his knowledge, extracts frcm his letter were printed in several newspapers. The appeal also was disseminated by other means.
The response has been unexpectedly overwhelming, not to mention magnificent! From many parts of the United States have come assurances of assistance from hundreds of good-hearted Americans,- ranging from government officials to school children. Each has contributed something to the party. Su;nu cient candy and soap is currently en route to us in Italy to make several thousand (perhaps more) orphaned, blind, crippled, sick and just plain poor kids happy this Christmas in a country that has been cruelly devastated by war. For that reason “our” party (it is your party now, too!), barring unforeseen complications, seems destined for success. We know that this will be a great
6
Soldier's "Kiddie Party."
By B. F. RAMEN "Scholastic" News Writer
source of satisfaction ot you, just as it is to us.
Your generosity has deeply touched the soldiers who are sponsoring this party. It has touched us as nothing else has in our service overseas. Your splendid reaction to our request has made us prouder still of our country and its people—so fittingly typified by you.
The results of your benevolence are twofold. It has made it possible, first of all, for us to plan to give something this Christmas to many, many more needy Italian kids than our own necessarily limited resources would permit. (We are saving our own small rations of candy for this purpose and getting other soldiers to do the same.) But in a second and larger sense your generosity has had even greater results. To a group of •American soldiers—themselves a crosssection of the great Army of the United
A delegation from the Notre Dame Club of Italy visits what is left of the war-tom Abbey cf Monte Cassino. Pictured, left to right are SySgt. John N. Cakely, *37, TySgt. Frank Shay, ’35, Sgt. Robert F. Coleiran, ’42, and Major John V. Hinkel, ’29.
States—it has demonstrated that love of neighbor and charity and unselfishness shine as bright as ever in the hearts of our home folks. To us, that is where those virtues count the most!
Like all American soldiers serving in foreign lands our hearts and our thoughts constantly turn toward our beloved America. We are fiercely determined to finish the grim job of war successfully so that we can return to our families as soon as possible. At the same time, however, we are terribly homesick. In the midst of our homesickness we keep thinking: “Have our people back home kept faith with us in preserving . the soul of America in this frightful war?”
We know that our folks in America have sweated and strained to accomplish miracles of production in turning out prodigious quantities of armaments, food and other war necessities. We know that you have dug deep into your pockets and have loyally supported every War Bond drive, every Red Cross, USO and other war fund effort. We know that you have left nothing undone to help the Armed Forces of your country in America’s time of need.
For all of these things we are proud of you and grateful to you; they merely reflect the material side of America. What about America’s spiritual side— her soul? We soldiers are primarily interested in this spiritual side because it is the soul of a nation that makes it great and keeps it great. We feel, too, that one of the surest ways of testing the soul of any nation is by observing how its citizens practice goodwill, which is merely another way of saying “love thy neighbor.”
Yes, what about America’s spiritual side—her soul? In contributing, out of the sheer goodness of your hearts, such simple things as candy and soap to make Christmas brighter for some unhappy children in a foreign land, you folks have given us a large part of the answer. We feel that your spontaneous efforts in this respect have preached a powerful sermon on the Second Commandment. This has been inexpressibly consoling to us. It has reassured us that the soul of America—our country and yours—has been tried in the harsh crucible of war and net found wanting. Thank God for that!
Continued on page 20)
Service Center Continues in Entertainment Lead
Liberty - bound, where to go? How about trying a new place, the Servicemen’s Lounge?
Off the main stem on the 300 block of Main street south of the Public Library is the Service Men’s Lounge—a ■white
frame building with a full porch running across the front and halfway along the side.
Food is King at the Lounge—prepared in a real home-style manner, good—and plenty of it. Perhaps eating out of dishes again has something to do with how those hot dinners taste. There’s no need to worry about coming late either—milk, coffee, cookies, and sandwiches are always available at the Lounge.
However, the food is not the only attraction of the Lounge. In fact, nearly anything can be done there. After dinner relaxing in a big easy-chair is “the thing to do,” or write letters, or read. All the current magazines and several interesting books are here for general use. For those who don’t eat too much and still have some pep, the Lounge offers ping pong, cards, and other games, and of course, dancing. Hostesses are always available and doing their best to make servicemen happy and comfortable. They are working hard, doing their best to make weekends and liberty-days enjoyable.—Mike Morang
NFCCST To Hold Meeting
The Fall meeting of the Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students will be held December 9, at 2:30 p.m. in the Rockne lounge according to announcement made by the Regional president, Robert Riordan.
Representatives will attend the meeting from St. Mary’s; Nazareth of Kalamazoo, Mich.; St. Joseph’s College, Collegeville, Ind.; Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich.; and St. Francis College, Fort Wayne, Ind.
An invitation is extended by the region to all those who may be interested in this work to attend the meeting.
Christmas Motif to Sparkle Band Display Tomorrow in Last Football Game of Season
As we are about to conclude another football season at Notre Dame, we should hesitate for a moment to extend our congratulations and thanks to Mr. H. Lee Hope and the men of the Notre Dame band, both this semester and last, for the faithful contributions which they have made to the festivity and spirit at the home games this season. No matter what type of weather prevailed the band has always come through with sparkling performances. The work involved in the preparation of these shows in tremendous and quite beyond the comprehension of many. In spite of wartime difficulties the band has persevered and succeeded in creditably representing the University.
One could very truthfully comment that the sun never sees the cessation of musical activities at Notre Dame. While the vast majority of civilians are still nestled comfortably within the soft folds of their respective beds and at the same time that the members of the local V-12 unit are wishing that they were still nestled within theirs, the men of the Midshipmen band are valiantly carrying on in true navy style. Even before the sluggish winter sun peeps from beneath the enveloping covers, Ensign Tainter’s lads are shattering the clammy calm with the fire and vigor of their early morning marches. As the last notes from
this brassy voiced rooster are still bouncing between the sleepy frostdecked buildings, a lazily blinking sun lethargically looks about to discover the occasion for such musical calisthenics.
The V-12 Regimental band is continuing to lend color and snap to the V-12 noontime formations. Scheduled reviews of the V-12 unit have twice been postponed because of inclement weather thus restricting the activities of the band. However, many favorable comments have been directed towards the good work being done in the piccolo section by seamen Lusted, Taggett, and Parrott. Seaman Ray Kopituk is probably the only drum major ever to blow the whistle and twirl the baton. Co-drum major Bob Lee merits recognition for his flashy and springy manner.
Tomorrow at half-time seaman Bob Lee will lead the band through what
should be one of the most novel and interesting routines of the season. Mr. Hope has developed the show around a Christmas motif featuring several special arrangements of traditional yuletide selections. In addition a few surprise elements are to be inserted during the maneuvers. It is quite possible that there will be more to these formations than will readily meet the eye.
Champion Highlights
Cooperative Movement
The consumers cooperative movement provides the ideal and lasting solution for the world’s economic problem, David J. Champion, ROTCadet, told members of the Economic Round Table at a dinner meeting in the Town club.
Mr. Champion stressed the co-existent poverty and plenty existing today. “Discounting the effects of the present world war, one of the strangest things of this age is that with all our abundance there are so many who haven’t enough. We have all the facilities if not the goods themselves to supply all these wanting people,” Mr. Champion told the group.
“The answer is cooperation — men working together for mutual benefit.” The first workable cooperative movement came exactly 100 years ago with the Rochdale pioneers. Expanding from that time on, today the movement is widespread. During the years from 1929 to 1934 when America experienced the depression, the co-ops in England returned 9600 million to the people by way of a dividend to buy more bread, shoes, and radios.
“At present in the United States there are over 6.500 consumer’s cooperatives with a total membership of more than 1,800,COO doing an estimated annual business of §365.000,000, or a million dollars a day,” he said.
“A new system which will fit the needs of an age of abundance must be found. Neither fascism with its dictatorship of big business nor communism with its dictatorship of the working class and its state ownership of industry solves the problem,” he warned. “These things are abhorrent to a people with our democratic traditions and that is the basis upon which we are fighting a war today.”
Edward Ball, R.O.T.C. member, was temporary chairman of the meeting, and James Clynes, president, had charge of the discussion period fol'owing the talk. William Downey, professor of economics, was the faculty moderator.	,
7
Commerce Forum Keeps Bi-Weekly Schedule
One of the outstanding campus organizations has been a group whose purpose has been both intellectual and social.
The group is chartered under the name of the Commerce Forum. It has gained recognition in fulfilling the purposes for its existence.
During the current semester, the present officers, President Jim Donnelly, Vice-president Frank Linehan, Publicity chairman Mike Garry, and Program chairman Paul Regan will continually strive to gain the objectives of the organization. This Board of strategy is planning diversified activities for the Forum. The officers have outlined the order of activity to be pursued during the semester, and have already brought the Membership Drive to a successful close.
Each applicant was given a preliminary interview by the committee and
finally, the eight new members of the Commerce Forum were as follows: Jim Carey, Louisville, Kentucky; Tom Din-ges, Chicago, Illinois; Jack O’Brien, Mount Vernon, New York; Frank O’Brien, Chicago, Illinois; John Castelli, Midland, Pennsylvania; Edward Rogers, Rockford, Illinois; Gene McKenna, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and Jim McClintock, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
The initial meeting was concerned chiefly with the approval of the selections made by the Membership committee. Edmund A. Smith, associate professor of Business Administration and faculty moderator of the Forum, gave a short address, in which he reminded Forum members of the individual responsibility that each one must accept.
The present day Forum differs greatly from that which was started in 1928 by our renowned Dean James E. McCarthy, who incessantly toiled toward an organ-
(Continued on page 23)
Crask Plans Another Busy Term for "Commanders"
After creating a furor in the world of music, last semester, the “V-12 Commanders” have been reorganized and revitalized and are starting the new .season with one of the Midwest’s top collegiate quick-tempo outfits. The Commanders conducted a successful program last semester including a long engagement at the chow hall Panther room and appearances at the various barracksdances, happy hours, and midshipman dances. According to Downbeat a similar schedule is contemplated by leader man Dutch Crask for this term.
Featured performers for the “Commanders” include George (the horn) Finn at lead trumpet, Jack (Fingers) Milder at the piano, (Beat Me Daddy) Friday on the guitar and (Skins) Diek-man on the drums. Gene Diamond and Jim McTigue will vocalize on the latest ballads in Sinatra style.
Continuing as agent and publicity man for the band is Chief J. J. Broderick, famous showman and talent-seeker. Said Chief Broderick, “In all my years of handling world famous stars in America and the capitals of Europe, I’ve never run across a comparable unit that had the class and the style of the ‘Commanders.’ I predict that they will go far.”
Announcement will be made in the Scholastic as to the first campus appearance of the “Commanders.” After an extended tour, including the College Inn, Meadowbrook, and the Hotel Pennsylvania, the “Commanders” are expected to make numerous local appearances.
Electrics Hear GranEeld
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its first meeting of the semester this week. Chairman Tom Vail welcomed new members and presided over a short business meeting which featured the election of new officers. Ballot returns listed Bob Brown as vice chairman, Lynn Silver as secretary, Tom Shuler as treasurer, and Dick White as student council representative.
The guest speaker for the evening was
Lieutenant Commander J. R. Granfield who spoke on “Communication Aboard Ship.” This timely address was well received by an enthusiastic audience, for it opened many new aspects of wartime communication which proved to be of great interest to both the civilian and navy students.
This campus organization is planning an active semester which will feature guest speakers on topics concerning the new lip - microphone, the photo - electric cell, or “electric eye,” and other subjects of current interest. Student participation plays an important role, especially in informal discussions.
The time of the next meeting will be posted in the Engineering building. Watch for that familiar red sign which signifies an enjoyable evening topped by the serving of refreshments.
Student Council Sponsors Pearl Harbor Day, Dec. 7
Elsewhere, in this issue the Scholastic presents a list of Notre Dame men who have lost their lives in defense of their country. The list has been provided by the Alumni Office where great pains have been taken to keep the record accurate and up to date.
Next Thursday, Dec. 7, marking the third anniversary of the Pearl Harbor attack, will be observed on the campus
by prayer and devotion. The program for the day, jointly sponsored by the Student Council and the prefect of religion, Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., will include Mass in all hall chapels in the morning in memory of the war dead, especially Notre Dame war dead.
Devotion to the Blessed Mother has long been a part of Notre Dame life, as she is the Patroness of the U. S. armed forces.
The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis has granted the Medical School of the University of Minnesota $320,000 for the continuation and intensification of study in the field of infantile paralysis.
8
These Are the Notre Dame War Dead . . .
Editor's Note: Three years ago, on December 7, our nation was attacked at Pearl Harbor. Since then, a bitter three years of fighting has seen many men of Notre Dame take up their places in the battle. They have stood beside their fellow men, and many of them have died.
Three long years of world war has left an open wound of 147 dead, 21 missing, and 24 captured. Here, in alphabetical order, "Scholastic" presents the latest complete list of University dead in this, the second World War.
★	1 Lt. William C. Adams, ex. ’42, Lookout Mountain, Tenn., was killed in action over Germany on June 13, ’43.
★	2 Lt. Lawrence A. Barrett, Jr., ’40, Valparaiso, Ind., was killed on Nov. 12, ’41, when a plane he was piloting, crashed.
★	3 Edu-ard J. Brockman, ex. ’45, Glencoe, Ill, a naval aviation cadet, was killed on April 10, together with his instructor, when their plane crashed near Middleton, Wis.
★	4 Matthew A. Byrne, Jr., ’42, was killed on Dec. 19, ’42, when his plane crashed five miles south of Lee Field, Florida. Matty’s home was in New York. He was a very active and outstanding student of Notre Dame.
★	5 Charles F. Bebeau, ex. ’43, Muskegon, Mich., a naval aviation cadet, was fatally injured in an airplane crash at Corpus Christi, Texas.
★	6 Vito W. Capello, ’43, Brooklyn, N. Y., was killed in action in the North African area.
★	7 Lt. James L. Carroll, ex. ’40, Charleston, S. C., was killed on March 12, ’43, when the Army plane which he was piloting crashed at Orlando, Fla.
★	8 Lt. Cmdr. Wells Worth Carroll, ex. ’16, Manhasset, N. Y., died on Nov. 24 as the result of injuries which he suf-ered when the U.S.S. Lisome Bay, plane carrier, was torpedoed off Makin Island.
★	9 Pfc. Edward F. Casey, ex. ’45, Philadelphia, Pa., was killed in action. Other details are unavailable.
★	10 Ens. John G. Casey, ’41, Jordan, Minn., a naval flyer, was killed in action in the Pacific.
★	11 Ens. Henry B. Caudill, Jr., ex. ’41, Pawhuska, Okla., was killed June 2 near the Melbourne, Fla., air station.. He was making a routine flight at the time of his forced-landing crash because of engine trouble.
★	12 Lt. Arthur J. Chadwick, Jr., ’36, Amityville, L. I., N. Y., a fighter pilot, was killed on July 21 during the invasion of Sicily.
★	13 Cpl. Ambrose B. Clancy, ex. ’46, Ridgewood, Queens, N. Y., was killed in France on July 15.
★	14 Capt. Edward T. Clarke, USMC, ’39, Des Moines, la., was killed in action in the Pacific, presumably in the battle of Saipan Island.
★	15 Ensign Francis X. Clarke, B.C.S., ’39, of Chicago, was lest when the naval supply ship, Pollux, went aground on the Newfoundland coast late in February of ’42.
★	16 Lt. Richard J. Coad, ’42, U.S.-M.C., was killed in action in the South Pacific area.
★	17 Lt. James T. Connell, ’40, Newport, R. I., was killed in action in Africa on Dec. 3, ’41.
★	18 Lt. John E. Cox, ex. ’43, West Haven, Conn., first pilot of a Liberator bomber, was killed on Oct. 22 in the European area.
★	19 Lt. Milton E. Connelly, Jr., ex. ’43, Chicago, was killed in a plane crash in Spokane, Wash., on Apr. 23, ’42.
★	20 Lt. Richard Cotter, AAF, ex. ’43, Staten Island, N. Y., was killed on July 21 in action over Germany.
★	21 Pvt. Louis F. Curran, Jr., ex. ’46, Dorchester, Mass., was killed in action in Italy on Feb. 2.
★	22 Donald S. Currie, ex. ’45, Stapleton, N. Y., a paratrooper, was killed in action in Italy.
★	23 Lt. Charles H. Deger, ’42, Dayton, 0., died of pneumonia on Feb. 20 in the Southwest Pacific area.
★	24 Pierre De La Vergne, ’38, Navy-Air Corps, was killed on May 20, ’43, in a crash of two planes over Pensacola Bay.
★	25 Capt. George R. Dempsey, ’39, Oshkosh, Wis , lost his life on June 28 in the Italian campaign north of Rome, according to word reaching his wife.
★	26 Lt. John P. Denney, Jr., ’42, Chicago, was lost at sea on Sept. 13, when the destroyer, Warrington, aboard which he was communications officer, sank in a hurricane off the Atlantic coast.
★	27 Lt. Donald E. Dixon, U.S.M.C.R., ex. ’34, Cincinnati, was killed as he led his company on July 21 in the invasion of Guam in the Pacific.
★	28 Sgt. William Francis Dold, ex. ’45, Glen Ridge, N. J., was killed in ac
tion on Aug. 4. He was a gunner and photographer on a Flying Fortress.
★29 Thomas Joseph Draper, USNR, ex. ’48, Los Angeles, Calif., drowned during the semester vacation. He was stationed here at Notre Dame in the V-12 unit.
★	30 Kenneth E. Duffy, ex. ’43, Chicago, was killed while refueling a plane.
★	31 Edward J. Dunham, ex. ’44, Brooklyn, N. Y., was killed on July 7 in France.
★	32 Lt. (jg) Thomas F. Durkin, ’37, Salt Lake City, Utah, was killed on June 9 in an airplane crash in Rhode Island. He had been previously assigned to duty in the South Pacific.
★	33 Lt. George F. Eberhart, III, ex. ’46, Mishawaka, Ind., was killed in an airplane crash in Panama on Feb. 28.
★	34 Norbert J. Ellrott, ex. ’44, Albany, N. Y., died on May 21 at Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., as the result of a crash in which he suffered severe burns.
★	35 Lt. Allen H. Elward, Jr., ex. ’44, West Lafayette, Ind., was lost after his pursuit plane and the plane of a fellow officer collided over Panama Bay on March 3, ’43.
★	36 A. Gerard Farrell, ’34, Rochester, N. Y., was killed in action in France on Sept. 24.
★	37 Sgt. Daniel P. Farley,- ex. ’38, South Bend, was killed in action in the Middle East on June 13. He had participated in the allied triumph in North Africa.
★	38 Lt. Homer W. Ferguson, ’41, Winslow, Ariz., was killed on Feb. 8 when a huge cargo plane he was piloting crashed on a hill and burned.
★	39 Lt. James J. Ferry, ’41, Brazil, Ind., was killed in action on Aug. 22.
★	40 Ens. John P. Ffrench, ’34, Astoria, Long Island, N. Y., was killed in a plane crash in Hawaii in late April, ’41.
★	41 Sgt. Romaine M. Fiffe, ex. ’43, Salina, Kans., a nose gunner on a bomber, was killed over Germany on Aug. 15, ’43.
★	42 Capt. John F. Finn, ’35, San Antonio, Texas, died in foreign service. No further details are available.
3
★	43 Lt. Patrick X. Flaherty, ’34, an Army Chaplain, died on July 19, at Camp Polk, La., as the result of a swimming accident on June 25.
★	44 John V. Flynn, ’36, Washington, D. C., was killed somewhere in England in May ’42.
★	45 Ens. William G. Foley, ’41, Memphis, Tenn., was killed on Sept. 27 when his plane crashed near Wildwood, N. J.
★	46 Joseph C. Foley, ’37, Dallas, Texas, was killed in a plane crash on Sept. 16, ’41, in Texas.
★	47 Leo A. Fontana, ex. ’41, Gallipolis, 0., was killed in the Mediterranean area on Oct. 31. He participated in the invasion of Africa.
★	48 Robert E. Fordyce, ex. ’42, Gilman, Ill., was lost in action at sea with the RAF.
★	49 Lt. Richard E. Fox, ex. ’41. Fort Wayne, Ind., was killed on Dec. 9 when the B-17 on which he was traveling crashed into the side of a mountain near Sligo, Ireland.
★	50 Lt. William M. Fox, ex. ’38, South Bend, was killed on Feb. 6 in a bombing raid over Italy.
★	51 Capt. Richard S. Freeman, ex. ’29, Winamac,*Ind., was killed on a plane crash at Lovelock, Nev., on Feb. 6, ’41.
★	52 James P. Grant, ex. ’46, St. Paul, Minn., was killed in France according to word received by the Alumni Office.
★	53 Lt. Floyd C. Grazier, ex. ’39, Denver, Colo., was killed near Columbia, S. C., in June when his medium bomber crashed into a lake.
★	54 Ens. James R. Hackner, ’42, La Crosse, Wis., was killed in action in the performance of his duty and in the service of his country.
★	55 Sgt. George S. Hamilton, ’44, Elgin, Ill., tail gunner on an English-based Liberator bomber, was killed in action over Germany on May 8.
★	56 Major Vincent F. Harrington, ’25, Sioux City, la., died of a heart attack in England, on Nov. 29. He was a very well-known member of Congress.
★	57 Oliver P. Holland, Jr., ’39, Wisconsin Dells, Wis., was killed in a navy crash in Miami, Fla, on Nov. 3, ’41.
★	58 Ens. Maurice G. Heneault, ’42, Danielson, Conn., died on July 12 in the U. S. Veterans Hospital, Castle Point, N. Y., after a long illness.
★	59 Capt. John M. Hennessy, Jr., ’41, Louisville, was killed in Italy on July 14. He was graduated frem Notre Dame, cum laude.
★	60 Lt. Theodore Henke, ’42, Oakmont, Pa., was killed in action in April. No other details were available.
★	61 Pvt. William F. Higgins, ex. ’46, of Youngstown, 0., died on August 4 at
10
North Camp Hood, Texas, as the result of injuries received in a dynamite explosion.
★	62 Cpl. Lester R. Hoch, ex. ’39, Fort Wayne, Ind., was killed in action in Italy.
★	63 Ens. JohnH. Hogan, ex. ’45, Fort Wayne, Ind., was killed on Jan. 29 when a plane in which he was riding as an instructor was involved in a crash at Vero Beach, Fla.
★	64 Lt. Hershel G. Horton, ex. ’43, Aurora, HL, serving with the Army in the Southwest Pacific, was killed in action on Dec. 2, ’42.
★	65 Lt. Frank R. Huisking, A.B., ’37, Huntington, L. I., was lost in action in Italy in April.
★	66 Corp. George R. Jackman, ex. ’42, of South Bend, died in North Africa on Sept. 12 after an illness of 13 days from infantile paralysis.
★	67 Lt. Vincent J. Jasinski, ex. ’34, Spring Valley, N. Y., was killed on June 25 in an airplane crash at Marysville, La.
★	68 Ems. Paul J. Kashmer, ’42, La Porte, Ind., missing in action, is known to haxe lost his life on Feb. 15, in Italy.
★	69 Ens. Daniel B. Kelly, ’39, Forest Hills, N. Y., was killed in a plane crash in performance cf his duty in the Pacific.
★	70 Ensign Fergus Fort! Kelly, B.S. in C.E. ’37, of Hollis, N. Y., met his death in air combat on Aug 9, ’42, in the Alaska area.
★	71 Chief Petty Officer Omer A. Kelly, ex. ’38, Algona, la., was shot and killed in Chicago on Aug. 3.
★	72 Sgt. Louis L. Kmet, ’44, Maywood, Ill., was killed in action. No other details are available.
★	73 Lt. Walter I. Koness, ’43, Chicago, was killed in action on Aug. 27, while serving with the Army Air Force.
★	74 P. 0. William J. Kuntz, ’41, Waterloo, Ont, Canada, has been reported dead; no further details are available.
★	75 Major Joseph E. Leising, ’39, Buffalo, N. Y., a Marine flyer, was killed late in July when his plane and another plane collided off the North Carolina coast.
★	76 Lt. Gordon A. Love, ex. ’41, Buffalo, N. Y., a veteran of four major invasions, was killed in action in the Pacific.
★	77 Sgt. James P. Mahoney, ’27, Rawlins, Wyo., was killed in action in France on Sept. 15.
★	78 Lt. William P. Marsh, ’41, of Hines, Ore., was killed in a bomber crash on Signal Hill near Post Falls, Idaho, early in July of ’42. At the time of his death he was stationed in Spokane, Wash.
★	79 Neivton Lee Mathews, Jr., ’36, of Chicago, was killed in service in the Philippines in January, ’41.
★	80 Lt. Joseph A. Matson, ’42, Bolivar, N. Y., was killed on June 23 in a crash at Greenville, Miss, where he was serving as a flight instructor.
★	81 Edwin R. Matthews, ex. ’46, South Orange, N. J., died at Notre Dame on Mar. 29, ’43.
★	82 Lt. Col. Joseph McCaffery, ex. ’32, Chester, Pa., was one of those killed in the heroic Marine action on Guadalcanal.
★	83 Capt. John J. McCloskey, ex. ’36, of Philadelphia and Washington, D. C., sacrificed his life in order to save the lives of two fellow Army officers in a crash near Guadalcanal on Nov. 22.
★	84 Lt. Edward D. McKim, Jr., US-MCR, ’43, Omaha, Nebr., was killed on Guam on July 26.
★	85 Lt. Col. Hugh F. McCaffery, ’27, Chester, Pa., was killed in an airplane crash in the Sierra Nevada mountains, May 6, ’42.
★	86 Lt. Oliver K. McMahon, ex. ’38, USMC, was killed in October in a plane crash on an island in the South Pacific.
★	87 Lt. Donald B. McNally, ’42, Winnetka, HL, was killed in action over France on Nov. 15.
★	88 A.C. Thomas J. McQuaid, ex. ’46, Rochester, N. Y., was killed recently in a training crash at Hondo Field, San Antonio, Texas.
★	89 .Ens. John A. Miller, ex. ’43, South Bend, was killed in action on July 15 while serving with the Navy Air Corps aboard an aircraft carrier in the Pacific.
★	90 Ens. Matthew J. Miller, ’42, Chicago, was killed in an airplane crash near Wildwood, N. J., on Dec. 8. He was a dive bomber pilot.
★	91 Alexander Joseph M'.lone, ex. ’45, Brooklyn, N. Y., was killed in action in France on Sept. 19.
★	92 Lt. James Lane Midcahey, ’38, Taunton, Mass., was killed in action in Italy on Oct. 2. He was awarded the Purple Heart.
★	93 Sgt. William C. Murphy, ’33, Middletown, Conn., was one of two Notre Dame men who lost their lives in the crash of a single Flying Fortress over France on Aug. 5, ’43.
★	94 Corp. Richard L. Novak, ’29, died in Lawson General Hospital, Atlanta, on Feb. 27, ’43. Dick was editor-in-chief of the ’27 Dome.
★	95 Pfc. Joseph A. O’Brien, ex. ’40, of an armored infantry unit, was killed in North Africa on April 23, ’43.
★	96 Lt. William P. O’Brien, Jr., ’40, River Forest, HL, a bombardier in the
Army Air Forces, was killed on June 15 in a bomber crash in China.
★	97 Ensign Charles H. O’Donnell, ex. ’40, of Gary, Ind., was killed in a crash of a single motored United States Navy plane near Mt. Meridian, Ind., on Nov. 21, ’42.
★	98 Lt. Edward H. Phelan, Jr., ex. ’40, Whitt'er, Calif., was killed in action on March 22, ’43, while flying a B-25 bomber attached to the Middle Eastern Command. He received the Purple Heart.
★	99 Capt. Francis W. Pieri, ’40, Mah-anoy City, Pa., was killed in action in France on Aug. 22. He had been overseas with the Army Engineers.
★	100 Eugene A. Poletto, ’40, Clinton, Ohio, was killed in action but further details are unavailable.
★	101 Lt. John S. Powers, ’41, Ingalls, Ind., died on Jan. 4 in India. No further details are available.
★	102 Lt. Joseph P. Prendergast, ’36, Ware, Mass., was killed in action on Attu Island on May 29. He was managing editor of the 1935-36 Scholastic.
★	103 Lt. Henry C. Priester, ’43, Davenport, la., was killed in the Aleutians in February. He was a pilot of a P-38 fighter. He failed to return from a bombing of Paramushiro, Jap naval base.
★	104 Ens. Paul E. Purcell, ’40, Salt Lake City, Utah, was killed on July 27 in an airplane crash near Conley, Ga. He was a flying instructor.
★	105 Francis V. Quackenbush, ex. ’38, Albany, N. Y„ died in an Eastern Army camp recently.
★	106 Capt. James J. Quinn, ’36, Columbia, Pa., was killed in service in England.
★	107 Cpl. Joseph W. Reynolds, ’43, Asheville, N. C., was killed at Camp McCain, Miss., when a truck in which he was riding on night maneuvers overturned.
★	108 Pfc. Ambrose I. Rice, Jr., ex. ’38, of South Bend, was killed in action on Guadalcanal Island as a member of the USMC. He took part in the invasion of the Solomon Islands in August of ’42.
★	109 Pfc. Joseph F. Riley, ex. ’37, Cox Addition, Weston, W. Va., was killed in action somewhere in the Pacific.
★	110 Sgt. John W. Reach, Jr., ’38, of Muscatine, la., died in the North African area on June 23. John was graduated from Notre Dame, magna cum laude, in Commerce.
★	ill Pfc. Francis A. Schmied, ’40, Columbus, Wis , died on June 1 on Guadalcanal, as the result of the accidental discharge of the rifle he was cleaning in his tent.
★	112 Lt. Robert S. Schorsch, ’39, Chicago, was killed in action on Sept. 24. He was a paratrooper.
★	113 Lt. Edward J. Schreiber, ’41, was killed in an air crash in northern New Jersey on Sept. 24, ’42, while attempting to make a force landing. At the time of his death he was assigned to La Guardia Field, New York.
★	114 Ens. James 0. Schultheis, ex. ’41, Vincennes, Ind., died on April 18, ’43, of a fractured skull received in the performance of his duty in the South Pacific.
★	115 Lt. Anthony J. Seaman, ex. ’40, Greenville, S. C., was killed in the Western European area, in a plane crash on Oct. 20, ’42.
★	116 Lt. Thomas J. Sengon, ex. ’39, has died according to word received by the Alumni office.
★	117 Lt. Jon Paid Scvcik, ex. ’33, of the Army Engineers, died in a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines.
★	118 Cpl. John W. Shea, ex. ’43, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., was killed in the Asiatic area on Sept. 14 when he was struck by an airplane which had crashed in a take-off.
★	119 Lt. Raymond J. Shea, ’35, member of the ground force in England, was lost in the English Channel while on a mission.
★	120 Lt. Joseph M. Shields, USMCR, ’42, Pelham Manor, N. Y., was killed on Aug. 6 in an air crash near Johnson, Kans.
★	121 Lt. Robert J. Simonds, ex. ’38, South Bend, was killed on Sept. 4 in a training accident at Ft. Benning, Ga., where he was an instructor in a tank destroyer battalion.
★	122 Arthur C. Smith, Jr., ’33, Chicago was drowned on May 12, ’43, when he fell from a patrol boat in the Chicago River while serving with the Coast Guard.
★	123 Pilot Officer Lionel V. 0. Smith, ’33, of El Pas?, Texas, was killed in an accidental air crash near Hyderabad Sind, India, on Oct. 3, ’42, as a member of the Canadian Royal Air Corps.
★	124 Lt. Neal D. Smith, Jr., ex. ’41, Paw Paw, Mich, was killed on July 16, ’43, when his plane was hit by enemy ground fire over Sicily.
★	125 Lt. Robert G. Smith, ’42, Joliet, HL, Marine flyer, was killed in action in the South Pacific.
★	126 Ems. John F. Sprague, ex. ’43, Sunnyside, Wash., was killed in action in the Atlantic.
★	127 Sgt. Arthur F. Stancati, ex. ’46, Red Bank, N. J., gave his life in England on D-Day, June 6.
★	128 Capt. Charles D. Stapleton, ’41, Brooklyn, N. Y., was killed in action in France on July 12.
★	129 A/S Archie C. Strang, Jr., ex. ’43, Anaconda, Mont., was killed in October in a crash near the Naval Training Station, Hutchinson, Kans.
★130 Capt. Timothy Joseph Stulb, USMC, ’39, Augusta, Ga., lost his life in the invasion of Saipan Island.
★	131 Corp. Daniel J. Sullivan, ex. ’36, Springfield, Mass., was killed in action in North Africa on March 23, ’43. He had been awarded the Army’s Silver Star for gallantry in action.
★	132 Pfc. Harold R. Siceeny, USMC, ex. ’39, Pelham Manor, N. Y., was killed in an air crash.
★	133 Lt. James R. Veeneman, ’40, Chicago, was killed on April 10, in a training flight at Santa Ana, Calif.
★	134 Cadet John T. Von Harz, Crystal Lake, HL, was killed in a plane crash in October, ’41.
★	135 Albert A. Wallace, ’32, died at home in Davenpoit, la., while on a furlough.
★	136 Ignatius Benedict Walker, ex. ’46, Winchester, HL, was killed in a plane crash. '
★	137 Lt. John E. Walsh, Jr., ’39, Chicago, was killed in action over Europe on June 29.	•
★	138 Sgt. John K. Walsh, ex. ’43,	-
USMC, Denver, was killed recently in the Pacific area.
★	139 Capt. George C. Wassell, ’31, of Sharon, Pa., a flight surgeon with the Army Air Forces, was killed on Oct. 3, ’42, over the British Isles. He had been overseas only a short time when word was received of his death.
★	140 Capt. Douglas C. Weaver, ex. ’40, Miamisburg, O., was killed on May 7, ’43, with all his crew when the Mitchell bomber which he commanded was lost in a raid on Japanese-held Canton, China.
★	141 George W. Weber, ex. ’40, Cleveland, 0., was killed in a plane crash in October, ’41, near Brooksfield, Texas.
★	142 Capt. Thomas J. Webster, ’40, South Bend, died as the result of injuries which he had suffered in action on Guadalcanal on Nov. 24, ’43, while serving with the USMC.
★	143 Lt. John W. Weichman, ex. ’43, USMC, Covington, Ky., was lost at sea on Dec. 13, ’42. He was a member of the “Fighting Irish squadron.”
★	144 John J. Whelan, Jr., ’43, Bloomfield, N. J., died at Corpus Christi, Texas, on Feb. 3, ’43, as the result of injuries suffered in a plane crash.
★	145 Ens. Ralph G. Wingfield, ’40, Lynchburg, Va., met his death while on naval patrol duty.
.★146 Ens. George A. Wolf, ex. ’39, Hollidaysburg, Pa., was killed in action in the Pacific area.
★	147 Lt. William R. Wrigh*, ex. ’42, South Pend, was killed in southern France cn March 11. He was a co-pilot of a Liberator bomber.
11
Irish Host to Bluejackets in Grid Finale Tomorrow; Licking of '43 Still Smarting
BY BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
In three meetings, the Great Lakes has held forth in the Irish-Sailors tilt. And although Notre Dame has only lost one game, they failed to win the others. In 1918 and 1942, ties resulted. Then, in 194*3, with the Blue and Gold riding the football crest of America, having emerged successfully from nine contests, came up for their final encounter with an advertised “mediocre” Great Lakes club.
But after the action had ceased, the roars had silenced and the tears were in the process of drying, it was made known to a football loving country that a great Notre Dame team, in fact, great enough to be named “National Champions,” was no longer undefeated, for a desperate pass, from the hand of Steve Lach to the open, awaiting and undefended arms of Paul Anderson, in the last 32 seconds, had toppled the Irish from a new pinnacle.
Defeat Still Stinging
But this year, there’s revenge in the hearts of a young, inexperienced team. Only a mere handful of the present team, Kelly, Filley, Szymanski and Adams played in that game—but what memories they still retain. Whatever rating the Golden Dome lads are tabbed with going into this tilt, you can bet a sawbuck any day that their thoughts of defeating “the Lakes” null be thorough and complete.
Stadium scenes like this will be last for a year.
On the other side of the ledger, there is a distinctive feature of the Irish prevalent among the opposition for among its personnel are Jim Mello, starting Irish fullback in last year’s fray, along with Bob Hanlon, Bob Palladino and Frank Sullivan. A guy doesn’t like to take it out on buddies but this week, there’ll have to be an exception for in a football game, especially one with such a background, there is no room for courtesies of friendship.
McKeever's Winning Hand
After more than an able showing against Bill Alexander’s Yellowjackets last week-end, Coach Ed McKeever has decided that his poker hand was better than that of his opposition and will try to employ the same set-up to advantage this week.
At ends will be Bob Skoglund and Bill O’Connor; tackles are George Sullivan and Art Mergenthal; guards, George Marts and Joe Westenkirchner; center, Frank Szymanski; quarter, Frank Dan-cewicz; halfs, the two Irishmen, Bob Kelly and Jim Brennan; and at full, Marty Wendell.
Both Pat Filley and Fred Rovai, injured in the Army game, have not recovered sufficiently to be named to the lineup while Elmer Angsman will see some action in the game. Joe Gasparella, (Continued on page 22)
Winter Interhall Setiq Handball, Basketbal!
ES
£5
in
BY jli
E
Interhall sports will again be prom-1' inent this semester as they were last! semester. During the present term there I will be competition in wrestling, hand-1 ball, basketball, volleyball, boxing, bad-1 minton, and squash.	B
the Great Lakes game.
Bask etball B will be orga-B nized on theB basis of round B robin tourna-ll ments in leagues V of small size—B probably fourlJ teams. Cham-K pionships willK be determined® in elimination® play between® the winners ofK leagues. The all-l| civilian cham-ljj pionship team®1! will play theli service team! winner for the!]! campus cham-l pi on ship. Play 11 will begin im-1
mediately aftei! | Civilians should! | now be organizing their teams for entry!!
Volleyball will play on the basis of round robin with one or two league?
Tomorr
fs
NOTRE DAME
Skoglund_____ Sullivan_____ Martz________ Szymanski____ Westenkirchner
Mergenthal___________ O'Connor_____________ Dancewicz ___________ Brennan _____________ Kelly________________ Wendell______________
Coach: Ed McKeever
12
■J
Great Lakes Squad—With One Trimming in 11 Battles-Comes to Town With Potency Plus
By LT. LUKE WALTON
Athletic Public Relations officer. Great Lakes
Lists Several Events
ind Other Sports Listed
■a
E MILES
a-1 st ■ re I 1-1 1-1

r functioning, depending on the number of entries. Teams may represent hall, club, or other group interested in playing. Competition will begin in mid-De-cember.
I An open wrestling tournament will be held in the middle of the semester, prob-
i ably the last week in December.
io
ir
d|
Til e IT e.
r E B H
B
Because of the proximity of the annual Bengal Bouts in the spring, no open boxing meet will be held. However, a novice tourney will be held near the end of the semester, probably in the middle of February.
Handball will be run on a round robin basis if interest warrants it. Foui- or six man teams would represent each hall, with single and double play making up a match. There will be an open elimination tourney late in the semester to determine campus championship regardless of the success met with in league team play.
Badminton and squash will be settled with elimination tournaments held late in the term if interest is sufficient to warrant it.
!1
J
It is the hope of Mr. John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education, that the interest displayed in the activities of last semester will be continued throughout the present one.
GREAT LAKES _______ Young _______Rees _______ Klein _______ Fuchs _______Hahn _______ Mullins _______Keane _______Youel _______ Saenz _______Avery _______Mello
Coach: Lt. (jg) Paul Brown
In three seasons Notre Dame and Great Lakes have built a rivalry on the gridiron that equals in focal attention many of the traditional games of a half century’s standing.
At Chicago, in Soldiers’ Field, Great Lakes and Notre Dame met for the first time of the present war, in December' of 1942. A dramatic counter attack by the gallant Irish in the second half tied up a ball game that presumably was in rhe Navy bag.
Last year, the final thirty-two seconds rhat climaxed an afternoon packed with action, decided the outcome of a contest that overshadowed any other attraction of the entire season’s schedule as for national interest both in the continents7, limits and overseas.
Perhaps the reason for so much attention of football fans to be directed to the Irish-Bluejackets series is that personnel of the two teams interchange. Last fall, a young sailor by the name of Emil Sitko, had much to do about defeating Notre Dame. Sitko had just finished one year at Notre Dame before going into the Navy. The Irish fullback, Jim Mello, who ripped the Bluejacket bulwark to shreds in the 80-yard touchdown parade staged in the fourth quarter, now is playing for Great Lakes, and along with the powerful Portuguese, are Bob Hanlon and Rocky Palladino., two members of last year’s Irish squad.
Two weeks before the opening game of the season, Lieut, (jg) Brown took over the coaching assignment at the Naval Training Center, and immediately decided to use the T-formation as a means of offensive tactics, with various modifications. Lieut, (jg) Brown was new to most of the Bluejackets, and he faced the problem of moulding together a club in a short time.
Of the candidates who reported for the team, Jim Youel, of Iowa, Ollie Vogt of Marquette, and George Spencer of Bexley High School, Columbus. Ohio, were selected for quarterbacks. For the right halfback assignment, Brown selected Chuck Avery of Minnesota, Don Mangold of Indiana, Hal Duddridge of Washburn College, and Palladino. At left half, Hanlon holds number one position, although he has been out of the game for four weeks with an ankle in-jury. Hanlon is supported in that position by Eddie Saenz of Southern California, Gene Delaney of Mount Carmel High School, Chicago, and Lew Rose of Purdue.
Mello is the number one fullback of the Bluejackets, but Don Lesher of Lake View High School, Chicago, and Claude Harrison, of Georgia Tech have been lending able reserve strength. However, Harrison will be out of the Notre Dame game because of a foot injury.
Carmen Izzo, of Western Reserve,
who has been at the sailor center spot, broke his wrist two weeks ago. George Fuchs, of Miami University, will start in his stead. Other Bluejacket centers are Bill Baughman of Iowa, Major Files of Tulsa University, and Frank Sullivan of Belle Harbor, N. Y.
At the start of the season, George Young of Georgia, and Jim Keane of Iowa, were the starting ends, but since the arrival of Cecil Souders of Ohio State, at Great Lakes, three weeks ago, Kane and Souders have been alternating at right end. Don Farrell of Marquette, and Ernie Plank of Ohio State, back up Young. Bill Marshall of Texas Christian, is another right end.
One of the outstanding performances of the current season has been displayed by Harold Mullins, right tackle from Duke. At that post, Mullins is supported by former All-Western Conference Jim Reader, of Illinois, and Jene Holt of Southern Methodist.
Jim Rees, who played last year under the tutelage of Lieut, (jg) Brown at Ohio State, is now the Great Lakes’ left tackle. Ernie Williamson of Crewe, Va., high school, and Dick Eggers of Northwestern are supporting Rees.
Neither of the sailors who started the season at the guard positions are available for Saturday’s game. Ernie Bauer and Pete Krivonak are gone. Chuck Klein, from the University of Miami, arrived late in the season and took over the left guard spot. Jesse Hahn, of Mur xav State Teachers’ College, who suffered a knee injury in the Northwester^ vame, early in the season, will be avaP
(Continued on page 23)
13
X-Country Gets 2nd at
NCAA; Indoor Call Soon
By JACK McGRANE
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
Facing the stiffest collegiate competition in the Midwest, Notre Dame’s crosscountry squad proved their superior quality as Bill Tully led them to second place in the NCAA championships at East Lansing, Mich., last Saturday. Drake University scored 38 points to the Blue and Gold’s 64 to win the team title, while Ohio State’s harriers finished third with 76.
Tully romped home in fifth place followed by teammates Ken Muening, Bob Prosche, Tom McGuire, and Steve Provost. Prosche negotiated the rugged four-mile course in fine style, showing continued improvement and Gene Slattery likewise ran a strong race.
The NCAA meet closed the season for the hill-and-dalers, who are now enjoying a two-week break before donning the spiked shoes again for the indoor schedule.	.
Coach “Doc” Handy was confronted in September with his usual tough opponents without the services of a single man with previous collegiate experience. Inaugurating the “200-mile club” to condition his squad, Handy worked patiently, developing and instructing his charges. The boys improved weekly, the result of daily application, and came home last week beaming with their success in the Nationals. They had. come a long way from the meager beginnings two months before and their excellent showing is a tribute to their spirit and to plain hard work on the part of both the runners themselves and their popular coach.
An official call will be made shortly for candidates fcr the indoor track team, but anyone desirous of working out before then may contact Coach Handy at his office in Breen-Phillips. There are openings at every distance event, as well as field events, so if you have ability, it surely won’t be overlooked.
The Garden Club of Alabama has decided to establish a garden in memory of the veterans of World War II, in the new Arboretum which is being developed on the campus of the Alabama Polytechnic Institute at Auburn.
Furman university has been granted $5,000 per year for new bcoks for a period of three years and $10,000 for the same period of time to bs used for re-cataloging.
/ntroducin
BY JIM HECK
FRANK SZYMANSKI
Returning to Notre Dame after almost a year’s absence, Frank Szymanski
stepped right into his old job at center
Frank Szymanski
and has completely filled the bill in the Army and Northwestern games. Frank, who played under Herb Coleman on the 1943 National Champs, received a medical discharge from the Naval Air Corps after almost a year of service.
Frank comes from Detroit,
Michigan where he attended Northeastern High school. During his high school days, he earned nine monograms; three in football, basketball and baseball. All of his brothers and even his Dad are
athletically inclined.
Twenty-one year old Frank parks his 204 pounds and 6 foot frame in Sorin Hall. In his seventh semester, he is majoring in math and physics. Since he has been at Notre Dame, he has garnered two monograms in football and is headed for his third.
Holding the great Michigan team on the one-yard line in last year’s game, which ND won, 32-13, was his biggest sports thrill. Next to playing football, Frank likes to shoot a little golf and go dancing. His favorite food is a hot dog with everything on it. He also thinks that Harry James and the song “Intermezzo” are tops. Angelo Bertelli, a teammate of his for two years, is his sports idol. His ambition is to play pro football after graduation and later get a coaching job.
In closing, let us say that it’s good to have Frank back.
GEORGE SULLIVAN
The first athlete in 25 years to win two major Notre Dame monograms as a freshman—that’s George Sullivan. During his freshman year, Sully earned a monogram in track as well as in football. He came in third in the shot put division in the National Collegiate track and field (Continued on page 22)
Air and Ground Attacks Power Irish in Tech Win
By GEORGE KRAUSER "Scholastic" Football Writer
Combining a precision running game with a neat passing attack the Irish took the sting out of the Yellowjackets from Georgia Tech and hummed away to a 21-0 win before an overflow crowd at Atlanta. The 32,000 spectators watched Notre Dame punch across single tallies in the first, third, and fourth quarters and squelch a vaunted Tech aerial threat with an air-tight pass defense and a hard-charging forward wall.
Dancewicz Stars
For Bob Kelly and Jim Brennan it was a field day as they joined to roll up 189 of the 260 yards that the Irish ground attack accumulated and account for all Blue and Gold touchdowns; for Frank Dancewicz it was an opportunity to show his great passing ability as he hit nine out of 14 efforts for 123 yards and tacked on 31 more by ground route; and for the whole Irish team it was a chance to climb back into the national limelight as they crushed the team that scored a 17-15 triumph over powerful Navy.
Nemeth Converts
The Irish, in chalking up their seventh win of the campaign, wasted no time in getting started as they scored the first time they had possession of the pigskin. After Tech had received the kickoff and failed to gain, Al Bowmen punted to Frank Dancewicz who returned 15 yards to the Southerners 44. Jimmy Brennan scooted around right end for a first down on the Tech 30. Bob Kelly picked up two and Brennan added three before Kelly bolted to the 11. Marty Wendell was stopped cold, but then Brennan streaked around end for the initial score and Steve Nemeth converted to put the Irish in front to stay.
From Their 31
The second period consisted of two long sustained drives, a 76 yard march by the Irish and an 81 yard advance by the Engineers, which did not bring about any change in the score. The Blue and Gold struck with lightning to start the third quarter as they crossed the Tech goal seven plays after the halftime kickoff. Starting on their 31, the Irish moved with Wendell and Kelly advancing the leather to the Georgians 46. “Boley” Dancewicz then pitched to Bob Skoglund on the 40 and followed up with a 15 yard flip to Kelly, who pulled in the aerial on the 25 and hustled over with the second six-pointer. Nemeth again converted to
(Continued on page 15)
14
FIELD DAY; FOLLOWED BY INSPECTION
Once a month every swabbie of the Notre Dame Navy V-12 Unit releases all his potential “eager beaver” qualities and really “turns to” on his personal quarters and any other section under his “captaincy” by the special request of the M.A.A. It is imperative that he and his company pass the executive officer’s critical inspection; if not to satisfy his own personal pride, then at least to avoid a challenge to the threats (proved to be much more than mere threats in the past) of demerits, restriction, E.P.D., or (and) extra watches at the most hideous hours possible._Almost everyone, after swabbing his deck went on a fruitless search for floor wax to give the deck that extra special gloss so that the inspecting party (a group of eagle eyes; definitely not a gathering for fun) wouldn’t look so scrutinizingly at the rest of the quarters (this is an example of practical psychology).
There was no wax to be found in the gear lockers, and the janitors had been given orders to save all the polish they had on hand for the passageways. If no one could shine the deck of his “compartment” there would be no noticeable contrast. BUT, there were a few kill-joys in the crowd who had wax; and when asked where and how they had managed to beg, borrow or steal it, they replied in a sly whisper, “Ever heard of the black market, Mac?” .... And then there were the usual last minute haircuts; preceded by phrases like: “This wool of mine will never get by this inspection,” and “You cut mine and I’ll cut yours.”
For those who are particular and desire double quick service on a soup bowl inspection special at only a fraction of the ceiling price, we suggest Pete Hamill’s Clip Joint, 146 Dillon. (Pd. Adv.— We have one free “hair cut” coming; will sell same cheap).
WE ENJOY OUR CHOW . . .
But why don’t they really boil, cook or steam those semi-weekly ten-second eggs, instead of just promising it to
them? (We will gladly admit that they have been somewhat better lately. Last semester though, the cooks were accomplishing a feat that was biologically unreasonable—the yolks were Easter eggs, the whites were raw. Those scrambled eggs are a welcome improvement too.) We never have to worry about missing a day, or even a whole week, of meals and then wondering just what we missed. Through a special arrangement with the chow hall, we can either remember what we had the week before at the corresponding meal, wait until the next week at the corresponding meal, or analyze the Saturday’s hash, or stew, which contains all the wholesome vitamins of the week.... Those mystery balls still have even the scientists guessing.
Scuttlebutt has it that any student of qualitative analysis running even a 50 percent successful guessing analysis scheme, using as an unknown one of the “don’t know what it is and can’t find out” balls, will automatically receive a minimum of 100 per cent as a final grade in qualitative analysis.... They should put horns (the kind that make a noise) on those “service” wagons before someone gets run over—and that would be messy.... I sometimes wonder if we get turned down on a “more,” for almost all items that we have nerve enough to ask for, because they are trying to starve us out of the V-12 program, or are just carefully watching over our figures. They blame it upon rationing, but it probably has its greatest advantage—we might say ONLY advantage, and this one doubtful—in “forcing” us to eat a little bit of everything (elsewhere, this is commonly called a balanced diet)__How long does it take to get those boiled potatoes as black as they get sometimes, and just what is the necessarily complicated process?
❖
TOMORROW: THE GAME
What do we care about alien cheering in our midst, so long as Saint Mary’s swings along with us; and they wifi, too. Bless ’em!
More Than Half of Nation
“One year of government service for all young men, a proposal twice called to the country's attention by President Roosevelt, and endorsed by many civic clubs and organizations, is a proposal popular with the American people.” Thus stated George Gallup, of the Gallup Poll, as he pointed out that this proposal had been favored by the people for more than a year.
In all sections of the country the people favored such a plan by 60 to 70 percent according to the figures released. In addition the poll showed that the plan was favored by people of both parties, of both sexes, and of all age groups.
This leaves to Washington the problem of facilitating such a program in peace time. It would seem that a program of exclusive military service may be amended to one of general outdoor physical training by doing such work as conservation or forestry work, such as the members of the Civilian Conservation Corps were doing during the 30’s. According to polls taken at that time, the C.C.C. was one of the most popular of the new deal agencies.
Another aspect of this problem, which directly concerns university men, is how such a program might fit into the educational system. Should al! men be allowed to finish High School before being taken for training; and should provision be made to enable men to take this training while attending college?
Still another" question has arisen concerning the status of young women under such a plan—should they be trained in such things as health service, nursing, or even cooking?	.
At present polls are being taken to sound out the opinion of the public on these aspects of peace time draft of youth for government service.
AIR AND GROUND ATTACK (Continued from page 14) give the Golden Domers a 14-point margin.
After a punting duel throughout the remainder of the period, a 25 yard Dan-cewicz to Brennan aerial gave the Irish the ball on. Tech’s 43 to begin the final stanza. A mixture of passes and runs carried to the Tech 6, but in four plays Notre Dame was halted and the Jackets took over. On the second play Marty Wendell intercepted Ritter’s pass and raced to the Engineer’s 19. Two runs and a pass placed the oval on the seven and after Kelly belted to the one in three attempts Brennan took Dancewicz’ lateral to go over standing up. Nemeth added the conversion and the final 21-0 triumph was written in the record books —a great tribute to a fighting team, the Fighting Irish.
15
Student Poll Favors Fighting Irish Over Great Lakes in Last Game of Season
BY CHUCK SABTORE
The opinions of the students in this week’s poll ranged from a minimum of seven words to the maximum of seven lines, but all meant the same thing, that Notre Dame will beat Great Lakes.
The hopes of all were greatly strengthened after last Saturday’s easy victory over a strong Georgia Tech team. Our team had better passes, defense, offense, and running power than Tech, and therefore the students believe that it will stop Great Lakes.
Although none of the interviewees of last week thought we would win by three touchdowns, two of them were very close, and will be our guests this week. They are Jim Simon and Al Manion. Al is to be especially complimented as this is his second week in the guest spotlight. Here are predictions for this week:
❖
Al Manion, V-12 Junior from Chicago, Ill.: “I’ll just keep my fingers crossed, and hope that Mello, Hanlon, Lesher, et al don’t make a liar of me. Notre Dame 20, Great Lakes 14.”
Jim Simon, Civilian Sophomore from Toledo, Ohio: “I think Notre Dame has an edge on Great Lakes. We have the old ‘We’re on our way’ spirit! I’ll wager the score will be 28-14.”
❖
Richard Ward, Midshipman from Lincoln, Neb.: “N. D. will win by virtue of the trouncing handed Georgia Tech, 14-13.”
❖
Stanley Smith, guest from C.B.C., Memphis, Tenn.: “If Notre Dame plays the caliber football they fielded against Northwestern and Georgia Tech, they will go on to beat The Lakes 14 to 0.”
❖
Vince -Cushing, Civilian senior from Chicago, Ill.: “Looking at that Great Lakes lineup, it’s easy to see why we could lose; but when we’re clicking, there isn’t a team in the country that can beat us. I think Notre Dame’s out after this game, and the sailor’s are going to have a bad day of it to the tune of about 19 to 7.”
❖
Dave Cartwright, N.R.O.T.C. senior from Ellwood City, (near Pittsburgh) Pa.: “It will be all Notre Dame in the game Saturday. Great Lakes has no more
16
chance than some small high school team. I’d give 10 points.”
Robert Molnar, Civilian freshman from Bridgeport, Conn.: “Notre Dame will win by a score of 27-13. After losing to Army and Navy, they have shown by Defeating Northwestern and Georgia Tech that they are still a top team in the country.
G. L. Brinkley, Midshipman from Murfreesboro, Tenn.: “Great Lakes -will win. N.D. has a good club, but the Lakes has a better. Score 12-7.”
Ralph Hayman, Civilian junior from Philadelphia, Pa.: “After the superb brand of ball demonstrated against Tech it is regrettable that there isn’t a second chapter to the Army story. Although the sailors are well fortified with ex-collegiate greats, the Irish will sink them 13-7.”
Bud Wall, V-12 senior from Fort Wayne, Ind.: “N. D. will win by six points.”
' *
Chris Rehkopf, Jr., Civilian freshman from Memphis, Tenn.: “Notre Dame is going to be out for victory over Great Lakes because they want to end the season with a win, and because Great Lakes prevented a perfect season last year. The Irish will be 28-7 victors.”
❖
Leroy Broun, NROTC senior from Evansville, Ind.: “Notre Dame will win 20-14. We have been pointing for this game all year, and most of the injured should be playing.”
❖ .
Tom McCaughey, Civilian junior from Chicago, Ill.: “This Saturday is Notre Dame’s day on the gridiron. After decisive wins over Northwestern and Georgia Tech, the team is again on the march. Notre Dame will win 21-7, thus getting revenge for Great Lakes victory of last year.”
Cavanaughs Challenge
The recent interhall table tennis tournament sponsored by the Catholic Action students between Cavanaugh and Zahm halls ending in triumph for the former hall on last Monday evening in the recre
ation room of Breen-Phillips hall when Cavanaugh won by winning three sets to one.
Four representatives from each hall were chosen by competitive tournaments. These contestants were then pitted against each other and the winning hall was the one whose team had won three out of four final matches consisting of two out of three games.
The contestants and their scores were:
Tom Dore (Cav.) d. Tom Geordano (Zahm), 2-0.
Frank Venner (Cav.) d. John Majewski (Zahm), 2-1.
Don Stolberg (Zahm) d. Ernie Schro-er (Cav.), 2-0.
Charles Glaser (Cav.) d. Don Muncil (Zahm), 2-1.
After the tournament the winning players competed to determine the individual player of the tourney. Frank Venner, who by edging out Don Stolberg and Charles Glaser to become the best individual player, "will meet at a later date with Tom Dore to decide the Cavanaugh champ.
Now that the “shooting” is over the men from Cavanaugh have loomed into view as the unbeatable. Any team of two or four men who would like to challenge this Cavanaugh team are welcome to make their entry in Rm. 413 of Cavanaugh Hall.—Ron Byersmith
Recreation Rooms Open
Who are those lucky men who can play pool, ping-pong and billiards in their own recreation room?
The students of Zahm Hall have a well equipped and most picturesque recreation room for their own use. Through the efforts of Phillip Luppi, president of Zahm and Student Council representative, rapid progress is being made to furnish this room with auxiliary equipment. Zahm hall students are making donations to buy this needed equipment.
All the pool tables, billiard tables, and ping-pong tables are owned exclusively by the hall through their purchase by civilian students for the past four years. The recreation hall is to be in smooth running condition in about three weeks.
Though the Breen-Phillips recreation room is relatively small, the room has ping-pong tables and a piano. The students are free to use this equipment at any time. When the use of the recreation rooms get into full swing, interhall competition is sure to develop in the near future.
DIPSY DOODLE
The Green Banner
... By John Power
—LICK THE LAKES—
ARE THESE OUR CHILDREN
The Student Council now boasts of. representatives from every kind of club, from the Saturday Night Shower Society to “more syrup” Pancake Flippers. The Shower Society’s nominee, Harry Walters, was not present because he was busy searching for his bar of soap, lost or stolen at the Society’s last meeting— said organization was later disbanded by high authorities in the Council when it v—iumcred that it did not meet each week.
—SINK THE SAILORS—
THE RAINS CAME
It has long been an established fact that Indiana weather changes as often and as fast as Dick Sadowski’s suits. This week, however, Jupe Pluvius set all sort of records on the local scene. One afternoon Harry Ryan started his 1:15, sporting an ensemble of electrically-heated earmuffs, red flannels, with a built-in hot water bottle, and carrying a Stemo stove. While in class, the shower started; and with ingenuity born of desperation, he snatched the boat from atop the Commerce building and sailed back to Sorin.
—GOBBLE THE GOBS—
COMEDY OF ERRORS (or) KISS AND TELL (or)
Sunday, Monday, and Never Again
Characters: two Cavanaugh cut-ups.
Scene: between Dujarie and the Dome.
Jim Mangan: What a brawl! Ugh! we should have gone to the Granada and taken in “Delinquent Daughters.”
Pat Wagner: Oh, my date was pretty nice—to put it nautically—at the intermission, I sighted sub, sank same.
Mangan : Sub, my eye, it looked more like a freighter to me.
—NAB THE NAVY—
THOSE SWINGING DOORS
’Twas Saturday night in old South Bend, The boys had congregated at the busline’s end,
It looked like the week-end was going to flop,
Then someone mentioned Berliners CoHop.
They were off like a flash; wolves in a flock
To the Progress club in the 600 block.
They looked hither end yon for a gocd-looking date,
They looked yon and hither for a pulchritudinous mate.
There was Bessie from Bendix and Rosie from Riley,
There was Susie from Studebaker, shined up and smiley,	,
There was Wilma from Washington; a cute little pixie,
And even dear Sheila from across the Dixie.
They looked over the talent and took pct hick,
They had quite a choice for half a buck,
They waltzed and trotted the evening through,
And bravely suggest the next for you.
—TAN THE TARS—
Well no, dear, Sorin wasn't exactly like this.
Orchids to Sammy Kaye for his Vic-t~ry March rendition in the Granada’s Thanksgiving Turkey presentation of “Song of the Open Read.”
To the Socialite: after the game, the Victory Dance sponsored by the Chern Engineers at the Progress club is the “place to go.”
If Bob Leander doesn’t put a stop to those perfumed letters the Zombies will look like wolves as well as sound like them.
Scarlett O’Hara’s fire had nothing on the blaze that the slick ones Ernie Rauscher, John Graif and Ted Rade-maker caused on their recent Atlanta excursion. “The town,” it is said, “went up in smoke.”
—REMEMBER LAST YEAR—
VICTORY MARCH .
Hats off to the Irish as they play the grand finale tomorrow afternoon — as the curtain rings down on the playing careers of Capt. Pat Filley, Bob Kelly, John Adams, George Sullivan, and Frank Szymanski. “The Green Banner” salutes them all—
—GO GET ’EM IRISH-
17
Excerpts from the Experts...
BY JOHN FEENEY
Notre Dame has done it again! That’s the opinion of the nation’s football journalists who witnessed N. D.’s surprising conquest of Georgia Tech’s mighty eleven, supposedly the best in the South. The comeback of the Blue and Gold after beatings by the Service Academies brought up the N. D. rating and raised hopes for an avenging victory over the Great Lakes Naval Training Station.
Here are the narrations written by the various con'espondents:
Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune:
“The Irish today delivered for Notre Dame. Jim Brennan, who first attracted gridiron attention only a week ago, collaborated with Bob Kelly in leading the Blue and Gold to a 21-0 triumph over Georgia Tech before an overflow crowd of 32,000 on Grant field.”
Dick MacMillan, Chicago Sun:
“Notre Dame marched through Georgia Tech three times here today, escaping aerial bombardment enroute, to mark up a 21-0 decision and take a long step toward gathering in the loose ends of an in-and-out season. The Irish took command with a quick touchdown thrust in the game’s early moments, weathered a flurry of second quarter passes and then were never again in danger' as they picked up counters in each of the last two periods.”
United Press:
“The over-fightin’ football Irish regained a measure of the gridiron glory that once was Notre Dame’s today, throwing up a barrier of denial before Georgia Tech’s touchdown minded Engineers to win the day’s top intersectional feature, 21-0. This was Notre Dame’s day and the Irish lost no time making it apparent to the 29,000 fans who braved damp, sleety weaether to see the battle at Grant Field.”
Associated Press:
“Notre Dame completely outclassed Georgia Tech today and behind the triple threat talent of Frank Dancewicz and the running of Bob Kelly and Jim Brennan, pounded out a 21-0 victory.”
Walter Kennedy, South Bend Tribune:
“Eighty years ago General Sherman started on his way to fame, -when he marched from Atlanta to the sea during the Civil war. This afternoon young Jim Brennan, Notre Dame’s 155 pound halfback did a bit of marching himself in Atlanta, grabbed himself a bit of
18
fame, and led an inspired underdog Irish eleven to a 21-0 victory over Georgia Tech. Thirty thousand fans, a sellout, watched in amazement as Notre Dame completely dominated the game and won just about as they pleased.”
Chicago Proves Football
Reservoir for Irish
Long a rich reservoir of football talent for Notre Dame teams, the Windy City of Chicago has come into its own in this the second wartime season, as the outstanding contributor to the Fighting Irish as well as to many other Midwest teams. Many who competed in the close league races of 1942 and 1943 have now been transplanted to college gridirons to continue their rivalries.
Chicagoans on the Notre Dame roster include Bob Kelly, Elmer Angsman, Marty Wendell, Jack Dee, George Ben-igni, Bob Skoglund, Kenny Schuster, Ed Mieszkowski, Bill Chandler, Mike Ganey, and Art Archer.
In 1942, Angsman and Benigni were a big part of the Mt. Carmel team that were edged out of the league title by Ganey, Kelly and their Leo high mates. Also featuring the Carmel attack were Dick Conners outstanding for Northwestern two weeks back and Gene Delaney who will romp for Great Lakes, tomorrow. Great Lakes will also bring Bob Hanlon, ex-Notre Dame, who teamed with Kelly in high school.
The following year, 1943, saw Wendell lead St. George to the city title while Chandler came out second best to the Illini’s Buddy Young in a hot scoring race. In 1943, Schuster and Mieszkowski were the City’s best at tackle. Skoglund and Dee were the bright lights on an otherwise dismal Loyola Academy team.
Besides Chicago, outstanding geographical contributors are the home town of South Bend with Filley, Ray, and Nemeth; Vandergrift, Pa.; Akron, O., and Detroit, Mich.,each -with two members of the Fighting Irish squad.
—Gene Diamond
LOST
An Eversharp Gold-Tipped Fountain Pen somewhere in the vicinity of the stadium, or in the stadium, recently. Finder please return to Publications Office in Brownson Hall. Reward.
Well, it’s here! The grand finale of the 1944 pigskin season has arrived for Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish and whether they take the Bluejackets or not it will still remain a successful season. Winners of 7 out of 9 efforts, the Blue and Gold go up against a team they have never been able to beat, and one which boasts of a trio of former Notre Dame backs.
The threesome consists of Jim Mello, breakaway fullback on last year’s champs, Bob Hanlon, and Johnny Palladino, reserves on the same squad. Mello besides contributing his capable ball-toting ability has also stepped into the place-kicking role for the Sailors, and only last week booted 4 for 4 in their 28-7 breeze over Fort Warren. Yes sir, it’ll be Irish against Irish and that means anything can happen. Be there tomorrow and help kindle the fires of victory with some good “solid” cheering.
Speaking of spirit, a letter from Pvt. John Bily, USMCR, has reached this columnist and in it he praises not only the Irish spirit but also the great work done by the Navy Phy. Ed. instructors. John, only recently in the Marines attached to Notre Dame and now at Colgate, tells of the time his swimming group had to jump from a 22-foot tower. After his successful plunge the Chief on duty remarked, “That’s the way to do it, don’t rush up from the bottom of the pool. Come up slow using a breast stroke like him. Marine, do it again for us.” And that may well have given some scared beginner the confidence that he needed.
Pvt. Bily goes on to say, “All of us here are still for N.D., win or lose. I hope we have held up the Irish spirit.” You and your buddies surely have, and here’s hoping you Leathernecks continue to do so, Johnny.
Private First Class John Dominic Yonakor, recognized as almost unanimous choice for All-American honors for 1943, has been pastiming for the Camp Lejeune Marine football team. The big 230-pound, six-foot, five-inch Lithuanian powerhouse has been an inspirational player and mentally and physically in every play of every game at his regular right end spot. Johnny enlisted in the Marine Corps in June of 1942 and received his basic training at Parris Island, S. C.
Another former football star of Notre Dame is also on the Camp Lejeune eleven in the form of Marine First Lieutenant Michael Hines, Jr., of the ’40-’41 squads. Lt. Hines, who is the largest man on the team, weighing 265 pounds, is a regular tackle. Besides playing football for the Irish, he was a member of the basketball and boxing teams and was freshman baseball coach in the spring of 1942. After being at Parris Island, Lejeune and Quantico he was transferred to the European theater of operations where he served until recently.
According to the statistics released by the National Collegiate Athletic Bureau prior to the Tech game, the Irish were sixth in rushing in the nation. Only powerhouse Army, unbeaten Ohio State, Randolph Field, Michigan, and Navy were ahead of the Golden Domers. The Blue and Gold passing attack is second only to the Cadets and on pass defense they rank third. Combining both passing and rushing we find the Irish placed fifth in the standings and they turned these gains into enough tallies to merit the No. 6 slot in scoring. So, by simple mathematics it can be proved that the Irish rank with “the cream of the crop” in college elevens. Of course, this excludes the two service schools, which have been the only ones to mar the 1944 Notre Dame record.
Once again the Western Conference has voted against postseason games for those under her jurisdiction. Ohio State’s Buckeyes, in going undefeated in nine contests, set a record unmatched by any State team since 1916. Too bad the Rose Bowl couldn’t get the allcivilian aggregation in the New Year’s pageant.
Switching to basketball we find that De Paul’s eagers opened their season with a 16-point win over Illinois Tech, a team that has beaten the oft-beaten U. of Chicago. They were led by 6' 9" George Mikan, with whom the Irish will later have to contend when their scheduled meeting with the Chicagoans arrives. So keep an eye peeled for those De Paul boys.
Turning to the old and worn we are reminded of the time not so long ago of the farce invented by a certain group of Wall Street pranksters. By picking a fictitious name for a fictitious college eleven which they called the Plainfield Teachers, they notified the big New York papers and soon had them printing write-ups of an undefeated Plainfield eleven that had won six in a row. At last when the newshawks sensed a new saga in football history they sent reporters to cover the next game of the much-
heralded team. When these reporters were unable to find the place of the game they learned how they had been tricked and the joke was unveiled. Needless to say, the season was brought to an end by “failure of the football team in mid-semester exams.”
When the scribes start gathering to determine “Who’s who” on what AllAmerica, they should be sure not to overlook the Irish backfield cogs, Frank “Boley” Dancewicz and Bob Kelly. Game after game both have turned in headsup performances and only last week they shone as the stars. Frank hit his receivers on 9 out of 14 occasions, punted beautifully and made numerous short gains when they counted most. Bob, despite his leg injury, was the workhorse of the game, running the ball on 24 occasions and still coming out with a 4.3 average. Dancewicz, besides his passing, running, and punting ability, is the brains of the Irish “T” in the allimportant quarterbacking role, and Kelly not only excels on offense, but he is also a demon on pass defense. Just don’t overlook these two men, that’s all we ask!
As a parting note, I’d like to wish Pete Brown “Gocd Luck” from all the fellows on the Scholastic. It was Pete who handled this column in such a capable manner last semester, and now he has joined the ranks of many others in Uncle Sam’s fighting forces.
Crowe Optimistic In
First Year at Cage Helm
When the snow begins to fall, it means one thing around these parts— winter’s here and it’s time to begin basketball and so the 1944 varsity of Notre Dame are awaiting their opener with Kellogg Field here next Wednesday evening.
The first of nine home contests in a 20 game season booking, the Irish will come up for the encounter with but three men who have been through some degree of cage action on a college team. Bill Hassett, who played one year at Georgetown before coming here, Frank Gilhooley who played a portion of last year’s season here and also Tom Kennedy who put in time with' the Irish, constitute the nucleus around which Coach Clem Crowe has had to build a new club—one replete with freshmen and inexperience.
To date, the outstanding prospects for the locals at the forward positions have been John Dee, Paul Gordon, Floyd Magnusson, Andy Sobek, brother of
George and Joe who were Notre Dame eagers, John Mullen, George Ratterman, Bill Greco, Ray Fitzgerald and Tom Kennedy. The center spots are being handled by Vince Boryla and Bill Roberts while the best stock from the guards seems to be Frank Gilhooley, Bill Hassett, Harry Goheen, Leo Murphy, Otto Pozgay and Jim Karthall.
Upon completion of the grid season
tomorrow, Coach Crowe’s squad may be augmented by the appearance of Joe Gasparella, Tom Guthrie, Bill O’Connor and George Benigni.
Crowe, starting his first year as head coach of the eagers, in the absence of Lt. Ed. Krause, will be depending entirely on a bunch of youngsters to carry through the Irish billing and at present, he has a team that will tower a mere 5' 10" when the first game is thrown open to public inspection.
Still Conditioning
The few weeks that the Blue and Gold have been working out in the fieldhouse have been devoted to conditioning more than anything else. Right now, it’s a job for head mentor Crowe to whip up a quintet that will go good to-

GIFTS
$
I
f
126 N. Michigan Street
i
on your
Christmas List.
Shop NOW and be sure.

19
gether these initial contests of lesser importance and give him time in which he can profitably test his material. The fundamentals and a lot of basket shooting have been stressed since the opening call and not much stress has been on the defensive and offensive maneuvers, waiting all the while to let the boys “get on.”
“They’re a bunch of eager kids,” says Crowe, “and if they do as well against opposition as they seem to show in practice, they should be all right.”
Kellogg Field’s hardcourters are tutored by Lt. Roy Brigham and among the talent that he will present next Wednesday evening are Ed Mizicko, forward, who played freshman ball for Ohio State and Ernie Weaver, guard, who played in the American professional league.
LINEUPS
Notre Dame	Kellogg Field
Dee ____________ F_________Gibson
Gordon __________F________Mizicko
Boryla ._______  C	  Gaumer
Gilhooley_______ G_______  Weaver
Hassett ________ G_______Bergener
Officials: Kearns and Sbarbaro
MAJOR HINKLE
(Continued from page 6)
On behalf of our small group, and especially for “our” kids, we are grateful to all of you folks who have contributed something to this cause. We are grateful for your generosity and your charity. But we are grateful most of all for your goodwill. For goodwill is the basis of the just peace that Americans are fighting and praying for—to end tyranny, injustice and persecution of man by man; to spread love of neighbor; to try to end forever the scourge of war!
We are sure that the prayers of these Italian kids for you—their benefactors in America—will reward your goodwill in this instance a thousandfold by making your Christmas more happy and blessed. The only thing we soldiers can add is: “Thanks for what you did for us, too, and Ged bless all of you always!”	.
Cordially,
John V. Hinkel
P.S. We are extremely grateful to the Scholastic staff and to all our other friends who have contributed to this cause. Thanks loads. May your Christmas be a blessed one!—J.V.H.
NEW CAMERA "SHOOTS"
FLYING PROJECTILES
When Army ballistics experts needed to photograph speeding rockets, scientists at Bell Telephone Laboratories built the special, "ribbon-frame” camera. Their experience came from making high speed cameras to study tiny movements in telephone equipment parts.
The new camera gets its name from the narrow slot that exposes a ribbon of film at a speed of one tenthousandth of a second. These "stills.” taken on ordinary film, show a fast flying P-47 firing its underwing rocket.
This is an example of the many ways Bell System research is helping to provide better weapons, better equipment for war and peacetime telephone service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Service to the Nation in Peace and War
20
Mass Club Invites Student Body to Liturgical Talks
Last term many students were acquainted with the Mass club, an organization developed by several men of Breen-Phillips and Carroll halls. The purpose of this club was to discuss the Liturgical Life of the Church, particularly in connection with student life. This semester the Mass club has increased its activities and again invites interested students to membership.
1)	This group meets every Sunday evening in the library of the Architecture building at 7:30. The student body is cordially invited to participate in the discussions.
2)	The club has been singularly successful in arranging a series of talks on the Liturgy to be presented during this present school term. These talks are also open to the entire student body. The anticipation of these professor-student body meetings has already aroused much enthusiasm. Open discussion will follow the presentation of the talks.
3)	The Liturgical Talks will be held Monday evenings at 7:30 in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial according to the following schedule.
Dec. 4. Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C., “Preparation for Mass.”
Dec. 18. Mr. William D. Nutting, “Liturgy and the Laity.”
Jan. 1. Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., “Liturgy and Art.”
Jan. 15. Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., “Liturgy and the College.”
Jan. 29. Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., “Liturgy and Music.”
Feb. 12. Mr. Frank O’Malley, “Religion and Literature.”
Bookmen Begin Drive
The Bookmen, literary club on the campus, met for the first time this semester last Wednesday evening in the Law building. The purpose of the club, as is known, is to discuss books of outstanding merit. At each meeting one of the members gives a review of some book, usually a current work.
Officers for the present semester were elected, with Frank Fitzgibbons being elected president. Bill O’Connell is the new vice-president and Bob O’Toole will take charge of the Bookmen Library for the ensuing semester.
At the next meeting, Brian Buckley will review the Seven Pillars of Wisdom. All students, both civilians and Naval trainees are invited to try out for the club. The applicant must pass an oral
interview and give a short talk on some literary subject or work before the members of the club. Notices of the interview will be posted on the campus bulletin boards.	.
Local Girls Sell Seals
Tomorrow afternoon at the stadium, girls from South Bend high schools will again be selling tuberculosis bangle pins in an effort to raise funds for the tuberculosis league.
These girls were on the campus two weeks ago at the Northwestern game, and have reported sales amounting to $653.85, the largest collection ever made at a game here. The previous record was S525.C0 collected last year.
A
— Compliments
of
Krauss Jewelry Co. £
207 N. Michigan St. Y
A
7
“Buy an Extra Bond today”
With Victory cornin’ our way let’s make it swift and sure. Instead of letting up, now, above all, is the time to give out—
up our fighting men by keeping in there pitching till the thing is cinched. Victory takes something extra to win. Make it an
©
with extra dollars, extra effort. Let’s back
Extra War Bond . . • Today. . . Now!
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
21
AIR WAVES
BY GEORGE DESPOT
FOOTBALL MURDER
Tonight Nick and Nora air a program which may be of interest to the fans of the old football school. “The Adventures of the Thin Man,” presents “The Case of the All-American Menace.”
CONGRATULATIONS
to the Goldbergs, gocd-will builders among all faiths, for over 1-5 successful years on the air.
to the “Aldrich Family” which lecent-ly marked its 300th broadcast.
IGNORANT SANCTUM
“It Pays To Be Ignorant,” still gaining popularity with each successive week, hits a new low tonight as Tom Howard’s profiteers in stupidity are Lulu McConnell, George Shelton and Harry McNaughton. Nat Novick’s orchestra is heard during lulls in the insanity, providing that it pays to be musically the same.
STATIC
Baby Snooks (Fanny Brice) drove “Daddy” (Hanly Stafford) to distraction and to the shouted statement: “I wish I’d known you before I met your mother!”
BERLINER TAKE NOTE
For those students, to whom study and work are unnatural vices, the Columbia Broadcasting System features a program for those who are interested in the lighter things of life. On Dec. 2 the tale of “The Yellow Dwarf” and the fair young princess is presented on “Let’s Pretend.”
"GREEN BANNER" IS SCOOPED
Milo Boulton, emcee of “We, the People,” could find no heating apparatus on which to brew a cup of coffee during rehearsal—so, the following week he brought to the studio a GI foxhole stove given him by one of the GI’s interviewed recently on the show. (He’s one up on you, Ryan—See "Green Banner,” page 15.)
DANCE WITH A DOLLY
. . . and all of your current favorites are on at 9:00, Dec. 2, when Frank Sinatra and Joan Edwards sing the top songs of the week on “Your Hit Parade.”
LOTS OF VARIETY
On Dec. 3, CBS brings a full hour of entertainment with Kate Smith and several guest stars. Music is by Jack Miller’s orchestra.
DRAMA
For an hour and a half, you can take it easy with the “Lux Radio Theatre” and the “Screen Guild Players.” Cecil B. DeMille presents a mystery on the 4th with Robert Montgomery and Lar-aine Day as stars. Sharp competition will come from the Screen Guild’s presentation of a current film hit.
MELODY AND MYSTERY
The “American Melody Hour” with favorite songs and songsters, is presented Dec. 5. After-dinner music, guaranteed to aid digestion, will be on for a half-hour, starting at 6:30.
IRISH HOST TO BLUEJACKETS (Continued from page 12) who received a shoulder injury for* the second time in the Northwestern game, should also be available in behalf of the cause.
And so on the eve of the finale, the Irish approach a season that can be either eight and two in the final records or seven and three. But whatever happens, you know it’s been a successful season for anytime you get a bunch of anxious Irishmen together, put on the grid togs and say play ball—you know you’ve got a success right from the start.
INTRODUCING
(Continued from page 14) meet. He was also a contender in the high jump and pole vault.
On this year’s Irish eleven, George has been switched from tackle to end and back to tackle again. At the present time, he looms as a possible contender for an All-American berth and there is no one more deserving of this honor. When Pat Filley is out of the line-up, George takes his place as captain and field general.
Hailing from East Walpole, Mass, where he attended Walpole high, George earned three letters in football, three in track, two in basketball and two in baseball, captaining the football, basketball and track teams in his senior year.
This 18 year old is 6 feet 216 inches tall and weighs 205 pounds. A member of the V-12 unit, he lives in Alumni Hall. He is in his fifth semester and is majoring in math. Even with all his extracurricular activities, he was able to maintain a 90 average in his studies this past term.
Sully’s favorite orchestra is Spike
Jones and he also thinks that the “Victory March” is the best song. In the way of food, George goes for anything that he eats while at home. His biggest sports thrill comes from representing ND in the sporting world. Unlike most football players, he has no desire to play profootball, but wants to get his AB degree and become an optometrist. Dreaming of peacetime Notre Dame is his favorite pastime.
Here’s hoping that George gets placed on the All-American.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
BS2SE525E52S2525252Sa525E525252525ESa
BLOCK BROS
CORNER MICHIGAN WASHINGTON
GIFTS
for those at home— beautifully boxed and wrapped.
22
COMMERCE FORUM (Continued from page 8)
ization which would flourish and would be marked with continued success. Until 1941, the prominent speakers named to address this Notre Dame student club were sponsored wholly by the Dean and Faculty of the College of Commerce. Then in 1941, for the first time in its history, the Commerce Forum members were empowered to select the speakers for their various meetings. This important function was performed by a Committee of Commerce men chosen solely for that purpose, under guidance of three faculty members who acted in an advisory capacity. They featured one lecture a month, presented by a prominent business leader. During these years the Forum membership often reached the total of 350 members.
In the Summer Semester of 1941, under- the guidance of Professor Smith, and with the approval of Dean McCarthy, a small group reorganized the Forum with beneficial and effective results. Under a revised constitution, which limited the membership as noted above, the newly organized Commerce Forum met in regular sessions bi-weekly in the Lounge of the Rockne Memorial building, at which time a paper was presented by some member of the Forum. The papers, usually on major controversial current topics, were then discussed by the other members of the Forum. This policy will be continued.
Last Wednesday evening; the second meeting of the Forum was held, with Harry Walters speaking on “Post-WarTransportation.” Tentative arrange
ments have been made to establish Wednesday as the regular time, and the Lounge of the Rockne Memorial as the definite location for future meetings.
—Mike Garry
GREAT LAKES SQUAD (Continued from page 13) able at right guard. Bob Liddy, of Iowa, another late arrival, and Max Spurlin of North Carolina, will back up Klein, while Chet Fritz of Missouri, and Al Hamilton of Male High, Louisville, are in reserve for Hahn.
Great Lakes will enter the game with a record of nine wins, one tie, and one loss. Purdue and Great Lakes put on a thriller that saw the sailors complete two passes to come from behind and win, 27 to 18. After trailing 19 to 6 at the end of the first half of the Illinois game, the Bluejackets came back and tied up the affair to settle for a 26 to 26 score. Northwestern failed to score on the sailors and that affair ended up 25 to 0. Western Michigan came next, 38 to 0. At Ohio State, a team built last year by the Great Lakes football officer, set back the Bluejackets for their- only defeat, to the tune of 26 to 6. Great Lakes bounced back on the following Saturday to smother Wisconsin, 40 to 12, and then went up to Milwaukee to hand Marquette a 45 to 7 whipping. Probably the hardest game the Bluejackets have encountered to date was with the Third Air Force from Morris Field, N. C. In that game, Great Lakes scored two touchdowns in the last six minutes to eke out a 12 to 10 victory. Marquette’s second attempt, at Great Lakes, proved
no more profitable, and the Hilltoppers went down by a score of 32 to 0. Last Saturday, Great Lakes defeated its third service foe. Fort Warren, of Cheyenne, Wyoming, by the score of 28 to 7.
Phone 4-1481
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HA1R AND SCALP____TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS S1.OO.
“j Glasses Correctly Fitted [“
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING
SOUTH BEND. IND.
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.
M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. O.O.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, O.O.S.
PETER J. ROSE, O.O.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING
PHONE 3.2374
23