MAYBE IT IS THE LUXURIOUS FABRICS,
CUSTOM NEEDLE-
Campus Representatives: Reggie Flynn —‘ Bob Davies —- Jack Walsh -
PARKER -WINTERROWD
. 115^-117% NORTH MAIN STREET-—UPSTAIRS
WORK, OR THE REASONABLE PRICES —OR< PERHAPS THE WARRANTED REPUTATION. OF PARKER-WINTERROWD ITSELF -THAT HAS PLEASED AND SOLD SO MANY NAVY MEN. ON ~
. OUR CUSTOM TAILORED UNIFORMS.—IN ANY CASE WE FEEL THAT YOU WILL WANT TO COME DOWN AND VISIT OUR SHOP.
3
COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
TALK OF THE TIMES
Education isn’t such, a desired thing
after all, we find. We had hoped that it
was, because we’ve been paying sheckles
JOHN LYNCH
for six and some semesters now. But even F. P. A. is skeptical of its merits.
As a recent lecturer at Vanderbilt University, Nashville, the “Information Please” wizard was inter
viewed by The Van
derbilt Hustler. The report in part: “When told that Vanderbilt English majors read everything from Beowulf on up, he said that he didn’t like Beoivulf, mainly because he had never read it.___ His views on modern education were summed up in his original couplet addressed to his sons:
Gentlemen, I love and adore you, And don’t give a d— for your I.Q.”
AND. . .
Dr. Roderick Peattie of the department of geography at Ohio State University would like to be quoted as saying, and we think this almost revolutionary:
“Writing is not a God-given gift. I once wrote a book in three weeks simply because I was kicked by a goat.”
And the best years of our life have been wasted in dreary class rooms, studying Beowulf and learning little or nothing about kicking goats. We was robbed!
MORRISON WEEK-END
“Hello! Is this the Smith apartment? .... Well, I’m McTavish in the apartment beneath you.... Listen, it’s three in the morning now, and your party has kept me awake all night.... I don’t mind the shrieking and pounding and music and stamping and singing and banging that’s been going on over my head, but for gawd’s sake put some more sugar in that Tom Collins that’s dripping through the ceiling!”
—Los Angeles Pace
MMLOM, 1943
“Bernard Frazier, instructor in the department of design, is carving from 4	'
wild cherry an 87% foot figure described half woman and half tree.”
—University Daily Kansan
Just a little something for the mantlepiece.
LAST HOPE DEPT.
“Museum Has Plenty of Meat.”
—Headline in The Minnesota Daily We knew there would be an answer!
GONE BUT NOT FORGOT
“So your son had to leave college on account of poor eyesight?”
“Yes, he mistook the dean of women for a co-ed.”
—Yellow Jacket
DOMINION TALE
They play for keeps up in the Dominion of Canada. At the University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, 90 students were ousted because of failure in recent examinations. In accordance with a policy, in effect throughout Canada’s universities, the ejected men were immediately subject to military call.
The E. R. C. just keeps you guessing.
EVOLUTION
I once had a classmate named Guesser, Whose knowledge got lesser and lesser.
It at last grew so small,
He knew nothing at all—	,
And now he’s a college professor.
—Iowa State Green Gander
DEPT. OF INDOOR SPORTS
“Retreat Note: Watch yourselves on that date and remember that you are kissing your father or brother.” ‘ Notice in the Webster College Web -
And what kind of games are you play- . ing these days?
FOURTH FLOOR MAN
The inebriate tottered along the curb. Several times he slipped off into the gutter. Each, time he clambered onto the sidewalk again.
“Long stairway,” he muttered.
CLOSING THOUGHT
“Officer, come quickly, I’ve just run over a student!”
“Sorry, lady, today’s Sunday. You can’t collect your bounty until tomorrow morning.”
Daniel Downey, Editor
Ted Weber..................Managing	Editor
Bill Boss....................Sports	Editor
Dave Condon..................Campus	Editor
Robert Kopf..................Admin.	Editor
Phil Keen........Asst.	Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan..........Promotion
Al Schaefer.......Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey, c.s.c., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service,. Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg.. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Ted Fio Rito for Prom ___________ 5
Results of Elections ____________ 7
ADMINISTRATION
"Scrip" of Yore 11
Aquinas Library _________________13
NAVY PAGE 15
SPORTS
Coach Keogan's Life 16, 17
Basketball ______......._________18
Interhall 19
Bengal Bouts 20
FEATURES
Splinters __1.________;__________23
College Parade 4
The Week  6 Ears Have It________:____1______26
.Music ____________________________31

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 78
FEBRUARY 26, 1943
No. 4
Ted Fio Rito, Between Camera and Band
Wagon, Signed for Junior-Senior Ball, March 5
Arrangements are being made jointly by senior class president John Kuhn, junior class prexy Jack Herlihy, and general chairman Dick A’Hearn.
DAVE CONDON
Tradition yielded again to the gentlemen from Alumni, Cavanaugh, Walsh, and Sorin, when it was announced early this week that the annual Senior ball and Junior prom would be merged into one gigantic affair scheduled for March 5 in the Palais Royale.
Ted Fio Rito will bring his name band to South Bend on that Friday evening to provide dancing from 10 to 2. Members of the ball committee said that they considered themselves fortunate in obtaining Fio Rito on such short notice. He is returning from Hollywood, where the band just completed a picture, and has opened a one week stand at the Chicago theatre. The Chicago theatre job closes March 4 and the maestro with the skyline rhythm will scamper down to the Golden Dome for the ball. Sunday he will be back in Chicago to broadcast on the Fitch Band Wagon.
Those in charge of the ball announced that in spite of such short notice and a supposed lack of time for elaborate preparations, the ball would be one of the best ever seen at Notre Dame. The decorations, favors, and programs will be “super - stupendous, colossal, and extra magnificent.” All these details will be
kept secret until the night of the ball.
Decorating this year will be a local affair conducted by the Sherer twins, famous architect students who have won many awards for their artistic work. The Sherers started waving paint brushes at the tender age of six years when a grandfather died and left them several hundred of the best brushes obtainable. They have had charge of innumerable decorations in this vicinity and were responsible for the Dillon hall Trojan "war horse that won first prize in the homecoming decorations contest in the undefeated 1941 year.	-
Bids have been limited to 500 and will be on sale Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of next week. A site for the sale will be announced later.
Permission to use cars will be granted to students for the ball week-end. In view of transportation difficulties, chairmen have arranged for special busses to be scheduled for that night.
A tea dance, to be held at a place as yet undecided, will occupy Saturday afternoon. Vince Duncan, senior, and Jim Casey, a junior, are in charge of tea dance arrangements.
Jordan of NBC Talks
To Students on War
Dr. Max Jordan, lean, progressive, head of NBC’s new religion department, spoke last evening in Washington Hall, addressing the student body on “The Challenge of this War—Our Stake in the Peace.”
Dr. Jordan, the son of an Italian chemist, is a devout Catholic. He received his Ph.D. in philosophy at Jena, then sidetracked into journalism and religion.
He scored many news scoops during a ten year term as NBC’s European boss. He was first to talk from Nazi held Paris and from the Zeppelin Hindenberg and first to send Munich Pact details to the United States.
At present Dr. Jordan handles We Believe (NBC), half hour Sunday program; Chaplin Jim (Blue network), also half hour on - Sunday; Light of the World (NBC), 15 minute Monday through Friday Biblical serial; and Minute of Prayer (Mutual), a station-break-brief minute of prayer- written by clerics of different faiths, presented weekday evenings.
“Super-stupendous, Colossal, and Extra Magnificent": This Year Only!
5
THE WEEK
JACK WOELFLE
TOP OF WEEK
“The best men of all are the first to be called.”
LA DE DA
Jim Burke
JACK WOELFLE
Pees, has too
was in Father Burke’s office one afternoon saying good bye. Said Father Burke: “It’s a good thing you’re leaving. This place is getting too-Burke-ulosis.” Two weeks for that one. . . . Larry Schatzlein, third floor prefect over in Breezy
much romance for just
one man. Last week a mellow moon hung low over the Law Building. Schatz looked up, his eyes and heart perspiring pretty things, and said: “Gee, what a night for an air raid.” All the Junior Commandos were raiding St. Pat’s. ... A not-nice habit is for profs to keep books out of the library from one semester to another. It’s a well known fact that books are never in when you want them.
COMMERCE MADNESS
Ever so often a commerce man is introduced to the mysteries of the library. They waltz into the reference room, look around at the shelves, and murmur: “Hmph, is this the library.” It’s easy to distinguish the commerce man from the rest of the rabble though. He sits with many books open in front of him, papers scattered hither and yon, talking over the latest perils of Terry And The Pirates. Some think the fluorescent lamps are to be used as tennis nets over which a wad, of paper, (usually a page from the Summa), is batted back and forth. Jim Shields, better known about the cam
pus as, “The Head,” strolled nonchalant-	. A ,	,
’	’	. cara tears. A touching message was sent
ly up to the reference desk and asked, for The Bobbsey Twins And The Run-aivay Banana Train. He didn’t have his library card so he didn’t get The Bobb-
sey Tivins Or The Runaway Tram. You don’t need a card for bananas. Said The Head: “Next time Fil shoot a sharper angle.”
HORSE OF A
DIFFERENT COLOR?
This freshman class really had a cam-
Who hasn’t met the professor who has .
one or eight children? It’s usually; the ., BOTTOM OF THE WEEK paign for elections. They wanted to hire . little profs who have eight. Let’s take an A . That.picture at the top.
a horse but found they lacked the necessary fee. The dining hall gladly offered to put up the needed cash. Something was fishey, or was it horsey? Anyway, the freshmen used,the horse for advertising and then the dining hall used it. When we first saw the mustang come walking from the direction of the caf we thought the inevitable had finally happened. One lad took a look and figured that the meat was a little rare that day so he turned and walked back to the hall. Of course we know there’s nothing wrong but you dp become suspicious when you hear hoof beats in the middle of the night and see piles of hay in back of the dining hall.
JUNIOR SENIOR BAWL
This dance deal is confoozin’ but not very amoozin’, “Who’s playing for the dance,” you scream, at one of the class officers. He chuckles and answers: “Gene Krupa’s name is on the dotted line.” The old dotted line he’s referring to is the one on the contract Gene holds with the Panther Room. Or maybe he means that they’re going to give out old dotted lines as favors. We’ll probably end up with Jimmy Joy and his hilarious rhythms. Laugh line of the week was on a freshman campaign poster: “We promise a prom.” Our grandchildren will be happy to heai- that. .
OFF WE GO
Those were sad days when the Air Corps Reserve members left the campus. Some of them fellows we’d spent three school years with and it kind of brought the war a little closer when we saw them actually leaving. There was weeping and wailing over at St. Mary’s, too. One girl , held her teeth in her hand and gnashed them furiously as she cried bitter mas-
to the Air Corps men via Western Union. It read: “Hurry back,youse guys,” and, was signed "The Sweetbriar Sweese.”
odemus and just , concentrate on music.
Lee has the unique distinction of bearing We suppose sweese is the plural of.	trade mark.. The bugle we mean,
swoose, we suppose. Anyway,, don’t , cry,. He and Lucky Strike green should get girls. The E.R.C. men are still on the .. t°get er-	*
. campus. Most of them can’t see but you _ . . , don’t care, do you?	FAMOUS LAST WORDS
BRAIN CHILDREN
average professor, (and it’s usually a bad average), who tells of his children’s activities during class. Little Pete has to have his, tonsils out, or, Lucy Mae has ingrown toe nails because she won’t stop biting them, or Awkward Oswald bit the St. Bernard that belongs to the people next door and the dog died of heart failure. Oswald is locked up by the A.S.P.C.A. These are just a few of the problems confronting the average prof. . If the students don’t all cry and say:
“Yeah, ain’t it da. trute,” chances that 90 bulletin are nil.
HERE AND THERE
Station WND, Alumni Hall, has ceived plenty of competition from
for
re-the
neighboring station in Dillon Hall, which can be picked up all over the campus. . . . The Notre Dame Cavaliers, campus dance band, hasn’t received many breaks on local dances of late. The boys really have a fine outfit this year. The recent call of Air Corps Reserve men hit both the Cavaliers and the band. Out of the original 100-piece football band of last Fall, approximately 40 men are left. A lot of men were lost in the recent graduation. . . . Latest rumor is that the Navy is going to take over Alumni and Dillon and the lads in those halls are moving down to the Oliver.
MORON MURDER
We’ll probably be criticized for this but we heard last week about the little moron who flooded the gym ’cause he heard the coach was going to send him in.as a sub.
BLOW HIM DOWN
Lee Douglas must have been disappointed in love and evidently his love was sewer cleaning. It is rumored that Lee is a protege of Harry Nicodemus. There is a certain resemblance between both jobs except; that Lee’s comes out of a loud speaker. The “Morning Bugle” is a delightful waker upper though, especially if you’re used to night mares. Coos Lee into the microphone: “Here we are again ’ with music and stuff.” It would be O.K.
. if he would leave the stuff to Harry Nic-
“We’ll tell the night watchman we’re in the Air Corps.”
6
CamfutA NewA
Class Elections Prove Colorful as Frosh Bravely Parade Live Horse by Dining Hall
DAVE CONDON
Last week was election week at Notre Dame and shades of Huey Long and Tammany Hall clouded the campus as four classes wandered to the polls and selected or rejected potential rulers.
Each and every candidate went on the limb to promise class dances, new blotters in the post office, new faces at St. Mary’s, and cook bo.oks for the dining hall. Propaganda leaflets flooded the campus until it looked so much like a snow storm even the thermometer was fooled and the mercury descended down to the zero mark.
After the Junior elections the sophomores started apportioning out the ballots. It remained for the Dillonites to feature a twelve hour a day radio station playing hit requests and plugging candidates. WNDS, with studios on the second floor of Dillon, was the first competition to campus station WND. Rival candidates, when the sophomore station was on the air, sat in their rooms, electric razors in hands, and when WNDS went to plug a candidate, the contestants turned on the current and set a wave of static up over the hall. It was Ziggy Czarobski, successful candidate for treasurer, who promised, in a radio address, that: “If elected, I shall see that Notre Dame does not know the corruption that was rampant in Louisiana under- Huey Long. I will also see that’ there is a little vodka in each drinking fountain within the sanctums of Dillon hall.”
No sophomore campaigning on the campus was necessary, however, because all were down at the polls in the basement of the dining hall watching someone else. One political writer found more candidates in the basement of the dining hall than there were sophomores regis- . tered in the University.	■
But it remained for the freshmen to show the University what politics really can be when the chips are on the table and the votes yet to be counted. It was claimed that ten frosh tickets were'in . the race. The first year boys warmed up fast and were promising everything, in
cluding the Senior Ball, Junior Prom, and Sophomore Cotillion, to everyone who could cast a vote. South Bend printing shops were avalanched as they received freshmen orders. Leaflets and posters and cards are still being uncovered around the campus.
Even old Dobbin got in the frosh race as one party paraded a horse around the campus with the. party ticket. Another ticket was made up of four members from the same room in Breen-Phillips hall. And one party was seriously considering staging an election day parade as the navy men marched to the dining hall at noon. This plan was centered about the idea of candidates and backers carrying banners and marching between
Sophs Take Hartman, Leahy, Clatt, Czarobski; Frosh: Smith, Champion, Zimmerman, Hogan
Richard “Tyke” Hartman won the sophomore presidency with a three-vote lead over second place Paul Limont, speedy sophomore football end from New Orleans. Hartman from Fort Wayne, Ind., is also Dillon hall’s representative on the student council. Frank Peluso and John Noonan, also candidates in the close contest, were only 13 votes behind the winner. .
Jack Leahy was, the soph’s choice for vice-president. Running second was Donald Colgrove, also a Dillon student council representative. Other, candidates; for the vice-presidency were Raymond Peets and Bob Benes. ,	,
Plunging Corwin Clatt,: Peoria, Ill., as unstoppable on the playing field as a bulldozer, won over Frank .Keenan, Dover, N. H., to be elected secretary. John Clemens, owner and; general manager of radio studio WNDS, and .Jack Murphy completed the tickets in J the. treasurer contest. ,	;	_
Chicago’s Sigismund.. Czarobski,. advertised as the man “who handles the
the ranks of the midshipmen. The idea was dropped, however, when union man Petrillo didn’t want the Navy drum and bugle corps to sound out with the Green Banana Bag, official campaign song of the party.	‘	’
The elections were run off without bloodshed. Everyone voted early and often. One dining hall employee claimed to . have participated in every - election but the sophomore, and those who had left previously for the Army air corps voted by proxy. The only embarrassment was created when one voter went for a ballot and gave the name of a certain student rooming in Cavanaugh hall. That certain student rooming in Cavanaugh hall was also handing out ballots and was greatly surprised to meet his name- ‘ sake and supposed room-mate. All voters were checked for identification and four students attempting to vote as Frank Leahy, Joe Petritz, Jacques Coquillard, and the bishop of Fort Wayne, were denied their ballots. .
big words like he handles big opposing linemen,” was elected treasurer. ’Dave Condon, Las Vegas, N. M., ran behind Czarobski. Al Salvi and William Harrs complete the list of treasurer candidates.
Lanky Mike Smith, sky-scraping basketball player from New Orleans, La., , won out over nine other candidates in the; frosh presidency race. Bill Carey came
■„ in second. . .
David Champion won over James Flan- . agan in the first year men’s contest for vice-president. This was the closest of frosh races, and Champion emerged with a nine-vote majority oyer Flanagan.
Secretary honors went to Harold Zimmerman. Francis Xi Converse was close on Zimmerman’s heels, running 12 votes - behind; A ' .
. Fourth spot on the frosh office list has been filled by Thomas Hogan, who
. amassed 12 more votes than second place Jack Neary. Also figuring in the race.
. was, Johnny Cahill, who ran close behind
. Neary.	-	. .
Zahm Organizes New Governing Body;
Table Tennis Tournament is First Move
A timely effort proving- that campus political organizations can be effective, democratic, and exist with a minimum of partisanship has been brought to the fore by the freshmen of Zahm hall. Long-referred to by upperclassmen as “Zombies," the frosh swiped some of the thunder of campus politics when they advanced a political organization that is perhaps the latest and most efficient idea in the government of student residence halls. The new organization, which gives hall representation to the individual, is the Zahm Board of Governors.
Organized only recently to cope with such problems and difficulties as might arise in a residence hall, the Board of Governors is composed of a governor, a mayor front each floor, and an additional force of three aidermen from each of the hall’s four decks. Hall members having a complaint or suggestion take the matter up with the nearest aidermen. He refers it to the floor mayor who later turns the matter over to the governor.
In promoting this plan, which is, undoubtedly, the greatest individual hall effort, the frosh claim that they have displayed more spirit and personal initiative than any other residence building on the campus.
The plan and its efficiency are of particular interest now, when several governing agencies on the campus are floundering about haphazardly and pursuing personal political ambitions.
An example of the Zahm spirit and enthusiasm has been demonstrated by the table tennis tournament sponsored by the board of governors. One hundred and ninety-two entrants volleyed into action last Monday afternoon as the tournament got underway. This is the largest turnout
"Zombies" try something new in Student Government
for any type of hall athletics, and is even more noteworthy in view of the fact that each entrant paid a fee of 15 cents. The idea was first formulated at a meeting of the Board of Governors held two weeks ago.
Hall members refused to rest on the laurels of the table tennis tournament still in progress, but kept their spark plugs firing and have planned a large and extensive program of inter-mural Zahm hall athletic activities. At present the promotion of two more projects which may eclipse the success of the first venture, are underway. In regard to the new program, a Zahm publicist said, “It is still too early to crack the shell on the new enterprises, but announcements will be forthcoming through the medium of the Scholastic.”
In speaking of the tournament, hall members were enthusiastic about the all-around cooperation received, and were particularly jubilant about the assistance of Father W. A. Maloughney, rector, Fathers Boland, Murray, and Putz, and prefect Dan Rourke.
Jack Conway, Boston, Mass., and a member of the student council, is governor of the hall. Charles Ryan, Roger Goodspeed, Bob Mannix, and Frank Pen-darvis are mayors. Aidermen are Jack McInerney, Don MacDonald, Bob O’Toole, Tony Mistretta, Rance Haig, Joe Orsi, Bob MacDougal (now in the armed forces), Jack Cleary, Bill Roney, Mike Cutt, John Vaughn, Lou Santiano, and Fred Rovai.
Use of cadet teachers from the school of education at Western Maryland college is being tried in nearby secondary schools with considerable success.
lim Cunningham
muscle and a b:
Vignola ... 5'
FRANCIS .1. VIGNOLA
Waiting to fly for navy ... a man of grin . . . Francis John ", 180 lbs., five friends per pound. . . . The “Vig” came from a high school of 8,000 men and wonders why freshmen are amazed at the crowds around here. . . . Only crowd he has ever minded is the one that slows up the Friday night ser
vice at Little Italy. . . . Former Italian club prexy, “Vig” revels in Rosie’s spaghetti weekly.
Scooped up hot ground balls at short for Lane Tech high’s Chicago city champs in 1937. . . . Will be seen between third and second this spring when the baseballs start flying. . . . Vig’s diamond pep has earned him the nickname, “The Voice.” . . . Last semester-guarded for Walsh’s interhall cage champions. . . . Also coached Tuffy’s boys to the lightweight title.
Lives in River Forest just north of The Big City. . . . Down the street and around the corner is Rosary College . . . where “7 out of 10 are nice, and the other 3 aren’t bad.” . . . But the Vig’s desk overflows with eight pictures of one girl who doesn’t go to Rosary. . . . On his one-out-of-three weekends in Chicago he dates a photogenic dishwaterblonde receptionist-secretary. . . . Like rest of Chi. men likes to relax over beer at Hayes’.
In small Alumni double squeezes between furniture with roomie Stratte Coorlas. . . . Fellow Chicagoan, fellow politics major . . . favorite discussion concerns the fabulous Bismarck. . . . Strat says he was a hero, the Vig scoffs, calls the former German Chancellor a dictator. . . . Vig looks for world federation after the war . . . but wants to fight before he thinks much about that.
As a freshman he accidentally started a fire in Zahm waste chute . . . immediately put it out with bucket brigade. . . . Vig “confessed” his mistake and things cooled down. . . . He had emptied his waste basket down the chute with a lit cigaret. ... To join navy lost 25 pounds in six weeks . .. basketball and no sweets. Christmas vacation came soon after and he had 20 pounds back in 20 days.
Was vice-president of junior class last year. . . . Headed music committee that brought Mitch Ayers here for prom. . . . Two terms on student council. . . . Says S.A.C. does more than gets credit for. . . . Reads current books. . . . “See Here, Private Hargrave” . . . “They Were Expendable.”
Hockey game fan . . . hopes to be carrier pilot . . . returns from many weekends always loaded down with stocks of food. . . . His room is filled with the boys about 10:45 nightly . . . plans to expand if business keeps up and he can keep the flow of food coming. . . . Wants to ceme back here for law school after he knocks down a few Zeros.
New Rehearsal Room Provided for Band
Since Mr. H. Lee Hope came to the University as director of the band last summer, there have been many pleasant and surprising innovations in the band’s playing, marching and general ability. Over the rather extensive Christmas holidays, another step forward was taken in the form of procuring a more comfortable, and more practical rehearsal room. What used to be Carroll Rec is no longer, properly so-called. Last fall the room was used by the band for its practice sessions with chairs and band stands arranged about the podium in the middle of the long hall. But over the holidays, the back portions of the hall were remodelled and acoustically treated.
This is one of many typical farewell gatherings held last week when Air Corps students received their calls. This particular party was held in 310 Alumni Hall for Cadet Kelly Cook. Seated at the table for a round of cards are. left to right. Kelly's father. Paul Carr. Bob Burns and Johnny Rocher. Cook is perched second from left on the double decker enjoying the proceedings with the rest of the group.
Technically, the treatment consisted of applying perforated and solid squares of “Acoustitex” in proper proportions over a dead air space on the walls and ceiling of the room. The wainscoting and trimmings of the room were painted and a new lighting* system was installed to give the band its new home. Heavy drapes are to be hung over the doorways leading to the back portions of the old rec hall to complete the treatment.
While this has all been a boon to the band, it will deprive the residents of Cavanaugh and other nearby halls of the rarely disonant sounds that used to float or crash from the third floor of the music hall. Now, only the scratch of a violin, the blare of a horn, the rattle of a piano and the mellowness of the Glee Club will keep the boys in Cavanaugh from their studies or afternoon naps.
But due to the draft and war conditions in general, the band has been size-ably reduced this semester and more will be leaving before summer rolls around. Nevertheless, the band is working steadily and, according to Mr. Hope, sounding much better. The band expects to do some concert work again this semester and those who heard the Washington Hall concert last fall hope that there will be one or more such concerts within the near future. For the remaining home games, Mr. Hope is obtaining copies of the school songs of our various opponents and these will be played during the games. And while the band has been a
feature of basketball games, and a very fine feature; Mr. Hope has an apology to offer; quote: We promise the student body that the “Star Spangled Banner” will be played in the manner in which it should be played, and the director and the Band regret what happened at the last game (with Michigan State); unquote. But then, of course, if the student body had been singing as it was supposed to at the time, no one would have hear the band’s mistakes.
Nine Former Students
Here Again With Navy
Nine former students at the University of Notre Dame have entered the U.S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School on the campus according to Ensign P. T. Sprinz.
They are: Robert C. Ronstadt of Los -Angeles; Dudley K. Smith, Excelsior, Minn.; Arthur G. Kirby, Great Neck, L.I., N. Y.; John T. Donnelly, Mackinac Island, Mich.; F. B. Fitzpatrick, Ellicottville, N. Y.; John G. Hickey, Chicago, Ill.; James A. -Casper, Louisville, Ky.; Edward F. Neagle, Orange, N. J.; and C. M. Brown.
While on campus they will be trained in seamanship, navigation and ordnance, and drilled in the duties of an officer in the U.S. Navy.
Those w-ho successfully complete the four-month course will be commissioned as ensigns in May, 1943, and assigned to active duty at sea or shore stations. Some of the graduates will be sent to advanced Navy schools for specialized training.
Chess Tourney Planned
By La Raza Club Members
La Raza club, a society of Spanishspeaking students at the University, has announced plans for a chess tournament to be held at the earliest convenient date. Rafael Alducin is- in charge. Any student may enter by contacting club members. Notices of persons to contact will be posted in each hall. Awards will be made for first and second place and one for consolation. An entry fee of ten cents is charged.	'
In the interests of a better understanding between the North and South Americans, meetings of La Raza' club will be held every Wednesday evening at seven o’clock in the Law auditorium. Speakers deliver talks in Spanish on popular topics of the day. All Spanish-speaking students and others interested in bettering their command of the language are invited to attend.
9
New Members Chosen For Student Council;
J. Anhut, Acting Prexy, Conducted Elections
TOM CLEMENS
Minus the fanfare of the recent class elections, the Student Council went about obtaining balloting for hall representatives and new council members and came up with several new faces on the council roster. Dan Casey and Joe Lanigan now represent Alumni hall; Bob Fanning and Jim Crowley are Cavanaugh’s representatives; Bernie Finucane is Walsh’s man, and “Tyke” Hartman, soph class president, also won the Dillon hall election for council representative.
Other new members, by virtue of their activities as leaders of various organizations or classes are: “Tex” Crowley, former vice-president of the sophomore class; John Kuhn, senior class president; Jack Herlihy, junior class prexy; Mike Smith, frosh president; Jack Terry, of the Notre Dame student commission; Ted Toole, Commerce Forum; and Jim Constantine, Science school representative.
John Anhut, of Alumni hall, is acting-president. He was vice-president last year. Hold-over members include Don Colgrove, Dick Doermer, Vail Pischke, and Jack Conway.
The objects of the council, according to its detailed constitution, include:
“Administration of student activities, organizations, traditions and customs. ‘Activities’ in this section is to be construed to pertain to athletic, social and other miscellaneous functions which pertain to general student welfare.” Furthermore, the organization proposes to “crystallize and make effective (by bringing them to the notice of the University) the sanest of student opinions.”
Several weeks ago Scholastic polled student opinion of the S.C. The replies were diverse, interesting, often embarrassing to council members. Many gave vague responses, indicating they knew next to nothing of either the existence or the functions of the council. Other answers proved that often no distinction was made between SC and the CAS. (Catholic Action Students)—two separate organizations.
Probably most of the confusion regarding the council is due to the fact that it functions usually in a directorial, behind-the-scenes fashion. Campaign managers and candidates were busy furthering their separate interests by signs,
handbills, and even radio broadcasts, in the last student election, but the job of coordinating all activity, printing ballots, and collecting and counting votes was done by council members. Four days of intensive work it required, according to Anhut, who was aided in the labors by several other members.
Whether the council can enlarge or even maintain the scope of its activity in the future is a mooted question. In the past it has influenced disciplinary action —its constitution empowers it to arbitrate in cases of infractions of rules— and has conducted itself admirably.
Debate Squad Journeys .
to Manchester College
Under their new coaches, Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., and Mr. William Bennett, professor of speech, the varsity debating team of Notre Dame left this morning to compete in the annual tournament sponsored by Manchester College, North Manchester, Ind.
Guided by Professor William Coyne in the early. weeks of practice, the group lost its veteran coach when Mr.. Coyne was appointed to a position on the Na- . tional Labor’Relations Board.
The team, hard hit by graduation, and. in particular by . the wartime speed-up program, boasts but two veterans, Jim O’Dea and Bill Lawless. These two will be chief cogs in the most inexperienced team representing Notre Dame in. many years. Others who will make the trip to North Manchester are Henry Adams, Timothy Kelly, Frank Carver, Bill
Notre Dame Debaters lose their Dynamic Coach
Carey, Joe Kennedy and Joe Wilcox.
The question to be discussed is the National Intercollegiate Debate Topic, “Resolved: that the United Nations should establish a permanent Federal Union, with power to tax and regulate international commerce, to maintain a police force, to settle international disputes and to enforce such settlements and to provide for the admission of other nations which accept the principles of the Union.”—Bill Carey
South Bend Junior Symphony
Presents Campus Concert
Last Monday evening, Feb. 22, the South Bend Junior Symphony gave a concert to a fair sized audience of students, professors and guests from South Bend. The program of the 72-piece orchestra included the overture from Mozart’s “Don Giovanni,” “Wine, Women and Song Waltz” by Strauss, “Berceuse” by Jarnefelt, “The Moldau” (Symphonic Poem) by Smetana, and “Pomp and Circumstance” by Elgar. The conductor was Zigmont George Gaska.
By far the outstanding piece of work of the evening was the Mendelssohn “Concert in E Minor” for violin, played by John DiGiralamo, a resident of Mishawaka and a first year law student at Notre Dame. Mr. DiGirolamo played the first movement of this concerto with all the finesse of an artist, after a rather hesitant start. The orchestra also did its finest work in this number and the musicianship displayed ’ brought appreciative applause from the audience.
Another Notre Dame man, Rocco Germano, had a prominent part in the concert, . he played the solo violin part in Jarnefelt’s “Berceuse.” Mr. Germano will soon leave for the army and this number was dedicated to him. by the members of the orchestra.
10
36V-.
> . , , 'Aaminiifouiiuin fteu/A ,
uai. l—■	_	— ——■—	—^— ———■^—
Early "Scrip" Contributors Prove Interesting To Students; Magazine has Definite Purpose
(SCHOLASTIC, this week, as a feature of Catholic Press Month, presents the first of a series of articles written on SCRIP, the University literary publication.)
Scrip, dignified and impressive, is a magazine with a purpose. As a publication, it serves its field, and is, in this field of serious literature, one of the leaders. Too often, in the past, unthinking critics have been quick to judge Scrip by the same yardstick and standards
used in measuring Scholastic, a newsmagazine more journalistic in appearance and catering to current events, and Juggler, the departed student humor magazine. In a comparison of this nature, a magazine of more serious thought inevitably suffered. In many instances students and readers not connected with the fine arts department of the University were quick to identify Scrip with such bits of this and that as lilac-scented soap, ivory towers, and bespectacled poets reciting verse to the daisies. This has been a popular misconception of the publication which is very down to earth, truthful, and delightfully unsensational. Readers searching the magazine’s pages for stories of entangled, falsely plotted love triangles, trunk murders, bodies falling when closet doors are opened, and tales of espionage under Hirohito, have invariably been disappointed.
Scrip was first put to bed in the school year of 1929-1930. Number two of volume one lists Louis C. Heitger, Jr., as
chairman of the board of editors. Included in that issue is a bit of poetry, A Finger Shaken at an Aesthete, done by senior Richard A. Sullivan, now a very popular short story writer, first novelist, and one of the better known English instructors on the campus. Sullivan contributed to the first issue of Scrip with a short story, “Exile.”	.
Not Always a Student Publication
In its tender years Scrip was not entirely a student publication, but drew upon the faculty, graduates,. and other pen-pushers, for its material. The names of such locally distinguished people as Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Father Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., graduate Jack Mullen, contributor to Commonweal and The Overland Monthly, and L. J. Putz, now Father Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., appeared in the initial volume.
At the end of its first year Scrip said in passing: “The primary intentions of the magazine are to assist in every way possible the creation of literature at Notre Dame, and at the same time promote sound literary criticism.”
Volume three lists one of Scrip’s best and greatest friends on the masthead as associate editor. Now a renowned literary critic and associate editor of the nationally famous Review of Politics, Mr. Frank J. O’Malley appeared in Scrip with such delightful short stories as “Boss,” and serious efforts such as “Some Post War Poets.”
Dressed Up For Easter
The deep days of depression were not reflected in volume three of Scrip, which appeared in a fine, lush dress cover indicating something of the nature of the magazine. Scrip could, in those days, depart from the deep, serious dignity that has .sometimes masked it as is witnessed by what the editors printed at the beginning of the third year: “If we look a bit awkward and a trifle unsteady in our new swaddling clothes, why — ask your mother how you looked at the age of three!” And in the next number of the , same volume Scrip commented briefly **.' its flaring orange cover trimmed in black,
while asking that readers not think the magazine to be going sensational, as it merely wanted to be “dressed up for Easter.” Underneath this bit of comment on the orange cover was a small type editorial note: “Newstand please veil Scrip on Mar. 17.”
Friends of "Scrip" -	.
Joseph A. McCabe, later picture editor of the Chicago Times, was editor of Scrip that third year. Included among the contributors was internationally known Charles Phillips, now deceased, who had been earlier called “poet, novelist, and playwright,” and “a professor
of English at Notre Dame and ever a kind friend of Scrip.”
Carried Rockne's Autobiography -
This volume also saw the magazine review a timely book concerning one of the greatest of Notre Dame men—The Autobiography of KAute. Rockne, edited by Mrs. Rockne with foreword by Father. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C..	.
At the. conclusion of its third year Scrip had already made a name in literary circles. It was recognized as a maga- -zine of honest thought! Many of the seri-, ous works, as-.Erank O’Malley’s.previous-ly mentioned Some Post-War Poets,(were alive and forceful and very praiseworthy in view of the very evident lack of a cut . and dried style.	'
The next year brought more prestige for-Scrip. New names appeared. Gilbert Chesterton wrote in ..the special edition dedicated to Charles Phillips. More about Scrip will appear in the next issue, of Scholastic. . . .	'	...
" <	’ ' ' ' ' ' ’• ' I1
Washington Hall Scene Of Fisk Singing Concert
A concert of negro spirituals will be given by the Fisk Jubilee Singers at 8 p.m. on Monday evening, March 15, in Washington hall.
Included in the program will be “Lord I Can’t Turn Back,” “I Know I Got Religion,” “I’m Climbing Up The Mountain,” and many other equally famous spirituals of the plantation negroes.
The Fisk Singers have a history as colorful as the songs they sing. The Civil War had just come to an end when General Clinton B. Fisk completed his plans to open a liberal arts college for negroes in Nashville, Tenn. Using old army barracks the new college opened its doors to all negroes. Men, women, and children of all ages attended, seeking education for the first time in liberal arts.
George L. White came to the university soon after it was started and began to instruct the more talented students in music. Spirituals were the more favored pieces of music among the students and a representative choir was formed. The choir visited nearby cities giving concerts and bringing for the first time negro songs to the stage.
The original Fisk Jubilee Singers were formed in 1871 to visit cities throughout the country in order to raise money so that the school might continue its educational work. After an early struggle the Fisk Singers became well known in Europe as well as in the United States.
It was through this organization that Fisk University was able to buy a large section of land which is today its campus and permanent site on the outskirts of Nashville, Tenn.
The Fisk Jubilee Singers are heard weekly over the NBC network and have sung with the Symphony Orchestras of Boston, Chicago, and Los Angeles. The present group of Jubilee Singers are under the direction of Mrs. James A.. Myers. They have the commendation of leading musicians and have been successful in their endeavors to maintain the same quality of tone, harmony, and rhythm which belongs to the original Fisk interpretation of the negro spiritual.
—J. Ross LoCascio
Faculty Hears Lectures
Mr. Francis Calkins of the College of Commerce spoke on “The Essential Commodities” before the Lay Faculty Club .. Wednesday evening, Feb. 17, in St. Joseph’s Parish Hall.
The following evening Mi-. William Shanahan discussed the “Strategic Is-, sues of War” in the Faculty Dining Hall.
12
Fire Cheats Community Out of Chicken Dinners
Fire of undetermined origin destroyed a small building behind the Community Infirmary on Thursday morning, Feb. 18.
The casualty list included 450 chickens and several sacks of feed. Damage was placed at about §600.
In view of the meat shortage, the fire has more than ordinary consequences. Unless a new supply can be found, or the local board permits extra rations the members of the Community In-
firmary will be without chicken dinners for the duration, and their egg supply will be curtailed for the next six months, it is estimated. The search for barbecued chicken failed to yield results.
The Religious at Mass noticed flames leaping from the coop. The University fire department was immediately notified, and arrived a few minutes before the South Bend fire fighters. Together they showered the blaze, but. failed to extinguish it before the building was completely destroyed.
—F. J. Pequigney
Propaganda Leaflet Displayed at Library
On exhibition in the University Library this week is one of the leaflets dropped over North Africa by our flyers during the momentous invasion last November. There is a picture of President Roosevelt in the upper left hand corner, and his message to the natives of French North Africa is written both in French and Arabic.
This small piece of paper, which no doubt will soon become a collector’s item, and a valuable addition to our archives, was sent to Bishop John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former president of the Univer-. sity, from Albert Steffens, a young friend with.the American Expeditionary,forces. Bishop O’Hara kindly forwarded it to Mr. Paul R; Byrne, University librarian.
Your reporter, being a little weak on his Arabic declensions and conjugations, prevailed upon Miss Ellen Kistler, head cataloger of the library staff, to translate the message. The following is a translation of the French text:
“Message of the President of.: the United States.
“The President of the United States
has charged me, as General Commander in Chief of the American Expeditionary Forces, to make known to the people of French North Africa the following message:
“No nation is more intimately bound, through history as well as deep friendship, to the people of France and her friends than the United States of America.
“Americans are fighting,- in reality, not only to assure their future, but to restore the liberties and democratic principles of all those who have lived under the tricolor standard.
“We come to you to liberate you from conquerors who desire only to deprive you forever of your sovereign rights, of your right to the liberty of your culture, of your right to lead your life in peace.
“We come to you only to destroy your enemies—we do not wish to harm you.
“We come to you assuring you we will go away as soon as the menace of Germany and Italy is routed.
“I appeal to your sense of reality as well as to your idealism.
“Do nothing, to hinder the accomplishment of this great Plan.
“Help us, and the coming day of universal peace will be hastened.
“Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lieut. Gen. Commander in
. Chief of American Expeditionary Forces.”
Library Archives Serve
Catholics in Research
The archives of the University library, a veritable treasury of the history of the Catholic Church in America, are constantly being used by eminent American - scholars. Among works recently'written and others still in the process of research are the following:
Sister Mary Frederick Lochemes: Robert Walsh, history, published by the Irish^ American Historical Society. Mr. Walsh was a renowned Catholic publicist.
Rev. Frederick J. Easterly, C.M.: The Rife of. Rt. Rev. Joseph Rosati, CM., first bishop of St. Louis. .
Sister Mary Sevina Pahorezki, O.S.F.: ■ The Social and Political Activities of
William J. Onahan. Mr. Onahan was a prominent Catholic leader in Chicago and a Laetare medalist.
Theodore Maynard: The Reed and the Rock—a Portrait of Simon Brute. Mr. Maynard is also using the Archives for his forthcoming biography of Orestes A. Brownson. -
Opening of the Aquinas Library is Part of Catholic Action Literary Movement
(In keeping zvith Catholic Press Month, SCHOLASTIC here presents a feature on the Aquinas Library and Book Shop, Inc., located at 110 East LaSalle St. in South Bend.)
The Aquinas Library is a non-profit organization founded by a group of Catholic Action women for
the purpose of furthering all ideas embodied in the true apostolate of Catholic literature. In other words, it is a Catholic cultural center, one of the main ideas of which is to pray the Mass itself and promote the profundity of the Faith through the liturgy.
A most personable young lady begins your tour of the book shop by showing you a long, triple row of shelves all stocked to the limit with books by Catholic and non-Catholic authors. Books on the Church and its history, books on poetry, some of the latest popular novels, and the ever present prayer books, both in missal and breviary form, fill the shelves.
To one side of the room there is a fairly large counter, holding within its glass enclosed sides many different religious articles. One can find prayer beads, crucifixes, pins, scapular; medals, small pictures, figurines, and many other bits of religious goods. Miss X (she won’t allow her name to be used) points to many hand painted signs on the walls of the library, commenting shortly on them to the effect that “they were all painted by an atheist.” On small brae shelves suspended from the walls you notice many odd and beautiful statues done by a nun in Germany. Then there are some exquisite hand-carved wooden silhouettes that were made by the Benedictine nuns in Colorado. '
But there is more to the library, you find but, as Miss X pilots you to another room. “This,’’.says she, “is our reading room. Here we keep all of the latest magazines and pamphlets. Anyone may come in and spend all the time they wish here. They have a wide variety to choose from.” The lending library is also situated in this room—the books in the front room are for sale only.
The Aquinas Library and Book Shop, Inc., was formally opened last Nov. 15
by a group of ardent C. A. women for the purpose of getting Catholics and non" Catholics alike interested in religious reading.' A remarkable thing about this book shop is the fact that it caters to young. children as well as adults. The whole idea grew out of a Catholic Action group and is spreading fast. Two other libraries of a similar type have opened in Indiana and another one is getting under way in Michigan. This particular book shop is headed by an executive chairman with a board of directors and some priests, including a spiritual director from Notre Dame. Many non-Catho-lics, as well as Catholics are frequent visitors at the bookstore.
Branch libraries have been formed in three South Bend schools as a direct outgrowth of this non-profit organization. Our own Catholic Action group at school has donated many books to the Aquinas library.
But book lending and selling are not the only factors of this pleasant little shop. They have an Aquinas Book-of-the-Month Club. February’s feature is Nova Scotia, Land of the Co-operatives, by Rev.. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. A separate spiritual hour is held weekly for both men and women. Then there is the missal class on Friday evenings at eight o’clock, conducted by the Rev: Michael Mathis, C.S.C. In the very near future a lecture series on books is to be inaugurated. Each lecture will be conducted by some different noted personage. Not only that, but even a Catholic Nurses Guild is being organized.	.
Among the more noteworthy volumes on the shelves are The Road, to Victory, by Archbishop Francis J. Spellman; Pack Rat, by F. C. Kelley; Why the ’ Cross?, by Edward Leen; Light Before Dusk, by . Helen Isowolsky. There are also three Notre Dame centenary publications: The collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell, edited by Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.; Notre Dame—One Hundred Years, by Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., and Justa Crucem—Life of Basil Moreau, C.S.C., by Rev. Gerald Fitzgerald.
This list mentions only a few of the total number of books included in the library. Many other Catholic works and books expounding Catholic thought, are found in the shop.—John Noonan
Library Holds Details Of Xaverian's History
The University of Notre Dame archives, via their director, the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., have revealed a story of historical interest. It seems that Theodore Ji Ryken, founder of the Xaverian Brothers, came to Father Badin’s mission in this vicinity and worked with the zealous missioner among the Indians.
. Father McAvoy’s attention was called to this fact and his curiosity aroused by the request of Brother Aubert of the Xaverian Brothers for any information that might be contained in the archives pertaining to Ryken.
Theodore Ryken, of Belgian extraction, entered the Trappist novitiate of Strasbourg where he assumed the religious name of Nicholas. Due to unsettled political-religious conditions he left Europe and the religious life in 1831, coming to America.
Three years were spent in the New World, much of the time working among the Indians near Father Badin’s mission. Father Badin mentions “Nicholas” ■ in one of his letters preserved in the archives: “. . . Nicholas tends a kitchen garden of two acres, but I’ve been obliged to employ other hands. . . .”
Having received the approval of several American bishops, Ryken, upon his return to Europe, asked the permission of the Bishop of Bruges to found a congregation. Permission was granted. Ryken returned to America in 1837. In 1839 the Xaverian Brothers were founded in Bruges. Theodore Ryken took his vows and the religious name of Brother Francis Xavier in 1846. He was Superior General of the Congregation for a period of 27 years. Xaverian Brothers are now engaged principally in high school education.
Thus is unfolded the outline of a dramatic story in the annals of American missionary work and religious education.
—Jim Murphy
University Will Train
Men for Air Courses
In keeping up with the wartime tempo the University will offer facilities for training a number of high school instructors in pre-flight aeronautics in order that they may teach such courses in their schools. The program was announced last week at a meeting of representatives from nearby high schools held on the campus.
The Civil Aeronautics Administration, advocates of the plan, would encourage teachers to take courses in meteorology, navigation, civil , air regulations, general service, and operation of aircraft. Classes will be taught by University instructors.
13
Students Can Obtain Essential War Work By Contacting South Bend Employment Office
Notre Dame students, through the Scholastic promotion department, ha*, e pledged their all-out aid to relieve shortages in war industry, it was announced in a recent issue of the South Bend Ti-b-une. It was pointed out that there is an employment problem in industrialized South Bend, and Scholastic’s promotion manager, “Red” Lonergan, after seeking the advice of numerous local authorities, came to the conclusion that students, by working on free afternoons and Saturdays, might contribute some much-needed help to war industry.
Already a large number of Notre Dame men have obtained positions in this vicinity. Numerous students have been hired by the United States Rubber Company in Mishawaka and others are employed at Bendix and Studebaker.
Lonergan said that “we can do our part by cooperating with the United States Employment office in South Bend. It is claimed by this office that there are endless part-time jobs which Notre Dame students could take over and still keep up with school work.” According to “Red,” these jobs pay very inviting-wages.
Spring is here, at least every other day, and when it comes to stay, said Lonergan, there will be an alarming shortage of farm help. It .may become necessary to draft laborers. In that event, he stated, “it is much nicer that we have already volunteered our services rather than to go into this work through pressure by the federal government.”
Commenting that the University is doing all in its power to aid the war effort, the promotion manager said that students should be eager to help, and some day, when these same students are holding down front line positions, they will be glad to know that some one on the home front is making possible a ceaseless supply of equipment arid material.
' Said Lonergan, “We will have dummy applications filled out for you at the desk in the employment office, so that all you will have to do is fill out your application in the same fashion as the dummy. After completing the application, you merely, drop it in to. the box put there for that purpose, arid we will do the rest. The jobs range in pay from 75 cents per hour on up.” He pointed out that my job a: strdent would be asked to handle would be’ one desperately vital
14 -	-	. ■	? ■<’	'
to war productive industries or essential business.
Sheedy, Maddalena of
N. D. Win Navy Awards
Two former Notre Dame men, now serving in the Navy, were recently decorated by their country.
Lieut, (j.g.) Daniel C. Sheedy, ’39, of Buffalo, N. Y., won the Navy Cross for extraordinary heroisni in the Battle of Midway. He is described as being from a real “Notre Dame family.”
Sheedy is now a flight instructor at Corpus Christi, Texas. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Michael M. Sheedy and the brother of Ensign Michael M., Jr., ’35, J. Paul, ’37, and K. Joseph, ’42. The elder Mr. Sheedy served in France as a captain of engineers in World War I.
The citation accompanying the medal was signed for the President by Secretary of Navy, Frank Knox, and read as follows:
“For extraordinary heroism as pilot of an airplane of Fighting Squadron Three in action against enemy Japanese forces in the Battle of Midway on June 4, 1942.
“Participating as one of a six-plane fighter escort for our torpedo planes in an attack on three enemy aircraft carriers, Ensign Sheedy, upon reaching his objective, was viciously intercepted by a superior force of Japanese fighters.
“By courageously maintaining position in formation on his section leader despite tremendous counterfire, he skillfully prevented the enemy planes from' pressing home their attacks.
“Subseqently losing his leader. in a cloud, he single-handedly fought off an attack by three Japanese fighters, shot one down, and himself. badly wounded, . flew his severely damaged plane back to a safe landing aboard one of our carriers.”
The other Notre Dame man, Lieut. Arthur D. Maddalena, was awarded the Silver Star Medal by President Roose’ <. velt for. “constant vigilance and conducting himself with extraordinary courage . in the face of danger.”.	. .
. Maddalena, ’41, is from Westfield, Mass.,* and won his award as a member of an armed guard attached to a merchant vessel last December.	;;
- “During hazardous engagements with enemy dive bombers, torpedo planes and submarines,” the citation accompanying the medal said, “the ship is credited with holding convoy damage to a minimum by driving off numerous and almost continuous attacks with effective barrage.”
War Safety Courses to Be Offered for Workers
The Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., administration assistant of Notre Dame, and H. H. Peterson, chairman of the safety divisions industrial section of the Association of Commerce, have jointly worked out two new wartime industrial safety training courses.
Courses under the engineering, science, management war training- plan of the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Office of Education will be in charge of the previous class instructors, Thomas J. Coyle and Ben L. Hill.
The sixth series of night classes and the second series of day classes started Monday and will continue for 15 consecutive Mondays, ending May 31. Industrial workers in this area are invited to enroll in the tuition-free course, held in the engineering building.
Princeton Professor
Speaks on Catalysis
Dr. Hugh Scott Taylor, David B. Jones Professor of Chemistry of Princeton University, addressed the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society last night in the Law Buildingauditorium. A recipient of many awards in chemistry, Dr. Taylor has conducted numerous researches in the field of catalysis, proto-chemistry and activated absorption.
. His talk on the role of catalysis in production of gasoline and synthetic rubber was part of the Notre Dame Centennial celebration.
Dr. Rudolph Allers to Lecture
Dr. Rudolph Allers, internationally renowned psychologist and professor of psychology at the Catholic University of . America, will speak on “Philosophy in a ; Warring World” next. Friday, March 5, at 4:15 o’clock in the Law auditorium.
In accordance with the war-time publication program, in which the - SCHOLASTIC appears ten times each semester, there will be no issue of the news-magazine next Friday.
- Ncwy at Ao/ie Sbatne >	,	, ■ ,
EDITORIAL
ENSIGN P. T. SPRINZ
Public Relations Officer
Today the press is full of news and comment on the number one civilian problem: war manpower. The Navy, too, has its “war manpower” problem—well along towards solution.
Stripped to its grimmest essentials, the Navy’s manpower problem has three phases: “procurement, training and battle.
Procurement is important, but out of the instructor’s hands. Preparedness for effective battle with the enemy is the end to which training is directed.
The many eye-witness reports from the theaters of sea war stress the importance of thorough training. Fire power is ineffective unless directed by trained personnel. But trained personnel cannot direct fire power unless each unit aboard ship has likewise been thoroughly trained, both individually and as a team.
The lookouts on the sea must be trained to see the Jap first. Trained officers and men at the helm must dodge torpedoes and bombs, and other trained members of the team must be able to put out fires, to keep the ship and her company fighting and afloat.
The ship’s control directs the ship into the battle, the , engineers put her there, the gunnery departments fight, her damage control keeps her fit—every man prepared—trained—in the duties of his billet. Engineers, lookouts, yeomen, storekeepers, radiomen, quartermaster, hospital corpsmen—all trained in fighting the ship as a unit.
Victorious battle is thus impossible without training. They are closely interdependent. The only excuse for naval training is its role in keeping ships afloat and shooting. Ships cannot be kept afloat and shooting unless training has done its part.
New Sports Program
“The art of self defense has never been more important than it is today in this World War.”
Those are the words of Lieut. E. C. Fant, in charge of the athletic program in which virtually all of the midshipmen on the Notre Dame campus will soon be; engaged.	’
“Today,” he continued, “with many
new and varied phases of war being developed daily, Navy men have often found themselves confronted by situations in land fighting with which they had never before dealt.”
The athletic program for Navy men stationed here is. designed essentially to toughen up the future officers of the Navy in order that they may be prepared to cope with any physical situation they may encounter during their Naval career.
The plan is in addition to the regular athletic program held in conjunction with the infantry period and is voluntary.
The new program is designed to serve as recreational as well as physical hardening purpose and it will serve as the prelude to the big regimental inter-team competition which will be held probably at the end of the first month.
The good ship "Howard"
Six different sports will be offered, to the men on the station. Each event will be in charge and under the tutelage of a specialist chief petty officer, who has been selected by Commander Gene. Tunney in his particular field of athletics.
• The program here will not differ in its essential character from the fitness programs which the Navy is sponsoring at all its schools, stations, and training, camps - throughout the country.
Activities in which , men may partici
pate are swimming, boxing, wrestling, basketball, nucom, (similar to volleyball, only a heavy medicine ball is used) and track. The most important of these is swimming.
It is a fundamental law of the Navy that its men must be able to swim, and every man here on the station who cannot swim approximately 50 yards must enter the “Submarine Squad,” or swimming class.
The pool in the Rockne Memorial has been made available between the hours of 1700 and 1800 for the use of these men, and capable swimming instructors will be on hand to guide the “submarine men.”	■
Boxing and wrestling, the two essential arts of self defense, will be held in the Navy drill hall and at Rockne Memorial, respectively.
DO’S AND DON'TS
ON FIGHTING JAPS
A South Pacific Base, (Delayed) — “Sweat now will save blood later.” Under this injunction from their commanding officer, the fighting men in this area are toughening their muscles for jungle warfare, and sharpening their wits for maximum combat efficiency. Physical conditioning and night operations are emphasized, with 20-mile hikes in the dark to accustom the men to operations in the gloom the Japs prefer for their offensives and infiltrations. Such hikes are silent, officers give their orders in whispers, smoking is prohibited.
Among the “don’t” dinried into the men by their officers are these commandments:	'	: .
Don’t get chummy with strangers.in . dark places just because they.-speak . English; lots of Japs, went to . American schools. Keep silent if you’re uncertain; let your- new friend talk himself to death.
Don’t run qut to pick leaflets a. Jap drops from his plane. The. English is terrible and besides, he’s probably com-ing right back to shoot the place up.
Don’t try to start a hock-shop in the jungle by picking up Jap watches, fountain pens, .flashlights, and other trinkets that may have mines or “booby traps” attached. You don’t care what time it is, .
.. you’re mostly • too busy., to write, and you’re safer in the dark.
. . Don’t underestimate the Jap, nor doubt . his ability to match you. trick, for trick.
\	15 '•
Notre Dame Mourns George E. Kecj
The sudden death of George Keogan, Irish basketball coach, in the midst of one of his many successful seasons, has astounded the sports world. Nationally recognized as a pioneer in the presentday hardwood sport, he compiled a record that places him at the top in the roll call of brilliant teachers of the game.
During Coach Keegan’s 20 years at Notre Dame his teams never failed to have a winning season, recording 327 wins against 96 defeats over the span. However, his victorious ways were well founded before he came here in 1923. His first coaching assignment was at Charles City College, Iowa, for the 1909-10 season. He coached at Lockport, Ill., the next year; at Riverside, Ill., in 1911-12: and then Superior, Wis., State Teachers College from 1912 t: 1914. For the 1914-15 season he moved to St. Louis University, followed by a season at St. Thomas College in St. Paul, Minn. In 1916 Coach Keogan gave up his coaching duties to serve in the U.S. Army. He sought overseas action, but was assigned to training duties in this country.
He returned to basketball for the 1917-18 season, coaching at Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa.: moved to Valparaiso,
George Keogan as a lootball coach in 1923 fulfilled Rockne's expectations
16
Ind., for two years; and then to La Crosse, Wis., where he remained until he came to Notre Dame in the autumn of 1923 as head basketball and baseball coach, and assistant to the late Knute Rockne in football.
Coach Keogan’s teams throughout these years frequently won 17 of the 19 games played in a season. His Allegheny team, which won 18 games, was the only undefeated quintet of his career, although most of them came within two or three games of this goal.
Comes to Notre Dame
Impressed by the remarkable showing of Keogan’s Valparaiso eleven, which held Notre Dame to a stalemate until George Gipp finally broke loose, Rockne offered the opposing coach an assistant--ship in football at Notre Dame.
Rockne often commented on the effectiveness and coaching efficiency of his young assistant. Keogan deliberately shunned the Frosh standouts. Freshmen with strings of self-compiled scrapbooks were pushed into strenuous practice sessions and early learned that football at Notre Dame was not an abridged high school play period. The proud and timid were matched on even terms and from this assemblage of determined youth, Keogan molded some of the greatest men ever to wear the Blue and Gold of Notre
A recent picture
Coach Keogan’s funeral was last Satury pallbearers. The N.R.O.T.(j0
Dame. The Four Horsemen and the Seven Mules were a coaching by-product of the assistant mentor. Keogan grounded the candidates, Rockne polished them.
Made Basketball at Notre Dame
In 1923 when the new Irish mentor took ovex’ at Notre Dame, basketball was not highly regarded. In place of the modern, sharply-lined hardwood court, he found nothing but a dirt base with dry lime markers to form the court. Coach Keogan wasted no time. He assembled a J team and fitted them with the various colored uniforms that were present. Later it became necessary to practice and play downtown at the Y.M.C.A. Practically every day, in any kind of weather, the players could be seen boarding the bus with uniforms slung under the arms and wearily returning at dusk, often missing the evening meal, and in no mood to put in three hours of gruelling study. I Despite these handicaps, Keogan made j Irish followers forget about the famous “Victory Fives” of the preceding six years and their record of 35 won and 64 lost. His 1923-24 quintet won 15 games ' * and lost 8. The following season found t 1 the Irish with their slimmest victory I i margin under Keogan’s leadership, as j ]
djan: The Last of a Great Triumvirate
aturY morning. Members of his team were 3-T-Qormed a guard of honor
they marked up 11 wins against 10 defeats. Then the late coach produced three teams in a row that have been placed among the greatest of all time.
• They captured 56 wins in 61 games. The victims of these teams included Minne-■ sota, Northwestern, Iowa, Illinois, Mich' igan State, Carnegie Tech, Marquette, . Wisconsin, Pittsburgh, Butler, Princeton, and Pennsylvania.
The 1931-32 team, led by sophomore Ed “Moose” Krause, was another of George Keogan’s great combinations. They recorded 18 wins in 20 games, finishing the season with a 16-game victory streak. Krause was again the big gun in 1933-34 as the Irish won 20 and lost four. In 1935-36 Coach Keogan developed two men who rank with the alltime stars—Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak. Through the next three seasons Moir and Nowak paced the Irish to 61 decisions in 71 games.
The Keogan System
Coach Keogan’s contributions to the game have played an essential part in making it the fast, scientific sport that it is today. A few years after he came to Notre Dame, Keogan originated a de
fense that befuddled opponent after opponent. As the “pass-and-block” style of play became increasingly popular at other institutions, Keogan saw his chance and came up with a method of rendering it useless. He called it the “shifting man-to-man” defense. Once perfected, this style became the envy of rival coaches who attempted to employ it to no degree of success. New York University was one of these teams that saw a great system in Coach Keogan’s “shifting manto man” defense and decided to use it. After four games, they gave up. “They didn’t stick with it long enough,” stated its originator, George Keogan. He also was the first to use the “shuttling guard,” a play that kept many offensives from retarding to boring inactivity.
A Last Interview
In an interview with the Scholastic the day before he and his team left for New York, Coach Keogan seemed in a reminiscent mood. Relating some of the highlights of his career, he wandered from picture to picture of former teams hung neatly on the walls of his office. He refused to name any team that he had coached as being his greatest. “They all included a group of boys who loved basketball. They lived clean, worked hard, and played with all they had.” The three assets which Keogan insisted upon were speed, aggressiveness, and alertness. These features were characteristic of Irish teams under his leadership.
The coach was justly proud of the men who composed his first few teams.
He insisted on speed, aggressiveness, and alertness
He had special words of. praise for Noble Kizer, late Purdue athletic director and football coach, captain of the 1924-25 squad and an all-Western guard; Louis Conroy, all-Western forward for three years; diminutive Johnny Nyikos, allWestern forward in 1928-29; and Ed Smith, all-Western guard for three years. The brilliant court strategy of Johnny Moir, Paul Nowak, and Eddie Riska, who led the list of high scorers under the Keogan regime, also received generous words of praise from the coach.
It is only fitting that George Keogan’s greatest student and assistant coach, Ed Krause, three times all-American center, should take up the coaching reins so ably held by the late coach.
Like the men he coached, a lighter and a sportsman
17
" > ' ' Ao/te ^btum. S^bU , , ,
~"~	*	"*'~"	;	":	—	~"	!	'"	'	■	- !-—	__.1	_ _____KSV
Irish Hardwood Squad Nears Season's End Five Games in Path of Charging Netmen
BOB CRONIN
for that next chance to break Great Lakes victory string which now extends through more than 20 games. They get it March 8 when we again meet the Sailors, this time on the Great Lakes hardwood.
Our netmen journey to East Lansing, Feb. 27, again to encounter Michigan State’s basketeers. This has been an un--usually poor year for the Spartans, but they have at times shown flashes of genuine basketball. Coach Ben Van Alstyne’s team has not only sustained defeat almost without interruption, but illness and inj’uries have cut wide swaths in his squad almost since the season started. He lost Oliver White, a star- forward, early in the season, and since his team appeared here, he has lost Fred Stone, Roy Deihl, and Dan Pj’esky, the lad who hawked Bob Faught in their recent en
gagement.
Marquette
The Fighting Irish invade the Milwaukee Auditorium on March 6 to engage the Hilltoppers in a return match. Our boys subdued the Marquette gang, 50-45, in their meeting here a few weeks ago.	.
To date the Hilltoppers have not lost any first team members to the armed forces. They have improved steadily and recently lost to the best team in University of Detroit history by but eight points. The same lineup of Kivisto and Skat at forwards, Kuffel at center, and Bril and Chandler at guards will again face our netters in Milwaukee.
Proof of Marquette’s prowess is shown by the score of their recent Great Lakes game when the Hilltoj) boys lost, 60-54. A six-point loss to the Sailors is enough to warn other foes of their capabilities.
Wabash
Wabash brings its team of eagers to the fieldhouse next Tuesday to tackle the Blue and Gold. They are in first place in the Indiana Conference and are within one victory of the 1943 championship. The Crawfordsville netmen hold decisions over . Ball State, high-scoring Hanover, and have twice conquered Butler. They are in the midst of a 13-game vanning streak, .haying ■ averaged 50 points per game this, season.
. Great Lakes '. f -.. .
Those sailor boys from Great : Lakes
proved that they know quite a bit about the game of basketball by downing our Fighting Irish in their first game, after Coach Keogan’s death. It took a thrilling overtime period in which the Navy scored seven points to our three to gain their supremacy. Our boys are anxious
Riska and Sobek Rally as Sailors Top Irish;
Curran's Final Second Toss Brings Overtime
BILL BROWN
In an overtime game last Saturday night the Sailors from Great Lakes defeated the Fighting Irish from Notre Dame, 60-56, before 13,000 howling fans. The game proved to be an old home week affair in that all the principals were from Notre Dame or the state of Indiana.
Frank Curran: Tied the score
.	; , Bob Rensberger led the Irish in scor-
The game started following a dramatic . ing, getting 14 points on six field goals tribute to the late George Keogan. It was f arid two free shots. Curran	was runner-
the first time in 20 years that George	up with fl3 points on cfour	baskets and
Keogan wasn’t around to give the boys a	five free shots.	; -
The Great Lakes netmen are averaging 60 counters per game as against a neat 50-plus for the Irish. Of late, the Blue and Gold snipers have been swishing the net at a sizzling pace and have their basket eyes focused on this next encounter with the country’s leading service team.
last minute pep-talk. Ed Krause took over the reins and proved himself a capable strategist.
The high note of the game was Frank Curran’s shot from the side of the floor that hit the rim of the basket as the gun went off ending the game. The ball bounced up in the air, the crowd moaned, the ball dropped through the hoop, the crowd. roared. That shot tied up the contest, 53-53, and brought on the overtime period.
Reserve strength proved to be too much for the Irish and they succumbed to the Sailors after a valiant battle. Eddie Riska and George Sobek, Notre Dame men of former wars led that reserve strength. Forrest Anderson, of Stanford, a young man „ from Indiana who went West, led the Sailors in scoring with 17 points.. Together with Sobek they accounted for half the Great Lakes total.
The regulation - game . was wild and woolly with Bob Rensberger, Bill Davis, and Johnny Niemiera being chased for over enthusiastic play. Bob Davies and Dick Klein of. the. Sailors went out the same way. Curran was chased in the overtime period. .
IS
Interhaliers Continue Battle for Title;
New League Presents Added Talent Outlet
ROBERT ERKINS
$ 1
lSJ^ W-Sr
2
I
The interhall basketball games are now well into their hardwood fight for top honors. The competition has been opened to many new players with the forming of a new league. This league is made up of those who were unable to fit into the Heavyweight or Lightweight league.
The only qualifications necessary for this new
league are: there must be at least seven men to start a team, these men can only play in the new league, the new teams names must be given to Mr. F. R. Maxwell as soon as possible. The idea of this league was planned by Mr. Scannell and Mr. Maxwell in order that those men who could not participate in the other leagues and who still wished to play, could find an outlet for their floor talents. The games are played on the upstairs floor of the fieldhouse. There are at present eight teams and they have played three games.	.
Redwings. 57; Colonels, 12
The Redwings won an easy match from the Colonels to open the new league season. There were two high point men for the Redwings, they were Bob Dries with. 12 points and Bill .Gorman with 10 points.	.
Civil Engineers, 30; Cosmos, 18
The Engineers, led by Reid’s 12 points, put on a burst of speed to romp over the Cosmos in a hard fought game. Neither team had any other particular high point man.
Zahm Zombies, 37; The Bat Roosters, 30
The most gruelling floor battle of the new series was fought between these two teams. Since both opponents had high point men-the game was always close. The Roosters star was Cartier who dropped the ball into the hoop for 18 points while McSafferty of the Zombies was able to tally 10 points. .	.
There are two other teams that as yet have not played, they are the B-19’s and the Cavanaugh . A. C. It is hoped that there will soon be added some more teams to this already growing body.
•	L Heavyweight I	.
The Cavanaugh heavies and the, lads from Alumni are tied for first place, both having won four and lost none. The Sor-inites are not far behind with three wins
and one loss. It is the boys from Alumni . who hold the honor of having the high point man. He. is Bob Purcell who has tallied 36 points in two games.
. Heavyweight II .
The Alumni II still hold their lead on . the heavies with four wins and no defeats, but right behind them are the men of Walsh who have three wins and no losses. In third place is Dillon II with one win and one loss.
Lightweight I
Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips are still tied for first place in the Lightweight class. Each team has fought for three wins and each team has . a cipher in the loss column. Dillon is tied with the Law Club for. third place.
Lightweight II
The Naval R.O.T.C. holds a good lead over its opponents with three.wins and no defeats. Zahm is a fighting second with two wins and one loss. The third place is a tie between the remaining four teams, each has won one and lost two games.
’ Standings as of Feb. 12 to Feb. 19.
Heavyweights •
LEAGUE I	w	L	PCT.	LEAGUE. II	w	- L	PCT.
Cavanaugh	4	0	1.000	Alumni II	4	0	1.000
Alumni I	4	0	1.000	-Wa’sh- '	3	0	1.000
Soi-in	3	1	.750	. Dillon II	1	1	.500
Dillon I. .	1	'2*	.333	N.R.O.T.C.	2	2	.500
Dillon II	1	2	.333	. Zahm	0	2	.000
Alumni III	1	2	.333	. Brownson.	0	2	.000
Law Club	0	3	.000	St. Ed’s	0	3	.000
Breen-Phil.	0	3	. .000	. Lightweights				
LEAGUE I-.	w	L	PCT.	LEAGUE II ,		L	PCT.
Cavanaugh	3	0	1.000	N.R.O.T.C.	3	0	1.000
Breen-Phil.	3	0	1.000	Zahm -	2	1	.667
Dillon	2	1,	.667	Walsh	,	1	2	.333
Law Club	1	2	, .333	' Alumni	1	2	.333
Sorin	0	3	. .000	’Off Campus 1		2	.333
St. Ed’s	0	3	.000	; Brownson	1	2	.333
Hunter Extends Rice;
Sets New Irish Record
- Oliver Hunter II accomplished a feat last Saturday evening, in the Madison Square Garden that two-milers have been attempting in vain for three years. .He matched stride for stride with a certain Mr. Gregory Rice to give the cham-. pion the closest battle of his reign. Ollie turned in the brilliant time of 9:01.1 as he trailed Rice across the finish line by a scant three seconds. .	\ .
The race was strictly a Rice-Hunter duel with Greg setting the pace while Hunter-kept within five yards of him. On the last lap the champ started his famous “kick” but failed to shake his stubborn opponent and finished only a few yards in the lead.
In turning in the time of 9:01.1, Hunter set a new Irish record for the two mile. Greg’s best effort as a student was 9:02.2	.
Track coach, “Doc” Handy, stated that Ollie’s running was “truly a great performance.” He also remarked on the fine showing of Tony Maloney. Although lacking experience on the New York oval, Tony finished in 9:26, very good time for his first shot at the “big boys” of -track.
Handball Action Fast;
Squash Tourney Next
This week a handball tournament got into full swing at the Rockne Memorial. There are 40 entries in the tournament which is expected to be concluded near the end of the present week. .
Only rugged men last long in handball
Tommy Mills, director of the “Rock,” has sent out cards to all players entered. These cards state the player’s opponents, playing time, court to use, and .all other ... necessary information. There are. two sets a night beginning at 7:30 and 8:30. If the player is ten minutes late for the set which he is to play, the set will be forfeited to his opponent. If a player knows beforehand that he can not play at the time stated, he should let his opponent or Mr. Mills know.
All students interested in entering the ■ squash tournament, to be held after the " handball tournament is completed, must . have their entries in not later than Saturday, Feb. 27. The rules that apply to ~ . the handball tournament will also hold true for the squash tourney.	-	. <
.	—Tom Reagan ,	:;
Title Vacancies Insure Full Bengal Card Daily Workouts Sharpening Men for Action
' J. D. USINA
gear to carry on the workouts in typical fashion.
Prospects of the crop of the new crew of ringmen are said to be encouraging and the instructors admit that good material is in the making.	_
Smelling of leather and resounding with thuds and grunts, the boxing rooms in the Rockne Memorial are fast becoming the assembly lines for the annual Bengal Bouts. Students of the manly art of self-defense are shaping up well and apparently will stage a scrappy performance on the nights of March 16, 17, and 19, if their present efforts and pugnacious attitudes are any criterion.
Sammy Atwater, champion of the 135-pound class in the 1942 Bengals, answered the call of the Army Air Corps last week, thereby removing another old-timer from the list of entrants. Sammy’s ring tactics, acquired during the tune-ups for last year’s fights, won him the respect of his foes and his rise to the championship over veteran Bengal experts proved quite an upset.
Farrell Quinlan, 155-pound battler, remains as the sole 1942 champion defending his laurels. The fact that all but one of the title spots are undefended will be an added lure to the array of punchers lined up for the St. Patrick’s contest.
In the 120- and 127-pound classes and in the heavyweight section the entrants are not too plentiful. Additional material is expected to be rounded out for these divisions, however.
In the 135-pound class, 11 are competing and Joe Farrell, participant in last year’s setto, is seeking again to cash in on some of the Bengal honors.
Walt Romito, summer champion, heads the list of boxers prepping for the 145-pound crown. The largest group of athletes fit into this division with approximately 14 ready to try their luck for the championship.	’
Mutt and Jeff Getting in Shape for the Main Event
Frank Lombardo is expected to furnish plenty of opposition in the circle of 155-pounders which title is being defended by Quinlan. Another- group of beginners also aim to be in the running.
A brother of “Bulldog” Turner, ace center of the Chicago Bears pro football outfit, is showing up well in the 165-pound bracket. A former Golden Glover, Virgil Turner, a Texan, has designs on the middleweight spot.
Two heavyweight fighters in Gene Kane and H. Delaplane, were tagged by the Army Air Corps when the Reserve was called last week. Their departure left openings in this section which usually is one of the featured attractions.
Director John Scannell, assisted by Bob Dove and Charley Waters, handle the afternoon workouts of the Notre Dame boxers and five days a week the regular sessions are conducted. Routine begins at 4 o’clock and concludes at 5 p.m. A number of the lads spend a good portion of their spare time in preparation for the events.
Calisthenics under the direction of Bob Dove last about 20 minutes of the period daily. Then the beginners go under the direction of Chuck Waters who is concentrating on perfecting shiftiness and the footwork of the novices. Ropework and the inevitable shadow boxing are additional measures being practiced to accustom the beginners.
Real tough, battering workouts will commence about two weeks before the Bengals and the pugilists will don head-
Announced as judges for the Bengals were Eugene (Scrapiron) Young and William Lubers. Additional officials will be named later. Elmer Tepe has been selected to fill one of—the timekeeper slots.
From the standpoint of good clean sport as well as excellent physical exer-' cise, boxing has appealed to a varied group. On this campus the group represents the same variety. It has been said before that aside from the physical angle, the fine points of the sport are of great value. The spirit of competition and the education in self-protection shouldn’t be passed over too lightly. They definitely are important results.
Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday nights, March 16, 17, and 19 at 8 o’clock in the fieldhouse. That’s the date of the 12th Bengal Bouts conducted annually for the benefit of the Holy Cross missionaries working in Dacca, Bengal Province, India.
Bengals?
The rumor that John Woelfle, the enigma of the Metropolitan ring, will finally be branded and expunged from the campus by the underground movement of St. Mary’s is no longer a grapevine tale.
Early this week an authorized Scholastic reporter, “the mysterious commando,” journeyed through the corn stubbles of the acres adjoining America’s finest feminine canteen of learning. An unidentifiable blonde whispered in foretelling verse to a skirted associate, “Woelfle—prevaricator wild. . . . Death, not too mild.”
The sabotage unit of the grand old Rock is holding nightly meetings in a shadowed corner of Le Mans hall. The Scholastic’s sound detectors, operating from a safe distance, can pick up nothing on the frequency but the incessant humming of strained voices: “March 19th, March 19th, March 19th!”
Coach Leahy Returns
Suntanned and with a few added pounds, Coach Frank Leahy returned to his desk in the Athletic Office Monday morning reporting that he was feeling much better, after a Florida vacation.’
Plans for spring football are in progress but it will be several weeks before the Irish mentor calls the remaining varsity candidates to action.
,20
INTRODUCING
JACK DENNISTON
Formally, Charles Joseph O’Leary . . . “Hey, O’Leary” to the mob . . . from the border of the beautiful Ohio . . . more often overflowing . . . the town being Cincinnati . . . introduced himself to the world February 6 of ’21 . . . of course, he is currently engaged in the hardwood
"Chuck" O'Leary, Guard
game and working for his first monogram ... a Phy Ed major. ... At Roger Bacon High School in Cincy he led the team to the Ohio State finals . . . accumulated a total of a half dozen letters in high, three in basketball and a similar number in football ... his senior year at Roger Bacon saw the team gathering a nifty string of 26 victories before it was nipped in the finals by North Akron, that being Vinceguerra’s alma mater. . . .
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend's Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
Charley managed to average a fruitful 11 points per, despite the handicap of the rear court guard position . . . elected to the all-state team in ’39.
Notre Dame, since it is a Catholic institution, captured his fancy ... he held childhood ambitions of coming to the “Golden Dome” campus to further his education . . . has thoroughly- enjoyed working with the Keogan squad . . . has been on the travelling squad for three years, but May of this year will end his college cage aspirations . . . but he hopes to continue in the field of sports with a Phy Ed job in the Navy program. . . .
DePaul rates high . . . aggressive .-. . fast . . . well-coached. . . . Andy Phillips, Forrest Anderson, and Johnny Kotz get player ratings in Chuck’s book . . . but for the individual game he picks out the Wisconsin contest earlier this season. .. . “120 points are a lot in one game,” he contends. . . . “We’ve two teams in which there is no difference and the ten men are really even. The rest of the fellows are good enough to play on any other college team. They’re all good, both on and off the wood.”
Chuck worked on the scoreboard for the Cincinnati Reds for four years . . . worked out with them every morning that they were home . . . had a chance at minor league ball but gave it up for N.D. . . . doesn’t regret it, either. . . . Made the first shot of his college career against Kalamazoo as he entered the game as a trembling substitute. . . .
On the personal side, he’s been going with the same gal for seven years and was engaged at the senior ball last September ... to wed May 13. . . . She’s Camille Rizzo, cousin of Johnny Rizzo, the major leaguer. . . . Charlie worked as a cop during the summer . . . liked it . . . goes for steak ... in fact, almost any kind of meat. ... A great patron of the game “Monopoly” and a Glenn Miller fan, now changed by necessity to Tommy Dorsey . . . and so we left him in a heated monopoly game with colleagues Butler and Vinceguerra. . . .
Ralph . . . he’s “joe” too . . . Vinceguerra . . . blessed event came on May 24, 1922 ... a native of Akron . . . approached high school fame through the portals of North High . . . copped off a pair of golf letters, two more in football,
and a trio in the cage sport . . . but is still working for his first monogram here. . . . Won the golf title of his Ohio metropolis with a 70 ... was captain of the basketball team that went to the ’39 State finals at Columbus . . . beat Charlie O’Leary’s team in the finals, 47-39 ... was named , captain of the all-state team, but surpassed that honor by being named the best player in a. decade to come off Ohio’s hard courts . . . some guy, huh?
Myer Nowak got him for N.D. after
Ralph Vinceguerra, Forward
he was practically set for Ohio State . .. predicts an undefeated season for the remainder of the schedule.'. . . Girard of Michigan State, Schumacher of Butler, and Johnny Kotz of the Badgers are outstanding in his mind. . . . Illinois and Great Lakes of last year remain on top of his list as colorful aggregations. . . . This year’s tough encounter with Kentucky, in Vince’s estimation, was the “hardest to take” set-back. . . . Participating in last year’s Northwestern contest at Evanston looms as the big thrill in college, although on this occasion he was unfortunate, receiving a thumping that left him with torn ligaments . . . thus the reason for the wrap around his knee this season . . . tough break. . . . Coaches freshies aside from varsity duties ... he, too, chooses Phy Ed for his major with the view of coaching in the near future . . . after the V-7 gets through with him. . . . May terminates his period at N.D.
Personal interests ... just plain sports in general . . . when quizzed about any matrimonial intention, we received a “no thank you, please.” ... Glenn Miller held the spotlight ’for this guy’s band, but now he favors Sonny Dunram. . . . Being a proud Italian . . . well*.. . it’s sphagetti, of course. ...
21
FINE UNIFORMS h Naual
When you purchase your Officer's Uniforms you will select a tailor in whom you have confidence. You will expect smart style, correct fit and service under all conditions of wear. You will also require delivery in .ample time with a guarantee of satisfaction, whether your assignment be salt or fresh water. This quality, service and guarantee you II expect at reasonable cost.
Ed. V. Price & Co.— "largest tailors in the world of good made-to-order clothes" — meet all service requirements. Our uniforms are worn by officers in all parts of the world, on land, on sea, and in the air.
Our trademark “Ye Jolly Little Tailor” is as familiar a sight today as it has been for nearly fifty years. It guarantees to you absolute satisfaction NO MATTER WHERE YOUR STATION.
Our Uniforms are fine in style, quality and fit.
Our prices are moderate because we tailor and sell direct to you.
That we do render satisfaction is evidenced by the fact that approximately one-third of the last class graduating from Notre Dame was uniformed by Ed. V. Price & Co., without a single disappointment.
We suggest that you drop , into pur store this next week-end, an inspection of our Uniforms will convince you.
117 West LaSalle St., South Bend, Indiana
(Opposite the Hoffmann Hotel)
General office and shops: 327 W. Van Buren St., Chicago
Experienced Alteration and Cleaning Service done in our own shop by expert naval tailors. Call 4-0220 for pick-up and, delivery service..
MIDSHIPMEN: To save time, your order may be placed with one of our Campus representatives listed below:
FRANK ENGLISH	AL FINK	ED MONAHAN
304 Sorin Hall	X •	325 Sorin Hall '	1036 N. Notre.Dame
22
"RED” LONERGAN
will have a definite test of the strength of its long distance runners when we meet Indiana University tomorrow. In- ' diana’s teams always show some fine middle and long distance men.
Two Notre Dame records were broken
“RED” LONERGAN
IT'S ALL BUSINESS NOW
That’s what managers Waters and Dove have to say about the remaining workouts of the Bengal Bouters. Up until this time the training has been basically * calesthenics, with little or no combat work. The sessions from here on in, however, will be largely contact drills. Although the Army Air Corps took several of our more
promising men, such as Sammy Atwater, an old timer in the Bengals, there are many new and promising boxers coming out this year, men who we feel will make themselves known before that last round of the tourney is finished. One of these is the kid brother of the famed “Bull Dog” Turner, center for the Chicago Bears.
The ex-manager of the Bengal Bouters, “Nappie,” was the overnight guest of the present director, Mr. Scannell, and when he dropped in to see the boys work out he opined that the turnout this year was as great as in other years, an unusual condition, what with the present world turmoil. Next week the more promising boxers will be the guests of Joe Boland on his sports review over WSBT.
Any student who has a bright idea for an intermission program at the bouts would help us greatly if he were to drop over to the Scholastic office and leave - his suggestions. Last year we featured a pillow fight. Someone ought to be able to think up a better one than that this year.
"ROCK" RIOTS
That’s just about what they’re turning into.every night over in the “Rock” as the interhall spirit keeps on the upsurge. In the Heavies I section we find that \ Alumni and Cavanaugh are both lead-ingj-then in the second’division of the '{heavyweight class we have Alumni II' "and Walsh I leading the circuit. In the lighter bracket Breen-Phillips leads the first division and-the NROTC basketeers hold sway in the second division.... Director Bill Amann informs us that the games are' continuing their closeness and that this has done much to stimulate the interest of the competing teams....Merrill, -forward on the N.R.O.T.C.' heavies, pulled somewhat of the phenomenal when he scored.23 points against the St. Ed’s heavies... The two leading scorers in the first * division of the heavyweights are
Coleman of Cavanaugh, with 13, 14, and 19 points in his first three games, and Purcell of Alumni, with 12, 15, and 19 points in his three initial efforts. The top men in the second circuit of heavies are Platt of Alumni, who sports 12, 10, and 10 points in each of his games, and Lu-jack of Dillon who has scored. 12, 13, and 14 points in three games so far_In the lighter division we have the first circuit led by McAndrews of Cavanaugh with 11 and 12 points, and E. Kelly of Sorin, who boasts of 10 and 12 point games. In league II Garvin of Zahm leads with 10 and 12 points a game, followed by Duffy of Sorin, who has made 10 and 11 in his two contests.
LOOSE SPLINTERS
Among the 150 odd men who received their notices to report for the Army Air Corps last week were Dippy Evans and Pete Ashbaugh.... Larry Sullivan is now in training at Parris Island, South Carolina marine base .... Notre Dame
CampuA QetdenaAM PuJdica/tiwA ii i mi iniiiiiiiii i ut mitt ii iiiitiut'tiiuit mint tint
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS	$4.00
COLLECTED POEMS	$2.50
of	. ' \
Charles L. O'Donnell
iniiiiiamaHtmtinmiammiHiittiaminiMiniiiitHiiaiiiaitiiniiiitiaittiiiitiiiiaiiiiatiiiaiitifiiaiiiiiiiiaiiiaaiiiiaiiaaaiiaaiaaaiiiaaiiiiaaaaaiaanaaaaifa x '■	.	*-	' *	•	*
... at the
when the Fighting Irish tangled with New York U’s Violets, as it was the largest number of points ever garnished by a Notre Dame court team against any major opponent. The second record to fall was the result of Bob Rensberger’s 20 points which set an all time high for any Notre Dame guard to score. At the rate Bob is going at present his scoring record will be the envy of many future forwards. ... With Ray Kuka, a regular guard, called up to service with the Army Air Corps, we will have the first sophomore playing steady first string ball in Bill Davis.__The first serious injury to befall a Notre Dame basketball player in many years occurred last week when Patrick Smid, a freshman from Chicago, received a broken leg when he crashed into the heavily padded uprights supporting one of the baskets. It occurred during one of the freshman ihtra-squad games.
Patronize Our Advertisers
NAVAL UNIR
Individually Hand 7i to Individual Measures yy
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient service that literally reaches from shore to shore . . . an advantage of great value to men on the move. For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville . . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, courteous, efficient personnel to serve you.
IN
YOl labe ever and iden
SEC Man han< is e-
poc RES just the the faeii
NAVAL OFFICER’S BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL OFFICER'S KHAKI WORKING UNIFORM
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval officers the standard of quality, design and tailoring that will give complete satisfaction. All Simpson uniforms are skillfully designed for best appearance and durability and are sturdily constructed for more days of wear.
> CHC I top 5 with
NAVAL OFFICER'S WHITE SERVICE UNIFORM
NAVAL AVIATION OFFICER'S WINTER WORKING
half belt
NAVAL OFFICER'S a OVERCOAT
SI MI
IN SOUTH BEND - 2C 5
or our Campus location in the “Zero Deck rf ]
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., WA
BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS d WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HOU
:ec Y, OI
24
ORMS of Character
id
ut and Tailored
es
ry J. B. Simpson, Inc.
MANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED iN J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
YOUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram label bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse, every Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date and number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, quick and positive identification can always be made.
BODKIN BUTTONS with the attached slide that can’t be lost and which are so easy to remove are a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy removal when garments are to be cleaned and pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
SECRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND: Many officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty handy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) ; is easily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIPPER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL TROUSERS: We have set aside a large supply of metal grippers and Talon zipper fasteners to use on military uniforms. (At present, it seems we will be restricted in our use of these items for civilian purposes.)
POCKET OPENING IN FACING OF COAT FOR QUICK REMOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in just a minute's time through the little pocket opening in the facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is the case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the facing open.
> CHOICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quarter
I top or half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed ^within regulations, are followed on all personal details.
IPSON, Inc.
/] 7>///. OKS
MAIL COUPON TODAY-
2C 5 NORTH MAIN STREET
mmuKimuaMS ■
with price list and actual samples of . uniform materials.	I
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 205 N. Main St.. South Bend. Ind. .
Gentlemen:	I
Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of materials.
eck
the Dining Hall — opposite your Naval Store
WA kS c lot
:EGAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK, Y, CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT. ON, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
Name_____________________________________
25
THE EARS HAVE IT
By VAIL V/. PISCHKE
WSBT’s latest addition to its an
nouncing staff is a Notre Dame student,
Bill Johnson, who lives off-campus. An
VA1L W. FISCH KE
other piece of deliriously delightful news comes from South Bend’s live spot in radio: Tommy Dee, recently released from the Army, will return to his old post of saying between the CBS shows, “WS-BT, the South Bend Tribune Station.” Four other N. D. radioites had audi
tions for the announcer’s spot which Johnson spotted, Joe Flynn, Warren Dana, Jim Murphy, and Bill Richardson— all were typed as potential professional radio gabsters after successfully auditioning plenty tough scripts.... Joe still wants to know how to pronounce, “Tsaritsyn.”
Corniest $64 Question: Dope: “Can you name a piece of period furniture?” 2nd Dope: “Sure, an electric chair—because it always ends a sentence!”
If there’s any doubt about Charlie McCarthy’s patriotism, after all his camp barnstorming and all the uniforms he wears, he’s now begging his public to drink less coffee.... This after more than five years of pleading the other way, so that Chase and Sanborn, the sponsor’s of his NBC. Sunday evening program, might pay Edgar Bergen regularly, so that ' Bergen might pay him his 75 cents a week. Charlie’s about-face is at the direct request of the Office of War Information. His debut as a coffee temperance lecturer coincided with the first day of national coffee rationing.
Martin Block, radio’s number one salesman and announcer on the Lucky Strike Hit Parade is in the $200,000-a-year-income bracket. Artie Shaw is being called the John Philip Sousa of this war ____Phil Spitalny’s cushion for his movie at Universal is said to have set a new high for bands in the movies.... Benny Goodman jumps from high to low music . in jig time—in one week recently he was clarinet soloist for Arturo Toscanini’s NBC Symphony program; starred in Spotlight Bands—then played Mozart’s “Quintet in A” with the Perolle String Quartet of New York... . Rumor has it that Peter Van Steeden has enlarged his orchestra for Duffy’s. Tavern, one of the better radio shows. .	;
Radio’s biggest, big-time band leaders are desperate for musicians—four bandleaders are advertising for 4-F musicians. Gene Krupa headed for the West Coast’s Palladium in Los Angeles with 16 well-rehearsed men, but he got there with only two of his original band left... ' James, T. Dorsey, and Savitt have lost 50% of their personnel.__Chico Marx is using a 16 year old arranger; Bobby Sherwood’s band averages 19 years of age, and seven in Jerry Wald’s band are under 18—1943’s gonna be plenty tough on radio men like Dave Rose, Van Steeden, and Andre Kostelanetz.
Prize Boner of the Week: Announcer: “Minit Rub is as good for you and your children as it is for,” or: Mary Living- . stone: “What are you going to give him —a Wilson with handkerchief on it?”
Local Locale: Youthful, impetuous oratory reached its zenith last Wednesday night when Bob Martina, campus radio engineer, gave the Radio Club a papei' on FM (Frequency Modulation). . . . darned nice job, too. Campus radio adds a new show to its WSBT schedule when
next Thursday marks the introduction of a 13-show series on Notre Dame authors ____Joe Flynn is scheduled to do the m.c.-ing. Many campusites enjoyed listening to Father Hubbard, who lectured here two weeks ago, last Sunday on “We The People” at 6:30 p.m. (CBS).
Law Club Smoker Hears
McCurrie Discuss Crime
Putting into effect the plans of a previous meeting, the Law Club held its first “smoker” of the semester a week ago last Wednesday, Feb. 17. The informal gathering took place in the Bronzewood Room of the LaSalle Hotel, and was under the co-chairmenship of Janies . McVay, Bradford, Pa., and Mike Stepo-rich, Fairbanks, Alaska.
The “smoker” opened with a regular meeting of the Law Club, over which the vice-president, -Warren Deahl, presided. After brief reports from the officers of the club, the date of March 5	.
was formally set fox- the holding of the Law Ball. Plans were also made for future “smokers” on March 17 and April 7- A resounding applause greeted Prexy Deahl’s tribute to four law students, Richard Brydges, Jerome Gold, John Hackett, and John Tallett, who recently left for.the armed services. Aftei- hastily closing the business portion, the meeting was turned over to McVay who presented ‘ . Dean Clarence Manion.	..
Climaxing the evening of entertainment, Mr. Manion introduced Mr. Frank McCuri’ie, assistant state’s attorney, from Chicago, Ill. Mr. McCurrie is also a
former member of he Notre Dame Law School. He told club members of his numerous experiences with crime waves and famous trials in Chicago. The prosecutor explained how the stolen car racket was broken, and the many methods that the state has for solring crimes. Flooded with questions from law students, Mr. McCurrie was detained until he almost missed his train to Chicago.
—Richard Keoughan
Fort Wayne Region Will
Hold N.F.C.C.S. Meet Here
Fort Wayne region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students will hold its annual convention on the St. Mary’s and Notre Dame campuses March 13 and 14. Representatives from more than ten colleges are expected to be present for the two day parley, including Nazareth, Aquinas, St. Joseph’s, Mundelein, Rosary, Loyola, and St. Xavier.
Notre Dome
HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO
:	PIPES
Glowe* Correctly Fitted
1900
......J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 128 3. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
26
IIO-Mtk main SOUTH HEHO, IMOIAH*
Bruggner's in the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
Maim G/nd ^z^eAMrn
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

Bruggner's News Corner for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S. OYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
628-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building
L. E. Fisher, MJ).	M. J. Thornton. M®.
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss
The athleac world may soon forget Coach Keogan’s contribution to basketball but there are far deeper things that will everlastingly survive. The men he molded, the life he lived, the friends he made, will be a perpetual memorial to his greatness.
Badgers Foil Irish;
Purdue Closing Foe
Jim Gillis
Notre Dame’s fencing team went down to defeat at the hands of a strong University of Wisconsin aggregation last Saturday afternoon, 19-8.
The Irish never had a chance. Led by the sparkling swordplay of Al Fidler, the Badgers took eight out of nine bouts in foil, and from there, on in there was little doubt as to which team would win. By topping Notre Dame in epee, 7-2, the match was cinched before the beginning of the sabre bout, which the Irish won, 5-4.
Coach A. B. Masley’s men were just too fast for the inexperienced Blue and Gold. Fidler and Waisbren of Wisconsin both came but on top in all their bouts in foil, while Gonzalez garnered the only Irish victory in that weapon. Other undefeated Badgers were Couture, in the epee and Tom Gaines in the sabre. The only Notre Dame fencers to win more than they lost were Dave Roney and Gonzalez, both men taking two out of three in sabre.
Little "‘Bitsy” Repilado.gave Irish partisans their only moment of joy just-after he touched his opponent in epee by shouting his victory yell, “T.A.,” in a . -piping .voice.	.
i k Notre Dame coach, Walter Langford, commenting on the debacle said, “Wisconsin is the first team we’ve met. this year that is anywhere near its season’s strength.”
The Irish fencers may be out for the last time this season when they meet the Purdue Boilermakers tomorrow in the fieldhouse. The only remaining team on Notre Dame’s schedule, Marquette, .. has been forced to cancel both of their ensuing contests with the Irish because ; of transportation difficulties.	? :
The Purdue match should be somewhat . : < closer than the Wisconsin fracas, since the Boilermakers were walloped .badly - ,2 by Notre Dame before December commencement and the army so sadly depleted the squad.	.
The simpler the tribute the more indelibly is it impressed on the mind: Possibly the simplest, yet most effective, tribute that we will long remember was the grand gesture offered to the memory of George Keogan in the Chicago Stadium last Saturday evening..
Following a brief warm-up period the gold-clad Irish took
their places on the bench and the blue of Great Lakes settled as Lt. Bob Elson, former WGN sportscaster, narrated a short resume of the coaching career of Coach Keogan. Suddenly the lights of the stadium were blacked out. Through the hollow darkness, slow but gripping’ in tempo, softly seeped the Victory March. A long- arm of light swooped toward the Notre Dame bench —- past Scrap Young, Ed Krause, Brennan, Curran, Vinciguerra and on—finally coming to rest on the vacant end of the board. The slot where George Keogan would have nervously squirmed had be been there. But as the strip of light narrowed past the drooped heads of the Irish basketball players there was transcribed to every person in the audience a reverent ■ and. unforgettable memory.
And so—the last of the Great Triumvirate of Notre Dame coaching is no more. Actively encouraging his boys to the last, George Keogan left the.court of life last week in the shroud ofi-his^" greatest basketball season.
Keogan was peer to no one in his coaching branch, on or off court. He dili- . gently embodied within each of his pupils . the strongest axioms of sportsmanship and fair play. He fed his boys, undernourished in cage principles, the severest and sourest doses bf hard work. But not once did a dislike .curtain the heart of an Irish basketeer for they realized that their coach’s philosophy floored winning and respected teams. The same stinging hatred of defeat that characterized Rock enveloped Coach Keogan.
Like Rockne, who gave the grid world the Notre Dame system, and John Nicholson, who perfected a now extensively used starting block, George Keogan produced an essential weapon for the mechanics of. the sport, the shifting man-to-man defense.
At	(2g,
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913
NAVY OFFICERS
now you can outfit yourself on your $250 allotment without sacrificing quality
THANK THE U. S. NAVY FOR THAT
The U. S. Navy didn’t cut down the quality of these uniforms to fit your $250 — not for one minute. They went to America’s best woolen mills for the fabric — to America’s best clothes makers for tailoring skill. Quality couldn’t come too fine for the U. S. Navy — and these officers’ uniforms show it — in everything but the price — and you don’t wear that.
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Sponsored Uniforms
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM_$40 — OVERCOAT._$50 OVERCOAT-RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL
LINING._$37.50 — DRESS CAP___$10.50

STORE IS OPEN
Saturday ’til 9 p. m. All Day Sunday
ft it	dETit/
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
28
Ai Mo/x Adleb Co-.	.	—
South Bend's Quality Store since 1913	•	:	: ; *
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly Tailored and Styled to your Individual Measurements
Regulation Fabrics . . .
ELASTIQUE — WIDE WHALE SERGE WHIPCORD — GABARDINE
TROPICAL WORSTEDS KHAKIS —WHITES
TERMS TO SUIT YOUR CONVENIENCE
No Interest or Carrying Charge
We guarantee satisfaction and assure you of prompt delivery. If you are not commissioned, your contract with us is cancelled and you are under no obligation to take officer’s uniform equipment.
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER’S CAP
Complete with 3 Covers
$18.50
Premier Quality
Saturday 'til 9 p. m.
V/X	All Day Sunday

MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtown bus terminal.
29
Strictly Instrumental
Frank King
Another two weeks have passed and South Bend, in the midst of the musical doldrums that started after Stan Kenton
pulled up stakes, is set for another two. The only band (?) to strike the town lately is Lawrence Welk. We don’t even recognize Ace Brigode. The difference being that Welk does not know how to play good it isn’t his fault for
playing the stuff he does. However, Brigode has, in the past, shown that he has a dormant ability to play good swing. Yet, in spite of this he persists in playing, “When the Lights Go on Again All Over the World.”
Lawrence Welk, his squeeze-box, and his orchestra (to give him the benefit of any doubt that might exist in you) appeared at the Palace Theatre and for the benefit of the 12 ushers, one candy girl, two stage hands, and the five fellows in the pit band, plus the 27 people (15 on passes) provided splendid fare. Well, splendid means, “shining,” like phosphorous. As it was so well put once in my Bible, Downbeat, “Someone ought to put Lawrence Welk in his accordian and squeeze it.”
I said, above, that South Bend is prepared for another two weeks in the musical cellar. If you don’t believe me look at the sign in front of that certain theatre downtown which broadcasts the fact that “Tiny Hill” is coming to South Bend. Too bad he doesn’t keep heading wherever he is going and forget about coming. How in the name of all that is proper can that man think that he is a musician ___he should be in the farmers union for all the corn that he husks... he’s giving Lombardo and the Korn Kobblers and Spike Jones a lot of competition for that King of Corn. “I’ll Keep on Loving You .... Rick-Tick!”
However, all is not gloom.... We hate to scoop the South Bend Tribune and the publicity office of the local band-boxes, but here it is. The number one band and the number one trumpet player (so there Jekyll!) Harry James, or need I mention his name, is coming to South Bend, for two days! We don’t know where or when but that is it__you watch and see.
Jerry Wald, we told you so, is, at this writing, engaged at the Oriental Theatre in Chicago where he is billed as “Amer
ica’s Number One Hep-Cat,” after making quite a name for himself and for Maria Kramer of the Hotel Kramers.
The Notre Dame Cavaliers, under the direction of Bill Binet, ace trumpet man, have completely revamped, and in spite of the big exodus caused by the Air Corps, which pulled out a tenor man and a trumpet man, will have just as good a band, if not better, than the one that Veet Capello (now in the Army) had last year. He still needs a bass man, tenoi’ man, and trumpet man, but the fine nucleus that he has insures a fine band.
"GOOD SHOW!
WE LET THEM HAVE IT”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
That actually happened. And things like that are happening everyday. Ever notice in your newspaper how often Coke is mentioned? Boys write home about it, too. They like the taste that sets Coca-Cola apart. They welcome that feel of refreshment. Coca-Cola must remind them of home a lot. It reminds you to refresh yourself.”	.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
THE R*n®ER fr«w v
COCA-COLA ?
FOR VICTORY! BUY WAR SAVINGS STAMPS AND BONDS
I was prepared to throw the “works” at Dave Condon for his slam at me two weeks ago in his little article on Jack Woelfle, but as a great Irish thinker once said, “I will not do this for the reason that half the people who received the Scholastic didn’t read it; half the people who read it didn’t see Condon’s article, half the people who saw the article didn’t read it; half the people who read , it didn’t understand it, and half the people who understood it didn’t pay any attention to it. So, to that one chap, I say, don’t believe a word of it.”
"NO, THANKS. HAVEN'T YOU GOT
A
30
"It ain't so much the hours — it's the
WOIK . . "
You said it, Butch — driving to Chicago is just plain woik. That's why so many people prefer to ride the South Shore Line. It's the carefree, sensible way to go. No traffic congestion. No driving jitters. And when you get there, no parking problems.
Next time you go to Chicago, ride the South Shore and relax!
For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan Street. Phone 3-31 11;
NAVY MEN!
Ask about special furlough rates
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL, VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . . TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $1.00.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
MUSIC
J. C. R.
One day last week, the realization suddenly came that Frank Sinatra is still singing. Of course, he has been heard
J. C. It. CLARK
from time to time during the past several years, but somehow it seemed that just another singer was on the air.
When Frank Sinatra left Tommy Dorsey some time ago, many thought that the sen
timental gentleman of swing was on his
last lap in popularity and in quality of his music. Dorsey did drop back a few paces for quite a long time in both, but the last few months, he has made a rather welcome comeback. Frank Sin
atra, on the other hand, lost popularity after breaking with Dorsey, and further, lost that Sinatra perfection, to our way of thinking.
Sinatra still sings with various orchestras from time to time, currently once a week with Walter Gros and with the Lucky Strike Hit Parade band. Walter Gros has a fine orchestra and should be more popular, although popularity does not necessarily decide whether he is good. Walter’s theme is one of the finest, his arrangements are steady and consistently good. But these arrangements don’t seem suited to Sinatra’s voice. Either that or he is just lost.
A trend is beginning: in Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx there have been for the past month several innovations in music. A number of performances have already been given of what is called “pop-
Spenalizing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
ular-priced opera.” Just what constitutes a popular price is hard to tell. But the performances that have been given have proven quite successful, and there is certainly no lack of sincerity and workmanship in them.
This trend is quite a good thing in itself, and it should serve not only those who can’t afford the “Met” an opportunity to enjoy the music they love but also as a school for young singers aspiring to grand opera. Deems Taylor has long crooned about the lack of American singers and the difficulty of the few getting training and experience before they take over the leads at the Metropolitan. Now maybe his dreams will come true in this form. If only South Bend would go in for such things.
Notre Dame Curtails
Aged Freshman Ban
The Big Ten, and that means Notre Dame, has inducted a new ruling permitting freshmen to participate in varsity sports. The defiant frosh ban that had encircled most colleges for many years was loosened Monday.
Some of the smaller universities of the nation employed frosh in their playing schedule of athletics last fall but, ■ for the most part, the larger institutions have shunned such an action until draft pressure made its use necessary.
Whether Notre Dame will profit by a ruling is doubtful. Currently, track and baseball will be the only sports favored by this ordinance.
Coach Al Handy has several competent cinder men on the first year list and Jake Kline, whose baseball squad was severely bitten by war work, will have a large field from which to select a nine.
An uncertainty for fall athletics gloomily barges over the nation. Football may have its chances for continuation in the fall enhanced by this new regulation.
They'll be even better than this in the annual Bengal Bouts. March 16. 17. 19.
31
WRITE LETTERS
Cop’-righ: 1943, Liggett & M\e?$ Toa*.cco Co
and
together to put that may save a life or jditfon with the men
-''moanies, their posts of
who me^°9eS.
u \s
from
comP
chy-
a
women ^f the
linemen to opera' ifter what happ
the telephone
itors*
ens<
ho*
bno*
n° ce wh° °s
AOO.
CA*4 0
° \dePh°ne to


OOO 1


that cneon-
YOU CAN DEPEND ON CHESTERFIELD’S
Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos to give you a Milder Better Taste
MEore and more smokers are swinging along with Chesterfield because they know they can always depend on this MILDER, BETTER-TASTING cigarette to give them more smoking pleasure.
Because it is made of the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos, Chesterfield is known the world over as the cigarette that SATISFIES. You can’t buy a better cigarette.
THE CIGARETTE THAT GIVES
SMOKERS WHAT THEY WANT