— Che
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•Dif<eovAsi-ssrnp€R-victvrvs- -vive-qvasi-cras-imoritvrus-
Vol. XLVI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, January iS, 1913.	No. 15.
1
The Sanctuary Lamp.
S. TWYMAN MATTINGLY, ’l6.
^OME where I live, then kneel and pray.
Here do I dwell both night and day, Giving my life, a tireless flame, To praise the Master’s holy Name. Poor sinners in my glow repent, • Using the grace from Heaven sent; Again, with souls refreshed and bright, They see the altar’s swinging light Amidst a cloud of incensed air—
And know the living God is there.
A Modern Poet-Dramatist.
MORRISON A. CONWAY, ’14.
of those that has and read
HERE are few have produced k' but still fewer have given us
generations a poet of are those
that note that
a dramatic-poet.
The present age has been singled out and made the possessor of one
rare beings,—a caused us to go over again with
Homer and our Dante;
dramatic-poet,—one back to our classics renewed interest our one with the music
of Tennyson and the rhythmical beauty of Shelley; one heralded as the savior of poetry to the modern drama. To be received with
enthusiasm by the English speaking people— the same that showed but a casual interest in the ambitious efforts of Maeterlinck, Hauptmann, and Ibsen,—is in itself a grand tribute to the works of Stephen Phillips.
Born in 1S68, Stephen Phillips claimed descent from the Wordsworths on his mother’s
‘ side. As a boy he showed a marked dislike for all compositions in verse. But a change,
he tells us himself, came at the age of fifteen. While he was ill, his mother read “ Christabel ” to him, and it had an extraordinary influence on him. He gave up his course at Cambridge at the end of the first term, in order to join a troop of Shakespearean actors. For a number of years he remained with this company, and though he did not gain much of a reputation as an actor, nevertheless, he became familiar with the “fingering” behind the scenes,— a knowledge that was invaluable to him in later years. In 188S he published a pamphlet of verse, “Primavera,” which, however, gave no signs of the undeveloped genius that was soon to startle England and the world. For some years following, he gave himself up to the study of blank verse, going to the ancients and analyzing their work with extreme care. The surprise
„ came in 1896 when “Christ in Hades” made ' its first appearance. It immediately gave promise of a bright future for the author,—a promise renewed a year later when he published a volume of poems, and finally realized in 1899 with the production of that wonderful tragedy, “Paolo and Francesca.” Following this came other poetic dramas, “Herod,” “Ulysses,” “The Sin of David,” and “Marpessa.” Concerning Phillips’ rapid strides to fame,' Richard le Gallienne has said: “ The almost miraculous metamorphosis of Keats from a doggerel writer in ladies’ albums, to the supreme poet of beauty, is hardly more striking than the sudden leap into maturity made by Mr. Phillips in two years.”
In seeking to restore to the stage the poetry of the Elizabethan age, Mr. Phillips undertook a huge task. How many poets of the nineteenth century had attempted this work, and with what poor success. Did not Shelley, Coleridge, Wordsworth,' Scott, Tennyson, and Browning each write one or more plays? They -have all disappeared from the stage and are
226	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
seldom even read today. Yet in the face . of this discouraging situation, Phillips conies to the front with such poetic dramas as “ Mar-pessa, ” “ Herod, ” and “ Paolo and Francesca ”— plays that have earned the right to live.
I have said that Stephen Phillips is a poetdramatist. To give some idea of his poetry, I will quote a few passages from the above mentioned plays. In “Marpessa,” Idas tells his love to Marpessa in these words:
Not for this only do I love thee, but '	‘
Because infinity upon thee broods;
And thou art full of whispers and of shadows. Thou meanest what the sea has striven to say So long, and yearned up the cliffs to tell. '
In the last act of “Herod,” where the old king is planning to build a wonderful temple, with a “dome of beaten gold” he muses:
And I will think in gold and dream in silver, Imagine in marble, and in bronze conceive.
Another exquisite passage from “Ulysses,” runs as follows: The wanderer is telling of his home—
This isle	•
Set in the glassy ocean’s azure swoon, With sward of parsley and of violet, .. And poplars shivering in a silvery dream, And swell of cedar lawn, and sandal wood, ’ And these low-crying birds that haunt the deep.
The plays from which I have taken these beautiful lines, almost at random, are all excellent poetic dramas,—all noble works of dramatic imagination. There remains one, however, second to none written in recent years, to which we apply . absolute superlatives. “Paolo and Francesca” is a story of a great, a beating passion, a love resistless and eternal, in which “two souls together flash, and now they are as one flame. ” Giovanni, tyrant of Rimini, has taken Francesca, the beautiful daughter of an ally, as a bride in a purely political marriage. Giovanni’s younger brother, Paolo, and Francesca fall in love with each other—“unwillingly he comes a wooing; she unwillingly is wooed. ” Giovanni finally suspects, and returning suddenly as' from a war, finds the lovers together, and in his wrath, slaysboth..	\	.
From this indisputable masterpiecej where passages of rare beauty and transparent color abound, the closing of the last act will give one an idea of the delicate perception of the poet. The bodies:of Paolo and Francesca, the “innocent-guilty” lovers, are borne - in reverently-
upon a litter. Giovanni is moved, and bending, over the litter he says:	/ -
Not easily have we three come to this—we three Who are now dead. Unwillingly
They loved, unwillingly I slew them. Now I kiss them on the forehead quietly.
They look like children fast asleep!
So much for the poetry in Stephen Phillips’ dramas. Even though his plays do not survive as dramas, they will be remembered for their . poetjy.
The power of fate and a strong atmosphere . j. of predestination pervades nearly all of Mr. . Phillips’ works. Blind Angela, in “Paolo and Francesca,'” foretells the coming of evil to n Giovanni. Again in “Herod,” the astrologer . anticipates the death of Mariamme in these. lines.	z
,Herod shall famous be o’er all the world,
But he shall kill that thing which best he loves. r
It is predicted, also, in “Nero” that “Nero . , shall reign but he shall kill his mother.”
- Those dramas of Mr. Phillips, -which have been staged with such success, leave no doubt y as to his mastery of technique. His early training as an actor brought him in close touch with the properties of stage-land. To supplement.	<
this, he possessed that bold imagination so . essential to one who would draw a strong scene or create a character. He has handled a great variety of subjects with striking versatility, and is uncommonly free from conventionalities.’
Like other poets, however, Phillips is not . without his faults. It is noticeable in some . . of his works that great sacrifices have been .made for the sake of poetic effect.. In fact he has been censured for giving to minor characters, . speeches that are too eloquent; but it may be ' said in extenuation, that no less a person . than Shakespeare assigns to servants lines of . high poetic beauty. •	. *•
In his later .works, Stephen Phillips did not exceed the standard set in his “Marpessa” and “Paolo and Francesca.” It is regrettable to note that his late productions have subtracted somewhat from the reputation gained by his youthful efforts.’ Not because the element of poetry is lacking, but rather, because it is not of the dramatic order. “Nero,” for instance, has an abundance of good poetry in it, but the play is wanting in real characters.. Agrippina seems to be the only one that possesses any action.	J
, And yet Stephen, Phillips., will live for his -earlier, works. Had he laid aside the pen with |
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
227
J
t f
the completion of “Paolo and Francesca” his name would still rank with the great dramatic poets of the past.
Finally, when we refer to Stephen Phillips, we will remember him as a poet-dramatist, a master of blank verse, and the author of “Marpessa, ” “Herod,” and “Paolo'and Francesca.” It has been truly said about him, “There is always the miracle of youth to comfort us; and there is the miracle of Stephen Phillips’ youth, when from his pen came lines as classic in their beauty and as glowing in their fire as any Tennyson wrought with patient care or Shelley flung upon the page in his days of flaming dreams. ”	•
Sign Language.
■ YOU 'gatta cinch, Ay tai you now, You guys from these Unites, For spik the Eenglish language how .	Yau undrastand heem rights.
Us fellows, so much time we lost 9
• For read behind the lines! ' ' But what the most ees trouble cost ..	... Ees read those Eenglish signs.
Ay gon’ to down-town yestraday,
‘ ' For tekin’ street-car ride, ■ •	. An’ jus’ for spend the time away,
•	Ay read those signs eenside.
Been many signs as hurt me not, But one may blood ees freeze: “Do not from off' thees street car gat While een emotion, please.”
Ay want gat off that car some way, An’ so Ay ask the man	■
That reeng the bell, af he will say Just’ how Ay please might can.
That man ees look me. een the face Between her eyes, an’ geeve
Me thees advice: “Een thees here place, Don’ must een signs bfileeve.”
Las’ month so manny class Ay missed, . So on a sign Ay see,
As say on top, “Delinquent List,” ■	Ees Joe Gonzalez, Me.
The Prefec’ say to me then, “Joe, ‘.Two hundred ninety-nine ■ Demerits deed you gat; you know .	. Of what ees that a sign?”
Ay geeve' a horse’s laugh, an’ say, - “For what you theenk Ay care
For signs,—seence yestraday
• Thees. keed you don’ can scare.” Ay .been, een Brownson now, today, For air the skive Ay mek;—
“ . You bat' Ay mind, them sign as say:
• “The rearway.-stairs1mu s’ tek. ”
“El Caballo de Oro.”
JAMES V. ROBINS, ’ij.
. He had struggled forward with the rest of the remuda as long as he could; but his strength had at last failed him, and he was left behind in a cloud of white dust. He was motherless, and hungry. His nostrils were irritated by the sting of the alkaline dust, and in vain he rubbed his nose against his foreleg. ' Time after time he gave way to exhaustion and lay down under the sparse protection of a mesquite. But each time the bloodcurdling yelp of. a coyote would sound through the still night and drive him to his feet, trembling with terror and fatigue. All night long he continued in this manner, alternately resting and fleeing. Morning found him in a little draw just below the 02 Ranch. .
Eunice Blaine, in the act of filling a water pitcher from the olla which hung from a limb. of a scrub oak, was startled by a warm, velvety touch on her hand. Turning suddenly she confronted a very small and very awkward “dogie” colt. He was a bright sorrel, but at the first instant appeared grey on account of a thick coating of dust on his drawn flanks.	-	• .	,
“Oh, .you poor little darling,” she?.,said, putting her arms around his neck. Never in his short life had the little colt met with such sympathy, but he stood there without resistance, yielding to her impulsive caresses. That first meeting with the warm-hearted, eastern girl. was indeed a fortunate one for him, for through her demands he was received by..the ranch foreman and driven into the corral. .No longer an outcast, he had now a home and a certain status, and—best of all—kind . friends. Even
- the hardened punchers .became possessed, of . a -regard for a “dogie” which was hitherto utterly lacking in them. Ordinarily , he would have appeared to them as an insignificant colt of . small consequence, but ardently championed by this blue-eyed beauty, he acquired a new importance. From the boss to the horse-wrangler, every one idolized the pretty. Easterner, and some measure of this regard; was transferred ^ to the “dogie” colt. -	.	; r
Two years had elapsed, when one morningL the stage reined up .in front of? the oa ranch.
228	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
• )
A blue-eyed girl, apparently no stranger, stepped to the ground. Almost her first inquiry related to the “dogie” colt, now a handsome “three-year old.”
The ranch boss, thus questioned, swept his gauntleted hand in a vague arc that took in most of the Black Range.
“Up there somewhere,”, he said quietly.
. “Flopped Martinez against the bunk house, bruised him up, and 'vamoosed.
He did not tell her, however, of the sickening scene incident to the sorrel’s departure, when Martinez, infuriated, stretched the horse senseless with a convenient two-by-four, and . kneeling on the beautiful head, slashed the tender jaws, leaving two long gaping wounds.
- With saddle and bridle removed, the horse , had stood sick and trembling in one corner of - the corral until, filled with pain and a mad desire to gain the far-off blue mountains, he ; broke through the high board fence and sped . swiftly up the canon. Reaching the pasture j fence he scaled it in a bound and was *	. gone.
*	For three years the 02 outfit heard of him
only by reputation. His fame as a notorious
:	outlaw was echoed throughout Sierra County.
\	With almost human ingenuity he evaded the
■	numerous traps set for him. Fleeter than
i	the fastest cow pony, warier than a mountain
}	lion, he evaded all contrivances designed to
•	make him again a slave of man. Often as the
e	sun set in scarlet splendor behind the mighty
J	ranges toward the west he would appear alone
; .	on some high point, bathed in its golden rays,
r	And from a distance he seemed indeed what
>	the Mexicans termed him “Fl Caballo de Oro,”
[	the Golden Horse. Every puncher,' from Chloride
i	to the Rio Grande, secretly desired to master
>	.	and flaunt as his own this magnificent sorrel.
Desires led to deeds. Even “El Caballo de Oro” was not infallible, for at last came the day when he fell into the cleverly drawn net of the boys of the “O-Pitchfork” outfit. It took Jim Hiler and six of his punchers three days to ride him down. On the afternoon of • the third day, when the. horse struggled down . to the creek, Jim; mounted on invincible “Old Jack” caught up with him and roped . him. Summoning his failing strength “El
Caballo de Oro” fought long and furiously, and succumbed only when another rope attached to^his feet had stretched him out. They did . not attempt to ride him that day or the next.
and when on the third day seven punchers vainly attempted the feat, he was declared to be the equal of the famous “Hell on Wheels.” Finding their skill of little avail against his extraordinary strength and cunning wiles, they decided to take him on the morrow to Juarez across the mountain where a big fair was in progress. There they would get their horse broken well, or at least they would have rare fun.
It was a great day in Juarez. Scores of tourists and Westerners treaded their way to “Cow Boy Park.” In the grandstand sat thousands of chattering, gesticulating, boisterous Mexicans, cow boys, and tourists. Enthusiasm had somewhat dwindled, however, because the famous outlaws who were to test the riding ability of the best riders in the Southwest had failed to come up to expectations. In the southern end of the grandstand a few disgusted	‘
“ O-Pitchfork ” punchers started the cry of “Bring on the Golden Plug.” Some Mexicans took it up, and speedily it was echoing throughout the whole grounds. In response to the .	’
insistent clamor there was led onto the field a 1 magnificent sorrel horse with a strip of blanket tied across his eyes. Golden he was indeed, for his resplendent coat reflected the rays of the sun like burnished copper. A man on a cream-colored horse loped up and stopped in front of the grandstand and called for volunteers.
A sudden silence' descended upon the throng. Many a cow boy stirred uneasily, ' but none could get up enough courage to go	v I
forth. There was a sudden stir as a short, ’	j
bow-legged Mexican, jumped to the ground.	I
Everyone recognized Martinez, the well-known rider. Those who knew him realized that his	!
braggadocio bearing was prompted by a mom-	j
ing’s dissipation; and, though his features	tyi
carried a grin, they did not conceal the pallor of a man who was half afraid. Again to the distended nostrils of “El Caballo de Oro” rj came the scent of his old enemy. As soon as	|
the Mexican was in the saddle the blindfold	■
-	-	\	-	-	J
was removed. For a -few minutes the horse VI ■	.	•	_	.	.	I
stood as ifa petrified. Then with a frenzied j bawl he leaped straight into the air and came j down.on two stiff forelegs. . .	<
From the Mexican border to the Colorado boundary, men have not yet ceased to talk ] of the fight of El; Caballo de Oro” and Mar-.	vU
tinez, the. Mexican. For never before nor since
SCHOLASTIC	229
Patience.	9
THE NOTRE DAN
has such animal fury or such human skill been witnessed. For eight minutes the horse bucked without avail. For the same period of time the Mexican rode as one possessed. Up and down the audience it was whispered that the horse had met his master. Then, as if with deliberate intent, the enraged beast turned and headed for the high board fence. His doomed rider must have had a premonition of what was about'to occur, for he tried to alter the course, but in vain. By some strange telepathy this knowledge must have been borne to the hundreds in the stand. The cheering changed into silence. There was not a sound as horse . and rider crashed into the fence. A hoarse bawl, a muffled curse, the sound of splintering wood, and the tragedy was oyer. They dragged Martinez forth, an unrecognizable mass of pulp. With silent awe they gazed at the other heap of quivering flesh. Pierced by innumerable splinters, his neck broken, and his shining flanks splashed with the Mexican’s blood, the horse had at last found the freedom he had sought. Never more would he know the feel of the saddle or the touch of the spur.
Reveries.
FRANK C. STANFORD, ’13.
|F only such an hour might keep ' Its tranquil evening splendor;
And nightingales would cease to weep, And Day would ne’er surrender!
If aspens in the breeze that bend On knolls above the river, .Defiance to the night might send, And not in darkness quiver!
That golden glintings never wane The yonder hill-tops blessing!
That light and shadow in the lane Might always be caressing! ’
That all the birds above that fly, Without apparent motion, Might ever hover in the sky, , Like ships becalmed at ocean.
So may my heart forever keep . The .memories that are dying, For soon in churchyard mold I’ll sleep Without her jncm’ries lying. .
JACOB R. GEIGER, ’14.	"
yHOUGH today be filled with sadness, Wild the winds, o’ercast the sky,
Morn will break with promised gladness,—.
. Heave no more thy restless sigh.
Transitory things are sorrows
Earthly joys will pass away;
All todays will be tomorrows,—
Yesterday was once today.
For the world goes on forever,
Heeding neither joy nor pain.
Time is flying, stopping never,— Use it!—’twill not come again.
Four Great Actors.
WALTER L. CLEMENTS, ’14.	.
What actors are so fitly called great as those ' who successfully devote their talents to pdr- . traying Shakespeare, the greatest dramatic ' writer the world has ever produced, who might .. well be called the father of the English language?, < It is the most noble of all artistic callings: .to .	.
interpret such an author to the crowd whose . .. theatrical tastes so readily sink to. the mire. i <
Foremost among the “Representative Men” who championed the classic drama at different periods are Garrick, who, along with Samuel . Johnson and other English immortals of his age, impressed Shakespeare’s importance upon i the world; Booth, that more worthy son of a worthy father who brought to America the palm v J that Forrest, Kean, and other Englishmen had; f borne before; Mansfield, who- seems to have come nearer being Booth’s successor than any ;
• one else; and finally Mantell,- whom William Winter has described as the foremost man on the American stage today.	. '	' :	.
David Garrick was’of Huguenot lineage. He J was bom at Hereford in 1716. His father.wras an officer in the British army, and was located at Gibraltar during most of Garrick’s boyhood. At nineteen Garrick entered Samuel Johnson’s J : T school at Edial, which, however, -was disbanded Y -in six months on account of the lack of pupils and funds. But no doubt much of Garrick’s ; subsequent success may be attributed to those ' , . six months under Dr. Johnson. The great
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
230
intellect of Johnson was responsible for the achievements of more than one of his contemporaries. Both the master and pupil left ■ their short-lived Alma Mater for London with • only four pence between them. Here, however, Garrick was taken in by friends, and a short time after he was bequeathed the sum of one ' thousand pounds by an uncle. With • this capital he and his brother entered into part-‘ nership as wine merchants. Fortunately for the theatrical world the company soon failed. About half of Garrick’s small fortune was lost. But how could one whose heart was on the stage be expected to prosper in selling wine?
=	Garrick started out as a dramatic critic and
also tried his hand as playwright. His first attempt at professional performance was at :	Goodmans Fields where he was. made sub-
stitute for a sick actor. He next appeared on the Provincial boards, playing as Aboan in :	“Oroonoka.” His success assured his career.
I,	October 19, 1741, he acted the leading part in
Richard III and won unstinted applause.
J:	In rapid succession he increased his fame in
>	“Lear,” “Pierre,” and other lighter roles.
:	Pope attended his first “run” three times,
f	and said of Garrick: “This young man never
[	had his equal as an actor, and he never will
I	have a rival.” He literally set London agog,
•	gaining the praise of litterateurs, statesmen,
J	and great men; and the patronage of nobility.
:	After a season’s performance in Ireland and
»	an engagement at Covent Garden, Garrick,
’	in conjunction with one, Lacy, purchased
|	Drury Lane theatre and under his own manage-
1	ment opened it with a strong company. John-
»	son wrote the prologue for the first night.
I	But the erratic old doctor did not always take
I	delight in his old pupil. Garrick had run
J	Johnson’s “Irene” for nine performances, but
I	not without trouble from both the public and
|	the author. Johnson complained when Garrick
I	was forced to strike out certain passages.
|	He said that Garrick wanted the characters to
I	act like lunatics for the sake of a few gestures.
|	' Garrick was fickle and sometimes light; at
I least, so thought Dr. Johnson. Goldsmith has I these lines on the great actor: .	. .
1	An actor on the stage, he was- simple, natural, affecting.
.’Twas only that when he was off, he was, acting. . He cast off his friends.like a huntsman his pack, . For he knew when he pleased he could whistle them
back,	'	’
Garrick was a successful - man, a peerless actor, and a good playwright. He lent his : talent and influence to the higher sort of enter-	'
tainment. Of all Shakespeare’s plays, his acting-was most happy in “Lear.” But his talents were not confined to heavy drama alone.	'
Garrick was equally good as a comedian. Goldsmith touches this point also with' his pen in “Retaliation.” -	-
Our Garrick is a salad for in him we see Oil, vinegar, and saltness agree.
Versatility was Garrick’s supreme character- ' istic. Not only was he able to assume all	, ■
varieties of roles, but with the utmost rapidity he could change his moods and passions while	*
on the stage.	.	'
After many years of public success, Garrick married and retired from the stage to enjoy repose, but his life’s work was ended; he soon	•
found repose in the grave in 1779.
A medal given to Bdwin Booth by the people ‘	’
of New York bears the inscription, “Ferat qui meruit palmam. ” Certainty Booth de-:	'
serves the thanks of all America, for “Hamlet, ”"	*
“Caesar,” and “Richelieu” were never- so" at home in this country as when Booth acted ■ them. His boyhood was a preparation for his career. Born on his father’s farm in Mary- ’ land, 1833, Booth grew up keeping company with his father as that strange genius went • from place to place acting “Richard III,” ■	4
for the elder Booth loved Edwin above all, and ' was influenced by this son more than any other when those strange fits of aberration to which he was subject were upon him. When the father and son were in New York to act at a little festival given in the elder’s honor, the father, just before time for his entrance, -refused to appear. The audience was ex-	;
pectant; Edwin urged his father to go on,	;
but the father replied: “Go and act the'part ■yourself. ” That night the audience were thrilled to see a mere stripling of a-boy handling like	r;
a master the difficult role of Richard III. ■	. j
A year or so later Booth; with his father and	|
brother, made a tour ,of the far West. The - -	• . a
venture proved. unsuccessful. The elder Booth	j
left his sons in the West and died on his way	I
home. Booth endured a few years of hard-	j
ship in the unsettled country during which —	|
time he made a trip to Australia. Then; he f returned East to win the applause of his country- . | men in the tragic roles for which-he seemed to •’ have been born. He married in ■ 18 61 and made ! ■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
(
; ’ a tour of England. But this country was not greatly appreciative , of him. After a season * in the old country, Booth returned to fulfil an engagement at the Winter Garden, with which he was connected during the remainder ' of his career. When this theatre was burnt, Booth had one constructed on the same spot and named it after himself. He spared no *' expense to make it beautiful as well as substantial. But Booth was better as an actor than as a manager. He was never successful ' as far as the ticket office was concerned. He was essentially a dreamer. The reality of his life had something in common with those ‘ theories of tragedy he so ably represented; something in common with Hamlet; yes, something in common with Macbeth. The 1 wife he so fondly loved died three years after ' their marriage, leaving him desolate though not stricken. We all know of the mad act - of John Wilkes Booth, Edwin Booth's brother.
The dastardly crime committed by his brother in the murder of President Lincoln so wounded * the actor’s pride of family and filled him with ■ such sorrow and regret that he retired from the stage intending never to return. But he J	yielded finally to the demand of the people
S	and his own restlessness, and returned after
f a time. Booth’s acting was essentially ideal-K istic, as contrasted with the realism of Garrick. | Booth was stately and heroic in his lines, i while Garrick gave them the. swing of common &
|	conversation. Garrick was at x his greatest
j	when portraying Lear. None have ever equalled
j Booth as Hamlet. He made Hamlet a poetic t ideal. When Booth acted this role, one saw I not the “stout and thick of breath” Dane ! but the ideal. Booth was decidedly aesthetic, i and had nothing in common with the gross material age which has been a bane to our - stage as well as to everything else ennobling.
After a great career, Edwin Booth died in 1893 at “The Players” club which he had founded, and was buried beside his first wife. [ About the time of Booth's death, Richard Mansfield was just gaining prominence as an actor of heavy parts on the stage. A little j later he became known as the greatest exi ponent of Shakespeare..	•
i Mansfield’s mother was Madam Ruddersdorf, | one of the most .famous prima donnas of her . time. His father,. an Englishman, died when Mansfield was only three years old. His mother had to travel, tojlulffi her engagements, and
231
so he was left to the care of servants and tutors. He lived in France, Germany, Italy and England, and in those countries became proficient in the several languages deemed essential to education. About the? time he was entering his teens his mother moved to Boston, and at her home the lad met the most distinguished men of the country. When he became a little, older he worked as a clerk, but soon grew tired of this and went to England to win fame and fortune. Every man ; that nature fits for . great things has to be disciplined in the school of failure and suffer much before he is permitted to gain the mountain-top of greatness. It was' in London that Mansfield underwent his probation. His mother gave him an allowance of one hundred pounds per month. This was not enough for the dashing youngster, and so, in order to increase his income, he began to give private recitals. His mother heard of.' this and cut off his entire allowance. Then came the period of soleless shoes, attic-rooms, and breakfasts on one hot potato.
Mansfield’s first step up was made when he secured a part in “Pinafore.” Then he came, to America and after acting several comic parts was finally starred as a Shakespearean . actor. He died in 1907, after a full measure of success, lamented by the literary and dramatio world.
Little need be said about Robert Mantell, for he still treads the boards, and parades his merit before the judgment of all. Then, too, there are besides him several claimants for the honor of first Shakespearean actor, such as Forbes Robertson and Southern. Mantell is excellent in Lear, Macbeth, and King John, though disappointing in Hamlet and Othello. Stormy and bloodcurdling scenes seem to be Mantell’s own native element.
Early in his career he was leading man to one or two female stars', but never gained much reputation until he acted the part of Ipanoff in Sardou’s melodrama, “Fedora.” In the second act Ipanoff enters and relates a murder. \ Mantell did this with such dramatic force, such power of terrible' and repressed passion, and he so swayed his audience by his dramatic .. emotion that the incident has become-historic in the annals of stage-land. By this bit of success, Mantell’s reputation was assured, and since then he has been the bright star of his: own company which has played, to full houses in all parts of the country.
2 32	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Varsity Verse.
For Better or for AVorse. AVhcn summer came the flies began to bite, Dust filled my nostrils and put out my sight, The earth grew parched, the green grass faded brown, The weather-man and tree-toad promised rain, But each was Ananias o’er again,—
A seven-times heated oven scorched the town. “Plagues of old Egypt!” wrathfully I cried, “Take summer, Lord, let winter here abide.” AVinter, blest season of cool days and nights! That chills to death each vicious bug that bites, Come and be mine! I want to hold thee fast Here to my heart. Put out the fevered fire That fills my skin with hives and blotches dire,— Rid me of dust with thy all-powerful blast.
Then will I smile and,say, “’Tis now I live!”— AVhen I enjoy the peace ’tis yours to give.
And winter came—and with it snow and sleet, .Sore throat, cracked lips, rheumatics, and cold feet.
The blast that froze the flies now freezes me.
The dust is gone, but in its place I tread On slippery ice that throws me on my head, AVhile snowball firing youngsters shout with glee.
“O Lord,” I start my prayer, “this beats the deuce! Send summer back once more—but—what’s the use!”-
.	.	AV. h.
The AVinter of our Discontent. , It isn’t like the winter that our grand-dads used to know,
All icicles and frosty air and “ spellin bees” and snow. There’s balmy air and sunshine and the season’s out of whack,	•
The weatherman’s distracted and- the birds are coming back.	H. AV.
AVhen I Am Broke.
When I am broke and can not go To town to view the passing show, Then life is neither gay nor bright; Then dark the day and drear the night, And hard my weary way and slow.
I’m shunned alike by friend and foe, And though I search both high and low * I can not find a pal in sight
When I am broke. '
Their cheery songs I hear and know Their path with happiness aglow;
But not a single ray, of light
Escapes to drive the awful blight From off my heart—I’m filled with woe . When I am broke. AL D. R,
His Pal.
PHILIP V. BOYLAN, ’l6.

A cold, biting, January storm was raging in New York. The driving rain and sleet, freezing as it fell, caused pedestrians and vehicles to move cautiously along the ice-coated thoroughfares. The warm yellow lights shining from the windows of fine mansions and the dull glare of street lamps falling on the pavements made striking contrasts with the shadows that lurked in the dark corners and unlighted nooks. Frequently a man on foot, breasting the storm, passed down the street, coat collar turned high, hat pulled down close. A policeman came out of the darkness, stood for a moment under a swinging arc light, and then silently passed again into the darkness beyond. Occasionally a taxicab with flashing lights appeared and, with a swish of water, was gone. An owl car passed with its silent, sleepy-eyed passengers. Its startling’clang and the blue flashes of fire on the wires added weirdness to the scene.
Later still, when only the lights of a few clubhouses shone into the darkness, a small boy struggled bravely along, carefully protecting a few newspapers under his ragged coat. Behind. him tagged a small, bedraggled white pup, his tail down and his ■ ears lying flat. His whole intent appeared to be to keep his master between himself and the storm.
Suddenly the little newsboy stopped • to gaze wistfully through the plate-glass window of a luxurious coupe standing at the curb. He marvelled at the plush seats, the flowers in the glass vase, the silver-plated trimmings, and the other beautiful appointments.
“Gee, some class to the dame what owns that machine, ” he murmured thoughtfully. He cocked his head sideways and addressed his scrawny looking pet:
“Now, dog, if I had some o’ her cash, I’d buy you a swell spiked collar and have that bum looking tail cut short. ”
The little paper merchant was just starting away when he chanced to look up and saw the chauffeur. Business was his first thought. In a shrill, small voice he addressed the man: “Paper, mister?” The driver looked down on the boy and growled.
“Naw, .I don’t want any paper!”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Buy one for the lady, then?”
“Say you,” called the chauffeur crossly, “beat it!”
“Oh, all right,” he replied airily, and turning to his dog, he said confidentially: “Come on, pup, nothing doin’ for us on this here street. They’re too swell.”
He had barely started when, with a bump, he collided with a well-dressed young man coming across the walk to his car. He slipped and fell, losing hold of his papers which spread over the ground and were soiled with the rain and slush. Getting up quickly he faced the young clubman with a frightened look on his small, pinched face.
"’Scuse me, Mister, I didn’t see you.”
“That’s all right, sonny. What’s your price for the papers?”
“I aint got no price, but you can have the papers for two bits.”
The man opened his thick coat, unmindful of the storm, displaying a dress suit and white shirt bosom. He reached somewhat awkwardly into his pocket and handed the money to the boy.
“Thank you, sir,” said the bby as the gentleman stepped into his car, and with a whir of the motor and a crunching of the gears, was gone.
“That guy’s crazy,” remarked the little merchant to his dog. “Them papers ’uz worth about ten cents.”
As he looked down at his pal as if expecting an answer, another owl car passed, and his eyes opened in amazement as he gazed at a roll of bills on the ground beside the dog. When the light shed by the car had passed, he groped in the dark for the small packet and at. last clutched it eagerly.
“Well, old pal, I’ll get you a collar now, sure.” Meanwhile he walked slowly along thinking of hot coffee, beans, and a soft bed, when suddenly he remembered the police.
“ The bulls’ll get me sure if I keep this money,” he thought aloud. “Well, I’ll get the eats and give the guy his money when I see him again.”	.	•
Next evening the newsboy was at the curb when the clubman stepped out of his car.
“Say, Mister, here’s your money.”
The clubman looked around and beheld the little street urchin proffering himthe roll of bills.
233
‘ ‘ Oh, thank you, my boy. What is your name?” “Name? ” the boy asked in an astonished tone.
“I aint got no name—they just call me Mugsy; but my dog’s name is ‘Pup,’ and he can lick any dog in town.”
Mr. Fred Clayton, wealthy clubman and general good fellow, took the little urchin by the arm and led him up the broad steps and into the club,—an act unprecedented in that fashionable resort. The boy beheld wealth in all its gorgeous attire, marble columns, rich tapestries, and large, inviting leather chairs. His new friend escorted him into the grill and ordered dinner for the youngster,—a dinner the like of which he had never before eaten. But suddenly the youth started and looked down beside him. His precious dog was not there.
“Where’s Pup?”
With a dash he was away, but was soon back carrying the little shivering animal in his arms, and unselfishly divided his meal with his pal. When the little fellow had finished he was led to the door by his benefactor.
“Here are ten dollars,” he said, as he placed • the bill in the boy’s hand. “Now tell me what you are going to do with it.” •
“Well—just goin’ to buy a new spiked collar for my dog,” he answered with decision^ .
“Why?” questioned the clubman.
“Because—well, just because he’s one fine scrapper, and the best friend I’ve got.”
What Time May Bring.
ANDREW I. SCHREYER, ’13.
But yesterday a beaming rose	-
Held high its fragrant head;
While balmy dews caressed its brow, And winds its perfume spread.
To-day it is a withered form;
Its fragrance all is lost;
The summer winds have since grown cold, The dews have changed to frost.
So, too, while Fortune smiles on us, While wealth and fame still gleam;
We have a countless host of friends, And life is all a dream.
But mark! when Fortune dons a frown, And Time bids youth depart,
We’ll be as friendless as the rose
That lost its charming art.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame. Indiana
Vol. XLVI. JANUARY 18,1913. No. 15'
Board of Editors.
SIMON E. TWINING, ’13
LOUIS J. KILEY, ’13
WILLIAM J. BURKE, ’13
FRANK C. STANFORD, ’13
WILLIAM M. GALVIN, ’14
MAURICE NORCKAUER ’ 14
FRANK ■ H.
WILLIAM J. MILROY, ’ 13 JOHN F. O’CONNELL, ’13 THOMAS F. O’NEIL, ’13 JOHN T. BURNS, ’13 JOSEPH M. WALSH, ’14 ARTHUR J. HAYES, ’15 BOOS, ’15.
—On last Monday the real presidential election was held when the electors met in the forty-eight state capitols and cast their ballots. We listened for the The Electoral enraged bellow of the Moose, Ballot Cast. and expected to hear of him “rushing his enemies off their feet” and snatching at the juicy morsel handed to his “delighted” rival. But no jungle sounds broke the calm stillness of the afternoon. Only two more chances remain: when Wilson ’ is formally recognized as President by the House and Senate in joint session February 12, and at his inauguration on March 4. These are forlorn hopes, of course, but scarcely more forlorn than that of last November 5.
—Thomas F. Marshall, in his address at the inauguration of his successor to the governorship of Indiana, said: “I go hence at the mandate of the people Governor Marshall’s of the republic to assume
Farewell. new responsibilities and to discharge new duties. Whatever may be the measure of my performance, I pledge so to conduct myself as to live up to the highest ideal of an honorable Hoosier; to be worthy in character of the very best of Indiana’s civilization.”
The vice-president elect might have put
all that in much shorter form by saying: “I will continue to do as I have done in the past. ” We know the governor Marshall that was, and from that knowledge we can judge the vice-president Marshall that will be. For high moral sense, clear enlightenment of vision, and unapproachable integrity he will bear the palm.
—The women are getting away with it! They have successfully invaded all the branches of industry and skill that for ages have, been regarded as under man’s sole The Game and dominion. There are woman the Candle. doctors, lawyers, preachers, dentists, detectives, school principals, grocers, and butchers. They are to be found in every business except the saloon business. No, we withdraw the exception; there were bar-maids and lady tapsters a hundred years ago. The trade is slightly out of fashion now, but, doubtless, will come back. The mayor of a good-sized .town in Wyoming is a woman; a woman is a member of the electoral college of Colorado and will carry the record of the recent vote of that body to President Wilson. Latest of all, we hear that a woman was one of the candidates for the presidency of France in yesterday’s election. Even now she may be head of the realm of Charlemagne and Pepin.
This is great success in getting what they went after, no doubt, but we can not help connecting with it the great increase in the distressing stories of children neglected and poorly trained, of the privileges and responsibilities of motherhood shirked, of woman’s clubs displacing the family circle, and of homes and lives wrecked in the divorce courts. It is a game that is scarcely worth the candle.
—United States Senator Joseph W. Bailey is now Joseph W. Bailey, private citizen. The long-threatened valedictory to the Senate has been spoken, and The Exit of Bailey, is already forgotten. It was not a great speech.
It was feeble; it hugged the ground. The inspiration of a great cause was absent, and no motive but vanity and bitterness lent its aid. Those who have heard him, in the days of his power, say that he”was the finest speaker in the Senate.. What a fall was here! The leader of the United States Senate, after great
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
-35
' preparation and advertising, with, the oppor-. \ tunity of a splendid dramatic' triumph in his > hands, fails,' and fails miserably. If Joseph Bailey had been a- loyal and wronged statesman, if the charges- against him were the fictions of ( political enemies and not the truthful record of his' own misdeeds, if Bailey knew that he •was leaving the Senate with his ledger unstained ; * and with the consciousness that he had served the country and. not himself, if he could feel that his • farewell was a message of truth and ? not a tissue of- lies, his speech would have been the master effort of his life, and would be remembered by the remotest posterity.
‘ But behind oratory there must be truth. . f. '
—The;’-’appalling prevalence of the sin of - ' blasphemy is one of the most incomprehensible ‘ - phenomena' of modem society. Blasphemy ~ - -	■ and oaths are - the
' The Blot of Blasphemy, language of hell, and '	to hear them on the
lips of'men who profess Christianity is the most ‘ repulsive of paradoxes. ■' The man whose . assertions are emphasized • with blasphemies, oi' who' habitually drags’ God’s fair name into ? ’ his idle or scurrilous speech, shows that he ; despises the God who made him and laid down His life for him upon the cross; he insults ■ his neighbor by befouling the name of Him to whom that neighbor owes all love, obedience, 1 and adoration; he makes himself the most * despicable of creatures,—Tor he ’ deliberately ’ ♦ panders to the devil.
? Christ forgave thieves, liars, adulterers, and ‘ murderers,—and it is more than a mere accident ij or coincidence that there is nowhere in the 5 Scriptures any record of His pardoning a •: blasphemer. A man may be ’ tempted to lie, . » or steal, or commit other sins, and fall in the t combat., The blasphemer has no such excuse, g Of his own free volition he expatriates himself, S- and sets about preparing to be naturalized ;i in hell ’by using the vocabulary of the devil.
In the middle ages knights laid down their * lives to save their ladies’ names from insult-. | Is silent sufferance, then, the proper attitude I of a man when he ’ hears the name of God | degraded fin the mire of filthy conversation?
!Is it not the duty of any self-respecting rational animal; -whether' or—not he be- a Catholic and ra member of the Holy Name Society, not only I to revere the- name of God himself, but to resent its insult by others?
The Irish Players.
The widespread and varied comment occasioned by the American tour of the Irish players • is a fair criterion of the very -general interest excited by their definite and pleasing departure from the conventional and the stereotyped in the drama. Certainly the freshness and vigor of their plays, so evident in the three sketches presented in Washington hall on Friday last will commend them to a theatre-going public satiated with the cloying comedies and sordid “problem plays” that have usurped the American stage. In the wholesome simplicity of these sketches could be detected none of the florid emotionalism or. strained striving at humor that has come to be the accepted thing in our own theatres.	.
Their first offering, “ Kathleen-Ni-Houlihan,” by William Butler Yeats, was an allegorical typification of Ireland, suggested by the numberless tragedies that have attended her struggle for freedom. Miss Sara Allgood, in the title-role, fascinated her audience by a' weirdness suggestive of the banshee of Irish legend. The well - known Celtic propensity for quarreling as a pastime, was humprously portrayed in the second sketch, “The Workhouse Ward,” bj^ Lady Gregor}'. Though practically devoid of plot, and with very little action, the interest is sustained throughout by mirth-provoking dialogue. The third and final play, “The Rising of the Moon,” also by Lady Gregory, illustrated the soft-hearted fellow-feeling never absent in a true son of Brin.	’ ■
All three sketches -were rather remarkable for a striking simplicity of incident, but the superb character portrayal and pleasing personality of the performers barred any possibility of monotony.
- A very pleasant surprise was the presence of Lady Gregory, who was cordially welcomed and introduced to the audience by Father Cavanaugh. Lady Gregory who is a well known authoress and one of the foremost figures in the Irish literary world, spoke briefly of the plays presented, of her efforts to realize tire hopes of an Irish theatre, and of the success that has everywhere attended the company in its tour of the United States. .	"
236	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Everywoman” by Professor Koehler.
“Everywoman” Walter Browne’s renowned metaphorical masterpiece, as interpreted by Professor Charlemagne Koehler in Washington hall Wednesday evening, certainly merits the New York critic’s verdict of “ the greatest allegory since Spenser’s ‘Faerie *Oueene.’”
The characters in this remarkable play typify moral and social abstractions, and the v.hole is modeled after the historic “morality” plays that enjoyed so great a vogue in medieval ages. Nevertheless, the author’s years of painstaking effort are manifest in a finished drama that is strictly modern, fresh, and vigorous, unmarred by ephemeral cant or trite moralizing.
The plot of this singularly interesting play revolves about “ Every woman’s ” quest for ' King Love the First. Accompanied by Youth, Beauty, and Modesty, hitherto inseparable associates, she sets out upon her mission. Her experiences with Wealth, Conscience, Passion, and such other personified qualities as Greed, Self, and Vanity, leave' her disillusioned and deserted. After she has undergone many vicissitudes, Truth, in the guise of an old gray-haired woman, leads her back to her own fireside, where she finds awaiting to welcome her, the long-sought King Love.	.
Professor’s Koehler’s great talent and undoubted genius were never more apparent than in his excellent portrayal of the many diversified characters that figure in this unique play. To one less gifted than Professor Koehler, the assumption of so many diversified roles would present a practical impossibility; but with that rare versatility that has contributed to so many successes, he handled every phase equally well, treating the minor- characters with the same facility and attention to detail that featured his impersonations of “Everywoman” and “Nobody.” In short, his characterization was so exact in technique, that each abstraction stood out as clearly and forcefully as a flesh and blood character. “Everywoman” is deservedly acclaimed as the finest presentation of the year, and this latest of his many triumphs serves only to strengthen our conviction that Professor Koehler is, indeed, a master in his profession.
In the intermission periods, James Wasson, Arthur Carmody, and William Hicks enter- • tained.us "with several excellent vocal and in
strumental selections. Mr. Wasson rendered two splendid solos, and was so roundly applauded t that he responded with equally pleasing encores.
A violin solo by Mr. Carmody also earned that ; talented young musician an insistent encore.
All in all, no entertainment of this season was more cordially received or more thoroughly enjoyed than the one presented on last Wednesday evening.
Fourth Year of Apostolate Library.	a
_____	$
The purpose for which this library	was	>
established, namely, the fostering of a taste for k reading of an elevating kind, has been achieved. | Many of the students, it is true, have not . formed acquaintance with the more serious	.
books of the library, and those that read the	Y
Catholic fiction do not always' choose the best. This is not to be wondered at, for the best in fl literature is never appreciated without culti- L vating a taste for it.	;
In any case, the library has met a real want L; in supplying reading that is not harmful, thus preventing the reading of much that is positively bad. Unfortunately, the taste for trashy reading is very common among v young men and boys, and any effort to prevent	j
or check such a habit is deserving of the highest	:
commendation.	.
Several books of exceptional excellence were ‘ thoroughly appreciated, as the number of readers testifies. “My New Curate” (Sheehan) had 22 readers; “Vera’s Charge (Reid), 34; “Philip’s Restitution” (Reid), 38 readers; j “Fabiola” (Wiseman), 33 readers; “Mother” ? (Norris), 26 readers.
As was to be expected, fiction was usually chosen by the* students. Such reading is naturally the most attractive and offers a J change from the more serious work of the • class-room. Works from the pens of Reid, | Benson, Sheehan, Ward, Norris, Wiseman, ) Skinner, and Ayscough can not be excelled, and any student that reads these authors will be immensely benefited.	V?
The number of readers during 1912, obtained by actual count from the library cards, was 551; but, no doubt, another hundred to account for the books lent to friends of the borrower . might truthfully, be added to this number.
The voluntary contributions to the library 1 during 1912 amounted to $71.95, which sum, added to that obtained in the three previous
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
years, made a total of $361.77. Among the more generous contributors, either in money. or books, were Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., Rev. P. J. Carroll, C. S. C., Mrs. A. L. Sweet, Brothers Casimir and Bede, Professors Maurus and Steiner, Messrs. P. Mann, E. Downey, D. Ranahan, T. Ward, J. Manion, W. McMahon, J. Gunster, and T. Mackin. -----------------------------------
Society Notes.
Senior Preps.
Last Monday evening the Senioi- Preps of . the University met and elected their officers for the coming six months. Daniel Hilgartner was the popular choice for president. In his speech he thanked his young companions for the office they had intrusted to him and told them of his intention to push the society to success.
The other officers elected for 1913 are: vicepresident, Vincent Mooney; secretary, William Case; treasurer, Melville Sullivan; Chaplain, Father McNamara. The regular meetings of o	o
the society will be held the first Monday of k every month.
’	Hoey Cross Literary.
The regular meeting of the Holy Cross Literary Society was held on Sunday evening, January 12. A one-act farce, “The Spiwins Company” was enacted by Messrs. Allan Heiser, William Burke, Charles Flynn, Walter Remmes, and William Lyons. The gentlemen interpreted their respective parts excellently and elicited both laughter and applause as testimony of their success. Mr. Alfred Brown and his charmed piccolo captured the full attention of the audience. Mr. Frank Hanrahan’s story was unusual in its plot and pleasing in its humor. Mr. Matthew Coyle awakened many happy reminiscences when he concluded the program with the song “ Give me a good Cigar. ”
Personals.
—Our old friend, “Al” Bergman of Peru, , Indiana, spent a few days of last week with his brother, Arthur, of Corby hall.
■—Albert Meyers, Coach of the Princeton University basketball team, was the guest r of Athletic manager Cotter during the week, s	—The Hon. .Timothy R. Ansberry (LL.
237
B. ’98) is a member of the House committee on Ways and Means which is now engaged on the revision of the tariff.
—Eugene C. Shaunlow, of Chicago, a student in St. Edward’s from ’96 to ’02, visited Notre Dame last Sunday. Mr. Shaunlow is an expert accountant in the employ of a prominent Chicago accounting firm.	.
—Vamum Parish (Litt. B. ’08) is now a member of the law firm of Gower, Cooper, Hobbie, and Parish with offices at 33-36 City National Bank Building, Kankakee, Illinois, and in the Momence State & Savings Bank Bldg., Momence, Illinois.
—John “Divy” Devine of Chicago was a caller at the University on Friday last. “ Divy” has become junior member of the law firm of Howell, Howard, and Devine of South Bend. “Divy” reports that the trials of the young lawyer are not unbearable, and sees success ahead of him.
—Paul R. Martin (student ’o6-’o9) was appointed last Saturday to the position of general press director of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and also of the Ocean-to-Ocean Highway Movement. Mr. Martin’s work as a publicity man for Ringling Brothers, the Bobbs-Merill Co., and various other business concerns, has already made him known as one of the foremost men in his profession.
—“It seldom falls to the lot of a public officer, ” says Governor Harmon of Ohio, “to do so much good for the interests and good name of the State as the present AttorneyGeneral has done.” Congratulations to the Hon. Timothy S. Hogan,- who lectured recently in Washington hall.
—“Dummy” Smith, welterweight, and c’Joe” Costello, lightweight, our local wrestlers, have been entered by Coach Nelson to compete for the A. A. U. Western Championship belt at Chicago on Friday and Saturday. “Dummy” will take on all comers of his class. Here’s hoping that he gives them the Zybysco treatment and comes back with the honors.
—Francis H. McKeever, president of the Notre Dame club of Chicago, is a partner of Governor-elect Edward F. Dunne of Illinois, and will direct the affairs of the firm of Dunne, McKeever, & Dunne during the four years incumbency of the senior partner. Mr. McKeever’s assistance to Manager Cotter in connection with the Marquette game and his
238	.	• THE NOTRE DAME- SCHOLASTIC
efforts on behalf of the alumni of Chicago to make pleasant the stay of the football team in the metropolis will long be remembered by the members of the squad.
—We quote the following from a letter received from Mr. F. J. Enaje, father of Francisco Enaje (C. E. ’12):
“I have pleasure in informing you, Reverend Father, that my son Francisco, after travelling through Europe, arrived in Manila on Sept. 14th. He came to his home to rest for a few days after which he is to assume the office which has been entrusted to him by the Governor of the Islands and which is that • of Auxiliary Engineer of Public Works. The press in Manila have published his biography, and have given him the distinction of being the first engineer of this province.”	.
Local News.
—Found—A bunch of keys. Owner may obtain same from Brother Alphonsus.
—So far King Winter has been January Thaw7- We wish his highness would drop his alias and come out.like an honest gentleman.
—The Infirmary is filled to the roof with patients confined with colds or the grip. Let this bit of information be conclusive proof that it is wiser to spend one dollar for rubbers than five for medicine.
—What’s the matter with Sorin? Doesn’t anything ever happen there? They haven’t had a local, a personal, or a want ad in so long ' that we would imagine the place untenanted if we didn’t see it lit up in spots at night.
—If our debating team isn’t up to standard this year it wont be because of lack of material. Forty-three speakers are listed. Three pre-\ liminaries will take place, allowing every, man his chance.' The first try-out February 10th.
—With a richness of brogue that tickled the ear, and a simplicity of manner that charmed the audience, the Irish Players won many . friends here at Notre Dame by their performance of last week. We came, we saw, - and we-, applauded,-—we simply could not .help it.
Hardy Bush,'a new-comer in Walsh, was the luck}7 man that carried off the meal , ticket at Mike’s, for the highest individual score in bowling. Bush ran up 186 points; D.Newning; with 185. was hard at his heels. The next,.
prize offered by the Walsh Hall'alleys-will be a genuine briar, pipe.
;—The Carroll second team in basketball put a good one over on the St. Patrick’s team- of South Bend Thursday evening. The score was 22 to 15 in favor of our own youngsters. - It was a game that- was well worth going to see; Maltbe starred for Carroll, Williams for St. Patrick’s.	-	- ’	<3
—Wouldn’t it be better if things were somewhat stirred up and encouragement handed j around to the players by starting a little lively shouting at the basketball games? True, our last local exhibition was not much of a game, . but even then we should not have let the thud of the ball drown out our cheering. s
—Well, we can’t always win. Carroll hall went down in defeat before Niles High School last week to the dirge of 20-18. The score was not so bad, however, thanks to the starring < . of our little friend “Scotty” Bollin. We are waiting to take a look at that Niles bunch	I
after their' next ganie with the Junior's.'J	<
—The University library will be open.ever}7 evening from now until the close of the de- j bating, season from seven-thirty o’clock till nine. «>' All the matter on hand pertaining to the subject will be found on the library tables. All books pamphlets, etc., of this character have been put on the special reference list and may not , be taken from the library. F
—The committee reports that * the tickets for the Military Ball are going very. swiftly. If you are counting on attending, better purchase 1 your. .pasteboard at once as the number is | limited. .And don’t allow a trifle like a military uniform to stand between you and an evening	'
of fun. Anyhow, it, will not be half, as un-	■
comfortable as a full-dress suit.	4
■—We have been straining our ears to catch | the slightest sound that would indicate' life	I
and motion in the proposed, Indianapolis	j
club,, the. Hockey club, the new handball ‘ alley committee, the Walsh.Preps, the swimming team, and the Journalists’ daily, newspaper.
Is. it possible that these children of ambition and progress are fated to be.still bom! .
—Father- Maguire made the round of the halls this week and gave.the boys, a brief drill -in the hymns sung at mass. - The training was altogether necessary, ior-^e ^ensemble effect in the. singing of. the hymns.-: has- of late been .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	239
|	weak and almost effortless. If each student
|	will do his best in the singing, the result will
1'^	be highly pleasing and very devotional.
—The bowling alleys in Walsh are again booming. A prize of a meal ticket at Mike’s for the best score attracted many of the U’s ;	best bowlers, and the din and roar of the alleys
has been incessant. Just to renew the old ? * spirit, the Walshites have arranged an interfloor bowling contest, the winning team of the series to be fed one of Mrs. Haney’s nonpared chicken dinners.
—Did you notice that all the writing in the hymn-books had been removed? It took three ' men as many days to clean up the mutilated volumes. The man who goes to sleep in church is bad enough, but United States laws forbid us to print what we think of “muts” who scribble in sacred books! Anyone who would do a sacrilegious trick like that would steal ’ the coppers from a blind-man’s cup;
•	—Have you noticed yet that the wind blows
1 strongest where the sidewalks are slipperiest?
f Don’t laugh when you see the other fellow lose his balance and his sense of humor, and harken | not to his language. Be choice in your selection of places on which to fall, for water at this time of year, so we are told in al Koran, is rather chilly and moist enough to dampen the spirits and trousers of anyone, no matter hpw optimistic or warm-hearted.
—Once again the students of English D are preparing their annual orations. We see them in the library pouring over musty tomes of
|	economic lore. We hear them haranguing
|	imaginary multitudes in the solitudes of their
I rooms, and practising heroic gestures with the zeal of physical culturists. Let us be patient—these men are not really bores, but
’ growing statesmen. Later on we will be | proud to have known them in their green and I salad days.
—We exult! -From time immemorial, the clattering, jolting, rattle-boxes of cars which adorned the Hill-Street line have been the butt of the Safety Valve, the object of imnumer-able heartfelt maledictions, and the cause of much bad temper and annoyance. The old four-wheelers in which so many brave students have risked life and limb, are gone—supplanted
, by real, regulation cars; And there is a rumor *r that the new schedule will be followed to the
letter. The new schedule, we may add, is
this: Instead of leaving here and town on the even hour and every fifteen minutes thereafter, cars will leave seven minutes past the hour and every fifteen minutes after that. However, we’re from Missouri and beyond on that “dope.”
—The second-floor bowling te'am of Walsh Hall defeated the fourth-floor in the closest series ever played in' the University. Up to the sixth frame of the third game the fourthfloor was in the lead. Then the second-floor team started., to tighten up in so determined a manner that they caught up with the fourthfloor, passed them, and beat them conclusively, all in the last four frames. The total score was: second-floor, 1804; fourth-floor, 1777. The highest individual score made in any one-game was that of 177 pins bowled over by Mr. Joseph Myers of the fourth-floor team. .
Calendar.
Sunday, January 19—Septuagesima Sunday.
Brownson Literary Society 7:30 p. m.
Monday—Philopatrian Society, 5:00 p. m.
Wednesday—Military Ball at Place Hall, 8:00 p. m.
Thursday—Civil Engineering Society, 7:30 p. m. Second Preliminary in Walsh Hall Bowling Contest.
Friday—T. A. Daly, Poet, 7:30 p. m. ’
First Regiment Track Meet in Chicago.
Saturday—Edwin Whitney Recital Co. 7:30 p. m.
Athletic Notes.
Company H A Disappointment. ’
The team and fans were disappointed by the Oregon Aggies and Franklin College, both of which were forced to * cancel the games scheduled here for last week. To fill their place, Manager O’Connell took on Company H, First Regiment, Illinois National Guard. The -Company H boys are regimental champions, and are considered one of the fastest teams in Chicago, but they were sadly outclassed, and were trounced 52 to 8.	-
Granfield starred by caging ten baskets and otherwise playing an artistic game. Cahill was also in good trim and managed to tally 9 of the 52 points. At centre “Rube” Mills showed that he is rounding out satisfactorily and will soon make himself a potent factor in the scoring column. At guard Capt. Feeney and Nowers proved themselves easy masters of their opponentts. No further.-proof of .their
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
240 superior playing need be given than to say that each allowed his opponent at forward but one basket.
Notre Dame (52)	Company H. (S)
Granfield, Kelly, Lush	R.	F.	Neeson
Cahill, Bensberg, O’ Connor L.	F.	Kittell
Mills, Fitzgerald, Meyers C. Luke, Wilson (C.) Nowers, Finnegan	R.	G.	Schilling
Feeney (C-), Smith, Pliska	L-	G.	Rapp
Summary—Field goals—Granfield (10), Cahill (3), Nowers (3), Mills (5), Feeney (2), Fitzgerald, Neeson, Kittell. Goals from foul—Cahill (3), O’Connor, Neeson (4). Referee—Barnhart • (Indiana).
South Bend5 High Plays Excellent Game.
The first half of the practice game with South Bend high five looked pretty much like our Varsity heroes were going to let the high schoolers get away with the long end of the score. As it was the score stood 13 to 11 for the Varsity at the end of the first period. Many theories are advanced to explain the phenomenon. Theories ranging all the way from “off day” to “big dinner.” The facts are that the first half was played under A. A. U. rules, while Capt. Feeney and his men have been practising under Intercollegiate rules. That the Varsity could play was shown during the latter half of the second period, when eight goals were scored in as many minutes.
For South Bend high we have only praise. Their five is fast and aggressive, their style of play clean and snappy. A better high school team could not be desired. Playing under their own rules, they were at home and played hard basketball every minute. Under the rougher Intercollegiate rules they could not last as long as the Varsity, but .they never ceased to fight until Referee Rockne declared the end of the game. It only, remains to be said that the final score was 33 to 17.
Notre Dame (33)	S. Bend
Granfield,	Kelly	R.	F. '
Cahill	L-	F.
Mills, Granfield	C.
Feeney	R.	G.	.
Nowers, Finnegan	L.	G.
Summary—Field goals—Granfield
Feeney (2), Finnegan (2), Mills, Allen (3), Kirby (2), Moseman*. (2), Bacon. Goals from foul—Cahill, Kirby. Referee—Rockne (Notre Dame). ’ Seventeen Men Chosen for First Regiment.
Seventeen entrants in the First Regiment Meet at Chicago, January 24—25, was the outcome of the tryout of Varsity track candidates last Tuesday. The first exhibition of aspirants
High School (17) Kirby, Foster Allen, Witt - Moseman Brug, Wolf Bacon (8), Chaill (3),
to positions on the team was productive of no astonishing exhibitions, although the marks hung up in most of the events promise fairly good results for the competitions to come later in the season.
An exception to the rule took place in the • 40 yard dash and 40 yard low and high hurdles. Wasson, Bensberg, Birder, and Newning put up a close race in the finals of the event, after qualifying in two fast heats, covering, the distance in :o4 4-5. Pritchard put up a classy performance in the 40-yard high hurdles against little competition on the part of Metzger, his time equalling the world’s record and gymnasium record for the event. The 40-yard low hurdles gave the New York freshman another opportunity to display his form when Wasson was pushed to the finsh in 105 1-5. Captain Plant showed excellent condition in the half mile, taking an easy first in 2:06 2-5. With practice it is certain that a couple of seconds 1 at least will be clipped off the time.
In the quarter mile, lack of training prevented any of the men from performing up to the standard, while the results of the high jump, shot put, and mile run betray a weakness that demands earnest work on the part of the can- ■ didates for the various events.
The entries in the Regiment Meet include Plant, Wasson, Rockne, Hogan, Pritchard, C. Birder, Bensberg, Newning, Eichenlaub, Henihan, Hood, Rush, Miller, O’Neill, Mills, Gibson, and V. Birder. The handicaps given out by the Chicago authorities will determine who will make the trip. Summary:	’
8So-yard run—Won. by Plant; ^Bartholomew, second; Lequerica, third. Time, 2)06 2-5.
40-yard dash—First heat—Won by Newning-; Bensberg, second. Time, 204 4-5.	'
Second heat—Won by Wasson; V. Birder, second. Time—204 4-5.	,
Final heat—Won by Wasson; Bensberg, second";
Birder, third. Time—204 4-5'.	’	■
40-yard high hurdles—Won by Pritchard; Metzger, second. Time:—205 2-5.	.
High jump—Won by Hood; Lush’ and DeFries tied for second; LeBlanc, third.' Height—5ft. 6 in.
Shot put—Won by O’Neill; Wasson, second. , Distance—37 feet.	.	. .	, Ti
. Mile run—Won by R. C. Miller; Gibson, second. Time—5:01 3-5.
' 40-yard low hurdles—First heat—Won by Pritchard; Wasson, second. Time—205 r-5.	•
Second heat—Won by Wasson; Pritchard, second.
Time;—205 1-5.	. .	.	!
440-yard run—Won by Henihan; C. Birder, second; ''■?] Plant, third. Time—255 ’ 3-5.	.