
OlltwardJIOUrid,3½u,eefts ··•··..· .· ..·· .· .•.· of.JJecotnillflyourseJJr,:Lifte itor.not. 
"Iwasprepqredf~r the h<;>dy:part ofthe Ozitward . Bound trip, but_]sure was surprisedatwhat it 
1
·didformy heacf!' ·. · . · . · ''lguess,· in a sense, Outward Bbwid has taught .. me that Iain me. A person with limits and fears . • · andfrustrations thatcanbe. overcome by myself, and_with help from other people.'\ > : ·.. ·.· i ,. "The bruises and ihe blisters and.the aches .were . .all worth it. Sofar, Outward Bound has been .the most imporiant 25 days in iny life.''' · ·· · -3 White~Water Ca~~eing/Rock~Climbi~g/Sailing/ .. Back-Packing/ijiJ(_ing/Cainping/Expeditions/ : . : 
. Solo~· :_ .. ·.•· ._ -:: . ._.·· .. · -· . · . .· : 
Year.:round wilderness courses-·siandard 3½ 
·.· ~eeks or 5to 15days.'Spri~g,_summer, fall, -· -•winter (interim term). Men; women, co-ed. · .· fytiriim_um age 1~½. Partial scholarsh.ips, ­
·· available. -·· · Schools iffMaine:·Noi-th Carolina; Colorado; 
Minriesofa;-Oregon, New Mexico;arid a.L .-_ ·_. 

· Dartmouth College. -_ .· _ · ­For infonnation: write: Outw~rd Briund:-Inc~.165 w:-Putna~ A~enue:Gre~riwich; c{06830. Pli~~e (203) 661-0797.
-"N~me ..· -. . . --.. < . .Ai~ -Sch_~,,.·· . .·.-. .. ' . . 
Street.__________._·. City_;_;_··_·_-,--_ __;____···_<_-.,__-:---·__• ....;.;__~State_:_,. ;': -. 
! 
( 
f 
.!. 



-· ~~"'::--.·-~ .•. r~ 
' 
' ~

-_Notre'::Danie·.: 
-:~ •__ 1 _; St~def1f:: -_. -· .·~t <;;_~:Arl",.S_h.ow··· 

·,April_._;25tMay 18 .·. :~: Unive.rsity Ar{ . . _Galle.·ry· --. -~ : .. 
.})'Sh~iugf111t~s_sf _H~II_ .•· 
... ; .... : . -~ ' . 

,, 
, ~amg_ e-a _IQ 
.:· ·~t{~X~-?}g.~~r~~:~'.\? 

Cover:. Phoio b/'ro~ Paulius.... ' , • 
Illustrations: Tom Paulius 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 25, 26, 27. 
Photographs: Ed Brower· 4, 16, 28, 29 (3), 30 I Bill Delaney 27 / J. Dlugolecki 28 I Tom Everman 19 (2) / Tom Paulius 2, 13. 


Scholastic 
Vol. 117, No. 12, April 30, 1976 . Notre: Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
'. 

0Aba'ndon Hope -All -Y~ Who. E~it H~re .. Barb Frey 
. '.. . ··...·! .... 

7 Jottings J. Robert Baker GaryZebrun 
14 · Tried and True Tricks of Teaching · Paul Mestrich 
18 · A Year Later-A Look at Devine Tom Kruczek 
24 Sex Ed 109?. Mary Beth Miracky 
27 The Everpresent Mystique · . Bill. Delaney 
. .. ; .-' ., '. ; ··;' ..~. . ,.;,-·. :.-. ' .. 

28 :The Top Ten • . Bill Delaney 
REGULARS•· 10 ' Perspective •·• John. f. McDonald 
12. W~ek in'r)istdrti,on. 
. . Mark Thomas Ho'pkins 
' . ,, . ';' 

16 Book Review,1 , ••, Bill Gonzenbach _: · J. Robert Baker Tom Kruczek 
20 Gallery Ed Brower 
•Tom Paulius 
. . . . ­

30 . The Very. Last Word Sally Stanton 
Editor 
Sally Stanto~ Staff 

Art Director 
Thomas J. Waldoch, Anne White, Dave Beno, Vicki Stephan, John Kenward, John Stenson, .. Tom· Pauli us Leo J. Mulcahey, Tom Everman, Betsy Birch, Mike. Feord, Mark Hopkins, Bob· Gilroy, 

Managing Editor 
Rich Nugent, Mike Moses, Richard. G. Landry, Paul Starkey, Susan Grace, .• Dan Lombardi,John Phelan Rhonda Kornfeld,.Barb Frey, Mark Luppino, Gary Harden, Christie Herlihy;sheila.Kearns,

Production Manager . · 
Julie Runkle, Maryfran Hayes, Missy Heard, Johri Qelaney, Judy Robb, Bernie Valenti, Annemarie Sullivan· .Cary Gerber, J. Peter Delaney, Karen Caruso, Jim Ryan,' Ed Lecuyer, Moira Keating, Mary 

News Editor 
Ann Chambers, John Bartone, Andrew Gotuaco;;, Randy Cashiola, Tom Kruczek/ Mike Bill Gonzenbach Palmer, Gilda Montalvo, Jim Romanelli, Meli!nie, Jo_rgensen,. Maureen, Reynolds, "1ary
Culture Editor • · Reimer. , · Robert Baker· Sports ·· Editor 
. -'Th·~·opiriionsexpressed in Scholastic are those o(the authors and edito'rs o(Schola~·ticBill Delaney and do not. necessarily represent the opinions iff' the University of -Notre .•Daine, its

Assistant Art· Director 
·. administration, faculty or the student body. · ' Kathy McElroy 

Assistant' Production Manager'. 
··· Secrind~dass postage paid at Notre. Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is representedSteve Slater 
for national advertising by National EducationaLAdvertising. ,Services,. _360 Lexington Kathy •Salzer· .. Avenue, New York,.· N., Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the ·school. ·year except 

Business Manager 
during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic· is printed at Ave Maria Pressj Notre Joanne Toeniskoetter· 

Assistant Business Manager 
Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscriptio·n rate is $5.00 a·•year'and back'numbers are available 
from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts. to ,Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556; 
Kevin Murphy Photography Editor All un~olicited material becomes the property of ·scholastic. Ed Brower 
Advisory Board . copyright © 1976 Scholastic / all rights reserved/ none of the contents. may be repro­Ronald Weber, Carl Magel, James Cook, · duced without permission. Madonna Kolbenschlag, Bro. Charles McBride, C.S.C., Richard Conklin 

Circulation Manager 

Abandon Hope-~"'" All Ye Who ExitHere 
I . by Barb 'Frey
! . 
. . 

.The Notre Dame Family.· It is a still .like to be . ~mploY.~, • finding age 65 whereby the faculty member 
phrase heard often in describing the · work more fulfilling than their pres-·_.becomes designated "professor emer­
communal atmosphere of :this Uni­ent state. The committee.' concludes . itus"_ and forfeits his full~time teach~ 
versity: It is -a phrase spoken in from this response that "for about iilg career'. "'Tothe extent that space 
reverent tones of voice· to mean in­half the retirees retirement is: good; is available'' a professor may retain 
teraction, closeness·and concern for but not as good as working .whereas an~·office at the University and most 
one another: faculty, administration the other. half are . glad. to be,· do:11e faculty privileges. are' still·. extended 
and students . united in• academia by working." · · · :· ·: ; .. " ·· ·· · · to him. 
a spiritof brotherhood. What hap~ The current policy af Notre Dame A retired professor draws, his in­
pens•'to the: member of this com-. consists of mandatory retirement at come from' a number· of different 
munity . who.' reaches the magical 
retirement age of 65? Is he treated 
as a respected elder of the.family or 
. is. lie turned away and forgotten by 
the place where he devoted his years 

· as·a teacher? 
. · · fhese quesUons were. ~pl(?.red in. 
depth by a special committee of the 
Faculty Senate. Under ·the chair-. 
manship of Professor James Dan-. 

·· ehy, a survey. was drawn up and sent 
· to all known professors living in re-· 
tirement from Notre Dame. Sixty-· 
three out offue 81.surveys_sent out· 
were returned.,and :the resuits··•wer~ 
compiled in an attempt·to.determine 
more· clearly __ the living· situation· of 
this previously neglected group. The 
.·findings of the.committee_on the re-. 
. tired reveal an aspect of NotreDamei 

· · that has long been afamilysecret. : 
The emphasis of the survey was an 
exploration ' of ·the economic and 
. physical well-being: of· the avez:age 

· retiree as well as·Iiis morale in this 
.~::s~!:~~!!!~~:~~:.h~s;:~ir~ · 
ment, though many· (~3%). would 
.. 


. . , .; : .' ~ . 

sources. The two primary ones are Social Security, and the Teachers' Insurance and. Annuity Association (TIAA) which is 'a nationwide pen­sion fundfor college teachers. Each Notre Dame faculty' member pays 5% . of · his .current . salary.· to :the TIAA by way of a payroll deduction and the University matches this con­tribution. 'Many • coUeges contribute considerably more than 5% to the teacher's pension fund. Some schools pay t:he entire amount to the TIAA. with no deduction taken'out of their professors; current . incomes. . . . . 
· Notre Dame_.has no private pen~ sion plan of its .own: It currently uses the "step-rate,retfrement plan" to suppleinentthe income of emeriti. According to this plan t:he Univer-' sity_pays t~ .the TIAA 5%. on, the first, $15,000 of a teacher's salary (the current Social Security base) and 10% on all salary exceeding 'this amount.. If one can . wade . througfr these:perceniages, it will be discov-' ered that this policy serves not only to increase the incomes of.those who are already better paid, but to in-.. crease ' them ,by _a substantial per: centage: Dr: Dimehy _de~cribed the plan as. "kind, of nutty'..' because by its. use "the poor get poorer and the' rich get richer.u . , , _ . . . 
There was special concern arisin'g out _of the survey response' about:, 12 retired ·profes&ors whose average in.: coine was reported as under. $600() a year: .·The reason· that these .. men's earriingsare ·so.smal(is eitli~r that' they taught ~t Notre Dame. for· a verysh~rftime or else' they. are vecy: old and, their salaries have beeii re'r1­dered ',insignificant: due . to raging 
~ ~ • . • , ; • • • • ; • ; , . ' > -• i I 
APRIL.30;,1976 
Moore,,. a.member of the Faculty Senate, commented that '"after some~ one spen·ds a. career here that's s_ort of a shock!'.' Action has. been taken in this area to the satisfaction. of 
inflation. Dr. Danehy explained t:hat the committee and the retirees thein­


this _.problem will never -'_cOme Up selves . . -:. -. . . 
again . because of increased -Social Fr. James B~rtchaell, acting for Security benefits ..The committee li~s the administration, responded .to the made recommendations for .the Uni~ survey and the recommendations versity to ·aid this handful of men, proposed by)lie co_mmittee in a let­most of .whom are well over t:he age ter published in ,the Notre_ Dame of ,75, in their unfortunate.poverty. Report on March 12 of this year. The 
The committee ori the· retired has committee was generally pleased with examined the many. angle~.!of the the. answe~~ given by the . Provost. University's current economic policy ''Fr. -Burtchaell's response was iin­for, retired faculty. In a study done medi~te, empathetic, and couldn't byProfessor l\1cLane for. the Faculty .· have been more cooperative,''.-Dan-, Senate in 1964, the plans of several ehy commented. «Here, surely,· :wa~ cifrferent, colleges were compared, one case , where the· feelings of the and Notre Dame's ranked very low Senate arid the feelings of the admin­on the list. "Notre Dame was in the· -istrafor :were one and the same." lowest .20%•. of.these 40 ·•or.· so .c~l~ . -Burtchaell's ·letter addressed itself leges and. universities. Th~s is. still to each specific . recomrriendation of true and no amount of rhetoric o'r' the committee. Action has ,been rationaitzation wm ciiange· thi~ re:: taken in mosf areas especially con-.
ality~•; . : " .·. . . . . ' ' ' ­cerning an ,increase in university
_'iri'ari attempt to remedy th.is situ~· contact .with ·•. individual retirees: ation the Executive Committee· of Many _of. the ~tired professors had thi{Senate win request a diS!!USSion' expressed a feeling 'of. rieglectbY the o{ .the University's retirement poiicy· UriiversUy)n their survey responses; 
with the administration. An updated -Eighty~fiye percent still find a strong statement has;been_prepared and ap-, loyalty t:c{Notre Dame; which· is not proved by the Senate, andDr.·r:fari.: surprising· in: light. ot. the· average' ehy' expressed. hopes that out of such career. length of over 30 ye~rs' ·atthe an analysis of the situation some ini~ University~ Only 44% .of these men p,rov~ments . might be made. '.the felt :1:hat:. th~ University had a recip~: University· might see_ itsway clear 
.i::~cal_inte.r.E:~Lin them. This!~ icha.r­to . malting a larger fringe-benefit aC!terized)ri ·• orie respondent's state-contribution. If might also be.mor~ . ment ;tha.f _t~e . pfiicials / o( .t:he. just 'to' have· a level-payment p~a~ University should not. refer to the rather than the current. step'.:rate ''Notre Dame 'family'.' unless, they
policy." <,:·· . ·,, : . . . -. < 
were prepared to '•'take some of their: · Thotigh' ·the ·;economic. ~nd. of' 1:h'e' time (not ·somebody. else's) 'to show shuatfon ·. i~ necessarily ;ticky; there -a . real and personal concern for re-'. have beeri more immediate resuits on tired faculty 'members." . ,, . . . th~~ioci~l recommendation· made by: Personal communications . seemed the committee. One major ;criticism-greatly lacking even. though )5% 
' , -• • • • • • -• • ~.';, -• i •• 

. was. aimeci':at' the practice of drop­pirig .tiie''p'rofes'sor's name from the' University ~ailing lists and stop­pini ·applications for football tickets t1po~:-retiremeU:t, · Professor Hal 
. 
5, 


of the emeriti continue to live in St. Joseph County. Dr. Danehy . pointed to the impressive employment record of the retirees as an indication of the tremendous dedication of this group. "These are very special people, they really are." For this reason the lack of consideration shown toward these men was_ unfortunate ·and the cor­rective actions of the administra­tion were greatly needed. 
In ·response· to the investigation done by the committee on the re­tired, there also came some action 

· on the .part .of the emeriti them­selves. An organization has been in­itiated by Emeritus Professor James Corbett for his colleagues, and this group has already had one luncheon meeting. to. date. _It is reported that they are taking some initiative to­ward looking after a segment of the community which appears more than any other to have been the neglected group: the widows of retired facul­ty. Fr. Burtchaell expressed full University cooperation and assis­tance for· this· organization and added· that if the retired faculty "should desire to meet in the CCE, the administration will pay the rental· fees." 
The actions of the ad~inistratio~ have been· prompt and encouraging in many •-areas, though there still appears . to be some dissatisfaction with. the economic aspects of the University's retirement plan. Per­haps the biggest point of controversy has"been tlie mandatory age restric­tion. placed. on retiring faculty. At 65 a professor is supposed to. per­manently retire,' yet it has been the policy of the University to. allow some teachers to continue their work after this age, These extensions con­sist of a seriesof one-year contracts renewabie until age 70 and are con­tingent on: the consent of the ad­ministration .and_ the · department .. During these years a· professor will usually .carry a limited class load or specialize in ·a particular area of study. According to ·Professor· Dan­ehy these special cases are becoming fewer and _fewer as the University is 

Ii 
1: 
Ii 
" 
attempting to enforce the 65-age 
limit more strictly. 
The age restriction has divided· faculty opinion into two general directions, says Professor Moore. "Some people think that any retire­ment age is arbitrary and wrong. Others think there should be a total retirement policy, that any age that is stated. should be the limit. To con.: tinue some as professors ·and·_ · not others is a ' slap in the face.". Dr: Moore disagrees with the latter viewpoint: · ','The _chief variable ·has to be thegoo_d of the University and the good of the students." He con~ tends that some professors have the abilit):" and enthusiasm to_teach well beyond the age of 65 and others do' not. Moore pointed out that he would like to see· professors given the op­portunity' ·to teach as long as they are able, "but, given the job_ market and the. tenure policy·, there must be a balance:·1 think the current policy widely interpreted is a good 'thing."' Professor Danehy, who is himself nearing the statutory retirement age of the University, had soine persbnal comments to make. "I feel that we are dealing with a policy which has not· been. re-examined for a. _long time." . . 
. He claims that the age limitation is "essentially arbitrary" and this is a poor reflection of the attitude of Notre Danie toward retiring faculty.' Many other _uni~ersities in the·coun:.. try have a· mandatory age for retir­ing teachers, but generallythis is 70 and not 65. · 
.''I feel that a .mandatory retire-. ment age is in principle out of tune . with. the nondiscriminato.ry policies which have been developing in the United States in recent' decades." Danehy noted an increasing aware­ness among .the . elderly which can especiaily be seen in such institutions as. the American Association of Re-· tired People (AARP). He feels that eventually this group will be heard and action will be takeri in their behalf. 
The difference between the aged and other groups who have been victims of discrimination is the fact that "aging is a process and, for everyone, the time comes when he can no longer discharge his ·duties properly." This time, according to Danehy, is different for each indi­vidual and to point to the age of 65 for retirement "without any consid­eraticm of the ability of the person to continue to discharge his duties effectively· is contrary to the spirit of the Civil Rights Act." Eventually he hopes that these mandatory stat­utes for retirement at a given age will be st:ruck down· as unconstitu­tional but, until t:hen, he and others approaching .65 will .be faced with the current restrictions.· . 
Danehy suggested that an. intense study_ of the retirement policy could bring needed revision to the employ­ment practices of the University as a whole. He pointed to the fact that anyone with tenure at Notre Dame "has· it made" until he reaches 65. He suggested that current University policy might be replaced with some sort of review system for the facul­ty. Danehy said that this could be set up in a framework similar to the driver's 'tests that 'must be. passed after a certain age to' retain· one's Hcense. This_ would apply to aUpro­fessors at an age set by the Univer­sity which would be · necessarily lower than 65: In this way Notre 

· Dame could be assured of .employ-· ing the most competent. professors rather 0an nierely those who fit the age · requirements. Danehy added that "I know· some people who are bordering on senility at45." 
Mandatory requirement is a sub­ject relevant to ail of society in an era of better health and increased longevity. Should there be an arbi­trary age limit imposed ·or should 

. more subjective means be . used to d e t e r m i n e when someone has reached .the proper age to end his_ career? This · question as well as others is raised upon .. investigaticin of the problem of the retired. A uni­versity which prides itself on being a "family" should take a'special in­terest in its aging members. 
6 


Jottings 

Lavender Is an Old Color 
Nettie has had shingles for seven weeks this summer. Her doctor gave her shoddy treatment. You always get shoddy treatment from the ·. doctors in that town: A long time ago Nettie was young. She is a · spir1Ster now. When she was years younger, Nettie went to a finishing school someplace in, the East. She .. does not remember'where. The place is probably defunct.· Anyway, Nettie's favorite story is how she made .the trip alone by boat and wagon and carriage. There must. have been a good deal otrain that year so long ago for Nettie always talks about how hard all the rivers were to cross. Or maybe the earth has become tame as she _has grown old. Nettie was afraid on tllat trip. But she tries not to let it show now. And it really does not matter as it so long passed from present. But the trip wasthe biggest thing in her life and it would be somewhat foolish to be afraid of the b_iggest. thing in your life, wouldn't it? Nothing years later could match that long trip to the East by boat and wagon and carriage. Not the rude, , , simple schoolrooms she returned to teach in. Not the Depression. Not the years in retirement. Not an Ameri­can on the moon. Not the good years all totaled and somehow put to­gether in whatever meager value they might have. ·. · · · 
· ·some people get bored with-: · Nettie's story of travel by boat and wagon and carriage.to the East;.:,.,. Maybe 'they. shouldri'ti ·she had : ,:· shingles for seven weeks this sum­mer.:A hot and huinid summ.er when the figs grew ripe and fell to the "· birds before the end of July. And she lives in a house that has sagging wallpaper. How can an old spinster woman with shingles, in a hot and humid summer, keep her house to­gether? Someone has patched up her ceiling with flattened cardboard boxes-carbore box, as some people in that.town say -tacked crudely up yet faIUng from the wet of a badly repaired roof. That is· no reason though not to get bored with her story. 
The furniture in her house is old. That deep mahogany type that looks antique, but would never turn up in an antique shop. On her desk are letters that seem old to us who are used to paying a dime or 13 cents even for a stamp. The letters 


have fo~r-and three-cent stamps 
on them. One even has a two-cent. 
stamp. The ink on the envelopes is. · 
old and deep~stained into the paper. 
It .is .blue-gray .or· slightly lavender. 
Lavender is an old color ... · • ·., , 
Nettie has a momma cat that 

strayed in from the expressway in 
front of her house. A funny-colored 
cat, dirty from automobile• exhaust 
on· the expressway mayl>e. That ·momma cat must have dropped!: 
litters for a season or two since 
Nettie's house seems some ancient 
by). Robert Baker 

spa for cats. There are cats always . on the sofa and chairs;. the bed, the desk, the table and underfoot. 
Nettie also has a Christmas card, the Kodak kind with the family pic­ture on it. But the card is years old. The· children are ·an grown. And the father near death from some odd disease that the shoddy doctors in that town probably made up just so he could die modern. 
Her kitchen is something out of Thoreau _or thereabouts. Primitive. The table is made of rough boards. once whitewashed dozens of times. The sink is tin with holes that aren't 
. . . 

drains. The stove isn't wood. It's gas, but it doesn't work right. Her nephew is afraid that Nettie wiH in~ advertently gas herself · someday. 
Nettie's house will probably be torn down when she dies. The black neighbors who have overtaken the neighborhood in the last decade have suddenly taken to considering her house an eyesore. But who wants to · move an old spinster lady out .when she has shingles for seven summer weeks? The : neighbors are also· worried that her house is lowering their properties' value. 
Nettie probably won't live for .. more than a couple of more years. She's already had shingles this sum­mer.for seven ;weeks without any · " help.from the doctors in.that shoddy town. She is drawn and slender, like some people near death. The veins . stand out all over her body in.royal lavender. And more than the.·thick lenses of her glasses. shroud her. eyes. Besides what will-she do when . the cold comes in two months? It
. . 

probably won't be noticed if she dies. Only. someone will have to come to: clean out the house and throw:out the letters with old stamps and the crude table faintly-whitewashed and the plristmas card decades past its purpose. 

·... Piecing Together· 
I: 
i 
1i 
l 
''Of course all life is a process of . breaking down· .. : The first sort of breakage seems to happen quick -:-­the . s'econd kind. happens almost .. without your knowing it bufis" ' realized sudde~y indeed." 
'-F. Scott Fitzgerald .from "The Crack~Up" 
i . In South Bend, Indiana. Septe1nber_3rd; ·A woman c~llapses;_' 
A priest buys himself whiskey;· He's angry.··'·. . 
Here my na~e•has been:;Mdn whcis lost everything. :·' ' ·, · . 
In the dark I kneel'down and mime'. i 
ii ,, ' : ' '-1,·: ' -. , ; ' 
Will you carry my dead· brother · .home?' ·:, ·< ·. · Dig ~i_m· acomfort_able grav~•r: ; 
. .•-:_: ·~·, L-: •.. ) ; 
' ., . My great Russian grandfather ·, · 
says there's sadness in our line. '. 
Fears ring: on the telephone/:· Holidays· are almost forgotten. 
Tonight a ritualbegins in the house: 
a, .. . 
fa.therwithout money loses his mind and hangs himself. .: . , . 

iii •' ' ' ' ' 
Lord; the dark expects our courage.• Why won't you havemercy on the ·. lost? · · -·'? :, 
Fcir supper my mother:gave ine two .pounds of cheese; : . -, -, ·;._ . a sta.le box·ofcrackers; ·riow my 
•pockets bulge with mold., 
.. ,_._..,_. 
Christ;'there,isn't a woman left who rocks her.child in a ,wicker. chair;.:.­
8 

V . . 
When my lonely wife leaves our . house · 
our children look out the ~indow ·at dogs diggi_ng up bones in the yard. 
l tell her: all our daughters are 
'divorcing'. . 
But change, she insists, makes room for new ,, poems, chafing habits like an angry wind. · 
vi I tell her imagination can't be trusted among amateurs or crazy la.dies/ 
So kiss me/·.. lie by my side.;'., stroke my.sex;.: .. ­Are you the wild. wolf from. Dark Woods? ': ",· , 
Alone in the house without you ,:_ my eyes recede into me·and ·see· dimly. 

by Gary· Zebrun 
vii ' for E. and E. Sandeen My ears sharpen for the.perfor~. mance: 
A grey· haired man watching black­. birds · · ·­
in the dark'dre~s the~e words:' . 
Below despair 'is safer than ~bov,~. 
. ., He reshapes himself to'strange sounds . . as in the kitchen a gocid wife is . dancing . . 
While a blind dog sleeps· . . . down in. the basement with his . master. ,, 
Vlll ' for C. Mahon . In the same darka young D:-ishm.an leaves his room 'to dream other lives. 
' '
. 
. ; _., ... ,-· '; i~: t.:.· 
In his sleep he stumbles a.cross· a dead ...' ··:_;, ·: < :;,·' 
cat,: lifts· it/slowly,: into_ his cart, 
brimming with · promises . . . Be alert now ' · > '
, 
she whispers, look for other loves ; :· ; 
ix Tonight my own dark-twitches_.: 
Mother, father left the house·· · with a knife in his pocket;­
When you pray ·to. broken: statues in the corner of the room,-ask.-.: .; : . .: ·. 

them why our friends'call us'at,night when· the house is full of darkness.· 


X 
I was five and heard you scream in a confessional. 
If.my.church loses its ritual of form will her walls crumble on Sunday? 
·, 

In cities Russians·and Americans look down. Rilke was. German but his· loneliness . is ~mmigrant.: 
xi 
An old pastoral song evapor.ates into rooms ·,. ' . . where fat wome-:i..sit all day before ' a,.tel~visionthey can''t see. 
In a dark bar ~cross th~ street .· 'rsraelis.shoot holes · in reels of riewstape'. Drunks watch.. 
My father gets married today. From 
a little . ' . 
' -\. , . '. .. 

New York to\'ln he sends me money. 
xii ... My anger coheres like'burnt wood.. ; Breathe'near me ·arid I expiode into 
. . . . ... . -· ' 
. pieces .. 

I ·walk on ashes where a factory has . . burned down: . Ambulances 'arrive too iate.. ·:. ' 
>.. . . •
-' J 
• 

Und~r . cha,rred remains· of.cleaning . 'women. ,· an archeologistsearches for new­. clues:. . . 
' . :.. ' -; ~ ' .. 
xiii . . for L. Goers La~reen walk~ into' iny room 
·. carrying two ·goldfish in a bowl. She says,.
-· -. .· . ·. . . 

"'The ·fish understand our fear., They 
'know.:.._ ·..· . .. . the dark:moves irit<_>;the house ,and ·. wails.'' 
'. ··.:.,•·· 

xiv for S. Eberle My friend has written me a second unruly letter: 
"No school for days ... We have had thirty-five (35) 
bomb threats in the past week ... Once it was funny 
but they found two (2) bombs ... 
Happy Thanksgiving ... Gary; the poem was beautiful, good-bye.;.:'. " · ·· 
xv By Christ~as wives have recovered.. They place pine trees in our dirty 
rooms. 

Records play habitual noels. Mailmen smoke• Cuban cigars. 
And our children sleep, waiting for 
old love 

to inhabit the h~use barely ~anaging . weather. 

xvi for J. Matthias At last the snow has fallen. 
Again winter covers the university. Bells of our church are quiet. 
My Catholic friends have deserted. My brother phones about his sickness. 
But I .tell him I'm tired of this Mecca, as John wrote,,where poets may .know too much. ·· 
xvii for J. Robinett .Later. my madwoman calls... ,My eyes hurt. She advises. 
Outside in a tree I watch lovers drink wine to: relearn laughter. 
Andthe air mixes:my anger that drifts out with sounds of ducks . crossing water. 
xviii for F. Barrett·. Tonight danger nudges me. She.is a lover. She pushes :warnings into my mouth. 
Children are already.; scared.. , Listen: .. 
Animals move below.them, pa\Ying. like wolves. 
On ' a mountain in Arizona an · · owl calls us· to· attention. 
xix. . _ ., . . So.geritly,,we must pray before him. Pray; she says, with our pieces . . . .• 
,I,• 

Grandfatherin Russia, protect.us ... G.od bless us,. good. wive~ and . lovers ... 
Let tis. cross.slopes ~prepared; forget' suffering; look now; or already is• there nothing.:• 




Concerning a Vestigial Rite of Passage: 
Dr. McDonald is an assistant pro­fessor of English. 
It is always at least time· and per­haps always past time for a group of people who aspire toward community to reexamine its thinking in the light of that complex, noble and madden:. ing aspiration. One thread of such renewal is easily followed: genuinely democratic revolution, renewal or re­dedication always means · humanely softening those encrustations of rule and rigid policy which encumber the future with sterile· versions of the past. One such policy that has be­come increasingly rigid in academic institutions over the past 40 years has been tenure. 

' Oversimply put, tenure · is "per­manent appointment." After some sort of probationary period (usually seven years for assistant profes­sors beginning their careers at Notre Dame), a faculty member is either awarded a contract unlimited as to time or the faculty member is "not renewed." "Not renewed" is the ·aca­demic world's euphemism for "fired." No third possibility exists -there is no way, for· example, that :an as0 sistant professor can work from year to year or can make some other sort of arrangement such· as part: time service ·in specified areas. If denied tenure at the end of the pro­bationary ··period,· the :assistant pro­fessor becomes a sort of pariah, banned forever from· the · depart­mental society to which he or she presumably sought • admittance. : As ritual, this "up (to tenuref·or out (to a different· university)" policy might conceivably make sense; as a reasonable way · of dealing with people, tenure is too arbitrary, too rigid. It is a tool that has arrogated value to itself rather than leaving it . where it belongs, in what tenure was 
10. 




Tenu:re 

supposed .to .protect , -:-academic 
freedom. 
. Tenure . undoubtedly does p~tect 
academic freedom '-for . some: 
Wherever_ ·strong. termre plans·.. are 
established, it is very difficult and it 

•should be impossible to dismiss a senior scholar because .of something said or. done. within the scholar's recognized area of expertise. There is, however~ no reason clearly and uniquely :dependent upon "tenure" why an uninitiated junior faculty member cannot be dismissed. Hence the rights of "academic freedom" are not directly protected by tenure systems. As far. as "tenure" is con­cerned, academic freedom is a privi­lege of the initiated faculty (back to incense hints of.ritual again). Be­ing "back to ritual" is not necessarily bad, it must l>e quickly said, since 
by John J. 'McDonald 
all the most important questions of human· life and death are dealt with ritually. The question ·is rather a matter of the appropriateness of "tenure as ritual" to·the taskit un­dertakes: protecting the rights as­sociated with academic freedom. · 
Although·"academic freedom" has its own ritualistic resonance, in day­to-day situations . , it .· oversimply means that any decently:· qualified person trying to find the answer to an intellectual question must be free to _consider and hence to propose vir­tually all ·the possibilities. Tenure guarantees ~at the privileged pro­fessor will not be dismissed because he or she proposes some answer that proves distasteful to the public;· the university's administration, alumni, students or other faculty. Assuming that academic freedom is as much a democratic value as freedom of as­sembly or freedom of the press or several other indispensable . civH rights, if tenure is the only reason­ably workable way of protecting. this freedom, why .don'f ·• all ·university teachers have it? In fact, why don't students have· a suitably · ·modified version of it? Why are only senior members of the profession'protected from the public, administrators, alumni and their more senior col­leagues? The answer most usually given to this question . is ·either 
(sometimes both) of the following: 
(1) The' younger faculty member is untested -he or she may prove ir­responsible, unworthy·o.:of thJ high privil~ge bestowed by_ -tenure; · or, (2)-Iii fact tenure does protect the untenured, because it allows forma­tion. of an independent, and . hence powerful, group of faculty to defend younger colleagues against potential enemies. Both arguments are clearly so paternalistic that they will apply only if the most suitable model for a faculty group is the patriarchal fam­
.: t: SCHOLASTIC 


ily. But why should we accept such self ontologically superior ("The 
a limited, culturally bound model of · President can, in some circum­
academic community? Is the as­stances, do what would be illegal for 
sistant professor really to be con­a private person to do"). That way 
sidered an intellectual child who lies the horror. 
must depend upon his elders to pro­Tenure is nowhere near that hor­
tect his rights because· he cannot yet ror, of course, and it seems quite 
be trusted with the sacred token? harmless by comparison with such 
Doesn't it in fact seem silly to sug­things. But it isn't harmless. It 
gest that tenure is anything more causes the academic community to 
than a vestigial rite of passage from glide smoothly over many hard de­
the state of being intellectually of cisions that would otherwise be 
the unwashed to the blessed state of necessary, so it is as comfortable as 
the mature. and washed?• it is stultifying and self-deluding. An 

;1 ._

Tenure can protect academic free­important and continuously difficult 
Sit and listen. Take notes. Read

dom, at least for the initiated, but concept like academic freedom can­
the text. Trade test answersfor

only at ·an enormous cost in account­not be solved by fiat. It has to be 
a· grade. That's one way to learn ability. If: the tenure structure of a defined again and again, not so much but you. may want more ... , 
· ­university is strong, it is nearlyim­in textbooks as in the determined possible to. deal ·effectively with the action_ of people so concerned for the ....At Prescott Center College, Be­tenured professor who merely goes life of the mind that they are willing ginning with our famed Wilderness through the motions, with the alco­to examine carefully, judge fearless­Orientation· you can learn· t~rough holic or otherwise psychologically ill ly and fight when.necessary. On the. field research and direct experience. professor, or:with the professor who other hand, the teacher's communal 
Next School Year, Prescott .stu­

for one reason or another has placed responsibilities, flowing directly from 
dents will~ . · · · · 

himself ~oHdly at odds with all con­academic freedom, need .. constant 
-examine the "energy-crisis"­

structive · efforts toward. internal examination -not through a proba­
worldwic_le patterns of production, 

change.-When a concept like tenure tion of seven years but through a 
consumption and pollutiori:

makes such complex but pressing lifetime. Tenure simply cuts through 
-ski tour the rugged San Juans

human problems difficult even to ap­all this rich complication, solving a 
of Colorado · · 

proach, when the concept fosters an · genuinely human problem with a tool 
...:.get in · touch with spiritual

attitude that such problems are not that does not allow needed growth 
feelings and ideas, in the privacy

really ~olvabie, or that. they occur and refinement. . 
of the wilderness 

in insignificant numbers, then it ,is 
-design and·. conduct Sonoran

clearly time to reconsider, because a 
·desert ecological research 

rigid.· idea has . clearly. just sllort-cir­
-study family relationships

cui ted the ability to meet a real sit­
through psychodrama and clini­

uation directly: Any sort of special 
cal work

privil~ge like this ultimately raises 
· ...:..create stories, articles, musical

the specter, of entirely different sets 
compositions; dramatic productions 

9f ethical standards for different 
-learn about the Mayans by tour-: 

"kinds" .of . people. Such privilege, 
ing ruins and modern villages in · 

solidly institutionalized in· contracts 
· Mexico and Guatemala 

and; finally, in "tradition,". leads to 
-:-digest the·Bhagavad Gita, and

that self-serving rhetoric and, po­
works of St. Augustine, Kant,

litical pressure,. which characterizes 
· Marx, Toynbee . . : . , ._ . · 

high~foried iobbieii'such as the Amer­
-participate in developing their 

ican Medical .Association and the 
own college · · American Bar;Association (need we 
Would you like·fo be with them?

be more specific than. to ·mention the forrrier's ·determined · opposition _to 
Office of Admissions 

any sort. of economic competition · 
· 104K N .. Marina, Prescott, Arizona . 

among doctors. or the latter's con­
8630 l (602) 778-2090

sistent protection o·f price-fixing ar­
.. Also ask about summer workshops

rangements?):.·At its real nadir the 
and wilderness expeditions. 

argument for institutionalized special privilege leads· to the horror. of a 
Pimscdrr CENTER COLLEGE mf~• or a: _class: of men, thinkinghim~ A I.em/er ,\i,wni: /mwt't1lire Co/le~e• 
Pr~si·ott'c:,.nt<>r.for Alh•rnativ~: Education 


Because there may be some of you ,vho will be looking for. summer em­ployment, or in extreme cases, a sug­gestion for a permanent occupation, Scholastic is pleased to present a list of potential employment opportuni­ties. All have been cleared through our classified department. For the sake of convenience, . addresses· have been _omitted; any .. queries may. be 
addressed in care of this m_agazine. 
AARDVARK HANDLER:. Must have working knowledge of physical and physiological aspects pf various species: Permanent.only. 
. LEAF COUNTER: Student .to as­sist National Parks Service in survey of East; Coast forests, particularly Adirondack region. Botany or math majors preferred. 
METAPHYSICIST: Many working locations available'. .First considera­tion given to those who are search­ing -for the meaning of )ife and/or are trying to find themselves. Must kriow how to· take long walks along seashores or mountain ranges; _ 
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION: Workers needed for proposed high­way between California and Hawaii. Swimming aprerequisite. . ASTRONOMER: To assist • Mt. Palomar astronomers in locating the Little Prince;'-. . _ · : : ARTIST: Arts community fonn­ing. Must:have ASCAP dues paid in fun.· 

ADDITION HELP: To assist pro­fessional ~tair-climber · in keepirig .-count. 
COIN COLLECTOR: To assist col­lector_ in locating any 1937-D peri­. nies: Applicants should. not be inter­
-ested· in advancement: . . .. POP MUSIC FANS: Tony Orlando and Dawn are desperately·in·need of 
_ 
cheering fans for state·fair circuit. Intelligence not imperative. 
FISHERMAN: Seafood restau~ rant . needs · help in -maintaining stock; located on · St; Joseph River. 
•POET: Fledgling literary maga­zine wants someone to determine dif­ferences between hexameters arid dimeters; also help in writing major· poem of the 20th century. 
SALESPERSON: To sell new line· of Iranian· dictionaries. Located in Minnesota. Work · on ·· commissiori basis only. 
MATHEMATICIAN: .-Assistants· needed for summarizing needs : for division by zero. '. . . 
PHYSICISTS: University science department needs staff until location of time machine can be. determined. 

by Mark Thomas Hopkins 
All interest areas needed, especial­ly those who wear or have access to watches. · 
'BRIDGE IMPERSONATORS: En­gineering·. students· espe~ially _wel­come. 
MOUSE CALLERS: Exterminat­ing company rapidly running out of feline . employees. . ' 
GRAVE · ROBBERS: Anatomisf wishes fo begin private'practice. '· · . GEOGRAPHERS: · U.S: govern­
ment study about the continued use' of Indianal · .... ··. CLASSICAL DULCIMER PLAY­ERS: Bluegrass· musicians interested in playing Beethoveri, >chopiii :·or Debussy.-"-· ·. . . . .. . . 
' OPTOMETRIST: Seeirig~eye dogs forming union; need professionals to· attest to owners' honesty: Attorneys also welcome.·. 
.. NARCISSISTS: Mirror. rnantifac_. turer interes~ed · in · i.Ill prOVi Jl g 
product.-•· •. · · . ARCHAEOLOGISTS: Ca.fro-based museum; to determine location ·of sand used in pyramids. ·· . . . . · · CINEMATOGRAPHERS: · Experi-· ence with.8 mm. and night photogra_. phy helpful. . .. 
. PAGE TURNERS:' ·Erudite go­pher, not anatoniicaiiy a!l~pf; ne.eds 
human assistance:·· ''· '' . ··REVOLUTIONARIES:· Citizens' group· planning overthrow· of. ._.capi: talist regime. Paid' vacations;•g"ood . 
s~rtini{salary; : . . . . . '. ·_. . · ·sQUIRREL ··TRAINERS: ·'walnut distributors .. Marketing· student·s only~~·-.·· . . · CHEMISTS: . Scientists.. studying possibility of reducing periodic table to earth, afr: fire·aiidwater; ·. . . . . IDOL:'•·. Pagans· organizing . reli-' gious cult. ·· 

·Notes from a 

Brave_ New World 
byMary Beckman 

-After ·21 years of life in the'Mid­from the Synod of 1971: "Action ori west, -I am now living in Brooklyn, behalf of justice and participation New York. My first impressions of in the transformation ot:the world" this foreign place came on unusually are a constitutive' dimension -of' the warm November evenings. I spent preaching of the Gospel, that' is, of my first nights walking from neigh­the ·:church's :mission for the re: borhood to neighborhood along tree­demption of the -human :race 'from. lined streets of old brownstones in every oppressive· situation." Social various states. of disrepair.·• As .I Action is the office•in the Brooklyn crossed ·from block to -block-of chil­Diocese designated to participate in dren playing on the sidewalks and the work toward· justice. . . 
women chatting on their stoops, I became aware that hair and. skin color, 'facial. ,features: arid" everi languages ,.. changed . Spanish; · Italian,• • Yiddish, Black. Later'· I realized-that even these broke down further .~ Haitian and American Black; · Cuban, Puerto Rican and South -American Spanish. In Brook­lyn, where 65% of the population is only cine or two generations re: moved from a foreign country/ I felt amazingly at home. · 
I am also af home now in another worlg; ~,Manhattan·--a , world. of theaters,' · museums, ·•Central.. Park, _three·· levels of ·graffiti-covered sub­ways under tens: of stories -of peo~ pled:'concrete ·structures,-'-a .world exhilarating in its· diversity and oppressive with an air of chaos and eccentricity. '..-·. 
··In· this new world: I am .what might be called an activist. Tam half of the Social Action -Office ·for the 

entire Diocese of Brooklyn, roughly The role is twofold.·Fr; Bob Kens two million Catholics. Social action nedy; and I represent the Church to _::_ what's ;that?,: It sounds ambigus those outside the institution, involv­ous-and is· complicated even further. · ing ourselves. on · decision-making when related .to. the institutional levels .· of federal, municipal" and Catholic Church. · · , , : ;,, state-funded programs -.established 
:-church documents; Vatican state..: in. poverty areas.' Joining with addi.: ments, and• papal· encyclicals claim tional.groups.of similar purpose; we that the Church-should work toward . also challenge.the· defects of the justice.; Thisdmperative is .stated criminaljustice.system,and w_elfare most emphatically by the bishops' policy through work with politicians statement "Justice in the World'.' · and legislature.. 
APRIL 30,.1976 
Our second role is within the Church. itself;...working · with pa­rishioners, sisters, brothers and priests to deal with issues and prob­lems which affect their own com­munities. When a hospital is closed in a poor neighborhood, rather than in a middle-or upper-class , area, due to budgetary 'cutbacks in New 
· York City. ·we· are the people to whom' the parishioners look to learn · why the cutbacks were made· there. . We also offer ·•people . channels . through which they can become po­litically · involved in · issues which concern them. Bread for-'the World is one such channeL It offers educa: tion about the world-hunger crisis, 
U.S. policy and ·other tangential sub­jects,'and gives information on bills being debated in the Hou.'se and Seri­
•ate which· can· affect world hunger. With'' this · knowledge, people are able to·-vote in· a more :educated manner, and can act often' by· writ­ing letters or visiting congress peo~ ple who are formulating and making decisions ·about current bills. · 
It' is· strange thaf I am in this riew' world; In light, of all the fears and uncertainties of senior year, it seems ·strange, at times; that I have a job at all! It is' strange that·r am 
.an ''activist" "after: so 0much invest.: ment in afr academic pursuit of theology and literature which may 
· have' led immediately ·to graduate or law school.It is strange that,'amidst my criticisms· of · the· Catholic Church, I am-now a part. ofits in­stitutional. structure: 
· '· The peculiarity of my place in.this. world is wearing· away. My commit­ment to influence society toward ·greater 'justice,· in .whatever.· small · ways I·can; is finding fulfillment'and challenge., ,The·: Catholic. Church is itself oppressive in many ways..·It 
· unjustly · confines the role · which womeri: may . play .within it; It 
•alienates many: · the divorced; ,the .minorities ·and ··others,·. since it has not yet learned· how to relate sensi-· tively to'·these · members. Yetdts rhetoric and attempts at responsive­ness-to the Spirit<oLGod rumble with: promise for moveiitent towards a-more·loving and just society.' Arid 
· somehow, if ·one can let go cif the need for total certainty and security, th·e struggles .of senior; year-·: can make way for a tremendous adven­ture, a new and imaginative quest. 


·Tried· ·and True Tricks of Teaching 
' . 
_.,,,. .· 

. A comic strip in The South. Bend Tribune off~red an interesting twist to the analysis of:education. In-:this "Peanuts''. _panel, Linus . began the dialogue by saying that his teacher has an interesting · theory. Charlie Brown, listening intently,·· appeared to be puzzled. His confusion suggests that teachers. are not supposed to have theories; . they_ should know what_ their roles and goals are. Linus continued, "She_ says teaching is like bowHng; all. you. can do is. roll _the ball-down_ the middle .and_ hope you touch most of tJ:ie students," Charlie Brown;-. _Jhe profound gadfly, sug­gested, . "She must be a terrible bowler.". _ . _ 
Willi~ Glasser, well-known_ edu­

. cator and author of Reality Thera1YJJ and a new book, entitled Positive Addiction, would .have · agreed with Charlie Brown at one time because of .the success he has had with his Reality ,.Therapy philosophy and. his implicit ingredients .. of·· involvement and of not giving. up. ''There is •no excuse for improper behavior, unless you choose· to:be irresponsible." But now ..Glasser-~s, realizing. ,'.'that you can point a student in the· direction for proper instruction and discipline, , but the student .can. decide ·that. he will not be. taught. : When . a student decides he will .not learn, he will not 
learn.'-' · · · ·_.,,,;-.. , During-the· opening_ disc~ssion o~: his lectures at ~n education confer­. ence: in Chicago last February, Dr. Glasser spoke .of his friend . Tim O'Reilly, who•· :was -superintendent of schools' in Honolulu, Hawaii. O'Reilly is an educato_r who thought that students _of ·the -public :• high ._· school level who were in their. senior year but did.not have enough credits to graduate should be allowed to receive diplomas ,·anyway· because . they had.put0 their-time in at·schooL. Tim lost his job' soon after making his idea _public. BuLhis successor -after. a: few .months .on the. job. sup-.. ported O'Reilly's original· · thought 
•', ·. ,. 

concerning the distribution of diplo­
mas. "The truth," in Glasser's opin­ion, "is much easier to accept the 
second time around.~' 
Many students decide that school cannot give them anything that is useful, so they give up. They give up bec~use they feel that. giving up is less painful. than trying· unsuccess­
fully. It hurts more. to try than not to try, so ·a failure. identity is ac­cepted quite ·readily. · Wliat· -Tim o•~eilly had inmind was io replace the. notJ}ingness identity with some 
so~.· ~f positive_. recognition: .Why not:-•· give these_. stud~nts :some .hope instead_ of reinforcing _their. ideas: of failure? Instead of ,:telling_ J:ohnny that he is always iate for class, com-. 
pliment him ori something that 'he 
dcies wen and takes ptjde in. A stu­dent ..· needs positive : reinforcement 
and-he needs self-esteem.-But before 
he can re~lly feel good about him­seif, his self-esteem must be changed 
by some outside source of influence~· 
AH too -often:· students: are ·expected to be perfect'. in behavioral and in school work. Perhaps our schools are too\I_emanding. But this: is. probably th·feffect of the authoritarian class~ room. Students. must . not be·-afraid to .make mistakes, ·: .b~ause . they 
can produce :j~enius_ ·and·-creativity 
through insight. . . · ·_--. . ··Glasser has some · ideas which would . contribute to a student's capacity for ·-iriternalizlng .disciplin~ and ' maintaining proper . behavior. The .way of Glasser. indicates that' students -respond well·' to -courtesy. if you .treat the. pupil ·with: respect, you are on the road of generating reciprocal.. respect. -. In· ,.. Glasser's words, . "courtesy· is,· power.'':· People•· react. responsibly to genuine cour­tesy>It is like the golden .rule. The teacher..should treat the student as 
he would wish the student:to treat· 
him. Some . would ·say ·Jhat the student,·, would•: take advantage.. of teachers · who advocated such reci­procity; It's possible.. But.as long as 
i .: • . ) 
by Paul Mestrich 

. . '\ : . ·~. ; .. . 
the "teacher is honest and ·consistent with his students, there should be no problems. Most students want to be responsible and have the need for warm relationships which are high­ly personalized. So Glasser sees the role of the teacher as one that is not:plastic where the-mask, of au­thority is prevalent..The task of the teacher, then, is to remove his mask and become. involved-withi-his stu­dents. . ., . -. •. 
Another healthy. tool of develop­ment and growth is the;teacher's ability to .create laughter. Laughter can be a magical device f6r-icreat­ing a happy environment. As long as the laughter is good-natured and not entwined with ridicule,--the teacher will_,gain the respect and hearts of his students; If ·students can · learn how to laugh. wi* -their. __tE?achers, they; will be -more. relaxed and they will 1 feel .that the teacher. really cares:. If. the teacher cares, more than likely the student ,wilL_care,. and,he'll learn when it is time·.to be serious and concerned with . class materiai. Laughter. can make .,school and education enjoyable and ~can lift them from· traditional' boredom arid passivity. •. · . _:.,.'. .: Dr; Glasser acknowledges.:that we must get rid of failure. In his; book, · Schools Without Failure, Glasser ad­mits that "too much· of-our. educa­
tional sy~tein emph~sizes >failure, Too many.students who ·attend·our 
schools are failing ---: not. only by 
our definition, but by theirs.: Unless we; can. provide schools where stu­
dents can· succeed through• a -reason_7 able use of their.:capacities/. the so, 
cial problems .-of: our' country ,will increase; .We .will ,have more social disturbances and : more· ; persons in prison_s and mental hospitals, more 
individuals who· need social workers 
to ·guide their lives --because they have: become convinced .. that-they 
cannot'.:succeed::fn our _society:.and are :no Ionger•·willing ·to' try;'' ,Dr~ 
Glasser continues,· '.'I urge educators to see to it that their students do tured, well-planned class, meeting Notre Dame prostitute education not become'failures in the first place, each day, is a good starter. Glasser . into a· dollar sign?· Should Father and they ··must do_ this preventive is not talking about the ordinary Hesburgh change his approach when work where it counts -in the ele-.. class discussion. He is talking about he implies that education fosters the · mentary classroom. ·It is here that · a meeting keyed · to :behaving in · search of truth at the :University to the child, :the student, most often .thoughtful socially responsible ways·. · the fact that education· has become forms the lifelong concept of himself . He is talking about -a meeting in an object-centered c o mm o d i t y? as a successful or failing -,person. . which logical orderly thinking takes .· Should our identity be subject· to a That's why theimpact ofschool fail-.. priority.•· Glasser ·is talking about a future orientation? Can.we not have ure is so devastating'; it attacks and · meeting whici-1 involves everyone in.· a success identity now? Can we wipe destroys the child's initial identity the room -one in which students ouf failure in .our time? as a successful person.';:_ •: . . . . .learn to care for and. respect each The above questions need to be 



Some. teachers '.still believe· and· other and where meaningful partici-seriously considered. We need to get cling to the notion that failure is a pation· takes_ precedence ·over the involved wholeheartedly in the edu­good experience and that it will m<h -teacher's "right" answer. cational process. We need to examine tivate students to' do better. Schools ''The whole purpose-of education . our presend1ehavior concerning our produce students arid label them as · is to' enable a 'human being to feel· beliefs and attitudes ·of the value failures by .abiifty groupings and _good about himself and to take re-of a ·university education. It is pos­special remedial·classes. Gfa,sser_re-., sponsibilty for himself, and to teach sible that once we have made a.-value veals . that' "all : students learn by ,, him decision-making." Educator judgment concerning our attitu~es failure is how to fail. · We learn to ; Charles Silberman agrees. "Educa--toward• education, we .can make .an succeed through· experiencing sue-· tion," Silberman writes, -"should pre-individual or a collective plan to cess. When-· schools discover · this : . pare 'i>eople not just to earn a living' change .pr eien t educational be~ simple truth; we will have made but to live a life which is creative; haviors. great progress." . .. . . . .. --. humane,· and sensi_tive.. This means Does Glasser _offer ~n. alternative 
Finally,.the way of William.Glass-:' that the,-,scho(?ls:mu~t provide a_:l_ib.~ plan.that can work?.Wh,ich is more 
•;~ris d~pendent on _. the . ability · of eral;\hu~anizing. ~~ucation: And the conducive to success -the.experi­teachers_,to coinmunicate ·effectively purpo_se()f Iib~I_'ale_ducatio~ must be ence of failure or the experience of with their. students, Class ;meetings· and indeed always. has: been, to edu-success? Do you need grades_in 9rder between teacher_.arid students.pro-; cate·:educators '."'.""'",to ;turn out.me~ to,_cajoJe_you t~ learn,.or do you·­mote such -interaction that.is -non-.· and .women· who ·are capable, of edu-learn more without pressure? W9uld judgmental .. There are no.memorized. eating· their famiiies, t!leir frie~cls, you study. class material if you did right answers., Schools have usualiy . their COf!1muni~ies 11nd,_ most imp_or-nothave to worry abou~ the gradi_ng been structured. around the obedient -tant,. themse~ves.'/. . . _, game? . Is . grade . inflation· a· . valid good boy or good girl who is a pro­Education is devalued.-like :the argument 'Yhe~: the. majority of us ducer. But Glasser. thinks _that think~ dollar. even wh~~ ~!)me quasi~~-d~~-who a~tend Notre Dam_e_ graduated ing sh9uld. be, the main emphasis , in ·. ca tors -use grades, as_ an. alternative in ,t:b~ top. 10.%. of ·o_ur high school our·schools. "Students,should not be· to__ education. Most _often: grades_ l;lre class. and are success~oriented? The ~ested on their memory of __ masses of given as. a reward for being good. ad.ml~istration ·does not hold ·authe material .,rarely .. relevant to, their T~. students .at N otr~. D~e low; or; answers, and. Glasser has a few ideas. lives. · In-i a--world overwhelmed -by· b~c:l grades, convey that :they are b_ad . that raise -. investigating · questions social, economic.·and--political prob-people .. When. confronted .with ._low -which deserve~ consideration. -· . ­. lems, we must. not. deny to students grades . students . lose all self-confl~ · Glasser's_ conclusion is that."only .the _existence of: problems, 9r ;imply. dence_and quit. Often .the successful by, eliminating failure and ii:icreas~_ that: they are.· already solv~d,·••No. si:µde11ts -at Jll~·:uii°iversity are n~t-ing, •.• involvement,• -.:relevance·,: :~nd w~nder school seems · to many the intellectuals,.):>ut those_stu~ents: thinking will we return_.education to· thoughtful young students to.· . be who know how to please the teacher . its original_ purpos~: to produce· a completely, di~orced: from reality.'! a11d ,play .th~· game.-,"Good,grades,", thoughtful,-.c re a·t iv e, emotionally 
Stude·n,ts-:need-:to air their Glasser says,-'~are,the,currencywith-alive student-who -is not-;afraidsto' thoughts. Glasser is concerned-about w_hich students buy approval, -honors try. to · solve the problems we face· . bringing relevance, thinking: and. in­and entrance ·into law school and in the world." volvement into._the school by:helping medical school." ·The.,grading: game. .-·, If we, take_ G~asser seriously, his•·: teachers learn to care ·for and .. be-, is probably anecessary ·evil to· weed·­advice may lead both . teachers and· come friends with the students _with out individuals who ar~ qualified, or students to be better bowlers. 
whom they work. "Teachers·c~n be-· is.it-? Is_competition really;that'im-. come effectively involved with,:stu--portant? Does_·competitlon make a · . •.... ' dei:its in,a number of;ways. A struc~ mockery out_ of education?-Do.we at· 
·: •. t 
, ... .:...,; 

Book Re'7iew 
House. ·· · 

1816 ·is a historical novel about America's centennial; a year plagued by a confused and disputed presiden..: tial election; a·gaudy display of cen­tennial : pageantry and pompous Americans · pursuing ··_.· wealth ·'. and status in a: tacky; tinsel world.·-In· an,· it is a novel for and of our day: ·' The story line is fairly· simple.' Charles· Schermerhorn Schuyler,· the fictionar narrator and bastard son ·of Aaron · Burr,·. has just returned to · America after , fifty· years of self: imposed ·exile iri Europe.·. He has little left to his name except a small . literary' reputation and his beautiful daughter, Em.ma; the widowed Prin~ 
: cess d'Agrigente. Schuyler has lost rriost of his money in ·the Panic of 1873, so he is, forced to write about the centennial exposition and the 1876· presidential -election.·, He also ingratiates himself with ··Samuel Tilden, the favored presidential can­didate, so as to return to France, not, as a struggling literary man~ but as the United States Minister. 

Through Schuyler's journalistic 
· career, Vidal is able to examine the aspiring rich of the Gilded Age. Vidal presents them as pompous 
16_ 
status seekers who have no' real status,. except the dollars:_which they have :stolen at the :experise1·of_· the poor. To borrow from Mencken, they are · the beginning . of· the -Boobus Aniericanus~·,the tasteless, self-righ~ teous beasts 'which have ::come to dominate our•1a·nd;· ,: ·• ,' 
·: Throughout the work: Vidal . con­trasts the world of gaudy ..wealth with the wretched poyerty of a: land of starving immigrants and battered Civil War veterans.. ·• · ····· 
'. Vidal also depicts·· the.·factless pageantry of the Centennial Exposi_. tion· in Philadelphia. ·The:e:x:ariiinas tiori ' is .... extremely ·' relevant,_. for America today.-;The exposition' with its unartful art arid praise to prog~ ress and technoiogy reminds· orie all too well of America's ofttimes meaningless and overdone··Biceriten~· niaL ; " -·· · ' · 
In this accurately detailed investi.:.• gation or° the Hayes-Tilden election,· Vidal· reveals·'the' problems of dis­honesty, ·self-interest and power in· the political sphere, all of which give· interesting illumination to· America's' recent political' travesties. . '·' ·· ·· ·' 
-Everything · is'-open . to criticism and satire, even .the American hero,: Mark Twain. Through the voice ··of Schuyler, Vidal destroys the image· of the "true American," and thereby 
destroys ano_tlier myth'about Arrier­ica. ' . : .. ' .· -· 
The America Vidal examines is ·a world lost to empty values·; meaning­less, · myths , arid · · money-grubbing hands. It'is a:world 'with-·which Schuyler can : ·cope ohly · by using 

. opium. It isa world to which Amer­ica in 1976 may be returning/•: ,: t, · • .. -' '·',; : :;, , In the Beginning ·by· Oliaini 0 Potok-' :··454 pages-48.95:,Published ·m.J 
': ·Alfred A:·Kni>pfJ,,..,;.·,_ :·. _.,_·:·,, ·'·:• · · ·, -.; : :.. : · ' : 
In the Beginning:'ostensibly re:. !ates· the violent emergence of David: Lurie· from· chilahood ;as' a -scholar.-­To the' chagrin and· dismay: of his Jewish'.1parents:'and friends, Lurie doggealy: strives : towards his' per: sonal vision·of the truth which seems to threaten the coherence and mean­ing· of: Jewish dife. Eventually: his pursuit'forces Lurie to move beyond traditional Judaic structures.':-' , ,::. 
•The·story:of'yoimg'Lurie•,is far 

. more compelx than this' and its plot' involves a great deal more: subtlety. As he grows,: the child confronts· a hostile, -menacing world· that, seems implacable.: Lurie's·· attempts: at' conciliation, with it constitute the' real-drama of the_ narrative, not his 
. pursuit of an intellectual truth. 
;; ;:·scHOLASTIC. 

1' J 
1 ] 
· The landscape of Lurie's life is • · Potok.· curiously: close~ his. ~ovel . · In recerit weeks the book has been composed • of painful childhood· m~ . after Lurie has left his Jewish com-attacked on every side, being labelled ness; pubescent, threatening Gen-munity to study Gentile biblical criti-a "gossip book." Yet the aspects of tiles and Jewish· folk demons. It. cism which .. is anathema to his Nixon's'personal life were not used passes froni .the ease .of the "late . commu~ity; At the end of the novel, capriciously, but rather to provide 1920's and the financial ruin of 1929· ·:oavid Lurie is ·still beginning to· llll-.· information so · the authors ·could through the anxiety of the Second · derstand his · place in . a world that · weave the story of the man who was World War to theunmitigablehorror has slaughtered most of his family. isolated from the ·country, his ·ad~ of the, Holocaust. Through "it all, and-past in German death camps. . visors,· his family and even his wife. Lurie is frightened by "a dark horror . But the book also leaves the reader that had no fare •to it. but pierced· . The Final. Days l>y Bob· Woodward with a tremendous sense of empathy with a poisoned sword good people and Carl Bernstein. 476 pages -:-for the former chief executive, and evil. people aiike.u>. . . . '. $10'.~5. ·Pub~ished by .Simon and .somethirig other . Waterga~e .books 
The world hai(a:ri accidental' qua.I_. 'Schuster_. .do not do. This book, in contrast to ity which intrud~s· ·on the best' times; . others, is neither blata~tly pro-Ni~on· interrupts.the happiest moments and . After reading:the Newswe~k two-noranti~Nixon; ~or tha(reason alone· routs the sacred:Lurieviews_ his own . part coriderisation of The Final Days, it is interesting. This. book is· the existence as precarious and insignifi-it is not siirprising that much of the conclusion, of sorts, of thistory that cant. IIis _every movemenL:-..t~•, reaction, to, it has been_.negative. the reporters began with All the sch6o(to synagogue, to adolescence;· .. Bu(after' reading the book; it was ·. President°'s· M~ ., • · . . .· to scholarship.~js._a: beginning'aiici,-" obvioui(that the Newsweek versioii ; But the one q~~stion that ~~~ins;. a·s his earliest memory reminds him,· ..did The Final Days a grave injustice. that was Dot tackled tiy tlii{report.:.' "all beginnings are hard." . '. .· . . .. In condensing the second book. by ~ ers .and needs to. be, is, the question,. 
To.make a beginningJs to assert Bob Woodward and Carl_Berristein· of.-.. \vhy? Why did the Committee .to.Re­t~a{ the arbitrary_ 'arid. caprir;ious .. their investig~tion .of Watergate, .. elect 1:he,:President try tc{bug\i-he natur~ of reality<is 'only'. superfidai;: . "elements. from. the book. that wen(. ':iieni'o c'r a ti Cheadquartei-sf Why thaf.there is purpose. and meaning :· primarily .used. to provide,~ back:.. ; ·w~uld 'anyo~e try to bug··a candidate. to. one's life. For. Qavid, Lui:ie, :,ea.ch .._, gr~und on . the..characters . involved,: who \vas effec,tively destroyinii' him-; 
: beginning. is .a new·.'struggle' to :see· .we;e· presente<f:by the magazine as : self?; The "why" is just as valid as a his own. particulaj significance in,~,, part of the text.:The Newsweek,ver-/,question. as the .'.'how." Woodw~d malevolenL· world .without., boi'uia.<, sion tc>ok.sections of the book out of .. and Bernst:ein, in these two books, aries.. His: sta~ts. tho~gli'°so~etimes ··.:conteit, misrepresented time periods. answered the.second but ~ot the'first' indefinite· :and .irresolute,. ieaci''a.o~ :and presented footnoted material as. . question.; . . :' '. ' . . . . . curious .·paths: which, givei'sensibl~ .• part of the text.itself. ' ·-·~ ' . : : ,.This book is easie~· reading than. shape to "the whispers' and sighs _and . ..·The. book, .·based on-the intervie'YS .. All. The,_President's. Men. and • prob:. glances and the often barely discern-.. of 394 . people, ·is divided into two ably more interesting to the non.:. ible gestures• that are .the reaf:mes.:.. . parts..The first >part covers. the time .. : Watergate buff. Together though, the sage ca.qiers in_ our ~~isY;:World.",,::'.-~;._period' of.No~~mber a;; 1~73·; to·.July: . , ; tw:o .b(!oks· . unfold ; a.;story.:that .is.; 
In the Mishnah, he finds. th~t ";J'~ws .. ;23, .1974; the second part, the ti~e. ~m~ing and tl'.agic, bringing to Ught have been talking to each other for . from july 24 until the resignation, _one of .the-most complex stories of .two_th~\lscµtd y~ars about, the Bi~le.11 -. _eac.h ;_ day represented·: by.:_its.·..own . this ,century, _that of. the i:esignation Through. his/study_ of this talking >.ch~pter. :, · · , '. ,: of.the_president-a resignatjon·that across the centutjes he endures the ·;; ;The Final _Days is not -written in.. _was precipitated by' a break-in two darkness and fleetingness of his.own.-the investigative style. of ::All _the . years' previous to ensure avictory in life.. I( is in. his mother's proud President's Men. It-is.written as ifa ;.an election that .was won by the smile at hfs, bar mitzvah.that David ,, camera was in on every meeting and ... grea:test plurality ever: , . realizes ,that: .the reading ·of Torah ,: conference, .using an :authoritative 
h,as made the _agony .worthwhile. :~,, narrator.,-,The'. ..reporters, are never; . , . , . . · If Potok's~work:were;merely :ro;,.,.-mentioned<in-the entire text. . . . -.,.... :_. mancec-it,,would -end·.;here.:_Yet,,the .i:, '.,To ,jog ,theJ.reader~s memory, the CORRECTION author.constructs ·a: :novel .in :which ~,,;authors summarize.riicely in.:the first,·,; :.• . · . ·,., 1 .• ; .• • • ·· .--· : '. ..• ' ,· ·: his central; character stiU has a'need'' :,four chapters the .·history :oLthe . . ·.. The ar.Ucle : :written by F)-., to be 'li.is0:"own David,;;, to<be•him-Y ;Watergate, investigation. The· book·:: .James Burtchaell ~hkh appeared : self. :While; he· has. an obligation-;to , . ..; detafls...the • behind-the:-scenes activi-.: ; in. the 1asUssue of Scholastic as, .walk the··path ,of: !generations in his :... ties.'of;the,Saturday: Night Massacre,. . ".Wishes' for the J:>_ope" is an ex"'., familY by>studylng:·,Toi-ah, David• :'"tlie-:tape :·problems,. the Supreme' cerpt.from a longer article _en"'. mustfollow·his·ownparticularroute.·( Court;ruling;on .the~tap~,a.nd:tlle · · titled '-'.tffuman Ll.fe' ~nd_Human He cannot :.simply: repeat .the past;-: : . preparatior:i: for: the ,Ford·,presiden-. , , Love/'. published. injhe,~ovembei:, 
· . but he mu_st'.Inal{~)'living w'aters• of.· ~Y, preseri~ing a backdrop f9r_: th_e--, 5, 1~68 issue of Commonweal.' .. . his ownll: he·must have his'.own·life, /events :as, they i.unfold,. rather·than: ; :;.-_, . '. ,:-:,. ·' 
and:resonarice·cwithin·the tradition; ;//:focusing in on:the events themselves. . ~ ,,;.,;_ ::. , .i;: · .. , : , , 
. . . . . . . . .. . . . -,, . . . . -. . 


A Year'. Later:: 
., .. 



A·,,Look· at Devfne 
·by Tom Kruczek 

-.. . 
Dan Devine is coIIIing off a turbulent first_ year as Devine: I'm not in the least bit intere~ted in talking the Notre Dame head football coach. In an interview about it here. I left a good ball club at Green Bay and with Scholastic on _April 12, .Devine discussed last a lot of very close friends both in the organization and. season and the coming season in detail. In the process on the .field. Notre: Dame is a great :place to coach the head coach reveals m~ch about his personality ,and anyplace you coach is going to have pressure and attitudes. involved. . . 
Scholastic: Last year much of the season was plagued :· Schola~tic: In de~lirig with the kind of pressures .that by rumors of team problems. How do you feel about . you encounter in coaching and especially here at Notre this problem recurring this year? . . .. Dame; wouid you say' that those pressures come from . 
.\within the person or·is it from elsewhere? . _· • Devine: Looking over the· history of Notre Dame and · · reading the write-ups_ a.bout the things that came out Devine: A person puts it on himself no matter where of the dressing roo_rri at_ Southern Cal in 1974, I would ·. he coaches. It's a matter'of a person's own personality say I got by rather ·lightly: I think one·of your jobs and not of the schoof-Any coach that has coached here here' is to try to ignore that [the rumors] and realize . will feel the same;·kind 'of pressure, but. the job 'is that some of that is bound to happen by tlie"nature of . different. It's very. time-consuIIIing' a.nd is . generally the school. We're not concerned about the rumors at .. misunderstood· because_ the general'public can't' keep. this point; we have a fresh approach fo this season . up'_ with academic strides the University ha's ·ma.de and and intend to keep .it that way. . the real relegation of'football within the framework 
' -. . of the. University as ·just ·another extracurricular ac_. Scholastic: Is the team likewise using a fresh approach tivity. ·. We've had the least amount.of spring' "practice to the season or 1do you'· think that they'll have any· of any other school in tlie country. because of tests lingering_ questions as a·teSUlt of Iclst season? ·.· :. and things-in. the evenings... • . ' . ',. 
Devine: !don't think that'the team has any questions Scholastic: Then with' .the delays· and injuries which· as a result of.last season. ·we won eight games in one · -'can occur in·the spring, it. comes ·down to.the question:• of the toughest:schedules Notre Dame has played in Is spring' practice worth it? · .' the last 15 years.· We played very· few schedules re­cently where· most of the ·teams we played were · Devine: It's of fantastic vaiue to: a young 'tea'rr1."'Con~ winners: Last .year :was one of those years. The .• ceivably we. could start eight true sophomores arid Pittsburgh team is a· good: example. As late as 1972 'here we're not· talking about red-shirted sophomores they were 1-10 and last year, 'they won 8 games and -_who are-actually juniors. · · ,: '·· ·0 • • a bowl game. They ~id a ·very credible job. 
Scholastic: Last year if seemed like· we had a number Scholastic: _What about tile P~ttsburgh game'and the· of people who had the talent to play quarterback and effect that moving it up so early in the schedule (to -· this year· all of those people: are, back.· With·· these September 11) _will h~"'.e? -· -, people back,: are you planning to make a game-to-game 
· · decision· on the quarterbacks or are you'. going :to pick Devine: I think it will have a positive effect because out one person and stay with him through the year? -,, in my 29 years of coaching, I've never been-more em­barrassed by a performance as I was last year; and Devine:: We will have a· set quarterback next year.. I'd assume most of our players have that same kind of Nobody:,couJd have more admiratiowfor Rick: Slager feeling.· < and Joe' Montana;. they are both, fine: quarterbacks. 
We now have:to try and evaluate the·talent-after the Scholastic: A lot-of people have mentioned the in­spring,game and we will make·a.(!ecision after spring tensive pressure of coaching at Notre Dame. Now you practice . is over. Then we wilt have, a: number-one have coached at two of the niore'performance-oriented .. quarterback..The thing to remember:.is .that to play jobs in .the country in Green Bay and here. How a schedule like.we are, and.expect-to win, ·we need would yoll C<?mpa.re t.he .two j_obs} superior people:iWhen you have·only one of 24 seniors 

. . . 

drafted [Ed Bauer was a red-shirt and .belonged to the and I can't keep up with what he says, he gets me lost. 
class ahead] in 4 7 rounds, and the fact that the pro But we will get a time limit. If you take 30 every 
scouts have stayed away from us this year like we had year and you get no attrition, then you're going to 
malaria, well, it means that you're nof playing with be giving out too many. 
superior people. The. year before there were 10 players 
drafted that I can think of and that's what Notre Scholastic: . What did you find the most gratifying 
Dame is going· to have to have just about every year. about last year? 
When you win eight games with just one player drafted 
by th.e pros, Ihavfto be very proud of our team. Devine: ·I'll say this, there were three things that 
made . me ·very ·proud last year. First, we had the ' Scholastic: Ho~ would you compare last year'~ captains; fewest number of major injuries that a Notre Dame .. Jim Stock and Ed;:i3auer, to this year's captai~s Willie: team has had in maybe the last 20 years. Second, we 
Fry and Mar~ McLane?, · · had the fewestnumber of football players on probation 
for.the second semester; and third, we won eight ball 
Devine: I think we're fortunate to have· two like Mark ·games. For this year, any neutral observer would tell 
arid ,Willie and I.was very fortunate to inherit Jimmy you that our schedule is beefed up, plus the so-called 
Stock.and Ed Bauer. They were great and I think that patsies on. our schedule are no longer patsies,· so it 
Willie.and Mark will be too; they've given every indi~· · will be a· tough schedule and we'll have to work hard 
catiori .thatthey will be excellent captains. . .. to .do well. 
Scholastic: This year. it seems that 'you have your own :scholastic: You seem rather proud of the-Notre Dame 
system; ·your own people around you and-:as a• result, image of the student athlete. 
you're_.more relaxed. 
.J Devine: I have always been that way. I've been that 
Devine: That really ·does help; It tak~s acoupleto three way everywhere I've been, but especially here. There 
years to 'get the feel of a campusi This year's team have been anumber of people who played under me who 
doesn't: have· a large senior class, but we're really later got, their M.D.'s, lawyers and Ph.D.'s. One year 
working ·hard this .year to make up for experience. The . .I· star'ted, two guards who had national academic, not 
scrimmages have been very .enthusiastic so far and · athletic, scholarships. 
that's.a good sign because it's tough to beerithusiastic 
in the spring:: · · · · Scholastic: Would you like to sum it up with a closing 
comment?' · 
Scholastic: What about' the. NCAA scholarship· rule · 
and their" limiting of the. number that you can give · · Devine: It's . been an interesting year and I'm really 
out? I've, read that Joe Paterno of Penn State ha~ . looking forward to next year and I'm sure the team· 
been. talking about not giving out as many this year• is too. Despite what some people say was kind of a 
si)_he could ~onform to the limit in future years. rough year, for me personally· it really. wasn't. The 
' . student body, the media, the fans and the alumni were 
DCvine: .Well, there is going to be alimitation; exactly . very fair to me. Naturally you have a few exceptions 
\Vhat it is;going to be at this point I'm not sure, because .·. to that, but you have a few exceptions anywhere· you 
th.ese'things change. Lastyear we didn't give out 30 . go; it is part. of the game. I'm certainly not disen­
scholarships, just 29. It's'hard for me to keep up with chanted with anything and I'm just enthusiastic about 
what;·Joe says at times'.·. I've known him for 20· years the future.: 
APRIL' 30, 1976 
Gallery 
.For rnyself :photogr~phy bernrnes a rne~n~ to record interplay ofdifferent elements; . musicians charged by the reaching streaks of light, figures strolling the border ofland and s.ea at .the interface ofnight and day,single .combat in the midst of a: whirling mass of. 
faces;; . . . . . 
Ed Brower senior, electrical engineering Notre Dame , 

And what will the aim of photography be? Much the same as that of poetry, music and • philosophy: a .creation of previous. unknown or rare sensations; or even a means to express symbol or thought. ability to see everything in its quality of 
thing.. ·... . . . 
Tom Paulius senior, civil engineering Notre Dame 

I 
I 
i

I ... 
' 

i • .. · 
1··.­

l -· SCHOLASTIC 





Sex Ed 109? 
by Mary.Beth Miracky. 

For us, body education is core cialized library complete with films · feasibility of the method determined education. Our bodies . are the and records which may be . used. on -in iight of the• physical examination. physical bases from w7!,ich-we the premises. Although Planned Par-The: final decision·is made by .the move out into the worul; igno­enthood services none of the local doctor arid the patient, after which. rance, uncertainty -even, at · universities on a regular basis, ac-the doctor . prescribes the chosen worst, shame -about our phys­cording to Schultz, "In general, peo-method. ical selves create in us an aliena­ple are using our services." . The final stage.in the visit is· the tion from ourselves that keeps Director of Patient Services Mary exit interview with the nurse who us from being the whou/ people -Borders ran through a typical visit goes:o'ver information_ with th~ pa­that we couul be. and medical examination. The visit tient on the nature and use of ··the 
Our Bodies, Ourselves takes approximately two: hours. 111e -contraceptive ..method. prescribed. The Boston Women's. Health patient signs in, views a film on.the The. important thing, according to Book Collective breast exam, contraceptive use, PAP Borders,-is that the,patient under~ 
smears and other-medical informa-. stands the contraceptive process. · This article began as a description ti~n. Borders explitlned that the next Feedback is encouraged both at the 
, of the Planned Parenthood program step is an-interview with a nurse or time of the visit and afterwards. of St. Joseph County. What was once nursing assistant. The interview is _ Patients are encouraged to askques­the follow-up on a hunch that this private and is for the· purpose _of tions: "Call _us if ·you . have any topic would . be something "new and -compiling -a medical history. which questi_ons. The only -dumb questions different," soon evolved into_ an is "the only thing the doctor has'' in are questions that ·are not asked," amazing education_onhuman'sexual-the· way of prior ,knowledge about explained Borders. 
-ity. ·The following pages are an. at~ the patient. Borders emphasized the The paperwork .completes the in~ tempt_ to share this experience. ·importance of this intervieV{,_ advis-. terview _·and · -consists .of consent 
"Family planning is more than ing patients to tell as much as they forms _which state the advantages taking pills," said Planned Parent-know. "We. do not know them;" she and disadvantages of the particular hood's Director of SociaF Services' said. , "They've.got to let us know method . involved. This step is re­Kathy Van Wielder during a;visit . them to help theni.''---. __ ... -quired, according to Borders, "so that to the Chapin St. headquarters , After 'the interview, Borders ·ex-we are sure w.hen you leave us that last month. The trip included a tour plained · that a series of· tests are · you know." Appofotments for a visit of the facilities and talks with-sev-taken" · Blood pressure .and. _weight are usually available within the week eral staff members. are recorded; a hemoglobin count is by contacting 1fys: Heden Wends at 
Director of Education·-"Bunny" taken for detection of anemia; a the Chapin St facility; Schultz explained the education pro-: urine analysis is made to-detect pro-Fees are determined on the indi­gram is concentrated into. three tein and sugar; aserologicaLtest is vidual's ability -to. pay. Bo.rders ex­areas. The first is "parenting" where done'. for the detection of syphilis plained that in the case of students, expectant parents ·are shown what '(this merely involves: taking blood .· the individual rat~er than the family this job involves, The_ second ·is. · ·from the arm); and finally a pelvic.·· income is _considered. No one is human sexuality and includes work-. abdominal and bimanual breast exam/ turned. away, . according to Borders; . shops and rap sessions on the differ-is given at w_hich are present.both a Field: Service Directors Tim Link ent aspects of this complicated area. doctor and a nursing assistant. At and -Van \Yickler explained the so­The third area Jnvolves contracep~ ~ _this time, the doctor explains self-.-cial_ services ·and community rela­tive education. It's not enough,, ac-b0 reast examination, takes" a: GC cu1-<·-tions. Van Wickler explained that cording to Schultz, to merely receive . ture for gonorrhea, takes a PAP. Pianned Parenthood does pregnancy contraceptives.' The individual must smear (both vaginal. and cervical) , .'. testing" arid . · counseling. Appoint­
-also be educated_intheir purpose and and performs_heart~lling and.thyroid-_· .. ments for pregnancy testing.must be use. ·. -· tests ori the patient.· ·· · ·: made· 48 days·after the woman's last For those new t<>. Planned Pareilt-• -. Now the individual's choice of con7 _ ·:period.._Counseling. is ---available to hood, the facilities include a spe-. traception .: is __ considered and the-. _help the· individual deal with the 
: _·,;SCHOLASTIC. 

-
... 

crisis, if there is one, explained Van .. necessitated a: similar. excursion to Wickler, who is concerned with "go~ · tlie Student :Infirmary• here on earn­ing somewhere from there." The·: pus to· see what: is available to the . pregnancy counseling··service is •. a .: students. at Notre Dame. In a talk volunteer-manned group trained by-,. with:-))r. Robert Thompson, Univer­
Planned Parenthood to counsel and · slty j,h.ysician/many questions were "offer alternatives." .. · answered. There is no gynecologist 
According to Van Wickler, a "de-. . currently erirployed by the Univer­
cision" must be.made.in the case of a positive 'pregnancy test. The alter­natives are explained and necessary services,.provided. Four alternatives are presented_ to the individual: ·in .the case pf marriage, : premarital· counseling is offered; if adoption is the choice, referrals to ~ppropriate agencies. are·_ made, as_ are . abortion . referrals;. and for the single parent; counseling _and ,parenting,.informa~ tion are provided. '; . : ,_ . . _,Prenatal. ;care. is ·explained: and provided: for'. th~ _,patient.,After de°'. livery;· ·follow-up;; :care is needed,· according' to Ivan' Wickler .. There is the. medical follow~up, '.'including coittraceptive.service, as welfas the· psychologicai foilow~up--deailng,with decision:.problems ind _family ·.diffi~ c~lties. ,. These :women i.<>,ften: need . help _getting-;','back into"the;commu~, nity," expl~ined·Van Wic~lei;~: ~-· · , ) . :~or· ,_the_·· regular -co_ntraceptor,· Thtirsday afternoons are set aside for 
s):>eciaf cO.u~~eling.:~.Infert~lity :coun~ 
seling is also available. According.to Vari;· wickler, the most _numer~us seeking ::counseling _are the ~•pr~or­gasmic?,woinen. :This problem:is·at~ tributed: primarily.:to a:Jack--of knowledge ·and t~.problematic; atti­tudes:: tow~ird: sex;. explained _Van Wielder./'.;;,: . ·: -: :-' . ,_' ;;:;,' ..';;,iThe;fastest growing method by, choice,·o.Lcoupies';__ in.the . 'area· . of iai£ily 'j,ianning . is .. sterilization, : ac~ cording 'fci: Vari Wickler>'.Planrieci ~aren!hoo,~,mii~e~ :feiefr~I~· in -!~·is area. Approximately.half of the peo-. pie ·selecting thii{-option are ,female; although;· .acco~ding., to Vaii-Wick-. le~, "yasectomies are· mor'e: _popui~~. all ~he 'time.'! ·: . ' . .. . . . . 
A visit·.:~to Planned -Parenthood ·. 
. · sity because "the m~ed is not there," according to Thompson. He said that not· enough students request. ·the services of such a specialist to war­_rant a ;staff addition. The .infirmary · will· do .PAP smears and pelvic ex­aminations, according to:Thompson. If a student needs other gynecologi­cal attention, referrals .are made. to South Bend. specialists and an: ap­pointment can be ·quickly. secured through the infirmary, he said. ... ' .','Most .oLthe education part:we would , feel would· come . from· the University. itself," said ..Thompson.. He . mentioned .that -sex education should be: put' into the curriculum earlier and suggested some sort;of addition.· to ·.the freshman·· P.E.' .classes.:No literature on birth con-­troLor:·planned parenthood is: dis­tributed,:at ·the-'infirinary· because there seems to be·no'need, according to Thompson; however,.he·added; "I have'. never felt any pressure :frorri the University-not to do it/' · -~.­· Finally; -the ·confidentiality· of,-the visits was stressed by Thompson; All a student-has to say, :he ·explained,­is,·-'-'I:'would :like-to. keep"this ·per;. .sonat"· Medical records':are -not available to a'riyone in the Univer~· sity outside the_medical'personnel a't'. the: infirmary, so' confidentiality: is insured/Thompson, explained. . University 'psychologist-'"arid Psy-· chological Services staff· member :Dr.' James Brogle"said that'.confidential~ ity: is ·,also' maintained'<at· Psych Services. They offer -counseling ''.fo the area of ·social ~and sexual prob­lems in addition· _to other" types"'M counseling. ·There. is,.also-a:,referral system; according fo Brogle,:idr the student ·who\wants (other--or addi­
tional heip; He mentioned that_: fees 
are minimal. "Students are . offered 
unlimited credit and can defer pay­
ment. If,.fees _still pose a problem, 
arrangements will be made." 
After talking to some of the local . institutions which offer help to Notre 
Dame· students in the areas of sex­
uality, a visit was paid to a woman 
suggested as "a good resource per­
son.". A member of the Board of 
Directors --at. Planned. Parenthood, 
a member of. _the United Religious 
Community task force... on sex edu­
cation and a Catholic mother of 13, 
Mary Rickner,. qualifies as some. sort 
of authority on the subject. . · 
Rickner explained the. basic_ igno­

rance she is fighting with her educa­
tion programs; -She also mentioned 
the fact that althoughthere isyery 
vocal opposition : to any kind: or sex 
education ·in. the 'schools,,_ "a:· lot .of 
parents ·think ' this -is -being ·'.taken 
care of .in. the,schools,• so -they· don't 
do' as good a job as they otherwise 
might have." Then she.hit on ·some­
thing that became the:basis for the· 
broadening iri iscope : of this · article . 
"Most· young people ·are· just falling 
into . sexuality without responsibili.:. 
ty," she emphasized;.'!The whole in­
abiiity·· to .. make decisions ·is: the 
problem." ,·· .•. ~, .. · 
·In .a second· interview:with Kathy Van 'Wickler, the. enormity of::the problem brought· to 'Ught by, Mary Rickner . was revealed;. "I · feel the college communitiesiare' areas -'that we· really',have not'reached/1 · she said.:, She then: cited· some statistics on problem pregnancies: 56%i of;all· problem pregnancies . occur 'in :the 18~25 age group, and 35% of-these are students; according.to VarrWick~ ler. : ."This · does· not ·anywhere; near refiect·the•·number of problem preg-' nani::ies'in the community. These'.are only the ones that mimage to get to Planned Parenthood,'" -she·stated. -: : 
:-(~~What· this says:to me is that there are a large 'nwriber-of young people in university. settings wh~ h~ve had 
I 
! 
-1 

____, 


no , prior experience with decision-making, 'and they suddenly must rely only on: themselves in ,making their decision .about sexuality . .Very fre­quently they don't make a conscious decision at all and then -they come through our problem pregnancy pro­gram.. Contraception is a decision-making process. It's not just some­thing that just happens to you," Van Wickler said. She offered values clar­ification as.a possible beginning to a solution to the problem.. , 
Since , "values clarification" and education supplements were sug­gested as solutions -to what .was be­ginning to emerge as· a "decision~ making". problem, Father Terry Lally; , Vice-President of Student Affairs and teacher oLthe-.course, ''Sex: ,and Marriage," was.' next on the list to be visited. Lally said that in the area of counseling, he either does it himself or.makes referrals 'to Father Griffin, : Father Dunne and Father Stella. "I think priests are more familiar :in some -ways with the · past religious. upbringing_ .that our own students have," he· ex­plained: He also. mentioned James and Marianne.::Roemer: or Dorothy Limbert as lay alternatives .to .reli­gious counseling.·. . 
; As' an educator, Lally calls for "more·: , interdisciplinary · ·conversa­
t. ,,.. 1 ; " 1 · . 

wns. mvo vmg a mu tidisciplinary approach" to the topic. In the· ·area of sex education, ''We're pretty far behind,". he said. :Aiso, · interper.: sona.l values education, "I don't think we're.,getting enough of that.'' He termed Notre Danie a"wasteland of relationships" _where people are·end­lessly,experimenting, but could defi­. nitely'· benefit from some:. guidance. He -thinks basically the students' are 
. ''afraid ·of intimacy." '... . . . When asked about the success of his "Sex and. Marriage" · course; he 
·-commented, -'!The overall .value of the _course was graded 01.it' at 3.7. 
What students .are saying is· 'we University .has a responsibHity in 
. . . . . '




"·•, 
a program "like the one at Yale" which, consists of, a series, of talks by "the best people available" on a variety of approaches to the subject. The· talks, he suggested, could take place· in a large public· place like -~he Engineering Auditorium· where many people could attend; 
But what , about ·the' , students themselves? :•'There's .just that "kind of base foncern, 'What'll I do if she gets··pregnant?'-1' commented _How­ard R;· A. Jack Swarbrick., He con~ 
, tinued, "So much of the problem is atmosphere.'' When asked for a solu­tion, Swarbrick suggested more ef­fective dealing-on the halllevel. ·He mentioned building a section into the R., A. training course dealing in this area: Most·of all, he explained,, ','The University's. biggest responsibility is to, do something about the atmo­sphere." · . , 
::Undergraduate ' Damian Leader thinks· students need some sort: of "moral direction" in· the form of a '!positive example." He explained; "Ifyou provide some sort of.positive example for people, that's going to be more effective than. telling them, 'Don't do that.'" · · · · . •. · · A. "lack, of responsible decision-making" is a serious problem in any area, so the question was _raised as to the University's :responsibility-in 
the area ·of·.· s·e·xu·auty..·... Lally,· Swar­
brick_. and Leader· made concrete suggestions. Others :were less speci­fie. ·,, · , · 
"Sexuality;· although we· may like to think it can l:ie collectively legis­fated, ultimately becomes an indi-_ 
·vidual responsibility, and the Univer. sity ·should try to -impress tliat _on 
the . students," said graduate .. stu-. -.:-were the real stuff I· was made 
denf Terry Phelps. She also feels strongly that studentsneed to. kriow where the· school arid' its leaders stand. 
· , 'Eileen Concannon, Assistant Rec.; ·tor. of _Walsh Hall, said th~t the 
other problem "such as security, re-_ ligion, and family. It's hard to sep-, arate someone's sexuality problems from their growing-up experience," she· explained. ·, : Specific or not, all saw a definite 
responsibility on tµe part of the Uni­versity to help· students deal with sexuality .. The final ·question then to ,put forth is, "Well, what is being done?," Unfortunately, it did not take long to find out that the answer is, 
"Not.much." ,,, · ·· · 
,', There is ·emerging, however, one 
noteworthy effort being initiated by 
the Office of Campus Ministry~ Sister 
Jane Pitz· explained:. the ·movement 
as a grouping of educators, people 
known to be active in this area, and 
other interested individuals·"to er~ 
ate· a solid:·academic offering and· to 
build it into the system." The moti­
vation behind the grouping, accord­
ing to Pitz, was the belief" that 
"there has never been enougl{ done 
satisfactorily." She added' that _the 
response has·been··good. "People are 
very. cool)erative.''. ·, _ . . 
So this ''experience" of "an amaz­
ing education on human sexuality" 
has taken both the author and the 
reader.from the pfagmatic aspect of · 
planned parenthood to· the moral 
view "of. sexuality as involving "re­
sp'onsible_ ·.decision-making';•.·on. the 
part of the.:individual and the Uni­
versity. The reasori: i_s expressed in 
the following .. quote :from Ingrid . 
Beng1s' book; Coinbat in the Eroge­

nous zone_; 
; . · <What I discovered in th~_midst of 
•:my . drive toward•· emancipation was that sex, love, hurt, and hate 
. •; of . ,...· . . The fin;l inquiry comes f~oin a· .work by Joseph Blenkiris6pp· en­
' titled, Se:x:ual,ity .~nd _the Christian Tradition.".· . ·.: orie question we want to _ask .. ;· is whether the Christian can accept his sexuaHty . 

want 'this cotirs~.• '' Lally'suggested ·•·· thkarea as·· fiiuch.as ·in ·that·of.·any· ·. openly and.without guilt or fear.. _..''.· 
. .'.­
26. 


You can always tell •when a big pen, book-all with NOTRE DAME price. There are no worries in many weekend is arriving at Notre Dame · emblazoned in the most eye~catching . cases of coming . up .with the pay­by looking beyond Cartier Field. For place. Once again, a· Notre Dame merits to pay the bills. Yet for all it is there tha.t ·the huge "mobiie "trivia room," complete with plaques, the conveniences of the· state insti­paru'es" · descend. upon the Golden glasses and blanket completely filled tution, the large numbers of students Dome, .transforming the peaceful a neighbor's den back home stands make individuality a · hopeless fields into an oversized, outdoor out in my mind. Perhaps the only bit dream. For the_ most part, the fa. Nickie's. They. start arriving .from·. of memorabilia this gentleman didn't cilities for training are excellent, but the. toll · road. Thursday afternoons . have in. his room was some sod froni the spirit, the camaraderie needed for and, come Sunday eves, the big bears the Stadium, and he vowed "to be · excitement is in many instances .ab­slowly meander to the points where getting some at the Alabama game." sent. Of course, schools like Ohio they originally came from: Residents .of the various . areas _ State, Michigan and Penn State have 
Of course this is a commonplace Irish teams visit are especially curi-their own dynasties, but there are occurrence throughout the. country. ous.of the Notre Dame mystique. At over forty other states remaining. Saturday afternoons on every college last year's· Georgia Tech game, per-, Everyone. also wants to play for campus. But to.many, the desire to haps ·the -oddest character at the .Notre Dame, regardless of size or travel as mapy as '15 or·20 hours . stadium-.· was the Notre Dame fan. weight.· The smaller athletes are in a crammed VW just for three Here he, was; an ant. in the peanut-discriminated; against to a , certain hours of a football game's enjoyment butter sandwich of life, but .he was extent · here, forcing the · conscien­is a little ·hard to fathom. · What the hardest· cheerer of the entire · tious athlete to the smaller school, makes. this situation more difficult, place.. One. journalist from .the At-where he meets a calibre of talent on to comprehend is the fact that a good. lanta media: asked us,• "How can you his own level. The dreams of playing number. of these weekend diehards •get such a ·kick out of a little guy in the ACC will remain just that-never attended Notre Dame. ;::: all dressed up like a fairy?" Of·-dreams . 
. During midsemester break; I was course, when someone. belittles -the, Coaches will always .be_, giving ·driving through -my old hometown ., Leprechaun. in such a demeaning lockerroom pep talks to their young and saw a very peculiar.sight.· Since way, he'd better learn _hciw -to run. charges quoting the famous Rockne there are only four ,Notre. Dame very:fast. But I guess that is what scene from the movies. <There will graduates ·. in Albany, the. odds: are Notre· Dame is all . about-:--we _are always be more than enough tailgate quite remote that you'd find anyone different. ,We always stay at the best. parties every Saturday afternoon, with a Notre Dame bumper sticker hotels, do the most exciting things, increasing· the business of ·every driving with' area plates.' .But -sure·. get an-the national coverage, excel· · liquor storein America. Radios and enough, as' passing cars on a busy in. athletics, .and even balance the · televisions will be blaring the Fight street, a yellow VW was going:.in books year. after year, continually Song until our. ears go deaf. And the opposite direction with a NOTRE staying in the black. Not many other -there will always be some drunken DAME sticker on its rear window. schools can boast of this reputation, Irishman (or anyone in that regard) Now to many of.you, this scene but we ·have achieved ,it through who,is willing to die for the Irish would be very ordinaryin your town, some very:hard•years of dedicatio~. . cause. There ..will always be that but ..this was·• indeed.. something Not every school can be like Notre Notre Dame mystique:-nooneknows strange· in Albany. Dam~we. are such_ a national -uni-where it came from._ or why ·it did. 
• We all know of. the tremendous versity, that we have no real limits. But it's there. And besides, how can volume of merchandise .the Book-. This .is the problem with the state you get psyched over any school store sells each game .day---every· and small schools. The.state type of with a chicken as mascot? I mean, visitor must have his (or. her) shirt,·. education prepares one in the educa~· they've never made a movie, "Arthur hat,. scarf ~in applicable weather), tional .process· at a very reasonable Fonzorelli, All American, have they? 
APRIL' 30,-1976 
-. . . : . 


by Bill Delaney 
SEVEN: Ara Parseghian's final game as head coach of Notre Dame was the 1975 Orange Bowl classic-against Alabama. There was a tremendous amount of emotion 
· as the two teams took the field: Many of the Irish were TEN: The class of 1976. We have experienced a great playing hurt,:. but it didn't matter; this was the final deal of change in' our four years -at du Lac; The be­game for the man who had turned around the·fortunes ginning of coeducation; the reemergence of the basket­of· Notre Dame football:-: There:was no way that he ball program; the National Championship•-yes, itwas • was -'going to lose. The, finaf·niargin of victory was quite a four years for our class. And we were there ~ · · double from ·the previous year's ;contest, and .it made on· St. Patrick's Day for _the NIT; on the shores of the victory all -the more sweeter for th~ finest of all Miami, Beach for :the Orange Bowl; Bourbon Street on college coaches., .., .-, New Year's Eve,· and much more. Notre Dame' may : : ':··. ~ ? .. ' . never enjoy the·athletic success it has. had over the , ,_SIX:·· :J_ohn Wooden-created a·, dynasty. at UCLA, past four years.·· Fortunately for us, ·we were there stressing sound defense and, strong passing.and funda­to enjoy· it alt · · · ' · : nientals. :His results included:·.10 national champion­
ships arid;:countless All-Americans·.arid coaching' hon­NINE:·Who will ever forget the final 2:33 of the UCLA • ors; He was irideed the rriaster.',He.won his-glory with gamEnn 1975 where Digger Phelps found'hiniself cata-,,· big; men and· smalLones; :with black ones· and white pulted into the smartest college:'coaches by virtue of. ones. ··And ·all. the time, he 'was :coaching "for .the his' come~from-behind ,upset ·of UCLA? Overcoming a · boys." ·He defeated .Digger Phelps five ·times during 12-point 'deficit behind the spectacular play of John· ourHour •years, but<our. losses, gave ,us much in Shumate and Gary Brokaw;•the 13,343 screaming fans , knowledge· against-other, powers.-;Wooden gave; and quickly made the: ACC center court the.biggest party·· ::we listened. '· . . :/. ,." , . the Notre Dame campus has· seen since• kegs were • , . .-1 · banned. on campus.. For John. ·Wooden, the loss was· · · FIVE:· .: Digger. Phelps . became•· Notre ·, Dame's head "just a 'non~conference'one/''.but for us, it was the be-_ .basketball 'coach following a 26-3, season at.Fordham. ginning of greater things to ;come. -· . •._ Coming -to,~tlie • ''greatest• university in the country,'' 
· ·Phelps •completely felFon his back-. with ,a 6~20·1og in EIGHT: Adrian Da'ntley·.came to Notre Dame -as 'the·, -his first season. But then the Digger started .to.get finest high school' playe'r'·in:the country three years·~.• going .. His teams were nmner-ups in the NIT, and have ago. He was a bit overweight,-terribly quiet and a bit ·0been 'in the:NCAA's for the pasLthree years. -He has shy around the student· body.' 'Buf the things· he •can : won the prestigious'. title, of Coach :of the Year, had do with ·a' basketball 'definitely overshadow· anything several;All-Americans' and faces the ,·toughest, com~ that can be said. against him> He has it all, and, the . : petition year after , year.-·And he has beaten ·John 
__ best in the game have,acknowledged ·him that;. Our· ·· Wooderi for two consecutive,years.;,He has· turned the greatest consolationis that.we have seen him·for three -sagging fortunes of Notre Dame,basketball into a win~ 'of the best years of coliege :basketball. He has to be, 0· ner, and for , this, we,owe him .a; great ·amounL of 
considered the best;'., ~-, ·, . ,appreciation. ·· _ .. ·,· · · 


. 
, 
. .· . . 

r,1-:'.t.•·; >·:._, _: '. -.. 

:.,_.. :•··._ :·,: ''l:' \J It .•i,,;'.,. ,'.\_\ . ~ ; . 
FOUR. Notre Danie ,had not beaten USC for-the past .· " · seven years until. the Trojans entered Notre Dame . . Stadium in the national .. championship._ year. 'John 
:McKay had vowed that he would never lose to another:· Irish team after his ; humiliating loss, and, being the coach· he was,· the VOW .was justified. But:the-day was.·. stormy· and·· noisy as .-the action: began., _Clements'> · ONE: The man that I honor as the top of the Top Ten 
. quarterback,( sneak and Penick's , 64-yard scramble for the class of 1976, is the one responsible for.-the through left tackle:brought,the·fans to their;;feet and success.of the Notre.Dame Athletic program. Hein­a 23-14 :victory to Ara and the,boys, just about making:, . , herited a; very _lean football team dn 1964, and 'had ·that.championship season ·worth,.the glory;•that. sur~, .. turned the fortunes of:Notre Drune completely around. rounded· it. · · . ,.. :, He had a.reputation for winning, _and he did just that. '.: ·:: · ·:,; . · ·:. , ,He had a deep love,for the game and his players, , and _THREE: Perhaps the greatest single sporting-~vent-is -· some of the finesLpeople I've ever known have been watching two dynamic coaches battle each,other forvic~-;-: his players..He was a man of principles, and the Notre tory.USC's,coach had.the dubious. distinction of,being c Dame .program was built on_ them; .·there were no 
· the single:coach 'to.defeat ,us,,three times in',our four, ,shortcuts _to victory,.and he as well as everybody knew years.:: A man who knows where he's at; he's been the , _Jhat. Ara Parseghianleft Notre Da~e in the same _way '!Ara,Parseghian of the West,'!:and,if it hadn't been for as he'll be remembered,"-a-winner.-. :; · that tough Armenian, John McKay may, have been :a· . :• . '• --. ' ' : legend ."in. his._ own time...A classy; coach,. fierce com-·:.-: ,Well, that's it. Four years ago, we had· a question­
. petitor: and:fine man,. McKay deserves to. be.in the top able footbaHteam, a rebuilding_basketball team ami a ten. ;•-· ., . : . , -·; :, . ·: .. , .• -., •,, ., shaky.. ,: hockey program.. Added . , with , . the _prob­
\ :, · , . ,. , · . , lems of the· three major' sports was the fact that the . TWO: New Year's Eve in New .Orleans has, to. be one '. ;_other. varsity,,sports (with. the exception of Mike 'of the. g~eatesLplaces to _be on this great holiday, but: ::DeCicco's fencers) .,were also .having their own .hard · when you· find the two finest college, footbalLteams-luck. 
about ready. to. do battle.'.in the city, and one of.them ·· 
. happens to· be Notre Dame, then you have. soine_ con-·,.:, ,; · _-Four_ years have now passed. :We',ve seen a. na-: test: Hunter's .kick return, .Mahalic's fumble recovery. : tional championship team; _an .exciting basketball -pros and that desperation pass .from Clements to ,Weber,:'.'C':"7:, ,,gram, and some highlights.of a struggling _hockey team; these ended a -year that had started after th~ Orange Swimming,; wrestling ,and baseball ··have, had,,;their Bowl'debacle, and·had·:ended.with the National.Cols· moments. Club sports have flourished. And yet this legiate Championship of Football: For.the.rest ofJhe -,,,has all happened at one school, We have .been-,for­evening and for, many more to. come; ;the :24~23. win_·. tunate indeed to have seen Notre. Dame atJts,best,cfor 
· was the talk of the country. .:, ,;·;_ ,:s we have seen)tall. ­
The Last Word 


I tried to write The Last Word last· night. (By this time, that's last Sun-· day night.) I was going to. be clever and witty -or at least try to be clever and witty -and smashingly literary, weaving a galloping inter-· pretation of . Faulkner's Light in August into The Meaning of Life and Four Years. at the University.· 
-I finally decided I was only succeed-­ing in being . limitedly literary. arid ­largely confusing, stretchingacon-. ceit to the br,eaking ·point and be­yond, until it howled for mercy. Ac­tually I stopped when I saw Faulk­ner's · ghost appear, brandishing a · ha~dful of . Mississippi mud 'and threatening to turn me into a bog. weave my way through the throng. that's ·t1ie point of this last word -:­
-Which brings me to the subjectof ·A few of them I know ,-Greg -to say·good-bye) and warm thank ghosts. c Last summer, when I was· Stidham,: Kerry McNajnara,. Jim. you's·. · Happily there are-innumer­outHning all. my last words for the · Gresser ~ so L can identify most of able people to warmly thank (sadly year (being a. very· efficient person, the. rest -generically as. former edi-.: · this-· means innumerable p·eople' to arid having drilled at a Girl Scout · tors. Since the Observe,<is only 10 · say good~bye ·to and so to miss), camp, I wanted to "be prepared") I years old it doesn't have much of a;' but, to· ·m'entfon: just a· few:; all planned to begin-my first last word . problem yet housing ;its alumni.: the marvelous people ·at Ave Maria with a ghost. story. I .didn't quite · Some of our ghosts· go down there Press,' ,.,,particularly •:the former follow my plan, but, not being one •when things get too congested; and· manager, Ed Sanna/1Jim Cook, Jim 
. to let even a mediocre -or down-they are quite hospitable: They have ·1 McCoy, Esther Doty, Cindy Molenda; right poor• -idea die without a more room too, and ·don't have to our· advisory . board, · my editorial fighting chance;! decided to resur-·share with former Jugglerites __.:..: a, 'board,'.the·Scholastic staff, all our rect the ghosts, as it were.' ;-· bizarre breed, rivalling at times a·•: readers. •John Phelan;•:a'· talented 
Any place that has any history at · few· of the· Scho'lastic personalities · staffer and· editorial; board member all has one or two, if not a handful, ·I've seen. It's : really not so bad -of long. standing, will' takeover fully of friendly· ghosts. (I'm sure ·every· -usually the ghosts have other places as editor in the fall,· so I leave you 
_place has its quota of unfriendly they were close to 011· campus to all'iri good.hands. -;: /; . . ghosts also,· but my mother warned ·· haunt (except· for one small fellow . : Bute-before I say ·my· final ·fare­me to avoid their company, so !have in high-top gym shoes who's always, well, I'm' going: fo succumb. to the no· firsthand knowledge · of their' · there). They come and go and make temptation· to : be a·. little literary existence.) Usually, the friendly ones -.-good company to chat with late at (after all, I am an E·nglish major) hang around the places they aremost '•night. · and quote·a·line or two from the last closely associated with. I hear there'.s The unsettling aspect of the affair, . section.of Eliot's Four Quartets, a ghost in Washington Hall, and per-·is that I. can feel myself ;ttirnihg •·, We shall.not cease from: eX'J)ldratiori haps a ghost in Sorin. · , · •ghostly these ·days. As graduation And the erid of all our exploring 
-The ghosts I'm most familiar with approaches,-I'm sprouting an• alter Will be to arrive where we started are those which inhabit -the Scho-· ego or two that will split off and re-. And know the place for the first lastic-office. It's not a:very charm-•>;main here·when I drive away·to-. ·•time.·.. · ing room, btit better now that it has • wards U. S. 31°May 17. That's one -. Or, from:the beginning of that sec­curtains again. At least it's not of the exhausting things about the : tion: drafty, so the ghosts stay relatively final weeks of senior year..:_ every-,What we: call the beginning,is often healthy. (It is·· very distracting to <one's growin'g his or-her own.ghosts.. --: the end · ,,: have invisible or· semi~invisible fel-' ' ·. If• the seniors have a·· distracted . And to make an ena:is ·to make a lows sneezing'about you all the time: • air, it's . because they're growing., ,,.: beginning. · :· _;,, ..::_. and they never seeinto' remember · ghosts. · :The end is where we start,from; 
to bring their h8.nderchiefs~). Ghost-growing·gives-one a bit Of a· -·<And so finally·:~--,.. ·. ·:.·;:.:., 
Actually, it's beginning to get distance from things and an oppor-. Not fare well; slightly 'crowded up· there ·....:.: every • tunity to wish fond farewells ·-• (l. ,But· fare forward; voyagers;. ·· time I go into the office I have to · guess I '.forgot, to mention it, but -,.;;, ·· 
SCHOLASTIC 

_! 
ForYour:·._ 


Bicetitenrtia~:Engageinertt: ­· · and Forever ,_.., · · 
. .
.. · <Gil~mimS'.lfW 
. . . :A\$$(Q)<ena\l1~ 
. J:Plir@~ir~m l! __ U. 
a· :new proqrarn. in laY ministry 

. ; The . Glenmary. :_Associ~te Program is -a· .-_direct I .•. response. to the call of the Gospel and; the,_.Church .
I ~f today. It is an. effort designed to give a limited number "of young men_: the opportunity to serve in\he.lay ministry .. • . ­
Associates:. ·make a-commitment: of. two years ser~ 
vice .. upon compietion of ·.· a, six . month·,·trai~ing -., >-~: ·. -. ·.. '. . . . . : .. :... '. . . "-·. ; .. > ·.·. '"sess·i~n. Members will' be placed in iarea(of the ::,.fi.'·perfe~t.:1:(eep~·ak~:~iamo~d:say~jr all, reflecting\ . : ; <· deep s~~th and. Appalachia working i~:-~~rijunc~· .-·your love)n its bfiUiarice 'an~ beai.iry·. And you cap..:· -:-: tiori wi.th the: G(erimary·· 1-iome Mi~sione'rs. Train~ :;j:cnoose\vithconfidence because the Keepsake guar-• •. . "'ing Ses~1ons are scheduled -to begi.n on June 14th 
,. :·>~rifee· a~suies perf~ci: clarity/finC!.-~hite 'color. ?.nC:r i\. : : .:.. 'an~ Sept~_ri'lber _13th. · . . ... . ... .··. p:iecis~:hl~cle~n c~(There:•i~rl_o fin~r diamobdririg.>\ ' .· . 
· · · ··· · ·. ·· · · · ·, · · · ·· . Anyone· interested in obtaining·. further informa-· 
,. ... 
.· 

.::_··tion regarding_the progra~ please co_ntact:· ....:_ Brother A( Beh~-'

l{ee]Jsake" ._ . 
·:TerraC_hr!sti Farm . 
. Rt. 2< .·:. 
fi-Io~-toPl~-Yo;;r Engageinent;nd W;cldingl F~enchburg, Kentucky 40322 ': 
. II Ev~rything a~ur.planni~g your~ngageme~t ~nd w~ddi~g-in. a beautif~l 20 pa~e) -: ._.;,_;.;...-----~------------------:~ booklet. Also valuable inforinatiori about.diamond quality and styling.· Gift offers:I . ··.·, ·· Ifor complete 44 page Bride's Keepsake Book and gi_ant full_'color poster: All for 25¢: _I' . ··.:: . : ';-,•.. :·

' i :~ --_;-; .·. ; . . . :::i , 
·.·:.·•-·· .

I City: .. ,. •:· I.IState:. . :. . . . Zip . .I : ·.. . I Keepsake Diamond ~ings; Box 90; Syracuse, Ne~ x~rk 13201,'I ..' . l!'~ ~!:£.s~:,:!_e!;~s..!!! ~l~w£!~~~1!_8!_!!~~4~~~ ~~n: !!?~~-6,:,.00--1.' 



. :.:-~.-:: -. -~-:..,;..::::---~~ 



