
8th Annual 
MIDWEST BLUES FESTIVAL 
. Friday, November 30, 8:00 PM Saturday, December 1, 7:15 PM 
"Blues & Boogie from the Bayou"  SUZANNE PRINCE  
ROOSEVELT  SYKES  EDDY CLEARWATER  ~  .  
LONNIE BROOKS  BIG JOE WILLIAMS  
PROFESSOR LONGHAIR  CAREY BELL BLUES BAN D  
''The Father of New Orleans R & B"  FEATURING Lurrie Bell  

Stepan .Center -N.D. 
-. . 
Festival Pass $8 -Fri. .only $5 -:--Sat. only $6 (ND-SMC students) "Bring a Blanket and Bring a Friend" 
Glenmary Missioners Room ·17 Box 46404 Cincinnati, Ohio 45246 · 
Name_·_ ___.;.______ Address _ ___;_____ City_·___State___ Zip Age.___ 


Editor 
Dave Satterfield 
Managing Editor 
Bob Southard 
Art Director 
Jim Hofman 
Production Manager 
Theresa Rebeck 
News Editor · 
Lisa Hartenberger 
Fiction Editor 
Tom Balcerek
. . 
Copy Editor 
Anthony Walton 
Culture Editor 
Greg Solman 
Sports Editor 
Tom Westphal 
St. ·Mary's Editor · Kari Meyer·· 
Lay~ut Edit~r 
Clay Malaker 
Photography Editor ' Ken McAlpine 
Business Manager 
Pahl Davis · 
Advertisement Manager 
Kevin Murphy 
Distribution Manager 
Jerry Murphy 
Staff 

John Maddog Muldoon, Don Schmid, Chris Stewart, Mary Leavitt, Donna Teevan, Cathy . Wisniewski, Pat Worklan, Jim Sommers, Michael Diaz, Ken. Scarbrough, Maryellen Bradley, Chuck Wood, . David 
N. Randall, Keith Caughlin, Steve Burkart, Rick Keppel, Bre.ndan Brown, (Jodee Car­ney,. Michael Meisch, Ed Wimmer, Rich Marcello, Tim . Tedrik, Lee. Smolen, Tom Krueger, Ann · Bridget Clarke, Cecelia Susan Labriola, Betsy Spinelli, · Tom O'Toole, Phyllis Washington, Kevin Paulson 
Credits 

Photographs: Archives, 3, 7, .15; Ken Mc~ Alpine, 5,.15, 21, 30; Federal Bureau of Investigation Files,. 8. . 
Art: Paul Monardo; 12, 25; Tony Walton, 14; Jim· Hoffman, 26; Publicity Photo, 21; 
Front Cover: Scholastic Archives. 
Back Cover: Katie O'Me;~a 
Advisory Board 
Jim Winters, Mario Pedi, Edward Fischer. 



SCMOLJ\STC 
Vol. 121, No. 4, November 16, 1979 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
5 The lntel/ignce Threat Lisa Hartenberger 7..The· Life of Sam Shapiro 
10 14 23 24 26  (According to the FBI) Toward a Rational Foreign Policy The Kennedy Candidacy: American Death ND Mock Convention: Teaching Political R"Game!'' The Paper Irishman  Wish ealities  Gregory Solman Daniel Moore Rick Keppel Donna Teavan Bill Ryan ·Frank LaGrotta  
. RE GULARS  
4  Perspective  Theresa  Rebeck  

15 Books Dr. Daniel Winicur 16 -Galler}' · Amy Murdock 20 Books: Scholastic Interview Bob Southard 28 Music Tim Tedrick 
Tony Walton 28 In Retrospect 30 Last Word Dave Satterfield 

The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or. the student body'. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by'National Educ~tional Advertising 
Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published fortnightly during the school year 
except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are 
available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic~ Notre Dame, lrid . . 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. · 
copyright© 1979 Scholastic/ all rights.reserved/ none of the contents may be repro­
duced without permission. 

I came, I saw, I conquered. -Julius Caesar 
A prince should therefore have no other aim or thought, nor take up any other thing for his study, but war and ·its organization and disci­pline, for that is the .only art neces-:­sary to one who commands. 
· -Machiavelli· 
Germany will either be a world power, or.· it will not be at all. . . -Adolf Hitler 

Everyone's got something to say about power, in one way or another. Bartlett's Book of Familiar Quo­tations lists 234' references to power. World .literature is littered with them; politicians spew them out endlessly. Mankind is definitely ob­sess·ed by a lust for power. 
Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. · · -Lord Acton 
You will either have joy or you will have power, said God; you will not have both. 
~Ralph Waldo Emerson 
The love of liberty is the love of others; the love of power is the love of ourselves. · 
-William Hazlitt 

Many people are not exactly crazy about this particular. human obses­sion. And let's admit it; they have a point. Pretty nasty things happen when the distribution of power gets a little out of hand. (Re:_ the Civil War, the holocaust, the atom bomb, Third World exploitation......) Of course, every person .needs to. feel powerful in some way or another-rumor has it this "need" is: a way of asserting. one's identity-but·evi­dently some of us never quite learned how to handle· it. · · ·_ . · . ' 
.The problem seems fairly simple fo me. Someone once told me, . "My by Theresa Rebeck 
complexities of power-need · and and regulations. Those · of us who makes me. realize .that I actually . feel a strong affliation to the Catho­should be thinking about my actions • lie Church are further regulated. As a little: For instance, if I consider , citizens of the United States and instigating a genocide program in · members of a capitalistic society, we northern Indiana, I just have to ask are even further regulated. Our lives myself, ''If I do this, will I be swing-are continually regulated. by power­ing my arm into someone's nose?" ful systeµis as well,, as powerful The answer is clear:· yes, in fact, people. Sometimes it is easy to recog­I would be going quite a bit further nize the influence of this power, than that. My decision becomes a sometimes it is not. simple one: Forget genocide. The only way .to: deal 'Yith this 
Am I being too simple? I don't power is, I think, to somehow. try to think so. Of course, there are many stand apart from it and evaluate it situations where it seems as if my • constantly. Question it.· Why .is it decision not to smack one person : necessary for me to shave my legs means I must smack another. These and curl my hair? Why do I feel I situations are a necessary weakness must make $20,000 a year· and own of any societal process. Governments a house in the suburbs? Why do I must. decide whether or not to enter ; join a huge mob of students in a war of defense or protection. Once : crowded, sticky bars every single involved in such a war, they are · weekend? Why do we never ques­faced with power decisions which tion the things we are taught? affect the, lives of. thousands every Another old saying proclaims that day. On another level, businessmen a person only has as much power must choose one job applicant and · over another as that other person often turn many away. Our lives gives him. Why · do .we· give these have been so ordered that at times . systems .. so much power· over· our we cannot help infringing upon the soiils? We are not automatons. We rights of others; in such situations, should not be so willirig to hand over we can only be as careful and just as . our freedom .to a system;
is humanly possible. The rest is up · to the understanding · of the other . The final question is~ I think, one of freedom. ·I must always act with
person; total · respect · for the freedom. of ·The "understanding" of the second · others and my own ·freedom as well.

person is an important consideration, We cannot possibly deny the veryabsurd as that may sound. Of course, real restrictions of our society, but Iit would be absurd to ask a soldier think it is possible to stop them fromwho has _had his legs shot off in shaping our thoughts and emotions.

battle to · "understand," but war is . 
If we'd only learn to be honest.with 
such an absurd irivention. After all, ourselves and take responsibility forif everyone did use his power just­our actions, maybe the world would ly and carefully, · we would never clean itself up. We just have to thinkhave to bother with it~it's obviously about what we're doing here. · 

-_not even worth· discussing _.while we're trying to figure out the most . Of course, there -will always be appropriate way to use power. It is some people who are simply driven very simply a· thoroughly inappro­by a · desire to control the lives of 
·. priate use'· of power, and when it others. If you ever meet one of these 
exists, all the basic rules of human people,· go hide;. they should be 
.. conduct get thrown out the window. avoided at all costs. But if you can't 
· · We cannot discuss war with any avoid them, put up 'a fight for your . semblance of rationality:. rights; question their authority, bad~ . There are countless other · \vays, ger them, do 'whatever you can to. 
right to swing my arm ends. where , : however, through which power is preserve your identity. But don't sit your nose begins," a statement which·• · exerted over -us. As students at a around and passively allow someone I thought adequately summed up the : conservative university, we are sub­to take away your freedom. That's situation. This rule pares away the . jectto a collection of stringent rules just too easy. · O 
The Intelli ence Threat 

by Lisa Hartenberger 

On September 9, 1979, the nude body of actress . . Jean · Seberg, · wrapped .in a blue blanket, turned up in the back seat of a.car parked on a side street. in Paris.1 She left a suicide note in .the· litter. of sev-, era.I · barbiturate wrappers. Jean Seberg had begun her· career in. the movies by : winning . producer Otto Preminger's contest for .the lead in "Saint Joan". when .she .was 17.· While she never became a big name in the United States,· she enjoyed a solid reputation in Europe. _ 
More than an actress, Jean Seberg was also known for her support of the civil rights movement, her op­position to the Vietnam War, and her financial .support of the Black Panther Party. Apparently, these liberal tendencies were enough to incur the wrath of the FBI.The FBI deliberately set out to harass and publicly discredit Ms; Seberg, thus: neutralizing. any influence she may. have had with the public through the· good .reputation she • enjoyed: Seberg's ex-husband, writer-diplomat Romain .· Gary, charged in a recent press conference that the.FBr···had· anonymously·. fed a· slanderous·story to .the Hollywood gossip columnists in -August, 1970. · . 
·Using the Freedom of · Infor­mation A:ct, Gary was able to ob~ tain a' copy of the memos between the. FBI's Los Angeles_..office and the ·FBI headquarters. .The Los Angeles office ·requested.permission to send a letter ·to ,,the columnists which stated that Ms. Seberg was pregnant by a member ·of the Black Panthers. The rumor was repeated in The Los Angeles Times, Newsweek; and . a European magazine. Ms. Se­berg was,indeed, seven month~ preg­nant-by. Gary, · her husband. The · shock triggered labor pains which ended three days later in the still­birth of a white female. "Jean· be­came psychotic," Gary said. IIEvery­year on the anniversary of this still­birth; she has tried to take her life." 
This year, Jean Seberg succeeded. Early in August, she tried to throw 
1 Fireman, Ken, "Whispers," Detroit Free Press, September 30, 1979. 
herself in front of a Parisian sub­way. Then, five days after the an­niversary of her child's death, Ms. Seberg drove off into the night. 
FBI Director -William Webster expressed regret. "The days when the FBI used derogatory informa­tion to combat advocates of un­popular , causes have long since passed. We· are out of that business forever."2 ' 
Well, that certainly· is good to know. It is interesting, though, to consider the position of those who actively. criticize the intelligence agencies today; The editor of Covert Action. Information Bulletin, Wil­liam Schaap, said in a recent inter­view, "We assume everywhere we work· is bugged."3 He also :related incidents in which he has been fol­lowed. When meeting a reporter from •Time magazine, a ·stranger walked up, took their picture, and disappeared down . a side street. Schaap has also been the recipient· of several death threats. 

It is not only the public figures· who have been touched by the co­vert activities of the -intelligence agencies; For ten years, the CIA lured American citizens out of bars, enlisting the aid of the prostitutes.4 Once the victim ·was. in the hotel room, the CIA agents would admin­ister -LSD .to the person, for the purpose of testing the drug. These people had no idea that the drug had been administered. Richard Helm, the senior clandestine officer for the CIA, had initiated the pro­gram. Helms argued.that the people drugged by the CIA had to be "un~ willing" or the results would have been unreliable, creating only a false · sense of accomplishment.5 When the CIA abandoned. the project in ·1963, Helms reveals· that it was not out of any moral considerations, but rather, the fear of being caught. 
The intelligence agencies have the 
right, under the President's execu­
tive order to break into your home, 
whether you are in · the United 
States or abroad, Jf the Attorney 
General decides you are an agent of 
a foreign power. The term "agent" 
2Anonymous, Newsweek; September. 24, 1979, p. 45., 
3Stein, Jeffrey,. Saturday _Review, May 26, 1979, p. 16, 
4Wise, David, "The Man Who. Kept the Secrets," The New Republic, November 3, 1979, p. 34. 
5 /bid. 
is not related to criminal activity, and does include activity within your constitutional rights.0 Stans­field Turner, Director of the CIA, claims the right to have secret agents on American college campuses to spy, particularly on foreign stu­dents, in order to get them to com­mit espionage on behalf of-the United States when they return home. Turner has stated he will conduct such activities even on uni­versity campuses that adopt rules against them.7 
Perhaps even more chilling than the realization that, apparently, no one is safe is the realization that we only .learn about these devious plots when the intelligence agencies let us know or when they have blundered horribly. I shudder to think what schemes• have been elev­erly concealed beyond all detection. 

You and I must take a stand. We must take on the responsibility of telling the intelligence agencies what authority they can have: We cannot allow the intelligence agen'.. · cies to decide what constraints they will accept on their activities. I am perfectly aware of the existence of the Freedom of Information Act, the one Romain Gary used to force the FBI to confirm his story about his wife, Jean Seberg. Unfortunate­ly, the Act is subject to any num­ber of loopholes. In the course of his work, Richard D. Hongisto, Act­ing Commissioner of the New York State Department of Corrections was involved in a case in which a person tried to find out ·what kind. of information the CIA had on him. The person was told that, yes, the CIA did have some information on him, but that if they were to reveal that information, they would re-· veal the identity of an informant.8 The CIA could not and would not give the information being sought · under the Freedom of Information _ Act. 
6 Halperin, Morton, "Oversight Is Irrele­vant," Center Magazine, March/April, 1979, p. 55. 
1/bid. 
8 Hongisto, Richard, "We Need Enacting Laws for Stronger Oversight," Center _Magazine, March/April, 1979, p. 58. 
Stansfield Turner also assures us 
that Congress is being given infor­
mation which will allow us to exam­
ine the activities of our intelligence 
agencies. But who provides ·the in­
formation; who decides how much, 
when, how and what to withhold? 
The. intelligence agencies. It just 
does not· make good sense. 
Obviously, we have got to provide 
some system of accountability for 
the intelligence agencies. We cannot 
permit them to remairi hermetically 
sealed-off, free to harass and destroy 
perceived political oppon!;!nts in guer­
rilla warfare. The way things stand 
now, it · is . perfectly legal. Proper 
legislation could provide comprehen­
sive controls. 
Notre Dame shares a special re­sponsibility in this reform. This Uni­versity is the No. 1 campus in the country for the recruitment of intel­ligence agents. Perhaps our desir­ability arises from the observation that we .put a great deal of blind faith · in authority figures due to some quirk in the strict Catholic up­-bringing many of us experienced. Then again, · perhaps it is because of the discriminating historical judg­ments we make, the large vision we have. developed, the sympathy we hold for the world's people, and the sense we have for our own nation's moral· responsibilities as. a: result· of our four years here that make our students desirable recruits -for the intelligence agencies. Let's'hope that it is the latter reason, though the first reason · seems .. more in keeping with the intelligence agencies' pres­
ent style of operation. · 
Notre Dame must take the lead. 
In view of our status as desirable 
recruits, we must assume some re­
sponsibility. If Notre Dame can lead 
the lobby effort in Washington 
against Title IX; Notre Dame cer­
tainly can assume leadership in push­
ing for the proper legislation to con­
trol the intelligence agencies.· We 
must explore, right here on . this 
campus, the various forms of legis­
lation this control could take, and 
then push it through. We must take 
a stand. D 
SCHOLASTIC 


TheLife'.of 


Sam Shapiro 
According to the FBI 
' ~-. 

· . . by;Gregory Solman 
The scene is a large meeting hall • teachingin the Notre Dame history Bloc's little ally to _the south of us." in revolutionary Cuba. Carlos Rafael · department, eventually escaped that Too bad politicians don't read polit­Rodriguez of the Integrated Revolu-predicament. But trouble seems to ical commentary; they might have tionary Organization is haranguing have followed him everywhere, both avoided Bay of. Pigs. a group of farmers. The newly in-abroad and here in the· U.S. For a · "Now if they'd have listened to stalled · Cuban government has more detailed account, one need me, they. could have saved them­decided that sugar is a slave only consult the inore than two­selves a lot of grief," Shapiro crop, and that they • should raise hundred-page FBI file that has been . shrugs. "The invasion was dumb. It corn and make oleomargarine so to collected on him over the years ... didn't even work. At least Lyndon avoid importing American lard. some of which has even· sprung Johnson's invasion of the Dominican 
There's · only· one problem it from the pens of Notre Dame Republic worked." seems: no one knows how to· culti-students. When ·Shapiro · returned ·from vate corn, and the· seeds are being The insinuation: Shapiro is a Cuba,· he was quickly handed the tossed into grass. Only a handful of Cuban sympathizer; a communist, radical label due largely to his in­agronomists had been in Cuba, and ·an unloyal American using an in­volvement on the Fair-Play ·for many had left the turbulent . island. :side reporting• track within the Cuba Committee. However, Shapiro, for greener -.and more peaceful Castro regime to propagate prop-who has· run the educational gamut -pastures. aganda. from kindergarten to . directing 
"You have betrayed the Cuban· "I was by no means a follower PhD's, began to teach· history at Revolution by not applying Marx-· of Castro all of the way," defends Michigan State University. · ism and Leninism to the soil," Rod-. Shapiro. ''I· was very sympathetic, The FBI was, of course, watching. riguez shouts. ·but ·if you look at the articles I "What struck me were all of the 
In the back of the room, a young wrote, I think that you'll see that details," Shapiro muses:"If I spoke American journalist, then .writing .. _they are balanced~ On the whole, to a little group of socialists in Iowa, for The New Republic, pipes up to the regime in 1959 and 1960 diver­somebody was there ·reporting. The the farmers . standing around him. · ·. sifted agriculture. And there was a FBI was everywhere ... and I was 
"You don't need Marxism or Len-· great leveling of unjust privileges only an insignificant assistant pro­inism," he scoffs, ·"What you need · ; .. they got rid of the millionaires fessor! is horse manure!" -· and began to, diversify. There is an. "They really had ,the manpower 
Overheard by a guard, the jour~ awful lot of good that can be seen and the. interest to. keep files .. on nalist, Sam Shapiro, is whisked off · • in the revolution, even now." everybody, and I think. that's a po­to a Castro jail. It won't be the last Back in 1961, it was' Shapiro _that · tentially destructive thing," Shapiro time this is to happen during his .. wrote in New-Republic,". .. a real commented. · visits to Cuba over-a-period of three American invasion of the island,· So, around Christmas of 1962, years. ·. • . · ... · · ;despite Fidel'sfears, is out of the .after teaching there for three years,. 
"Maybe I did (say horseshit)," he • question . •. . the only sensible Shapiro was fired from MSU. The recalls with•an indescribable smile, · course open. to us is one of patience, chancellor explained that there were his ice-blue eyes twinkling merrily. · forbearance, and · continued at­problems with the state legislature. "I forget the Spanish translation." tempts to reach some kind of peace-Shapiro, a 1959 Fulbright Scholar, 
Needless · to say, Shapiro, now· ful coexistenc_e with. the Soviet with a PhD from Columbia Univer-sity, gained notoriety for his posi­Theodore Hesburgh. Hesburgh took it wouldn't stick!"· tions on Cuba. It would be hard, the a stand for academic freedom, evi-But even at Notre Dame, with its chancellor said, to defend Shapiro. dently replying to Hoover that he protective umbrella raised against 




Notre Dame, being a private would not allow this kind of intru-the rain of world problems·,. Shapiro school, could afford to · take. such sion into University affairs to occur. could not escape the FBI:probe: risks ("That's a good example of "I was very proud of Father Hes-"There were things said in class 
·the value of not having everything burgh," Shapiro beams. "As far as that would be reported to the FBI government controlled," Shapiro in­I'm concerned, it was his finest hour. by students," recalled Shapiro.· •irt serts). Notre Dame hired Shapiro to ... The strength of America is p~ _:';seems. to me that the classroom_ is train the then newly installed Peace pie like Hesburgh in positions like \ kind of sacred . · . . . like the confes~ Corps. Then came an inevitable let­Hesburgh's. No one would dare call sional. You ought to be able, in a ter from J. Edgar Hoover to. Rev. •Father Hesburgh a communist . ; . Notre Dame classroom, to say what 
The Untold Story: Excerpts from Shapiro's Voluminous FBI File. 
UtU'r\_' :.,·A~'&,:, U.t.rAIUA ~,u· UI IU C.."&.
FEDl:rtAL BUREAU OF INVl:STIGATION 
FEDEaAL auauu or IIIYESTIC:ATION 
! O.C•e10r"'• I h.. ..........,_,.... 


I•..,,,_.,,_.,,,,,.,. 
Denverr Col-:rado 

===De,&,..T_.,R,,_0,_IT.____1~_11,:,&..,1,_,'ll.,.O:.,.n·· /JJ.9/El 2/1 -4/10/61 r•N• ­
= Hay 21, 1.'163
tnnorCAS&• •• .,... ....r

t-=::-::==::--.....___,,<..:..--=~,____ I . .·_•f.• . 
AAM;l..llOI "-'-­
•• SAIIUEL 'sHAPIRt• 
SAMIJEL SHAPillO 

• 'the program of the Sixtee::tti Annual Conference-DD 'World 
. UlOOt Affab:a held April 8 through 12, 1963, at the.lJ:dveraity of Coloudn, Boulder, Colorado, reflect, that Sunel Shapb:o va ¦ a . 
REFERJ:NC&S: Rep<>rt of SA at Dotroit, dated 
participant 1n this co-.iference. ·Shapb:o 1a described a, a · 
1/30/61. 


Bistoda from Michigan State Univereity, oaltland, Mi~••·:c•:,:::-· · R;iporL ot S!l 
• A ecurce, who h.aa furnfsh•d reliable i:\fcrc.ation in the
at tr~shi1:.cton t·1u1u. 

pastI •$:iJ,~•d cm 'April 2S, 1963, T Bur<>•u· l,nl.er to 
Detroit. dated· 2/27/61. ¦ 1 -Lhat Suuel Shapiro was either · 
yo-C<'=mtst af°tor pro-Castro 1n 8:,=patby. p ~ 1 t.hat after hearing Sbaplro ca.i.k aoouc . · Cuba and Ca&tr<', 1t """~:re-I that Sh-•rf.ro J,qd "actually sold out· ADIIINISTRATJVE. :: : to Castro." [ [tthat,. · Sha;,i~o wouJ.:-"mke ,::·••H. dtsn,rt10M al>oPt .Cacts tu tb America · Ji~Ierencc,d bure:.u Jet.'t.tr 1~stJ ucted thC Detl oit; when it was not riec.,,•rory, a"d hlt that theu, dist<'rtim1 on . · 
O!Hce th<Lt all futu,·1t corr•cbrondcn:,c in this case should·be · Shapire's;po.n had ap11tp1>sc. . . · caittioned t!' i~clud11 .tbu c-1>i,ente1· -'Internal Security-CU~a. 
Sow.c:e ad\"l.sr-! that Ecvrrr. hc:,:d Ehapf.J:i-talk on one occaslr,i durir~ t't,e c~r.fcrc:-c:e and Sharirt' U.ke,:1.:I Castrc to Jahn Lrown of A::erlcar. Cb-J.l \lai: hbt~ry; S'>•r"e at1·-.,,?ted to.draw_ 
-·a parallel hcn,ecn th..se t..,., :lndivid,:al~, !." t.,'lf: l!rc-.m was .:, : _endeaV<'ring .tn free tl-"I ,laves in.the l..,.tcc• St~~,,,., -.hereas Cas~~ "'a•~ :tTrin~ ~o f.r"': the p~~•4.,t.s !11. ~-~);•~ -_ . •. (·\ 
A ucnnd sM:r~e, who has (umtshPt! reliable :ln(ormat1on_ in the past, l'll 1-rril 15, 1.963, a~vf.,e-! th,t at the regub.r : meetip~ of tt.c l)~,__.,,....-Brar.ch o( tht' .~or.ialbt fft-:kers·Party (Slfl')· ht'ld rn Apr!.l 11.. l'l?J, at Denver, C'nl,;i:a~~. 1.t was reperted ............ ,,:u...n .. ~r.r""' ·t-h,. n~ 11~•(! '"'~ C·'t":!"':!,.tr. df.!c~ssion . 


.··......._ 
-··.~­

.·P.l]_{essor in _M_ic_hig~·11 f.ir.ed 
. SJD
.. 
. . . . 
. 




fiorSp¢akillg Ti'uth oOCub.3
.f·.;,yo DIRECTO~ _; ·:. 
. ._._ .._ 

. Dr.· Samuel ·shaplro. a ar>led
FROM sic 00ETROIT .. ..:-061~0~ 

. aulhority. on . Cuba and .~lin · Amc:ric:a and ·an ooispoken criUc · 
:•_;_:; .SOCIALIST .Vl011KERS PARTY,, IIITEIIIIAL 0SECURITY-SflP•.REBUTEL 
=···· •of· U.S.· policy. In these areas, has : · ocTOftR ,; LAST 
been fired as assistant professor : :· • ,: and head or the hlstoey depart-• • · · 
,'.·s IALlliT fDRU\I Of';TH[ DETROIT·BR~NCH SWi', AT EUQEt.E V. ment or ·Mlchlcan State Unlver-f·'. _{_ · : . ceEDS HALL, ~7~7 YiOOD':tAP.O AYEIIDE:, DETROIT• PilOfESSOR SAll'JEL . . · · sil7-0akland.-. • . . , , • ' ~f.lP.C \'/Oi:LO·SPEMC ort"CUl!A P.f\'ltlTl'O" TH·1s S!lUi.cr'iimto-. '. MSU-0 Auoc:late Dean Ceorie :··: · ·. TltAT 
· dMatlhews, Pror. Sluplro's Imme-·· f,:-·.' late superior. claimed thett wen: . •:t · .lETRUIT COIJFIOC:NTl~L l'lfOIIMo\ TS •aca.:emlc"-reasons'for·Shaplro••' ;,,;, _'.: ., . .1,, Tl'F. f'AIR PLAY fl)A cuaA Ctr.UITTEE. All..-',TRGIT : . dbmlssal, allbouch-he added ."I ·~-1 •'". . 
cot.FIOt.il.Tl/,L ;,r CUSMI 11110 LIEXICAtl r:t.nE~ITACTE:> iiE .cannot 11\-e 1M academic: ru~ . .'~,t.~ ·":·,. :·· _· ;.· . ·; .ABOVE_CN OCTOCER ; LAST ADV ISEO TIIE'f HAO tlO lf.'FO~ TH!; for our Judgment. They :uc In• · ···• • · · · .·.-. DETROIT:PD"J.MS USP. \'IE::E.AOVISEO DU tCTOJER; LAW Rt aeov::: · ·· tem31: cvnslderal111ns.,which an: .''.(' .•. · ·. ·z.·-• . 
. A:.0 T11£Y. HI.!> f!O I,...,, n:-• OCTCDER.;. LI.ST, SAS •••••• -private." . . · . ~ .r. . . . · . . . . 
_,.,:o 'OIICUCTED A PHlSICI.L ~UilVCILLM.:C[ Hecnnceded,however,thatProt; . . '.· f; ·:,. ;,.-,: AT (WENE· v. oms:, ALL Ff.Ot! 7:~0 p"' UNTIL 11:;;o Pl! ,u,u IIO . · ::, Sha1,ln. ~would ha,•o .had a bet-· ·· ••.., · ,J ·z · PICKET LIN!: O•LEVIDE:::CC OF TROU~LE. \1/,:; ODS[ft'/[O. ,\L,,:r,ut,Tt ;. ·.·.~ ler chance" or ha\'lri1:'hl$ unh·rr-'<. : . · · : • · / ...· ". _.· co:,rin•r4T1AL' ll!FOll'.,1Ar1r ccivmAuE r::.~ AR.u·iJ£D ro:. ,t!lli". ·. ·. lfity··cnntract·.n:nr.wrd 1r he had· . ~~~__..:.r.r.,._...:.. -,: <~ -. ·. J FORU'.J. A UETIIIJIT cor.rrnn:Tlf.L 1t1F:m:.:ANT 'tllO ATTE:r.ie:o· wrltlen. a1,d, SJ><,k~n -less on ·the,·: -..~-..... \ _ . 0 ·.. •. j · \ L 
·· THIS _l'ORlt.l ADVISED Ill EAIEF',AS FOLLO~S:· Tl:ERE t'ERE ADOUT .. · ., .. r:u~o-;:.~:l~~~t,t~j:or Cu~~:~d-: f_, Dr. Samuel Shapiro ~: '7 1~0 ,PECPLE, THEP.E~ ·. THERE TIAS so~•E CPPOSITICI: FilOU ,.BOUT 10 . ·•·. . Pro(.· Shapiro_hlmscU .,caid that·,. , . . , .... . . 
Ji 

PEuPLE .L11tl CALLED THE~ELVE:S, "SC.CIAL uc:iocnATs OR AIITI-. he h.~d ·1,een Informed by 8 lop Jr•is. a rac:t thal c.utslde. pre•-.· :, COU'.MIISU.•; THEY ASKCD SEVERAL Ql/F:STICNS EUT Tt:EnE \?AS MSU-C f . ha ..._.,.. b" '-'--d 
•:o. uc_~r_L·,·•:••·; ,,0 CITtCR..c••. 'IO l~O"'•L&__ 0.• ..-.•K·,•ir__ • ··. • .o rid:il,thaL"ll l,h.ado'I ·:sure s ....en rougul to ....-:ir an · ...
"."'.'.'~=-=~"'r"""-"""'-+==:..--....==-:;...;,;;;..~111~:..-------.-'-publi~hr.d... any•!:1ne_', on _LaUn Dr. Sh:,ol:'! ~~d ~cnsut,$,'ct~~ ,,;·:_-i· .,-. · · ·· I • ,, •,, • · · Amc:nra 1-wwld hne h:id a b-:1-· smear allacot~ _. since . he.-··..-1,u, d -• •.­
·..-.·_·,·.:\°!.:_ . ~~--·•··· ":. · f ·. lffchance,Loberetalned." .<:iub?;io_Janu:.r,-IDGlandpublkly, J,
.. wi°•1:cor<iiim . . . . i · . cal:<'<i"ti>r"'l'allcr and murc.• tru:li­
8 11 •

.•" A.,nr.T:1 fi ·,". i_·l. ..·"'·. 78 OCI :) t9li1 .. >-1: . -0 · . .u .. tip Deparlment .· ·ru, re1..:.rt1nc or·w!f.!\'·was aclu3ll)', ..• 
:n &,( -:, • .,._. ·~~~ ~•rn•-·""•nt.,., ..,,. ............!!"r ... r........ u~ .....,.. .·'-··· [. .'
• 

you think without . any conse~ . quences. . . . 
"That really strikes at the heart of academic freedom . . . to think that somebody is sitting there tak­ing notes on what you say." 
Shapiro admits that it is hard to draw the line between legitimate concern for the stability of a politi­cal system: and_:the · FBI style of widely ranging suppression of dis­sent of ·all sorts, but. quickly. adds, "I think ,very clearly the ·FBI did 
-. · things that were · indefensible and unforgiveable:" He :lists. J. Edgar Hoover as one of the most powerful men in Amer­ican history. "No president •dared remove him,. because he had all the stuff on.them . .-·: and he rriade him­self· useful to presidents." 
•Now the FBI may be in a state of chaos. "They're so busy filling out Freedom of Information Reports and xeroxing people's files, ·the excesses that people have committed .have really : : damaged them; · I imagine they must be •in a state of total collapse." : ·., 
And what of Castro's Cuba today? As he explained, the worst thing that has· happened is this:· Castro came. in:to· rid·Cuba of ·her foreign ties · (U.S/ especially), .end their monocultural , dependence. on sugar, . and redress the errors of the Batista • dictatorship.· · 
. The result? IITwenty. years later," he says, ''they're still a dictatorship, they're still. dependent on sugar, and they're .still· controlled by a foreign power,·. Russia. · · Cuba , has become . a Russian cat's:-paw;" Shapiro claims;. "Cubans are getting killed·. in Angola and Ethiopia in ways that· have nothing. to·. do .,with a legitimate interest of the Cuban people in ,solving Cuban. problems." 
But Cuba will always be .Cuba and.America, America."And'Shapiro · is glad to be back, living in South Bend with a devoutly feminist wife, two chHdren, two cats, the 3,000­plus bottles of wine he has cellared ("It's a life-time drinking supply," · he gloats), and an art collection worth well over $100,000. 
"I have never been burgled. I real­ly think that if· someone broke in here, they'd steal the television set," Shapiro says almost disappointedly. "The local thieves are not very so­phisticated." 
So now it's America with a cap­ital A for Shapiro, whose wardrobe even includes a rather flamboyant red-white-and-blue-striped shirt. In­deed, what could be more American than growing up in a Jewish neigh­borhood in the North Bronx? . 
"I started· ·studying to be bar­mitzvahedi but · I never made it,". he recalls with a· chuckle. Shapiro's father was a tailor in the garment district and later owned a grocery store and; like him, was far from being a· strictly Orthodox Jew. ."The Bible is really a terrible record of tribal vengeance and murder, so I asked a Rabbi· about it and he told. me to shut up ...· so I got very upset and I-left." 
· To know Sam Shapiro is to know a hundred stories,. a ' thousand ru­mors...Only· through use, of "Sha­piroisms," known well to his stu, dents, can a· person·•begin to appre­ciate his character. 
'A Shapiroism on ·Nixon: "Amer­ica for all of her problems .has never really had the· awful 'problem of dictatorship. • I rriean, if you think of• Richard Nixon as• a villain, compare ·him to Adolf Hitler or Idi Amin;:or Joseph Stalin . ; . he comes off pretty pale."•. · A Shapiroisrri on voter apathy: "In a sense, I'm not so sure that· voter apathy is such a bad idea. If anyone really·. doesn't • care about politics, it's probably ·just· as . well that. they don't vote.''..·, ,:· 
· A Shapiroism .on· political . life: "It's nice that you can ignore it. If you're interested in something else; America will leave you alone. I read the newspapers and watch TV, :but as, far ·as ·. my ·life ·goes, it doesn't make much difference . . . it's sort of like watching football games." · 
A Shapiroism on New York: "It's so fast ... one thing I notice about the Midwest is that it's so slow. A New York short-order cook will rriake you a sandwich, tell you three jokes, and get you out of the place before a South Bend waiter has taken your order." 
A Shapiroism on Catholicism: "I don't want to interfere in a fam­ily quarrel, but the Church has to face the fact that it doesn't ordain women. There is a very strong strain ofanti-feminism in Christian­ity.' You can get all kinds of dread-· ful quotations . from the Church fathers· about women, and how they . are the source of an' evil." >. · ·. A Shapiroism on Prohibition: •"I guess I never really got it straight. I think· the ·amendment· prohibited the sale, transportation and manu­facture, but T don't think it said anything about keeping it in your cellar." · 
·.•As for the rumors, Shapiro re­fuses comment. ·It is ·said that he was•-· canned· for stealing a . Jeep · while in the Army. It is rumored that he smuggled· much of his art illegally out of South America. · · 
· He replies with· a grin and by quoting ·Shakespeare: ''That was. in my hot youth. Remember what Po­loriius said about the traveling play­ers; that he would -treat them "ac­cordirig to 'their.>, deserts." And Hamlet said, ''No, treat them better. Serve every man according to his deserts · and who would. escape 
· whipping?" : · · · -Up to this point, and despite con­stant hassles from America's favor­ite spy-guys, ·Shapiro · has escaped 
his : . whippings. ·And . even ·today, that's not an easy thing to do when one speaks up against · · anti­foreignism; 
·His scholarship founder, .J. ·Wil.:.: liain Fulbright, who·.did just that when chairing· the· Senate foreign relations committee during the Viet-· nam War, would be proud. · · 

Toward a More 
. . 

Rational Foreign Policy 
It is time to think again about our country's position in the world arena as the election fever takes hold across the United States. Opinion polls and deft allusions to opponents' weaknesses have been given too much attention in the coming strug~· gle. for the presidency. A good deal of rhetoric on the quality of leader­ship, that · elusive animal, has ap­peared as the central theme in each candidate's camp. It is, perhaps, of more relevance to examine the issue of what the 1980 election will mean for the world. What are the issues which.will figure in the approaching foreign policy debate? 

Traditionally, emotionalism has plagued foreign . policy debate in American presidential elections. As a result, serious mistakes have been made which have been. shielded by justifications stemming from· self­righteous rhetoric inherent in the desperate need for:· popular support. The ·point is nowhere better . illus­trated than in the 1960 election when John Kennedy and Richard .Nixon sounded like two gunfighters arguing over who· was going · to take a tougher stand against Cuba. Im­mersed in the illusion of American omnipotence, the public found the failure in the Bay of Pigs operation and subsequent failures elsewhere in the world quite frustrating. The pub­lic seems to have found a similar . fiasco in Jimmy Carter's. human rights crusade after the promises of the 1976 election. ­
The case can also be made for just about every post-war election. In 1952, the public displeasure over our inability to prevent a Communist victory in China helped to contribute to a colder world where diplomacy gave way to rhetoric. The 1956 elec­tion, with the Hungarian revolt fresh in the public's mind, followed a similar path. 
So it would seem then; that the role of the American people will be crucial in any foreign policy debate, 
·since, ultimately, that is where the candidates must appeal. Unfortu­nately, the American public cannot see the world in the same light as, say, an objective bystander. The public usually demands a policy in accordance with abstract principles. These · principles do not necessarily coincide.with our national interest. They are not always relevant to the way the world works and hence, con­fusing to the world community. In all fairness, this situation is not unique to the U.S. and goes far in explaining the misunderstandings we often encounter on the international scene. 
The American public, and likewise her candidates, must see in 1980 that our world is a turbulent one. Forces at work in the international commu­nity today were dormant ten, or even five years ago, yet seething beneath the then-current waves of global politics. As these forces rise to the surface, the illusion of American omnipotence must fall under the cold 

by Daniel Moore 
:",'., 
reality of their impact... The sooner we learn to deal with these forces 
within the limits of American power, 
the better off we shall be.. It is simply too much to ask that.a can­didate promise to enforce a stringent human rights policy applicable all over the world, or that a candidate assure the unequivocal superiority of the United States on all levels. It is just not within our means or our interests. 
One of the. forces which only re­cently has had a significant effect on global politics. is the growing trend 
_of Third World countries to demand more from both West and East alike. This trend has resulted not only from a growing awareness on the part of Third World countries of what has been deemed as an inequi­table distribution · of the world's goods, but also from ·the success of the Arab oil policy. While the Third World once saw the West as· an in.;. vulnerable giant, unbridled by any restraint save a weak world opinion, 

. now the tables seem ·to have begun to turn. During ·the.1975 oil· crisis, the whole world saw the tremendous effect. that. the oil embargo had on nations all over the world. Since that time, to the amazement of many, the dependency.of the West, particularly the United States,. has· actually grown. The Third World has become aware of this fact, and it seeks sim­ilar advantages.. Yet the oil situation is simply a 
manifestation of this far-reaching 
trend which was born with the break­
up of all the old colonial empires, save Russia's. This trend has an ideology of its own and the momen­
tum necessary to bring about signifi­cant changes in_ the world economy. 
In the past, the superpowers could easily exert their will over most 
Third World countries. Their justi­fications stemmed from the economic 
or political gains deemed essential for the good of the nation or the world or to further the superpower's 
national -interest. Today, however, 
especially in light of recent develop­ments, this picture has changed. The Vietnam debacle did much to · bring this about, proving that, even with a half million·men, the United States was unable to hold the same terri­
tory which required merely 20,000 French colonial troops for decades 
before the post-war period. · 
For better or for worse, the United States has also seen two of · its most staunch supporters over­thrown, the Shah in Iran and Somoza in Nicaragua. In both of these situa­
tions, the opposition drew a good deal 
of its support mainly from the·fact that it wanted to rid the country of foreign influence, not because the op­position promised a more humani­tarian government. . · . 
The Soviet Union is finding that it faces a · similar challenge from the 
. growing independence of· the Third World.· Even with .the .. Cubaris .as proxies, the situation in Angola is far from stable and will not be so until the Cubans leave. Likewise, the . Russians seem · unable to keep . a stable puppet regime in Afghanistan, and in some countries it has been re­moved . completely as in · Somalia, 
Egypt and China; . . . It _would appear, then, that the growing independence of Third World nations is ·a force ori the global scene which U.S. politicians must deal with rationally and realistically. Policies must be pursued which rec­ognize the · aspirations of each ·par­ticular nation and seek out mutual 
benefits that will be distributed equitably. It is no longer a time when we·· must win the world for democracy; rather, we must act so as to insure the conditions for legiti­mate government. 
In working out these policies, the decision makers of 1981 must take into account the traumatic effect that industrialization and modernization inflict on the developing world. It took. the Western world 150 years to transform society from a pri­marily agricultural one to.an indus­trial one. Many question whether we have· yet recovered from this radical social and economic transformation. Developing nations are attempting to do the same thing in 15 .or 20 years; _the side effects of such action 
·can be: devastating. · · 
Iran is the perfect example. The 

Shah did much to transform his country into a modern state.· Few · people today realize· the Shah eradi­cated a class of feudal. landholders who managed their land and their peasants in the. style of the 12th century. The standard of living in­creased many times, economic oppor­tunities became available to the poor on a scale never before seen, and by the 70's, the Shah could boastof one of the most sophisticated armies in the world. Yet this rags-to-riches story of a nation came to an abrupt end. · The populace, bewildered by the modernization, saw itself being cut off from its traditional, secure, and uncomplicated life-style. There were no political outlets to · express this growing frustration. · So, Iranians turned toward a figure representing --the traditional ways, the Ayatollah, and away from the. American "for­eign devils" and the Shah, symbols 
:-of change. · · 
.. · Similar factors contribute to the 
growing .unrest in much· of Latin 
America· and in other volatile areas 
of the world such as South · Korea, 
developing Africa, and ·the Middle 
East. It is in the interest of the 
United States, not only for moral reasons, but (and I believe more sub­stantively) for economic, and politi­cal reasons to use its influence to create political outlets so that the public _may more peacefully release its frustration. This is not to advo­cate, by any stretch of the imagi­nation, any kind of wide-scale human rights campaign. Such a policy, as we have seen, leads to confusion and alienation. What might be employed is a more subtle approach which utilizes U.S. influence----economic and political tools rather than rhetoric. These steps ought not be taken as a part of any humanitarian crusade, nor to demonstrate to the world our sincerity, nor· even for the sake of world justice. These goals are totally unrealistic in a community of sover­eign states. Rather, since it is _within our economic and political interests to have a stable and peaceful world, we must follow policies which.recog­nize the importance of having legiti­mate governments throughout the world. 
: Finally, when considering and pur­suing our interests in the world, it is essential that we evaluate and deal with those forces which have a com­mitted interestin opposing our own. This area, which primarily concerns our. relationship with the Soviet Union, will undoubtedly be the major focus· of the· 1980 foreign policy de­bate. In American politics, election time seems to bring out the bellig­erency in. even the_ most dovish of politicians, e.g., Senator Church. It would be difficult to imagine Presi­dent Carter not boldly asserting that the strength of the U.S. military is · second to none· or ·_ the estimable Ronald Reagan not demanding a stronger defense. Yet our relation­·ship with the Soviet Union and our military posture clearly should not be treated as an issue of American pride or fear of being number two. . Rather, this very important issue · · must be dealt with in light of the 


12 

overall goals of our foreign policy. 
To begin with we must understand the nature of the world situation­that it is bipolar. It seems almost fashionable today to consider this 
' nation out of date, or a product of cold war hysteria. However, to ignore this reality, to claim that with a single_word, detente, one can erase the historical, political, and ideolog­ical · differences which have _been building for centuries is not just sophomoric, it is dangerous. At pres­ent, there are only two forces in the world which are capable of unre­stricted power without the check of the other. Everywhere these forces face each other in the world, there is the possibility of military conflict. Every significant change in the world structure _must be judged as either advancing or withdrawing the posi­tion ofone of these forces. This is not to ·say--there cannot be accom­modation or peaceful coexistence be­tween the superpowers, merely that such a policy is useful onlywhen in­terests coincide. It is one's hope that national .interests will coincide with much more frequency. Yet to en­trench oneself in this hope, ignoring all other.aspects of U.S,-Soviet rela­tionship.is unrealistic. ---_ ._ -. _ 
How then -should _the Soviets be dealt with in 1981? Orie ofthe grow­ing trends in ·global politics is the in­creasingly aggressive _dimension of the Russian -foreign policy. Only ten years ago, it .would have been incon-, ceivable for-the United States to allow tlie Soviet Union _to pla~e Cuban troops in Africa with im-­punity.' · Likewise, the extent of Cuban, and therefore _Russian, in7 volvement ·in. Latin America could not have been tolerated by past administrations which went so far as to _send troops· to preserve tile status quo. __ _ __ _ . To remedy this, an ideal solutionwould be to sfoiply let social;· ecos ric>mic, and political forces within a country take their effect as discussed earlier. However, a nation can be subjected· to an _external pressureof such a magnitude_ that it cannot establish for itself a legitimate gov­
. ernment. Eastern Europe provides an all too real example of this fact. As a result, because it is within our interest to have a world of legitimate governments and insure that Soviet power and influence not remain un­restricted, some kind of action must be taken. The kind of action neces­sarily must be determined by the particular situation. For example, should Soviet troops try to install a government in, say, France, military action would be justified, whereas it is probably not justified in a country where our interests are not vital. 
Other action· available to us con­-cerns our "linking" Soviet activity . with our willingness to cooperate in 
joint economic matters. "Linkage" is another one of those unpopular terms these days; . yet, if such a policy could be effective in achieving goals in our foreign policy, it should be applied. Of course, if this policy is. in conflict with other goals, then it should be rejected; what is impor~ tant is that it ·not be categorically rejected as is the present policy .. -· 
. . 

As for mutual arms reduction treaties, again the key is our interest in having a stable· world. President Carter seems to give the impression that the SALT II _trea.ty is essential by itself.. We are toldthat we.have no real choice but fo accept:" this treaty, for the future of mankind is at stake. Statements like this blur the issue. It isimportant to -realize that signing a bad_ treaty can be just O.s dangerous to the future of mankind as not signing a goodone. SALT II is not a good treaty. Few will argue that it puts us in a more secure posi7 tion thari we have been in the past. However, we can live with a SALT.II treaty, for ultimately; the numbers involved in power politics a.re nof as significant as a country's resource­fulness in managing its foreigri policy.. This isOwhere.the leadership aspect'comes info play. and ;it is. the sine qua non of effective policy. Per-_ haps_ 1980 will provide us· with re­nE;wed competence in this ar~a. 
The 1980 foreign policy debate cannot be abstruse. In the past, with the pressure of the press 'and the public, candidates have formulated grand designs for the world with magnificent rhetoric ·obscuring· ·the real issues. Upon election, these master plans have stood like an ornate cathedral with no foun­dation, lacking any substance on the inside, and, very often, sadly ·collaps­ing upon its builder. We can learn from the mistakes of the_ past, and in some areas, .it is cle~r. "that we have. Yet we cannot afford to keep making the same mistakes in other areas because we do not have the power in the world we once had. 
It is essential that we define our interest in light of global undercur­rents-in light of a more indepen­dent Third -World, of a more asser­tive _Soviet' Union, and of a .:inore volatile world outlook. Once our in­terest is clear, , policies must be chosen_ in accordance· with these in­terests. We must be dedicated to fols lowing these· policies. Our position must. be made . unequivocal to' the world. To affirm one policy and fol­low another , can be disastrous. President Carter's -_ declaring . Soviet troops in Cuba_-unacceptable, and then, • two weeks later, -accepting their ,presence in -a:nationwide ad­dress is afair example. · _ . 
The future holds out many chal­lenges for the· United States and many opportunities to help -create a more equitable, peaceful world. It is critical _that we__ seek enlightened leadership in -the -1980 election and overcome the usual obstacles wliich have -been. tlie trademark ·_ of -·past elections. If we_ are able to intelli~ gently interpret global trends and act · accordingly, we may weli realize the enormous potential that exists for a harmonious -world: _This_ may be too optimistic_ a hope for the complex society in which we live, yet we must not settle for anything less. . ­
. . . . . ­
~ 

Daniel Moore is a junior govern­ment major. This is his first contri.,. bution to Scholastic. · · 




eandidacu: 
American Z,catlt Wislt? 

by Rick_ Keppel 

·What's this in the newspaper? Teddy Kennedy has finally declared himself an official candidate for the presidency. in 1980.· Not that it comes· as any great surprise. In the past few months, the media have regularly reported that, yes, still, yet ano.ther political dignitary supports Kennedy as the Democratic nominee. "Draft Ted" committees have organ­ized across the country.· Kennedy's modest statement "No, I have no plans to run in 1980" merely titil­. lated _the public, the occasional "If I do run in 1980 ..." sent crowds into frenzies: Why, though? Are his policies that messianic?· Do the I many Americans clamoring for his
Ii 
nomination really understand Ken­

i1 nedy's policies, or even care? Americans are bored. In the seven years' since Watergate, indifference towards government has grown im~ mensely; voter apathy has escalated -something like 30% of the eligible voters in ·the U.S. actually cast a ballot. Face · it, Americans were simply not interested in Gerald Ford's administration. No one could expect the people to maintain in­terest in a· man they didn't elect and who was · originally appointed by Nixon, whose unpopularity reached new heights when he got kicked· out of office. Jimmy Carter knows this problem exists, but he can't do any­thing about it. All the fireside talks, hand gestures, and brown· sweaters in the world won't solve it. In fact, he's going about it all wrong. He · should be taking crash speech courses from a Bostonian, styling his hair in a youthful brown wave, and 
14 


. calling himself Kennedy. 
Political critics '.aside, Americans were at· least interested whenever a Kennedy was "important." John and Robert caused· extreme excitement; 

· people . could easily adhere to their . intense individual charisma. In this land of. cosmetics, it's rather difficult to ignore youthful austerity or touch football. They were both extremely popular. And they were both killed. . . Bored Americans rieed not worry though; there's one more. • Many of· the JFK'and RFK characteristics can. be fourid in EMK, the last of the Kennedy brothers;. certainly he could fill that political vacuum in Washing~ ton. Yet one . wonders how much excitementAmerica wants. Would a Kerinecly in the White House really be enough for everyone?· . 
There's. something deeper in this country's collective unconscious. When · one thinks of Senator Ken: riedy, he or she usuaI!y, if not inevi­tably, :associates him with his· brothers-favorably or unfavorably. How far can one ·draw the parallel? Probably an·the way to an assassin's gun. . . . 
This may seem immediately ab­surd to most, but think about it. This country is incredibly frustrated. Peo­ple know inflation and unemployment will · not magically reverse them­selves; nearly all economists predict monetary doom. Television has been supplying ·the satisfying worlds in which people can lose themselves and sacrifice their individuality. The military-minded have no war to play 

-in, and the~ college campuses are fraught wi!h complacency. The 
country longs for another assassi­
nation.' 
Assassinations certainly ·do not 
solve a·ny problems, but they give the 
nation something incredibly intense 
to experience. ·Inflation and other 
such problems become immediately 
unimportant,· the military put ori 
their special-occasion full-dress uni­
forms and lead processions,· and im­
portant· politicians and ·editorialists 
illuminate the nation's need to "pull 
closely_ together in this time of 
crisis." Students see this event as the 
key to what is wrong in America 
arid what needs to be changed. So 
they rebel against "the Establish­
ment,'' and ari interesting "counter­
culture" arises. · Oddly, · · such a 
tragedy· tends to glorify man, so a 
new hero is taught to first-graders: 
· Of course,· most Americans would 
be. outraged at an assertion such as 
this; they would be horrified to see a 
president or presidential candidate 
gunned down. 'But few _would· deny 
that the idea of such ari occurrence 
had not at all entered his or·her mirid 
in the case of Sen. Kennedy. : It is ·a 
nearly inevitable mental association 
that has interesting cultural impli­
cations. ' 
At a football game recently, overheard some '-'typical American housewives" discussing politics. After ·. two expressed their -support for Kennedy, the third remarked, :''I'm not sure about voting for him and you all know why. I'm afraid some crackpot's going to take a shot .at him just like the other two." The others agreed, "Yeah, some crqc1'­pot." D 
SCHOLASTIC 




93ooks: Energy in the 'SO's ---and Beyond 
"ENERGY FUTURE" potential of conventional and non­energy savings in a manner that is Report of the Energy Project at the conventional sources of energy. economically and socially non-dis­·Harvard Business School/Random Three premises underlie this work. ruptive. It involves such processes House/Ed. by Robert Stobaugh and 1) The crises of 1973-74 and 1978-79 as insulating ·.buildings; making Daniel Yergin are not isolated phenomena but automobiles, .industrial . processes, Review by Dr. Daniel H. Winicur rather are part of a major transition . and home appliances more efficient; for both energy producers and users. and capturing waste heat. His dis­Anyone who is even a casual ob­2) Healthy economic· growth is cussion of conservation is the most server of current events will agree essential and a free-market economy complete and sensible one this re­that the United States has an energy is the best way to achieve it. 3) viewer has ever seen. Yergin dis­problem. Unfortunately, even among "Social costs" and not simply eco­cusses· the necessary government the relatively informed, that is about nomic ones must be assessed in any policy decisions that, if made, could all the agreement one can find con­policy decisions. result in an energy savings of 40 cerning this issue. The. magnitude, 
percent over 1973 consumption. The the cause and the very nature of the chapter on Solar America, by energy crisis are clouded in a thicket Modesto Maidique, provides a rela­of claims, counterclaims, and con­tively non-technical primer on all flicting testimony by our "experts" forms of solar energy. It is made so that we, as well as· our political clear that no new technology is leaders, are left unsure and unable needed but if the right political deci­to take effective ,·action. sions are made now, solar energy 
At last, out of the abundance of could provide 20 percent of our na­material which has been written -tional energy requirements, equiv:­about the energy crisis, there has alent to about 10 million barrels of now been published a book which oil a day,.by the year 2000. makes. so much s~nse that it may The book is written in a lucid style well serve as an action manual for and does not read as if written by a the 1980's and beyond. It is Energy committee, which speaks well of Future: Report of the Energy Proj­Stobaugh and Yergin's editing skills. ect at the Harvard Business· School, Its tone· is never strident but rather edited by Robert Stobaugh and dispassionate and rational. Its tech­Daniel Yergin. It is aimed at the nical content is relevant and correct ­educated non-specialist but it is so · and there are abundant references, well documented that it provides which are gathered together at the · the necessary background and blue-end of ·the · book. Energy Future is print for a rational social and polit-The four conventional sources of highly reconiniended for anyone who ical course of action. domestic energy are oil, natural gas, · would like a'·clear insight into to­
The opening chapter outlines the coal and nuclear power. They are day's energy crisis and who wants historical events leading to the pres-discussed in separate chapters, each to know what options are available ent_ crisis, It explains the nature of which covers the historical, eco­for the future. It should be required of the crisis and its relation to U.S. nomical and political factors of that reading for all present and prospec­foreign and economic policy in a source. Technical content is kept to tive political leaders. D · coherent, sensible manner. Stobaugh the minimum necessary to support and Yergin point out that the polit-the arguments presented. •"Energy ical difficulties involved in dealing Future" argues persuasively that all with energy policies_ stem in large four conventional sources are likely measure from the -· enormous to deliver less energy than projected amounts of money· involved. For by their advocates and that there is example, .the. OPEC price. increases little reason to expect these· conven­0£'1973-74 increased the world mar-tional alternatives to make a sizable ket value of proved U.S. reserves of . contribution to reducing. our depeff­oil .and gas alone .by 800 billion dence on imported oil. They then dollars. · develop the theme that the .uncon-
The book tries to answer the ques-· · ·ventional alternatives, · "Conserva­tion of why it has proven so difficult tion and Solar," can make a far · · in the United States to move away greater contribution than is nor­from ever-increasing imports of oil mally assumed. and why it is so important that we · The chapter by Daniel Yergin on do so. Although they only cover conservation argues that conserva­events up to early-1979, the situation tion should be regarded as a largely in Iran today (November, 1979) untapped, non-polluting, . renewable makes the authors seem prophetic. · · source of America's current energy Stobaugh and Yergin separate out needs. Yergin advocates "productive the basic issues of energy production _conservation," which encourages and consumption and compare the .· changes in behavior that promote 
NOVEMBE_!t 16, 1979 



/ 
; 
. ~i­

~:,,:;d . ' -~~,':.• "'.,. ~.-~ .~:ft.?~;-~;~~~ 
...-ow~-~., "t{r=-::f:J,.3 nc::
-~-~"t-~':l!;•:::;." . ' 
...l;'"'! :•4...~~ ~71,~~~~~i·...~ 
,,...... •' •~···-:·,,c;.:~~-1"~20­
...; ... ~..:-:,.~;,.t..,?Jfl;-;.r: ...~·)..::/.~~~~.<,-,;
~\.-,~· ai;~J,;,~· ,;f;t";:;,;S,;S.t1.~ .• 


by amy murdock 


I go to class 
And fade away 
Into a land of make believe 
And eternal play. 
The teacher speaks · 
But I do riot hear 
I only ask 
Why am I here? 
_:_Joe Pheifer 
A New Leaf (on Life) 
A lone Leaf sitting up in the middle of the path a minority amongst the cinders its own protest group a veiny hand 
kindly commanding me to stop this aimless trek to take · it up 
" 
let's. shake on it" It seems to say but while I grasp its 
· boneless body it collapses; just a tissue of the spring ·yet passing itself off as a full plant. 
but it can't do it 
I open my fist and it unfolds like a flower in the plane of my palm its face rubberly recovers from a pucker into a ·smile back again in rare form its tip of a tongue's sticking out at 
me. 
I guess its sides must be splitting from outwitting me, a green unseasoned rookie equipped with no uniform of colors; vying with tulip vets for the attention and succeeding at it 

unlike its late fall brothers who die bitter as they fritter to earth quite brittle dropping dead all together getting crushed underfoot and brushed by muck­raking undertakers who rush the remains into clumps of nameless graves heaped up for children's games they're spurned and burned the flames fragrant fumes soon lost so incensed in this autumn holocaust 
A great· contrast with this leaf though I . know it is dead it shows no grief at its own eulogy 
a suicide which died still alive a separate entity A leap from a branch . 
for a chance to be 
-Tom O'Toole 

Images 
The light of my blindness struck my eyes, And as I watch the green flame Of the lonely campfire it dies And I wish that I never came To love you as I did In the heat of new love which knows no shame, Now, after all the secrets this you hid. 
I can see us still, two lovers, Climbing to a soft spot on the hill, Where the sky opened up, And.I saw the world beneath me, Little ants running in a race · With no goal in'sight but Death. 
As I watch,· one stumbles and stops, A few pause. a moment, Bury him and carry on J\.t their breathtaking speed, And I _wonder, where are they going? 
/ c' 

They try so hard And yet gain so little No one wins, everyone loses, Death just overtakes them on the inside. 
(, Love· came to me and said, . . There you are, she's very nice, Why don't you go ahead? 
I asked myself the same question Andfinally came.to a resolution, 
Love today for you die tomorrow. . ._ · -Stephen Burkart 
Love_is Your Left Eyebrow 
Love is your left eyebrow slinking off slowly · into space • ·. ' Leaving your eyes alone and unadorned and . not tha~ far from your nose. . . · -John·.Burbridge 
Untitled Whenever I'm with you The world Makes sense to me again It is as if the steady beat of your heart Has a metronomic effect On my entire being The clashing rhythms become a metered music That I can dance to I am free To experience the melody · Dancing to the beat 
-Anthony Walton 
Baroque 

Genuflect. An angel tries his best in the foreground of an oil. Feathered cuphooks lean down his back, startling the velvet. 
To his right, Mary lies red-robed upon the bed, . her eyes gazing lidless . at the shower curtain of a bower above. . 
The artist carefully-, orders his world. 
Does· her hand touching a nipple primed to give suck feel for the child beating within .her, 
-, :·; . 
or does it lie .veinless upon the canvas, thecrosspiece of a shadow? 
-John Thornton 

· The Fruits of Love 
The sky grew grey, then black, then blue again As I stood with you by the side of· this, The musical stream of requited love, And. the stream grew and flooded from my mind, Onto the floodpl~in of my daily li(e . 
. · It watered the seeds of happiness, Cooled the white-hot furnace of anger, And the· plain blossomed. into beauty. ·. 
. We watched as the stalks of love grew longer, .. The harvest of happiness soon began, · · And the· children of love went into the fields . . . -Stephen· Burkart 

Scholastic 9nterview: 
Weighing a "Full Value" 
by Bob Southard 

_Earlier this year, Professor John Houck of Notre Dame's Depa1Jment of Management, and Professor Oli­ver Williams, C.S.C., of the De­partment of Theology · published Full Value: Cases in Christian Busi­ness Ethics. Scholastic magazine re­cently interviewed them -on the book's success: 
To put it directly, be/ore · Full Value, before "Williams and Houck," was there a book which could have been used to teach ·a course in Christian business ethics? 
Prof. John Houck: We'd like to say "no," and that's ,close to· 
-being accurate. The classroom prob­lem is this: scholars are so busy in their respective fields -myself, for instance, in public policy, and· Fr. Williams in theology .:..::.. that· a student can study in these fields without ever bridging the _disci­plines. In higher education there are periodic movements to create bridges between fields to bring var­ious disciplines to bear on · common example, the biggest problem in business is understanding the mod-­
ern corporation, which is a relative­· ·ly new phenomenon. Certainly, you 
· 

can teach ethics, but the issue is the great diffusion of responsibility in the corporation. It's not enough to know that you should do "the good"; it's not even enough to know what "the good" 1is -it's what are the ways in which change can take place ; . . so, I had to learn how decisions are made. Without know­ing that, I really couldn't offer any­thing. 
Your approach in the book -that 

of using life "stories'' and the con­·cept of major biblical images to give the business person a Christian framework -how did it come 
about? 
Williams: It's generally known as "narrative" theology, .and it has· had recent popularity in the United States.• John Dunne, here at Notre Dame, is probably the pioneer in the field, and I encountered him in 
problems; talked about, but rarely · · my seminary work. John is probably done. In the post-Watergate era, •the most famous man in the world here at Notre Dame they tried'. to -'in narrative theology; Ken Wood­
experiment with the concept ·of a Values Seminar. I think that in conversations between Fr;' Burrell of Theology and Dean Ryan of Busi­ness it was said, "let's try some­thing else,"· to see what would hap­pen if a theologian and a manage­ment expert could come up with a realistic set of problems · that a business person would confront, and to see what -resources· theology and 
ward of Newsweek calls him "the only possible successor to Paul_ Til­· lich." Fr. Dunne has sort of shifted 
·systematic theology to a kind of "story'' theology, saying, "~his is the way to reach people." 
And where was your _contact with -,these ideas, Prof. Houck? Houck: Mainly through Fr. Wil­Iiams. But the way you have to do it 
business could .bring· to, the · analy--, is . to :agree you want to look_ at. a sis of the problems. That's harder: , common set of problems and have than you think. We had to· spend a each one bring the best of his field;to lot of time playing "catch~up ball." .· bear. I'd bring the business perspec­tive ..::.... .how you would get to the 
Yes, what were some. ofthe prob-top, or how one would prove himself lems you ran into while coauthor-•a manager. ing such·a book? ·Williams: ·You see, as a theolo­
-Fr. Williams: Well, we· taught .. gian, the.key,problem I see us deal­
-together for:.three years;-•. and the book is really the manuscript that ­grew out of the course; so the book shows we've both learned a lot. For ing with is trying to reach the "good Catholic" who receives the Eucha­rist, participates in his church and is also very successful in the busi­
·. 

ness world; Their ·self-understand­ing is as a "g66d Catholic" or Notre Dame graduate ..:_ arid yet, often; we find this very same person, when in the business world, -is no different than anybody · else. In other words; you must play by_ the. rules of the game, which is often kind of a dog~ eat-tlog -situation. And, if you use narrative theology and focus ori'the fact ·that to be a~•Christiari means to have a biblical image that guides our story, then'you necessarily have to come to grips. with that dichoto­my. You can't lead your life in'two worlds. You_ can't write· one story in your home and community and an­other story · in the· business world. You've got to somehow bring it:to­gether and integrate it. So you can't· call yourself a "good Catholic" if you're a dog-eat-dog· person in'the business world. [You may decide you're not even . a Christian . "after you see it this way. But_ unless you're willing to: try'. to bririg com~ passion and· generosity ·and idealism into the marketplace, then -you ought not to have a self-image as a Christian; · you're':_ simply :not a Christian. And that's-what this nar­rative theology· forces you to say.] 
-_---Given this -vision, where do you both go from here, either individual­ly or collectively? · Houck: We're collaborating on two projects, mainly because there's 
·very little in this -field of integrating religious and biblical values in the corporate_ world, in any concreteness or detail as to how they might be played out.-.There's plenty of room for a Christian who sees himself as 
-·l'Servant," one of our master bibli­cal images,. to play that out in the , corporate setting~_ . . . As we view it, this whole idea of building bridges, of integration, has to occur on two levels: the theoretical and practical. So, next spring, we are bringing together scholars -from · here_ and around the country on the question of the role of religious val­ues in the corporate setting. So · 
SCHOLASTIC 


-~­


~.:;~~;i::-ili;}?t:0~rl77 

:Fr. Oliver Williams and Pr~fessor: John Houck 
we're working on some case studies, some stories of men and women, and their struggle to find ways to play this out. 
(' 

.Specifically, where does Notre Dame, as a school, go from here on these issues? 
Williams: It's an age-old prob­lem; we don't· live up to our convic­tions. That's my problem, that's your problem. But at least an aca­demic institution that proclaims .. to stand for. Christian Catholic values ought to workat a number of levels 'to help 'the'students to seewhat it means . to carry ..·convictions' into their lfves: ~d we see.that's going on in our course, and . there are · a: number . of other . courses that are 
•trying 'to do· the same..: ...!11 many ways, we have' to' grow more and more to. be a model community so· a 'student 'can leave here· saying, ·"I want to be iimanager·like I saw. the managers at Notre Dame." · 
•There.is that opportunity here but what about trying. to: reach beyond this_ school and its graduates .with these ideas? 
Houck: You have to avoid stereo­typing. We have· to start out with the proposition that there are peo­ple of goodwill out there wanting to find in .their business lives a place for religious values. There are a lot of groups out. there so. inclined. Fre­quently, it's lay people getting to­gether without too much sense of direction.· · 
_:I think books like Full Value, if successful; will get .a lot of other people out there who• will probably · do a better job than we did -:-:-and once these resources . are · made available, there'll be a lot of people who. use the book or . similar vol­umes, .or . join · discussion groups with . · better-equipped . pastors or ministers, . . 
· . Williams:. One of the skills we try_ to· teach ·. the students is , to. argue from their religious convictions, but the second part of this is to:see that in many cases they must learn how to move out beyond those who share their. religious convictions • and find common ground. So .. you· can. de­velop, it seems to me,. good reasons to be humane and compassionate iii· the· business world,. even: if. you're not a believer. -.You can .learn to sen this as the best policy for ..the cor~ poration: .for. long~run pr9flt • maxi­mization..For.example; w~•re doing a case this• week on the · Dominican Republic "and Gulf .and . :Western's behavior: there -. . . after you get your:· religious ,values straight in your mind:....:even though the ma­··· .jority .:: of·. the.·. stockholders; .. don'.t share your values, you can ·make ·an.argument that for the long-run 
good; of Gulf and. Western, they ought . to .treat ·. those people as human beings, or, sooner or later, they're going .to be.nationalized and thrown out. In: other words;, you can move to . develop another argu­ment based ·on · convictions •that would be shared in· the wider com­munity. Another point is ·that you have to be:a hero once in a while; you might have .to take stands you know.· will never catch on,· simply to be true to. yourself. ·That · would be unusual;.. but .it's something. we try to teach students. 
Fair enough; it is optimistic. 

Houck: Well, one problem we like to developjs that of a plant in New England, where a guy was called up and essentially told to relocate that plant in the Sunbelt. Now. a person just thinking of a career would say, ·"Great. I've got a chance:to· put a .whole package together; It.would be a real· notch in my belt." But-:our model might be the person who would see himself as "Heir to the Kingdom" (another master ·biblical image),·who would see that a.lot of people would· be hurt·.by:,the plant relocation, that it would, devastate the New England town;.But he can't just be ,-a :person: of goodwill;: he's got . to . be: very, competent.-..This ·manager has to. know.what it would take to convince the board of direc­
tors of that corporation to keep the plant in New England. He has to know financial theory, transporta­tion, everything -and be able to show the top people ·how they can keep the plant and how it won't cost much more, if any more. If . this manager can prove this on · paper, by going out as a leader to convince the labor unions and com.;. munity to work with him, then he's · accomplished something. So, you see, it's the role. not only of good­will but of competence. 
Williams:· That story illustrates well our key point that efficiency and productivity ought not to be the only values of a good manager. Our manager can get the job done, but he's also · compassionate. And, if you can sum up the focus of our · efforts, it is that. 
Given that. summation, is there anything you'd like to have changed in the book, given hindsight? 
Houck: I think I'd have a change, 
and I think we'll do it when we do 
this volume on the lives of business­
persons who are integrating the 
two worlds: I think, oftentimes, pe~ 
pie make moral· judgments, in fact 
we train people at a university to 
make a lot of moral judgments ­
but what is very difficult is showing 
the great need· for competence and 
detailed. planning to bring off the 
moral judgments. Father Hesburgh 
alluded to this in our book's intro­
duction when he ·said that more 
good things failed in the world sim­
ply because there weren't the com­
petent people to bring them off. The 
heroes we want to write about took 
difficult. stand:;, agreed on what' the 
moral thing was, and then fol"lowed 
through. We need to · emphasize 
that. 
Williams: Yes. The noblest ideals 
in the world aren't worth much un­
less you have the persistence. 
Well, how has your message been getting across? Crassly; how have sales been? 
Williams: We're -going into ·our second printing with Harper and Row. 
And how has the book been criti­cally received? 
Houck: There is one group out 

there. that just says it's impossible to mix religious beliefs with the business world -that's the cynical group. We've experienced reviewers whose position was• that :there's · nothing there because you simply 
can't do it. We have ·run into that, and I hope that we've been convinc­ing enough; but apparently to some reviewers we have not. 
Williams: It's actually been .re­viewed pretty favorably, though. Even that which John just men­tioned came in a favorable review; the man ended up by saying that our vision is so lofty, and given this world· so shot through with evil, what is one to do with this vision? Would you become a sinner if you tried to live like this? Of course. 

. the whole purpose for writing the book is to prevent a· person from becoming a sinner. We're saying, yes, it is a far from perfect world, but you want to keep your sights set high. · 
Houck:· Certainly, · we also are, have been, and will be criticized by the Christian socialists who say so­cialism is more compatible with the best values inherent in Christianity, and that we're talking about a cap­italist world -though we would 

· modify that to democratic capitalist. Anyway, these people would not· agree_ with our premise. 
Williams: If you wanted to locate our book on a spectrum, you would have the Marxists on one end say­

. ing .the only thing to • do is over­
. throw-the system and the· "Milton Friedman" capitalists on the other, saying that efficiency and produc­tivity are all that should be brought into the marketplace. We're in the middle of that, saying capitalism has many strengths, but it has some serious problems and there--ought to · be more concern, particularly among corporations, for the com­mon good, not jusLthe making of profits -though that's part of the common good. We'd be considered "incrementalists"; we ''don't·· want revolution, but think there's alot of room for change and that these changes can be made -that there are a lot of people of goodwill out there who are running corporations who might·see it, who are seeing it in some cases. 
S,peaking of reaching present and future •corporate America how is Full Value being used as a textbook'! 
Williams: I think most of our sales have •. been ·to schools. We've · tried to get a printout from· Harper and Row, but their sense is that we've been selling to schools; I know of about a dozen schools using · it, because of teachers writing me, but we really-don't have an exact read­ing yet.-·-· 

Houck: We've gotten communica­tion from some lay leaders in the Protestant churches and from some in the Catholic Church who are talking it up. A lot is going to be word-of-mouth, but we're getting a nice feedback from a number of people who say that we seerri to have a good sense of what business is all about, and that we're challeng­ing businessmen, laying a prophetic vision on them -.apparently in such a way that they're not just storming away. 
To close, it. sounds ~-though you ·have written_ a revolutionary book -a book that would almost force the individual ·to overthrow him­self . ... 
Williams: · That's · exactly the point. What· we're _saying is that men and· women who have a sense of value, in the Judaeo-Christian tradition, can . change the world; that · you don't just· need "sympa­thy," you don't need. to be in hope­less despair -that, in fact, we need men and women of character, who will speak out, who will use their skills to change things. That's pre­cisely the thesis.. D 
In April,' Notre: Da~e.win spon­sor a symposium on the "Judeo­
· christian•· arid-·the Modem Busi­ness Corporation." Featured · gue.sts include James Gustafson from the University of Chicago, John Bennett from Claremont, Michael· Novak,' Enda· McDon­ough, .John H. Yoder, Dennis 
·Goul~~ and Charles Wilbur•. 


ND Mock Convention: Teaching Political Realities 
by Donna Teevan 
It happens only once every four 

years. Campaign buttons become 
part of a Domer's wardrobe. Stu­
dents are bombarded with campaign 
literature all over campus. Dining 
hall · discussions focus on national 
issues rather than the food. These 
changes in campus life can mean 
only one thing -the approach of 
Notre Dame's four-day political spec­
tacle, the Mock Convention. 
When the 1980 Mock Convention 

begins in -March,. Notre Dame stu­
dents will continue a quadrennial 
tradition begun in 1940 and inter­
rupted only once, in 1944, because of 
World.War II. The student delegates 
of the i980 Mock Convention will 
select apresidential and a vice-presi­
dential nominee from the Republican 
party, since the Convention is always 
held for the party out of. power. 
They will also approve a platform, a 
declaration of the party's position on 
certain <issues. . . · 
. Apart from the overt purpose of 
nominee selection and platform writ­
ing, the Convention aspires to be a 
"course in practical politics," as its 
founder, the late Dr. Paul Bartholo­
mew once said. Students learn much 
about the workings of a: political 
convention because the · Convention 
models itself on the national party 
convention. Students also experience 
the techniques o{ grassroots cam­
paigning. 
. . 

. The tenth convention, which is to 
be held. in Stepan Center, wiH begin 
Wednesday, March 5. The "four days 
of the Convention will be hectic ones 
for the delegates. Each night,. there 
will be a keynote speaker, probably 
a prominent Republican. 
The opening session will consist of 

. a welcoming. speech, an· invocation, and clarifications . of some technical matters. Platform· discussions will take place the riext night. The dele­gates will vote for the presidential . nominee on the third night. This could be a long. night for the dele­gates. In 1976, Hubert Humphrey emerged as the victor at 4: 21 A.M.;. hours . of . vote haggling . among the campsiof Udall; Carter, and Brown had left him_ as,the compromise can-
NOVEMBER 16, 1979 
didate. The final night of the Con-organize a candidates' forum in vention, Saturday, March 8, will be which the candidates or their repre­devoted to electing a vice-presiden-sentatives can come together for one tial nominee. evening, possibly in late January, to 
Actually, the Convention . is the discuss their views on the issues. culmination of a series of events that Kresse is 'optimistic about the can­begin in late November when chair-didates' responses to ·such an invi­men of the state delegations and tation because many notable politi­campaign managers are chosen. Vol-cians have come to Notre Dame dur­
. unteers, interested in accepting the ing past · election years. Jimmy Car­
. responsibilities, fill· these positions, ter, Walter' Mondale and Ronald according to Bill Kresse, ·the 1980 Reagan are among those who· were Mock Convention chairman. A steer-on campus a few ·years. ago to seek ing committee of Student Govern-support. ment and the · Government Depart-There· are. a number of other col­ment Honor Society, co-sponsors of leges .that have mock conventions, the event, selected Kresse as chair-but the national composition of the man early this year. · · Notre Dame student body and the 
The state delegations are. to be fact that most Notre Dame students composed of student volunteers from · are Catholic make the Notre Daine that state, if possible. Some students Convention unique. The accuracy of from over-represented states might the Convention in indicating national be asked to serve as delegates for preferences in past elections.is often other, less-represented states. Kresse attributed to the University's na­does not see this as a threat to the tional character. · Convention's authenticity. because·· it Kresse noted that most Notre . happens rarely and, even then, dele-Dame students are interested in na-. gates often adapt themselves to their tional politics. A pollhe took in 1976 adopted states. "I've.heard a North-indicated that 87% of the student erner start speaking with a Southern body had planned to vote in the accent during .the Convention be-presidential election that November. cause he became a Georgia del~ Polls conducted in the 1960's · show gate," Kresse quipped. an even greater amount of student 
The platform committee functions interest in the.elections. · to present to the Convention both Kresse does not foresee any major majority and minority . opinions. difficulties in organizing the upcom­Kresse expressed hope that, as in the ing Convention, although he noted past; open forums on all the major that the death ·of Bartholomew, who issues will be held prior to the Con-had always helped the Convention vention. National defense, relations pla.nners, has forced the officials of with Third World nations, China and the 1980 Convention to rely mostly the Soviet Union, inflation, taxation, on· limited historical resources. Bar­the environment, and the energy tholomew. assisted the organizers of crisis promise to be major issues -at .. the 1976 Convention, .but died De­the 1980 Convention. · · cember, 1975, before the Convention 
The field of candidates at the Mock ·took place; • · Convention is not restricted to those . Who will _the delegates chose as who have. officially announced their· -their presidential nominee? No one candidacy. · If a student is willing to can be certain. of the outcome until campaign for a. candidate, then he the last .ballot is counted, but, in the is in the running. Usually the cam-meantime, the students of Notre paigns· begin early in January, al-Dame will get a unique glimpse of though some get under way before the world of politics'. And that is the erid of the first sem·ester. Each what ·the Mock Convention is really campaign organization is allotted about. 0 . some space in .the library lobby orLa Fortune for its campaigning. This is Donna Teevan's first con­
. . Conv:ention · officials are trying to tribution to. Scholastic. 
-# •·' 

Finally finding an empty locker, I bashfully_ strip off my jacket and sweats and place them neatly .ori separate hooks. Searching the room for , would-be wallet snatchers, . I slyly push my billfold as far-into my shoe · as possible. Gaining the attendant's notice, I 'apologetically request a ball in return for my r:D. Sticking hi-liter in· mouth, .and turning an anonymous paperback over to keep his place, the student disregards a row of fairly new balls before finally deciding on one that Moose Krause himself may have tossed through hoops at· the old fieldhouse: . Slowly asceriding the dusty ·stairwell; the sound of rac­quetballs' ricocheting ' off . nearby walls. is gradually replaced. by·-bas_­ketballs bouncing on the hardwood floor above, while familiar, musty gymnasium odors pervade the· air. Opening. the door and viewing .'the scene. in front of me, I long for warmer weather. , , , 
Late · summer · in · South · Bend. Friendly touch football games, fris­bee, tennis, and casual. jogs around the· lakes beneath·. the warm, late afternoon stin provide the N.D. stu­dent' various . pleasant and leisurely forms of exercise.· But autumn leaves must fan, drawing the student •off the . browning campus lawri into that mecca· and shrine of frustrated jocks, the Rockne_ Memorial Gym . 
. Throwing my G.P.A. to the wind, 
I . took up residence on the "Rock'' courts · during;· iny freshman ·. year spending my afternoons. as I did in high school, playing "hoop." Three years hence/ my love .for the game 

·.tried by battling.the crowds ·and. the 
1
generally ·.frustrating. experience of .trying to play there, niy weekly so­journ is made~ begrudgingly; only to wage. a . baitle: of my own· bulge, :founded on_. "institiitional food" and Stroh's; while· left t:O<flourish. dtir~ irig afternoons· spent, .watching 
M.A.S.H. as an alternative to. _ex­
ercise; . ' . ' Walking into' the gym/I imniedi~ 
2'4 

ately notice ·the "rio-c·ontest" taking place on th~ first ,court. · A diminu­tive, mustachioed hustler,. who claps his hands a lot, disput~s, every 'foul, in an ear-piercing voice,· and touches the ball only when none of his:teammates are open. His team­mates,. who could ·better serve Dan Devine, and their hi-top black sneakers and green varsity issue gym shorts that indicate they prob­ably do, ·. are· easily· dispensing of their civermatched opponents. The first court is usually graced· by the more talented units but nobody told this hapless quintet, and the little guy, ' the • Rock Rat, screams, "Game!" so that·. everyone can 
hear him.., . As the losers drag themselves off the court, five more aspiring hoop­sters. await the slaughter, nervous­ly clanging sundry jump shots off the rim. The victors run off to the bubbler, while I run to one of the side hoops and smoothly arch a me­dium-range jumper toward the rim. Swish! My shot tickles the twine, and assured that the touch is· still there, though . the· quickness may have gorie the way of my 30'' waist, I raise my hand signaling for the ball. My rebounder, obviously poor­ly versed in the nuances of'court courtesy, dribbles my ball awkward­ly to the dark recesses of the second ·court, lost in a sea of Domers, never to be seen again.-· • · · · · Recapturing a ball· I loosen . up, launching shot after shot toward the . rim.. A new ganie has. beguri, and I dribble the ball off ·my.' foot'' as· one 
of the gridders shakes the gym with a.' dunk shot ·that .. Orlando:•wool~ ridge makes only in his dreams. Re~ ·gaining my composure, I inquire along the sidelines, "Who's 'got the · next· game?"-A tall, lanky, anony­·moiis redhead informs ine .that· he _has last game and that·I'm welcome ·to the. one · following his,' which ·would be the thirteenth. Thirteenth! Realizing.:that . I ·probably: wouldn't :get on·the court until sec~nd senies­
.by Bill Ryan 

ter, I decline, his generousoffer and search the sidelines for someone with a higher number. and . wlio might need the services of a 6'1" shooting . forward . with I a strong aversion for. rebounding and honest defense. · · . . . . . · 
"We need a fifth," a high . voice chirps. My eyes , come to rest on a short,. paunchy guy whom . I _recog­nize as a checker at :the dining hall. His basketball ability, or lack there­of, is given away by his worri track shoes and knee-length, cut-off jeans. "We've got next game," he·answers, and that is.all I have to. know, for the sooner I play ·and get · out of here, the better: Besides I might be able to · · catch the tail :_ end · of 
M.A.S.H. . 
._ The "Devine.Team"•·completes its next game just as quickly .as the first and as my teammates emerge from the masses along the.sidelines, I realize I may see M.A.S.H. in its entirety. Two Oriental grad students who normally . pass their time afthe : side· hoop·_ playing '''21" from _about 5 feet out, have apparently chosen this. game as their ..playing debut. They Jook ready to play in thefr greying undershirts, brand-new ND. gym shorts, K-mart red sneakers, and worst of all, dark socks, .Our coach, general manager,. and chief recruiter, whose name I learn is Al, introduces,, me to my Far East­ern teammates, · . who ignore .my extended hand and• kowtow· in ac­
. knowledgement, mumbling some gib­berish I pretend to.· understand: Al's 'gangly'roorriniate, whose shaky two-· ·handed"dribble :gives an· early'. indi­'cation.. of :his ball-handling: skills, completes this· motley·, crew.. . ··•'. "We'll bring it· up/' blurts the little · guy, :He ·is·. the · quintessential "Rock 'Rat." :He still wears the''fa­miliar,· blue; green-and~gold-striped,. hi~top; :Adidas sneakers· that he got freshma'n ·year:when: Jeff Carpenter lived. down the· hall,. while the· rest 'of 'his ,attire,' terinis shorts, Fenwick T~·shirt; ·and , coordinating' socks• are 
.. ;. ; . , ; . SCHOLASTIC 



clean and neat. He never has to wait for a game,_and though· possessor of modest abilities himself, he always manages to get on a good team. As a consequence, he· rarely loses. But on these occasions when he does encounter defeat; he inevitably has the next game, as if he called Fat Eddy earlier and made reservations. His abrasive mariner -and· overag­gressive style of play have made enemies of all those who have ·com­peted against him, and he sees noth­ing wrong · with· abandoning one team in favor of. a more talented group.' Dribbling up 'the court, he shouts directions and. passes'off as· soon as he feels a modicum of de­fensive pressure.., . . · 
A couple quick, crisp. passes crack our very passive zone, and down, 1-0, Al's roomie starts to "dribble" up the court. "Double dribble!" yells the Rat, and from then· on, it's all downhill. ·The closest ·we come ·to scoring comes when Al, ·way ahead of ·the pack, but head down, crashes· into the mat draped on. the end wall, thank God, and never gets ·a· chance to shoot. The Taiwanese twins never . find the range from more than five feet, and I find shoot­ing a basketball is no easier than opposing · quarterbacks · must find passing a football· with ·the Notre Dame defensive line breathing down your neck. The game ends as quick­ly as it began and, :for -the ·ump­teenth time this afternoon, the Rock Rat shouts with pride, "Game!" · 
Feeling both frustrated and re­lieved, I find my ball and thank Al, still recovering from his encounter with the wall, .for allowing me to be thoroughly humiliated. Before leaving, the Rock Rat asks me if they can use my ball. Thinking bet­ter of throwing the ball in his face, I tuck it under my arm, ignoring his -request, and as ·· I have done countless times before, vow never to return. D 
Bill Ryan is a Senior Chemistry 

Concentrate from S®th Weymouth, 
Mass. This is his first contribution 
to Scholastic. 
:~ ::( ~ ;··:/_-;-.·-~-.._:~: ~~:; 
.·._:.,._ ...... ·_·,·, -"=' 

'.. ~--.-~~?~/~ 
~ ··{~J/tl--~_: __ 
·~ 
i 

25 

__.;____;______;___________,:______--'-----__;____:__ ___:____:__ ______c_c_:____:__~____:__~-~-~~ 
... . . 







The Paper Irishman.· 
by Frank LaGrotta 


. 0I remember lying awake the night before high school baseball tryouts and wanting very badly to go out for the team. The next day, when everyone· was signing up outside the gym, . I stopped and. watched .for a· while but I couldn't bring myself to do it because I was, afraid L wasn't good enough .. 
For the· longest time after ,that, whenever· I saw a high school base-­ball game,, I couldn't help wondering· if maybe, just maybe . . . . •· 
I promised myself I'd never again be afraid of trying. 
* * * 

Of course, I've never been what you might call "athletic." Oh, I par­ticipated -basically because every­one participated . and when you're 
· young, you never want to be left out. But · I never. scored the winning touchdown or hit a 20-foot jumper with one second left in the game. 
Consequently, at the ripe old age of 20, I and my slightly rotund body had resigned ourselves to the safer but less exciting role of spectator. 
Until, that is, Rich Hunter pro­posed that I put on a uniform and play in a real, live Notre Dame var­sity soccer game. · 
My first response? I laughed. Hysterically. But, let's start at the beginning. Itwas a cold Tuesday afternoon 

and the Irish were ·· methodically 
making mincemeat out of a much ·. weaker Valparaiso team to the tune . of 8-0 with ·10 minutes left in the . 
first half. I was standing on· the sidelines with injured players Jim Sabitus and Tom Crotty when Sabi­tus turned to me and joked (at least I thought he was joking) : 
"This game's so out of hand we could even let you play." A dumb statement deserves an­other dumb statement so !'cracked: 
· "Yeah, but why run up the score on th,,m?'' · . I thought it was mildly funny but no one laughed because no one heard it; In . fact, when I turned around both Sabitus and Crotty were · hud­dled on the sidelines. with Coach 
· Hunter and they were laughing, .. ; 
And they were pointing at me. 
I began to feel like the little kid 

in the doctor~s office who's about to 
get a shot. You know you're gonna 
get. it, but there's not a d~mn thing 
you can do about it. , . . . · 
My_ last resort was:·that Hunter 

would nix the idea, Imagine· my 
dismay .when · I ·found·. him to be 
equally enthusiastic. , . 
"Asolutely;not!" I refused, think-' . 

ing about my health and the see­
through sho~s. that .soccer. players 
wear. 
"Come on!" encouraged Crotty. 

"You have. a chance to see firsthand 
what it's like to play in a game. Any 
sportswriter would jump at the 
chance!" · 
"Yeah," added· Sabitus. "George 

Plimpton would love it." 
· "Call George Plimpton . then," I 
snapped, "'cause I'm not doing it!" 
Yet, for ·some reason, the idea 

began to appeal to me. I'd like to 
think it was my reporter's instinct 
but, more than likely, it was my 
oversized ego that caused me to go 
along with their scheme. 
. "You may never get this ·chance 

again," Sabitus reminded me. Re­
membering my promise and ignoring 
my waistline, I reluctantly agreed to 
at leasftry·on a uniform. 
Five minutes later I found myself 

in the ACC locker room with Tom 
Leutkehans who was throwing pieces 
of his uniform in my direction. I 
started to think again about what I 
was going to do. · 
"Just pipe down and put these on," 

smiled Leutkehans as he tossed me 
his shorts. .·. 
. "These won't fit me!!'' I protested. 

And I was right -they didn't even 
come close. 
"Just put 'em on for now and we'll 

get Lovejoy's when we get back to 
the field,., assured Sabitus. :"He 
wears a large." 
Back at Stepan field, where the 

second half was just · beginning, I 
proceeded .. to change shorts .with . Kevin Lovejoy. · 
"I just can't do this," I moaned 

as he handed .them to me from the 
floor of the athletic department van. 
"People will think I'm a fool!" 
"Frank," smiled . Lovejoy as he 

patted me on the back, "if that's all you're worried about, forget it. .faintest idea where the center-for-felt like I'djust scored the winning Everyone already knows that." ward plays. goal in a championship game. 
With that happy thought to in-"Damn it!" cursed Hunter. "Get "Nice job!" he said, smiling. Who spire me, I tugged on my sweats and in there!" was I to argue? gingerly climbed out of the van. All of a sudden, I was playing On the bench, my "teammates" 
"No way I'm taking these sweats soccer. My first thought was: applauded _loudly and took turns off," I assured anyone who would "Hey, this is fun!" shaking • my hand. Tired, out of listen. "It's too cold for shorts!" Then the game started. breath and covered .with. sweat, I 
Sabitus and Leutkehans suggested Gotta run! Keep moving and stay realized I never felt better in my life. that I practice kicking a ball around with my man. Who the hell is my but, having never played soccer be-man??!! 
* * * 

fore in my life, I didn't have the --puff puff-pant pant-slightest idea of what to do. So, I saw the ball come to a Valpo I had dinner with Lovejoy that when Letitkehans kicked a ball ·at player. I chased him and kicked i~ night and I must remember to thank me, I did the first thing that came to away. him for not rehashing my varsity my mind . . . My first steal! debut. Unfortunately, as we left the 
l got· the hell out of the way. "Nice play," · teammate Steve dining hall, I ran into a friend who "No! Trap it with your feet like Kramer complimented without men-had already heard about it. this," he demonstrated. tioning that! had actually kicked the "Hey, did you play soccer today?" 
After a few times, I actually got ball to another Valpo player. he asked loudly. the hang of it. I ~as actually doing At that point, Joe Ciuni stole the "Ah, yeah . . . kinda," I replied it right! ball from a Valpo winger and broke under my breath. 
"Good job,'t Leutkehans assured for the Crusader goal. "He almost scored a goal," Love-
me. "You'll do·just fine." Think! Think! Where do I go? What joy chipped in. . Then my ego took over. do I do? What would a smart center-"Yeah?" asked my friend, feigning Maybe, just maybe, I'll be good. forward do in this situation? amazement. "I'm surprised he could 
Maybe soccer is my secret calling. Not being sure, I ran toward the . even move out there.'' Who knows? Maybe I'll score three net. "You know," I admitted slowly goals in three minutes and become "Frank!" I heard Ciuni call me when he was out of earshot. "To get an instantall-American and be a star and I turned just in time to see the a chance to play in a Notre Dame and get a monogram and two tickets ball come · toward me. I trapped it varsity athletic event was one of the to every-football game when I grad-with my ·feet (an· accomplishment iri greatest things that could ever hap­uate and-. . . . itself) and turned, unattended, to see pen to a rah-rah like me. I'll remem­
All of a -sudden, the ball hit me in the goal mouth only 10 feet away. ber it for a long time." the head. · Everything's moving so slow! I___;. As I turned· and walked away, I 
"C'mon!" yelled Sabitus. "Learn can't-think-felt a charley · horse develop in my how to head it." To this day, I still -puff puff-pant pant-left leg. don't understand how they do that Everything's blurry. The trees, the "Yep,'' I said to myself as I limped without getting hurt but for five road, the other players-hell, they're back to the dorm. minutes, I bounced the ball off my worried· about·· ·scoring . . . I'm "I might not ('ouch') ever forget forehead, wincing in pain, · while I· worried about breathing!! it...." . agreed: "Kick the damn ball!" someone 
"You were right, Jim. It doesn't yelled from the bench. hurt.'' I kicked the damn ball -right . Then Rich Hunter called me over at the damn goalie! to the bench. He caught it. 
"You ready?" he asked. No goal. 
"For what?" I asked back. "Someone cover number 20!" Nervous people always answer a ordered a Valpo player. Frank LaGrotta, a senior Ameri­question with a question. · Number 20?? That's me! can Studies major from Beaver Falls, · "To play," he responded. · · Suddenly I was renewed. Pennsylvania, lives, eats and 
"Ah ... no," I retreated. I never They must realize I'm a scoring breathes sports. In fact, the only was good at the snappy comeback. threat. Hell, I'll· stay in the game thing he doesn't do is play them. 
I heard the airhorn sound, signal-forever. · · ling a substitute. Hunter looked at · Fortunately, Rich Hunter had me menacingly and ordered: · · other ideas as he sent in Sarni 
"Get in there at center-forward!" Kahale to replace me about two 
"Forget it!" I shrieked, ·tugging minutes later. As I trotted back to my sweats even tighter and not · the bench, Kahale grabbed me and wanting to admit I didn't have the · patted me vigorously ori the back. I 
3Kusic: Blondie and the Blues . • • 
· · by Tim Tedrick 

Don't let · Deborah ,Harry's car• toon-sexpot image fciol you: Blondie is one of music's truest rock and roll bands. With their fourth album, "Eat to ·the Beat," .they solidify their position as the harbinger of 1980's rock, and, for a group that has been together for only four years, that is no small feat. · ; On their previous album, "Paral­lel Lines," the band was able to successfully integrate· its Punk/New 
· Wave sound with a niore complex accessibility.• There was · still that element of risk in· ''Lines,,., but the listener could sense that · Blondie had their music on the right course, giving us such fine, examples as "Heart of Glass" and "One.Way or Another." The only question that remained was whether Harry ·and Co.' would settle for a nice, comfort­able niche, or if they would continue to grow as a band. Well, "Eat to the Beat" should calm .any fears that the band's disciples had; The. album is powerful rock and roll . 
.And Miss. Harry is very much responsible for ·the energy Blondie exudes. Even without her gold-neon hair, she works quite deeply as a unifying figure; her singing style is by now integral to the band's overall : style; She · has co-written eight of the twelve songs on the new album. Unlike ·most female· rockers, who feel they have to be: as. tough (or tougher) than their male coun­terparts and thus force their· voices to a shrieking edge, Miss Harry 
. always sings '--and she does that quite clearly and gracefully. (though her lyrics are often muddled). 
The doll-like image she projects _is a big plus for the , group. On "Dreaming"· (the band's single re­lease from the album· and one of the best cuts), Miss·Harry sounds like she just defected from one of those 1960's-girl-pop-rock groups, like the Shirelles. The music is so catchy and the lyrics have so many hooks that' you can practically visualize Miss Harry, in a pair ofwhite go-go boots and a miniskirt, boppin' and hop­pin' around on "American Band• 
. _ stand," or "Shindig." · · 
There are other moments that are just as vivid. In "The Hardest Part," a tongue-in-cheek track about an song the right amount of sex without making it sleazy. "Union City Blue" has such a sense of long­ing in it that halfway through you hope she finds that "power and pas­sion" she's yearning for before she dies of a broken heart; And "Eat to 
armored  car  driver,  Miss  Harry  
roughens  up her voic e, giving the  
28  

. the Beat"· itself has some dynamite combinations: Chris Stein's power~­ful guitar riffs, Clem Burke's super­charged . drumming, and Randy Hemmes' hand-clapping harmonica solo. These, all backing Miss Harry's turbine-driven vocals, make the lyrics almost jump off the disc: 

· · HEY! You gotta sweet tooth 
And I remember .-­
Standin'. at the corner 
With a piece of pizza · 
Eat-to-THE-B-E-A-T! . 

Blondie (with the help of master­hitmaker/producer Mike Chapman) should help shape a rock culture of the early 1980's,· and that involves hefty amounts of robot-like rhythms, electronic technology ·and emotions that are both indifferent and direct. And with Miss Harry's looks .and style, it· is one that will be • wel­comed with open arms: D · 

In Retieo~pecet\ ' .._. 
.. •, 

·: Student Activism ·.·.. Abod~ds in the . 
··•·•··.·19S9 .':Happy· .Oaze·•···.· 
• , :•:·. ::v, . . . :; • 
._ .. People.talk about student apathy: in the,;70s as if ·apathy: ·,were a new thing. Glancing through :the ·October 24, i1952,· issue of Scholastic, we fourid this editorial which clearly demonstrates· the· student tin­',:,rest ofthe :times:.:• · · · ' · · · 
Thi;;it&fiiave been· ~ice1 ~~i/ti~~-in receiir, •··
<weeks _whom the Scholastic would supoprt in' the , 
: coming election, oif anyone~~ Arid if so, whyj if-not, . ivhy:,not?: ¾;'iththe,e'lectiononly.10.days 'awayand, ...• . ; articles ofa political nature beginning t~, appear 'int.-· 
. the. magazine, it is _time that we state our position ' regarding national politics., , , · . . ··.. . ' . . . . ~.Actually,. some of us like Ike,. some Aiiiai, C. ~ • 
;. some like both, and some Uke neither. But regard-, . ,< ·;:~::less.:of _how_:,rnuch,we:mighf-like -to use.tipace to ·_. ,~:: . >. ·:further tluiman ofour choice; editorially this.mag•::, 
,': ·. ;i/'azine wilZ:support_ neither cand~date,:a~d tpil~ ·cle;af, .:_,; ,. \'., ; , . • the decks f.or expressi01'!, of, all p~nts of view. ·. : \c ,:, ,.,:' \ ... . . : , • The fto,or. is nd,W open for exposituni of the ''.i :.'.~ , . . :partisan:Je_eUngs 'of all who· wish 'to be' hea:rd.'Iri; all ...; . . _ things political,. the_ Scholastic :will act . ·. referee~:· .. . instead ofa_ high-handed thought '[eader. . . . 

PAT METHENY 

J.;OOtIC.lli CARAC;; 
vember 30~December -1 ·: to•'savor 

:the twang-of guita\·/the wai(of 
hannonka/ and the,tinkle of the · 

·. ivories'; aUto a,"bay<>u'' beat 7) 
the' eighth arinuaLBlues ,Festiyal 
has' arrived..',,.:< : , . ·. ·, 

.••··>· Accor<iing.;to·. Studerit Festival·· 
·. Coordinator Mike Wood,the,Fes< 
'ti val ; ; promises' ..·'; seven :·.•quaUty, 
blues.performances : to fW ... Friday 

. and· Saturday.• nights., Admissions, 
.for students at the Stepan Center 
:is:'$5 Friday'night; $6_:Saturday,. 
·or_.an,$8 'charge.··.for.both:nights; 
. For•· nonstu,dents .·•. thE{ price . is :. $6 
Friday;,$7 Saturday,·,.or,.$1Q, tor:· 

With last_ year's Pat Metheny guitarist, but he justifies this ven­
'bothevenbigs..· . _ : . . Group:LP,. guitarist Pat Metheny . ture.. The guitar, keyboards, and 
TheC'Blues<frorri the.-·Bayou•~ and his group made inroads toward· drurns mesh well to convey the 
wiU'ea~e you·into th!?\v~kend on mass success.· without _sacrificing .. , image of.a garage band. Only thing· 
Frida:y;withthree·shows;,,start­artisti~ ~ integrity. This, summer's . is, there haven't been too many 
ini(at. 8:00 p.m.·_Orie~of the.re-­New Chautauqua (solo) .was some-garage. bands that could play like 
maininK blues originals, ;Roos~ what disappointing, but it had its this. ­
velt Sykes,_will start the evening moments of excellence. The just The other three compositions are 
·with •his•• barrelhouse . style 'of released . American Garage should well-played and show . craftsn:ian­
:pianof,playirig: ;F'.ollowirig:,,Sykes, .­solidify Metheny's popularity and· .ship, but lack.the spark of the two 
: Lonnie'.-'Baker •,perf?rms;t,.Baker, gain new fans." ' . al;Sfothreemebnets~or:,~d~is:g,s~i~~~s ~.fg·ir 
,po_sse~ses_\,~lL_ tli,e•i.:th~rfy-jerky_
American Garage... opens with 

J;t1:1.geJ moyes '.,ofc: El~s,-. :Presley, ''(Cross the) Heartland/' ,which is: ·light being a· rhapsodic solo by 
,says'.JesUyal coorganizerf.P,erry,· in my opinion, .the best Metheny pianist Lyle; Mays. Mays, bassist 
Aberly:;,T}_le;Fri<:lay !}ightcHmax, Group song ever. This is .one _of Mark Egan, and drummer Dan 
:is ,'iProfessor Longhair: and.:His those few. songs that the term ."fu~ _· Gottlieb. provide able . support . . 
.Bl~~s:Scholaril,'.\J?rofessor Long-: sion".really describes. Opening.with throughout _the album, and are as . 
hairj:i,s/·also kriown'•as' Henry,::gu::~• .~~:ie-~usi~o:~fcy-i:;~i. !~~6~:~ as. Metheny to.: the band's 
,~ii~ik:Yai~J!':fft~tf1d.l.if!:9: theme, bringing back the intro and · This album. is not as completely 
,.:,The\'!Chicagcf ;Blues'!:.ttlght :<>n~: adding Weather Report-like embel-. ·satisfying as the Pat Metheny Group 
: s_11t!ir,d_ay,\.Vll1'.IllS up ,llt 7:],5 p:~. lishments, then closing·with a rous-LP, but its.highlights show that the 
withiSiizanne Prince,'who Wood ing restatement. of .the theme, it cari group is, progressing toward a solid 
;ciaims;as having-a/Janice Joplin,-\ be described only as a mar_riage of• place in the jazz word. This group's 
'type''.voicejvllHe playi~g-?11 me~ "Tubular Bells" (Oldfield) and "Jes-music is truly fusion, as it displays 
,guUar.!\ .Cpicago :_bl~_~s.o_man; Ed~ sica" (Allman ~ros.)·.. This may influences that. range. from ·gospel 
die: Cfeanvater.follows with his, soundunwieli:Iy, but it works very to impressionism, and they all work. 
icontemp'cirized ,:-'style'./o(\ blues,'.­well. ,Very, very well. This song also . well together; Metheny is in the van: _ completeiwith>a.Uthe 'goos~wa:IJ( contains. one of Metheny's best tw<> _guard of a new school of musicians: ·antics/o(.Chuck .Berry;:Saturday. recorded solos (the other · one those who grew up listening to The . night;:,includes :another'.'old~timer. "Jaco"). This song is worth the Beatles, John Coltrane, and every'."' ofbiu~/theunique"joeJVilliams;"i price of the album. __ . . . . . thing in between. This is truly. an :wnliairis''pourids ou'eihe.blues one
The album's other -outstanding . American band, with' a unique ·:a:'Ii'ome::rnade,.·n!iie-:shing:gui~'ar/ cut is the title track, "American sound. It will be interesting' to Carrey, Bell; whom'Aberly'_cites as~ Garage,"' ~hich can only. be cate--. watch Metheny over the next decade . i today'ffcip hannonica:: tilues·play~: 
f~~!~JEEf~b1~ !~~~e!J:,:!!"fv~:buntlant \!~Jiil}¾ififjtfiili1 


TIil·L/\5[ WORD 

belongs on the entire nation. We are the sovereignty, the power. And. as far as I can see, we haven't .been using that power very well. As Walt Kelly's coinic strip character, Pogo, said, ",We have met the enemy and he is us." · 
I have lived through the terms, or partial terms, of six presidents:-Two I never knew. I was too young to see Eisenhower or Kennedy in action. The other four, I wish I could have missed. Johnson, as Jack Anderson said in his recent visit, ·may have been a good man at heart, but he put us into Vietnam Texas-style and he ruined Hubert Humphrey's chances in '68 by doing so. As for Richard Nixon, enough said. Gerald Ford;· I believe, did an adequate job. He was placed in a difficult position and he responded quietly and effectively. But that was about all he did. Jimmy Carter strikes me as a good man, but he lacks the one thing that makes a man a good President. Leadership. 
The President must be a leader and a statesman. He must be intelligent and tough. He must have a staff of people who are also intelligent and tough. He must be experienced and loyal. And to be great, he must be honest and moral. He must be concerned about the American people, about" students at Notre Danie, about two-year-olds at Harrisburg, about senior citizens at Malibu and about blacks in Harlem. He cannot be an oil, labor, NRA; ERA or No-Nukes politician. He must avoid being a puppet and be himself. A President must let the people know he is a leader without having to tell them. ·
Dave Satterfield 
I have yetto see a Republican or Democratic can­didate at the polls in November who could come closeOnce upon a time, I wanted to be the President to filling these requirements. I have never been old of the United States of America. I wanted to sit in the enough to vote in a Presidential election but if Ihad,Oval Office and get my picture taken with baseball there are only two rrien I would have voted for: Adlaistars and movie actors. I wanted to fly in Air Force Stevenson and Eugene McCarthy. Of course, they lost.
One and ride in· long black limousines. I wanted to be . I think what America needs is less politicians andsurrounded by Secret Service agents and sleep in the more statesmen. And the American people are the onesWhite House with my First Lady. I wanted to kriow responsible for seeing that·their leader is truly aall the secrets and make very important worldly leader. The forces of big-oil, big-industry arid wealthy .
decisions. I wanted to ·be President because Thomas lobbyists may be too much for the people to overcomeJefferson, Abe'Lincoln and John Kennedy were ·presi­but a change must come. Especially with the weeklydents. _I wanted to be President because I thought the episodes of world crisis that are occurring now.
lJnited States was a great nation and being its leader 
would be a proud and enjoyable occupation.. ·· · . · ·I am hesitant to criticize any man who takes the . · I still think the United States is a great nation and job of President. I am very tired of hearing complaints I still want to sleep with my wife. As for the Presi-· about Jimmy Carter. Criticizing the President is · 
dency, no thank you. . . . healthy at times but often it's like criticizing the Being President of one of the two most powerful garbageman. It's a nasty job and it takes a rrian who 
nations on earth _is not my idea of a fun job. · The can stand the smell to get the job done well. If we're President is bombarded with criticism, he is the constant . going to criticize the President, why not criticize the subject of those asinine, ridiculous, yet popular, things people who put him in office? . Why not criticize our~ called polls. ·(I wish_ George Gallup would take a poll selves, for it was through our power that the man · concerning the worth of Gallup Polls. He might be became President. · shocked at his "popularity percentage.") The Presi­The people of this nation need to· elect s·omeone in dency is a job for a person who is· able to ignore much 1980 who can restore confidence and pridein· the office of the criticism; if he cannot, he is sunk. And right of the President. Maybe then, our national spirit will now, criticism has hit its peak. · be restored and maybe then, I'll change my mind. 
The American people, from_ the President to myself, · Maybe then, the children of this country wiU grow up must realize that there-is more than one person to . wanting to be President of the United States. And blame for the decline in confidence of the Presidency. maybe then, we will have good, if not great Presidents. The blame does not belong on Jimmy Carter; the blame And live happily ever ~ter. D _ 
SCHOLASTIC 

i ..
I .. 
i. 

Make ch.eek payable to U.S. Olympic Committee, ·· 
P.O. Box 1980-P, Cathedral Station, Boston, MA 02118 I Name I 
· Address I ·· City I State Zip I 
Please send me the symbol of support ch·ecked below. I 
o Belt Buckle ($10) o Winter Games Tote Bag ($25) 1· 
. Ski Cap ($25) o Bookends ($50) :::.r=1~"!!:\'!!uc!!:·~ _______ _J 


I !~~!!I,...~
I ·I . I · I 
I 
.A $t~bt· .· 

I
. con n u ion 


is enclosed. · 

L ~ _ ---_ 
I 


· We spend over $114 billion ' 
. per _year in federal taxes . (fiscal year 1979 defense outlays) to· maintain· 20,000 nuclear warheads and a global standing army. 
· But some say It isn't enough. So this year we'll spend , more to. build new missiles 
(the cruise and the "MX"), more _warheads (the neutron bomb), ·and a submarine two football fields · long (the Trident). .· · 
·Lots of people In this country are dropping out of.the arms race because the costs and the. risks are. too high. 
•. Join us In demanding : initiatives towards. disarmament before we all pay : with our lives. 



-••~····~·-~·-·············
FELLOWSHIP OF RECONCILIATION Box 271, Nyack, New York 10960 
. . . 
Send me Inf ormatlon on: 
D The arms race 
o Altematives to paying war taxes 
D Fellowship of Reconciliation 
Name .•.....•..·................. .-.-.. ~ •..• 
Address ••..• ~• ..••••• ~.~.~ ••.Zip •..••..•: 
~......~.....~..~..~...~.. 

.  •..  --:~.. ~1111  ,  ...._  
. . -. . .  • < ·, .  . ••• ; ·.· . . ..  ~-.  
.  . '  : ; :_: . .  .  




