2.	'	.	.	„	' 1	■	The Scholastic
Letters
Rasmussen Men's Shop
South Bend’s Best
Sound OH at Halftime
Dear Editor:
Notre Dame has got a good band. Maybe it is not as sharp a marching band as the ones that have been here from Purdue and Michigan State, but I think we can hold our own when it comes to putting on a show at halftime.
But one thing the band should do is this: Use an announcer to explain the formation. He doesn’t have to have a silly sounding little poem, but just a word or two which makes it easier foi* those that sit in the lower rows or end zones to understand what is going on.
... I think that we could arrange that without too much trouble.
Fred Roberts
Dillon Hall
Attention, Mr. Hope. I think this boy has a good point. Why not give it a try? Last year it zuorked out very well. Reader Roberts shoitld carry the Scholastic to games with him. Page 12 of last week’s issue carried an account of the halftime program.—Editor
What About It, Huddle?
Dear Editor:
Probably you won’t print this because it tells the truth about things that happen here on football week ends. Last Saturday, the Huddle had two places set up to sell coffee. At one they charged the customary seven cents; at the other I was soaked a dime. It wouldn’t have been so bad except at the ten-cent booth the paper cup was only a little more than half-full.
Students have a lot of visitors here for the games. These visitors think Notre Dame is the greatest place on earth, but when things like the above happen they begin to doubt.
We have a good football team and a good band. The students usually act like gentlemen when the visitors are around. Why not stop this business of making Notre Dame a commercial institution on football week ends?
Robert Wiemar
Lyons Hall
Dear Editor:
Your columnist, who appropriately describes his dotings as “The Week” (and often aged), has stuck his gigantic nostrils into unwelcome territory.
Last week, he purged what, up to now, has been the profitable parlay game — yes, game. His rantings made Notre
(Continued on Page 32)
Oct. 15, 1948
If You Like Gabardine . . .
You'll Like Plateau Better!
Plateau suits give you that freedom-from-clothes feeling the year around. For Plateau suits are made by Pacific Mills’ new Prelaxing process which attributes weight evenly. This makes Timely Clothes . look better — longer. Try a Plateau suit today.
Monday Store Hours: Noon ’til 8:30
Rasmussen
MEN'S SHOP
106-108 So. Main St.	130-132 W. Washington
Campus Clubs
Central Empire Staters Meet
The Centra] New York Club elected officers for the coming year at their first meeting last week. Phil Kelley, of Syracuse, captured the prexy spot. Jim Farrell, also of Syracuse, was elected vice president, with Paul Lonergan, of Homer, selected to be the secretary, and Paul Lovette, of Corning, taking over the treasurer’s slot. Bob Borgognoni, of Canastota, was chosen publicity officer.
The club made arrangements to hold its first smoker last Tuesday night. Plans were also drawn up to hold the annual semi-formal Notre Dame dance in the Hotel Syracuse on December- 29. Further plans will be discussed at future meetings of the club.
Jerseyites Coagulate
Following in the pattern of its large turnouts, the New Jersey Club held its bi-monthly meeting Monday night in the
Law Building. John G. Kelly was appointed chairman of the Christmas Dance committee and tentative plans were discussed. Arrangements for the New Jersey Club booth at the Mardi Gras were also brought up during the business discussions. The president, Pete Kernan, congratulated Dick Cor-dasco on the success of the steak dinner held at the Ramble Inn. The Pitt game pictures were shown.
EXPERT REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS
217 E. Jefferson
ECONOMIC ROUND TABLE
The Economic Round Table is looking for sophomore members. The club meets regularly to discuss social and economic problems in America. Any soph interested in joining should see Bob McLaughlin in 227 Alumni Hall.
2 Blocks East of Kresge’s
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER CARD WINNER: MICHAEL McNULTY. 350 ALUMNI HALL
at Maa, -Mlei C&. Ik ScuMb /lend . . .
ALBA TAPE MEASURE SHIRTS
•	YOUR COLLAR SIZE and nobody elses
•	YOUR ARM LENGTH and nobody elses
40% of the men go around with shirts that don’t fit. Why? Because when a man buys a shirt to fit his neck ... he has a limited choice of sleeve lengths . . . and his body fits or it doesn’t — and most often doesn’t. Alba shirts are fitted to YOU. We’ll fit you . . .
•	YOUR BODY SIZE and nobody elses
•	16 COLLAR STYLES to choose from
perfectly ... no matter what your size. Choice of the best fabrics . . . whites, colors or stripes. Your initials sewn in neckband. Priced no higher than the better readymade shirts . . .
5.00	7.50	10.00
Body sizes, 34 to 48 . . . Sleeve lengths, 27 to 37 . . . Collars, 12 to 21 in QUARTER SIZES!
4
The Scholastic
THE WEEK
By Bob Vierhile
Top of the Week
All of the pretty girls on the campus.
It Ain't Worth So Much Dep't.
The lack of a proper word (and an unappreciative editor) keeps me from describing what the South Bend Trib is presently dispensing to some 90,000,-odd readers as “Eager of Notre Dame.” I have stuck with Rex Morgan, M.D., and Dotty Drippie to the last dripping bucketful of sentiment. I have, with some agony, followed Lil’ Abner through his Shmoo-spasm and, as late as last Sunday, dropped a tear at his unfortunate marriage to Daisy Mae. But, I refuse to follow Eager’s wobbly footsteps through what is only a pathetic semblance of Notre Dame life. If this is to be the trend in comics, what kind of juvenile hogwash will they come up with next?
Those Great Moments	'
A member of the Commerce school by the name of Joe Orsi tells about spending an afternoon down at St. Joe hospital last week. Just as Joe was leaving the boneyard, he noticed one of his profs pacing up and down in front of the maternity ward. Just then, a nurse came out of the blessed-event room and walked up to the sufferer, saying softly: “It’s a boy, sir.” The professor looked up. “Well, what does he want?”
Thought of the Week
When you think you’ve got it rough, look at Russia. Over there, 170 million people have made a mass out of themselves.
Just One Exception
Station WND is to be congratulated on its fine programming so far this semester. Their broadcasts of popular, classical, and folk music have been as smooth as a stationery salesman. Marring an otherwise perfect performance is a record show, by one Walt Garrity, that squeals out of my Philco at 7:30 p.m. M-thru-F under the appropriate label, “Jump Time.” Undoubtedly I know nothing about music, but I’m sure Garrity could not tell John Philip Sousa
Oct. 15, 1948
from a cigar band. The records that he plays reveal the taste of a Perth Amboy fish peddler. Modern music and Mr. Garrity, I’m sure, go togethei- like history and physics. .
Here’s an interesting sidelight on how synthetic Garrity really is:
As Walt was signing in last Saturday night, the rector of Alumni stopped him and asked: “How did you get those marks on your nose, Walt?” He thought awhile and answered: “Why, these marks are from glasses, Father.” Said the rector: “How many glasses?”
Baltimore Bonanza
This Navy week-end looks like a deal right off the top of the deck, nothing like the over-a-cuppa-coffee planning that went into that Cleveland madness last fall. Guy Perenich, the “guy” who croons with Gene Hull’s ork at the victory dances, has been working for twelve months on the Navy dance at the Uline. Charlie Carter and “Bootdat” Hellmuth have lined up a. “name” band for the evening. Right now they’re being pretty mum about what the name is.
The remarkable thing about this trip is that the students won’t have to leave between the halves to catch train No. 1 a la Cleveland. The forty-one buck tab
5 \
For the One and Only
Flowers by Williams
ORCHIDS & GARDENIAS
Specializing in Corsages
V \
Williams, The Horist
219 West Washington
“Just West of the Oliver”
includes two nights under a roof at the Annapolis. That beats the Cleveland allnight movies by a politician’s smile.
Ole Satchmo's Hesitation Dep't
Despite all the excitement over the world series last week, only one Notre Dame man had his hands in the intertribal warfare. Don Grieve, son of Bill Grieve, member of the A.L.’s ump corps, brought home, via the souvenir route, the ball Satch Paige dished up in the fifth game at Cleveland. Ump Grieve called a balk on the old crooked-armer when Satch stopped, during his delivery to Spahn, to shift gears. Said Satch: “Ah was ownly tryun to do mah paht.” (Vierhile hesitates more than Ole Satch.— Editor.)	.
Bottom of the Week
They’re all veterans’ wives.
CALENDAR
OCTOBER 15
COLFAX—Paradine Case. This one’s been a long time coming and has been preceded by much drum thumping. Despite the build-up, it’s a let-down. Just a little better than average court case film with Gregory Peck, Charles Laughton, Ann Todd and Valli.
PALACE—All My Sons. A pretty good recapturing of the smash broadway play of the same name. Burt Lancaster looks almost human in this one but Edward G. Robinson still defies the law and the sociologists. Music Man. Jimmy Dorsey saves this thing from absurdity but not by much.
GRANADA—Black Arrow and False Paradise. It would be best to say nothing of either — in the cause of Christian charity.
STATE—Sign of the Ram. Another hunk of psychology, Hollywood style with Susan Peters doing her- best to raise this to better heights. The Lady From Shanghai. This picture is at times really brilliant. Worth the effort and money to see some parts if you can stand Orson Welles and an Irish brogue. If you don’t think you can, there’s always Rita Hayworth.
OCTOBER 16
NOTRE DAME vs. NEBRASKA—An affair that may go down in history as the “Lincoln Massacre.” If the calendar may venture a guess — (It cannot.—Editor)
JOHN ADAMS—Stan Kenton and NOISE, NOISE and more NOISE known to the faithful as “Progressive Jazz.” This is not to be confused with the Wallace movement but sounds just as muddled.
OCTOBER 17
GRANADA—Wallflozver. You’d do well to sit this one out, too — at home. Assigned to Danger. Now I ask you!
STATE—Guess who’s here again? Son of Dracula and Ghost of Frankenstein. We hear later on in the season, due to their great popularity in South Bend, these two will make a personal appearance at John Adams auditorium.
OCTOBER 18
PALACE—Another Part of the Forest. A hysterical little bit of fluff showing a good old American home type with their hair let down. Fredric March seems amazed to find himself all mixed up in this commotion. Counterfeiters. A phony all the way through.
OCTOBER 21
COLFAX—Southern Yankee. Red Skelton as a Northern spy. The inevitable Skelton routine, and if you can take it there are two aesthetic hours ahead of you with this one.
PALACE—Gentleman, From Nowhere. He should have stayed there. On stage—Woody Herman and His Orchestra. For Herman fans that’s all that need be said. For the unwashed — it could be worse.
GRANADA—Sleep My Love. You could never sleep through this one. A lot of thrills if nothing more. Smuggler’s Cove. No comment.
STATE—Miracle of the Bells. A good attempt at a restrained treatment of a very human story. Fred MacMurray does a surprisingly good job and Frank Sinatra puts obvious sincerity in the role of a priest — a role for which he was never destined. Guns of Hate. Every reader of this calendar should
know better by now.
Stratigon Grill
The finest in foods . . .
SEA FOODS STEAKS
CHOPS
Noon Lunches
"Art” Buchtel and “Harry” Reed Proprietors
"WHERE NOTRE DAME MEN MEET”
SEE THE IRISH BACKS GO MARCHING BY IN THE
1948 Scholastic
FOOTBALL ISSUE
Ready December 10th
PRICE 50c
Send cash, check or money order (made payable to University of Notre Dame) to
FOOTBALL ISSUE Box 185
Notre Dame, Indiana
(Subscribers and N. D. undergrads will receive a copy through regular delivery. Extra copies can be ordered at above address.)
6
The Scholastic
^4e Ao/te
SCHOLASTIC
Francis and ^erd cMatficht's
Vol. 90 October 15, 1948 No. 4
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
It's NABICHT'S for the FINEST in FOOD
TOWN CLUB
A famous steak and chop house with Notre Dame men for many years.
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
115 WEST CENTER
The Staff JOSEPH A. DOYLE, Editor
-	Associate Editors
ROBERT T. STOCK JOSEPH HERRINGTON
KENNETH A. THOREN.______________News
VICTOR DORR_____________Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN.__________Features
HARRY MONAHAN_________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT________Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER____________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN.____________Librarian
L. A. KYSER--------------Advertising
ROBERT J. VIERHILE_______Advertising
JOHN T. CLARK____________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL_______Circulation
JOHN S. BRENNAN——.Faculty Moderator
^oe CNabichi’s
CH1CKEN-IN-THE-R0UGH
For Luncheon or Dinner
11 a. m. to 8 p. m. Closed Mondays
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken

213 NORTH MAIN
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Bill Pfaff III, Senior in the College of Arts and Letters from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, glances ironically at the cover of the
new book, Army vs. Notre Dame, the Big Game, while visions of the future Washington game which replaces the Army series ramble through his mind. The only trouble is his vision—how can a student know
what two tickets on the 50-yard line look like.
(Photo by Joe Hipp)
Charles CNabiclit’s
MARY ANN
DRIVE - IN
Sandwiches, Sodas, Malts, French Fries and Chili
Open 7 days a week—11 a. m. to 12 p. m.
1711 SOUTH MICHIGAN
“South. ^en^s ODat Catering
Oct. 15, 1948
7
From tire cords to football pants
Do you know about nylon’s other lives?
Here’s a surprise for those who think of nylon mainly in terms of stockings and-lingerie.
Nowadays, nylon fibers—twice as strong and half as heavy as the same size aluminum wire—are doing a variety of jobs, better than any previously known fiber. Off Labrador, men are harpooning whales with nylon lines. In a New England textile mill, abrasion-resistant nylon ropes now drive big "mule spinners” for periods ten times as long as other commercial materials, without a breakdown. Nylon fabrics are being used in everything from rugged automobile seat covers to delicately woven filter cloths.
In its plastic form, nylon is used to make everything from unbreakable dishes to hypodermic needles. As a monofilament, it goes into a variety
Nylon cords give giant truck and airplane tires the strength and elasticity to absorb tremendous impact shock without bruising.
Water won’t hurt the nylon strings of this racquet. They resist breakage over an extended period of time. No tiny strands to fray.
You’ll wont to read this free booklet
"Du Pont Company and the College Graduate” is just off the press in a completely revised edition. Fully illustrated—describes opportunities inresearch, production, sales, and many other fields. Explains the plan of organization whereby individual ability is recognized and rewarded. Write for your copy today. Address: 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Del.
Nylon football uniforms, as worn by Bobby Jack Stuart, Army back, are not only tough wearing, but much lighter and quicker drying.
Nylon research: O. C. Wetmore, Ph. D. Phys: Ch., New York U. '44; D. A. Smith, B. S.
Meeh. Eng., Purdue '40; C. O. King, Sc. D.-Ch. E., Mich. '43, charging experimental con- -densation polymers to a spinning machine.
of products from brush bristles to surgical sutures.
Nylon owes its origin to a Du Pont fundamental research project begun in 1928. A group of scientists set out to find out how and why the molecules of certain substances polymerized to form giant chainlike molecules. Hope of obtaining a new commercial fiber was first aroused when, two years later, a polymer was developed which could be drawn out into a thin strand, like taffy candy. The complex problems which followed called for the services of over 200Du Pont men and women, among whom were some of America’s most competent scientists and engineers.
Research—a Major Du Pont Activity
Nylon is an excellent example of . modern research at work at Du Pont.
Young scientists joining the organization now may share in other discoveries of outstanding importance. They may find opportunities in such challenging fields as finishes, coated fabrics and various fibers; synthetic organic chemicals, including fine chemicals; synthetic rubber; electro and agricultural chemicals; plastics; pigments and photographic film; and high pressure synthesis.
Each of ten manufacturing departments of Du Pont has its own staff and is operated much like a separate company. Within each, research men work in groups small enough to bring quick recognition of individual talent and capabilities.
Year after year, young, inquiring minds come from leading U.S. schools of science and engineering to Du Pont —where individual ambition is matched with opportunity, cooperation and the type of friendly support that brings out the best in each person.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
More fads about Du Pant—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
8
The Scholastic
^Jke Nolte ^bama
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 * Number 4 OCTOBER 15, 1948
Glee Clubs Present 'Mediaeval Mystery'
The creaking rafters of the campus theater, said to have “seen everything,” are destined to be the setting for an entirely new type of musical concert; new in that nothing like it has been tried before in Washington Hall, yet old in its rich, historical background.
Monday evening, October 25, at 8:15, the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s glee clubs will join forces to produce a “Mediaeval Mystery.” In effect, it is a concert version of the “chanted play” which was used in the thirteenth century to precede the Sacrifice of the Mass on special occasions.
This concert is a dramatic story of the Annunciation, the thirteenth century text of which was obtained from an historical book on the mediaeval drama by Carl Young, of Yale. It is an original composition following closely the staging of the mediaeval drama, except that the cast will not be costumed. Adapted for chorus and organ by Father Joseph Gallagher of the Department of Music, it will feature between fifty and sixty singers, with a musical interlude on the organ and piano.
Leading roles will be those of Mary (soprano), the Archanagel Gabriel (tenor), King Achaz (baritone), Elizabeth, cousin of Mary (contralto). On the podium will be Father William J. McAuliffe, director of the Moreau Seminary Choir. At the organ console will be Carl Mathes, of the music department, and Father Gallagher will accompany on the piano.
The program will begin with the entrance processional. Prophecies concerning the Annunciation will be sung, followed by the Lord’s visit to King Achaz in the “Ave Maris Stella.” The appearance of Gabriel to the Virgin Mary follows, and this action continues through the Incarnation as Mary sings, “Be it done unto me according to Thy word,” with the chorus acting as narrator. After a brief musical interlude, the play takes up further reference to the prophecies and continues with Mary’s visit to Elizabeth, “also conceived of a son in her old age.” Mary concludes the play with the singing of the “Magnificat.”
—Jim Carrig
Jack Dempsey (No Kin) Appointed Student Relief Chairman, Plans New March Gras
With Jack Dempsey of Alumni Hall and Philadelphia, Pa., campus chairman of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at the helm, Notre Dame’s second Foreign Student Relief drive is getting under way.
Already it has been announced that, owing to their phenomenal success last year, the huge Mardi Gras Carnival will be held again this year. In addition, many club presidents have offered the services of their clubs in raising money for the drive. The Washington-Maryland-Virginia club has announced that
Political Fireworks
Set for Town Meeting
Election-time hoopla begins in earnest the night of Oct. 20 with a Town Meeting Forum sponsored by the YCS Engineering Group. The time: 7:30 P.M. The place: the Engineering Auditorium.
The topic serving as a point of departure will be “Domestic Policies of Major Political Parties” but, if this is any replica of its radio big brother, a real catch-as-catch-can battle will be in the offing.
The team representing the Democrats will be Professor Marshall Smelzer of the History Department and Professor Alfred Scanlon of the College of Law. Professors Robert Sullivan and William Downey of the College of Law and Economics Departments, respectively, are slated to champion the GOP cause. Serving as the George V. Denney of this forum will be Scholastic’s own, W. Gregory Halpin.
There may be a few jaded scholars who will prefer to stay home over their parlays, but this forthcoming tourney looks to be a modern-day Lincoln-Doug-last joust—take your choice as to which will be the “Honest Abe” side.
the proceeds from their huge Navy Game Victory Dance in Washington will be donated to the cause.
The purpose of the drive, aid to destitute foreign students, will be borne in
JACK DEMPSEY Belief Mauler
mind at all times Chairman Dempsey promises. The need for this work is especially vivid to him because as an infantryman in Europe during the last war, he witnessed the privations and sufferings of students whose futures had been nearly ruined by war.
While these plans have been announced, most of the work accomplished so far has been the organization of committees for the different phases of the drive.
John Walker has been appointed to the publicity department of the drive, Al Algaier has assumed the responsibility of Business Manager for the drive. In charge of the Carnival will be John Moorhead, and Ed Donohue will he head of the Raffle committee.—Dan 'Brennan
Oct. 15. 1948
9
Ferstel
FATHER CAVANAUGH AND JUDGE KILEY Great Books Seminar Discusses Plato
Law School Admission Test To Be Given For Area Students Next Month On Campus
Notre Dame has been selected as an examination center by the Educational Testing Service, it was announced last week by Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Guidance and Testing for that nationwide cooperative testing facility. The Law School Admission Test for the spring, summer and fall terms of 1949 will be held on the campus commencing next month. It will be open to all college students of this immediate testing area.
Many law schools throughout- the United States will require the test of applicants for admission in the summer and fall terms of 1949. Already 21 law schools are requiring the test of their prospective students and many more are expected to cooperate in the near future. According to present plans, the law school in which the student is interested will advise him promptly, upon request, whether or not he should take the test.
Candidates may take the test before they have completed the filing of their formal application papers, but they should first learn from those schools which of the four testing dates they prefer.
No special preparation is required for the test, Quinn said. It is designed primarily to measure the mental abilities or aptitudes which are closely related to success in legal studies. Since it is not a test of the candidate’s knowledge of subject matter, there should be no attempt at cramming; the test should be taken in stride and without due concern.
The test will be administered in the auditorium of the Engineering Building on four separate occasions during the coming year. The schedule of tests is as follows: November 13, 1948, for spring term; February 19, 1949, for summer term; May 7, 1949, for summer or fall term; August 6, 1949, for fall term. The candidate for admission to a law school need take the test but once.
All inquiries concerning application blanks, fees, and other requirements should be addressed directly to the Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N. J. When requesting an application blank, the applicant must specify on which of the four dates he wishes to be tested.
Gregorian Chant Talk Tops Liturgy Meeting
In a well-received address to members of the Liturgy Club last Sunday, the Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., director of the Moreau Seminary choir, discussed the background, development, and restoration of the Gregorian Chant in the liturgy of the Church. Since the chant, he explained, is nothing less than prayer set to music, it is so constructed that the melodic patterns of the music emphasize and adorn the words of the text.
Touching on the Motu Proprio of Pius X (on sacred music), Father McAuliffe pointed out that it is imperative that our efforts to foster the restoration of the chant right here in our own hall chapels be untiring. It is the expressed hope of Father McAuliffe and the Liturgy Club that the Gregorian Chant will eventually be sung by the entire student congregation, not only in the hall chapels, but also at the Sunday Masses in Sacred Heart Church.
In this connection, Father McAuliffe announced that he is instructing a class in the Gregorian Chant every Monday at 5 p.m. in the chapel of Lyons Hall. All students are urged to attend these classes, he said. A credit course in the Gregorian Chant is expected to be offered at the University next semester, he said.
The Liturgy Club of Notre Dame is a response to the Church’s insistent appeal for the restoration of official public prayer in the daily lives of her children. The club meets every Sunday morning at 11 o’clock in the Cavanaugh Reading Room. John Frampton, president of the club, extends a cordial invitation to all students to attend the meetings.
ND Engineers Plan Ball;
Date Set for Feb. 11
Industrious engineers are designing an elaborate ball, one to top all others. Dancing hasn’t been on the builders’ agenda since 1941. Working in collaboration with the Y.C.S., these enthusiastic planners ran a poll among the engineers to obtain their opinions. Practically 100 per cent determined to have such a social, reviving an old tradition. A danceable band was the suggestion of 78 per cent.
Their choice of the date for the dance is Feb. 11,1949. The majority of the fellows wanted it to be next semester before Lent. “Just enough time to work matters out the way they should be,” remarked the dance committee chairman, Joe Harkins, a chemical engineer from Hempstead, N. Y.
10
The Scholastic
Proposal To Hold Ball in DriH Hall is Given Unanimous Backing at Senior Class Meeting
By JOHN E. ARMSTRONG
Last week in Washington Hall approximately 200 seniors gathered for the first class meeting of the year, the primary purpose of which was to formulate plans for the next two semesters.
Foremost among the proposals of President Pat Costello was holding the Senior Ball in the Navy Drill Hall. He offered several reasons why the Drill Hall would be a much more desirable spot than the downtown Palais Royale. For instance, the size of the Drill Hall would permit not only a larger dance floor, but would leave a great deal of extra space which can be filled with table accommodations, something sadly lacking at the Palais.
According to several Seniors who were at the meeting, and who attended the V-12 dances in the Drill Hall during the war, the concrete floor is an excellent dance floor when it is properly waxed. Although there were only 200 members of the class at the meeting, there will be approximately 800 June graduates, and therefore a hall the size of the Drill Hall will be necessary.
Another favorable point broached by Costello concerns the fact that the dance would be on campus if held in the Drill Hall. The girls who come to the Senior Ball don’t come just to dance, or just to see South Bend. They come to see Notre Dame (and, of course, to see their dates, too).
One other very important factor is the date set for the dance. The Palais Royale offers one night which may be accepted or rejected, while the Drill Hall would practically leave the choice of dates up to the class.
After going over these points President Costello asked for the opinion of the members of the class who were present, and was rewarded by the unanimous backing of his proposal.
Some of the seniors, however, were getting fidgety about which band was going to be signed, and Costello quieted them with the statement that “whether it’s a name band or not it will be a danceable band.”
The other business at hand found the January graduates wondering whether they wanted a big stag party or an informal dance of the same scope. Of the early grads present, about half wanted the dance and half the stag party when opinions were sounded.
The Senior Class officers are also
working on the idea of an outdoor graduation. It has been tried several times before, but unfortunately has been rained out. It seems that the indoor graduations have also been bothered by rain, so another try may be made in the great out-of-doors. The stadium was mentioned as a possible scene for the event. President Costello here remarked, “It can’t rain every year.”
As the meeting ended, volunteers were solicited for- duty on the various dance committees. If you are a Senior, are interested in doing anything to make the dance a success, and were not at last week’s meeting, you can sign up for a job with Don Murphy or Jim McLaughlin from off-campus, Marty Wendell at 302 Howard, or Pat Costello at 238 Cavanaugh.
Whalen and Rich Selected To Preside at Pep Rallies
Frank Whalen, of Lyons Hall, made his debut as the new pep rally master of ceremonies last Friday at the Michigan State rally.
Frank won his position as the result of the contest sponsored by the Blue Circle. Also sharing the new spotlight is William Rich, of Morrissey Hall. The two will alternate rallies from now on.
Auditions for the new master of ceremonies were held in Washington Hall before the Michigan State game. They
FRANK WHALEN
Upstairs Looking Down
were judged by the pep rally committee of the Blue Circle under the direction of John Gaines, the presidents of the undergraduate classes, and the student council.
There were nine entrants in all; five trying out the first night and four the second. Each entrant was given a rough outline of a rally and then he had a few minutes to dream up his routine. It was attempted to simulate the actual conditions since the M.C. must ad lib most of his lines. They also were to introduce any one that they knew something about.
The scoring was done on a point basis. The prospective MCs were graded from one to five on voice, mannerisms, stage appearance, and enthusiasm; the lowest score winning. Whalen and Rich were judged equally outstanding.
"Big Three" Make Surprise Talks at Farley Hall Party
The freshmen of our nawest dorm, cheerfully celebrated Farley Hall Night with a program of music, entertainment, refreshments and talks by several notables including Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. The affair was held October 6, in the basement of the hall.
Farley Hall, the stray dorm of the campus, exhibited true Notre Dame spirit as its rector and students organized an entertaining and patriotic program. Included in the fanfare were: a snappy Sub Mason-Dixon Line minstrel session, a three-man segment of the Farley Hall eleven-piece band and songs by the Farley Hall Choir.
The prospect of Farley Hall becoming one of the leading resident halls on. the campus was echoed in talks by Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., rector, and other resident prefects. The introduction of various Farley players on the freshman varsity teams further exemplified Farley’s position on the campus.
The group of over two hundred boys was completely surprised by the appearance of Father Cavanaugh, Father Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies, and Father Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Student welfare.
Father Cavanaugh wittily expressed the criteria of a successful college president, while Father Barry, former rector of Farley, emphasized that the spirit of Farley was, and shall remain, one of “a happy and friendly family.”
After the show, the boys themselves participated in the integral part of the program — refreshment time. Consequently, of the thirty gallons of milk and fifty dozen donuts, the lone survival was one donut which was presented to the janitor.
Oct. 15, 1948
11
STUDENT TRIP
. . . to Music — STREET SCENE AT GAME TIME
Clear the Tracks — ND's Student Trip Pigskin Express Is Rolling Again
By A. J. SCRIBA
New York, Baltimore, Cleveland, Champaign, Evanston — highball, and clear the block for the student football specials! This year the student trip is Baltimore. Past years have seen ND football trains pounding the rails from the Empire State to the Illini corn. Many are the Brethren of the “Smoke-Choked-Coach.” Down through years of flip-flapping cards, happy harmony, and the click and rumble through the night, the ND Pigskin Express has become a stout tradition.
Change the game, change the train, graduate the old troops, recruit the new, still the pattern runs the same—and it’s still good for a whoopee time. Up wilderness road to the St. Mary’s siding goes the hilarious horde, aboard in confusion and away into the night. Noise, song, argument, and smoke pack the aisles till a late sackout. Then morning Mass for the team in the chill dawn, snarling hot coffee and around the town in a restless pre-game swirl. Then the Irish, and the welcoming roar as the greenshirts invade the stadium of the foe. Bright autumn sun with the rising roar from the crowd/ferocious football, mounting exhilaration — finally glad or sad in the beaten aftergame sag. Then food, food and lots of it, restored spirits, and plans for the evening hum as the men of Notre Dame knot the Windsor, snap the brim, and scatter into the neon blaze. Schlitz, Budweiser, Edelweiss, “draw six!” Movies, plays, refined gawking, victory dances — and more food, take a huge slice. On whisk the quick hours till midnight — then like homing pigeons the vast dank train station inhales the weary, the joyous, the stable, the unstable, and with the red arc of the lantern it’s back to Indiana. Comes
12
The Scholastic
dawn again and South Bend — garden spot of the bright universe — with sodden rain and knifing wind. Across the deadly Dixie, through the soggy cinders — and on to that hot chow at the dining halls. Another football hegira, gone but for the Dome.
In the pre-war era with mighty Anny, Yankee Stadium, brassy Broadway, and the old McAlpin Hotel, it was New York from ’38 to ’40. In ’41 an obstinate Naval task force played the brisk and jovial host in Baltimore. Then for three strenuous years most of the Irish spent the autumn afternoons nailed to the radios from Tarawa to Tripoli.
With the return of the peace, the teams, and most of the students, Northwestern and Evanston took a Celtic trampling in the fall of ’45. Illinois warmed things up for the ’46 fiasco, then New York, Army, and the Black Buzzards thudded into the most belligerent student football contingent on record — anywhere. Last fall the eager monster pounced on Navy in Cleveland in one of the supremely successful pounces of the decade.	•
With helicopters, jets, jointless rail, strato-domes, and the like spawn of the engineering department, Notre Dame may soon be playing Nanking Normal. But for the real and nigged life it will take a lot of streamlined comfort to make up for those rollicking rides on the rumbling rails. — And so to the battle of Baltimore.
Blue Circle Comes Through For '48 Red Feather Drive
In the days of yore Knute Rockne had his shock troops and once again Notre Dame has a group that corresponds somewhat to those hardworking men. Coping with all exigencies, the Blue Circle stands ready to aid any worthy effort. The latest emergency call was for immediate solicitation of funds for the South Bend Community Chest drive last week. The Blue Circle boys were forced to seek funds without any advance notice to the students, but even though working under such a handicap they were able to collect a noteworthy sum.
A campus-wide total of $252.28 was sent down to the offices of the worthy Chest Drive, after a night of concentrated effort. The generosity of the freshmen of Zahm Hall stood high above the others as they contributed $66.15. Next in line was the $30.80 given by the men of Morrissey. Dillon with $28.29, and Lyons with $23.27 were the other leaders.
Blue Circle men were also instrumental in the smooth functioning of the Student Council elections.
Hundreds Buy Student Trip Reservations;
Unique Credit Arrangements Help Fundtess
By JOHN H. JANOWSKI
Preparations for the forthcoming annual Student Trip reached the height of activity during the past week as Notre Dame men by the hundreds eagerly bought their tickets and reservations. The $41.50 cost was lightened somewhat for many students awaiting government checks by a unique credit arrangement provided them by the University. These loans ceuld be repaid anytime up till November 6.
The s:niors were given priority on ticket purchases with the other classes following in order. Graduate students, since they are not considered in the light of regular students, were required to get their tickets after the freshmen. For four hectic days, the basement of the Cafeteria was open for business at noon to accommodate each class in turn.
Friday, October 29, will mark the real beginning of this Navy game excursion, for at 5:30 p.m., the special NYC-B&O train will depart from the St. Mary’s
New Welfare Couneil Formed To Help Solve Married Vets' Social, Financial Problems
By CHARLEY DULLEA
There’s something new in the land of the ex-G.I. at Notre Dame! An organization unprecedented in the University’s histoiy has been formed “to coordinate, enlarge and intensify all efforts toward the welfare of each veteran, his wife, and his child.”
These are the words of the Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., moderator of the newly-formed Married Veterans Welfare Council. This far-reaching group takes in not only the students and their families living in Vetville, but also includes the 400-odd married vets living in South Bend and Mishawaka. The Council in no way interferes with the established government in Vetville but serves as a liaison for the welfare of the veterans.
Father Mendez was named to his post by Notre Dame’s President, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Mobilization of the task force to compose this group began on the night of Sept. 30 in the Vet Rec. Hall when an assemblage of vets and their wives, both on and off campus were divided into 11 committees. The process of organization continued Oct. 6, at which" time these committees elected their chainren who
siding for Baltimore, Md. The railroad companies assure the travelers of the utmost in comfort and enjoyment.
Arrival in Baltimore is scheduled for 11:30 a.m., Saturday. After the football game, the train will proceed to Washington, D. C., where the trippers will stay at the Annapolis Hotel until Monday afternoon. The trip will end when the special train discharges its passengers at 6:30 a.m. on Tuesday.
At the time of publication, no information could be obtained regarding the hotel reservation and train meal credentials distribution. However, it is known that the distribution will take place at the earliest possible convenient date.
In an effort to acquaint those students who are taking the trip with the intricacies of hotel accommodations and the sight-seeing opportunities offered on the tour, the Student Council is arranging a meeting for the near future.
then proceedel to vote in John Begert, Mishawaka, as chairman of the board of the Married Veterans Welfare Council.
The chairmen of the various committees are as follows: communications, Mrs. Helen Salcido; publicity, Paul Ra-pach; miscellaneous, Leo Zuckowsky; Catholic Action, Cyril Finnegan; dance, Leo M. Rumely, Jr.; recreation, Ben Smith; bridge, Mrs. Joanne Smith; maternity, Hugh Rafferty; housing, Tom O’Neill; cultural, Vince Honnold; and hospital visiting, Mrs. Betty Begert.
One of the many fine services that may be overlooked in a chance reading of these committees’ names is the Maternity Committee. Says Father Mendez:
“A survey has indicated that the average vet gets approximately $236 a month through the government, his wife’s earnings and his own. Out of this comes about $215 for expenses—not much chance for a nest egg, is there? Yet it has also been seen that the total expense involved in bringing a baby into the world, including only medical and hospital care, is around $197. Yet within the coming seven or eight months dose to
(Continued on Page 25)
Oct. 15, 1948
13
Nickle-Grubbing, Scooter Pushing Student Refutes Mistaken Campus Impressions
(The following story is the first in a series of 683 articles concerning the lives of campus Horatio Algers. Mr. Janies Carroll, our first invitation author, started to work when he was two and a half years old. He carried a spear in an Orson Welles production when he was seven and was teaching Japanese kids to play stud poker at the ripe old age of eighteen. Now if you believe that magoo we’ll proceed to tell you another. The only real reason why this story is being printed is simply because the estimable Mr. Carroll has treated one of Scholastic’s editors to so many free cokes that the only solution to the debt was the publication of the following. Mr. Carroll is considered by experts who know cola best to be one of the best vending machine servicemen in the country. For all those who have at one time or another u-ondered what a machine surgeon’s life is like tve hereivith print the inside story of the innards of those gigantic red monoliths.)
By JAMES CARROLL
ND’s Coke Machine Serviceman
Perhaps it would be reasonable for me to explain that I am writing this article only to relieve the overworked and underrated Scholastic staff. I realize that it is not customary for a person, in good health at least, to eulogize his own achievements. Rather than disappoint the editors, however, I’ll comply with their request—and ruin their circulation.
First of all, let me state that while I do service the campus coke machines, I am a Notre Dame student. Many of my schoolmates seem to have the impression that I am either: a) Mr. Grabmore Nickels, the Coco-Cola magnate, or; b) “just messin’ around those ol’ machines for the fun of it.”
To tell the truth, I “mess around those ol’ machines” because I get paid for messing, and because it gives my wife something to do in the evening. No, she doesn’t mix syrup in the kitchen; she counts nickels. She punches Tom Jefferson, while I hit the books, or the sack. Nor do I envy her the task—though she always has plenty of delicious you-know-what (in paper cups, of course) with which to pause and refresh. (Eddie, my wife, has even learned, through her research, that the Indian name for a buffalo is E Pruribus Unum.)
Yes, I “mess” for money and I also ride that mechanized Man O’ War for the same reason. I do not own it. In fact, I wouldn’t take it as a gift if the front end was filled with 90-bulletin grades. I only hope I do not eliminate a pedestrian some day.
While on the subject of the scooter, let me answer a question that was directed my way last week. No, Dunderhead, I did not ride the scooter from Chicago! The scooter has an Illinois license plate in commemoration of the v
JIM CARROLL Pausing to Refresh
capture of Kaskaskia by George Rogers Clark on July 5, 1778. (Thank you, History 21.)
That answers one question, but unfortunately there are many more—some of an even more stupid nature. For instance, there is the fellow who asks me if he can “get a drink” though the floor is littered with parts that obviously did not come from the Museum of Science and Industry.
Others are wont to lend advice on the proper methods of servicing a coke machine. They do this though they fully realize that they are gazing at the mechanism for the first time in their lives. I’m glad that there are so few coke-side superintendents here at Notre Dame. If there were more, some one might some day drop a nickel in the slot and get a human head that had been neatly separ-
Dr. Price Receives Award
For War Research Work
Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Department of Chemistry at the University was awarded a certificate of appreciation by the Office of Scientific Research and Development last Saturday for his part in scientific research during World War II.
Presentation of the certificate to Dr. Price was made following the fall meeting of Notre Dame’s Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, composed of twenty leading scientists, engineers and industrial experts.
Dr. Price, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1945 after serving on the staff of the University of Illinois, attained distinction in research in the field of high polymer chemistry. He was named the outstanding chemist under the age of 35 in 1946 by the American Chemical Society.	* 1
Serra Club to Hear
Fr. Cavanaugh Speak Tuesday
Reigning as guest of honor at the dinner meeting of the Serra Club of South Bend next Tuesday will be the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. At this particular meeting, to be held in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle, Father Cavanaugh will also deliver an address for the occasion.
Toastmaster for the dinner will be Louis T. Chapiean, prominent South Bend atorney. Herbert E. Jones, an active member of the club and president of the South Bend Association of Commerce, will introduce Father Cavanaugh.
Professor Paul E. McLane, of the Department of English at Notre Dame, and vice-president of the club, is chairman of the committee on arrangements for the dinner, at which wives of the members will be guests.
ated from the body of a fellow who said, “Why don’t you . .
Another question that I hear quite frequently is, “Chee, how do yas work and go ta class at the same time?” The answer is simple. I don’t.
My day? Well, if you insist.
I arise when Dawn first spreads her crimson streamers in the East. (Note the classical touch.) After a hasty breakfast
I dash out of the hovel we call home and board my trusty steed. Two hours later I have started and wooosh!! We’re off!
From then on my day is classes and coke and coke and classes. And where will it get me? Well, maybe some day I’ll graduate, magna cum cola. Ah, that’s a pause that will refresh.
The Scholastic
Researchers Seek Cure For Cancer
Anti-malarial drugs, germ-free life and a possible cure for1 cancer head the list of research projects now being-carried on at Notre Dame, according to a report by the Rev. Dr. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School. The announcement was made at the meeting of the University’s Advisory Council on Science and Engineering, which ended last Sunday.
Plans for a new science building to house the departments of physics, chemistry and mathematics were also disclosed at the session by the Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University. Actual preparations for construction are being held up temporarily, he explained, until they can be adjusted to meet rising construction costs.
Other additional graduate research equipment scheduled at Notre Dame include a small towing tank, water tunnel and other fluid mechanics apparatus, Dean Carl Schoenherr of the College of Engineering revealed.	.
A full list of research subjects presently being probed by members of the graduate school and staff at Notre Dame include meat destructive parasites, plant growth, atomic energy and radio-active substances, electronics, synthetic rubber and plastics, nutrition, instrumentation, aircraft structure, communications, electro-plating, metals and alloys.
Home of the Irish Here; O'Sullivan Succeeds O'Brien
Patrick O’Sullivan will operate the sophomore exchequer in 1948-49, president Tom Logan disclosed Tuesday.
O’Suilivan, a Morrissey Hall A.B. from Port Huron, Michigan, will fill the vacancy caused by treasurer-elect John O’Brien’s transfer to St. John’s University in Collegeville, Minnesota.
Student Council sanctioned the appointment in view of O’Sullivan’s finishing a close second at the polls last spring.
You're on the Comic Page Now, Men! 'Eager of Notre Dame' Routs Shmoos
“Attention, pleace! Substitution — Eager now playing left field in place of McBatt!”
There’s a new personality grabbing the attention of the Tribune readers, a new face appearing on the pages of South Bend’s daily paper. The upstart, a Notre Dame student comic strip hero, has stolen the spotlight from the established stars of the big time, relegating the fabulous Ozark superman and the lovable “shmoos” to second-string berths. Now Eager’s doings are read before the box score of “Ike’s” last game.
PAT WEISHAPL
He Was Eager
“Eager of Notre Dame” is the product of the pen of one of this university’s own students, architecture senior Pat Weishapl. Pat, a resident of South Bend, carried over his character of Eager from his Army days, simply discharging the corporal and enrolling him on the campus this fall. The ideas il
lustrated in the strip are those supplied by the students themselves, through their normal activities on the acreage at this end of North Notre Dame Avenue. .
But drawing Eager is not the extent of Pat’s artistic talents as Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion and author of the Religious Bulletin will testify. On nearly every one of those sheets slipped under the residence hall doors can be found the handiwork of versatile Pat; handiwork made all the more amazing because he is informed of the bulletin’s makeup only minutes before the stencil is cut. His drawings complement the theme set by Father Craddick, and the penwork must be done quickly if the bulletin is to reach its readers before chow at 5:30.
Mr. Francis W. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture, will also attest to the young man’s ability, for there in the Architecture Building stands a five-foot statue, sculptored by Weishapl, of St. Thomas the Apostle, to be placed in its permanent location over the entrance. Between sculptoring a stone statue and cartooning the antics of his campus creation lies a big gap, but Pat switches from chisel to pen almost as fast as Eager downs‘his coke in the Huddle.
The next time a blond haired student stops you outside the “Caf” and asks for a match, look twice — that’s “Eager of Notre Dame” . . .—Al Laporte
BREAKDOWN AVAILABLE TO CLUBS A breakdown of student names according to cities and states is available in the registrar's office. This list will be of value to geographical clubs in compiling membership lists. Club members may see the breakdown by asking Mr. Freeman in the registrar's office.
Oct. 15, 1948
15
Hipp
SPRING RETREAT
So*ncUU*Uf Mote *1*10*1 Social
BY KEN THOREN
Photos for this feature by DICK GORMAN
FATHER PUTZ
Flaming swords, waving banners and gallant knights in armor astride beautiful white chargers . . . these and other impressionistic fallacies are often conjured in the minds of those who . are either completely ignorant or else possess erroneous definitions of the phrase, “Catholic Action.”
Pope Pius XI defined the term as follows: “Catholic Action is the participation of the laity in the hierarchical apostolate of the Church.” Although it is argued that such participation has existed since the time of Christ, the absolute organization was not founded until a few years before the first world war. Canon Cardijn, a Belgian priest, recognized the cancerous advance of secularization in every walk of life, and organized a group of factory workers to combat the disease in their particular environment. From this small cell (formation of the Catholic Action movement resembles that of the Communist Party in many ways; i.e., cells, teams, etc.) the movement has grown and spread throughout the world until it has reached a distinction today of being a powerful and indestructible force as witnessed in the Italian elections last spring.
Because of its specialized nature, it was realized that there had to be a diversity in groups because of the variance
in problems. Hence, there came into being the Young Christian Students, the Young Christian Workers, the Catholic Action Family groups, those groups pertaining to the communicative arts, and others.
The United States was among the last continents in which this lay organization took root. It was the Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., who brought the movement to the Notre Dame campus in the form of the Young Christian Students. That was in 1940 when few in this country had ever heard of Catholic Action. The movement met with instantaneous success here, with three groups forming immediately after its introduction. Eugene S. Geissler, now a local English prof, was the first president of those early campus groups.
YCS enjoys the official mandate of his Excellency, John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, and the approval of the President of the University, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Since the main purpose of the overall program is to combat secularism and bring the world back to Christ — instead of the “God on Sunday, that’s enough for anyone” attitude— the YCS here at Notre Dame is devoted to creating the _true Christian university community. In line with this policy, the or-
16
The Scholastic
CONCORD STAFF
ganization agrees with the idea that the students, the administration and the faculty should integrate themselves to form one complete unit rather than further any partisan platform of individuality and disunity.
In the beginning the groups were set up according to halls. The present program has them divided into colleges with the exception of the freshmen groups which are required to pass through a year’s program of formation through indoctrination and organized action. The
various groups hold a weekly hour meeting and follow a program that is decided upon at an annual national Study Week. A Federation group, consisting of all group heads, meets monthly.
There were thirteen groups on the campus during the second year after the YCS was formed. The war came along just then and, like almost everything else, the organization was thrown for a staggering loss. It managed to keep on during the Navy’s stay at Notre Dame, however, even though it was just a flicker in comparison to the preceding year’s flame.
Peace and the return to the campus of civilians saw a rejuvenated organization go into action. The membership roster grew as did the movement throughout the country. There are now YCS organizations on campuses from New York to California, with Notre Dame regarded as the heart and founding place of the movement. To illustrate the vastness of this organization, an International Congress of YCS was held during the summer in Chicago with representatives attending from every corner of the earth.
The far-ranged program designates the units in universities as a field in which action can be prudently carried out as well as a training period for the future apostolate. It is the organization’s endeavor to inspire its members to bring to whatever fields they enter after graduation an understanding of
Christian principles and an ability to apply these principles and to lead others to do the same.
On the credit side of the ledger, the YCS has many results to offer to the Philistine-type of skeptic who demands proof. The helpful BX was founded and is run by the movement; the Co-Hop downtown, which sponsors dances and lectures, was helped during its formative stages by the campus outfit; former members of campus groups were instrumental in starting Catholic Action Family and Young Christian Workers’ units in South Bend; Fides, a publishing house, was given a boost by the organization; last year’s active freshmen groups were responsible for many of the class’ social activities; it sponsored this year’s successful freshmen orientation program (in connection with the Blue Circle); it is the founder and publisher of Concord- and next week’s Town Meeting Forum on Domestic Policies of the Major Political Parties is to be sponsored by the Engineering group.
Bob Reynolds, editor of Concord, was also elected last spring to serve as prexy of the entire campus organization. Curt Kiesling is the present joint vice-president-secretary, while Ray Martin is serving as treasurer.
The YCS is far from being a mature organization. It knows that it is young and it realizes that there is a long and rocky road ahead. It has been said that secularism, and not Communism, is the real core of our troubles today. The YCS constitutes the basic training ground for the fight against this foe. The war may never end in our lifetime but nonetheless one can rest assured that the sincere YCS members, on “white chargers” if you wish, will be in there fighting and giving a good account of themselves and of Notre Dame.
BOB REYNOLDS
Oct. 15, 1948
17
by BILL LYMAN
You can’t call yourself a true son of Notre Dame, unless you’ve hopped off the bus at the end of South Bend Ave. on a freezing winter .night, made your way across Hill Street to the shadowy, little alley that leads down over sand and snow to Niles Avenue, and finally found yourself at the friendly doors of the Sunny Italy Cafe — known more affectionately to the student trade as Rosie’s. .
It’s not in the swankiest part of town; and there’s nothing grand or magnificent about it; but to many an old ND grad and to many of the fellows who carry on the Friday night tradition of . spaghetti, ravioli and pizza pie — Rosie’s is like a second home.
Anthony Vumbaca, its first proprietor, says two Ohio brothers named Russ began calling the little cafe “Rosie’s.” Tony recalls that the boys were among his first regular Friday nighters. They became great friends with Tony and his wife, Rosie. And after a time, they began telling their friends back at Notre Dame about the place.
“Come on down to Rosie’s,” they’d
say. It was a natural, since Rosie’s official title at the time was “The North Niles Avenue Cafe.”
Rosie’s opened in 1927, but Notre Dame men didn’t discover it as a place for good, moderately priced food until 1933 and the end of prohibition. The earliest of Notre Dame’s Friday nighters remember Rosie’s as a one-room affair with a small balcony converted from a dance floor to table space. The downstairs and balcony together didn’t hold more than ten or twelve tables. Tony and Rosie operated in the kitchen with just a coal stove, two hotplate burners, a large tea pot (in which they made coffee), two pans they washed dishes in and a big table in the center.
Though Rosie’s wasn’t much more than a hole in the wall then, Notre Dame fellows took to it in a hurry. Tony and Rosie served tops in food (and incidentally, beer) for bottoms in prices, and they catered to the “boys.” Town people and factory workers made up a good part of Rosie’s trade, but the boys gave it fame. They’d graduate, and > they’d go home and tell people: “If you ever get to South Bend, don’t miss Rosie’s.” And when they’d come back to Notre Dame for a football week-end or just for a visit, they’d take their whole crowd to Rosie’s.
“We’ve had old ND grads drop in here even before they checked in at a hotel or gone back for a look at the
Spaghetti
Spumoni
campus,” says James Bamber, Rosie’s new owner.
Jimmy, as the boys know him, bought out Rosie’s, which by this time had been renamed the Sunny Italy Cafe, in 1941. He got the idea from his wife, Josephine, better known as Josie. Josie had worked in Rosie’s kitchen for seven years. She had many ideas as to what she could do with the place if she owned it.
Meanwhile, Jimmy was working hard and saving the money he earned as a mechanic at Studebaker. He started there when he was 16 years old and put in 20 years’ service. He married Josie, his childhood sweetheart, in 1937.
Photos for this feature
by JOE HIPP
Jimmy and Josie kept the policy of catering to Notre Dame men. “The boys are my favorite customers,” says Jimmy. “They’re steadier; and they give the place a little pep.”
When the Bambers took Rosie’s over,
they started making improvements —
■•i
STri
£
two new rooms, gas stove, dish washer,
coffee maker and so
But they
on.
couldn't carry out all those ideas Josie had thought about, for war shortages made remodeling impossible. During the war Jimmy and Josie settled down to the double task of managing a bustling restaurant business and raising a family.
Their first-born was Butch — in 1942. Since then, Butch has attended St. St. Mary’s pre-school, just across the road from Notre Dame where he’ll spend his college days, and St. Joseph’s grammar school, where the Sisters of the Holy Cross are teaching him his A-B-C’s. The second-born was Dennis who is now nine months old.
After the war, the Bambers finally got their chance to remodel Rosie’s. Last year in July they closed the dark, rather homely, little place and in February opened up a bright, charming establish
ment. The new Rosie’s seats 150 people — the old held only 98. It also sports a neatly furnished dining room and a stainless steel kitchen.
Some of the old-time-Friday nighters
don’t like the change. They say Rosie’s	j
lost its cherished “hang-out” atmo-	|
sphere; it gives one the “tea room” feeling now. But most Notre Darners agree the change was for the best. They can wend their way through the restaurant without fear of tripping over a yard or so of spaghetti that has slithered off a customer’s plate. It’s no longer a gopher’s hole with chairs, as some of the old guard called it. Even the stone front does its bit by supporting the
spaghetti place. The old, termite laden front always left the customer in a fit of apprehension.
At any rate, the same old friendliness exists between Notre Dame and Rosie’s. Jimmy and Josie go out of their way for
the boys even though civic trade has more than doubled. They invented cheese-filled ravioli to brighten Friday nights; they introduced home-made pizza pie because the boys like it so much and they retained draft beer though bottle beer means more profit. They stay open until 11:30 for the late movie crowd. In addition they serve a special 65-cent plate lunch and an 85-cent complete dinner which are becoming the rage with those at the University who no longer get caf-books'.
Just recently Jimmy bought out the roofing company next dcor and intends to build on a banquet room. He’ll open it Friday nights and football week-ends, and he figures it will be just the thing for any private parties the boys may want to throw.
Rcsie’s is growing up with Notre Dame. And may many, many more plates of spaghetti, ravioli and pizza pie be served there.
VISTOWICZ (55) WITH FALLON (68), SITKO (14) CONVOY
ND BAND WELCOMES NORTHERN INVADERS
CHI TRIB'S ARCH WARD (right)
Football
weekend
Hipp, Hipp, Hipp.
PHOTOS BY (starting top right and continuing clockwise) Munger, Munger,
Munger
and
MR. FORD ENTERTAINS . . .
ST. MARY'S GIRLS SHAKE DOWN
THUNDER
HART (82) DRAGS DOWN FLEEING SPARTAN

SCHOLASTIC SLCLTT
Irish Seek No. 22 Against Nebraska
By TOM McNALLY
Injuries Plague Irish Line, Backfield;
Swistowicz, Fischer Miss Nebraska Game
Injuries received in the Michigan State game last Saturday will sideline Captain Bill Fischer and fullback Mike Swistowicz for the Cornhusker contest tomorrow. The possible return of John Frampton to the Irish line-up may be the answer to the guard vacancy. Frank Spaniel will take over the number two fullback duties.
Swistowicz was believed to have only been slightly injured last Saturday when X-rays showed no back fractures. It is now feared that he suffered kidney and
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING
	Tim es	Net Yds.	.4 vy.
	Curried	Gained	Gain
Spaniel 			 2	13	6.5
Panelli 		22	123	5.6
Sitko 			 47	261	5.6
Gay 			 12	66	5.5
Brennan 			 17	79	4.6
McKillip 					12	55	4.6
Coutre 			 5	23	4.6
Swistowicz ...	22	89	4.1
other internal injuries which may keep him benched for the Iowa game as well. Larry Coutre will handle Mike's defensive halfback assignment.
The absence of Bill Fischer will leave a large hole in the Irish forward wall. His left arm has been placed in a cast and it is still uncertain how long the dislocated elbow will keep the “Moose’’ out of the line-up.
The left guard problem was further complicated by the injuries of John Frampton. Frampton was injured in practice during the week before the Michigan State game and his return to action is questionable. Should he fail to be ready to go, either Bob Lally or Frank Johnson, who turned in a creditable job when called to replace Fischer last Saturday, will start against Nebraska. Ralph McGehee will handle Fischer’s tackle duties in the Irish defensive line shift.
Bill Gay, who was also injured in the Michigan State game will be ready to play against the Cornhuskers.
For the first time since the days of Knute Rockne, the Fighting Irish have invaded the homeland of the Nebraska Cornhuskers for tomorrow’s football chore. It’s going to be a difficult “chore” too if George “Potsy” Clark has his way. The old Illinois star has returned as Cornhusker head coach, and it’s no secret that he would give his molars to add a victory over Notre Dame to an honor-studded football career. The Nebraska folks must think he has a chance for the SRO sign has been out since last April.
The season has not been a smashing
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
NOTRE DAME	NEBRASKA
Martin ________E_____ Damkroger
McGehee ______ T_______ Toogood
Frampton _____G__________ Lipps
Walsh ________ C________  Novak
Wendell ______G___________ Dorn
Fallon ...... T________ Goeglein
Hart __________E_____ Schneider
Tripucka _____Q_______ Costello
Brennan _______H______ Ackerman Sitko _______________ -H_ Mueller
Panelli ______ F_______ Collopy
CHARLES TOOGOOD
TOM NOWAK
But Not So Good for the Irish . . .
Oct 15, 1948
21
success for the Cornhuskers to date. They defeated Iowa State 19-15 but then were bounced 39-13 b'y their old rival Minnesota. Last Saturday they took it on the chops from a surprise Colorado team, 19-6. All the more reason why a startling upset would tickle the population of Lincoln.
From all reports, Nebraska has a better team than the last two scores would indicate. Twenty-eight lettermen have returned from former squads including a host of good backs. Three-letter men Frank Collopy and Cletus Fischer are still around and so is Dick Hutton who played fine ball against Notre Dame last year. Newcomer Gerry Ferguson was a standout against Iowa State and Bill Mueller is another hard-driving back. The line is loaded with veterans also. At end Al Cochrane is playing his third year and so is Arden Means, the guard. Plugging up the tackle slot is one Charley Toogood, 240 pounds and only a sophomore. But the real poison on the team occupies the center position. His name is Thomas Janies “Train Wreck” Novak, well-known in these parts after last year’s game,. After watching Novak in action for sixty minutes, the Irish conferred and chose him the most outstanding lineman they’d faced all season. He’s back and he’s just as good.
Whether they win or lose, Nebraska is bound to be “up” for tomorrow’s tilt. When they play Notre Dame Nebraska usually is. Last year’s 31-0 win by Notre Dame was the biggest victory margin in a series which dates back to 1915. Nebraska has won five out of thirteen games including three wins over Rockne-coached teams. Another game ended in a scoreless deadlock.
The Ramblers will be trying for their fourth victory of the season and their 22nd in a row. Michigan State became number 21 last Saturday, 26-7, but not before a game struggle. Chandnois and Guerre were outstanding Spartan backs and they were aided by some sleight-of-hand wizardry which kept the defense guessing.
In the first quarter, Michigan State combined a long quick kick with an intercepted pass to jump to a 7-0 lead and narrowly missed another score on a beautifully executed “sleeper” play. The Irish then caught fire with two long, sustained drives, both of which culminated in touchdowns. Frank Tripucka passed six yards to Leon Hart in the end zone for touchdown number one, and Mike’ Swistowicz swept ten yards around end for the other. Oracko missed both points.
Notre Dame received the second half kickoff and marched - goalward again with Terry Brennan and Bud Sitko taking turns smashing • the ■ Spartan line. -Brennan finally plunged over from the
Hipp
CRANE (36) HITS PAYDIRT FOR SPARTANS Where's Your Truck, Leroy?
one-yard line and Oracko converted. The final score was set up by an intercepted Michigan State pass. Bill Gay scooped up the enemy heave and scampered to the Spartan eleven. Sitko scored from there.
Good news to Notre Dame fans was the return of Terry Brennan to the hale and hearty list. Handicapped by an injured knee to date, the Milwaukee hoy showed a burst of his accustomed speed and drive. His backfield mate, Emil Sitko, spent most of the afternoon bolting up and down the field, five and ten yards at a clip.
The injury list was unusually severe. Swistowicz, Gay and Fischer all suffered injuries and had to leave the game.
Irish Set To Meet Wisconsin Harriers
The harriers of Notre Dame will attempt to make it two consecutive victories when they meet the cross country runners of Wisconsin tomorrow on the Badger course in Madison. Both teams have unblemished records to date. Notre Dame defeated Wyoming decisively 20 to 39 last Saturday on the Irish course while Wisconsin was crushing Marquette 15 to 48. The Badger group led by Don Gehrman, western conference mile champion, swept the first five scoring positions.
Jim Murphy paced the local runners, covering the three-mile course in 16:02. Gehrman’s time for the three-mile stint was 15:14.2, thus indicating that the Irish will receive a severe test of their
strength tomorrow. Notre Dame’s triumph was impressive too, as they shot their five scorers across among the first seven finishers. Corny Styers and Jim Kittell tied for third, Bill Leonard was fifth, and Lou Tracy placed seventh. The other two members of the Blue and Gold squad, Tony DaDamio, and Lou Lepry served the purpose of forcing two Cowboy scorers into high scoring 11th and 12th positions.
Murphy and Styers led the field at the mile and two-mile marks with times of 5:21 and 10:36. The battle with the Cowboys was the initial athletic encounter between the two schools. Notre Dame will return the Cowboy visit at Laramie next fall. The only westerner to finish among the first five was George Gobel.
Coach Roy Peck of the Cowboys said he was happy not to be shut out, and predicted a great season for the Notre Dame team. Irish track coach “Doc” Handy was very pleased with his team’s showing and stated that Wyoming was very much improved over last year. The Notre Dame coach indicated that there would be no changes in the team for the Badger encounter.—Jim Howard
SCORING
Total
TD PAT FG Pts.
Sitko ......... 4	0	0	24
Hart .......... 2	0	0	12
Oracko ......... 0	7	1	10
One touchdown each by: Spaniel, Panelli, Brennan, McKillip, Swistowicz, Landry, Smith, and
Zmijewski ........................ 48
Total points by opponents, 34	94
22
The Scholastic
Upsets Leave Irish on Top, With Rocky Road Fare Ahead
From the uproar of last week-end’s upsets only one of Notre Dame’s remaining foes preserved its unbeaten record.
Northwestern has walked over U.C.-L.A. and Purdue. Last week they showed theii- resiliency by bouncing back from the wrong end of 16 to 0 score to beat the Minnesota Gophers 19 to 16. Tomorrow will be the real test for the Wildcats as they tackle the reigning Big Nine champs, the Michigan Wolverines. If they escape unscathed from that encounter they may bring an undefeated squad to Notre Dame.
Indiana, who has lost only one game this year so far, and that by a single point to Texas Christian, will play a good game but will just be another stepping stone for Notre Dame. Washington has been beaten but once and then by Minnesota but they also tied Oregon State which gives them only one win and that over U.C.L.A.
The last game on our schedule is the traditional game with Southern California in Los Angeles. So far this year Southern California has looked pretty good as they romped to easy victories over Utah and Oregon State before being stopped by Ohio State. They bounced back from that loss to beat Rice 7 to 0.
Southern California and Northwestern appear to be the only possible stumbling blocks to a third undefeated season for the Irish.—William Delaney
Hipp
FUSI (77), TRIPUCKA (8) CHASE FUMBLE "Look What I Found!*'
SPLINTERS from the Press Box By Harry Monahan
Upset Year
Twice in three games the Irish have had to come from behind to win, which should be sufficient writing on the stadium wall for anyone — even those who didn’t hear Father Sweeney’s warning about the lightning. To be the favored team this season is not a blessing. Ask Purdue, Ohio State, Nebraska, S.M.U., and Southern California.
It’s a healthy situation for collegiate football. It heralds the end of the unbalanced competition that has been the feature of the two previous seasons. There are still going to be powerhouse teams in the country. We’ve got one ourselves. But even it had to fight for two of its three wins so far this season. That is as many as it had to fight for all last season.
This is the upset year; next year will be the great equalizer. Who will be the next victims this year it is hard to tell. The boys from Evanston think they have two likely candidates. They are going to be “up” for the Wolverines and the Irish. We have seen two teams “up” for the Irish and one almost pulled the trick. In fact, our didactic friend Chet Smith of the Pittsburgh Press has already predicted that Northwestern will end the Irish winning streak. We’ll give you the Wildcats and 13 points right now, Mr. Smith, because we think Coach Leahy has the answer to “Fumbles” Aschenbrenner and friends—the Double Q and Sitko, too!
Musings at Halftime
Thank you Pappy Waldorf! And a pat on the head for Jackie Jensen. We may hit .500 on our Rose Bowl prediction yet . . . The Irish can still repair its bowl record when it knocks off Northwestern. The Wildcats have suddenly taken a rosy view of life and gotten a desire to go west. Waldorf may be entertaining old friends this January 1 . . . We just quelled the baseball fever (Thatch-Roof has been sent back to the reservation), but now Hoosier hysteria opens its bloodshot eyes. The “retiring” Ed Krause is already sending the Irish eagers through their paces. How over
lapping can this sports picture get? .. . And a bouquet of roses to Missouri for aiding the Irish cause by knocking off S.M.U. Now if we can only find a volunteer to stop the Tarheels.
Confusion in Quadruplicate
Complaining about referees is a chronic illness of collegiate sports editors and this week we also fall victim to
Hipp
THREE BLIND MICE . . . See How They Piled On
this occupational disease. Mike Swis-towicz suffered serious injuries in the Michigan State game; injuries which we believe could have been prevented with a little heads-up officiating. We are not accusing Michigan State of dirty football. The Spartans were worthy opponents, and no one here is going to try to devaluate their stock.
They were an enthusiastic team—too enthusiastic. The piling-on reached dangerous proportions, but no official action was taken to warn or penalize the Spartans. While 58,126 spectators saw the right to the face which stopped Leon Hart on the Spartan goal line, not one of the four gentlemen paid to see it, even noticed the foul. Likewise, Sitko collected a couple of knees in the side which went unnoticed.
The rule book was designed to stop
Oct. 15, 1948
23
such spirited contests from getting out of hand. But only with efficient officials on the field will that purpose be served. Notre Dame will pay the penalty for last Saturday’s lack of such efficiency by the possible season’s loss of Swistowicz and the handicapped play of Captain Bill Fischer.
Prediction of the Week
Another mediocre team may be on its toes Saturday to give the Irish a busy afternoon, but the Cornhuskers will falter in the stretch. Notre Dame 32, Nebraska 6.
Qet
NOTRE DAME
Pennants
Jackets
Gym Supplies
SPECIAL
Notre Dame navy-blue, reversible Letter Jackets $10.95 to $12.95
Sports Equipment Bowling Balls
Shoes
... at
SONNEBORN'S
SPORTS SHOP
121 W. Colfax Ave. South Bend, Ind.
Phone 3-3702
I____________________
'Huskers Will Fall, Say Parlay Players
After last week’s hard fought win over Michigan State, the average student sees a near repeat of the scoring in the Pitt game. With the brightened-up running of Brennan, and Sitko’s usual line-cracking play the Irish shouldn’t have to draw on their second wind.
Salvatore Fiorella, New York City— ND 28, Nebraska 13. “Nebraska has a good line, but not a speedy backfield as Notre Dame has.”
Ken Hoelscher, Washington, D. C.— ND 35, Nebraska 12. “Passing in this game will be ignored, and Brennan and Sitko will run wild.”
John Petitbon, New Orleans, La.—ND 46, Nebraska 6. “Easy game — first stringers will wallop them and reserves will clean up.”
Tom O’Toole, Rapid City, S. Dak.— ND 30, Nebraska 0. “We won’t have any trouble.”
Tom Ward, Pittsburgh, Pa.—ND 28, Nebraska 0. “Push over!”
Don Kiene, Quincy, Ill.—ND 40, Nebraska 0. “Brennan will show up better than he has.”
Lee Bachle, Detroit, Mich.—ND 38, Nebraska 7. “The corn will be smothered in clover.”
Doug Legg, Portland, Oregon—ND 41, Nebraska 6. “The sophomores should have a great afternoon.”
Hall SquadsTaperOff For Intramural Games
Judging from the speed and polish displayed by teams from various halls in practice, the intramural football picture looks very promising. As usual, the aggregations from the freshman halls, especially Zahm, appear to be world beaters in pre-game drills, but there is a long month between now and the championship game. Time will tell.
Following traditional form, the csmpus will be split up into two leagues, the East and the West, with five halls competing for the title in each group. In the East league this year are Cavanaugh, Walsh, Farley, Zahm, and St. Edward’s halls; while the West league is composed of Howard, Dillon, Alumni, Lyons, and Morrissey. The championship game will be held in the stadium sometime during the second or third week in November.
NEXT WEEK’S SCHEDULE Oct. 20: Dillon vs. Alumni
Morrissey vs. Howard
Oct. 21: Farley vs. Zahm
St. Ed’s. vs. Cavanaugh
(Games start at 3:45 P.M.)
AP Writers Name Tarheels As Irish Fall by Wayside
Sportswriters were more impressed last week with North Carolina’s 28-6 win over Wake Forest than they were with the Irish 26-7 victory over a stubborn Michigan State eleven. As a result the Tarheels closed the slim lead Notre Dame held in last week’s Associated Press poll and took a 20-point lead in the national championship race.
Both squads received less first place ballots than they did last week and the North Carolina total was . the same as that held by Notre Dame last week. Northwestern kept a firm grip on third place and moved to within eight points of the Irish.
Missouri scuttled the S.M.U. Mustangs and dropped them from fourth to fourteenth. Michigan’s high-flying Wolverines slipped into the vacated rating. The victor in tomorrow’s Wildcat-Wolverine tussle could gain enough points to ease the Irish out of second place.
Minnesota also fell out of the top ten. Pennsylvania and Mississippi broke into the first bracket.
The first ten teams and their scores were as follows (number in parenthesis indicates the number of first-place ballots each team received) :
North Carolina (52) .............1200
Notre Dame (34) .................1180
Northwestern (25) ...............1172
Michigan (24) ...................1103
Army (5) ......................... 733
California (10) .................. 720
Georgia Tech ..................... 589
Pennsylvania (1) ................. 388
Penn State (1) ................... 342
Mississippi ...................... 136
Basketbailers Open at Home; Play Nine Here, Fifteen Away
Trips to both East and West coasts will feature one of the toughest schedules in the history of basketball at the University of Notre Dame, according to an announcement of a twenty-four game schedule by Athletic Director Frank W. Leahy.
The complete schedule follows: Dec. 8—Illinois, here
11—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium.
13—Wisconsin, here.
20—Pennsylvania, here.
22—Navy at Chicago Stadium.
27—Purdue at Indianapolis.
28—Indiana at Indianapolis.
30—Southern Methodist at Dallas, Tex.
Jan. 3—St. Mary’s at San Francisco.
11—DePaul, here.
18—Butler, here.
22—Denver, here.
29—Kentucky at Louisville.
Feb. 3—Michigan State, here.
5—Butler at Indianapolis.
8—Marquette at Milwaukee.
12—At St. Louis University.
16—Marquette, here.
19—DePaul at Chicago Stadium.
23—At Michigan State.
26—Canisius at Buffalo, N. V.
28—New York U. in Madison Square Garden. Mar. 5—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium.
8—St. Louis, here.
24
The Scholastic
Welfare Council
(Continued from Page 13)
100 bundles are slated for stork delivery. What’s to be done? Will 100 G.I.’s have to raise $20,000? These men could have gone to state universities or hometown colleges at much less expense, yet they chose to come to Notre Dame. This is a problem that requires a quick solution and the maternity committee has at least made a step in the right direction. Whenever a Notre Dame veteran’s wife is called to the hospital the Council will make a payment of $50 to help cover expenses.
“That is good but this is a problem that demands much more attention and a serious consideration of the vet’s plight. It isn’t just up to the Council, it’s up to Notre Dame.”
A tentative goal of $5,000 has been set in order to reach the $50 per-vet allotment plan. The initial fund will be established by donations from organizations and clubs interested in the married vet’s problem. Later the sum will be supplemented by activities to be conducted in conjunction with the student body.
On the lighter and more ethereal side are the various committees which are sure to keep the girls busy. Chief among these is—you’d never guess—the bridge committee. Other groups which will attract the little woman’s interest are those of dances, hospital visiting, and cultural. All are sure to keep the better half, particularly those from-out-of-town, well away from those rockin’ chair blues.
Father Mendez, the guiding light of these activities, has been around, to say the least. Formerly stationed at Austin, Texas, he was director of the Holy Cross Mission and procurator for the Holy Cross Home Mission, which embraced the entire United States. He gives great credit for the Council’s success up to this point, to Father Theodore Hesburgh, now head of the Department of Religion and formerly Vetville chaplain, for the excellent groundwork laid. Both Father Hesburgh and Padre Mendez have done a grand job.
Fine Repairing
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
Discussion Group Features Historiography Problems
Announcement has been made of the year’s first history discussion to be held in Room 101 of the Law Building, next Tuesday evening, Oct. 19, at 7:45. The theme for this year’s series of discussions will be “The Problems of Historiography,” and will include not only the theories of historical writing but also the notions of history held by some of the more famous historians, such as Tacitus, St. Augustine, and Machiavelli.
These discussions are led by members of the faculty but are open to the public. The informal discussion that follows the opening papers is notable for active student participation.
The topic for the first discussion will be “The Philosophy of History” and will. be led by Professor Robert Caponigri of the Departemnt of Philosophy. This subject is the center of much controversy in both history and philosophy and should
ANOTHER CO-HOP
Here's the information on the next ' CO-HOP dance. It will be held in
South Bend's Progress Club Tomorrow night. October 16 from 8 to 11 p.m. Music will be furnished by Stan Seymour and his Collegians, a campus band.
Attention!
BERT CLEANERS & DYERS
222-224 West Washington Ave.
Bert Cleaners.will give Notre Dame students an opportunity to save 25% on all their Dry Cleaning, Pressing, Repairing, and Dyeing at our plant. Take advantage of our 3-Hour and While-You-Wait services. Use our free pick-up and delivery service.
For your 25% discount card, fill out this coupon and present it at our office.
Name..................................
Hall............... Room	Number.......
provide an occasion for a brilliant discussion. Professor Caponigri’s paper will be discussed by the Rev. Gerald Phelan, head of the Mediaeval Institute, who gave an excellent paper on “St. Thomas and the Philosophy of History” at the St. Thomas Convocation last March.
The chairman of the discussion will he' Professor Waldemar Gurian.
KC’s Install New Officers, Talk Fall Formal at Erskine
The Notre Dame Council of. the Knights of Columbus installed its new officers this week and made plans for a. fall formal at the Erskine Country Club Nov. 12.
The Council officers are John Noonan, grand knight; James Cassidy, deputy grand knight; Frank Kaufman, warden; Tony Ray, lecturer; Frank Baker, financial secretary; Bill Bradley, chancellor; Ed McEneaney, recording secretary; Robert Hayden, treasurer; Harry Goheen, inside guard; James Slattery, outside guard; John Kennedy,. advocate; and Christy Walsh, program.
The. Council also announces that its Walsh Hall lounge will be open every Saturday when the football team plays away from home. KC members are invited down for doughnuts and cider while listening to the broadcast.
Oct. 15, 1948
25
Names Make News
Among the 45 priests participating in the closing of the annual 40-hour devotions in South Bend St. Patrick’s Church last week were included four from Notre Dame. The Rev. CHRISTOPHER O’TOOLE, C.S.C., assistant provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Notre Dame, was celebrant. He was assisted by the Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C.S.C., and the Rev. WILLIAM MINNICK, C.S.C., as deacons. The sermon was given by the Rev. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president of the University . . .
MR. GERALD COSGROVE Newsmen Journey
In an address at the Discovery Day Banquet of the Canton (Ohio) Council, Knights of Columbus, this week, the Rev. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, professor of Religion at the University of Notre Dam?, declared that the distinctive contribution America can make to civilization is the protection of human freedom and the safeguarding of world peace. Father O’Brien used as his theme “The Light That Shall Not Fail,” and pointed out that “Civilization may be viewed as a vast mosaic on which each nation has traced its distinctive contribution and reflected its peculiar genius.” After explaining the patterns that other nations have contributed to this mosaic, Father O’Brien stressed that America’s role in the overall picture is to protect human freedom by standing unfalteringly in defense of the ideals of democracy and liberty for which she fought in two world Avars.
26
The Rev. ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C., new married students’ chaplain at Notre Dame, told of Negro and Mexican missionary work in Texas in a radio address over Station WJLB, Detroit, last week. Father Mendez, who has been Director of the Holy Cross Mexican Missions in Texas for the last 12 years, described the enormous advance that missionary work has made in this field since he began with but one church in 1936.
While he was pleased with the advance in missionary work in general in the past few years, Father Mendez pointed out a serious error in the field. “We send missionaries to foreign lands, and we open wide the front doors of our churches to these pagan souls. But are we not forgetting to close the back door? The loss, the leakage, among our Spanish-speaking people is truly appalling. ... I warn you, if we do not lead the world in living out the truth that all God’s children . . . are equally loved by Him and should be by us . . . truly have we failed!”
The first Law School Great Books Seminar of the year found ROGER J. KILEY, justice of the Illinois Appellate Court and former ND grid star, and the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the University, presiding. Among the works discussed were Plato’s Apology and Crito . . .
Speaking at the luncheon meeting of the South Bend Optimist club last week, JOHN V. HINKEL, director of public information for Notre Dame, warned that western civilization is threatened with extinction by secularism and Communism. Deploring the lack of morally trained leaders to meet the challenge of the false philosophies of the present day, he added: “Without religion there can be no real patriotism. If the message of Christianity is to reach that estimated 70,000,000 to 100,000,000 of our fellow Americans who have no particular religion, then it must reach them through those who are thoroughly infused with Christian ideals ...”
The Turner Little Theatre has selected FRANK J. HANLEY, professor in the school of fine arts here since 1937, to direct the play, “A Guest in the House,” which will be presented next month.
DOMINIC VAIRO, an ex-teammate of Assistant Director of Athletics MOOSE KRAUSE, and present county clerk in Houghton County, Michigan, recently helped dedicate a new athletic field in Calumet, Michigan. Calumet is the home town of the late GEORGE GIPP. . . .
Dr. E. O. DODSON, Dr. JOHN D. MIZELLE, editor of the American Midland 'Naturalist, and Professor DONALD J. PLUNKETT were the delegates from here who were sent to the AAAS Meetings in Washington, D. C., last month. While in Washington, at the invitation of Dr. Emmett W. Price, chief of the Zoological Division of the Bureau of Animal Industry, they visited that department and were given an inside view of the many interesting projects which are being carried out there by government workers. Also present at the meeting were three biology graduate students from here: CHARLES F. EHRET, KOLAR S. GOPALKRISH-NAN, and GORDON R. McKINNEY ...
In an address to the South Bend Round Table last week, Professor JOHN H. SHEEHAN, head of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame warned that conflict in industrial relations cannot be removed by government regulation alone. Blaming the frustration and conflict in labor management circles today on the “false and unworkable philosophy of economic individualism and of unlimited gain,” Professor Sheehan said, “The task is not one for labor or management alone, but calls for the talent and efforts of men in all professions.” Professor Sheehan has been an
FATHER SWEENEY Preaches 40-Hours
The Scholastic
arbiter and mediator in labor-management disputes for the last 20 years....
GERALD E. COSGROVE, associate editor of the South Bend Tribune and instructor in the Department of Journalism here, will deliver the keynote speech in the first session of a Catholic college students’ “workshop,” to be held tomorrow and Sunday at St. Joseph’s College. The meeting, which will include lectures, open forums and panel discussions, is sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students.. . .
Numbered among the recipients of new fellowships this year is PIERRE BELLMANN, of Vevey, Switzerland.
Bellmann is working for a doctor’s degree in political science, while making himself of use to the Language Department as an instructor in German. A graduate of the University of Geneva, Bellmann was sent to Germany near the end of the war as a member of the International Red Cross. While pursuing his studies in this country, he hopes to travel extensively across the land. . . .
ELMER WURTH, a freshman here last year, has joined the Maryknoll order and is now studying at the Maryknoll seminary at Lakewood, N. J. Wurth, whose home is in Kalida, Ohio, hopes to be sent to China as a missionary after his ordination. . . .
The Rev. CHARLES E. DOREMUS, C.S.C., formerly a French teacher at Notre Dame, has been transferred to New Orleans.
JOSEPH VOLNEY WILCOX, former Scholastic feature editor and now editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, engaged himself in a short but thrilling duel with a bat found sleeping in the Lawyer office this week. Joe saw the bat hanging on one of the office windows and promptly dispatched him into the outer darkness with a broom. Joe tells us that the bat, oddly enough, was unable to fly. The unfortunate creature dashed his head against the ground and died of a fractured skull. ...	-
CAREERS at GENERAL ELECTRIC
General Electric is not one business, but an organization of many businesses, offering opportunities in virtually all the professions. Here three G-E men brief opportunities offered the mechanisms expert, the vacuum-tube specialist, and the engineer.
MECHANISMS EXPERT
John Payne (Cornell), who developed the mechanical hands for atomic research: Radioactive isotopes create problems to delight the heart and fire the imagination of any engineer with a bent toward mechanisms. Developing pile ‘service’ mechanisms and manipulating devices offers a real challenge—and a real opportunity.
VACUUM-TUBE SPECIALIST
Dr. Albert W. Hull (Yale), assistant director of the Research Laboratory: The use of vacuum tubes for controlling industrial processes is only beginning. One new tube, for example, that can take signals from ‘electrical brains’ and apply them to apparatus of any desired size is sure to promote wider use of these engineering tools.
STUDENT ENGINEER
Bob Charlton (Texas), graduate of the G-E Advanced Engineering Program: I am winding up three years of intensive study in General Electric engineering courses—study that has required twenty after-work hours a week, and I’m not sorry for an hour of it. The A, B, and C courses, I feel, are good groundwork for an engineering career.
hr hrthr hhnwlhr otaf • miHB$ CAIEBt wHb fuml Efedri^ write Bufens Trafefep Trfemtterfr. *. T.—• anar h TKHKKM KUS, »rilt MM NaeM Mritrim SMtMf, IT.
GENERAL^ ELECTRIC
Oct. 15, 1948
Seagoing Sophs Swab Deck
PAT O'SULLIVAN. TOM MYERS AND RAY STREBB
Irish Chapter Sigma Xi Holds Installation Dinner
Installation ceremonies for the newly-formed Notre Dame chapter of Sigma Xi, the national scientific honor society, were held at a dinner meeting in the faculty dining hall last night.
Dr. Donald B. Prentice, former president of the Rose Polytechnic Institute in Terre Haute, presented the chapter charter to the ND group. Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chemistry, is chairman of the organization here.
Sigma Xi, outstanding honorary scientific research society in the United States, was founded at Cornell in 1886 for the promotion and exchange of scientific research. The society is composed of all types of scientists, including graduate students-who are eligible for special associate memberships. Chapters of Sigma Xi are located at colleges and universities throughout the nation.
After the installation ceremonies Dr. Harold C. Urey, professor of chemistry
at the Institute for Nuclear Research at the University of Chicago, will talk on “The Determination of Paleo-Tempera-tures” in the Engineering Auditorium. Nobel prize winner Urey’s lecture will be open to the public.
RING BINDERS $3.50 up CATALOG CASES suitable for carrying your large books $10.00 up ZIPPER ENVELOPES $7.50 up
Your Initials or Name in Gold Free All items plus tax
HansA Rintzsch
e Shop
138 N. Michigan St.
It was the night before Tuesday and all through the hall nothing was heard but the drips through the wall. The mighty sophs of Morrissey were hard at work when the dike broke, quickly followed by bedlam. The third floor lavatory sprang a mysterious leak and down through the ceiling the rains came.
The ancient elevator chute turned into a cascading waterfall as pretty, but much noisier, than the famous Bridal Veil. The ingenious second-year men calmly waited until the water line had reached the transom level before attacking the problem. By that time many sufferers on the second floor were going down for the third time.
Without the proverbial, “Now hear this, all able-bodied men man your brooms,” the boarders went to work. Within eight hours the last drip had dropped and normalcy once again reigned over the west campus chateau.
Chem Engineers and Profs Trek to Chi for 5-Day Visit
Professors Ernest J. Wilhelm and Allen S. Smith and 40 senior students in chemical engineering were in Chicago this week on a five-day tour of manufacturing plants in and around the city. They also visited the National Chemical Exposition in the Coliseum.
Inspection trips like this are a regular part of the chemical engineering curriculum. Generally one is arranged every year, but because of the war none had been made since 1941 till this week.
Want to See the
NOTRE DAME - IOWA GAME?
★
RENT A NEW CAR or STATION WAGON
Gas and Oil furnished — adequate Insurance
The U-DRIVE-IT Co.
223 West Washington Street Next to Oliver Hotel
Phone 4-1606 or 2-2941
Estimates Gladly Given
601 North Niles Avenue
— for —
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
HOURS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to 10 p. m.
SATURDAYS: 10 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. Re-open: 4:30 p. m. to U;30 p. m.
Call 3-0978	James and Josephine Bamber, Proprietors
28
The Scholastic
Radio
Two things eveiy college man should know!
Unemployed nine months of year.
So during season eats everything in sight.
Including substitutes. But there is no substitute for a "Manhattan” shirt.
(Fearer's never unemployed. Superbly
tailored. Extreme, widespread collar. Fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less.
At your favorite men's shop today.
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1948, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
By VERNE KELLEY
Fred Allen is at it again. The laugh boy has decided that the best way to slam the give-away shows is to ridicule them.
Last Sunday on his 7:30 p.m. broadcast he started out by guaranteeing losses up to §5,000 to everyone who is called on the phone by one of these shows and is listening to Allen at the time.
In other words, if you listen to Allen, and “Stop the Music” calls you and asks for the name of the last tune played and you don’t .know it, Allen will pay you the amount you could have won ... up to §5,000. The man’s.crazy!
He also brought up an item that has been a puzzle to everyone who hears the shows. For instance: every person who is called is always listening to the right station at the right time for the right show. Nobody is ever downstairs, upstairs, outside or in some embarrassing circumstance which would not allow answering the phone. Odd?
He explained that the operators who are supposed to be calling throughout the show call a person before air time to make sure he is home. So if you aren’t called before one of those shows, don’t expect to win anything.
We wonder what would happen if one rang an extension here on campus. Can’t you picture forty guys splitting up the prize “valued at §20,000?” Wonder who would take the trip to South America?
Such Beautiful Music, but ...	'
WND scores again! It has presented the best classical music program of any program of any of the stations in the area. But why must it ruin the whole deal with such dismal announcing? The lad (don’t know his name . . . and anyway his girl may read this) tries to sound highbrow, but what comes out is a cross between Milton Cross with a hangover and Henry Morgan imitating an Englishman with the mumps. -
The World Series is over and the Indians and Braves proved a redskin war can be mighty powerful, but more credit should go to Mel Allen and. Jim Britt than to Lou Boudreau and Gene Bearden.
Those two announcers really made, the series sound as interesting as it probably looked over television. Too bad more football spielers can’t do it.
Oct. 15, 1948
= 29
COLLEGE I AI AI E
By JOE PIEDMONT
This is my first column for Scholastic in about three years. I have been called from retirement (begun when my last venture, a sibilant little thing called Soph Soap, passed from this world, unwept, unhonored and unsung) to again take up the cause of spreading humor and good cheer through the medium of the printed word.
Our charming editor, the urbane Mr. Joseph Doyle, when assigning me this corner, gave unto me a tremendous stack of college papers and magazines out of which I was to cull those gems of entertainment which hereafter grace this page. This business of exchanging, or stealing of papers’ jokes is not new . . . indeed it is the oldest of journalistic arts. The ancient Greek humorist, Pla-garius, editing his column for the Athenian weekly, Punchy, was often sore put for material. So he frequently borrowed funny stories from the pages of his arch-rival’s paper, known as Sophocles’ Sayings, a yellow backed number with a great popularity among the sporting gentry of Macedonia.
Much incensed by this, Sophocles assigned his ace columnist, Westbrook Pegleripedes, to rake Plagarius over the coals. This turned out to be a great circulation builder, and Pegleripedes’ fame was assured. So successful were his verbal attacks that Plagarius was soon driven out by public scorn, and Punchy collapsed, to be revived some years later by William Randolph Hearstibus, a Roman newspaperman. Meanwhile, politics was invented, and Westbrook Pegleripedes plunged into his new field happily, heaping abuse on the heads of the venerable Greek Senate, urging investigations, and assaulting the first New Deal reforms of the Democrats, then in power.	.
Joke-stealing had its greatest vogue, and reached the height of its popularity when the University of Boxford was founded in England in 1200. The first college paper was established soon thereafter, edited by one Sir Guy de la Reprobate, the gay, puckish son of the 15th Earl of Reprobate Haven, a charming place set well back in the Sussex hills.
Sir Guy began his joke stealing career by filching spicy little items from the University of Paris’ paper, which was called Bistro Bits. (This incidentally, was the first paper to feature a gossip column, Around le Town, by M. Walter du Winchelle).
Sir Guy made quite a success of jokestealing, until it got around that he was stealing something else besides Gallic witticisms. Foi* some time, Sir Guy’s paper’s subscription fund had been noticeably lacking in the king’s good gold. Upon investigation, it was learned that Sir Guy had been appropriating large sums to cover up his losses at Baldwin Downs (this was before the time of Churchill).
So Sil- Guy was stripped of his editorship, and he returned in disgrace to his father’s house, and later joined the band of Robin Hood as a full fledged outlaw. It was while holding this position that he was captured and hung by the Sheriff of Nottingham.
It will readily be seen by even the most obtuse of my readers that joke
Look to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
for ARROWS
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
stealers, those unspeakable journalistic parasites, seldom come to a good end. Bear this in mind as the year progresses, and you read here the same jokes that Sir Guy rejected because of their age.
Having delivered myself of these remarks, both apologetic and introductory, I now call attention to the fact that this is the last time you will be confronted with my prose. Beginning next week, we will present our usual format, complete with stolen jokes.
Daytonians Begin Operations
The Dayton Club—just organized last spring—held its first meeting last week. Several new members were initiated into the club. The officers who will serve for the coming year are Lou Haley, president; Bud Condron, vice-president; Frank McBride, secretary-treasurer. A steak dinner has been planned for Oct. 13th at the Ramble Inn. Following the meeting, the “Highlights of the ’47 Season” were shown.
30
The Scholastic
It’s Adler’s
for
ARROW
ON THE COANEA... MKHWAN $ WASMN6TON
Fashioned For Fall
Arrow sports shirts are 100% virgin wool and give the wearer the ultimate in comfort and styling plus warmth without bulkiness. Both are washable, too!
All Arrow sports shirts are made with the same know-
how that goes into your favorite shirts . . . the best!
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Books
A sportscaster and a screen writer traced the history of America’s most colorful football rivalry, and came up with one of the better of many current sports books. In its field, Army vs. Notre Dame, The Big Game, 1913-194" is an outstanding piece of work because of its liveliness and accuracy and the preponderance of statistics and detail.
Each of the thirty-three games (Notre Dame won 23 and 4 were ties) is described in the present tense, quarter-byquarter. There are lots of sidelights, too. Actually, in the pre-game review of each contest, the book gives a recap of the entire season for both teams — it tells the story not of one game alone but of football in general at the two schools.
Forewords by Coaches Earl Blaik and Frank Leahy add a touch of authenticity. Speaking of his interview with the authors Leahy said, “They were telling me things about the Army-Notre Dame sei-ies instead of my telling them.”
Students will probably get special enjoyment from character sketches and humorous passages that outsiders might not appreciate. The book refers to some of the antics of local campus characters like Creighton Miller and Frank Szymanski. It tells interesting tales of Cadets, too. For instance, West Point officials were flabbergasted when they learned that Chris Cagle, their great All-American, had been attending West Point while secretly married. And there are many lines about a pair of Army backs named Glenn Davis and Felix . Blanchard.
Among the press quotes, Ring Lardner had a good one. Said Ring about the Irish of 1915: “It is said that President Wilson, in the event of war with Mexico, will leave the army at home and send Notre Dame to the front.”
One of the poorer things about the book is the way the writers go overboard in some of their descriptions. They have George Gipp’s “right arm dangling like a pump handle” and Terry Brennan running “like a Sunday-school kid in a potato race.” But it would be rather monotonous to say only “run” and “pass” through an account of thirty-three games.
Their story has a sad ending, the termination of a great game. Maybe Army-Notre Dame can help to inspire officials to resume a friendly rivalry that should be continued.—Ralph Wright
31
Oct. 15, 1948
Look to
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
Fishin’ for compliments?
Hook into this!
Widespread
Van Tripp in smart new "striper with
'Comfort Contour” collar
No need to fish for compliments when you wear a Van Heusen "striper” with the fused Van Tripp collar. “Comfort Contour” slopes it low for smarter appearance, day-long neatness, and wonderful comfort! Sanforized fabrics—a new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size! Get Van Tripp in a smart new stripe, S3.95 and $4.95. Other Van Heusen shirts $3.50, $3.95, $4.95.
Letters
(Continued from Page 3)
Dame men fearful of playing this most interesting of all pastimes.
We would like you to tell your readers that the parlays are a non-profit entertainment feature, sponsored primarily to take the student’s mind off the problems of Berlin, Washington, Moscow, and Reno.
Thank you for your immediate attention.
Name Withheld f
Dear Editor:
We read last week’s “cold and hungry” editorial. We see from the covers of the student meal books that the books are the equivalent of cash. Now we want to cash in the dozens of unused tickets that each of us has accumulated. Could someone in the know tell us where to get our money? (And statistics being what they are today, we don’t care to listen to anyone tell us that there was a meal prepared for every student every day.)
J. McCarthy
A. Scriba G. Jordan Alumni Hall
It’s
Adler’s
' for
Van Heusen
0
ou'U find college men’s collar favorites in
Van Hensen
the world’s smartest
shirts
“VAN HEUSEN” IS A TRADE MARK REGISTERED IN THE U. S. PATENT OFFICE
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
32
The Scholastic
Sherman Moves From Atlanta to N. D.
N.D* Photo
General William T. Sherman, last at Notre Dame for commencement in 1865, is back on the campus this week in a painting donated to the University by his granddaughter, Miss Eleanor Sherman Fitch of New York City. Examining the painting above is the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., director of the University Archives. The work will be added to the Archives’ growing collection of Shermania, which includes one of the Civil War general’s uniforms and a number of his letters. Father McAvoy says the painting will hang in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery until a permanent Sherman exhibit is established.
FOOTBALL FANS! PIPE FANS!
3ohit Surrty’s
“TOUCHDOWN” 00
FOOTBALL PIPE 1
You’ll stand up and cheer for the “Touchdown” the moment you put this fine sweet-smoking pipe in your mouth. Made of fine imported briar with a sporty pigskin finish, it looks just like a real football. Swivel stem makes it easy to carry.
Ask for the “Touchdown" pipe at
The HUDDLE
BUSINESS SYSTEMS
•	RONSON Lighters
•	KAYWOODIE Pipes
•	SCHAEFFER Pens
•	PARKER Pens
Desk Lamps - Slide Rules Ring Binders - Notebooks
126 S. MAIN across from the courthouse
WND Features 'Views of the News'
As early as last spring, WND’s own news forum was in the making. With the helping hand of a Scholastic man, one of the pioneers of our little five-watter is responsible for his now weekly feature of the station’s broadcasting schedule. Heard over WND between 7:30 and 8: CO each Thursday evening, it’s listed as “Views of The News.”	.
The idea belonged to Frank Cronan and Greg Halpin, who, while returning home last spring, drummed up the basis for it betwen sips in “The Pacemaker’s” club car. Back this fall, they have incorporated the program as the feature of the week.
The forum includes three members of the faculty who appear each week, and a rotating fourth contributor, also a member of the faculty, chosen for his knowledge in current events as well as his ability as a speaker, as the guest of the week. They choose as the weekly topic for discussion the news events most highly publicized in the week’s news publication. The three permanent speakers are Mr. Marshall Smelser and Mr. John Hooker-of the Department of History, and Mr. Alfred Scanlan, instructor in the College of Law.
Mr. Smelser, a member of the faculty since 1947, attended Quincy College where he obtained his B.A., and continued at St. Louis University and Harvard where he completed work on his master’s degree.
The other member of the department of history, Mr. Hooker, is a native of the British Isles, having served in the R.A.F. during the war. Having received his BA. at Cambridge in ’40—he was off to the wars. Returning four years later, he managed his master’s degree. Going off to the University of London for two years, 1945-47, he completed his education, topping it off with a B.S. and B.COM. He had intentions of coming to this country much earlier than last year, but had to serve his native England during its fight for suiwivai. He is well qualified as a spokesman on European and world events to say the least.
Greg Halpin, feature editor of the Scholastic, is the student moderator for the program. His fine work in getting the group organized and designing its purpose made the idea a reality. Together with Frank Cronan, WND’s general manager, the broadcasting setup was engineered into thirty minutes of very worthwhile and informative listening each Thursday evening at 7:30 — 63 on your dial.
Oct. 15, 1948
33
Browser’s Column
Max A. Browser
A Little Action
If it is true that there will be a graduation exercise this January, those responsible for the move are hereby bestowed with a special Browser laurel wreath. It was always a matter of great bewilderment to this column why .January departees had to come back in June to receive diplomas.
When Is a Band Not a Band?
The answer to that one is: When it's the Notre Dame Band. We don’t mean this as a slam. Bather it is an explanation. The Notre Dame “Marching Band” is a show outfit. It has never tried to put itself in the class of the Purdue Band or even of the less precise Michigan State ROTC outfit. Its end in life is to put on a good, entertaining show between halves of a football game. Its director, Mr. H. Lee Hope, made just such a statement of policy during one of the late practice sessions last week. Mr. Hope pointed out that the ND group cannot strive for precision nor does it want to. Putting together these “Musical Murals” that are being presented this season is a big enough job. To accomplish it, band members spend almost as much time in practice as the football team. Getting 56,000 people to laugh every Saturday is an achievement.
However, we would like to push forward some suggestions for the Notre Dame Band.
1)	That there ALWAYS, ALWAYS— through eternity—be a public address announcement explaining the actions of the Band on the field. This does not admit to the failure of the formations, but only makes them more effective. Mr. Hope’s fiddle of last Saturday bulged to distorted proportions in the middle, so much so that many a student and guest had a hard time figuring out just what that little chain gang was doing, walking back and forth across it. A simple statement over the speaker would have cleared everything and added greatly to the enjoyment of a really good show.
2)	Although we have just stated that the ND Band is not a precision group, still it is advertised as a “Marching Band.” The first effect of the band on
the spectators every Saturday is when they come fanning out between the goal posts and start down the field. If the lines waver as they did last Saturday, the fans are down on the band before they’ve been given a chance to show what they have. A little more close order drills is in order.
We only offer these suggestions to make a very good thing a little better. We think the Notre Dame Band is a very good thing. We feel sure it is going to make every Notre Dame man in Baltimore Stadium on Oct 30 feel justly proud. We know it will put on a good show. It always has.
Here and There
All reports on the Victory Dances are
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clue* are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers win one carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimile must accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue’s publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
QUESTIONS
A Underline in comparative degree. I reveal my smoking superiority.
Bln a letter sequence, I’m twenty-five, When you add a man, I come alive.
CLook sharply, Mac, and find a pin To join two pieces, and you may win.
ANSWERS WILL APPEAR IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF YOUR MAGAZINE
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS Ik WINNERS
A The two CROWNS, one featured on the bag Susan Hayward is holding, the other on the Chesterfield pack. In 1776, the crown, symbol of English dominion over the colonies, fell. (Declaration of Independence)
B ABC (Always Buy Chesterfield). Concentrate on the initial letters ABC and your reward is the magic three—Always Milder, Better Tasting, Cooler Smoking. More college students smoke Chesterfield than any other brand.
C Seven teeth and two brown eyes of Susan Hayward.
WINNERS...
enthusiastic. Band, refreshments are all handled well. But why stop these things at the end of the football season? It seems to this column that a weekly dance could support itself throughout the whole school year. A different club a week could sponsor it if the student council gave up the ghost. These affairs help to break down the notion that too many ND men are “social duds.” . . . Although this has been said before there is a screaming insult to the average Notre Dame student’s intelligence evident in the magazine rack in the Cafe. Displayed theie are an average of 10 sports magazines. We have yet to find a copy of The Saturday Review of Literature and only recently were Harper’s and Atlantic Monthly added. There are, however, three crossword magazines and the Irish Digest for the more cultured. Reports from Student Council and other organizations show the new office of Student Welfare is expediting activities and making big headway in student relations . . . Campus Clubs seem off to a big start . . . Met club again presenting mammoth Christmas dance and may break out with big publicity stunt soon in relation to ticket sales of same. . . . What did all these campus Romeos do before telephones were put in each hall? It has come
34
The Scholastic
to pass that you have to put in your reservation two days in advance to call St. Mary’s. . . . ND Foundation issued encouraging news over the week-end when it announced site and revision of blueprints for badly needed Science Building. Will sell itself to a lot of students when construction date is set. ... Is it true that Naval Academy Midshipmen get 4 to 6 tickets for every Navy game? . . . if so, we’d say that was distributive justice on the part of the administrative officials at Annapolis. . . .
Doctor Burton Named to
Position in AmChem Society
A second Notre Dame chemist has been named to a position with the American Chemical Society, it has been announced by the Executive Committee of the Society. Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chemistry, has been elected secretarytreasurer of the Division of Physical and Inorganic Chemistry.
Noted especially for his wartime research in atomic energy, Dr. Burton was associated with the Manhattan District Project and was an official government observer at the Bikini tests..
Dr. Kenneth Campbell, another N.D. chemistry professor, was recently chosen chairman-elect of the Medicinal Chemistry Division of the Society.
Nobel Prize Scientist Addresses New ND Club
Nobel Prize winner Dr. Harold C. Urey, professor of chemistry at the Institute for Nuclear Studies at the University of Chicago, was the guest lecturer at the installation ceremonies of a new Notre Dame scientific society yesterday in the Engineering Auditorium.
Dr. Urey spoke on “the Determination of Paleo-temperatures” in conjunction
WE HAVE THEM ’50 to *125
with the initial meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the National Sigma Chi Society. Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chemistry, at Notre Dame, is chairman of the new’ group.
Recipient of many awards for his w’ork in physics and chemistry, Dr. Urey received the Nobel Prize for his isolation of deuterium (heavy water.) He took a prominent part in atomic research during World War II and was one of the observers at the first A-Bomb explosion at Almogordo, N. M., in 1945.
RELIEF HERE at Dr. Scholl’s
Ova 100 different kinds of Remedies, Pads, Plasters, and more than 50 types of Arch Supports have been developed by Dr. Wm. M. Scholl for the relief of all common foot troubles. Don’t go on suffering another day! Let one of our Trained Attendants show you how you, too, can-join the thousands of satisfied patrons who took advantage of our Foot Relief Facilities! .
com im rot a ma foot tfsti
D-'Scholl FOOT COMFORT" SHOP 215 West Washington Street SOUTH BtND, INDIANA Telephone: 4-747! nit ■»«. o. s. p»c ot.
15% discount on all ready made or made to measure suits, sport coats or trousers.
For further information, see our campus representatives: Gus Cifelli, Mike Ivers, Tom Tearney, Pete Francken, Tom McGuire and Jack Clynes.
Clothiers	Tailors
Parker-Winterrowd, Inc.
1155/2 - 1175/2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Oct. 15, 1948
35
Always milder
TOBACCO FARMER. NICHOLASVILLE. KY.
I enjoy Chesterfields : because theyre really Milder "
STARR ING IN
"JOHNNY BELINDA" A WARNER BROS. PRODUCTION

WHY...I smoke Chesterfield
(FROM * SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS)
I have done businesswith Liggett & Mgers for over 40 years. They buy the best crops in the house at the auctions.
1 am exclusively a Chesterfield smoker. I think they are the best cigarette made.
COOLER SMOKING
B'ChESTERFIELI)
WB, Liggett & Mtem Tobacco Co.
Chesterfield Contest — See Page 34