^he cNotre Qame Scholastic
Editorial.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THIS IS YOUR MAGAZINE
AL LESMEZ Editor-in-Chief
ED ITO RI AL STAFF
The SCHOLASTIC is the only campus news weekly ; at Notre Dame, published by and for the students. Ori its staff are men from every branch of the service, plus an adequate number of civilians, thus insuring complete^ coverage of all University and service activities.
is
&
GENE DIAMOND ROBERT RIORDAN BILL WADDINGTON BOB O'TOOLE
Navy Associate Editor Managing Editor - Sports Editor Circulation Manager
Life at Notre Dame, in these days, is so complex, so diverse, so sprawling—and you are so busy—that no individual can possibly keep himself properly informed on the activities about him.
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY JOHN POWER BLAIR NATTKEMPER HARRY WALTERS PETE BROWN ART WAGNER
Observations
-	-	- The Green Banner
Man About the Campus The College Parade -Splinters from the Press Box
-	-	- Swabbies Log
CONTRIBUTORS
GEORGE DESPOT FRANK GRIMALDI HARRY SIEMONSMA ROBERT MOLNAR CHARLEY LAPP
BOB COCHRAN
JIM FOY
GREG HALPIN
ENRIQUE LULLI
RON BYERSMITH
MICHAEL MORANG
JOE BRESLAW
Yet you want to know, and need to know, what is going on about you. And this is the task that the SCHOLASTIC assumes, and promises to do thoroughly, that you may be kept informed on many fronts— the administrative personnel and regulations, class matters, navy curriculum and discipline, social activities, local news, sports, scuttlebutt, and gossip. All these elements combine to assure you a full share in the new
life about
you.
£
1
BOB
NEIL
CLEARY
BROSCHA
To all
semester’s
service men, the SCHOLASTIC offers a subscription for the nominal fee of one dol-
i
PHOTOGRAPHY
CHARLES RENAUD
DON WHITE
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C.
Faculty Advisor
lar. Within the next day or two, a SCHOLASTIC representative will call on you. Fill in the blank below, in this complimentary issue. The magazine will be de- ; livered to your room every Friday evening, beginning with the issue of November 24.
I
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
You need the SCHOLASTIC; it is your magazine.
—THE EDITOR.
Two
Name.
cep up on Notre Dame News — subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC
for yourself or your friends in the service,
$ 1.00 for November-February semester
I
Address..
CLIP BLANK AND MAIL TO PUBLICATIONS OFFICE — NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
£
C-
I?
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Enteied as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 83
NOVEMBER 17, 1944
No. 1
Civilian Enrollment Nears the 1,000 Mark
Navy Begins Program for Aircrewman Training
In view of the need for an enormous number of trained men to carry out its ever-increasing attack on the Japs, the Navy announced recently that it will accept young men for Aircrewman training.
Young men from 17 to 26 years, regardless of schooling, are eligible to take the aptitude and physical examinations in the Naval Aviation Cadet Selection Board’s offices in the Board of Trade Building in Chicago. Transportation will 'be provided by the navy upon requests by applicants from this area, also meals and room while in Chicago. Perfect vision of 20-20 eyesight, unaided, is required. Also maximum weight of 185 pounds, and a maximum height of six feet is required.
Men accepted for this Aircrewman program -will receive 52 weeks of instructions at Memphis, Tenn. During this period they take courses in aerial gunnery, radio operation, and aviation mechanics. On completion of the course, graduates are given Petty Officer ratings as either Aviation Radiomen, Aviation Ordnancemen, or Aviation Machinist’s Mates. The navy’s famed “Silver Wings” are awarded the newly-graduated Aircrewmen
As a combat Aircrewman, a man will not only be an expert gunner, but also a competent technician carrying out vital assignments as a member of the flying corps of the navy.
Those interested in further information are requested to contact: Lieut. H. L. Mosier, USNR, Office of Naval Officer Procurement, 141 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 4, Illinois.
•••
❖ The official LOST and FOUND De- ❖ *** partment is located in the Office of ❖ the Prefect of Discipline in the Main
Building. All articles which are found i* & should be turned in immediately in ❖ ❖ order that the right owner may claim & ❖ his property as soon as possible.
❖ ♦ ❖ ❖ ❖
Zahm and Cavanaugh Retired from Navy Life as V-12 Program Sees Its First Serious Cut-Down.
BY GEORGE DESPOT
Another war-time enrollment at the University finds this semester with the largest civilian enrollment since the service programs got under way more than a year ago, according to Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., registrar of the University.
The sound of marching feet has grown more distant, and now the long awaited return to normal shows a semblance of beginning. A forty percent reduction over last semester’s V-12 trainees here has brought their number down to 1,102, including 265 local R.O.T.C. members.
The marines have had the distinction of being the first service group to depart en masse, having vacated two halls, Zahm and Cavanaugh, in the first “retirement” of campus facilities for civilian use.
Civilian Increases
In direct and natural contrast to the V-12 decrease has been the gain in the civilian enrollment from 626 to over 900.
According to Father Connerton, this is the first large increase in the civilian enrollment since the origin of the V-12 program at Notre Dame. Yet, even with this large growth in the civilian population of the campus, Father Connerton has announced that plans are being made for the accommodation of many more students next semester.
Many Veterans
Partly responsible for this popular increase is the presence of many discharged veterans on campus. Numbering slightly over 60, the majority of them are here with the assistance of the “G.I. Bill of Rights.”
Although there have been other discharged veterans on campus previous semesters, this is the first large group to return from active, duty. Many have seen action in distant war- theaters; others have served long years in the con
tinental United States; still others were injured in early training and thus their service careers have been cut short.
The University, foreseeing the many problems and difficulties of reconversion from miiltary life to civilian life, set up its “Veterans Bureau” early last semester under the directorship of Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C. Last June, within a few days after. the President signed the Servicemen’s Readjustment Act, giving the Veterans’ Administration authority to provide among other things education assistance to discharged veterans of this war, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced the establishment of an office to make and to maintain liaison on the one hand between the University and the Veterans’ Administration, and on the other hand between the University and the returning servicemen.
NROTC Unchanged
The Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps alone remains numerically unchanged. Their ranks of 169 which were depleted by graduation and transfers have been filled by many replacements from the fleet and from V-12 schools throughout the nation.
The V-12s occupy Alumni and Dillon halls. The NROTC are still in Walsh hall. The “civvies” have historic Sorin, St. Edward’s, Carroll, Breen-Phillips, Zahm, and Cavanaugh halls.
The departure of the marine corps marks the first step in the direction of peace-time conversion to an all-civilian, campus. This fact, followed closely by the arrival of many discharged veterans, places the University back on the path toward former days when navy blue and marching feet were unknown, and civilian clothes were as familiar in Dillon and Howard halls as in Sorin hall.
Three
Student "Win or Lose" Spirit of Notre Dome Manifests Itself as Team is Met at Station
BY ENRIQUE R. LULLI
In the most awe-inspiring display of Irish spirit since the days of Rockne, Notre Dame rose cn masse at 6:30 Monday morning to welcome home “their hall club” at Union Station. There was no breakfast, no added hours of sleep, no classes, as the lads boarded the busses to meet Capt. Pat Filley et al., as they
arrived on three different trains. A bedlam of noise, cheers and admiration broke loose as the scrappy Irish eleven were hoisted upon waiting shoulders and carried about the station. And while fickle sports writers hopped off the bandwagon and sought to criticize, Notre Dame civilians proved to the sports world that they still thought the 35 travellers were All Americans and still champs in the land of fighting Irish.
For the 31st consecutive time the boys turned out to continue the old tradition of meeting the Irishmen back from the Army game. This practice, symbol of the great Notre Dame spirit of comradeship, dates back to 1913 when the students greeted Gus Dorais and a then-little-known Knute Rockne who in later years was destined to guide the fighting Irish to national football fame.
Cling to Tradition
Regardless of the outcome the Notre Dame students, closely bound by an unbreakable tie of friendship, went not once, but twice to the Union railroad station. They went last Sunday, but a late cancellation of reservations in New York held back the team until early Monday morning.
Sunday night several students from Sorin hall passed the word through all the civilian halls announcing the latest news on the team’s arrival. Busses were summoned Sunday evening to transport the students to the Union station.
Monday morning at 6:20, the bells rang throughout the civilian halls. Students ran through the buildings shouting and waking up those who might have been reluctant to hear the bells. At 6:40 a.m. students began pouring out of the halls.
Three Cheers . . .
Waiting- at the Circle were several busses, which were filled in rapid order and moved off toward town. Needless to say, the trip to South Bend was a noisy one. At the bus stop many broke off for the railroad station at a brisk pace while others chose to wait for the connectingbusses to carry them to the station.
At the Union Station a long and unexpected wait was in store for the boys. Sprawled over benches, gulping CocaColas, and reading newspapers, the students waited for two long hours. As usual Bob O’Toole and the other cheerleaders formed the students in a line from the door of the ramp to the lobby of the station.
The rumble of the arriving train above was sufficient to wake up the sleepiest of the large group. Moments later, at the head of the line, appeared Kelly, Dancewicz, Rovai, Adams, Syman-ski, Capt. Pat Filley and the rest of the team. At that moment a tremendous cheer went up an confetti was showered over the players.
"Very Sorry"
The Victory March was sung over and over again. Then the athletes were surrounded by the cheering mob in the station lobby. The brave boys of the team were filled with emotion and their battered faces showed how hard they played for their Alma Mater.
A thunderous shout from the boys, “Quiet!” had immediate effects. An expectant silence followed, soon broken by the trembling voice of Capt. Filley. “All we have to say, since last Saturday,” said Filley, “is that, we are sorry, but we did our best and will continue to do so.” Applause, cheers and confetti was the response. Then Dancewicz spoke, followed by the majority of the team, requested by the students. All made brief comments expressing the same general idea and having the same response from the students gathered around them. They were “very sorry, fellows, about Saturday.” '
By then it was 9:35 so the team, who had not had breakfast yet, departed in taxi cabs and the hundreds of boys marched through the doors into the streets singing a continuous Victory March and together all paraded toward the bus station finishing with a “Go Irish, beat Northwestern.”
Now everybody is waiting for the game this Saturday and all hope that the fighting Irish will give another proof of that unbreakable spirit characteristic of Notre Dame men.
"Prendergast Ridge"
Named for Alumnus
Prendergast Ridge, a dominating landmark on the United States’ powerful base of Attu was officially named for Lt. Joseph Prendergast, of the University of Notre Dame, class of ’36.
In order to protect the flank against possible Japanese positions along the high ridge line, a patrol under the command of Lt. Joseph Prendergast moved up through the saddle of the pass leading across to Holtz Bay. Their mission was to learn what Japanese forces held the. other side of the pass and then to attempt working along the north side of the main ridge line. Lt. Prendergast led his patrol through the fog-blurred pass and a short -way along the exposed snow slides which dropped almost vertically towards Holtz Bay. Since he was greatly outnumbered, suffering casualties and unable to find cover along the steep snow field, Lt. Prendergast ordered his patrol to withdraw back to the Sarana side. While maintaining fire to cover the disengagement he and several of his men were killed.
While a student at Notre Dame, Lt. Prendergast was a member of the University tennis team for three years. He was managing-editor of The Scholastic, during his senior year; he wrote sports copy for the paper previous to that time. He was also author of “Splinters From The Press Box.”
Information procured by the patrol enabled the Americans to proceed, and to take the ridge.
“I am sorry that words can do so little to help the sad shock that your son’s death must have been,” wrote Capt. Drummond, he concluded, “May I offer this thought—although he had so few years, in the minds of the infantrymen who followed his leadership along the deadly, jagged mountain ridges of Attu, he accomplished more than most men during their full spans.”
Four •
Lieut. Clark Olney Replaces Captain Walter S.
Gabel as Executive Officer of V-12 School
Lieut. Commander Clark Olney, U.S.-N.R., will be the new executive officer of the local V-12 school, according to announcement made last week. He will
Lieut. Cmdr. Clark Olney, USNR
replace Captain Walter S. Gabel, U.S.-N.R., who was promoted to a captaincy this week. Capt. Gabel will be transferred to the west coast, from where he will be assigned to sea duty.
Lt. Commander Olney comes here from Lancaster, Pa., where he was commanding officer of the navy V-12 unit at Franklin & Marshall college.
Capt. Gabel has a naval record which dates back to World War I when he was an ensign aboard a navy transport. After his return to civilian life he entered the banking business and was in New Kensington, Pa., when he reentered the navy in 1941 as a lieutenant commander aboard the battleship New York. He was commanding officer of the V-12 units and. Diesel school at State College, Pa., before coming to Notre Dame.
"Scholastic" Sends Out
Call for Staff Members
Any students, old or new, who would like to apply for a position on the SCHOLASTIC staff may do so by coming to the new editorial offices in the basement of Cavanaugh hall, Sunday night, November 19, at 7:30.
Robert Riordan, Managing-Editor.
Observations...
By LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY, USNR
1.	837 Men Aboard in V-12; without counting the ROTC members: The premedical men aboard are 100; the engineers 317; and the basic, the deck, and the irregular deck with supply preference total 420. The grand, total is 837, not including the N.R.O.T.C. There are 129 engineers and 136 general candidates in the local N.R.O.T.C., a total of 265 men, thus making a grand total of 1102 in all branches of V-12 at Notre Dame.
2.	Study Halls in Dillon and Alumni: In the two large barracks being used by V-12 seamen there is on each deck a large room equipped with lamps and tables for late and early study as needed. The study rooms will be warm enough for use by early risers in winter.
3.	New Destroyer Named “Frank Kpiox”: A new destroyer constructed at Bath, Maine, has been named the U.S.S. Frank Knox in honor of the late Secretary of the Navy. Mrs. Knox was sponsor of the 2,250-ton vessel.
4.	At Asbury Park, New Jersey: 3,434 V-12s graduating from the various Navy V-12 units throughout the country, reported at Asbury Park by 9 November.	•
5.	Neto V-5 Quota for 1 March 1945: 1,460 Apprentice Seamen, Class V-12, will be the quota of men for entrance into flight training next March, to be chosen from all V-12 units. The following are eligible to be considered for such a transfer regardless of the upper-level specialty to which they have been screened:
(a)	Those who entered the Program on 1 November 1943 in V-12(a).
(b)	Those who entered the Program on 1 March in V-12(a).
(c)	Those who entered the Program as Apprentice Seamen, V-12, with no previous terms of college and who will have completed four terms of V-12 training by 1 March 1945, or those V-12 students (including former V-12 (a) personnel) who entered the Program with sufficient terms of advanced standing to render them eligible for entry into Reserve Midshipmen’s School on 1 March 1945.
The Aviation Screening Board will be at Notre Dame within the next six weeks. Selections are to be made on consideration of three factors: 1. flight aptitude rating, 2. academic record, and 3. officer aptitude.
Cooperatives Conference Here Tuesday
A conference on cooperatives and PostWar problems will be held in the auditorium of the Engineering building, Tuesday, November 21, 1944, in celebration of the Centennial of Rochdale Cooperation.	'
The day’s program will open at 9:00 ajn. in the Lady Chapel, of the Sacred Heart Church with a Missa Recitata with Most Reverend John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, as celebrant.
Following the mass, at 10:30, in the Engineering auditorium, Mr. I. H. Hull, manager of the Indiana Farm Bureau Cooperative Association, will discuss “Community Economics and Cooperation,” and Mr. E. E. Milliman, president of the Brotherhood of" Maintenance of Way Employees, will talk on “Labor and Cooperatives.” Following the program, a discussion period will be held.
Speaking at lunch at l:C0 will be Mr. Arthur T. Cavender, treasurer of the Chicago Cooperative Union, who will discuss “How Urban Co-ops Can Develop.”
The problems of the Government and the Church in cooperation will be discussed in the afternoon session starting at 3:00 when the Hon. Jerry Voorhis, congressman from California, will deliver an address bn “Government and Cooperation” to be followed by a talk on “The Church and Cooperatives” by Most Reverend A. J. Muench, bishop of Fargo. After these talks another discussion period will be held.
Civilians Prepare to
Elect Representatives
With the beginning of another semester, civilian students are preparing to cast their strength and vote for their candidate in the elections that begin Monday. It is expected to be a closely contested election with an awakened student body bringing many new faces into the Council.
Floor elections are to be held Monday evening. Final hall elections will be held on Tuesday. The Council’s first organization meeting will take place at 7:30 Wednesday evening in the basement of the Law building. This will be for the purpose of electing Council officers and for organization purposes.
All hall winners, representatives of any accredited club or organization, and old members of the Council are required to attend this first organization meeting on Wednesday.
Watch the bulletin board for further information.
Five
Poems of Prof. Nims
Included in New Book
Included in the recently published Five Young American Poets, 4-944, is the work of John Frederick Nims, assistant professor of English at the University of Notre Dame.
Mr. Nims, whose work has appeared in Poetry, Partisan Review, as well as in other publications, was co-winner of the Fiske Prize for Poetry at the University of Chicago in 1.940. In 1942 he won Poetry Magazine’s Harriet Monroe Memorial Award, and in 1943 the Guarantor’s Prize.
Mr. Nims, native of Muskegon, Mich., was graduated from the University of Notre Dame, and is now completing a Ph.D. in Comparative Literature at the University of Chicago.
Fire Young American Poets, 4544 is the third book of the series, and is published by New Directions, Norfolk, Conn. Other poets whose work appears in the volume are Eve Merriam, Jean Garrigue, Tennessee Williams and Alejandro Carrion.
Father O'Brien Praises
Dumbarton Oaks Parley
The Dumbarton Oaks agreement on the necessity of a permanent security council to be established by the United Nations, backed by powerful armed forces to prevent aggression and to preserve peace of the world, is a step in the right direction, said Rev. John A. O’Brien in a lecture last night in Rockford, Ill.
Father O’Brien, Oxford scholar and professor at the University spoke to members of the Catholic Women’s club of Rockford on “The Pattern for Peace.” He is the author of “The Pope’s Way to Peace.”
“Popes Benedict XV, Pius XI, and Pius XII,” observed Dr. O’Brien, “have long urged the establishment of the essential machinery for peace, an association of nations with a world court and a world sheriff. They have pointed out that the controversies of nations can be properly settled only by the reason and conscience of man finding effective expression in an international court with the power to put teeth into its decisions.
“The world,” he said, “would have been spared the horrors and suffering of the present World War if the nations had heeded the wise plea of Pope Benedict XV in August, 1917. He urged that armed forces be replaced by arbitration with the provision that penalties be imposed upon any state which should refuse either to submit a dispute to such a tribunal or to accept the arbitral decision.”
Graduates Hear Manion Attack False Educational Philosophy; 47 Degrees Awarded
By GREG HALPIN
Twenty-six seniors and twenty-one graduate students received their degrees from Notre Dame Friday night, Oct. 27, at 8 p.m., in a wartime convocation at Washington Hall. Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, conferred degrees to the members of the Graduate School -and the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering, Law, and Commerce.
Highlight of the evening was the ad
dress to the graduates by Clarence E. Manion, dean of the University of Notre Dame Law School. Dean Manion, speaking on general, present-day educational systems, assailed the teaching philosophy that points out the “how” of things but not the morally important “why.” He pointed out that the Notre Dame student goes out into the world not only with the “Know how” but also with the “Know why.”
“This is a time that runs strongly to action rather than words,” Dean Manion said. “At such a time there is an ever-present danger that principles will be swallowed up by expediency. Like all other institutions, higher education runs that great risk today.
“There is no more destructive agency in all creation than a thoroughly demoralized and a thoroughly isolated ‘knowhow’ on the loose and disconnected from its stabilizing and moralizing ‘know-why’.”
Dean Manion said “In or out of uniform the Notre Dame man must do his learning always in his true perspective. The flat surface of chemical formulas, legal conclusions and historical facts are
not enough for him. Whether the study is of law or literature, or economics or engineering, of politics or polemics, it is not enough that the student examine the flat surface of the subject. He must see it in relief. From this sort of education the Notre Dame man emerges not merely with the ‘know-how’ but also with the ‘know-why’.
“It was precisely the ‘know-how’ when isolated from the ‘know-why’ that start
ed the materialistic stampede into World War II. The ‘know-how’ isolated from the ‘know-why’ reaches its climax in the robot bomb, the mass murder chamber and the death ray,” he said.
Of the twenty-six undergraduates three received Bachelor of Arts degrees, three Bachelor of Science degrees, one received a degree of Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, two were awarded degrees of Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, two more now have degrees of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, one received a degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture, and another was given a degree of Bachelor of Science in Aeronautical Engineering. The College of Law conferred one degree of Juris Doctor- and four degrees of Bachelor of Law, while the College of Commerce gave seven degrees of Bachelor of Science in Commerce.
Three graduate students received Doctor of Philosophy degrees, sixteen received Master of Arts degrees, and two more were awarded degrees of Master of Science.
Six
Notre Dame—Municipality Unique
Cosmopolitan College Town Has 1700-Acre Campus
BY AL LESMEZ
Out South Bend’s Notre Dame avenue, just past the north city limits, sprawling out over the plain, dipping down to the shores of two clear, blue, spring-fed lakes — St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s — is a unique city. In America’s most representative county, it is a city unlike any other in the United States; it is a city apart, yet is as cosmopolitan as any from East to West. It is Notre Dame, Indiana, known scholastically as the University of Notre Dame.
Municipal area of the college-town is a 1700-acre campus, with forty-eight buildings, large and small. Spread orderly over the flat, green land they form a T-shaped main qur drangle and numerous side courts. Citizens, this summer, were approximately 4,000 V-12 marines and navy men, V-7 midshipmen, civilians, instructors, professors and administrative officials and officers.
Most utilities at Notre Dame are publicly owned. On campus is a great mod
The famous replica of Lourdes, where students come for quiet prayer to Our Lady of the Grotto
ern power plant which heats campus buildings and pumps water from St. Joseph’s lake for plumbing. Winding for two miles under the campus are lighted tunnels containing heating and water pipes and electrical conduits. Drinking- water comes directly from deep spring wells.
Laundry and Dry-Cleaning
The laundry and dry cleaning plants are just two of the utilities which have geared up to the new demands of needed mass production. Clothes bags are numbered, and each item in turn is numbered by laundry workers; it is this number that separates the items later for packaging and delivery. Servicemen’s laundry is handed in every week; civilians’ every other week, and is ready to be picked up a week later. Badin hall, directly in front of the Dining hall, houses the calling headquarters for laundry seekers, and for leaving and picking up dry-cleaning.
Dining Halls
Trainees and Chilians alike eat in the Notre Dame dining halls in shifts and using the cafeteria style of service feeds four thousand people within one hour. Two huge modern-gothic halls, seating 1,200 each, and designed by the eminent architect, Ralph Adams Cram, serve the needs three times a day. The cafeteria is used by visitors, professors, graduate students, and by those who desire to supplement their dining hall nourishment. A modern soda fountain is also housed in the cafeteria, which has become the site of many a bull-session. Civilian students require a dining hall book to prove their right to the use of the hall. Mr. D. C. Ford is the present manager of the dining hall.
Rockne Memorial
The Rockne Memorial is the modern, well-designed athletic building at the University. One of the main features of the building is the standard swimming pool, in the central part of the structure. Above the pool is a large gymnasium for interhall basketball, indoor tennis, and gym classes. In the wings flanking the central part of the building are a general apparatus room and a room for corrective work. These rooms are used also by the military and by the Department of Physical Education for instruction and drill. Twelve courts for handball and squash, a room for boxing, a room for wrestling, and one which serves as headquarters for the University golf course, are all located in this impressive monument to a great American. The foyer of the building, which is the memorial proper to the late Coach Rockne, is one of the most attractive places on the campus, impressive with trophies, cups, prizes and awards of Notre Dame athletes.
And Others
There are many other buildings of the University which serve the campus body. The post office handles stacks and stacks of mail each day, and the packages which pour in around certain holidays read like a “believe it or not’’ item. The local barber shop, too, has had to expand to take care of the new military-style cuts. ... It has done this excellently, as it also takes the ribbing (Continued on page 9)
Seven
Eight
NOTRE DAME - MUNICIPALITY (Continued from page 7) which local wit usually casts upon its politically-minded personnel.
The libraries, accessible to the student at the University, provide in all about 325,000 volumes. There is the general library, the law library, engineering library, the chemistry library and the biology library. Aside from these, other departments boast of having private libraries which are the envy of many outside the University. It is a well-known fact that the metallurgy library, located in the engineering building, is one of the most complete, most expensive metallurgical libraries in the world. Dr. Edward G. Mahin has obtained the nation’s best metallurgical volumes in order to maintain its reputation and its prominence.
Other utilities are the Western Union office, the Shoe Shop, the Watch Repair shop, and the Huddle, all located across from Science hall. The Huddle is almost a Notre Dame tradition. It is the stopping place between classes for a soda, ice cream, sandwich, or anything you may need. Sport goods may be bought here, as they may be bought in the zero deck of the dining hall. The zero deck of the dining hall houses the telephone booths, with operators on duty to handle long distance calls during the afternoon and meal hours.
The book store is the busiest spot on campus at the beginning of each semester, and enjoys a good portion of this great popularity throughout the year. Every detail of school work, from the lowly two-cent pencils to expensive texts are sold here, no less than toilet articles, souvenir- gifts for the little girl back home, greeting cards for all occasions, Notre Dame rings, jewelry, and religious articles may also be secured in this miniature replica of R. H. Macy and Co. of New York. And even if there is nothing to buy, Brothers Meinrad, Conan and Canisius are always pleased to talk to anyone.
There is also the Stadium, the Ave Maria press where the Scholastic and many other publications are published, the freight house, the repair shops, the Huddle, and the small stores in the basement of Walsh and Badin halls. In Washington hall, a recreation room contains pool tables, ping-pong tables, and more telephones.
The 18-hole golf course is open to all men. Small fees are exacted of civilians and V-12 trainees.
And so it stands ... a city apart and unique. Its self sufficiency is complete even in the fact that the new navy drill
hall supplies numerous entertainments, and also in that Washington hall is the site for movies each Saturday night at 7:15, along with supplying much entertainment from time to time. Lectures, concerts, talks, and shows are planned regularly. It is because of all this that Notre Dame can be happy and sufficient in living within itself. It is a city complete.
Dilemma
She's a pert little thing
And I think that she’s swell
So I’ll give her the ring
And forget about Belle.
But what about Nancy
And Mary, and Sue, None of them fancy
But I can’t make them blue.
Alice is pretty
And Jeannie can dance;
Carol is flitty
But she’s still worth a chance!
There’s Prances and Flora,
June, Ruth and Jerry, Jane, Katie and Dora, And finally, Terry.
My heart’s on the wing, My head’s in a whirl;
I have a ring, But I can’t find a girl!
—John A. Flanagan
"Scholastic" Finds Home
After Year of "Travels"
‘‘The Scholastic has found a home 1!” These were welcome words to a staff of writers who often were uncertain as to the location of its offices from week to week. Within a year, the editorial offices have been located in the old Ave Maria Press building, the ground floor of the Main Building, the basement of Walsh, the first floor of Walsh, and now in Cavanaugh Hall.
The office formerly occupied by the officer in charge of the marine V-12 detachment in the basement of Cavanaugh hall has now been taken over and will continue to be the offices of the Scholastic until other offices can be provided after the war. But until that time, the magazine will stay in its present location.
With the opening of a new semester of work, the organization of the staff will get under way this Sunday.
Wafer-Soluble Vitamins
Explained to Chemists
Notre Dame without a football stadium would be no more an oddity than a modern drugstore without a few shelves piled high with a dozen different kinds of
vitamins. Not all vitamins, however, are sold in neat little packages with big fancy prices as found at the corner drugstore.
Tuesday of this week in ths Engineering Auditorium, Dr. Carl R. Addinall spoke to the 187th meeting of the St. Joseph Section of the American Chemical Society about vitamins as not found in little boxes in the corner drugstore, de-livering_a talk entitled “The Manufacture of Water-Soluble Vitamins.” Dr. Addinall is associated with Merck and Company, a pioneer in the water-soluble vitamin field.
Merck and Company was the first to synthesize some vital vitamins on a scale to permit commercialization, making available to the general public medical products of a known, uniform activity at a reasonable price. The speaker at the A. C. S. meeting has been with Merck since 1930, the year he received his Ph.D. in chemistry at Harvard. A native of England, Dr. Addinall has served the company both as a research chemist and as director of their library service.
Dr. Addinall discussed the chemistry and use of the four important watersoluble vitamins developed by Merck: Thiamine, known as Bx; Riboflavin, known as B„; Niacin; and Vitamin C. Thiamine is a case example of the work of the Merck laboratories. Merck first synthesized Thiamine in 1936, and has since commercialized it to the scale of 25 tons per year at a cost of 20 cents per gram, which is a low price since daily adult requirement is only about one milligram.
The water-soluble characteristic of the Merck-produced vitamins is utilized in presenting them to the general public. Throughout the United States the vitamins are processed into bread and flour and the pronouncements of bakeries about producing “vitamin enriched” bread can be more fully appreciated by those who attended the meeting.
Nine
RELIGION PLAYS BIG PART IN NOTRE DAME LIFE
Lourdes Grotto Favorite Place of Prayer •
special times and places specially announced.
The Chaplains maintain a pamphlet rack near the chapel in every hall for the use of students. Students may take pamphlets freely, with or without contributions, and return or keep them as they please.
Since Notre Dame is by tradition and heritage a Catholic school, the religious atmosphere is predominantly Catholic. However, no attempt is made to interfere with the consciences of non-Catho-lic students. Notre Dame has always had a good percentage of non-Catholic students and has always welcomed those of other religious beliefs.
Daily Mass
The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass and the Sacrament of Holy Communion have always been the centers of Notre Dame spiritual life, and the deepest source of what is known the world over as the “Notre Dame Spirit.” Holy Mass is offered daily (except Sunday) in the hallchapels of every student dormitory on the campus. On account of a tight morning schedule, Mass for service-students is in the afternoon, at 5:00 (1700) in Walsh (NROTC), Dillon, and Alumni. In addition to these Masses, there is another, primarily for midshipmen, at 6:15 (1815), in Dillon hall chapel.
Sunday Mass
Sunday Mass is offered in beautiful Sacred Heart church, near the Main Building. Student Masses on Sunday are 6:45, 7:30, 9:00, and 10:10. Students
should not attend the 11:00 Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sundays: that is a parish Mass, for non-students of the Notre Dame Parish.
"SEE THE CHAPLAIN!"
Every priest at Notre Dame is a Chaplain, interested in the spiritual welfare of students. But two priests have been specially designated as student-chaplains. They are Father Craddick, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion (141 Sorin), and his assistant. Father Simonitsch (107 Cavanaugh). These men are eager to meet all students and ease them over the rough spots of Notre Dame life. Close contact with the Chaplain is indispensable to complete intellectual and spiritual success at Notre Dame.
Confessions
Confessions are heard on Sunday morning during all the Masses in the church, in the hall-chapels during morning Mass, at night prayer in the evenings and until 10:00 in Sorin hall and Cavanaugh hall (press the buzzer near the chapel door); from 6:30 to 7:15 every evening in the Basement chapel of the church (extreme rear door); after Sunday evening Benediction at 7:00 (Sacred Heart Church), and at
. . . and with the tolling of a bell, students gather to fill Sacred Heart Church . . .
"At the Grotto!"
Notre Dame means “Our Lady,” and a great devotion to the Blessed Mother of God has always characterized the Notre Dame way of life. The gleaming figure atop the Golden Dome is a 16-foot statue of Our Blessed Mother, and there is another beautiful Madonna above the Adoration Altar behind the Main Altar in Sacred Heart Church. But the most popular center of devotion to Mary has always been the Grotto, hidden in a little recess back of the church and toward the lake. The Grotto is a replica of the famous cavern at Lourdes in France, where Our Blessed Mother appeared to St. Bernadette in 1858, and where stupendous miracles of healing have been performed even until our own day.
Special Occasions, Novenas, etc.
From time to time during the schoolyear at Notre Dame, Novenas are held for various purposes, for Parents, for Purity, for a Happy Marriage, for Exams, etc., and finally, a great Memorial Service and Military Field Mass on Memorial Day.
Honor Jock Hennessey With Famous 'He's a Man'
During his junior and senior years at Notre Dame back in 1940 and ’41 John M. “Jack” Hennessey, Jr., of Louisville, mentioned to Father Lahey that of all the honors he most desired was some day to accomplish something outstanding enough to merit from his schoolmates that yell known so well to all Notre Dame men—“He’s a Man! . . . Who’s a Man! . . . He’s a Notre Dame Man! . . .
Jack graduated with honors—but not with that one—and soon was off to war with the 337th Field Artillery of the 88th Division, which, with the 85th was hailed as the “Liberators of Italy.” . . . On July 14 Jack was killed on the battlefield of that campaign. ... So a few weeks ago at the pre-game rally for the football bout with Wisconsin, Father Lahey got up before the “Irish” students and told them about Jack, his unsatisfied ambition and his glorious death in action. . . . His last words were drowned by a terrific clamor for “Yell, yell, yell!” . . . And every husky throat united in a wall-quaking, “He’s a man! Who’s a man! He’s a Notre Dame man! Hennessey! Hennessey! Hennessey!”
Ten
The "Scholastic" Goes to Press
BY B. F. RAMEN
“Got any ideas for a lead this week, Al?’'
“Pick up some shots to take down to the engravers after lunch, Bob.”
“Tell Joe to make this story fit two columns.”
“Where’s the story for the center spread, Bill?”
“Why isn’t the Banner in yet?”
“Have ‘Red’ set this in bold and box it.”
With such conversational tidbits, the Scholastic progresses toward the final product as presented to the students every Friday afternoon. From Thursday night until eight days later when the completed magazine is delivered, a staff of some fifty reporters, columnists, and distributors, under the direction of Editor-in-chief Al Lesmez, write, edit, make-up, and distribute the Scholastic. During the interim the paper progresses from a rough outline made on Thursday night by the editors when assignment of stories and pictures are made to a complete magazine, delivered to the students’ doors.
Student direction of the Scholastic is in the hands of Editor Al Lesmez, aeronautical engineering senior from Jackson Heights, N. Y., who is chiefly responsible for the success of the paper, the quality of the work, and the promptness of its completion. It is Al who outlines the stories which will be printed in each issue; he makes up the “dummy,” which is an outline on blank pages of the placing of the stories in the magazine. He is also present part of the time when the actual make-up is being done in the composing room. To see Al running around the campus on Scholastic business would prove to the observer that he is a very busy man with a big job. Al is the first engineering student to hold this full-time editorship.
Assisting the editor in the capacity of managing-editor is Robert Riordan, Commerce senior from Solomon, Kansas. Bob’s work is the handling and coverage of all civilian and University news on the campus. This entails assigning stories to his staff, having pictures engraved in South Bend, and supervising work in the composing room of the Ave Maria Press building.
Heading the sports department is Sports Editor Bill Waddington. Bill is a member of the N.R.O.T.C. and his job is to see that all phases of athletic life
on the campus are covered. It means that he must know everything that is going on in the way of sports, and have one of his staff cover every contest for the Scholastic.
Of utmost importance to the success of any magazine is the photography it presents to its readers, and the frequent “Photo by Renaud” under Scholastic pictures is conclusive evidence of the high quality of work done by Charles “Tex” Renaud. Photographic coverage of navy life is chiefly in the hands of Don White, who has done an excellent job in the past in presenting outstanding work for publication.
Because of the peculiar problem presented by the services on the campus, an associate editorship was established, and at present Gene Diamond, of the Navy V-12 unit is in charge of navy stories as associate editor. This plan has been found highly satisfactory because of the divergent interests of the two groups, and it effects a more complete coverage of the campus activities.
Of vital necessity to the financial success of any publication is its volume of advertising; the broad scope of Scholastic advertisements is chiefly the work of Miss Marguerite Varga, of the office of publications.
—Photo by Renaud
The "Scholastic" takes form as pages are completed
The responsibility of maintaining the Scholastic standards of quality and the appointment of editors to assure that quality, is the job of Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., Scholastic faculty advisor. Although Father Carey does as little of the actual work as possible in order to give the students on the staff more experience, he nevertheless must maintain advisory control over the magazine to assure continuity of policy.
The actual work of publishing the Scholastic begins on Thursday night when the editors outline the stories which will “break” during the week. Then assignments are made to staff reporters for these stories, and by Monday night, the major portion of the “copy” is in the editorial office Here all stories are edited and prepared for the composing room in the Ave Maria Press where they are set by the linotype operators.
After the copy has been set, it is placed in galleys each the size of one page. Arranging the stories in these galleys is what is called “make-up work.” It involves placing stories on the proper page in the magazine, handling continuations with care, and making stories fit specific spaces. After the pages have
(Continued on page 31)	'
Eleven
Entertainment on Campus Is Frequent and Diverting
As you get to know the campus and its buildings, you’ll find quite a few of them are used for every possible type of entertainment. You’ll discover Washington Hall, the Navy Drill Hall, the Fieldhouse, Cartier Field, the Stadium,
V-12 Men Go Social at recent Ball in Drill Hall
and sometimes Sacred Heart church to be the meccas for all Notre Dame social activities.
Washington Hall has a glorious history. Its intimate interior has held thousands cheering for Bernhardt and Chesterton down the line to Digby and Snyder. It is equipped for little theatre productions and has a capacity of one thousand. Last semester saw the production there of several “Nites and Daze” shows. These were produced by the trainees who combined their varying talents and played to standing room only at every performance.
The Glee Club has recitals in “Wash” Hall several times each semester; the Midshipmen hold their class play there; the University band gives at least one concert there a semester; and a trainee band has shaken its portals many times.
The University has a special program of entertainment designed to meet the cultural needs of all its students. Within the last six months, as part of this program, the American Ballad singers, the Seigmeister Symphonette, the duopianists, Bauer and Honeywell, Colonel Jack Major, lecturer and story teller, and Bishop Yu Pin, authority on the Far
East, appeared on its stage.
Gilbert and Sullivan have also had their share of the footlights in Washington Hall. Within the last two years, five of their operettas have been given there.
The Drill Hall is used for all the big affairs. The V-12 Balls are held there each semester; the last one drawing some nine hundred couples. This last year the ball was held in connection with “Maneuvers Week.” This weekend consisted of the Ball on Friday night, a regimental review on Saturday morning, a picnic at Potawatamie Park on Saturday afternoon, a “Nites and Daze” show, also at the park, on Saturday night, a military Mass on the campus on Sunday morning, and a tea dance at one of the South Bend clubs on Sunday afternoon.
But to get back to the Drill Hall. Each Midshipmen class in the course of its stay here puts on a “Happy Hour” in the drill hall which the whole station attends. Each Saturday night, the Navy sponsors free movies just released from Hollywood. Every once in a while the USO shows stop at the Drill Hall, bringing famous personalities of stage and screen. The University also sponsors the appearance there of two or three concert stars each year. Last May Claudio Arrau was the soloist with the South Bend Symphony orchestra. Vivian Della . Chiesa sang to five thousand the follow
ing night. The year before saw Lawrence Tibbett and Nathan Nilstein on the Drill Hall stage.
Cartier field is the scene of the Varsity baseball games and many exciting track insets. The Rockne Memorial houses all the swimming meets, and the badminton, handball, and squash tournaments. The Feldhouse serves as the mid-winter gathering spot, offering league basketball games throughout the season and the world-famous, annual Bengal Bouts. Last spring, ex-marine presidentially-decorated for heroic action, Barney Ross was the honorary referee of these bouts.
And last but not least is the stadium. Each fall some of the greatest football contests in history are enacted there. Such powerful teams as Northwestern, Michigan, Southern California, Georgia Tech, and the Iowa Seahawks come regularly into our stadium to test the strength of the “Fighting Irish.”
Oh, yes, the “Rock” is still across the highway from Notre Dame and the belles there still throw tea-dances for the Notre Dame boys. You’ll find the atmosphere, the dancing, and the girls very pleasant.
In all you are going to find that Notre Dame is well equipped to take care of you socially. If you show an active interest in any or all of these activities, V-12 life will seem ever so much more enjoyable and even physics will tahe on a new glow.
Enrique Lulli Discusses
Peruvian Problems
Enrique R. Lulli, Lima, Peru, recently delivered a talk before the faculty and student body of St. Joseph’s Academy.
Mr. Lulli spoke on “The Peruvian Problems and Inter-Americanism.” Following the talk, a discussion was held with Mr. “Coco” Lulli answering questions on the subject.
In presenting the average South American’s conception of the average easy - going North American, “Coco” said, “When you are not smoking cigarettes, gulping Coca Colas, or playing football, you are eating ice-cream.” The reaction to “Coco’s” talk was an enthusiastic one and spontaneous applause was frequent.
In conclusion, “Coco” said, “As a Latin American I believe that even if this major problem of inter-Americanism is not completely solved, it is, however, passing through the straight path of justice, charity, and understanding and I sincerely do hope that in the near future all other nations of the world will follow the fine examples set by us when the calm that follows all storm comes into being.”
Twelve
V-12 Program Under Skilled Leaders
Lieut. S. L. Beatty, USNR
Lieutenant Beatty entered service May 27, 1943—indoctrinated at New York Columbia University Indoctrination School—reported to Notre Dame, June 17, 1943—graduate of the University of Tennessee with B.A.—received M.A. from Cornell University—graduate
Lt. Beatty Lt. Lamson Lt.Brewbaker
study at University of California. In civilian life was Dean of Personal Administration, Grinnell College, Grinnell, Iowa—was lecturer in English at Grinnell College—Lieut. Beatty’s duties in-cude Education Officer and Academic Counselor.
Lt. Bradford Lamson, USNR
Born in Beverly, Massachusetts—attended Mercer University—graduated in 1932 with B.S. degree—received M.A. degree from Boston University in 1936 —Dean of Boys at Cushing Academy in Ashburnham, Massachusetts. While there he was coach of ice hockey, backfield coach, and assistant baseball coach—enlisted in the Navy in August, 1942— stationed at Norfolk as CSP (A) — transferred to Navy Pier in November,
1942—duties include: Assistant Education Officer, War Bond and Life Insurance Officer, Barracks Officer of Alumni Hall.
Lieut. Carey Brewbaker, USNR
Enlisted in Navy March, 1942—stationed at Norfolk, Va., Seattle, Washington and Pasco Naval Air Station before coming to Notre Dame as a newly commissioned ensign in June, 1943— tackle and captain on Roanoke’s 1936 State Championship eleven—played baseball, chosen school’s heavyweight boxing representative, Senior Class President, member of Blue Key national honor fraternity—degree in Politics from Roanoke —attended North Carolina University— coached championship Durham High School football and baseball teams—
duties include Physical Education Officer, Welfare Officer and Barracks Officer of Zahm Hall.
Lieut. Northrop
Lieut. Northrop entered the service on April 26, 1943, and was sent to Fort Schuyler indoctrination school in the Bronx, N. Y. Since that time he has seen mine sweep and convoy duty in the
Smaller V-12 Unit Returns
Another new chapter is added to the chronicle of the navy at Notre Dame and the naval unit becomes absorbed, even more, into the Notre Dame way of life. In the various midshipmen schools throughout the country are men who started and finished their deck candidate course at Notre Dame, and at the end
Capt. J. Richard Barry Inspecting V-12 Muster
of this semester a group of men who have served their entire tenure of premed here will move on to medical schools and base hospitals. The V-12 unit has established a reputation as a producer of condidates highly qualified, both scholastically and militarily, for commissions as naval officers.
The unit for this, the winter semester, is conspicuous for its greatly decreased size. For sixteen months the predominant group on campus, the V-12 now holds but a small numerical superiority over the civilian contingent. Gone is the entire Marine detachment of mythical marching proficiency which produced
Atlantic, Mediterranean, and Caribbean.
He received his B.S. from St. Lawrence university, his M.S. from the State Teachers College, Albany, N. Y., and his Ph.D. from New York University. Prior to entering the service he was a high school instructor in history
such standout gridders as Bertelli, Yon-akor, Rykovich, Czarobski, and Kulbit-
ski as well as some of the best companies ever formed at PaiTis Isalnd. Gone are hosts of seamen; on to Abbott Hall, Cornell, Columbia, Fort Schuyler, or local midshipmen schools; to other V-12 units or to graduate work at the lakeside training center north of Chicago (name withheld).
Partially offsetting the great V-12 migration, however, is the substantial increase in the N.R.O.T.C., pioneer naval group on campus. Seventyrfive new ten
ants in Walsh hall put the “R.O.s” well over the two hundred mark.
Salts and civvies, brought together by the random alchemy of the navy’s vast integrating mechanism, forget their past distinctions and become, first and above all, men of Notre Dame; infused with the spirit of the school and united by the strong unwritten bonds of Notre Dame men.
This is a naval station but it has a unique decorum. The traditions are our traditions, the teams are our teams, and our allegiance to the navy is improved and enhanced because it becomes an allegiance in terms of Notre Dame.
and physical education at Ticonderoga, N. Y., and Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Later he was principal of the junior high school at Babylon, L. I.
Lt. Northrop, whose home has been in Babylon, L. I., is married and has one child.	■
Thirteen
Shore Patrol. . .
Enforcing Navy regulations and customs is the job of the shore patrol when liberty is declared.
Each week 12 officers and men selected from the personnel of the station, patrol the streets, hotels, and bars of South Bend to keep a rigid check on the activities of the men attached to the naval training station and also all men in uniform in the city.
Navy and Marine corps personnel who have not reached their twenty - first birthday are forbidden to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages, including beer, at any time or at any place. Rules regarding saluting and proper dress are carefully scrutinized. Men out of uniform in any manner will be corrected and if the offense is serious enough he will be sent back to the station, under guard, to await the discretion of the commanding officer.
Any’trainee, regardless of age, showing signs of intoxication, will be sent to the University under arrest and he will be the subject of a special report to the commanding officer.
Overcoats, peacoats and raincoats shall be worn buttoned up and properly belted or shall be carried folded over the left arm. Cuffs of blouses or shirts will be kept buttoned. Hats and caps will be worn squarely.
Punishments for infractions of the rules set down by the. commanding officer will range from extra duties, confinement to the station for extended
periods to dismissal from the school. This means that a man will lose his opportunity to become a naval officer.
Cooperate with the shore patrol. It is their job to see that you do not bring dishonor to your uniform. Their requests are not unreasonable; remember you are an officer candidate.
Your free time is scarce; so don’t have it taken from you.
Members of all military units on the campus are urged to cooperate with the patrol in the enforcement of military and civil law. The patrol handles all military personnel in South Bend.
At the same time, one other factor in the question of law enforcement has recently been called to attention. That fact is that South Bend police are responsible for law enforcement in South Bend. This problem has been complicated because of the fact that officers are reluctant to censure a uniformed man, and has been made doubly difficult on occasions when a police officer has had to resort to this. Public opinion, and the opinion of some men in uniform, is that uniformed men should be allowed a little leeway—this in view of the fact that they are risking, or ultimately will, risk their lives, for their country, during this emergency period.
The point not to lose sight of is that members of the police force are also in the service of their country. Every police officer in South Bend, by virtue of the fact that he is entrusted with the
task of law enforcement, stands as a possible martyr for the country. Persons familiar with police history in South Bend can readily recall instances when police officers, without warning, have been slain in cold blood. Others can remember instances when officers perished in the task of protecting life and property of some member of the community.
While it cannot be denied that men in the armed service deserve our greatest appreciation and sacrifice, it will also be admitted that a debt of grati-
Leave papers are inspected
tude must be given to local police officers. To sum the matter up, it may be said that police officers have taken, as a lifetime vocation, the job of protecting the same liberties that our servicemen are now defending. The police officers, as many of the men in uniform, volunteered for this duty. They live a life that is not unknown to danger. They are the unsung heroes of our everyday history.
Fortunately, the abuses of law by men at the Notre Dame naval station have been few and far between. Further, their behavior, for the most part, has been in cooperation with local authorities. The gist of the trouble lies around such minor infractions of law as jaywalking, walking against a red light, and similar occurrences.
Since South Bend is striving for complete, compliance with traffic laws, and since officers have a difficult task when it comes to correcting some uniformed man who is breaking one of these regulations, the task should be settled by service men themselves. A respect for the traffic regulations in South Bend will undoubtedly earn additional respect for those responsible for the enforcement of such regulations.
Fourteen
Economic Roundtable Celebrates 15th Anniversary; Plan Weekly Dinner Meetings
A full schedule of weekly dinner meetings awaits members of the Economic Round Table throughout the new semester as they mark the 15th anniversary of the founding of this select group.
It was back in the depths of 1929 that ten economics majors under the guidance of Prof. William H. Downey undertook the task of organizing an economics discussion group that might help them out of the confused labyrinth caused by the events and patternless thought of the depression.
Since that time, without a break, the Economic Round-Table has been meeting. Today there are 13 interested members; over the 15 year span close to 200 have left Notre Dame undoubtedly better equipped through the medium of the organization.
Known as the Economics Seminar until 1934 the group, grown to 15 by the fall of 1930, met Monday nights in a campus classroom. To better accomplish their aim of studying practical problems and discussing them intelligently, a list of subjects was drawn up and assigned to particular students to talk on. Several weeks in advance selected readings on the topic to be presented were suggested and all members were expected to acquaint themselves with the matter for better discussion.
Encouraged by the results but believing that a more formal organization could better develop facility in speaking on current topics and benefit intelligent thinking, the group under the leadership of Prof. Downey switched over to a program of dinner meetings in 1934.
Since that time the group has met in downtown South Bend, for seven years at the Rose Marie Tea Room, then at the Morningside hotel, and currently at the Town Club. At each meeting an economic paper is read, followed by discussion by each member. With the faculty moderator commenting only at the end, a formal student chairman conducts the meeting. When the subject matter of the evening falls within the special field of interest of some member of the faculty, the Round Table invites him to participate in the discussion. Each semester therefore the group benefits by contact with five or six outstanding faculty personalities.
Today, despite wartime conditions, the group is carrying on the tradition built up over the 15 year period. The Round Table still retains its membership restrictions and high standards, confining itself to a small workable group of from 14 to 20 juniors and seniors selected by
invitation and designed to produce a cross section of the campus, although economics majors and commerce students have always been prominent in the club’s activities.
The coming of the Navy to Notre Dame at first set up seemingly insurmountable obstacles but have now been ironed out. The Friday night meeting date is expected to be switched to Tuesday to allow more of the victuals which have always been a highlight of the meetings.
Included in the accomplishments of the group over the 15 year span have been round table discussions over South Bend radio statioon WSBT, from the broadcasting studio on the campus. Again this year arrangements have been made for a weekly 15 minute program over WSBT on current topics with various members participating.
Acting as the local International Relations Club since 1932, affiliated with the Carnegie Foundation For World Peace, the Round Table has been prominent in the Midwest Conference of International Peace, in April of each year. The conference was to be held at Notre Dame
Navy Institutes "Murder Incorporated" Program to Replace Morning Calisthenics
Those irrepressible proponents of the muscle-over-mind brigade have scored again, a fact to which any normal V-12 student will readily attest. Fired by a burning desire to compensate for the abandonment of the early morning calisthenics routine, the physical education intelligence staff has worked overtime that it might concoct the system which has been put into practice with the beginning of this winter semester.
This system of physical strain is fully guaranteed to either revive or develop all of the muscular aches which have made Andy Lotshaw’s All-Purpose Body Rub such a howling success.
Included in the aforementioned physical education program are these five main divisions: basketball, swimming, light apparatus, heavy apparatus work, and combatives. Any old V-12 salt who is perceiving enough will notice that this does not eliminate his two old nemeses boxing and wrestling, for they have been consolidated to create the last of the five sections listed above.
Of course, the proverbial gold-bricks have already discovered a method by which they may derive temporary physi-
last year but wartime conditions made a rain check advisable. Another of the club’s activities postponed by the war was a reunion of all members in the centennial celebration of the University. Many former members had indicated their desire to return for such a meeting.
Officers of the club for this semester are James J. Clynes Jr., president; Michael G. Garry, secretary; and Louis J. Barsotti, treasurer. Mr. Clynes, a senior, has been a member of the varsity golf team for the past two seasons, is a member of the Bookmen and the Student Council and is vice president of the Glee Club. Mr. Garry, a junior, is a member of the Band and publicity chairman of the Commerce Forum. Mr. Barsotti a junior economics major hails from Memphis, Tenn.
Other members include at the present time, James Dugan, Michael Cutt, Arthur Conners, James W. Schaeffer, Robert Kasper, Edward Ball, David Champion and Marine John Kelly. The Round Table lost one of its outstanding members when Mr. Kelly was transferred to Parris Island at the conclusion of the semester.
Students who feel they would like to contribute to the group should contact some member of the Round-Table for consideration when vacancies arise.
cal relief. These great thinkers foresaw the possibilities of reporting to class one day late and of choosing the section which they preferred. At last reports, these late enrollees in physical education classes were seen streaking madly toward the basketball and swimming sections, lest they be nabbed by the authorities and assigned to those three unthinkable horrible chambers of torture: the light apparatus room, the heavy apparatus room, and the old gym. The old gym, experienced involuntary athletes inform us, is the spot wherein- the combative section commences on time but adjourns exactly one hour too late.
To the gold-bricks we have only this slightly reworded adage to state:
“Those who experience fright and run away,
Will live to experience fright another day.”
In other words, what you fellows have failed to grasp is the fact that the classes shuttle from one division of the program to another every week, until ultimately all of the classes have had equal drilling in each department of this modern version of Murder, Inc.—Bob Cochran
Fifteen
The Shillelagh , ■ ■
There were a couple of games the last two weeks. The boys did their best. Superior forces. That’s all! No alibis. Just resolutions.
Tomorrow is another day. The Wildcats are more hungry for victory than they’ve been in a long time. And the Irish ought to have an appetite for a few touchdowns.
Pat Filley gave something. A rising salute to one of the best ever and one we won’t forget.
Let’s start a new slate with the new issue of Scholastic. Everybody who does anything good will get some copy.
Johnny Ray put out a lot for Notre Dame. We’ll be glad to see him back.
The same for John Corbisiero and Ed Clasby.
The two Franks, Szymanski and Dancewicz, played real football against Army.
The boys who couldn’t kick a football from here to just over there—over there is three feet—are doing a lot of second guessing. Let ’em guess. That’s not Notre Dame.
Sorry to see Fred Rovai limping. Hope he can play against the Wildcats.
Northwestern man “going through" last year
Too bad about Mike Davlin. He's a great kid!
When the wiseacres start drawing up the list of first this and first that I hope they remember that this is the first season that an Irish coaching staff has ever started a sixteen-year-old boy at end and followed him with three eighteen-year-olds. Most of the players started from scratch and they did a beautiful job.
Northwestern will be tough. Don’t forget. All of us know what Ed McKeever did as coach against Stanford, the Seahawks, and Illinois back in ’42. The whole coaching staff is good enough for us.
I see by the papers that Northwestern hopes to beat Notre Dame tomorrow. I’m thinking they won’t.
Somebody was saying that Mergenthal is about due to show us some football. We’ll be looking.
Don’t forget that Northwestern tied Minnesota who beat Indiana, who beat Michigan.
Marty Wendell will see some old teammates on the other side this week.
(Continued on page 20)
Crowe. Taking Over He Has Twenty-Game •
By JOHN !
"Scholastic”
Release of the 1944-45 Notre Dame >
St
basketball schedule, an ambitious card of some twenty engagements, highlights cage news of the past week. The docket, which includes three dates in the Chicago Stadium and a jaunt to Madison Square Garden in New York City for the perennial tilt with New York University, opens in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, Wednesday, December 6, against Kellogg Field of Battle Creek, Michigan.
1944-45 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. 6—Kellogg Field (here)
Dec. 9—Miami U. (here)
Dec. 12—Alma College (here)
Dec. 16—Wisconsin (there)
Dec. 19—Loras College (here)
Dec. 23—Iowa (there)
Dec. 27—Purdue (here)
Jan. 2—Purdue (there)
Jan. 6—Great Lakes (there)
Jan. 10—Iowa Pre-Flight (there)
Jan. 16—Marquette (here)
Jan. 20—Great Lakes (Chicago Stadium)
Jan. 27—Kentucky (Louisville)
Feb. 2—De Paul (Chicago Stadium)
Feb. 3—Northwestern (Chicago Stadium)
Feb. 10—N.Y.U. (Madison Sq. Garden)
Feb. 14—Iowa Pre-Flight (here)
Feb. 17—Marquette (there)
Feb. 27—Northwestern (here)
Mar. 6—Detroit (here)
Eight other home encounters are listed, including important frays against Iowa Pre-Flight, Marquette, Purdue, and Northwestern. The annual tussle against Kentucky’s Wildcats will be played in the Louisville Armory, January 27.
- <
TO MO RR
Notre Dame Benigni .....................L1
Sullivan ....................L'
Martz ...................    L’
Szymanski ....................(
Westenkirchner ..............Ri
Mergenthal ...................R'
O’Connor ....................R)
Dancewicz .................  QI
Chandler .....................L f
Angsman ...................  R!
Gasparella ..................F:
Sixteen
?ad Coaching Duties.
? Billing For Irish Cagers
FEENEY
Sports Writer
Crowe Now At Helm
Coach Clem Crowe, on leave of absence from Xavier University in Cincinnati, has taken over the mentorship of the 1944-45 version of Fighting Irish on the hardcourt, replacing Ed “Moose” Krause now on leave of absence from the University as a Lt., in the Marine Corps.
At present, Crowe is occupied with football duties. However, he will soon assume direction of the daily rehearsals which thus far have progressed under Tom Kennedy, only squad man of last year still on campus.
A group of young prospects is the only thing from which Coach Crowe will have to mold a formidable quintet. Despite the fact that many of the aspirants are freshmen, there still reigns a spirit of optimism in the head coach’s office.
Bill Hassett, brother of Buddy, former major league first sacker, is an exception, having performed two seasons at Georgetown University in Washington, D. C. So is Floyd Magnusson who played at Iowa. John Mullen, Norm Mirrington, Jim Karthall, Joe Olirala, Vince Boryla, Ray Fitzgerald, Bill Greco, Leo Murphy, Harry Goheen, Bill Roberts, Paul Gor-deon, and Jack Huston are developing rapidly. All are civilian freshmen. The same is true of sophomore Paul Lam-(Continued on page 21)
;OW’S LINEUPS Northwestern
L..............;......... Sickels
1 f........................ Bennett
| G.......................... Justak	,
*)........................ O’Malley
j G...................... Lightfoot
I...................... Kroeger
...................... Morris
•3..................... Yungwirth
£................... Funderburg
H.................... Altepeter
B...................... Clawson
Irish Luck - Getting Worse Each Week - Will Have To Be Good Against Northwestern
By BILL WADDINGTON
"Scholastic" Sports Editor
The rampaging rhythm of a Notre Dame backfield is stopped. The merry melody that it made for five consecutive weeks is no longer on the football hit parade. A pair of trips east quelled that music. Now, after the telling toll of encounters with the two military academies of the United States, the Fighting Irish again enter the ranks of collegiate play, hoping to gain fruit from the efforts that will be attempted against Coach Lynn Waldorf’s Northwestern club here tomorrow.
The team that was riding high at the end of October, both with football-loving America and the sports scribes, is no longer- the idol of 1944 gridiron exploits —but it is still the idol of thousands of enthusiasts who follow the doings of the Irish from week to week, win or lose. And it is tomorrow with that in mind, that Notre Dame will try to reclaim some of the prestige that was so acutely diminished by Army and Navy, the eastern juggernauts that have been plagued with an effective malady, “uncommon experience.”
Wildcat Jinx
A hapless bunch of Wildcats, who can call their season anything but successful to date, having won but a single tussle, that being the opener with lowly DePauw, have dropped five contests on successive weekends to Wisconsin, Great Lakes, Michigan, Indiana, and Purdue. But let that be no criteria of their expected performance against Ed McKeever’s charges tomorrow.
For example, back in 1942, a Northwestern eleven that had but a 3-0 victory over Texas in their opener, and then an accumulation of setbacks, gave the locals the scare of the year, the latter finally eking out a 27-0 margin. It’s always this way when the boys from Evanston come down here or the Blue and Gold go up there. They’re always pointing out for the boys from Notre Dame. If the Wildcats win, they consider their season a success, regardless of the beating they may have taken in the whole season’s billing. And so, tomorrow holds for them the outcome of a season—it’ll either be good or tremendously bad.
Change in Faces
Necessitated changes in the Notre Dame lineup are a result of the injuries incurred by Pat Filley, Fred Rovai and
Bob Kelly in the Army game. Capt. Pat is out for the season with a bad knee, and the ailing legs of Rovai and Kelly will keep them out of action tomorrow but they may be ready for Tech next week. In Filley’s spot will be George Martz while the other guard position will be taken over by Joe Westenkirch-ner. Kelly, leading ground gainer for the Irish, will have Elmer Angsman in his shoes with Joe Gasparella going into the spot at full, ordinarily worked by Angsman. Gasparella’s height will be an advantage on defense and his ability at carrying the ball should be of further avail.
Many Changes in Lineup
Bill Chandler is in at left half for ■ both defensive and offensive reasons. George Benigni at left end is the only other shift to emanate from McKeever’s manipulations. The entrance of quarterback Ed Clasby and fullback John Cor-bisiero into the service also leaves the Irish minus two capable reserves. And the starting center up to last week, Johnny Ray, has also departed for chores with Uncle Sam.
Frank Szymanski, who came back to the University last week after a discharge from the Naval Air Corps, did a most remarkable job at the center spot against Army and should have no trouble remaining there. Since George Sullivan is at left tackle again, Art Mergen-thal has been shifted to right tackle, replacing John Adams, normally the fixture there. Bill O’Connor stays at right end for offensive strength and Frank Dancewicz will still be calling ’em.
With the changes in personnel, it is most apparent that McKeever is eager to secure the best combination with what material is at hand, so, frequent substituting can be expected at any time during the 60 minutes.
Seventeen
The winter semester is upon us. To you men who have been on campus before, you have some idea what this column is supposed to be about. To you new men, I will give you a little explanation. This column gives the author a chance to unload a lot of facts and figures on your already overburdened shoulders. This is primarily a sports column. But if the space is too big for the material, you might even end up with some theatrical or bathing beauty news. If you don’t get enough information from what is said above, read on.
A great deal can happen in three weeks. When we put away the typewriter three weeks ago, Notre Dame had a football team that was rated as the top team of the nation for four consecutive weeks. Since that time they have played the nation’s two best teams on their respective best days. Against Navy they played the best football they were capable of, but so did Navy. And Navy was capable of a brand of football quite a bit better than theirs. Making excuses for the Army game is being a poor loser, so we will just try to forget that one.
‘‘Some day they just won’t be able to go any faster,” said one of the National Amateur Athletic Union officials as he was informed that their 56th annual meeting would be in Atlantic City, Dec. '8-10. The official went on,
“Last year I decided I would go hunting for Duck-billed Raminks in the Porcupine Mountains of Michigan. So what “happens? Those swimmers Ford and Kiefer set some new records. This Gil Dobbs breaks his fool neck and the indoor mile record. So I can’t go hunting. Instead I have to go to Atlantic City and decide whether they broke the records or not. I tell you, some day they won’t go any faster.”
De Paul University of Chicago has started its basketball practice. Last year thejT were one of the top civilian teams of the nation. This year they have three of last year’s starters back. They are Captain George Mikan, who towers 6 feet 9 inches into the stratosphere, Gene Stump, and Ed Kachan. It looks like they might cause a little trouble for someone this season.
The champions of the four sections of the Chicago Public School League were pretty evenly matched this year. In the playoff games Fenger, The South Section champs, defeated Lane of the North Section, 8 to 7. In the other playoff
Student Poll Gives Twice Defeated Irish Two Touchdown Edge Over Northwestern
BY GEORGE DESPOT
Despite two severe setbacks on consecutive Saturdays, the “Fighting Irish” are still the students’ choice to overcome the “Wildcats” from Northwestern. The students pick a strong Irish running and passing attack by two touchdowns in tomorrow’s game in Rockne Stadium. This, in the face of the squads’ injuries suffered in New York, is surprising; Filley will probably not see any action and the slashing halfback from Chicago, Bob Kelly will probably be used only if absolutely necessary.
And now the “Student Poll” is off on another semester with the campus football experts.
Mark Butirich, civilian freshman from Gretna, La.: “Notre Dame 20, Northwestern 12. With those two losses out of our system, I think we will return to the victory column this week. Notre Dame will be too fast and the lightning overhead attack will tame the Wildcats.”
John Agnone, Jr., civilian junior from Youngstown, Ohio: “Notre Dame 36, Northwestern 0. After two crushing defeats in a row, someone has to pay for it to an angry bunch of Irishmen and Northwestern seems to be the logical one to suffer.”
Mark A. Cronin, Jr., NROTC from Chicago, Ill.: “Notre Dame 27, Northwestern 6. “Notre Dame is an improved and very much experienced team in view of past opposition and are due to show Northwestern a strong line and a speedy backfield.”
John Parker, midshipman from Chicago, Ill.: “Notre Dame 12, Northwestern 14. The last two weeks have shown that Notre Dame is an over-rated team and Northwestern is a greatly improved outfit. The game will be close and hard-
game, Austin of the West Section and Tilden of the Central Section played to a 7-7 tie.
The St. Louis Cardinals are going to build a ballpark of their own. No longer will they be orphans housed by an American league club. It won’t be until after the war, but the idea is still there. When the Yankees built their own park, it was called “the house that Ruth built.” The new Cardinal home ought to be called “the house that Musial built” —no offense to the Cooper brothers.
fought but Notre Dame’s inability to convert extra points will be the deciding factor in Northwestern’s victory.”
Louis Moossy, civilian sophomore from Shreveport, La.: “Notre Dame 20, Northwestern 12. It will be a battle for 60 minutes but the Irish backs are too fast and too powerful for the Wildcats. Notre Dame will establish an early lead and maintain it throughout the entire game.”
Joe Brady, civilian law student from Joliet, Ill.: “Angered and experienced by two trying defeats on successive Saturdays, a revenge-minded squad of Irishmen will face Northwestern Saturday. With a better and a flashier passing attack and a blitzkrieg on the ground, our offense will roll out four touchdowns on the Wildcats. With a tightened pass defense and a fast-charging line, Northwestern will be held again and again. In view of this, I think that the Fighting Irish will repeat last year’s performance in Dyche Stadium; Notre Dame 25, Northwestern 7.”
Al Hanson, V-12 sophomore from Clark, South Dakota. “The score will be close but the hard-charging Wildcats will be too much for the crippled Irish line; Northwestern 14, Notre Dame 13.”
Bob Morrissey, civilian senior from Rockford, Ill. “Notre Dame will recoup her laurels on home ground Saturday by a score of 25-7. Despite the return of Clawson to the Northwestern backfield, the Irish should have no difficulty coming through with an easy victory.”
Al Manion, V-12 junior from Chicago, HL: “Notre Dame took quite a beating, physically, these last few weeks, but they should still manage to keep N.U. in their proper place. The final score will be 26-6.”
If all of the University of Michigan’s All-Americans could be' assembled on one field, enough players for two complete teams and several substitutes would be available. The Wolverine roster of 28 All-Americans includes four tackles, five guards, five centers, two quarterbacks, five halfbacks and four fullbacks. Only at ends with Standfield Wells, 1910; Benny Oosterbaan, 1925-26 27 and Ed Frutig, 1940, would it be necessary to borrow from another position to complete two full elevens.—Pete Brown
Eighteen
The Green Banner . . .
ized that their escorts had beautiful shoe-shines.
By JOHN POWER
Frosh Pre-vue
Welcome, frosh, to the shadows of the Golden Dome. Welcome to the home of the “Fighting Irish.” . . . Welcome to the place of Father Sorin, Father Zahm, Knute Rockne, and all other Notre Dame men.
Under the accelerated program this is the last welcome that you will receive until you return home after graduation. By that time you should be old enough to be drafted.
While you’re here (brother, don’t laugh) the Student Manual will be your bible—at least for the first week. Remember, the following busses wall take you out of bounds: Rum Village, Sample Street, Western Avenue, Miami Street, Lincoln Way West, Michigan Street, Fellows Street. You can safely take the Notre Dame bus; but there’s no percentage in that.
The favorite game at the University is Run-around, and, believe us, you’re IT. Your certifications were proof that you were alive and therefore entitled to eat in the dining halls (but you won’t be for long); they were proof that you wear clothes, and therefore may send your shirts and shorts to the laundry (you’ll be sorry); they were proof that you are intelligent (by now) and therefore can attend a class or two. After compliance with all these extra privileges, we will award to you within the month the Green Banner’s Medal of Honor—posthumously.
Our Warning To You
We hope that you have come prepared for the hard winter ahead. Not that it is ever cold in Indiana, or that it snows here. It’s just that we’ve seen some icebergs in and about that girl’s college across the way.
Standard winter campus equipment may be purchased from any industrious senior and includes two sets of long red underwear, two sets of long white underwear, and a shadow of cloth bearing the resemblance of an overcoat (the remnants of Dad’s 1929 investment in the Laughing Stock Corporation).
You are welcome to all the food in the dining halls. You are welcome to let the laundry lassies play “Button, button, who’s got the button” with your
shirts. You are welcome to find out the mystery of that perpetual question: “If the strong sodium hydroxide solution is what makes the little holes in your elite Arrow shirts, what pulls the sleeve off?” You are welcome to attend the new Modernistic Sound movies in Washington hall, (previewing this week Marie Dressier and Lon Chaney in “The Old Homestead”).
You are welcome to all these things, but don’t say we didn’t warn you. As for St. Mary’s, you’re welcome to that also ... all we can say is that it’s a long walk.
Ancient History Highlights
The Autumn Ball, as sponsored by the Student Council, was quite the affair, taking place over the Tulane weekend. It took the greater part of the evening to convince St. Ed’s Hall that “semi-formal” did not mean that “sweat shirt schottische.” There were a great many imports plus many from “Ye Oide Rocke”; it is a shame the girls don’t get out more often. Many thought the floor was very slippery until they real-
WUDDYA WAN'T - MORE ?
Seriously Though
The dance was a success. Weekend affairs were quite the things about the campus a few years ago, and we are extremely happy to see interest and vigor returning to student life. To you, Frosh, all we can say is: get behind, push and support every venture the students undertake. Cheer your teams, back interhall athletics, be proud of being a part of this Notre Dame. For whether you know it or not, your coming here has now branded you with the distinction so many are proud to have: you are now a Notre Dame Man.
U. S. Foreign Relations
Reviewed by McGee
Gale W. McGee, member of the Department of History, addressed the Social Science Division of the Northern Indiana Teachers Association at their annual convention October 26. The speech was devoted to developing United States foreign relations from 1936 to 1941, in which Mr. McGee pointed out the relation of public opinion to American diplomatic decisions leading to World War II in general, and to Pearl Harbor in particular.
Nineteen
THE SHILLELAGH
(Continued from page 16)
I’m expecting some real passing from Boley against the Wildcats.
Keep your eye on Marino. Nunzio is about ready for a trip.
Hope Bob Kelly and Fred Rovai can play a little.
Those new civilian freshmen have a chance to help out. They look like a good crop of Notre Darners. Don’t let the team down. Start cheering early and keep it going. Don’t be afraid to be heard. Spirit is one of the things you can’t have too much of.
See where Lt. Bernie Crimmins is back to see the boys play the Wildcats.
Well let’s get after those Wildcats. Let Northwestern know as so many Irish teams have in the past that Notre Dame likes them tough. Don’t forget that the ball game starts with the first kickoff. After that, anything can happen. The fellow who gets there first controls the happenings. Don’t forget you’re playing for Notre Dame. Notre Dame doesn’t forget. You can take them. Go after them!
PEP RALLY
7:15 TONIGHT
Fieldhouse ooo Beat Northwestern!
Pe/iiAc&pje....
“So you are going to Notre Dame! . . . (chuckle) . . . you poor guy.” Greetings, Poor Guy.
Welcome to the school of the Golden Dome and Fighting Irish; Knute Rockne
and the National Football Champions. One of the most famous universities in the world offers you the use of its many and varied facilities; a part in its opportunities and a share in its traditions. A whole lot of people think you’re one of the luckiest guys in the world. Then there are guys like the one above. Before you make any decisions, let’s take a perspective on things: The vast majority of you have at least four months here ahead of you. Just what is going to happen?
First off, you are not going to like the food. Why? One reason is that nobody can cook like Mother. Another is that food in the Navy isn’t complimented. It just is not done. You’re going to cuss at Phy Ed, and come out to calisthenics looking like you had the biggest hangover since New Year’s. The teachers will positively be out to flunk you and Math and Physics will account for one quart of perspiration per week alone. Maybe that fellow’s right about “poor guy.”
Truth in proportion, however. What is the other side?
You will get one of the best educations offered anywhere. You will become a member of a great fraternity, the unwritten bond of Notre Dame men. You will get to meet and really know intelligent men and great teachers. You will become intimate with the little customs that breathe the real life into the school spirit: trips to Rosie’s; football rallies and games; swims in the lake; the Sacred Heart Church; basketball at the Rock; those fateful trips to St. Mary’s; baseball on Badin bog; ice cream in the cafe.
Make your decision on Notre Dame a year after you have left her. At present try to appreciate the real school.
I think you are pretty rich, poor guy.
Two Wins, Then Army Navy, ''Hold Everything"
By GEORGE KRAUSER "Scholastic" Sports Writer
Army, at Long Last . . .
Before a throng of 76,000 the Irish were caught in a whirlwind of Army scoring power and handed a 59-0 setback at Yankee Stadium in New York. Notre Dame, fighting with all the fury that they could muster, was overwhelmed by - a Cadet super-powerhouse, a team thought by many to be the greatest in Cadet history. Ths Army, not content with beating the Fighting Irish, let loose with all the revenge that had been stored up in the last 12 fruitless years in an effort to humiliate the Blue and Gold. They did succeed in building up a huge total, but they failed to break the spirit of a never-say-die Irish eleven.
From the first few minutes of the game it was apparent that the Army Mule had too much kick for the younger and less experienced Rambler aggregation. For a whole week Coach Ed McKeever had built a special Irish defense to halt the numerous Cadet backfield aces. At first it seemed that the move would prove a success, but a costly penalty nullified the goal-line-stand the Blue and Gold forwards had made and gave the Army the chance to score in the early part of the first quarter.
After receiving the opening kickoff on their own 13, the Irish fell a yard short of first down and kicked to the Army on the Irish 45. A sustained drive carried
to the five, but there in four plays the Cadets were seemingly halted. However, a penalty to the Irish one gave Doug Kenna the chance to crash over on fourth down and start the flood of touchdowns. Before the period had ended, the Irish goal had been crossed two additional times and a 20-0 margin established. From here on, Army showed no mercy and Notre Dame felt the full blows of three great Cadet teams. Only once could the Irish offense move and that advance was halted with Notre Dame on the Army 15 as the first half ended. Interceptions were converted into scores, and punt runbacks were a constant menace as the Cadets struck again (Continued on page 24)
Twenty
NROTC Lives Secluded Life in USS "Walsh"
BY J. D. USINA
The United States Navy first established itself on the campus of the University of Notre Dame in the pre-Pearl Harbor days of 1941 when the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps began to function in September. On July 1, 1943, the Naval R.O.T.C. went on active duty status in the Navy College Training Program and at Notre Dame all the members of the unit were assigned to . their alma mater with Walsh Hall being designated as their quarters.
Notre Dame’s Naval R.O.T.C. is under the guidance of Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, professor of Naval Science and Tactics, with Commander H. B. Butcher, USNR, as the unit’s executive officer. Five officer-instructors are attached to the NROTC for teaching naval subjects of a wide variety including navigation, seamanship, ordnance, naval history, marine, steam and electrical engineering, damage control, communications, administration, fire control, gunnery and numerous other courses. Upon completion of the Naval ROTC schedule graduates are commissioned ensigns in the Naval Reserve with the option of becoming an officer in the regular Navy after one year of service with the fleet.
A class of 80 men which formed the nucleus of the first group to enter the unit was graduated and commissioned on Feb. 27, 1944, one semester ahead of schedule. These men are now on various assignments overseas and in training schools in this country. They constitute the first contribution of Notre Dame men
Committee members of recent ROTC Ball and their guests
en masse from the campus to the fighting fronts over the -world.
A second group of 155 men which entered in September, 1942 has been whittled down to 106 and supplemented with 45 men added at the start of the spring semester. They comprise the present total strength of the unit. Fifty new men will fill out the ranks at the start of the summer semester coming from the Notre Dame V-12 and from other colleges with V-12 programs in the vicinity.
The Naval ROTC is connected with the Navy college training program but differs from V-12 training in that it fits men to receive commissions immediately upon the completion of the course prescribed in Naval Science and Tactics. At Notre Dame the NROTC functions under a cadet-officer system with members of the Corps being accountable for the naval routine of drill calisthenics and all the various internal regulations subject to the discretion of the executive officer.
An entire system of unit athletics is maintained and promoted within the unit; social activities of various sorts are handled by committees; color competition is arranged and colors presented to the company which displays the best form at drill and in a schedule of athletic events; a magazine, The Irish Pennant is published every six weeks by a staff of NROTC men and pistol and rifle teams are sponsored which compete with those of the 26 other Naval ROTC
groups throughout the country.
As a whole the Naval ROTC at Notre Dame is independent of the other groups in training on the campus. Many of the older men in the unit take pride in the fact that theirs is the oldest of the naval groups at Notre Dame and a keen rivalry exists along various lines of competition. Since the majority of the unit came to Notre Dame as civilians, entering the NROTC on a part-time basis, they have become ardent supporters of the traditions of Notre Dame and have divided loyalties, so to speak, between the Navy and Notre Dame.
With certain exceptions the unit personnel has completed a training cruise on Lake Michigan aboard the U.S.S. Wilmette, during the leave period. This is the third cruise made by the organization and during the time spent aboard ship they have been taught the advanced principles of standing JOOD watches, the fundamentals of navigation, engineering and gunnery as necessary aboard ship and have put to practical use the textbook knowledge gained since the two-weeks trip last summer. The lake aircraft carriers, U.S.S. Sable and the U.S.S. Wolverine were also boarded for training purposes. Firing of the guns aboard the Wilmette was carried out on a competitive basis and the gun crews received valuable experience in firing anti-aircraft and 4-inch weapons.
To provide experience as well as security a watch system is maintained in Walsh Hall. A cadet ODD and five Mates of the Watch provide for internal supervision in the hall.
BASKETBALL
(Continued from page 17) mers, Notre Dame’s mound ace this past season, and junior Tom Kennedy.
Kelly Gone
John Kelly, a Marine trainee who left the campus with his colleagues at the termination of last semester, was the only letterman around and handled the early duties of tutoring the boys while Coach Crowe was busy on the gridiron.
The present squad will be augmented by a number of additional men with the end of the football season. Chief among these are Bill O’Connor, Joe Gasparella, Tom Guthrie, John Dee, Art Fitzgerald, George Begnini, and Mark Limont.
Temporarily, the team is practicing on the courts in the Rockne Memorial Building pending the completion of the renovation of the maples in the fieldhouse. Coach Crowe wishes this latter court reserved for varsity players only and requests the cooperation of the student body in this matter.
* Twenty-one
Service Center Welcomes V-12 Trainees
r
Hospitable Townspeople Offer Social Facilities to Servicemen
Not only does the University of Notrs Dame, its students and faculty, extend a warm welcome to the new V-12 trainees, but the citizens of South Bend, through their organization, the Service Men’s Center, provide the utmost in excellent recreational facilities for the new men as well as for all service men at
A little number for the boys
home or visiting the city. The Center, on Colfax Avenue, near Michigan Street, is unique in that it is entirely supported through the efforts of the local citizenry, and unlike most service organizations, receives no assistance from the U.S.O. or similar national associations.
The South Bend Service Men’s Center offers the individual practically an unlimited number of ways to enjoy his time while on liberty in town. Formerly known as the Palais Royale Ballroom, the Center is well equipped to handle the hundreds of men who flock there for dancing Saturdays and Sundays on the spacious ballroom floor. Moreover, there is always the opportunity to dance on the mezzanine balcony, in between sips of soft drink which are available at the refreshment bar in the balcony.
What is probably the most important requirement to make a place like the Service Men’s Center a success is an abundance of young women to serve as hostesses and dancing partners and provide a little feminine companionship. In this respect the Center is a complete suc
cess. Not only is a corps of cadettes always on duty, but also there are hundreds of South Bend girls regularly enrolled as hostesses on Saturdays and Sundays, the busiest days of the week.
For those who, at the moment, do not care to dance, the Center offers a variety of other recreational activities. The pingpong tables on the mezzanine balcony seldom remain idle, as table tennis enthusiasts allow competitive spirits free reign. On the ground floor to the left of the spacious lounge is an extensive library containing many of today’s best sellers, as well as books to interest every conceivable literary taste. The atmosphere here, too, is peaceful and very conducive to reading. Next to the library is the Center’s music room. At specified hours during the day the serviceman may drop in, sink into a comfortable easy chair, and listen to the world’s most beautiful classical music, A large and well-rounded collection of records, embracing Tschai-kowsky, Beethoven, Mozart, Wagner and many more of the old masters, are always on hand.
As the sailor, marine, or soldier pushes his way through the swinging glass doors of the South Bend Service Men’s Center he is met by a cluster of desks in one corner of an extensive lounge. From here the multitudinous activities of the Center are directed. And it is here, too, that the service man learns of the organization’s numerous services. If he is one of the foitunate early birds, he will have his choice of a number of free tickets to any of the city’s movies. Or perhaps he will be in the vicinity when one of the frequent calls from South Bend townspeople come to the desk inviting a number of boys to dinner. Here also the Center conducts its housing service, finding quarters in town for guests of Notre Dame’s service men. Over and above these and similar services, the little group of desks acts as an efficient information center, giving help on practically every problem, or at least knowing where to go to find the required aid.
In the outer lobby of the Center stands a huge bulletin board. On his way in or out it -would be worth the individual’s while to stop a moment and examine its contents. For here are posted numerous pictures and clippings of general interest, as well as dozens of notices which may well prove to be of considerable value. Notices of future events, schedules of church services, offers of trans
portation to other cities, and other group or individual offers are published here.
The comfortable, roomy lounge is one of the Center’s most popular spots. Spread around the room on the ground floor, at the foot of the wide, stone staircase leading to the ballroom, are deep, comfortable easy chairs and sofas. Hundreds of magazines of every type, including all the more popular publications, are scattered throughout the room and constantly perused by servicemen -with a few extra minutes to while away.
When one gazes on the array of edibles constantly served at the balcony snack bar, one comes to the conclusion that the Service Men’s Center operates on the theory that “the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.” For over the bar and into the hungry hands of thousands of soldiers, sailors and marines passes food ranging all the way from well-balanced, full-course meals to sandwiches, cookies, cakes, and soft drinks. Here is a place that is nevery empty; here are the generous hostesses who are never idle.
“Stars and Stripes" on the air
Yes, the South Bend Servicemen’s Center does all this and much more. There are facilities for writing letters, typing, making phone calls, checking parcels and packages, relaxing at a card game or playing checkers. And there are a number of kindly ladies who are ready and willing to take over a task long dreaded by the ordinary man—sewing up holes, etc., making the uniform look new again.
The Service Men’s Center is one of the most pleasant and longest-lingering memories the trainees have of South Bend.
(Continued on page 26)
Twenty-two
College Parade . . .
By HARRY WALTERS
The Campus Collegian reports that, “Students at the University of Oklahoma are lamenting the passing of the University’s hallowed ‘courting grounds’. For many years a strip of ground known as the ‘Oval,’ across the street from the campus library had served as a place where the students could look at the moon unscientifically. University officials despairing over the reputation of the Oval threatened drastic measures for keeping students away from it, including the erection of signs as ‘Official Courting Grounds.’ None of the drastic plans were carried, but now the passing of the Oval has been accomplished by local authorities to keep the students away from it.”
Things are tough all over, but I’ll bet those Sooner Spooners will come through. As the bard once said, “Love finds a way.”
In glancing through the hundreds of exchanges which come into the Scholastic offices from the campuses in every corner of the nation we find that there are many traditions, procedures, and organizations which might well fit into the Notre Dame scene.
At St. Mary’s College, California, the student body president showed vision and initiative in organizing a IV-F campus club. Through the low humor of a narrow-minded few, the term IV-F has received a connotation in the language of wartime America which leads to a feeling of shame for the individual rejected.	■
It is true, points out the St. Mary’s Collegian that there are some who have almost broken their necks in order to be IV-F. But for every one of this type there are at least five who would rather be the guy with the gun instead of the guy behind the guy with the gun. Still it seems that human nature picks out of a class the evil, and delights too much in it to bother with the good.
St. Mary’s IV-F Campus club is by no means a mutual sympathy session where the members can have a good cry and mix their tears with their beer. It has as its main purpose to show the country that by their attendance at college the IV-Fs hope to make their contribution to a better country for themselves and returning veterans.
Wanted
We’ve seen appeals for blood plasma, for kitchen fats, for old clothes, for waste paper, but the Ohio State Lantern
recently. set a wartime record with an appeal to end all appeals. A notice appeared on its pages for 100 warts to aid some professors in their research on warts. If anyone has a wart, wrap it up and send it to Ohio State. We all must make sacrifices for science.
The Curved Horn, Fordham University’s publication, tells us of a concert given by an orchestra composed entirely of nuns and under the direction of Rev. J. W. Zumak. The nuns were students in the Fordham School of Education summer session course. They had their choice of instruments and Father Zumack reports that the small Sisters took the big instruments, and the big Sisters took the small ones. So successful was the concert that it received national attention as well as being featured in New York papers and receiving a spread in Life magazine.	’
The Ohio State Lantern informs us of the plight of a dental student ■who may flunk a course because he lost his false teeth. It seems that the elusive plates, part of his 30-hour clinic work in dentistry, were stolen from the unfortunate’s coupe. His professors say they have heard rare excuses for not completing work, but this tops them all.
College Football Born of Cannon and Cement
BY TOM McNALLY
It’s always the soft whisper of autumn leaves that invariably brings on the thunder of gridiron cheers. For that’s the time when the football circus with all its razzle dazzle of frenzy, color, and drama invades the United States. Yes,
say what you will, there’s really nothing in the sports world comparable to a college football game, with its gay, colorful crowd, organized cheering, group singing, and spectacular play. It’s a slice of America only America knows and understands so well.
But, strangely enough, football did not originate in America, but in other lands long ago. In fact, if we could focus the telescopic lens of our time machine on early day Rome we might well see hardy
legionnaires plunging wildly for the farofl? goal. Even farther back, the Greeks of Sparta might perhaps be viewed playing the earliest form of the game; and a quick glance at a thumb-worn history tome shows us that many centuries later Henry II banned the game from England. Why? Because it interfered with the national sport of archery, of course.
Next glimpse we catch of our subject takes us to America. It’s 1800 and Harvard boys have caught the game on the rebound from England. Quickly the Harvard faculty, however, takes stern measures because they think it “foolish for college men to run around after a bag of wind.”
And the game of football might have died a peaceful death—a game forsaken, forgotten, and buried forever, had it not been — oddly enough — for a rusty old cannon and a load of cement.
New Brunswick, N. J. was the scene. In the featured roles we would have found the colleges of Princeton and Rutgers. The plot? Around the middle of the 19th century a bitter rivalry sprang between these two college neighbors— over girls of course. Now near the Rutgers campus stood a Revolutionary War relic—a rusty old cannon which once had been fought for by both Lord Howe and General George Washington. Here it was that the swains of Rutgers gathered to meet their girl friends—to the consternation of the Princeton rivals; so the latter group arranged to meet the sons of Rutgers on the field of honor, each year, for possession of that cannon. The tussle became a great event and each year students gathered together to get the prize for the Alma Mater, somewhat like the brown jug fought for annually between Minnesota and Michigan. But alas! Rutgers won one year too many and so daring Princetonites pilfered the old cannon and dumped it in a bed of concrete on Nassau campus.
Here matters rested! But with both schools still hankering for a fight and yet unable to continue the classic cannon struggle, a council was held and it was elected to dig up the forsaken game of football, put on some new veneer, and substitute it for the old cannon battle. Thus, the first intercollegiate football game!
Rutgers lined up its 25 players to match the 25 of Princeton on Nov. 13, 1869 with six goals constituting a winning game. Needless to say it was a super-rugged contest but the lads from Rutgers came out on the long end 6-4. Immediately, a return match was scheduled and this time there was no stopping Princeton who evened the series 6-0.
So from that small, insignificant seed has blossomed the college football of this (Continued on page 29)
Twenty-three
TWO WINS. TWO LOSSES Continued from page 20) and again. Thus, the heroic efforts of a gallant team were shattered by the nation’s leading eleven.
Doldrums of Defeat
After five straight triumphs, the Irish of Notre Dame found their match in a rugged Navy line and were handed a 32-13 shellacking by the Middies from Annapolis before 65,000 spectators in Baltimore. Before the vaunted Irish offense could roll, the Middies had crossed the Notre Dame goal twice, and with their giant forward wall, held the Ramblers back in check to build up a 12-0 halftime advantage. In the second half the Irish passing attack enabled the green-clad warriors to score, but the Middies scored also and removed Notre Dame from the list of the unbeaten.
The Irish started fast and rushed to the Navy one-yard line, but gradually the Navy pushed the Irish back till Clyde Scott scored in two plays from the N.D. 32. After failing to gain on the following kickoff, Kelly kicked out on the Irish 43. In three plays Scott again carried over for the Navy. A 64-yard march with the halftime kickoff enabled the Navy to increase their lead to 19-10. Later in the third quarter the Irish came into their own, and with Daricewicz flipping the pigskin, advanced 43 yards to the Navy 5, from where Kelly went over. The Middies tallied again in the fourth canto, but the Golden Domers came right back with another flurry of passes that carried to the Navy 3. Then Bob Kelly cracked over again, but the Navy matched this tally later in the period and the Irish were forced to accept a 32-13 defeat.
Close Call
For three quarters the battling Illini from Illinois held the high scoring Irish in check but one perfect play in the early minutes of the last period enabled the Fighting Irish to snatch a 13-7 -win, their fifth straight victory of the 1944 season before a spine-tingled crowd at Champaign, Ill. After the Illini had scored in the opening minutes of the game, the Irish forward wall refused to yield and “Buddy” Young and company were effectively throttled the remainder of the contest.
The pigskin encounter was only three minutes old when Claude “Buddy” Yotfng, the Negro speedster, raced 72 yards to touchdown territory. The Irish came back fighting and marched straight down the field with the ensuing kickoff to send Bob Kelly crashing over for the tally. The Illini converted their extra point and the Irish attempt failed, so (Continued on page 25)
EXCERPTS FROM THE EXPERTS
BY JOHN FEENEY
Two defeats and an accompanying scare have been the fate of the Fighting Irish in their last three grid week-ends. The light which proudly shone on the Golden Dome when the semester ended became dimmer with a close call against Illinois. Then relentlessly, Navy and Army bounced Notre Dame from the top spot of the nation. A well-earned victory by Navy added to a blistering and humiliating trouncing by the Army brought out these nationwide comments:
Allison Danzig—New York Times
“Twenty years after the Four Horsemen rode to lasting fame the proud pennants of Notre Dame were ripped to tatters and trampled under the thundering caissons of Army yesterday in the worst disaster the Fighting Irish have suffered on the football field.”
Stan Woodward—NY Herald Tribune
Scoring touchdowns in most ways known to man the explosive Army football team beat Notre Dame, 59-0, in Yankee Stadium yesterday afternoon, thus setting a new record for points run up against the Irish and atoning for a series of gridiron indignities which had been uninterrupted except by ties, since 1931.”
Jim Kearns—Chicago Sun
“A truly brilliant football team from West Point made history here today as it crushed Notre Dame 59 to 0 before 78,000 spectators in Yankee Stadium. Never before in all the history of Notre Dame participation in the intercollegiate game had any opponent beaten a Fighting Irish entry so badly. Forty years ago Wisconsin defeated Notre Dame by 58-0 but the margin was never again approached until today.”
Dan Parker—New York Daily Mirror
“For the 22 humiliating defeats the Cadets had suffered at the hands (and feet) of the Irish; for those five successive games up to this season in which the South Benders had held them scoreless since this blue-ribbon football series began back in 1913, the greatest Army football team in history atoned in full measure yesterday in the Yankee Stadium by administering the most crushing defeat Notre Dame has ever suffered on the gridiron.”
Vince Malin—Baltimore News-Post
“Clearly outplaying Notre Dame in every department of the game, except passing, Navy’s powerful football team rolled over the Fighting Irish team, 32 to 13, here today before a crowd of 65,000.’”
Rand. Cassell—Baltimore Evening Sun
“Navy, showing its vaunted ground power, rolled to an impressive 32-to-13 victory over Notre Dame at the Stadium this afternoon before a sellout crowd of 64,0000 fans, including 1,650 members of the Regiment of Midshipmen and many high ranking officers of the Army and Navy.”
Arch Ward—Chicago Tribune
“There comes a time in the life of every football team when fight and daring aren’t enough. That occasion arrived for Notre Dame today and the Irish went down in defeat, 32-13, before one of the strongest squads that has come out of the United States Naval Academy in many years.”
Dave Walsh—Chi. Herald-American
“Notre Dame and its dynasty of football crashed down among the shambles and ruins of a 32-13 defeat by the Naval Academy here this afternoon, the first for the Irish this season and their first by a college team since well back in the season of 1942.”
Jim Kearns—Chicago Sun
“Defeat — a solid, thumping, bruising defeat—finally caught up with the football forces of Notre Dame here today as Navy stormed through and around the Fighting Irish line for five touchdowns and a 32-to-13 victory before a capacity crowd of 63,000 spectators.”
Leo Fischer—Chi. Her aid-American
“When they start compiling record books for the 1944 football season, historians will show that the score of today’s game in Memorial Stadium was Notre Dame, 13; Illinois, 7. It’s too bad that some means can’t be devised for those who write the records to indicate on that bare line of type the drama, the tragedy, the emotional peaks and the heroics which two fine groups of young men and some 65,114 spectators experienced on this beautiful Indian Summer afternoon.”
Twenty-four ■
Band, Under Director Hope, Plan Active Season
The University band, continuing to contribute to the rich musical traditions that are Notre Dame’s, has again been organized under the direction of Mr. H. Lee Hope. The popular young conductor has assembled an ambitious program for the winter semester which promises to enliven and to cultivate musical interest among the students of the University.
The personnel of the band continues to be divided between members of the local V-12 unit (who function also as a separate unit-band for V-12 formations) and members of the civilian student body of the University. The organization of the band is not yet complete, but the number of members will be close to one hundred.
The highlight of the band’s program for the semester will be a special Christmas concert to be held in the Navy Drill hall on Wednesday evening, December 20. In addition to an excellently selected program, a nationally known soloist and conductor, formerly with the superb organization of the late John Philip Sousa, will contribute to the festive holiday entertainment. The concert will be open to all, and a heary invitation is extended.
New and colorful formations featuring popular musical selections have been formulated for the band’s performances at the Northwestern and Great Lakes football games. The band will appear also at all of the home basketball games in addition to the spirited pre-game pep rallies. The difficulties entailed in maintaining a first class musical organization from semester to semester in the face of war-time uncertainties are appreciable. However, the men of the band are becoming more acquainted with each other during the practice sessions each evening and are gradually attaining the unity and cooperative spirit so necessary to a military and concert band.
As Mr. Hope has established no limit upon the number of men to be accepted into the band, any and all V-12 or civilian musicians are invited to attend the practice sessions which are held weekday evenings at five o’clock in Washington hall. To the new men at Notre Dame this affords an opportunity for the development of musical talents with one of the nation’s outstanding college bands.
TWO WINS. TWO LOSSES (Continued from page 24) the Illinois eleven enjoyed a 7-6 halftime advantage.
Both teams failed to dent the scoring column in the third canto and the fourth period got under way with the Irish in possession of the oval on their own 29. “Boley” Dancewicz faded back and flipped to Bob Kelly on the 35 and just when it seemed he would be swamped, Bob lateralled to “Chick” Maggioli who raced the remaining 65 yards to put the Irish in front. “Chick” added the extra point and thus gave the Irish a 13-7 win in his last game of the year.
Number Four
In the first seven minutes of play the 1944 edition of the Fighting Irish rushed across two touchdowns and then coasted to a 28-13 triumph over the hard-trying but outclassed Badgers from Wisconsin before a home crowd of 40,000. On Notre Dame’s second running play from scrimmage, Bob Kelly burst through right tackle and raced 51 yards to jolt the Irish fans out of their seats. After building up a 12-0 halftime lead, the Irish increased their margin to 28-0 in the third period and then watched the Bad
NOW ON SALE . . A book by Arch Ward "FRANK LEAHY AND THE FIGHTING IRISH"
$2.75
BRUGGNER'S NEWS CENTER
127 W. Washington Street	South Bend, Indiana
gers peck away for single tallies in the remaining minutes.
After Kelly’s jaunt, Bill O’Connor recovered Earl Girard’s fumble on the Wisconsin 10 and set up Kelly’s second touchdown run — this time from five yards out. In the third quarter Thompson was tackled in the end zone by Mer-genthal to register two additional points. On the ensuing Wisconsin kickoff, the Irish advanced to the Badger 35 and Elmer Angsman broke over right tackle to score standing up. After Mergenthal had blocked an Elliot punt on the visitors 31, “Boley” Dancewicz uncorked a touchdown heave to “Chick” Maggioli to finish the Irish scoring.
Twenty-five
Inter-American Club to Hold Regional Meet Here
The week-end of Dec. 9-10 is the date set by the executive committee of the Commission on Inter-American Action, for its second and last meeting of this year here at Notre Dame. A program of activities has been drawn up by the committee on arrangements for this coming meeting, which will be attended by several student and faculty representatives of each one of the Catholic colleges and universities of the Chicago area for the purpose of celebrating the feast day of Our Lady of Guadalupe, the Patron Saint of Mexico.
The program will include a speech of welcome by the president of the La Raza club, a moving picture presented in Washington hall, and a dance in the Rockne Memorial for the members of the two clubs sponsoring the aifair, La Raza and the Inter-American Affairs club. Entertainment will be furnished by the civilian orchestra from the campus. On Sunday, there will be Mass and Holy Communion in Sorin chapel and a sermon by Fr. Jacobson of Loyola U.
Following the services, breakfast will be served in the Cafeteria. Then the group will pay a visit to the Grotto and to the burial place of Orestes Brownson, after which, the meeting will adjourn.
—Enrique R. Lulli
SERVICE CENTER
(Continued from page 22))
The recent annual report of the Service Center reveals, in startling statistics, the extent of the service rendered by volunteer workers and community organizations in making the South Bend Center outstanding for its size in the nation.
In catering to an average of 3,573 service men per week, Senior and Junior personnel put in a total of 83,574 hours. If you are distressed by the cigarette shortage, consider that the Center gave away a total of 340,800 cigarettes in the last year.
In supplementing the deficient chow hall menu, the Center contributed 87,100 bottles of soft drinks; 168,0C0 cookies; and 59,000 meals. Those who used the quiet atmosphere of the hermit’s Den for their letter writing used a total of 79,800 sheets of writing paper, and 41,500 envelopes.
The Center is maintained entirely through contributions by South Bend citizens to the United War chest and has done a monumental job in supplying wholesome recreation and amusement for sendee men and women, as well as nearly 1,000 local girls who serve as hostesses.
Twenty-six
NEW RADIO RELAY LINK FOR TELEPHONE AND TELEVISION
Tiny radio waves, shorter than any used before in commercial telephony, will link New York and Boston in a new experimental '’jump-jump” relay system for the transmission of telephone speech and television programs.
These waves travel in straight lines like beams of light. Because of the earth’s curvature, the distance will be spanned in a series of straight-line jumps between transmitting and receiving stations about 30 miles apart.
The Bell System plans post-war improvements in ways like this, to extend its nation-wide service by providing more Long Distance telephone facilities for peacetime needs.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War”
Swabbies' Log
By ART WAGNER
HI YA MATES! ! !
Well, Harry LeBien has lowered his “Periscope” and gotten under way for new “waters.” This Nov. 17 issue of The Notre Dame Scholastic inaugurates the “Swabbies’ Log”—a column containing odds and ends, news and views, gossip around the campus, and the latest scuttlebutt in general.
A good share of the success or failure of this column depends upon the readers. Your columnist’s “office”—home, den and hangout, also—is room 148 of Dillon hall. The chances are very favorable that, if some minor catastrophe, or “good joke” on someone originates and terminates on the third deck of Alumni hall, hundreds will be deprived of the laugh—or tears— unless the guys who know about it have loud and long voices, OR put it in the “Swabbies’ Log.”
You wouldn’t want to deprive some poor, misguided, and perhaps restricted youth of an opportunity for a little emotional expression to relieve his mental indigestion; now would you? Of course you wouldn’t (please pardon my answering the question for you).
The “Swabbies’ Log” is your column; and its primary purpose is to round out —not blackout—your higher education. Drop in any time with suggestions and criticisms, or for advice or consolation (then you’ll really be a SNAFU kid), or just to bat the breeze; I’m hardly ever in and not “out” or “all in”—if you get what I mean. B C N U.
THE MARINES—LET 'EM R.I.P.
When anyone who was stationed here last semester returned, he surely noticed that something was missing from the Notre Dame campus. Of course, the leaves were gone from the trees; the sun seemed to have disappeared; and perhaps a little more gold had been weathered from the Dome of the Administration building. But wasn’t there something else that made itself very conspicuous by its absence?
Perhaps no one (a while ago it was anyone, wasn’t it? Oh well—) could quite decide just what that something else was; that is, until the first day of liberty, when he saw an usher in the
theater or a bell-hop in a hotel. Sure— of course—Drill Officer Baneshek and his “automatic” marines were no longer strutting about the campus showing that “marines can drill.” Nevertheless, we’ll all sorely miss Mr. Baneshek, a drill officer who was tops; and the marines, a bunch of swell fellows. Gone, but not forgotten! (Mercenary voice in background: “Heck no! One of them owes me five bucks.”)
LET'S GO BENO!
Officer to company B: “There will be NO beno tonight.” Whispering voices throughout B’s ranks supposedly at attention: “The hell there won’t, there’s beno (spelled A.W.O.L., pronounced beno) EVERY night.”	•
Panel Group Begins Early
Recently the Panel group of La-Raza club of Notre Dame addressed a joint meeting of the International Relations club and the Santa Theresa club of St. Mary’s college to discuss Latin America’s place in the post-war affairs.
The Panel group was composed of four Latin-American students: Joseph Menez, acting as chairman of the Panel; Jose Cardenas, Jaime Velez and Rev. Leopoldo Creoglio.
Have a Coca-Cola = So glad you’re back
h s i £n
It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.
... or offering a soldier the comforts of home HOME! No place like it. And nobody knows it better than a fighting man back on furlough. Ice-cold Coca-Cola is one of the comforts of home that belongs in your family refrigerator. At the words Have a “Coke”, refreshment joins the party. The good old American custom of the pause that refreshes is spreading in many lands around the globe,—a symbol of our friendly home-ways.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
Twenty-seven
Ionian Singers Acclaimed "Great" in Concert Here
BY ROBERT MOLNAR
The Ionian Singers, who were heard here last evening at Washington hall under the auspices of the University’s Concert and Lecture Series, are an allAmerican ensemble established several years ago with the purpose of seeking out and making available to the public the best of male-voice music.
The personnel comprises Alan Adair, first tenor; Albert Barber, second tenor; Bryce Fogle, baritone and pianist; and Hildreth Martin, basso.	.
The Ionian Singers present part of their program without accompaniment. While unaccompanied ensemble demands unrelaxing vigilance, vocal ease, and at-
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Deane—100 Years__$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O'Donnell___$2.50
... at the Bookstore
BLOCK BROS.
CORNER MICHIGAN WASHINGTON
iasasasasEsasasasESEsaEEsasasesasESBsa
| GIFTS
Qj	for those at home—
m	beautifully boxed
rd	and wrapped.
MONOGRAM "T" SHIRTS
GYM PANTS
PLAIN "T" SHIRTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS
TOBACCO
PIPES
STATIONERY
SANDWICHES
tention, perfection in it is actually more possible of attainment than with piano accompaniment, according to the lonians.
Avoiding the extremes of too much academic classicism on the one hand and of triviality on the other, the lonians have tried to construct programs both educational and diverting, compounded of the exotic and the familiar, of the ancient and the ultra-modern, of the severe and the amusing. *
All this we have found to be true, and as many critics have so aptly put it regarding the quartet—“A new kind of male quartet” — "... delicately blended and balanced ensemble which is a delight to the ear” — “. . . purity of tone was outstanding, harmony marvelous, interpretations exceptional, shading and phrasing unusual.” These and many other comments express only, in part, the real greatness of the Ionian Singers.
PEP RALLY
7:15 TONIGHT Fieldhouse BEAT NORTHWESTERN!
THE HUDDLE
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.

Twenty-eight
ruletide Service Begins
The Service Center has announced a new and unique service for the Christmas season to help solve the numerous problems involved in the complex and demanding task of Christmas shopping and gift choosing.
All trainees who are harassed with the familiar quandary of how best to please Mabel with a gift need only bring their limited finances to the booth which will be provided at the Center and then trust to the better taste of one of the volunteer workers who will spend all the necessary time and energy bucking holiday shopping crowds. The service also applies for the trainee who has a particular gift in mind but is starved for the liberty time necessary to comply with the shopping hours of the department stores.
Another Yuletide service at the Center will be a wrapping counter where any and all gifts will be wrapped, free of charge, in appropriate manner, for the holiday season.	.
All trainees are invited to use both privileges as often as they need them. Notice will be published at the Center as to the actual day of the opening for both services.
Francis G. Tatnall of Baldwin Locomotive Works, Philadelphia, will speak on “Physical Testing, Present and Future.”
Conduct Tips tor ND Men
New men coming to Notre Dame are expected to fall into a pattern of conduct long established here, and to respect certain customs that have become a part of the Notre Dame daily routine. For example.
It is customary to greet those encountered on the campus, even though you do not know their names, and for civilians to tip their hats to religious members of the faculty;
All stand reverently during the playing of the Victory March, official University anthem. Likewise, the entire campus stands at respectful attention during the raising and lowering of the flag each day. Civilians should doff their hat in both instances, weather permitting;
The front steps of the Administration Building are used by no student until the day of his graduation. Nor does anyone smoke cigarettes in front of the Administration Building;
Private student devotions at the Grotto are spontaneous and have hallowed the spot past all description;
Uniformed men, in marching formation, are always given the right of way, even in congested areas;
The Notre Dame monogram is the sole
emblem of athletic achievement honored and worn on campus;
The various creeds and nationalities which make up the student body create neither barriers nor cliques. The matter of family finances is likewise astonishingly unimportant. Precedence or distinction at Notre Dame comes only through the criterion that personal merit and achievement should be the sole gauge for bestowing individual awards.
Notre Dame, though geared to wartime efficiency, cannot sever her ties with the past, and is still Notre Dame. Nor are the young men, late of many other universities, expected to cast aside the rich memories that have bound them to other halls of learning. On the contrary it is hoped that they will augment and strengthen that regard for scholarship and patriotism through their days under the shadow of the Dome.
COLLEGE FOOTBALL (Continued from page 23) era with its “T” formation, spread plays,' ‘ mousetraps,” and aerial barrages. This year alone over 50,000,000 Americans, young and old, rich and poor, are flocking and will flock through the turnstiles to see the “Fighting Irish,” the “Panthers,” the “Wolverines,” the “Badgers,” and hundreds of other college teams scattered throughout the country.
Yes, intercollegiate football has come a long way, but it began in a curious way . . . in a very curious way . . . for strangely enough . . . college football started only because of a Rusty Old Cannon and a Load of Cement.
A. S. M. Hears Mulligan
“Surface Finish” was discussed by Dr. Lowell H. Milligan of the Norton Company, Worcester, Mass., at the November meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals. The talk was animated by the speaker with his use of lantern slides to illustrate his delivery.
Delving into technical methods of finishing, the speaker showed on the slides the use of taper sections in the study of surface profile of specimens finished by various methods. Of note is the method developed by Batelle Institute under the sponsorship of the Norton company. Attention was given to the importance of surface finish which is developing in the aircraft industry, and duplex surfaces were also discussed. Dr. Milligan presented interesting data on the correlation of friction and seizure characteristics of different surface finishes.
The December meeting of the society will be held Wednesday, Dec. 13, when

NOTICE
The store in the basement of the Dining Hall is now open for the convenience of civilians.
Socks Towels Shirts
Tobacco
Cokes Shorts Cigarettes
4
4
Twenty-nine
"Review of Politics" Sees Slight Shift Toward the Artistic Rather Than the Strictly Political
With each new issue, the Revieiv of Politics, published at Notre Dame receives wider recognition both because of the repute of its contributors and because of the timeliness of its essays and its reviews. The October issue, headlined by an article by Jacques Maritain and featuring essays by Notre Dame professors, has special interest for Notre Dame students and alumni.
In the October issue the editors have given to the word “politics” an Aristotelian meaning with particular emphasis upon the artistic. Maritain has contributed a brilliant study on the nature of “Poetic Experience” and Professors Frank O’Malley and Matthew Fitzsimons of Notre Dame and Otto Von Simson of St. Mary’s have written essays of exceptional merit on other phases of life where culture and politics intermingle.
Mr. O’Malley’s essay deals with the much controverted book, Plea for Liberty, of George Bernanos and is entitled “The Evangelism of Georges Bernanos.”
In general Mr. O’Malley praises this unusual book of Bernanos and calls him “the twentieth century apostle to the twentieth century Gentiles, the contemporary Europeans.” While admitting that Bernanos is critical of the failures of many people, Mr. O’Malley refuses to admit that Bernanos is anti-clerical, or that he deserves so many of the unsympathetic criticisms that have been leveled against him.
Mr. Fitzsimons, who has spent several years exploring English history and historians of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, describes the beginning of modern English history and the importance of those men who, in that period, collected so much of the material that later became the basis for much English historical writing.
More in the strictly political sense and very informative are the other essays in ths Revieiv. Mario Einaudi writes with penetration and understanding of the confused political situation in liberated Italy in “Political Issues and Alignments
in Italy today.” He has a much better grasp of the situation than many of the American correspondents and scholars who are commenting on the situation and he points out the great dangers for both Italian and world peace if the Italian situation is not dealt with properly. In the other essay, Madame Georgette Vig-naux, who has previously contributed to the Revieiv on the story of Catholics in France since the armistice of 1940 continues her story in “The Catholics of France from the Autumn of 1942 to the Invasion.”
The book reviews in this issue contain criticisms of noted current publications in the fields of politics and culture, with special emphasis on the plans for the peace. Contributors to this section of the Revieiv are Professor Waldemar Gurian, the editor, Professors Simon, Fitzsimons, Nutting and Hermens and Fathers Thomas T. McAvoy and Leo R. Ward. Professors Harley MacNair of the University of Chicago examines several books on the Far East. For students on the campus the Review is for sale at 50 cents an issue or for $2.00 a year.
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at
South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
WRAP SECURELY
ADDRESS CLEARLY
SEND BEFORE
DEC. 1*
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
You remember the law of physics that two objects cannot occupy the same space at the same time. Just so with war materials urgently needed at the fronts and personal packages. For that reason our Government has requested that all civilian Christmas packages be sent before Dec. 1st.
So we of Railway Express ask you to help us (and yourselves too) by doing these three simple things, in addition to shopping early:
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
1. Send your gifts before Dec. 1st. laundry can keep to its regular schedule. When packages are ready to go, phone the Railway Express agent. 2. Wrap your packages carefully and securely. 3. Address them clearly, with your own and their recipients name, street number, city and state.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Thirty
"SCHOLASTIC" GOES TO PHESS
(Continued from page II) been roughly filled Brother Sabinus “justifies” the page by making each column the proper length, accomplished by spacing between the lines, paragraphs, and stories. Thus every column does not necessarily have the same numbr of lines although they will all be of uniform length.
When a page has been “justified” a copy of a single page, called a “page proof,” is made and handed to the proofreader who checks the page for typographical and other errors. When all the pages have been proof-read and corrected, the pages of type are laid out on a stone-topped table in a large frame, or press form. The pages are then locked in the form after being systematically placed and spaced. The type is held in the form by pressure and after being locked, the form is sent to the press room for printing. After printing and drying, the sheets are folded on an automatic folding machine. When the large sheet emerges from the folding machine the pages appear in their proper order with the printing properly centered on each page as a result of careful work in making up the large form. The sheets are then stapled and trimmed to size, readying the finished Scholastic for delivery to the Main Building from where the circulation department operates.
The Circulation department, this semester under the direction of Bob ' O’Toole, then distributes the magazines to all civilians and to all navy subscribers.
Probably few students realize the volume of intense work which is put into each issue of the Scholastic, and therefore the purpose of this article has been to give the average reader an insight into the detailed workings of the Scholastic staff.
La Raia Club Elects
Recently La Raza club held its semester elections. Typical of all South American elections, it was a stormy session out of which emerged Enrique R. Lulli as president, Jaime Velez, vice-president, Jose Cardenas as secretary, Miguel Vila as treasurer and Rolando Duarte as subsecretary.
The new president was called upon for a brief address to the members of the club. Mr. Lulli said, “With the cooperation of the executive committee and of all the members, I hope to guide La Raza club through a series of successful undertakings.”
Mr. Velez, the vice-president, offered his whole hearted cooperation in order to further the efforts to a better understanding between all Americans of the hemisphere.
Spanish Navel Translated
Prof. Philip H. Riley, of the Spanish Department of Notre Dame, and Prof. Hubert James Tunney, of the English Department of Cornell University, have had their translation of the Spanish novel, El Escandalo, by Pedro Antonio de Alarcon, accepted for publication in 1945 by Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.
Alarcon (1833-91) was one of the major Spanish novelists and short story writers of the later 19th century. He was a skillful newspaperman and natural born story-teller, whose literary output consists of 19 volumes. He is one of the most widely read and frequently translated of modem Spanish writers. The popularity of his stories edited for class use in the United States is shown by the fact that there are more versions of some of his books than of any other Spanish author. His appeal in the various stages of Spanish instruction in this country is but an indication of his world vogue, which shows no sign of diminishing.
El Escandalo has gone through over 30 editions in Spain, in addition to many others published in Mexico City and Buenos Aires. The only other translation of the novel is a Polish one. a copy of which is in the possession of the British Museum. Most critics agree with the author in considering El Escandalo his masterpiece. Alarcon called it the most discussed, most sold, and most criticized of his literary productions, and the least inferior of his works and actions.
The forthcoming translation, which is the product of five years of intermittent work, went through numerous careful revisions. The eminent Mexican Jesuit scholar, Fr. Jose Hernandez del Castillo, who critically read the manuscript and encouraged the translators in the work, pronounced it “a beautiful, faithful and idiomatic reflection of the great original.” The novel, in its English dress, should prove of interest to both the Catholic and the general reader, and since it is an annotated work, it should attract some scholarly attention from both native and foreign admirers of the great Romantic novelist.
Law Club Plans Dance
The Notre Dame Law club held its first Smoker of the semester Monday evening in the Blue Room of the Oliver hotel. Plans were made for an exclusive Lawyers’ weekend with top billing being a semi-formal dance. Bob Oberfell, senior, editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, was appointed chairman of the affair.
—John Power
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
Phone 4-1481
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINK.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS S1.OO.
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Est.
1900
§	J. BURKE
g	W. G. BOGARDUS
g	E. C. BEERY
s] Optometrists and Mig. Opticians g 228 S. MICHIGAN ST.
g Evenings by Appointment
1525252525^525252525252525252525252525
Glasses Correctly Fitted
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA ,
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D.	M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, O.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
023-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2874
Thirty-one



Please don’t wake me anybody! Everything’s going to be just the way he’ll want it. His easy ehair...his slippers...and his i . Chesterfields.
WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS
LA‘‘B AV nlCK-
<ovt-
JUS> be h°mE
Copyright 1944. Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.